

N, I), Co fl· 1-,D 
Lf Jli, I Se,..h h '-/ 


Sometimes it is good to fa/1,for we often lose in the same spirit that we win in. -Walt Whitman, Song ofMyself 
Whitman's statement is an immortal insight; itis especially applicable to the 1994 Notre Dame football season. Despite the losses, the Irish players gave their greatest efforts game after game, and that is all one can ask for. Perhaps it was good for Notre Dame to fall, because it made people angry, and it made them realize how much they were taking the Irish success for granted. In fact, the outcome of this season looked darker because the last seven years have been so bright. 
The venerable Seminole coach Bobby Bowden said it: "There's no two ways about it, we beat Notre Dame." Victorious Bill McCartney of Colorado also knew it: "Any time you are playing Notre Dame, you are playing a great opponent, and any time you can beat Notre Dame, you' II get respect." 
The 1994 season was not one ofNotre Dame's best, and while foes ofthe Irish rushed to celebrate Notre Dame's defeats, these critics mattered least. It was the adversaries of the Irish who recognized what true followers should know in their hearts -that Notre Dame, in victory or defeat, is still the best. 
Of the many excuses which have been made for the team's substandard performance, injuries and inexperience at key positions are foremost on the list. But these seem ~ be just a part ofa greater problem which plagued the team throughout the year. It had a little to do with football and a lot to do with physics. 
Momentum. The fact that something grows increasingly unstoppable as it continues to move forward or succeed is undeniable. And the fact that this year's team lacked momentum is just as evident. Enough momentum to win the national championship can be gained in just one game, and lost just as quickly. Only truly great teams rebound from lost momentum, and frankly, Notre Dame was not such a team this year. 
In each game of Notre Dame's season, momentum changed hands throughout the contest -but in the end, it was usually in the hands of the opponent. At the end of the season, Notre Dame had no momentum to speak of. But in a way, the entire lack of momentum should be liberating-this year's performance has been so poor that there must be a burning desire to move forward and show the world how good the Fighting Irish can be next year. 
Itcan and has been done. Eight times in the past 108 years, the football teamhasfollowed rough seasons with championships. It will be a difficult feat to accomplish, but if any team is up to the task, it is the Fighting Irish. 
Credit where it is due 
Special thanks to Brent Tadsen and Kevin Klau who photographed the action at all but two of the 12 games this season; Matthew Boyd and Charles Lamb of the Notre Dame Archives for supplementing Scholastic's historical resources when necessary; John Heisler and the Sports Information Department; Jan Blazi and Lynn Jones of the football office for their invaluable assistance in scheduling; Jamie Cripe of Notre Dame Photo­graphic and Mike Bennett of Professional Photographic Services for their work in the darkroom; and Ryan Leahy and David Quist for their insights. We could not have done it without you. 
T. Ryan Kennedy 
Sports Editor 
Mark J. Mitchell IV 
Managing Editor 
Cover Photo by Brent Tadsen: Head Coach Lou Holtz plots his winning strategy in the Fighting Irish victory over the Air Force Academy. 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 12 FOUNDED 1867 JANUARY 27, 1994 


Heartbreak 
Notre Dame 
vs. 

Michigan 
24-26 



Revenge
Notre Dame 
vs. 

Stanford 
34-15 


Horror· 
Notre Dame 
v~. 
Boston College 
11-30 


Stalemate 
Notre Dame 
vs. 
use 
17-17 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
I. 


FEATURES 
. . 
Romp: Northwestern· · Joshua Dickinson ................. A Dogfight: Florida State · Kevin Eckhardt... ............. 33 Ron Powlus: Center Stage · Mark Mitchell .............. 7 Marc Edwards: Freight Train • Mark Mitchell ..... 37 Close Call: Michigan State• Brian May .................. 12 Sky High: Air Force• Shannan Ball ......................... 38 Flashback: Scholasti.c 1966 ...................................... 14 A House Expanded• Brian Hiro ............................... 41 Rout: Purdue· Jake Schaller ..................................... 15 Flashback: Scholasti.c 1926 ....................................... 45 ';('he All-Opponent Team ................ : ........... ; ............. 24 Splinters From The Press Box ................................ .46 Letdown: Brigham Young· Jared Patzke .............. 26 Honors and Awards ................................................. .47 Lee Becton: Carried Away · Mark Mitchell ........... 29 Valiant Effort: Fiesta Bowl •Ryan Kennedy .......... .48 Trouncing: Navy · John Schoenig ............................ 30 · Just Reward: Commentary• Ryan Kennedy .......... 51 
' 
Flashback: Scholasti.c 1943 ...................................... 32 The Final Word • Justi.ri Goheen ............................... 52 


.The Fighting Irish lit up the night sky over Soldier Field with a dazzling
g..rout ofthe 
Wildcats 



by Joshua Dickinson 
SEPTEMBER 3, 1994-CHICAGO, IL
As the sun set overthe Windy City, the · Ughts came on at Soldier Field and 
the Irish stars came out to play. The Fighting Irish were about to engage in melee number one of the 1994 football season, a rendezvous with the Wildcats of Northwest­ern. The game received the hype and expec­tation which comes with the start of every 
football season for Notre Dame. There was a sellout crowd in Chicago, with a prime time national televi­sion audience to boot. 

Questions about the latest Irish· arsenal remained, however. Was this team deserving of its number three ranking? Would Lee Becton return to the Reisman form he exhib­ited in 1993? Would Ron Powlus live up to the billing as the second comipg? Was a national championship out of the question? 
. Would the Irish kicking game come back to haunt them? Was the Notre Dame defense strong enough to complement an explosive offense? The answers to these questions would soon become clearer. But there was little doubt the Irish would prevail, especially with over half the fans holding loyalties to Notre Dame. The first quarter displayed the heart of the Notre Dame defense, which was unable to keep Northwest­ern from advancing the ball upfield. This was in part due to its own aggressiveness. Four times on first down the Insh were called for five-yard defensive contact penalties. Northwestem's one-man show, Dennis Lundy, punished the Irish defense on two 
time-consuming Wildcat drives. In fact, the Wildcat offense chewed up 21 minutes in the half, but could . only muster up a 22-yard field goal. The Irish made them pay. Two of their possessions ended in turn­overs as Brian Hamilton recovered a Lundy fumble and Bobby Taylor picked off a pass courtesy of 
Northwestern quarterback Tim Hughes. 
The second stanza was a different story. It was 
time for the Irish offense to shine. Following a 
Northwestern possession and punt,NotreDame took 
over deep in its own territory. Enter Ron Powlus. 
Notre Dame's version ofthe Chosen One pelted the 
Northwestern defense with gutsy bombs and short 
outs. Powlus went four for five on the first drive, 
highlighted by a 42-yard pass to flanker Michael 
Miller and capped off by a9-yard touchdown pass to 
the spectacular Derrick Mayes. Mayes had to dive 
out of the end zone to grab the ball. The catch 
reminded fans of his performance against Boston 
College the year earlier, but it was only a tease of 
what was to come. After a Northwestern field goal 
made the score 7-3 in favorof the Irish, Powlus took . the reigns of the Notre Dame offense . 
Again the blue and gold moved the ball at will 
through a porous Northwestern defense. This time 
Powlus connected with Miller 46 yards away in the 
end zone. Notre Dame got the ball right back after an 
interception by Shawn Wooden. The Irish had less 
thanaminutetogo58yards. NoproblemforPowlus. 
The Irish marched down the field, and Powlus found 
Ray Zellars from two yards out; he also found his 
team with a 21-3 halftime lead. Although the Notre 
Dame ground attack had accounted for only 59 first 
halfyards, Powlus and the aerial arsenal had amassed 
186 yards and three touchdowns through the dark­
ened sky. Northwestern, despite 116 rushing yards 
4 



A momentous hit from LeShane Saddler knocks the ball free from Wildcat Dennis Lundy's arms. The loose ball was recovered by Notre Dame's Brian Hamilton. 
from Lundy, also helped the Irish cause with three turnovers by the half. 
The entire nation waited to see if there would be a second half letdown by the nation's number three team. No chance. The Notre Dame offense began the third quarter with a nearly flawless 11­play, 65-yard ball control drive. A beautiful mix of run and pass plays climaxed in a Becton score on only his fourth carry of the game. Notre Dame took a 28-3 lead. After a fine Irish defensive stand, Notre Dame again received the ball and the reassurance that the game was in hand. Powlus hurled his fourth touchdown pass, this one again to Mayes, good for 36 yards. This score put the Irish up 35-3, and made the fourth quarter academic. 
After Powlus' s curtain call in the final period, Tom Krug came on for the save and hit Charles Stafford from seven yards out to end the Irish scoring. This came sandwiched between 
two Wildcat touchdown runs, one by Lundy and one by Hughes. The damage was done, however. As time expired, the Irish had proved themselves worthy oftheir number three ranking with a 42-15 romp of Northwestern. Despite a gutsy 144-yard performance by Lundy, the Notre Dame defense was able to come up with the big turnover when it was needed. The Irish kicking game survived intact, with Stefan Schroffnermaking all six ofhis extra point attempts. 
Theonlydisappointingaspecttocomeoutofthe game was the rushing attack. Reisman hopeful Becton, despite a touchdown, gained only 18 yards on ten carries, all but ending his hopes for the 
With Just a little tug on the face mask, Travis Davis takes down Northwestern's Dennis Lundy deep In WIidcat territory. Lundy had 116 yards In the first half, but Davis and the defense held him to only 28 yards In the second. 
coveted award. Zellars,MarcF.dwards and Randy Kinder, each of whom also contributed to the ground game, were onlyableto amass 185 yards total rushing. This seemed insignificant, though, in comparison to Powlus' a\:COmplishments. 
The Notre Dame quarterback, in his first college game, had silenced the doubters. Powlus finished 18 of24 for 291 yards and four touchdowns, tying the Notre Dame record shared by Irish greats Steve Beuerlein, Daryle Lamonica and Angelo Bertelli. Powlus seemed to be a man ofsteel. Buried twice afterreleasing his pass, Powlus bounced back up like a basketball, unscathed. With the help of his talented corps ofreceivers and three quarters of Northwestern generosity, Powlus was transformed from a first­yearquarterbackfromBerwick,PA,toanationally-known Reisman Trophy candidate. ESPN' s Beano Cook even went so far as to say 


r 
': 
that Powlus would win the Reisman twice in his career, and this after only one game. 
Once the nation had seen what the Irish were capable of, expectations skyrocketed. Maybe this was the team that could bring Lou Holtz his first national championship since 1988. However, noone knew at the time that one play would foreshadow the entire upcoming season for the Irish. Fol­lowing Lundy's touchdown early in the fourth quarter, the Wildcats went for a two-
Top: Marc Edwards punches through the Northwestern line as Wildcat Chris Martin prepares to throw an Ineffective block. Right: Senior inside linebacker Justin Goheen clears a path for senior cornerback Shawn Wooden after Wooden Intercepted a Tim Hughes pass. 
C: 
~ 
~ 
c 
!!! 
C0 
point conversion. Taylor intercepted Hughes' pass, and he bolted toward the oppositeend zone. As the goal was in sight, the Irish comerback was ripped down from behind by a Wildcat defender. So too would the Irish start out at the head of the pack in 1994,onlytobecaughtfrom behind by five of their next 11 opponents. D 
6 

look back on the season and see the good points. Sure there are some things I would like to change, but I still had agood yearand learned a lot" It is the letdown for the seniors which Powlus would like to change most "I feel very bad for the seniors because they worked so hard for four years, but this year most ofall. I wish I could have done more for them, and Iwish Icould have made the season better. Whatever hap­pened with this year, next season we will definitely be in the hunt for the national championship. And any success the team will have next year will be due in a very large part to what the seniors have accom­plished this year." 
In a turbulent first year, Ron Powlus always looked back home for his greatest encouragement and support "My family has always been there for me. Mom, Dad, my sister, my brother-in-law, my girlfriend -I talk to all ofthem during the week, and they getme through therough times." Some of the toughest times have been during the harshest media criticism and the negative feedback itgenerates. "It has been difficult at times to get away from the media, but back as asophomore in high school my dad told me, 'Ifyou're just doing yourjob, then theirjob is to look at what you're doing' ­that's helped me a lot" 
"Sure there have been the nasty letters and thecrankcalls on the phone, butnone of themhaveevercomefromoncampus. And whileI'm not going to badmouth those who complain about me, they don't understand and they don't know what goes on on the field."

Ron Powlus' only prediction for nex season is that the team will definitely be in the race for the national crown. Whether that comes true or not, the quarterback can be sure that his every move will be the center of attention again. "I'd much rather that everybody have expectations for me thatare too high. Ihate itwhen peoplemake excuses for my performance. Hey, don' make me have to play out of a hole; say 'He should be the best quarterback in college,' and make me live up to that" D 



SEPTEMBER 10, 1994-NOTRE DAME, IN
Mchigan struck like lightning, furious and without warn­ing. Earlier, Notre Dame, led by a young and inexperienced quarterback, marched downfield like an 
attackingarmy. DerrickMayesreachedfortheskyandcamedown with the touchdown in the back of the end zone. Notre Dame led, but not J)y enough. . 
But the frenzied fight which filled the last seconds of the game was just the climax of the great drama which had been building explosively since the kickoff of the 26th meeting between the 

attle 
Fightin·g Irish and the Wolverines. 
Notre Dame look~ too strong in the beginning. Powlus, a sophomore Reisman candidate, dodged the Michigan blitzkrieg with the composureof a senior, out-maneuvering sometimes three W olverinedefenders ata time. Stefan Schroffner blasted a 32-yard field goal through the uprights to put the Irish up 3-0. Ironically, it would be Schroffner's longest field goal of the season -a deceptivedisplay ofstrength ata position which would bringdefeat to the Irish more than once in the future. · 
Then came the omen, the play that came to epitomize the game and the season for Notre Dame football. On fourth--and-one, still in the first quarter, Bobby Taylor blocked a 29-yard field goal attempt by Remy Hamilton at the line of scrimmage. Enter 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW
8 

Michigan's Che' Foster, who snatched the ball out of the air and carried it two yards to Notre Dame's 11 fora Wolverine first down. All the Irish momentum was gone. It was an unlucky break which could have happened to eitherteam-butthis time, and throughout the season, it happened to Notre Dame.-Tim Biakabutuka inevita­bly barreled into the end zone two plays later as the Irish defense stood befuddled about how this came to be. 
The Irish responded and charged downfield. Powlus did it all, scamperingoutofaheavyMichiganrush, gaining 11. Powluskept it on the option, brol<e a tackle and was pounded after a 14-yard gain. Two plays later, Powlus threw over the middle to Mayes who was run out ofbounds at the Michiganone after picking up 33 yards -a foreshadowing of the most potent scoring strategy that Notre Dame wquld have all season. 
A struggle with the goal-line offense forced NotreDame to gofor it all on fourth down and goal-to-go. A Becton touchdown catch on the ensuing play was one ofa few times that Notre Dame would win the year-long battle with itself in goal-line situations. 
The stadium erupted into jubilant celebration as the fans wit­nessed what they thought could be the birth of a championship season. In the press box a man exclained, "This will be another game to remember!" Though itwas only 10-7 in the first quarter he continued, "It will be won in the fourth quarter." :Sut there was an ominous glint in the man's eye-he was the former Michigan athletic director. 
In the second half, the likes of senior linebackers Jeremy Sample and Justin Goheen thrashed Biakabutuka, withTaylor containing the explosive Amani Toomer. But on the other side, the Notre Dameoffensewithered and died. With time winding down, Becton fumbled his second time of the game and the outlook appeared 

The offense was in full force against Michigan with Ron Powlus at quarterback, Ray Zellars at fullback and ·Lee Becton at tailback. Michigan was one of the few teams to face both Zellars and Bect_on, who were Injured during the season. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

I 
!I I 
'I 
I 

bleakfor the Irish. Becton hadnotfumbled in two years. Hope for the Notre Dame cause diminished quickly until the mo­mentum appeared to tum on the ensuing kick. MichaelMillertookahigh-Hamilton kickoff and zipped 55 yards down the right sidelines. 
Under a blue autumn sky, Ron Powlus faced a 23-17 deficit from the Michigan 36 with 2: 15 remaining. Here was the test of the phenom who had played only one football game in two years. The quiet star delivered, rising to the occasion in a mo­ment of Irish desperation. Resembling greats of the past, Powlus drove Notre Dame downfield with everything on the line and pressure at its greatest A Michi­

gan interference play on third and six from the 15 put Notre Dame at the Michigan 2-yard line. A done deal. But the Notre Dame touchdown on the next play was called back to the 7-yard line because of an illegal shift by the Irish. So with first down and seven yards to go, Powlus called the signals, dropped back and unloadedfornone other than Mayes deep in the end zone. Mayes had sacrificed everything to put Notre Dame ahead 24-23, and Powlus helped carry him from the field with a sprained ankle. 
Notre Dame's kickoff coverage unit, which had yielded big numbers earlier to Walter Smith and particularly Mercury Hayes, worked like a machine on that last kickoff. The Irish stuffed the Wolverines on their own 17 and all looked well. Too well. 
52 seconds was too much time to leave on the clock. A mad rush ensued. Led by senior quarterback Todd Collins, the Michigan battalion hurled itself headlong down the field. One year earlier, Collins had been named the scapegoat in a disastrous loss to the Irish. Now he was to be the hero. The Irish fell back in the face of the advancing Wolverines, making increasingly desperate and ineffective attempts to keep Michigan out of field goal range. The Wolverines fought in a nearly confused frenzy, controlled only by the cool determination of Collins. And then the whole game was decided in one fell swoop. 
· Collins' protectio~ broke down and the Michigan quarterback watched helplessly as a rabid Bert Berry took hold of him and ·pulledhimtotheground. Butashefell,Collinsletflyonedesperate ·pass which found its way safely into the hands of Seth Smith for a 9-yard gain and a first down on the Irish 33. "He (Berry) was hanging on me and Seth was just in the right place," said Collins. "I just got it off somehow. I didn't see him until he was in my (helmet) earhole." Collins slipped through the dime defense (six. defensive backs) oh the next play with a pass to Jay Riemersma, a 
no-name. 
Seven seconds and 42 yards was all that Michigan had to work 
10 


with. The scene was one of utter chaos as players ran on and off the field while the play clock ominously ticked away against Michigan. Butas Michigan's time-out-less coach Gary Moeller watched in horror as three, then two, then one second remained ofthe25 seconds left on the play clock, Lou Holtz gave Moeller the biggest break the Michigan coach would get all year. Notre Dame called time out. The Irish gave the Wolverines all the preparation time they needed. 
Michigan kicker Remy Hamilton, who had a "fifty percent chance of starting that day," booted the ball through the uprights for the winning, dream-crushing field goal. It made up for the final kick in 1988 thathad sailed wide. And just as that victory pro­pelled Notre Dame to the national crown, this defeat made that achievement nearly impossible. 
"Itwasjust like the Boston College game all over again," said Holtz after the game with a sullen look on his face. "I'm con­cerned where we go from here." 
HadNotreDamedefeatedMichigan,they would have had the motivation, the confi­denceand most importantly the momentum to defeat Boston College, Brigham Young and probably even Florida State and USC. But this game was one of momentum lost andwon thatwouldepitomizeNotreDame's difficult season. Then again, it was just another chapter in the battles of college football's greatest, Michigan and Notre Dame. 0 
~<;f\ME.$~%1

.·•scoRJNc' ·/··· 
>.2<_3f Michigan\, ··• •·· Notre Daine 
fiJi;Jii1£ii
!~i~r 
'> , 
ND: Edwa:rds 8 
;t~~~~~~~3
.4:08 (Hlllllilton P 
rQM=~~1?~·
4th Quarter•·· 
uM:H~ton . . 
l{tj~May~i7passfrcimPowl{ci'at'oi57\($~hr;ofgi~I",fAT)\ \f >•·•·.··•·····•·>;\./ ... 
JJM: Hamiltoii;42 FGat0:02<··•· ··· 


From 
ehind 
The Fighting Irish reboundedfrom a 
13-point deficit as they overcame the 
Spartans and the loss to Michigan 
Reisman candidate after the Michigan game, showed his first signs 
by Brian May of wealmess with a3-for-15 first-half effort. 
When Justin Goheen recovered a fumble on the Notre Dame 32­
-yardlineearlyinthesecondquarter,Powlusgavetheballrightback SEPTEMBER 17, 1994-EAST LANSING, Ml totheSpartanswithhisfirstinterc~ptionthrowofhisyoungcollegeIn the first half of the sixtieth meeting between Notre Dame and · career. Suddenly, the Irish looked more vulnerable than they had 
Michigan State, the Irish did about as much spectating as the all year, and the fans in Spartan Stadium knew it They cranked up 
74,183 fans who filled up Spartan Stadium. TheIrish watched their passes fall into Spartan hands, they watched Michigan State's offense control the ball, and they watched theSpartans accumulate an embarrassing20-7 half-time lead. Perhaps Irish minds were still on the Michigan game of the preceding week, because the motiva­tion for this game seemed as low as hopes of a championship had been a week earlier. The Irish were able to pull out a victory in the end thanks to the Spartans' inability to put them away. It seemed like neither football team wanted to win this game. 
"It's one thing to be down 13 at the halfand another to be down by 13 and completely dominated in every single area ofthe game," said Lou Holtz about the first-halfplay by Notre Dame. Michigan State owned Notre Dame on both sides of the ball. The Spartans blasted through the Notre Dame defense for 249 yards. Junior quarterbackTony Banks was having acareerday and was probably laughing to himself as flanker Mill Coleman did dances around Irish comerback Shawn Wooden. Banks looked like as much of a Reisman Trophy candidate as had Powlus just seven days earlier. But while Powlus was throwing one interception after another, Banks completed 12 oflS. Powlus, whoprobablyremainedasolid the noise to another level. 
While statistics usually do not account for much, Notre Dame's time of possession in the half was a pathetic eight minutes, while Michigan State held the ball for nearly 22 of the 30 minutes. 
Halftime passed slowly for Notre Dame fans, who had a lot to 
· ponder about the season. The Irish were heading downhill faster than they had in years. If they lost this one, it would mean three losses in their lastfive games. Few were able to realize what would be on the line in the second half -but Holtz was one who did. · "I thought at the half we would win," said Holtz after the game. "But I was not very convincing to the players. It was a nightmare of a first half." Whatever he said in the-locker room, the Irish came outplayinginspiredfootball. MichiganStatefans,andtheplayers, were in for a show. Afterpunting on the first possession, it all came together slowly. SophomoreRandyKindersteppedupwithpunishingruns. Powlus threw complete to Michael Miller. Enter Lee Becton, in what would be his last glorious moment for a while. The senior captain charged in from 37 yards out, reminding the Notre Dame faithful of the great 1993 season. The drive, 80 yards on IO plays, put the 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Irish back in control. 
"Offense is about rhythm," noted Holtz. "All this season, we haven'tbeen able to put together any rhythm at all. The second half today was the best rhythm we've had all season." The touchdown run by Becton jumpstarted an offensive flow that the Irish had been craving. 
The resurgence of the running game enabled Notre Dame to open up the passing attack. Holtz changed his ap­proach, removing the tight end and us­ing three wide ~eivers. The Notre Dame offensive line seized control of the line of scrimmage, and Becton was thriving on the outside run, until some­thingdevastatinghappened. Bectonwent down with agroin injury, oneofthe most frustrating for an athlete because it takes so long to heal. The Irish seemed to lose a step not only on the next play when they failed to convert on fourth down, but for the rest of the year. An integral spark and team leader was gone. 
This, however, seemed to anger the Irish defenseeven more,who hammered the Spartans until they were dizzy. One big difference was that Bobby Taylor moved over to cover the explosive Coleman. In the first half, Coleman caught five passes for 46 yards and had atouchdown on areverse. Inthe second, Coleman posted a goose egg for passes caught as well as touchdowns. 
The Irish had figured out how to stop the feisty Spartans, but Notre Dame was still down 20-14. 
With Becton goneafter90 yards rush­ing, in stepped the sensational sopher more Randy Kinder. Kinder, who grew up five minutes from the stadium and almost.wentto Michigan State,hadsome­thing to prove to his hometown crowd. He rushed for 102 of his 104 total yards in the second half. 
Then, finally, thunderstruckas Powlus rolled out and hurled a 15-yard pass to Robert Farmer on the left side of the field. Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 
20. Relief overflowed in the hearts of fans and the players. A loss could have done irreparable damage and set the stage for further catastrophe. The Notre Dame comeback was, perhaps, the team's most important and best game of theyear. · O 
Facing Page: Amid a swarm of Spartans, Jeremy Sample sacks quarterback Tony Banks. Right: Michigan State's Damian Manson bowls over Lee Becton. Becton was seriously Injured In the game. 

¦ FLASHBACK: 1966 
There is a time to Gamble 

Top-ranked Michigan State plays to a 10-10 tie with number-two Notre Dame 
by Joe Falls 
Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. I rooted for Michigan State. But now I would like to repent The· winner, and it hurts to say it, was Notre Dame. On Monday morning the vote will go outto theAssociatedPressinNew York: I-Notre Dame, 2-Michigan State, etc., etc. Make no mistake about it-,-the two best teams in the land were on display here Saturday and ourgrudging admiration goes to the Fighting Irish. They were up against everythingand still managed to pull off a tie in the most nerve-wracking football game that could possibly be played. It was a classic in the truest sense of the word. The Irish lost their quarterback, Terry Hanratty, early in the game.-Their best runner, and maybe the best runner in the­country, Nick Eddy, never got onto the field. And here they were, with only halfa backfield, in a bull ring that rivaled any­thing Madrid or Mexico City could offer, with a 10-0 score against them ... and they came back and got a 10-10 standoff and barely missed winning it with five minutes to go on Joe Azzaro's field goal try from 41 yards out A lesser team could have collapsed when Nick Kenney put that 47-yard field goal through the bars midway in the second half ... because here Michigan State had all the momentum, all the drive and almost all the fans behind it 
And as the pressure mounted, until it became almost unbearable to sit in your seat, the Irish made all the big plays. It was magnificentthewaythislittleColeyO'Brien immediately rallied theIrish for their touch­down, because, simply ask yourself this question -who is Coley O'Brien? He lookslike a tumbleweedbeingblown across the flat prairie lands, no bigger than the quarterback at North Farmington High. 
But he fused the spark in his team and before you could utter the words, "We're No. l," the Irish were on the scoreboardand back in the game. He led them 54 yards on threequickstrikesandyoujustcan'tbeany more authoritative than the way he hit the streaking Bob Gladieux on the goal line for the.touchdown. 
It was regrettable that the game ended in a chorus of boos from the highly partisan crowd as Ara Parseghian chose to settle for­the tie instead of trying for a bolt of light­ning in the last minute. 
It would have been far better to see the Irish making an all-out effort to break the tie. But there is a time to gamble, and there isn't a time to gamble. 
This wasn't the time. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

The vaunted Irish running game rolled over the hapless Boilermakers 

by Jake Schaller 
SEPTEMBER 24, 1994-NOTREDAME,IN
F:r the third straight year,Notre Dame and Purdue did battle on a soaked playing field, and for the third straight year, the. 
rain clouds rested mainly over the Boilermak­
ers. Coming off a shockingly close victory over 
Michigan State, the Fighting Irish more· thah 
made amends with a 39-21 triwnph over a 
tougher-than-usual Purdue squad. Purdue had 
won its first two games of the season and caine 
to NotreDame with thoughts ofhalting an eight­
game losing streak to the Irish. 
Notre Dame rode a ferocious rushing attack 
all gamelong,piling up428 yards on theground, 
with Randy Kinder, Ray Zellars and Emmett 
Mosley all posting career-high rushing totals. 
Kinder, filling in for the injured Lee Becton, 
earned his second straight 100-plus-yards rush­
ing game, with 146 yards on 16 carries. 
More importantly ,Ron Powlus did not throw. 
any interceptions after having thrown foµr to the 
Spartans a week earlier. 
However, it was fullback Ray Zellars who 
stole the show. Perhaps incited by how much of 
the pre-game hype concentrated on. Purdue's 
stand-out fullback Mike Alstott, Zellars ex­
ploded with a 156-yard game. His perfonnance 
included a 62-yard romp that reserved a spot on 
all national year-in-review highlight reels. "It 
was like a SEGA game or something," re­
. marked Bobby Taylor. 

Zellars has been nicknamed "Roboback" and 'The Man," and he showed it on his run. After taking a pitch on a sweep left, Zellars cut upfield. The fullback steamrolled a Purdue defensive back, and then hurdled another. With his body parallel to the ground, Zellars managed to land, keep balance and then accelerate through the rest of the secondary for a score. According to Lou Holtz, "It was one of the best efforts I've seen." 
As well as the Irish played, it took them over 13 minutes to get on the scoreboard and over a quarter to tally their first touchdown. After receiving the opening kickoff, Kinder sped down the sideline for a 37-yard gain on the first play from scrimmage. The Irish built on Kinder's run andmarchedtothePurdue4-yardline. However, as they would all game, the Irish goal-line offense had trouble pushing the ball into the end zone. Deciding to try for a field goal, an Irish drive that started out brilliantly went for naught as Stefan Schroffner's 21-yard field goal bounced off the right upright It was a mere foreshadowing twist provided by Schroffner, who would have his share of sequels to follow. 
Notre Dame started off the second quarter with a 7-play, 54~yard drive that ended with yet an­other amazing catch by a Notre. Dame wide receiver. With. good pass protection, Powlus fired a 15-yard pass into the end zone towards Charles Stafford. The senior split end went into theairwithPurduedefensivebacks BrianLohman and Deni.pk Brown, wrenched the ball away from 
\ 
Above: Sophomore tailback Randy Kinder lunges for the first down. Kinder had 146 yards. 
the pair, and landed in the end zone with six points for the Irish. 
WithS:14 leftinthefirsthalf, the BoilennakeIS had cut the13-point deficit to six. Purdue had finally responded. They put together an impressive 64-yard drive, ending withJoeHagin'stouchdown. Notre Damegottheballbackon theirown 25 and put together perhaps the most important scoring drive ofthe game, ending with a Kinder sweep right for six. The impressive drive seemed to talce the wind out of Purdue'ssailsandhaltanymomen­tum they had gained with their first touchdown. ''The one before half­timewasakiller," saidPurdueHead Coach Jim Colletta. "We had a chance to go into the locker room beingdown 13-7,butinstead weweredown 19-7." Thekeyplay on the drive was athird down and six conversion. Powlus escaped two tacklers and hit Mayes, who slid and made a great catch for a 10-yard gain. 
Three Purdue miscues in the third quar­ter, however, led to 13 Irish points, and a lock on the game. The first blrllover was a JeremySampleint.erception. Anassistmust be given to Bobby Taylor, who hammered BurtThorton,causingtheball topopupinto theair. The twoPurdue blrlloversledto two more Schroffner field goals. 
Purdue then blrlled the ball over for the third straight time after another vicious Taylor jarred the ball loose from Thorton. Alton Maiden pounced on the ball, setting 
Top: In a slip and slide game, freshman defenders Kurt Bellsle and Jeff Kramer tackle slippery 
Boilermaker Craig 
Allen. In the run-away 
victory, many young 
players saw their first playing time. Right: Sophomore 
flanker Emmett Mosley shined against Purdue, racking up 83 yards. Against Its fourth Big Ten opponent of the year, Notre Dame displayed Its most Impressive running game of the season 
with 428 yards rushing and three touchdowns. Kevin Klau 
up Zellars' run. The Irish put up one rriore score with Randy Kinder's one-yard sec­ond-effort run that capped an eleven-play, 76-yard drive. With a 39-7 lead, Notre Dame's defense relaxed in the final portion of the game. The Irish defense let up 14 points, to the dismay of the Notre Dame faithful, and especially Holtz. · "The last eightminutes left a badtastein mymouth,'' he said. That bad taste-the vulnerability of the defense, the missed kick, the weak~ ness ofthe offensive line-would eventu­ally come to hauntHoltz and the Irish. But notthis time. This was time to savora solid victory and to prepare for an enjoyable helping of revenge still to come. . 
li, 


A bitter Bill Walsh made hisfinal appearance as a · coach in Notre Dame Stadium, and the Fighting Irish gave him and his "Stanford Hex" a rousing send-off 
by Jake Schaller 
OCTOBER 1, 1994-NOTRE DAME, IN
T:e tw.o leaders met at. midfield.after the game to reflect upon another clash. Stanford's commander, Bill Walsh, took defeat gra­ciously, shaking hands with the man he had called "a spoiled little brat" Lou Holtz, Notre Dame's gen­eral, who had downplayed theremarks thatthe media attempted to make into a controversy, accepted con­

gratulations and jogged off the field. As he left, he seemed happily relieved, and some­what lighter, that he was rid of the "Stanford Hex." 
The two previous visits from the Cardinal, in 1990and 1992,hadnotbeenaspleasantfor the Irish. Victories for the SuperBowl cham­pion Walsh had knocked Notre Dame from the championship hunt in both years. This time, the Irish had different plans, ending the Stanford streak with a 34-15 triumph. "A lot ofthe seniors stepped up during the week and 
talked about losing twice in our 
house," saidBobbyTaylor. "We didn't want it to happen again." 
The Irish refused to let it happen again. With a solid, balanced offensive attack, and tough defense, the Irish won their third straight for the season, and second straight at home. In the process, the Fighting Irish sent a message to the Boston College Eagles whom they would face the next week. 
A glance at the post game statistics, however, makes it look like it was Stanford that actually had the 34points. The Cardinal controlled the ball for over 35 minutes, out-gained the Irish in yardage, and had 29 first downs to their opponent's 16. The thorn in Stanford's side all day, though, was its inability to reach the end zone. ·In the f:irst quarter, 
\ 
Junior free safety Bobby Taylor pulls an acrobatic Cardinal out of the air. 


Stanford amassed 108 total yards to Notre Dame's 14, ran 25 plays to Notre Dame's six, but trailed 7-3. 
Surprisingly, it was the special teams, which had been less than spectacular to date, that first sparked the Irish. Down 3-0, the Irish forced the Cardinal to punt Holtz gambled, sending IO men after the kick. The gamble worked, as a fierce rush from LaRon Moore gave Stanford's Aaron Mills no room to punt Mills attempted to run away from the pressure to get off a punt, but was drilled by Scott Sollman who caused a fumble and then recovered it Two plays later, Ron Powlus found Charles Stafford, who had run a deep out, behind his man in the end zone. The senior split end hauled in his second touchdown pass in two games, giving the Irish their first points. 


After trading punts, the Irish got another hugeplay from fullback Ray Zellars. Com­ing off his best day ever against Purdue, 
. Zellars didn't miss a step. With the ball on 


I ! his own 36-yard line, Zellars took a hand­off and broke an arm tackle in thebackfield. Breaking into the open field, the senior fullback steamrolled Stanford's Scott Frost and raced down the right sideline to the 6­yard line. 
The Irish, however, again had trouble in the red zone. The offense managed to lose 19 yards before having to settle for a field goal attempt Scott Cengia brought a smile to the faces of Irish fans skeptical about their special teams by nailing a 4 3-yard try. He was deceiving Irish fans who had no idea what they were in for. 
The Irish exploded in the second half, scoring 17 points and erasing Stanford's hopesofacomebacka/a 1992. In thatyear, the Irish stormed to a 16-0lead, only to have the Cardinal score 33 unanswered points. Notre Dame started the halfon its own 12­yard line, but seven plays later had ad­vanced the ball to the Stanford 10. On a designed roll-out, Powlus threw a bullet to the right sideline of the end zone. Derrick Mayes added another spectacular snare to his highlight reel, diving for the ball and bringingitin whilestayingin bounds for the score. 
Two possessions later, Powlus struck again with deadly precision. After a play fake, Powlus stepped into the pocket and jumped away from pressure. While still in the air, Powlus unleashed a47-yard bomb which hit speedster Michael Millerin stride at the three. 
Millercorralled theball, and then coasted into the end zone, giving the Irish a 24-3 lead, and Powlus his third touchdown pass ofthe day. "Isaw him wide open; Icouldn't wait to set my feet,"Powlus saidofhis mid­air fling. · 
Powlus put on an efficiency clinic, com­pleting 11 of 14 passes for 166 yards and three touchdowns. His play renewed. Reisman talkand overshadowed thevaliant performance of Steve Stenstrom (36 of60, 360 yards, 2 touchdowns), who put up big numbers, but came up empty. Powlus also gained some rave reviews from the Gener~ 
Kevin Klau 

Above: Stanford quarterback Steve Stenstrom posted big numbers against the Irish this year, passing for 360 yards In the game. This was the end of Stenstrom's career against the Irish; In his four years against Notre Dame, he had 1,020 yards passing and two victories over the Irish, making him the best opposing quarterback in Notre Dame history. 
Below: With a beautiful reception of a Ron Powlus pass, flanker Michael Miller runs In another touchdown over the Cardinal. 

( 
i 
II 
; 
i. 
i I 
i: 

18 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
als. "I think Ron Powlus is unbelievable. Whenever we've asked him to do some­thing, he's responded well," said Holtz. Walsh was also very impressed: "He is an outstanding quarterback, but I don't think it's even close to what you are going to see." 
In addition to a hostile crowd, Stenstrom had to putup with the ferocious Notre Dame defense that hit as hard and harder than it had all year. ''We had a great week of practice. We came out today and really made some big hits," said Bobby Taylor. Manyoftheplayersremarked on the"bones" given out by the defensive coaches for especially big hits. A human body might have been built with all of the bones from 
Brent Tadsen 
of Holtz and Irish fans everywhere. At the end of his scamper, Powlus put his head down and bulled his way to a few more yards instead of stepping out of bounds. Powlus' run set up Marc Edwards' one­yard plunge which upped the Irish lead to 34-3. 
Stenstrom tossed his two touchdown passes in the final 12 minutes to make the score more respectable. The Stanford Heismancandidate'sperformancegavehim ­career marks of 100 completions and 1,020 yards againsttheIrish. However, Stenstrom could not look past the sloppy play of his team. "We are just making too many mis­takes. Against a good team like Notre 
Senior fullback Ray Zellars charges forward, dragging a Stanford defender with him. Against both Purdue and Stanford, Zellars had huge runs In which he broke multiple tackles at once and still stayed on his feet. 
this game. 
The pass rush ofthe Irish was especially effective. Bert Berry led the way, sacking Stenstrom a team-high threetimes. Renaldo Wynn also played well, forcing a fumble afteravicioushitonStanford'ssignalcaller. ShawnWooden recoveredthefumblewhich set up Scott Cengia's 32-yard field goal, making the score 27-3. 
In the fourth quarter, it wasn't the arm of Powlus that tickled the fancy of Irish fans, it was his legs. PowIus scampered down the right sideline off of an option play, netting 44 yards. The sophomore quarterback fol­lowed a super block from his favorite re­ceiver Mayes for the longest run of his career. It had to send a chill down the spine Dame you can't do that," he said. 
Stenstrom should know. He was the victim ofthe defense's truly cinematic con­clusion to the game. As the Cardinal quar­terback moved within striking distance of ­the Notre Dame end zone, he had a chance· to make the firial score look better and to get· his own last knock in against the Irish. On the 3-yard line with only seconds left, Stenstrom stepped back and prepared to throw a touchdown pass. But with elegant style,Justin Goheen burstinto thebackfield . and crushed both Stenstrom and Stanford's · pride as time expired. 
Farewell to Walsh who coached his last against Notre Dame-and farewell to that hex. 0 
-1~a> 
.\o 
•·••iM 
'11[1,:
<4:4'. 
3?2 
59;:J:
lz 
' ' 
• ainilton•i 
,'p, ,-.." "'" 
.,. (i>• ,...~<-<>"'. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

The upstart Eagles may have run offwith the victory, but they will never steal the Fight from the Irish 
by Mike Shrekgast 
OCTOBER 8, 1994-CHESTNUTHILL, MA
T:e campus back in South Bend was in shock. So were the millions of fans around the country who tuned in to watch the game that even non-Notre Dame fans had anticipated 
for whole year. Viewers witnessed the pandemonium of a victory which would reign as one of the great ones in the history ofBoston College. It was up there with F1utie's "Immaculate Reception of 1984" and last year's last-second victory which stripped the Irish of their hopes of another national championship. On this pictur­esque· fall day in Chestnut Hill, the newly renovated Alumni stadium shook from the cheersofa30-11 upsetofthe eighth-ranked Fighting Irish. 
"Boston College was certainly thebestfootball team today," Lou Holtz lamented after enduring one of the most humiliating losses in his coaching career. Mouths were closed and excuses were few from the players as well as the coaches. It was the scoreboard that told the whole story. 
Coming into the game few people , including Boston College fans, would have predicted victory for the Screaming Eagles. It did not change the fact that BC fanatics were buying the entire season 

0 
l...::1.:i2:2::.2::.:.:..'.::'.-=-:..2...,;..,,.:___:.;;_;;::.G;.:.2..:::2:.2.:..:.£S_:::C£::..:::@::::.:::::sz~~ 
ticket packet months in advance just to see Notre Dame play. · Further, the week before, Notre Dame had re-established itself as a powerhouse among the college ranks by drilling the Stanford Cardinal. But the offense which had been resurrected the week before in Notre Dame, Indiana, was nowhere to be found on ·the 
field of Alumni Stadium in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. 
The game began like nearly every game this year-Irish hopes 
wereonahigh. TheNotreDamedefensecameoutroaring. On only 
the third play ofBoston' s first drive, defensive end Brian Hamilton 
recoveredafumblebyOmariWalkerontheEagles'41. Andasthe 
offense took the field, the feeling in the crowd was that this was 
going to be a long day. 
TheNotre Dame offense immediately responded to the opportu­
nity it was given. On a second and ten, Powlus dropped back and 
found Derrick Mayes for a 13-yard pick up. If anyone had an 
incentive to win this game, it was Mayes. After a brilliant 
performance in last years near come-from-behind victory, Mayes 
said,"I'll do whatever is necessary for the team to win this year." 
This is a common assertion made by athletes in.big games, but 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

somehow the statement, coming from Mayes, seemed to mean something more. This was a receiver who had the ability to tum a game around, as he proved time and time again. 
On the nextplay, sophomore sensation Randy Kinder, starting in place of the still-injured Lee Becton, slashed for 14 yards and another first down. The Irish penetrated the Eagles' defense far enough to allow kicker Stefan Schroffner to convert a field goal from 27 yards out to put the Irish up 3-0. Unfortunately, this brief and successful drive by the Irish would be the only one the they would enjoy for the rest of the first half. 
Right: Sophomore fullback Marc Edwards explodes across the artificial turf at Alumni Stadium In Chestnut HIii during one of the few lrlsh offensive drives of the game. Facing Page: Ron Powlus got no breaks against the Eagles, as a 
BC defender sets upon the quarterback for one of four sacks. 
After a fumble recovery by defensive terror Mike Mamula, the Eagles began the secondquarterwith theball at theNotreDame20­yard line. The Eagles, on a fourth and six, stunned the Notre Dame defense with a fake field goal. Back-up quarterback and holder MarkHasselback exploited the aggressiveIrish charge andbrought the Eagles from the 16 to the 8-yard line. One play later Green scampered around the left side of the line for a touchdown and an eventual 7-3 lead over the Irish. The fake field goal by the Eagles stripped Notre Dame of its momentum and placed the necessary force squarely in the hands of Boston College. 
The fake was Lou Holtz's special play. First-year coach Dan Henning was not supposed to be doing this to the Irish. Leading up to the game, HenninglabeledHoltz theZeusof college football. No one could have noticed; It was one thing for the Irish to be outplayed on offense, defense, kicking, strength and every other phase of the game. But being out-tricked by Boston College was · another story. Notre Dame always had the full bag oftricks sitting under the bench. Boston College, .like the Grinch, stole every last bit of the show. Besides the fake field goal, split end Clarence Canon threw complete to Greg Grice off a reverse to set up another BC touchdown. 
Nothing had to be more nerve-wracking for the Irish after BC scored. On each ensuing kickoff, BC kicker. Jeff Beckley would crush the ball through the end zone. The Irish had to be talking to themselves. Mike Miller and Co. had no chance for the big play or even slightly decent field position. Simply put, it was another example of how Henning outcoached his former mentor. 
The fatigued Fighting Irish defense struggles against Boston College's rushing attack. In the absence of offensive success, the defense had to . hold the field for some 38 minutes, giving up 30 points. 

SCHOL AST) C MAG AZ IN E ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

As a result of all this, the beleaguered defense was forced to pick up the slack left by the impotent offense. The defensive-men held the field and kept the Irish in the game to the end ofthe half. They did not win back the momentum, but they gave Notre Dame a chance to take back the lead in the second half -an opportunity which was never taken. 
The Irish should have come into the second half flying. Just before the end of the second half, after missing a field goal, they held off a late passing surge by Boston College quarterback Marie Hartsell. For the second time, they faced David Gordon in a field goal situation. After missing the44-yard field goal, his second miss oftheday, muchoftheEagles' momentum waned. Herewas Notre Dame's opportunity to take control -opportunity lost 
But after halftime the Eagles picked up where they left off. On the first possession Powlus was severely pressured by the Boston defense. On the other side, BC and no-namemnning back Justice Smith ran through an overworked Irish defense that barely had enough time to step off the field and get a drinkbefore being called back on to keep the Irish in the game. Sophomore Smith rushed for a career-high 147 yards. It was the only time he cracked 100 yards . on the season. 
Boston College took advantage of Notre Dame's thoroughly 
fatigued defense, scoring on its first two possessions of the half. 
Between the two drives, the BC offense allowed its defensive crew 
to rest for only two minutes, after a three and out series by hapless 
Notre Dame. 
But there would be one last glimmer of hope for Notre Dame. 
Having orchestrated a spectacular come-back in the two teams' 
meeting of the previous season, Holtz seemed prepared to do the 
same as the fourth quarter dawned with Notre Dame down 24-3. 
On their first possession of the quarter the Irish put a scare into the 
crowd as Powlus and the offense came alive. Not since their first 
possession had the Irish put points on the board. A key play came 
on a third and nine at the Notre Dame 47, when Powlus hit Mayes 
foraseventeen-yardpickupandafirstdownattheBC36. Thelrish 
March was on. 
Holtz decided to go back to the running game of Randy Kinder, 
and two plays later No. 25 charged into the end zone on a fifteen­
yard run: Down by fourteen, the Irish were going for two. Enter Derrick Mayes and his timely acrobatics for a successful attempt 


The Irish sidelines were buzzing, and after manhandling the Eagles' offense, the Irish regained possession. The crowd noise simmered to a murmur as Powlus and the offense took the field. Memories of last year became more vivid. Notre Dame decided to go for the big play. After being 
Few positives could be scraped up after this one. Randy Kinder's 143 yardsrushing on twenty-two canies established him as a legitimate "go to guy" for the offense. But the absence of Becton and Zellars was crucial. Notre Dame's longest play from scrimmage was a 25-yard thrust by fullback Marc Edwards. The tremendous heart of the Notre Dame defense should not be 

Bobby Taylor scrambles to catch up with Boston College's David Green. The Notre Dame defenslvemen found themselves dragging Eagles down from behind as the men from Boston were too fast for the tired Irish. Justice Smith and David Green ran for a 
combined 200+ yards. 
chased outof the pocket Powlus threw the pass. The ball seemed like itfloated through the air forever. But the eventual roar of the crowd signaled the interception by Eagles defensive back Terrence Wiggins. And just as quickly as the ball was taken away, so were the Fighting Irish's hopes of a 10-1 record and a shot at the national champion­ship. 
Facing Page: · 
Intercepted . . An unsuccessful Irish offensive drive ends amid cheers of thousands of Boston College fans who filled · their newly-renovated Alumni Stadium. 
overlooked. Although they gave up 244 yards rushing, 160 of that came in the second half when they occupied the field · for more than twenty minutes. A final tally of the time of possession showed that the defense was on the field almost forty outof 
the full sixty minutes of the ball game. 
A jaded Coach Holtz preached optimism 
and promised better in the future. "We're 
going to get this God-dawg thing turned · 
around," said Holtz. "We are going to get 
back on top. And we are going to get back 
on top sooner than people think. This is the 
most physical manhandling we've had in a 
longtime. ThatwasnotNotreDame. That's 
not the way NotreDame should be and that's 
not the way Notre Dame will be." 0 Honorable Mention: 


Kordell Stewart, QB Colorado 
Keyshawn Johnson, 
WR 
USC 


Tony Boselli, OT USC 
A first teamAll-America, he paved the way for USC's final strike. 
Evan Pilgrim, 0G . Brigham Young 
The All-American was a key to QB Walsh's successagainst theIrish. 
Rashaan Salaam, RB 
Colorado TheHeisman winneronly ran for 83 yards, but he scored three touch­downs. 


Cole Ford,P 
USC 
Had an average punt of 49yardsagainst theIrish, includinga65-yardboot. 
Shannon Clavelle, DT 
Colorado 
The Defensive Player of the Game, he had three sacks and eight tackles. 
Aaron Jackson, DT 
Michigan State A starter in 19 ofhis last 23 games, Jackson gets somecredit for almost beating Notre Dame. 
D. Alexander, DE Florida State 
The first team Al/­America has given the Irish.fits for two years; secondtime asScholastic All-Opponent. 
Matt Keneley, NT 
USC 
The best ofthe bunch at the position. 
Mike Mamula, DE Boston College 
The best in the country at the position, the NFL­boundjunior hammered Notre Dame for two years, including this season's two sack, six tackle performance. Also secondyearasScholastic All-Opponent. 
Ted Johnson, LB Colorado 
Besides his back­breaking interception in the Fiesta Bowl, he had 18 tackles and one sack. 
Derrick Brooks, LB Florida State 
The terrifying presence this year avenged his poor 1993 performance. 
Clifton Abraham, DB Florida State 
A.first teamAll-America (in play as well as tantrums), helped hold Mayes to only 38 yards receiving. 
The best against the Irish 
. 
zn 1994 
Chris Hudson, DB Colorado 
The first team All­American selection barely beat out Michigan's Ty Law and heldMayes to under JOO yards receiving. 
Joe Speed, DB Navy, 
Has been.the only main­stay on the Midshipmen defensefor the last two years ( and the name is pretty cool, too). 
Steve Rosga, DB Colorado 
With five tackles in the Fiesta Bowl, he played one ofhis best games in an outstanding season in Tempe. 
Honorable Mention: 
Stephen Boyd, LB Boston College 
Shane Haloran, LB Navy 
TyLaw,CB 
Michigan 
Chuck Winters, DB Michigan 
Odds and Ends: 
Jim Reid, 
Defensive Coordinator Boston College 
His defense heldtheIrish to a season-low 11 points 
Elliot Uzelac, 
Offensive Coordinator Colorado 
Between the regular season and the Fiesta Bowl, he changed every formation and strategy to successfully surprise the Irish. 
Rocky, 
Mascot AirForce 
You can't argue with a birdthatfliesat200mph. He was more impressive than his team. 



26 

A 

arsh Desert 


ind 
The Cougars blew in from Utah andleft the defeated Irish in their path 
by Jared Patzke 
OCTOBER 15, 1994 -NOTRE DAME, IN 
e game featured three botched field goal attempts, an 

inability to block opponents while running or passing, and above all, another defeat Preceding the loss to the Cougars; Coach Lou Holtz had called a meeting with thirty of his players in an attempt to eliminate what 
· he called "acancer" from the team. Perhaps this meeting indicated thattherecentturn of Irish luck was dueto more than a lack of talent and preparation. 
Notre Dame entered the game versus BYU still recovering from the 30-11 drudging handed to themby Boston College theprevious week. With the loss came the end of any outside chances at a national championship, along with questions from friends and foe alike on the quality of the team in general. 
Plagued with injuries and abnormally poor play, the Irish coach­ing staff was forced to shuffle eight players into new starting roles. The biggest shake-up came in. the offensive line, which!tad taken thebruntofthecriticismforthelrish'sfailuretomovetheball.Four linemen rotated positions or started for the first time. "We gambled and made a lot of changes in the offensive line," commented Irish 
·head coach Lou Holtz. 
Bngham Young entered the game on an opposite note. They were holding a 5-1 record, led by junior quarterback John Walsh. Above /eh: It's third and short and the Cougars have It as BYU's 
Mark Atuala goes over the top to get the first down. 
T
MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Brent Tadsen 

i ' 
i 
Many picked Walsh as a pre-season All-American and some NFL scouts touted Walsh as the best quarterback prospect in college football. 
Notre Dameopened the game looking like aforce to bereckoned with. Randy Kinder scored on a 41-yard touchdown run on Notre Dame'sfirstpossession. BillMitoulasrecoveredaBYUfumbleon the ensuing kickoffand gained control oftheball for theIrish on the Cougar 11-yard-line. This was going to be a cakewalk. 
But the Irish failed to capitalize on the turnover afterquarterback Ron Powlus threw an errant pitch on a third-down option. TheIrish lost 13 yards and Notre Dame was forced to attempta37-yard field goal that holder Charles Stafford bobbled, causing Schroffner to miss. 
Brigham Young gained lifeaftersurviving thepotentialcatastro­phe without relinquishing a point. Notre Dame, after blowing an opportunity to take asizable lead in the early moments ofthe game, found itself stuck in a dog fight. 
Powlus showed signs ofthe greatness everyone 
expected from him late in the first half as he put together a quick scoring drive. He marched the Irish down the field on five plays that included a 55-yardpass to Derrick Mayes. Hecapped offthe drive with aseven-yard touchdown pass toMayes,· giving the Irish a 14-13 lead entering half time. 
Powlus' glory was short-lived as .the second half brought only more frustration for the Irish. Notre Dame threatened to score early in the third quarteras they put together a24-play drive which 
Top: On the quarterback keeper, John Walsh tries to hop the last few feet to the end zone. The touchdown put the Cougars ahead of the Irish. Right: Grap piing for a better hold, senior comer back LaRon Moore holds tight to take down the Cougar ball carrier, and Kinnon Tatum prepares to lunge for the tackle. 
started on their own 15-yard-line. The Irish got as far as BYU's three-yard line before the Cougar defense tightened. They stuffed the Irish on two successive running plays then nailed PowIus for an 18-yard loss as he attempted to roll out and pass into the end zone. 
Once again Notre Dame was unable to finish off a drive. The sack set up a 39-yard field goal attempt by the Irish's second placekicker of the game, Scott Cengia. The kick was blocked by BYU' s Chad Lewis and recovered by the Cougars at their own 23­yard line. 
Both coaches agreed that the Irish' s failure to score on the drive turned the tide of the game. 
"Our inability to score while inside the 15 was just too much for us to overcome," commented Holtz on his team's second failure to get any points while deep in the opponents side of the field. "l thought one ofthe keys in the game was right after their drive in the thirdquarter. Ourdefensewasalittlespentatthattime,butwewent in and kept the ball and scored," noted Edwards. 




Derrick Mayes snags the Powlus pass to put the lrlsh ahead 14-13 seconds before halftime. Notre Dame gave up lead In the second half as the team put no more points on the board. 
Following thefailedkick, Brigham Young took the ball and marched down the field, scoring the go ahead touchdown as Willis plunged over the top ofthe Irish defense. In essence, the Irish' slack of a scoring punch created a fifteen-point swing. Brigham Young successfully attempted a two-point conversion to go ahead 21-14 as opposed to Notre Dame's lost opportunity to take a28­13 lead. 
Shortly after Schroffner missed wide left from 32 yards, Goheen fell on a fumble on Notre Dame's 23 yard line with 1:36 to play. Tom Krug, filling in for a dazed Powlus (concussion), completed his first pass to tight end Oscar McBride for a nine­teen-yard gain. The fans stooda little taller. This would be a typical Notre Dame come­back. Then he found Mayes open for an­other 11 yards. But his next pass hit the ground with a helpless thud. The second fell to the cool turf, too. Then came the third, and finally, Krug's fourth attempt fluttered to the ground, leaving Irish fans in shell-shock. The fourth down attempt to Mayes was jarred loose by the Cougar defense. 
"I think our problems can be pinpointed infourmajorareas,"saidHoltz. "Oneisour inability to protect thepasser. Second is our inability to converton short yardage and on the goal line. Third is our inability in the kicking game. Fourth is the fact we don't make people pay a price for throwing the football." 
The Notre Dame community however, had asourfeeling after the game. Lou Holtz exemplified the attitude of many who live and die with the Irish as he declared, "All I want to do is get a football team and win a game." . 


Brent a sen 
Jeremy Nau shoves, Bobby Taylor blocks and the Cougar goes down. The total defensive effort In the second half was to no avail as Brigham Young scored eight points to take home victory. 
28 


frierid, and as a freshman in the same dorm we spent a lot of time talking and crying 
Carried Away 
Overcoming injuries, the fabulous number 4 rampaged through his senior season 

1 by Mark Mitchell 
Iwas just lying there on the field. I couldn't move." Lee Becton stares into the distance as he remembers the day he suffered what could have been a season ending injury. "It scared me a lot as I lay there with the trainers all around me because I had no idea of the severity of the injury. I just thought that could be the last day I ever played football." · Fortunately for theIrishcaptain, his groin injury did heal, though slowly. He was able to come back to the team late in the season and performed up to his own extraordinary standards at the USC game. "That wasn't the greatest result as far as games go, but that was the greatest game for me because I really felt that I was finally able to be involved with theoffenseand to produceon the field." Producing big results for the offense has been the tailback's trademark for the last three years. Becton had outstanding sea­sons in 1992.and 1993,and wasjustgetting his game going when he got injured. Even before his injury sidelined him for several games, Becton felt that this season started on weak footing: "I fumbled twice in the Michigan gam'e, and that's very uncharac~ teristic of me." So uncharacteristic, in fact, that he had not fumbled in two years. But Becton continued: "After every game we'd second-guess ourselves and my biggest regrets came from how I played. But you can't let what could have happened get you down." In his four years with the Fighting Irish, Lee Becton witnessed his team achieve a whole spectrum of results, from its number one ranking last year to the disheartening losses ofthis year. "The mostincrediblefor me was the comeback against BC last year. We lost the game, but to be down 21 points with eight minutes left and then to take the lead -anything is possible, anything can happen." 
And yet, as he stepped up to captain the Irish squad, the fortunes changed for Notre Dame. "We didn't do as well as a team, but I really believe thatadversity has broughtus closer." 
Though his senior season was not the brightest, the events on the football field this year have notdimmed Becton' s memo­ries ofhis four years at Notre Dame. "I've really enjoyedmeeting people around cam­pus, doing simple things, having fun, play­ing SEGA. The greatest thing about all of itisthatsomeofthesepeoplethatlhavemet will become famous politicians and presi­dents ofFortune 500 companies, and some­day Icart say, 'Wow, I knew that person.' " 
Like many students, Beeton's college career has had its rough spots, especially in his first year. "Coming from North Caro­lina I had felt cold weather before, but not like this. That first winter -the first time I felt an eighty-below wind chill -I was ready to pack my bags and head home." It was Beeton's friends who helped him through the chill of his freshman year. "Germaine Holden is my all-time greatest together. He's the reason I'm still here." Again, during the injury scare of his senior year, Beeton's friends showed him their support. 'The guys on the team helped me to stayinvolved, leading the team andshow­ing the guys who filled in for me how to get the job done." 
• Whether he goes on to professional foot­ball orintobusiness back in North Carolina, Lee Becton can look back on his time at Notre Dame and know that he has achieved something. "Graduation will be my great­est accomplishment That's what I came to college for, and that's what I'm going to be proudest of." D 



epth 


The strength ofthe Irish bench showed as a wide array ofplayers helped torpedo the Midshipmen 
by John Schoenig 
OCTOBER 22, 1994-NOTRE DAME, IN
Tlere is a Chinese proverb that says, "Even the longest of journeys starts with a single step." Ifthis is true, then Notre Dame took its first steps in the journey back to excellence againsttheNavy. Thegamecouldnothavecomeatamorecritical point in the season.. After disappointing losses to Boston College and Brigham Young, the Irish needed a good effort to boost their confidence. The result of thegamewas supposedtobelopsidedand Notre Dame did not disappoint · BybeatingtheMidshipmen,NotreDameextendedits win streak in the annual match-up to 31, the longest current winning streak by one team over another in college football. In a series that has lasted through more than 10 presidencies and survived aWorld War, the Irish have held all ofthe artillery for the last three decades. In last year's game the Irish actually trailed the midshipmen 24-17 at halftime. But there was no nail-biting this year, as Notre Dame shelled its way to 38-7 victory at intermission, and cruised the rest of the way. Rebounding from two shockinglosses, the Irishsought to usethe Navy game for offensive target practice. The game, though expected to be an easy victory,was not insignificant for the Irish. Notre Dame needed a successful campaign to boost its prospects for the rest of the season in which it would face three formidable opponents. 

Greater significance aside, the. game itself could not have gone betterfor the Irish, as they used a mixedattack to blast their way for 477 total yards. The game's quarterback arsenal included Tom KrugandfreshmenLeonBluntandGusOrnstein.Allfourquarter­backs threw for 210 yards on 22 attempts. But the real offensive story of the day was Emmett Mosley, who had a career-high 84 yards and four touchdowns. The four scores were the most since Anthony Johnson scored four times against none other than Navy in 1987. But Mosley did a lot more than score touchdowns and carry the ball. The speedster caugfit a pass, returned six punts and a kickoff, all for big yardage. 
But while Mosley took the spotlight, Powlus was a story once again. Often labeled as fragile and afraid to get hit, the young phenom was hobbled by a first-half ankle injury, not to mention a groin injury that bothered him earlier in the week. He missed two series with the sprained ankle, but returned with a fire about him, and he drove the Irish to three touchdowns and a field goal before he departed. When the smoke had cleared, Notre Dame had scored 51 unanswered points and had earned its fifth and arguably most crucial victory of the season. ''The game was basically over at halftime,"Holtz said. ­
On the defensive side, the Irish held the Midshipmen to 24 yards on theground, and only 186totalyards. NotreDameeven managed to post its first points on defense this year, after a second quarter interception by Alton Maiden was returnedfor a touchdown; ''The quarterback didn't have anybody to throw to." said Maiden, "He threw it up for grabs, and I took it Ihad a head startto the endzone, and I was justpraying to God not to get caught All I thought was 
I ---------,-----­
' ' 

• 
this could be my only chance for a touchdown, don't blow it" 
Although the Irish showcased their talent throughout the game, it was necessaryfor Holtz to keep the gamein perspective. He said, "I thought we played well offensively and defensively. Navy started out very strong. We just had too many athletes for them." Indeed, Navy was not expected to give the Irish much of a challenge, as they were ranked lasti.n rushing offenseand had given up an average of 44 points per game coming into the match-up. Overall, however, the Irish effort against Navy exhibited the potential that everyone had expected to see. . 
When Holtz lookedattheprogressoftheteam, he stated, "I don't think you can give an evaluation. I do think we are a better team offensively. I know we are a better team now than we were two weeks ago. I know we've got to get better." The climb back through the polls had to start somewhere, and the game against Navy was as good a place to start as anywhere else. D 
Brent Tadsen Kevin Klau 
Brent Tadsen 
Upper Left: Shawn Wooden easily takes down Midshipman Mike Jefferson, another Ineffective ruilnlngback who took the field for Navy. · Upper Right: In one of the last plays of the game, junior tight end Leon Wallace catches a Gus Ornstein pass and backs Into the end zone In the last play of the game, causing Navy's Coach George Chaump to charge Coach Holtz with running up the score. Lower Left: Freshman linebacker John McLaughlin throws the block and senior Inside linebacker Justin Goheen takes a Midshipman by the knees. Lower Right: .Diving closer to the end zone before going down, sophomore tailback Emmett Mosl~y adds a few more yards to his 93 yard total for the game. Mosley also had four touchdowns, an all-time school record. 


31



i' i 
1 
I 
!] : 
! 
IiI 
' 
GAME SUMMARY SCORING 1 2 3 4 Final  ¦ FLASHBACK: 1943 Bertelli Bombs 
Navy 7 0 0 14 21 Notre Dame 10 28 7 13 58  
1st Quarter  
NA: Scott 32 pass from Kubiak at 12:56  
(Bucchianeri PAT) ND: Mosley 11 run at 9:22 (Cengia PAT) ND: Cengia 38 FG at 3:28  Middies  
2nd Quarter  
ND: Mosley 19 run at 11:25 (Cengia PAT) ND: Mayes 60-pass from Powlus at 9:43 (kick failed)  into  
ND: Maiden 44 interception return at 4:02  
(Powlus pass from Edwards) ND: Mayes 20 pass from Powlus at 9:43 (Schroffner PAT)  Submission  
3rd Quarter  
ND: Mosley 24 run at 1 :43 (Cengia PAT) 4th Quarter  Reisman winner Angelo Bertelli leads undefeated  
ND: Mosley 2 run at 13:36 (kick failed) NA: Grana 2 pass from Kubiak  Notre Dame to victory over undefeated Navy as  
(Bucchianeri PAT) NA: Smith 13 run at 2:40 (Bucchianeri  World War II rages across the globe  
PAT)  
ND: Wallace 15 pass from Ornstein at :38  Bertelli started theball rolling ona touch­ 
(McCarthy PAT)  by John Power downpass from midfield toJulieRykovich,  
Team Statistics  whorompedtheremainingdistanceinrecordOnrushing Notre Dame moved up time. One touchdown pass, however, was  
ND NA First Downs ......................... . 24 14 Rushing ......................... . 17 4 Passing .......................... . 6 6  another. notch toward gridiron not enough for Mr. Bertelli,,so he took glory by defeating the pride of things into his own hands, fed a short pass Navy, Annapolis, before 86,000 hysterical· to Miller, who side-stepped, stiff-armed,  
Total Offensive Plays ....... .. 81 64  fans, a record attendance for Municipal and scampered for forty yards and a score.  
Net Yards Rushing ............. . 267 28  Stadium. The bombshell in Notre Dame's With the start of the second half, only one  
Net Yards Passing.............. .. 210 158  lightning attack was Angelo Bertelli, recent touchdown ahead, the Green and Gold un­ 
Total Net Yards .................. . 477 182  winner of the Reisman Trophy, who liter­leashed its vicious power to romp at will  
Avg Yds Per Play ......... . 5.9 2.8  ally and figuratively sunk Navy by heaving over the now tired but game men of An­ 
Fumbles-Lost ...................... . 3-1 1-1  three touchdown passes and scoring an­napolis. Navy, in desperation, began to  
Penalties-Yards ................... 9-62 4-53 Punts-Averages................... . 5-40 11-37 3rd Down Conversions ..... .. 9-17 3-16  other on a plunge. The "Springfield Rifle," throw passes hither and yon, moved to the playing his last game for the Irish, left the Irish 14, threatened to score, but Limont, field only to be mobbed by photographers, White, Filley, Coleman, Perko, Czarobski,  
Individual Statistics Rushing: ND-Mosley 15-84, Edwards 14­78, Farmer 9-62, Kinder 6-45 NA-Smith 5­ reporters and spectatorsalike. Mello,Miller, and Yonaker objected vehemently, and andKulbitskihammered,andchargedacross Not:rr, :'.Jame took over on downs. The thewhitestripes to pickup consistentchunks · streamlined'T'machinecutKulbitskiloose  
26, Williams 5-12, McGrew 5-9,Nelson3-(­ of yardage throughout the afternoon. as he galloped seventy-one yards to the  
1), Jefferson 1-(-1), Kubiak 5-(-17)  The heralded, undefeated Navy eleven Navy 8, where the Irish refueled, sending  
Passing: ND-Powlus 8-4-126-2-0, Krug 8­ fought valiantly, with its hard-charging line Bertelli through the middle for the final  
3-53-0-1, Ornstein5-2-21-l-l,Blunt 1-1-10­ and Hal Hamberg paving the way for the score.  
0-0 NA-Kubiak 33-15-122-2-0, Fay 7-4-36­ Middie's lone touchdown. From start to And so it was that Angelo Bertelli, Notre  
0-0 Receiving: ND-Mayes4-121, Stafford3-31, Wallace2-21,Mosley 1-37 NA-Hickinan6­37, Scott 3-56, Jefferson 3-37, Williams 3-2, Dixon 1-9, Smith 1-8, Quartey 1-7,  finish, the game was a pitching duel be­Dame's greatest passer, left the gridiron in tween"Bert" and this one-hundredand fifty a blaze of glory as another foe fell by the pounds ofdynamite. Forsixty thrill-packed wayside, but Notre Dame moved ever on­minutes Hal withstood the rushing Irish to ward, crushing opponent after opponent,  
Leading Tacklers: ND-Sample 7, Gibson  hurl thirty-eightpasses,eightofwhich were never stopping for a breather. 0  
6, Cobbins 5, Goheen 5, Wooden 5,  complete.  

· 



The tu,fofthe Citrus Bowl witnessed quite a brawl, but the Seminoles came out on top when the Irish 

ed 


by Kevin Eckhardt 
NOVEMBER 12, 1994-ORLANDO, FL 
Tiee yards. The line ofscrimmage lay at the three-yard line, right at the mtersection of victory and defeat The goal posts loomed overhead, brightyellow standing out againstthe gray Floridasky. Just threeyards away lay the lead for a team that had been bruised, battered, and thoroughly beaten by a superior foe, yet had held through sheer will to a game that should have ended long ago. Now they had a shot at the lead from three yards away. The day started bleakly for the Irish, and looked bleaker and bleaker as the haze turned to rain over the Citrus Bowl. The unranked Irish began flat and seemed ready to roll over and surrender on both offense and defense so many times, yet pure guts kept the Seminoles within sight Florida Sta«; took its second series on offense down to the Notre Dame 30. The rumbling running attack from Rock Preston and Warrick Dunn crashed through the Irish lines and surged forward, swallowing the front seven in its wake. "We missed a lotoftackles," saiddefensive coordinatorBobDavie. The missed tackles and the vicious battles in the trenches began to wear down the Irish defense. The 70-degree temperatures and the Florida humudity also did not help the cause. 
by 

hat ch 
Nevertheless, Notre Dame blitzes rained down on FSU quarter­back Danny Kanell, and his ineffectiveness under siege kept the Irish alive all afternoon, even as the two 'Nole backs ate up yardage with a ferocious appetite. Down the field they roared, until the defense grew tall and stood Kanell fell prey to Jeremy Sampleand the drive was done. This production would run all afternoon, the Seminoles rushing forward, theIrish retreating, falling, leaningand pushing them back. 
The momentum careened back and forth. The Irish offense went nowhere, and their only shot at a big play glanced off of Charle_s Stafford's fingers and into the arms of a defender for an intercep­tion. They were dumb struck, spending all three time outs before the end of the first quarter. FSU rolled down field again, crashing down to the Irish five before a questionable fake reverse was turned back by the defense. 3-0, Seminoles. Momentum,.Notre Dame. 
The offense sp~ttered and missed opportunities and Powlus seemed lucky to escape, luckier with each passing series. Florida

! 
i 
State roared again. This time, the Notre Dame heroics turned back

,1
,, 
the Seminoles at the Irish 13. 6-0 Seminoles. Momentum flowed back to the Fighting Irish. 
The return of the' tandem ofLee Becton and Ray Zellars brought excitementand talkofthereturnofthelrishto the polls, but the two.· were banged up and hurting again after the game. But here, the 

I' 
i 
offense sparked to life,asBectonandZellarsstartedchumingaway yardage, moving slowly into Florida State territory as the first half began to wane. And then a pressured Powlus delivered a pass into deepFSUcoveragethatDerrickBrookspickedoffattheSeminole 
20. Momentum to Florida State -until Kanell went blind. 
Fixed on the left side of the field, the Seminole quarterback missed BobbyTaylor's marathoncomerback blitz, was drilled into the ground and lost the ball. Taylor scooped it into his hands effortlessly,and thefield recededbeforehim. Run down, outgunned, outmanned, exhausted, Notre Dame was in the lead, 7-6. 
But the blitzing Irish D, tired from spending most of the swelter­ing game chasing down Dunn and Preston, folded at the end of the half. Kanell was unfazed, his backs unstoppable, until theyreached Notre Dame's two-yard line. ·The Fightii:ig Irish.dug deep down again. Bad clock use forced Florida State to settle for another Mowrey chip shot, and though they owned the lead and the stats, it was the Irish who were charging. Surrenderseemedimminenton thefirstFSUdriveofthehalf, but 
· ·anotherstandon fourth-and-one kept the Irish in it Powlus and the 
·offense came out looking sharp. A key third-and-eleven toss to DerrickMayes got Notre Dame moving, and Becton took a screen fora first down and followed it with a run for another. ButPowlus ignored a wide open Oscar McBride and forced the Irish to settle 


for a Scott Cengia field goal. At least the offense expressed signs of life. · 
More blitzing kept Kanell on th~ run and the defense finally put the Seminoles. to bed without allowing big runs. Two minutes later, all that was forgotten. The Seminoles scored in 53 seconds on a Rock Preston streak up the middle and the blitzing, bending Notre Dame defense finally wilted from FSU'stimeofpossessionandcrushinggroundgame. FSU 13-10. The statistics for the two backs were cartoonish, the Irish offense pitiful and the game appeared lost, once and for all. The Irish went three and out, followed by a punt of less than epic length that spelled the doom for the underdog. Kanell found Kez Mccorvey for a key first down on third and three. Time ticked away-but then, unbeliev­
Above:Melvln Dansby could only throw his arms up In frustration as Florida State takes a 13-10 lead. The Seminole ground attack, led by Rock Preston and Warrick Dunn, amassed two touchdowns and .332 yards. 
Facing Page: Sophomore steamroller Marc 
Edwards barrels up the middle for a big gain. Although Edwards ·only rushed for 307 on the year, he was a mainstay when Zellars was Injured and he 
· was first on the team In yards per.carry . . 
Right: Florida State quarterback Danny Kanell had 
· a shaky performance against Notre Dame, 
especlally under the watchful eyes of Germaine 
Holden arid Brian Magee. 



ably, Florida State stalled once again and Mowrey misfired. 
The momentum swung once more. 
The time for the Irish to stand up had come, the fateful time when good players become great and great players become legends. Notre Dame began to march, Powlus getting it started on a 20-yard pass to Stafford. Randy Kinder broke for 17. A stumble, and suddenly the team was up against iL The crowd rose on fourth-and­one, all eyes fixed on the rookie quarter­back. thepiecemeal line, the ragged under­dogs beat down by the bruising Seminoles onlytocomebackandhangon through guts 
and spirit. 
Powlus dropped andscrambled, evading garnet and gold attackers three·times; and he fired a strike to Mayes who cradled the ball in the back ofthe end zone to tie the score at 16-16. The Irish erupted. The Seminoles were silenced. And for one momentin this underachieving, disappoint­ingseason thespirit of victoryfilled the men in gold and blue, raising them up and wip­ing away the cloudsofthe season. Run over andlmockeddown, theFightingIrish would be ahead, after the point after, ofcourse. 
Threeyards. That'sallitwouldtake. But it was too much. With one slap ag!linst the left upright. all the energy building toward a comeback dissipated. The score was still tied, and there was too much time. Every­one saw itcorning, from Lou Holtz (whose head-dropping scene on ABC after the missed attempt was a classic) to Bobby Bowden and everyone across the stands. Kanell dropped and hitMcCorvey 49 yards downfield, ·and it was over, over quieter than a single clank off the goal post As Dunn flashed into the end zone to put the Seminoles ahead 23-16, the agony of the season, four losses, no titles, no headlines, no ranking, came down and fell full against every Notre Dame player, ~ach and fan. There would be one more shot. though the result seemed inevitable. 
Powlusescapedfrom thepocketonfourth 
downand saw nothing butgreen, the bright _green turfreflecting the sun shining above, and for one fleeting moment. the same amountoftime ittakes for aball to fly wide of the goal post. it seemed as if he might reach that first down marker, as ifhe could resuscitatethis teamjustoncemore. Heran hard, pushing tired, beaten legs as fast as they would go, reaching, stretching. And then all he saw was garnet sweeping down and dousing the last smoldering hope for 
this season. · Three yards. The Irish went from three yards away from victory to sixfeetunderin defeat. -. 



36 




Everyone knows the stars' names. ingas they come. His two touchdowns and Becton, Zellars, Powlus, Mayes. 311yardshavegoneintotheseason'sbooks, But what about the other players but not to his head. "All I'm trying to do is 
who do the samejobs without all the glory? justgettheballthrough. I'mnottryingtobe What about the regulars, the "blue-collar" a spectacular player, I just want to hold on members of the team who put in the extra to the ball and·get my four yards a carry." effort but do not come up with all the Actually, Edwards led all backs this year accolades and press coverage? Who are with 6.4 yards-per-carry. they? Marc :Edwards' career with the.Fighting 
The team's biggest workhorse and its IrishbeganinearnestlastyearagainstNavy. most unappreciated member are one and ''Thatwas the first time Istarted,which was the same -sophomore Marc Edwards. a great feeling to be out there and hear the "Oh, I think I'm getting the creditI deserve. crowd roar and know that my family and I'm the only back-up fullback. Ray's the my home town were watching on TV." starter. I'm just a glorified lineman," Edwards' consistently successful and Edwards said. Spoken like a true unsung steadily improving performance has made hero. the fullback one of the men the team turns 
Edwards is as humble and as hard-work-to when the solid plays are needed. "Iknow I'm following ingreatfootstepsandlknow I'm on the field with players who are much better than I am. So I just wanttoplayupto 
by MarkMitchell 
that level and get the job done." 
As itwas for all the members ofthe team, this season was not one of Marc Edwards' favorites. "After a couple of games, no­body knew what to say. Everyone was upset .:.._ some guys were crying. Espe­
Freight Train 
cially after the BC game, we knew we had lost something huge, we were out of the national picture. I was one of the guys crying that time." But for this star of the
For big plays, the team looked to Marc Edwards, 
future, next season has stellar prospects. .its unstoppablefullback star ofthe future "Ourgoal next season is the national cham­
pionship and all of lis are going to do everything it takes to get there. It may be a sore and tired pre-season, but when the first . game comes next season, we'll be ready and better than ever." As for personal goals for next year.Edwards typically undenates himself. "I just want to improve overall. Sure I want to be faster, but if you get ten yards a carry and you can't block anything, you're a terrible fullback. I want to improve myblocking,receiving,running,mygrades -youknow, everything I didn't do well in this year." 
Whatever Notre Dame's achievements on the field are next year, any success will be attributable in a large part to the tireless efforts of Marc :Edwards; If 199S is a successful season, certainly more of the spotlight will fall deservedly on Edwards. 
· "I've already experienced a little of that It'sjustoneof those things that comes with the position and the school. If I get more media atthntion, iCs just another thing to deal with and accept Ifldon't, that's great, too." D 
37


For Powlus and Mayes, it was a record-breaking day as the Fighting Irish soared over -the Falcons, closing the home season with a victory 



by Shan~an Ball 
.NOVEMBER 19, 1994-NOTRE DAME, IN 

i. 
T:ough the Air Force's trained falcon perfonned aerial acrobatics before kickoff, after playbegan it was the 
Irish who took to the air while the Airmen stuck to the ground. The emotions at the game were as high as Powlus' passes and Mayes' leaps. At the pep rally the night before, senior captain Justin Goheen told the students, ''When we raise our helmets tomorrow, cheer a little longer and a little louderto make it a little more special." Bui it was the players who made it a special game, a high point in a recently dismal season. 
Before the game, all ofthe seniors on the team were introducedindividually, running out onto the wet, soft bluegrass for the last time. Ontheotherside,theFalconstookthe 
·field with the confidence of a seven-game winning streakandlooked toaddanother to the list Their first attack came with a field 
goal in the first five minutes of the game. 
The Irish fought back and with· fourth dcwn on the Air Force 48-yard line; Lou Holtz made the gutsy call to to go for the first down. The call paid off when Ron Powlus connected with Derrick Mayes for 48 yards-an airstrikemade successful by perhaps the greatest catch in 1994 college football. The baUwas overthrown and as fans were turning away in dismay, Mayes laidoutandclaspedtheballinhishandsjust before it reached the ground. Ray Zellars 
· finishedthejobtoputNotreDameahead7­3 at the end of the first quarter. Irish fortunes were on their way 11p. 
Gaining the ball deep in Air Force terri­tory due to a personal foul call against the Falcons,Powlus onceagainconnected with Mayesona25-yardtouclidownstrike. With the aerial -grab, Mayes' broke the single­season team touchdownreceptionrecordof Jack Snow. The crowd exploded with celebration for the touchdown and jubila­tion for Mayes, who had been the most outstanding playerfor theFightingIrish all season, NBC's John Dockery was right there to take the ball from Mayes and carry it to his parents in the stands. 
·Two plays later, the Irish recovered a fumbled pitch. On third-and-one, Powlus launched another air raid. Under extreme pressure, he threw the ball to a wide-open Mayes in the end zone.· With that, Powlus . tied Notre Dame's single season passing touchdownrecord. Emotioncouldnothave · mn any higher for a team which had been 
38 
Kevin Klau 

The Irish running game was formidable with Ray Zellars plowing the way one last time In the stadium. 
badly abused all season. 
ContrarytoNotreDame' srecord-settingperfonnance, AirForce's option specialist BeauMorgan hadbeen struggling with hispassing game the entire half, throwing only threepasses, two ofwhich were complete for 24 yards. Notre Dame was capitalizing on the Falcons' lackluster execution. 
Likethe32-pointleadNotreDameboastedoverPurduethatthey whittled to 18 points, and the 34-3 deficit they hung over Stanford forpartofthegame,NotreDame's35-3halftimeleadwasnomore than dust in the wind. AirForce capitalized on the first Notre Dame turnover in the second half. On a play action fake, Morgan fired a 51-yard missile, the longest pass against Notre Dame this season. He connected with Hancock, who beat the Irish defense to the end zone, bringing the score up to 35-10. It would be the beginning of a scare for the Irish, but that was nothingnew. Theentire season had been one big scare. 
The Falcons continued to battle back, blocking a Ford punt and later recovering an onside kick to make it interesting. With three minutesremaininganda35-24lead,aPowluslaunchtoStaffordfor 31 yards set up a Lee Becton'touchdown and salvaged the little momentum the Irish had left 
Down by 18, the Falcons roared back and in just over a minute scored another touchdown. The Irish fans squirmed nervously on the benches as Air Force converted its on-side kick and advanced to the Irish 15-yard-line. While the scoreboards counted away the last seconds of the home season, a pressured Morgan heaved a desperate attempt which sailed safely out of the end zone. With the final home game a victory, the students who had craved a rallying point all season rushed onto the field. 
In the press tent, old, scrappy Air Force Head Coach Fisher DeBerry was all complaints, citing the personal foul early in the game as being crucial. "The biggest play was when we had 'em stumped and they called the personal foul on us for holding a man out of bounds on the punt You just don't see those calls in college football." 
''The water bill at Notre Dame is going to be awful high this week," he quipped, implying Holtz had ordered to flood the field in a strategic move. 
That's the Record 
Junior split end Derrick Mayes put on an air show against the Falcons, catching 8 Ron Powlus passes for 163 yards. 
With this catch, Mayes broke Jack Snow's record for touchdown pass receptions in a single sea­son. Mayes, who had 11 recep­tions for touchdowns in 1994, elated Irish fans with his post­Fiesta Bowl announcement that he would stay at Notre Dame for his senior year. When he was only a high school senior from Indianapo­lis, Mayes was heavily recruited by college football programs across the country. When he came to Notre Dame, he made Lou Holtz promise to be his coach for four years. Holtz promised Mayes four years in return for Mayes' promise of four years. 

''That's absolutely ridicrilous," Holtz re­plied to the laughter of the press, "I mean, gimme a break." 
But the spotlight belonged to junior Der­rick Mayes. "Dock said to me before the game, 'I'm going to find you when you get the touchdown.' I wasn't looking for him when I scored, but he was right there as ifhe expected it" 
"I just feel honored to be up there with Jack Snow, Tim Brown, Ismail, and Lake Dawson," Mayes continued. "Hopefully 
Above: Air Force option specialist Beau Morgan brought the Falcons to within 11 after facing a 35-3 deficit at the half. 
Right: Bobby Taylor and the Notre Dame defense manhandled Campbell and the Air Force running attack. It would be Taylor's last home game in the blue and gold uniforms. 
someone will feel the same way about me whenit'stimeformyrecordtocomedown." It was an appropriate way to end the final gamein the true stadium. College football's top receiver demolishes a ·team record, a first-year quarterback ties a record, the Irish win, students rush the field under the dark, early evening sky that blends into NBC's . portable lights and the raised gold hel­mets-nota bad way to end the long legacy on the venerable field. D 

sorely in need of a special moment The last two times that the sacred field has been charged, it has been done by the visitors from 
A House Expanded 
Rockne's fabled stadium is slatedfor major construction after one more season in its originalform 
by Brian Biro 
Fve, four, three, two, one... The seconds slowly ticked off the stadium clock. When itfinally hitzero, studentscharged the field and erupted in celebration. The opponent was not 
Florida State orPenn State, but rather unranked AirForce. And the ending did not feature a two-point conversion to Reggie Brooks in the comer of the end zone, but a missed Falcon touchdown. 
So where's the cause for revelry? For one, any victory for the Irish in the disappointing 1994 gridiron campaign warranted a small hurrah from the fans. But really, Notre Dame Stadium was Ann Arbor and Chestnut Hill. 
Kunte Rockne, the man behind the construction of the original stadium, also initiated its winning tradition by winning all five home games in 1930, his final year as a coach. Since that year, NotreDameStadiumhasbeenaplaceforlrishopponentstorespect and fear. Who_ could forget the monumental upset of Bud Wilkinson's Oklahoma Sooners to end the longest unbeaten string in college football history in 1935? From 1942-50, no opponent steppedon Irish toes in the hallowedgrounds. FrankLeahy' steams went undefeated in the stadium during those years. The classic victory over No. 1Miami in 1988 came in the midst ofan 18-game stadium winning streak. In all, there have been 24 seasons since 1930 in which Notre Dame did not suffer a home loss. 
So some ask, why alter something which is so revered and special? Many believe that the luster and the lore of Notre Dame Stadium will diminish with the imminent expansion. Some argue that adding 20,000 seats will take away from the closeness and intimacy of the stadium. Other contend that the $50 million addition will ruin the traditional lookofthe stadium, with its simple black scoreboards and stone-topped battlements. Butdespite these objections, construction is due to begin in the spring of 1996, meaning there will be only six more games in the original "House that Rockne built" 
For this reason, the sight of the students pouring onto the field following an ordinary victory in a very ordinary season was special. Forget the opponent. Forget the ending. Notre Dame Stadium needed that moment It would have made Rockne proud. 
Next year, the seconds will slowly tick off the stadium clock. Whenitfinallyhitszero,thestudentsmaychargethefieldanderupt in celebration. The opponent will be Navy, in the last game ofthe year. Hopefully, as a tribute to the stadium, Notre Dame will have the championship, wrapped up, with one game left, against Air Force. . 

Osborne Engineering's original renderings of Notre Dame Stadium as Knute Rockne envisioned It. The'stadium has survived in its original form since its construction in 1930. The planned upper deck will add 20,000 seats by 1997. 


' I, ' 


42 
• 

·Fighting to a draw, Ireland and Troy declared a·one-year truce-but one will finish offthe other next season 
by Annette Brawley 
NOVEMBER 26, 1994 -LOS ANGELES, CA 

e billboard in Los Angeles in 1993 featured University of
T

Southern California Head CoachJohn Robinson promising 
to beat Notre Dame; That game was not even close. Notre Dame won 31-13. Robinson got everyone's attention in 1994 by promising to resign if his team lost to Notre Dame. Once again, Robinson ate his words. Well sort of-Notre Dame played USC to a 17-17 tie. Robinson would have to wait another year for a victory. 
The bizarre 17-17 dogfight at L.A. Coliseum in 30-degree whooshing winds left Irish and USC fans alike scratching their heads. It was a stupid, little kick that did it again, that cost Notre 
Everything Is A-OK as Ron Powlus looks over the USC defense and shouts an audible to his offense. Powlus threw for 115 yards on the night. 

Facing Page: Senior placeklcker Stefan Schroffner 
and senior wldeout and holder Charles Stafford .watch In horror as Israel lfeanyl block Schroffner's 
potential game-winning kick. The ball was scooped 
up by Southern'Cal's Sammy Knight who returned it 
56 yards deep Into Irish tetritory. 
Damy the football game and ended the season on an appropriately disappointing note; · 
With less than six minutes to go, Notre Dame attempted a field goal which would have put them ahead by ten and viI-tqally iced the game. "Yeah, I think I can make it," said senior walk-on Stefan Schroffner. Poor Schroffner. What was he supposed to say,"Ah, well coach, there's no way..." Nonethe­less, the Irish who had been charging down field, in great field position, decided to kick a 37-yard field goal rather than go for it on fourth down and short When was the last time the Irish did not go for it on a fourth and short deep in the opponent territory? USC pushed the Notre Dame offensive line back­wards, blocking the kick and returning it deep into Notre Dame territory. A quick Trojan touchdown tied the game at 17 and although Notre Dame and USC each had another possession, it still ended in a draw. 
The game between Notre Dame and USC marked the 66th meeting between the two teams. The Irish were riding an 11-game winning streak against the Trojans, the longest winning streak by either team in the history of the series, and Wyre looking to make it 12 in a row. However, the Trojans were ranked 17th in the AP poll, and 1994 was Southern Cal's best chance for a victory over Notre Dame in years. 

Despite the fact thatmany expectedUSC to win, Notre Dame was upbeat going into the game and looked forward to re-igniting the rivalry which hadbegun to fade overthe years due to Irish domination. ''The rivalry be­tween Notre Dame and Southern Cal has producedmoreAll-Americans,moreNational 

Champions, and has had more national television coverage than any other rivalry in college football," Lou Holtz said. 'The team's attitude was good going into the game. We were excited about the game because it was USC, they were a ranked team, and it was on prime time television." Holtz said the players were ready for the Trojans. 'TheUSC game is such a big rivalry incollegefootball; it's the gameoffall games. It's the game where you play the hardest and hit the hardest," senior Jeremy Nau said. 
Butbeing ready to play did noteliminateall the pre-game butterflies. "I was a little ner­vous before the game because I knew it was my last regular season game in a Notre Dame uniform. A lot of the nervousness had to do with the fact that it was againstUSC. The senior class didn't want to be theone tobreak the winning streak," senior Charles Stafford said. 
From the beginning of the game, the Irish outplayed the Trojans. Notre Dame put their firstpointsontheboardonlyfiveminutesinto the game. At the end of the first quarter, the Irish running game had amassed 45 yards, while the defense held USC's offense to negative two yards rushing. In the second quarter, Ron. Powlus' 11-yard touchdown pass to Ray Zellars put the Irish up 10-7. The touchdown pass was Powlus' 19th of the year, which set a new Notre Dame record for the most touchdown passes in a season. The gamehaditsotherhighnotesasarevivedLeeBectrin ran fora season-high 156yards,reminding fans ofhis marvelous performance last season. · 
Aside from the blocked kick, perhaps a second turnaround point in the game occurred with the Irish deep in their own territory midway through the second quarter. With the ball on the Irish two, Powlus threw a great pass to Charles Stafford who might have made it to the end zone, had he made the· catch. One play later, in a rare occurrence, Powlus fired to OscarMcBride, who would have had the first down had he not dropped the ball also. Instead of a probable score, the Irish found themselves punting. 
\ 
It's the one that got away for Derrick Mayes as a Ron Powlus pass bounces off his helmet. 




1. 43 i 




Right: Touchdown I Derrick Mayes and Ray Zellars Jump for Joy Mike Bennett after Zellars puts another six points on the board. Zellars score 
on a fourth-down reception from Ron Powlus put the Irish up 10-7 
with 1 :01 left In the first half. 
Below: Ray Zellars is stopped Just short of the goaline. The 
bruising fullback accounted for 43 yards In the game. 
And before the Irish could say "shanked kick," Rob Johnson had already driven the Trojans to a touchdown. 
Considering the way the entire football season went, some of the Irish players were not surprised with the outcome of the game. "We weren't happy with the outcome. I'm not surprised with the way the game ended, though. It fits with the way the whole year went," 
Stafford said. 
"It was a big letdown the way the game ended," Nau agreed. · "Basically the whole season was a letdown. In the big games, we were always right there, about ready to win, but then the big plays went against us and wecouldn 'tpull out the win. In thepast, we've been able to overcome adversity and make the big plays go ourway, but not this year." 
Holtz agreed with his players. "The USC game was frustrating. With six minutes to go we were about to go up by two scores·, and the next thing we know, they've tied the game. It's been a very frustrating year. We could have easily been 10-1 this year, but things didn't go our way. We aren't making any excuses for that," he said. 
One thing the Irish did do well was to give John Robinson more fits. Robinson had prepared his resignation speech if the Trojans lost to the Irish again, this year on their home turf. "So what will Robinson do now?" people wondered after the game. The answer: he waits until next year's defeat to resign. 0 

: i 
; 
\ 
'· 

44 
¦ F'LAsHBACK: 1926 

Trojans Routed by Irish Wooden Horse 
In the first ofgame ofa legendary rivalry, Rockne's men beat top-ranked USC 
by Harry Sylvester 
T:e ancient Greek genius who gath­ered together enough boards arid nails to build a deceptive wooden 
horse with which his compatriots stormed the portals of an ancient Troy and romped away with a victory, did nothave a thing on Mr. Knute Rockne, the modem strategist 
Forthismodemclassicisthoardedenough forward passes, end runs and brilliant foot­ball lastSaturday afternoon in Los Angeles to repel the attack of the modem Trojans from theUniversity ofSouthern California. Mr. Rockne's countrymen won the battle 
13 to 12. 
·Being an artist by nature and a strategist bychoice, Mr. Rockne decided to carry out the ancient tale with exaction. After his under-dog Irish had waited for the larger part of the game to inflict a vulnerable wound~ Mr. Rockne motioned to a diminu-tive individual in the form ofArty Parisien, and asked him to storm the Trojan portals. 

Parisien didn't linger. There were but 90 secondstogo. Thecountwas12to7andthe Trojans were beginning to count heavily on a Bacchanalia of some kind because the yictory was imminent 
Parisien' s two flips to Niemie, with fifty yards tobe made, weresufficienttoputover a touchdown and the Irish won 13 to 12. 
Mr. Howard Jones, the Southern coach, who is entitled to the role of the modem Anchises, picked up his eleven stalwart grandsons ofAeneas andrushed them from the stadium, for they had lost their first intersectional battle of the history. 
Take this modernist interpretation of Vergil's poem at your pleasure, but at any rate these Fightin' Irish played their game of old and displayed to some 80,000 as­sembled that the best football team in the country is bound to have onebadafternoon. 
Fightingindesperation, withallthenerve of maddened bulls who have been twice wounded,NotreDame' spowerfulmachine made attempt after attempt to bowl over the dogged Trojans. 
There were only seconds to play and the end had not yet been attained. The fans were leaving for they acclaimed Southern Cal a victor when the wooden horse, Art Parisien, came to the rescue. And in less time than it takes to pull a cork, the south­paw passer had flipped Notre Dame to a one-point victory over the surprised Cali­fornians. 
Coming at such a tense moment, Parisien's uncanny passing and Niemic's 
faultless receiving, 
werenew flames for the 
interested crowd But 
here the likeness to the 
ancient myth ends for 
the end was not accord­
ing to the books. They 
were the Irish who 
started out on the jour­
ney, not under Aeneas 
butunderRockne,and 
they didn't weep over Dido's funeral pire but rather over the Trojans who.m they had humbled. . 




RESULTS AND ATTENDANCE SCORING -Conversions-RUSHING Att. Ycls. Garn Car TD LP Sept 3 at N'westem W 42-15 66,946 TD Run Pass PAT FG-A Pts Kinder, R. 119 702 63.8 5.9 4 41 Sept 10 :MICHIGAN L 24-26 59,075 Mayes, D. 11 1-1 -68 Becton, L. 100 550 78.6 5.5 3 37 Sept. 17 at Mich. State W 21-20 74,183 Scroffner, S. --30-30 6-10 48 Zellars, R. 79 466 58.2 5.9 3 62 Sept 24 PURDUE W 39-21 59,075 Zellars, R. 5 30 Edwards, M. 48 307 27.9 6.4 2 37 Oct 1 STANFORD W 34-15 59,075 Becton, L. 4 24 Mosley, E. 34 187 18.7 5.5 4 24 Oct 8 at Bost Coll. L 11-30 44,500 Kinder, R. 4 24 Farmer, R. 26 131 14.6 5.0 0 22 Oct 15 BYU L 14-21 59,075 Mosley, E. · 4 24 Miller, M. 3 33 4.7 11.0 0 14 Oct. 29 NAVY W 58-21 59,075 Cengia, S. 4-7 5-8 19 Stafford, C. 3 24 2.2 8.0 0 21 Nov. 12 Florida State L 16-23 72,868 Stafford, C. 3 -18 Klusas, T. 3 15 3.8 5.0 0 14 Nov. 19 AIR FORCE W 42-30 59,075 Powlus, R. 2 1-1 14 Thotne,.M. 5 14 2.0 2.8 0 4 Nov.26 atUSC T 17-17 90,217 Edwards, M. 2 12 Blunt, L. 9 6 1.0 0.7 0 7 Allgamessold out Miller, M. 2 12 Sollmann, S. 2 1 0.1 0.5 0 2 Farmer, R. 1 6 Ornstein, G. 2 -5 -5.0 -2.5 0 0 Taylor, B. 1 6 Krug, T. 2 -11 -1.4 -5.5 0 0 TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP Maiden, A. 1 6 Powlus, R. 78 -48 -4.4 -0.6 2 44 
FIRST OOWNS .................... 222 218 McCarthy, C.-1-1 1 ND TOTAL 513 2372 215.6 4.6 18 62 Rushing.......................... 127 105 ND TOTAL 41 2-2 35-38 11-18 318 OPPTOfAL444 1538 139.8 3.5 19 46 Passing........................... 83 98 OPPTOTAL28 0-1 2-7 19-2016-22 239 By Penalty..................... 12 15 3rd Down Conv ............. 0.389 0.312 4thDownConv............. 0.688 0.632 
TOfAL PLAYS ................... 757 779 PASSING Cmp Att YdsTDintSLPEffic 

TOfALNETYARDS.......... 4230 3661 Powlus, R. 119 2221729 19 925 60139.2 RECEIVING No. Garn Yds Avg TD LP Avg. Per Play................ 5.59 4.71 Krug, T. 7 16 98 1 1 0 31103.4 Mayes, D. 47 4.3 847 18.0 11 60 Avg. Per Game ............. 384.55 332.82 Ornstein, G. 2 5 21 1 1 0 15101.3 Stafford, C. 18 1.6 254 14.1 3 34 
RUSHING YARDAGE........ 2372 1538 Blunt, B. 1 1 10 0 0 0 10184.0 Miller, M. 17 2.4 276 16.2 2 47 Yds. Lost Rushing......... 408 377 ND TOT AL 129 244 1858 21 1125 60 136.2 Zellars, R. 12 1.5 i14 9.5 2 21 Avg. Per Rush............... 4.6 3.5 OPPTOTAL190335 2123 9 735 51114.7 Mosley, E. 11 1.1 118 10.7 0 37 Yds. Rushing/Gmne ...... 215.64 193.00 McBride, 0. 6 0.5 57 9.5 0 19 Rushing TDs ................. 18 19 Becton, L. 6 0.9 50 8.3 1 21 
PASSING YARDAGE......... 1858 2123 Edwards, M. 5 0.5 58 11.6 0 39 Attempts ....................... 244 335 Wallace, L 2 0.2 21 10.5 1 15 Completions.................. 129 190 INT RETURNS No. Yds TD LP Champion, C. 1 0.2 16 16.0 0 16 Interceptions.................. 11 7 
-M"'.""ai.,....d-en-,-A-.----1--44--1--44-Farmer, R. 1 0.1 15 15.0 1 15 Percentage..................... 0.529 0.567 Taylor, B. 1 38 0 38 Kinder, R. 1 0.1 12 12.0 0 12 Avg. Per Catch............... 14.4 11.2 Magee, B. 1 31 0 31 Blunt, L. 1 0.2 12 12.0 0 12 Avg. Per Game.............. 168.91 193.00 Davis, T. 1 11 0 11 Sollman, S. 1 0.1 8 8.0 0 8 Passing TDs................... 21 9 Wooden, S. 1 7 0 7 NDTOfAL 129 11.7 1858 14.4 21 60 FUMBLES-LOST................. 22-10 30-15 Covington,!. 1 2 0 2 OPPTOTAL 190 17.3 2123 11.2 9 52 PENALTIES-YARDS .......... -55-437 50-433 Sample, J. 1 0 0 0 TIME OF POSSESSION...... 337:30 332:30 NDTOTAL 7 133 1 44 OPP TOT AL 11 107 0 49 
SCORE BY PERIOD 1 2 3 4 TOT Tackles(Total):Magee81,Sample70,Goheen NOfREDAME 50 117 82 69 318 61, Wooden59,Gibson59,Davis56,Grasmanis OPPONENTS 26 63 47 103 239 49, Wynn 47, Taylor 46, Nau 45, Cobb.ins 34, PUNT RETURNS No. Yds Avg TD LP Saddler 31, Hamilton 30, Beny 26, Moore 25, 
Miller, M. 10 54 5.4 0 12 Dansby 18, Tatum 16, Covington 13, Maiden KICKOFF RET No. Yds Avg TD LP Mosley, E. 8 35 4.4 0 12 13, Holden 12, Wagasy 11, McLaughlin 8, Mosley, E. 13 320 24.6 0 47 NDTOTAL 18 89 4.9 0 12 Graham 7, Babey 5, Rossum 5, · Mitoulas 5, Miller,M. 11 244 22.2 0 55 OPPTOTAL 20 189 9.4 0 18 Kramer 5, Kinder 4, Bergmann 4, Belisle 4, Becton, L. 1 17 17.0 0 17 Edwards 3, Bennett 3, MacDonald 3, Carretta 3 Stafford, C. 2 29 14.5 0 19 Fanner, R. 5 60 12.0 0 12 Zellars, R. 5 59 11.8 0 23 PUNTING No. Yds Avg Blkd LP 

Chryplewicz, P. 1 4 4.0 0 4 Ford, B. 35 1370 39.7 1 61 Sacks: Bmy 6-44, Sample 5-43, Gibson 4-35, Edwards, M. 1 0 0.0 0 0 Wachtel, C. 13 490 37.7 0 48 Goheen 4-31, Nau 4-18, Grasmanis 2.5­NDTOfAL 39 733 18.8 0 55 NDTOTAL 48 1880 39.2 1 61 13,Hamilton 2-20, Dansby 15-7, Taylor 1-15, OPPTOfAL 55 1118 20.3 0 56 OPPTOTAL 63 2519 40.0 1 65 Wyrm 1-9,Saddlerl-7,Maiden 1-6,Cobbins 1-4 
46 


Jeremy Akers 
-Knute Rockne Student-Athlete Award from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley 
Lee Becton, tailback 
-Selected to play in Hula Bowl all-star game 
Oliver Gibson, nose guard 
-Nick Pietrosante Award co-winner (by vote of players to individual who exemplifies characteristics oflate Irish All-America fullback) -NotreDame Linemanofthe Year by Moose Krause Chapter of National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame -Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game 
Justin Goheen, inside linebacker 
-United Press International All-America (hon. men.) -Nick Pietrosante Award co-winner -Football News All-Independent team -Selected to play in Hula Bowl all-star game 
Brian Hamilton, defensive tackle 
-Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game 
Ryan Leahy, offensive guard 
-United Press International All-America (hon. men.) 
Derrick Mayes, split end 
-Notre Dame National Monogram Club team MVP (by vote ofplayers) -United Press International andFootballNews All-America -Football News All-Independent team -NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player ofthe Game vs. Air Force (8 catches, 163 yards, 2 TDs) -Semifinalist (one of 10) for Fred Biletnikoff Award thatgoes to top receiver in the country 
Oscar McBride, tight end 
-Selected to play in Hula Bowl all-star game 
Emmett Mosley, tailback 
-NBC Sports/ChevroletPlayeroftheGamevs. Navy ( 4 TDs) 
Ron Powlus, quarterback 
-ABC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Northwestern (18 of 24 for 291, 4 TDs) · -NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Michigan (15 of27 for 187, 2 TDs) -NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Stanford (11 Of 14 for 166, 3 TDs) 
Jeremy Sample, inside linebacker 
-ABC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Michigan State (2 sacks, 10 tackles) 
Bobby Taylor, cornerback -United Press International, American Football Coaches Association, Football News and Walter Camp All­America(first team) -Associated Press All-America (third team) -Football News All-Independent team -ABC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Florida State (sack, forced fumble and fumble returnfor 57 yards and TD) 
Mark Zataveski, offensive guard 
-GTE/CoSIDA National Second-Team Academic All­America -GTE/CoSIDA District V Academic All-America -Hitachi/CPA Scholar-Athlete Team -State Farm/Mutual Broadcasting Student-Athlete of the Year -Nominee for post-graduate scholarships from NCAA, National Football Foundation and for NCAA Today's Top VIII 
Ray Zellars, fullback 
-NBC Sports/Chevrolet Notre Dame Player of the Game vs. Purdue (14 carries for career-high 156 yards, 1 TD) -Selected to play in Senior Bowl all-star game 
All-Scholastic Honors: Offensive Most-Improved, Emmett Mosley Defensive Most-Improved, Bert Berry Best Potential, offense, Scott Sollmann Best Potential, defense, Lyron Cobbins Best Effort, Least Credit, Ryan Leahy Defensive Play of the Year, Taylor's pasting of Kanell Offensive Play of the Year, Zellars' run against Purdue 
Have You Seen Him Lately Award, Oscar McBride We Won't Hold It Against You Award, kickers Best Catch Award, Derrick Mayes vs. Air Force Keith Jackson Memorial ND Bashing Award, Chris Collinsworth Slip 'o the Tongue Award, Todd Christenson, called Powlus Mirer Biggest Paranoid Whiner Award, Coach Fisher DeBerry Slap in the Face Award, Coach George Chaump Worst Band Halftime Show A\Vard, YMCA 




Though greatly discouraged, the Fighting Irish boldly made one last stand before a.retiring legend, a Reisman winner and the rest ofColorado's indomitable Buffaloes 
JANUARY 2, 1995 -TEMPE, AZ 
SomesaytherearecactiinArizonawithneedles sensitiveto intruders. When a careless person or animal gets too close, the needles can jump out at the trespasser. The same was true of a few Buffaloes in Tempe. The razor-sharp Colorado Buffaloes jumped all over Notre Dame from the outset But against a team that was 229-6-1 when scoring over 30 points, against a team that set more than51 individualorteamrecordsin 1994,againsta team that boasted two Reisman Trophy candidates and sevenAll-Americans, and against a team whose belovedcoach wasretiring,NotreDameplayedvery, very well. Put bluntly, Colorado was a national­championship caliber team, explosive and arguably more dangerous than last year'sFloridaState jugger­naut It was a team with more weapons than Arnold Schwartzenneger, but it was also a team that was worried about Notre Dame up to a week before the game. 
Sophomore Scott Sollman bursts up field on a 
· kick-off return. The walk-on provided a special 
teams spark with five returns for 103 yards. 
Brent Ta<lsen 



Facing Page: Kordell Stewart was too powerful for the Irish, throwing 226 yards and rushing for 143 yards In just 7 carries.· 
"It's going to be a dogfight," said Colorado line­backer Matt Russell before the showdown. ".I expect afourth-quartergame. Asfaraswe'reconcemed,it's two 10-1 teams playing. Notre Dame is a top-5 team." Free safety Steve Rosga agreed, "Notre Dame is not a team that you'11 ever blow out" 
Notre Dame players seemed to agree with Colo­rado that they belonged in the bowl, despite the talk they heard to the contrary. The players were loose and confident, not cocky. Ryan Leally believed the Irish could play "out of their minds." Lou Holtz had a month to prepare top talent Injuries healed. Notre Dame was not ranked #2 in the pre-season for noth­ing. Colorado Coach Bill· McCartney warned his players about all of this and more. 
On game day, Ron Powlus trotted onto the well­conditioned field, clad in a kelly green jersey that seemed to scream at skeptics of Notre Dame. The Irish meant business. In fact, Holtz's teams had never lost a bow1 game or any otherwhen wearing the green. Back in 1992, in the Sugar Bowl against Florida ... 
But for once, Notre Dame had nothing, or very little, to lose. Justin Goheen wanted his class to be the first to win all four bow1 games they played in. That was as important as it got Those who said this game was about pride had a lot to learn. Notre Dame had lost its pride earlier in the season, when poor kicking cost them three games. The Irish were in Tempe nonetheless, where they supposedly did not belong, with their backs up against the wall one more time. The game was in Colorado's backyard, but no one would have known it from the throngs of Irish fans who arrived on the scene days before. They carried the pride with them. 
The Notre Dame players were unusually calm and cool when they walked onto the field with. their h~ds · down. The Buffaloes danced and pranced their . hoofs, waved 'theirarms and pumped their fists. The Irish, however; seemed focused and determined. They huddled by the end zone, then burst onto the · gridiron.·In onecomerofthe south end zone theband .. played the Victory March. The throngs clapped hands to its rhythm. A tingle of hope shone down with the rays ofsunshine that reflected off the nearby mountaintops. 
Perhaps Notre Dame was in over its head from the beginning. Colorado was not supposed to have.a diverse offense:. Throughout the year; it utilized a power offense, always with one man in the backfield, 
Unlike the Invincible Stewart, Ron Powlus was · sacked seven times by the Buffaloes. 
two wideouts. But Goheen and the 4-3 de­fense (good for stopping the run) were seeing a two man backfield, sometimes three wideouts. Before Notre Dame could adjust, they were down 30-3. On defense, Colorado used a 4-3 formation which also caught Notre Dame off-guard. "We did this outofour great respect for Notre Dame and Lou Holtz," McCartney later claimed. This game did not symbolize the entire season for Notre Dame as others did, because Notre Dame was playing well. mistakes early on, although the pressure on Powlus was often great But Powlus was breaking out of the pocket like he had eyes on the back ofhis head. Cengia hit a field goal. Becton rumbled up the middle with grace. On the other side, Salaam rushed for an average of2.9 yards in the first half, almost five yards below his season aver­age. 
But the hurricane of quarterback Kardell Stewart could not be stopped. No one told Notre Dame he was this good. Stewart would run 39 yards on an option then connect deep on the next play with Kidd or Westbrook. With four minutes left in the half, Colorado 



I , 
had 200 yards more offense than Notre Dame, and Stewart already had over 100 yards rushing and over 100 yards passing. 
Notre Dame would leave the first halfwith some momentum on its shoulders after Powlus unloaded a 40-yard prayer for Mayes in the end zone. Touchdown, Irish. A perfectly thrown pass preceded an amazing catch. Down 30-IO at the half, Holtz was bubbling with thoughts of a comeback. 
Late in the third quarter, Notre Dame was marching downfield, again, after failing to convert a fake field goal minutes earlier. The Irish had 117 yards in the quarter to the Buffaloes' six yards of offense. The crowd was going crazy as Notre Dame advanced to the Colorado 30. "The Valley oftheSun isnow setting," exclaimed­NBC announcer Charlie Jones. "And here they come," he shouted in a battle cry as if he expected a Notre Dame blitzkrieg of Colorado' sdefense. The momentum wasallNotreDame' s-until fate came swooping in, from the deserts and mountains, in the name of Colorado All-America linebacker Ted Johnson. Johnson's · interception was the nail-in-the-coffin and the definite turning point of the game. "I thought the big play was Ted Johnson's interception," said McCartney. "They needed to score then." 
"I think that was the finest performance by any other team I've coached," noted Holtz of Colorado after the game. "I've never seen a team so sharp and so crisp. I doubt that any team in the country 
Right: Despite the loss, Coach Lou Holtz hadall praise for his players In the post-game press conference. Below: Senior fullback Ray Zellars fights for yardage as junior guard David Quist pries a Buffalo of Zellars' waist. Colorado was unforgiving on defense, holding the potent Irish rushing attack to 149 net yards 
on 45 carries. 

could have beaten them today." 
LeeBecton came up to speak, finishing as one of Notre Dame's top-IO all-time rushing leaders. He did not dwell on the loss or the season, but what should count most "I wouldn't trade these guys for any other group in America," Becton said. Pow I us realized the impact of Becton and the seniors. He said, ''As soon as the clock hit zero, we all looked forward to next year. We want to be undefeated next year, the best, national champions, and ifwe are, we'd owe it all to the seniors this year." 0 



¦ FIEsTA BOWL: COMivIENTARY 
A Place in the Sun 

Even at 64-1, Notre Dame was a worthy contender on January 2 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
OnJanuary3rd,sportwritersandfans across America had a field day with the 17-pointirish loss toColo­rado. They ignorantly and arrogantly shouted, "I told you so," about the Irisb not belonging in the Fiesta Bowl. Notre Dame was thrown into the pot of annual bowl controversy by these people, who claimed the Irish should have been watching bowl games from their living rooms rather than playing in them. After all, the offensive line was in absolute disar­ray, the team was filled with injuries and controversy, and even Holtz seemed to have lost his edge. There's no way they should have gone to a bowl, right? "Let me get this straight," said Holtz to the media "We are playing a team you will concede is one of the four best teams in the country, right? Will you concede they're going to be at an emotional peak? They've got the Reisman winner, they've got [Bill] McCartney retiring and [Bob] Simmons leaving. And we're playing them in their section of the country. Then I would as­sume we're, what, a 30, 35-point under­dog? Is that what we are? You mean to tell me with all those things going we're only a seven-point underdog? I guess somebody thinks we belong here." Colorado players and Head Coach Bill McCartney agreed. They believed Notre Dame belonged there and they expected a challenge. "NotreDameisagreatteam,"saiddefen­sive tackle Shannon Clavelle. "They can play at any bowl. They win bowl games, so I respect them for that." This bowl game had more interesting subplots than any other on the day. They had met in three of the last six bowls. A 
regular rivalry was building. Then there 
was McCartney, the man who lifted Colo­
rado from the Big Eight basement He was 
retiring, his players wanted to send him out 
right Meanwhile, Notre Dame was look­
ing for retribution. What began as a na­
tional championship march turned into a 
fow--loss stagger; the had something to prove. 
These subplots are what made the choice 
of Notre Dame so perfect No one could 
have written it better. Who wanted to see 
Kansas State or Boston College or Virginia 
playing Colorado? There was nothing on 
the line in those potential match-ups. 
Another point that so many critics over­
looked is that the Fiesta Bowl picked Notre 
Dame. Notre Dame did not invite them­
selves. Fiesta Bowl officials knew this was 
not one .of Notre Dame's best teams in 
recent years, but they also knew that Notre 
Dame is America's top college football 
program. And no one plays the underdog 
more brilliantly than the Irish. 
But there's more. Notre Dame's bowl game record of 13-6is simply phenomenal. In 1992, the eighteenth-ranked Irish were upagainstnumber-threeFloridaintheSugar Bowl. Everyone thought the Irish didn't belong there. But Notre Dame won the game 39-28. So the story was the same in 1994, and clearly, these sportswriters and . fans who flapped their gums hadnotleamed 
their lesson in 1992. 
There were simply no alternatives than 
NotreDame. BackinOctober,anyonewho 
took time to think about possible bowl 
match-ups would have seen this coming. 
The Fiesta Bowl's top choice after Notre 
Dame were Virginia Tech (16) and North 
Carolina (17). If you can't have a good 
gameonpaper, take one filled with tradition 
and intrigue for television. And add it to 
your lpng list of reasons why Notre Dame 
belonged in the Fiesta Bowl. 0 



; ! 
YouKnow 
by Justin Goheen 
MyHeart Will Be 
Wen approached by the staff. ofScholastic partofuswillrunoutofthe tunnel with the team. For Magazine to write the Final Word for there is a bond between tis and the players of the past the 1994 Football Review, I immedi­and future that will never be broken. ate!y jumped at the chance. I felt fortunate to be able A football player does not simply 'play' for Notre to express my memories and thoughts about the Dame, he 'becomes' Notre Dame. And when he Fighting Irish football program in such a widely read finishes his last game, along with thesadness, he feels publication. fortunate to have added to the illustrious tradition that At first, a multitude of ideas has been built throughout the past century. And no flooded my mind. My brain was matterwhatthatindividualmaygoon todoin life,he overloaded with differentideasand will always be a part of Notre Dame football and all angles to write about But as I that it stands for. attempted toputsorrithingdown on As I enter into my life after Notre Dame, I will paper, I found myself unable to always look back fondly on the four years I was completely express my thoughts. I fortunate enough to spend at this tremendous institu­would tell myself,"Sleep on it," or, tion. It has affected my life in many ways, all of "Think it over a few more times." I which have been positive. And no matter where I began to blamemyselfforprocras­may find myselfnextyearand every year after, when tinating in the beginning. How­the leaves begin to change, and the smell of burning ever, as time went on, it became leaves fills the air, you know where my heart will be.. crystal clear as to why I could not put the words on paper. Complet­ing this column will truly markmyfinal word with the Fighting Irish. For myself and my fellow seniors who haveplayed our last game for the Irish, this is difficult to swallow. We have given so much of ourselves, both physically and mentally, for the past four years. It is difficult to imagine having to watch the Fighting Irish come screaming out of the tunnel next year, knowing that we are not with them. Never again will we don the Insi.de linebacker 
famed golden helmets, nor will we lace up the plain 
Justin Goheen was a 
black shoes ready to do battle in the house that 
senior captain ofthe 
Rockne built 1994 Fighting Irish Yet, although we will neveragain play for the Irish football team. physically, every Saturday for the rest of our lives, a 


, I 




,I 52 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ 1994 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
I,
,q
'•II 

Irish Sports Report gives you the complete Notre Dame sports picture -whether it's from the sidelines or cmirtside -in every issue. It's news you can't get anywhere else. Call 11owfor a FREE TRIAL ISSUE* of Irish Sports Report-no strings attached. See for yourself why we're the nation's number one publication devoted to . Notre. Dame Sports; 
[Zl. ii 
1 Yr/22 issues • $32,95 2 Yrs/44 issues • $60.95 3 Yrs/66 issues • $82.95 
Subscnpttons sent 2nd doss moil. For fa~er 1st doss delwery during footholl seoson, odd $11. FOf 1st doss delwery oll yeor, odd $11. 
•for_ fonswho hove never seen ocopy of lrish_Sports Report, please. ·· 





