— Che —
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
Disce^vAsi-sempee-victvrus- • vivg-9vasi-crasmoritvrvs-
Vol. XXXIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 25, 1905.	No. 11.
Resignation.
CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, ’06.
C\USK trails a violet robe, Night hath a cloak of stars;.
Dawn breaks with a rush of wind Through orient cloudy bars.
And the white day takes its course,— Before it a gold sea flows,
But. there is darkness behind
Where the chill spray blows.
So joy cuts by like the day, And its sunsets sombre are, Till the cassocked evening lights
Peace’s sanctuary star.
In the Valley of Virginia.
MATTHEW J. WALSH.
FTER slowly creeping along for nearly two hundred miles past battlefields and shrines of history, the Potomac River takes a sudden turn and reaches a point where three states meet:
Maryland and the two Virginias. Here it unites with the Shenandoah, the “Daughter of the Stars; ” timidly feeling her way . through the Blue Ridge Mountains, and the one gaining strength from the other, they sweep on in majesty toward the nation’s capital.
At the confluence of these two rivers and projecting far out from the mountain side is a tongue of rock, Harper’s Ferry. Under ordinary circumstances -the . saying holds true that things change, not to speak of the still more likely fact that we change with them. If one were to look for an
exception to prove this rule he could find it at Harper’s Ferry. Nature has done the building there, and its inhabitants have so lived into the traditions of the place that there is little likelihood of a change in place or people. Though seldom spoken of in guide-books as a place of interest to the tourist, still there is much here for the curiosity seeker to feed on, despite the hotel service.
Though but fifty miles, or so, from Washington an occasional excursion is all that leads the city folk to visit these hidden parts. Taking a train from the capital you pass through rolling farm lands and rocky stretches, a constantly changing scene, far different from the unattractive level wastes that one finds throughout Indiana or Illinois. Soon the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains are reached and the scenery grows more wild. Suddenly the train plunges into a tunnel eight hundred feet long, cut through the heart of Maryland Heights. Here are a few moments of trying darkness and then you rush forth again into sunshine and light, with a glimpse of fairyland spread before you. West Virginia, cut off from the “old Dominion” by the Shenandoah, whose banks are heaped with the Loudoun and Bolivar Heights; Maryland crowned with her steep ridge of rocks and the Potomac at her feet; and there, almost lost in the grandeur that encompasses it, nestles little Harper’s Ferry where the first blow was struck at the shackles of the black man; where birth was given to a struggle that tore men’s hearts and set a nation weeping. Thomas Jefferson little dreamed these things as he sat perched on a stone that is still to be seen near the little Catholic Church, and looking out over the picture before him added to his “Notes' on Virginia,” “This
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
170
scene is worth a vovage across the Atlantic.”
Though existing- since 1747, when Robert 00	J
Harper, an Englishman, and his faniih* settled at this point and established a ferry across the river. Harper’s Ferry knew no fame until 1794. JFwas. then that George Washington, recognizing the hidden security of the place, built there.the United States arsenal. With this came prosperity, and when the site of the present city of Washington, was still two- feet under water Harper’s Ferry bade well_to make, itself an. industrial centre in the, East. .Then came the threats- of-a war with .France^ and, while men in buckskins stood, about and ■ discussed the equality of men, President Adams had stationed here the readjr-made army of the embryo state.
When peaceful times again took hold of the country the capital was removed from Philadelphia to Washington. Then it was that Harper’s Ferry lost its right to be called anything but a town. Its people slowly drifted into .the capital, and before long none were left but property holders and those connected with the arsenal. ’
Thus things continued to pass on, one day as uneventful as the other. It was true that the slavery question was claiming a great deal of tlie country’s attention. Several. uprisings had taken place, and at times even rumors' of war floated by. All these things are noted' but little recked bv the people of the .Ferry. Nor was. the even quiet of the place;.hrthe least disturbed when twenty; men made their appearance in the neighboring mountains and began to search for ore,’for prospectors were common in those days?. But there was a surprise in store foi; the town../Early on the morning of‘ the ’ , sixteenth sof. October, 1859, these same twenty' men . rushed upon . watchmen stationed, on ;the-Baltimore’ and Ohio Bridge. Td'knpck down the/twp men and bind them securely took, hut a few minutes, and then under the leadership of a long-bearded man of patriarchal air, they’• marched iff military fashion tP : the :3 centre of’ the town. The
prison became overcrowded, and as the greater part of the attacking party was needed to watch the prisoners, but few were left on duty in .the town. The people took courage as the dav grew on, and seeing that the invaders meant nothing good . offered some resistance. Several of the leading citizens were killed as a result, and those of the “army of the Lord” who were not shot or taken prisoners, sought shelter in the arsenal. Towards noon the truth of the situation leaked out. The people discovered that.the Isaac Smith and his fellow-miners who had been prowling about the mountains for a month and who now held them in bondage were none others than the notorious John Brown and his “followers of Kansas fame. Word was hurried to Washington, and in a few hours two thousand troops were in the neighborhood of Harper’s Ferry. And strange it was; too, that the man in command should be Colonel Robert E. Lee and with him Lieutenant Stuart. Brown saw that his position was becoming desperate, and after setting free all but nine of his prisoners, retreated to an old fire engine house and prepared to fight. Lee made short work of “John Brown’s Fort,” as the place is now called, and before evening Brown and his army were in jail at Charlestown, Virginia, to meet death on the. scaffold a few months later.
Some looked on this exploit as the work of a hero ; others condemned it as treasonable. As old Emerson picked up his paper .tlie morning following the raid he was heard to grumble: ‘1 May we have health - enough not to:cry madman when a hero- passes,-” and Longfellow thought that “This will be a great day in our history: the date of a new revolution, quite as much needed as the old.” Contrary to this the Republican National Convention of 1860 characterized it as “The greatest of crimes.” Some reviled Brown as a traitor; others praised ; him as a martyr. So the discussion went on even after war times till the climax was
guards iff front , of . the’; armory were .over- capped by Mr. Ed Atkinson .when, in a powered’ and- .tlie.. armdry enclosure' taken speech delivered before a Southern audience possession bfi C ... ??. Z .	. in 1881, he advocated the erection of a
Dhywas now breaking and as the people statue .to the; memory'of John Brown, “In began' .to move 7 about/.they were taken . token of the liberty he brought to the white pfispnefs-;in 'twos ,or. threes’and marched men of the South.” .	‘
off ’ tdj"^	improvised.	The effect-on the people of Harper’^ Ferry
ivd^RE DAME SCHOLASTIC. -	ini
was', more than anything else, to awaken them to the, fact that their homes were endangered. Setting aside considerations of the right or wrong of the case, thev sought to .protect, themselves against a similar invasion. Nightly patrols were established; and until the outbreak of hostilities between the North and South, brave-looking citizens, armed with long rifles, paraded the streets, taking into custody all suspicious looking strangers.
At the outbreak of the war the sympathy of the townspeople was largely with the South. For several months the localitv was a *
sort of rendezvous for the Southern soldiers of Virginia and the neighboring states, with Lieutenant, afterwards General, Jackson at their head. Of a sudden came the rumor of . •	' - - - ‘ *
a possible battle with the Union forces at Manasses, and Jackson led off with his troops to earn the title of “Stonewall.” Indeed it might be said that never during the four years of the war was Harper’s Ferry free from military law. Sometimes it was the Northern men who held sway; then again the supporters of the South. As an instance of this continuous unrest it might be mentioned that nine times, between 1861 ' and 1865, the bridge crossing the Potomac at this point was.. destroyed by the hostile parties • t
^Shortly after Jackson’s evacuation Colonel Mile^,with 12,000 men was sent by the government to . occupy Harper’s Ferry. The men were distributed throughout the Heights overlooking the town. At last it seemed as if the place were assured of peace,, even' though given bv those whom manv regarded as enemies. Thus were things at . a standstill when Generals Jackson and Hill appeared on.the scene with 9000 men, Sept. 17, 1862. Thev first attacked Marvland Heights, and in, a few minutes the men in blue were scurrying over the bridge, to join their friends on the Virginia side. Jackson followed, and soon Loudoun Heights were covered with grey. The entire Union army was now cooped up on Bolivar Heights. The Confederates lost no time in , surrounding the. Heights, and though Miles had a vastly superior position, but twenty minutes of fighting was needed; to convince him of Jackson’s and Hill’s capabilities. Miles was mortally wounded in the act of surrendering,
and the 12,000 men, with the exception of a small body .of cavalry that escaped during the night, became Southern hostages.
The Southerners were still rejoicing in their victory when a horseman in grey was seen tearing madly towards the place along the narrow tow path on the Maryland side. Rushing up to Jackson he handed him a message signed by Lee. It was to the effect that General McClellan had discovered his plans and -was now facing him with ninety-seven thousand men near the Antietam Creek, five miles down the river. Leaving Hill behind with one division, Jackson hurried over the rough mountain paths and drew up in position alongside the commander he loved. Though not strictly a part of the history of Harper’s Ferry, still it was but one battlefield, and many a heart grew faint that day among the . slender population as it crowded the Heights looking off to the North, trembling as each boom of the cannon echoed down the river. The story of that dreadful battle is well known; how the awful field was four times won and lost. Four solid miles of blue had Libertv written on their banners, and arrayed against them was a host, as brave as ever trod a battlefield, though blinded by the cause they loved. Liberty and slavery were ever irreconcilable enemies, and the issue of that day drew them farther apart. Darkness fell on the scene of carnage, and Lee, after a hurried consultation with Longstreet, passed over the Potomac in the stillness of the night. He had a possible chance of victory on the morrow if he remained, but his heart was large and soft, and he deemed no victory worth the price of another twelve thousand of proud, young followers.
■ Twenty thousand upturned faces met the first rays of the morning sun on September 19—all American soldiers. Neither side had conquered. The hand of death seemed to . have fallen with equal weight on Blue and Grey.
To-day, as you pass over the ground of this bloody conflict you seem to be in the midst of a city of the dead, so peaceful is . the silence. Nothing has been disturbed ‘ about the place. Familiar names come up before you as you move among the government tablets: Lee, Longstreet, Jackson, > Stuart and others of the Confederates, and.
1^2	NOTRE DAME
the none less gallant of McClellan, Hooker, Burnside, Hood, Mansfield and Meagher. These and many others are there. From an observation tower in the centre of the place you can look out over the battleground and let the imagination run wild. With perfect ease you can follow the line of battle, for the picture is the same as it was on September IS, 1862. You can look with a shudder into the dark and gloomy Bloody Lane .where the two forces crashed, and where at the close of day the Confederate dead lay piled five deep. Then off to the west 011 the Hagerstown Pike is the ancient Dunkard church, riddled with shell, where the last stand was made. And all about through cornfield and pasture land beautiful shafts are seen—the only sentinels of the place.
As you take the road back to Harper’s Ferrj- you pass through the Union Cemetery where the dead of Antietam lie sleeping. Row after row of small white stones, testifying to the braverv of the soldiers of nearly every state in the North, lie stretched before you. Not unfrequently you see carved a tiny .shamrock to show that the heart 'of some fearless • Celt had passed to dust beneath. . .
All looks bright again as you stroll down the tow path that follows the canal. It. makes,a pleasant walk with the picturesque mountains of Maryland on your left and tlie rugged old Potomac cutting figures on your right. To see Harper’s Ferry now is lihe°hearing the' sequel of an interrupted story?. There it stands as silent and peaceful ason,-tfie morning John Brown touched off the .fuse that ignited sectional wrath. One broad street about a quarter of a mile in length makes up the main portion of the town. Mouses, whose foundations have been gouged 6ut of bottomless stone, are set along'this highway in the most irregular fashion imaginable. Old styled verandas and squatty side chimneys speak a story of earlier davs. Occasionally you see a stone Building in rums with fagged looking holes in the remnants of its roof, such a wound as. you might, look for after the passage of. a shell, , .	.	.
.One' might ’ think that the lively times of 5 1861-65. would' leave; in the younger genelation of { Harper’s Ferry some rather
J-	- ■	■' ■ ■	.
1 , fjir i ■.. ■ - :	l :	~ , ■ ,	■
■	-.	- - ।
GOi; ~ . ■	-.r-	-■	- - .
SCHOLASTIC.
boisterous inclinations; quite the contrary So deeply have they entered the quiescent-state that the maintenance of a police force has long since been deemed an unnecessary evil. An officious-looking old gentleman,
O	O	1
wearing a wooden leg, is the sole arbiter in all matters of dispute. In all cases his cane is law. Nor is there a fire department to excite the dreams of the young boy.
Taxes indeed must be light in this place as the mountains furnish spring water and the electric plant is the onkr sinking fund in the locality. Still the town receives official recognition by the government, as witnessed by the quasi post-office that graces the place. Imposts are dull, so the postmaster says, but the export of souvenir cards is sufficient to warrant his salarv.
It is interesting to stroll over the heights that hem in Harper’s Fcriy and read the stories that the scattered ruins suggest. Bits of breastworks and occasionally some well-preserved fortifications unfold a tale. With little difficulty one can pick up stray bullets or scraps of shells. Now and then you find buttons, some marked C. S. A., or the inscription from some soldier boy’s cap. The beautiful view to be obtained from these heights as you look down the historic Shenandoah Valley is sufficient reward for the- bruises of the climb. Beautiful as it is at day it is grander still at night. A sight long to be remembered is to mount Bolivar Heights on a moonlight night and look o	o	o
down on the little hamlet of Bolivar, a short distance from Harper’s Ferry. It is there that the colored folks have congregated, and there, as in a kingdom of their own, the banjo and the bones hold sway.
As you listen to.the singing.far below, you climb still higher to obtain a better view. While picking your uncertain way upward perchance you may stumble, and then again you examine the place and find, that you are passing over a little grassy plot less wild than the rest, and there side, by side are nine or more graves whose mounds have entrapped the foot of the unwary, you stand and think. The song of the darkies comes swelling over the mountain side, “All merry, all happy and bright,” “Yes,” you say to., yourself “perhaps.it is.” And, then aS you, look, at the neglected heaps at your feet “ ’Twas dearly bought.” :
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•/
Varsity Verse.
A Belated Witness. •. •
IX WINTER.
N°w bare November with her winds Brings in the wintry weather;
And leaves of srold and sanguine dve
Go skipping off together.
The kitchen fire burns red and gold,
And merry hearts sit ’round it;
The winter’s praise rings joyfully, For happy voices sound it.
The chubby children, big-eyed, hear
Long tales of warring redmen. Of battles lost and battles won, Of fields all strewn with dead men.
Here in the rocker by the fire
Old grandmother is sitting,— O	O'
To hear again the well-known tales—
Tier fingers nimblv knitting.
The rich may wear the frown of power,
And in their caps pride’s feather, But can not know the simple joy That binds these hearts together.
E. P. B.
LIFE INSURANCE PHILANTHROPY.
McCurdy dear, and did you hear
The news that’s going round ?
The people say that night and day
With grafters you are found.
You rob the poor of every cent
Your roomy banks to fill
And when j’our childer have the mumps
The poor must stand the bill.
“’Tis false, I say; and tell me, pray, Whoever told that joke?
I’d rather die than tell a lie, Than steal I’d rather choke.
I am a father to the poor,
A mother to the ill;	■
They’ll get rich when the company
Begins to make its will.
“You must agree at present we
Need just a little chink,
For every soul on the pay-roll ‘ Must have some food and drink.
There’s Mary’ Me, Bedelia Me,
And twelve that live in Cork,
Besides nineteen in Timbuctoo
And fifty in New York.” T. E. B.
A MAIDEN IN DISTRESS.
There once was a maid from Cohoes
Who was struck with a wart on the nose,
It is growing in size,	.
Though the poor maiden tries
Every cure that she knows on her nose.
.	J. F. S.
JOHN C. MCGINN, ’06.	'	• '
Niel Clarkin had lived in ’ Matunuck-for fifty years. Light gray hair, a wrinkled forehead and piercing black eyes, which darted incessantly from side to side, marked old Squire Clarkin as a person to be approached only when business demanded it. The younger generation, especially the boys, regarded the Squire with the same*fear they were wont to bestow upon the Milage constable. From office boy, Clarkin had worked himself along until he became ’the sole owner of a vast plant of mills which made the northern border of Matunuck. His only assistants in the management 'of these mills were his son and nephew. Frank Boucher, his nephew, was of' an" irritable disposition which often showed itself in his dealings with the mill employees. Boucher was disliked by all with whom he had to deal. On the other h’and, young Tris Clarkin was.liked by all. His jovial disposition and easy-going manner won for him 'a place in the hearts of the people with whom he came in contact. It was, in fact, on account of his nonchalant disposition that young Clarkin and his father often quarrelled. The Squire frequently rebuked- him and advised a more serious code of principles to-guide him in future life. Tris, however, who was only nineteen years old and had' dreamed through two years of college life, was never much moved by his father’s kindly'admonitions, on the contrary, as the years passed the more careless he became.’ ’ '
One evening while Tris was’ in his ro'Qfn whistling and preparing for a ball/ he heard his father’s angry voice summoning him to the sitting-room. Replying’that Ke would be down in a minute, Tris continued his preparations. In a half hour he presented himself all ready for the evening’s amusement. He had often' seen his father angry, but never before in such a mood as he was that evening. Making a few preliminary remarks about Tris’ absence from the office that day, the Squire severely rebuked him for his careless attitude towards'business. Finally he gave, him his choice : either to attend more punctually to duty or quit
i74	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the office entirely. Here was an opening for which Tris Clarkin had long looked. When he had gently told his father that he had long cherished the idea of giving up his office work, the Squire grew pale with rage. For the past ten years his only fond hope was to see his son installed as head of the Clarkin Mills, and now as. he saw his hopes lay shattered before him he felt impelled to upbraid his son. One word led to another, until finally the old man trembling with excitement ordered his son out of the house with the warning never to darken the threshold again.
The management of the mills was now conducted by the Squire and his nephew .whom he had taken to live with him. Two months passed without any noticeable change. One morning the employees were startled to hear of the sudden death of their old employer, Squire Clarkin, as they were wont to call him. Lying on the floor of his own room he was found shot through the head. Nothing in the room furnished the slightest clew. The*windows were closed, the Squire’s desk and papers were in perfect order, and there was no sign of a struggle. On a table close by was found a newly made will in which young Boucher was made sole heir to the Clarkin fortune. Near the will was the Squire’s fountain pen, and a little farther away an old phonograph. Such was the condition of the room into which the detectives of Matunuck were ushered by Boucher who was the first to discover the crime. He had been in the house an hour, and not hearing his uncle around he went to his room where he found him dead. Upon close questioning Boucher, with some reluctance, admitted that he had met his cousin, Tris Clarkin, a little distance from the house an hour or so before he discovered the crime. More valuable testimony, however, was obtained from the housekeeper. She had left the house. only two hours before the murder was discovered, and at that time Mr. Clarkin was engaged in conversation with his son. Their talk was not altogether friendly ; and as the old gentleman’s anger increased, she deemed it best to leave the . house for a while, because the Squire, she knew, would feel mortified if he knew she had overheard their little family quarrel.-
This testimony furnished sufficient evidence
for an arrest, and a search was immediately instituted for Tris Clarkin. Upon inquiry at his hotel it was learned that young Clarkin had left that very morning. This caused not a little uneasiness, and the detectives became more diligent in their search. At noon of the following day Tris Clarkin was arrested as he was about to leave the city. When accused of the murder, Clarkin stood as though fixed to the ground. “Surelv,” he said, “there is some mistake.” The police, however, were of another opinion, and Clarkin was immediately arraigned on the' charge of murdering 'his. father. The chief witnesses against him were his cousin and the housekeeper. Clarkin, made but little defense. He admitted. being in his father’s room on the night of the murder, but said he had gone because his father 'wanted to see him. He admitted, furthermore, that angry words were spoken and- that his father finally ordered him out of the house, threatening to disown him. - His defense had little if any effect upon the jury who found him guilty of the murder. A plea for mercv was made, but in vain. Clarkin was sentenced to die within three months.
Ten weeks had already passed, and the quiet people of Matunuck had almost forgotten the Clarkin murder and the young man whom they were wont to praise and who was' now awaiting execution. One morning of the eleventh week, however, thev were rudely reminded of the. murder by the glaring headlines of the Matunuck Prior which heralded the death of Frank Boucher who had been killed in an automobile accident the. previous evening. For the nonce the murder was on everybody’s lips, and many a fervent wish was expressed for the deferment of young. Clarkin’s execution.
Boucher’s accidental death had. revealed most startling truths. Not only' was most of his uncle’s fortune gone, but he had also used the many small savings intrusted to him by the small savers . of. Matunuck. Worthless notes began to pour in, and even before his burial it. was generally known that Boucher had died almost penniless.
It was - the day after Boucher’s funeral, and his former housekeeper, who’had been connected' with the Clarkins a long time, was. going about the house arranging the furniture apropos of her departure. She was
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

standing in .the very room where the Squire was murdered. Suddenly and quietly there stole in upon her thoughts of her first days in- the Clarkin household.
Tris’ mother had just died and he was left alone. Night after night his father bowed in sorrow would sit.in his old arm-chair . and sing little Tris to sleep. Then losing himself in thoughts of earlier years he too would soon nod himself into dreamland. Ah, she could see him now with the little golden-haired boy in’ his lap, and both he and the boy fast asleep. With these fugitive thoughts in her mind she was about to leave the room when her attention was attracted by the Squire’s old phonograph. There it stood; not a soul had touched it since the night of the murder. Many a time she had heard the Squire making records with this old machine. Going nearer she was surprised to find the usual hollow cone substituted by a wax covered one. In place of the stvle, she found a hard steel graver. What held her attention more was the fact that the graver was at the extreme right of the cone. Replacing the graver with the ordinary disc and style she pushed the lever to the left and started the machine, for her curiosity was now thoroughly aroused. With staring eyes and face as pale as death she stood as she heard slowly and distinctly her old employer’s voice repeating the very words of the will which had been found on the table: “This day I disown my son Tris Clarkin and bequeath my entire fortune to my— No I can’t, I won’t.”
Here there was a break immediately followed by a sound as though some one had quickly and roughly opened a door. Then followed the words: .“Sign my name to-that paper or I.will,kill you.” A few ticks of the machine and then the old man was heard to say. angrily: “What! you, Frank Boucher?” Immediately there followed a
report and the words, “then I’ll sign—” here to look at him. He’s so absolutely faultless.!
the style, ran off the cone. In a second the housekeeper realized the situation. Donning her street apparel, she hastened to. the detective bureau and there told her story. Two men were at once dispatched to the Clarkin house where the tale of the record was again rehearsed. There was. no need of. further testimony. In a. few hours Tris Clarkin was free.	.
A Balcony Episode..
RAYMOND A. MCNALLY.
When Katharine came back to the .dinner table after answering- the telephone . she looked so sober ; and pensive,, especially in marked contrast to her previous high, spirits, that the familv immediately resolved itself ’	—»	- .
into an interrogation point. ,	.	:.
“Harry can’t come for me,”;she slowly
“Is- that all ? Thought: there- must- have been a death at least,”-..interpolated her younger sister.	.	• 7 . .	;-f G
o	•
“No, that’s not all. He h as. r very kindly offered to provide me with, an escort;.and that escort is none other, than Randolph Pavson.”	;	'
“Well, what is the matter with; Mrl Pavson? I.thought he was .all right.”> •
“That’s just.what is the matter—he.is so invariably and provokingly all right. i/Heds a perfect paragon of propriety,, and I. shall be sure..to do something, to shock .him...I’ve half a mind not to go.”. -	.-. J -..-tty?
“Oh Katharine,” interposed her. mother; “you must. Harry is .depending. pn<youf solos.”	■. ■ ,	. ■ J . - y . ■
“Yes, that’s another thing. Some pne.has . failed him at the last moment,.and he-wants .me to sing another to .fill up the vacancy? I hate these concerts for the benefit of some-, thing or other; they’re always in-.some stuffy, crowded hall, and there is nevetya decent piano.” -	-.	..	. N. ..
“Well, dear,” said her- mother soothingly;
“you must do vour best about it.- I. can’t imagine what-makes voufeel so. -Mostgirls .would be delighted with Randolph.-Payson •for ?n escort.”. ‘	.. .	.	. ..ivty-v
“Most girls are scared blue, of him just the same. It is enough to ‘ rile ’. anyone just
This ended the conversation, r ; -N C CI Katharine repaired to her room in no' amiable frame of mind,'and after, several? minutes of perplexed deliberation, she decid&F to waive the question <of Payson’s extremeconventionality, and accept him as her escort' . to the concert. Accordingly at the, appointed time Katharine was ready. She was alone, the other; member^ of the family having
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
gone out for the afternoon. She was positively nervous about meeting Mr. Payson, and started when the bell announced his arrival. She picked up her. gloves to go, but to her horror her room door would not open. No, it was not locked, and the knob turned, but did not unlatch. Mean while the bell rang again. What should she do? Of course she could not make him hear her, but she rattled the knob and tugged at the door, but her efforts were futile.
She lived in the lower flat of an apartment house and her room had long windows opening upon a small balcony. She rushed out there only to find she could not see the front entrance, but she hailed a boy passing by.
“Boy,” she called, “come here if you want to earn a quarter.” The boy responded with ‘alacrity. “Is there a carriage in front of the house?” she asked.
“Yes,” said the boy.
“Then please go around to the entrance and tell the gentleman who is at the door of this flat that Miss Harrison can not come to the door just now, and ask him to please wait a few minutes. Do you understand?”
“ Yes’m,” answered the bov and he was off.
“Oh, come back a minute,” she said. “Do you know where the janitor’s* rooms are?” Then please go and ask him to come at once to Flat 1, and fix a door that won’t open. But don’t tell the gentleman that,” she added as she tossed him a quarter.
A moment or two later she heard steps, but she was shocked to see not the janitor or the boy but Mr. Payson himself coming toward the balcony. Her first impulse was to hide, but she was in a conspicuous position and he had already seen her. Lifting his hat he said:
“Good afternoon, Miss Harrison,” as calmly as if it were his usual wont to greet from the lawn a young lady on a balcony.
“Oh,” began Katharine, “I told the boy not to tell you.”
“The boy,” said Payson gravely, “gave me a confused message about a door and a girl that was waiting, and said he was going for the janitor. I insisted on knowing where I might find the young lady who was in distress, and following his directions, ! am here.” '
“Yes?” said. Katharine, confused. .
“May I ask what the trouble is, and if I can do anything?” Katharine wanted to tell him he might ask anything if he would only take off that calm expression of disapproval which made her feel like a naughty five-year old child. But she explained matters in an embarrassed, hesitating way, which made her appear more charming even than usual.
“If we only had a ladder, Miss Harrison,” said Payson. “ Oh, I have an idea. Excuse me; I’ll be back in a minute,” and he hurried awav.
“Oh, what will he think of me now,” moaned Katharine. “This is awful,” and she went into the room for another try at the door, but to no purpose.
The sound of returning steps called her back to the balcony. And what a sight met her eyes. The carriage with Mr. Payson seated on the box was coming straight toward the balcony. As it stopped, Payson stood up on the seat, from which he could just reach to the balcony. As he pulled himself up over the railing, he explained:
“We’ll just pretend I am the janitor for a while, and see if I can do anything with that refractory door,” and he stepped into the room.
His entire manner had undergone a most surprising transformation, and Katharine gazed in amazement at the sight of the heretofore paragon of propriety in her own room on his knees before the door knob. What was more he was babbling merry nonsense the while, a thing she could not have imagined possible. He was obliged to give up the problem, however, and returned to the balcony.
“I see but one way for you to get out of this difficulty, Miss Harrison. I’ll ask the coachman to stand at the horses’ heads, and if you will not mind climbing the rail— it’s not very high—I’ll, stand on the seat and help you down. Can you manage it?”
His eyes were sparkling with inward amusement as he looked into hers.
“Could it be that the precise Randolph Payson was.enjoying this escapade?” she thought.
. “lean do it all right,” admitted Katharine, “and—yes, I will. I can’t disappoint Harry now.”	..	1 -	;
Assisted by the helping hand of Payson
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
she easily climbed the railing, and they started for the concert hall, her face flushing with the excitement of the moment and. her mental equilibrium more or less upset by Payson’s indifferent serenity.
“Oh, stop him quick,” she cried; “I’ve forgotten my music.” .
Payson ordered the driver to turn back.
“I don’t wonder you forgot it. But I guess I’m equal to another raid on your room.”
“But it is not in my room. It is in the music room. Oh, how will I get it?”
“You can’t get along without it, can you? ”
“I could, but my accompanist—’’The carriage stopped at the entrance.
“Is there a balcony off the music room, too ? ”
. “Yes,” replied Katharine.
“Then that’s dead easy, if the window is unfastened. If not, well, glass is brittle.”
They drove to the side of the house, and there according to her directions stopped.
“The music is in my music roll on top of the piano,” said Katharine as he entered the window.
Payson returned directly with the music roll in his hand, which greatlv reassured her. As they neared their destination, Payson said:
“Suppose we keep the events of this afternoon to ourselves, Miss Harrison?” Not that there is anvthing to be ashamed of; but I know what your life will be if Harry Thayer ever gets hold of what has happened this afternoon.”
“Heis an awful tease,” agreed Katharine. “I never thought; but I’d have to explain though. It’s very kind of you—if we could avoid telling.”
“Of course we can. It’s agreed then that it is a secret between us?”
Harry had no time to Question Katharine as he hurried her into the dressing-room, saying:
“I’ve had to change the program now so as to bring your first song later.”
“Don’t be , cross, Thayer,” said Payson, “our delay was absolutely unavoidable, on her part at least.”
“That was generous,” thought Katharine; “and almost as if he were to blame.”
She was at her best that evening. Many
\r77
told her they had never heard her sing so well.	’	.	.
Harry and Payson were on their way to her at the conclusion of the final number, when'Harry said:	-	-•
“Much obliged to you,'Payson, for escorting Miss Harrison safely here, but I’ll relieve you now; I can take her home.”
“Thayer,” said Payson suddenly, “how much claim have you on Miss Harrison?”
“None at all,” answered Harry, “only she’s my cousin and I like her immensely.” . “Then I’ll take her home,” said Payson decisively.	•	,	■
“Hope you won’t be as long getting there as you were coming,” laughed Harry, adding as Katharine came toward them, “Mr. Payson insists on finishing up the escorting * business, so I am out.”
As they left the carriage, Payson said:
“Why did you seem so surprised when Thayer said I was to take you home, Miss Harrison ? ”
“Why, I thought you must be disgusted with me, I’ve been so much trouble to you; and I knew you were so particular about—”
“About the proprieties,” finished Payson. “ I have that reputation, I know. Thaveno patience with girls who do all sorts of'wild things unchaperoned. Such a thing as you experienced to-day might have happened to anyone, and your distressing position proved to me that you were the kind of a»girl I had always thought you were. Anyway, I shall be very glad if I may have the privilege of calling on vou and being admitted in the proper manner, not climbing up the balcony to gain admittance. May I?”	.
Katharine laughed her assent, and he continued impulsively: .
“I heard you say as I left you to get the carriage, ‘ What will he think of me ’ ? Some time I shall.be glad to tell you exactly what I think of you,” but his eyes when they met hers very eloquently betrayed something of his . thoughts, as she hade him good-bye; ’
-	•	• -	"	*	5	- I -
“Truth is the food of the mind, love, that of the heart, and when an institution does not embody these two nutritive principles, it falls to ruin, since it can not interest or hold men, when it has not the power to satisfy their deepest and most essential needs.”
178	NOTRu DAME
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the
■, -	University of Notre' Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
• Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• ■ > '	.	Notre Dame. Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 25, 1905. .
Board of Editors.. ’
. , -	, • STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’06	•	■
..HENRY. M. KEMPER. ’05 JOHN F. SHEA, ’0 6
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06
. ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’07 JOHN M. RYAN, ’06 ■ WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07. JOHN .C. MCGINN, ’06 - ZTHOMAS Ei BURKE, -’07 LEO- J. COONTZ, ’07
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07
'—Thirty-five years after the enforcement of the fifteenth amendment two prominent members of a republican president’s cabinet have just taken a very active part in two state elections, in each of which the practical 'disfranchisement of the negro was involved. ' Secretary ’ Bonaparte led the republican opposition to restricted suffrage in Mainland, while Secretary Shaw stum ped Virginia in behalf of Judge Lewis who says that the new restrictive law in his state has been an emancipation of white men. This sharply defined difference of opinion between two members of the same political household on a . question involving the suffrage of thousands of citizens and amounting to a virtual nullification of the fifteenth amendment, should make one north -of Mason and Dixon’s line less cocksure that the policy of restricting the.suffrage in vogue in so many ; of . the Southern states, is altogether iniquitous. May not • those . states understand their own political and social problems better than the best'informed outsiders?
—Football playing, especially that of the past two years, has aroused the. indignation oft many well-meaning people who justly condemn this game on, account of the. unnecessary fatalities accompanying it.
SCHOLASTIC, t
Much, however, may be said on both sides of this question. First of all, the casual observer can not help but notice, that the deaths resulting from football have, in most cases, occurred, in high school and minor college teams where the players. are not subjected to a thorough svstematic training. Is it not a fact that the teams representing the largest colleges and universites of the countrv have gone through the season without so much as one fatality? The reason of this is obvious. By constant training the men composing these teams have become hardened and fit for the game. Football is a strenuous and. merry game, but dangerous,,no matter how it is played, to those who are not in almost perfect physical condition. Secondly, among the teams made up of competent men, the injuries received during a game are, for the most part, due to “.slugging” of ungentlemanly playing. How are we going to eliminate this obnoxious playing? Follow, the example of the baseball leagues. Instead of having .a mere figure-head as referee, let us have a real referee with power to remove all obnoxious players from the game. This.scheme has succeeded in baseball, why not in football. ? Conscientious training, and the eliminating of all unmanly playing will do much to make football.the same enjoyable sport it.used to be, and at the same time will prevent any unnecessary application of the “.big stick.”
—As time goes on we realize more and more that the turkey, as Franklin recommended, should be the national bird, He is able to sing, or at. least make such sounds as may bring up joyful recollections of the past and dreams of. those to come, to walk with a stately tread and to. become a pet, as a national bird should.. The eagle has none of these qualities. The turkey did not stay like the eagle in the distant mountains when, civilization first. came to this country, but came to meet it. He adapted himself at once to his new surroundings; but the, eagle, even now, is only rarely seen to be cracked at with a hunter’s rifle regardless of his symbolical character.
Our country is ho longer- the wild experiment, once appropriately symbolized by a bird on the wing, but it is established upon
NOTRE- DAME':: SCHOLASTIC.
firm foundations; and now the appropriate symbol is the “terra firm a” bird. The turkey’s usefulness is not even ended when .his days are numbered. Unlike the eagle who rots in an unknown mountain crevice he is still dear to those who have nourished and ■protected him.. They gather to honor liis end with religious rites and thanksgiving.
.; t f	;	„	.	. ,.	.
—“The writ of habeas corpus, as a guarantee of American liberty, is a myth in this State,” recently declared former United States Senator William E. Mason' before a judge in an Illinois’ * court' of law. This statement challenges attention, and we ask ourself seriously, whether “ that corner-stone 6f our liberties” is crumbling awav? Is the planning and the patience and the pains of bur forefathers to come to naught ? Mr. Mason’s point of view would seem to indicate, and recent abuses to confirm, an affirmative answer: But, despite the apparently alarming condition in Illinois, the pendulum must swing back; despite the disquieting utterances, confidence in the stability of ‘ our government and the' efficacy of our constitution will reassert itself." In any event, Senator Mason is doing much toward constituting himself the obstreperous bull in the china shop.
—Like the proverbial small boy, who stubbornly refused to swallow his medicine, the Korean emperor was very much adverse to swallowing the bitter pill which Japanese success in the late war concocted for ’ him. The astute Japanese coated as much diplomatic sugar on the pill as they could, but the indignant , monarch still protested, and , refused. to . accept • the inevitable. The. result .was.-much -the same as with the stubborn boy.’	,	..	..	. .
.. With the. recalcitrant. emperor a show . of force . and a, little bribery produced the desired results. In place, of :the lump of sugar used to . appease, the-wrath of the indignant youth,.the ..pseudo monarch'will have his outraged feelings solaced by a fat pension. Thus he will be , able to indulge in all of his usual vices, except: that, of ruling,—which goes to prove that the .bitterest medicine is often the best.	.
-179
Band .Concert.
The appearance of the Royal .Italian'band last Monday inaugurated. a busy week, of Ivceum attractions at the Universitv. And of the three.visiting companies Signor- Rosati’s band was by no means the least popular.-/ : In point - of-. effective interpretation - and dynamic detail the*. “Fantaisie”;. from ‘JI1 Trpvatore” was.; perhaps the best of the ten selections rendered;, thoughtin the “PotPourri” -.from “Carmen,_”--the chance .-for some charming tonal .effects, and characterizations. was certainly not -neglected.- In “William ..Tell’-’ • the:; same .sympathy.5 in -treatment ;and . exquisiteness/ of technique were even more evident. Nor is Miss Nellie Tumwall :to be'- forgotten, for, Jier.. tuneful soprano solos lent much charm as well as variety, to the .well-rounded program.. .. . This ;is the'first time the Royal .Italians have visited Notre. Dame,- but they'have ,won.the right-to. a hearty welcome .should •they elect to return again.	D ,
’ Hungarian Orchestra.
Last .Thursday morning .the students had an opportunity to..hear the Royal Hungarian Orchestra discourse,some: very; good music. The comparative fewness- of the players and the exclusive .use. of.-stririgiristruments' are distinctive features, of thisorganization.
. Ab ove. • all, the unique, cymbalom ; and • ;the skilful -handling;. of. it proved■. a., pleasing novelty, to many ; of . the faudience. ; y . ‘ The musical. program, of eight? numbers was of a hi gif. order of' excellence' arid gave abundant opportunity for- a. well-nigh flawless ensemble; and individual . displays of artistic interpretative abilitythe .solos. of Miss Charlotta Senescou.'and Mr. Charles Horwath ; being - especially- ^noteworthy for' their . technical proficiency and; fluent treat- . ment. ■ The ‘ selected. . recitations ■ by Miss: Lorence Munson, though not various enough to sho.w .her true elocutionary caliber,, were yet pleasant throughout and. satisfying. Taken all in. all, the ■ Royal Hungarian Orchestra is deserving., of ’ dur .hearty com-.mendption,- for their excellences are many . arid their faults, few.
i8o	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“Our Pastor.”
“The .play’s the thing!” That was the common verdict of all after the royal entertainment on the night of the twenty-first when “Our Pastor” was presented in Washington Hall. This comedy, written by Jerrold Shephard and portraying vividly the life of a typical Idaho mining town in the days of the “vigilantes,” savors largely of the familiar melodrama and has a prominent romantic element with a clearly defined purpose. The aim of the drama seems to be twofold: one to give the priest the honor which popular prejudice too often begrudges him; the other, to impress the spectator with the. force of that love which only a sacramental marriage can hallow and preserve.
The play is well named and is fortunate m having the right actor in the right role. Mr. Daniel Sully in the impersonation of Father Daly showed that he had made a careful study of the character and had acquired a finished naturalness from the performance of similar roles in the past. His acting in every detail was true to life; his comedy was refined; his brogue racy; and throughout, his bearing, even in the most whimsical moments, exhibited an artistic ■reserve which left the dignity of the priesthood ever in the foreground. His heavy part gave him ample opportunity to display the most varied histrionic qualities; and in this respect he is especially to be commended for the skilful contrast he effected in passing from the serious to the humorous. Mr. Sully appeared at his best in the bank-book scene which was perhaps the most dramatic situation in the play. ' - ’
The remaining members of the cast were at a slight disadvantage in so far as their characters were not equally well delineated; but never was the action insipid or inconsistent. The love scenes, for example, were, for the most part, somewhat lacking in spirit save the juvenile coquetry of Dollie. In general, the actors well merited to be called natural, for they, never “o’erstepped the modesty of nature. ”	; .
Miss Ethel Carpenter portrayed the Pastor’s youthful ward, and in this difficult
task acquitted herself with distinction; her effort was wholly successful in summoning together the spontaneity and unfeigned outbursts of childhood. Dollie’s tricks and gambols, which in a maid of her age would be overlooked for their cuteness and cunningness, had in the actress a suggestion of premeditation. Her slang is, of course, an exaggeration of the influence of environment, and, in so far, is representative of a type, just as the fop is caricatured by Willie Beckman whom Mr. Edwin Belden impersonated with rare ability.
Jim Carter, the wealthy ranchman, was a conspicuous personage in the drama, and therefore a difficult role to essay. But Mr. Edwin Maynard was equal to the emer-gencv. In his angrv dialogue with Arnold Leslie (so commendably played by Mr. Daniel Bruce) he shows the keener passion, and in his final exit he displays equal power of pathos. Mr. William F. Kohman, in the person of the half-breed, Piere Wolf, reached a high point of perfection.
Miss Mary Holmes, with her sad, quiet, reserved mien and her clear, slow, pleading voice, was well suited for the part of Silent Ann. Her supposed rival, Margaret Manning—played by Miss Dorothy Lamb— had less to brave; but what she did have to endure she suffered with a heroism that « made her worthy of the dauntless miner. The role of the widow, Airs. Aliranda Wellington, as performed by Miss Pauline Harice, can excite scarcely any adverse criticism. On the other hand, her lover, Col. Fitzhugh Potter, U. S. A. (Mr. Claude Gourrand), exhibited a trifle too much of his quiet, military fearlessness in his courtship. However, he was a notable figure in this admirable cast. .
The drama-is so pregnant with the verities of life, so illustrative of the fact that “all the world’s a stage,” that after seeing it one can not but expand the horizon of his mental universe and enter into broader sympathies with his fellowmen. This is a gain well worth striving for, and. it is nowhere secured with greater ease and pleasure than in witnessing Mr. Sully play the lovable part of “Our Pastor”—words, than which (to paraphrase Leslie) there are few that willi sound sweeter and te-echo longer in our ears. ;	.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	181
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 22; Bennett Medics, 0.
And we won another. Last Saturday’ we tried to get even, and in part we did by trimming Bennett Medical College of Chicago by the score of 22 to 0.
The “ Medics” put up a much better game than was expected from them. Their line came very near being equal in weight to ours, and what they lacked in weight they made up for in speed as their two ends were as fast as .any seen here this year.
The time Coach McGlew spent in trying to make his back-field stick together was by no means wasted, as McAvoy,.Waldorf and Bracken stayed with the man carrying the ball until he was downed. It has been one of our greatest faults this year for the man carrying the ball to be always alone, and times when he had made good gains he would be pushed back because there was no one with him.
McNerny got away with a long run which was the only thing m the game which came anyway, near a sensation. Longacre was easily the star for the Medics, and his linebucking and defensive work was as good as has been seen here this season.
FIRST HALF.
Longacre kicked off to McAvoy who returned the ball ten yards. By a series of line, plays and. an occasional short end run Notre Dame carried the ball to the Medics’ seventy-five yard line where they were held for downs. Longacre kicked to McNerny who returned the ball fifteen, yards. Notre Dame then marched straight down the field .for the..first score; “Bill” Downs going over.
Notre Dame received the kick-off; and cross bucks by McAvoy and Bracken put the ball on the Medics’ forty-yard line. On a quarter, back, run McNerny got around right , end for a touchdown. .
McAvoy received the kick-off and returned.. ten yards. Waldorf made four through centre but on the next play.was injured and went out. of the game.. Bill.Downs went in.at fullback and M. Downs at tackle. Line-bucks by Downs, .by McAvoy, and now, and then a straight buck by Bracken, put the ball on
the Medics’ four-yard line, Funk going over. McNerny received the next kick-off and returned twenty-yards. Downs, Funk and McAvoy carried the ball straight down the field, and “ Bill ” carried it over for the fourth touchdown. The half ended with the ball in Notre Dame’s possession on the Medics’ twenty-five yard line.
SECOND HALF.
McAvoy received the kick-off and returned the ball sixty yards by clever hurdling and dodging. McNerny made ten on a. quarter-back run; Silver added eight. The Medics held, taking the ball on their own fifteen-yard line. Longacre carried the ball twenty-five yards in fair plays. Driscoll got around end for two gains of twelve and' eight: Time was called on account of .darkness with the ball on Notre Dame’s fifty-yard line, in possession of the Medics.
Line-Up.
Notre Dame	•	Bennett Med. College
Callicrate	L E	Jones; Cooper
Funk	L T	Smith
Beacom	L G	Culley
Sheehan	C	Bunch
Donovan, Joyce	.	R G	McCormick_
W. Downs, M. Downs	R T	Langsdale
Silver	R E	Driscoll
McNerny	Q B	Brigham
Bracken	L H	Hussar
McAvoy	R H	Morris
Waldorf', Draper	F B	Longacre ’
Touhdowns—W. Downs, 2; McNerny; Funk. Goals-from touchdown—Beacom, McNerny. Umpire-^Stude--. baker. Referee—McDonald. Time of halves—Twenty-five and seven minutes.	'
* <
NOTES.
Waldorfs injury has kept him out of practice all week and it is doubtful if-he can get in the game against Purdue.
Driscoll came in for a share of the honors with his teammate, Longacre. His defensive playing being good, and his speed in getting down under punts was especially noticeable.
McNerny and McAvoy made the longest runs of the game.	.
“Bill” Downs played at tackle, for the first, time in his life, and proved that he,. isra. valuable man for any team, as he has proven that he can play, full-back, half or tackle and.. hold his. own. in any one of these positions.,.
The football season may not end with; the game, with Purdue, as Manager McGlew may arrange another game with the Michigan “Aggies’? to be played at.;Lansing on Thanksgiving Day. .

18?'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
LAW- DEPARTMENT.
The regular'term'of the recentlv rebrgan-ized University Moot-Court was inaugurated last.Saturday after no on. with a spirited civil' suit., Those' who were present might’have noticed'that the proceedings,did not pass off as smoothly as. one could wish, but considering that this was the-first case pulled off this--year the conduct -of it was’ very commendable. >The~trial being-, before the jury, there was' abundant - opportunity , for telling testimony-. oh -the part ;,of the witnesses and skilful -cross-examination, .by' the ’ attorneys. • Nbr'was the- plea, to -the Jury -slighted, that of the leading counsel--for the. defendant being especially noteworthy. .Subjoined is-a more ■ detailed report of the-facts bf the-.-.case t getherwith the-verdict returned by the jur
xBurroughs. v. Andrews et-'-aE.<y,.
' (NOTRE DAME MOOT-COURT.)' ' ' j
A. B. Oberst and Ernest Morris, f< plaintiff. \	.
D. Li Madden ahd; J. E. Vaides j for defendants.' /	<	' ’	.
This ■ was yan action brought byJone, Benjamin ’Burroughs,’ who . charged in his complain t that the., defendants had ■ wrongfully‘.and . ..maliciously . interfered,, with . an.d prevented . him *from,-obtainihg: employment for the period of.four months, for which he . claimed, dam ages to the extent of $700. The case- opened- 'with ■ Judge Hoynes presiding, - the issue,being, tried before' a. jury, composed a’s: follows: ‘ George	<.Springer, ’ foreman
Lawrence. AJ Hart, Robert ’. C. Saley,-'Francis J. Pryor, jqhh- Ht-Rogers, Howard? C.-.Davis. From- the.evide-nce produced by the' plaintiff and^thej' defendants’ the following facts' were elicited-. • ■ ’ . ’	;
•In . April, 1903, several of. the. leading merchants of Mishawaka, St. Joseph County, -State .off Indiana, -formed .an association- for
... J • . -t J - ■	-M.	J - - ’ ■	- • ■ - .
the protection of their common; interests. ..It. was :agrged'among .’-other, things.. that any member , might be excluded by. a. maj prit v. vote of ’the association; It J wAs .’understood,-. althoughSiiot formally agreed, .that.no mem-hershould.take into his employ within a year any Jclerk dischargeanother • member.. Amos Andrews,^ a mepiber bf the association, discharged Benjamin Burroughs, one .pf his
clerks, on the 25th of June, 1904. Two weeks afterward Burroughs applied for'work to - Cadmus Callahan, another member of the association, and was given employment. ■ Oh. learning of Callahan’s action- in the matter Andrews became’ very ' indignant. He openly charged Callahan with betrayal of the interests of the association. Calling on the other members, he accused Callahan of treachery, and asked whether they-would be willing to vote in favor of the exclusion of the traitor from membership if fie did not forthwith discharge Burroughs. They agreed to do’ so. ’Nevertheless,- Callahan- hesitated-and protested, being of opinion that1 Andrews had acted capriciously ■ and without good reason in discharging the clerk; Andrews was ‘ inexorable, however, and seeing that he and the other members were persistent in the purpose ■ to expel him in • - case of further delay or resistance, Callahan
reluctantly discharged Burroughs, stating - the reason and giving due notice. This was
on the 10th of December, 1904.	■	■
The principal question then as submitted to the jury was whether- or not Burroughs could-’ recover as against Andrews and the other members of the association, Callahan-excep ted. The j ury. after an. extended deliberation returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed the damages at $240, .for which amount together with costs judgment was entered against- the defendant.
The case .of:.Cass and Masorn v. Brown is, the next on the docket, and will be tried in the .Moot.-Court this .afternoon at 4:30. p. m. The action, as made out by the plaintiffs’ counsel,. Messrs.yPerce and -Malloy, alleges. malicious, interference in a contract by a third party. To this declaration the defendant’s counsel,^ Messrs. McCarthy and Cunningham, have filed a general demurrer,. which, yvill be pleaded before the court with Judge Hoynes presiding..	,
It is to : be hoped that this trial and ■ subsequent ones 'will be well attended, as no labor has been spared to. make: the MootCourt proceedings profitable to collegiate as well as law. students..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
183 -
Personals.
Obituary.
—John F. Daly, a former student of Notre Dame, and brother of Walter M; Daly (LitL B. ’04) is carving out a very successful -career for himself in Portland, Oregon, being now a prominent member of the Portland Security Abstract and Trust Co.
—A recent- letter received by Dean Hoynes from Francis J. Coriboy (LL. B. ’04) contains a pleasing account of success. Mr. Con-boy is permanently established in Laporte, Indiana, where he is rapidly winning a' reputation as a clever legal advocate. ’
—Another Notre Dame graduate who is on the high road to success as , a purveyor of legal lore is Earl F. Gruber (LL. B. ’05). Air. Gruber has entered into active practice in Frankfort, Indiana, and alreadv he has shown noteworthy ability in handling cases. We take pleasure in extending a figurative “glad-hand” to you, Earl. .	-
—Mr. Virgilio Rayneri.(C. E. ’05), a name inseparably connected with .last year’s class, has made marvellous strides towards the goal of prosperity since the day of -his graduation. Al read v he is holding the high position of City Engineer in. the populous Matanzas, Cuba; and bjr the faithful discharge of his weightv office he is meriting unstinted praise. Anyone who had marked with what earnestness Virgilio applied himself to his books will not be surprised at the complimentary reports of him which come to us from our insular neighbor. '
—Brother Leander (Colonel McLain inmilitary parlance) lately received a new • honor. For many- years he. has been commander of the local Grand Army Post and’ aid-de-camp in the nation’s highest veteran corps. In this wise his name and. worth were , brought into prominence,.' and accordingly the Indiana Headquarters decided recently t6 make him one of the few aid-de-camps in the stated. The announcement was Issued by Mr. J. M..Neeley, Assistant, Adjutant-General. With already heart- we. congratulate the
—Another startling phenomenon has" been ;
• explained withoiit the aid of the. famous-; sleuth. The black cross which has so ter-: ....................... .	. rorized the. Corbyites at night is none other
—Lost.—A pair of rirhless spectacles in than the. cross arms of the iron pole which. x case; Return to. Room 68, Sorin Hall, and. , is level with the. arc-light. -
good Brother ori‘ his added- honor. . -
receive reward.
■	*	,	• - •	.	■	-	•	- - •	• •	• , I .
At Indianapolis, on, Tuesday, November' 14th, Mrs. Marr’- Rhodius, a well-finown resident of that city, passed away.-In. hey younger days she frequently visited Notre Dame and was a steadfast friend of -the University. She was highly esteemed by all acquainted with her, and the late Father’ General Sorin greatly appreciated her loyalty, and generosity in her patronage •. of • the institution. Her son, . and only surviving heir, Mr. George. Rhodius, was a .student -here for many years and is, still well remembered for his cordial manners and kindliness . of disposition. He has the sincere sympathy, of all who are acquainted with him, and they join in deploring the sad tidings of the:' death of his good and devoted mother. • ■ -
Local Items.
—What is . more, invigorating these daysr than a good half-hour’s walk?. -. pr.
—Gym classes are being organized daily. If ■ you have it on your bill you should report at once.	= -	.	’
—Have vou seen ’em ? Who ? Whv; the fresh air club. They have now three rooms' under supervision, and an organization ; is rumored. '	'	.	• . »
—This evening at 8:00 p. rii. there will be. -a meeting of the Western Club in the Colurii-'. bian room of the Main Building: All students ’ whose homes are west of the Mississippi River are requested to be present; ■' -T
—Much of the students’, mail is still riot-properly addressed. In order that-Jettersv may be promptly delivered, it is requisite that the name of the respective Hah of every., student should be included in the addressl
—Northern. Indiana is rioted. for its : fine. sunsets. At this time of .the year, one of the . most beautiful sights that can be seen at -“Notre Dame is the sky at surido wri ; an reflection upon the surface of; St?-Mary’s., •Lake.	■	.,	•	. ■
—Father Cavanaugh’s opening sermon has: been published by request for distribution among the members of the University.; The ; stiidents will do well to keep on their desk a copy of the golden counsels contained In . this beautiful discourse.
—The favorite game,of our Filipino stu
v
184
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dents is hand-ball. The pleasant weather of the past week afforded them an opportunity to play it at every recreation period. Klany of those little men excel in the game, showing as much skill and cunning as their American athletic associates.
—It seems as though the light has gone out in the Corby Debating Society. The committee representing their members decided not to debate with the Brownson Society before Christmas. The St. Joseph committee acted immediately and arranged a debate with Brownson for Januaiy 24-, to be held in the Brownson study-hall.
—It .was a wild duck, not a wise duck. It must have been a young duck too, or it would not' have flown so close to the ground. Anyway, it is now a dead duck and ..WAS to feed a “stately senior.” But alas!—how sad to tell—two villains plotted, and. there was no duck for the ‘‘stately senior.” Honk,—honk!
—In the many fine specimens of elms, maples and birches - at Notre Dame, now bereft of their foliage, there may be seen numerous nests of the Baltimore oriole or hang nest. This bird of brilliant plumage and pleasant piping song is very abundant at Notre Dame, first returning from the South the last, week in April and remaining until early September.
—The sun had just risen over the eastern horizon and was preparing to mount over the pharmacy building, when a small, delicate figure was seen to emerge from a window on the second flat and flit downward to the roof of the porch. There was a deathlike stillness for a moment, then with a little flutter-it chirruped, “Rah, Rah, Rah, Notre Dame, eat ’em up. boys! ” and then it winged its; .wav back to its nest..
—Have you seen the little, snowbirds? Perhaps there are many students here who have never seen, or at least never identified, this species. . Notre Dame is a favorable place for..the study of wild birds, and each season brings round its special varieties. The fol- lowing , are the markings of the junco or snowbird: “Above dark ash; below throat and breast ash; belly white; wings and tail dark slate; many of the feathers gray-edged, but the outermost tail feathers white; bill pinkish /white; length, 6.25 inches; legs ruddy.”
—Near the site of the old jog-cabin a pedestal twelve feet in height for a statue of rSt. Joseph seven feet high is . being constructed of irregular pieces of stone. There will be electric lights around it for illumina? tion at night. It is quite fitting that a statue of St. Joseph, the patron of the six Brothers who came here with: Father Sorin,. should be _ closeto/ the, scene where . those heroic
men “led laborious lives for God and men.”
—Owing to the absence of the critic the regular meeting of the Brownson Literary and Debating Society, which was to be held last Thursday, was postponed until the following Sunday’. The debate: “Resolved, That football as played in the colleges today should be abolished,” was a welcome surprise to all the listeners. Fourteen men spoke, from whom three regulars and an alternate were chosen for the Corby debate. The fortunate speakers are: Mr. R. J. Blum, negative, first; G. W. Sprenger, affirmative, second; J. P. Young, affirmative, third; and H. V. Donovan, negative, alternate. Although this was the first debate held in the society since its recent organization it was of such a character as to put confidence in all who are looking forward to Brownson Hall’s success in the Inter-Hall debates.
—In debating the elocutionist has advantages over one who does not excel in declamation. The reason why this is so is that the training one receives in elocution enables him to use effectively in debate his powers of artistic expression. One of the essential qualities of a successful debater is his ability to speak with great spirit, thereby impressing his hearers with the strength of his convictions. Had the members of the Brownson Debating Society known beforehand that Mr. Raymond J. Blum had won a prize of sixty dollars in an elocution contest among thirteen high schools in New York State, perhaps they would not have been so surprised at his getting first place in the preliminary debate for choosing a team to represent their hall. The other successful competitors for the hall team are also elocutionists.	.
—Last Thursday evening the senior class met in the Columbian room for the purpose of electing a class poet, orator, and historian, The ballot for class poet resulted in the selection of Charles L. O’Donnell whose ability to fill the position is beyond question. John C. McGinn was the unanimous choice of the class for orator, and if his work in the past is accepted as a criterion the class will be well represented in the forensic line. The honor of class historian fell to Alexander H. McFarland who will undertake to immortalize his fellows. The desirability of procuring class pins was also discussed at the meeting. It was decided to procure them as soon as possible, and Mr. Batlie was asked to submit an original design. The present graduating class is one of the largest in the annals of the University. It is represented in every line of college activity, and its record so far gives assurance that its senior year will be but a continuance of its past- excellent record and bring credit to the University as well as to The. class.