
Please Patronize These Advertisers. 


Show Your Student ID and get 10% off your purchase. 
Where: 409 Dixie Way N. (Across from Wendy's) 
Phone: 272-6363 
Hours: Mon-Fri 9-5:30 Sat 9-5:00 
Fresh and Salt Water Fish Live Aquarium Plants Aquariums and Sµ,pplies 
10% off Fish and dry goods (excluding feeder goldfish) with ND/SMC Student I.D. 
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 

Now Six_ Stylists 

Sue Matthews Sue Pawling Paula Jones Laura Basore Susan Dickerson Rich Coddens 
Personalized Hair Designs for Men & Women 
Ney; Hours: _ 
Monday Thru Friday 9-8 _ 277-0734 ·· Saturday 8-3 
. Visit our locati_on: at 417 Dixieway North 
In Roseland across from Wendy's 

STORE HOURS: 
9AM-9 PM MON.•SAT. 9AM-12 NOON 
SUN. 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and .editors of Scholastic and do not necess·arily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for nationai advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year. except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. . copyright'© 1982 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the · contents may be repro­duced without permission. . 
DECEMBER, 1982 

SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 124, No. 5, December 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES The Responsibilities of Journalism 
4 The Responsibilities of Journalism 5 The Media and Government 6 The Media and Business 
8 A Case Study 10 What Makes a Catholic University? 
Is Notre Dame all it claims to be? 
12 The Manipulative Powers of Journalism 
14 The Notre Dame Wish Book 
What to get your favorite Domer . .. 
16 Photo Feature/Football '82 18 Stravinsky Chamber Concert 24 Peace On Earth ... 
REGULARS 2 Notables 
9  Perspective/That Dirty Word: Compassion  
20  Gallery  
22  Poetry  
26  Fiction/Christmas Wreath  
29  Perspective/Journalism and Central America  
32  The Last Word  

Jeffrey L. Monaghan Liz Crudo Alison Hilton Theresa Schindler 
Prof. Charles E. Rice 
Prof. Robert J. Loewenberg 
Jim Ganther 
Prof. Linda Ferguson Laurie Giunti 
Bob Gorman Dale Mainer 
Jeff Powanda 
T. J. Conley Beth Healy 

l1. 
.J,,,JJ! 
'l 
page 16 
·EDITORIAL BOARD 1982-1983 

Scholastic
EDITOR~IN-CHIEF 
Beth Healy 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Notables 
Pat Pitz 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Sheila Beatty. 
· News/Sports Editor Dan McGrath 
Photo Editor 

Mike Delany 
St. Mary's Editor · Tara Jones 
Copy -Editors · Tom Wrobel Julie Wodarcyk 
Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 
Distribution· Manager 
Michael Meeks 
Business Manager 
Jim Dever 
Layout Editor 
Charles G. van Ravenswaay 
Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 
Staff 

Mitch Werner, Denise Blank, · Jane Kopp, Amy Spatz, Brendan Miggins, Tom Sapp, Jim Hennigan, Mara Dun­worth, John O'Connor 
Advisor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 
CREDITS 

Photos: pp. 9, 29, John_ O'Connor; pp. 6, 7, Tom Ryan; pp. 5, 14, 15, Mike Leary; 
. p. 23, Margie Foy; pp. 1; 4, 7, 16, 17, Pat Pitz; p. 11, Mike Delany; pp. 6, 14, 15, Dan McGrath. ·· · · 
·cover: Jose Miguel Sagardia 
· Illustrations: Theresa Bolakowski 

Nukes, Will, and Wisdom 
"You have learned how it was said, 'You must love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I say this to you: love your enemies .. .'' (Mt. 5:43-44). With these words, the Sec­ond Annual Convocation on the So­lutions to the Nuclear Arms Race began in worship at Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus last November 11, 1982. In conjunc­tion with events scheduled at 500 other American universities, Notre Dame's Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., celebrated Mass; Dean Wil­iiam McLean of the Notre Dame Law School spoke on the subject as did Professor Everett Mendelsohn of Harvard University. The three men shared in stressing "will and wis­dom" 'to bring about a nuclear mora­torium and subsequent arms reduc­tion. 
Fr. Hesburgh, reading a prepared statement, discussed the "scandal" of nuclear research "in the face of poverty and world hunger. If we don't do something about this prob­lem, God will never forgive us." He urged a recognition of the dignity of life and the need for science to pro­mote peace instead of further arms increase. 
Dean.McLean, speaking from ex­perience in negotiating SALT I with the Soviets, stressed patience in the "evolutionary process of bringing about substantive arms reduction." Outlining the SALT I & II accords, McLean noted that they "were as good as can be arrived at,'' and it is always a struggle to "find a lowest common denominator of agreement with which each country can say, 'O.K., I'll sign' because it is in their national interest." McLean's mili­tary background, he admits, causes him to say, "The Russians respect strength. So let's not be too hard· on our President when he speaks of strengthening our forces before ne­gotiations can begin." McLean stressed practicality by pointing out that with Brezhnev's recent death it will take a while for the Soviet 
·leadership to feel secure before any talk of START [Strategic Arms Reduction Talks] begins." 
Closing the day's discussion, Dr. 
Mendelsohn, a History of Sciences professor at Harvard, retraced the events leading up to the nuclear stockpiles we know of today. While "fear was behind the-use of the Bomb in 1945,'' oddly enough, "fear has succeeded in holding off the use of the Bomb today. But how far can fear go?" In 1945, Albert Ein­stein, "a pacifist and a genius," wrote a letter to FDR urging him not to promote nuclear weapon de­ployment; the letter remained un­opened on FDR's desk as he died in Georgia. In 1950, the Soviet Union halted nuclear · testing and chal­lenged the United States to do the same. In 1972, SALT I was signed and ratified; in 1979, SALT II was signed but remains unratified. "All along the course of development," Mendelsohn said, quoting Rosen­crantz to Guildenstern in Shake­speare's Hamlet, "There have been moments where we could have said 'No,' but we failed.'' As much as either nation has sought national se­curity and a stable defense posture, "We have gone from MAD [Mutual Assured Destruction] to NUTS 
·[Nuclear Utilization Targeting 
.Strategy]. The reality of what we have done could not be called con­trol much less nuclear sophistica­tion,'' Mendelsohn quipped. Thus "sanity calls for restraint. We have been lucky up to now, but if our luck runs out, there's no turning back,'' he said. Because our fears which may not have been based on· an accurate understanding of the Soviet threat,' "Now is the time to make our voice and commitment felt," Mendelsohn urged those pres­ent. "... Reason tells us we ought to scrap them.'' 
.:_Jeff Monaghan 
Human Needs and the Third World 
Mention Kellogg Institute to most people, and they'll questioningly look at you, wondering why anyone in his right mind would want to 
SCHOLASTIC 
,cluttter conversation talking about ·breakfast cereal. The Kellogg Insti­tute in question, however, deals not with cereal, but with international studies, and it is found on the twelfth floor of the Notre Dame Memorial Library. The Kellogg In­stitute of International Studies con­cerns itself with economic develop­ment and democratization of Third World countries, placing an empha­sis on meeting crucial human needs with the kind of value focus that 
it feels Notre Dame stands for. 
The institute is funded out of the 
endowment gift from the Helen Kel­
logg Institute in Chicago and oper­
ates directly under the provost and 
president of the University. Its ex­
ecutive direc'tor is Fr. Ernest Bar­
tell, C.S.C. Fr. Bartell was pre­
viously chairman of the Department 
of Economics and currently teaches 
in the department. 
The insti'tute focuses primarily on the economic development and the democratization or redemocratiza­tion in Latin America. It addresses these issues on three levels: re­search, examining the existent prob­lems to see where attention is war­ranted; education within the Uni­versity itself, working with the de­partments on campus to increase undergraduate awareness; and out­reach, taking what has been learned through research out !to the world. By sponsoring such events as con­ferences, films and speakers, as well as helping to shape the new se­mester in Mexico program which is. concerned not only with academics in Latin America but also experi­ential learning, the institute hopes to help increase awareness of the Third World issues. 
Dr. Guillermo O'Donnell and Dr. Alejandro Foxley are the two chak holders of the institute who are in­volved with organizing the research network. Dr. O'Donnell holds the chair of International Studies in the institute and deals with the democ­ratization issues as related to gov­ernment. He teaches graduate courses in in'ternational government. Dr. Foxley holds the chair for In­ternationa1 Development and is con­cerned with the economic develop­ment strategies used in Latin Amer­ica. He teaches economics at the graduate level. These two, along with many others at Notre Dame, such as Prof. Alexander Wild, Fr. Claude Pomerleau, C.S.C., ·Dr. Ann Perotin-Dumon't, Prof. Michael Francis, Prof. Kenneth Jameson, Dr. Fredrick Pike and Prof. Denis Goulet work in collaboration with scholars in Brazil, Argentina and Chile in research and education to 
DECEMBER, 1982 
further the awareness of the tech­nological and economic interde­pendence of Latin America and the United States, hoping tf:hat through their concerted efforts they can pro­vide the analysis and background understanding needed to help policy­makers of these countries make the decisions necessary in order to help the greatest number of people. 
-Sheila Shunick 
Our Model Journalist: Red Smith 
The University of Notre Dame has announced the inauguration of the Red Smith Lectureship in Jour­nalism to be administered by the Department of American Studies. 
The lectureship honors the late Red Smith, a 1927 graduate, who ranks as America's greatest and most admired sportswriter. Smith, a columnist for the New York Times, is the only sportswriter to win a Pulitzer prize for commen­tary. 
The lectureship will promote jour­nalistic studies at Notre Dame and recognize Smith's accomplishments. The University: will invite a dis­tinguished journalist to give a pub­lic lecture, teach several classes, and meet with faculty and students. 
In making the announcement, Robert Schmuhl, American Studies professor and chairman of the lec­tureship steering committee, said "The work of Red Smith -his mastery of the language a1ong with his intelligence and sensitivity ­should be a model for anyone enter­ing journalism." Schmuhl noted that the University plans to make the lectureship an annual event and that "'the recipient will not be restricted to someone in sports journalism." 
. -Ed. 
Evelyn Waugh 
Revisited 
First British and American edi­tions of 'the British Catholic author Evelyn Waugh (1903-1966) are on display in the Rare Books and Spe­cial Collections in Memorial Library. Waugh is known primarily for his satire and prose fiction, such as Brideshead Revisited (1945) and Vile Bodies (1930), of. which the first American dramatization was performed at Notre Dame· in 1958. A prolific writer, Waugh averaged a· major work every other year for forty years, covering a variety of 
areas, including religion, journalism, 
illustration, and travel. An exten­
sive traveler himself, Waugh visited Notre Dame in 1949, and "was greatly struck by the fact that no wine or beer is served in your tea rooms. I should think you would have great tankards of wine or liquor at the end of your (cafeteria) lines instead of those teetotalling liquids" (Scholastic, March 4, 1949). Visits to Southern California and Hollywood, "where all men are dis­placed persons," influenced such works as The Loved One. This in­fluence reflects Waugh's concern with the disintegration of ethical codes after WWII. Catholicism proved to be a stable force amidst this disintegration in both his work and personal life; he became a Ro­man Catholic in 1930. 
-Liz Crudo 
Thank goodness our Advisory Board is already hard at work. Pro­fessor Schmuhl, not spelled Schmul, pointed out a few mistakes in the Notable dedicated to the Board. We wish to make the distinction that it is Professor Marjorie Kinsey, De­partment of Art, who will serve on the board. We appreciate your com­ments and continued help in the fu­ture. 
-Ed. 

BIG@ 
LUMBER CENTER 
• 
ARMSlRONG CEILING lllf • POWER lOOIS 

• 
CABINElS • !UMBER 

• 
PLYWOOD • HARDWARE 

• 
OlYMPIC SlAIN • PWMBING & 

• 
PANELING ElKIRlCAL SUPPLIES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE ••• 


We make .. doing it yourself" 
EASY 
II 
~ 
272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH ROSELAND 
Our modern world thrives on information, and it is no surprise that the superjournalism of the eighties is not without serious ethical and moral problem.s. Communication in our highly technologi­cal world is a great asset, but there is always a catch--and that catch is ethical responsibility. New and advanced technologies are making the news media and thei?' message more influential. Thanks to the new electronic news-gathering equipment, the public has a window on the world like there has never been before. On our TV screens, the American public can see their president shot practically as it happens. 
On November 22 and 23, Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, in conjunction with the Gannett Foundation, sponsored a conference entitled The Responsibilities of Journal­ism, which addressed the moral and ethical prob­lems confronting contemporary journalists. The con­ference consisted of several sessions with presenta­tions by and discussions among prominent American journalists, such as Edwin Newman, Elie Abel, Georgie Anne Geyer and Jeff Greenfield. 
The responsibilities of journalism is an issue of importance to Scholastic, as one of Notre Dame's student journalistic endeavors, and we feel it is of importance to the students who seriously question the role of the news media in our modern world. This issue pivots on the topic of journalism and pre­sents a serious look at what we take to be news. 
the responsibilities of JOURNALISM 
by Jeffreyl. Monaghan 
The responsibi·l·ity.· of a journalist," Edwin Newman stated simply, "is to be a journal­ist." In his keynote address to Notre Dame's conference on The Responsibilities of Journalism, Newman spoke with an air of common sense and · a lack of mystery with regard to any ethical prob­lems in the journalism field. The journalist's duty . is "not easy," he said; a journalist is simply called "to provide information which frames public atti­tudes onwhich the well-being of our nation rests." An NBC News correspondent for the past twenty years, Edwin Newman is an. accomplished. 
., 
author. He writes news stories, 
news. commentary, and has written 
Strictly Speaking and A. Civil 
Tongue, two books which put him 
and his message into the libraries of 
his peers. Newman's forte is English 
diction, and as keynote speaker, he 
was highlighted as somewhat of a 
grammatical sage. He has won an 
Emmy Award for his work as well 
as numerous news awards from fel­
low journalists. 
Attempting to put this conference 
in perspective, Newman flatly said 
that "the problem with ethics in 
journalism is not so mysterious." The 
largest part of the journalism busi­
ness is routine: writing news stories, 
layout, editing, etc. But such a rou­
tine demands competence, he said. 
"There is, then, the responsibility to 
know the English language and use 
it well." 
For the most part, commentary in 
the journalism field is what "puts 
things in perspective. There's no 
point in thinking thoughts which are 
not helpful," he said. "A commenta­
tor should be able to say things 
which are enlightening. What wor­
ries me is not bias but competence /and experience." 
Newman spoke of the "downfall" 
in education as occurring in the '60s and '70s. Students today are on the tail end of an "age of incoherence," he said, a time in which the quality of reading and writing skills was neglected. Newman sees a positive change in education for the future; today there is an attempt to educate students to "a much wider under­standing of the English language," he said. A student of journalism in particular must be skillful with the tools of the field and enter one's em­ployment "conforming to the stan­dards it has." Knowledge, experience, . wisdom, and competence round out Newman's idea of a good journalist; ethics, then; are "really a question of how good you.are," he said. · 
Because "a communicator cannot 
be separated from what he communi­
cates," Newman said. "If we are 
more permissive in journalism, it is 
because we are more permiss~ve in 
society." The journalism field cannot 
be insulated from the society of 
which it is a product and to which it 
reports, he said. Illustrating this, he 
pointed out many mistakes of gram­
mar and diction whJch were printed 
in prominent as well as not-so-promi­
nent American publications. One cap­
tion which appeared under a picture 
of the late Soviet President Leonid 
Brezhnev said, "Brezhnev will lay in 
state ..."; it should have read, "lie in state. . . ." Examples like this punctuate_d Newman's remark on to­day's "age of incoherence," and he startlingly questioned, "Do these peo­ple know what they are saying?" One cannot tell with any amount of assurance "whether the reporter or the printer made these mistakes. The real question, then, is 'How good are we?'" he said. 
In closing, Newman called for the "need to avoid idolatry" in journal­ism: careerists in the field, looking for a "big scoop" to make a name. for themselves, are damaging the image of credibility in journalism. "There's no promise for excitement in this business," he said. 
Newman also ·called for the Ameri­can public to educate itself to the journalism field. In addition to recog­nizing the various strengths and weaknesses of each medium, he called for .a proper understanding of "news" as coming from a spectrum of these . media. Much, however, is "sloppy work and rotten journal­ism;'' he said. Further, "there is not enough criticism of the journalism 

The Responsibilities of Journalism II 
!1 
' 
l 
i 
.l 
The Media and Govern01ent 
by Elizabeth Crudo 
Of Objectivity and Give-and-Take. 
Edwin Newman 
business for people to be skeptical" of where their news comes from. For better or worse, then, "News is what we (journalists) say itis," he said. 
And finally, Newman chose to em­phasize experience as being requisite for wise and proper reporting. At times, he said, "we overdo all kinds of coverage: How long should we l stay with a story?" It is simple i enough that "some regulation will guarantee us [the public] certain things," he said, "but is doing a fair 11 job that much of a mystery?" D 
In the realm of politics, both national and interna­tional, journalism has taken on new roles as ad­vocate, creating values no 
longer previously as­sumed, and as adversary, suspicious of govern­ment's every move.
Rsponsible journalism in po­litical issues pivots on the question of objectivity, ac­. cording ·to Georgie Anne GeyeF, a columnist and· former 'for­eign correspondent for . UPS, and Robert J. McCloskey, former U.S. ambassador, deputy assistant and Secretary of State for Press Rela­
tion.s, and current ombudsman for 
the Washington Post. · 
Earlier days were simpler, explains Geyer; reporters were concerned 
with such monumental ethical issues 
as the consumption of whiskey at Christmas. But today's complex is­
sues have resulted in similarly com­
plicated roles· for journalists, who no longer merely report facts and figures but interpret them as well. Their ma­terial, too, is more complex; issues · and people . journalists investigate often operate on a series of levels simultaneous1y. Iran's Khomeini, notes Geyer, operates on different time levels. While attempting to re­vert his country to the veiled, re­strictive traditions . of 1400 years 
•· ago, he uses the most technologically 
I,
DECEMBER, 1982 
5 
1: 

advanced equipment to ·communicate · and promote his goal. 
Journalists must also cover wars not only on a physical level but on a psychological one as well, a type of combat Geyer terms "pathological warfare." The "aura of U.S. power" which previously protected journal­ists is now disregarded, as the war in Beirut in 1976 demonstrated. No one has political or religious immunity; all people, be they citizens, diplomats, priests, Red Cross workers, are po­tential victims. Consequently, jour­nalists are now not only writers but diplomats and targets. 
As diplomats, journalists are "ar­bitrators of the truth," and Geyer categorizes today's journalist as either an adversary or an advocate. An ad­versary journalist is one who regards any institution or person involved therein as his enemy; an advocacy journalist is one who presents atjd pushes for his viewpoint on a sub­ject. While reporters were previously able to imply or assume basic values, which dealt with the church or fam­ily, these new advocacy and adver­sary journalists explicate values. They must, because assumptions are . no longer possible and intricate is­sues need to be clarified, explain. We need, claims Geyer, to understand both the conditions and consequences of our political policies and decisions. 
Although this explication can lead to biased journalism, Geyer states that the greatest danger in writing is not an ideological one but one of "careerism." Journalists such as Janet Dodd, whose Pulitzer prize­winning story was a fake, want to make quick names for themselves, and this can lead to dishonest writ­ing. Objectivity might not be pos­sible, says Geyer, but fairness is. The adversary journalist, the hero who is ready to take on every institution in society is immoral, says Geyer, be­cause give-and-take between the pub­lic and governmental institutions is necessary and even desirable. Such contact allows both parties to under­stand more fully the influences and repercussions of various policies and actions. 
In illuminating some of the tension in the tenuous press-government re­lationship, McCloskey affirmed this necessity of a give-and-take relation­ship. Both the government and press are suspicious of each other. The press, in regarding the government as attempting to conceal everything, like an old man hoarding secrets, doubts the veracity of what the gov­ernment does reveal. The govern­ment, in turn, is intimidated by the power of the press. Yet neither the press nor the government "has the 
.corner on morality," states McClos­key, for both need to maintain in­tegrity; the public shouldn't have to choose sides. Lying can occur unin­tentially because "negotiation and public information" may occasionally conflict. But deliberate lying, such as Janet Dodd's story, or Nixon's cover­up, can "satisfy neither side." 
The Responsibilities of Journalism 
The Media and Business 
But Journalism ls Big Business Too. by Alison Hilton 

Put two men, equally respected yet from opposing fields, in one room-what happens? Guaranteed, worthwhile re­
sults are produced, and valuable in­
.formation is yielded. Such was the case during the lecture entitled "The Ethics and Economics of Journal­ism." The opposing speakers were Leonard Silk, an economics colum­nist for The:>'New. York Times, and John E. Swearingen, an executive at. Standard Oil Company of Indiana. The discussion led by these two in­dividuals provided statements· about the correlation between journalism and business and: about the problems and the possible cures of the faults in the press today. 
First, an important point -drawn was the link between the media and business_ According to Silk, journal­ism itself may · be classified a busi­ness. A business, like the Standard Oil Company, considers money-mak­ing as its goal. But journalism takes this goal one step further. Not only is 
SCHOLASTIC 
How can the media, in itself a capitalistic endeavor out to capture a 
the name of public welfare, is wrong. market, honestly and in­Ostracizing. oneself, as he does, from 
telligently watchdog big business? 
Mccloskey elaborated on the fourth 
branch tendency of the press: its in­
crease in power has not led to a 
similar increase in responsibility. 
While the press has an eagle's eye on 
the government to ensure that it 
does not misuse its power, the press 
itself is subject to. these same mis­
appropriations. There are "sub­
merged ·communications" in both 
fields; the press has its own red­
taped bureaucracy of chiefs and edi­
tors: The public has the right to 
know, but it knows only what the· 
press chooses to tell it. How does the ·official · feel, continues McCloskey, exaggeration, news items become sensationalized -and much more shocking. The problem, however, is that this sensationalized news does not represent actual truth, but ra­ther, distortion. Swearingen supplied the news coverage of the energy crisis as an example of sensational­ized reporting. In the coverage, the oil companies were victims of sensa­tionalized distortion by faulty jour­nalism. 

To counteract the negative opin­ions about the media, Silk provided several feasible solutions to thefaults 
whom the press-a la Geyer's adver­sary journalist-destroys? Does the press need to be so hardened to the sensitivities of these people? 
· Like Geyer, McCloskey conceded that objectivity is "the biggest myth in journalism." Whether one can be objective is based on the setup of the story, and with intricate material, journalists must often interpret and analyze facts -vv.hich can lead to sloppy and/or preferential writing. Journalists should tell the story "as it is and as it is being told," declares McCloskey, not as they want it to be. 0 
The New York Times out to make a profit, but the paper also seeks to serve the public. It attends to public interests ·by .attempting to provide the true facts in matters of popular concern. 
A second, more complex bond be­tween business and media can be found. Silk's basic premise states that bdth business and media are legitimate industries; each serves a truly worthwhile purpose. The key to their relationship, then, lies in recognizing that both are viable entities, despite their differences. An oil company and a. newspaper may function through dissimilar methods, yet both are legitimate and worth­while ventures. 
An additional notion aired was the faulty nature of the media. Accord­ing to Swearingen, journalism is guilty of prejudice, dishonesty, and sensationalism. When investigating a story, the reporter steps into the event with a bias, pos~essing a pre­conceived idea of the situation before the full investigation takes place. The coverage that results is slanted in the direction of the reporter's views. 
Sensationalism basicaUy operates in this same manner. The reporter covers a story, and then draws his own conclusions about the event. The writer will supply the news with an extra punch, a stronger impact. Through the use of dramatics and 
DECEMBER, 1982 
of the press. A prime correcting principle is the separation of the news and business department from the editorial section. Each depart­ment has its own worth, and inter­mixing the two parts only adulter­ates the purposes behind them both. 
The problem, however, is that this sensationalized news does not represent actual truth but, rather, distortion. 
A second ideal, professionalism, .must be maintained as a top priority of the media. It is the duty of the edi­tors to see that high quality remains the standard. Reporters must give their supreme effort and must strive to produce the best article they pos­sibly can compose. Second best can­not be tolerated. Finally, the stand­ard of diversity of newspapers must continue. Our country's journalistic strength, according to Silk, lies in its diversity. With the competition of various newspapers, the American public is guaranteed a sampling of quality newspapers from. which to choose. Competition and diversity, then, breeds top-quality journalism for the public. 
From these views that Silk and Swearingen expressed at the confer­ence, a comprehensive picture of journalism along with business can be produced. First, one must recog­nize that journalism, being the hu­man institution that it is, does con­tain faults in its system. However, even with these weaknesses, the me­dia does satisfactorily perform its function of truthful service to the public. Also, despite the disparity of purpose between journalism and business, both institutions must be deemed legitimate. Thus, a healthy view of journalism and a successful relationship between business and the media begin wi'th due respect ,!i 
: I
paid to both industries. Journalism and business are two powerful and 
I'
viable forces in American society today, and with continued coopera­r I tion and respect, they will remain 
so. . 


The Responsibilities of Journalism 
A Case Study 
by Theresa Schindler 
Meet Michael Mil­ler, prize-win­ning investiga­tive reporter for The Daily Sun. The Sun is a financially troubled, fam­ily-owned newspaper in a capital city in the Midwest. It traditionally supports lib­eral candidates and causes and is struggling to com­pete against the powerful Morning Times, a conserva­tive paper. To promote his career and to improve the Sun's image, Miller fre­quently appears on a local television station broadcast­ing the news stories he has covered for the Sun. Miller 
has done such a good job on tele­
vi~ion that he has. become a celebrity 
in his town; because of him there has 
been more interest in the Daily Sun 
and the decline in the paper's circu­
lation has ceased. The Morning Times 
has noticed his success and has re~ 
cently made him an offer which in­
cludes a substantial pay hike. Miller 
has said he is happy at the Daily Sun 
but that he will consider the offer. 
* * * * 
Michael Miller is the protagonist of a hypothetical case which was handed out to members of the media at the Journalism Conference at Notre Dame on November 22 and 
23. A theologian from Boston Col­lege, two priests from Notre Dame, and a newspaper editor gave their opinions about Miller's dilemma, which posed . ethical considerations against professional considerations typical in the field of journalism. The dilemma is as follows: 
Right before the November guber­natorial elections, Miller and his fam­ily took a vacation. While at a resort, Miller recognized· one of the gover­nor's aides, a man with a solid repu­tation, with a woman · Miller knew was not his wife and another couple. The aide never saw Miller. Miller, 
8 
however, became interested and checked at the main desk to discover that the man was not registered at the hotel under his real name. Be­fore the two couples left the next day, Miller noted the car's license plate number and, when he returned to work on Monday morning, began investigating. 
The car was registered to the treas-· urer of a construction company 
''...a story on the resigna­tion would divert attention from the campaign and could ruin the liberal governor's chances for reelection. '' 
which had recently received a con­tract for a four-lane highway in the city. Larger firms had been sur­prised that the small company out­bid them. The governor's aide that Miller had seen had been the liaison -on the project. A few more calls re~ vealed that construction of th(! high­way was progressing satisfactorily, · and state inspectors were impressed with the work thus far. Miller con­. tacted the treasurer of the construe-
To concretize its discus­sion on journalistic ethical responsibilities, the con­
ference presented . an analysis of a hypothetical 
case. 

tion company, saying he was a former classmate of the man. When Miller men­tioned seeing him with the governor's aide at the re­sort the man r~torted that weekends were his own business and hung up. The• next day Miller decided to confront the governor's aide. He was not in his of­fice. 
Wednesday morning· the· governor announced that the aide had resigned for "health and family" rea­sons. A resignation so close to election time interested most journalists, but no one was able to contact the aide 
himself so no one went.beyond the governor's statement about the resig­nation. Miller, however, · became ex­cited, guessing that his call to the construction company may have been the cause of the aide's resignation. He tried to reach the governor but was unsuccessful. Still, he felt he had enough material to write a story which would throw the resignation into question. His editor did not agree. The editor -felt a story on the resignation would divert attention from the campaign and could ruin the liberal governor's chances for re­election. He asked Miller to continue working on the story but said they would not use anything until after the election. Miller debated; his op­tions on leaving work: 
(1) 
he could listen to his editor; 

(2) 
he could offer the st_ory to the 


· television station and then, since· he was. ~ure they would accept it, try to convince his editor to run it or just report it exclusively on TV;' . · 
(3) 
he could "leak" .the story to other reporters to generate in­terest in the case before the elections, or 

(
4) he could accept the offer from the Times, which would be happy to feature a new re­


. porter with a story suggesting 


a scandal in the liberal incum­bent's staff. 
The discussion in the CCE audi­torium, chaired by John Powers, Managing Editor of the South Bend Tribune, split around the issue of the public's right to know and the jour­nalist's duty to provide adequate and documented information. John Craig, Editor of the Pittsburgh Press and a member of the Ethics Committee of the American Society of Newspapers, spoke first and considered the case from the editor's viewpoint. He felt Miller should choose the first option, but also maintained that the paper should publish the story ahead of the elections. "White (the governor's aide) resigned two days after a re­porter attempted to question him. The story should be short and clear including the fact that White and Johnson (the treasurer for the con-
Perspective 
The Responsibilities of Journalism 
That Dirty Word: 
Co01passion ·B·
ecause I was in the right __ place atthe Tig.ht_ tirne-las_t 
..... . . summer, .I got a · unique summer job: -I edited a newspaper. . . . . 
It's not as impressive as it sounds. The Holmes County Farmer-Hub (circ. 5,000) is a far cry from the New York Times. It's atypical, small­townweekly, filled with news from the rural area surrounding Millers­burg, Ohio. -The news staff is·.four people, including a part-time photog­rapher. We even paste up the paper ourselves. 
I worked .part time.·for the . news­paper inhigh school andwas a full­time _· reporter two summers ago. When our editor departed. last .May, our gen«:!raLmanager Inade a noble proposal: he offered me the job. and 
DECEMBER, 1982 
. . 
~ ---_, ~ -----~ -~---­
struction company) were seen to­gether, but not that the other woman was present." He pointed out that the primary issue was the fact that White resigned after a call from the news­paper, not the fact that White was on a weekend trip with another woman and maintained that one could print the story as an unbiased factual account. "White's social ac­tivities are not now of public con­cern so keep the woman out. But the story might have an effect. It's better to get it out before the election. The public will be well-served whether or not there is a scandal. White and Johnson being seen together socially involves the public interests. The story should only state that relation­ship and subsequent events." Refer­ring to Miller's other options Craig stated that if Miller wanted a tele­vision career he should go and pursue that exclusively and not blackmail his editor with the fact that the sta­tion would use the story even if the 
paper didn't. Craig opposed "leaking" the story, saying, "Miller has other, more effective options. He can go somewhere else and take the story with him." As long as Miller stays with the Sun, according to Craig, he is under a social contract with the paper. Since he and his editor have discussed it, the story is not his alone but belongs to him and the paper. To ."leak" the story is to get someone else to do his "dirty work." As far as accepting the offer from the Times, Craig felt Miller was free to go as long as his editor at the Sun was given proper warning. To use the story for more money and limelight, however, Craig deemed "unprofes­sional and not ethically correct." For Craig, the issue was not whether the facts were substantial enough to print, but the fact that the editor withheld the story because he 
(continued on page 30} 
Tlieresa Schindler is a senior English major from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
''Journalism often· tends to be out of touch witll any. values except the headline, the catchy· lead, the dramatic picture.-_-and they are not real values. '' 
is keeping it on hold for this year by appointing a nine-month editor while I'm .. here for .my senior year. This means I'm lucky enuugh to be ao1e to do it again after graduation. 
My general manager's reasoning was that I'm ·a hometown boy who knows the area well. That's impor­tant in a small town; it's tough for newcomers -to gain the trust of the 
tion to ScboJastic. 
cornniunity, and that is a key t~ the succei,s of any newspaper.. 
SoIplunged head-first into the job last May. It wasa tough summer, but it was worth iLTo. be sure, there were _plenty of mistakes, but there were some rewarding experiences as 
.well. In . my experience . with other newspapers, . however, I was -dis­mayed to find what I perceived to_pE! a serious lack of ethics in the field 
of journalism. The problem is signifi­cant enough to convince me that in the long run I should pursue acareer elsewhere unless I want to give my conscience an ulcer. 
At my newspaper, ethics are sel­dom an issue. Small towns are usu­ally noncontroversial._ Rarely does anything occur that. raises serious ethical questions. During an average 
( continued on page 30) 

Perspective 
What Makes a Catholic University? 
by Prof. Charles E. Rice 
In "The Idea of a University," Cardinal Newman said: 
"I want l,aymen, not arrogant, not rash in speech, not disputatious, but ·men who know their religion, who enter into it, who know just where they stand, who know what they hold; who know their creed so well that they can give an account of it; who know so much history that they can defend it. I want an intelligent, .well-instructed laity. I wish to enlarge your knowledge, to cultivate your reason, to get an in­sight into the rel,ation of truth to truth, to learn to view things as they are, to understand how faith and reason stand to each other; what are the bases and principles of Ca­tholicism.)) 
Newman's statement is a fair summary of what parents expect to receive when they enroll their chil­dren in col'leges that call them­selves Catholic; and it is a fair statement of what the students are entitled to receive. Students at a Catholic university should learn how to think, through a systematic study of philosophy. And they should study the Catholic Faith, not as if it were merely one theory among many but in its proper context as the revelation of God. For twenty years I have taught at the graduate level at New York University, Fordham and, since 1969, at Notre Dame. I have known, as law stu­dents, graduates of every major Catholic college in the country and many of the smaller ones. For the past thirteen years I have taught more graduates of Notre Dame than of any other school. I believe this experience provides a sufficient basis upon which to offer some comments on the quality of education in Cath­olic colleges generally and particu­larly at Notre Dame. 
The University of Notre Dame ought to excel in its achievement of Newman's objective. Unfortunately, in one major respect, it does not. 
Briefly, the problem is that Notre Dame students, through no fault of their own, are deprived of the chance to make a coherent decision as to whether to accept or reject · the authen'tic teachings of the Cath-· olic Church. This is so because Notre Dame offers them no predictable op­portunity to study those teachings as the Church herself intends them to be studied. 
It is impossible, of course, for a Catholic university to fulfill its mis­sion, as outlined by Pope Paul II in his 1979 address at the Catholic Uni­versity of America, unless it trans-
The problem is that Notre Dame students, through no fault of their own, are deprived of the chance to make a coherent decision as to whether to accept or reject the authentic teachings of the Catholic Church. 
mits to its :.;:udents a knowiedge of, and appreciation for, the truths of the Catholic Faith. This cannot be done, however, without adherence to the proper methods by which those truths . l:an .be known: In its Dog­matic Constitution on Divine Rev­elation (No. 10), the Second Vatican Council said, "The task of authen­tically interpreting the Word of God, whether written or handed on, has been entrusted exclusively to the living teaching office of the Church, whose authority is exercised in the name of Jesus Christ." (Emphasis added.) This teaching office of the Church is exercised by the Pope and the bishops in union with the Pope, as the Second Vatican Coun­cil made clear. In its Dogmatic Con­stitution on the Church (No. 25), the Council declared that "religious submission of will and of mind must be shown in a special way to the authentic teaching authority of the Roman Pontiff, even when he is not speaking ex cathedra." 
Unfortunately, the graduates of most Catholic colleges today, in­cluding Notre Dame, tend, in gen­eral, to be functionally illiterate in terms of their knowledge of the Faith and of the basic phi'losophy consistent with that Faith. I em­phasize that this is not the fault of the students. However, I am con-. fident in the conclusion that students at Notre Dame and at Catholic col­leges generally tend to be ignorant of what the Vicar of Christ actually teaches on matters of faith and morals. They tend to have a mis­trust of the "institutional Church," combined with a surprising gulli­bility as to the claims of some theo­
. logians, especially if the 1atter hap­pen to be soft on the moral norms governing such things as contracep­tion, divorce, and premarital sex. They commonly fail to comprehend the distinction between objective wrong and subjective culpability, a failure that leads to an exaggerated personalism, especially with regard to sex. And they are generally ig­norant of scholastic philosophy. St. Thomas Aquinas, in the words of Pope Paul VI, "holds th.e principal place" among the Dodo~s of the Church. Quoting Aquinas' state­ment, "Philosophy is not studied in order . to find out what people may have thought, but to discover what is true," Pope John Paul II said, "The reason why the philosophy of St. Thomas is preeminent is to be found in its realism and its objec­tivity; it is a philosophy of what is, not of what appears." (Address of November 17, 1979.) Yet if Notre Dame students do obtain a coherent understanding of Aquinas as well as of the authentic teachings of the Church, it is generally through the 
10 

accidental selection of a few courses taught by a few professors. 
Apparently, what students at Notre Dame learn about these mat­ters is frequently distorted by filtra­tion through the mind of a professor who introduces them and proceeds to disparage them. For instance, Humanae Vitae, if treated at all, often seems to suffer this fate. Notre Dame students are entitled instead to a chance to study what the Church teaches, as the Church teaches it, so that they can make an informed decision on those matters for the governance of their own lives. Regrettably, those students generally do not have a fighting chance to form a serious judgment on what the Catholic Church actu­ally teaches through the Pope ·and the Bishops in union with him, be­cause they do not have a predictable opportunity to study those teach­ings with a professor who personally believes them and is sympathetic to them. The students are short­changed. They conclude four years of Catholic higher education, as­suming that they have adequately studied the Faith when, too often, they have done little more than to samp'le the views of theologian~ of the moment to the neglect of-the treasure that is the Faith as taught by the authentic teaching Church through the centuries. In the pro­cess, they tend to absorb the erro­neous concept that theologians exer­cise a magisterium parallel to that of the Pope. When Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the Notre Dame Theology Department, toured Australia, the Catholic bishops of that country criticized his new book, Catholicism, because "it puts side by side two things which cannot be equated: The Church's authentic 
SCHOLASTIC 
teaching; the opm1ons of theo-. logians·, some of them quite radical ones. The result can easily be con~ fusion about what the Church really teaches.'' It is important to remem­ber here that the teaching Church consists of the Pope and the bishops in union with the Pope. As Pope John Paul II said in his 1980 ad­dress to the International Federation of Catholic Universities, "as for theo'logical research properly speak­ing, by definition it cannot exist without seeking its source and its regulation in Scripture and Tradi­tion in the experience and decisions _ of the Church handed down by the Magisterium throughout the course of the centuries. . . . It is in this sense that Catholic universities must safeguard their own character." 
I offer a modest proposal. It is that Notre Dame should at least practice truth in labeling. Notre Dame has some excellent courses which do provide a systematic foun­dation in orthodox Catholic theology and the philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas and those courses are taught by professors who personally accept all that the Church teaches. The number of such courses should be increased, so that a solid founda­tion will be readily available tff all students who desire it. And, per­haps more important, why not label those courses so that the students and their parents will be able to make intelligent choices and to know what they are getting? 
I do not imply that Catholic col­·leges fulfill their obligation merely by offering authentic courses along with those which are off-the-wall.. They, and especially Notre Dame, are bound to stop teaching, as if it were legitimate Catholic belief, that which is contrary to the teachings of the Vicar of Christ. But it would be useless for me merely to say here that Notre Dame should stop teach­ing theology which is inconsistent with the teaching of the Church. The enforcement of orthodoxy in teaching is a matter for the prudent judgment of the Pope and the Bisp.-. ops including particularly, in this case, Bishop William E. MclY,[anus of 
. Fort Wayne-South Bend. Instead, I propose here simp'ly that, pending the enforcement of the governing norms by the Pope and the Bishop, Notre Dame should at least practice truth in labeling. [See, Rice, The Catholic College and Consumer Pro­tection, Homiletic and Pastoral Re­view, July 1982, 18.] 
Unless-as rarely happens-they know the courses and professors in advance, parents and students at Notre Dame and other Catholic col­leges generally have no assurance that they wil'l get what they are paying for. What they are entitled to get in any college that calls itself Catholic is a systematic program of sound courses in Catholic theology and scholas'tic philosophy taught by professors who personally believe what is taught by the Pope and the Bishops in union with the Pope. If the school cannot offer at least that to al'l its students -and label it ­
that school should cease to call itself Catholic when it solicits money from the alumni and the public. Other­wise, it is commiting a fraud upon its constituents and upon the public at large who rely upon its repre­sentations. D 
Charles E. Rice is Professor of Law at Notre Dame. 

11 
I. 
I·· 
.---­
The Responsibilities of Journalism 
Journalism and ''Free Speech '' as Political Power 
by Prof. Robert J. Loewenberg 
"... the free speech doctrine which equates truth and news is no better than a doctrine of power . . . '' 
In political life today the central place and great power of the Fourth
ii
!,I! Estate is unmistakable. The press, observes James Billington in his use­
•.' ill ful book, The Fire in the Minds of
.1 
I Men (1980), has "in many ways re­
,p 
il placed the First [Estate], the
·Ii 
Church." We are J,ound to ask if
Jl 
.,•l1 this replacement is welcome, a
i 
i change for good or evil. I would suggest that the role of
I' 
today's press, of the media as we callii it, is not a positive one.· Indeed I am compelled to say, at the risk of
:I 
seeming immoderation, that journal­
\i 
ism is in our times a force vicious and malignant, an evil and disruptive 
i! 
:I 
element in the world, perhaps intrin­sically so. More, the press is radi­
\l 
cally hosti'le to just those principles
,I 
-freedom, republican government, tolerance -that are most often tl~ought to justify its existence in
ii 
free societies. Let us survey briefly
I 
i the rise of modern journalism. 
In the beginning, at the onset of the French Revolution, certain new ideas of liberation arose finding their expression in modern mass politics. Journalism, developing hand-in-hand with the new politics or liberation, indeed as its chief spokesman, shares with this politics the assumption that man is not a political being but instead an asocial and apolitical one. If we examine today's journalism in newspapers, magazines and tele­vision we get a clear message: Man is fundamentally · apolitical, his nature is not transcendent of times and places but is rather the result of these. 
12 
And if man's nature is historical so too is truth. Manhood is there­fore said to be equivalent to the liberation from authority or to re­quire, in principle, the destruction of all po'litical things. Where classi­cal man conceived of human life as political and purposeful, moderns say that man is ultimately asocial and purposeless. His only purpose is freedom. Ideally man should be free of all social and political forms. Most of all men should be free from "values'' imposed by any authority whether familial, social, or religious. 
The terms of this liberation are based in the idea that truth is his­torical in the same way that human being is historical. The "free speech" doctrine, ironically so it appears, would free man so completely that he would escape the tyranny of the word itself. Words, truth, human being are all unfixed, so conceived. They are nothing except manifes­tations of momentary structures al­ready dissolving into new structures governed by new moments. Is this freedom or is it the most sickly tyranny? Is it humility in the face of complexity or is it arrogant sim­plification? 
Rather than seek answers to these questions as others have done by tak­ing opinion surveys, thereby adopt­ing the assumptions behipd the a_tti­tudes we are trying to document, let us instead make a kind of theoretical and logical inquiry. How do jour­nalists-and of journalists we shall emphasize the most influential or television journalists -understand human nature and truth? Does the profession actively select its Left­liberal population, now documented to excess, or does this penchant select the profession? 
-! 
Responding to a challenge, typ­I cially weak, that newsmen are biased '1 
i
leftward, Walter Cronkite is said to have protested as follows. Journal­ism; he said, sides "with humanity 
rather than with authority." Per­haps Tom Wicker of The Times, de­fender of rebellion everywhere, at Attica prison and in far-off lands he has not seen, is more sophisticated. He would not have put the matter so baldly. But Cronkite's idealism is also Wicker's. It is the doctrine of modern freedom according to which human nature is the liberation from authority, from civilization simply. And is there a doctrine of truth that serves the journa:list's astonishing ontology? We learn of it from Peter Jennings, another if lesser television eminence, the man who walked with Sadati Jennings' observations on the nature of truth are not idiosyncratic. They come to us as an advertisement for ABC news. Jennings says "there is no truth ... only news." What connec­tion might exist . between truth as news and the division of human things into authority and humanity? The answer lies in a certain version of freedom, of free speech or in­quiry. It is the version of freedom that sustains the media today and, in addition, a large segment of the intelligentsia. These are people who spend half of their best energies see-
SCHOLASTIC 
ing to it that Nazis, communists and 
pornographers shall speak . on the 
nation's campuses, devoting the 
other half to keeping religious 
speakers off of them. Let us consider 
their version of free speech. 
The idea of free speech is widely understood to mean that every prin­ciple, event or person shall be open to inquiry, the journalist's inquiry particularly. Plainly, this version of free speech is the source of the jour­nalists' power to set and control the terms of public discourse, perhaps the single most important power in modern political life. And, while most of us sense something oppres­sive about this power and the troub­ling way it is monopolized by a Left­liberal elite (see The Public Interest, Fall 1982); we too little understand .that its source is free speech itself. But we are taught not to question free speech and to regard those who do as enemies of freedom altogether. But should not this peculiar taboo tell us something about the doc­
trine's character? 
In fact the journalist's version of 
free speech is a dogma whose pur­
pose is to close off inquiry and speech 
not the reverse. Surely it is clear if 
everything must be open to free 
speech or free inquiry that "free 
speech" must be open too. And, un­
less we are to suppose at the start 
that free speech is the very thing its 
champions dep'lore or ''absolutism," 
we need to make our investigation of 
free speech in light of some other 
principle. Of course this other prin­
ciple is truth. Is free speech exempt 
from truth? If so it is absolutism 
straight out by definition. If it is 
not exempt then it must be that 
some things, those that are true, are 
closed to inquiry or free speech. Or, 
if no things are said to be true, if, 
as our journalist says, there is no 
truth only news, then by what right 
does free speech _or "news'' remain 
immune to•. this truth? In sum the 
free speech doctrine which equates 
truth and news is no better than a 
doctrine of power or rather, it is 
power. If there is no truth but news 
how is it that Jennings and not 
someone else gives us the news? 
Logically of course our journalists 
are in the position of Cratylus, a 
sophist of whom Aristotle· made 
sport in his definitive refutation of 
the idea that there is no truth only 
news in Book Gamma of Meta­
physics. But Jennings' dictum, 
though reducing words to gestures 
in principle so that he should, like 
Cratylus, be content sitently to move 
his finger, has, we know, inspired an opposite result. Although the seem­ing consequence of the equation of truth with news should incline news­men, .and us, to dismiss all news as ad hominem babble the reverse is the case. From the viewers' side what is 
''If there is no truth but only news then fairness shall be neutrality to the good or what we call 'values. ' " 
ofoerwise an occasion for deepest wonder, our high regard for well­groomed people whose only obvious skills are in voice modulation and monitor reading, is a political fact 
.of the highest relevance. And the journalists on their own .doctrine should in logic dismiss absolutely every utterance, their own especial­ly, as meaningless and morally empty. Of course they do no such thing. Jennings tells us why this is so. In Hlustrating his doctrine that there is no truth only news Jennings provides the following extraordinary example: "[T]he truth of the Israeli settler who is leaving the Sinai, and the truth of the soldier who is being· forced to remove him, and the truth of the Egyptian who wants back that patch of desert, are all three different truths." And what is the meaning of this, the deduction from it or lesson? "[I]t is ... that we be fair.'' What can it possibly mean to be "fair" where there is no truth only news? 
Consider what Jennings has pre­scribed (we shall turn to his symp­tomatic use of an Israeli example in a moment). We have returned by way of Jennings' free speech ideal­ism to Cronkite's terrible simplifi­cation which looks upon human af­fairs as divided between "humanity'' and "authority." We have returned, that is, to the context of the French Revolution or to the idea that man's freedom is a liberation from purpose or, practically speaking, from socia'l and political life. If there is no truth but only news then fairness shall be neutrality to the good or what we call "values." All truths are here morally equal. But paradoxical'ly, or so it would seem, this does not make journalists neutral to all values or limit them to silence. The journalist's characteristic pose is that of moral indignation. He de­spises evil and will speak fearlessly against it. On the contrary then, the heavy Left-liberal emphasis, so-called advocacy journalism, is the result of this fairness doctrine. The reason is obvious. 
The ad lwrninem fallacy is raised to high truth such that all truths are said to be equal. It follows that all utterances that do not accede to this truth-and this would include above all those institutional embodiments of this failure to accede namely gov­ernments, the status quo simply­are at best self-delusions. At worst they are attempts to dupe "the peo­ple," that is, "humanity." And what is humanity? Humanity is that en­tity-people, individuals, groups, ideas-genuinely committed to, or even better, fighting for the truth that all truths are equal, for "fair­ness." Thus we have the media's automatic Left-liberalism, its sym­pathy for revolution and liberation on principle. The self-conscious polit­ical content of this sympathy is 
·hardly Marxism. Indeed it is no reasoned ism at all. In the journal­ist's mind, in Cronkite's for example, this is not bias but the opposite of a'll bias. Again, it is "fairness." In 
·the minds of most practitioners the reflective attraction to the causes of "humanity" and "the people" ex­presses the same a priori supposition that permits one to know, prior to all investigation and study, that there are bound to be "two sides to every conflict," this meaning that the moral balance is sure to be two­sided as well. This absolutism, in addition to making the journalist's moral life as easy as his investigative one, protects him from ever having to see or report that someone or anything may be right or wrong. And in liberation movements proper, domestic or international, where the press can find a government or in­stitution or any embodiment of the status quo in conflict with a force for liberation, its imperatives are immediately clear. It is in this con­nection that Jennings' choice of the Israeli example proves so telling. 
Ever since 1967 when Israel, to everyone's surprise, defeated the Arabs and seized among other lands the western side of the river Jordan, held (illegally) by Transjordan since 1948 (when no "Palestinian State" was demanded), the world's journal­ists have made what a recent issue of Encounter calls "War against Israel." And while we might discuss others of the media's enemies-the atom, military spending, "the rich" -as a means to demonstrate its character and its a'll-important con­trol of public discourse, it is the 
(continued on page 19) 

DECEMBER, 1982 

The Notre Dame Wishbook 1982! 
A. The Father Sorin Dart Board: It took a little -guessing, but we fi­nally figured out the purpose of this 5-X-7-inch slab of cork. Bearing the likeness of this institution's founder, it is an ideal outlet for those post­finals frustrations. $12.00. 
B. Official Notre Dame Wood: Tired of ordinary firewood? Create your next cheery blaze ·with these plain wood blocks sporting the ex­clusive Notre Dame designer label! Small: $27.00; Large: $49.00. 
C. Little Black Book: A handy pocket-sized repository for dates and other upcoming social events. At this place it could remain blank for four years. $3.50. 
D. Box: For the man who has everything, here's a place to put it. This 5-X-5-X-2-inch container is topped with the highly exalted N.D. football helmet motif, known in the past to bring nostalgic tears to the eyes of loyal alumni. Genuine wood! $18.50. 
From the bookstore's "slap an 
N.D. 
on it and sell it for more" de­partment we offer these stocking­stuffers: 

E. 
N.D. Touchtone Phone: Sick of paying exorbitant prices to Ma Bell for telephones? Great news! Now you can pay exorbitant prices to a · certain Midwestern university in­stead. Handsome wooden cabinet · capped with an etched-glass lepre­chaun. A great new way to call home for money or explain your abysmal GPA. A bargain at any price, now only $275.00. 

F. 
Notre Dame Football: The per­fect gift for those alumni with small · children they want to impress. A foolproof way to get Junior to asso­ciate a certain sport with you-know­where. $11.95. 

G. 
Notre Dame Basketball: The perfect gift for those alwnni with small children they want to impress. A foolproof way to get Junior-to as­sociate a certain sport with you­know-where. $9.95. 


H. Monogrammed Notre Dame 
Beer Mug: From the· school which 
disapproves of drinking comes this 
large-capacity beer stein.. $9.25. 
I. Monogrammed Notre Dame Vi­sor: From the . school which disap­proves of gambl,ing comes this at­tractive dealer's visor. A great com­
. panion to the N.D. dice cup and play­ing cards. $3.95; 
SOHOLAl:l'l'IC 

(J)ecember is here, Advent is upon us, and as surely as materialism follows Thanksgiving it's Christmas shopping time again. The approach­ing Yuletide brings with it the annual dilemma 
of what to get Dad for Christmas-another necktie? For those hard-to-buy-for people in your life we have assembled the following catalogue of special gifts em­bodying the Notre Dame spirit. 
Our first source of holiday treasures is that favorite fountain of good things, the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore: 


J. Baby Bib: Ideal for drooling in­fants and Dillon Hall residents. Bears the ubiquitous football· motif. $2.25. 
K. Plastic Training Pants: A must for future Domers and freshmen fac­ing their first double Emil. In opaque only. $1 '39. 
Not all gifts for the dyed-m-the­wool Domer are to be found in the hallowed halls of the bookstore. The venerable shelves of Hammes con­tain but a foretaste of the Irish items to be found across this cam­pus. For instance: 
L. 100% Genuine Notre Dame Brick: An authentic piece of Notre Dame history can be yours ! The Old Fieldhouse is undergoing major re­modeling, and during its transforma­tion into a beautifully functional va­cant lot, a limited number of these lovely bricks will be salvaged as col~ lector's items. Get a piece of the Rock! (prices available upon re­quest). 
M. Authentic Rockne Memorial Swimsuit: At last -the swimsuit endorsed by Eddie the Towel Man is available for home use! Bears a large R monogram on the posterior. Comes in two sizes: Too Small and Too Large. $6.50. 
N; Reagan's Commencement Ad­dress: Relive fond memories of the Gipper with this verbatim transcript. Sorry, no monogram. Available from Information Services. $3.95. 
0. Admission for One to Catholic Disneyland: Just like those amuse­ment parks across the country, you pay a high price for admission and get taken for a ride. Popular rides include the GP A roller coaster and preregistration obstacle course. One~ time Entrance: $7,950; Four-Year Pass: $31,800.. 
P. Pewter Notre Dame LJcense Plate: A1i attractive addition to any car, this handsome adornment would look especially good on a bronze 1975 Ford Pinto Wagon. $10.00. 
Q. Bronze 1975 Ford Pinto Wagon: Affectionately known as Sir Jacob Neuter in honor of his legendary in­ability to pass even a Good Humor truck, this fine example of the car­maker's art has a tape deck, rear­view mirror, and four fully revolving wheels. Would look especially good attached to a pewter Notre Dame license plate. $1200.00 or best offer. 
That's it, folks. Merry Christ­mas! D 


Jim Ganther is 5'9'' and 155 lbs., with brown hair and green eyes. He is a junior Finance major from Osh-
I
kosh, Wisconsin. 
.. ' II 
15 <I 
DECEMBER, 1982 
. . . 
-~----~--~-~-­


Jim Colvin


-. ~ -­
-~--~------~-­
Music 
by Prof. Linda. Ferguson 
Stravinsky Chamber Concert 

Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971), whose hundredth birthday was cele­
.brated Thanksgiving week at Notre Dame with scholarly lectures and musical performances, once ex­pressed envy of painters arn:l sculp­tors "who communicate directly with their public without having recourse to intermediates." The re­lationship between the makers of musical compositions and the per­formers of those compositions has varied from historical age to age and from style to style. And more than once Stravinsky, representing a conservative position with a strong bias toward the composer (rather thaa the performer) as "artist," la­mented the necessity of "inter­mediary" performers in making his compositions avai'lable to the listen­er. But he kept the faith and con­tinued to write compositions for performance, even while some of his contemporaries turned to elec­tronic means of music making, es­chewing the human performer-in­terpreter altogether. Monday evening, November 22: Stravinsky's compositions were in good hands. The remarkable con­temporary music ensemble, Contin­'uum, served the composer faithfully a:rl.d with obvious love in an all-Stra. '4nsky chamber concert in Notre . Da:me's Annenberg Auditorium. '-'The program, presented by the touring artists to a full house (ap­propriately, on St. Cecilia's Day), , demonstrated coherently and dra­matically the rich variety of Stra­vinsky's output. ranging from ro­
rnantic student works (Two Melo­dies, op. 6, of 1906) to his 1966 serialist setting of "The Owl and the Pussycat." The concert revealed the breadth and depth to which Stravin­sky exercised what musicologist· Paul Henry Lang has called his "powerful musical instinct, ever alert, original, always seeking new. outlets." His Russian roots, his in­tuitive ties to the earth and to na­ture, his reverence for Western fine art tradition, and his ear for jazz all came to bear on his writing, and all were brilliantly displayed in the concert. 
The well-designed program was framed with duo-piano compositions performed by Cheryl 'Seltz0r and Joel Sachs, the directors of Contin­llum. The opening work, the So­nata for Two Pianos, presented in an introspective and businesslike read­ing, established the standard for the evening: flawless technical accuracy and thoughtful display of the "sense" and direction of the com­position. In both the restrained Sonata and the more flamboyant Concerto for Two Solo Pianos which ended the program, the contrapuntal lines emerged with distinctive clar­ity. The same could be said of the other polyphonic works performed, notably the settings of Three Shakespeare Songs. 
Soprano Sheila Schonbrun was featured in a variety of, songs in French, Russian, and English, and brought an accomplished technique and a charming stage presence to her texts (most of which pertained to birds). The popular Histoire du SoTilat Suite was offered by Marilyn Dubow. violin, David Krakauer, anil Ms. Seltzer, pfano. The literary basis for the work, a traditional Russian tale of Faustian aspirations and contracts with the devil, was ex­p1ained before the music was played. This suite shares with Stravinsky's larger work Le Sacre du Printemps many stylistic features, and it is difficult for some of the same rea­sons: notably, constantly shifting metrical organization, and widely ranging timbral demands from the instruments. The composition re­quires· absolute precision if it. is to work musically; and both the pre­cision and the music were ever-pres­ent. 
Mr. Krakauer offered the only solo work of the evening: The Three Little Pieces ,for Clarinet Solo (1919). That a single line of music is capable of astonishing complexity and expressive variety was hypothe­
'Sized by Stravinsky in conceiving this work and was confirmed by Mr. Krakauer in a virtuostic perfor­mance. In the Three Songs from Shakespeare, the Continuum En­semble was joined by Korin Schill­ing, local flutist, who handled the difficult flute part with care and competence. 
It would be inappropriate to speak further in individual terms about 
· the playing and singing of these fine performers who visited our, campus. They are an ensemble and ,they de­mand to be listened to as such -not as several good musicians who all happen to be playing and singing at the same time. Continuum provides . a model of what finely tuned mu­sical collaboration can reveal. 
On the occasion of Stravinsky's eightieth birthday (when the com­poser was still living), Paul Henry Lang spoke of him as a powerful figure "in whom the main strands of music history seem to knot them­selves ·before diverging again to form a new pattern." Now in Stra­vinsky's centennial year, it is in­creasingly clear that he is one of the few composers who has genuinely made a difference in 20th-century musical culture. The festival at Notre Dame, cosponsored by the Department of Music and the Snite Museum and supported by the Alice Tully Endowment, brought to the campus such prominen't musical scholars as Mitton Babbitt and Claudio Spies; and it brought to the minds and ears of the Notre Dame community a celebration of this monumental creative spirit. Special thanks for organizing this birthday celebration should be made to Pro­fessors Ethan Raimo and Paul John­son of the Notre Dame Department of Music. And to the musicians of Continuum: Many happy returnsl. d 
Professor Linda Ferguson is an as­sociate professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
(continued from 'IJ<J,{le 13) 
lsraeli exampl£= LhaL sums up its positions. 
Israel is not only the media's moral playground, as one observer recently described, the place where journalists exercise muscles unused elsewhere. Israel is journalism's in­finity, the meeting place for every line that makes up its contemporary form. Now the reader will not expect me to detail here the media's nearly implausible record of grotesque un­truths and distortions indicating its obsessive hatred for the Jewish state. This has been done, or rather begun by others. (See the work of Edward Alexander, Lev Navrozov, Edith Efron, George Will, Ruth Wisse, Rael Isaac, Norman Podhoretz among others.) The. facts of distor­tion, untruth, and obsessive hatred require little new documentation. Rather these things require expla­nation since it can be assumed that most people have already guessed there is something amiss when, for example, they hear (and see) daily about a "Beirut massacre" ( of Mos­lems by Christians), whi'le the Syr­ian murder of 25 thousand people goes unreported so that cable TV can refer to the murder ("accident?") of 78 Jewish soldiers at Tyre as "Tyre Blowout." The question then is, 
"why Israel?" There can be little doubt what the answer is. 
Israel is the world's most perfect and complete embodiment of what the media understand as authority against humanity. More, the case of Israel, unlike those of say Chile, Guatemala, Vietnam, El Salvador or the U.S. itself, has no gray areas. In those countries the struggle of humanity and authority is limited in comparison to the Israeli example for it is clear that no one but the Arabs seeks the "destruction of [for example, the Salvadoran] entity," or challenge the "right" of an entire people to exist. This is why ABC's Jennings, though he worked wonders in bringing benign Sadat to Ameri­can viewers, has neglected to remind us of that dictator's promise, after Camp David, to continue to pursue Israel's destruction which explains how Sadat's successor continues his po'licies. 
-Israel poses the sharpest possible contest between humanity and au­thority precisely because it is a con­flict in which the existence of the state is at stake, and, not less im­portant, because it is a Jewish state whose existence is at stake. It is no accident that it was Revolutionary France at the birth of those new ideas of liberation from which mod­ern journalism arose,· that set the terms for emancipated Jewish exis­tence. The Jews were offered a share in this new liberation at the price of their Judaism. This price, whether in 18th-century religious terms or in 20th-century national terms, a num­ber of Jews have been only too glad to pay. From the standpoint of jour­nalism's idealism, however, it is a price the Jewish state really must pay; i.e., it must pay with its de­struction or with its acceptance of a· "secular, democratic state"; with an Arab statP Thus Professor Sidorsky 

:_:;­
~ 
-=­
of Columbia has pointed out that the 
media will accept Israel only when it 
shows itself ready to sacrifice its 
very existence by creating a "Pales­
tinian state" in the very region 
where Abraham was asked (by God) 
to sacrifice Isaac. 
That the media, immersed in apocalyptic visions of this sort, should come actually to despise the idea of news is no surprise. As part of this despising of news and the freedom to get and publish it there also exists a hatred for the institu­tions of freedom and a sympathy, and a fear, for terrorism. There is the quintessential example of ABC· reporter Jonathan Randal who, in spite of his predictab'le support for the Arab cause, was jailed for 24 hours by terrorists. This did not cool his ardor for the Arab cause but neither did he or any other journalist report this detention which included four other reporters. And who would expect it? Had not ABC itself, evi­dently in response to the actual mur­der of one of its reporters in July 1981 in Beirut, run a pro-Arab ver­sion of "20/20"? One may not ex­plain matters of this sort by fear alone. 
It is pointless of course to specu­late what ABC's response would have been had Randal been jailed in Israel. Our interest here is not the Arab-Israeli question· but the ques­tion of news and "news" we have suggested is not news but power. The doctrine of fairness and of mul­tiple, actually of equal truths, deriv­ing from the newsman's version of free speech insures that we shall have a journalism that despises news; indeed that despises freedom and free governments as well as free speech. 0 
Community for the International Lay Apostolate 
(219) 283-7308 University of Notre Dame Volunteer Services STOP BY THE LAFORTUNE OFFICE 
AND ORDER YOUR CHRISTMAS CARDS! 3 for $1. 00 
Merry Christmas! 
DECEMBER, 1982 
. . 
-----~ ---~ ----­

Gallery 
Portraits by Dale Mainer 
Portraiture has remained a constant challenge to the artist t_hroughout the history ofart. Whether the subject is depicted realistically or abstractly, this art form embodies the personality of the individual depicted and the personal­ity of the artist himself. 
Self-Portrait 18 in. x 25 in. Oil on canvas 1982· Dale Mainer is presently a first-year graduate painter at Notre Dame. 
20 

Girl with Gold Vest 9 in. x 12 in. Oil on masonite 1982 

DECEMBER, 1982 
Poetry 
Dear Editor: 
As one who was once a Scholastic staff member back in the late '20s ( ! ) , I hope you will consider print­ing the enclosed poem, a tribute to Father Hesburgh. Aside from the Notre Da;me Magazine, which has a no-poems policy the Scholastic would reach the largest number of interested readers in the Notre Dame family. 
I came to N.D. as a freshman in 1926, took an A.B. and an M.A., spent 42 years in the English De­partment, and retired in 1973. I am now on the faculty of, and president of, the board of the Forever Learn­ing Institute. 
I have published poems, stories, criticism and humor (I was on the Juggler staff when it was a humor mag) in a wide variety of mags, including America, Saturday Review of Literature, Connecticut Review, South Atlantic Quarterly and per­haps some forty others. 
All good wishes for your tenure as 
editor-in-chief. Sincerely, Louis Hasley, Prof. Emeritus of English 

For Theodore Hesburgh 
by Louis Hasley 
He wings the spinning world and all are sibling. The poor of every skin he girds for struggle. The affluent he strokes to pay for learning. 
The shrunken and emaciate are his burden. He cannot not give food where some are starving. With rice and tea he images the sharing. 
The anguished torn by warfare bleed his spirit. "Use stones," he says, "for building, not for carnage. An honest conscience, erring, asks forgiveness." 
The lectern and electron voice his caring. His testament of light dispels a darkness. He helps to right the scales when they-are tilting. 
At night his light burns late beneath the Virgin But morning bursts resplendent at Christ's altar. He consecrates the wafer for the hungry. 
Vhe ffiabld ob Qod 
by Tara Jones 
Tree of Life: With your golden green leafage clothing ebony, lanky limbs; Firmly rooted in luxuriant soil. A shelter and abode, standing stiff and strong against the wrathful wind. 
Hand of God: With your golden precious flesh draping solid sturdy fingers; The Planter of frail, fragile life made strong in your dwelling. Hovering, shielding your precious ones there is no fear. 

by Peter Batacan 
The morning sun refracted by pane window, scatters light on red leather booths and steel-edged tables where the older sit. 
"..... many decapitated 
and estimated casualties." In the light their hair turns to eider down, Their overcoats hung on metal coat hangers; Khaki and gingham, wings of patriarchs. 
"..... in a military action 
SELF-DETERMINATION'' I watch from the ranks of the shadows, Perched on a stool by foot rail and counter, Bathed in coolness away from the windows. 
"..... the terrorists demand 
high-ranking officials demand'' Beside a man with a name on his pocket. He's talking to Diane about the Milwaukee Zoo. She pulls orders from a spinning steel wheel. 
"..... attempted assassination 
full demilitarization" A line is forming at the cashier counter, toothpicks and mint cremes and Dutch Masters cigars The round Elgin clock shows a quarter to eight, I leave a quarter to counter another day's weight. 

Let us go out for a walk, When the morning is pegged on the waterfront docks Like a mainsail firmly squared upon a high mast; Let us go, up winding half-uncertain lanes, The rambling terrain Of untold looks in crowded market squares And lovely faces crowned with golden hair: Lanes that unfold like a curious monologue Of mysterious intrigue To drive you to an equivocating whimper.... Oh, do not say, "I don't know." Let me lead, and you can follow. 
In the end the women will be gone 
Married to Corsican Don Juans. 
But before our time runs out 
Try asking, "Will You Be?" and, "Marry Me?" 
Hold her hand while you're on your knee, Or surprise her in the middle of her tea­
( She will say: "Let me be your only girl!") Her morning coat, her collar fastened loosely with a pearl; Your ascot silk and daring, but asserted with a simple twirl­(They will cry: "But how she treats him like the world!") 
You must dare 
Enact this dream; 
In a moment there is time 
For quaverings and waverings which a lifetime won't redeem. 

by Peter Batacan 

by Sheila Beatty 
Hurrying to class, one waft of pine catches me back to the Savannah River Reservoir 
Coleman canvas tent with cool and hot where pine shelter was and was not, sleeping bags with flannel lining of moose, deer, beagles, ducks, (and the blender for daiquiris, the coloring books, the fan, the playpen, the water skis....) 
slap-lick-lap of warm lake water on hard slick clay banks where tides exposed and wore smooth black grasps of pine roots like witches' fingers ... 
bathwater warm, red muddy lake that left maca-silver grit between fingers and in the elastic marks of swim team suit, between gold tan and pinky white, dare-you dive deep to 
the squishy seaweedy bottom, and cold, cold, cold, and fear of bass large-mouthed enough 
to gobble seven-year-olds ... 
hot wooden dock, dry heat underfoot where we'd cast for minnows and my brother would spit at them, and horrified, delighted, watch them gulp it! 
marble-sized baby frogs caught and cupped bouncing toady-skinned against white palms, elusive lizards, solemnity of deer tracks.... 
pine needles, soft wood soil mulch, hot and dry on top, cool, moist underneath where roly~poly's clenched from child fingertips, hot, 'large-grained beach sand and foot wriggle deeper to the cooler, fine grain.... 
our fat old beagle bow-000-ing at the raccoon moon and cricket song other campers' fire glows among pine popping beer cans and laughing across hot nightfall on the lake. 

II
Peace on Earth. 
¦ 
by Laurie Giunti 
start of what is now our 
As we children have 
most prominent tradition. 
grown older, many of our family traditions have changed or just faded away. Oh, we still trim the tree, open gifts and eat turkey, but all the little traditions, especially those powered by childhood en­thusiasm, are gone. The annual Christmas trip to Marshall Field's toyland has been cancelled and the day spent freezing on the sidewalk just to get a glimpse of Santa in the Christmas Parade has been dropped from the agenda, as well. The Sears cata­logue is no longer the Bi­ble, our dogma of Christ­mas hopes, and sleep now has priority over rising be­fore the sun to open our gifts. Yet in the midst of this decay, one tradition flourishes. It grows as we grow and it thrives as we gain maturity. This expand­ing Christmas ritual, now an ingrained part of our Yuletide season, is the Annual Holiday Spat. 
Every year, at least once during the holiday season, there is an argu~ent that is so fierce, so shattering and usually so foolish that it stands above all other festivi­ties and is duly recorded as the Annual Holiday Spat. This fighting is odd, and therefore memorable, because my family rarely argues. But there is something about the holiday season, that joyous time of the year, that brings out all our suppressed hostilities and sends our household into an uproa!". 
Our traditional tiff was formally recorded and genu­
inely activated the Christmas when I was nine years old, 
now fondly referred to as the "Year of the Dresses." My 
oldest sister, Julie, was fourteen and the three other 
siblings -Wendy, Matt, and Amy -were twelve, 
eleven, and ten. Because of the closeness in our ages, 
Wendy, Amy and I wore close to the same dress size and 
we could often share clothes. 
Every year my aunts would buy each of us an outfit 
to be opened Christmas morning and then worn to Mass. 
Well, in this particular year, my aunts bought three 
dresses in varying sizes, but they were not certain which 
would fit which of the three youngest girls. They ex­
plained to us that they had just wrapped up the dresses, 
pu: on name tags, and we were to trade among the three 
of us, so each got a properly fitting dress. Little did the 
aunts know that those innocent dresses were to be the 
24 

Christmas morning dawned with the usual ex­citement and when all the important gifts, like toys, were opened, each of us was left with the one box from my aunts -the dress. We always opened these boxes last, as we· knew what was in them, and clothes, at that time, were boring anyway. 
Simultaneously, Amy, Wendy and I opened our dresses. I took one look at mine and prayed it would not fit. It was one of the ugliest dresses I had ever seen. Wendy's dress was satisfactory and Amy's was beautiful. We immediately looked at the other dresses, which could be ours, and each of us vowed to fit into that beautiful dress. We tried on our dresses and I silently thanked God as my mother decided my ugly dress was much too big and I couldn't possibly keep it. Wendy's dress was the smallest as was I, so it became mine. I was content enough to get rid of the ugly dress. Now Amy and Wendy were left to battle over the re­maining dresses. I sat back, relieved to be out of the competition. My mother had each girl try on each dress and then proclaimed the ugly dress was Wendy's. Wendy promptly burst into tears and refused to leave the house 
if she had to wear the dress. Amy tried to be charitable, but was feeling too pleased at her good fortune. She was just a little too confident, though, and my mother called 
for a refitting. My mother, like mostpeople, can never make up her mind and rarely sticks to'a'decision. Wendy was banking on this and her instincts proved right. The verdict was reversed, and now Wendy was the proud owner of the beautiful dress. Amy was reduced to tears. They both were crying and pleading their cases to my mother when my father, whose role in the Holiday Spat is some combination of Supreme Court judge, referee and villain, came in. With one loud "shut up, you ungrateful brats and listen to your mother," the room grew quiet. Only Wendy's and Amy muffled sobs could be heard. My father then proceeded to tell us that we had ruined his holiday and, "You kids could spoil a free lunch." This phrase soon came to be our recurrent holiday motto, and from this first chaotic Christmas, our Holiday Spat was born. Since the "Year of the Dresses," we've had at least 

one major fight per Yuletide season, and every year 
we've ruined my father's holiday. Probably our greatest 
triumph, the Ali-Fraser of our Holiday Spats, was "The 
Year of the Suit." This year we decided to get our fight­
ing in early, so we held our spat on Thanksgiving. Many 
things had changed since that first spat: I was sixteen, 
my oldest sister was engaged and my brother was a 
freshman at Northwestern. The whole family was going 
to my grandmother's house for Thanksgiving and no one 
was looking forward to it. My mother decreed that 
everyone was to look nice for the occasion; therefore, no 
jeans. Matt, after havin6 been away at college for a 
whole two months, thought himself above household 
rules and refused to wear a suit. He said he couldn't 
have a good time in a suit, and he wanted to be com­
fortable. We pointed out that he would not have a good 
time no matter how comfortable he was, but Matt re­
mained adamant. My mother screamed and pleaded with 
him, but she had no success. I told him just to shut up 
and wear a suit, as I had on nylons, didn't I? But he just 
gave me a withering glance and stalked off. Finally, my 
mother delivered the ultimatum -she was going to 
have my father speak to him. My father, always the ·op­
timist, was hoping to get through this holiday unscathed. 
After a loud discussion, he compromised with Matt. Matt 
wasn't too thrilled and neither was my mother, but at 
least they were quiet. 
To embarrass my parents further, my sister Julie's 
fiance was here for Thanksgiving and going with us to 
Grandma's. He and Julie were driving a separate car to 
my Grandma's. We were all envious because they got to 
arrive later and leave earlier, thus spared many hours of 
relative torture. My sister Wendy mysteriously came 
down with an upset stomach and had to stay home. Be­
cause of her escape, she was the object of all sibling 
jealousy, which was loudly vocalized and grated on my 
parents. After another loud discussion with my father, 
Wendy agreed to accompany the family to my Grand­
mother's house but to ride with the second shift. At this 
point everyone should have been appeased, but no one 
was. My father's holiday was fading fast, my mother's 
authority was undermined, Julie and her fiance were 
embarrassed by our uncouth family, Wendy still had to 
go to Grandma's even though she vowed she was sick, 
Matthew had to wear a sportjacket, and Amy and I had 
to ride with my parents, had to wear dresses, ·and felt 
that our goodness was not being appreciated. 
This ·underlying tension unnerved my father and I knew enough to sit in the back of the station wagon, as far from him as I could. Now, my sister Amy has a knack for always pushing things just a little too far, and this trait did not fail her on this Thanksgiving. As soon as we got on the highway, Amy stated her opinion . of Wendy and her sudden illness and insinuated that my father was £oolish to fall for Wendy's ploy. This last comment was too much. The morning had taken its toll on my father and his temper took over. From my van­tage point in the back, I saw my father's arm extend and soundly contact Amy's cheek. The slap immediately silenced Amy who, lost no time in flipping over the back seat to join me in my haven. My father then gave his annual speech on how we ruined his holiday, but this time he added anew twist. He declared.that Christmas was officially cancelled for the Giunti household, as we children would just spoil it anyway. We all nodded and feigned despair, but deep inside we knew my father was just upset. Without our spoiling Christmas, my father would not know how to react; without a fight, it just is not Christmas. 
Last year's argument was disappointing. There were 
DECEMBER, 1982 
few raised voices and an overall resignedness. We argued, but our hearts were not in it. I fear the Holiday Spat is becoming extinct. I do not know what my father will do. He has grown awfully fond of his annual Holi­day Speech. D 
Laurie Giunti is Lewis Hall secre­tary. She is very funny and she is from Manteno, Illinois. 
The Varsity Shop Hair designers for the total you 
*Counselling on color, hairstyling, wardrobe, and make-up. *Perms $20 and up. Cuts $5.50 and up. We've. cut our prices to fit your budget. *Walk-ins welcome. 
10% discount with student ID 
1639 Edison Rd. 277-0057 

The easy take-along 35mm pocket camera offering-quality in a small package. A mere $89.001 A-11 Flash $27.50 
University Park Mall Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 (219) 272-6710 
Scottsdale Mall 
South Bend, Indiana 
(219) 291-6814 
. . 

mtt()fl 
Christmas Wreath 
(I]fter dinner on the night before Christmas Eve, Joe's mother, Mama Saura, cornered him while he was filling the ice trays at the sink. When Joe turned from the sink, carefully holding the stacked trays so the water would not spill over, he saw his portly mother standing beside the refrigerator. She was dressed entirely in black, as is the custom of all Spanish widows. Her dark gray hair was drawn back tightly in a bun. Her counte­nance was peaceful; the skin on her face was smooth and taut. Only the wrinkles at the corners of her eyes revealed her 77 years. But her eyes were another story. As Joe glanced at his mother's eyes, he was struck by the blue brilliance of her irises. Other peo­ple's eyes paled with age; Mama Saura's shone like tiny beacons. She wore a humble smile on her lips. It was the thin, toothless smile she always displayed before she asked a favor, Joe thought. She reached up and opened the freezer door for Joe. Joe slid the trays in and closed the freezer. Before he turned, Mama had already begun to speak. Her voice was soft and high­pitched. "Joe, you take me to the cemetery tomorrow?" Joe smiled at his mother. She looked at him with wide, anxious eyes, as if she were frightened Joe would deny her. He had already told her twice that day that he would take her the next day into Jersey City to visit her late husband's grave. Still, she needed to be reassured. "Sure, Mama. I'll take you. What, did you think I would forget?" He patted her gently on the shoulder. "We must go early. We go late, there will be no more flowers." "Sure, sure. Ten o'clock, okay?" "No, no. Too late. Better nine." Joe reluctantly agreed. "Okay, nine o'clock. But when I'm in the car at nine o'clock with the motor running and you're not ready_:_" "Me, I'll be ready." And Joe knew she would. She walked by him out of the kitchen, her tiny feet lightly.tapping on the tiled floor. 
The next morning, Joe awoke to the sound of his mother knocking on his bedroom door. He stirred out of sleep and beheld Mama holding the door open enough to peek her head in. She appeared already washed and dressed. There was a look of annoyance in her eyes. 
Joe looked at her through half-opened eyes. She 
stepped quietly over to his bed, trying not to cause 
the floor to creak. When she reached the bed, she 
poked Joe on the shoulder three times. 
"Mama, I'm awake." But his eyes were still closed. 
Joe's wife Rosa, lying next to him, had stirred._ 
by Jeff Powanda 
Mama whispered now, so as not to wake Joe's wife, but her whisper had the weight of urgency. "C'mon, Joe. Es 8:30 already." She turned and left as quietly as she had entered. Joe sat up and threw his legs over the side of the bed. He ran his hands through his thinning grey hair. 
For sixteen years now he had taken his mother to the cemetery. Papa, a small, stocky, ebullient man, a longshoreman like Joe, had died of a stroke at the age of 64 in 1966. Since then, Mama had worn only black. She kept her hair in a modest-looking bun. She went to all of the novenas. And she visited the cemetery whenever she could. All of this was part of her mourn­ing. Some of Mama's friends only mourned their late husbands for a period of ten years. How can you mourn someone according to a schedule? she would think 
Joe showered quickly and threw on some clothes.. When he was dressed, he went downstairs to have a cup of coffee. Mama awaited him at the base of the stairs. She wore her black wool coat and her furry black cap. One arm was placed on the banister. Joe_ walked by her calmly and entered the kitchen on the right. Mama gave him an impatient look and resigned herself to sit until he was ready. She placed herself in the closest chair·to the stairs, while Joe busied him­self with the Mr. Coffee in the kitchen. 
When Joe's coffee was ready, he sat in the dark kitchen and thought about his mother. She was a determined woman, he thought. Never in her whole life did she meet a problem with reserve. In the tur­bulent period before the Spanish Civil War in Spain, Mama saw the trouble brewing and quickly had the family pack and board a ship for America. During the war, she and Papa both found jobs, he on the docks of Bayonne, she in a screw factory. Her job was to place 24 identical screws in a plastic bag and then place the bag in a cardboard box containing assorted steel pieces. Because she was paid for piecework,·she leci}ned to become adept at counting the 24 screws with one hand while she placed a batch of screws in a bag with her other hand. She became the fastest worker in the factory. That was her, Joe thought, always ready to adjust. When Papa died, she came to live with Joe: When a couple is old and one of them dies, it is very common for the remaining one to follow shortly there­after. Not Mama, Joe thought. Mama :would probably live longer than he. As much as he loved his mother, he could only wince at the thought. 
He put the cup down, pulled himself out ·of the chair. and walked into the living room, where Mama sat rigid in waiting. "Ready," Joe said. Mama arose .. slowly and stepped around him to peer at the clock· on the kitchen wall. "Don't worry," Joe said, "we're· only a little late." 
"Little late," Mama said as she waved her right arm frantically at the clock. "Es nueve y media!" 
"C'mon, let's go, or we'll be even later." Together the two descended the steps to the entrance foyer. Joe got his coat, opened the door for Mama, and together they left. 
Joe was perfectly willing to take Mama Saura to the cemetery, but the day seemed gray and cloudy, an unsuitable day, Joe thought, for anyone to be around the cemetery. The cemetery was in an isolated part of town, bordered by quiet roads, apart from any traffic. The only residential housing in the area were two apartment buildings, ten-story red brick structures for low-rent housing. Joe was frightened to be even near the place after he heard about all of the rapes and muggings that had taken place in the last month. 
"Mama, we can't keep going to the cemetery so often now. It's a bad neighborhood and getting worse." 
"We don't go so often, Joe. Can't I go see Papa the times that I must pay my respect? It is not so many times." 
"When you go, then, I'll take you. No more of Rosa or Joaquina taking you. I heard that last week a girl was beaten and raped inside a mausoleum by two kids." Joe didn't mean to frighten Mama; he only wanted to tell her how serious things had gotten. Still, he regretted telling her of the incident. 
"Madre de Dias!" she cried. "Los animales!" Mama was shaking in anger. 
It was best that she knew of the crime in the area, Joe thought. Then she wouldn't insist on being taken to the cemetery every weekend. Most times Joe didn't mind, but there were some days when his back gave him a pain from a long week on the docks. On such days Joe would rather remain in bed. But he always crawled out of bed when pestered by Mama's pathetic frown. She would peek her head in and say, "Joe, you can't take me? Who'll take me?" 
Joe felt that Mama at times assumed too much authority in his household. It was common for her to meddle. The other day she slapped Joe's 15-year-old son Frank when he smoked a cigarette in her presence. Rosa later rebuked Mama, saying that she was aware of her son's smoking, and though she disapproved, she felt her son old enough to choose for himself whether he wanted to smoke. Mama huffed loudly and told Rosa that she did not know how to raise her children. Joe was infuriated when he heard of the incident later. If he had seen Frank smoking, he would have slapped him also, but he could not tolerate his mother slapping his son. She always compared things to how life was when she lived back in Spain. She'd often resort to comparisons, such as, "Back in Spain no one ever did that; people are beautiful in Spain." When relating the simple beauty of Spain to her grandchildren, she did not mention anything of the long period of Franco's dictatorship when the Guardia Civil patrolled the streets with machine guns. Her memories of Spain were simple and ordered. If. only the country were in such a state, thought Joe. 
They arrived at the cemetery, but Mama wanted to stop at the flower shop across the street. Joe parked in front of the store and walked around the car to help his mother out. She got out and stepped quickly in front of him to enter the shop. 
Once inside the shop, Mama was torn between which decoration she should purchase for the stone of her husband. She liked the many wreaths that lay about, but she also was fond of the red and green poinsettias. She asked Joe for his opinion, but he was of no help,· only commenting on how expensive they all were. Finally Mama chose a handsome Christmas wreath with a bright red bow. Joe paid for the wreath 

DECEMBER, 1982 
and smiled as he heard Mama chastise the boy in the store who picked up the wreath for her, for he apparently did not handle it as gently as she wished. When Joe finished paying for the wreath, Mama called him over to investigate a larger, more elaborate wreath with pine cones, ribbons, and steel bells. "This one is better, no, Joe?" Joe was irritated. "I already paid for the other one. It's good enough. C'mon." As they left the store, Mama said they had picked the right wreath and commended Joe for his choice. She as­sured him that she would repay him for the wreath when her next Social Security check arrived. Joe said that she would do no such thing, the wreath was paid for and he would accept no money from her. Mama touched his arm in thanks. 
Joe placed the wreath in the trunk of the car. They reentered the car and proceeded through the rusted gate of a chain-link fence into the cemetery property. There were spots of snow on the ground, yet most of the plots remained clear. As Joe slowly cruised down the narrow cemetery path, Mama read the names off the passing tombstones and remarked to Joe about which belonged to her past friends. She recalled the way some of them had died. "Cancer de bone. He had much pain." She made. the sign of the cross as she passed a friend's grave. "God bless." Mama pointed to the spot where Frank Sinatra's mother used to be buried, but sadly related how Sinatra had the body disinterred and flown out to California where it was reburied. Mama said he did this because he was afraid of grave robbers. Joe grinned at this remark and Mama glared at him as if offended. She looked out the window and pointed nervously at the row where her husband was buried. "Alli. Alli. Joe, there. Over there." Joe nodded and pulled the car over to the edge of the path, very near to where Papa's grave was. It was in the north corner of the cemetery, close to the high bordering fence. Beyond the fence rose the two red brick apartment buildings, old structures built apparently without any regard for design. They looked like brick blockhouses, ten-story prisons. 
Joe again helped his mother out of the car and they advanced together down the aisle of stones. Joe held Mama's left arm at her elbow to prevent her from stumbling on the rough, cloddy earth. 
Finally they arrived at the gravesite. It bore a granite stone: Esteban Saura, 1902-1966. On the stone there was a bas-relief of the Virgin Mary surrounded by two angels. The sculpture was badly chipped, and the Virgin's face appeared scarred. A jagged stone fragment was missing from her smooth forehead. Mama sighed painfully at the sight of the disfigured stone. She pointed to the broken beer bottles at the base of a nearby stone. "See, Joe. They throw the 
bottles. No res-pecta." Mama bent down and picked up the glass from the neighboring plot. Joe told her to stop, that she would cut herself, but shed.id not listen. When she was finished, Joe took the glass from her hands, walked over to a trash can at the end of the row and discarded the glass. 
Joe looked back at Mama and saw she was praying before the grave. She was crying quietly. She held rosary beads in her hands, and hung her purse on her forearm. Joe had seen her cry each time he brought her to the grave. He marveled at the devotion of his mother, but wondered how she could continue. How long can a woman be expected to grieve for her late husband? How long can a woman's life be devoted to a loved one long dead? Every time I come here, J.oe thought, I witness a woman who would rather be with her dead husband. 
28 
Joe yelled to his mother that he would get the wreath from the car. He walked back to the vehicle and opened the trunk. The evergreen smell hit him and he was delighted by the fragrance. He picked up the wreath with his left hand and reached up to shut the trunk with his other hand. He hesitated when he noticed three dark-haired youths (no older than 16) slowly approaching Mama through the rows of headstones. Mama did not notice the boys as she stared at her husband's grave. The purse she held hung loosely at her side. There could not be more than twenty dollars in the purse, but Joe knew that that was what the boys were after. 
One boy kicked a rock which ricocheted off the headstone. Mama looked up and finally saw the three boys. She saw them looking directly at her. One of the boys smiled cunningly. Mama felt unable to move: she was in the middle of her rosary. 
"Mama. Walk toward the car," Joe yelled. Mama turned and stepped nervously toward Joe. Joe shut the trunk and ran out to meet her. He held in his hands a tire iron. The two met in the aisle and Joe took her hand, leaving his other hand to wield the weapon. 
"Go away! Get away, you bastards, or I'll break your skulls!" Joe screamed. Mama stopped crying and looked at the boys in anger. The boys circled around slowly toward Joe's car. Joe was worried that they might have knives. Wl}en they had almost reached the car, Joe yelled again. "Away from the car. Now, dammit!" Joe stepped quickly as if to charge the youths. Mama kept close behind him. The boys, scared initially, jogged away from Joe. Joe quickly escorted Mama to the car, and then walked around to the driver's side, still holding the tire iron. The boys calmly appraised him. One boy laughed mockingly. 
Joe got in the car and started the engine. He pushed hard on the gas and the car lurched into drive. When he passed the three boys, one of them threw a rock at the car. It glanced across the windshield without shattering the glass. Mama cursed at the boy through the window. "El diablo. Eres un diablo!" 
When they were safely past tlie boys, Joe asked his mother if she was all right. She said that she was fine. Then she remembered the wreath. She asked Joe if they could go back to put the wreath on Papa's grave. Joe, who was still excited from the confron­tation, said, "What, are you crazy? Go back there again?" 
"A nice wreath, too." Mama sniffled and looked down at the wooden rosary beads she stiff held in her hands. She quietly finished her last interrupted Hail Mary and ended the prayer. She made the sign of the cross and then placed the rosary in a .small .cardboard box in her purse. Mama looked back through the rear window at the passing stones and the winding curve of the narrow path. She softly whispered good­bye to the spirit of her husband. 
After they had returned home, Joe was sitting be­fore his television watching a football game when he heard a banging at his front door. He walked quickly over to the door and opened it. Mama stood before him with a small hammer in her hand. She was look­ing at the door proudly. Joe saw the newly placed wreath hanging from a hook in the middle of the door. "Nice, huh, Joe?" Mama asked. <'Beautiful," he · said, and smiled as he dI'ew his arm around her and 
· . led her back inside. . 
SCHOLASTIC 
Perspective 
Journalism and Central America 
Essential to our development as a society has been the existence of an· informed populace, a citizenry able to make the judgments and de­cisions essential to a representative form of government. The unde­niable importance of well-balanced and in-depth news-gathering and analysis makes it nearly impossible to overestimate the responsibility that the "Fourth Estate" has to the nation. Freedom of the press is one of the very cornerstones upon which this nation is built. 
Many observers, however, are coming to the conclusion that the 
U.S. media have betrayed the pub­lic's trust on a number of issues of critical importance, not the least of which is the process of change in the nations of Central America. For a variety of reasons, journalism has not met its obligations of providing evenhanded ·and fair coverage of events both within each nation and, more importantly, in regards to United States interest and involve­ment in these events. Aside from any ideological or political consid­erations, in recent years what little information the North American public has received concerning the region has been woefully inadequate and dangerously biased. 
The differences between reality and U.S. media representation of events in Central America became painfully obvious during a semester spent in Cuernavaca, Mexico, last spring as part of the Program in Global Community. Having paid particularly close attention to the media's treatment of the region both befcire and after my stay in Mexico, the disparity is obvious. There is, quite simply, a profound and dangerous difference between the perceptions and information I received while in Mexico and Nic­aragua and those which the media provide the North American public. 
A major part ofthe problem is undoubtedly unavoidable, consider­ing both the nature of contemporary journalism and the particular prob­lems inherent to coverage of Cen­tral America. While a great many 
North Americans consider television 
to be their primary source of news, 
the nature of electronic media has 
conditioned the way in which this 
news is reported. Invaluable as a 
means of quickly and vividly bring­
ing the world into one's living room, 
television is essentially a superficial 
medium. Its focus is intense, but it 
has difficulties penetrating the sur­
face to expose the complexities of 
the situation. Coupled with the time 
limitations built into network news 
programs, it is not difficult for tele­
vision to degenerate into shallow 
sensationalism. 
Television is, furthermore, highly effective in perpetuating the myth of objectivity. "Pictures cannot lie," the myth goes, "so what I see on television is The Truth, free from 
all bias and subjective interpreta­tion." This image of the camera as detached observer is essential to television's journalistic reputation. 
The fact of the matter is, how­ever, that television is no more value-free than any other form of information-gathering. It is still a human being who decides on what to focus, just as it is another human who edits the film and decides what to show and what to cut. Propa­gandists have long recognized the ease with which pictures and images can be manipulated to support a particular theme or idea. Just as we accept that the print media inevit­ably reflects to some degree the sub­jectivity of the individual reporter, so we must come to recognize tele­vision's myth of objectivity for what it is -a myth. 
The illusory nature of objectivity becomes even more apparent in cross-cultural situations. For the most part, other North Americans provide our news and analysis from Central America. And as anyone who has spent time in another cul­ture can testify, the problems of operating in and understanding an­other society with all its complex­ities can be overwhelming. A jour­nalist's goal of functioning as a de­tached observer becomes that much more unattainable in a cross-cul­tural situation. 
by T. J. Conley 
The problem, t:I:ien, is not limited to. any one form of media coverage. Instead, there are a variety of com­plex and related issues which con­dition all types of coverage of issues in Central America. One fundamen­tal if obvious problem involves lo­gistics. Throughout the region, many of the most important events occur in isolated .and remote areas. The problems involved in moving a television crew complete with sup­porting equipment into a remote mountain region are tremendous. Even for the unaccompanied re­porter, the journey to these loca­tions can be arduous and perhaps even dangerous. 
The more relevant and potentially more disturbing considerations re­volve around the issues of accessi­bility and influence. In situations as politically and culturally complex as those in the Central American re­gion, so much depends on the inter­pretation and analysis of otherwise confusing events. Because there is little or no organized opposition re­maining within each country, the 
( continued on page 30) 

T. J. Conley is a senior English ma­jor from St. Louis, Missouri. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
DECEMBER, 1982 
media are severely hampered in their ability to obtain the variety of per­spectives essential to the ideals of journalism. Instead, it is forced to rely on "official" sources or second­hand accounts -hardly reliable methods of information-gathering. Those who have the most direct ac­cess to the media are those whose voices will be the most clearly heard. 
The situation in Nicaragua serves to illustrate this dilemma forcefully. After spendi:µg ten days there last May, talking with a wide spectrum of people within the country, I re­turned home amazed at the dispar­ity between what I had heard and seen there and what I was reading
here. By single-mindedly concen­trating on those members of Nica­raguan society with the easiest ac­cess to North America, the U.S. media has failed to present a well­balanced account of the process of social change in Nicaragua. For ex­ample, we read about the bitter con­flict between the Catholic Church and the government in Nicaragua. From all accounts, the Church strongly opposes the Sandinista government, and demonstrations on the streets against it are both com­mon and violent. 
While in Nicaragua, however, the vast majority of Church people with whom we talked supported the gov­ernment, using such words as "just" and "compassionate" to describe governmental leaders. What the 
U.S. press has failed to report is that while certain outspoken mem­bers of the Nicaraguan Church's hierarchy oppose the government, the overwhelming majority of Christians actively support it. By dealing in a superficial manner with a complex problem, the press has created and nurtured a distorted view of the Nicaraguan reality. 
For a press with such a strong tradition of aggressiveness and in­dependence, there have been rela­tively few attempts to move beyond official government statements and investigate the issues in a substan­tial and just manner. The media seem to have fallen into a trap of complacency. There are any num­ber of possible explanations· for their :docility,. none of which can be1 undisputably proven. The important point is this: The North American journalistic establishment has, for any number ·of reasons, neglected its duty to the.public to provide fair· and in-depth accounts of the situa­tion in Central America. Instead it has by and large uncritically ac­cepted the analyses provided by those with the most direct access to media resources -governmental officials-and economic elites. 
The task confronting the U.S. press, then, is to move beyond the answers provided by those in power in order to examine the issues from a variety of perspectives. Admit­tedly, this is no easy matter. Four Dutch journalists were murdered in El Salvador last March attempting to do this very thing. But if the responsibility of journalism is to ensure an informed populace essen­tial to representative government, then we must reject the superficial and sensational in favor of the truth. 0 
.------------~-------~ 
Case Study ••. ( continued from page 9) 
thought it might influence the elec­tions; "the ~laim that it might divert attention away from the campaign is indefensible." 
The two priests and the theologian, however, preferred to concentrate on the point that serving the "public good" should not be the only consid­eration of a journalist. Lisa Cahill, an Associate Professor of Theology at Boston College, argued for the first option-to reserve publication of the story until suspicion becai::ne fact. She said that the case presented Miller as a victim·of conflicting par­ties: the public's right to know vs. the aide's right to privacy. She found that definition of the problem inade­quate, however. "The public's right to know is based on another right · which is to possess information ade­quate to fulfill one's duties. The vot­ers must vote responsibly and infor­mation which is incomplete, though based on a 'reliable source,' violates that right as much as anything." Ac­cording to Ms. Cahill, while the jour­nalist has a right to free expression· he also has a corresponding. duty to meet his right according to standards of accuracy. Noting that "journalism is not an exact science," Ms. Cahill balanced the rights of the possibly guilty (and possibly innocent) aide against the rights of the public and said that in this specific case the threat to the common good was not strong enough to violate the rights of the aide. She believed more facts were needed to upset this balance. 
Reverend Edward Malloy, C.S.C., Associate Provost and Associate Pro­
fessor of Theology at Notre Dame, and Reverend Oliver Williams, C.S.C., Adjunct Associate Professor in Man­agement here, agreed with Ms. Cahill. Both seemed to think that the facts were deficient and one-sided and that Miller should balance the right to know against the protection of inno­cent people. Williams challenged Craig's suggestion of a short, factual story, stating, "The public will think White acted improperly. This is sug­gesting wrongdoing without proving it." He was also concerned with the philosophy he thought was prevalent in journalism-the principle of pro­viding the greatest good for the greatest number of people. Williams argued that the reporter must con­sider rights and justice and the possi­
bility of "truth at too high a cost." 
The session ended unresolved, with the Editor of the Pittsburgh Press claiming it was "irresponsible ethi­_cally to sit on the story" and the three other panel members in favor of holding the story back until the facts were more complete. A final poll of the audience demonstrated the complexities of the question. They were split almost evenly, half in favor of publishing the story and half in favor of continuing to research the facts. . 
Compassion ... 
( continued from page 9) 
summer, I may never have witnessed an ethical dilemma. But this was not an average summer. An eleven-year­old girl was kidnapped in broad day­light in a town nearby. After a frantic week of search, her decom­posed body was found in our county. The killer is still at large. 
In any place, the events would have been sickening. But in our little town, they were downright ghastly. This type of crime had never hap­pened before in our area. It was big· news, not only for us but for almost every newspaper. and television sta­tion in northern Ohio. And you better believe those journalists jumped on it like a cat pounces on a mouse. This was big stuff -small town, grisly murder, grieving parents,· numbed . community. We .were _on the front page of dozens of newspapers every day for nearly a week. . 
I lost a lot of my faith in the in­tegrity of the news media in that week. I found that truth was not a top priority. Tact certainly was no­where on the list. Compassion was sadly lacking. 
My disappointment was twofold: I was dismayed by the content of the articles, but I was equally annoyed with the tactics resorted to by most of the· journalists. The content not only was sensationalized; it also was careless. One wire . service put the wrong names with the wrong offi-cials. Another example: on the same day, an Akron newspaper stated that the girl definitely had been sexually assaulted, and a Cleveland paper said just the opposite. In fact, the coro­ner's report said clearly that decom­position prevented any definite de­termination of the matter. Neither newspaper printed clarifications. 
The slant always was toward the sensational. It seemed that if a story had a graphic lead, it made the front page. If not, it was destined for somewhere in the back. Attempts were made to contact the bereaved family, and the media gobbled up inane comments by horrified friends. 
The tactics some reporters used were inexcusable. One reporter threatened a sheriff's department dis­patcher that he would make the dis­patcher "sound bad" in the news­paper if he did not provide addi­tional information. Although the county coroner announced that he would make all · announcements through the sheriff, he was con­stantly hounded: reporters "staked out" his office for hours to try to elicit a comment. 
The pressure on county officials got to the point where the sheriff threatened to press charges of ha­rassment against at least one promi­nent Ohio newspaper. No doubt the reporters ·were merely trying to do what they perceived to be their jobs. But I ask, what price good copy? Journalism often tends to be out of touch with any values except the headline, the catchy lead, the dra­matic picture--and they are not real values. 
A small weekly such as mine does not experience the headline pressure that perversely affects other news­papers. With the constant reader­ship, we will sell just about the same amount of issues no matter what our front-page headline . says. Larger newspapers need to be colorful, ex­citing, ... but I fear that leads to a diminished sense of ethics. 
There is a fine line between report­ing what happens (which obviously needs to be done) and taking advan­tage of the people and facts of a story by turning it into a media event. Most media, I fear, constantly step over that line. 
Ironically, by staying on the proper side of the line (I feel), our newspaper gained the trust of in­vestigation officials, and received more than our share of inside tips as the case developed inthe weeks after the murder. I found it works best that way,--if you're fair with them, they'll be fair with you. 
Compassion should not be a dirty 
DECEMBER, 1982 
word in the newsroo·m. Harvard Uni­ver~ity Journalism Curator, James C. Thomson Jr., calls for "conduct based on sensitivity to the unique elements of each decision-situation and the consequences to others as well as oneself." Self-restraint and consider­ation by journalists are top priorities · to achieve this worthwhile end. This does not compromise fairness or ac­curacy; it merely puts a humane ele­ment into the news. D 


Free Gift Wrap 
Lead Crystal Prisms Cookie Cutters Garfield Items Mugs with Names Incense Sticks Candles Music Boxes Christmas Ornaments Stuffed Animals Plus Many More Gifts! 
We will ship your gift purchase via UPS. 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
-Tl1e Last Word------­
by Beth Healy 
Part of the annual Christmas ritual during my child­hood was the children's reenactment of the Christmas story. In our barren basement we would set up a makeshift manger, wrap sheets around our heads for veils, and use an empty Quaker Oats box for the little drummer boy's drum. I realize now that we were trying to bring ourselves to a deeper .understanding of Christmas, we were preparing ourselves for the celebration. 
Now that the Thanksgiving ritual has passed and our stomachs have shrunk to normal size, we are quick to say that the Christmas season is upon us. Without wishing to erase any visions of sugarplums dancing in heads, I hasten to note that Christmas really isn't here. Rather we are smack-dab in 'the middle of another season, the season of Advent. 
Advent is a time of preparation, of anticipation. Unfortunately, it usually takes the back seat behind Christmas, and even Lent. Unlike Lent, when we sacrifice, Advent is a time to give. In the season of Advent we give our hearts, minds, prayer, and action in anticipation of Christ's birth. 
We often speak of the Christmas vigil, the midnight Mass which ushers in the joy and wonder of the Lord's birth. It is appropriate that we should consider the whole month of Advent as the vigil before Christ's coming. These four weeks should be a time of ready­ing ourselves for that celebration just as we ready the home, the meal, the tree. 
Advent is fittingly a very spiritual season for at the end of this time we celebrate the greatest mystery and wonder of our faith. On Christmas God became man. 
.Advent is the season of preparation for the historical event of Christ's birth. In a similar way, we are pre­paring in a mystical sense to participate in that birth which is also our birth into the promise of redemption. A key element to understanding Christmas is in its foreshadowing of the whole Easter experience, the death of Jesus on the Cross. Christ's birth-is a foreshadowing of man's salvation in that at Christmas we participate in the gift of God's only Son to the world. I know a song which illustrates this fuller meaning of Christmas. "Alleluia, my Father, for giving us your Son. Sending Him into this world to be given up for man. Knowing we would bruise Him and spite Him from the earth. Alleluia, my Father, in His death is my birth. Alleluia, my Father, in His life is my life." . 
Advent is a time of longing for the Messiah. Like the Jews, we are waiting. The readings at Mass during this season are often drawn from the books of Isaiah. Like the Jews, we are a people who "walked in darkness and have seen a great light," the light of Christ. This is not merely a history lesson however, for these readings are equally important today. 
We are in many ways still a people in darkness, still waiting for the light. In our anticipation of Christ's second coming, we participate in the Jews' waiting and suffering in the hope of a Messiah. Christmas-is a renewal of the promise of Christ's return in that Christ is born again into our lives. 
Advent is a time of spiritual journey. We can com­pare ourselves to the Magi and their journey. Three kings followed a star. They travelled long and hard to arrive at its resting place. They did not know what they would find; they were full of anticipation. At the end of that journey they found a stable and a babe. Yet their faith enabled them to believe that the child was the newborn King, their journey had prepared them. So, too, as we journey· through the season we prepare and deepen our faith so that we can appreciate the wonder of Christ's birth. We light the Advent candle as symbol of the light of our journey. Moreover, in the Kings' journey God revealed His Word to the Gentiles. The Magi, foreigners in Bethlehem, . experienced the mystery of the incarnation of Christ for all men. It is in that wondrous gift that we ex­perience the joy of Christmas. Our spiritual journey must lead us to be open to God's word and action in our lives. 
In Advent our thoughts turn to gift giving. We gather presents for relatives and friends. We give food and gifts to the poor. Yet these are not only nice holiday gestures, for in our giving we partake in what God did at Christmas in giving us His Son, the great­est act of love. 
How great is that gift to us. It is only right that ·we prepare our hearts and minds and lives to receive it. Christmas is a twofold celebration: the historical commemoration of Jesus' birth, and the mystical promise of His second coming. The Jews did not an­ticipate the Messiah's coming as it occurred and missed it. We cannot miss Christ's second coming. We must be prepared to welcome Him when He comes for we know not the time or the place or the manner. · 
Prepare ye the way of the Lord. D 
cholas+ic 

-----------~---------------------------­

,l,•111.m;f.. lh.tt UH ...~nu •·.111 luul.. ~nur h1•...1:.. ~ 1·1111nl nn 11­
fashion minded men like our style 
.\H.KC J\\ URI ''~IIIR"I'-. U\T~ '-11l1R r~\\ I AR, i-.-\R.\lf ,t..\t t,;,,_ /111! ,s, ~ .. ,~1 n,,,,pc1RT...\\"I ..S.Kl-'Lll"l\\.n 1•.-\).\\l.h,,IOllll'I. 
11 ( 1K,JII I\I ,111 II, I,\:,.; li'.l :-,," :,,,Pt IH. I"~\\ I .-\K. \II :-..:,1:,.,:c ,\\ I .\K I ~Ill I.\\ I .\h'. ....·,ruRl'\\\'l ,\K, 1\ll.RO\\' '"' IH. I ,w1 ,11. 11111_1,-.. ,1Rlo\\l 11l II Ii\\ I \k 
Phi 
son Clot . g(orp. 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
~-~ 
~\ 
277-7536 
810OFFANY 850 PURCHASE 
Of Regular Price Merchandise With Coupon 
Happy Holiday Wishes from .Baskin obbins  
¦ DECEMBER BUYi'YGXP1 I ONE . \ . HAND PACKED FUVOltS I.SPUMONI 17.PlslachloAln'lolld 2.s111wbtrry 18.CalamelFudge 3. lllll'Qlntt O>crry 19. Blueb11ry Cheeweake <1.Chocolat1Am>ond 20.B='nStrAwberry GET5.Chocolateo,tp 21.EooNog 6.JImaca• 22.Pe-.!ButlerfW;e 7.AockyAoad :tl.RumRallln a aioc.oa.1e Mnl :zt. Creme dll ""'°" 9.JlfflDCa.Aln'lolldfvdg9 25.COCGftlll 10.BunerF'llcan 26.P!!pperrninl11.ChOCOlah,~ 21.0,an;eStierbll 12.Fronchvan.D.a 2aR111nbow$herbtl ONE~~:=•~~n~•~"&aca.at. ::~1::_Stio1bet 15.LlmD!ICustard 31.linelc:e 16.J;;dgeBrownie O:::::.~, FREE· --------·-----------------------------­P[JR.CHASE ANY CONE OR FO[J_NTAI_N ITEM AND GET THE SAME TYPE ITEM FREE WITH COUPON. Good at these locations thru December: University Commons Shopping Center 523 W, McKinley Avenue Across from University Park Mall Mishawaka State Road 23  

:{r­
")i 
~~-·~ 
\ ' I
VILLAGE .. I
l 
GREENHOUSE ~~I 
Ro.4.ed, ~l 
$9.95/dozen ,..~ i 
Sing/e/$1.00 each 

''
~/ 1,: I 
~: .• i 
Cl1eck olllt piices 01, coMages a~d boutom1ie/1es. • i l 
efVl,natio.H,d, 
$4.95/ dozen 
Single 45~/each 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
272-5335 
Wire Flowers Anywhere 


BULK RATE 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 
