THE NDTDE DAME
scuousnc
THE NOTRE DAME BAND To Present Program for Music Week
In this issue:
Physics Symposium Attracts Scientists . . . Music Week Festivities Planned . . . Senior Ball To Be May b . . . The Week . . . College Parade.
Baseball Team to Play Two Games . . . Drake and Penn Next for Tracksters . . . Review Quadrangular Relays . . . Tennis, Golf Teams Active . . . Splinters . . .
April 29, 1938
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE:
MEET EDDIE GUEST, who’s written a poem every day for 32 years. J. P. McEvoy tells you about him in Sunny Boy ... REMEMBER THE BLACK SOX? And the scandal that nearly finished baseball? Here’s the full story, unfolded by John Lardner... Senator Vandenberg offers a plan: HOW TO BEAT ROOSEVELT IN 1940. See “United We Stand-’’... PLUS short stories by J. P. Marquand, William C. White and others... serials, editorials. Post Scripts, poems, fun and cartoons.
BEGINNING This Week In
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
$
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	April 29, 1938	No. 23
LAWYERS READY FOR ANNUAL FIGHT
FAMOUS SCIENTISTS TO GIVE PUBLIC TALKS DURING PHYSICS SYMPOSIUM
There’s goin^ to be a battle within the Law Club! What? Mutiny in the ranks? No, just the good old spring political campaign is on for the offices of the club.
This spring the battle of the parties has all the ear marks of a toothand-claw scrap to the ballot box. There are two parties with a full list of candidates in the field already, but the whole campaign is shrouded with a mysterious atmosphere. Here’s why: Joe Canale and Pat Malloy are heading a “dark horse” party. Although the other candidates are unannounced, the “dark horse” party will make the three-cornered scrap one of the hottest in the history of the Law Club.
The parties already in the field are led by “Stew” Roche and Martin Husung.
On the ticket with Husung are Tom Shea (Alumni) for vice-president; Bill Mahoney (Sorin) for secretary ; Charles O’Brien ( South Bend) for treasurer; and Harry Foster (South Bend) for the S.A.C. post.
Other Candidates
On the Roche ticket are Frank Donlon (Sorin) for vice-president; Jack Deane (Sorin) for secretary; Ed Grogan (Walsh) for treasurer; and Ernest Lanois (Sorin) as the S.A.C. candidate.
The Roche party is well lined up for the battle. “Your Service, Our Pledge” is the motto. They are working for a strong law club among the students. Every member is to have an active part in the club throughout the year. They promise to bring in speakers who have never been heard on the campus to discuss phases of government not yet dealt with so far in the club lectures.
The Husung faction has pledged its untiring efforts for what they term “a truly representative and wholly efficient Law Club.” The development of greater social contact between law students is an integral part of their program as is the continuation of the law lecture series. “Direct your verdict for progressiveness,” they say.
By Robert A. Sheppard
Several of the world’s foremost scientists will be in attendance at the department of physics second annual symposium convening on the campus Monday and Tuesday. Among the eminent men of science. participating will
be two Nobel Prize winners in physics,
“Stew” Roche and M. Husung “Your Service, Our Pledge”
Seniors Get New Time For Invitations
•
Countermanding a former announcement, Mr. Lloyd’s office recently informed the Invitations committee that the invitations ordered by the graduating seniors must be paid for by May 5. The delivery of these invitations will follow on or about May 15. Also it is requested that payments be made to the person who takes the order or any other member of the committee named below.
The prices of the invitations have been reduced as follows: Blues, (formerly quoted at $.50,) are now $.45; Whites, (formerly $.30) are now $0.25. Please pay for them on the basis of these prices.
The committeemen are: George Fitzpatrick, 221 Alumni, (chairman); Paul Nowak, 410 Walsh; Bob Deren-goski, 110 Walsh; and John Wilson, 425 Walsh.
"DOME" EDITOR BACK
Frank Reppenhagen, Dome editor, returned Tuesday from Milwaukee where he checked the final forms of the 1938 Dome.
Dr. Arthur H. Compton of the University of Chicago, and Dr. Carl D. , Anderson of the California Institute of Technology. Others include Canon Georges Lemaitre, of the University of Louvain, famed as the founder of the theory of the expansion of the universe, and Dr. Harlow Shapley of Har v a r d University, outstanding among the world’s astronomers.
The problems scheduled for discussion at the meeting fall into two groups. The structure of the universe, its size, and the question of its finiteness, will constitute one group. The other will be concerned with the nature of the smallest particles considered as the ultimate constituents
of matter.
In addition to ■ the technical sessions three lectures appealing to the general student public have been arranged. The three scientists giving these lectures are not only the highest authorities in their field but are noted for their ability to present their abstract theories and discoveries in a manner understandable to non-scientific minds.
The first of these lectures will be given Monday afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in Washington Hall by Dr. Arthur H. Compton. His talk will be one of the greatest mysteries of modern physics, the origin of cosmic rays. In his research on this as yet unsolved problem Professor Compton has contributed more than any other scientist.
The same evening at 8:30 p.m. Dr. Harlow Shapley will discuss the explorations he and his collaborators have made of the universe beyond our own planetary system. A series of slides recently made at Harvard’s observatory in South Africa will be used to illustrate the lecture.
The concluding public lecture will be given by Dr. Carl D. Anderson at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday. He will talk on the basic constituents of matter. Though only 26 years of age, his discoveries in this field have made him world-famous.
The technical sessions will be opened on Monday morning with a (Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SENIORS READY SELVES FOR THE FINAL SOCIAL BOW OF CAREERS; BALL IS MAY 6
By John J. Kohn
The Seniors will brush off their tails and top hats for the last time on
May 6, when comes the annual Senior Ball and Jack Denny and his orchestra. John Wilson, general chairman of the Ball, announced that the dance will be held at the Palais Royale from 10 until 2 a.m. central standard time, and that
the price of the bids will be $7.50 each. A tea dance ■will be held on the following afternoon at the South Bend Country Club from 2 until 5 C. S. T. The tickets for this affair will cost one dollar.
The Palais Royale will be transformed into a summer garden for the night of the dance. One end of the dance floor will serve as a garden lounge and will be profusely decorated with palms and summer plants.
A novelty idea in the way of favors wall be introduced at the dance. As each couple make their appearance, they will be photographed, and a week later each person will receive a copy of the beautifully framed picture.
The chairmen for the various committees include Ernest Maurin, tickets; Robert Derengoski, music; Thomas Shiels, decorations; Lawrence Kerwin, publicity; Robert Browne, programs; Francis Kesicke, favors; Maurice Kennedy, patrons; John O’Donnell, arrangements; Raymond Longstreth, reception, and Thomas Bohen who will be in charge of the Tea Dance.
Knights Last Induction
Sunday, May 1, will mark the final exemplification of the second and third degrees of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, for the school year. At this convocation the principal speaker will be Mr. Ray T. Miller, a graduate of the University and the former mayor of Cleveland.
Timothy P. Galvin, a member of the Supreme Board of Directors and the past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will also address the candidates at the initiation banquet. Other notables who will be present include State Deputy of Indiana, Harry Kitchin; State Chaplain, Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C.; and the toastmaster will be Professor Clarence E. “Pat” Manion, of the College of Law.
In charge of the Rituals will be Tom Bulger, assisted by Frank Mas-triana, Bernard Murray, and Tom Murphy. These men will be under the supervision of District Deputy Joseph H. Alber of Cincinnati. Frank Delaney has been appointed chairman of the banquet committee which includes Joseph Cole, Robert Langer, James Bernard, and Leroy Keach.
Bohen and Derengoski “It’ll be big, boys—big.”
Villagers Elections To Be Held May 2
•
The annual political flareup of the Villager’s club, off campus organization, will reach its climax Monday night, May 2, at the Columbia club in South Bend, when President Paul Howard will call for nominations for next year’s officers.
Prexy Howard, who was masterminded into office last year by Jack Scott, present vice-president, is backing Jack Hynes, freshman law student, for the presidency. The Scott forces have swung behind Bob Rodi-baugh, Commerce school junior, in a coalition which includes backing from Ted Prekowitz, Villager’s president two years ago.
Jim Gorrell, A.B. junior, who last year launched a third party into the race as a trial baloon for his own chances this year, also will have a slate in the field. Rumors have it that some of the leaders in Gorrell's “trial balloon” of last year are disgruntled and won’t be riding with the Gorrell group in the present campaign.
The Scott-Prekowitz alliance makes Rodibaugh the man to beat in this year’s race. Rodibaugh will have a ticket composed of Dick Alberts, vicepresident; Bill Prekowitz, treasurer; Joe Hartzer, secretary; and Ben Murdock, sergeant-at-arms. Slates to run with Hynes and Gorrell have not as yet been announced.
CLASS POLITICS HIT RECORD LOW
•
The tranquility of the springtime was broken once more as politics “reared its ugly head” at the annual primary election of class officers in the dining hall basement yesterday. But it was a lamentable day for the politicians of yore, for only one class, that of the juniors, was represented in the primaries.
In both the sophomore and the senior elections, only two parties for each class entered the race, so primaries were unnecessary. A total of five factions vied for senior positions last year. Compared with this, the 1938 list of candidates indicates a new low in campus politics,
The junior class candidates, voted on yesterday, are:
President, Bob Sullivan; vice-president, Bud Gentner; secretary, Ernie Timpani; S. A. C., Jerry Donovan, Steve Coughlin, and Jim Daner.
President, Charles Rodgers; vicepresident, Jack Hackett; secretary, Bernie Masterson; treasurer, Bob Brady; S.A.C., Tom Duffy and Jerry O’Dowd.
President, Joseph P. Cummings; vice-president, Harry Stephenson; secretary, John C. Flanagan; treasurer, Philip Sandmaier; S.A.C., William H. Tucker, Roger J. Huter, and Roy J. Anton.
President, Rex • Ellis; vice-president, Robert Sanford; secretary, Steve Sitko; treasurer, Ed Fulham; S.A.C., Jerry Saegert, Tom Donahue, and Neal Geary. S.A.C., (independent) : William Coleman.
So lethargic was competition in the sophomore elections that John R. Kelley, S.A.C. chairman of elections thought that he would be relieved of the drudgery of running off the lesser races. Up until five minutes before deadline Monday night only one party, that of Ray Quinn, had filed notice of intention to run. The situation was relieved when Joe Mulligan came through with his “Real McCoy” ticket.
Although there are only two candidates for senior class president, advocates of Jim Rocap are considering formation of a “League for the Elimination of Candidates Who Are Twins.” The reason: Rocap’s opponent happens to be Dick, one of the O’Melia twins. It is claimed that Rocap is running against two people.
Final elections are scheduled for the second week of May, and unless someone withdraws between now and then, there will be no danger of having a class without officers, political experts agree.
Senior class candidates are:
President, Richard “Red” O’Melia;
(Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
SISK TELLS CLUB OF COOPERATIVES
•
Round and round the Round Table goes, and where it stops only Fred Sisk knows. Way back yonder a long time ago, the Thursday before Easter vacation, the Round Table had a meeting and Mr. Sisk spoke on “The Value of Cooperation.” He told about
Fred Sisk
Did a lot of talking.
the formation of the Rochdale Pioneers’ Society, which was the first consumers’ cooperative in the World.
The principles of the cooperative movement were compared with the rugged individual of the capitalistic system. Capitalism is based on the producer, unrestricted demand and supply, and a controlling interest of an individual either as owner or manager; it is diametrically opposed to the cooperatives which have the consumer primarily in mind and intend to secure planned production.
Using Sweden as an example Sisk showed that cooperatives could be successfully operated by pointing out that the Kooperativa Forbundet had been successful in its fight against the margarine trust and the monopolies in the flour milling industry and the International General Electric.
WHITE LECTURE AMUSES
As the stage curtains of Washington Hall parted last Friday night, they revealed a number of assorted tables piled high with sundry paraphernalia. Emanating from somewhere among this conglomeration came a loud voice that boasted about its close association with Edison and Steinmetz, two of the greatest wizards of light.
The most interesting part of his lecture was the demonstration of color chemistry. The hall being in complete darkness, and with the aid of a quartz transmitter. Mr. Harry C. White, the “loud voice,” changed what appeared to be beautiful examples of hand painted cloth into exquisite and indescribable pieces of color painting when viewed in the light of his seemingly magical machine.
RICHARD CROOKS. METROPOLITAN TENOR, TO HIGHLIGHT N. D. MUSIC WEEK PROGRAM
By F. G. Barreda
The third annual Music Week will be celebrated on the campus from May 1 to 7, inclusive, with an outstanding program of musical presentations including student recitals, concerts, and an operetta, according to the announcement issued by Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., director of entertainment, and
U. N. D. Night Features Fr. O'Hara Talk
Keynoting the 15th annual Universal Notre Dame Night coast to coast broadcast the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame urged Notre Dame men throughout the world to accept the social responsibility to restore God to activities of everyday life.
The program was opened from the University gymnasium where the student body was gathered to sing the “Victory March” as the band played. The Glee club under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta then sang, “Notre Dame, Our Mother.”
The program was then switched to the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., where the District of Columbia club was having a dinner. William Cotter, national president of the Notre Dame Alumni association introduced Father O’Hara who exhorted listening alumni throughout the world:
“I charge you Notre Dame men to accept the social responsibility you have to share with others, the philosophy of life that you learned at Notre Dame. The world suffers today from philosophies that leave out God. You men of Notre Dame see this clearly. Recognize your duty to society! Do your part, everyone of you, to restore to God his place in the home and in society.”
From Washington the program was supposed to have come back to the Notre Dame campus but instead a long silence fell over the air lanes. Because of mechanical difficulty the rest of the broadcast from the gymnasium was prevented from going out over the air. There was a disconnection in the telephone wire from Notre Dame to South Bend.
John McCormack, noted Irish tenor sang two songs from the NBC studio in Hollywood, Calif., “The Bard of Armagh” and “The Girl of the County Down.”
The program was concluded with extemporaneous speeches by Frederic William Wile, Notre Dame graduate and noted radio commentator, and Senator Van Nuys of Indiana, who spoke from Washington.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, of the department of music. Richard Crooks, leading tenor of the Metropolitan Opera association, will present a concert in the gymnasium next Friday evening as a grand finale to the musical performances of the week
Bandman Casasanta Music has a week.
by the Notre Dame band, the Freshman Choral Club, and the Symphony orchestra.
Musical activities will officially begin Sunday morning at 8:30 a.m. with student congregational singing of Credo at the High Mass. An organ recital will be given in the Sacred Heart Chapel at 4:00 pan. The student recital in the evening at Washington Hall will be highlighted with piano solos by Charles Butler and Karl Hunn, two of the University’s most talented pianists.
Selections from the works of Johann Christian Bach, Edouard Lalo, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Walter Niemann, and Frederick Locke Lawrence, will be played Monday by James Robert Gillette and his 10-unit Chamber orchestra. “Claire de lune” and “Chromatic Etude” are to be given as organ solos by Mr. Gillette. The Chromatic Etude is written in no particular form—throughout its measures the tone colors of the electric organ are fully revealed.
On Tuesday evening, May 3, at 8:00 p.m., Professor Casasanta will direct the Notre Dame band in the concert of popular and classical music scheduled for Washington Hall. The following evening the University Symphony orchestra under the baton of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke will present a concert of musical pieces from the great masters: Bach, Beethoven, Schubert, Brahms, Tschai-kowsky, Strauss, Rimsky-Korsakow, and Sibelius.
Professor Casasanta again takes (Continued on Page 10)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MONOGRAM "LASSIES" TO GIVE ALL IN FOUR DAY CARNIVAL OF MANLY BEAUTY
Come one, come all, you can’t afford to miss it! May 7, 8, 9, and 10,
venerable old Washington Hall, with all its 57 years, will unlimber its creaking
joints and rock and roll to the gaiety of the 1938 Monogram Absurdities. The tough, knotty and gnarled hoofs of the rampaging herd of the football
field will gracefully wave across the A footlights at the adoring South Bend Juliets in the audience. McCarty, O’Reilly, Simonich, Ely, Gleason, Emanuel, and Theising have spurned the caustic remarks of Layden and the 1, 2,-1, 2,-1, 2,-hike, chant of Pu-plis for the pleasant 1, 2, 3, 4 dip melody of Marie Buczkowski as she instructs them in the gentle art of chorus dancing.
The embryo 42nd Streeters are so enthused over theii* work that they voluntarily placed themselves under the watchful eyes of Notre Dame culinary experts in order to reduce their weight to a 250-pound average. Of course, this is merely a precautionary measure so that the maintenance department will not have to abandon spring cleaning activities in order to strengthen the Washington Hall stage.
A hip - slinging half, an elusive quarter and a plunging center—Zon-tini, Puplis and McCarty—have laid aside their cleats and hip-pads for ballet slippers and tights. Zontini, a fickle female, capers about the stage, followed and wooed by his (or her) leaping lovers, trying to decide which one will be the bridegroom and which the best man. The way this trio “trips it on the light fantastic toe” makes any troupe that has appeared in South Bend seem amateurish.
Nor will the music be lacking in any sense. Manslaughter Mike Mand-jiak and his swing quartet are guaranteeing to have Cicero and Demosthenes drop their scrolls and join the Bard of Avon and his gang in a chorus of the Big Apple. The Notre Dame Modernaires will be up to their usual swinging standard and are sure to produce plenty of rhythm. A new note will also be added by Art Davidson, who with Karl Hunn wrote most of the music for the show, when he produces his singing octet.
For the first time in many years the Absurdities is to have a plot running through its whole length. Phil McHugh and Ed Fulham unified the skits, provided additional dialogue, and injected continuiuty into the production.
Prize winning skits were written by Ed Fulham, the team of John Clifford and Bill Mahoney, and the team of John Hurst and George Howard. Prizes will be awarded to these authors.
Author-Columnist Clifford Gets more than a “Splinter.”
Extend Showing of Prep Art Exhibit Here
Monday marked the opening of the third annual art exhibit of high schools and academies of the middle west being staged again this year in the Library. According to Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of art at the University, the exhibition will remain in the Library until April 30.
A wide and extensive range of different types of art may be observed, ranging from various com-cercial designs, oil paintings, pen-and-ink sketches, and creative designs of all sorts.
The exhibition this year is well represented by such states as: Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, and Wisconsin, have taken part in contributing their work.
Acting judges of the exhibit will be Mr. Roy A. Ketchum, artist and teacher at Chicago Academy of Fine Art, and Mr. James Cloetingh, South Bend commercial artist of Cloetingh and De Man Studio.
The fourth skit was written by Frank Wallace, Notre Dame graduate, who is now associated with the scenario department of MGM.
On Sunday, May 8, the curtain time will be at 7:15 p.m. and on other nights at 8:00 p.m., central standard time. The price, of tickets will be 40 cents for reserved seats and 25 cents for general admission.
SPEAKER SEES NEW HOPE FOR G. O. P.
•
“So for as the Republican party is concerned there has been a new philosophy working itself into the party; in brief, it may be called the ‘watchful waiting’ campaign.” These were the words of Fred Sisk as he addressed the Academy of Politics on “The Future of the Republican Party,” Wednesday evening.
Sisk approached the topic from two angles, the Republican and the Democratic. Speaking of the Republicans in regard to the 1938 elections he said, “They will either prove victorious or they will make an improved showing over the 1936 elections. The future of the Republican party from a negative aspect, i.e., the Democratic viewpoint, is simply that the Democratic landslide will repeat itself.”
The first effect of the watchful waiting policy was demonstrated in the Supreme Court bill when a Democratic president found himself battling a divided Democratic Congress. Then followed the Black Ku Klux Klan tangle resulting in unfavorable opinion throughout the nation; the flare of sitdown strikes and the silence of President Roosevelt despite the pressure of Congress; the defeat of the Federal Anti-Lynching Bill; and the downfall of the Reorganization Bill.
Sisk went on to point out that “the present Recession or whatever it is called, can be used just as the Democrats used the talk against the Hoover administration. There is a vital need to have a strong second party.” The speaker pointed out that if one power becomes too strong it usually results in autocracy; if there are three parties decentralization of goverment results. There is now a move on foot to build the Republican party for the 1940 election with disatisfied Democrats and the Republicans still faithful.
Dr. Gallups poll has indicated that the Republicans will gain 80 seats in Congress by the 1940 elections.
In closing the speaker commented. “Thus our subject, The future of the Republican Party has an increasing number of vicissitudes but I think we may conclude that the Republican Party will make an improved showing in the coming elections.”
PATRICIANS TO MEET
John J. Deane, president of the Patricians, announced this week that the University classical society will meet Monday evening, May 2, in the Law building. Plans for the final activities of the schoolyear as well as the annual elections will be discussed.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
PREPARE HUGE RADIO SWING SHOW
•
From the campus radio studios, this week comes some advance publicity for what promises to be the biggest and most elaborate radio show ever to emanate from Notre Dame. This program, completely produced and engineered by undergraduates, will occupy a full hour of radio time and will have as its point of origin Washington Hall. The show itself will be the last, for this year, of the “Little Jamboree” broadcasts which were started as a 15 minute show back on Oct. 18, and later moved into
Producer McHugh
Last and greatest “Jam.”
a half hour spot from 8:30 to 9:00 on Friday nights. Written and produced by Phil McHugh this particular show has grown to be one of the most popular of the local sustaining broadcasts to grace the radio log of WSBT, the South Bend Tribune Station.
It was this broadcast series that first introduced the music of the “Modernaires,” Notre Dame’s official twelve piece dance band, and later discovered such talent as the Freshman Swing trio, which has now developed into the swing quartet that will put forth plenty for the customers at the Monogram Absurdities. Among some of the other discoveries was Tom Tierney who has a good claim on crooning laurels and is now a regular standby of the program.
During the year the “Little Jam” proceeded to produce the first experimental drama to come from the campus studios when it presented an original skit entitled “Split Seconds” that caused a great deal of favorable comment; an indication that such dramatic work can be well done with undergraduate talent, and writing.
This final program will take place on May 13 and the entire student body is invited to attend. A public address system is already being installed so that everyone in the Washington Hall audience will be able to
(Continued on Page 22)
The "Boiler Kid11 Writes of Battles Royal, Sister's Wedding Day, and Dorothy Lamour
Hello Everybody!
This is the Boiler Kid from whom you have not heard for quite some time. Thought maybe you would like to hear about a party I had the other night.
It started out very simply. A few Negro boxers were to exchange blows for my amusement. Soon the program grew until it developed into a first class entertainment with a promise of many laughs. I decided to invite my friends and ask them to make a contribution to charity . . . the attendance approximated one thousand persons.
The program started with three bouts involving warriors of the darkest variety. Then came an exhibition by Yucatan Kid, a Mexican lad of championship calibre. His sparring partner was a fellow Mexican named Mario. Ben Brown followed with a good demonstration of glove tossing, using Elly Dodge as a target. Two fututre aspirants then took over the spotlight. They were brothers of about ten years of age. The climax was a “Battle Royal” featuring six small colored boys, who were blindfolded and fought with bells tied to their belts. A little later their color changed when they went head first into tubs of flour, aiming to retrieve quarters and half dollars.
It was a great evening for me. My sundeck furnished an excellent vantage point from which to watch the activities in the ring and bleachers which had been constructed below. With the aid of a microphone and amplifier I was able to make more noise than any of the spectators. ... We passed the hat for the benefit of Chinese charities. I am ever grateful to the Chinese people for all they did for me and their innumerable kindnesses during our sojourn in their country. Miss Marguerite Bao, my physiotherapist in China and now a student at Northwestern University, was here for the Party and addressed a few remarks to the guests. . . .
Since last I wrote, the biggest event was the wedding of my sister, Mary Loretto, and Terry Dillon. . . . Through the cooperation of a local radio station, a direct wire brought me a private broadcast of the entire ceremony — the Solemn High Mass, the solos and even the words of the bride and groom. . . .
In late January, Dad and I did a broadcast for the National Foundation to combat Infantile Paralysis. A
। couple of hours after the broadcast we heard a recording of the same program. It was amusing listening to one’s self talk.
Not so long ago we were treated to what has been called “The One Man Premiere.” It was the showing of “Her Jungle Love,” an all technicolor Paramount production starring Dorothy Lamour. A real premiere it was—with flood lights, cameras and reporters. The evening was climaxed by a long distance call from Dorothy. . . .
We now have a vest-pocket respirator that functions. It fits on over my chest and abdomen, leaving my arms and legs free. For the last month I have been using it for about two hours daily. During this time I have my physiotherapy. It affords an excellent opportunity for a good workout on the extremities.
We discovered that when I am placed in a semi-erect position, my breathing capacity is increased one hundred cubic centimeters or thirty-five percent. ... A record of twenty minutes was established the first time a tried a marathon in that position.
We are planning to spend the summer at our home in River Forest. A closed porch and sundeck are being added to the Kid’s quarters. The tentative date for the trip north is June first.
A short while ago, Monsignor Barry, our Pastor, read Mass in my room. The occasion was a grand treat for me. It was the first time I had had that privilege since returning to America.
Life in the boiler continues to be a lazy existence. During the last two years respirators have furnished me with almost sixteen million artificial breaths. A fellow who is too lazy to breathe is decidedly lacking in ambition.
Many thanks for your continued interest in my welfare. Your interesting letters are most welcome. Sorry that I am unable to acknowledge each one personally. Your prayers and good wishes are appreciated no end. May yours be a Joyous Easter.
Sincerely,
Frederick B. Snite, Jr.
P.S.—If you had the opportunity to visit and ask me one or two questions concerning myself or my cocoonlike confinement, what would they be?	F. B. S., Jr.
5111 Pine Tree Drive Miami Beach, Florida April 11, 1938
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEBATE SQUADS END GOOD YEAR
•
Highlighting the recently completed debate season were the wins of the varsity negative team over Princeton, April 7, and Holy Cross, April 20. These two debates wound up one of the most successful seasons a debate squad has ever enjoyed at Notre Dame.
Under the direction of Prof. William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech and director of debating, the negative team, composed of Charles Osborn and Tom Mulligan, amassed a record of particular merit, winning 13 out of seventeen debates against some of the best teams in the country. The affirmative team, Frank Fitch and Al Funk, won ten out of 15 debates for the year. Besides these debates the “A” squad engaged in seven non-decision debates.
When the season opened some months back, the prospects were none too promising. The schedule facing the rather inexperienced squad was made up of some of the finest debating teams in the country. Professor Coyne introduced a program of hard work for his men, and this program proved most successful as the season progressed.
Most prominent of the tournament victories was the meet at Manchester, Ind. In that particular tournament the “A” and “B” squads won 18 out of 22 debates. Particularly good was the accomplishment of the “A” negative team, which won six out of six debates against such teams as Purdue, Bowling Green, Illinois Normal, Hillsdale, Manchester, and Wayne.
The Manchester tournament was followed by a number of non-decision debates and then the tournament of the Delta Sigma Rho at the University of Wisconsin. Again the orators swept through to a gratifying victory with the team of Osborne and Mulligan once more winning all of their debates.
Also worthy of mention is the work of the “B” squad. The affirmative team of Parks and Williams lost but one debate out of five, while the negative team of Colgan and Crandell were winning three of their five encounters.
This fine work on the part of the “B” team helped to swell the total of victories until they reached the imposing figure of thirty. The members of both squads were loud in their praises of their worthy coach, Professor Coyne. His intelligent guidance, and determined efforts inspired the debaters themselves to their fine record.
William Vincent “Spud” O’Brien hails from way down in the sunny South, Little Rock, Arkansas, to be exact. But this section of the country is not new to him, because he was one of the outstanding performers on the Little Rock High School basketball team and played in the National Catholic Basketball tournament held annually in Chicago. On top of this, he held down the third base position
of the Little Rock American Legion team which advanced to the final round in 1932. Upon entering Notre Dame, he went out for the Glee Club, and made the grade easily, having been gifted with a superb tenor voice. Last year he was elected president of this organization, an office which he now holds. During his college career, “Spud” has soloed over many radio broadcasts, always managing to please his listeners.
For the past two years, he has added to the success of the annual Monogram shows. Turned swingster two years ago he organized his own band and was rapidly building up a reputation as a Dorsey when his Alma Mater called him back to text books rather than jam sessions. He has had several good offers from “name” bands to do the vocal honors, but, being a major in journalism, the newspapers seem to be more likely to receive his services. That is, if he is willing to wait a few years for a job.
Was supposed to sing at last year’s Junior Prom. Was either “stood up” by the girl friend or campussed by his rector, anyway there was no “Spud.” Hope he shows up for Music Week.
DR. POULTER TALKS ON BYRD TRIP
The first day of classes after the Easter vacation was made much less boring by another in the series of successful and interesting lectures which are being presented in Washington Hall this year.
The enjoyable event was the illustrated lecture of the journey of the Byrd scientific expedition to the Antarctic, given by Dr. Thomas C. Poulter, the humorous and congenial member of that now famous party which rescued Admiral Byrd.
Dr. Poulter was in charge of the scientific party and second in command of the second Byrd Antarctic scientific expedition to Little America in 1933-35.
The humorous tales plus the excellent photography of the Antarctic region made the lecture enjoyable to the capacity crowd.
Dr. Poulter explained th^t two large sailing schooners and four airplanes were used to carry the 600 tons of apparatus and camp supplies into the Bay of Whales where it was deposited while awaiting transportation overland by dog sled and tractors to the permanent camp at Little America.
It was very interesting to note the program outlined for the members of the tedius journey to pass the time during the four and a half months of darkness. After daily classes in astronomy, radio and wireless telegraphy, sail making, and carpentry work on the sleds, the members en- ■ gaged themselves in preparing radio talks with the world outside, chess tournaments and composing of a daily newspaper from radio reports. Other forms of recreation were talking pictures which were shown five times weekly, and, for those who were musically inclined, an orchestra was organized. This orchestra came to be known as the Little America swing band and “the finest swing band in a million square miles.”
Dr. Poulter’s lecture was presented under the auspices of the St. Joseph Valley division of the American Chemical society.
EDITORSHIPS
The Faculty Board of Publications invites applications for editorships of The Scholastic, the Dome, and Scrip for the schoolyear 1938-39. Candidates should state their academic rating, qualitative average, experience and other qualifications. Letters should be mailed not later than Tuesday, May 17 to the chairman of the board, Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., 328 Main Building.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RICHARD REID TALKS END TONIGHT
•
Richard Reid, lawyer and editor, will conclude his series of lectures on the Morals of Newspapers tonight at eight o’clock in Washington Hall.
During the past week Mr. Reid’s lectures have been as follows: Sunday, “The Development, Purpose and Influence of Newspapers”; Tuesday, “The Ethics of Newspapers”; Wednesday, “The Difficulties of Newspa-
Journalist Reid
Not everything for a story.
pers”; Thursday, “Shortcomings of Newspapers”; and tonight’s lecture, “The Remedies.”
Those who have heard Mr. Reid’s lectures can readily understand why he was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1936 for “outstanding work as a Catholic layman.” His high Catholic ideals are in violent opposition to a number of newspapers who seem to have adopted the philosophy: “anything for a story.”
As editor of the Btdletin, the publication of the Georgia Catholic Layman’s Association, he has done his utmost to counteract the bigotry against the Catholic Church in the South. Now as a lecturer he is continuing his brilliant work against the morals of newspapers.
In his persuasive manner Mr. Reid has appealed to the entire campus. Engineers as well as journalism majors have found his lectures interesting, for the morals of newspapers is a subject that is of vital importance to all.
N. D. "BULLETIN" OUT
The 1938-39 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame rolled off the Ave Maria presses this week and will be distributed next week, it was announced.
THE WEEK
By Harold A. Williams
Professor
Every once in a while we hear a story that restores our faith in professors. On Wednesday, April 20, the first day back after Easter vacation, a professor walked into his eight o’clock class. He gazed down at a bunch of haggard faces still smeared with Easter egg chocolate and that indefinable expression that is seen only at eight o’clock classes the first day back from a vacation. Things looked pretty bad. The professor pondered for a few seconds and then announced, “A lot of you fellows look as if you’ve been travelling all night on the train. In case you haven’t had time for breakfast, I’ll excuse you for ten minutes so you can dash over to the caf for a bite.” He paused and looked around at the surprised students. All seemed interested, but not one raised a hand. Finally one fellow in the front of the room (Incidentally, why is it that most stories have the fellow in the back of the class?) raised his hand. Rather straightforwardly he said, “I’ve been on the campus all week, but I haven’t had any breakfast.” The professor pursed his lips as professors will in unexpected situations like this and said, “Well, go over and have breakfast, anyway.” The fellow started for the door and then paused at the professor’s desk. “Say,” he whispered in a rather loud voice, “could I borrow fifteen cents?”
•
Headline of the xveek
From the Chicago Herald and Examiner, April 25:
TENOR CROAKS
WILL FEATURE
MUSICAL WEEK •
Preview—almost
The Senior Philosophy Majors are taking their comprehensive examinations this week, but, nevertheless, they were in high spirits Monday morning. Here’s the story. The management of the Colfax (a movie palace next to the Arcadia) was thinking about showing a French film in the near future. The film is called “Club de la Femme,” or something of the sort, and is one of those borderline thingamajigs. The Colfax management just couldn’t make up its mind whether to show it or not. Someone got the bright idea of having the Philosophy Majors preview the picture and decide whether it was to be shown or not. Everybody—the school, the Colfax management, the South Bend Progress Club, and the philosophy majors—thought that this was a grand idea. Monday morning at ten the philosophy boys trooped downtown (some for the first time
this year) alive with expectation, and hoping for the worst. Alas! When they arrived at the Colfax they were told that the management had decided not to bother with the picture at all, and that there wouldn’t be anything for the boys to see unless they wanted to stick around until one o’clock (now we forget whether that was town time or school time—it’s all so confusing) and take a look at “Old Chicago”—at a quarter a head, of course.
The Philosophers weren’t interested in “Old Chicago,” especially the quarter part, so they trooped back to school to study for their comprehen-sives, not feeling any too good about the whole thing.
“Illusionist”
Those of you who didn’t stop in at Washington Hall before the broadcast (hardly the word) Monday night missed something. Philip Foxwell, “illusionist,” entertained a small crowd with plain, old- fashioned hokus-pokus magic for an hour, and then concluded with a mnemonic demonstration. His best piece of prestidigitation, judging from audience reaction, was producing an attractive young girl out of an apparently empty doll house.
The stunt of the evening, though, was his mnemonic demonstration. He took three copies of the SatEvePost (which had gone on sale that evening) and distributed the pages to the audience. The boys would call out the numbers of the pages they held and Mr. Foxwell would instantly tell what was on each page.
After the show we went backstage to talk to Mr. Foxwell. He told us there was no hokus-pokus connected with the stunt—just a matter of memory. He said that it takes him about an hour and a half to memorize the Post. He explained that the only trick to the stunt is that certain features of the Post, editorials, Post Scrips, the soup ad, appear on the same pages every week. Memorizing the Post, we were told, was started last year by a man named Zufall— the Post featured in one of their advertisements about a month ago— and Foxwell readily admitted that he borrowed the idea from him.
We were in a hurry to get over to the big show in the gym so all we could find out about the girl who made such a hit with the boys is this: Her name is Dorthy something, she is a Senior at Central, and she thinks Notre Dame men are nice.
As we were leaving, Mr. Foxwell was looking for his automobile keys He had forgotten where he had put them.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
College Parade
By John A. Callaghan
Remember
I asked you if you would remember, Long after that evening had gone, I asked you if you would remember, Or if you would forget with the daton.
And smiling, you turned your face toward me, And said, “No, Fil never forget,”
But I think your memory has backslid, ’Cans I have your LO.U. yet.
—Trojan
You Figure It Out “F.U.N.E.X.?” “S.—V.F.X.” “F.U.N.E.M.?” “S.—V.F.M.” “O.K.—M.N.X.”
—Lantern
Skin Game
The Annapolis Log tells us of one of the sharper first classmen who was looking for a topcoat. Seeing one priced at $10 outside a pawnbroker’s shop he took it inside and began to dicker:
“How much is this worth?” he inquired in his smoothest tone.
The shopkeeper gave one squint and grunted, “Two bucks.”
“Fine, I’ll take it.”
“Take it?” goggled the loan shark, “I thought you wuz sellin’ it.”
—o—
Cribbed Quips
Toast: Here’s to the pictures on my dresser. May they never meet... Who was that lady I saw you outwit last night... The absent-minded professor we would like to meet is the one who lectures to his steak and cuts his classes... What is so rare as an “A” in June?... Fraternity House Rules: 1. No liquor allowed in rooms. 2. Do not throw bottles out of window. .. When a girl finds she isn’t the only pebble on the beach, she becomes a little bolder.... Definition: Poker is a game you could have bought a Senior Ball ticket to if last night you hadn’t been in one. . . . The best way to keep your youth, gals, is not to introduce him to your girl friends. . . A college education is a four-year period during which the incomprehensible is expounded to the ignorant by the incompetent.
KERVICK RETURNS
Mr. Francis W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture, returned this week after attending several architect teachers’ conferences in New Orleans, La., during the past two weeks.
PAYTON STRENGTH SHOWS INCREASE
Increasing support manifested by voters of St. Joseph County in the past several days has installed Mr. E. J. Payton, associate professor of marketing at Notre Dame, as a favorite in the race for the democratic
Professor E. J. Payton
Rides with the “New Deal.”
nomination for the State Senate. The primary will be held May 3.
Mr. Payton has been a professor of economics and business law at the University for the past 18 years. For 15 years he has been a practicing lawyer in South Bend and a member of the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
Mr. Payton was graduated from Grove City College, Pennsylvania, in 1916 with a B.S. degree. He received an LL.B, degree at Notre Dame in 1923.
MUSIC WEEK
(Continued from Page 5) the directing role Thursday evening, May 5, as he conducts the Freshman Choral Club in the light operetta, “Romeo and Juliet.” Curtain time has been set for eight o’clock in Washington Hall.
Friday evening at 8:00 p.m. the University of Notre Dame and the South Bend Symphony orchestra will present Richard Crooks, leading tenor of the Metropiltan Opera association and star of the Firestone radio program, assisted by Frederick Schauwecker at the piano, in a concert of songs by Schubert, Bach, Rachmaninoff, Chopin, Arensky, Handel, and Stradella. Reserved seat tickets at $2.00, $1.50, and $1.00 may be secured from the Notre Dame ticket office. A limited number of 25 cent student tickets are being sold by S.AC. members this week on the campus and in the dining halls.
Music Notes
By Paul R. Locher
Another Universal Notre Dame Night, one of the University’s finest traditions, has come and gone—this time with unusual repercussions. Aside from the mechanical difficulties which wreaked havoc with the continuity, the program itself was unfortunately arranged. It featured an inexperienced and unknown orchestra in two prominent spots, while a veteran University band, remembered in personal appearances and broadcasts throughout the country was scheduled only to accompany the studio audience in the opening Victory March.
It was altogether appropriate that John McCormack, a Laetare medalist, should cdnsent to step out from semiretirement and appear on the program, to leave another memory of the golden tenor which had endeared him to so many audiences in the past.
The most unfortunate personal disappointment must have been that felt by Arthur Davidson, who played a brilliant piano number, and subsequently learned that it was not heard on the air. By an ironic twist, it happened to be the same number that Davidson had prepared for last year’s Fontiac Varsity Show, also scheduled for a national hook-up, only to be informed on the morning of the broadcast that the revised pro. gram would not permit the inclusion of his selection.
* * *
The engagement of Richard Crooks to sing during music week at Notre Dame has elicited enthusiastic comment. Such a presentation not only does much to enhance the cultural life of the students, but indirectly reflects credit on the University which sponsors it. The majority of the students themselves would rather hear but one or two artists of the caliber of Richard Crooks during the schoolyear than any number of travelling troupes or vaudeville attractions, which are not commensurate with the prominece of a university.
One may rightly admit that the . students expect a certain' degree of entertainment, but bi-weekly movies, carefully selected for dramatic or musical value, would not only be much more welcome and more provocative intellectually, but would permit the concentration of funds for outstanding presentations.
Those who may wonder at the possible bizzare spectacle of a vocalist singing into the barrenness of the local gymnasium may find assurance in the fact that Galli-Curci and John McCormack have presented concerts there in the past, and have found the acoustics peculiarly adaptable for such concert purposes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
Spring Interlude
Spring is here. That bald statement may sound a little trite but a fact is a fact no matter how stated. . . . Here, in Indiana, Spring is here at least for today. ... It brings with it the delegations visiting the campus who look over the lads with the air of people at a circus—and who can deny them that? Hal Williams, picked for diplomacy and dimples that visiting ladies cannot resist, conducts the tours of the campus. Whimsically, he points out our most puny boys as the greats of the gridiron and the. plunging fullbacks as the art students. He claims this to be unintentional as his eyes are giving way and the last troop of Boy Pioneers gave him such a workout that he can’t tell a Simonich from a Doody. . . . Spring brings with it the doves over at Howard who wake students at the crack of dawn with their merry song and chirpings. The doves live on because the boys’ aims aren’t any too good at that time of day. ... It brings droves of sophomores and juniors to the golf course who help Sollitt considerably in excavating the fairways and greens.... It brings groans from the seniors who can’t play golf because they’ve taken all the cuts possible, and thanks from Father Holder-ith for academic regulations that have more than one purpose behind their making. . . . With Spring, a time when peace and serenity should reign, come the campus elections and attendant hullaballoo. Yesterday literature hit us from all sides, asking for votes of more men than we thought made up, the entire student body. Every clique of five men or more had a party, and the number of cigai’ smokers and cigarette passerouters kept the air fragrant with smoke and oratory. Bland seniors, as usual, accepted the profferred cigarettes and other bribes of freshmen and sophomores and solemnly pledged their votes. Let’s hope the seniors get more for the next voting they do —they’ll need it. . . . John (S.A.C.) Kelley by frantic insisting that students could not vote five or six times for sick friends in the infirmary, lost another batch of hair. (It would be just like some nasty fellow to ask now—How could he?) ... In Spring, too, comes Mike and his band of pot planters. Pot planting is an art around here. Everey Spring we see men digging holes, forming patterns and designs. The work seems to have little point to it until a truck is seen to drive up. This is loaded with potted flowers which are placed in the holes, pots and all. Then when the
proud parents come out to see the boys get their A.B.’s, B.S.’s, or- just plain cards of attendance, they are treated to the vision of a floral paradise. This year, we hear, the motif is to be Spanish-American in cooperation with the national policy to establish closer relations with our cousins down there. . . . Spring had a sad effect up at Chicago University. There a Queen of something or other was to be chosen. Pictures were submitted from which the choice was to be made. A certain young lady received the approval of the committee. Acclaimed queen she was then sought for to be given the crown. Sad indeed was the discovery that said chosen queen was a Northwestern coed. ... At this time of the year come the social activities, the topper being the Senior Ball. This event is the climaxing social tidbit for youths going out into a recessioned world. To make sure that this Ball would be a standout the band committee made their choice of a band slowly and carefully. Various bands were suggested and looked upon favorably
“I hear McGutski is bringing Poppa home in June.”
until some observant lad remarked that the bands proposed were all on some program or other and listened to by everyone, even West Virginia hillbillys. Why get a band, said this lad, that everyone has heard? Get someone, said he, in keeping with the dignity of such an affair — someone who has not gone commercial. So the choice whittled down to an orchestra led by a man named Jack Denny. Some criticism of this choice has arisen, but to the critics we have this one observation to make—Mr. Denny has been around the circuit so long -that he certainly should know his music by this time, don’t you think? . . . Spring brings out a garment known as the “Beer” jacket. These painters’ coats were .popularized at one of those eastern ivy - covered schools where words of learning are passed out at about two dollars per syllable. They look particularly fetching on the Walgreen Willies sipping cokes. ... To Stan Partyka goes the new Spring title of “Colfax Casanova,” the reason for the name being kept in the dark.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C---------------Faculty Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT________________________Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA............................. Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams The Week
John Callaghan________________________.------College Parade
John F. Clifford Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
Netas Staff
Vincent DeCoursey Netas	Editor
George Haith cock_____________________Assistant Netas Editor
Frederick Sisk______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard_____________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller_______________________________Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey_________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay___________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli_____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto----------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe_______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan_____________________________Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff Art Staff
George Elmore A rt Editor
Tom Powers--------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles. — San Francisco.
Vol. 71
April 29, 1938
No. 23
Anent the Cinema...
THE MOVIE boys are at it again. They’re giving us the good old Hollywood double talk. A week or so ago Will Hays released his annual report to the motion picture industry lauding the success and distinction of original screen plays and the artistic output of presentday cinema fare. And then on Monday last came Samuel Goldwyn’s sharp witticisms to ship news men denouncing Hollywood films as the inferior products of inferior and grossly overpaid men. This is a horse of another color.
As president of Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Mr. Hays states that among the gains registered through self-regulation of the industry is the development of moral and artistic standards in motion picture production which has vastly improved the supply of popular entertainment and raised the artistic stature of the screen. Along comes Mr. Goldwyn to tell us that the public is on strike against inferior movies—that it no longer is safe for a person to go to a motion picture theater.
The American theater public, according to present studio plans, may look with confidence upon a continuing high quality of motion picture entertainment, Mr. Hays prophesies. Mr. Goldwyn, on the other hand, sees a dismal picture of foreign encroachments unless the sheep can be separated from the goats and the high-salaried writers, actors, and producers achieve artistic works in keeping with their pay.
While the boys jabber away, the trusting American
public shove their dimes and quarters and dollars through the tills of 16,000 theaters hoping against hope to hit a “Life of Emile Zola” or “A Star is Born” production, but more apt than not to run into something which in the good old days called for a barrage of vegetables.
There is still some hope for the languishing public. Future entertainment schedules call for us to be greeted by some outstanding productions such as “Marie Antoinette,” “Robin Hood,” “Madame Curie,” “Forsythe Saga,” “The Light that Failed,” and “Northwest Passage.” Some of these were written by eminent authors. It is hoped that the Hollywood men of letters will keep more than just the title, otherwise we will be treated to the usual spectacle of a classic of English literature coming out like something you read in your Sunday Supplement.
And as the boys double-talk in newspaper columns, we can only wait and hope that one of the boys is right and the other wrong. Only then can we with confidence deposit our hard-earned money in a movie till in reliance to the ‘colossal, magnificent, and stupendous’ ballyhoo of Hollywood advertising. One is stung W’hen one reaches for a peach, but only gets a lemon.
"Look Out Joe"
JOE NOTRE DAME” had better keep his mouth closed these days so as to avoid the taste of soft soap flooding the campus as class elections slide nearer and nearer. Yes, fellow sufferers and poor deluded brethren the annual “pat ’em on the back,” “you’re a swell guy” contest is well on its way to its farcical conclusion.
One wonders why present-day students don’t realize what they are put through every spring at Notre Dame. Activities on the campus resemble the connivings and hypocrisy of a New York ward election.
Originally the person who held a class office deserved it. The honor was presented to him for being a fine student and gentleman. Now what have we? Products of veritable political machines that hold sway over their respective classmates for four years or until a better machine comes along. What qualifications have these men for office? Although they may turn out to be good men they have nothing whatever to recommend them to run for such a position. According to present-day standards the only qualification they do need is the ability to run a dance. No wonder student class officers cannot ' accomplish anything else that may come up. They aren’t respected. And they have no reason to be. Previous to their election they hadn’t done anything except to try and make friends.
It is a shame to see class elections turned into the equivalent of a professional election. Politics is bad enough outside without having to drag it into Notre Dame.
We suppose that like death and taxes we will have politics with us all the time. A reformation would do no good. It’s impossible to subdue, so you and I will put up with it another year and still another. Joe Blow, campus politician, is now probably one of your best friends in school. After the elections and until just before next year he won’t remember your face. So “Joe Notre Dame” keep your mouth closed, that soft soap is as terrible to the taste as it is to the ear, and along with us have a quiet laugh as you watch the campus politicians rush madly around garnering precious votes. We recommend as an excellent study of politicians this year’s Junior class. True artists, gentlemen, true artists.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Bank Night
By Don Currier
“Hurry up, Pa, get your new suit on and let’s go I Tonight is bank night.” So calls Ma while she fusses and frets with her bonnet. Across the town a dapper swain is urging the same cause in the “shell-like” ear of his fair one. Suppers are gulped . . . doors are slammed . . . cars are cranked . . . streets are crowded . . . for tonight is “bank night.”
“Know you not that they run in the race, all run indeed, but one re-ceiveth the prize?” The games of primitive peoples and the policies of our highly competitive industrial era reflect alike man’s love of a contest. A prize in any language or in any form is a magnet that draws the powers of human beings. “Dangle the turnip before the donkey’s nose and watch him strive to outfoot Pegasus.”
In the Golden Age of Hellas Grecian youths aspired to become great orators, because the laurel wreath, symbolic of oratorical perfection, was their prize and guarantee of fame. Like our modern Olympians, they trained and sacrificed that they might attain their crown of immortality at the Olympic games. The prize of a maiden’s hand or a monarch’s favor inspired mailed Knights to charge desperately in the mediaeval jousts. They shed blood to be honored among men, and noble indeed were their ideals.
How the ambitions of our generation differ from those of long buried generations! The love of a contest is still strongly minded in the blood of man, but his motive in seeking the prize has changed. We are less idealistic and slave to the practical. This in itself is no condemnation, but when the contest fashion becomes an end in itself, then the glamour is gone. The commercial world is responsible for this change. During the past few years business, large and small, legitimate and otherwise, has been plaguing the public and itself with its unending stream of contests.
Look into the modern home. Little Joe is sprawled on the parlor floor trying to “find five faces” in a newspaper contest. The winner gets $50,000 . . . poor guinea pigs,! Sister Sue has her ear pressed to the radio trying to identify certain ungodly sounds in a movie menagerie contest. Her prize is a “Trip to Hollywood” and all that such an adventure implies. Dad crouches over a table in a rage because he can’t think of a three-
letter word synonymous with anthropoid. This is his last in a series of cross-word puzzles, and then he’ll have his long coveted bristle-less shaving brush.
The latest creation of the contest master-minds is “Bank Night.” This “discovery” is easier for you and me, because we need not tax our minds nor weary our bodies to win a gigantic cash prize. We merely have to relax at a movie and then walk home with a sheaf of “heavy green.” Bank
CONQUEST
Hark! The bugles of tomorrow sing in early spring’s debut,
When the ground is first perspiring and the sky’s a wind-swept blue.
There is laughter in the sunbeams that relieve the aching chill—
Of a costly hostile winter that retreats from hill to hill.
Scourged by all the savage fury of the changing season’s gale.
The world around us bend and bows before the tempest’s flail,—
In anguished torment tortured trees above us writhe and sway.
Across the sky rush frotvning clouds to darken up the day.
Now comes the calm a moment as a tremor fills the land,
’Tis a promise of tomorrow for a better day’s at hand,—
The winter’s wild rebellion in the -winds of March will end.
Then we’ll have the sunshine’s glories, and the wounded world will mend.
—by Stephen P. Smith.
night has created a greater furore of excitement than did “Sunday-Go-To-Meeting” or the “pitching of the big tent” in'the days of our fathers. Bank night to the movies is theoretically like the sample to the product, but practically the “bank” is now the end with the movie as a means to that end. Therefore an institution devised to promote a more fundamental institution is instrumental in rather dragging down the fundamental.
It is interesting to view the human angle connected with this institution. How many times have we said to ourselves, “If we had only been there, we, too, could have . . . ”? Or, “It was j'ust my luck to be out of town when the boys had the big blow.”
On such occasions we feel like kicking ourselves into a stupor. We can understand then the heartache of Mrs. Fudgepot, whose name was called one night as winner of a $750 bank, but who was not at the theater to claim it. For months she had attended faithfully every bank night, and each night she returned home with the hope that perhaps “Next week her ship would come in.” Through rain and snow she plodded . . . even in illness she trudged . . . to the theater to hear her name called as winner. Then she missed last Mon-, day, because Junior was ill, and on Monday she was declared winner. (When the news reached her, and she realized its significance, she was disconsolate and heartbroken.)
A couple of college boys, Bill and Jim, sat in their rooms idling away the minutes after supper one night. The former was “flushed,” while the latter was in a “stamp borrowing” stage of finance. Bill prevailed upon Jim to let him treat Jim to a show, because it was bank night. . . . The announcer at the theater bellowed, “Winner of tonight’s bank of $300 is . . . Jim-----.” Our impoverished hero stepped up for the prize. Immediately a squawk arose between Bill and Jim as to a possible split of the fortune. Bill claimed that j’us-tice, equity, fate, and the loan of a quarter ... all cried out for a fiftyfifty split. Jim argued that outstanding debts, “tuition needs,” etc. made it impossible, but that he’d pay Bill double, even triple for the “treat.”
One night Mr. Jones hit the bank for $500, and hurried home to tell the news to his wife and mother-inlaw. A bombshell of suggestions on how to spend the money immediately split the house. Far into the night the squabble ran, with Mrs. Jones and “Mamma” siding against the “win-nah” . . . but ultimate loser.
You and I alike would leap for j'oy at the announcement of our winning a “bank.” Is the good fortune of the exceptional, however, justification for the existence of the institution? Is it not possible that the intelligence of the individual might be overshadowed by his inherent desire for that which glitters? It is conceivable that production of movies might suffer from this overemphasis of sales. It is certain, however, that this new fad will be as short-lived as those before it, and we are left to wonder . . . what next?
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
y?—■— ■ ■■ ■■ ■■ l—	_ if — — ——
MAROONS. WILDCATS. WESTERN STATE HERE AS IRISH NINE CONTINUES HOME STAND
Coach Jake Kline’s diamond machine marked time for a few days this week and braced itself for what looks like a tough stretch of ball games. For, starting with Chicago here tomorrow, the Irish will take on three first-class nines within the space of a week. The Chicago aggregation, which comes to
Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon, was the victim of the Klinemen in an early season thriller, which saw the Maroons leading until the ninth, when the Notre Dame club put on one of its familiar garrison finishes to take the ballgame with a two-run rally. That close 3-2 score has not been forgotten by the Irish, who realize that anything can happen in tomorrow’s encounter. Stars for Chicago in the first meeting of the teams were: Gramer, Cologerates, Meyer, and Shepherd. It will well repay spectators to keep they eyes peeled on these boys in this game. Chicago has won five games this season and lost four; they beat Wisconsin twice, a team which in turn has twice defeated the powerful Michigan State outfit.
On next Tuesday Coach Burt In-gwerson brings his Northwestern Wildcats here to do battle with the Fighting Irish. The Evanston boys have a fairly impressive record so far. The customary spring southern trip was disastrous, for they lost five straight games, meeting, however, such fine opposition as Tulane, Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana State. They returned north to defeat both Wheaton College and Lake Forest College. Numbered among the Northwestern stars are veterans Fred Shinkevich, Jack Woy, Captain Lymper, Robert Sampson, Paul Ward, and newcomers John Goldak, Harry Skidmore, and Alex Lustig. Over the years Notre Dame has won 22 tilts from Northwestern, while losing but eleven.
Notre Dame’s third opponent of the week will be the Western State nine, which comes here on Thursday, May 5, for a game. In the first contest this season Jake Kline’s boys took the Teachers over the jumps, . 9-0.
SOFTBALL
Continuing last year’s success on the diamond with thirteen wins against two losses, the Memphis Club has, scheduled to, or wants to play any or every softball team on the campus.
Baseballer Doyle Await tough foes.
N.D. Golfers Meet Three Big Ten Teams
•
Within the next week, Notre Dame’s golfers may make or break their match-play season. The Irish face Purdue tomorrow on the home course, and Northwestern visits Notre Dame’s William J. Burke course next Friday. Sandwiched between these more or less tough matches will be a less difficult conflict with Wisconsin on the Badgers’ home green next Monday.
Following a defeat by a great squad at Detroit U. to open the season, Notre Dame downed Chicago and Ohio State. Purdue, conqueror of Detroit but loser to Illinois, comes here tomorrow with a squad headed by Captain Karl Freese, Royal Baske, South Bend product; John . David, third in the Big Ten qualifying round last year; and Gene Anderson, all-conference basketball center.
Purdue, using only a six-match team, nosed out Notre Dame in 1932 and won decisively last year. Between those losses, Notre Dame has won four times.
Northwestern will bring a squad headed by Captain Sid Richardson, (Continued on Page 19)
GRID SQUAD PREPS FOR OLD TIMERS
By Andrew F. Wilson
Promptly after the Easter vacation the Irish football squad resumed spring practice, beginning a week ago Wednesday with a light workout, then light scrimmage against passes Thursday, and heavy scrimmage Friday and Saturday. There is now but one week of practice left till the annual Old Timers’ game in the stadium, which has been definitely scheduled for Sunday, May 8.
With four weeks of hard work behind them, most of the members of the squad are now ready and able to go through longer scrimmage-periods, so Coach Layden has found it necessary to divide the squad in half, one section scrimmaging on Friday, the other on Saturday, in order to give every man a full workout.
In last Saturday’s group, which included most of the present first-stringers, three pairs of teams, Blues against Whites, each played through a regulation half, with the Blues doing the scoring. In the first half, Fullback Tonelli and Halfback Sag-gau, working together with Quarterback O’Meara and Right Halfback Zontini behind a line made up of Brown, Brew, DeFranco, McIntyre, Riffle, Kell, and Kelly, carried the ball from the kickoff to a touchdown in about four plays, Tonelli crossing the goal-line and kicking the point.
There was no scoring for the next 28 minutes, but in the second half the Blues ran over three touchdowns, ending the scoring for the day. The third pair of teams shoved up and down the field ineffectually for the last 30 minutes, with the Blues, quarterbacked by Emmett Crowe, making the only serious threat.
The second Blue line—Kerr, Hol-lendoner, McGoldrick, Finneran, Bos-su, Harvey and Arboit—seemed most efficient. The longest run of the day was a 60-yard kick return by Mike Corgan, substituting for Paul Morrison in Blue. Corgan was pulled down after reaching the clear when his blockers failed to mop up properly behind him. Ben Binkowski, who has defensively outshone every other fulback on the squad, with the possible exception of the injured Ed Simonich, did the hardest work of the afternoon, playing through two full halves for the Whites, due to a shortage of fullbacks in condition to play.-
(Continued on Page 15)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IS
Brushing Up
TRACK SQUAD SPLIT FOR PENN, DRAKE GAMES: NICHOLSON HONORED AT DES MOINES
By Nick Lamberto
Baseball Banter: The purchase of the great Dizzy Dean by the Chicago Cubs has caused repercussions and reverberations throughout this baseball-loving nation. The loyal Cub fans rejoice at the purchase. They feel that Diz will be the “clutch” pitcher the Cubs have needed since Lonnie Warneke was sold to the plumbing crew down at St. Louis.
The hot-and-cold followers of the St. Louis team griped because of the sale. They feel the Cards have sold their pennant hopes with the sale of Dean. So these hot-and-colders will leave the Cards flat and hop on the bandwagon of some other winning team, like the Pirates right now. (A hot-and-colder who runs true to form always plays the winner.)
Then there are the die-hard Cardinal fans. They see the silver lining in the departure of Dean. Diz had faults and these die-hards don’t hesitate to point them out now that he’s gone. They also bank heavily on the “David Harum” bartering ability of astute Branch Rickey.
Another thing is that Tex Carelton and Diz Dean get along about as well as neighbors in the mountains of Kentucky. Rickey traded Carleton to the Cubs a few years back because he found that his club wasn’t big enough to hold both temperamental Tex and domineering Diz. And Tex is temperamental as is attested by fans in Pittsburgh who saw him throw a ball over the grandstand in a fit of rage.
Tex and Diz have clashed a few times since both were with the Cards. Sometimes it was on the pitching mound in a battle of balls and strikes. More often the clashes were of the extra-curricular nature in the dugout or clubhouse. Now Tex and Diz are teammates again. Pictures in newspapers have shown the two of them with their arms around each other, but even a novice could detect an element of “posing” in the pictures. As some of the more radical Gas House adherents suggest maybe Rickey “figgers” the Cards can romp with the pennant if the Cub prima donnas are torn with dissension. And these radicals might have something at that.
OLD TIMERS' GAME (Continued from Page 14)
The squad loosened up again last Monday, scrimmaged lightly Tuesday, and will probably have another hard session today and tomorrow. Then there will be a gradual tapering off for the game in the stadium Sunday with the Old Timers, which marks the official cessation of practice till September.
By Bill Donnelly
Minus a slight section that went to the Penn Relays with Joe Boland, the Notre Dame track team plus Coach John P. Nicholson, Director of Athletics Elmer Layden, and Trainer Eugene “Scrapiron” Young arrived en masse at Des Moines this morning to compete in the Drake Relays today and tomorrow. ______________________________________ The chosen three who will give Notre Dame representation at Penn for the
NETMEN'S BUSY WEEK OPENS AT STATE
By Robert B. Voelker
Coach Pedro de Landero’s 1938 edition of Irish tenis players faces the toughest section of their schedule, 6 meets in 8 days, starting with Western State University at Kalama-moo tomorrow, April 30.
Western State is by no means a warm-up meet for the Notre Dame lads. Led by the flashy Ruehl, the Kalamazoo outfit, although blanketed by Chicago’s championship club, and nosed out by a 5 to 4 count in a meet with Michigan, is favored to win over the Irish. However, the Irish have a chance to pull this meet out of the bag, said de Landero, “if the doubles teams are able to win 2 out of the 3 double matches.”
The Irish coach also hinted that a few changes would be made in the lineup before the matches with Western State. Nasty weather, coupled with the intervening Easter vacation, has prevented the lads from gaining definite posts on individual merit.
In all probability, Captain Eddie Kilrain will keep his number one post. Bill Fay will hodwn section two, and Whitney Gregory will be number three man. Charlie Rodgers will have the fourth position, and Tex Simon the fifth, but just who the sixth man will be has not been decided. At present it is a toss-up between John Wolf and Harold Bowler.
The doubles, which promise to be really exciting, will find Captain Kilrain teamed with Frank Reppenhagen in the first playoff. Fay and Rodgers will play in the second match, and Gregory and Simon will make the third combination.
Concerning the Western State squad, about the only thing that is known definitely is that they have all had experience in competition and that they will line up against the Irish in the ‘following order: Ruehl, Chandler, Olson, Judd, Sims and Vanderberg.
After the Irish finish with Western State, they will play Detroit on Sunday and Chicago the following day. Then they face Michigan and Indiana later in the week.
first time in three years are Captain Bill “T-Bone” Mahoney who has an excellent chance of winning the 400 meter hurdles, Bill Faymonville who will concentrate on the discus and also take a few heaves in the shot
Pole Vaultek Langton Has stories and stories.
put, and Hal Langton who will compete in both the pole vault and the javelin.
Notre Dame, which ran away with most of the honors at Drake in 1936 but made a disappointing showing last year, has an excellent chance of duplicating its 1936 performance this time. The distance medley team of Sheehan, Hester, Francis and Rice which runs Friday, the two mile team of Hester, Bernard, Rice and Francis, and the four-mile team of Francis, Donnelly, Szumachowski, and Rice which run Saturday all seem likely winners.	.
In the special events Dan Gibbs defends his pole vault championship with Padway of Wisconsin looming as his most dangerous opponent. Gibbs beat Padway at the Chicago Daily News meet when under A.A.U. rules he cleared 13 feet 6 inches in less attempts than his rival, but Padway seems to be a more consistent vaulter. Ted Leonas should place in the high jump; in the Quadrangular Relays last Saturday he just missed a chance to tie for first place when he barely grazed the bar off at 6 ft. 4% inches.
Coach John P. Nicholson is honorary referee of the Drake Relays this year.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Mark J. Mitchell
Four years ago a husky young freshman packed his bag and headed for
Notre Dame. Football lured him West, for the fame of the Irish had spread
even to the Bronx. But Al Kovzelove was not destined to wear the moleskins for Notre Dame. Before long he had traded headgear and shoulder pads for a
catcher’s mask and shin guards. Today he is Coach Kline’s regular backstop,
a steady, conservative
player and a great asset to an inexperienced Irish baseball club.
Although he came to Notre Dame with three years of high school experience in football and baseball under his belt, he pointed mainly for gridiron glory. A knee injury playing freshman football forced him out of the pigskin parade. So he turned in his suit and the next spring came out to try and win a place with Coach Kline’s ball hawks.
With Frankie Gaul holding down the regular catching assignment throughout Kovzelove’s sophomore year, he saw little service, catching
only one or two games. Last year, however, he found the first string position vacated, and immediately took possession of it. He batted .200 and fielded .943 for his junior year. This year he is back again as regular backstop, and promises to hold the position as long as he is physically able.
The knee injury he suffered playing football has hampered him ever since, chiefly in hitting. However, his ability to handle pitchers, especially the younger ones, has kept him in the varsity berth. Young Norv Hunthausen looks like the best prospect in many seasons around here. With two victories to his credit already, he shows possibilities of going far. But if he does, no small measure of his success will be due to Kozelove’s able work with him.
Aside from his baseball abilities, Kozelove is an artist in more than one sense. He is an excellent violinist, and as some of his colleagues describe it, “nuts about opera.” When he was going to school back at George Washington High, he dropped out foi' a year to take a job in ship’s orchestra. He made several cruises to the West Indies, and even as far as South America. If you’ve ever noticed those names printed on monogram scrolls, and wondered about them, Kozelove is the fellow who is responsible. Just as a sideline he indulges in fancy printing, and anyone who has seen the monogram scrolls will attest to the results.
His ambition is to go to law school, and perhaps play a little pro ball on the side are at present the main ideas occupying “Kozzy’s” mind. He has roomed with “Jafsie” Condon of “Met” Club fame, for the past year, and the room, on the first floor of Sorin, is plastered with examples of the Kozelove artistry with the pen. We noticed one, expressing some very sound philosophy concerning the use of liquor, but we did not copy, it down, and for fear of misquoting it, we shall omit it here. We trust, however, that “Kozzy” is faithful in his adherence to it.
GOLFERS WIN TWICE IN THREE MEETS
•
Proving the old saying “there’s a first time for everything,” the Detroit University golfers finally defeated the Notre Dame linksmen; the final score was 16 to 11. The match was held at Detroit April 18. It was the initial match of the year for Notre Dame and the third for Detroit, which perhaps accounts to some extent for the downfall of the Irish. Prior to this defeat Father Holderith’s lads had defeated the Titans eight straight times.
Four days later the Irish invaded Chicago U. and gave the Maroons a sound trouncing to the tune of 18% to 8%. A victory like this apparently was just what they needed. Monday at the Coquillard course the Ohio State terra firmers fell before the swinging of Captain Tom Sheehan and company in a close match, 14% to 12%. The Chicago victory was the sixth consecutive win for Notre Dame over the Maroons, while the last match was the third consecutive time the Buckeyes have finished on the short end of the score.
In the Detroit affair the Irish swingers, composed of Capt. Sheehan, Nolan, Hagen, Bennett, Stulb and Gallagher, as a whole were not shooting par golf. In the morning doubles Hagen and Bennett led N. D. by winning three points. Sheehan and Gallagher won 1% and Nolan and Stulb captured % point. Thus the Irish led 5 to 4 going into the afternoon singles. But Lady Luck was far away and they registered only six points to the Titans 12, making the final count read 16 to 11.
On April 22 Chicago played hosts to the Irish, a visit they won’t forget for some time no doubt. The morning doubles saw Notre Dame take a 6 to 3 lead with Hagen and Bennett chalking up three points, Donahue and Nolan two and Sheehan and McGuire, who replaced Stulb for the Chicago trip, registering a single point. In the afternoon singles it was Sheehan’s time to howl. The captain steered his ball over the Maroon course to chalk up a 70 and three points over his opponent, Topping, who scored a 76. Donahue and Bennett also scored “round-trippers” over their opponents Goldsmith and Walters, each tallying three points. Nolan scored 2% points, McGuire one and Hagen none.
The Ohio State engagement was a thriller to say the least, with the outcome clearly in doubt until late in the afternoon single matches. The Irish, paced by Sheehan, low medalist with a 73, took a 6 to 3 lead in the morning doubles and things looked fairly bright for an “afternoon sweep.” But the Buckeyes, led by ("Continued on Page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
NETMEN DROP OPENER
TO WILDCATS. 8-1
IRISH TRACKMEN SECOND ONLY TO MICHIGAN IN QUADRANGULAR MEET AT BLOOMINGTON
The netmen from Northwestern put a sad ending to the beginning of the Notre Dame tennis season when they stroked out an 8 to 1 victory over the Irish last Friday afternoon.
The Irish team, one of the best balanced in years, faced the Wildcats with high hopes of victory, but
Netman Simon
Better luck next time.
they were more or less helpless be-, fore the strength of their opponents in both singles and doubles.
The lone Irish victory of the afternoon was scored by Sophomore Bill Fay, fall tennis champion, playing the number five position against Milne. After a difficult first set which Fay finally won 8-6, the sophomore settled down and easily captured the second set 6-1 to take the match.
Another sophomore almost brought a second victory to the Irish squad. Rodgers, playing number six, took the first set of his match with Dud-leston, 6-3, but then dropped the next two sets 6-3, 6-4. This was the closest match of the afternoon.
Top - man of the Wildcat team, Washman, defeated Captain Eddie Kilrain in the number one match, 6-1, 6-4. Washman had little difficulty taking the first set 6-1, but had trouble trimming the diminutive Irish captain in the second set 6-4.
The Irish failed to win a single
Last Saturday in the Quadrangular Relays at Bloomington, Indiana, the first meet of the outdoor season, Notre Dame’s 48 points placed them far behind Michigan 67 2-3 but ahead of Indiana’s 44 2-3 and Ohio State’s 37 2-3. Despite Michigan’s rather large margin of victory, the average performances of each
KUNEMEN DEFEAT W. STATE, CHICAGO
•
Victims number one and two were properly taken care of during the Easter vacation period as Coach Jake Kline’s 1938 baseball aggregation opened its current campaign in a manner that betokens trouble aplenty for future opponents of the Irish diamondeers. Victory number one was a Notre Dame walkaway over Western State, at Kalamazoo, on April 14, with Coach Kline’s charges encountering very little trouble in taking the Teachers, 9-0. Lefty Mike Mandjiak made his first start on the mound for the Irish, and was extremely effective, allowing the Western State outfit but five scattered hits.
The Klinemen’s second win was a nip and tuck affair with the Chicago Maroons on April 16. Another sophomore hurler, Norv Hunthausen, started for the Irish and pitched a fine game for eight innings before being removed for a pinch-hitter in the ninth; he allowed but six hits. Chicago started the scoring in the fourth when Gramer singled, stole second, went to third on Meyer’s out, and scored on Levitt’s single. Notre Dame came back in the sixth with one, as Oberbrunner walked, went all the way to third on Sullivan’s bunt, and came home on Cologerate’s error. In the eighth the Maroons tallied again on a scratch single, a safe bunt, and an error. But the Irish came back once more with the winning runs in the ninth. Kovzelove reached first on an error and scored on pinch-hitter Arboit’s double to the fence; Nardone then came through with a single to give the Klinemen another run and the ball game, 3-2. Joe Nardone and Chet Sullivan led the hitters with three and two bingles respectively.
double match. Results of the matches:
Washman defeated Kilrain, 6-1, 6-4; Froehling defeated Arnold, 6-0, 6-0; O’Neill defeated Simon, 6-2, 6-2; Clifford defeated Gregory, 6-2, 6-3; Fay defeated Milne, 8-6, 6-1; Dudle-ston defeated Rodgers, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.
O’Neill and Milne defeated Wolf and Bowler, 6-1, 6-1; Washman and Froehling defeated Fay and Rodgers, 6-2, 6-2; Dudleston and Clifford defeated Kilrain and Arnold, 6-4, 6-3.
, man on the two teams indicate that f a dual meet between the Wolverines and the Irish would be a toss-up slightly in favor of Notre Dame but so close the breaks would decide it. Michigan won four of the eight individual championships, sharing in two other, and they finished second in each of the five relays except the four mile in which Notre Dame finished second. Winning every relay but one, Indiana outscored the Irish 42-20 in the relays, but Notre Dame beat them out for second place by beating them 28 to 2 2-3 in special events.
Bill Faymonville turned in the best individual performance of the day for Notre Dame when he threw the discus 152 feet 5% inches to beat Watson of Michigan by three feet. However, Watson beat him in the shot put with a 50 foot 7 inch toss to his 48 foot 7 inch heave. Bill Clifford won another individual championship for the Irish with a 10-flat hundred against a slight head wind. Lewis of Ohio State nosed out Steve Coughlin for second place in this event.
Hal Langton and John Dean figured with Kingsley of Michigan in a three-way tie for first place in the pole vault at 12 feet 6 inches. Dan Gibbs had an off-day and tied for fourth with Merrill and King of Indiana, when he failed to clear the winning height. Hal Langton placed second in the javelin, and fourths in the high jump by Ted Leonas, in the broad jump by Bill Tucker, and in the 120 yard high hurdles by Dave Reidy completed the Irish scoring in special events.
In the relays the two-mile team of Hester, Bernard, Rice, and Francis ran 7:46 for an excellent average of 1:56.5 a man, yet placed only third. Indiana, closely pressed most of the way by Michigan, ran 7:37.5 to break the world collegiate record by 4.5 seconds. They missed by only two seconds the world record of 7:35.5 set in 1937 by the pick Olympic team of Hornbostel, Young, Williamson and Woodruff. Francis brought Notre Dame from fourth to third place with a 1:53.9 anchor leg.
In the mile relay Sheehan repeated this feat when he beat out Indiana for third place with a :48.8 anchor leg. Ohio State’s Western Conference championship team won the mile (Continued on Page 20)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By John F. Clifford
SCHISM
Nick is violating all the laws that govern the destinies of victorious track teams this week-end. By splitting his team and sending some men to the Penn Relays at Philadelphia and the rest of the team to the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Uncle John is sacrificing his chances of gaining a team-scoring at Drake in order to give his individual stars a chance to show their stuff among tougher competition. For this reason Notre Dame will be represented by Bill Faymonville in the shot and discus, Captain Bill Mahoney in the 440 yard hurdles, and Hal Langton in the pole vault and javelin. Faymonville should have his big paws filled aplenty when he meets up with the Class A competition offered by Watson of Michigan and Ryan of Columbia. Mahoney is favored in his hurdle race, while Langton, performing before his home-state grandstand, has chances of placing in one of his two events.
... Every Time You GO by / South Shore Line
• You can take it “on the fly” when you travel by South Shore Line... there’s one every hour from early morning until late at night. You’ll travel free of traffic delays and dangers... clear through to your destination. It’s fast, economical and SAFE.
THE SAFEST
MOST DEPENDABLE WAY TO CHICAGO
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
50UTHNSeHORf
V
PENN VS. DRAKE
One cannot state without certain reservations which has produced the better record, Penn or Drake. Consulting the record book, we find that Penn, the older of the two, has a slight edge. Drake has set up some great records in the distance relays: times that cannot be approached by Penn. Yet the Penn Relays have held their popularity through the great stars that have competed there year after year, including Don Lash, Cunningham, Jack Torrance and Spec Towns. From the late 1890’s, when the Penn games were instituted, up to 1920 the track athletes of the U.S.A. flocked to Philadelphia for the annual games there, and established the Penn Relays as the locale for the greatest bunch of record-breakers ever to assemble on one field of sport with the exception of the Olympics. Coach Nicholson as a sophomore at Missouri was one of the hurdlers attracted by the diamond-studded medals and trophies that the Penn officials offered in 1912 and 1913. But it wasn’t long before the track men began to realize that they were giving more to Penn than they were getting out of it. The national prestige of the Penn Relays derived from the presence of such luminaries of sport far over-balanced the meagre expense allowances that the Penn officials allowed them. Consequently, the Western schools declined the attractions of Philadelphia for the Drake Relays which were becoming more popular each year. John Griffith inaugurated the Drake Relays in 1910. Relay races made up the greater part of the program in the early years of the Drake games; but more recently field events and special invitational events have been added to make them the competitors of Penn for national prominence.
V
NINE YOUNG MEN
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball men came back home Monday and Tuesday after an Easter vacation road trip. With three wins and a loss to their credit (or discredit). the Irish nine went on exhibition for the local lads. But they were not very impressive. They showed, in the course of two games with Iowa, that Jake has a team that can hit spasmodically, field brilliantly at times, and a few pitchers who can occasionally make the rest of the team look good, but who, on the whole, are spending most of the afternoon getting themselves out of tight holes. All the essential elements of winning ball games are there. All that is needed is some semblance of co-ordination between the power at the plate and consistent support afield. Early reports had this year’s nine labeled as an even a greater team than the 1936 Notre Dame nine, which set up one of the best records in Irish baseball history. No team can expect to win ball games without hustle, and there is about as much hustling manifest among this season’s crew as there is at an international chess match.	*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Irish Nine Splits Series With Buckeyes, Then Divides Two Tilts Here With Iowa
The books of Jake Kline’s up-and-coming Irish ballhawks show an impressive 4-2 total in favor of the credit side today following an even split in the pair of series with Ohio State and the University of Iowa.
Captain Chuck Borowski’s boys successfully opened their Ohio invasion on April 19 with a 3-1 win over the Buckeyes. Veteran Ennio Arboit hurled for the Irish and limited the Statesmen to six scattered hits. First blood was drawn by the Irish who stayed ahead all the way. Co-starring with Arboit for the day was third baseman Chet Sullivan who gathered four hits during the game.
The Klinemen were not so fortunate on the following day, for a spirited Buckeye nine rose up and turned the tables to the tune of 6-1. Sophomore Mike Mandjiak took the mound to open for the Irish but developed an early wild streak in which he passed five men, although striking out five. Norv Hunthausen relieved him, but by the time the Ohio bats had stopped popping, six runs had crossed the plate. Hunthausen went through the remaining six innings allowing only three hits, but the damage had been done. Notre Dame was held to four hits and one run.
The local ballhawks returned home to meet the Iowa Hawkeyes in another two-game series on last Monday and Tuesday. The first game proved to be pretty much of a nightmare for the Irish, for in the very first inning Ennio Arboit was shelled from the mound under a barrage of bingles that produced eight runs for the inning. Rex Ellis followed Arboit to the hill and pitched a creditable game from then on, allowing the Hawkeyes five runs in eight innings. Notre Dame nearly caught Iowa with a nine-run rally in two innings but the Hawkeyes went out and got the previously-mentioned five runs to sew up the game, 13-9. Artie Manush, with five hits, Ed George and Arboit, with three, led the hitting.
Revenge was the word on Tuesday, however, as the Klinemen, with Jake
Kline’s sophomore ace, Norv Hunthausen, on the mound, tripped up the lads from the corn country, 2-1, in a ten-inning pitcher’s battle. Iowa started the scoring in the third when Manush singled, and scored on Prasse’s smashing double. Notre Dame came back in the seventh; Doyle doubled, advanced on Verhoes-tra’s bunt, and scored on Kadell’s error. Then the Irish went on to take the game in the tenth when Captain Borowski singled, sped to third on Winders’ error, and scored on a perfect squeeze play, with Hunthausen doing the bunting.
HERE THEY ARE, FELLOWS!
YARSITy GOLF (Continued from Page 14)
ex-Illinois junior titlist and medalist of the Big Ten meet last year; Frank Perpich and Chet Bland. The Wildcats have won out over Loyola, Marquette and Detroit.
Although Northwestern is accustomed to the best in golf, Notre Dame has defeated the Purple Wildcats in four other seasons while losing only once. Last year’s competition rewarded Notre Dame with victory.
TOBIN says:
IRISH MIXTURE
CORKTOWN
COOKIE JAR
Any one can study economics. Wise undergraduates practice it — by wearing rugged SCOTSMAN SHOES at $3.65! The SCOTSMAN comes in many smart styles, for campus, sports and dress wear. They fit snug on your feet because they're made right, of solid, enduring leather. C'mon in next time you're downtown — for a lesson in STYLE AND THRIFT!
Douglas Craftsman Shoes-$4.40
Douglas Custom Shoes____$5.95
Douglas Normal-Treds____$7.40
DcuyttnShoei W. L. DOUGLAS STORE in South Bend
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
OPEN SATURDAY EVENINGS
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
BLEND YOUR TOBACCO
HONEY IN THE BOWL (Yellow)
ELLO-BOLE
Honey in Yello-Boie improves all tobaccos. You spend at least $20 for tobacco in a year—$1 spent on Yello-Bole makes that $20 worth of tobacco taste twice as good! Get yours.
WITH THE HONEY
20
INDIANA RELAYS (Continued from Page 17)
relay in 3:18.4. The distance medley team of Halpin, O’Meara, Martin, and Gormley finished third in a romp. Despite the fine showing of Clifford and Coughlin in the special 100 later on in the afternoon, the half mile relay team trailed in its event.
The four-mile relay was one of the most exciting events of the day. Before the end of the first mile the race had resolved itself into a duel between Indiana’s team of Applegate, Trutt, Smith, and Deckard, and the Notre Dame team of Francis, Donnelly, Szumachowski, and Rice. Rice in running a 4:19 anchor leg gained four seconds on Tommy Deckard but lost by two yards when he made the tactical error of trying to win on a long sprint rather than the short sprint which is his forte. Notre Dame’s time of 17:38, an average of 4:24.5 a man, was two seconds better than the record at the Drake Relays in which the Irish are competing today and tomorrow.
DENTISTRY as a Career
Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men of ability and determination. Advanced standards have cut down dental school attendance by 44% in recent years. The number of practicing dentists has decreased 10% in the last 10 years.
Marquette University an- : nually receives the highest :
■t rating—A—from the Dental .<■ Educational Council of :
America. The diploma is : recognized in all states. *
The close relationship of the : Dental and Medical Schools f at Marquette University is i an advantage to students. f
:> Entrance requirements: Two s if years in a recognized College s « of Liberal Arts with satis- a « factory credits in biology, s chemistry, and physics. ?
n For complete information ? :: concerning opportunities in s ;; dentistry, write to the Secre- a * tary, Marquette University s ;> Dental School, Milwaukee, s Wisconsin.	¥
MARQUETTE
THE NEW PALM BEACH
SUITS AND SLACKS
FOR COLLEGE MEN
For a lesson in "permutations and combinations’’ see the new Palm Beach suits and slacks. Take a blue, tan and white suit... mix them with a few pairs of Palm Beach slacks...and enjoy smartness, comfort and economy ad infinitum. Goodall weaves Palm Beach cloth and tailors Palm Beach suits. That’s why men can get a whole Palm Beach wardrobe at such a small cost. See Palm Beach at your favorite clothier today... and ask him to show you the new Palm Beach Evening Formal.
PALM BEACH EVENING FORMAL 020.00 PALM BEACH SLACKS.05.50
IF IT BEARS THIS LABEL— IT'S GENUINE PALM BEACH
GOODALL COMPANY. CINCINNATI
Let your body breathe in Palm Beach
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
POLITICIANS SLEEP (Continued from Page 4)
vice-president, Car] J. Nagel; secretary, Robert' M. Ortale; treasurer, Edward J. Disser; S.A.C., Fred Digby, J. R. “Pat” Gorman, Louis Be-mish, Daniel Murphy, and Richard Garab.
President, Jim Rocap; vice-president, Carl Fricke; secretary, Walt Short; treasurer, Tom Schriner; S. A. C., Bob Hoag, Tom Hogan, Bob Huether, Jim Johnson, and Bill Rieke.
Sophomore class candidates:
President, Joe Mulligan; vice-president, George Rassas; secretary, Andy Pinckney; treasurer, Bill Wilson; S.A.C., Bob Odenbach.
President, Ray Quinn; vice-president, Chuck Dillon; secretary, John F. O’Loughlin; treasurer, Edward Shevlin; S.A.C., Maurice Ziegenhom.
It is suggested that campaign bosses learn how to spell the names of members of their parties. Each candidate’s name was looked up in the “Student Directory,” and several were found to be misspelled.
Bartholomew Hour
Paul C. Bartholomew, associate professor of politics, will begin a new series of political commentaries over the local WSBT-WFAM radio outlet on Sunday afternoon at 4:30, campus time.
A previous series scheduled Mr. Bartholomew to speak at 5:45 on Saturday afternoons, a time arrangement that was inconvenient for the student audience inasmuch as the dinner-hour interfered. Many of the political-minded students will take advantage of the opportunity to listen-in under the time revision.
In his first Sunday discourse, Mr. Bartholomew is expected to make reference to the President’s suggestion to Congress for the passage of a bill removing all income tax exemptions from future federal and state securities issues and salaries.
GOLFERS WIN TWICE
Continued from Page 10)
Bartshy and Hutton, both with 73’s, had a different view of things and made the locals play some high class golf for their two point victory. Bennett with a 73 was low for Notre Dame with Sheehan and Hagen registering 74’s. Hagen had much to do with the Irish victory scoring two out of a possible three points over Ohio State’s Chick Evans.
Notre Dame plays host to the Purdue golfers Saturday and then will travel to Wisconsin for a round with the Badgers. With three matches behind them Father Holderith expects to have his boys in prime shape for the coming engagements. At any rate, here’s hopin’.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Sure—or To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8211
NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL
Established 1891
Registration Now Open for 1938-39
Morning Course Afternoon and Evening Courses Three Years	Four Years
All courses lead to degree of LL.B.
KNOCK-ABOUT STYLE IN A STETSON
THE DWIGHT METHOD OF INSTRUCTION
Committed to the policy of small classes so that each student may receive adequate personal attention and instruction.
One look at yourself in this Stetson Air-Light and you’ll know why it’s among the most popular hats ever made. Crease it to suit your fancy ... its style variations are infinite. In Stetson’s smart new “Thoroughbred Colors.”
For further information address:
Registrar, NEW YORK LAW School
63 Park Row, New York, N. Y., or telephone, BEekman 3-2552
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO SWING SHOW
(Continued from Page 7)
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
hear every word of the show exactly as it is heard on the air.
For the final show nearly all the guests that have appeared throughout the year will be on hand, a partial list of which would include Art Davidson, Bill Mooney, The Swing foursome, Tom Tierney, The Modernairs and many others. The tempo of the show will be variety, and anything is apt to happen, so don’t forget the date and get there early to get a seat as the doors will have to be locked at 6:45 p.m. The program being from 7:00 to 8:00.
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
PHYSICS SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from Page 3)
paper by Dr. Anderson on some aspects of .the cosmic ray problem. In the afternoon Professor Manuel S. Vallarta of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will speak on “The Influence of the Magnetic Field of the Earth on Cosmic Ray Particles.” Dr. J. F. Carlson of Purdue University will conclude the sessions of the first day with his paper on “The Theory of Cosmic Ray Particles.”
Canon Georges Lemaitre, visiting professor this semester at Notre Dame, will feature the second day’s session with a paper discussing the role the clusters of star systems play in his theory of the expanding universe.
Other participants in the morning session will be Dr. Gregory Breit of the University of Wisconsin, and Dr. Compton who will discuss in a second. lecture his recent research on cosmic rays.
In the afternoon Dr. William D. Harkins of the University of Chicago and Dr. Eugene Guth of Notre Dame will deliver papers on certain aspects of the nature of the smallest particles considered as the final constituents of matter.
The technical sessions of the symposium will be closed with a paper on “Cosmic Constants” to be presented by Dr. Arthur E. Haas, of the University of Notre Dame, under whose direction the symposium has been arranged.
TRACK MEN SING
The secret is out! What do track men do on their trips away from the campus? From one of the quartermilers came the tale of a songfest from swing to classics and back again.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
—♦—
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Once graduated from college, it may be years before you have the time or as good an opportunity to see Europe as now. And, perhaps, in later years, the happy, carefree days you spend crossing the Atlantic on a ship of Hapag or Lloyd may be hard to match. In Cabin, Tourist, or Third Class you'll find scores of other college men and women who— like you—chose Hapag-Lloyd for their hospitality, comfort and service.
"END OF TERM" SAILINGS
With College Orchestras on Board
SWIFT LLOYD EXPRESSES
BREmEH • EUROPR
JUNE 16 - JULY 3	JUNE 22 - JULY 9
Fifth day morning arrivals at Cherbourg and Southampton . . . next morning at Bremen for the Berlin express, and all Europe.
K0LUmRU5
"Student Special" * JUNE 30 •<— HAPAG "FAMOUS FOUR" EXPRESSES DEUT5KHLRHD • HHHIRURG JUNE 16 - JULY 14*	JUNE 23*
NAME YOUR INTEREST —EUROPE HAS THE ANSWER—Perhaps it's just a right royal good time, with here and there some sightseeing . . . Fine! — or if it's ART, ARCHITECTURE, MUSIC, HISTORY, LANGUAGES — think what Europe offers. Europe is the home of HIKING, BIKING, FALT-BOATING and of the YOUTH HOSTEL SYSTEM. Her highways are excellent for MOTORING and it costs only $1 to take a car into Germany for a month. You can enjoy every form of sport, and there are FESTIVALS and FAIRS and entertainment in every region.
HEIU VORR • HHHSR
JUNE 30	JULY 7
* Calls at Ireland, in addition to England, France, Germany For a more leisurely course at our lowest rates
HAPAG ST. LOUIS * BERUU LLOYD JUNE 11 - JULY 9 JUNE 4 - JULY 2
IN EUROPE, TRAVEL COSTS ARE DOWN— Many countries now give special concessions to tourists. In Germany, you save on travel costs through registered Travel Marks, and IN ADDITION, the German Railroads offer 60% off on rail fares.
CONSULT YOUR TRAVEL AGENT, or our EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT especially devoted to the requirements of teachers and students traveling for pleasure, Summer Courses Abroad, Junior Year Courses, Post Graduate Work and Regular Study.
"A TUTORING COURSE ON EUROPEAN TRAVEL"—That's the way a student described Hapag-Lloyd's new 225-page book, "Your Trip to Europe". It's a condensed, interesting summary of everything you'll need to know about transAtlantic and European travel. To obtain this educational book, fill in and mail coupon.
HAMBURG-AMERICAN UNE
Educational Service Department
HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE NORTH GERMAN ttovo
130 W. Randolph St., Chicago, Hl.
NORTH GERMAN LLOYD
Send me your 225-page book: "YOUR TRIP TO El
Enclosed is 25c to pay part of distribution costs. LOC. 29

130 West Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois
Name———_____________— 
Address .	_
City________________State.
Grace Moore
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
PAUL WHITEMAN
Deems Taylor
Paul Douglas
give you more pleasure.
Chesterfield
romnowon
Weekly
Radio Highlights

/ When you're out for pleasure
... and tie up to Chesterfields... you find a cigarette that has refreshing mildness... a taste that smokers like... a more pleasing aroma.
Mild ripe tobaccos—home-grown and aromatic Turkish—and pure cigarette paper—the best ingredients a cigarette can have... that’s why Chesterfields
.. . you9ll find MORE PLEASURE in
Copyright 1938, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
Chesterfield’s milder better taste