
~ 


\ • • § 
. ' 
' 
, ' I 4
" .. , ' ' ..' •' •· • . -I '-. 
--'· 
... ~ °' .. \ ,~ ' . 0" ' . ~ ' ;
• • • : . i
.. .,','\,.. .:. '
ti ·. ··._' .• . 
' ., ·•·· ' ~ . I 

# • ] 
. ...


. ,.;_
'\ . 
. .. . • ( •·, .. . . 

. . . . . ......_,_ ..... 
. . '-. ..
.... .
-. . 




Scholastic .i• published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN <{6556 and printed at The Papen, Inc., Milford, IN <{65.(2. The aubscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available $1.00/copy. The opinions expreued in Scholutic are this of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the Univel'l!ity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of. the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material become the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS Communications, Inc. 
c 1987 Scholastic magazin~. All righh reserved. Reproduction in whole or part without permission is prohibited. 
Sch 
lastic 
Notre Dame·s Student Magazine September 24, 19 8 7 
News 
1O/Newsnotes by Jill Coakley 

12/Asking For Advice by Natasha Wilson 

Departments 
4/Week in Distortion: Cold and Dark by John Griffin 
5/ On Other Campuses: Cans Over Kegs by Steve Sparks 
11/Music: Just Another Hack by Tim Adams 
18/Coming Distractions 
2O/Final Word: The Magic of the Special Olympics by Victor Krebs 

Cover 
6/A Friday Night Guide To The Windy City by Ed Trifone 
8/ A Guide For The Underage ln The Windy City by Marty Gallagher 

Sports 
15/ Sportsweek by Terry Lynch 
16/Another Stiff.Belt by Marty Burns 
·,-.' ·; ' 
•··::..::,-••f' if
·;•,F;i'.~lr 
Sam Siewert 




Editorials 
Advising Improvements Crucial 
A t the beginning of sophomore year, the average Notre Dame student in the col­
lege of arts and letters is in for a shock. All of a sudden, the academic advice that the freshman took for granted is 
gone. And it won't return until the student chooses a major. 
Students in other colleges are slightly better off. Because they are required to choose a major at the beginning of sophomore year, they have advisers while their major-less arts & letters counterparts do not By naming a College Fellow, the Arts & Letters College administration is showing its wil­lingness to correct an obvious problem. But even more could be done. 
Assigning a formal adviser to every sophomore in the college would correct the problem; it could be easily accomplished through the· professors in the core course. The purpose of the core course is to introduce students to arts & letters .and to help students decide which area to enter; the connection is clear. That solution, however, is not practical. 
There is a wide range of majors within the college, and it would be difficult for the average core pro­fessor to be well-versed in all of them. Addition­ally, it would force professors to take on formal responsibility with the accompanying red tape for a job that many do willingly, if informally, already: academically advise their students. 
And with the students, not necessarily with the college itself, is the real potential to improve Notre Dame's academic advising in all departments. The colleges must publicize their new advising pro­grams as well as the excellent idea of student­faculty lounge areas and social events. It is also the college's responsibility to make sure that these new. programs start strong. But ultimately, the· success of social events and the effectiveness of new pro­grams of academic advising lie with the students. Students must take advantage of current college hopes of making academic advice more available. By taking their ac;idemic careers in hand, students can help correct a· previously poor situation. After all, they are the ones with the most to gain or to lose. 
T 


The Scholastic Response 
here has been a great deal of controversy recently over the "Life in Hell" cartoon that ran in the September 10 issue. We have received letters on the subject of cartoonist Matt Groening'.s work; there 
also have been columns and letters on the subject in The Observer. · Scholastic now recognizes that in publis..b_ing that strip we inadvertently hurt deeply many of our 
readers. Scholastic did not mean to cause pain in any way. We officially apologize for any hurt that cartoon may ·have caused any and all members of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
As always, Scholastic remains open to comment and criticism. We encourage letters to the editor of Scholastic on this and any other issue. We are always open to any input on the magazine. We have a specific feature, the Final Word, in which any member of the community may express opinions. 
We're also taking this opportuni.ty to announce an Ombudsman's service that we have been ·in the process of forming to field complaints and sugges­tions. Further details will be forthcoming. Once again, we'd like to emphasize our sorrow at hurting our fell ow students and apologize. 
Scholastic 
2 
Scholastic 

----~---_­
-~ -­
---v --­

-,~ ~,o ---~_"-_:_~_ ,~_~_:, ~~... ~ ; 
.. 




Letters 

Holtz Finds Cartoon Offensive 

Dear Editor: 
The primary purpose of this letter is to bring to your attention the poor taste displayed on page 32 of the Football Preview edition of Scholastic (Sept. 10), where it was mentioned that · "you won't be laughing when you get to high school where there are gangs, drug pushers and Negroes." I am not writing as a football coach, but as an individual, because I believe an injustice has been done. I think I am in the overwhelming majority who found this very offensive and not at all humorous. 
In a school such as the Univer­sity of Notre' Dame where intelli­gence is prevalent among the stu­dent body and faculty, it is incomprehensible to me how this grave injustice could possibly occur. Personally speaking, if this is the type of information that is in your magazine, we sure would appreciate your keeping football out of it. 
If it was a mistake (and I hope it was), I am sure a retraction and sincere apology will be forthcom­ing in the very near future. 
Lou Holtz Head Football Coach 

Cartoonist Responds to Controversy 

Dear Editor: 
It has come to my attention that some of your readers found the "Life in Hell" cartoon published in the Sept. IO edition to be racist. As the cartoonist for Life in Hell, I would like to explain. 
No racist attitude, racist mes­sage, or racist humor was intended in my cartoon, and any such interpretation of my work is a misreading of its content. The car­toon consisted of 16 panels featur­ing the ignorant and insensitive words of 16 teachers, beginning with kindergarten and going right through to college. Each piece of dialogue was based on things teachers actually said to me when I was in school. 
The cumulative effect was intended to be a straightforward, unambiguous cartoon that con­demned the quoted teacher with 
despairing wryness. One of my eighth grade teachers did say: "You brats are laughing now -but you won't be laughing when you get to high school 'Yhere there are gangs, drug-pushers and Negroes." 
I found the remark appalling then, and I find it appalling now ­not funny, not clever, not amus­ing. My teacher said that in 1968, and I never forgot. I vowed some­day I was going to make use of the misery, the injustice and the bore­dom I experienced in school, and my recent cartoons about educa­tion are the result. 
I think anybody who takes more than a cursory look at "Life In Hell" will find its point of view antithetical to racism, sexism or traditional conservative attitudes. 
I regret that anyone felt my cartoon was racist. For the record, "Life in Hell" is published in some 60 newspapers around the country, and only in Scholastic and in the Oklahoma Gazette, a weekly independent newspaper, was there any controversy. 
Matt Groening 
Life in Hell cartoonist 
September 24, 1987  3  
'  '  !  ••--•  -~-­ ____1  ~•  ~  --~•~-~-­ -•~•-,--~-~  ••  ~,  ,-.-•••  •  •  --~,.,,~,.-.-••~•,--,­ --~-~-~a-­ -­ ..,.._,..  •-----•  ____..,.,__  --•  ~~,  
~.-~i:.__  E_  -...;:.t~~~_: ~' '_ ~(.!_,  - '  > !  •  •  ,-­ :  •  - ':·,; ;::;  

Week in Distortion/John Griffin 

Cold and Dark 
A distorted week from an off-campus perspective 


thing. Not a single solitary thing, find a bat with big. 
lroy Macleish awoke to 

linear progression, and dogs with 
besides his pet coat rack upon scary teeth circling his 
big scary teeth, that reminded him 
which he would hang his problems bed. It had a satisfied 
of the bat, all outside the house. 
at night and from which the bat look and another cup of 
This made no sense to Elroy. 
would sleep. pudding was missing. 
"Thank God," Elroy thought. 

Then again if one is not wonder­He wasn't surprised ... 
"Maybe they can explain about my 
ing about Elroy, stop reading and they'll have an extra pocket protec­
neighbor. And maybe, if I'm lucky, 
finish your chicken sandwich. Elroy tor." 
was not a happy camper at all, but Elroy's eyes buldged for he did 
rather a college· student being not expect to see what he saw when 
But Elroy wasn't so lucky and 

forced to pull his fingers from his he went next door in his ink stained 
the police promptly slapped on 
nose and put them on his ink pad. shirt to borrow a pocket protector. 
cuffs, just for entering without 
Then he had pictures taken with He screamed, "Damn," (and was 
knocking and intending to borrow a 
numbers on his neck. But as Elroy rightfully ashamed at his own 
pocket protector from a neighbor 
later acknowledged in his cell, the decadence, but at the same time felt 
who is obviously dead. They read 
best part of . the booking was the an unfathomable sense of relief 
him his rights. He couldn't keep but 
police line up. It was precisely, a with the ejaculation) It had been a 
wonder about his lefts. 
most exact similar and easily associ­helluva morning: flooding pens, ink 
ated event as·. he could not stained shirts, and another cup of 
remember. Five policemen slowly pudding missing. All he wanted was 
entered a room looking sadly guilty a pocket protector and piece of 
and stood in line.. Elroy identified mind, but all he saw was a foot of 
each and every one as an officer of blood on his neighbor's floor. Elroy 
the law and certainly not this Elroy thought, "Does one need hip-waders Macleish character who was 
to borrow a pocket protector? Are suspected of entering without ripped jeans really a neo-fascist knocking and intending to borrow a 
metaphor for nuclear war like all campus band vocalists seem to think? Does the Red Cross know about this virtual goldmine? And, what is my neighbor doing sitting Indian-style in blood with his head in his lap?" Elroy's mind reeled and rocked and would have rolled 'til the break of day, but suddenly there was a knock at the door. "Open up, Police!" Elroy looked outside. There were ten police cars with thirteen flashing lights in perfect 

At this point one may be oneder­ing just who Elroy Macleish is and where does he live so you can kill him. Well ... Elroy Macleish lives in the corner of a burned out basement of an_off-campus house. He lives in 
the corner because the other corners 
are filled with nothing, except, of 
course, flooded pens, ink-stained 
shirts and a very extensive pudding 
collection. Nothing else. Not one pocket protector from a dead neigh­bor. Elroy fondly recalled the amazement in the station and felt a curious sense of pride at his own mental awareness for. the achieve­
ment. 
The cell was cold and dark -it reminded him of home. His mother wouldn't like this, in fact, she would not like this at all She was not paying $12,000 a year for her son to stay in a place that reminded him so much of home. ¦ 
Scholastic 


Cans Over Kegs 
William Bolding, director of residence life at JMU, feels that kegs promote drinking because you have to finish them. 
"Once you've got a keg, you have to 
finish it," declared William Bolding, director of residence life at James Madison University. Accord­ing to the university's daily newspaper, The Breeze, Bolding used this belief as his principle justification for banning keg parties in dorm rooms. He also added that students tend not to drink as much at a party if they drink from "cans and bottles." (It is assumed that Bolding did not mean simultaneously, although The Breeze does not specify.) Despite more 
· restrictions on kegs, however, residence life officials said a student's room will still be treated as "a sovereign space" and an RA will not intervene unless students' behavior goes "beyond their four walls with open, flaunting violations." In addition, in trying to enforce the new regulations upon students, officials have tapped into another problem: that of control over fraternities. Bolding admitted that the office of residence life has absolutely no "jurisdiction over the Greeks" and, hence, kegs are still allowed in Greek Row Houses. Let's hope that JMU students can adjust to this new bleak scenario and manage to have a little fun on their "dry campus." 

Lack of urinals in their bathrooms has 
p.o.'d the male residents who live in the west wing of the University of Kansas' McCollum Hall, reports the University Daily Kansan. In the east wing, the women share a bathroom that has two urinals. Last year, women lived in the west wing and men lived on the east. This y_ear, housing officials, seeking to create space for the larger than usual number of women who applied to live in McCollum, decided to use the east wing for women. Because the men now have no urinals, they have been using the toilets. According to resident Brian Stephans, "The seats are always getting splattered. It's kind of gross." On the brighter side of this turn of events, it has been rumored that the girls are taking advantage of the situation by putting plants in the urinals, thus utiliz­ing the automatic watering system. 

The annual Teeter-totter-athon was 
recently staged by the Creighton chapter of the Delta Upsilon International fraternity in order to benefit the villages which provide homes for specially trained husband and wife pairs who care for disad­vantaged children The campus paper, the Creightonian, further reported that while those involved in the actual teetering and/or tottering say the activity has had its ups and downs, it was for a very good cause. As in past years, this tottering for tots was immensely successful. 

EDITED BY STEVE SPARKS 





A Friday Night Guide 


BY ED TRIFONE 


Friday afternoon, 3:05, first pitch at the friendly confines not only signifies the start of a new series for the Chicago 
Cubs, it kicks off a new weekend, Chicago style. 
There's no better place to begin a respite than in the left field bleachers of a living landmark, Wrigley Field. A beer in one hand, a bag of peanuts in the other can 
( 



to The Windy City 
make just about any baseball fan happy, but the ivy on the walls, Harry Caray in the booth, and the WGN sign painted on the roof of a two flat on Waveland A venue combine to create a scene that says "Chicago." 
Just as Wrigley Field helps to make Chicago unique so does its night life. Fortunately for Cubs fans all home· games are played during the day, leaving plenty of time to enjoy some of Chicago's better known watering holes after­ward. 
After the game there's always 

time for a quick stop for a Vienna j All Beef Frank and a cold ~ Budweiser at Murphy's Bleachers, a located just outside the center 
·-= 
l7l 
field stands. Formerly owned by retired De Paul basketball coac.h Ray Meyer, the. bar is often referred to as Ray's Bleachers. If the service at Murphy's is too slow and the line to the porta-potties too long, it's just a quick walk to the front of the stadium and the Cubbie Bear. Located on the corner of Clark and Addison, patrons can view the marquee announcing future Cub dates made famous in the movie The Blues Brothers. Harry Caray has been known to make unannounced stops at this establishment, but since his stroke his visits have become less · 
frequent. 
The next stop on a fun filled Friday in Chicago is Happy Hour at the city's red light district, Rush Street. To get there from Wrigley­ville usually means a quick trip on the el. Short for elevated, the train ride costs $1, but the price is well worth it as many passengers enjoy this form of public transportation more than most roller coasters. Exiting the train at the Division station which is below ground and hence called "subway," visitors are welcomed to the stench of the city. But the ··smell of garbage, cigarettes, and urine ceases as soon as one climbs the stairs to street level. Now the only smell is car 
.exhaust. 
B~t don't despair because the Rush Street area and all of the fun that .goes with it on an early Fri­day evening is just two blocks 
north up Division. 
Known for its free food, two. for one drinks and no cover until 8, the Snuggery is the first stop to hit with Mother's down the block running a close second. As the night progresses, these two estab­lishments will turn into · lite-ral meat markets as men and women alike take to the dance floors, scout and grade each other before making a purchase in the form of a pick up line. 

The atmosphere here is so evi­dent that the producers of About Last Night chose to film various scenes of the movie at both Moth­ers and a similar hotspot, Shenani­gans. It's at Shenanigans Sports Bar that patrons can find waitresses dressed as cheerleaders, free pop­corn and a small fenced in basket­ball court on the lower level. 
Two more popular Division 

night life spots are P.S. Chicago and Houlihans. As customers enter 
P.S Chicago they are met not only by doormen -as they call them­selves -but the loudest floors and most sophisticated sound system on the block. This is quite dif­ferent from Houlihans where the crowd is made up of mostly pro­fessionals out for a drink and a lit­tle conversation. Rounding out Division Street are a variety of smaller, but just as crowded taverns, dance bars and eateries. Each one has its own type of clientele and price range to go with it. 
From Division Street, it's just a one block walk south on Dearborn to Elm Street and a whole new set of bars. The best known of these, Muldoon's, is a popular spot for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. On Wednesday nights, for a $2 cover customers can purchase quarter beers until 11 p. m. Across the alley from Muldoon's is Hang Ups. The dress cod~ here is a little more stringent than at most South Bend Bars. There is a reason for this as there are not only three lev­els of elaborate dance floors, but three types of music to match. There's plenty of mirrors and video screens, not to mention bar space. One door down is Z's Sports 
' Bar and Grill, where ex-athletes can view walls filled with Chicago sports memorabilia over a pitcher of beer, order a pizza and play video games. 
Staggering east on Elm, south on Rush and over to Bellevue Place, barhoppers will encounter still another set of bars among the high rise condos. In between these buildings are various fast food outlets that have night hours, including Kentucky Fried Chicken, ·McDonald's and Winchell's. These bars are away from the mainstream of people and are thus a little more laid back. 
Included in this area are Elliot's Nest, a clean two level bar that plays mostly '70s music, Kronies, which is famous for its upside down drinks, and Harry's Cafe which is a somewhat classy estab­lishment complete with a candle lit outdoor dining area. 
As the night continues partiers can jump into a cab that whisks them to the near north side and Armitage A venue where the Ulti­mate Sports Bar awaits them as well as two Chicago Bear's han­gouts, Jim McMahon's Place and Gary Fencik's Hunt Club. Or if a good meal is preferred and price and a long wait -a necessity without connections -are not con­cerns, there are a number of places on West Ohio to choose from including Ditka's, the Hard Rock Cafe, Ed Debevics -where they brew their own beer -and the Lime Light. 
No list of famous Chicago bars 

is complete unless it includes the Billy Goat Tavern on Lower Michigan Avenue and Hubbard Street. The "Goat" has been f ea tu red on Real People and Satur­day Night Live -" cheezeburger, cheezeburger, cheezeburger, no coke pepsi, no fries chips!" 
Like most Chicago bars, the Billy Goat stops serving liquor at 3 
a.m. The grill, however, is open all night. Late every Friday, having closed the bars, a hungry group of Cubs fans comes in ready for something to eat that will tide them over until early afternoon. Most order a Vienna All Beef Frank and a bag of peanuts so as not to upset their systems and to prepare themselves for Saturday's 
1:20 Cubs start. Ill 
CONGRATULATIONS 
Father Malloy
& 


Father Beauchamp 


GOOD LUCK 
-Scholastic 



A Guide for the Underage 
• 

Ill the Second City 
BY MARTY GALLAGHER 


hen asked for advice for city hotspots, the typi­cal Chicago native tries to 
steer people away from the prosaic Rush Street traps as well as the expensive but "oh-so-trendy" Hard Rock and Limelight. Since most college students do fall into the "under 21' category, a special guide to Chicago for that group would seem to be in order. Can people under 21 legally have fun in the city? Of course, there's always the usual tourist attractions such as the museums, the Sears Tower, and Michigan A venue, but these hardly interest a college stu­dent -especially after 10:00 pm. The following is a list of some other places to try· where a good time can be had within a student budget. Best of all, no fake I.D. is required. 
Music 

Chicagoans typically love music. Besides the large concert auditoriums that attract the big name acts, the city is fortunate to have smaller theaters that feature less popular groups. Check the newspapers to see who is playing where. Tickets are rarely sold out and can be gotten at the door. In addition to these small theaters there are a number of even smaller clubs where you can dance or just listen to the music. Most of these clubs require an I.D., but the fol­lowing is a sample of those which do not. Andy's Lounge: 11 E. Hubbard. On Sundays, Andy's features "brunch with jazz." This is a great place to go on a Sunday morning if you have been out all Saturday night. Cabaret Metro: 3930 N. Clark. This concert/dance bar that is unusually harsh with I.D.s gives the under 21 crowd a break on Wednesday nights. See three bands for $3. You must be 18 to get in, 21 to drink. 
Maxwell Street: Unfortunately, Chicago's. best Blues clubs such as Kingston Mines and B.L. U.E.S. require a 21 I.D. Therefore, get a good taste of Chicago blues, via the street corner musicians that play on Maxwell Street. Go in a large group. Medusas: Sheffield just North of Belmont. This is one of the few dance clubs that· lacks a liquor license. Because it does· not serve alcohol, it does not have to close at 5 a.m. thus making it a favorite when all the bars close. Medusa's traditionally featured progressive dance music but lately has been playing more popular selections. 
Closed Mon-Thurs. Open 11 p.m. 
· on Fri, 12 p.m. on Sat., concerts on Sunday. Must be 18 and have $5 to get in. 
Old Town Folk School of Music: 
910 W. Armitage. Folk music isn't for everyone, but the school's jam sessions are cool. Local musicians get on stage and jam throughout the night. Smoke a pipe-load and listen to folk. 

Film 

Why would anyone drive I00 miles to see a film? Considering that the clubs are dead at least until midnight, a movie is a great way to kill a few hours before going out for the evening. Art Institute: The Art Institute has recently started showing films on a daily basis. A common genre may link all the films over a period of time. For instance, July was Afri­can film makers month. Facetts Multimedia: 1500 W. Fulllcrton. Facetts shows foreign and more obscure films. Inexpen­sive. Music Box Theater: 3733 South­port. Old time movies. Movies change daily. Omnimax: Connected with the Museum of Science and Industry 57th and Lake Shore Drive. Omnimax is one of those giant screen theaters that make you feel as if you are in the movie. It is very realistic people have literally gotten air sick while watching a film on flight. $5. 
Restaurants 
There are many good restau­rants in the · city and it is impossible to mention them all. Here are some of the more unusual. 
Geja Cafe: 3400 W. Armitage. Eat fondu while listening to classical guitar. This place can be fun depending on the crowd. Most people do not like to play with their food before eating it. 
, Gulf port: 12400 . S. Ashland. Excellent Southern cooking in a diner-type atmosphere. Creole 
• and catfish. John Barley Corn: 650 W. Bilden: Snack type food. Slide shows of artwork intermittently projected on the walls. Classical music. La Fiesta: Halsted & Diversy. 
1! 
;
., 
iil 
~ 
tll 

Authentic Mexican food. Inex­pensive. Maple Tree Inn: I 07th S. Western. Best Louisiana cooking in the city. Jazz on Wednesday nights. Panama City: 2800 W. Halsted. Creole-Carrabian cooking. Only $7/plate. 
Universities 
The best way to meet other col­lege age pe0ple in another city is to visit the universities. Here are a few to check out in the Chicago area. University of Chicago: Although U of C has a reputation for being a study school, its social life is not all that bad. The frats can coax a large crowd from the libraries for their parties. No one is turned down at the door and there is rarely a cover charge. Take note, state schools. 
Northern Illinois University: 
Dekalb, IL. Half of every Chicago High School class goes to the University of Illi­nois. The other half goes to NIU. This school is a blast if you know people there already, but hardly worth trip if you do not. Northwestern: Evanston, IL. Although Evanston never repealed prohibition after the I 920s, there is still a lot to do at Northwestern. There are over 30 Greek houses. 
Some are fun, but a few are notoriously snobbish. Bring Daddy's car and an appropriately inflated ego. 
Depaul/Loyola: Chicago IL. Two small Catholic Universities with a really fun student population. Much of the social life, however, centers on their surrounding bars and clubs so you are unlikely to run into them if you stay legal. University of Illinois at Chicago: Most people who go to UIC com­mute. Not much to do on week­ends. 
Miscellaneous Discovery Center: Group that sponsors a number of "urban adventures." They recently held "Murder Mystery on the el "(the el is Chicago's elevated subway system) where they chartered an el train and performed a mock killing on board. Who done it? The Roxy: Recine & Wrightwood. Comedic skits, stand up comedians and bizarre films. Second City Comedy Club: North Ave. & Wells. Unquestionably the most popular comedy club in the city. $12-$15. So yes, there are a number of legal things those under 21 can do in Chicago. Whether or not you have a good time all depends upon your tastes and creativity. ¦ 


COMPILED BY JILL COAKLEY 
newsnot 
UNLOC is Here 
Last semester the University Libraries began phasing in NOTIS, an integrated on-line computer system at Northwestern University, as a third of Notre Dame's eventual fully automated libraries. The automated system will also include the library system presently in use and a hardware system using IBM 4381 main­frame computer. The Univer­sity of Notre Dame's Libraries On-line Catalog (UNLOC) is a subsystem of NOTIS which allows access to most of the University's union card catalog. UNLOC currently contains all books catalogued since 1977 and 80 percent of all books received before then. Only journals, magazines and news­papers processed since 1978 are now included. Eventually, all items owned by the University Libraries will be in UNLOC. UNLOC terminals are located at all branch libraries and on the first and second floors of the Hesburgh Library. 
Student Senate 
This Week ... 
At · the Senate meeting on Monday, September 21, the Stu.dent Senate refused to approve the new ticket distri­bution policy proposed by the SUB steering committee. A special Senate committee will be meeting to make recommen­dations to the SUB. The Senate also offered to make amends to 
William Hickey, director of University Food Services, for the food fight following Notre Dame's victory over the University of Michigan. Members of the Senate have offered to work in one of the dining halls for one meal to show their concern over the situation which led Hickey to cancel all picnics for the first semester. Plans were discussed for the New Faculty reception on Thursday, September 24 from 3:00-4:30. Each new faculty member will be taken on a tour of a residence hall and LaFortune Student Center so that faculty members can see 
where the students spend their time outside the classroom. 
Air Force ROTC 
Last year President Reagan declared September 18 National" POW/MIA Recognition Day in remembrance of the 2413 peo­ple still missing in Southeast Asia. This year, to com­memorate the event, the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Detach­ment 225 held a flag raising ceremony at 7:30 a.m. and a flag lowering ceremony at 4:30 
p.m. on South Quad. Governor Robert Orr declared the day Air Force ROTC day in the state of Indiana. Public aware­ness of MIAs in recent years has greatly aided the efforts of the National League of Families of American POW/MIAs. 


Music/Tim Adams 
.Just Another Hack 
One man's quest to become the campus's least popular writer 

stuff. There are a few other
ough decision, 
and the Verlaines today. It 

writers whose columns I enjoy,
trying to decide 
seems that people need that 

but more often than not I just
which one's 
security blanket of popular 

whiz through this mag and The
more pathetic: 
approval before they'll let 

Observer without reading even
the long-haired , 
themselves enjoy a group's 

a third of it. If I sat out a year,
tie-dyed, sensi­
music, and once they become 

I could see myself groaning
tive souls who wile away their 
hooked on a "lesser-known" 

every time some writer decided
days playing Hacky Sack and 
band they usually go way over­

to take up, say, a whole page
strumming their acoustic gui­
board -check out your typical 

rambling on about his sup­
tars, languidly wishing it were 
Cure or U2 devotee here on 

posedly insightful random
1967 again . . . or the jockish 
campus and you'll see what I 

thoughts, Andy Rooney-style.
Darners sporting their oh-so­
mean. 

For this reason, I will write. 
hilarious Spuds MacKenzie t­
shirts, in a seemingly desperate 
And if the opinions laid 
attempt to uphold the "party 

down in this column are too
So it's not as though I
animal" image that we college 

much for your precious egos to 
expect most of the campus to
students are purported to aspire 

handle, then just don't bother
really get into the stuff I write
to. Only in 1987 could a dog 

reading it. I've written more 
that resembles a pig be idolized 

about; if I "convert" 10 people 
than my fair share of bland
this year, I'd be happy. And, to
as both a sex symbol (sick peo­

articles in the past three years,
be honest, the thrHl of seeing
ple, those Anheuser-Busch 

and I'm tired of contributing to 
my name in print has been gone 
advertising execs) and as a 

this plague. Maybe I'm too
since about midway through my
party hero, by people you'd 

cynical and jaded for my own
figure would know better. 

freshman year. Writing columns 
good, but it sure beats being
As you might have 

is a chore more often than not, 
"nice" and non-controversial.
guessed, I'm not writing this 

and sometimes the inspiration 
If you want the rah-rah attitude
column to gain friends and 

just isn't there. But I also find 
that seems to ooze from the
popularity. In fact, I'm not 

Scholastic and The Observer 
walls of this hallowed univer­
really sure why I continue to 

sorely lacking in articles that 
sity, better skip to the next
crank these things out every 

are pointed and non-political 
page.
three weeks. Whatever notions I 

without being relatively didac­
may have once harbored about 

tic or stupid. I don't care about 
What you can expect to read 
changing the music tastes of the 

Reagan, Ollie North or Russia, 
about in this column in the next 
and I could care less how the
student body, to any significant 

eight months are good and bad 
ND football team fares this
extent, have fallen by the way­

bands, campus DJs, campus 
year. I want to read things that
side. The Notre Dame students 

concerts, campus trends, and all 
speak to me and have insight,
who ignored my recommenda­

that other stuff that takes up 
and these don't necessarily even
tions of the Replacements and 

time in my life. Remember, I 
have to relate to music. Seri­
R.E.M. and Husker Du and the 

don't take any of this too seri­
ously, "Beernuts" is easily the
Bangles in 1984 are really no 

ously; just want some of the 
different than the current ones funniest, most on-target item in 
campus to have a good time 
who brush off the lip service I either of the two campus pubii­with it. And if you laugh, you give to bands like Dinosaur and cations, mostly because what laugh. If you don't, oh well. Halo of Flies and Die Kreuzen goes on in that strip is real See you in three weeks. 11 
September 24, 1987 
•

Asking for 
vice 
The University of Notre Dame takes steps to improve its system of academic advising 
i: 
BY NATASHA WILSON 

I· 
i 

hen junior Tom Schlegel decided to switch his major from mechanical engineering to industrial design last spring, he found many obsta­cles in his way. "Whenever you have to switch anything they send you around to get the approval of both department heads and profes­sors," said Schlegel. "It's a lot of red tape." 

Since he had never met with his assigned adviser, Schlegel said he sought the assistance of the deans and assistant deans of the College of Arts and Letters and the Col­lege of Engineering when chang­ing his major. "On their own time, they would help write out my entire plan. They are excellent advisers," he said. 
Academic advising at Notre Dame has been the topic of much discussion recently as the adminis­tration has tried to define the faculty's role in advising students on issues ranging from course ~election for the next semester to long-term career plans. To evalu­ate the advising process, each col­lege examined its own advisory procedures and reported their findings and recommendations for improvement to the Notre Dame Academic Council last March. 
Among the findings of the study were faults in the areas of counseling in chosing a major, inadequate guidance in chosing among course offerings with a major and the lack of solid career counseling. In an attempt to improve the quality of advising, the colleges have begun to imple­ment changes in their advisory programs this fall. 
Academic advising is handled individually by the four colleges and the Freshman Year of Studies. When students enter a college in the sophomore year, they are assigned an adviser, to approve their courses and assist with any scheduling problems. 
The College of Arts and Letters has already executed some of the 
plans proposed last fall by its Committee on Undergraduate Advising after its year long review of the college's academic advisory program. The first recommenda­tion involved creating the position of a College Fellow who would "seek out w~ys to improve and enrich informal student/teacher interaction," said college Dean Michael Loux. In August, Loux appointed Thomas Swartz, profes­sor of economics, to this newly created post. 
Swartz said his projected goals as Collegiate Fellow include advis­ing extensively students who have special educational needs, such as interdisciplinary interests and also transfer students, merging the residential life of the dormitories with the academic life of the col­lege, providing · opportunities for faculty to meet with students out­side the classroom, and creating informal settings (he says perhaps coffeeshop-type places) adjacent to the classrooms in which stu­dents and faculty may meet. "Real education takes place on an infor­mal context through conversa­tions," said Swartz of his proposed programs. He said he will also encourage the student grapevine of recommending professors and courses as another effective form of advising. 

The committee also suggested the departments become more 

/in,erlpt~!~e t~~!t~~!~~t,~~i(ftlt~i:&f
J!:f;~'.'!
schedules~r;... .... . . . 
;:.•• Nwi.~.h~·,~·..·•a~,~,,~..·..~;ijI~;;{··•·: 
"/: ::,:•,..; ,':,:{:{.;;:. :·.. /(;'::.:· 

career planning, said Taylor. "Our advisers try to do both," he said. "Yet some are either unable or unwilling to offer advice on career choices." The ad vise rs, however, often become disap­pointed when their advisees demonstrate rio interest in discuss­ing future plans, he said. "Initia­



directly involved in advising stu­dents throughout the sophomore year. The report states that the close monitoring students receive from the Freshman Year of Stu­dies "has the unintentional effect of making the students' sophomore year in the college as unstructured as the freshman year has been structured." The committee recommends that information about majors, departments and counseling be made available to second-semester freshmen to assist in the transition to sophomore year. 
The other colleges similarily addressed their own shortcomings in advising practices. "There is a wide range of expectations among the students about what the faculty should be doing and also among the faculty on what the stu­dents should do," said Dean James Taylor of the College of Engineer­ing. Some students want only a "minimal form signing service," while others expect the adviser to counsel them on educational and tive is a two-way street," he added. 
Yet, at the same time students say the advisers often inhibit pro­ductive counseling sessions by their lack of either enthusiasm or cooperation. Although most stu­dents contact their advisers only during preregistration each semes­ter, some never meet with them at all, said senior Michelle Bolger. 
"Typically people talk to a favor­ite professor instead of the advisers and then have department chairs sign their schedules," the business major said. "Maybe all they (students) need is some encouragement from the advisers that the doors are open for them." 
"Engineering students often complain about the difficulty in locating their advisers," Taylor said. He said he recommends that all advisers post office hours to alleviate student frustration. Another problem is the failure of a few advisers to provide adequate information on prerequisites and sequences, Taylor said. This con­fusion on their part is mainly due to the change in the engineering curriculum three years ago. Tay­lor said he anticipates that the problem "will decrease in the near future." 
The Notre Dame Academic Council, in its evaluations, did however, praise one academic­counseling program for the effec­tive guidance of its students. The Freshman Year of Studies, under the direction of Dean Emil Hof­man, assigns freshmen to a full­time adviser and also several undergraduate peer advisers. The students meet with these co~sul­tants several times each semester on an individual basis. "The (seven professional) advisers have the responsibility of arranging the academic program for freshmen and for sharing in the support sys­tems needed for them/' Hofman said. 


The frequent tutorial sessions, 

! . learning skills workshops and other supplementary programs sponsored by the Freshmen Year office "aid the freshmen in mak­ing the adjustment to undergradu­ate studies," he said. Because of the program's apparent success, the Freshman Year of Studies plans "to retain the same format but improve the quality in the future," Hofman said. The College of Sciences is focusing most of its revisions on advising the sophomores, said Dean Francis Castellino. His office has created a special advisory system especially for sophomores in the preprofessional program, the largest one · in the college. Also, each . student received a new booklet on advising in August. In the other concentrations of the College of Science, "there is a lot of individual advising built 
into the system," Castellino said. The small upper division classes lend themselves to much informal advising by the professor, he said. 
Academic advising on the campus of Marquette University in Wisconsin is undergoing similar critique, according to Robert Newman, Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Science at Marquette. As at Notre Dame individual colleges direct the advising of its students,· he said. Students enter a college freshman year and are assigned a premajor adviser. The next year when they declare a major they are advised by a departmental faculty member. 

and advisees. 
In· the future, Marquette may require each college to commit a certain percentage of faculty to the advisor program, instead .of relying on volunteers, Newman said. "This year we found our­selves pretty short on advisers until we recruited some more," he said. The· college is also contem­plating an orientation workshop to train faculty for advisory posi­tions. 
Improvements in the advising system will continue, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. Plans for an automatic student informa­tion system were recently approved by the administration, 


Newman said his office has recently tried to address various inefficiencies in the advisory pro­gram, particularity the need to publicize the availability of the advisers to meet with students. He said they hope to improve the communication between advisers 

providing advisers access to the complete file of each student. The University is also presently developing a Committee on Quali­fied Teaching in a Research University to "look at further reflections on the question of advising," O'Meara said. 
sportsw 


SOCCER The 19th-ranked soccer team rambled to two wins over the weekend by defeating Michigan State, 3-1, and Northwestern, 5-0. 
In Sunday's game, PAT MURPHY scored two goals and STEVE LaVIGNE scored another on a corner kick from Murphy's foot. ROLFE IlEHRJE and Athlete or the Weck JOE STERNilERG scored the other two goals in the team's romp over the Wildcats. Goal­keeper DAN LYONS recorded his third shu­tout of the young season. 
The new Krause Stadium was formally dedicated during halftime ceremonies of Friday's game, as the Irish beat the Spartans under the lights or the 5,000 scat facility. Sternberg, Bchrjc and BRUCE McCOURT all scored for the Irish. 
The Irish travel to Wright State this week­end to take part in the Wright State Invita­tional. They will play the host team on Satur­day before taking on Boston College on Sun­day. 
VOLLEYBALL The volleyball team returns to the Joyce Center tonight after a month on the road to play Bradley (2-8) at 7:30. The Irish have a 
six-match winning streak and have not lost at home since Sept. 12 of last year. They have won 12 in a row ai home. 
Last weekend at the EK U Colonel Invita­tional, the Irish won the team crown and ended the week's action with a 9-2 record. It was the first tournament victory in Notre Dame volleyball history outside or last year's North Star Conference tournament. Notre Dame beat William & Mary (3-2), Eastern Kentucky (3-0), and Cincinnati (3-2). The Irish then came from a 2-1 deficit in the championship match to defeat Rice, 3-2. 
Before the tournament, the Irish beat Loy­ola last Wednesday night, 3-0. WHITNEY SHEWMAN played in the first match of the season for her in Chicago after off-season knee surgery. MARY KAY WALLER, out since Sept. 5, should return to action this week. · 
The Irish travel to Ilowling Green on Saturday to take on the Falcons, who arc ranked ninth in the Midwest. WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Two key Irish runners came down with 

injuries last week, which will severely cripple 
the team's chances to break the top five at the 
National Catholic Cross Country Champion­
ship tomorrow on the Burke Memorial Golf 
Course. 
TERRY KIBELSTIS and WENDY MUR­

RAY arc down with injuries, the more seri­
ous of the two being Kibclstis' two stress 
fractures, which will probably keep her off 
of the Irish squad until late in the season. 
Approximately 20 teams will compete for the championship, including defending champion Villanova. Starting time for the race is scheduled for 3 p.m. 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 

The men's race in the National Catholic Championship will start at 4 p.m. tomorrow as the Irish seek to regain the championship that they lost in 1984. The Irish finished fifth last year, 61 points behind St. Thomas of St. Paul, MN, which has grabbed the top spot in the last two years. 
FIELD HOCKEY 

The Irish (1-2-1) picked up their first win of the season last Saturday with a 1-0 win over Alma. DEBBIE CI-IARLESWORTII scored in the opening minutes of the match on a pass from ANN McGLINN. MARY JEAN IlEETEL recorded the shutout. 
The team travels to West Lafayette on Saturday to take on Purdue in a 10 a.m. start. They then play Olivet in Olivet, M 1, on Mon­day. 
GOLF 
The golf team started the season with a win over Western Michigan. The Irish defeated the Broncos by 27 strokes, 379--106. Team captain DICK CONNELLY finished as the Irish low man, followed closely by DOUG GIORGIO. 
The team travels to Zionsville, Ind., this weekend to compete in the Indiana Intercol­legiate with Ball State and Franklin College. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The tennis team hosts the Irish Invitational 
tomorrow through Sunday at the Courtney 
Tennis Center. Notre Dame will compete 
against Eastern Michigan, Miami of Ohio, 
Purdue, Austin Peay and Michigan. 
SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

The Saint Mary's soccer team stands at 2-3 
after splitting a pair of games over the week­
end. Last Friday, the Ilcllcs went down to 
defeat against Findley College, 2-1. ANNE 
SZWEDA scored the lone goal for Saint 
Mary's. 
The next day, however, the Ilcllcs won a 3-2 decision against Oberlin. PATRICIA TROESTER scored two goals for Saint Mary's, and KAREN CHANDLER tallied the other goal. 
The Belles travel to Purdue on Saturday to take on the Boilermakers. 
COMPaEDBYTERRYLYNCH 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 

The Belles improved their record to an astonishing 9-0 after defeating St. Francis last Thursday, 8-I. St. Francis came into the match as the defending District 2 I State Champion. Saint Mary's then beat Anderson College 9-0 on the following day. 
The team will host the Saint Mary's Col­lege Invitational this weekend. 
SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL The Ilclles (5-3) dropped two out of three matches last weekend, beating Defiance Col­lege on Friday, 3-2, but losing to Illuffton­Collcge and Walsh College bier in the week­end. 
The team plays tomorrow at home against Sienna Heights in a 5:30 match at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Delles will then take the short drive to Bethel College for a 7 p.m. game next Tuesday night. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
KATHY CUNNINGHAM 

···· · Cunningham, a sophomore out­side hitter from Naperville, IL, was named to the EKU Colonel Invitational all­tournament team last weekend along with teammate Zancttc Bennett. She ranks third on the team in kills (63) and kill a\'cragc (2. 74) behind Bennett and Maureen Shea, although she has played in two fewer games. 
JOE STERNBERG 

Sternberg, a junior from Rochester, NY, was instrumental in last weekend's action against Michigan State 
and Northwestern Sternberg scored the opening goal against the Spartans, and assisted Ilrucc McCourt on the insurance goal in the second hair. On Sun­day, Sternberg scored again, giv­ing him a team-leading total of c igh t goals on the season. 

. Another Stiff Belt 
After pounding MSU, 31-8, for its second straight big win, the Notre Dame football team sobers up for the upset-minded Boilermakers. 
BY MARTY BURNS 


trange days, indeed. Notre Dame stands 2-0 on the season, following up an opening-day win over Michigan with last 
week's 31-8 mauling of Michigan State. The Irish are in the Top 10 this late -yes, late -in the season for the first time since the early days of Gerry Faust, and men in flourescent-colored suit coats standing outside Notre Dame Sta­dium may actually be bowl offi­cials and not just regular alumni. All of this and yet, still, Notre Dame fans remain, for the most part, a surprisingly cautious lot. 
No one can really blame them, after all. Irish fans have had the rug pulled out from them so many times they can't help but be cau­tious. It's almost as though they're afraid Mr. Rourke will appear in his white suit and tell Tatoo to take the Irish to "de plane." Or maybe they fear the players will get together and announce they are going on strike for the remainder of the season. 


As if these nasty visions are not 
enough, now they have to . hear 
about this Saturday's opponent 
from Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
The Irish square off against Pur­
due at I 1:30 a.m. in Ross-Ade Sta­
dium and, as Holtz says, "History 
shows that some awfully good 
Notre Dame football teams have 
gone to West Lafayette and lost 
Winning at Purdue has never been 
an easy thing to do for Notre 
Dame teams." 
Holtz' diplomacy aside, Irish 
fans have little to worry about. 
Purdue finished 3-8 last year, 
including a 41-9 defeat at the 
hands of the Irish, and has started 
slowly this year under new head 
coach Fred Akers, losing to Wash­
ington and managing only a tie 
with Louisville. In addition the 
Boilermakers lost their quarter­
back -of -the -future, Jeff 
George, when the youngster 
decided to take his gaudy reputa­
tion off to pass-happy Illinois. 
The Irish, meanwhile, must 
only avoid a letdown -a task made 
easier by the fact that they will 
have a full. week off next week to 
concentrate on their October IO 
date with highly-ranked Pitts­
burgh. If they can remember to 
play Purdue, the Irish "No-name" 
defense should be able to contain 
senior quarterback Doug Down­
ing, a fair passer who has thrown 
five interceptions in his two 
games, and a Boiler running attack 
which finished last in the Big I 0 
last year. 
In fact, the "No-namers" 
should get plenty of chances for 
Purdue quarterback Jeff George (shown) transferred to· Illinois after last season, leaving senior Doug Downing to deal with Cedric Figaro and the rest of Notre Dame's "No-name" defense. 

~·. • t --·· , 
-' . ~ , 

the kind of attention that comes with say, sacks, fumbles, and , interceptions. While the Irish lead the nation in turnover margin 
! (gaining 11, losing one), Purdue has been plagued with mistakes. In last week's tie with Louisville the Boilers committed I5 penalties (including four key pass­interference calls), missed three field goals, and generally had trouble getting the ball into the end zone, prompting Akers to state, "We just made every mistake in the world today." It will take a relatively flawless performance on offense Saturday if Akers' squad is to harbor any hopes of victory. Holtz, meanwhile, has stressed fundamentals to his squad, rem­inding them that this -even more than Tim Brown punt returns, safeties on the kickoff, and all the other breaks Notre Dame has received this year -wins football 
games. "As a coach, you find that it's much easier to get your players to work hard and get excited about practicing and improving whe·h you're 2-0 than when you're 0-2," he said. "We've won two games against good teams, we've got a little confidence and we're keep­ing our mistakes to a minimum. That's what we must do to win." 
No offense in college football has done as well at controlling the ball than the Irish. Although much of the scoring this season has come as a result of turnovers forced by the defense or Tim Brown punt returns, quarterback Terry Andrysiak has demonstrated poise in knowing when 'to throw or run. Andrysiak's 9-of-17 passing against the Spartans led Michigan 
State head coach George Perles to state, "The way he played tonight was the way I figured he would 
Allan Lim 

play when I tried to recruit him. I am glad we didn't have to face him the last two years." Purdue's defense, meanwhile, led by out­standing middle linebacker Fred Strickland and defensive end Tony Visco has been a pleasant surprise to Akers. Although not as talented as the Irish offensively, Louisville was held to negative yards rushing and was the victim of five sacks in its tie with the Boilers. 
Still, this game should be an easy affair for the Irish and it should make their fans forget about Purdue's 35-17 demolition of the Irish in 1985 at Ross-Ade Stadium. The inept play of the Notre Dame team that day left lit­tle doubt to observers how far down the Irish had sunk under Faust. And those memories, as the cautious optimism around the campus has proven, have been slow to fade. II 
September 24, 1987 




THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 
FILMS: 
"The Money Pit" 
Engineering Auditorium 
7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
$2 
"Rebel Without A Cause" 
Annenberg Auditorium 
7p.m. 
"East of Eden" 
Annenberg Auditorium" 
9p.m. 
LECTURES: 
Economics Department 
Dr. Michael Piore 
Library Auditoriium 
8p.m. 
SPORTS: 
Volleyball NDW vs. Bradley JACC 
7:30 P.M. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 
FILMS: 
"Platoon" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 
"The Morning After" Carroll Hall 7, 9, 11 p.m. 
"She's Gotta Have It" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
SPORTS: 
Volleyball SMC vs. Siena Heights College Angela Athletic Facility 
5:30 p.m. 
Cross Country NDM's National Catholic Invitational ND Golf Course 
CONCERTS: 
Chicago JACC 
7:30 p.m. $15.50 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 
FILMS: 
"Platoon" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. 
$2 


CONCERTS: 
BILLY CONNOLLY Park West 322 W. Armitage September 25 8p.m. 

ALIOTTTA, HAYNES & JEREMIAH Park West 322 W. Armitage September 26 
7:30 p.m. 
KING SUNNY ADE Park West 322 W. Armitage September 27 8 p.m. 
THE KATE FAGAN BAND Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan September 25 8p.m. 
THE DEADBEATS Biddy Mulligan's 7644 N. Sheridan September 26

i. 
8p.m. 
THEATRE: 
"Burn This" Royal George Theatre Through October 4 Tuesday-Friday 8 p.m. Saturday 5 and 9:30 p.m. Sunday 2 and 7:30 p.m. 
"Comedy on Rye" Garden Lounge Through October 8 Tuesday-Thursday 
12:15 and 1:15 p.m. $10 
"Sugar Babie¦ " 
Candlelight Dinner Theatre Through December 6 Wednesday through Friday 
8:30 p.m. Saturday 5 and 10 p.m. Sunday 
2:15 p.m. $17.95-$26.95 w.o. dinner 
"Snow White" Old Orchard Theatre September 30 
10:30 a.m. 
$4 
"Nunsense" Forum Theatre September 24 and 25 8p.m. September 26 
6:30 and 9:300 p.m. September 27 3p.m. $18.50 and $23.50 SPORTS: 
Ba11eball: 
Chicago Cubs Wrigley Field Clark and Addison vs. Philadelphia Phillies September 24 1:20 p.m. vs. St. Louis Cardinals September 26 1:20 p.m. vs. St. Louis Cardinals September 26 1:20 p.m. vs. St. Louis Cardinals September 27 1:20 p.m. 



Compiled by Anne Marie Walker 
September 24-30 
"The Morning After" Carroll Hall 7, 9, 11 p.m. 
SPORTS: 
TBA SMC Tennis Invitational Leeper Park 
ND vs. Purdue Football Ross-Ade Stadium 
11:30 p.m. 
ACADEMICS: 
Education Testing Service Examination Engineering Auditorium 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 SPORTS: TBA SMC Tennis Invitational Leeper Park 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
"The Awful Truth" Snite Museum of Art 7p.m. $2 
"The Gun for Hire" Snite Museum of Art 9p.m. $2 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
"Les Enfants du Paradis" Snite Museum of Art 7p.m. $2 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 
FILMS: 
"Lethal Weapon" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30, 12 p.m. $2 


MOVIES: 
Uninrsity Parle West 
"Full Metal Jacket" 
7:15 and 9:30 p.m. "Fourth Protocol" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "LaBamba" 7:30 and 9:45 
"Can't Buy Me Love" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Tewn and Country 
"Stakeout" 
7:10 and 9:40 p.m. "Fatal Attraction" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "The Principal" 
7:25 and 9:45 p.m. 
University Parle Ealt 
"The Untouchables" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "No Way Out" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Tough Guys Don't Dance" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "Hamburger Hill" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Beverly Hills Cop II" 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
Scottsdale 
11 Hellrai1er" 
7:45 and 9:45 p.m. "The Pick-Up Arti1t" 
7:30. and 9:30 p.m. 


September 24, 1987 
19 



Final Word 



to love. Their deficiencies, when 

compared  to  their  riches,  are  
insignificant.  
It  was  an  unbelievabe  
phenomenon.  The  spirit  of  the  

games filled everybody's hearts. 
The more tired people got the 
more kind and gentle they became. 

The games ended but, alas, the magic hasn't left. I have received letters, and sent some more myself, from people whom I shared those days with. Special letters all coming from the depths of souls speaking of sweet and true knowledge of the good we knew through the games. I still meet people that I met at the games, on campus, at the mall, at the super-. market and we talk. Even when we talk about things other than the Special Olympics, there is a secret knowledge shared in the depths of the feelings we lived together. These special· people made us feel special, and their presence -so full of joy and so full of love -has carved lasting truths in our hearts. 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the founder of the International Spe­cial Olympics, told the athletes in her opening speech that they had "earned (their) right" to be part of this society. In many ways there is truth in that phrase, but I some­times wonder whether it is really not the other way. around ­whether it is not us that need to earn the right to join them. II 
The Magic of Special 
Olympics 

housands of volunteers from all walks of life and all parts of the country converged 
on our.campus over the summer to bring the magic of the International Special Olympic Games. As one of them, I was for­tunate to form part of that extraordinary event and witness its magic. It is about this magic that I need to write. 
Most of those who volun­teered as I did to be live-in-hosts for the International teams were apprehensive in the beginning ,about having to interact at close quarters with mentally-retarded people. We had no idea how to relate to them, whether we should , treat them like any ether "normal" . person. Would we do better . perhaps by trying to ignore their disabilities? I didn't even know whether I could refer to them as "mentally retarded." Would that be correct? Wouldn't it be insult­
ing? 

I remember my utter amaze­ment at finding it so natural to be with them from almost the very first moment. Within the first few 
BY VICTOR KREBS 
their wonderful world, and the days I lived through their eyes are deeply impressed in my mind -I know that is true of everybody who had anything to do with the Olympics. Magic had c~me . to Notre Dame and it spread hke fire throughout the whole region. 
As I write these lines, my mind is flooded with images and emotions still so close to my heart that I have difficultly articulating them clearly. I treasure as one of my most dear memories the image of Abraham, one of the members of my team, completely absorbed and utterly amazed at the sight of a water fountain. "Que es eso, ah?" (what's that?) he asked me in Spanish with those quizzical eyes now fixed. on that marvel. Abra­ham, you see, comes from a very 
...poor family in an underdeveloped country where even the most sim-pie things that we take for granted absolutely captured his imagina­tion. Abraham soon learned to drink from the fountain, but I don't remember ever seeing that spark of wonder vanish from his 
eyes. 
We all learned many things that week. We learned, for exam­

! minutes after their arrival the kids• pie, of the fatal lie of labels. on my team surrounded me and Behind the unhappy label of men­. asked me all sorts of questions, tal retardation, -we found indivi­told me stories of their long-·trip duals, people with deeper and and of their homes, and even tried purer hearts than most of us could some practical jokes on me that ever hope for. I learned that "spe­evening. Without the slightest cial" was not a euphemism for reserve, they had made me their "disabled." These people are spe­friend. My initial apprehensions cial in the fullest sense of the word vanished soon, and my concerns because they live in a world that is then seemed to me to be petty and full with the rarest gift of all -the ridiculous. They had taken me into gift of love and immense capacity 







D~A.ul8AC.~: c.R.MI=':,, OLD-FA!.\llo,-1£0, l)RAwBAc~<;: Loot-.J'1, SC.A12. ~. OR.Ao)BPQ::s: MAKES ~ 00 TlUN~ AlkAir te-1:E~ STtff. W~1NG: t-\A'-1 \:Wl'III:: '10v l~ l·IIS' Sowa.~ W~NING·. MA•f'TUeN '100 1..rto BEL-lEl/€2. lllP.e.J1.)G: ~ JOl:c G~ Ol-0 A~ Al.lJHll,f..
AR~ Ac.,,~(:, VP THO., DA':!. 
T\-\E. S1tJG,U:,•'THE.02~•TO­

T~E. lwCOM~R.EH.E.t-JSlSLE N\tE. LITl"LE NOBOt>Y
EXP\.AIN•E.VE~THli-JG, M~Nl~C. 
SR\LL\ANT .F O~E.l~N~R.
"TI-\E. NATIOJ.) THAT Co~Teo\t.: MAGr-lESIUM 
DE.
C.ONT'20l.~ nt& 
I~
UNI\JE~ !f:" 

D'2P.WBPl.t:',;: PARROO~ ISN'r LEAQ.•h~. t:>G?P.WSAC.l:s: t-lo-nua.lSI..A"'TOli?.~ A'/AILASI,£.. W~N1NG: 7'-tE.oR.<1 MA'1 e,e, eoee.ecr. W~1iJG: l.l.)1u., t121vE '1ov •~~E.. 
WA/2N1"3(o: T\ll<;; ,s U~E.. 



' ' ........... _____ 
•  •  •  I  :  
•  I  ,,  
•  •  ,. •  .::  '  ~ •  ' V  



SUB presents... 


_j BEST PICTURE 

\\l~'\fk 
4 ACADEMYAWARDS 
~~:-:-::-: . t~~Tfl 
llra.llUli.w:11 I.N.1t:ft1.l"-il' '-ilili~~•-~m IIIIJDID nllJIUII cu.tlDm ....11112\11111 t,"'-ul~Q( !ei,~. bli"'111111UU.OIN!ii:.11111l•:11i:,.1]1 klt,dol\llf.Ua. 
_R, ~::;;;=:. .:?~~..:;::.-:: 

Wed., Sept. 23 & Thurs., Sept. 24 Fri., Sept. 25 &. Sat., Sept. 26 _ 7, 9, and 11 p.m. 7, g·:30, and 12 p.m. 
Engineering Auditorium ......--L--,ission $· . NoN.;:.PROFIT ORG •. MEMORIAL LIBRARY . ' U.S. POSTAGE PAID 5!iii!I Notre Dame,·· Indiana Permit No. 10 NOTRE DAME IN 46556 









