
.. '. . :,'.',' 
=:·. ·. :_:-. '··. 
:·. ~~,. [ ~tg~~.P§rMi§£;hJ.?,§]~"l\~Ftl.~ .. 11 
ANTOSTAL•WEEK.....APRIL•.. •2DS-2E 

! 

OS news 
8 Inauguration Day Through the Eyes ofGolden Domers 
Vanessa Adjei & Jason G'Sell 

Scholnstic staffers share their personal reflections on being in D.C. for Inauguration-Day. 
11 culture 

14 Student Body Elections 
Scholastic Staff Scholnstic examines all four tickets' platforms and proposed initiatives, providing a brief synopsis of each as well as an official endorsement. 
22 Chill Pill 
Maddy Zollo 

With Adderall abuse rising among college students nationally, what are Notre Dame students saying about their use of the drug? 
25 sports 26 Irish Eyes On: Erik Condra 
Mimi DiSipio 

Assistant Sports Editor Mimi DiSipio gets Condra to talk about fighting, playing on the pond and "The Mighty Ducks." 
28 humor ·31 Best Weak Ever 
Frances Thunder · 

Does a gregarious PLS major have any marketable strengths? Read on to find out. _ 

5 FEBRUARY 2009 '.SCHOLASTIC. I1 
--------------------~ 
-. , ~ . -. -' 
-. ' . 
' -­
' , .. '. .· ' -. 
. ----~-~-~-~-~-----~~--------­








EDNOTES 
YES YOU CAN 
As seniors on the Scholastic staff, we're entering our fourth student body election campaign season. We've witnessed student body leaders who kept their promises, candidates who failed to accomplish their goals, hilarious freshman Zahm tickets we'll never forget and more propositions to improve the dining halls than we care to remember. The names and faces change, but every year it boils down to more or less the same issues -do we want to vote for the more experienced ticket? Or do we want fresh faces in office? And does it really matter anyway? 
The answer is yes, it does matter. As we are beginning to witness the effects of a new U.S. President, we are reminded that the individuals we put in places of power, at whatever level, can have very pronounced effects on our everyday lives. Get to know these individuals on pages 14-18, consider our endorsement on page 19, and, come Monday, Feb. 9, cast your vote knowing that the ticket you have chosen can and will effect change for the better. 
SEX, DRUGS AND CUPID 
Now that we've gotten the lofty rhetoric out of the way ... staff writer Jenny 
Hoffman relates her experience of the Pornucopia panel on page 20, along 
with a recap of what happened at a university porn conference back in 1969 
(this one was a bit more exciting, as the local police and mace were involved). 
Associate Editor Maddy Zollo talks to ND students about their use of the 
ADD/ADHD drug Adderall as a study aid on pages 22-23. And whether you're 
in a relationship or not, Managing Editor Molly Slavin has you covered on a 
Valentine's edition ofReviews/Previews on page 21. 
Thanks for reading, 
Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 FEBRUARY 2009 

. . .· 
Come explore the life ofzeal of the 
Congregation of Holy Cross · 




with an evening of prayer and conversation \iVith Holy Cross religious and other discerning rnen. 
Have questions? call (574) 631-6385 or email vocation.l@nd.edu 
February 27 Education 


Blessed Brother
Fr. Tom Eckert, C.S.C. Fr. Tom Blantz, c.s.c. 

Andre Bessette,
March 27 
Mission Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. Matt Kuczora, c.s.c. 
,April 3 
Parish Fr. John DeRiso, C.S.C. Fr. Neil Wack, C.S.C. 
5-430-7~0 p,m. 
beginning at Log Chapel 
with dinner to follow at the Coleman-Morse Center 
-~----=---• 
-: . . .. _-.". :· ... . ; ,., ; ' . ' . . . . 




FIND SOMETHING FOR YOUR 


valentine . ", 
AT THE HUDDLE M.ART 
chocotate6, giit6, andmore 
-: .. ­


LE · MART 
Shoulder to Shoulder 
Faculty members join students on March for Life for the first time 
Lisa Bucior 
As over one million people were leaving the nation's capital after the inauguration of President Barack Obama, 220 students from the University of Notre Dame were just arriving. The students were representing Notre Dame on the 36th annual · March for Life -and for the first time, they were joined by university faculty and administrators. The March for Life is a pro-life gathering in Washington, D.C., that takes place on the anniversary ofthe Supreme Court's 1973 Roe v. Wade decision, a ruling that protected a woman's right to an abortion under privacy laws. Although the March has taken place for the past 35 years, Notre Dame only began sending students in 1997, according to junior .Mary Daly, president of the Notre Dame Right to Life organization. Right to Life organizes campus participation in the march. The entire staff of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, as well as three other professors and administrators, was able to join the students this year, thanks to the newly-created Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life, which is managed by the Center for Ethics and Culture. Right to Life also invited the Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C., the university president, and the Rev . .Mark Poorman, C.S.C., the vice president of student affairs, to join the students in the protest. Both Jenkins and Poorman had scheduling conflicts and sent others to march in their places. Students said they were glad to have university faculty marching with them. "It's a very positive thing," Daly says. "It is good for the image of the university and good for students to see professors who support what they do." William Kirk, the associate vice president for residence life, agrees. "As a Catholic institution, it is important that we stand up for life," Kirk says. "It's true to our Catholic faith ... It sends exactly the right image of what is important to Notre Dame.'' This year was Kirk's first time on the .March for Life, and he says, "I would take some time.off if necessary to go again." Plans are already in the works for next year's march. Dr. David Solomon, director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, stayed after the march to meet with D.C.-area alumni and discuss ways to make the March for Life encompass even more of the Notre Dame community. The Center hopes to bring more faculty members and arrange events where Notre Dame students could meet alumni who work in the nation's capital, Solomon says. Solomon says that while he does not believe protests solve issues, the March still gave him hope that abortion will one day be outlawed. "I would like to think that when a bunch of articulate, intelligent students and faculty get together, we can change minds," he says. 

------=--=--== 
§§§~"§~~~~§ 
--""_;;;c;::-;;;c;::~: 
Octuplets in California 
Sure, babies are cute, but can we really handle another reality show? 

Blagojevich 
We know you're a crook and all, but you've got a really sweet name. 
Maria Sellers 
Since Notre Dame students are graced with week-long fall and spring breaks, as well as having Good Friday and Easter Monday off, most other national holidays are spent in the classroom. Such was the case this past Martin Luther King, Jr. Day on Jan. 19. Many other institutions across the country are dismissed from class to celebrate the holiday. The administration had considered,giving students the day off this year but ultimately decided against it. · Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for news and information, says, "The university requires 70 class days each semester ... [and certain standards for class days ~eed to be met to maintain consistency]." But students and faculty still observed the holiday in honor of the revered spokesman for the U.S. civil rights movement. On Jan. 15, 2009, former university President Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., spoke of his friendship with King and the story behind the well-known photograph that hangs in LaFortune Student Ce~ter and the National Portr;it Gallery in Washington, D.C. Student government also sponsored a day of service in the South Bend area. On the holiday, a 'prayer service honoring King took place in the rotunda ofMain Building. The holiday took on even more significance this year, as Barack Obama became the first African-American to step-into the office of the President of the United States on the following day. Notre Dame will celebrate BlackHistoryMonth this February by discussing Obama's impact on diversity and embracing black culture through events like Black Koffeehouse, a night dedicated to celebrating the African Diaspora. (I 








Keenan Revue Prevue 
Students prepare for classic nights ofsketch comedy 
Josh Flynt 
The Keenan Revue premieres tonight, Thursday, Feb. 5, at 7 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College. This year's show is directed by junior Danny Wheeland and produced by junior Andrew 
Derksen. In addition to tonight's performance, the Revue will be showing 
Friday and Saturday night. The sketch comedy show has been an annual 
tradition since 1976 and is an extremely popular dorm-sponsored event. 
Performed and organized entirely by the Knights of Keenan Hall, this year's 
theme is "It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's the Keenan Revue!" Last winter, the Revue was filled with memorable skits. "Ubiquitous" became part of everyday vocabulary. Students' perspectives on Casper and Harry Potter would never be the same. Wheeland and Derksen explain that this year's Revue would not be lacking in hysterical performances. They cited "Chicks Pooping," "Pick Me Up" and "Holy Cross Bar Scene" as the skits to watch for this weekend. 
Revue tickets are free, but "sell out" every year. For those who got tickets at the Jan. 29 distribution, or for those privileged enough to have generous friends in Keenan -enjoy the show. 0 


Paul Anka, "[You'_re] Having My Baby" 
Ben Folds, "Song for the Dumped" 
Nelly Furtado, "Promiscuous Girl" 
Beyonce, "Single Ladies" (or should we say Sasha Fierce?) 
Carrie Underwood, "Before He Cheats" 

5 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 7 

Inauguration Day Brings New Possibilities 
Vnnt1tsan AdJ@I 
Iknow what history looks like. OnTuesday, Jan. 20, 2009, I witnessed it firsthand. As I arrived at the National Mall on a cool morning, I did my best to absorb the energy in the atmosphere. After all, it is not every day that our nation swears in its first African-American president. It can only 
began. When President Obama approached the podium, a wave of anticipation washed over the crowd and chants of "Obama" rang out. I looked around at the d,iverse crowd. The salad bowl of America was represented on the National Mall, and it was refreshing to see the broad array of people gathered to 
happen once. a A 
It was a unique election year because for~Y( {\! many Americans, this election marked thef.-;/71 f =L,.I first time they felt a personal connection[-:·]foi,iJ~ 1-teed en th@ N1tl0n1I to a campaign. It was early in the morning, • Address, the natio~~ 44th President expressed his plans for the challenges ahead to an electrified crowd. 
"America, in the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship ... Let us brave once more the icy currents, and endure what storms may come. Let it be said by our childr~n's children that when we were tested, we refused to let this jo-µrney end," President Obama said as the crowd erupted ~ith_applause. 
The historical significance of the moment 
yet people were camped out, surrounded by Mill, I f@lt i §@11§@ of en@n@@§ . was difficult to process in a single day. 
mountains offood and water. Others inched 
forward to find a spot with the best view of with the@@ ,reund m@, i§ Will 
the ceremony. 
an~st;o:~;:::.~l~~:r::!;:r~~~::~~:~ 
At 79 years old, she wanted desperately t~ attend the inauguration, but her legs were not strong enough to make the journey. I felt 
a sense ofprivilege as I remembered all those who fought the battles against prejudice and discrimination thathelped to make President Barack Obama's election possible. 
People craned their necks and readied their cameras as the inauguration festivities 
8 j SCHOLASTIC j 5 FEBRUARY 2009 

iifi §@11§@ of eptlmlt~} -~'_:-_:·:_-.:•.·_:_._,_,_:_,_-_:_;::~_:
,_-_:_'._l_-_,_:_~_~_-_1)
cf/ p'.,, _, 
support the nation's new president. __ 
While administering the oath of office, 
Chief Justice John Roberts mixed up the 
order of some words, but there was only a 
faint crowd reaction; the audience was more 
focused on the speech. During the Inaugural Looking back, the inauguration ceremony was gratifying for so many reasons. As I stood on the National Mall, I felt a sense of 
;:::e;:;~~:t~s;;;:~:t~~a:a~:~c::r; 
broadened the pe;~eptions of minorities and other marginalized people. Huddled together · on that cold Tuesday afternoon, we all had a 
chance to witness history. 
Dim lights flicker on in a darkened bus. Yawns are heard as people awaken from their Nyquil-induced half­sleeps. As my pupils slowly adjust, I look at the time -it's 5 a.m. on Jan. 20, 2009. This is the day that I have been waiting for since President Barack Obama's victory in November's election. Our group of seven takes the Metro downtown. Following the quick train ride, the doors open and reveal the utter chaos ahead. We are in the middle of the L'Enfant Plaza subway station, surrounded by hordes of people, all with the same destination. Metro workers regulate how many people can leave at one time, but this soon creates dangerous situations when new trains arrive. People cannot walk off of their trains because the platforms overflow with bodies. The crowd begins shouting, "Let us out! Let­us out!" Just as fears ofriots peak, a new chant begins: "Obama! Yes we did!" We try to make small talk with some strangers in the station. While people have come from all over, we all share one thing in common: support for Obama. I expect people to be rude, frustrated and short-tempered, 

but I find incredible kindness brought on by the sheer joy and excitement of experiencing such a historic event. 
We finally make our way out of the station and onto the National .Mall, about a mile east of the Capitol building. We wait eagerly in 
the cold, intently watching the megascreens to see what is happening. People continue pouring onto the Mall for hours, creating an endless sea of bodies. 
People from every race, ethnicity, class, religion, city and country have assembled to witness one man. To our right is a family from Canada and to our left, a couple from New Orleans. As we make friends, it becomes readily apparent that no one here is really a stranger; rather, we are all united under the "hope" of which Obama so frequently spoke. Cheers spring up in support of Obama, and the crowd rallies in anticipation. 
Once the ceremony begins, the masses become silent. Then, as Obama is declared the 44th President of the United States, crowds erupt with shouts ofelation. Strangers hug and applause rings out. This is why we are here. 
People were celebrating, not simply because we have a new president, but because we have renewed hope. We have hope in an America founded on equality and rights for all. We have hope in our leader and hope in ourselves. This was not a victory of one man, but of a nation. 
The inauguration had a way of unifying Americans like no other event. vVhether black or white, Democrat or Republican, on that morning, in the bitter cold, on tl1e field of the National Mall, we were one in hope.0 


No Sleep, No Problem 
Competifion keeps ch~rity alive 
Claire Reising 
Swimmers in large innertubes entered the pool at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, preparing for a game of water polo. In the adjoining lanes, kayakers warmed up for a race to be held later that night. Not far away, basketball, volleyball and racquetball players got ready to rumble. Although this may not have looked like the typical weekend at Notre Dame, the Late Night Olympics coxpbined three staples of students' lives -service, sports and lack of sleep -to raise money for the St. Joseph's County Special Olympics team. 
The purpose of the event is to foster competition between dorms in an effort to provide funding for the Special Olympics team. RecSports intern John Beven, who organized the event, said that 13 brother/sister dorm teams participated. 
Freshman Courtney Vargas, Lewis Hall representative, learned more about the Special Olympics through her participation in the Late Night Olympics. "[The Special Olympics athletes] have their own local events ... and they also go to state competitions, which is something they need the funding for. They need buses, uniforms and facilities to practice in," Vargas says. 
One of the primary ways for teams to raise money was through the "Penny Wars." In the weeks before, the Olympics teams placed money jars in their dorms, in the Rockne Memorial and in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Donations of pennies and bills added to the team's ­points, while donations of quarters, dimes and nickels subtracted points. Other means of raising money included entry fees, donations, T-shirt sales and an open-skate session. , 
The Keough Hall and Welsh Family Hall team continued their winning streak this year, raising almost $450 in the Penny Wars and winning 60 out of the 84 games they played, according to Beven. Excluding donations and T-shirt sales, the Late Night Olympics raised almost $4,600. The winning dorms will split the $1,200 prize (from team contributions) with the Special Olympics, and Special Olympics will receive the rest of the funds. 
The brother/sister dorm teams competed from 6 p.m. onJan. 31 until 2 a.m. on Feb. 1 in 11 different events. Teams played volleyball and basketball and participated in other more unconventional activities, such as an obstacle course and inner-tube water polo. 
Beven commended the competitive yet charitable spirit that students brought to the games and the athletes'-time commitment. 
"It says a lot when people come out on Saturday night and are still playing bags at one in the morning, when they could be doing plenty of other things," he says. ' 
Students were notthe only ones who devoted their Saturday night to the Late Night Olympics. The St.Joseph County's Special Olympics team played a .basketball game against Athletic·Department staff at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center field house. 
"Everything stops for. that game~ and everyone comes and watches," sophomore Cari Pick, a Welsh Family Hall representative, says. 
Coordinator of Student Welfare and Development Harold Swanagan, who played in the basketball game, says he enjoyed interacting with both teams. 
"They [just] wouldn't let me dunk on anyone," Swanagan says. 
...Yes? 


Highlighted Planks 
APPROVE Off-Campus Housing Network (Burdick-Sanchez) -Have a terrible landlord? Great location? Moldy basement but great for parties? Leave your thoughts and advice for future residents on an online database. 
Good Samaritan Policy (Schmidt-Weber) -:--In place at other universities, this policy guarantees that a student assisting another student in trouble will not be punished for any rules they are breaking. 
DISAPPROVE Expanding the "Gold Rush" Program (Burdick-Sanchez) -Students who didn't already want to go to see watch men's golf aren't going to be seduced by potential football. ticket price reductions. 
Security Gates (Schmidt-Weber) -Sure, the student short film "Our Lady's Bouncers" was funny. But working with NDSP to allow students on campus for "reasons ofmerit" is vague. And it takes the fun out ofsneaking beer on campus. 
HEARD IT BEFORE Dining Hall Improvements (Burdick-Sanchez, Lennon-Harig) -Is it reallj that difficult to walk across campus to the dining hall you prefer? 
Arrest Reductions (Mccaughan-Gorski) -We all want the police to lay offour drinking indiscretions, but we doubt that the kind of change necessary will come through student government. 

DNClaire ormal" Reising_ is how junior biology major Laura Burdick and junior political science and Spanish double major, Latino Studies minor Derek Sanchez describe their personalities. They see themselves as down-to-earth candidates hoping to increase communication between the student government and the student body. "We feel like the connection between student government and the student body is basically nonexistent, and we feel we can make that connection a lot better," Sanchez says. Burdick and Sanchez hope to contribute their experience with' the Hall Presidents' Council, as both candida_tes are this year's athletic co-chairs. Burdick says they have built relationships with several departments and learned to see issues· from a campus­wide point of view -beyond their dorms' perspectives. As athletic co-chairs, Burdick and Sanchez place Notre Dame sporting events at the top of their platform: establishing tailgating space for students and bolstering interest in low-attendance sports. They propose to expand the concept of a senior tailgating row 
to include space for all classes and providing activities and refreshments. Additionally, they plan to strengthen the Gold Rush Program by creating a point system for students who attend games other than football, basketball and hockey, and awarding more exciting prizes, such as discounts on football or basketball tickets. 
The Burdick-Sanchez platform could also benefit students interested in pursuing public service careers after graduation, such as teaching or government jobs. With their proposed Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, graduates who pursue these careers would receive help paying off loans. Sanchez says this would be an alternative for students who have difficulty affording Notre Dame and do not want to enter a ROTC program. · 
They intend to model this program after the proposed U.S. Public Service Academy, an institution that, if established, will provide students with a federally subsidized education, in exchange for five years of public service after graduation. The candidates say they will investigate several options to finance this, such as the Alumni Association and government funding, and they recognize the program will take years to establish. 
In addition to long-term goals, the candidates have ideas on how to improve campus life, such as a "Safety First Approach" with the Office of Residential Life and the Notre Dame Security Police. Sanchez says that students would benefit more from alcohol assessment classes than from punishment. Burdick adds that students should not be punished for making sure that intoxicated friends receive proper care. 
Although Burdick and Sanchez have several propositions, they say that their agenda is flexible and that, if elected, they will take suggestions through Scholastic and The Observer for two weeks to help determine their plans. 
"We present the things we want and listen to student responses, creating a dialogue with the student body where we're having a flood of ideas coming through," Sanchez says. "I can't believe that this doesn't happen every year." 0 
s FEBRUARY 2009 I ScttoLAsT1c I is 

Jessica Farmwald 
"1 f we had a thesis, it's pretty much: Get elected, and then go mad with power," Luke Lennon, a freshman from Zahm Hall aspiring to become the student body president, says. His roommate turned running mate, freshman Charles Harig, says that once in power, the two plan to turn the office into a monarchy and stay as long as humanly possible. Harig says, "Do you really want to elect someone that says, 'I only want to lead the country for the next four years,' or do you want to elect somebody who is confident enough in themselves to say, 'I want to lead the country forever?"' They say that one of their major platform initiatives is to add to the diversity of the student body through a new affirmative action program -affirmative action for beautiful women. "Candidates would be posted onNDToday. com, and anyone that got over a score of 10 would get a scholarship," Harig says. "The scholarship could of course be taken away, 
16 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 FEBRUARY 2009 
though, for possible violations ... wearing sweatpants two days in a row, frequenting the dining halls too much, stuff like that." 
Late bloomers could become eligible for walk-on status. Lennon and Harig say they will head the committee to evaluate all photo, and possibly video, submissions. Lennon says, "There will be checks and , balances because we realize that some people . like blondes, some like brunettes ... " 
Harig says, "Not so much redheads,_· 
though. We don't need checks and balances 
there." 
Lennon and Harig also feel passionately 
that the concept of a "buyout,'' much discussed this past fall in relation to Irish · football coach Charlie Weis, · should be 
applicable to anyone. 
Harig says, "So, if your teacher is being 
a real· a-hole in class, ~ bunch of students -· 
pool money together, buy out his tenure. Ifa 
certain field goal kicker misses another field 
goal, buy out his scholarship. That kid in the 
corner keeps raising his hand? Buy out his 
tuition. Or his left arm. Things like that." 
Le~non and Harig are committed to addressing a perceived injustice in the dining halls on campus, as the two say they believe that South Dining Hall is superior to North. One of their suggested solutions is to have :J·"lube crew" put in place to piake sure the blue bowls don't stick together. 
On the frequently discussed topic ofhow to bridge the gap between student government and the student body, Lennon says, "The candidates that are running are in student government and say that they want people who are in student government to do a better job of getting people involved, but I would say that most people don't feel that." 
"It's like they're just extending a reign of terror," Harig says. "I just feel like our issues as a whole, I mean, it's basically everyone's issues. So it's like everyone's having a say in student government. -It's what everyone wants." 
"We are running to draw niore attention to the .election," Lennon says. "And ourselves.". 
. , . . 
f • • ; • , < ' ~ • 
~
' •• I ' /' • I • • '-/ • • ~: 
COVER STORY 
Molly Slavin 
It's safe to say that junior history "Our main concern -especially after last the bag searches can infringe on students' and economics double major James football season -would be the arrests, not pnvacy. McCaughan and sophomore Information only of students, but also of alumni, and I The other planks of their platform include 
Technology ' Management major Tom guess even people who don't have any strong "a promise to support DormBooks.com in Gorski are reform-minded. Their campaign connection to Notre Dame other than being any and every way possible," mint toothpicks is driven by the desire to improve the way football fans. We just didn't agree with the in the dining hall, instituting interhall laser the university administrators treat both tag and moving the student government students and alumni. Although neither have to the Sorin Room on the first floor of
''we,re not going. to
any experience with student government, LaFortune. Although the interhall laser tag they believe this is a positive thing because and mint toothpicks (Gorski says that one
stop until we actua~1
they can work with an outsiders' view and a day he got a toothpick from North Dining fresh outlook. get what we want. Hall and thought, "Man, wouldn't it be nice This mentality has led the pair to if these were mint?") may seem a little silly, 
-JAMES MCCAUGHAN
formulate a platform that _-they are aware, the two insist that they are very interested in McCaughan's words, is "a break from in "working for the students." Boiled down, the past," but that they believe "is really way the university handled all this and the their campaign's central theme is a desire on students' minds." One · of the driving -way student government handled it, and we to be treated with "respect and dignity" by forces behind McCaughan and Gorski's want to run so that students and alumni are university administrators. campaign is reforming the university's treated with more respect by the university." McCaughan says, "vVe're gonna push and approach to tailgating and ending NDSP's As to the issue ofbag searches, McCaughan get as much for the students as we can. vVe're searches of students' bags on campus. They says, "\Ve believe it is unfair to expect not going to stop until we actually get what are interested in reducing the amount of students to comply with a search that can be we want." 0 arrests \Jecause, as they say, "graduates with very overbearing." The two say they believe criminal records don't benefit the university." that students bringing bags on campus do In regard to tailgating, McCaughan says, not pose much of a security issue and that 
5 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 17 


Incumbent Vice President Grant Schmidt and his running mate, Sophomore Class President Cynthia Weber, are "rounding the Bend" in their bid to become student body president and vice president. Junior political science and economics double major Grant Schmidt began his involvement in student government his freshman year. "I wanted to be a part of something that had the ability to work directly with the school, as opposed to the 'us-against-the-man' mentality present at other schools," Schmidt says. Sophomore theology and political science double . major Cynthia Weber also entered student government as a freshman. Taxi reform is one of the foremost concerns for Schmidt and Weber. They want to implement a system requiring cabs to have an identification number, which would serve _as an extra safety precaution for student travel. Schmidt and Weber want to push for a $2 flat rate on weekends and a prepaid ticket booklet that would function as cash with participating cab companies. "There are eight legitimate cab companies in South 
18 I SCHOLASTIC J 5 FEBRUARY 2009 
Bend ... but there is a place near Michigan where you can go and rent a cab without a cab driver license," Schmidt says. 
Schmidt and Weber acknowledge some potential challenges with the system in its early stages. "There will be some instances where the cab that you pick is not using the · system or is not a legitimate cab," Schmidt says. 
Schmidt and Weber also want to . implement a Good Samaritan policy and include it in Du_Lac. This policy would set in writing that a student will not be subject to disciplinary action when helping another student in need. 
Schmidt and Weber also plan to address rising textbook prices. "Notre Dame allows eFollett to be the exclusive provider of textbooks and apparel. We are working· to increase accessibility of ISBN numbers for textbooks [so students can get textbooks through other means]," Weber says. Schmidt and Weber also hope to provide students with more information during the textbook return process. "Before we get to the bookstore, we can publicize whether or 
not they will take the book back because the 
bookstore has agreed to put this information 
online. This gives students other options," 
Schmidt says. They hope to join with other 
Indiana schools to rally for tax exemptions 
for textbooks, similar to a measure that has 
already been enacted in Iowa. 
Schmidt and Weber also cited the difficulty · of getting onto campus through security 
gates as a concern for students. Students have 
expressed frustration with the seemingly 
arbitrary nature of campus security policies. 
The candidates want to work with NDSP to 
create a more specific set of guidelines for 
allowing students to drive on campus. 
Schmidt says he believes his greatest failure 
during the Reish and Schmidt administration 
was a matter of communication. "My biggest 
failure is not relaying information. People 
do not know about the progress that we are 
making in the community, which sometimes 
leads to increased hostility," Schmidt says. 
The Schmidt-Weber ticket has high hopes 
for the future. "We want to push the limits· 
of what we can do with student government 
this year," Weber says. 

CULTURE 





Campus Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF THAT'S WHAT SHE SAID 
Jan. 22, 2009, was my first time. I'd never done it before in my entire life, but in one night, everything changed. My palms were sweaty as I entered the room ,vith eager anticipation. What would we talk about? Could I ask questions? It's true: Before that night, I had never attended a panel on pornography. 
Before attending "Pornucopia: Living in a Pornified Culture," in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, I read this recollection from the 1969 edition of the Notre Dame yearbook, which chronicles the events following a decision to hold an unauthorized screening of a film titled "Kodak Ghost Poems": 
Directly before the movie was put on the p1·oject01; in mid-afternoon ofthe seventh ofFebruary, the first violent confrontation between police and students in the history ofNotre Dame took place. Deputies broke into the auditoi-imn, threw students down the stairs and then desks on top of them. They knocked the projector offthe table and pulled the girl who had taken thefil11z itselfup over the desks, knocking her to thefloor and ripping the fil11t fro11t her hands. They then ran oflt ofthe building. It should be understood that at no time did they show a warrant or make any attempt to identify themselves. When they left the buildings, students gave chase and were maced in their efforts to recover the film. Police fell on students, and ground their faces in the snow and dirt ofearly February. Stitdents made similar effo1·ts, but no police suffered any appreciable injuries. Maced students, however, were severely shaken. And so the Pornography and Censorship Conference which started off as a good try ended as a miserable and highly-publicizedfailure. 
And so it was after reading this almost unbelievable excerpt that I prepared to attend the Pornucopia panel. Finding partners in crime was key -there was no way I was going to be "that girl" who went to a pornography panel by herself (besides, who knew if mace would be involved?). When I asked two of my male friends to .Join me, their initial answers were less than enthusiastic, but after promising them that they could crack as many "that's-what-she-said" jokes as they wanted, they were quickly on board. 
With my wingmen in tow, I entered the auditorium. The place was packed -students and professors filled every seat, and many resigned themselves to sitting on the stairs (my best guess is that students thought they were actually going to see a pornographic film). The crowd looked to be evenly split between boys and girls, with a few professors scattered throughout. Eyes darted nervously around the crowd as people checked to see if they recognized any of their peers (or ifanyone recognized them). · 
The panel opened with an episode of"Seinfeld," which lightened the mood and elicited laughs (read: awkward giggling) from the crowd. Five members sat on the panel: history professor Gail Bederman; law professor Rick Garnett; gender-studies professor Cristina Traina (via webcam -oh, the irony); Fr. Nate Wills, C.S.C., associate pastor at St.Joseph Parish; and Master ofDivinity student Brian Vassel. Each person contributed to a different topic of the panel and, together, they presented a thorough look at the world of pornography. 
The panel agreed that pornography has become commonplace in today's society. Garnett explained that pornography is protected under the U.S. Constitution. He discussed the period between 1967 and 1973 in which over 50 obscenity cases were heard by the Supreme Court. The Court justices were "forced" to go down to the basement of the courthouse and, after watching the film in question, determine whether or not it was pornographic. Rumor has it that because one justice was blind,Justice Thurgood Marshall narrated for him. 
Fr. Wills related pornography to religion and faith. "[Pornography] distorts a person's world view, ruins relationships and traps a person in a cycle of addiction and isolation," Wills told the audience. He said it draws people away from intimacy, isolates a person from God, and encourages sin. 
I had been looking for action, anticipating an hour and a half of awkward yet entertaining dialog~e that caused the college audience to squirm in their seats. On the contrary, the discussion was, in a word, mature. The panelists were knowledgeable in their areas of expertise and presented their issues thoroughly and effectively. Not surprisingly, the panel strongly supported the stance of the Catholic Church. ") 
I heard several students gruQibling about the bias of the panel. "They should have brought in Hugh with his robe to duke it out with the priest," one boy muttered to his friend, disappointed. Another girl suggested bringing in a porn star or director ofa porn flick to sit on the panel. I wonder, though, if she .would have made her suggestion had she known abqut the possibility of our good friend mace making a reappearance ... 0 
-Jenny Hoffman 

UJ 
UJ 
...J 
~ 
J: 
!ci: 
z 
o· 
-, 
~ 
z 
0 
~ 
a:: 
lii 
~ 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 FEBRUARY 2009 




CULTURE 


Adderall Use at Notre Dame 
Maddy Zollo 
It's the Sunday before finals week, and campus. "Senior year, people don't-even want willing to make an effort to get diagnosed Tyler*. has let the previous study days pass to study, but in the past a lot ofpeople used it." orto obt.ain the pills; it's at their discretion. by with· only a glance or two at his notes. Tyler gets the drug from his brother's Performance-enhancing substances . have 
Knowing that he has a limited amount time friend at another university in Indiana, · been used for studying for years, whether it · to cram for all of his exams, Tyler, like many although he has heard of someone who faked be caffeine pills, speed in the '80s and '90s, or other Notre Dame students, fuels up with an AD.D diagnosis. at Health Services. "If now. specificaHy,Adderall arid other ADHD caffeine arid makes Huddle runs in order to you really wanted to do it, you could ,get iµedications," he says. "There are positives survive the hours he plans to spend tucked it," he says, concerning the availability of a . and negatives to any substance used to keep. away in the library. Unlike other students, prescription for the drug at ND. awake/concentrated. for studying, and you though, he has a little extra boost, aside from have to de:tl;,with the consequences as well as the numerous cups of Starbucks coffee or ,. i the benefits. It's basically a personal choice, countless cans of Red, Bull. He, has Adderall., ,' . WOpening·' up '. ·as far as I'm concerned." 
Adderall, or amphetamine-dextroa-Kyle, like Tyler, started to take Adderall mphetamine, is a stimulant prescribed America's Starbucks hissophomoreyearandhasµsedit"eversince to those diagnosed with attention. deficit to help wit~ studying for tests or writing disorder (ADD) or attention .deficit -·generation tO intense papers. Om;;major difference between-these 
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Adderall , two.students, however, is that Kyle has always stimulates the central nervous system, over-the-counter -tlioughtthathe·inayhaveADHD. resulting in increased levels ofconcentration. · h · • , · • "It _worked well to help\me focus and But Tylet'has not been clinically diagnosed af'l'!p .etam1n'eS <-.> curb ,;nyfrequent desire to''genip and walk 
with either ADD orADHD. probably wouldn',··fJ·--~-..··arfmn~ during studyin_g," he. sa~s; Kyle S?J'.:S ·~1 heard other kids say that I should ,use it . . ·.. · · • '' . ·.. he believes that there IS· a fine !me between to make crammingeasier,''Tylersays. Now a. . _.·. .• the best idea.·-;':_ :· ·: ..•. ·.thb~e who "have tp''-µse Adderall(clinically 
senior, he has been using the drug as a study · · · · · · dia·gnosed people) and those who, like him, . aid since his sophomore year. ,' ' . . -Kyle have a shi:>rtattentionspan. •·· ', ' . ' '.'For . the most . part, it. makes rn:e nof .. ·. "Similar .tci many bfmy fellowstudents; .I .. 
·dis_fra_cted/' he says. ~'If I trr to .sit down_ a_nd . /the prevalen:ce ofstudents ti.sing Add~raU feefconfident that! have exhibited a number study/it helps because my style ofstU:dyjng is without aprescription to help them study ·. of ~ymptoms as;ocia~ed withAI>HD/' h.e 
·-· ·. ·_ by sitting dowp.for afe'V days." : .·•·.. , ii -.·•-•·· .raises the questioil ofwheth,er.i~ is:acceptahle ... :s,ays, ..!'and with :n.O sure ~esting meth9ds, 
•. /-According ,to a recent·report'froni -Time/ to ~se it as.anaid_orif it. is, in fact,:a forni ~f .. :behavioral health professionals' rely -heavily" ..••• T-3:gazin,e,·sev:en. percen~ ,ofAmerican c:o,ll~ge _'. · . sheating aI1da xiolation of:~he H6~or Gode.· :• on~ymptom reports: from patients to develop ··. · students.. have taken Adderall • for ''non-. "I.don;t kno~; it's ~-good q~estion,''Tyl~r . adiagnosis·.~ . . . . . .. ' :.~meqicaP'-purppses, arid up to a. quarter of .•says;.· '..'rhere lire ._a :lpt: more probleins·.. in -• ·.··. •·· :Even• though,: he ha/11ever)een officially ·., .•· . . . . .. s~derii:s in private, top~tier unive~sities have· . · ac~demicdishonest:/that you would consider .·..· diagnosed with ADHD, Kyle says'b,~ beHeves' . 
·...µseditforstudyingpurposes: : . < ,\. 11J.OJ:echeating." '.. . . ,, .+ . t4ai:ifhe.~ere~o;gofor~prof~ssionalopin~on;.i , . !'.Ifthey can gedt, my friends use it,'' Tyler. Kyle*, :inoi:her senior whp adrn.itsto using he ~quid bi(diagnosed with the disorde~. . . . saisi ~~gafdi~g}he. popularity ofAdder~U on\ · Ad~erall {or stlld;ring~ ~gr.~es. «If ~omeoneis.i ,' •·· Thire •l:i.~s .··.IJ~en -~n bng6ing •. national. 
·,,.·-·. 
S,ciroLASTIC I 5FEBRU~Y 2009 
CULTURE 

debate concerning whether or not there has . been an over-diagnosis of ADD and ADH_D. A report from the University ofPennsylvania describes how "the number of prescribed users has increased rapidly, aU:d the increase in diagnoses has carried with it a rise in supply for users without prescriptions as well." This rising number of di_agnoses may be why so many students believe that they might have an attention disorder when, in reality, they may just be more easily distracted than · others -a belief th;t may lead ND students to self-medicate. . . · Although Tyler and Kyle both say that using AdderaH has beeri an immense help in preparing for tests, each kriows that there can be negatiye consequences. Addeq1ll is_· a prescription drug·. for a reason, andits · side effects can include a loss o_fappetite, ins0111nia and light-headedness, am<:>ng others, Some 
studies suggest that the · overuse or misuse of Adderall could lead to dependency, and Tyler says that he's heard of people at other universitiestaking Adderall in order to stay up late partying and to increase the effects of alcohol. 
"Overusing is definitely·a bad idea, taking either too much at a time or too much to stay up for days will' definitely take a physical, as well as mental, toll," Kyle says. 
When asked ifeveryone should have access t0 Adderall, both Kyle and Tyler agree thdt it shouldn't become an over-the-counter medication, although they currently treat it as such. 
"I think that Adderall still has too high a probability for abuse in its current form," Kyle says. "Opening up America's Starbucks generation to_ intense over-,the­counter amphetamines probablywouldn't be tne best idea." 0 
-),y:•:s~EB~liXRf~HQ9'J::i-GJ~tAsTis_·.·1, ~3 
, :>::-· 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Blsexual, &Questioning Students 
The Core Councll for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr, Sue Dunn, OP, dunn,64@nd.edu, 1a5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources In 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr, Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr, Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 


corecouncil.nd .edu 
College Gameday 
Ir/sh fans show their support on ESPN 
Matt Formica 
On the morning of Notre Dame's matchup against the University 
of Connecticut, I woke up with a strong sense of excitement and 
unbridled ·anticipation for the upcoming events. Despite an unbearable 
urge to hit the snooze button and enjoy a few more precious minutes 
of sleep, I decided to seize the day and root for my basketball team on 
national television. ­
I trekked over to the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center with 
a group of friends and arrived at 8 a.m. As we took our place in line behind the 700 or so students who had arrived either earlier in the morning or the night before, my friends and I happened to stumble · upon a discarded piece of poster board and a couple of markers. After collaborating for a few moments, we settled on an extremely hilarious yet highly unprintable message and scribbled it onto the sign, which 
would later receive some pretty solid airtime on ESPN. 
Finally the line began to move as students were let into the building, 
though some were more aware of this minute detail than others. Two 
sleep-deprived gentlemen were in the midst of what seemed to be a 
pleasant nap when the doors were opened; I can only hope that they 
woke up in time for the game. 
As the crowd continued to file in, former Notre Dame basketball 
coach Digger Phelps immediately began pumping up the crowd, as he 
had been doing for much of the week. On Wednesday, Phelps made 
an appearance in the dining halls, and on Thursday he visited some 
of the dorms to encourage students to support the Irish. 
Throughout the broadcast, Digger repeatedly proclaimed that the 
student section would be the MVP ofSaturday night's game, to which 
fans enthusiastically responded with cheers and chants of "Dig-ger! 
Dig-ger!" Not only did Phelps play an integral role in generating 
school spirit and eliciting energy from the crowd, he performed dance 
moves that could be rivaled only by those ofMichael Jackson. 
When the broadcast concluded at noon, I departed from the 
JACC along with the rest of the students and headed straight to the 
comfort of my bed for a much-needed nap. As I slept, I dreamt of a 
glorious victory over the reviled UConn Huskies and awoke feeling 
invigorated and optimistic about the game. 
My friends and I joined the line outside of the JACC at 4 p.m. 
Students utilized many methods to stay warm, ranging from sipping 
coffee to huddling together, and when the doors opened at 5 p.m., the 
crowd surged forward. 
Fans went into a frenzy during pregame introductions, which 
featured a dramatic video montage of the team and bursts of smoke 
emanating from the top ofthe backboards. The atmosphere remained 
electric throughout the entirety of the game, perhaps even more so 
than at any of this year's home football games. 
Even though the students tried their hardest to propel the team to a 
victory, it was the Huskies who ultimately snatched the 45-game home­
court winning streak from our grasp and snapped it like a twig. 
Despite the disappointing loss, the College Gameday festivities 
provided Irish fans with an opportunity to show the public that 
they are among the most spirited and passionate supporters in the 
nation. ~ 
Mimi DiSipio 
These days, senior Erik Condra, captain of the men's hockey team, finds himself leading a group that just won't quit. The nation's second-ranked team is in hot pursuit of the NCAA Championship title that eluded them last year. And no one is more determined to right the wrongs of last season than Condra, who was sidelined by a knee injury for last year's postseason. Now healthy and enjoying a successful season, the two-time Irish· offensive player of the year is one of the Irish's leading scorers. 
Until this season yo11 shared the Notre Dame record ofbeing 20th in ·.•assists with yo11r 11ncle, All-American Kirt Bjork ('83). Now yo11 have 
·s11rpassed him to become only the 10th player in the history of the program to record 100 assists in yo11r career. Does that make for any rivalry atfamily dinners? 
[Laughing] No, he still actually has me in points so far. I think I need ·,. something like 19 or 18 more points this season to pass him. So he's still 
t: got that on me. But we joked around about it before the season started, so .-it's not too bad. 
\' 
Was ityo11rfamily that gotyo11 interested in hockey originally? 
liJIJ Yes. My mom's side of th~ family is ~ig into ho~key, and my grandp~ lived ~..:on a lake, so I spent my wmters growmg up skatmg on the lake. Thats howIfI first got into hockey. 
~· Y-011 andyo11r teammates recently bad the opport1111fty to practice on the 011tdoor rink at Merrifield Park as part ofthe "Practice on the Pond" event. What was that like? 
It was unbelievable. It was so much fun. It was just like being a little kid : going out and skating on the ponds and messing around. We had a lot of 
iJ::i::-,tbmg.,.. h=,J,,n', /" g=utm,, in tb, pmalty •~• 
·,ff In juniors, a kid on the other team kneed a kid on my team, and I cross­W/t·'·;·•·: ~hecked him in the face and then jumped on him and started punching him 
~J> .
111 the face. 
!',i(.
'(f,.:,· ' .. 
. • ;;i; So then you have gotten in a fight on the ice? 
\t1jff Yeah, back in juniors. You can't do it·in college. 
lf The number one atop Grace Hall has been lit 11pfor quite a while now. How do you, as a captain, deal with the bull's eye 01J your team's back due to your number one ranking? 
We have been here the last couple ofyears, so we know ho~ to deal with it. We have good veteran leadership that knows what this is like. We look at the next game ahead ofus, and we don't really look at the streak or being number one. We need to take each game as it comes. 
We hearyou are a movie aficionado. Haveyottseen "The Migh-iy Ducks"? Ifso, which character would yort want to be? 
Of course. I love that movie. I would definitely want to be Charlie Conway. 
Haveyou evershot the infamous "knuckle Jmck"? 
No, that is a fantasy shot. That does not work. I wish it did. 
What areyourplansfor nextyear? 
I'm hoping to sign with an NHL team or maybe play in the AHL and work my way up. I want to keep playing hockey. I'm a pre-med major, so I am considering going to medical school though I haven't applied yet. I want to keep playing hockey for as long as I can, but I am definitely keeping my options open. 

Josh Flynt 

Heading into the spring dual-match tennis season, the Notre Dame doubles team ofsenior Kelcy Tefft and freshman Kristy Frilling is ranked first in the country by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA). Tefft finished her junior season rankefl third in the nation with doubles partner Brook Buck ('08). Tefft and Buck advanced to the semifinals of the 2008 NCAA Doubles Championship before losing to a doubles team from Fresno State. This past fall, Tefft and Frilling finished with a 10-1 record and reached the finals of the ITANationallndoor Championships. As a team, the Irish are ranked 17th in the· nation. Seven ND singles players are currently ranked in the top 20 regional rankings, led by Frilling and Tefft, ranked fourth and fifth, respectively, and including other top 10 players junior Kali Krisik (sixth) and sophomore Kristen Rafael (ninth). ND opens play at home on Feb. 6 against Michigan. 
0 
The Irish baseball team was recently picked to finish third in the Big East for the 2009 season. The preseason poll, voted on by the league's 12 coaches, placed Louisville and South Florida in the top two 'spots. Three Notre Dame players were also voted to the 14-man preseason All-Big East squad. With junior pitcher Eric Maust, junior outfielder AJ. Pollock and senior shortstop Jeremy Barnes voted to the roster, the Irish tied Louisville for the most players to receive this recognition. This past summer, Pollock was named MVP ofthe Cape Cod League, a collegiate summer league that attracts many of the nation's best baseball players and Major League Baseball prospects. In December, Pollock was named to the 2009 Wallace 
Award Watch List, for the award to be presented to the nation's top collegiate baseball player. The Irish begin the 2009 campaign in Tampa, Fla., on Feb. 20 when they take on Ohio State as part of the Big East-Big Ten Challenge. 

Since dropping their first two games in Central Collegiate Hockey Association play against Miami University (Ohio) this season, the Irish hockey team went on a tear. Following the back-to-back losses, the Irish reeled off a 20-game unbeaten streak before falling to Michigan at home on Friday, Jan. 30. During this streak, the icers were 17-0-3. Since Dec. I, the Irish have been ranked first in the nation, marking only the third time that this feat has been achieved in the hockey program's 41-year history. In 27 games this season, the Irish have scored 90 goals, while allowing only 43. The Irish travel to Columbus, Ohio, this weekend for two games against Ohio State before returning home for another pair of games on Feb. 13 and 14 against Northern Michigan. The Irish are now 20-4-3 for the season and have dropped to number two in the national rankings. 

INTO THE DEEP BLUE SEA A Notre Dame diver prepares to hit the water HOCKEY 101 The Irish hockey team teaches the basics of their sport to at the Shamrock Invitational held at Rolf's Aquatic Center on Jan. 24. girls in Lewis Hall on Jan. 28. 
5 FEBRUARY 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I27 . . . 
-. 
.
-~~---~' -. 

____, __ 



Listening In ... 
,,e Student 1: He is gorgeous. ·tStudent 2: Yeah, and he's really emotionally vulnerable and pathetic right now, too. 
Go for it! 
I can tell you work out after you slammed me against the wall on Thursday night," -male to female student 
t through a womanizer phase." 
-boyinNDH 
an Girl 1 (just before the bun run): I'm scared. 
an Girl 2: Why? 
Freshman Girl 1: I've never seen one before. 
Freshman Girl 2: Seen what? 
Freshman Girl 1: A WEEEIIINER! 

Back In the Day ••• 
Imagine a brilliantly sunny football game day. You are leaving the tailgates to claim your rightful seat in the crowd before some drunken student moseys down and steals it. Then, something on the side of the stadium catches your eye. It's not obnoxious fans dangling limbs through wall openings and yelling obscenities; it is something magnificently shiny. No, you're not hallucinating. The glimmering object being hoisted over the wall is a keg, and it is the 1970s. 
Back in the day, tailgating regulations and stadium rules were still around, but they operated under slightly different jurisdictions. The main difference was that undercover cops, strict drinking enforcement and hefty punishments didn't exist. Instead of facing ResLife and service hours, keg hoisters, ifcaught, would merely get kicked out ofthe game. Ifonly we had all attended Notre Dame '30 years ago. Forget push-ups. Keg stand, anyone? 
-Meg Kowieski 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 5 FEBRUARY 2009 
Welcome back, my little Gipplings! It's a new year, and the Gipp sees that you are all resolving to bring back global warming (not even a Snuggie can save you now), to alleviate squirrel poverty (note to Viewpoint: make those letters stop), and to use your ShamWow at least once a week (Gipp will NOT make fun of ShamWow). Gipp has also noted another interesting trend of 2009: more and more, my young sheep are venturing away from Our Lady's campus ... and finding themselves in physically and emotionally painful situations. If only you young ones would stay in the pasture ofdorm parties, Sbarra and Reckers, perhaps these things would not happen! But these things have happened. Thus Gipp has no choice but to explain the dangers awaiting anyone who ventures outside of the 46556. 
Our first tale concerns a swashbuckling lad sailing on the off-campus high seas of cheap beer and malt liquor. We'll call him Captain Chug. After an evening of organized competltlve drinking, our protagonist emerged victorious and, following the closing ceremonies, navigated his way to another port and took his team's trophy along for the ride. Still in full costume, Captain Chug made quite a splash at the formal dress party that was his destination. One damsel in particular -Frida Kahlo, for our purposes -was in doubt ofthe authenticity ofhis earlier victory. "Arrrgh you going to make me prove it?" the Captain asked and took his skeptical new friend to the keg. Following a few contests, Frida warmed up to Captain Chug, perhaps in admiration of his drinking prowess or his blustery attire. 
As the conversation continued, however, Frida had an epiphany-she'd seen this pirate before. "Have you ever done nude modeling?" asked Frida, and when he answered, "Ay, matey," she knew: not only had she seen him before, but she had measured his plank to be sure it was in proportion to his body. Twice. Now that's one for the Captain's log. 
Our next story begins under a family­friendly guise: bowling! What could be more fun than hurtling innocent balls into heavy, destructive, damaging pieces ofmetal? (We'll return to that analogy later.) To announce their arrival at the alley, some ofour boys first decided to leave their lasses in the backseat. Our boys Batman and Robin jumped onto the roof ofthe car and proceeded to pop, lock and drop it, ride dirty and make it rain. Robin, always the spunky little clareclevil, made his exit by rolling down the windshield and off the hood of the car, avoiding a pancaking as only a man in tights can. Batman opted for the side escape, but as he flew away, one of his ladies was simultaneously making her exit from the car. When she opened her door, Batman opened his legs -and straclcllecl said door . with a crushing blow. Luckily, liquid courage had been heartily ingested before the display, so the entire party entered the bowling hall feeling relatively fine. 
To ensure that no permanent damage had befallen his jewels, Batman invited Robin into the bathroom for a second opinion. What Robin saw reminded him of the movie "Saw." To the Batmobile! To the emergency room! Escaping the bowling alley, our duo used the excuse of "appendicitis attack" to avoid any feelings of guilt on the part of the female maimer, but after arriving at the hospital, the truth could not be hidden. The female nurse could only exclaim, "Sweet Jesus!" and run away. When a doctor returned, he announced the need for five stitches (on the left, on the left) and an order to avoid climbing laclclers, power walking and all strenuous activity for two weeks. Maybe a spare would have been better than that strike ... 
The final tale finds us even further from our esteemed bubble oflove, comfort and flex points -it takes us all the way to the land of pounds, hounds and the World's Naked Bike Ride: none other than Great Britain. Newly arrived on the continent, Jimmy and a group of American friends quickly lost themselves in the winding streets and overlapping neighborhoods offoggy Londontown. Losing one's wayin any foreign city-ESPECIALLY one full ofEnglish speakers and English signs 
-is quite commonplace, but lucky for this crew, a display of interactive body language soon cleared up their whereabouts. One complete stranger helped the Americans realize that they were in London's most flamboyantly gay neighborhood. Our dear Jimmy was seduced by mobs of French girls, British men, stoic bartenders and even one neon-green wearing drag queen. Both women and men continued to be attracted by his "effervescent charm and purple plaid shirt." But ever the gentleman, Jimmy set his sights upon one lucky French lady and began his shy courtship. One friendly 40­year-olcl man watched the scene and heartily gave Jimmy a thumbs-up. Encouraged by the bystander's support of young love, Jimmr returned his sign. The 40-year-old man then moved in and gave Jimmy a pinch on the tush, which Jimmy took as a cross-cultural way to encourage his coupling with Frenchie. Wanting to preserve international relations, Jimmy repeated the thumbs up sign to his new friend. And before you could say, "fish and chips," the 40-year-olcl man had pounced on Jimmy's neck, and, in what was becoming a theme for the evening, enthusiastically gave him a big lick. All Jimmy could think to do was give his new lover a big thumbs clown and hope the translation made sense. Here's to the new King of England. 
So, my dearies, Gipp can only hope that these shenanigans have shown you what happens when you leave the Bubble. On top of that, Gipp adds that you can never know when the Finny's ceiling will collapse or a riotous wedding reception will break out at the Backer. Perhaps for 2009, you Gipplings should stick to Hip Hop Nightclub, streaking naked through LaFun and nude modeling for kicks. Whatever you choose to do, know that the Gipp will be around, curled up in his Snuggie, ready to clean up any debaucherous messes you may make. vVith his Sham Wow. 
Valentine's Day Love, 
The Gipper 


T;PTH0$fPP 
o o e o o at gipper@nd.edu 
5 FEBRUARY 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 29 


stand out. 
or 
ALL COLLEGES • All MAJORS • A'LL CAREER PATHS 
Let CJ.S k.elp1 v;s;t tAS tok_y: 
careercenter.nd.edu I (574) 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 

Best Weak Ever 
Frances Thunder 
So, over the joyous holiday season, I spent a lot of my time doing a typical senior activity: applying to jobs and preparing for interviews, all part of the terrifying concept called "my . future." Now, being the business school dropout that I am, little did I know that I have to be familiar with not only my strengths, but also my weaknesses in order to discuss them with a potential employer. But let's be serious, it's not like I have any real weaknesses. I go to Notre Dame. So after I whipped out my handy Interview Checklist, I got to thinking about my "weaknesses" and realized how incredibly relative that whole concept is. I mean, after all, who's to define what ·a weakness is? I'm primarily thinking of Special K with Red Berries. I think that the dehydrated look-like-they've-been-sitting-next-to­my-kitchen-sink-since-last-month strawberries are disgusting and a huge weakness, but some people can't get enough of them. Like the random woman who approached me in LaFun during finals week because she saw me picking them out of my hugely convenient bowl of cereal purchased from the Huddle and asked if she could have them. In fact, she told me that she likes them so much she bought a dehydrator so she could dehydrate all of her fruit. The only thing I dehydrate on a regular basis is my body, after "too many" pitchers of beer at Finny's on Thursday (and Friday and Saturday) nights. Needless to say, I selflessly handed the berries over to her. Se!Hessness, plus the ability to rehydrate after Thursday night and go again -strengths. I'm not a big planner (supposedly a weakness). Sometimes l have bursts of organizational frenzy, and that's when I pull out the black thing with the dates that I bought at Staples at the beginning of the school year when I was feeling all nostalgic about having school supply lists. Please note, however, that every weekend I do plan. Ifl'm not mistaken, the term "pregame" has evolved into a verb connoting preparation for an evening of drinking. Therefore, participation in said activity should technically keep anyone who enjoys alcoholic libations from being a complete slacker and one-ups those of us alcoholics from P.I.L.L.A.R.S. who don't partake in this specialized form of planning. So, HA! I'm a better planner than these so-called "socially appropriate" college students who supposedly have more promising futures than me. Behind those P.I.L.L.A.R.S.' fierce facade of strength, however, there's a plethora of weaknesses. Who else but someone (a.k.a. me) who needs to get a few packs of Bud before noon on a Saturday would get a shot of UV Vodka and a pair of panties for free? Or be asked on a date by the cashier at the liquor store? A P.I.L.L.A.R. might say borderline alcoholism is a weakness; I say I can work on my organization, start my evening then and there, skip the trip to Victoria's Secret, and work on finding an employed husband (beats ND boys) aH at the same time. Now that we've recognized a strength for the rest of us college students who do consume alcohol and knocked over the P.I.L.L.A.R.S. (Wit. Definite strength), I think it's only fair that we have a name that displays our strengths and abilities. We'll call ourselves P.I.M.P.S.; Peers Inspiring More Pleasurable Socializing, and we'll give out B.A.C. cards. Yet another strength: promoting time-management. We'll be like the P.I.L.L.A.R.S.' fellows. Only not the evil ones. 

Public school: that wonderful smorgasbord of intellectuals. Now, being at Notre Dame, this bustling center of diversity and private school matriculation, I know that y'all might think that public school is the bane of your existence. We're unwashed, we're uncivilized, we're taught STD prevention (weakness, weakness, weakness). But then there are the diamonds in the rough, like one girl who embodies why my public school has made me the strong person I am. In 2002, the D.C. sniper was affecting my area substantially. People were getting incredibly frustrated that the authorities were µnable to track and capture him. Her response was, "If they know his last name is 
'Sniper' why don't they just look him up in the phone book, find out where he lives and arrest him at home?" 
What. A.Jewel. My honors physics class was a buffet of comments like these, including, "When did Middle Earth happen?" So just remember that while you were sitting in your stuffy classrooms wearing the same thing as everyone else and thinking you were better than public school kids, I had the priceless life experience of going to school with these people every day (strength). I survived the high-speed chase that went down in my parking lot before the senior field trip when a student tried to deal his dime bag to an undercover cop right before we headed off to the amusement park. I survived public school (s-t-r-e-n-g-t-h). And I'm more than positive that these classmates of mine will go on to make great contributions to society. It's just too bad that George Bush doesn't need a cabinet anymore, and Peter Jackson is done with the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. 
Some people would say that being a PLS major is taking the road to failure or that the major is a weakness. Typical questions like: "\i\That can you do with it?" or "What do you learn?", or "You guys are kind of like a cult" (not a question) -ERONNEOUS. In the words of the great leader of our country, Kanye West, WHY CAN'T YOU JUST LET ME BE GREAT? So, like the good PLS major that I am, I've come to the conclusion that the moral of the story is, don't judge. Because, let's be honest, if you think that it's a smart idea to give yourself an IV while intoxicated to avoid a hangover, you've got another thing coming. 0 
9 FEBRUARY 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I?1 

Student Body President Bob Reish recently gave Scholastic a glimpse into his life. Staff writer Claire Kenney talked to the outgoing student government leader about his experiences, both at work and at play. 
'scholastic: What sparked your interest in running for ;~tudent body president? Bob Reisb: I did student government in high school ;and thought it would be a good way to meet people in college. After freshman year, I decided it was something I wanted to do here at ND. Plus, one time I watched an episode of MTV's "Made" ... I was inspired. 
:s: What prepared you to be student body president? {BR: I've had a lot of experiences at Notre Dame, but i nothing has prepared me more than living with my 
,: roommate, Craig Wiborg, for the last two and a half years. If I can deal with him, I figure I can probably deal with anything. 
· S: Do you have any particular advice for those who 
,.•' , will fill your position in the future? ,.. BR: The job is a lot more than what it may look like \ in The Observe1: It's a lot more work, but it's also a lot '> more fun. The most important thing to remember is ':•.that you represent the student body, and in every case, 
, people will agree and disagree with your decisions. :/Have fun with the position and don't take anything
,:'': )
'.I personally. 
\ S: Has this position taught you anything that you can /: apply to your iife in the future? } BR: I think relating to different types of people and >. different personalitie•s is one ofthe main things I have 
:)earned from this position. You have to know how ·.·.· to talk to different people, start a conversation with ':different. people and how to work well both as a peer .(and as a leader. · 
>s: What d~i~k would you compare yourself to? )SR: Rum and Coke. It's pretty basic, but it gets the tiob·d~rie. 
;'S: What is your favorite bar in town? .BR: Finnegan's for sure! There is not usually a long :'line, Thursday nights included. It's not the RA 
'•·:'hangout. 
,• . ,• 
:·S: Do you have any role models? ;BR: It may sound cliche, but my dad is my role model. '·He has inspired me to do what I want and pursue my 
/interests. He has always told me, "You create your \own destiny." · 
'": )·' 









