Disce quasi semper victurns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 28, 1885.	No. 25-
The Conquering Hero Comes-
[Rondeau.] ■ • •
Hero! March forth! our wrongs redress, With peace and hope our country bless;
Avert the clouds that gather, low’ring,
Appease the distant tempest roaring, That threatens us with dire distress.
Columbia joys in thy success,
That fraud and force could not suppress;
Upward and onward ever soaring, Hero! March forth I
With thee the nation shall progress,	•
Renewed to health and happiness;
* Blest harmony again restoring
To North and South, the bells once more ring, To’mark the coming Era—yes!
• Hear, O March Fourth!
Justin Thyme.
Alexander Pope.
The age of Queen Anne was an era of great brilliancy in literature and refinement in manners. Pope stands, by universal admission, its chief representative. He was born in London in 1688. His father was a Catholic, and a respectable merchant, who, after having amassed a^ considerable fortune, retired from business and spent the remainder of his days in Kensington. Pope was of a weak and sickly constitution from his birth; owing to this, his education was chiefly domestic. When quite young, he was placed under the care of two priests, from whom he learned the rudiments of Greek and Latin. He early displayed literary genius, and manifested a passionate fondness for reading. A particular attachment to Dryden, formed in his early youth, continued through his entire life. This attachment was the occasion of several productions in verse, all of which have disappeared from the literary world.
The age in which Pope lived had its distinctive marks—political, social and moral—which affected its literature in the highest degree. Pope was in strong sympathy with the times. Although his only aim was to acquire literary fame, still we find
him intimately associated with persons engaged in public affairs. Lord Bolingbroke, an infidel philosopher,—who polluted literature by his sophisms—was his firm and devoted friend. His other cotemporaries were Swift, Cowper, Addison, Philips and Steele, all of which exerted a great influence on the mind of our author.
Of his earliest attempts at poetry, the « Ode on Solitude” alone remains. It displays his love for quiet, prayer, etc., and is written in a very pleasing style. He made himself known to the world by his “Pastorals.” They are written to suit the age in which he lived, and although held in high estimation during the time, they can now scarcely be read with any pleasure at all. In 1709 appeared his “ Essay on Criticism,” an argumentative work which may justly be considered the finest of the kind in the English language. The sharp wit and many pretty similes have called forth the admiration of both young and old. It is a poem which contains many lines that are frequently quoted; as,
“ A little learning is a dangerous thing;
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.”
Two years later, in 1711, he issued his “Rape of the Lock.” The tale of a young gentleman stealing a lock of hair is prettily related ’ This silly trick caused an estrangement between two families, and Pope attempted a reconciliation by this mock heroic verse. The attempt failed. Still, the poem contains many humorous and witty speeches. He keenly discerns the follies of fashionable life and clothes the most ridiculous ideas in the language of the sublime. In his poem, “ Eloisa to Abelard,” he attempted the style of the pathetic, but was unsuccessful.
Pope was extremely sensitive. His sensitiveness was ai oused by grievances either real or imaginary. Considering the many inconveniences to which he was subject, we are inclined to pity rather than blame. Separated from all society by his weak health and personal deformities;and thrown, as if byfate, upon the world of letters, he labored anxiously, day and night, to extend his . fame and to defend it from the slightest abuse. Instead of treating little attacks with the contempt they deserved, he retorted with his satires, which abound in the most cutting sarcasm imaginable. The character of Addison is the best specimen of his satirical skill. The “ Dunciad ” also abounds in bitter and vehement sarcasm against obscure writers. But the worst piece of sarcasm he ever uttered was against
39°
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
the female sex, declaring, in his celebrated “Essay on the Character of Women,” that
“ Most women have no character.”
It is evident be knew not how to appreciate female character. This is, no doubt, owing to his rejection by Lady Mary Montague, the only woman for whom he ever entertained the slightest feeling of love. Strange that one who was so devoted to his mother should fail to detect some trait worthy of admiration in the character of her sex.
His “ Essay on Man,” written in four epistles, is the most elaborate of all his works. It is a metaphysical poem, in which he displays a system of ethics obtained by considering the nature and state of man. Its inconsistency with Christian philosophy is evident. It abounds in theological errors; still it is characterized by a happy combination of ideas, a graceful flow of language and its musical versification. It is dedicated to Lord Bolingbroke, to whom he was much attached, and who exercised a dangerous influence upon the mind of our young poet. Every line of this celebrated poem breathes forth the spirit of Bolingbroke. They are his ideas clothed in the language of Pope. At the end of the first epistle we find the following beautiful lines:
“ All nature is but art unknown to thee;
. All chance, direction which thou canst not see; All discord, harmony not understood;
All partial evil, universal good:
- And spite of erring reason’s spite, One truth is clear—whatever is, is right.”
The poem, also is graced with many beautiful lines that have become popular quotations; such as,
“ Virtue alone is happiness here below.” ’ “ O Happiness! our being’s end and aim.”
The character of Pope presents a mixture of good and bad qualities. When a child, he was of a gentle and pleasing disposition; but in his advanced years he became extremely satirical. Regarded as a man, he is said to have been, even by his most, prejudiced biographers, “ a most dutiful and affectionate son, a kind master, a sincere friend, and, generally speaking, a benevolent man.” In his poetical career we find the absence of that noble quality of a great poet’s soul—magnanimity- He seems to have regarded the circle of friends by which he was surrounded the world at large, and deemed their praises and flattery all that a poet needed.	*
The love he bore his mother is truly beautiful and cannot fail to excite admiration in all his readers. In some of his writings he speaks very affectionately of her. He died in 1744, a good Catholic, fortified with the Last Sacraments. While dying, he said: “ There is nothing meritorious but virtue and friend-ship;—and, indeed, friendship itself is but a part of virtue.”	:	G. H. S., ’85.
Duty is the grandest ideas, because it implies the idea of God, the soul, liberty, responsibility, immortality. It is also the most generous, because, independently of it, there is neither pleasure nor interest^—Lacordaire.	.
Poetry.
Aristotle gives a beautiful definition of poetry when he says: “ The historian and the poet differ, not because one writes in prose and the other in verse, but because the historian narrates what has happened, and the poet writes of that which can or should happen. Poetry is therefore more grave and moral than history, because it treats of generalities, while history relates particular facts.”
It is almost impossible to establish in fewer words and with more philosophical clearness the dignity of poetry. And these few words may serve as a text to one who would clear Aristotle from the imputation of wishing to subject the human mind to the senses, and of having, as a consequence, confounded poetry with a strict imitation of nature. It may be seen that it is not the particular world of phenomena, but the general world of ideas, that the philosopher sets forth as the field of study for the poet—words that place him before us in the light of a faithful disciple of Plato, of whom he is ever considered a rival and almost an enemy.
On this point, Bacon, who is ordinarily regarded as an adversary of Aristotle, follows him so closely that he seems to make simply a paraphrase of the passage already quoted. Here are his words, in his book on the “Advancement of Learning”: “ As the sensible world is inferior in dignity to the human soul, poetry seems to give to human nature that which history refuses to it, and contents the soul, in one way or another, with the phantoms of things, in default of sensible realities which cannot give. For if we reflect on the subject, we discover in this office of poetry a strong proof of the truth —that the human soul seeks' in things more of grandeur and splendor, order and harmony, agreement and variety, than it can find in nature since the fall of man. Therefore as actions and events, which form the subject of true history, have not that grandeur which can please the soul, poetry at once appears, which imagines deeds more heroic. Moreover, as the facts which a true history presents are not such that virtue can find therein its recompense, nor crime its punishment, poetry rectifies history in this respect, and imagines issues which correspond better to the designs and laws of Providence. Furthermore, inasmuch as history, by the monotony and preciseness of its facts, wearies the human soul, poetry awakens its powers by presenting before it pictures of events that are extraordinary, unexpected, varied, full of contrasts and of vicissitudes; so that poetry is to be commended less for the pleasure it excites than for the grandeur of soul and the purity of morals which it can produce. It is not, then, without reason that it seems to possess something divine, since it lifts the soul to the loftiest heights, accommodating the images of things to our desires, instead of, like reason and history, subjecting the soul to things.” .
. Evidently, in - writing .these lines Bacon is explaining Aristotle; he simply adds a Christian idea to the idea of the philosopher;* Like all the great men of the seventeenth century, he sought in re
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ligion the germ of a new philosophy, and thus from the dogma of man’s fall he borrowed his interpretation of the thought of the Stagyrite. Considering that the fall had debased the human soul to subject it to nature, he made of poetry an eternal protest against the fall for the benefit of man’s dignity. This gives the imagination a very beautiful role, and it would be difficult to conceive a higher idea of its power. The faculty by which it will be given us to approach the Infinite from which we are separated, and by which we may experience some moments of happiness in that state of exile in which we are placed far from our true country, will become one of the noblest of our faculties.
Another great mind, Fenelon—who also sought in the dogmas of religion the foundation of philosophy—has given a definition of poetry, which at first sight seems to contradict that of Bacon. In the second of his beautiful Dialogues on Eloquence, the author of Telemachus thus expresses himself: “ Poetry is nothing more than a living fiction painted by nature. If one have not the genius to paint, he can never express things in the soul of his hearer; all is dry and wearisome. Since the original fault, man is all enveloped in sensible things. There is his great evil; he can not long attend to what is abstract. Body—shape, form, figure,—must be given to those instructions that are to be impressed on his mind—images are necessary to retain them. Flence it was that so soon after the fall, poetry and idolatry were always joined together, and became the whole religion of the ancients.”
Thus, poetry which Bacon represented as a piotestation against the fall of man, is, on the contrary, considered by Fenelon as a consequence and an ignominious mark of that fall. The French writer, however, is not so far from the English philosopher as might at first appear. In poetry there is the idea to be represented and the image which represents it. Aristotle, who was a philosopher, considers the first; Fenelon, who was a poet, attaches himself to the second; Bacon seems to have very happily united both. Fenelon has considered principally the necessity in which man in his terrestrial condition finds himself placed, of clothing his thoughts in earthly images. Bacon understood not only that under these images truths of a superior nature may be found, but also that these images themselves, by their little resemblance to nature, which they surpass, bear witness that man feels himself by his origin and his destiny placed above the reality in which his present life is constituted.	P. D.
I Would Like to Dwell.
i.
I would like to dwell by the sunny shore,
On the silvery beaten strand, Where the zephyrs stray and the wavelets play— ■ Far away, in my own dear land.
ii.
Or, I’d fondly dwell on a green hillside,
By Killarney’s lakes and fells,
Where the sunlight gleams on the purling streams, Or the Shannon proudly swells.
in.
I would gladly dwell on the hallowed ground Where the patriots fought and bled;
By the heroes’ graves, or the mountainous caves Where the martyrs’ blood was shed.
IV.
But I’d rather dwell in my native home
Where in childhood’s bliss I played
With the friends I’ve known while in fair .Tyrone, When in life’s gay morn I’ve strayed.
v.
Ah! what memories fond"the dear hope entwined As I tread the distant West,
To re-cross the foam to my Island home, There in kindred dust to rest.
Edward Gallagher.
Christopher Columbus.
This great genius, who extended man’s field of action to a hemisphere other than his own, was born of poor but pious parents at Genoa, Italy, in the year 1435. vvas ^e e^er of two sons. His father, Dominic Columbus, was a wool-comber and the owner of a small cloth-factory. While Dominic thus supplied the temporal wants of the family, his wife took care of the spiritual welfare of the children. She instructed them as a good Christian ought, and the effects of her. teaching are noticeable in the whole after-career of her sons.
When Christopher was ten years of age, he was sent to the University of Pavia. He took up the studies of Latin, Mathematics and the Natural Sciences. The progress he made was great; but his school life was not to last long. The inability . to bear the expense caused his father to withdraw him after three years.
After assisting his father for a year in the clothfactory, young Christopher—then only fourteen— went on board a ship. It was now that the sturdy sailor, the bold captain and the dauntless admiral began to be formed. He had such a liking for this mode of life that he followed it almost uninterruptedly as long as he lived. Indeed, so great was the extent of his voyages that fie himself in . after-years said: “ Wherever ship has sailed, there have I been too.”
About the year 1470, after he had spent twenty years on the ocean, he narrowly escaped shipwreck off the coast of Portugal. A hole having been blown in the side of his vessel during an engagement, there was no hope of life but to swim to the shore some six miles distant. This he did and was saved. He then set out-for Lisbon, where he found his brother Bartholomew and family residing. Columbus remained here for some time, employing himself in drawing and selling maps; and though this occupation did not afford much profit, yet, like a true son, he never failed to send from, ime to time to his parents such sums of money as
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
he could. This filial love was one of his characteristic traits.
During his stay at Lisbon, he formed the acquaintance of Dona Felippa de Perestrelle, who became his, wife. She was the daughter of a distinguished navigator who had died a few years before, while governor of Porto Santo : but who left to his family little else than an honored name. His relationship with the family of this renowned mariner brought him in contact with the most learned men of Portugal and with the king himself, to whom he made known the idea he had conceived, namely, that the earth was round, and that land could be found by sailing due west. He also made application to this monarch for the means necessary to make a vovage in search of this land. No attention was paid to him, as his opinions were considered mere dreams. Columbus was not cast down by this refusal, but only worked the harder to get,-if possible, a proof that he was right. He made several voyages from time to time, and carefully took notice of every circumstance which he thought would strengthen his persuasion. Bartholomew co-operated with his brother in this work, and, at his request, petitioned Henry VII of England for aid, but with no success. About this time, the Portugese, in attempting to sail around the coast of Africa, accidentally discovered the Azores Islands, on the shores of which was found, among other strange things which had drifted thither, a canoe containing the body of a man belonging to some unknown race. This caused the Portugese to believe Columbus, and even to attempt carry out his plan themselves. They failed, however, for the want of men courageous enough to go on such o	o o
an expedition.
Being now fully convinced of the truth of his idea by what had been found at Ozpres, Columbus asked the republics of Genoa and Venice for a ship or two to make his discovery. Here he was again refused. Returning to Lisbon, he found his wife dangerously ill, and in a few days he was a widower. This was a terrible shock for him abandoned as he was on all sides. Nevertheless, he accepted the will of his Divine Master with perfect resignation.
In 1485, he and his two sons, James and Ferdinand, moved to Spain. James, who was the younger, was placed in the convent of La Rabida. Columbus now spent seven years in fruitless en-^deavor to persuade the great, the learned and the wealthy of the truth of his opinion. Finding himself after these long and wearisome years as far as ever from the accomplishment of his design, in almost utter despair, he resolved to leave Spain. On his way, he and Ferdinand who accompanied him stopped at the convent of La Rabida to see James before they would depart. Here he found a warm advocate in the prior Padre Juan Perez. This' good monk pleaded the cause of the poor seaman in such touching terms with Queen Isabella that she said: “I undertake it for my own crown of Castile; and I will pledge my jewels to raise the money necessary.” Great was the joy of Columbus on' meeting with this unexpected encouragement.
He hurried to court, and immediately began his preparations for the great undertaking he had so long desired to see inaugurated.
It took considerable time to get things in readiness, but at last everything was prepared. Columbus was appointed admiral of the seas and viceroy of all the lands he might discover, and was promised one-tenth of the revenues. Early on the morning of Friday, Aug. 3, 1492, the admiral and his crew, together with a great concourse of people, were to be seen on the shore of Palos, from which place it was decided to embark. Under a piece of canvas, stretched on spears which were fastened in the ground, an altar was erected. Mass was celebrated by Father Perez, and all who were about to depart received Holy Communion. After Mass was over, Columbus received the priest’s blessing and went on board his flag ship, the Santa Maria de la Concepcion. Now began the departure. The other vessels of the little fleet, the Pinta and Nina, followed their chief. All on shore stood watching the ships as long as they could be seen. Everyone was filled with emotion.
Blessed with fair weather and a favorable wind, the fleet sailed prosperously. Every evening, as the sun was setting, the entire crew, according to the custom of Christian navigators, chanted the Salve Regina, to which the pious admiral added the Ave Maris Stella. Several times during the voyage the sailors lost courage and desired to abandon the undertaking and to return to Spain. When they had been nearly two months out of the sight of land, finding their commander as steadfast as ever, they threatened to throw him overboard if he would not go back with them. Columbus, in this emergency, promised that if land were not found in three days he would consent to their wishes. Happily for him and his noble enterprise, the long looked-for land was discovered on the morning of the third day, Friday, October 12th. All hearts were filled with gladness. As soon as the joyful admiral had set his foot on shore he fell on his knees and kissed the ground. Each one followed his example. Then, taking possession of the land in the name of God for the Spanish crown, he intoned the Vexilla Regis; and a large cross having been erected, the Te Deztm was solemnly chanted.
Columbus called the natives Indians; supposing that he had discovered one of the outlying islands of India, so far short of the size of our globe had his idea fallen. To the island he gave the name of San Salvador. After a cruise of about two months, the happy discoverer set out for Spain. The weather was stormy during the whole passage. Twice was he in danger of shipwreck. He had recourse with fervent prayer to the “Star of the Sea” in these dangers, and he made a vow to make a pilgrimage barefooted to her nearest shrine from the place he might be cast ashore. He came safely, through all storms, and reached Palos-on Friday, March . 15, 1493. By a strange coincidence we notice that Friday was the day on which he left Palos, discovered land, and arrived home again.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
393
It is indeed the day on which man’s inheritance was restored to him. The first thing Columbus did on landing was to fulfil his vow. Then he proceeded to the royal court with the few natives, strange birds, bark, specimens of gold and the two new productions which he had brought from the New World, viz., potatoes and tobacco. He was received as a monarch rather than as a simple seaman, and was given a seat beside the throne.
On the 25th of the following September Columbus set out on a second voyage. He carried with him his beloved Father Perez and a few Dominicans who were sent by Pope zVlexander VI to convert the Indians. The New World was again reached in the beginning of December. They landed on the island of San Domingo^ which had been discovered in the first voyage, and at once began to build a church. Such was the zeal with which they-worked that by the 6th of January 1494—the Feast of the Epiphany—the building was completed and the first Solemn High Mass in the New World was on that dav celebrated. During «	o
the time that Columbus remained on this side of the Atlantic after this vovage, he discovered the islands of Jamaica and Porto Rico. Sometime in the year 1495 he returned again to Spain with a considerable quantity of gold which he had obtained from the natives, and in 1498 we find him making a third visit to the New World. This time he was harshly treated. Complaints were made against him by those who envied his success. The Spanish sovereigns, to ascertain the truth, sent an ambassador across the ocean to investigate matters: but the latter listened only to the persecutors, and sent Columbus back to Spain in chains. These, however, were immediately removed on his arrival. In 1502, Columbus made his fourth and last voyage; and in 1504 he again returned, only to find Queen Isabella dead and himself thrown helpless upon the world by her heartless husband.
On the 30th of May, 1506, after having lived on the public for nearly two years, the greatest of navigators died"an outcast in an inn at Valladolid. He was attended in his last moments by his two sons and a Franciscan, who administered the Last Sacraments to him. Thus did he, who had given man a New World, end his earthly career; leaving it to future generations to make amends for the ingratitude and prejudice of his contemporaries, and manifest that just and grateful appreciation of his genius and piety which the great discoverer so well deserved.	-
‘ ‘	' C. E. M.
Art, Music and. Literature.
—A Jesuit Father, the Rev. Augustine Mueller, has just published in India a “ Repertory of Homeopathic Treatment by Fifty Medicines,” for the use of families, missionaries, etc.
—In New York they are to have a real policeman’s chorus in the “Pirates of Penzance” opera. Fifty men with the best voices have been selected from the force, and are now in training for the
opera, to be given at the Academy of Music, March 6 and 7.
—Salvini is studying “ Coriolanus ” with a view to presenting the play during his American tour next season. He will also present a play from the French—“ Corporal Simon.” In this the character sustained by the tragedian speaks in the first act, is then struck dumb by emotion, and does not recover his speech until the fifth and last act.
—There is a story current of a contemporary novelist who was so ill that his wife was obliged to engage a night nurse. At 1 a. m. his wife went into his bedroom and found the nurse reading. “Who gave that woman a book?” she asked,in a whisper. “I, my dear.” “What book?” “My last work: ” “ Good gracious! ” said the wife, with alarm, “ Don’t you know it is necessary for her to keep awake?”
—The Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburgh, has in press, and will publish early in March, an English translation of the famous “Baptismal Register of Fort Duquesne,” accompanied by an introductory essay and copious notes. This deeply interesting historical work is designed to form No. 1 of the “The Ohio Valley Historical Series.” It will be issued in pamphlet form, on heavy paper, with wide margin, suitable for collections of historical works.
—In the just published life of George Eliot, an anecdote which has a peculiar application now is told of Emerson and Carlyle. The authority cited by George Eliot is Miss Bremer. “ Carlvle was very angry with Emerson for not believing in a devil; and, to convert him, he brought him through all the horrors of London—the gin shops, etc.,—and finally to the House of Commons, plying him at every turn with the question: ‘Do you believe in a devil noo?”’
—The well-known musician Dr. Leopold Dam-rosch, died at his residence in New York, after a few days illness. He was the Musical Director and Conductor of the Oratorio and Symphony Societies of New York, and of the Metropolitan -Opera House. During the few months preceding his almost sudden demise, he had been engaged in conducting German opera, which he had successfully introduced into this country on a magnificent scale with the best German opera company ever heard in America.
—Book-making, five hundred years ago, was a costly business. The bill for designing and writing a manuscript in 1403 has just come to light. The parchment, the writing, the miniatures, .the silver nails gold-plated and enamelled, ink figures, seventy smaller gold-plated silver nails, a gold-plated silver clasp, sky-blue satin, and binding together cost, according to present value, $186, the miniatures alone costing $80. The missal is now no longer extant, but it is called Qulcherrimum et elegantissimzcm in the bill.
—In the course of the excavations now being carried on. around the Athenian Acropolis, the foundations of the Propylrea have been laid bare.
394
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Among: them have been discovered a number of o	*
sheds or verandas built of tufa, which were evidently existing on the spot when the Propylaea was being erected, about 430 B. C., and were built into the foundations. Some of them are in a state of perfect preservation, and retain still quite fresh the paintings with which they were originally decorated. The colors employed were blue, red, and yellow.	'
—Sir Henry Taylor has been well advised, says the World, to publish his forthcoming autobiography now, rather than leave it for posthumous production. As the author of Philip van Arte-velde is as old as the century, his earlier reminis-tences refer to those whose children even are dead. Coleridge, Southey, Lamb, Landor, Wordsworth —we have all read manv things about these names, but seldom things so significant or so wittily and sympathetically said as those which Sir Henry Taylor has preserved. Southey was especially his friend, and his anecdotes of Wordsworth are exquisitely characteristic. It will assuredly be pleasant to all lovers of the early century to go back with a great poet and dramatist, in whose eyes Mr. Robert Browing—a mere septuagenarian—is a master of the new school.
Scientific Notes-
—M. Marcel Deprez, the well-known electrician, has patented a new telephone based on a principle of vibration, and dispensing with the use of voltaic elements.
—A person sleeping on his right side, according to a celebrated French physiologist, will have incoherent and absurd dreams; but when sleeping on the left side, the dreams will be of an intelligent nature.
—The edelweiss, supposed to grow only on the Swiss Alps, and another Alpine flower, called in Switzerland the mannertreu, have been found in the Tacoma range in Washington Territory, the former at an altitude of 6,000 feet above the sealevel.
—M. Houzeau of the Brussels Royal Observatory has published the first result of the last transit of Venus, in which he places the sun’s distance at 91,756,800 miles. Of the previous determinations of the distance made since 1S62, Leverrier’s was nearest, being 91,357,000 miles.
—Coffee drinkers will be glad to learn that the Arabs grind their coffee as fine as flour and boil it in a copper saucepan without a lid. They would not on any account boil it in a covered vessel, as any lid or cover would prevent/1 the deleterious qualities from escaping, and make the coffee bitter.” .
—A French scientist has been studying the effects of altitude upon vegetation, and concludes that for each augmentation of about 100 yards there will be, as a general average, a retardation of four days; that is, other circumstances being equal, a crop planted at the sea level will appear
above ground four days before a similar crop planted 300 feet above it.
—Many teeth and other bones of extinct animals and fishes have been discovered in cutting a canal through Cuyler Swamp, near Savannah. They arc generally found from eight to twelve feet below the surface. A few days ago more bones were unearthed that are thought to be the skeleton o	_
of an animal of tremendous size. The vertebrae are each about six inches long, and when intact probably have been'a foot across from side to side and six inches from the outei* portion to the abdominal cavity. One large hone, probably a thigh bone, is about ten or twelve inches in diameter at the point and about two feet long.
—The great Washington National monument which was formally “dedicated” on the 21st inst., is 555 feet, 5^ inches in height. In comparison, it may be interesting to note the heights of other remarkable structures in the world: Cologne Cathedral, 525 feet; Strasbourg Cathedral, 468 feet; Notre Dame, Rouen, 465 feet; St. Peter’s, Rome, 457 feet; Great Pyramid, 450 feet (originally 485 feet); St. Stephen’s, Vienna, 449 feet; Antwerp Cathedral,402 feet; St. Paul’s, London, 365 feet; Milan Cathedral, 355 feet; St. Patrick’s Cathedral, New York, 330 feet;- Trinity Church, New York, 284 feet; St. Genevieve, Paris, 274 feet; Notre Dame, Paris, 224 feet; Bunker Hill monument, Boston, 221 feet; Philadelphia Cathedral (Dome), 210 feet; University, Notre Dame, Ind. (Dome and Statue), 201 feet; Arc de Triomphe, Paris, 160 feet; St. Charles Borromeo, 106 feet; Colossus of Rhodes, 105 feet.
—The first of two lectures on the subject of electricity was delivered recently at the London Institution, by Prof. O. J. Lodge, of University College, Liverpool. Prof. Lodge observed that it had often been said that we did not know what electricity was, and that was still largely true, though not so true as it was twenty years ago. The modern views of electricity were due largely to Michael Faraday and Clarke Maxwell, and it had been demonstrated that it was a fluid. The theory of action at a distance was, however, being gradually discarded, and it was no action at a distance. Electricity was an incompressible fluid, which permeated everything, but of the existence of which we had hitherto been in much the same position as our ancestors in regard to the atmosphere. It should be borne in mind that we did not manufacture electricity, but that we only moved it about from one place to another, and that, as was the case with the atmosphere, directly it was moved from one place that which was taken away was replaced. It was not possible to answer the question whether, electricity was a substance with the same satisfaction that they could say that light and sound were not substances, but mere forms of energy and modes of motion. The lecturer, by numerous experiments, demonstrated the theory of negation of action at . a distance, and he comprehensively explained the princible of the Levden jar as bearing upon it.—London Standard, ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
395
College Gossip.
—The University Press at Oxford has appliances for printing works in 150 languages and dialects.
—The President of Columbia College says that five minutes is long enough time to wait for a o	o
tardy Prof, before a bolt is indulged in.
—Mrs. Louisa Reed Stowell, the only lady instructor in the University of Michigan, and the author of several treatises on microscopical subjects, has been elected a member of the Royal Microscopical Society of London, being the third lady ever elected.
—The	York Sun says the students of
Harvard have in contemplation as a new overture in dramatic art the production at an early date of “Julius Cassar” with costumes and accessories modelled on those in use in Cassar’s time. Most of the roles have been assigned to Seniors. Prof. White will supervise the representation. The text use will be that of the old folio.
—The London Globe is authority for the statement that at an examination of Woolwich students the following answers were given to the question, “ Give the meanings of abiit, excess it, erupit, evasit ” :
Abiit—He went out to dine.
’ Excessit—He took more than was good for him.
Erupit—It violently disagreed with him.
Evasit—He put it down to the salmon.
—Japan, with a population of upwards of 36,000,000, and a school population (6-14) of more than 5,600,000, reports nearly 29,000 public and • private schools, but the enrollment therein is not stated. Attendance is obligatory in the public schools, which have three grades, including in all five years. There were 172 middle schools reported, with two divisions: one for elementary, the other for higher instruction, in each school. The normal schools, 74 in number, have a threefold course, covering one, two and a half, and four years. There are also model schools connected with these teachers’ seminaries.— Vidette Reporter.
—President McCosh, of Princeton, believes that the college which gives to the students a wide choice of studies during all the years of their course commits a radical error. He holds that there are branches rudimentary and fundamental, “ which have stood the test of time, fitted to call forth the deeper and higher faculties of the mind, and opening the way to further knowledge, which all should be required to study.” Such are the "classical tongues, with certain European ones—and, above all, our own tongue—with their literatures. Such are mathematics, physics, chemistry and certain branches of natural history. Such are the study of the human mind, logic, ethics, and political economy.
—A professor in Vassar College says that the managers are really alarmed by the steady falling off in pupils during the past five years. The number now is only a little more than half that of
1875. “The cause isn’t in any deterioration of thb college itself,” said the Professor, “for it is the same noble school as ever. The trouble is that Vassal' has become a thing to poke fun at. Half the new jokes about girls are put upon Vassar students. Their doings are ridiculed, exaggerated, falsified, and the very name of Vassar is a synonym for feminine foolishness. The consequence is that girls are beginning to dislike to go there. I wouldn’t be surprised to see the doors of the college shut in five years more. The newspaper paragraphers will have done it.”—Buffalo Express.
—A correspondent of the. Chronicle (University of Michigan) writing from Leipzig, Germany, on the method of “Immatriculation” and other matters incidental to a German University course, adds:	’
“ The general atmosphere of student life is in the main totally different from what it is in American colleges. There is absolutely no mingling of students in the different departments. At no time is it possible to see any considerable number of students in assembly; at no time the Professors. The students of Philosophy do not even know the Professors of Mathematics- or Natural Science by sight, to say nothing of those of Medicine, Pharmacy, etc. In the lectures, the Professor enters the door, delivers •his lecture, and is out again before his hearers rise from their seats. The intercourse between Professors and students is limited, for the most part, to a few formal calls on the part of the students.”
Making a Bow-
In public, the bow is the proper mode of salutation—also under certain circumstances in private; and, according to circumstances, it should be familiar, cordial, respectful, or formal. An inclination of the head or a gesture with the hand or cane suffices between men, except when one would be specially deferential to age or position; but in saluting a lady, the hat should be removed. A very common mode of doing this in New York, at present, particularly by the younger men, is to jerk, the hat off and sling it on as quickly as possible. As haste is incompatible with grace, and as there is an old pantomimic law that “ every picture must be held ” for a longer or shorter time, the jerk-and-sling manner of , removing the hat in salutation is not to be commended. The impressment a.man puts into his salutations graduated by circumstances, the most deferential manner being to carry the hat down the full length of the arm, keeping it there till the person saluted has passed. If a man stops to speak to a lady in the street he should remain uncovered, unless the conversation should be protracted, which it is sure not to be if either of the party knows and cares to observe the proprieties.
A well-bred man, meeting a lady in a public place, though she is a near relative—wife, mother or sister—and though he may have parted from her but half an hour before, will salute her as deferentially as he would salute a mere acquaintance. The passers-by are ignorant of the relationship, and to them his deferential manner says, “She is a lady.”—Ex,
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, February 28, 1SS5.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to-the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should taki it.
Terms^ Srjo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—Isn’t our friend the kSL Mary's Sentinel a little “ out ” about that “ article ” ? Our five-line “ item ” was prepared from current reports and the suggestion of an esteemed reader.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin will leave next Monday noon for Rome, whither he goes in the interests of the great Community over which he presides. This will make the venerable Founder’s forty-third trip across the Atlantic. May it be as happy and safe in its issue as its predecessors! Very Rev. father Sorin will have as compagnon du voyage the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne, -who will pay his decennial visit ad liniina Aposto-lorum. We wish them un bon voyage and a safe and speedy return.	.	~	'
—The United States Catholic Historical Society, an organization recently incorporated in New York, is destined to supply a want long felt in this country. Its object is thus stated in its charter:
“Said Society is formed for social, literary arid historical , purposes; and the particular business and objects thereof shall be the discovery, collection and preservation of his
torical materials relating to the introduction establishment and progress of the Catholic Church and Faith in the United States; to the progress of Christian art and civilization therein; to Catholic American Bibliography; and the evidences of Catholic Christianity furnished by American Ethnology, Linguistic and Political Development; the discussion of subjects and the publication of essays, documents and rare books relating to the above; and the maintenance of an Historical Library and Museum of historical relics.”	.
These objects will certainty command the atten tion and active encouragement of every intelligent Catholic in our country. The history of the rise and progress of the Church in the United States presents a series of events—of grand, noble and heroic deeds with which that of any other religious body cannot compare, either-in extent of duration or in greatness of achievements. But, as may be understood, many of the most precious evidences and records of this history have perished and are perishing throughout the land. It is to arrest the loss of historical material that the above society has been established, and appeals to Catholics everywhere to lend substantial aid to the undertaking. Donations are solicited in aid of its ob-jects—such as money, books, manuscripts, historical and biographical papers, pamphlets, catalogues of libraries, colleges, schools, institutions, etc., magazines, newspaper files, church registers, almanacs, directories, diaries, etc., prints, medals, coins, utensils, epitaphs, inscriptions, pictures, relics, and other property. The society may be addressed, 120 Broadway, New York.	.
Celebration of Washington’s Birthday by the Thespians.
Last Saturday evening, one of the most'success-ful entertainments ever given at Notre Dame was presented in Washington Hall, under the auspices of the Thespian Association of the University. The exercises were designed as a birthday celebration in honor of the “Father of his country,” and were expressive of a spirit of patriotism which, however much it may be permitted to lie dormant elsewhere, is ever kept alive at Notre Dame, and on such recurring anniversaries finds its proper expression in more than ordinary manifestations of joy and enthusiasm. As though desirous that nothing should mar the success and pleasure of the celebration, Nature herself put on a beautiful appearance, and the elements were most propitious. It was a clear moonlight night, the weather mild and balmy, tKe' earth covered with a genial, compact mantle of snow; all of which, combining with the knowledge that the Thespians were to play, brought out a large and enthusiastic gathering to encourage and enjoy the efforts of the young performers. Visitors came in goodly numbers from South Bend, Chicago, and other cities near and far. It was an audience such as one sees but at commencement time, and it is not too much to say that all enjoyed a most.pleasurable evening.
At half-past six o’clock rhe entertainment was opened with music by the Band, who rendered
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	397
J	with spirit and correctness a “Medley of National
J	Airs.” A chorus from the Orpheonic Association
J	then sang Brinley Richard’s “Let the Hills and
J	Vales Resound,” during which was introduced
J.	“Hail Columbia,” arranged as a Quartette, and
i	sung by Messrs. W. E. Ramsay, A. Marion, A.
•	F. Smith and G. F. O’Kane. Of the merits of
1	these vocal numbers we cannot speak, as the or-
chestral accompaniment overshadowed the voices.
I	In our humble opinion, a simple piano-forte ac-
j	companiment would have been much better.
■	When a chorus has its soprani and alti made up
!	of weak and immature voices, unless they are
j	in exceedingly large numbers, we think that any
j	ordinary orchestra would prove too strong to serve
f	as accompaniment.
THE ORATION OF THE DAY,
which was delivered by Mr.'Sydney Dickerson of 1	the Class of ’85, was a well-written and spirited
eulogy of the life, character, and work of Washy	ington. The speaker said that his subject was one
a	upon which but little that was new could be said,
I	but there was none more interesting, not only to
I	every true American heart, but to every lover of
|	what is great and good in man. The life of Washing-
|	ton was well known as portrayed in the pages of our
country’s history: yet its story never failed to excite attention and admiration. History recalled many great men and heroes, generals and states;	men, but few were there, in whom so many qual-
ities, calculated to enchain the love and gratitude '	of fellow-countrymen, were so blended as in Wash-
ington. His education, indeed, was not what might be called a “ superior education in Arts and Science,” but, combined with natural talents, was the experience in warfare that fitted him for the leadership in the great struggle which culminated in . the grand triumph of Liberty. How well and — nobly. Washington fulfilled his mission, with a re-।	suit far exceeding that for which the most san-
guine could hope, was well known. “ Though,” said the speaker, “ I may have been carried away - by the feelings of my heart, or may have been extravagant in my expressions when extolling .his virtues, yet true-hearted and impartial men in ,	viewing the life of Washington will agree in say-
ing that he is one of the few indeed whom ‘ the
CT
;	truth of facts makes greater than the narration.’ ”
*	The speaker eloquent!}- reviewed the close of
Washington’s career, and concluded as follows: “ Let us, as becomes all Americans, join our hearts in wishing that the remembrance of his life and deeds may be always fresh in our minds; that his i	nobleness of character may be more universally
i’	recognized, and the celebration of his natal day
?	more generally observed. For in thus cherishing
I	and loving his memory we shall ‘Render honor
•*' ~ • ________________________________
to whom honor is due.’ ” The speaker was freI	quently interrupted with applause.
1	In lieu of the “overture,” called for by the pro-
I	gramme, the - Orchestra rendered Mendelssohn’s
f	“ Wedding March.” Mr. D. C. Saviers then ap-
’	peared,and, as a prologue to the play, delivered an
$	.original address to Rev. President Walsh. The
5	w	• .	•
—
1
address was well conceived, embodying the thought that, as the anniversary recalled the memory of one who was instrumental in procuring for us the civil and religious liberty which we now enjoy, it reminded us of a truer and more exalted liberty which is within our grasp in our collegiate career—liberty from the thraldom of -ignorance, error and vice. After the speaker had concluded, the curtain rose and opened upon the great feature of the evening’s entertainment—
THE DRAMA " ‘
“Falsely Accused,” better known as “Waiting for the Verdict.” The play, which centres upon the condemnation of a man falsely accused of murder and his subsequent vindication, is, no?doubt, too familiar to require any detailed analysis of the plot. It is one which presents a variety of prominent roles, and is particularly well adapted to the elocutionary and dramatic resources of the Thespians, who number in their ranks the leading speakers among the students. Those who distinguished themselves by the spirit and correct interpretation of the characters which they assumed were: E. A. Otis, as “Jasper Roseblade,” the man falsely accused; W. E. Ramsay, as “Jonas Hundle,” the leading villain ; J. J. Conway, as “ Humphrey Higson,” another villain; F. Dexter, as “Claude,” the brother of “Jasper”; T. E. Callaghan,.as “Jonathan Roseblade,” the father of “Jasper”; and H. Steis as “The Vicai* of Milford.” Among the minor characters, T. McKinnery, as “ Blinkey Brown,” was particularly good as that Jiumorpus personage without which no standard play is complete. In the trial scene, A. Ancheta and P.J. Goulding as counsels, and J. Kleiber as the Chief Justice, were effective speakers. A. A. Browneas “Lieut. Florville,” H. Porter as “Lord Elmore,” C. C. Kolars as “ Sir Henry Harrington ” and F. J. Combe as “ clerk of the court ” are also deserving of particular mention. No better proof of the ability and fidelity with which the actors rendered their parts could be given than the fact that the play absorbed the undiminished attention of the audience from beginning to end, and the various dramatic situations called forth spontaneous and repeated outbursts of applause. Indeed, the unanimous “verdict” of those who had witnessed former excellent renditions of the play was that “ this was . the best,” and redounded greatly to the credit of the Thespians and their efficient director, Prof. J. A. Lyons.	.
When the performance had concluded, on invitation of President Walsh, remarks were made by Prof. T. E. Howard, Mr. Aaron . Jones, and Ex-Mayor Miller, of South Bend. These gentlemen expressed the pleasure of the audience, and congratulated the Thespians on the success of the entertainment, which Prof. Howard declared to be the best he had ever witnessed at Notre Dame, and he had attended many during the past twenty-five years. All then retired to the strains of a grand national march by the Band, while they said in their hearts, if not uttered with the lips, “Long life to the Thespians and their noble Director!”
- ™
398	THE NOTRE DAME SCH0EAST1C.
Exchanges.
—The Lariat savs: “ The Scholas’1 ic confines itself almost entirely to literary articles and the ‘Church,’ giving but little attention to college news.” - The Lariat, published twice a. month, eives in the current issue seven pages of matter written at the colleg-e, with a sermon from Pres’t O i
Carter of Williams College; the Scholastic, published weekly, AzxOl^Jromjive to seven pages a week to home and outside college news. If the Exchang-e-editor of the Lariat can do only a little addition, multiplication and substraction he will be able, without difficulty, to determine the weekly, monthly, or yearly quantity of college matter in both papers, and ascertain the difference. If he works correctly we think he will find the Scholastic homing out a little ahead in quantity, not to speak of the quality, of college news given.
—The January and February numbers of The Brooklyn Magazine have been on our table for some time, and courtesy requires an acknowledgment. Both numbers arc largely taken up with letters relating to the testimonial to the Rev. T. De Witt Talmage, D. D., on his 53d birthday anniversary, from which it appears that Mr. Talmage has many devoted friends and ardent admirers throughout the Union. Among other original sketches of general interest is the first chapter of a serial, “ The Battle of Brooklyn,” by J. B. Swasey. A special department under the heading “Home Interests” is edited by Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher. There is also a regular London letter, literary notes, etc. To Brooklyn people especially we presume the new magazine will fill a gap on account of the large amount of social gossip recorded in its pages. The Magazine contains 24 large pages, is neatly printed, and is edited with painstaking care. Excepting the social and literary items, there is very little of interest, so far, for the Catholic reader, most of the matter partaking of a religious character, and chiefly in the interest of other denominations.
—The Volante for January—which is very late, coming about the middle of February—is far superior to previous issues. The essays, editorials, locals, everything in the paper, is written in a better style than that which characterized many of the preceding numbers. The essay on “ The Nationalities in Shakspere” is a thoughtful and carefully-written production, and in this last, respect differs greatly from the slipshod style that we have hitherto noticed in the Volante. We would like to speak at greater length of this and the succeeding essay, “ The Trial of Milo—A Pen-Sketch,”—also creditable—but the clever Ex-change-editorputs the Scholastic on its defense for Mr. Conway’s essay, “ The Spanish Inquisition,” which appeared in one of our December numbers. Any one who will take the trouble to glance over Mr. Conway’s article will see that he proved conclusively, 1st, that the Spanish Inquisition was.a state or political affair, and not a religious one—the Pope and most of the Spanish hie
rarchy being opposed to it; 2dly, that the Spanish Inquisition was not nearly so bad as it is generally represented. The subject was treated in a general way, the question of disconnection with the Church being given only a few sentences, which were conclusive, on the authority of such an unquestionable Protestant historian as Leopold von Ranke, who says: “The inquisitors were royal officers. The king had the right of appointing and dismissing them ”; probably the reason of the Pope’s steadfast opposition to the Spanish Inquisition, because under the cloak of religion the king and roval of-fleers were pushing high-handed measures of state polity. There is abundance of authority, Catholic and non-Catholic, in proof of this statement, not the least pertinent being the report of the committee appointed by the Cortes to examine the question, cited by the Connt'de Maistre. The Exchange-editor of the Volante offers no proof to the contrary, but in a column and a half goes on begging the question. If this were all, he might be passed as unworthy of notice; but he goes further, and attempts to place Mr. Conway’s article in a false light. After stating that the .writer in the Scholastic had “proved to his, and as he thinks, to every candid man’s satisfaction, that the Catholic Church is entitled to none of the odium connected with that Institution ” [the Inquisition], the Volante editor says:
“ But strangely enough, in the same article he goes on to show that the Inquisition was not nearly so bad as we are wont to suppose. Why should he put himself to this trouble? The explanation seemed to us to be that while he tried to prove the Church irresponsible: yet he could not get the idea out of his head that it was responsible, hence the excuses.”
There were no excases. The enemies of the Papacy have for centuries persistently endeavored to make the Church responsible for the actions of the Spanish Inquisition, and, to make matters worse for the Church, magnified the Inquisitor’s approbrious actions a hundredfold.- The charges were proven to be false, in many respects, and in others greatly magnified. There is no excusing here. The writer goes on:
“ We realize that there are two sides to every question, and that it is almost impossible to prove a historical point because both parties take the liberty of accepting and rejecting authorities as they agree or disagree with .their views. If we accept the authorities that he does, rejecting in like manner what he rejects, we might approach the point of being convinced. But we do not, and cannot, when he denies what Lorent says, calling him ‘ a traitor to his country and his God,’ a villain of the blackest dye, in whose writings no confidence is placed. Especially we cannot be convinced when the Encyclopedia Britanica says of this villain: ‘ Although Lorent was very imperfectly equipped as an exact historian, there is no reason to doubt that he made an honest use of documents now no longer extant, relating to the Inquisition.’ ”
If the writer will have the accusations live or die on the authority of the Encyclopedia Britannica then thej’- will have a speedy death; and on this point the authority of the Encyclopedia Britannica will fall with them. He must have been •truly an ignoramus who wrote for the Encyclopedia that “ Lorent was very imperfectly equipped as an exact historian” of the Inquisition; no man
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
399
could have been better equipped for this purpose than Llorente, who had for years been an inquisitor himself, had served .in the capacity of secretary to the inquisitorial tribunal, had possession of its records, and made away with them, destroying what he thought would militate against his purpose. No man possessed better opportunities or could be better equipped as a chronicler. Nor could his ability be called in question. Few men of his day in Spain surpassed him either in ability or in influence with the kinsc; and, notwithstanding his questionable character as a man and a priest, he rose to high dignity. However much one may be disposed to question his authority as a historian— for he was a traitor to both Spain and France, and a scoundrel—Llorente’s talents and advantages cannot be disputed. So much for the authority of the Encyclopedia Britannica. The same can be said for the authority of Prescott, who relied upon Llorente for his arguments. When a man, however respectable, quotes such an author he must abide the consequences of exposure. Llorente’s authority against the Inquisition, which he denounced in malicious enmity, is entitled to no greater weight than Ingersoll’s against God and Christianity. When, in opposition to such respectable authors as Von Ranke and De Maistre, people will place implicit confidence in such authors as the infamous Llorente—an apostate priest, and a traitor to both his native country and adopted country—then we will say, turning the words of the Volante editor against himself: “It is simply -an example of how completely religious zeal and bigotry can blind one, and to what depths a writer’s urejudice can cause him to descend in order to accomplish his ends.”
Books and Periodicals.
—The Cosmopolitan Shorthander, edited by Thos. Bengough and Frank Yeigh, Toronto, Canada, is a twenty-page monthly devoted to shorthand in general, independent of systems. About half the contents are in common print, the rest in shorthand of the various leading systems. The Cosmopolitan is the only representative of the shorthand fraternity in Canada contains much news and interesting matter, and has a large circulation in the United States.
—Although we use the Isaac Pitman phonography here, the Pernin Monthly Stenographer is one of our most welcome monthly visitors. This handsome little magazine is published and edited by H. M. Pernin, of Detroit, in the interest of the Pernin-Duplove system of phonography, which is now obtaining quite a large following in the United States. Mrs. Pernin is a graceful writer, and, apart from its shorthand lessons and news, her magazine contains much that is of interest to all shorthand writers. The Monthly contains 16 pages, eight of which are in neatly lithographed Pernin shorthand, and eight in common print.
■—Jh this age when the events of yesterday in
all parts of the world are found in to-day’s paper; when tidings of a battle in Egypt or China are flashed across seas and laid at our door before its smoke is dissipated, it is necessary for well-informed people to have access to reliable maps. Not all can afford the heavy library atlases, and even they are often found untrustworthy unless a new copy is purchased as often as revised. If you want an atlas, small enough for general use, full enough for nearly every purpose, critically accurate and up to date, we recommend the new “Handy Atlas of the World,” published by Messrs. Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor & Co., 753 and 755 Broadway, New York, which is both a credit to them and to the American press. It is bound in flexible cloth, contains 38 beautifully-colored maps and important statistics. Among its many notable good things are maps showing standard time, the railways of the United States, recent polar expeditions, Central Africa as explored by Stanley, the seat of the Egyptian war, Bible Lands, and our principal American cities. If your bookseller does not have this excellent work, send fifty cents direct to the publishers and receive it by return mail.
—Recent events lend special interest to the opening paper in the March Century on “ The Land of the False Prophet,” by General R. E. Colston, formerly of the Egyptian General Staff, and leader of two expeditions in the Soudan. General Colston’s article was written early in October: yet he seems to have anticipated the obstacles with which the British expedition has had to contend, and the information he conveys throws much light on subsequent events. Numerous illustrations and careful maps aid the descriptions; and a portrait of General Gbrdon, from a photograph made in 1867, is worthy of note. Four profusely illustrated articles are comprised in the March contribution to the series on the American Civil War; and they are remarkable both with respect to the pictures and to their historical importance. In this number of the Century Messrs. James and Howells continue their respective serials. The astronomer Langley concludes his papers on “ The New Astronomy”; Mr. John Bigelow prints his “Recollections of Charles O’Conor,” the famous lawyer; and Mr. Stephen M; Allen his “ Reminiscences of Daniel Webster,” each article being accompanied by a full-page portrait. Rev. O. B. Frothingham has a striking essay on “ The Worship of Shak-speare.” Besides the verses in “ Bric-a-Brac,” poems are published by Stedmen and Cheney.
—The Catholic World for March opens with an article entitled “Carlyle a§ a Prophet,” by the Rev. A. F. Hewit, in which the claim of Carlyle’s biographer—Mr. Fronde—that Carlyle “was a teacher and a prophet in the Jewish sense of the word,” and that he finds his parallel in, the work of St. Paul,—is investigated. In the present paper, which is the first part of the proposed essay, Father Hewit develops the reasons which were the motives of Carlyle’s unbelief. He considers “the general subject of the provocation to Scepticism and unbelief which Protestantism furnishes to
400
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
philosophical and inquisitive minds, which cannot be contented to trot in a prescribed routine, because their fathers have done so”; he shows how it is “ that (in Protestantism) earnest and religious minds, in striving to appropriate and act out the religious and moral axioms and maxims taught them in childhood, find, in this very doctrine, a provocation to doubt the very principles and first truths of Christianity.” Mr. James Redpath writes on “ Ireland’s Argument,” in which the present condition of that afflicted country, its causes and the remedy therefor, are graphical!}’ set forth. A. T. Marshal contributes a paper on “Common Sense, versus Scepticism,”*in which with rare philosophical acumen, he shows that the plainest dictates of reason or “common sense” overthrow the great theories advanced by modern free thought. “ Common sense” is made to establish such truths as, the impossibility of “ mental evolution,” the immateri-alitv of mind, the distinction between mind and instinct, etc. The other articles are: “ Stray Leaves from English History, A. D. 1570-85	“ The His-
torical Value of Family Names”; “Beatification Asked for American Servants of God”; “The Dedication of the Church of St. Paul the Apostle in New York”; “Heaven in Recent Fiction.” Among the interesting stories are: “A Fashionable Event ”; “ Solitary Island, Part III ”; “ Katharine,” Chaps. XXVI-XXVIII. ■
•	Personal.
—We were pleased to meet, on last Thursday, the genial Chaplain of St. Mary’s, Rev. R. Shortis, of ’49.
—P. L. Garrity, ’59, of Chicago, was a welcome visitor to the College last Saturday and Sunday.	-
—Hon. James Ward, of ’74, member of the Illinois State Legislature, received several votes on the ballot for United States Senator.
—Mr. Charles Thibault, the distinguished lawver and statesman of Ottawa, Canada, spent a few days at the College during the week.
—The Hon. Thomas McGill, of Chicago, attended the Thespian Entertainment last Saturday, and passed Sunday at the College visiting his sons.
—H. W. Morse (Com’l), of ’83, writing from the land of the “ Saints” (Salt Lake City, Utah,) to an’old friend here, wishes to be remembered to all the professors and companions of his school days. Harry, who always took such an active part in promoting athletics and field-sports whilst at college. still manifests his interest in a most substantial way. The beautiful gold shield donated by H. W. Morse and J. B. O’Reilly for baseball last year they promise to make doubly handsome for this year’s series of games.	.
—The Nashville Daily World of Feb. 14 contained the. following well-merited compliment to one of Notre Dame’s bright alumni—Ferdinand E. Kuhn,’83.	.	..
. “Mayor Phillips yesterday signed the Council bill pro. viding that the office of.Mayor’s Secretary be abolished and ,
that the Board of Public Works should have the power to elect their own Secretary. Mr. Ferdinand Kuhn had been for a year the Secretary of both the Mayor and the Big Three under appointment of the Mayor. Yesterday afternoon the Big Three, acting under the approved bill referred to, proceeded to formally elect their Secretary. Judge Ewing placed Mr. Kuhn in nomination and he was elected by unanimous vote. The Board have reason to congratulate themselves on securing the services of Mr. Kuhn. He is to the highest degree capable, honest, industrious and a gentleman, every inch of him.”
Local Items.
—There’s noth— No, we retract.
—Essays are coming in rather slowly just now.
—The Thespians are now resting upon their laurels.
— Competitions next week in the Commercial Course.	’	.
—“Pap” waxed eloquent in his address to the mimic jury.
—Messrs. Ramsay, McKinnery and Dolan are excellent stage managers.
o	o
—A lecture by the Right Rev. Bishop Ireland is promised for the near future.
—Daniel Byrnes will be the orator of the Columbians on the 17th March.
- —Why are the Seniors so jolly? Because they have a Goodfellow among them.
—Washington ’Hall was filled by a large and intelligent audience on Saturday evening last.
—The Columbians are to appear on the 17th of March in the interesting drama entitled “ Robert Emmet.”
—“ Blinkey ” took the cake, and he says “ there is nothing like it.” Just look at that,—but we couldn’t help it.	"
—Next Saturday evening (March 7th) the St. Thomas.Academy will hold their debate on “The Right of Property.”	.
—We are pleased to announce that Prof. Charles W. Stoddard will lecture before the students in the course of a few weeks.
—Lost—A small, oblong, old gold cuff button. A liberal reward will be paid for the return of the same to Wm. Campbell.
—The Band played well at the Thespian exhibition. Several musical critics spoke very favorably of their performance. . -
—The number of members in the Boat Club has reached its limit, and persons applying for membership will find success difficult. ’
—-The Director of the Art Department went to Chicago last Thursday to make purchases for the more complete fitting up of the studios.
—The Thespians desire to return thanks to Rev. Fathers Walsh and Regan, and Prof. Edwards for favors received in connection with their play.
—A Rondeau is very difficult to write. We invite attention to the merits of the one which graces the first page of this7week’s Scholastic.
—The fine sleighing between the College and
s
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
401
the city offers great attractions to our weekly tourists the heavy purchasers of collar buttons, etc.
—Our friend John tells us that the motion before the house was “squashed,” notwithstanding its charitable object—the alleviation of distress.
—The Military Company has been divided by the Captain into two squads for convenience of drilling, each squad following the same routine.
—One good result of the Military Company is the way in which some of the “ Guards ” are beginning to carry themselves—“ head erect, shoulders square.”
—The struggle is over, and the victorious admirals have issued with flying colors from the fray. They will choose their crews immediately upon the opening of navigation.
—The Law Class will hold a Moot-court this evening which promises to be the most interesting yet held. The counsels arc T. Callaghan and J. Conlon. All are invited to attend.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm will lecture to-morrow (Sunday) evening before the confraternities and other societies of the College. The subject of the lecture is “ What the Church has Done for
. Science.”
—Rev. Father Zahm has the thanks of the Minims for a fine addition to the rare collection of plants which adorn their study-hall. The specimens presented are a young orange tree and a rare species of palm tree.
—According to an old German proverb, the Feast of St. Matthias (Feb. 24) “either makes or breaks the ice” for the ensuing six weeks. This year it “broke” the ice. The thaw began last Tuesday, and still continues. We may expect therefore the speedy arrival of spring.
—A meeting of the stockholders of the craft “ Abbie Coon ” will occur as soon as navigation opens up. It will be launched- this season as a “three-oared barge,” and the Captain will put his men through a thorough course of training. The ■ result of his selection for his crew is watched with interest.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held their 3d regular meeting on Feb. 25th. F. Dunford, F. Crotty and J. McNulty were elected to membership. Compositions highly creditable to the young gentlemen were read by E. Berry, A. McVeigh, H. Blakeslee, J. McNulty, F. Crotty, F. Salman, I. Grunsfeld, S. Shbneman and F. Cobbs.
‘ —The sixth regular meeting of the Junior branch of the Archconfraternity of the B. V. M. was held Sunday evening, Feb. 22d. The ten minutes’ instruction was given by Rev. Father Kirsch. Essays were read by Masters J. Courtney, H. Sed-_berry, and E. Ewing. W. Daly, T. Cleary, and E. Darragh, were appointed to prepare essays for the next meeting. After a few remarks from the president the closing hymn was sung, and the meeting adjourned;	.
—The 14th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia
Philomathean Association took place February 25th. Master Oxnard opened the exercises with a musical recital. A well-written criticism of the previous meeting was read by W. Dalv. Master F. J. Hagenbarth presented a well-written essay on Lord Bacon, Sir Isaac Newton and Benjamin Franklin. Master W. B. Mulkern read a well-written composition on Lingard, Macaulay, and Bancroft. J. Monschein and C. Stubbs appeared to good advantage in declamations. Public readers for the coming week are G. Myers, C. Stubbs, T. J. Cleary, E. Chute, C. Harris, and J. Monschein.
—The lovers of paintings by Signor Gregori, of Notre Dame, will find something to admire at the Tribune store in the latest production from his easel, “The Newsboy.” It represents a ragged little urchin, with a pleasant face, his newspaper bag slung across his shoulders, a copy of the New York Sun in his hand, and his mouth open, yelling “All about,” etc. The picture will be here but a few days, when it will be sent to New York city, where we learn it has already been sold for $200. During the week a portrait of Shakespeare by Gregori will be exhibited, and also another of his best pictures called “The Evening Prayer.” Notice will be given in these columns when they are placed on exhibition.—South Bend Tribune.
—A regular meeting of the Philodemics was held on the 25th inst. In the absence of Prof. Hoynes, H. A. Steis occupied the chair. D. Byrnes was elected to membership. The question debated was, “ Resolved that the Ancients attained a higher degree of civilization than the Moderns”: L. Mathers and T. Sheridan supported the affirmative, F. Dexter, and J. J. Conway the negative. The debaters in opening were rather tame, but as they warmed up to their subject the discussion became interesting and exciting. The decision was in favor of Messrs. Dexter and Conway. The naval question will be debated next week. The programme for two weeks from-next Wednesday is: Essay, A. A. Browne. Debate, “Resolved, that the conquest of Egypt by England is Justifiable.” On the affirmative J. Kleiber and T. Callaghan; negative, F. Combe and T. Sheridan.
—The forty-first annual celebration of Washington’s birthday, at the University of Notre Dame took place Saturday evening. The entertainment was given under the auspices of the Thespian Association, directed by Prof. Lyons, and was in every way creditable to the participants and this noted institution. The audience crowded the large auditorium of the Music Hall; Chicago and more distant cities being well represented. Music, both vocal and instrumental, by the Or-pheonic Society, the Cornet Band, and the orchestra constituted the preliminary exercises. The oration of the day, by S. B. Dickerson, was a beautiful tribute to the memory of Washington. The chief feature of the entertainment was the interesting drama, entitled “Falsely Accused.” It was appropriately remodelled for the occasion and presented in three acts. The prologue, by D. C;
402
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saviers, abounded in happy references to the University, its worthy President, and the students.— Sonih Bend Tribune.
—On Tuesday last, Very Rev. Father General paid a visit to his youthful proteges, the Minims, which they will long remember with delight. He came just as they were returning from the recreation. In order to see for himself if they were as orderly and polite in their deportment as they are said to be, he got into a corner where he could watch them unnoticed. But his artifice proved a failure; for as the}* filed into the hall, the stately figure of their beloved Father in such a novel position attracted their notice. Of course their most honorable visitor was the recipient of such profound salutations as satisfied him that the Minims merit all the praise that has been given them. Their graceful bows so pleased him that he gave them an excellent drill in walking, standing and bowing. It is needless to say that they profited by the instructions received. Such condescension on the part of the beloved Founder is not lost on the Minims; it has its own grand influence in forming their character; it ennobles them and goes a great way towards making them polite, manly little gentlemen. The Minims regret that they shall be deprived of the visits of their beloved Father for many weeks, but their hearts will go with him to Paris and Rome, and their prayers will be offered up that God may protect him and restore him soon and safe to Notre Dame which his presence has so blessed for the last 43 years.
— The Thespian Banquet.— The Thespian’s motto is “Act well your part;” but after the play they believe, coniine il faut, that “ to the victors belong the spoils.” Acting, then, upon these principles, after first distinguishing themselves nobly upon the stage, and retiring, covered with laurels, they assembled on Sunday evening to enjoy a social reunion and the Thespian dinner. A most appetizing array of viands decked the tables of the Senior dining-room, and, of course, the toothsome turkey reigned, in high state, enthroned. His reign was short and inglorious. The genial President, Prof. Lyons, was at his usual post, seeing that everybody was happy, and conducting the affair in his usually successful manner. Among those present were, Rev. Fathers Fitte, Kirsch, Stoffel, and Regan; Profs. Hoynes, Stoddard, and Edwards. After the repast, Prof. Hoynes arose and, apropos of the occasion, gave an outline of the life and character of Washington, referring in a happy manner much of that great man’s success to his wise mother, Martha Washington, and her counsels. It was a most interesting and appreciable address, and was received with much pleasure and warm aplause. Father Walsh congratulated the Thespian Association on their success. He subsequently occupied the chair at'a meeting called in the reading-rooms whither all repaired after the banquet. In this after-assembly, a pleasant time was passed in social converse, varied at times by impromptu addresses by the Thespians on the “ day we celebrate.”
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR department.
Messrs. Arce, Ancheta, A. Browne, F. Baca, M. Burns, Breen, D. Byrnes, F. Burke, V. Burke. Callaghan, Conlon, Walter Collins, Chapin, Conway, Crawford, Creel, F. Combe, C. Combe, Carbajal, Cusack, Cartier, De Groot, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, De Haven, Estrado, Flynn,* Finley, Frevermuth, Goulding, A. A. Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Goodfellow, Horn, Hamlyn, Halligan, Howard, Haus-berg, Hasson, Hutchison, Jones, Johnston, Kolars, King, Kleiber, Kavanagh, Keys, Livingston, McCabe, McKin-nery, McGuire, Meyer, McErlain, McCartney, McMurray, McNulty, Morrison, Jno. Murphy, O’Connell, O’Donnell, O’Kane, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Perley, Padilla, P. Prud--homme, J Prudhomme, C. Porter, Piefer, Phillips, Rothert, O. Ryan, Ramsay, Rahilly, T. Ryan, Roth, G- Smith, Sanchez, Saviers, Spangler, Snapp, Jno. Troy, W. Williams, Wagoner, White, Wilson, Woodbridge, Zeitler, McMillian.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arts, Adams, Borgschulze, Byerly, Baur, Berth-elet, Burns, Burrett, Chamberlain, Congdon, Crawford, Cummings, Colina, G. Cartier,* Cavaroc, Cleary, Chute, Dillon, Dempsey, Dorenberg, Donnellan, Dougherty, Daly, Darragh, Devine, Ewing, Finckh, Flood, Frain, Fehr, Grunsfeld, L. Greyer, E. Grever, J. Garrity, Grimes, Hibbeler, Hemisbaugh, Holman, Hasson, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kelly, Kegel, Kenny, Luther, F. Long, Martinez, McCourt, V. Morrison, Muikern, R. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Myers, Mullane, Macke, C. McGordon, Moody, Meehan, Nester, Oxnard, O’Brien, O’Kane, Portillo, Prudhomme, Regan, Real, Rose, Rattigan, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Robinson, Ryan, Rietz, Stubbs, Senn, Soden, Stange. Shaw, Sedberry, Servis, Scheunemann, Thompson, Tarrant. Thurston, Wabraushek, Wagoner, Williamson, Wieting, West Zollars.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Bull, Barger. Baker, Campau, Cobbs, Chute, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, L. Doss, E. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Garber, Grunsfeld, Haney, Hopkins, R. Inderrieden, S. Jones, E. Kelly, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Morgan, C. Mitchell, Moncada, McNulty, Mooney, McGuire, Nussbaum, Nester, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piero, Piel, Paul, Perkins, Quill, Ramsey, Sweet, Stone, Williamson, J. Kinty, A. Kinty.
* Omitted the last two weeks by mistake.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. Muikern, V. Morrison, Hagenbarth, Courtney, E. Porter, Mason, Goulding, F. Combe, Kleiber, Brown, J. Wagoner, Rothert, Halligan, Sheridan, Conlon, Kolars, Saviers. Ancheta, H. Porter, C- Porter, Johnston, Guthrie, Steis, Conway, Callaghan, Mathers, W Cartier, Reach, P. Howard, Dexter, Murdock, Dolan, Wilson, Hausberg, Kavanaugh, G. Smith, Dickerson, McKinnery, Maguire, C. Combe, Hotaling, Goodfellow, Spangler, Burns. •
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. Dickerson, Courtney, Remish, J. Burns, Sheridan, J. Wagoner; Greek—Messrs. G. H. Smith, Finckh, J. Wagoner, J. Kleiber: Logic—J." Guthrie; Ethics—S. Dickerson; Rhetoric—Messrs. Monschein, C. Combe; English Literature—Messrs. F. Combe, Hausberg, Stubbs, Hagenbarth, Muikern, W. Cartier, O’Connell; Criticism—Messrs. Kavanagh, Callaghan, Wilson, Sheridan, Dolan; Algebra—Messrs. Berthelet, J. Burns, Daly, Reynolds; Geometry—Messrs. Daly, E. Porter, Mason; Calculus—A. J. Ancheta; Mechanics— C. C. Kolars; Trigonometry—Mr. Rothert; Surveying— W. Cartier; Descriptive Geometry—C. F. Porter; Engineering—C. Kolars; Astronomy—A. Ancheta; Physics A. Ancheta; Chemistry—Messrs. Johnston, A. Ancheta; Geology—A. Ancheta; Zoology—Messrs. F. Combe, Hagenbarth, Hausberg; Botany—Messrs. Rothert, Wiley, V. Morrison.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	403
Saint TRary's Acabemy.
One. Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The eve of Washington’s Birthday was the signal for recreation from class for the afternoon. It was celebrated in the sweetest possible manner. A universal “ taffy-pull ” was the programme for the evening, and the shades of molasses-candv were varied according to the skill and strength of o	o
the manipulators.
—On Wednesday, the 25th, a charming play in the French language was rendered by the Junior pupils of the French classes. Next week a fuller notice will be given. Grateful acknowledgments are extended to Miss Marie Bruhn for her interest in the preparation. The success was largely owing to her amiable attentions and services.
—On Washington’s Birthday, Rosa Mystica^ Vol. XI, No. 3, was read at the weekly Academic reunion. Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier honored the young ladies by their presence. Mrs. W. P. Johnson, and Miss Carrie Stumer, of Chicago, were among the invited guests. Miss Gove and Miss Ramsey were the editresses. The last-named young lady read the “ Graduate’s Valedictory to Rosa Mystical as this was the last member to be issued by the Class of ’85. But one more number will be read, and that will fall to the members of the First Senior Class. Miss Gove, by request, read Very Rev. Father General’s excellent article in the Scholastic of the 21st—on “ Bad Reading.” The important considerations, beautifully rendered, chained the attention of all. At the close of the remarks which followed the reading, Father Shortis announced that the young ladies might look forward to an entertainment of stereoscopic views, to be given by Rev. Father Zahm at no very distant date.
Literature, Music, and. Art.
BY ETTA CALL.
A nation may be powerful, its empire extending from sea to sea, its treasury abounding in riches, its arsenals stored with the most destructive engines of warfare, and its conquests irresistible; but without literature, music, and art, it can lay no substantial claim to civilization—its subjects can never take rank among the polished and intellectual races of the earth. Some persons possessed of sterling social qualities, annoyed by the trifling and superficial nature of much that comes under the category of our subject, and by undue claims of letters, music and art, which often encroach upon the more serious avocations of life, have gone to the opposite extreme, and have despised their cultivation as the idle pastime of a shallow mind. Yet, however freely we may concede the fact that their objections are not unfounded, we cannot deny that Belles Lettres, music, and painting have been
powerful agents to subdue, refine and ennoble the inclinations of the soul, and to elevate the standard of social, moral, and intellectual excellence. "
To realize the true position of the fine arts as conservators of national prosperity, we may for a moment suppose the entire demolition of the musical resources, the art treasures, the libraries, the written and printed matter of, for example, the continents of Europe and America. Leo the Isaurean, and all his associates in image-breaking, could never have encompassed so deplorable a destruction. What a blank would be left! The change which this ruin would effect is too painful to dwell upon even in imagination. The complete desert into which the social world would be transformed, indicates what is literally true, that literature and the fine arts, have in reality “caused the desert to blossom as the rose.”
If a comparison, or rather a distinction were to be drawn as to the respective merits of the three, literature would undoubtedly rank as the most essential, since it is the universally-accepted channel of ideas, though we must never lose sight of the fact that painting and music are also the channels of ideas. It is the idea in a grand musical composition, or a masterpiece of art that constitutes its merit. It is the idea in the wanton, though technically perfect, musical theme, or skilful painting, or statuary, that makes it dangerous, destroys its merit. But, to return: the literature of a nation may be said to be the expression of its morals. Admit that the literature is light and trifling, and you at once pronounce the condemnation of the people. Levity is their characteristic. On the other hand, when the products of the press bear the unmistakable stamp of purity, strength and earnestness, we may safely rely upon the integrity of a nation. A sound literature is almost synonymous with a sound civilization. Corrupt this fountain of public principle, and you poison the lifeblood of society. No wonder the whole system is enervated, its life imperiled, its honor dead.
Belles Lett res may be compared to the prism. It presents to us all the radiant hues of which it is possible to conceive. Destroy one angle, and the power of the prism has departed. So of literature, music and art: obliterate one, and the charm of all is dispelled. Where literature is ardently cultivated and prized, we are sure to find that art and music are cherished. The love of the grand and beautiful, as manifested in creation, is the strong chain which unites the three, and which makes of them one harmonious whole.
The individuality of the literary, the artistic, or the musical composer run§ through the respective productions of each, and is evident in the three branches. But as in Paradise the serpent found its way, experience proves, as we have hinted above, that even in the enchanted sphere of the fine arts great danger lurks. No one intelligently conversant with the world will pretend to deny that even in the refinements of the three branches the extremes of good and evil are embraced.' Technically speaking, we may say of a given musical composition; of an artistic study, of a literary production that
4°4
THE KOTHE DAHE SCHOLASTIC.
it is faultless, when, at the same time, the principles of common morality have been complete'.', -et a<idc in the execution. But we must not be deceived by the wily charms of genius. There is something more to be valued than satisfaction:-there is something above the mere delight afforded by the admiration of human skill, talent and con-sumate culture. It is our self-respect.
To avoid the peril here implied, there is but one infallible rule. It is to form a taste that will never be imposed upon; that will never take up with anything short of that which is irreproachable in music, literature and art. It is the ill-informed who is ready to be carried away with the glitter of a shallow brilliancy. It is the misfortune of a sickly sentimentality to be allured by the fluent but hollow style of thoughtless writers. The deftly elaborated work—the coruscations of genius, whether in the form of an opera, a painting or a learned volume of science, may conceal a fearful danger; but the instinctive justice of a correct taste will not be deceived. The stead}' eye. the practised ear, the cultured mind, the pure heart is'quick to discern the true from the false, however adroitly disguised. Sterling merit is always recognized by the true connoisseur. Nothing satisfies him but the classic in art, the classic in music, the classic in letters. He is unmoved by ephemeral popularity. He accepts nothing which has not stood the test of a higher tribunal. To acquire the taste in question should be the ambition of all, for is the only passport to all that is most invigorating and ennobling, most desirable and cheering in the wide sphere of faith—inspired genius.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly. M. Bruhn, M. Blair, Brady, Bub. E. Call, Dunne, M. Ducey,' A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, M. Dillon, B. English, Faxon, Fuller. C. Ginz, B. Gove, C. Griffith, Gavan, Hutchinson, N. Keenan, N. Kearns, B. Kearney, Lange, T. McSorley, A. J. McHale. B. Morrison, O’Connell, Ramsey, Rose, L. Sheekey, M. Scullv, C. Scully. Shea, Sharrette. Schilling, Thornton, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, White. Walker. 2d Tablet—Misses Blaine, Carney, Fitzpatrick, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, A. Heckard. B Heckard Hale, A. McSorley, Morse, M. Newman. AI- O’Halloran, Schmidt, L. St. Clair.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses B. Balch, E. Balch, L. Norris, E. Preston, C. Prudhomme, G. Regan, C. Richmond, E. Sheekey, M. Smith, G. Searls, G- Stadtler, B. Snowhook. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Brown, AI. Murphy, Stumer, L. Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, M. Hopkins, E. Hammond, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Munay, F. Spencer, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes— according to competitions held during the month.]
Graduating Class—Misses Gove, Ginz, Call, Sheekey, Dunne, Ramsey.
ist Senior Class—Misses Keenan, Heckard, Carney, L. St. Clair, Barlow, Ducey, Munger, L. Williams.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Horn, Kearney, Griffith, Helpling, E. Sheekey, M. Dillon. A. Donnelly, C. Scullv, B. Morrison, Kean-ev. Fuller, Keves, Adderly, McHale, Shepherd, j .\. Murphy. O'Connell, Wolvin, M. Walker. Hale.
JD Sr. Class—Misses Kearns, B. Heckard, E. Tavlor,' C. Cox, E. Rose, F. Carmien, B. Snowhook, L. Trask, T. McSorley, E. Brady, C. Fehr, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, M. Schmidt, A. Gavan, F. Thornton, L. Walsh, C. Richmond, E. Schulze, E. Wallace, M. Barr.	-
ist Preparatory Class—Misses M.-Shea, A. English, G. Stadtler, L. Hutchinson, C. Servis, M. Smith, F. Hert-zog, H. Stumer, M. Cox. A. Dwan. L. Blaine, B. Lauer, J. Bub, A. Malbceuf, Ai. Barry, N. Brown, E. Balch, J. Campeau. C. Schilling.
2D Prep. Class—Misses A. White, G. Searls, L. Norris, B. Murray, A. Schmauss, M. Hawkins, B. Sharette, M. McEwen, M. Murphy, N. Quill, V. Stull, A. Schuler.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses F. Spencer, E. Burtis, M. Lindsey, C. Prudhomme.
ist Jr. Class—Misses F. Johnson, E. Blaine.
french.
ist Class—Misses Call, Bruhn.
2D Class—Misses E. O’Connell, Barlow, Adderly, Griffith, Morrison, Wallace, Malboeuf.
3d Class—Misses Richmond, Snowhook, Van Horn.
4TH Class—Misses Kearns, Lange, Sheekey, Norris, McSorley, McEwen, Servis, Barry.
5T11 Class, 2D Div.—Misses Stumer, F. Johnson, B. Murray, L. Chapin. C. Prudhomme, Balch.
german.
ist Class—Miss C. Ginz.
2D Div.—Miss E. Horn.	•
2D Class—Miss K. Fehr.
2D Div.—Misses B. Kearney, E. Rose, G. Wolvin.
3d Class—Misses C. Lange, E. Taylor, E. Schultz, G. Statler. M. Cox, N. Donnelly.
4TJ1 Class—Misses Cox, d’Halloran, Dillon, Smith, McHale, Blaine, Dwan, Lauer, Donnelly, Trask, Newman.
jth Class—Misses F. Thornton, M. Walker, E. Balch, H. Quill, A. Schmauss.
BOOK-KEEPING.
ist Class—Misses A. Heckard, D. Fitzpatrick, B. Kearney, E. O’Connell.
2D Class—Misses M Dillon, G. Wolvin, B. Morrison, G. Regan, I. Alcott, L. Blaine. M. Newman.
3D Class—Misses F. Carmien, A. Keyes, J. McHale, Alice Gordon, L. Walsh, A. Dwan, Addie Gordon, M. Scully.
4TH Class—Misses C. Cox, E. Rose. G. Faxon, M. Morse, M. Cox.
Some one has said, no doubt very justly, that praises are dangerous to the young: admitted. Blame is, perhaps, even more so. Perhaps disparagement is the greatest obstacle with which enterprises for the good of families, societies, and educational houses have to contend. Blame has often turned a warm heart from a good resolution. Disparagement, too, is generally the work of so-called good people. They cast slighting reflections upon what they do not quite understand— what is not quite in accordance with their prejudices, when, without meaning any harm, they may be the cause of a great amount. Especially is this true of those who have to deal with unformed minds—the young, for example. We well know that important discoveries have frequently been for leng years at the mercy of disparaging judgments, and experience should make us very cautious in our manner of employing our influence. Pupils cannot be too careful of their words.
Dis
Vol. XVIII.
Oontre
Who talks to me of youth I All sorrows but disgrace? The wanderings of Israel, Strain of a mind that seek1 I seem bewildered in a lan The primal needs, dim sha And occult faiths that darl With voices of to-d iv aero So. I remember—when th: Sprang by the Platte and < We came to pleasant horn: Bright with the spring on Glad with returning hosts. Thunder their joy for Riel
What the Church Ha:
“History, during the k has become a gram! consp So said the illustrious Co and we might reiterate hi cally as the learned author before the world as the ch ligion. History, since the Reformation, has been pe many charges one continua the Church whenever the lation to the world of thoi; vancement. She has bee of liberty and civilization, we are indebted for both, inimical to the progress of the greatest masterpieces literature and art are the i inspiration and fostering c claimed the open enemy o standing all that has bee fifty years, in every depa quiry, showing how groun is, the impression is still a has always been opposed t during her entire history, atically discouraged its str progress. But this impres:
* Lecture delivered March i C. S. C., Prof, of Physical Scie