Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 29, 1884. '
No. 13. kJ
The Land of Peace.
I know where lies the land of peace,—
The wondrous peace of which we dream: The place where pleasures never cease, But flow in an exhaustless stream.
This is the true Arcadian land,
Where joys by hands divine are planned:
The way thereto full well I know:— Ah, yes! I know, but do not go.
Unbroken peace abideth there;
Its tranquil tenor never fails;
Its skies, which bend o’er meadows fair, ■
Are ne’er disturbed by angry gales.
Unknown the sense of vague unrest, For every dweller there is blessed
With all the joys true bliss can show.—
I know the way, but do not go.
Still in the'troubled world I bide, And still I wear the chains that bind;
Yet oh! how often I have sighed
To leave my vexing cares behind, Along the path of peace to stray, My glad heart singing all the way At its release from toil and woe:— And yet, ah yet! I do not go.
Where lies this fair and mystic land?
Where is the path that leads to peace?
If God’s great love we understand, We know the way; nor need we cease ’Till, resting in its pastures green, We look and see, in skies serene,
The stars of peace above us glow.— ■ We know the way. Oh, let us go!
E. R. in “Ave Afaria."
The Church in the United States.
The progress of the Catholic Church in the United States during the last half century has been of so marked a character that it cannot fail to impress even the most superficial observer with its magnitude and importance. Fifty years ago, we find scattered over this broad expanse of territory 13,000,000 of civilized people. At that period 600,000—or the one-twentieth part of the entire population—were Roman Catholics, many of whom
dwelt in very remote and out-of-the-way places. The number of churches did not exceed 230, and, in many instances, these were nothing but rude structures made of common rough boards. 222 Catholic priests, under the jurisdiction of- nine bishops, ministered to the spiritual wants of those 600,000 souls. Outside of the great Eastern cities, the country was very sparsely settled: the population, as already intimated, was scattered over the land, especially in the West. A circuit of 500 miles for a Bishop to govern in those days was considered a very small district. The illustrious Bishop Flaget furnishes us with an excellent example; the greater portion of Kentucky, Indiana and Tennessee was under his charge. Day and night did he labor in his province for the welfare of religion and the salvation of souls. Nor was the good prelate alone in this noble cause. A few pious priests, for the most part missionaries from a foreign shore, co-operated with and shared in the hardships of their leader.
Let us pause for a moment and picture to ourselves the life of a pioneer priest. His dwelling was a rude cabin in the midst of a forest,—we say forests because at that time our large Western cities, to a very great extent, were nothing but mere hamlets surrounded by thick woods; perhaps a few families lived close by him with whom he could hold frequent intercourse; but, to care for the spiritual wants of those committed to his charge, he was obliged to ride on horseback or walk, or travel by such conveyance as he could find, a distance of fifty or sixty miles, and thus visit all portions of his extensive parish. In the little rude churches erected here and there, small groups, consisting of two or three families, would assemble to welcome among them the Minister of God, assist at the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass; offer up beautiful prayers, and receive from the hands of the priest the Holy of Holies. Thus we see the life of both pastor and flock just fifty years ago.	.
Time rolled on; the fertility of our soil and the prosperity of our Republic excited the admiration of foreign countries and drew to our shores numerous emigrants. In a very short time the population had increased wonderfully, so much so that the East becoming too densely settled, many, in the hope of gain, pushed westward, and, gradually, the United States became the settled country we find it to-day. In the mean time the progress
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the Church, to use a trite expression, “was slow but sure.” Enemies, such as the Know-Nothings, rose up against her, destroyed her property, and treated her subjects as though they were inferior beings; but as “Truth, when crushed to earth, shall rise,” so she also rose majestically and triumphantly, and proclaimed to the world her victory. The Irish element that flocked to this country between the years 1846 and 1851 could be numbered among the millions, and 99 out of every 100 possessed that grand old faith taught to their ancestors by their great apostle St. Patrick. The Germans and French formed no small portion of our number; but we need not speak of different nationalities. In the Church there is no lace or nation—all are one and the same.
The Church in the United States, despite the great opposition met with on all sides, has grown and flourished. The actual increase of the Catholic population in the last half century is something remarkable; from 600,000 in 1830 to the incredible number of 6,500,000 in 1S80. Not only did the population increase, but every department pertaining to the Catholic Church: her hierarchy, religious communities, educational institutions and the press. To-day, one Cardinal, fifty-six bishops, and over 5000 priests constitute the good-shepherds appointed by God to watch over and rule His flock in the United States.
’ In the apparent course of human action, what are the causes that have led to these grand results, and are still leading to results yet more glorious for the future? Through the zeal and eloquence of our celebrated bishops—men like Bishops Martin John Spalding, John Hughes, and J. B. Purcell,—many wandering and erring souls found solace and true comfort in the bosom of the Catholic Church. The humble priest, by his example and precept, cannot help but lead the faithful safely to their goal, and make a deep impression upon those outside the pale. Religious communities, both male and female, ought to be and are respected by every thoughtful person. To the men and women alike who devote themselves entirely to the service of God for the purpose of assisting their fellow-creatures, while laboring for the grand end of their creation, too great praise cannot be given. The object and motives of these congregations are various: some live in retired abodes, completely isolated from the society of the world without, subject themselves to rigorous punishment, and practise the most austere piety, to propitiate the justice of God who rules over all, and gain for their fellow-men the benign action of that Divine Providence whose intervention in the affairs of the universe and all who live therein is acknowledged by everyone in whom reason has awakened to life ever so feebly, in whom the spark of religious feeling has glowed ever so dimly. And who has not heard of the Sister of Charity? Go into our large cities, go in time of war to our crowded hospitals, go where plague and pestilence rage at their highest,—there you will find the Sister of Charity, soothing, comforting; in a word, doing everything in mortal’s power to console their
unhappy patients. Others—like the members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross—whose object is to instruct the youth, apply themselves to this task so earnestly and devotedly that our Catholic institutions stand out pre-eminently. The Catholic student not only enjoys the advantages of a thorough classical and scientific education, but also a religious and moral training. The youngman educated in this way is capable of going forth to do his duty in the great battle of life armed with solid material, the sinews of warfare; and, while bravely engaged in the great struggle, may challenge the trust and admiration of his fellowman.
We cannot refrain from saying a few words on the Catholic press—that organ which has done so much to silence the abuses, calumnies and direct attacks made upon our faith by some of our Protestant journals. In the early days of our history the Catholic newspaper had to labor under one great disadvantage, viz., the fewness of our number; but, happily, we can say that that is a thing of the past, the support of the millions is ample proof. But why speak further? The flourishing condition of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States to-day is known and acknowledged even by her enemies. And, when contrasted with the Church of fifty years ago, we may, indeed, say with the Holy Scripture that, like the grain of mustard seed, she has increased and multiplied a thousandfold.	T. J. M.
Indirect Egotism.
If, as astrologers were wont to teach, our good or bad dispositions depend upon the celestial bodies under whose influence we chance to be born, how extreme the malignity we must attribute to the planet that condemns a man to be an egotist. Such characters praise self, either directly, by lauding their own actions, or indirectly, by censuring those of others. Of the two classes, the latter is the less^ tolerable. While a person contents himself with expatiating upon his talents, his qualities, his fortune or exploits, he but inspires us with pity or contempt; when he discovers a criticising, censorious or contradictory spirit, he is apt to excite our indignation. We ridicule the folly that dwells continually upon the first person; we resent the impertinence expressed in the use of the second. Hence, the indirect egotist is a personage of whom society has a special abhorrence.
Men of this disposition seem to imagine that an innate superiority entitles them to criticise the actions and opinions of all who come in their way, and clearly consider the exercise of this privilege to be a mark of enviable distinction. Upon subjects of which they profess to have any knowledge, and of very few will they admit their ignorance, their authority is infallible. Strengthened by their assertion, the possible is made probable, while probability becomes certitude. So positive is their manner of expressing themselves that to doubt seems temerity; to oppose, a crime.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
'95
The antagonism of some of this class is so de-Icided that they deny, almost indiscriminately, whatever is affirmed. As is evident, conversation with such a person is always disagreeable, or rather, you cannot converse; the most you can effect is to 1	dispute. He will disturb the equanimity of the
most amiable temper, and rejoice in proportion to the annoyance he produces. Start a subject congenial to your tastes, you are told that such matters never afford him any pleasure. In literature, the authors you most admire are precisely those he most dislikes; or if, by chance, he agrees with you in admitting the merits of a few, he is certain to condemn as defects what you extol as beauties. ,	Express the delight you experience at the sight of
i	a fine painting, “ he really connot see anything
|	pleasing in it;” on the contrary, it appears to him
|	very imperfect. If a student, he always finds
’	comparatively easy the portion of the lesson which
|	others consider the most difficult. Speak highly
’	of a companion,' he mentions a dozen faults for
|	every good quality you enumerate. His deter-
।	mined opposition displays itself in the most trivial
(colloquial intercourse. If the sun is shining, and the sky unclouded, you naturally suppose he will ;	admit that the day is fine; but, strange to say, he
•	perceives in the atmospheric pressure infallible
’	* signs of an approaching storm. In short, these
i	social pests will never allow an observation to pass
;	without comment, nor bestow the most justly
merited praise without qualification. It is even imprudent to acquiesce too readily in their opinions, for, by restricting the sense of their terms, they frequently sacrifice consistency to enjoy the pleasure of contradicting you.
Another peculiarity of this class is the malicious satisfaction they evince in correcting the most unimportant mistake. To detect in your speech a grammatical inaccuracy, or a slight fault in pronunciation, evidently gratifies them not a little; while to convict you of a notable error proves a source of positive joy. What is worse, to rectify such a mistake they do not scruple to interrupt the flow of the most entertaining narrative. This vicious tendency enables them to deprive anecdote of its charms, and to transform agreeable, animated conversation into frivolous debate.
This cursory glance at its consequences shows that what we have termed indirect egotism is a quality by no means worthy of admiration. It is the distemper of a mind whose better dispositions have been poisoned by the noxious vapors of a monstrous self-conceit. As such, the propensities which lead to it should be overcome before they have acquired strength. The young man who is inclined to dispute merely for the love of opposition, to pronounce his opinion with an air of authority, and to play the’ cynic in conversation, should take heed lest he become a victim of the vice we have been describing. The germ of pride finds in our corrupted nature a rich and fruitful soil. Shooting forth with marvellous rapidity and vigor, its unhealthful growth requires to be checked. Carefully subjected and restrained, it becomes a laudable self-respect, gracing the heart
and inviting men’s esteem; neglected or encouraged, it increases to an immoderate vanity which vitiates the worthiest of our actions, and exposes us to society as objects of ridicule, aversion and contempt.	O.
The Divine Love.
Time my frail bark o’er a rousjh ocean guides. Swift to that port where all must touch that live, And of their actions, good or evil give A strict account, where Truth supreme presides. As to gay Fancy, in which art confides, And even her idol and her monarch makes, Full well I know how largely it partakes Of error; but frail man in error prides.
Thy thoughts, once prompt round hurtful things to twine, What are they now, when two dread deaths are near I The one impends, the other shakes his spear, Painting and Sculpture’s aid in vain I crave;
My one sole refuge is that Love Divine, Which from the cross stretch’d forth its arms to save. '
Michael Angelo Buonarotti.
Mythology.
Among the early nations of antiquity, before the art of writing had come into general use, the only means by which to preserve and spread the knowledge of remarkable events was by tradition. Many circumstances contributed to give to early traditions a fabulous character. The love of the marvellous, a natural tendency of the mind to employ symbolical and allegorical images, to express ideas for which no definite words have been appropriated, and a disposition to eulogize and exaggerate the exploits of ancestors, all conspired to load history and fact with a mass of fiction, so that it became impossible for later inquirers to distinguish between the true and the false. Traditions of this sort the Greeks distinguish from authentic history by the name of and the same term was applied to their contents, or the matter of them, as well as the knowledge or study of them.
Mythology was not, however, with them, as in modern times, a distinct branch of study. The term is now used appropriately for that branch of knowledge which considers the notions and stories, particularly among the Greeks and Romans, respecting gods and demi-gods, their pretended origin, their actions, natures, attributes, worship, images, and symbolical representations. It is also often employed in a wider sense, including the religious fables of all ages and nations, and thus is made synonymous with the history of fables. It is important to distinguish the point of view in which these mythological narratives were contemplated by the ancients from that in which we are to regard them. To the former they were closely connected with their national history, and their religious faith were, indeed, parts of them. To us they are only monuments and evidences of .the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
state of culture of the human mind, if we view them philosophically. They exhibit the reflections upon nature and deity of men guided by sense and imagination, affected much by external appearances, and mistaking physical effects for independent revolutionary powers. But they afford much’ valuable and even necessary aid in understanding the Greek and Roman authors, especially the poets, such as the ^Eneid, Plautus, etc., and in judging of ancient opinions, usages, customs and arts.
The traditions of mythology, in passing down through many centuries, were multiplied and augmented, and experienced various changes in respect to their general dress, aim, and application. Originally, they consisted in part of actual occurrences, in part of arbitrary fiction springing from fear, reverence, gratitude, patriotism, credulity and love of the marvellous, cunning and ambition. They were, it is probable, sometimes of native origin, but more frequently were introduced from foreign sources by settlers and otherwise. By poets they were woven into Epic song; by early philosophers they were clothed in allegory and mystery; and by the latter interpreted in divers conflicting ways; while artists found in them an ample Tange of subjects for the chisel and the pencil. Some of the modern writers on Greek and Roman mythology have merely stated the fables as reported among the ancients. Others have, in addition, sought to trace them to their origin, either by making conjectures of allegorical, historical and physical meaning in the stories, or deducing them from the events of early ages recorded in the Bible. But as these traditions arose in various ways, and often accidentally, there will, of course, be attempts to refer them all to one common system and purpose.
The advantages of an acquaintance with mythology are many. One of the most important aside from its aid in reference to ancient philosophy, religion, and history, is the better understanding it enables one to obtain of the Greek and Roman writers and of the works of their artists. It is obviously necessary to the cultivation of classical learning, which is of so acknowledged importance in modern education.	*	S.
Hand-Shaking'.
The mode of shaking hands is undoubtedly an index of character, and differs as inuch as the faces of those by whom it is performed. As it would be impossible to describe all the various ways in which hand-shaking may be exercised, it will suffice to mention a few of the styles most in vogue.
The first which deserves notice is the “ boisterous shake.” It is a cordial grapple of your friend’s hand, accompanied with moderate pressure, and loud acclamations of welcome. It is much used by travelling people, and is well adapted to the familiar intercourse enjoyed by friends.
Opposed to the cordial grapple is the “ timid
shake.” This a pensive, tranquil grip, followed by a mild, jerky motion, a down-cast look, and an inarticulate inquiry after your friend’s health.
' Next in order comes the “pump-handle shake,” which is much in favor among gentlemen from the rural districts. It is executed by taking your neighbor’s hand and working it up and down for a minute and a half. To have its full force and character, this shake should be performed with a fair, steady motion. No attempt should be made to give it grace or variety, as the few instances in which it has been tried with variations have always resulted in dislocating the shoulder of the person on whom it has been attempted. On the contrary, persons who favor the “ pump-handle shake” should be careful to impart a gentle movement to the operation, which on no account should be continued after perspiration on the part of your friend has commenced.
The “pendulum shake” may be mentioned next, as it somewhat resembles the pump-handle method, but moves in a horizontal instead of a perpendicular diiection. This is performed by making a horizontal sweep of the hand toward your friend, and, after the junction is effected, rowing from one side to the other according to the pleasure of the parties. I shudder to think of the consequences should two persons meet, one educated to the pump-handle, the other brought up to the pendulum shake. They come together, join hands, and attempt, to put them in motion. One attempts to pump, the other to puddle; their faces redden, the drops stand upon their foreheads, and it is at least a pleasant illustration of the doctrine of the combinations of forces to see their heads slanting in an exact diagonal, in which line they ever after shake.
Next in the category'is the “vice grip.” It is executed by clasping the hand of the victim, and then contracting the muscles of vour thumb and fingers to an extraordinary' degree. Particular care ought to be taken, if your hand is as hard and large as a frying-pan, and that of your friend as small and soft as a maiden’s, not to make use of the vice grip to such a degree as would shake the bones of the wrist out of place. It is not safe to apply it to a gouty person. A friend of mine, who belongs to a boat crew, and has acquired unusual hardness of hand and strength of wrist by rowing, gave his gouty uncle the “ vice grip ” with such severity as to almost pulverize the old gentleman’s fingers, for which my friend was disinherited as soon as his uncle’s fingers became well enough to-hold a pen. -e .	. 1
I might go through a long list of other peculiar forms and methods employed in this beautiful manual Expression of friendship, such as the “ saw-mill shake,” the “royal grip,” and the “shake with malice aforethought,” but they are all combinations of those forms* already mentioned. I intended to inflict a few remarks in conclusion on the mode of shaking hands as an index of character, but as I see a friend coming from the other end of the study-hall who is addicted to the “pump-handle,” I dare not tire my wrist by further writing.
. ■	T. E. C.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Foresight of Insects for their Young.
In no manner is the mysterious influence of instinct over the insect world more remarkably manifested than by the care taken by parent insects for the future welfare of offspring which they are destined never to behold. As the human parent upon his death-bed makes the best provision he can for the sustenance and posperity of his infant children, whom death has decreed that he may not in person watch over, so those insects which nature has decreed shall be always the parents of orphan children, led by an unerring influence within, do their best to provide for the wants of the coming generation.
The butterfly, after flitting through her short life, seeks out a spot whereon to deposit her numerous eggs, not—as one might expect of a creature devoid of mind—upon any chance plant, or even upon the plant or flower from which she herself has been wont to draw her sustenance, but upon the particular plant which forms the invariable food of the larva} of her species. The various kinds of clothes-moths penetrate into our cupboards, drawers, and everywhere where furs, woolen garments, etc., are stored, that they may there lav their eggs, to hatch into the burrowing grubs which are the terror of otn* housekeepers. The ichneumon tribe, one of nature’s greatest counterpoises to keep down the too rapid increase of the insect world, lav their eggs in the larvte of other insects, which eggs when hatched develop into a devouring brood, which ungratefully turn upon and devour the helpless creature that sheltered them as a nest. The female ichneumon, having discovered a caterpillar or grub which her instinct informs her has not been previously attacked, at once proceeds to thrust her ovipositor Into the writhing body of her victim, depositing one or more eggs, according to the size of the living food supply. When hatched, the larvae devour and live upon their foster parent, avoiding in a marvellous way the vital parts of their victim, whose life is most accurately timed to last until its young tormentors are full grown, and not beyond. At one time we were led to believe in occasional instances of the instinct of female ichneumons being at fault, by observing them apparently ovipositing Upon the dry shells of pupae from which the butterflies had escaped. This,t however, we subsequently found to.be an erroneous idea, the fact of 'the matter being, that the caterpillar upon which the parent ichneumon had laid her fatal egg had had time, before the full development of the young ichneumon grub, to turn to the pupal stage. What, then, we saw was the young ichneumon fly just emerged from the dry pupal case, the contents of which it had first devoured in its own larval stage, then itself turning to a pupa, it had lain, thus doubly incased, until, having broken forth a perfect fly, it rested upon its late prison, awaiting sufficient strength to come to its wings. What a wooden horse of Troy such a chrysalis would prove, if introduced into the breeding establishment of a collector!	-
Other members of the ichneumon, tribe do not actually insert their eggs into the destined food supply of their y oung; but, as it were, going deeper into calculation of future events, content themselves with laying them in close proximity to the eggs of some member of the tribe upon which it is their mission to prey. -	;.
There is an old saying—
Big’ fleas have little fleas Upon their backs to bite 'em: Little fleas have smaller fleas, So on ad infinitum.
which is very, true, inasmuch as from the great bumble-bee down to the tiniest corn thrips—a mere speck of dust to the naked eye—all insects have their parasites, and generally their own specialspecies of ichneumon, to prevent their over-increase and to . preserve the due balance of nature. There is a species of longicorn beetle found in Pennsylvania which feeds upon the tender bark of young hickory shoots. When laying-time arrives, the female, having deposited her eggs in cavities perforated in the bark, carefully cuts a groove, about one-tenth of an inch wide and deep, round the shoot just below where her treasures lie. The object, or rather, we suppose we ought to say, the consequence, of this act is the withering and decay of the. shoot, a provision for the sustenance of her young, which, when in their larval state, live upon dead wood! This remarkable insect is called the hickory girder from the • above-mentioned habit, which, we think, is one of the most extraordinarv instances of foresight, through a mere blind instinct, that has ever come under observation.	.	.
The gadfly ( (Eustrus equi)^ whose larvje are the bots which inhabit the intestines of the horse, gains for her progeny that comfortable position by entrapping the animal itself into introducing her eggs within its stomach. For this purpose she. lays her eggs upon such portions of the horse’s body as he is in the habit of frequently licking, such as the knees, shoulders, etc. The unerring nature of her instinct is shown by the fact that she never chooses as a nidus any portion of the body which the horse is unable to reach with its tongue. Having thus been introduced into their natural feeding grounds, the bots there pass their larval existence until, it becoming time for them to assume the pupal form, they go forth with the animal s dung to reach the earth, burrow into it, and therein to pass the insect’s purgatory.
Again, one of the grain moths {Gelechia. cerea-lella} shows remarkable instinct in adapting itself to circumstances according to the time of year when it has to deposit its eggs. The first generation of these-moths, emerging in May from pupae which have lain in the granaries through the winter, lay-their countless-eggs upon the as yet uri-gathered corn, upon which their young play havoc until, having passed through the necessary stages, they come out in the autumn as the second generation amid the now stored-up grain. Now, however, their instinct prompts them, not, like-the first generation, to go forth to the fields to seek the -proper nest and future nourishment of their-young,
198
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
but bids them deposit their eggs upon the store of wheat ready at hand. Thus, two following generations of the same insect are led by their instincts to different habits to suit the altered and, in the last case, unnatural position of their infants’ destined food supply.
The interesting mason wasp, having with great care and skill bored out a cylindrical hole in some sunny sandbank, deposits at the bottom of this refuge her eggs. Next, provident mother as she is, she seeks out about a dozen small caterpillars, always of the same species, and immures them alive in the pit, as food for her cruel children. In mak-insr her selection of scrubs to be thus buried alive, she rejects any that may not have reached maturity; not, we imagine, upon the score of their not being so full flavored, but because, when not full grown, they require food to keep them alive; whereas, when of mature age, they will live a long time without nourishment, ready to turn to chrysalides when opportunity occurs.
These are but a few of the instances which mi^ht be adduced in illustration of this foresight in insects, which compensates for their not being allowed in person to superintend the welfare of their offspring. In many cases, it would be better for human progeny .were their parents thus endowed with an unerring instinct, rather than with an uncertain will.— Chambers' Journal.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The examples of Ranke, Bancroft, Bryant, Carey, and others, seem to prove that literary pursuits are favorable to longevity. Prussia is especially remarkable for the vigor of her old men in literature and science. Alexander von Humboldt died at the age of almost 90; Ranke is 87, Ehrenberg and Dove were 70 and So when they died; Moltke is in his 83d year.	'
—“ Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and few to be chewed and digested.” We have cabbaged this from Bacon; he should have added that many books are not fit to be tasted, swallowed, chewed, or digested; they are fit for ■^nothing else than fire-kindling, and should never have been written or printed. Fools generally read them; sensible people shun them as they would the plague.
-—Mr. Gladstone has a very sweet tenor voice, and sings English, Scotch, and Irish ballads, as well as negro melodies, to which he confines himself, which great taste and feeling; but when he goes on visists to country houses he’ insists on singing duets with Mrs. Gladstone, who is very much in the situation of Col. Bardwell Slote—“ I sing, but those who hear me sav I don’t,” and the business becomes a bore.	■
—A bible claiming to have two of Shakspere’s autographs has been found in Manchester, England. The one is on the cover at the-back,, and isdated 1613, and the other is on the reverse of .tjietitle-page of the New Testament, and is dated
1614. In both cases the orthography is “ Shak-spere.” The edition is the one known as the Breeches Bible, and it seems to be indicated that it was once bound up with the prayer-book. The autographs are to be examined at the British Museum.
—Max O’Rell, the author of “John Bull and his Island,” writes that he is a Frenchman by birth and education, that he has lived eleven years in England, and that his book, “John Bull and his Island,” was written by him in French and translated by him into English. He adds that he is a French lecturer to a gfreat London institution, and he has promised that, so long as he is connected with it, he will write only under a pseudonym. His secret has been generally respected in England, and he asks to be treated as kindly by “ the s;reat American nation.”
—When Professor Nordenskibld was in Japan, after he had made the northeast passage, his attention was drawn to the very rich literature of that country prior to European influence. He decided to collect and take home a Japanese library. He bought between four and five thousand voltimes, which are now in the Royal Library at Stockholm. M. Leon de Rosny, Professoi' at the School of Oriental Languages in Paris, has just catalogued the Nordenskibld collection, which, he says, contains nearly all the works of any prominence, and furnishes comjlete materials for the study of Japanese literature and culture.
—The Royal Library in Vienna has just acquired an extensive collection of ancient Arabic literature, comprising one thousand six hundred works in one thousand and fifty-two volumes. The oldest of these manuscripts dates from 1058 A. D., perhaps earlier, and is called the “Kitab Elfelahe,” or book of agriculture, by the celebrated Hen Wahshijje. The collection was purchased from the Leyden firm of Brill, who procured it from the Swedish Orientalist, Dr. Landberg, a traveller in Syria and Egypt. Professor Ahlwardt, of Greifswald, a famous Arabic scholar, has examined the manuscripts and pronounced them to be most valuable.
Scientific Notes.
—The telephone has been introduced in New Zealand, Van Diemen’s-Land, Borneo, and Formosa. In Borneo the natives call it the “ hell talker.”
—A tunnel, five thousand feet-in length, has just been discovered on the island of Samos. It was constructed about nine centuries before the Christian era, and Herodotus says it served the purpose of providing the old seaport with drinking water.
—A man employed at the station of Tarascon, having been bitten by a mad dog, was sent to Pasteur, who declined to receive him, saying that he had not pushed his researches far enough to make things certain, and without, this his conscience yyould not permit him to operate on a man.
THE NOTRE DAME SCEI0LAST1C.
*99
—In a paper read before the Vaudois Society of Natural Sciences, M. Schnetzler explained the results of his studies on the color of flowers. He argues that only, one coloring substance exists in plants, and that the various colors of flowers are only due to the modifications made in this substance by the acids or alkalies contained in the plants themselves.
—TAie Athenceum (London) says: “Griitzel’spatent for obtaining magnesium by electrolysis is likely to be extensively used. At a recent sitting in Berlin of the ‘ Electrotechnische Verein,’ a ball of magnesium of superb brilliancy, fifteen centimetres in diameter, was exhibited. It was stated that the light from magnesium possesses a greater penetrating power in fogs at sea than the electric light.”
—It is said that the sand used in the manufacture of mirrors is now used by a Paris company to make white bricks and blocks, said not to be injured by frosts, rain, etc., and to be very light, the specific gravity being only 1.50 to 1.85 of clay bricks. The sand is first strongly pressed by hydraulic power, and then baked in ovens at a very high temperature. The bricks are almost pure silica.
—The explosive of the future is undoubtedly blasting gelatine, the latest invention of Mr. Nobal. It is simply dynamite, a base-actif, containing 93 per cent, of nitro-glycerine, with a base of 7 per cent, of collodion wool, that is itself an explosive, in the place of the inert kieselguhr. As a blasting agent it is more homogeneous than dynamite, and on account of its elasticity is less sensible to outward impressions, while in handling or cutting the cartridges there is no loss of material, as sometimes occurs with dynamite. Its further advantages are, that the gases, after explosions, are lighter* and thinner, and leave no dust, developing, at the same time, a more considerable power.
College Gossip.
—Dudley Buck has declined his Yale College degree of Doctor of Music.— Crimson.
—The Freshmen at Cornell have passed resolutions pledging themselves not to challenge ’89 to a cane rush next year.
—The alumni of St. John’s College were tendered a reception last week by the students of that college. About 100 graduates were in attendance.
—A monument is to be erected by former students at Nicolet, Canada, in memory of the late Rev. Thomas Caron, for many years Superior of the college.
—King’s College, Windsor, has greatly improved its curriculum, introducing to some extent the system of elective studies, for which advances the sum of $40,000 has been subscribed.
’ —The College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, has been the recipient of the princely gift of $500,000 from Wm. H. Vanderbilt, which sum is to be devoted to the purchase of real estate, and the erection of suitable buildings.
—The Amherst students are exasperated over the ruling just made by the post-office department at Washington, and the instruction of the postmaster here, that, after this quarter, no two students, unless brothers, will be allowed to use the same post-office box, on the ground that they are not a “ family, firm or corporation.”— Crimson.
—A dispatch from Rome says that the Pope has issued a decree creating the American College in Rome, until recently a part of the Propaganda property, a clerical college with an organization of its own to be ruled like the College of the Propaganda. This relieves it of any danger of confiscation or control by the Italian Government as part of the Propaganda.
—The Fathers of Holy Cross have an excellent institution in Cincinnati—Saint Joseph’s College.' It is in a most flourishing condition. Father . Rogers is the worthy and able President, greatly beloved by students and esteemed by all who know him. Examinations took place last week, and the proficiency of the large number of students was shown in a remarkable degree.— Catholic Columbian.
—The Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan, coadjutor of the Archbishop of San Francisco, made .his first official visit to Utah, on his way to Baltimore. . . . Flis Grace was agreeably surprised to find such large and flourishing schools in Utah. The schools are all conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who are alive to the interest of the place, and have, by the proficiency of their teachers, brought Catholic education to the highest standard. — Catholic Columbian.	"
—The astronomers among the students of Columbia College, under Professor Rees, sat up all of Thursday night last week in the observatory on the Law School building and watched for the usual shower of November meteors. It is an off year for meteors, and the students were hardly repaid for their trouble. They counted over twenty, but none of them were remarkably bright and there was nothing special about them. The August showers, the}’- said, were larger and the shooting stars brighter. In 1899 the November shower will be very large.—Home Journal.
—Across the morelands of the Not We chase the gruesome When, And hunt the Itness of the What ’	.
Through forests of the Then.
Into the inner consciousness We track the crafty Where, We spear the Ergo tough, and beard The Ego in his lair.	.
With the lassoes of the brain we catch The lances of the Was, And in the copses of the Whence ■ We hear the Think-bees buzz.	-
We climb the slippery Which-bark tree To watch the Thusness roll,	.
And pause betimes in gnostic rhymes • . To woo the Over-Soul.	. .	. .
—The Beacon.'	,.
200
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame. November 29, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si .50 -per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
N. H. Ewing, ’84.
C. F. Porter, ’85.
C. C. Kolars, ’85.
G. Harry Smith, ’85.
T. J. McKinnery, ’85.
Frank H. Dexter, ’87.
Frank J. Hagenbarth, ’87.
—The Scientific students will hail with pleasure the news that on next Monday, December 1st, classes will be taught in New Science Hall. Though the grand building is as yet far from being completed, still some portions have been put in readiness; and these, together with such accommodations as old Science Hall affords, can be utilized to great advantage. On the new building, the work, which is now mainly interior, will be pushed forward rapidly during the winter, and the whole is expected to be finished early in the spring. Then, with its grand Museum, Physical and Chemical Cabinets, Laboratories and Lecturerooms; its Cabinets of Natural History, Geology, Mineralogy, Botany, Physiology, Zoology, etc., it will present advantages for the pursuit of scientific knowledge unsurpassed by few, if any, of the educational institutions in the country. We hope soon to present a full description of this truly magnificent building.
—An occurrence such as that of last Thursday, when, owing to the absence of the regular choirsingers, the customary Solemn High Mass on Thanksgiving Day could not be sung, gives' us occasion to propound the oft-repea ted question— “ Why can we not have a college choir?” Those whose memories cany them back through the past history of -Notre Dame tel! us that in the days of Father Lilly, Dr. Girac, and others, the college
choir was one of the features of the institution and the sacred music brought forth on each recurring Sunday7 and festival contributed to the solemnity7 of the Holy Sacrifice and the various offices of the Church. That such a desirable result can be brought about now, and an effective choir established in our midst, cannot be doubted. Among the students good material and a willingness of service can be found; competent instructors are not wanting; all that is required is a leader to take the matter in hands, and in a short time a body of singers would be organized and perfected whose services could be depended upon and secured at a moment’s notice.
—So exciting was the last Presidential canvass that college men throughout the country7—and in most cases the Faculty7 as well as the students— seem to have gone wild over politics,—to’ have for the time lost their heads, so to speak. We have had a share of the excitement here, too, but in comparison with other of the large educational institutions Notre Dame was as serene as a limpid mountain lake while the waters below were lashed to fury. The visits of the leading candidates of both parties was different at Notre Dame from what it was in most other places. The candidates and distinguished men of both parties were received courteously by7 those who held political principles differing from theirs—were received as became their high position, and as gentlemen should receive gentlemen. This, albeit no one on either side was prepared to yield a jot or tittle of his political principles. Mr. Blaine was enthusiastically7 received—so was Mr. Hendricks—so was General Rosecrans,—the gentigmen on the one side showing proper deference to the feelings of those on the other side, a result for which both deserve congratulation. It is true that although we are cosmopolitan the large majority7 here are Democrats, but Republican principles have a fair and distinguished representation, and the representatives of both parties get along nicely7 and amicably together. Notwithstanding the fact that both stick firmly7 to their principles there is no bitter partisan feeling. But, with General Rosecrans, we believe that politics as now conducted are running amuck, and will go from bad to worse unless a different method of canvassing and elections be adopted. Nor are we alonefin this belief. Fai* from it. The college press in general seems to share it, and the fact that college editors from one end of the continent to the other raise a simultaneous cry7 of warning on the same subject shows that immediate and decisive action is necessary7 for the common weal. We have already7 given extracts from The Cynic (University7 of Vermont) and other papers in the North; we find the same cry of alarm sent forth by those in the South. As an instance, we give the following from the Alabama University Monthly :
“ There is one more point.we cannot justly’ fail to notice, and that is the efiect that politics has upon the moral feature of society7. Politics, as it is practised nowadays, cannot be conducive to the best interest of society, inasmuch as the nature of the profession requires that the man en
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
201
gaged in it be not only accessible to all classes, but familiar with all their wants and customs. This, of course, subjects him to evil as well as good associations. The old proverb ‘ evil communications corrupt good manners,’ we think, would not be altogether inappropriate just here^ We do not deny that there have been instances of public men whose characters were so pure and so high above accusation that‘innocence itself was led astray and lost in the space between earth and the stars,’ but these are the exceptions rath< r than the rule. This feature is assuming alarming proportions, and it is our opinion that if political corruption and partisan slander are not checked, it will not be many years hence ere pure and honest men will shrink from the service of such a degraded constituency.” •
Just here is where some such plan as that advocated by General Rosecrans would prove beneficial, freeing the voter from party bias and from the evil practices and associations of the primaries, preventing fraud, and giving the people a full opportunity to express their preferences. With the system of registration fully carried out, and the ballot signed by the voter, attempts at fraud could easily be detected.
The College Rambler (Illinois College) has also a well-written article upon the subject. The editor says:	¥
“ In this country the constitution gives every man the right and privilege to say who shall administer the various departments of the government, and it is likewise every man’s dutv to exercise this right. But in a nation great as the United States has grown to be, how can a man cast an intelligent vote unless he is educated in political science? This question must be settled by the colleges and universities of the land. They are already, in a greater or less degree, beginning to prepare for the duty of educating their students in politics. But as yet the courses of political science are, with few exceptions, very rudimentary.”
Yes, we should say they are, especially after reading, or trying to read, the lectures on either side of the tariff question, delivered at Cornell University last year by two eminent personages selected for the purpose. If they be fair samples of the instruction in Political Economy given in our universities we think the students would be better off without any instruction. But with such men as the Pion. Frank Hurd for “Free Trade,” and our own Prof. Hoynes for “ Protection,” we venture to say that the student would have something much better to repay his time and labor. We speak of what we know to be a fact. Much of the so-called Political Economy in colleges and universities is mere bosh, compared with what it should be, and with what can be had from practical lawyers and thinkers. A great deal more than mere theorizing is wanted. . . ... .	.
Celebration of St. Cecilia’s Day.
THE ENTERTAINMENT.
As announced in a previous issue, the annual celebration of the Festival of St. Cecilia by the St. Cecilia Philomathean and Euglossian Societies took place in the Academy of Music, on Saturday evening last. That it was a most enjoyable celebration can well he imagined by former members of the societies taking part in it, when they are told that the general management of the affair was in the.hands of the veteran director of,the two
societies, Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, assisted by Prof. Damis Paul and Bro. Anselm for the musical part of the programme.	‘
At half-past seven precisely the University Cornet Band opened the entertainment with an andante, followed by the “Telegram Polka,” by F. Keller. The piece was somewhat of a surprise to those who had heard the Cornet Band on previous, occasions; it was played with precision and great entrain, showing careful preparation upon every -instrument, and reflecting credit upon the members of the Cornet Band.	.
The annual “Address from the St. Cecilia Society” was delivered by Frank Hagenbarth. It was scarcely open to criticism, being reasonably short, well composed, and well delivered, if we except the fault of a rather too rapid utterance, characteristic of many young speakers and de-claimers. H. A. Steis’s “ Captive” showed good elocutionary training. The dialogue by M. B. Mulkern and Geo. W. Tarrant was fairly given, as was also the “ Toast,” by Hoye, but these young gentlemen must speak slower, and tax their vocal powers a little further if they wish to be heard throughout the hall.
__ O	'
The selections from the Minims’ musical repertory by Crotty, McPhee, Berry, Scherrer, Piero, Cobbs, Mahon, Peck, though “ not on the bill,” formed an agreeable diversion, and would have been very agreeable if one or two numbers had been dropped in order to shorten the time. The Minims made such a good showing in vocal talent and training on the occasion that we hope they will often favor us during the long winter evenings, when long programmes will not be in the way. The solo parts of Crotty, McPhee and Berry were especially good.
Arthur J. Ancheta’s delivery of O’Connell’s cel- ’ ebrated speech on “ The Agitation Bill” showed true Promethean fire. Arthur possesses the natural qualifications for a good public speaker. He has a splendid voice, ora to ric fire, graceful gesture, and promises to be every inch an orator. We should like to hear him often in such oratorical masterpieces. Could we not have a few more of them during the coming winter in the College Rotunda? Mullane’s “Spread Eagle,” perched on the Rocky Mountains, with “the tip of one wing in the Atlantic, the other in the Pacific,”
O	7	7
wasn’t bad; but the voung ■ gentleman hurried his eagle through so rapidly that one might imagine he was afraid of a shot from B. M.’s gun, and a chase from “ Dick.”
Ah, here we are—the “ Overture to the Siege of Paris.” That tvas music, beyond questioning. Splendidly done, too, although the instrumentation is rather difficult,—too difficult, one would imagine for an amateur orchestra of students; but the technical difficulties only increased our admiration of the performance. “The Siege of Paris” is very singular in its composition; the theme being in major and the accompaniment in minor— contrary to the accepted rules of musical composition, which suppose that major and . minor cannot be made to harmonize.. In this case, however,the
1
202
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
composer, W. S. Ripley, has worked inathe discordant elements with splendid effect, giving us in fact a realistic representation of the cliquetis des armes in the siege,—the roar of the cannon, the crack of the musketry, the whistling of the balls, All these are present. There are startling contrasts, fine blending and shading. The members of the Orchestra did their work splendidly. The trombone and piccolo came in with fine effect. After Saturday evening’s performance we feel sure that the University Orchestra will be anxiously looked for at future entertainments.
The musical performance over, the “ Soldier’s Pardon ” and “ Erin’s Flag,”—both declamations giving ample opportunity for fine effect—were well declaimed by Messrs. T. Callaghan and J. Monschein respectively, after which Carlisle Mason gave us a humorous selection in true Julius C^sar Hannibal style, “The Ship of Fate,” which brought thundering applause from the junior portion of the audience. Glover’s beautiful song—, “ What are the Wild Waves Saving?” was sung in splendid voice by Messrs. W. E. Ramsay and R. Stephens—a musical treat beyond question,— after which came Mr. J. J. Conway’s “ Gladiator” and Mr. J. Kleiber’s “ Woolsey’s Farewell,”—two pieces as opposite in style as could well be chosen. “How to Attend Conflagrations,” by Mr. E. M. Willard, was marred by too rapid an utterance; otherwise Mr. Willard would have shown his elocutionary training to better advantage.
The fourth diversion in the admirably arranged programme was a musical selection for piano and violin—from Mendelssohn’s “ Midsummer Night’s Dream”—given by Prof. Paul on the violin, and our young musical prodigy, R. Oxnard, on the piano/ The chief difficulties are in the piano part, but young Oxnard went through the piece with more ease and grace than many a professional pianist. Though the composition is deep and serious, we are credibly informed that the young musician appreciated it fully, and encountered no difficulty whatever from its intricate technicalities.
For want of time, we presume, F. Dexter did not appear as per programme; and the scene from Hamlet—by J. Monschein, C. Mason, B. Wiley and R. Stephens—was also omitted. The next thing on the programme, “ The Mariner,” was declaimed by J. J. Garrity in very good style. The piece was given with fervor and vim, but there was no overdoing, no wild gesticulation; the young de-claimer held himself in perfect mastery; every tone and action suited the subject, and in this respect he might be taken as a model by older de-claimers. W. E. Ramsay’s selection from one of Mrs. Hemans’s works was well delivered. Mr. Ramsay is an old favorite in personation and recitation, and too well known to most of our readers to need special mention.
“LaFoi” — a trio from- Rossini—was given in first-class style by Messrs. W. E. Ramsay, R. Stephens, G. O’Kane, A. Marion, E. Crawford and A. Smith, after which the Cornet Band closed the entertainment with a quickstep serenade from Keller., .
Before the audience left the hall, President Walsh made a few remarks, showing that he was very well pleased with the evening’s performance, —a sentiment with which, we believe, the entire audience heartily coincided. Long live the Ceci-lians and the Euglossians; and may they, with their genial director, give many such pleasant evenings as that of Nov. 22, 1884!	•
THE BANQUET.
According to the time-honored custom of the Society, the Cecilians of 18S4 celebrated their pa-tronal festival with a musical and litei ary entertainment and a banquet—the literary and musical entertainment was given on Saturday evening, the banquet on Sunday afternoon. The Euglossians, of course, were guests at the latter, and very prop-erly;—as they had aided in the literary business, it was only fair that they should also be called in to help clear the tables at the feast,which they did right gallantly. The members of the Philopatrian So-cietv, too,—a feeder to the oldei- and higher toned Society,—were also present and gave efficient aid in putting away the turkeys and other edibles. The banquet was rather a modest one, as banquets go—not such a grand affair as the one in June, which is entitled the banquet par excellence^ but it was a banquet all the same, being altogether too dignified for the title of “lunch,” which some are pleased to give it.
Besides the society members, there were a few invited guests, making in all about a hundred persons. At 4 p. m., the spread was ready, and the party filed into the Junior dining-hall in a merry mood. At a quarter to five, President Walsh, in response to a call for a speech, arose and said that thanks were due to Prof. Lyons for the excellent literary and musical feast he had given us last night, as well as for this feast of a different kind to which we had been called to do justice this afternoon. For both he had the thanks of the guests. The Professor, he continued, likes to have the faces around him bright and happy, like his own, but at the same time he seems not entirely content unless he makes one or two miserable by his calls for postprandial speeches. For himself, he would beg to be excused in favor of Prof. Hoynes, his fellowsufferer on this particular occasion, who would, he hoped, favor them with a few remarks. "
Prof. Hoynes arose, and spoke substantially as follows:	-	-
“ The members of this society are to be congratulated upon the zeal that evidently animates them and the success that manifestly attends them in giving effect to its purposes and expression to its spirit. They are to be congratulated upon the faithful and intelligent manner in which they utilize the many opportunities it offers them for selfimprovement. Though the oldest of the college societies, it is regarded by its friends as the most vigorous and aspiring of all. That it is in a flourishing condition, indications justify even the most casual observer in believing and declaring. Under the immediate direction of one whose name has been identified with it these many years—one
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
203


whose earnestness has been infused into all its proceedings—it has- established a reputation most creditable to itself and its members, and this reputation is by no means local in scope and influence. Many of the brightest students of Notre Dame have found pride and pleasure in their connection with this association, and have taken with them, deeply engraved upon the memory and tenderly cherished in the heart, to all parts of the country to which they have gone fond recollections of the University, their fellow-St. Cecilians, and the pleasant meetings in which they jointly participated.
“ St. Cecilians prove themselves to be animated by the true spirit of fraternal accord. There has been no dissension, no envy, no unfriendliness, among them. And so well and courteously have they invariably borne themselves toward their fellow-students of other societies that they have always commanded the respect and admiration of the members of all other societies. This is gratifying. It is becoming. It comports with the gentlemanly disposition which it is a conspicuous aim of the association to foster. It is meet that the harmony of verse and song, so sedulously cultivated by the society, should find response in harmony of thought and action among its members. And it is meet that this harmony should have the distinguishing feature of rising from the plane of earthly thoughts and things to the plane of religion and purest inspirations—from the plane of Anacreon to the plane of St. Cecilia. As Pope says:
“ ‘ Of Orpheus now no more let poets tell, To bright Cecilia greater power is given;
His numbers raised a shade from hell, Hers lift the soul to Heaven.’
“ Devoted as your society is to the cultivation of music and the drama, it fulfills an important function in rounding out and completing your education. Music teaches true refinement, serves to purify the passions, and tends to exalt the aspirations of the soul. At a time when it was decried in England by reason of widely-prevailing contention, confusion, and chaos in the ranks of religion, Shakespeare bravely bore testimony to its ennobling influence by saying that
“ ‘ The man that hath not music in himself,
Nor is not mov’d with the concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his affections dark as Erebus;
Let no such man be trusted.’ '
“ And though there may be some extravagance in his language—so full of the fervor of feeling— jet we must admire rather than blame him for the elevation of his sentiment and his noble vindication of music. It is inseparable from human nature. From the earliest dawn of recorded time we have testimony of it. In every age it has been the handmaid of religion. It has progressed in even ratio with the advance of civilization; and it is still progressing—
“ ‘ As the thoughts of men are widened With the process of the suns.’
“ To its sublime strains King David sang his deathless songs, and the choirs of God’s elect in glory find it the fittest .medium of expressing their hosannas to the Most High. With true inspiration has it been said—
“ ‘ Harmony from Heaven descended, Coming first when chaos ended, And through time and space extended— Heaven’s first decree!
The very soul itself refining, All that’s great and good combining, God, and man, and angels, joining— Hail, thee, Harmony! ’
“ And the drama! How it arouses the feelin°-s! o . How it appeals to the emotions! How it holds up the mirror to the face of nature and teaches us of life in its multitudinous phases! Shakespeare says that all the world is a stage, and that all men and women are merely actors. And the idea is by no means far-fetched. The drama is older than history, and the inspirations of the human heart must be appealed to for an explanation of its popularity. Its gradations between the war-dance of the savage and the modern society play are indeed numerous, but each gradation is an index'of the state of life and dominant feelings of some class of men. It combines in its highest forms poetry, music, eloquence, oratory, sculpture, painting, history, biography, truth, fiction, and all that is striking in the phases of life with which it deals. Time devoted to cultivating it, as it is here studied, is well utilized. It gives a broader view of life, if it does not tend to supply a key to many of the human passions and motives. It serves to give you self-possession or confidence in yourselves, and without this the brightest genius may seem as obscure as the unpolished diamond to the eyes of the practical world. Self-possession is not easily commanded by the deepest natures; but the exercises of your so-’ ciety have a potent influence in developing it among you. In conclusion, permit me again to congratulate you upon participating in these exercises and being members of this excellent society.”
Exchanges.
—Our esteemed contemporary The Catholic Citizen (Milwaukee) with its last issue entered upon its fifteenth year of publication. We congratulate the Citizen upon the bright prospects with which it begins the new volume, and hope that success may ever attend the talented editor in his efforts to furnish a good paper for our best citizens.
—“It's a strange thing to me that a fellow will come here and study engineering for three years, when he can work in a machine shop a month and run an engine as well as anv one else.” Thus discourseth Freshman S.—Alabama University Monthly.	,
“Freshman S.” seems to be level-headed. If we had an engine to run—one that we cared much for, or that was doing important work—we would not like to place it in the charge of a college engineer" as college engineers run in the majority of cases, A college engineer could prob
204
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ably distinguish between the crank-pin and the piston-head, or the fly-wheel and governor valve, but the chances would be in favor of awkwardly-set bearing’s and cutting journals, of too much or too little steam-cushioning, and a thumping engine. Theoretical engineering, theoretical farming, theoretical political economy and theoretical journalism don’t often go a great way outside of the school-room.
—We are glad to notice that a Princeton leto _______________
ter, published in The Princetonian itself, speaks with a certain self-complacency of the absence of “ ‘ troubles,’—rowdyism, as it is called,” further stating that no serious hazing or other forms of Freshman oppression had taken place there for some years. The Princetonian in this respect sets a good example to the little college papers, both in the West and in the East, that speak in commendatory terms of the aforesaid rowdyism, which they attempt to dignify by the title of “ class spirit.” The Princetonian is wisely agitating the question of a co-operative dining-hall, something like the Memorial Dining Hall at Harvard, where students could obtain good board at a moderate price. In another column it says: “It is doubtful whether any other college in the country has such a poor boarding system as Princeton. The average price paid for board is over five dollars, yet a decent meal is to a Princeton student the exception rather than the rule.”
.	—In appearance, The Haverfordian is all that
its most esthetic friends could wish; the editorial and contributed matter is good, sometimes very good—as, for instance, the editorials in the present issue on politics and the part that educated men should take in them, the indifference of students in general to the advantages offered by the college library, etc. The series of pen and pencil sketches “ On and Off the Lancaster Pike” are well written and finely illustrated. With all this, we are greatly surprised at the announcement that only three hundred copies of The Haverfordian have been printed monthly. It deserves a much larger subscription list. With regard to the library, some of The Havcrfordiai^s remarks will bear application to students at Notre Dame:
“We. think that the students of Haverford do not all sufficiently realize the advantages and opportunities that our excellent library affords. That would truly be a onesided culture which should confine the students entirely to the studies prescribed in the college curriculum, without offering any inducements to intellectual development in other lines. A library is an indispensible adjunct to a college, and an incentive to literary work. ... We would urge upon all, whether Freshmen or Seniors, to, devote their attention to this branch of education, and to cultivate literary habits while these excellent opportunities are within reach.”	’
-—The Polytechnic begins itsfifth year with a new board of editors who wish that the mantle of the board- of ’83-’84 may fall upon them, the career of that board, it is stated, being “marked by extraordinary brilliancy.” The statement may be true, but we advise the Poly editors to bury the mantle of’83-’84 with that illustrious body and earn one of their own, equally good, or better, which we .think they are fully capable of doing. You,know,
Poly, the wisdom of ages has- confirmed the truth of the advice that we should not put new wine into old bottles; the wine will fizz, the bottles will burst, and both the new wine and the old bottles be lost. If the new Poly editors get ’84’s mantle, or have any reasonable expectation of securing it, they will probably get lazy, as college editors often do, especially after the first five or six weeks of apparently unrequited labor and worry in getting out the college paper—a paper that everybody is eager to read, and ready to criticize, but for which few care to write. In this connection we venture to say that the severest fault-finders are generally those who know little or nothing of the drawbacks or difficulties attending college-paper work; who never edited, and perhaps never contributed anything to a college paper except their criticisms. Albeit the Polytechnic comes from an institution that does not arrogate the title of college, the paper is far superior to many, so-called college papers. And that, too, without the inferior papers’ bumptiousness and self-conceit.
Local Items.
—All quiet on the Potomac.
—What is “the pet of ’85” (?)
—Bulletins were sent out during the week.
—“The eagle, Mr. Chairman, is a noble bird!”
—The first sleigh of the season appeared on last Tuesday.
J
—Read the new baseball rules at the end of our local columns.
—G. Tarrant and P. Mullane are the champion fencers of the Juniors.
—The suaviter in modo: fortiter in re was a feature of the entertainment.
—The Scholastic Annual for 1885 is in preparation and will be ready about the 12th prox.
—The Board of Modern Languages has been visiting the German Classes during the week.
—Parts have been assigned in the new drama to be produced by the St. Cecilians within a few weeks.
—The Philomatheans held an interesting meeting on the 24th inst. A report will appear next week.
-----The astrological predictions .in the Scholastic Annual for 1885 will be unusually interesting and portentous. .	,
—Rev. Vice-President Toohey has been engaged to preach a mission .in Kalamazoo, Mich., during the coming week.	'
— Our friend John says: “It was the most eloquent and expressive pair of legs ever seen.”
—The writer of the “Address for St. Cecilia’s Day’’was not mistaken, after all; for the snow fell “thick and fast” that very night. .
—In the contest for the barrel of apples between the “ Sorins” and the “ Blues,” the “ Blues” came off victorious, but they generously divided the prize with the “ Sorins.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Messrs. Benziger Bros., New York, are the publishers of “ Catholic Christianity and Modern Unbelief,” the new and excellent "work by the Right Rev. Bishop Ricards; -
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin is expected home early next week, as, it is said, the National Catholic Council at Baltimore will hold its last session to-morrow (Sunday).
—The letters forming- the words “ Ave Maria ” and “ St. Edward’s Park ” stand out in beautiful relief while the snow has completely covered up all the other designs in the Place du Palais. -
—-Signor Gregori has finished a magnificent oil© © ©
portrait of Bishop Brondel, of Helena, Montana. It is pronounced to be one of Gregori’s best works, and a true likeness of the distinguished prelate.
—A tour of the classes was made during the week by the President and Vice-President. They • express their satisfaction at the evidences of progress and general application manifested on all sides.
—The Euglossians will soon have a new play to include in their repertoire. “ Les Enfarits d’Edouard,”—a tragedy in three acts—by Casimir Delavigne, is being translated for them. It is said to be an excellent drama.
—The “ Moot Court,” which has occupied the sessions of the St. Cecilia Society for the past three weeks, was brought to a conclusion on the 24th inst., resulting in a disagreement of the Jury, which stood six to one in favor of the defendant. R. Oxnard was the defendant’s lawyer.
—General Rosecrans delivered a lecture before the students of Notre Dame (Ind.) University, 6th inst. As might be expected from this true Christian gentleman, opinions worthy of study and repetition were enounced. His theme was “ Some Political Principles.”—Catholic Universe.
—Master George Myers, of Dubuque, Iowa, has given Professor Edwards a portrait of Bishop Loras, and a photograph of Bishop Hennessy, taken shortly after his consecration. He has also given to the Cabinet of Curiosities a handsome calumet made of red pipe stone with elaborate wooden stem.
—The 5th regular meeting of the Junior Athletic Club was held Thursday, the 27th inst. Masters R. Morrison, T. Williamson, E. Schmauss, J. Doherty and R. Oxnard were elected members. It was unanimously decided that the club adopt a badge, and a committee was appointed to select an appropriate design.	'
—Rev. President Walsh honored the Minims with a visit last Wednesday. He examined the 3d class and was quite pleased with the progress the young gentlemen are making in Arithmetic. He was no less gratified to notice the cheerful, happy faces that met him as he entered their pleasant, comfortable class-room.
-____We deeply regret our rashness in impugning the truthfulness of our astrologer’s predictions in connection with the “ Address for St. Cecilia’s Day ” published in last week’s Scholastic. The local-item in reference thereto was “too previous.”
Even while the speaker was delivering his lines, the snow was preparing to fall, and the morninglight revealed the white mantle which covered the earth, completely verifying the prediction, and covering us with confusion and remorse.
—Thanksgiving Day passed off very quietly, much, more so than in .former years; The solemn services in the church had to be dispensed with, owing to the failure of the the choir to put in an appearance—presumably on account of press of other occupations; There was, of course, the usual grand Turkey dinner,—needless to say, treated with due justice. But the sports in the afternoon were interfered with by the condition of the ground and weather. The Band also failed to materialize, and the annual ball in the evening- was nonest. All in all, as said before, things were very quiet.
—Catholic schools and colleges are again placed under obligations to Prof. Lyons for an interesting drama. “ The Prodigal Law Student,” besides being highly dramatic, teaches a wholesome lesson, namely, that even in the hardest hearts there is a well spring of affection, which only needs to be touched to exhibit its virtues. It is intended for male characters, twenty-two of whom comprise the cast. The editor has taken care to give all the necessary directions regarding scenes, movements, relative position, etc. An appropriate prologue and epilogue in verse are published in an appendix. —Ave Maria.
—The “Utica Lunch,” which is annually tendered to the members of the St. Cecilia and Eu-glossian Societies by Prof. Lyons, occurred last Sunday afternoon—the Prof, believing in the principle that “ good cheer promotes good fellowship.” That festive and delicious bird, whom vulgar people call “ turkey,” graced the boards, and gave to “ye epicure” a premonition of Thanksgiving. In response to a request from the Rev. President, who also represented the students, Prof. Hoynes spoke appropriately on the subject of “ Music and the Drama.” His interesting remarks were received with applause, and were an indication of the satisfaction of the guests at the banquet. They will be found reported elsewhere in .this paper.
—On Wednesday, the 26th inst., the second regular meeting of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Association was held. In the absence of the Director the chair was occupied by the President, H. A. Steis.-After preliminary proceedings, a ballot was taken for the election of several new members, and resulted in the admission of Messrs. Ancheta, F. Combe, C. Porter, Conlon, Kleiber, and Howard. The question for debate, the subject of -which was announced at the last meeting,, was warmly contested; but the decision was withheld by the President for, future consideration. Mr; Burke read a very well-written essay.on “ Chief Routes of Commerce.” Owing to the lateness of the hour, the declamations by Messrs. Conway and Browne were postponed until next meeting, and after announcing the subject of debate, “ Free Trade vs. Protection,” the motion~was carried to adjourn.
2o6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Messrs. Ancheta. Alvarez, A. Browne, Barbabosa, Bus-tillos, Felix Baca, Filadelfo Baca, J. Baca, F. Baca. Becerra, Burns, F. Burke, V. Burke, F. Browne, Breen, Callaghan, Conlon, Wm. Collins, Chapin, Crawford, Casavantes. F. Combe, Creel, C. Combe. De Groot, Donohue, Duffin, Dexter, Dolan, Dickerson, E^trado, Goulding, Guthrie, Hamlyn, Halligan, Hausberg, Jess, Johnston, Kavanaugh, King, Kolars, j. Lechuga. M. Lechuga, Letcher, McCabe, McMillian, McKinnery, McNulty, G. Miller, McGuire, McErlaine, McCartney, McMurray. Marquez, McGill, C-Murdock, Noonan, O’Kane, O’Connell, Perley, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, H. Porter, C. Porter, Piefer, Rothert, J. Ryan-, O. Ryan, Reach, Rice, Rui, Rivard, Ramsay, Rahilly, J. Smith, G. Smith, Sheridan, Stephens, Steis, Troy, W. Williams, J. Wagoner, Willard, A. Williams, White, Wilson, Warner, Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Arts, H Ackerman, Amoretti, Adams, Borgschulze, Bverly, Bearss, E. Benner, F. Benner, Baur, Berthelet, Barke, Congdon, Cummings, Clarke, D. Cartier, Cavaroc, Clearv, E. Dillon, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Doren-berg, Donnellan, Daly, Darrah, Ewing, Finckh, Flood. Frain, Fehr, L. Grever, E. Grever, J. Garrity, Hove, Howard, Harring, Hieroninius, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Hornbeck, Johnson, Kelly, Kegel, Kenny, Knisely, Luther, F. Long, Loya, Martinez, Mulkern, Monschein, Myers, Menig, Mullane, Macke, C. McGordon, Oxnard, O’Brien, Portillo, Prudhomme, Porter, Regan, Real, Rose. Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Robinson, Stubbs, Senn, Soden, Smith, Stange, Spencer,* Schmauss, Shaw, Sedberry, Tewksbury Talbot, Thurston, Tarrant, Vandercar, Wabraushek, Williamson, Weiler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Addington, Ackerman, Boos, Berry, Bulb Barger, Comins, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, J. Doss, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Grunsfeld, Grimes, Henry, Haney, Hopkins, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, C. Jones, S. Jones, E Kelly, Kellner, Landen-wich, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, McGill, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, Mason, McGuire, Mooney, Nusbaum, Nester, Noonan, O’Kane, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul, Perkins, Quill, Quinlin, Ramsay, Salman, Sweet, Stone, Scherrer, Shoneman, Williamson, Weston, Zozaya.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. V. Morrison, Hagenbarth, Courtney, Goulding, F. Combe, Kleiber, Brown, J. Wagoner, Rothert, Sheridan, Conlon, Kolars, Ancheta, H. Porter, C. Porter, Johnston, Guthrie, Steis, Callaghan, Mathers, Cartier, Reach, Dexter, S. Murdock, N. Ewing, V. Burke, F. Burke, Dolan, Wilson, C. Murdock, Hausberg, Kavanagh, Dickerson, G. H. Smith, McKinnery, Coghlin, Wiley, Halligan. '
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE. -
Latin—Messrs. H. Smith, E. S. Ewing, T. J- Cleary, J. Burns, T. Sheridan, L. Mathers; Greek—Messrs. C. Dickerson,. J. Kleiber, Wagoner, T. Sheridan; Moral Philosophy—Mr. Dickerson; Logic—J. T. -McKinnery; English Composition—Messrs. McGuire, Wiley, Jess, Rothert, V. Morrison; English Literature—Messrs. Dexter, Courtney, Kavanagh; History—Messrs. Rothert, Sheridan, Mulkern, Daly, Dexter; Algebra—Messrs. J. Smith, Mahon, Hagenbarth, Daly O’Connell Dexter, J. Burns; Geometry—Messrs. Daly, W. Cartier, Hagenbarth;
r Trigonometry—Messrs. Ancheta, Dexter; Astronomy— Messrs. Burke, Dolan; Descriptive Geometry—Mr. Kolars; Machine Drawing—Mr. Johnston; Engineering—Mr. Johnston; Mechanics—Mr. C. Porter; Calculus—Messrs. Ewing, /Yncheta; Physiology—Mr. Rothert; Botany— Messrs. Hagenbarth, W. Cartier, Wiley; Zoology—Mr. Hagenbarth; Mineralogy—Mr. Ancheta; Physics—Mess-rs. Ancheta, Goulding, Sheridan, V. Burke; Chemistry— Messrs. Johnston, Kolars, Ewing, Ancheta, Goulding, V. Burke; Rhetoric—Mr. Daly; Criticism—Mr. Ancheta.
The following names were omitted last week. Messrs. S. O’Brien, Carbajal, G. Miller, Piefer, J. Ryan, Hamlyn.
BASEBALL.
The National Baseball League closed its annual meeting on the 20th inst. The rules of last year were somewhat'modified. Section 2 of rule 3 was changed so as to substitute hard white rubber as the material for the home base in place of white
marble. Rule 9 was amended so as to require two benches in place of one for the players. Rule 10 f was changed so as to give the batsman greater S
freedom of movement in batting, his position being enlarged from a width of three feet to four feet six inches, the line nearest the home base to be not more than six inches distant from the corner of the base. Rule 14 was changed so as to allow the handle of the bat to be wound round with twine eighteen inches from the handle end. The batsman, too, is permitted to make a flat face to the bat on one side of it to the depth of half an inch. The amendment to rule 29, section 1, was important, as it puts a stop to the violation of the rule against balking indulged in last season. The new rule o	o
reads:
A balk is made whenever the pitcher, when about to deliver the ball to the bat, while standing within the lines of his position, makes any one of the series of motions he habitually makes in so delivering the ball, and then fails to deliver the ball to the bat.
The most important change made in the rules was governing the pitcher’s position. The new rule defining the delivery of a fair ball is:
A fair ball is a ball delivered by the pitcher, while standing wholly within the lines of his position, and with both feet touching the ground while making any one of the scries of motions he is accustomed to make in delivering the ball to the bat.
This will do away with all of the forward steps usually made by swift pitchers, by which they step in front of the line of their position. It will not affect the strategic pitches at all, but it is a serious ’detriment to swift, overhand throwers.
An amendment to rule 65, reforming the special ground rules,-puts a stop to home runs made on balls hit over fences of small enclosures, as only two bases are to be allowed in future for any fair ball hit over a fence distant from the home plate less than 210 feet. The scoring rules were reworded, so as to exclude from the error column in the score all errors except those known as fielding errors, leaving to the summary all errors known under the head of “ battery ” errors, such as passed, called, or wild-pitched balls. The rule prohibiting the foul-bound catch was retained, as also the rule of six called balls giving a base. The pitcher is still permitted to make the overhand throw to the bat.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i<yj
Saint JRary's Acabemy.
One Mile IVest of Notre. Dame University.

—A beautiful floral gift from Madam Gregori o	o
and daughter is respectfully acknowledged.
—The Children of Mary extend respectful thanks to Rev. Father Zahm for his obliging courtesy on the 21st.
—A very exquisite floral offering was deposited on the altar of Loreto on Saturday. Cordial thanks are due to Miss Barlow.
—On the Feast of the Presentation, Rev. Father Zahm said Mass in the Chapel of Loreto, and administered Holy Communion to the Children of Mary.
—In the Second Preparatory Class, the Misses Alice White, Mary Murphy, Lizzie Norris, Grace Searls and Alice Schmauss have received 100 in lessons.
—In ornamental needle-work, the Misses Munger, Shepherd, Horn, Wolvin, Fitzpatrick, Foster, and Lauer deserve especial mention for skill in execution.
—A little client of St. Cecilia received a large and beautiful lithograph of “the patroness of music,” on Saturday. It is to be hung in the Music Hall.
—Mr. Munger, of Chicago, who is remarkable for his mathematical skill, offered a prize for the solution of a certain difficult problem, by members of the institution. Suffice it to say the Academy comes ofl“ first best.”
—At the regular Academic reunion, Rosa My s-tica, Vol. XI, No. 2 was read. Editresses: the Misses Munger, Barlow, Keenan, and Carney. The beautiful cover was prepared by the nimble and expert pen of Miss Carney.
—The week, though one of earnest study, has been likewise full of much enjoyment at recreation-time, as three notable feasts have enlivened the' usual routine. They were the Feasts of the Presentation, of St. Cecilia, and of St. Lucretia.
—Grateful acknowledgments are extended to a kind friend in Chicago—who is, however, determined that “ his left hand shall not know what his right hand does,” and whose name is therefore not given—for a very handsome votive lamp now adorning the Chapel of Loreto. It is peerless among the many beautiful lamps in this favored place.	.
—At the regular reunion in the Junior department, the readers were the Misses Estelle Hagan, who gave the amusing account of “Fever and Ague,” to be found in the American Elocutionist; and Clara Richmond, who read “ May Days,” by Alice Carey. The Minims received their notes at the same time, as the Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier were kindly present; Dotty Lee recited
“Winter’s Approach,” from The Student; and Eulalie Chapin recited “ Holy Communion,” from Father Faber’s “ Hymns.”
—On the 21st, as the shades of night were falling, the Children of Mary and members of the Graduating Class, like the Magi in the days of Cassar Augustus, were led by a starry guide. Like the sages of old, when they reached the city to the gates of which they were led, the constellation was not visible; but when the generous alacrity of the Rev. Father Zahm, Professor of Natural Sciences at the University, had completed the preliminaries, the twelve rose-colored stars-encircling the head of the colossal statue of Mary, the holy Mother of God, rewarded their twilight -pilgrimage. Aside from the beauty of the crown of electric light above the statue, the idea prompting this tribute to Our Lady is one of touching grandeur. Nothing could be more appropriate ’above a University which has gained a worldwide celebrity under the auspices of “ Our Lady Notre Dame; above an educational establishment where Science, Art, and Literature are but the graciously acknowledged handmaids of Religion; above an institution under whose shadow a journal named from the first words of the “Angelical Salutation ”—The Ave Maria—has for twenty years gone forth to publish the claims of the one created being who	of grace. These were reflec-
tions naturally suggested on that evening, after a day devoted to the Feast of the Presentation of Our Lady in the Temple. Father Zahm kindly invited the young ladies to inspect the machinery by which the electric light is produced, which invitation they gladly accepted; as also that of visiting the study-hall of St. Edward’s College, where all were equally pleased with the charms of this fairy-like apartment and their polite reception by Father General’s favorite department of the scientific world at Notre Dame.	.
—On the morning of the 23d, St. Edward’s Reading-Room was the scene of a beautiful and homelike celebration of a festival dear to every child of the Academy. There the beloved Prefect of Studies, whose life is devoted to their happiness, comfort, and advantage in every way, met her friends in response to the invitation of those who had embraced the occasion of her feast to express their affection. Miss Munger, on the part of the Seniors, in a very pleasing manner recited a poetical address of congratulation. Grace Regan, supported by the Misses Richmond and Stumer, next advanced and presented a sprightly greeting in behalf of the Junior department. The entire court of “ Princesses ” next took the floor, and regaled the audience -with a regular elocutionary concert full of gratitude and gayety. Miss Donnelly’s beautiful poem, “Our Lady of Good Counsel,” followed in the clear, smooth rendering of Miss Wolvin. On the table reposed the feast letters. The Minim and Junior departments, with not a single exception, contributed to this festival post-office. The most notable feature of the day preceded the gathering of friends in the reading-room. The Prefect . of Studies is also the Directress of the Sodality of the
2O§
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Children of Mary. At the close of the usual recitation of the Office on Sunday morning in the Confraternity-room, a greeting from the Society was read by Miss Mmphy. The very beautiful painting on the cover is the work of Miss Agnes English. It is a design original and remarkable for its strong individuality. The young artist is deserving of much praise, as is also Miss Mary Bruhn for the elegant chirography in which the address is transcribed. The round, full periods of the composition, which is in blank verse, found an additional charm in the resonant voice and fine rendering of the reader. The Children of Mary beg leave to return thanks to their gracious and tai-o	_ ~
ented representatives. The Catholic pupils, at the early Mass, approached Holy Communion for the intention of thebeloved recipient of festival honors. Heaven alone can measure the graces thus secured. The Misses Etta Call, Mary Bruhn, and Agnes English alone remain in the Academy of the seven who last year brought out an exquisite gift-book— the“ Life of St. Lucretia, Virgin and Martyr.” To the credit of the Misses Bruhn and Call belongs the fine translation from the French. To the Misses Sophia Papin, Catherine Campbell and Agnes English we are indebted for the illuminated pages, brilliant with the richest and most delicate touches. Miss Duffield, in her elegant hand-writing, copied the work on leaves of Bristol-board, while Miss Nellie McGrath, of Class ’So, superintended •the exquisite work of binding. It is in Russia leather and delicately gilded. This rare souvenir was greatly admired on the 23d.
Our Lady Crowned with. Stars on the Dome of the University.
Twelve rosy lights On loftiest heights o That Faith towards Heaven could raise
Draw hearts above
To her, whose love Abashes human praise.
Arts latest born *
May well adorn
Her brow whose power hath given
A fallen race
Redeeming grace— Restored man’s right to Heaven.
♦ The application of electricity to purposes of illumination.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, M. Bruhn, J. Barlow, L. Blaine, N. Brady, M. Blair, L. Carnev, F. Cummins, C. Congdon, E. Call, C. Cox, F. Carmien, S. Dunne, Danforth, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, M. Dillon, M. Ducey, A. D.wan,^. English, A. English, R. Eisenstadt, M. Fuller, Fitzpatrick, C. Fehr, {.Foster, G.Faxon, M. Fisk, C. Ginz, B. Gove, O. Griffith, C. Griffith, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, M.
• Hale, M. Helpling, E. Horn, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, M. Hawkins, L. Hutchinson. F. Henry, L. Hayes, N. Kearns,
I B. Kearney, M. Kearsey, N. Keenan, C. Lang, M. Munger, l‘ A. Murphy. J. McHale, B. Morrison, T. McSorley, A. McSorley. N. Myler, L Murdock, M. Morse, M. Newman, E. O'Connell, H. Ramsey, D. Reynolds, M. Reinholdt, E. Rose, L. Ryan, L. Sheekey. S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, A. Shephard, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, M. Shea, M. Scully, C. Scully, E. Schultz, A. Schidler, E. Strawn, E. Taylor, C. Torrent, L. Williams, L. Walsh, A, White. E. Walsh, G. Wolvin.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Allen, N. Brown, O. Boyer, M. Barry,. M. Barr, M. Cox, S. Campeau, M. Ducey, F. Hertzog, T. Haney, A. High, E. Hagan, A. Keyes', M. Mulhall, M. McEwen, M. Murphy, A. Malbceuf, L. Norris, M. Paul, C. Prudhomme, E. Preston, N. Quill, C. Richmond, G. Regan, Margaret Smith, G. Stadtler, B. Snowhook, M. Smith, H. Stumer, N. Sheekey, G. Searls, L. Trask, L. Van Horn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Muri ay, F. Spencer, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
ist Class—Miss B. Gove.	.
2D Div.—Misses J. Barlow, A. Shephard.
2D Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale, N. Keenan.
2D Div.—Miss C. Ginz.
3d Class—Misses E. Carney, E. Sheekey.
2D Div.—Misses M. Adderly, M. Ducey, M. Dillon, E. Horn, C. Morrison, M. Scully, L. Van Horn.
4T11 Class Misses M.Fuller, C. Fehr, B. Kearney, M. Munger, A. Murphy, H. Ramsey, B. Snowhook.
2D Div.—Misses E. Call, C. Congdon, C. Ducey, A. Malbceuf, L. St. Clair, G. Wolvin.
5th Class—Misses S. Dunne, N. Danforth, E. Don-elly, A. DonneHy. A. English, D. Fitzpatrick, J. Foster, C. Griffith, Alice Gordon, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, G. Regan, L. Williams, E. Walsh.	"
2D Div.—Misses M. Barry, E. Brady, M. Cox, F. Cummins, M. Fisk, Addie Gordon, L. Hutchinson, A. Keyes, C. Rose, G. Stadtler, E. Taylor.
6th Class—Misses N. Brown, L. Blaine, C. Cox, B. English, G. Faxon, .F. Henry, M. Kearsev, B. Lauer, M. Murphy, S. St. Clair, M. Schmidt, E. Strawn, Ella Sheekey, H. Stumer.
2D Div.—Misses L. Johns, E. Kearns, L. Murdock, M. Morse, M. Newman, E. O’Connell, M. Reinhold, L. Ryan, F. Spencer, Margaret Smith, M. Shea, C. Torrent, E. Walsh.	.
7tii Class—Misses I. Alcott, M. Blair, M. Barr, F. Carmien, S. Campeau, Margaret Ducey, R. Eisenstadt, B. Heckard. M. Hawkins, M. Helpling, A. High, C. Lang, J. McHale, E. Norris, D. Reynolds, A. Schidler, G. Searls, A. Schmauss, A. White.
8th Class—Misses F. Hertzog, C. Prudhomme.
9T11 Class—Misses E. Chapin, E. Hagan, M. Lindsey, B. Murray.	‘
ioth Class—Misses E. Blaine, V. Johns, D. Lee.
HARP.
3d Class—Miss M. Dillon.
4TH. Class—Miss D. Fitzpatrick.
6th Class—Miss A. Shephard.
guitar.
3d Class—Miss L. Van Horn.
4TH Class—Miss A. English.	’
' VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
ist Class—Misses M. Bruhn, M. Hale.
2D Class—Miss B. English.
2D Div.—Misses H. Ramsey, S. St. Clair.
• 3D Class—Misses A. English, M. Ducey, L. Sheekey, E. Walsh. .	.
4TH Class—Misses B. Lauer, I. Alcott, L. Van Horn, M. Fuller, L,. St. Clair, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon.
5TH Class—Misses G. Stadtler, C. Fehr, C. Lang, C. Rose, M. Hawkins, B. Heckard, F. Henry, H. Stumer.
£