The Notre Dame Scholastic
643
QQaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaQ
NOTES ON LIVING
This morning, rather early, we were out walking. The sky was a clear, flawless gem; and as we walked along it seemed to us' that we were traveling in the middle of an enormous shed of sun. It was an experience; not alone the experience of walking in the morning beneath the sun, but something more, much more, in that we saw it all as a symbol—and then we attempted to go behind the symbol to the reality, by one visioning, one picture of that reality.
—In India the cobra, a quite deadly snake, usually meets its match when it encounters a mongoose, a small, peculiarly shaped animal—
And as we walked along, it seemed to us that a thousand white mongooses, sprung from the sun, were leaping through the air and closing with the cobras of the grass—each and every blade of grass a hooded snake coiling and turning as its enemy fell upon it. The trees were tossing the wildly-carven bells of their branches as the shaken flags of the wind waved through the air and over the earth.
A thousand birds filled jars of space with the wine of their cries, wine to be drunk by the victors. But the green hooded reptiles were soon overborne by the terrific charge of the white fighters. And very soon, it was all over—and we realized that we had another* day in front of us, work to be done, and tasks to be performed.
But we were able to go through the day with the memory of a quickening experience, a heightening of existence, always in the center, in the foreground- of our mind. And the day was like an object to be examined, which, before scrutiny, is covered with a rich, heavy perfume.
We have, in the past, used the phrase, “extending the borders of reality”—and we have been asked its meaning. Well, we are inclined to think that the little experience we have set down above, is a hint in the direction of extension.
It is something to see heaven in a wild flower; but it is also something to see the creatures of heaven in things that are both more and less than a wild flower!	—m. h. l.
' Gke
No^re Dame 5cholas^ to
I)isee - Quasi - S emper •Vic?;uPus<«Vlve-Quasi-CTas-Moritunis
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Joseph B. Reedy.....
J. Archer Hurley. .. Walter Langford.... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith......
EDITORIAL STAFF
Paul J. Edward
Hallinan. .. E. Brennan
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
......Managing.Editor Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor .The...........Week ..The College Parade ..........Music and Drama ......Campus	Clubs ......Features.Editor .Script......Editor
James Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
William J. Magarral
Harry A. Sylvester.
Ji:.
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Neil Hurley Lawrence Dunda George Allan Richard J. O’Donnell
James Kearney
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Henry B. Asman
Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody Leslie Raddatz
Editor
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon,
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman....Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick N. Davis James L. Rizer. ...
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldmtn
Vol. LXIII
__Local Advertising Manager
Foreign Advertising Manager
William Sherman Frank J. Conroy Joe King
MARCH 7, 1930
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Brownson Hall____________________________
The Week—J. Archer'Hurley----------------
Coming Events____________________________
A Man About the Campus—Richard J. O’Donnell
Music and Drama—William H. Knapp---------
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
No. 21
Frontispiece
Music and Drama________________________.---------------
Timely Suggestions—William Karl______________ Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith__________________ College Parade—Walter Langford_______________ Editor’s Page________________________________ Corby-by-the-Lake—Emil L. Telfel_____________ The Wink_____________________________________ Notre Dame Trackmen Meet First Setback—Henry B. Asman-. Butler Bulldogs Leashed in 29-16 Win_________ Notre Dame Host to Sixteen C. I. C. Teams____ Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester-------- On Down the Line_____________________________----------
645
646
648
651
651
652
653
654
655
656
658
659
659
665
669
672
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
644
The Notre Dame Scholastic
O UR shay-dnving ancestors had any number of adages tucked under their tall beaver hats. And none of these sayings were any truer than the one which made it unethical to look a gift horse in the mouth. Gift horses and nightmares are so frequently pastured together that their identities are rather shadowy to those moderns who are too unhealthy to believe in horse play. Providence gave all of us a number of gift horses in the way of talents and capabilities. During the past twenty-odd years we have been content to treat them as very dark horses, but the trading will begin shortly after Commencement. Wonder whose grey mare is going to back into the shafts of an ash wagon?
| HE Alumnus magazine, brought to press through the sweat of Jim Armstrong’s capable pen, has come into Sorin to claim us as being about ready to enlist among' those in the great beyond. Reading through the notes of its correspondent secretaries gives one an uncanny feeling that his own name may be among the married, the successful, or the adventuresome' in those same columns, ere long. If Jim really wants to assure himself of our loyalty and annual check by way of manifestation, he could insert a help wanted supplement in his next issue.
Dying with one’s boots
has been extolled time and
■	again by romantic Westerners whose horizons were usually
_ 4	dimmed by whiskey and whiskers. They made the blustery
mistake of supposing that falling to the ground was more exciting than having the sky fall on them. Adam spent most of Paradise lying on his back, I think, and those innumerable German philosophers who consider death a bounty are sensible, at least in that they recognize the '	joys of the supine. For the past week I have been gazing
into the distances of a Sorin ceiling, cursing automobiles ■with aerial aspirations, and trying to squeeze amusement ; k	out of the mess of water pipes which clutter up my ceiling.
Consequently I have had time to realize that Lent is here, and that it isn’t such a depressing period after all. The Church’s sorrow is really a melancholy joy—though one ,	sometimes needs to be flat on his back before he realizes it.
646
The Notre Dame Scholastic
❖-----------------------------❖
Coming Events
<£•-------------—-------------—4> »
FRIDAY, March 7—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications offices, Main building, 7:00 p. m.— Debate, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame at Lansing.—First Friday exercises, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 8—Finals in the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet, University gymnasium, 1:30 p. m.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.— Movies, “The Mysterious Island,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, March 9—Masses, Sacred Heai-t Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a- m.—Meeting of the-Presidents’ club, Law building, 10:00 a. m.—Qualification examination for the English majors, 8:30-12:00 a. m. — Concert, University band, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
MONDAY, March 10—Meeting of the Rocky Mountain club, Law building, 7:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 11—Debate, Notre Dame vs. the University of Florida, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—The Notre Dame Academy of Science, Science hall, 8:00 p. m.— Scribblers meeting, Howard hall “rec” room, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 12—Lecture, “Philosophy on Fire,” by Dr. G. H. Derry, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, March 13—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.—Spectators meeting, Journalism room of the Library, 7:45 p. m.—Spanish club meeting, Law building, 7:30 p. m.
FRIDAY, March 14—Last day for club officers to censor* write-ups for the Dome of 1930.—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, Main building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 15—Track, Illinois relays, at Champaign.—Movies, “This is Heaven,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
COLLEGES NAME ORATORY ENTRIES •
Although March 25 is the closing date for the entries in the Sixth National Intercollegiate Oratorical contest on the Constitution, 81 colleges and universities from 29 states have already written to P. Casper-Harvey, national director. Northwestern university, Evanston, Ill., national winner in 1925, was the first school to enter the 1930 contest.
The competition for the greatest forensic honor open to college students in America foreshadows bringing together this year the largest group of colleges and universities in any project of the kind in the history of American higher education, according to the announcement made this week at the national headquarters. A total of §5000 in prizes will be awarded, and the winner, who will become the national intercollegiate champion orator for 1930, will be awarded a prize of §1500. Second place will give a prize of §1000, scaling down to §400 for the seventh place.
The national director is sending this week, to 902 colleges and universities, an urgent request to make their entries early, even if the schools may wait until April 15 to choose their contestants.
A. S. M. E. HOLDS FIRST SMOKER
The first smoker of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was held last night in the Faculty dining hall.
One of the purposes of the smoker was to acquaint the lower classmen with the engineering faculty, and accordingly, those of the faculty who were present gave short talks to the-members. The freshmen were then called upon to give their name, home town, reason for coming to Notre Dame, why they chose the mechanical engineering course, and then were asked to sing or tell a joke.
Mr. M. Kavanagh of the Studebaker Corporation gave a short talk on “Production.” Francis Cashier rendered several banjo selections, and Joseph Cogan, at the piano, played popular songs, which were sung by the club members. Corncob pipes were distributed instead of the usual cigarettes, to give that “smoky” atmosphere.
Among those present was Mr. Arthur Meyer of the national headquarters in New York.
MEEHAN MEDAL TO BE
AWARDED
Every year a gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan of Covington, Kentucky, is awarded to the senioi- who writes the best essay in English. An essay offered in competition may be on any subject approved by the head of the Department of English.
If none of the essays entered in the competition be of sufficient merit in the opinion of the judges of the contest, the medal is not awarded.
The date for the judging of the essays has not as yet been set, but further particulars .may be obtained from the head of the English Department.
ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS >, RECEIVE BEAUX ARTS
MENTION
Paul Flanagan, Frank Kelly and E. J. Weiczorek, students in the School of Architecture, have received mention in the recent competition of the Beaux Arts Institute of New York City, for their plans submitted in the design of a triumphal arch for a stadium.
An exhibition of drawings from the Beaux Arts Institute has been on dis-play for the past few weeks on the fourth floor of the Main building. A notable variety of subjects, showing excellent ability and treatment, comprises the main feature of the showing.
A.I.E.E. HOLDS BI-MONTHLY MEETING
Mr. John Inman, of the South Shore Railroad Headquarters at Michigan City, was the principal speaker last Monday evening at the first meeting of the month, held by the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Mr. Inman spoke briefly on the subject of “Transportation” and then supplemented his talk with a film entitled “The Development of Transportation.” This film was taken at the fair held by the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and it traced the development of transportation from the Pony Express to the modem mammoth locomotive. Two student papers were presented. The first dealt with the gyroscope, and was presented by Martin Wider, junior. “The Life of Steinmetz” was given by Nobel Harbaugh, a sophomore.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JUNIOR PROM WEEK-END DECLARED SUCCESS
Guests have gone home, dress shirts have been laundered, and the Palais Royale has resumed its ordinary aspect. In other words, the Junior Prom of 1930 has gone its merry, romantic way into the social history of Notre Dame. In every detail it was one of the most successful and wellmanaged Junior Proms ever* held at the University.
William J. Sullivan, general chairman, with the efficient aid of John Kuhn, Bob Balfe, Ed Madden and the rest of his hard-working Prom committeemen, made of the dance an affair exceeding in brilliance the most optimistic expectations. The music and decorations were especially commented upon.
Wayne King and his Aragon orchestra made a real hit with the Juniors and their guests. His own pleasing personality and his band’s masterful handling of the dance tunes made the dance program highly enjoyable. The decorative scheme was entirely successful. Although unobtrusive, it was probably the most effective in Prom history.
Wayne King is said to have remarked afterwards that he had never more enjoyed playing at a college dance. The week-end’s activities were continued with a dinner dance at the Oliver Hotel Saturday evening, and a Prom breakfast Sunday morning. Both of these affairs were also successful from every standpoint.
K. OF C. MEETING THIS MONDAY
Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will hold its regular bimonthly meeting, Monday, in the Walsh Hall Council Chambers, at 8 o’clock. Lecturer Frank McGreal promises that a prominent campus speaker' will address the meeting.
FUNERAL SERVICES HELD
FOR AL FORSCHNER
Funeral services for Al- Forschner, Freshman, who died at Hot Springs on March 3, were held this morning at St. Ambrose Church in Chicago. Six of Al’s friends from Howard Hall served as pall-bearers.
Al, a resident of Chicago, was a student in the engineering school until ill health forced him to leave school during the quarterly examinations in November. He made many acquaintances during his brief months at Notre Dame, and will be greatly missed by all those who knew him.
BAND TO PRESENT CONCERT MARCH 9; CASA-
SANTA WRITES NEW SONG
Students will have an opportunity to see and hear the University Band in the first concert program of the year, on Sunday evening. The concert will begin at eight o’clock, in Washington Hall. Mr. Casasanta, director, has arranged a variety of concert numbers of wide musical range, and has written a new number, “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” which will be featured in its first appearance. Messrs. Moroni and Sullivan will be the featured players, having to themselves a comet duet, “Jupiter’s Carnival.”
Following is the program:
Part One
1.	Marches—
(a)	“El Capitan”________Sousa
(b)	“Semper Fidelis”_____Sousa
2.	Intermezzo____________De Luca
3.	Overture—
“Fountain of Youth”------King
4.	“Pomp and Circumstance” Elgar 5. “March of the Toys” from
“Babes in Toyland”
Arranged by Herbert L. Clark Intermission.
Part Two
1.	Marches—
(a)	“Washington Post”----Sousa
(b)	“On the Mall”_____Goldman 2. Victor* Herbert Favorites—
Arranged by Lake 3. “Stepping Along”______Goldman
4.	Overture—
“Jupiter’s Carnival”__Barnard
(Comet Duet—Messrs. Moroni
and Sullivan)
5.	Songs of the Campus—
(a)	“When the Irish Backs Go
Marching By” (new)
Casasanta
(b)	“Down the Line”—Casasanta (c) “Hike, Notre Dame.’”
Casasanta
(d) “Victory March”------Shea
WORK RENEWED ON DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Work on the new drainage system, on the Dore road, was renewed Wednesday when the base for the pipes was laid. The drainage system will serve as a drain for the gridiron in the new stadium now under construction.
647
S. A. C. BOXING MEET FINALS MARCH 14
The final bouts in the boxing tournament sponsored by the Students Activities Council, with the co-operation of Assistant Coach “Hunk” Anderson, will be held Friday, March 14, in the University Gymnasium. If present plans are carried through, a temporary ring will be installed in the center of the basketball court, in full view of the spectators.
Every student, whether he lives on or off campus is eligible to compete. Those who have not yet reported to “Hunk” Anderson may do so any day next week during the hours of 3:30 to 5:00 o’clock, in the boxing room, located under the north stands of the gymnasium.
The success' of this meet, the first venture of its kind by the S. A. C., will determine whether or not it is to be made a permanent fixture on the list of the Council’s activities. “Hunk” Anderson, who is in charge of the affair, conducted similar contests at St. Louis University, where he was head coach for the past two years.
Eliminations are now being carried on under the direction of Anderson, and only a limited number of finalists will be allowed to compete in the meet next Friday. All classes including flyweight, featherweight, bantamweight, lightweight, middleweight, welterweight, lightheavyweight and heavyweight, will be contested. Approximately 125 entrants are expected to begin the preliminary eliminations, and an even larger number* will have been attracted by the time the finals begin.
There will be two special interhall bouts between four of the campus’ heaviest sluggers. One match will bring together the champ of Brownson and the leader of Carroll, and the other will find the titlist of Howard mixing with the champ of Freshman.
A small admittance tax will be charged to help defray the expenses of the tournament. Suitable prizes will be awarded to the winners in the various classes.
The future success and continuance of tournaments such as this one, will depend upon the support of the student body. If the S. A. C. finds that the students are interested in this kind of activity, plans will be pushed for like tournaments in the near future. A large turnout and a hearty response by the students on the night of the finals, March 14, will insure the meet’s annual occurrence.
648
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«
A Man A bout the Campus --------------------*
Bernie Conroy is just another living proof of the verity of that old Andalusian saying, “where there’s smoke there’s fire.” The word “fire” as used here is metaphorical, if you know what that means, and it signifies activity, ambition, accomplish-
Bernard Conroy
ment, or what would you substitute? The smoke previously referred to represents Pittsburgh, which is a suburb of Conroy’s home town, New Kensington, Pa. Bernie has been known to squelch with a deft witticism those wits who are famous for humorous remarks concerning the smoke-laden air of Pittsburgh, with the answer, “The city may be smoky, but it suits me.” Now that’s a very, very subtle pun, and if you did not get it, just read it over, and stress the word “suits.” Do not, however, hold that against him, for he held the office of president of the Pittsburgh Club last year, and such outbursts were a part of the requirements of his executive position.
The Junior Class of last year had Bemie taking care of its financial matters. He must have proved to be a good class officer, since this year he is again helping to guide the destinies of the Seniors, in his capacity of Secretary. So you see, Conroy is somewhat the white haired boy of the Class of 1930. Holding an office for two consecutive years is an unusual feat on the campus and a real tribute to Bernie’s ability and popularity.
Bernie has dedicated his services to the University as a manager for the past four years, and performed capably from the time he first carried headgears until he was appointed associate football manager for the past season. His duties in this position
St. Edward’s Hall Makes Bid for Campus Honors
Father Sorin’s “princes,” the “Minims,” have been the forerunners of the newest campus hall, St. Edward’s. Although it has been open only a short period of five months, the various hall members have been prominently associated with varsity and class activities. The hall was remodeled from the old Minims’ building, to make room for the accommodation of some 200 odd students, ranging from freshmen up to and including instructors and professors.
Named after the patron saint of the founder of the University, it has, up till last June, housed the little “preps” who were Father Sorin’s pride and joy. Their presence en masse at all varsity competitions has set a noble tradition which the present inhabitants will find somewhat difficult to follow. The advent of the new hall has drawn a line of demarcation between Sophomore and St. Edward’s. In the by-gone days, the Minims used to play in the field back of Sophomore, and their childish psychology or whatever it was, kept
earned him a monogram, and- opened the door for his entrance into that organization, the Monogram Club.
Two other campus organizations which claim him as a member, are the K. of C. and the Dante Club. His membership in the latter, Bernie believes, entitles him to be known as one of the intelligentsia of the University. He holds an office in the Knights of Columbus which, although not recognized as official, is nevertheless important. Dan Cannon, as chairman of the refreshment 'committee, has appointed Conroy as his assistant. “Not a bad job,” said Bernie, ‘and one which has its compensations.”
Bemie is in his fourth year in the College of Arts and Letters, and is majoring in Economics. He did his studying for the first semester in Sorin Hall subway, but after the grades came out, he decided that he needed an intellectual roommate to aid him in his pursuit of higher learning, so he moved to the second floor of Sorin where he now shares his ties with Tom Cunningham. The partnership of Conroy and Cunningham had its offices in Walsh Hall last year and was a very successful one. Anyone desiring to do business with either gentlemen may wake them by knocking loudly on the door of Boom 246, Sorin Hall.
the second year men literally guessing. But now—gone are the repartees back and forth; students in both halls seem content enough to stay in their respective rooms and to limit their visiting, if any, to a brief “hello” on the campus.
With the exodus of several football men, the “glory-list” of St. Edward’s is somewhat reduced. John Colrick, varsity baseball, basketball and football man, occupied a room in the annex (once the Minims’ kitchen) until he left for Georgetown to divide coaching tasks with Mills, Moynihan and others. Moynihan, “Big Tim,” now at Georgetown, was a member* of the new hall until a few weeks ago. Still left are Marty Brill, Howard Smith, and Joe Savoldi. “Savoldi’s Grenadiers” were hastily organized the other night to enlist in case “Japan declared war” as threatened, (at least by other St. Edward’s men). In the hall, too, is Alfred E. Gall, who has written several feature-articles for the Scholastic, and was “Script” Editor until his recent resignation.
FATHER MILTNER TO REP-
RESENT NOTRE DAME AT CONVENTION
The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C. Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will represent Notre Dame at two educational conferences in Chicago this month. He will leave here on March 18 for Chicago to attend a conference of representatives of the colleges of liberal arts in the United States, at the Stevens Hotel, March 18 to 20. On March 20 and 21 he will attend the meeting of the North Central association of colleges and secondary schools.
The first meeting has been called to consider the relation of the college of liberal arts to higher education, and to set forth collectively the needs of the colleges in order that they may function more adequately. The representatives will discuss and formulate a plan by which an appeal may be made to the American people for the financial resources necessary if the liberal arts colleges are to work efficiently in the interest of the 1,000, 000 students now in college and the decreasing number which may be expected within the next decade or two.
The second meeting which Father Miltner will attend is a regular conference of the North Central association of colleges and secondary schools.
5
The Notre Dame Scholastic
649
STARRETT, MUSSER, AND ZABEL NAMED POETRY
JUDGES
Mr. Philip De Roulet, Chairman of the Scribblers Poetry Contest, announces that Mr. Vincent Starrett of Chicago, Illinois, Mr. Benjamin Musser of New York City, and Mr. Morton Dauwen Zabel, of Loyola University, have consented to serve as judges for the contest which will close on March 14.
Mr. Starrett is noted for his introduction of Arthur Machen to American readers, as well as for his critical studies and excursions in book collecting.
Mr. Musser, erstwhile Editor of “Contemporary Verse” and “Japm,” is now in New York City, supervising the publication of his new book of poems.
Mr. Zabel, a member of the English faculty, Loyola University, Chicago, Illinois, is associate editor of “Poetry: A Magazine of Verse ”
Three copies of each poem must be submitted, together with a sealed envelope containing the titles of the poems and the name of the author.
DATE FOR BASKETBALL BANQUET CHANGED
Last week’s Scholastic announced the date of the annual testimonial basketball banquet, to be given by the Villagers’ Club, as March 11. The committee in charge of arrangements, however, has learned that it would be inadvisable to hold the affair on that date.
March 11 was the date chosen by the Arrangements committee. A few days after the date was agreed upon it was learned that not all of the coaches who were invited to speak at the banquet would be able to attend; consequently the date has been set for Tuesday, March 25.
Among the coaches invited to attend the banquet are: George Veenker', Michigan; Pete Vaughn, Wabash; Dutch Lonborg, Northwestern; Walter (Doc) Meanwell, Wisconsin; Dr. Carlson, Pittsburgh; and George Keo-gan, Notre Dame.
NOTICE!
Contributions for Scrip — poems, essays and plays—should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall.
❖---------:------------------i
BENITZ, SIGLER HONORED BY M. S. C.
Tim Benitz and Jack Sigler, junior and senior respectively in the College of Arts, and Letters, returned to the University Tuesday after attending the annual mid-western student government assembly held at Georgia School of Technology, Feb. 27 to March 1.
Mr. Benitz was elected vice-president of the conference for the coming year, after presiding at the discussion on the relation of the student council to the university, the faculty, and the student body. He also served on the “Future” committee. Mr. Sigler was a member of the Resolutions committee. Both men returned to school Monday, March 4.
Student publications, the abolition of the honor system, and student representation on athletic boards were favored by resolutions of the members.
Next year the conference will be held at Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. J. A. Corrigan of Georgia Tech will preside as president.
Little work was done on definite questions, the delegates using the time chiefly for exchanging ideas. Among the discussions were: student publications, athletics, student elections, and student council finances. In regard to the latter subject, a system arranged by William F. Shors, was presented, and was given consideration by the delegates.
EDITORS OF “SCRIP” HOLD MEETING
At the meeting of the editors of Scrip this week, it was decided that the next number of the magazine will be published the week of April 6. The deadline for material for this number was set for March 29. Several short stories, plays, and poems have already been submitted to the editors for this issue. The editors were well pleased with the sale of the second number of ■ their magazine, for the growing popularity of Scrip among the students proves that it has established itself as a literary magazine of no little merit. Some new features are to be found in the third number of Scrip. The editors have made arrangements for the inclusion of book reviews, a department which will undoubtedly win the interest of many students.
FRAWLEY NAMED ASSISTANT TO WEST
William H. Frawley, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named assistant to Mr. Arthur West, who is in charge of the University golf course. Provisions have been made for the repair and sale of golf clubs, and Mr. Frawley, who is to be in charge of such matters, may be located at the club house. He will also give lessons to any students who desire them. Mr. Frawley has had several years’ experience, having worked as assistant to L. J. Maloney, professional at the Eau Claire Country Club, Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
Mr. West announces that a driving net has been placed in the club house and is now available for use. Many improvements are to be made on the course at the opening of the spring season.
ROCKNE TO BE BACK ON CAMPUS SOON
Word has come from Florida that Knute Rockne will soon be back on the campus, directing the annual spring football training. Two months spent in the warm South have helped “Rock” back to the health necessary for a strenuous coaching season, and he wires that he will be in fine shape to resume his duties around the latter part of March.
His return will find a squad that has been working diligently in the gym under the direction of “Hunk” Anderson. Everything will be in readiness for the return of “Rock,” and the coincident announcement of outdoor practice.
WORK ON DOME IS NOW PROGRESSING
Work on the Dome of 1930 is progressing very satisfactorily, according to Editor-in-chief Robert Pendergast. Many of the club pictures are already taken, and the others are ready to be snapped as soon as it is certain that the weather will remain mild.
According to the editors of the book, and judging by the high calibre of material that has been turned in by the staff -writers, this present Dome should surpass any that ever appeared on the campus. A meeting was held last Wednesday evening and a great many assignments were made.
The various hall pictures and other campus groups will be photographed at an early date. The work is being rushed through and the entire staff is optimistic as to the final outcome.
650
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROMINENT MEN TO ADDRESS COMMERCE
STUDENTS
Each year during the course of the second semester the College of Commerce brings to the University numerous men who are closely allied to the commercial field. These men, usually executives in commercial activities, speak before members of the Commerce School.
Next week will mark the beginning of a series of lectures given by various business executives. The subject matter of these lectures will deal with Advertising and Merchandising. Dean James E. McCarthy aimounces that the following list of men who are prominent in advertising and merchandising fields are expected to conduct the lectures.
(1)	. John P. Roche, Roche Advertising Agency, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)	. William E. Donahue, Advertising Manager, Chicago Tribune, Chicago, Illinois.
(3)	. Homer J. Buckley, Principal, Buckley-Dement Company, Chicago, Illinois.
(4)	. Theodore McManus, McManus Agency, Detroit, Michigan.
(5)	. W. K. Lamport, President, Lamport-Fox and Company, South Bend, Indiana.	.
(6)	. James O’Shaughnessy, Business Manager, Liberty Magazine, New York City.
The time and dates of these lectures will be announced this week.
PROM SONG WINS FAVOR
“My Prom Sweetheart”—Qpus I. of John Beljon and Zeno Staudt—has grown more popular day by day and, with the Prom of ’30 now only a memory and a coin-purse favor in the minds of the guests, the song is decidedly in vogue. South Bend orchestras are featuring the number each night, and radio fans have heard it from WSBT, South Bend, and KYW, Chicago. The boys said this week that the sale of copies, both on the campus and at local stores, has been rapid.
The rendition of the song last Friday night by Wayne King and his orchestra for the Prom, definitely assured the guests that “Prom Sweetheart” was particularly adapted to orchestral arrangement.
Representatives of Irving Berlin’s house of syncopation have made an • offer to the boys for the sale of the song to them for publication.
SCRIBBLER SHORT STORY CONTEST EXTENDED
TO MARCH 20
Chairman Louis Brennan announces that the short story contest being conducted by the Scribblers has been extended to March 20. So far about five or six manuscripts have been submitted to the short story contest committee.
Two of the judges for the contest have been chosen. They are Brother Leo, professor of English at St. Mary’s College, California, and Myles Connolly, short story writer. Both men are well known in the literary world. Brothei- Leo conducts a book review page in Columbia, and Mr. Connolly’s short stories have appeared in the same and in other magazines.
All undergraduates are eligible to compete in the contest. Contestants are limited to two stories, each story not to exceed 4,000 words. Three copies of each story must be submitted.
SOPHOMORES IN ARTS AND LETTERS—PLEASE NOTE!
Sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters are reminded that shortly before the Easter holidays they will be called upon to select the subject for their major work in their respective programs. For this purpose two convocations will be held, at which the men will be addressed by the heads of the several departments.
The second year students are therefore urged to give the subject careful consideration so that their choice will not be hasty or ill-advised.
Another announcement of this matter will appear in a later issue.
GLEE CLUB PRACTICES
FOR CONCERTS
Having completed their preliminary rehearsals, the University Glee Club is practicing on a definite program to be presented on its Easter tour this year.
Concerts are now being carded for a number of prominent Eastern cities by H. Jerome Parker, glee club manager.
The club will give its first concert of the year in Washington hall on Sunday, March 30. The program to be given at the concert will be announced at a later date.
FORTY HOURS’ DEVOTION
ENDED TUESDAY
Forty Hours’ Devotion ended Tuesday evening in Sacred Heart Church with the solemn benediction, following the procession of the Blessed' Sacrament. Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was celebrant of benediction. “Pange Lingua” was sung by the Seminary choir during the procession.
The Very Reverend James W. Donahue, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, preached the sermon on Monday and Tuesday evenings.
The devotion opened solemnly Sunday morning after 9 o’clock Mass and extended ovei- the three days.
“FASHION NUMBER” OF JUGGLER TO BE OUT
FRIDAY
Editor John L. Nanovic, of the Juggler announces that the “Fashion Number” of the Juggler will be out on Friday, March 14.
The “Fashion Number” will have a very original and striking cover. The cover drawing idea will be further carried out by six other drawings in the body of the magazine.
The reading material will contain some very amusing features. Among other things, there will be a fashion epic modelled on the style of Longfellow’s Evangeline, and a book of campus etiquette.
PIERCE VISITS CAMPUS
A Lester Pierce was a visitor on the campus last Tuesday. Mr. Piei^e will be remembered as former instructor in Education at the University. At the present time he holds the positions of Educational Counsellor and Registrar at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota.
❖---------------------------♦
College of Commerce	|
Notes	I
$----------------------------•
A representative of the Bell Telephone Company will be in the Commerce office Friday, March 7, between - the hours of 1:00 and 4:00 p. m., to interview Commerce seniors in regard to positions with that company.
A representative of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company will be in the Commerce office Wednesday, March 12, between the hours of 1:00 and 4:00 p. m., to interview Commerce seniors in regard to positions • with that company.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
651
DEBATERS TO MEET FLORIDA AND MICHIGAN STATE HERE NEXT WEEK
Next week there will be two opportunities to hear the varsity debaters speak in Washington Hall. On Tuesday, March 11, the Negative team, , composed of James Walsh, William Kirby, and John Keefe, meets a team from the University of Florida. On Thursday the Affirmative team is scheduled to meet representatives from Michigan State. The first debate will be judged by Mr. Cyrus B. Pat-tee of the Circuit Court at South Bend, while the decision in the debate with Michigan State will be given by Professor Sandburn, head of the speech department at the University of Illinois. The question of disarmament, which is the topic being argued in these two contests, is not a matter of quotations from the census or volumes of statistics; it lends itself to very interesting and timely discus-, sion. So these two debates next week are worthy of notice.
On February 28, the Affirmative team, made up of Walter Stanton, ' William O'Malley, and Thomas Keegan, was defeated in a debate at Detroit. These speakers made a fine showing, however; the discussion was close throughout, and the decision was awarded on fine points. Last evening the Negative group participated here in a return debate with Detroit, while < next Monday the same speakers will meet the Affirmative team of Michigan State.
CORBETT TO SPEAK ON APRIL 4
Frank Corbett, winner of the Indiana State Oratorical Contest, will represent Notre Dame at the Central Division Oratorical Contest, April 4. ■ The Central Division consists of the states of Missouri, Wisconsin, Indiana and Illinois, each of which will be / represented by its own state champion. The contest will take place in Wisconsin, at the school winning the state championship.
The finals of the national oratorical competition will be held at Northwestern University, April 25.
Professor Frank Kelly, of the Department of Speech, states that the constitutional contest described in a } recent issue of the Scholastic is open to anyone wishing to participate in oratorical competition and that he is willing to arrange a contest for anyone interested.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
♦-—--------------------
One of the most uproarious dramas we have seen since “After Dark, or, Neither- Maid, Wife, Nor Widow,” was “St. Elmo” as produced at the Oliver Theatre this week The preliminary announcements stated that this old thriller would be done with all seriousness, and was it? I’m not asking you, I’m telling you.
Bentley Wallace as St. Elmo and May Rae as Edna Earl were there! There were two deaths in the first act: the first proved something (maybe) ; the second that the wages of sin are (or is) death. Highly moral in tone, “St. Elmo” is the sort of melodrama of the nineties that makes a good farce for the thirties. Now if Mr. Reeths can persuade the company to do “After Dark” we will guarantee to hiss the villain without pay.
Probably the most important event of the theatrical season is due in Chicago in the very near future. I refer to Mei Lan Fang, the Chinese actor. Mr. Mei is China’s greatest, and when you consider what it takes to be Chinese and the greatest of them, you don’t laugh and say, “Oh so-and-so.” Mr. Mei hasn’t the appeal of Clara Bow, nor does he make one gasp as does Greta Garbo. He doesn’t break into a song and dance as do many of our young “stars”; “actresses,” as they prefer to be known. Mr. Mei has studied the art of acting, the art of acting as a woman. Every gesture, every fold of his gowns, every step Mei takes on the stage means something, and it has had its meaning and will have it long after Clara Bow and Greta Garbo are no more.
New York has literally gone wild about Mr. Mei; he has had to extend

ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
POSTPONES MEETING
The meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science scheduled to be held last Monday evening, was postponed one week because of conflict with the Forty Hours’ Devotion.
Edward Yorke, president of the Academy, has been accepted at the Cornell Medical School for further study in medicine. This is a singular honor because of the difficult requirements and the small number admitted each year.
his stay in the town, and has had to move to a larger theatre. Probably it’s just another case of “small town boy makes good in city,” but we’re going to Chicago and applaud and applaud. And here’s why. Chicago, culture conscious, filled with the spirit of progress and civilization, not to mention culture, which is so seriously taken there, is laughing at the most dramatic moment of Eugene O’Neill’s “Anna Christie.” Actually emitting what a vaudeville ham would consider in the light of applause. We really don’t care, because an “intellectual snob” never does .... but it affects us as though we were telling the truth and had been called a liar. You know.
To get back to Elbel’s, however, and things more local. The High Hatters do “What Would I Care,” which has the rhythm so common to good musical comedy numbers. And it is good. On another record they do “Keeping Myself,” which we will stick up for from now until Easter, when we are no longer campussed.
Of interest to students of music, directors of choirs, and to anyone who appreciates the beauty of the Mass we suggest “The Ordinary of the Mass” (Gregorian Chant), by the Piux X Choir, which can be had at Elbel’s. It is one of the best recordings we have heard and the Pius X Choir fs something to be proud of. Directed by Justine B. Ward, than whom there is none better in the field of Liturgical music, and with the organ played by Achille Bragers, I ask you, what more do you want? Oh!
COMMERCE FORUM HEARS D. M. SHIVELY
A meeting of the Commerce Forum was held last night in the Law Building. The speaker of the evening was Mr. Dudley M. Shively, South Bend attorney, and President of the St. Joseph Valley Club. His subject was “Law and Business,” a topic which interested every one present. Because of his experience as former congressman from Indiana Mr. Shively was particularly qualified to speak on such a subject.
652
The Notre Dame Scholastic
TIMELY SUGGESTIONS
CHAIRS ❖--------------------*
There are no doubt many of us who have had to waste many steps simply because we did not know at		A. M. Barber Shop— Daily	7:30 Shoe Repair Shop—	' p. 6:00	M.
what hours a certain	building or			
office on the campus was open. To remedy this situation the Scholastic publishes the hours during which the		Daily 7:00 Saturday 7:00-12:00 Western Union—	5:00	
various places about the “open for business.”	campus are	Daily	8:00 “Rec” Rooms—	8:00	
A. M. Post Office— Daily 7:30 Sunday 7:30- 8:00 Laundry— Daily	7:30-11:30	P. M. 5:45 1:30- 4:30	Daily	7:00 Sunday 7:00 President’s Office— Daily 9:30-12:00 Alumni and Endowment Office—	7:30 7:30	
Saturday 7:30-ll:30 Library— Daily 8:00	1:30- 3:00 6:00	Daily	8:30-11:30 Saturday 8:30-11:30 Publications Office—	2:00-	4:00
Saturday 8:00 Sunday 10:00-12:00	6:00 7:30- 9:30	Daily 9:00-11:00 Saturday 9:00-11:00 Dry Cleaning Dept.—	1: SO-	4:00
Book Store—		Daily 6:45-11:40	12:45-	4:30
Daily	8:00-11:30 Saturday 8:00-11:30 Express Office—	1:00- 4:30	Sunday Cafeteria— Daily	6:00	5:40— 9:40	7:00
Daily	12:15-12:45	Sunday 6:00 Ave Maria Office—	9:40	
Candy Store— Daily	8:00-11:30 Saturday 8:00-11:30	12:40- 5:00 12:40- 3:30	Daily 7:30-12:00	1:00- 4:30 Saturday 7:30-11:00 “Daily” includes Saturday unless		
Adler’s—		otherwise specified. All	offices,	etc.
Daily 8:30-11:30 Saturday	Closed		closed on Sundays and holidays less otherwise stated.		i un-
Among the alumni who attended the Junior Prom of last week-end were Paul Butler, secretary of the St. Joseph Valley alumni club, and Mark Nevils, honor man of a few- years back, who is now holding the position of Divisional Traffic Manager for the Thompson Aeronautical Corporation.
- for spring practice this week. It was responded to by some hundred youths. Kizer, incidentally, is reported to be more than filling the shoes of that other alumnus, Jimmy Phelan, former mentor of the Boilermakers.
The Notre Dame Wranglers Club is planning to conduct again this year the Northern Indiana High School Oratorical Contest. Joseph MacNa-mara, ’29, Editor of the Juggler, and president of the Club last year, has
At Notre Dame we have many objects of great historical interest and value wholly unknown to most of the students. There stands in one of the rooms in the Library, an old black Windsor chair. It had been used at the Continental Congresses held in Philadelphia before we had a Constitution. Although it may be a matter of conjecture for us to speculate as to whether Samuel or John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, or even George Washington himself sat in it during the stormy period in 1774-76, we are certain that it was used during the signing of the Declaration of Independence. For succeeding years we know little of its history, until it was presented to the University by Dr. Thomas Addis Emmett, a descendant of the famous Robert Emmett. Few, if any schools in America, can boast of such a relic. A museum could well be proud of it.
Another chair, valuable because of the importance of its owner in American history, for many years could be seen in the old Library in the Main Building, now utilized as St. Thomas dormitory by the Brown-sonites. After having served as an ornament in the parlor for a number of years, it was removed to the attic; only last week it was stored in the Library. The chair is about six feet high and was used by one of the first bishops in this country, Bishop England, of South Carolina. You will recall that in 1826 he delivered, by invitation, an eloquent discourse before Congress; it was the first time that a Catholic priest was so honored. A contemporary characterization ran: “apostolic zeal, saintly life, exalted • character, profound learning, and matchless eloquence made him a model for Catholics and an ornament of his order.”
>1

More chairs; we have more notable chairs than you ever thought of. In the librarv storeroom is a larce over-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
653
It very evidently rests upon the S. A. C. to urge the campus clubs to sufficient activity to provide entertainment during the Lenten season. Not only has the Council attempted to sponsor boxing tournaments, but it has also suggested an indoor baseball tournament among the various clubs. Certainly in the boxing tournament there should be representatives of almost every club on the campus. The return of Hartley Anderson from St. Louis University has provided an outlet for all the excess energy we have so long experienced at some campus club gatherings. On the other hand, it offers a chance to other clubs to provide means of obtaining some energy at club meetings.
—o—
Since the Presidents’ Club meeting last Sunday there seems to be some danger that this means might be disregarded. At any rate, there does not seem to be the propersort of co-operation. Experiments have at all times been more or less tedious and have offered nothing more than a gamble. For that reason we quote the saying, “Nothing ventured, nothing gained,” as a sort of reproach to the sluggards in the local clubs.
—o.—
Club officers have nothing to lose and a whole world of entertainment and spirit to gain by entering into such affairs as the S. A. C. suggests. Boxing tournaments, pool tournaments, handball tournaments, and indoor baseball tournaments seem to be beneath the dignity and high standing we see so often in our campus clubs, and have been thrust out as unworthy of the consideration of these organizations merely because the S. A. C.’s suggestions were not laid aside until the machinery of the club took it into considei-ation.
At the last meeting of the PRESIDENTS’ CLUB it was decided that an indoor baseball tournament, to be held outdoors as soon as the weather permits, should be staged. Each club has a chance to enter the tournament if it contains sufficient members to have a representative team.
—o—
Our attention is again called to the fact that the club eprt-inn in the Dome must be in within a week. As yet, the
what has been given them without hope of criticism. Surely the little help received so far will not be conducive to a section in the Dome that the clubs will be proud of.
Those clubs, and there are a few, who have not had pictures taken may make arrangements with the Editor-in-chief of the Dome, Room 339 Badin Hall, for having the pictures taken. A day early next week will be set aside for taking these pictures, and it will be the last chance this year. The Campus Club Editor, in Science Hall, will be glad to answer any further questions concerning the section.
Tim Benitz, chairman , of a committee appointed by the VILLAGERS, tells us that the banquet to be held with all of the Indiana clubs, will not take place until after the basketball banquet, March 25. The basketball banquet, traditional with the VILLAGERS, will be one of the best the club has ever held. Arrangements have practically been completed.
The SPECTATORS and the SCRIBBLERS are holding their usual weekly meeting Thursday and Tuesday nights, respectively, of each week. All their meetings are announced each week in the Owning Events column of the Scholastic.	.
The following clubs will hold meetings within the next two weeks to develop plans for entertainment during the Lenten season: the ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB, the NEW JERSEY CLUB, the ROCHESTER CLUB,, the UTICA CLUB, the MINNESOTA CLUB, the METROPOLITAN CLUB, the WEST VIRGINIA CLUB, the CHICAGO CLUB, the BOSTON CLUB, the WISCONSIN CLUB, the NORTHERN NEW YORK CLUB, the PACIFIC NORTHWEST CLUB, the TEXAS CLUB, the OKLAHOMA CLUB, and the INDIANAPOLIS CLUB. Shortly after, th a CALUMET CLUB, the WABASH VALLEY CLUB,
allow many harassed students to breathe easy once more and to throw away those scissors they bought for the possible purpose of doing a little page-clipping later in the year.
The radio station of Washington State College recently held a poetry-reading contest which proved that men are better readers of poetry than are women, inasmuch as three men carried away all honors. Just another indication of who’s who and what’s what.
-	.	—o—
It seems there is’just no way of keeping the students of Ohio Wesleyan, especially the plutocratic ones, from having their dates. As they are not allowed to own automobiles, they have nonchalantly started using airplanes. Their slogan must be “the sky is the limit.”
Somebody at the University of Oklahoma has completed a master’s thesis in psychology on the subject of right and left-handedness in boys and girls, and in it he makes several cracks about us male sinistrals that we are unable to appreciate. He declares, for example, that left-handed boys are somewhat dumber and left-handed girls somewhat smarter than average dextrals of their* sex. Our retort to this is in the form of a question. Has the gentleman never heard of Babe Ruth, of our yoyo champ, of the President of Playboy Alley, or of the millions of other famous figures who proudly profess left-handedness? Come on, you sinistrals, let’s organize in solemn and indignant protestation.
—o—
Five Chinese students of Northwestern University were arrested and fined $10 apiece because their ideas in regard to laundering did not coincide with those of the public health commission. The five of them were working their way through school by doing laundry work, and the trouble arose over the fact that they were devotees of the method of sprinkling clothes by blowing water out of their mouths.
—o—
The co-eds of Findlay College desire to go on record as wanting men who are neat in appearance and of athletic disposition, who honor their parents, and who are not addicted to promiscuous necking. Well, Playboy Alley includes the recognized fashion plate of the campus, the champion yoyoer, the home-loving boy who writes to his parents, sometimes even twice a month, the goody-goody boy who has never held a girl’s hand, and several others of varied characteristics. More over, the majority of them do their own work, and all but one of them are unattached.'
We do not have definite information as to which side of that question is being upheld by the Delta Gamma sorority, but we present the fact, for whatever it may be worth, that the Delta Gamma coeds conducted a kissing booth at the Cornhusker Carnival. They sold them at two for a nickel, with a guarantee of no counterfeits. It is reported that the coeds did a thriving business.
We are pleased to quote this little quip from The Oklir-homa Daily. “The Carnegie Foundation was unable to substantiate the report that some of the university’s polo ponies also had jobs as dray horses.”
—o—
Some student at Michigan State strikes a human interest note in a little story which brings out the utter lack of ethical notions in professors who see fit to give surprise quizzes on Monday mornings. If these professors could only realize how thoroughly such quizzes leave the students with the feeling that they have been imposed upon, perhaps their consciences would force them to abandon the policy. Let us glance at a little of the philosophizing done by the Michigan State student: “The most painful situation of a college career, to our knowledge, is that created when one unsuspectingly goes to class on a Monday morning, only to find blank sheets of paper strewn wholesale over the chairs and a general ‘quizzy’ atmosphere in the room.. After a hectic week-end when one’s chief pastime has not been study, there is no equal for this little procedure in dispelling whatever of the rosy glow may remain and bringing one back to reality with a distinct thud!” •
—o—
Dean McConn of Lehigh, University says that college students are divided into two classes: the serious students, who constitute the majority, and the rah-rah boys, who make up a substantial minority. He suggests that we have separate institutions for these two groups, a college for the intellectually gifted and a superkindergarten for those interested in everything else except studies. In his superkindergarten there would be no daily recitations, quizzes, grades, or “cuts.” Sounds like a pretty nice place, huh?
No longer will the annual appearance of the “Jay- | hawker” at the University of Kansas bring distress to some ® unfortunate, downtrodden individual, for the Men’s Student W Council has forever abolished that part of the “Jayhawker” w which featured the King of Asses and which included the g printing of personal letters without permission. The an- gj nouncement of this action by the council will undoubtedly
The Notre Dame Scholastic
65-5
GRAY STAR/
In writing of Lent, it is difficult to avoid a restatement of all those things, concerning the season, that have been told before—and told with greater vigor and clarity than we can command here.
To say anything new is impossible; but it does seem to us that one phase, one part of the whole that is Lent, lends itself to rather careful scrutiny—we mean the withdrawal, the dwelling within oneself afforded by the forty days.
The instant one mentions retirement (and consequent meditation) the listener is apt to shy away, fearing a lengthy discourse, inevitably sermonizing in tone.
It is not our intention, here, to indulge in homiletic; but we do wish to emphasize something that is always present, always with us, as worthy attention now as at any other time of the year—our own inner self.
People talk of Africa and Asia, of continents and undiscovered lands, but only too often these same people fail to realize that they have within themselves, just as each and every one of us has, Africas and Asias, continents and new, strange lands, fully as glamorous and magical and wonderful as the lands round which they weave their dreams.
One of the outstanding characteristics of our civilization is its tendency to outwardness; people are passionately preoccupied with one another and with things outside themselves; to be left alone with themselves is something to be feared (“let’s go to a movie!”), to cross the America of their being and sight the Pacific of the Infinite, the journey dreadful.
Over all these inner lands hover and swim great butterflys of light, but the smoke of things outside covers them with dark mist and they become gray stars.
Does it not seem reasonable then, during a time of the year especially devoted to a retirement to self, to brush away the smoke and face the fierce, bright shouts of the stars, as they river with illumination the Africas and the Asias, the Europes and the Americas of the mind?
In spite of the light, we may lose ourselves in the inner thickets; yet we lose but to find; in the final discovery it is not only ourselves that we find but another as well—and that Other is reached only by long ladders of light, whose first rungs are buried in the soil of the lands within ourselves!
.	—M. H. L.
NCTDE DAME MEN IN DDLITIC/
Word was recently received that on February 11, William J. Grandfield, ’13, was elected to Congress as the representative of the Second Massachusetts district. This accomplishment by one of our former students, is another addition to the already long list of worthy positions achieved by Notre Dame alumni. The University notes with pride that one of her sons has attained national fame. ■ Mr. Granfield has topped the peak so notably that we hope other students will be inspired to emulate his example.	-
That Notre Dame should have a prominent alumnus in the roster of the House of Representatives is a signal honor. Her sons have indeed won fame in practically every field of service. Professional men, authors, and soldiers are numbered among her alumni. And like a true mother she is proud of their honors. Mr. Granfield’s rise is another proof that while character is inherent, proper education and training mould the essence into finer form. It is an unspoken compliment to the University, voicing through other mediums the words of praise for her untiring efforts to make her sons conform to a principle.
His election proves the confidence the people have in him. His days as a student at Notre Dame, when he learned to discriminate between right and wrong, have stood him in good stead. He was coached years ago for his present position. As a student he was taught the fundamentals which make for success. Like the proverbial wise man he took the advice of the philosopher and “followed his inspirations.”
Mr. Granfield’s ascendancy, we feel, is but beginning.’ In such a great legislative body his real worth will be recognized. The demand for his services will lead him to higher and more honorable positions. As the years pass he will undoubtedly be honored with more prominent offices and bring added laurels to Notre Dame.	—T. v. m.
Page 656—The Notre Dame Scholastic
DID you know that Corby Hall was once the University’s so-called “Gold Coast”? You didn’t? Well, it was. Way back in the days when derbies and peg-top trousers were the peak of sartorial perfection, (1902 to be specific), the University authorities began to worry about the housing situation. The enrollment was increasing by the proverbial leaps and bounds; Sorin and Brownson, the only senior residence halls, were being packed to capacity. At that time Sorin was not the sacrosanct abode of lordly seniors only. Juniors and sophomores were mixed democratically and indiscriminately with those who were almost ready to go to work. What’s more, rooms in Sorin were entirely free. In 1902 Corby, which had been the Community house, was made into a student residence hall—one of the most exclusive on the campus. Almost immediately it became known as a millionaire’s hall; the men who lived there were a very select crowd, a very select crowd indeed. And why not? Weren’t they paying fifty dollars a year room rent? And so Corby proudly claimed the distinction of being the University’s “Gold Coast” until Walsh Hall’s three-room suites and bay windows lured the boys away. Ichabod! Gone is the glory!
Corby might be somewhat old and faded now, somewhat apologetic and run-down-at-the-heels, but it has had its days of glory. It has a history and traditions as old and as interesting as the history and traditions of Sorin—in fact, heresy though it may be, even more interesting. Here are a few of the more interesting anecdotes about the hall, picked at random from the wealth of
stories that an old “veteran” of the campus has on tap for anyone who can get him to talk about the old days.
One of the early rectors of Corby was Father John Farley of “Hi Colonel!” fame. Father Farley had been a great athlete (in the hey-day of his athletic glory he was nick-named “Tiger Lily” because of his hard playing), and naturally wanted to see his hall well represented on the athletic field. His desire was more than realized; during the years of his regime, from 1907 to 1914, Corby was the athlete’s haven. He “induced” many athletes of note to live in Corby, much to the chagrin of the Sorinites and Brownsonites, who accused Father Farley of bribing the beef and brawn men. Father Farley vigorously denied the charges. He claimed that he merely pointed out the advantages of living in Corby. One of these advantages was the easy access to the dining hall, then situated in the Main Building. A door in the basement of Corby was always left open, and— well, athletes have healthy appetites, and it was very easy to smuggle food out of the dining hall -via the open door. That is why, Father Farley claimed, athletes wanted to live in Corby—but only in Corby “Sub”!
An All-Corby baseball team, picked from players who rose from the comparative obscurity of the “Sub” to the dizzy heights of Big League fame, would give any present-day American or National League club a stiff battle for the pennant. Look at this line-up: pitchers, Ed. Ruelbach of the Cubs, Jean Dubuc of Detroit, Castner of the White Sox; catchers, Phil O’Neill, who starred with Cincinnati; Kinney, an ex-
^y St
Pirate; infielders, Curtis, New Yorl Yankees, Jim Nolan, Pittsburgh, Cut shaw, Pittsburgh, Bert Dunne, th* Giants; outfielders, Cy Williams, wh<
Seen From the Library
is still banging them on the nose foi the Phillies, Murphy, of the Athletics, and Harry O’Boyle, who made a briet but impressive debut with Boston. Not only baseball players, but football stars, track men, yes, and even
scholars,. lived m Corby during the golden years between ’07 and ’14.
In those days disciplinary rules were far more rigid than they are now; consequently “skiving” was frequently resorted to. The “skivers” used the fire escape to elude Father Farley’s watchful eye, but the genial rector w a s more than a match for them. He soon was “on” to the tricks of “his gang” (as he called them),
Reverend Donumi*
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 657
id much fun as a result.
of Corby’s most famous tradi-is Charles De Lunden, a very iratic student, reputed to be the
quaint old expression. After that incident Brother Leopold’s “corner” on the University’s candy market was not threatened.
Washington Hall is not the only building that has its ghosts. Corby had them long before the Washington Hall ghost became active. One of the ghosts was really Mario Dominges, a persistent “skiver” who scorned the fire escape as a means of ingress after his nocturnal wanderings. Instead, he used the heating system tunnels. These tunnels opened into rooms in the “Sub”; the openings were and are still used by plumbers to get at the steam pipes. Some of the tunnels are barely high enough to allow a man to crawl along on hands and knees, and the hot pipes make them rather- uncomfortable places. One night Dominges became lost in the maze of crisscrossing tunnels. He wandered • through passage after passage, bellowing’ and yelling like the Minotaur of King Minos’ famous Labyrinth. Around three o’clock in the morning he was heard by the night watchman, a stolid Teutonic soul who did not believe in ghosts. The watchman traced the cries to a place under the Main Building, to whence Dominges had wandered by that time. The slightly startled watchman released the modern Theseus, who was half dead from fright and exhaustion.
The Dominges incident was seized upon with avidity by the delighted inmates of the “Sub,” and “ghosts” began to walk. Wierd and awful moans were heard beneath the rooms of the more nervous men. Groans and clanking chains made these nervous
ones even more nervous. (Chains dragged along steam pipes make an uncomfortably eerie noise!) So active did the “ghosts” become that Tommy Green, a particularly “jumpy” student, left the hall and swore to Father O’Malley (who succeeded Father Farley, and is still rector), that he would never set foot in Corby again. Green firmly believed that the ghost of the Indian chief whose outstretched hand grew into the near-by Vengeance Tree was haunting the “pale-faces.”
There are enough stories about Corby to fill the entire Scholastic. But unfortunately, two pages, liberally sprinkled with cuts, can hold only a limited number of words; and so, a large number of very interesting stories are regretfully left out. There are the tales of the burial of the hatchet to commemorate the end of warfare between the “Sub” and the upper floors, and the biggest lumpus of the year between the two factions soon after the “peace pact”—the mysterious disappearance of the hall bell, and the later finding of it floating- in a box on St. Mary’s lake; the “goofing” of the serious “Subway” Moon into the belief that he was a champion javelin thrower, and, believe it or not, Moon’s subsequent victory over the athlete who held the University’s javelin-throwing record! These and many more stories would make interesting reading.
In closing, a final word would have it that Corby is still the restful, calm lake watcher of yore!
a Spanish count. De Lunden Iways in need of ready cash, is schemes for raising the coin realm were many and ingen-At one time, when his needs particularly pressing, he started a candy store in apposition to Brother Leopold of beloved memory. The store, situated in De Lunden’s room, proved to be rather profitable, and for a while he waxed affluent on his gains. But one night he was careless enough to leave his room unlocked. The result was disastrous. When he came back his entire store of “s w e e t s” had gone “where the wood-bine twin-eth,” to use a
'tlley, C.S.C.
West Wing—Statue of Father Corby

658
The Notre Dame Scholastic
it
THE WINK
LENTEN FORECASTS •
First Week:
1000 students will swear off smoking entirely.
500 students will cut down to half a package a day.
500 students will not swear off and will still smoke their usual package a day.
Second Week:
1500 students will be smoking half a package a day. 500 students will be smoking a package a day.
Third Week:	’
2000 students will be smoking a package a day.
—o—
The Scotch joke of the week goes to one concerning the fellow who fed his children castor oil in orange juice, so that they would dislike oranges when they grew up.
—o—	.
“GONE”
I left mu thoughts behind me, Gave all my dreams to air, Builded my castles towering And then I left them there.
I went without my worries, To all cares said goodbye;
Cast all the ghosts that haunt me Out in the light to die.
Only my heart brought with me, Only my hopes remained, But when I tried my dreaming, I found they too had loaned.
—WAZMUS.
We heard the other day about a fellow who subscribed to four magazines and got them every month. You’re wrong, that’s not a lie; the fellow happened to be a mailman.	—Clarabelle.
.—o—
Realizing the difficulties one encounters when studying philosophy, we are advocating a new idea, namely, that of having every philosophical classroom equipped with either a phonograph or a radio. Being the innovators of this idea, we feel it our duty to suggest songs which would be appropriate for the different branches of philosophy:
Metaphysics-. “Chant of the Jungle.”
Cosmology. “The Desert Song.”
Logic. “I Have to Have You.”
Psychology: “Look What You’ve Done to Me.”
Greek Philosophy-. “The Pagan Love Song.”
Ethics-. “Ain’t Misbehavin’.”
Epistemology: “He’s So Unusual.” .
Theodicy. “I Can’t Remember the Words.” Aesthetics-. “Moolight and Roses.”
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
On visiting the campus last week-end our cameraman got this typical and representative shot. The picture is of one of the many and varied types of conveyances used over the Prom week-end. Can’t you almost see and hear the happy group of boys and girls, as they roll to the Prom? Picture, if you can, the proud and sophisticated tread of this prancing equine. What fun it must have been to draw pictures and to write little snatches of poetry on the steaming windows. Oh, wonderful Prom, that it should give such > things as this!
—o—
“CHANCE?”
Why do you shake and shiver so When you go out to dance?
Why don’t you go out like a man?
Steve Brodie took a chance.
Other fellows calmed themselves, Though they were nervous too. They shook that fear and began to smile, They did it; why can’t you?
It is a whole lot better
To dance with grace and form;
So buckle up and smile, “kid,”
What if she has a com?
Try hard to use your courage
When you go out to dance, Show yourself to be a man. Steve Brodie took a chance.
And by the way, Steve Brodie is the only one who ever jumped off Brooklyn Bridge without being injured. But what is that risk compared to that of dancing with one of those girls who answer your first query with, “I’m gonna dance wid de guy what brung me.”
—Parapelius Necromantius.
4
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
659
Notre Dame Trackmen Meet First Setback
Butler Bulldogs Are Leashed In 29-16 Win

Newbold Returns to Action; Sinks Four Field Goals
For Scoring Honors
SNATCHING here and there, with little success, the Butler Bulldogs fell easy prey, and the Notre Dame Blue and Gold five rang up another victory on the home court last Friday evening. Setting an early lead and keeping it throughout the struggle, the home quintet finished on the long end of a 29-16 score.
It was the last appearance on the local floor for Captain Ooney Donovan, Ed. Smith, Jack McCarthy and Marshall Kizer, and these players ended their home career in a glorious way. Donovan and Smith were the key men in the strong Notre Dame defense, and their tactics kept the Butler scoring artillery at long range throughout the game.
Billy Newbold returned to action after suffering from a severe cold the past two weeks, and secured scoring honors for the evening by sinking four field goals for eight tallies. Newbold co-ordinated with DeCook and McCarthy in perfecting the Blue and Gold passing attack which kept the skeptics guessing all evening.
Notre Dame opened the contest with a neat field goal by Ed. Smith, and thereafter controlled the scoring column,’ never being threatened for the remainder of the game. The score at the half was 16 to 7 in favor of Notre Dame’s sharpshooters, and as the second period got under way, the Bulldogs shoved in seven points to Notre Dame’s three. Meanwhile the game speeded up to a dizzy pace, and fouls were frequent as a result.
Donovan, DeCook, and McCarthy let loose a barrage of field goals and free throws to set the game on ice, running the score up to the 29 to 16 total.
Christopher, burly- Bulldog guard and an all-state high school star, had
been expected to put up an extra good battle. He would have if Ed Smith, Notre Dame’s slippery guard, hadn’t kept his eyes glued on him all night long.
Ray DeCook met one of his staunchest foes of the season in Marshall . Tackett, lengthy Butler pivot man. Besides performing excellently in the rejuvenated Bulldog defense in the second half of the contest, Tackett found the rim for a field goal and two fouls. His four points netted him scoring honors for Butler. His teammate, Evans, the big thorn in Notre Dame’s side the last time the two teams met, was suffering from a bad knee, and his efforts were somewhat curtailed. He was forced from the game early in the last period, when he wrenched his left knee and had to be'helped from the floor.
A trio of field goals was all Butler could garner- off the closely-woven Notre Dame defense. The Bulldogs managed to make ten free throws and these contributed largely to their total score. Fifteen personals were called on the Blue and Gold courtsters. DeCook was the only one, however, who had to leave the contest with four personals.
Jack McCarthy was runner up to Newbold with seven points, these consisting of two field goals and three
charity heaves.							
NOTRE DAME		(29)		BUTLER	(16)		
	G	F	P		G	F	P
Newfold, f	4	0	3	Allen, f	0	1	0
McCarthy, f	2	3	0	Withrow, f	1	1	0
Crowe, f	0	0	2	Chadd, f	0	2	2
Gavin, f	0	0	1	Reynolds, f-g	0	0	0
DeCook, c	1	2	4	Tacket, c	1	2	2
Busch, c	1	0	0	Chr’topher, s	1	1	3
Smith, g	2	0	2	Evans, g	0	1	1
Donovan, g	1	2	2	Hinchman, g	0	2	1
Conley, g ,	0	0	1				
Kizer, g	0	0	0				
Totals	11	7	15	Totals	3	10	9
Referee: Lane, Cincinnati; umpire, Schommer, Chicago. Score at half—Notre Dame 16, Butler 7.
Badgers Eke Out 54-32 Win Over Nickmen; O’Brien Out For Six Weeks
COACH John P. Nicholson’s Notre Dame runners suffered their first defeat of the season last Saturday afternoon at the hands of Wisconsin University in the Badger’s lair at Madison. Winning six of ten firsts, the Badgers piled up 54 points to Notre Dame’s 32. They showed their greatest strength in the mile, two mile, shot put, and high hurdle events.
Vernon Goldsworthy, Wisconsin, won high point honors when he scored firsts in both the mile and the- half-mile run. He lowered the record for the mile by nearly two seconds.
The short track in the armory annex w-here the meet was held, clearly deceived Coach Nicholson’s men. Running twelve laps to the mile on the 150-yard track, the Notre Dame runners experienced difficulty in judging their pace. The quarter-mile track in the Notre Dame gym offers fewer turns and -longer straightways, and hence the less experienced men of the
Physical Ed. Students Give Exhibition
NINE students in the Physical Education Department entertained during the halves of the Notre Dame-Butler basketball game last Friday night with an exhibition of spring board tumbling over parallel bars. Dominick Napolitano, Edward O’Connor, Joseph Sheeketski, Howard Wiquist, Michael Koken, Alfred Eminger, Albert Capter, Anthony Conti, and Clarence Kaplan, all sophomores trained under Physical Education Director, James T. • Masterson, gave an exceptionally clever and talented performance of various gymnastic feats.
❖
660
The Notre Dame Scholastic
squad were at a decided disadvantage.
Alex Wilson ran a good race to take the quarter-mile from Henke and Davidson of Wisconsin. Brant Little, after experiencing what plainly appeared to be a foul on two occasions and finally being elbowed off the track, came up strong to take third in the mile run.
Johnson won the pole vault for the second straight week with a jump of more than 12 feet. Slattery tied with Fox of Wisconsin for second place.
The meet proved a costly one for Notre Dame in the hurdles. Johnny O’Brien strained a muscle in the first head of the preliminaries and, according to the doctors, will be out of competition for at least six weeks. Roy Bailie, “Nick’s” other entry in the hurdles, was disqualified in his heat for knocking over more than the number of “sticks” allowed, giving the Badgers a clean sweep in that event. It was the only sweep of the meet for either team.
Ken Boagni overcame a two-yard lead of the Wisconsin men in the 40-yard dash, and tied the track record in 4 and 4/10 seconds. Bill McCormick, away to a similar handicap, closed fast but second place was awarded to Henke of Wisconsin.
Notre Dame’s one-mile relay team clipped 1 and 7/10 seconds from the old record in covering the distance in 3:317/10. The running of Winston Bradley and Alex Wilson featured this race, Bradley running his leg in 53 seconds, and Wilson overcoming Wisconsin’s lead to gain a Blue and Gold victory.
The results:
One Mile Run—Won by Goldsworthy (W); Thompson (W), second; Little (ND), third. Time 4:28 8/10.
40-Yard Dash—Won by Boagni (ND); Henke (W), second; McCormick (ND), third. Time :04 4/10.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (ND); Davidson (W), second; Henke (W), third. Time :52 3/10.
40-Yaed High Hurdles—Zeize, Lee, Brandt, and Fox (all of Wisconsin), tied for first. Time :06.
880-Yard Run—Won by Goldsworthy (W) ; McConnville (ND), second; Quigley (ND), third. Time 2:02.
Two Mile Run—Won by Fellows (W); Mohlegmuth (W), second; Biggins (ND), third. Time 9:53 6/10.
Pole Vault — Won by Johnson (ND) ; Slattery (ND), and Fox (W), tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 3 inches.
High Jump—Won by Shaw (W); Behr (W) and Abernathy (ND), tied for second. Height, 6 feet, 2 inches.
Shot Put—Won by Behr (W); Gnabah (W), second; Hoffman (ND), third. Distance, 46 feet, 9 inches.
One Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Abbott, Bradley, Little, Wilson). Time, 3:31 7/10.

Ideal for the
Spring Golfer
Bag and Sticks
including mashie— rtf* J midiron—putter jHS i /I and driver rr / • I
South Bend Watch Company
Retail Store
Take the North Side Mishawaka Trolley Car
The Notre Dame Scholastic
661
Basketball Season Ends With Pennsylvania
Striving for their fourteenth win of the twenty-game schedule, the Notre Dame Blue and Gold quintet will take the floor of the Palestra in Philadelphia tomorrow evening against Coach McNichol’s Univer
Top row {left to right)—Bob O’Cannell, Tom Conley, Tom Burns, Henry Johnson, Bill Newbold, Ray DeCook. Bottom row {left to right)—Dan Heenan, Marsh Kizer, Clarence Donovan {Capt.), Ed Smith, Joe Gavin, Norbert Crowe, and Coach George Keogan.
sity of Pennsylvania flashy quintet. It will be Notre Dame’s final game of the current season, and Coach George E. Keogan is anxious to have his minions end the year with a .700 average for the season.
The loss of Maurice McNiff, guard, and Fred Ullrich, forward, has caused Coach McNichols to do considerable experimenting to find a forward to pair with Brodbeck and a substitute guard and forward such as McNiff was. McNiff and Ullrich were declared ineligible last week.
McNichols is anxious to defeat Notre Dame, which has beaten Pennsylvania twice, 30 to 28 in an extra period game in 1928 and 31 to 19 last year. The Pennsylvania five came through a tough scrap with the Yale five Wednesday night, and the Quakers will not be in tip-top shape for the game tomorrow night.
Harold Sander, Howard Hale and Capt. Lobley have all been used at forward with the first named exhibiting the best form. Peterson’s return to top speed has solved-the center problem for the remainder of the season and Ray DeCook, Blue and Gold pivoter, will have his hands full in trying to outjump Peterson.
The Notre Dame five will probably be composed -of ‘McCarthy and Newbold, forwards; Smith and Donovan, guards; and DeCook at center, with Crowe, Gavin, Conley, O’Connell and Kizer as substitutes.
RE-NU
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
A
NEW ESTABLISHMENT
WITH
SPECIAL SERVICE
TO	•
STUDENTS
Hats Cleaned --------------------$ .50
Shoes Shined -------------------- .10
Shoes Half-soled and Heeled------ 1.75
—Also—
Suits Pressed while you wait in
By Consulting Us
You are assured of a thorough refractive analysis, which determines whether glasses or other professional services are needed. Also
You are assured of
PRECISE PRESCRIPTION WORK by Competent Opticians.
LEMONTREE’S
OPTOMETRISTS 2221/4 So. Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
special dressing rooms--------$ .40
Suits Cleaned and Pressed------- 1.00
A Better Opto m etric Service
662
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING of
Suits, Overcoats, Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship Standard Prices Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580	Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
—0—
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
-0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS
OF NOTRE DAME MEN
122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.
Parker and Wahl Pens with lifetime guarantee in all sizes and colors to suit the students’ taste
THE OFFICE ENGINEERS 126-128 S. Main St.
Meyer’s Extra Rich Malted Milk and a Sandwich make a Real Meal
Our Fountain is inspected twice daily for Cleanliness wC Corner Michigan and Colfax
The Notre Dame Scholastic
663
| INTERHALL ITEMS |
The final interhall track meet to be held March 15 bids fair to produce some new records if the present competition remains. Already in the preliminary meets, Laurie Vejar, of Freshman has set a new broad jump mark of 21 feet 8 inches.
* *
Next week the interhall track records will be published. They were compiled by the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., who delved into Scholastic files of “away back when” to find Charlie Backman’s shotput record of 4 feet 10 % inches made on January 29, 1914.
*	* *
In the two preliminary meets held so far, 406 entrants have toed the mark in the various events. Interhall track this year has seen an unusually large turnout, and the enthusiasm is shown by the great amount of interest the boys have displayed.
*	* *
The surprise of the week was the victory of Father Lavin’s boys over the flashy horsemen of Sophomore. George D. Shay made his debut with Sorin and, aided by the Moran, For-see, Gilbertson, and Smith quartet pulled one of the biggest surprises of the interhall season.
*	* *
The Sorin heavies’ triumph over Sophomore ruined the latter’s chances of going into a tie for the leadership of the heavyweight division with Morrissey.
*	* * *
Brownson heavies gave the leagueleading Morrisseyites a stubborn battle, Monday evening. The Brownies
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
(Including games played March 3) Heavyweight League
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Morrissey	10	9	1	.900
Sophomore	11	9	2	.818
Badin	10	8	2	.800
Lyons	10	7	3	.636
St. Edward’s	11	6	5	.600
Sorin	11	6	5	• .600
Carroll	11	6	5	.600
Corby	10	4	6	.400
Brownson	11	4	7	.363
Freshman	11	4	7	.363
Howard	11	4	. 7	.363
Off-Campus	12	3	9	.250
Walsh	11	1	10	.090
led up to the second half when Campbell, stellar player of the Main Building quintet, was forced to leave the game on four personals. From then on the Maroons and Gray started a scoring spree, led by Law, to wind up with a 24 to 18 victory.
* * *
The final week of interhall basketball finds competition every bit as keen as at the outset. Badin’s Fighting Iris'll toppled the Morrissey Top-rungers in a hard fought battle on Sunday.
V
The game brought back memories of the old days of interhall settos when bloody noses and black eyes gave mute evidence of the hard playing of the boys.
* * *
Corby, playing a fast brand of ball, took the Lyons outfit into camp to the tune of a 16 to 15 score. The Gold Coasters just couldn’t register when the opportunity presented itself, and due to the close guarding of the Cor-byites failed to count often enough.
* * *
Four teams, Corby, Freshman, Carroll and Walsh, were deadlocked in the race for possession of seventh place in the lightweight league.
* * *
Sophomore continued its unbroken list of victories, (possessing eleven games won and none lost) the only perfect slate in either league.
* * *
The two arch rivals, Morrissey and Sophomore, appear to be the likely finalists in the heavyweight and lightweight leagues respectively.
Lightweight League
Games Won Lost Pct.
Sophomore	11	11	0	1.000
Lyons	11	9	2	.818
Off-Campus	12	9	3	.750
Badin	11	7	4	.636
St. Edward’s	11	6	5	.545
Brownson	11	5	6	.454
Corby	11	4	7	.363
Freshman	11	4	7	.363
Carroll	11	4	7	.363
Walsh	11	4	7	.363
Howard	11	3	8	.272
Sorin	10	2	8	.200
Morrissey	11	1	10	.090
INTERHALL BASKETBALL RESULTS .
Lightweight League
Tuesday, February 25—
Lyons 23, Carroll 14.
Wednesday, February 26—
Off-Campus 14, Sorin 7.
Freshman 19, Brownson 13.
Badin 14, St. Edward’s 12.
Thursday, February 27—
Sophomore 16, Carroll 11.
Walsh 17, Howard 14.
Lyons 19, Corby 17. .
Sunday, March 2—
Carroll 23, Freshman 14.
Walsh 2, Corby 0 (forfeit).
Sophomore 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit).
Howard 19, Brownson 10.
Badin 32, Morrissey 6.
Off-Campus 19, St. Edward’s 18. Heavyweight League Tuesday, February 25—
Sophomore 31, Off-Campus 16.
Carroll 17, Lyons 13.
Wednesday, February 26—
Sorin 15, Off-Campus 8.
Brownson 24, Freshman 14.
Badin 14, St'. Edward’s 11.
Thursday February 27—
Sophomore 11, Carroll 5.
Howard 27, Walsh 6.
Corby 16, Lyons 15.
Sunday, March 2—
Freshman 19, Carroll 17.
Corby 20, Walsh 9.
Sorin 18, Sophomore 16.
Howard 13, Brownson 10.
Badin 19, Morrissey 12.
St. Edward’s 26, Off-Campus 8.
Monday, March 3—
Morrissey 24, Brownson 18.
FROSH IN DUAL MEET AT CULVER
The Freshman Hall tracksters, with two victories and one defeat to their credit, are scheduled to meet the strong Culver Military Academy runners tomorrow afternoon at Culver. The team, about 20 strong, will leave early tomorrow morning for the short journey downstate.
Culver has an exceptionally well balanced squad this year and boasts of several victories over Chicago high school teams. Last week the cadets handed Hyde Park High a 69 1/3 to 25 2/3 lacing in the Culver fieldhouse.
Macbeth, Kelly, Gilfoile, Gough, Dilling, Garrett, Branfort, Troy and Hoyt will be depended upon to garner most of the points for Freshman.
664
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SODAS	PAPERS
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—and—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
*
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
❖
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
Floivers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149
The Notre Dame Scholastic
665
NOTRE DAME HOST TO 16 C. I. C. TEAMS
Coach John P. Nicholson and his Notre Dame track squad will play host this week-end to the Central Intercollegiate Conference teams in the fourth annual indoor track meet of the organization. Sixteen teams, representing the cream of the midwest, accepted Notre Dame’s invitation to the meet, and have entered a total of 216 men in the twelve events.
According to present plans the preliminaries in the 440-yard and 880-yard runs will be held tonight at 8:00 o’clock. The preliminaries in the dashes, the high, and low hurdles will be run off to-morrow morning at 10 o’clock. The finals in all events are scheduled to begin at 2:00 o’clock tomorrow afternoon.
Gold, silver, and bronze medals will be awarded to the winners of the first four places in each event. A team trophy will be presented to the winner of the meet and to the winner of each of the two relays. First place will count five points; second, three; third, two; and fourth, one.
The competition in tomorrow’s meet will undoubtedly be the keenest seen in the University gymnasium this year. Each event claims its share of outstanding men, and one of the closest meets on record is expected. Notre Dame, winner of the last two or three conference meets, though weakened considerably by the loss of O’Brien in the hurdles and Darling in the high jump, still rules the favorite. Marquette has an unusually strong squad this year and is expected to press Notre Dame all the way. Michigan State and Butler, as well as Loyola, of Chicago, have entered strong teams and may be expected to do more than their share of damage.
The outstanding men of the visiting teams in the 60-yard dash are Treps of Marquette, Francisco of Loyola, and O’Neil of Detroit. Bert Nelson of Butler is, of course, prime favorite to take first in the high jump. Butler has also entered its (Turn to Page 666)
The Pipe even helps you say nothing at all . • •
YOU’VE noticed how expressive the pipe can be, what meaning it can put into the simplest gesture. The pipe even helps you say nothing at all—and that, O mortal, takes a man among men!
Men to their pipes and women to their lipsticks—but suppose you had no pipe and faced repression? Suppose you had no tobacco to put in your pipe! Empty pipes make empty gestures that have no meaning. Filled with good tobacco, your pipe becomes eloquent. Filled with Edge worth, it is Olympian!
What, no Edgeworth? Lose not a moment—haste to the mails with the coupon. Let the machinery of government rush to you a free packet of good old Edgeworth, delicious and friendly Edgeworth, full-flavored, slow-burning, cool.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavorneverchan^e. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms — “Ready Rubbed”and “Plug Slice”—15c pocket package to pound humidor tin.
^OUNC/^
THE
ANNUAL
MID WESTERN
UNIVERSITIES
TOURS TO EUROPE
^MONTREAL AN DANIA
JUNE 20 th
ATHENIA
JUNE 27*
39 DAYS
52 DAYS
Send Coupon below for Complete Free Information.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.
70 E. Randolph St. Chicago, III.
Gentlemen: Please send me, without any obligation on my part, complete details on the Third Annual Midwestern Universities Tours.
Name_________________________
Street ____________________________
City------------------ State_______
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates Bldg.
EDGEWORTH
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.	J
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.	J
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try J it in a good pipe.	J
I
Nnm.	|
I
Street---------------------------- *
I
Town end State___________________ ■
I
Now let the Edgeworth come! V I
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
666
The Notre Dame Scholastic
strong array of distance men, including Sivak, Urbain, Jones, and Kister. Fullerton of Michigan State, and O’Neil of Loyola also promise much in the distances.
Leet of Butler, Gordon of Drake,-Evans of Western State, and Sisk of Marquette are the outstanding quarter-milers who will match strides with Wilson, Captain Abbott, Scanlon, and Bradley. Dutt of Western State, and Russow of Michigan State, seem to be the best of the hurdlers. The 880-yard run should present a nice race with Swanson of Michigan State, Pflieger of Marquette, Gordon of Drake, and Little, Quigley and Me- . Conville of Notre Dame heading the entries.
Brill, Hoffman and Mortenson are promised plenty of competition from Dell and Pflug of Michigan State, Dutt of Western State, and Nowak of Marquette.
Eight schools have entered teams in the two-mile medley relay which consists of 800, 440, 440, and mile runs, in that order.
The total list of entries includes: Bradley Poly Tech, Butler, City College of Detroit, DePauw, Drake, Detroit, Grinnell, Lombard, Loyola of Chicago, Marquette, Michigan State,
Miami, Michigan State Normal, Notre Dame, Ohio Wesleyan, and Western State Teachers.
BALL TOSSERS PREPARE
FOR BUSY SEASON
Playing Armour Tech on Cartier Field, April 14, the Notre Dame baseball nine will open the 1930 baseball season in these parts. Following this game the home guards will trek to Florida during the Easter vacation to engage in competition with several Florida teams, Georgia Tech, and the Fort Benning squad at Columbus, Georgia, according to an official announcement made this week.
Six games will be played by the Notre Dame outfit while enroute in sunnier climes. The Keogan-coached ball tossers will play Florida at Gainesville, on April 19 and 21. The 22 of April will be a day of rest, and the squad then travels to Columbus, Ga., for a two day stand. Georgia Tech will furnish the opposition for the Fighting Irish, at Atlanta, on April 25 and 26.
Returning home again, the Notre Dame nine will travel to Madison to officially open the spring playing season against Wisconsin. During the
month of May, Iowa, Northwestern, K Bradley, Michigan State, and Wiscon- ' sin will be met on the home lot. _ Michigan State, Illinois, Northwes- ' tern, Luther, and Iowa, will furnish i . the opposition on foreign fields.
4
Negotiations were under way to * schedule a game with Navy to be / played here as a Commencement game on May 31. Plans for a game with the service team were cancelled, and officials are now attempting to secure some other team to play at Notre Dame for the last game of the season, it was announced.	V-
Monday night will see all candidates out for baseball in the gym as track practice will not be so intensive -in the fieldhouse after Saturday’s meet, it was said.	’
COACH KEOGAN TO BE HOST TO TEAM
Coach George E. Keogan will entertain the members of the 1929-30 basketball team after the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania tussle tomorrow night. The teani will be taken to Washington, D. C. where they will view the many points of interest in the Capitol.
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
Books
Authors and
Literary Events
A page in the Sunday paper of interest to thinkers

patronize
The Book Shop
Are you reading Prof. Phillip’s Sunday articles?
THE
NEWS - TIMES
119 North Michigan St..
V
The Notre Dame Scholastic
667
To
Chicago
The
South Shore Way
—0—
Parlor Cars On 3 P. M. and 5 P. M. Trains Sunday Afternoon
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND
RAILROAD
QUALITY BY KUPPENHEIMER
be sure and see our neu)
Spring Suits
and
Top Coats
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
Each one a new model for spring, handcrafted of fresh patterned fabrics of unusual values.
They’re here NOW
Good Clothes For Every Man
668
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LACE
Commencing Sunday For Three Days
Harry Rogers presents
Mr. WU
| |	and his
Chinese Showboat
Featuring
MISS JUE SUE - TAI
with
A Dancing Chorus of Almond-Eyed Girls
and
A Chinese Girl Band
Attraction of Merit, Distinction, Praise
Make Your Plans
Now To Attend
Starts Saturday for 4 Days
It takes speed to win in the game of love, and Richard Arlen shows speed, and how! In his first talking picture.
Richard ARLEN
in
<<BurningUp,,
with
Mary Brian
Francis McDonald
--WEDNESDAY-FRIDAY-
The whole world awaits his first Talking-Singing Romance. A beautiful, thrilling love story, a big, spectacular drama, raised to new heights by Novarro’s golden voice on the silver screen.
RAMON
N0VARR0
in
“Devil May Care”
with
Dorothy Jordan Marion Harris
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
One of the Publix Theatres
The Notre Dame Scholastic
669
Splinters from the
. Press Box
*------------------------------*
From the earliest days of intercollegiate competition Cornell has always been the darkest of dark horses, and last Satuurday proved to be no exception when the men from the heights above Cayuga’s waters came down to New York to tie a great Pennsylvania team for the indoor I.C.A.A.A.A. title. Cornell was not even accorded an outside chance .this year, but John Moak-ley is not one of the greatest track coaches in the world for nothing. The old fox from the he'ights above Ithaca built wisely and well. While the Cor-nellians only won one first and a third of a triple tie for another, they garnered enough points through secondary strength to make the impressive total of 27^ points.
Two men stood on the threshold of well-nigh immortal track fame last Saturday night. Jimmy Daley, of Holy Cross and slim Joe Hagen, of
Columbia, both of them twice indoor champions in their events, had the opportunity to be the first men to ever win an indoor intercollegiate track title three times. Bruno Hills, of Princeton won the shot-put title three times, but no one has ever won a track title more than twice. And when the smoke of battle had cleared away Jimmy Daley was the man, for he had again won the seventy yard dash, but little Joe Hagen had been beaten in the bitterest kind of a fight which saw rangy Paul Rekers, of Penn State come from behind on the bell-lap after Hagen had taken the lead a lap previously, to go on to a new intercollegiate record of 9:22.8. for the two-mile.
Tomorrow night one of the greatest guard combinations that basketball has ever known, will play together for the last time. There may have been greater individual guards and more spectacular combinations but for consistency and really fine and all-around playing there have been few, if any, combinations to equal the Donovan-Smith team. They fade from the intercollegiate scene to
morrow night, but they will long be remembered by the men who follow basketball.
There are any number of angles from which the recent fiasco at Miami may be viewed. Sharkey may have taken advantage of the peculiar position in which the Englishman has been for some time, and fouled him, knowing that he would get away with it, but the fact remains that Scott called, “Wolf! Wolf!” once too often. It seems more than a coincidence that any one boxer could have been fouled in so great a portion of his bouts.
It doesn’t take much to turn a close victory for one team in a track meet into a walk-away for the opposition. Just one or two breaks are needed. Wisconsin got these in the mishaps to Bailie and O’Brien in the hurdles, and to Brant Little in the mile. If you don’t think that a couple of breaks can make that much difference in a dual meet, figure out what the score would have been had Little won as he undoubtedly would have, and had Bailie and O’Brien placed one-two in the hurdles as they even more undoubtedly would have.
Sat., to Tues. March 8 to 11
Zane Grey's
First All Talking Picture
‘The Lone Star ganger’
with George (FBrien and Sue Carol
---- Wednesday to Friday, March 12 to 14	^
William Boyd and Ernest Torrence
— in —
“OFFICER O’BRIEN
670
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BROWNSON TRIUMPHS
OVER HALL RIVALS
Brownson Hall doubled the score on Sophomore, their closest rival, in the second preliminary meet of the Interhall track season last Saturday afternoon in the University gymnasium. The Main Building hoys took only three firsts out of the ten events but scored enough seconds and thirds to run up 38 points to Sophomore’s 19. Morrissey, St. Edward’s, and Carroll were tied for third place with 13 points each. Walsh brought up the rear with seven, all of which were scored by Henry Frey.
The meet drew a total of 192 entries divided in the various events as follows: 60-yard dash, 47; pole vault,
9; shot put, 16; 880-yard run, 16; low hurdles, 14; high jump, 11; mile run, 15; broad jump, 17; 440-yard run, 17; relay, 30.
Dilling, of Brownson, was highpoint man of the afternoon with 15 points. His efforts secured him one first, a tie for another, and two seconds, besides running a leg on the winning relay team. He was closely followed by Gilfoile of St. Edward’s, and Gough of Carroll, each of whom scored two firsts. Gilfoile’s firsts came in the 440 and the 880. Gough won the low hurdles in :07 8/10 seconds, and also the broad jump with a leap of 21 feet, 9 inches, one inch better than the winning jump in the meet last week.
A comparison of the results of the two meets shows that in most cases
better times and distances were made in the first, meet won by Freshman Hall than in the second. The results were close enough, however, to insure some close competition in the finals. The finals will be held on Saturday, March 15. Only those who placed in the two preliminaries are eligible to compete. '
Those qualifying for the finals in the various events are:
60-Yard Dash—Won by Dilling (B); O’Malley (Soph.), second; Scholl (Morr.), third; Egan (B), fourth. Time :06.5.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Gough (Car.); Hanifin (Bro.), second; Scholl (Morr.), third; Eedmond (Walsh), fourth (disqualified). Time :07.8.
Have you discovered the world’s crispiest cereal? It’s new. It’s so crisp that it pops and crackles in the bowl when milk or cream is added.	■
Kellogg’s Rice Krispies are light, golden-brown bubbles that taste like toasted nutmeats. Try them tomorrow. They’ll add new enjoyment to your breakfast. Particularly good with fruit or honey added. And Rice Krispies are delicious right out of the package.	.
^^99^
RICE KRISPIES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating dubs and fra- . ternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They indude Corn Flakes, ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
671
440-Yard Dash—Won by Gilfoile (St. E.); Schneller (Car.), second; Egan (Bro.), third; Cavanaugh (Morr.), fourth. Time :55.7.
880-Yard Run—Won by (St. E.); O’Mara (Bro.), Heil (Soph.), third; Powell^ fourth. Time 2:14.
4-
Gilfoile second; (Bro.),
Mile Run—Won by Lane (Soph.); Renier (St. E.), second; Duke (Bro.), third; Guiffre (Soph.), fourth. Time 4:57.
Pole Vault — Won by Behrman (Soph.); Lennartz (Bro.), second; Simmons (Bro.) and Burich (Soph.), tied for third. Height, 10 feet.
Shot Put — Won by Groves (Morr.), Dilling (Bro.), second; Frey (W.), third; Cavanaugh (Morr.), fourth. Distance, 38 feet, 1 inch.
High Jump — Dilling (Bro.) and Frey (Walsh), tied for first; Hayes
(Bro.), Behrman (Soph.), and Bur-ish (Soph.), tied for third. Height, 5 feet, 2 inches.
Broad Jump — Won by Gough (Car.); Dilling (Bro.), second; Groves (Morr.), third; Frey (Walsh), fourth. Distance, 21 feet, 9% inches.
Relay—Won by Brownson (Dilling, Thompson, Egan, Collins); Morrissey, second. Time 2:32.5.
Strengthen your Defense Mechanisi
H
DEAN
Delicious and Refreshing
with the
Drink
MILLION a day
that refreshes
The best defense is the attack. The best time to attack is when you’re feeling good. You feel your best when refreshed. Q.E.D.; also, Eh, Voila!—Coca-Cola!
Refreshment—that’s the true inward meaning of Coca-Cola. Ice-cold, sparkling, delicious—an all-day drink, pure as sunlight. For millions of people, every day, Coca-Cola is the first thought and the last word in wholesome refresnment.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-3
1 s
672
The Notre Dame Scholastic
W hoever the fortunate winner of this title will be— one thing is certain—he will be the possessor of abundant health and vitality.
Shredded Wheat is the food upon which many a dazzling social career is founded. It contains in the most easily digestible form all of the essential food elements. It
Greatest
Social Light”
and the aspiring underclassman with boundless energy. Try eating two biscuits each morning for breakfast with plenty of good rich milk. It will help to keep you ahead in ball room and class room
supplies the lordly senior alike.
I Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers U
—.........—...—...........—...........--------............— .....4
On Down the Line
‘ . . . BEN FRANKLIN and JOHNNY ANDREWS fought t’other night at Waterbury, Conn. . . while they boxed two bandits held up the boxoffice and walked away with- $1800 . . . ANDREWS and FRANKLIN slugged away ignorant of the fact. . . when it was all over, the management told them the shekels had been stolen . . . then they really had to fight for their pay . . . Four of the five basketball regulars at Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn, Alabama, are sophomores . . .
. . . Granada ad. in last week’s “Scholastic” said show would run four days starting Saturday, February 30 . . .since when, sez us . . . The Pittsburgh Pirates are “skipping” practice . . . not that bad, however, . . . just innovated rope skipping in the daily training calisthenics, is all . . . No golf until after the regular daily practices . . . “Don’t raise your boy to be President of the United States; train him to be a professional football player” ... so said HAROLD “RED” GRANGE to parents down in Memphis . . . Which may mean anything you think . . .
. . . Jack Dempsey stepped off the train t’other day at Phoenix, Arizona, to be greeted by a grizzled taxi driver . . . They had met before . . . the cabman was JIM FLYNN, Pueblo fireman, and the only man who evei’ knocked Dempsey out . . . FLYNN stopped DEMPSEY in Murray, Utah, on Feb. 13, 1917 . . . The Manassa Mauler was only 17 then, and it was his first professional fight . . . RUSTY CRAWFORD, although more than 45 years old, is still kicking, the puck around with men half his age or less, in the American Hockey Association . . .
... A crowd of 14,606 fans, largest hockey gathering in Detroit history, jammed the Olympia rink to see the Windsor Bulldogs and Detroit Olympics battle to a tie t’other night . . . which just goes to prove that the folks are seeking their “fights” in other places than around the “squared circle” . . . SCOTT and SHARKEY helped to prove that . . . No team in the National league has been able to win 100 victories during a season since the Giants managed to turn in 101 winning games in 1913 . . . And that’s only seventeen years ago . . .
C
S.
V
The Notre Dame Scholastic
673
Campus
Comment
For school supplies
and
4-
Knute K. Rockne
A feature of our Sport Pages every day. Published in South Bend exclusively by
THE
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
NEWS - TIMES
119 North Michigan St.
r.
674
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SOME fellows always look well dressed—as if their clothes had just come fresh from the store. How do they do it? Nine times out of ten the answer is—a Spiro quality suit. Perfectly styled, of course—and the extra trousers permit the constantly perfect press.
Your favorite fashion—your favorite fabric—and the most becoming-new spring colorings and suitings are here now.
Perfectly tailored suits with one or two trousers; and topcoats at —
*35 *40 *45 *50
—and others at $25 to $75
Sam’l Spiro & Go.
Known for Style and Quality Clothes
119-121 South Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana

The Notre Dame Scholastic
675
Four Days Only
Saturday thru Tuesday
For her man a show girl matches wits with a racketeer and tri*
umphs I The story of a chorus girl with a heart and an erring husband 1
NORMA
Talmadge
in
“New York
Nights”
with
GILBERT ROLAND
LEWIS MILESTONE
3 DAYS, COMMENCING SUNDAY
Five Great Acts of Vaudeville
NANCY GIBBS
—in—
“Dear Little Rebel99
A Musical Romance of the South
PRESSLER AND KLAISS in Personality Plus
THREE OTHER BIG ACTS . ------ON THE SCREEN---------
A Tremendous Underworld Picture .
“NIGHT RIDE”
JOSEPH SHILDKEAUT
Four Days Only Wednesday
WED. thru FRIDAY
A calloused soldier, on leave in London 1 Thinking only of amusement before the trenches claim him again!
GARY
COOPER
in
“Seven Day Leave”
with
BERYL MERCER
DAISY BELMORE
fOLFAY
THEATRE VW
One of the Publix Theatres
ANOTHER ALL-STAR SHOW The Well Known Composer Joseph E. Howard in
“SONGS OF HIS OWN”
ALEXANDER SANTOS REVUE
America’s Foremost Political Humorist
SENATOR MURPHY
and
2 Other Big Acts ------ON THE SCREEN------
MARION DAVIES in “Not So Dumb”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
676
- *
Al l I I llillfl*
I H E	w
FLORSHEIM SHOE

lour first pair of FLORSHEIMS will tell you that you have found good friends for your feet~shoes that add decidedly to your appearance—that give you longer service than you expected. And they are so reasonably priced that you will be convinced it is a pleasant obligation to your feet to wear FlORSHEIM SHOES permanently. The STRIDE—a style of today y^pst Styles
$1O