
•
I.e. 
There were shepherd,s in that region, living in the field,s and keeping night watch over their flocks. The angel ofthe Lord appeared to them as the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were very much afraid. The angel said to them: "You have nothing to fear! I come to proclaim good news to you-tidings of great joy to be shared by the whole people. This day in David's city a savior has been born to you, the Messiah and Lord. Let this be a sign to you: in a manger you will find an infant wrapped in swaddling clothes." 
Luke 2; 8-13 

No shepherds keep a faithful watch in Indiana. The warmth inside the frosted panes of glass that obscure our views from dorm and classroom windows draws us inside our big buildings and inside ourselves. The winds gust more furiously as each day passes into deeper winter isolation, and only muffled hellos whisper their way into the Indiana December night as the scarfed, wool mummies rush past each other on 
-the quad. The · temperature plummets with the pocketbook's cash as the shopping day countdown reminds us that our time to be conscientious con­sumers is oh so short this year. Christmas draws nearer with no one waiting and watching ·the Midwestern heavens to give us a sign. It is the twin­kling library lights that burn like beckoning stars these final hours in a long semester. . . , · One book bagged soul, departing the library on a slippery, silent evening saw likethe shepherds of the Bethlehem countryside an unexpected sign of a modern nativity. Every age has its Christmas story". 

YOUR DREAMS ARRIVE IN WINTER Grey and white and full of young, The bellied cat steals Behind the brick wall, Eaten by night; Her ears alarm upright With the crunch of footsteps; Everi I can hear the shadows, 
That warn her forward again; 
Lurched low with a female load, 
She pads the dead snow, 
Frozen so solid she must. 
Skate away under a car; 
An ancestor's cave-the auto 
Crouches over eyes wide, 
And whiskers taught to prick 
The dark deceptive night; 
She hides inside the silence, 
Inside me; 
And waits for birth alone. 



SCHOLASTIC 
FEATURES 

6/A Crisis of Identity: A Student's Perspective on Notre Dame's Search for Itself by Ted Kelleher 
9/Keeping Pace: The Faculty's Role in the Achievement of "Greatness" by Kevin Conneely 
12/Licensed to Sanctify by Peter Carter 

16/Notre Dame Glee Club: A Pedtke Family Tradition by Dan Poorman 
20/Sports at SMC: Can They Meet the Competition? by Barbara Blanchette 
24/Pre-Heaven: A Major for the Future by Laureen Wolfe 
ELAN 
26/The Demise of Oral Tradition by Bud Luepke 
28/Slum Side 
by Chuck Erhman 
31/One Writer's Beginnings 
by Mark Melchior 
32/Day Dreams of Christmas · by Jodie Githens 
DEPARTMENTS 
Contributors 2; Letters 3; WSND 33; Artistic Opportu­nities 34; idle banter 36 
Editorial Board 

CONTRIBUTORS 
Editor-in-Chief Kevin Baldwin is Barb Blanchette is Peter Carter u; . Kevin Conneely is 
Kathleen McGarvey 

a senior Program a junior English a Senior PLS a senior Govern­of Liberal Studies major from major from ment/Philosophy major from New Scotch Plains, major from Ster­
General Manager 
Milwaukee,

Jersey. This is New Jersey. This ling, Illinois. This
Mary Ellen Arn 
Wwconsin. Thu;

Kevin's first con­is her second con­is his first con­
u; hu; first con­

tribution to tribution to tribution to
Editorial 
tribution to

Scholastic. Scholastic. Scholastic.
Jim Basile/News/Sports Editor 
Scholastic. 
Kathleen Doyle/Campus Features Editor Ann Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor 

Jodie Githens is a Ted Kelleher is a Mark Melchior is Dan Poorman is a Timothy Gianotti/Culture/Fiction Freshman from junior Economics a senior Program junior Business Editor Belle Vernon, major from of Liberal Studies majo.r from 
Fred Zimmerman/ Executive 

Pennsylvania. Bethlehem, Penn­major from Kan­Springfield, Il­Content Editor 
This is her first sylvania. This is sas City, Missouri. linois. He is contribution to his first contribu­This is Mark's first S ·ch o I as t-i c' s
Graphics 

Scholastic. tion to Scholastic. contribution to business manager. Darryl H. Daniels/Executive 
Scholastic. This is his first Design Editor 
written contribu-Kathleen Keifer/Art Editor 
ti of . to the

Suzanne Saletta is Laureen Wolfe is 
m~azme. 

a junior English a senior English and Psychology major at SMC
Marketing 
Patrick D. Conboy/Advertising 
The magazine is represented for na­

major from Glen­from Fair Lawn,
Editor 
tional advertising by National

view, Illinois. New Jersey. This
Tom Curtin/Distribution Manager 
Educational Advertising Services

This is her first is her first con­
Dan Poorman/Business Manager 
and CASS Student Advertising, Inc.

contribution to tribution to 
Published monthly during the school Scholastic. Scholastic.

Advisory Board 

year except during vacation and ex­Prof. Elizabeth Christman 
amination periods. Scholastic is Mr. Michael Garvey 
Sue Fischer is a 
printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Prof. Marjorie Kinsey 
senior economics 
Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription Prof. Robert Schmuhl 
major from Le­
rate is $9.00 a year and back issues Dr. Linnea Vacca 
mont, Illinois-a 
are available from Scholastic. Please Mr. Paul Matwiy 
small town located address all manuscripts to Scholastic, southwest of Chi­Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­cago. This is her
Design Staff 

. solicited material becomes the prop­.Jean O'Bryan 
first contribution erty of Scholastic . to Scholastic. 
Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I All Becky Miklos 
Thomas D. Grantham rights reserved/ None of the contents may be reproduced without permis­sion. 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic 
are those of the authors and editors 
·of Scholastic and do not necessarily 

Photo Credits: 
represent the opinions of the entire 

Scott Bower, Inside front cover
staff and editorial board of Scholastic 

Atanu Biswas, 1
or the University of Notre Dame, its 

Scholastic Archives, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 34, 35
administration, faculty, or the stu­dent body. 

Elaine Suess, 20, 21, 22 
Illustrations 
Jean O'Bryan 24 
Ann Walton 25 Kathleen Keifer 29 
Tom Grantham 32 
Cindy_J ett, . Cover 
17_ /'.;-:;:-2::<IB --;;-~.--~Ir_ ~ ~r 'jYT.:'.;1 If~:\. t;r:=1"1\p\ ''y?i ,(r~
s:C;:_'7).. .. ;;:;;.:.Y'"¾ 
fs:7:tFS i:v!Jiti~i~W'litrle J!Jffl,fh~,:i'fidliif ~ 
l\" ):,:) \;\,~--A (3,:1 1}},;1 ~i::L_A~,y J::~i~, ._,1(/1 41 ~~,~;\ \\ Jf} J~l F::tj \{.~ .~l
k~ "<~c::~::; J· -:\ ,:,LJ,. '<{;~y ~':I5:JJ.}d[i1,. }~~-;. ·' .,, ~ ,s!.:tJ,, "~::2:11!/ 

letters 
Dear Editor, 
It was a pleasure to delve into the pages of your October Scholastic. I found the articles and opinion well written, thoughtful and refreshing. 
As a newcomer to Saint Mary's ad­ministrative staff, I was especially pleased to read about Sister Madeleva and the founding Sisters of SMC. 
Similarly as a recent Counseling Psych graduate of Notre Dame, I was ever so intrigued with Anne Blakey's Freudian probe. 
Finally, I respected your ability to examine and -reflect the new ND stu­dent affairs organization. Your article educated rrie about a controversial and important set of student issues. I shall be interested if you find you need any "equal time" from those whom you interviewed. 
Thanks also to Tim Gianotti for bringing Steve Rogers' "Poetry: It's Good For You" remarks to us. I agree with Rogers! 
Congratulations on an absorbing issue! 
Sincerely yours, Paula S. McLean Director, Public Relations Saint Mary's' College 
Dear Editor, 
In our short experience thus far in the ND/SMC communi­ty, we have noticed that foot­ball seems to take priority over all other campus activities. · We do not question the impor­tance of football in the ND college experience; ·however, we'think it is wrong for a stu­dent to be restricted to either attending a football game or staying in his/her dorm room for the day. The school's sup­port of the team is admirable but shouldn't be allowed t~ stop the rest of the campus from going to the bookstore or eating their usual meal. These "football weekend special hours" assume that the campus is without exceptions. We don'tobject to others engaging in this form of school spirit, we simply maintain that there might be a happy medium. 
Sincerely, Michele Williams Christina Zimmerman 

A Bit· of Culture . 
Whether you are a firm devotee of the arts or whether you just want to do something off campus, there are some exciting things happening in dance and music in the South Bend area which will put you in a great mood for the Christmas season. So go ahead and take a relaxing and cultural study break! 

The Nutcracker: 
December 15 and 16, the Also on the 15th and 16th, Southhold Dance Theatre the Michiana Ballet Co. · will present this classic and the Fort Wayne Ballet Christmas ballet at the Co. will be giving their Morris Civic Auditorium. own exciting rendition of Performances are at 2:00 the ballet. The perfor­
p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on the mance will be at 8:00 at the 15th; 2:00 p.m. on the Concord Performing Arts 16th. Center in Elkhart. 
Music of the Three 
Nations: 
MUSIC OF THE THREE NATIONS: On December 16, guest artist, Tamara Orlovsky, will combine her skills as a pianistwith those of the Elkhart County Sym­phony to give a Christmas concert at 3:30 p. m. ·at the Concord Performing Arts Center, Elkhart. 

Christmas Concert: 
On December 19, the South Bend Symphony will give its annual Christmas Concert. Performing all your favorite Christmas tunes, the symphony will begin at 7:30 p.m. and will be held at the Ccmtury · Center in downtown South · Bend. 


NOTABLES 
..-­
,, 
~ 

Excel: A New Fund For Saint Mary's 
College 
Recently, Saint Mary's 
College president, John M. 
Duggan, announced the 
public phase of a 
$25-million capital cam­
paign entitled "EXCEL," 
which Duggan states, "is 
the first campaign of this 
magnitude in Saint Mary's 
history." 
The campaign, under the leadership of national chairman Mary Morris · Leighton, focuses on three major areas. Seven million dollars will be used for en­dowment funds for faculty development, $4 million for the Annual Fund, and ri'!onies for the renovation and expansion of the Science facility. 

Saint Mary's College, founded in 1844 by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is one of the oldest Catholic colleges for women and its endow­ment of over $15 million is the largest among them. With over 14,000 alumnae across the country, Dr. Duggan is confident that the $25-million goal will be reached by. the spring of 1986. The Sisters of the 
Holy Cross have already committed over $1.6 million to EXCEL through the Sisters' Con­tribution Services. In addi­tion, the college has already received $15 million in advance gifts and pledges. 
J 

© Oxfam Fast: Joining 
Together to Fight World Hunger 
On Nov. 15, the 11th annual Oxfam Fast for a World Harvest was held at Saint Mary's College. The fast, involving nearly. 1,000 students, faculty, and staff members at Saint Mary's, is part of a nation­wide project which raises funds to feed the starving people of the world. 
: Monies were raised :through the contributions -of SAGA food services, 
which donated $2.00 for 
each participating student. 
The money was then col­
lected and given to Saint 
Mary's World Hunger 'Coalition to be distributed to various organizations, 

includingOxfam America. Oxfam America, a non­profit international organization, funds self­help projects and disaster relief in poor countries such as Africa, Asia, and Latin America. 
The fast day began with morning prayer at 7:45 am outside the Cushwa­Leighton Library. Follow­ing this, a series of films were shown throughout the day, depicting poverty areas in the United States and Third World coun­tries. In addition, the critical effects of the arms race on world hunger were discussed in a film 
Dancers and Actors Visit Saint Mary's College 
On November 1, Saint Mary's College hosted the Bharata Natyam dance troupe which performed in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall. 
The troupe, which features dancer Hema Ra­j agopalan, performed classical Indian dances which have been preserved for three thousand years. Bharata Natyam dance movements combine the grace of ballet, the rhythmic precision of flamenco and the ex­pressiveness of interpretive dance and mime. 
Hema Rajagopalan began her training at age six and is presently teaching dance classes of this type in Chicago. She speaks of the. dance as something which "has to come from within for the dancer has to believe in 
entitled "Gods of Metal." In the evening, visiting Scandinavian actress and bestselling author, Liv Ullman, spoke on her ex­periences as someone whose life is now dedicated to spreading a message of social awareness. The fast was concluded with a celebra­
tion of the Eucharist and followed by a simple meal of soup and bread. 
Saint Mary's organiza­tions cosponsoring the fast included the World Hunger Coalition, Chris­tian Life Commission, Resid~nce Life and Cam­pus Ministry. 
what she is doing," 
In addition to dance per­formances, Saint Mary's was also the site of a per­formance of the Shakespearian play, "The Two Gentlemen of Verona," which was staged on November 9, in O' Loughlin Auditorium. 
The play was performed by the National Shake­
\ 0 
spearefompany, a travel­ing theatre group, which . performs across the coun­try. Each year, the N.S.C. brings Shakespeare to life for over 2½ million people who otherwise would not see these plays performed professionally. 
The play was part of the Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series, and as a tale of youth, intrigue, and adventure, it is the most famous of. Shakespeare's early comedies. 


SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
NOTABLES 
v-----. 

II 
II •• 

tiE--­


...._____ 

" 

Futurist Sees Honeywell's Com­petition Creating Opportunities for College Students 

Honeywell wants to find out what college students think the world will be like in the year 2009 and one local futurist feels the future can be anything we want it to be. "However, we cannot predict; we can only forecast," said Earl Joseph, president of An­ticipatory Sciences Inc. (A.S.1.). "To predict the future would be to tell you what will happen. Forecasting, as a futurist, would be to tell you what could happen. It's a study of what's possible." 
Joseph looks at the future optimistically and feels it's under the public's control. A.S.I. is a com­pany that helps businesses and individuals realize and create opportunities for their future. Joseph, a former staff futurist and computer scientist at Sperry Univac, researches the future so businesses and individuals can clearly focus their long-range planning activities. 
Joseph thinks Honeywell's contest idea is wonderful. "It gives students a chance to study the future and that's im­portant because the future is where we are going to live," he said. "By study­ing it, students will gain an idea of what to prepare for and the types of careers to pursue." Honeywell's third annual Futurist Awards Competi­tion was launched in early October. 
The Futurist Awards contest asks students to look 25 years into the future and write essays of up to 500 words each. Two of the essays are to be written about signifi­cant developments in two of the following areas: computers, energy, elec­tronic communications, biomedical technology, marine systems or aerospace. In the third essay, entrants are asked to write about the social impact of technological. progress. 
Joseph advised students, "Read and read some more. Interview some ex­perts and extrapolate re­cent past trends." 
Joseph's forecasts for the year 2009 include: widespread use of ar­tificial intelligence, mining and manufacturing in space, beginning stages of designing a superhuman race using bioengineering techniques, vacations in 
· space hotels and a life ex­pectancy of 150 years. 
Honeywell's contest is open to all full-time undergraduate and graduate students at any accredited college in the United States. This year the number of winning en­tries has been increased from 10 to 30. Each of the ten first-place essays will earn $2,000 and an oppor­tunity to work for Honeywell next summer. Second-place winners will each receive $250 and ten honorable-mention win­ners will each receive $100. All contest entrants will receive a Honeywell Futurist T-shirt. 
Completed essays must be postmarked no later than Dec. 31, 1984. The essays will be judged on the basis of feasibility, clarity, creativity and legibility. Winners will_ be notified by Feb. 1, 1985 
· and will be flown to Min­neapolis later that month for the awards ceremonies. 
For more contest infor­mation, write: Futurist Rules, P. 0. Box 2009, 600 South County Road 18, Minneapolis, MN 55426 or call toll free 1-800-328-5111, ext: 1523. In Minnesota call collect (612) 870-2142, ext. 1523. 

SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 


A Student's 
. .
. \
Perspective on Notre Dame's Search For Itself 
by Ted Kelleher 
Notre Dame has an identity crisis. This sounds like a strange charge to make against a place which is so aware and indeed proud of its public image. But nevertheless, the charge is legitimate. As the New York Times put it in an October 18 article, Notre Dame is "famous for footbaH legends, muscular Irish Catholicism, and rising academic ambition." Kenneth Briggs, the author of the Times article, is perceptive to note the three characteristics Notre Dame uses to define itself: a tradition of athletic prowess, a constant and conscious ef­fort to become "great" academically, and a heritage of Catholic values and standards. These are the qualities that allow Notre Dame to answer the all­important question: What kind of place are we? Through these characteristics Notre Dame has come to represent the zenith of Catholic achievement in America. Thus, by virtue of this outstanding public im:. age, as well as its impressive financial resources, the Administration seems to believe that Notre Dame should now be ready to step boldly_through what 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
6 
. 
. . 

, r 
the PACE (Priorities and Com­mitments for Excellence) Report calls "the threshold of greatness" and take our place as one of the truly excellent places of learning in the world. 
This is a cheery picture. Unfor­tunately, it is not an accurate one. To move forward, this University must know what it wants to become, which means knowing what we are now. At Notre Dame, the things we have always used to define ourself have, in the last few years, come seriously into question.· 
Notre Dame sees itself as a Catholic University moving toward academic greatness. There is a great deal of con­troversy, and justifiably so, over the question of how we should define greatness and Catholicity here at Notre Dame. These might seem to be questions that are interesting and im­portant only to Father Hesburgh or the Board of Trustees. The student body must realize, however, that the way we do define these things will ultimately have a large effect on the quality and nature of our academic and intellectual experience here. Thus, the question of how to define Catholicity and how to be great should clearly be of interest to the en­tire Notre Dame community, especial­ly the student body. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. • ­
The best place to look for an understanding of the "official" view on Notre Dame's quest for academic greatness and Catholicity is in the PACE Report, published in 1982 and written by University Provost Timothy O'Meara: 
1. 
we must excel as a university ·in the full sense of the word, ac­tively engaged in teaching and research; 

2. 
we must maintain our Catholic identity; 

3. 
we must remain conscious of and faithful to our mission in all our actions and decisions. 


The PACE Report goes on further to say: 
If Notre Dame is to remain a Catholic university, dedicated and committed catholics must clearly predominate on the faculty, for it is through the actions of the facul­ty that the tradition of the Univer­sity is preserved and its future shaped. To be sure, not all who are Catholic in name contribute to the Catholic character of the Universi­ty. Conversely, there are many in­side and outside the Christian tradition who share the values of the University, who enhance its Catholic character, and who see th~ 
. 
' . . , 
•· 


Catholicity: We · will be a Catholi~ University if most of the people here . are Catholics. 
They have nowhere near as clear an idea of how to be great. Notre Dame is often referred to as the "Harvard of the Midwest" or the "Catholic Har­vard," but there is no clear. ad­ministrative consensus_ on what criteria. by which to judge ourselves. 
Naturally, to every opinion the Ad­ministration proffers, . there are a plethora of dissenting opinions; I in­tend to add another to the list. The p~rspectjve I want to view ~e problem from is one I think is sadly overlooked by both the Administration and the faculty, that being the perspective of the student. I don't intend to speak for all students; this is only the perspective 
·, of one student. · need in our society for a ~at university that is dedicated to moral and religious values. The University welcomes such faculty, fully and as equal citizens in our community. · 


Clearly, the Administration believes that the key to maintaining Notre Dame's Catholicity rests with the com­position of · the faculty. The term "predominate" seems purposely am­biguous. The PACE Report seems to define predominance in numerical terms, saying: "The evidence suggests that if Notre Dame is not more suc­cessful in attracting Catholics [to the faculty] it will cease to be a Catholic University iri a generation or two." Thus, · the Administration has a definite vision of how' to define 
It seems to me that this problem of 
how to define our greatness and our 
Catholicity is really at the root of 
Notre Dame's identity crisis. Last 
April, when 1500 students charged the 
Administration Building to protest the 
new school directives, what we were in 
fact seeing was a symptom of this pro­
blem. Even when it comes to beer, 
there is clear disagreement on how to 
define ourselves as a Catholic school. 
We will only be able to move forward 
as a University when we reach a com­
munity consensus about our self-image 
as a University. 
Until then our restlessness will con­tinue. One thing does seem to be clear and that is that Notre Dame is in a sort of adolescence; we are not quite sure who we are; we are not happy with what we do see of ourselves; so we are trying to be someone else. Thus, we end up constantly comparing Notre Danie to Harvard or Georgetown or whatever. The point that needs to be made is that it really is rather silly for us to try to model ourselves after some other school. These schools are vastly different from Notre Dame. The dif­ference begins with the student body. Ninety-two percent of Notre Dame's students are Catholic. Thus, there is a .homogeneity here that makes us unique. It is useless, then, for us to use Princeton's standards for defining Notre Dame's greatness, when we are significantly different from Princeton. N ofre Dame. must measure , its greatness on the basis of how it lives up to the prospect of_ providing bright Catholic students ~e best possible 
educational experience they can get. 
~~At Notre Dame, the 
things_ we have always used to ·define ourself 
have, in the last · few years, come seriously in­to question. " 
I sense a sort of paranoia on the part of the Administration over the pros­pect of becoming secular or losing_ our 
Catholic tradition. Clearly, this is 
something about which they are 
justifiably concerned. The Catholic 
tradition is one of the greatest resources this University possesses, more important in many ways than 
our financial resources, c~rtainly more important than our popularity as a . football champion. It would be tragic for Notre Dame to lose its Catholicity, especially for the student body. For­even if Notre Dame deemphasizes 
Catholicism in its intellectual life, 

SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
-, -~ I 
. I 

students will still come to what they perceive to be the Catholic university. 
Thus, I take no issue with the no­tion that Catholicism is of central im­portance at Notre Dame. This fact, however, presents us with some dif­ficult questions: With a definition of greatness which keeps in _mind the particular situation of the Notre Dame student, where does Catholicism fit in at Notre Dame? How do we maintain our Catholicity? How can we give Notre Dame students a deeper understanding of a tradition to which 92 % of them belong without becom­ing narrow and partial in our understanding of that tradition? More importantly, how can we accom­modate a desire to deepen our understanding of the Catholic tradi­tion with a desire to broaden the perspectives of a very homogenous stu­dent body? 
''. . . Notre Dame is in a sort of adolescence; we are not quite sure who we are; we are not happy with what we do ·see of ourselves; so we are try­ing to be someone else." 
For Notre Dame to become the best it can be, it must use the Catholic tradition resourcefully, allowing it to enhance, not smother our dialogue. 
Clearly, to use the Catholic tradi­tion in such a manner we must first understand the values the Catholic tradition implies. Thus, the question 
8 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 now becomes: How can we be a great Catholic school without being parochial? This is not, as George Ber­nard Shaw said, impossible. Notre Dame can be truly Catholic without being rigid and narrow in its understanding of Catholicism. 

To understand the great tradition to which we subscribe, we must view it in terms of and in relation to the other great traditions both written and _out­side ofChristianity. Has students, all we are exposed to is the Catholic tradition, we become Hke people livs ing in a house with only one window: We know that there is a great big world out there, but all we ever see is a small slice of it. Ultimately we will become bored with what we do see.· My point here is that.ecumenism is im-. portant to Notre Dame students' academic life. 
To be a great Catholic university, a place which gives a bright young Catholic the best education he can get, Notre Dame will have to be a place where any person concerned about values and beliefs can come to examine their principles in light of the rich Catholic tradition. The very definition of catholic is "universal in · extent, character or application." The· alternative to this vision is to become introspective and defensive, to become what some have called a Catholic · ghetto-a place afraid to open its eyes to the rest of the world. 
If Notre Dame pursues the former course, it will mean, for the student body, a constant process of having our . beliefs challenged. The students will be challenged to think for themselves, to decide· which principles they are committed to, to decide how best to live as a Catholic in the world. In other words, if we pursue the former course, the students wili be allowed to become mature adults. 
If, on the other hand, we allow Notre Dame to become il Catholic ghetto, then this University will be cheating its students and betraying its goals. Instead of challenging students to reason out their own values, Notre Dame would be a place which simply confirms the comfortable beliefs they came here with. 
"The administration must avoid its apparent drift toward rigidness ·and authoritarianism in defining Notre Dame's future. It must be secure enough in its Catholicism 
. to challenge itself and its ·. students. " 
\ 
\ 
The ' path to be chosen is the path to greatness. The responsibility for this choice rests to some extent in all parts of the Notre Dame community. The student body must be sufficiently curious and inquisitive so as to de­mand a broader range of values and perspectives in . the classroom. The faculty must be courageous enough to 
. present the principles of alternative traditions in the classroom. But the main responsibility rests \Vith the Ad­ministration. 
The ·leaders of this institution must have the visiori and -confidence to 
. make this a great Catholic university and not merely talk about it. By Notre Dame's verynature and structure, the Administration has the ultimate power · to make the choice for greatness. But they must first reject the rather tribal attitude that now seems . to be developing under the dome. The Administration must avoid its apparent drift toward rigidness and authoritarianism in defining Notre Dame's future. It must be secure enough in its Catholicism to challenge itself and its students. 
Notre Dame stands poised between two thresholds. One leads to greatness, the other back to the ghet­to. Soon we must decide to cross over one. It is a choice the whole Notre Dame community should be involved in. Only the Adminis_tration, however, can lead. The old Notre Dame is passing into memory; The new Notre Dame must now be shaped and our period of restlessness and in­decision ended. Leadership from the top is the key. After all, it's a lot more important than who's coaching foot­ball.Ill 




·The Faculty's Role in :the Achievement of. ''Greatness'' 
by Kevin Conneely 
Two years ago this month, Provost Timothy O'Meara delivered to Father, Hesburgh a report entitled, "Priorities and Commitments to Excellence: at the University of Notre Dame." The PACE Report. addressed itself to the nature of Notre Dame, the mission of the University and the needed changes for the next decade. Father Hesburgh highly approved of the report. An im­portant. topic discussed. in the PACE .Report is the role of the faculty at Notre Dame. The report expresses the opin.ion that Notre Dame must . employ a faculty which is both ex­cellent in research and teaching and advances the Catholic character of Notre Dame. There has beeri much disagreement as to the attainability of this goal. It is therefore important to examine the recommendations of the PACE · Report and determine ,the workability of the lofty .ambitions to which the University has committed itself. . 
Part three of the. PACE Report outlines the expectations of -the University with regard to the faculty. It reads, "It is recommended that the University continue to foster·a faculty environment . in which the intellect may range · free with the utmost freedom. Religion may enjoy an equal · freedom." 
The report expresses the desire that scholarship, teaching and Catholicity all complement each other. Two ques­tions arise {rom this concern. First, · what emphasis should be placed on teaching relative to scholarship and · research? · Second, is · the Catholic nature of the University a constraint on the pursuit of academic excellence? 
These two important questions give focus to ariy 'discussion ofthe faculty's role at Notre Dame. The four PACE goals dealing· with the faculty are: Catholic predominance, scholarship and research, teaching, and com­munity. 
The commitment of the University to Catholicity seems most important. The report states, "IfNotre Dame is to remain a Catholic university, dedicated and committed Catholics must clearly predominate• on the faculty, for it is through the actions of the faculty that the tradition of the University is preserved and its future shaped." The use of · the word "predominate" is unspecified and it is difficult to elicit · responses from the Administration which contain exact definitions. as to the intent of this 
word.· ,. 
One · may rightly question the usefulness of the PACE Report when it us~ such ambiguous language. There seems to be no clear idea as to what ex­actly the Committee· meant by• predominance. In examining data 

. from 1966 · to 1981 the Committee 
· noted the decline of Catholic faculty from 70 % to 60 % and stated, "The evidence suggests that if Notre Dame is not more successful in· attracting Catholics it will cease to be a Catholic university in a generation or hvo." This . reasoning leads one to believe that the University sees 50% as a sort of cutoff point, but this is not necessarily so. 
Father McBrien, · Chairnian of the Theology Department, speaks of a "critical mass" in the faculty applying to the Catholic nature of Notre Dame .. This "critical mass" is "a sufficiently . large number of Catholic faculty members to give continuity." When asked if this meant that a majority of the faculty should be Catholic, McBrien said, "When the total falls below fifty percent it doesn't mean malfunction but it ~ a p'oint at which · you should look at the situation carefully." Father David Tyson, Vice 



President for Student Affairs, wishes to call the Catholic predominance a "wo.rking majority." Though not specific on the numbers · they wish to attain, or whether this will require a · restructuring of the present faculty, the University has made it clear that the faculty must maintai11 continuity with Catholic tradition of Notre 
Dame. 
Is the Catholic nature of the University a constraint on its pursuit of·academic excellence?" 
While the commitment to 

Catholicism is clear, what is less clear 
is how the dual goals of strong scholar­
ship and teaching ca'n be pursued 
within the framewor~of Catholic 
predominance. How do these varied 
commitments rank when hiring and 
tenure come into play? The present 
administration clearly believes that it 
can nave its cake and eat it too. PACE 
states, "All members of the faculty 
should be concerned about the special 
character of Notre Dame as a Catholic 
university and these concerns should 
be reflected in their actions and in 
their lives at the University." The ap­
proach is twofold. The University 
desires to attract from outside Notre 
Dame people who want to excel in 
such an environment. The University 
also wants to foster within the depart­
ments a knowledge of the University's 
goals and an effort to build the basis 
for homegrown Catholic intellectual 
greatness. The expansiveness and com-. 
plexity of this goal creates problems. 
Concerning faculty recruitment, 
two barriers arise. First:, to attract · 
scholars, the administration has to 
make Notre Dame an attractive place 
to be. The Catholic nature of Notre 
Dame will be received differently by 
different people. The commitment to 
Catholicity may alienate non° 
Catholic scholars and create not just a 
Catholic predominance but a Catholic . 
ghetto within the faculty. This leads 
us to wonder whether such a strong 
commitment to. religious mission ·can 
coexist with academic excellence. 
A second problem facing the · 
University is money. Because the pool 
Notre Dame wishes to draw its faculty 
from is so limited the price will be 
high for their abilities. The PACE 
Report attempts to address this prob­
lem by calling for general salary raises 
and a greater number of endowed 
chairs. These financial problems seem 
easier to surmount than the religious 
ones, Faculty salaries have risen 60% 
since 1978 and the number of en­<lowed chairs has risen to 27. 


The second goal of -the move towards greatness is shaping the academic departments as places where the mission -of the University can be cultivated. PACE calls for 
· departments to be self-sustaining and self-critical. It states, "In areas involv­ing professional expertise . . . the general expectation should be that the recommendations of the faculty will be followed." The report, however, allows for exceptions to this· policy of department autonomy .. O'Meara cites one example of an exception as being a recommendation coming from a weak department, "one which does not combine teaching and research in the way we think it should." 

"The University has made it clear that the faculty must maintain continuity with the Catholic tradition of r Notre Dame." 
=f 
Thus it is apparent that the faculty really is not autonomous in its d~i­sions on curriculum and tenure. Ad­ministrative considerations ·take precedence when pressed. Could such administrative·, nonacademic con­siderations include religious issues? No clear answer seems possible. O'Meara claims that overriding a department decision on tenure because of a can­didate's religious beliefs would have "a terrible effect on morale." Members of the administration also stress that if a good job is done in the hiring of faculty -members such cone 
· siderations need never com·e up when it is time to grant tenure. All claim that religious discrimination plays no 
ACE IS THE PLACE 
. role in University policy. Still, one 
WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
may riote that this has not prevented a number of lawsuits by faculty over the years which Cite unprofessional ·con­
• GARDEN 
SUPPLIES
siderations including religious barriers 
• HOUSEWARES 
to t~nure and reappointment. 
• 
HARDWARE 

• 
SPORTING GOODS 


In the final analysis, it appears that 
Noh:'e Dame is embarking upon a dif­


-->!OURS-­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. 
'
ficult · journey. In atte~pting · to · 

Clo1«!0d_ Sunday 
• PAINTS 
become a great and Catholic universi­
• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING &


ty simultaneously it is placing a great 
ELECTRICAL
burden upon itself and especially upon 
!;IJPPl,IES 
its faculty. It must strike a delicate balance.between reHgiori and scholar-· 

FREE PARKING
ship. The hope_ is, that the two _will 

FRONT & REAR 
compl~rrient each other and nofcon­flict_ with each other. _The ~mbiguity 

219 DIXIE WAY 
of Notre Dame's desires leaves much 

NO. IN ROSELAND 
272-7535
room fot flexibility as well: as .niuch 
I

room· for error. Only time wilf"tell if the University's demand for greatness from its faculty is a viable aspiration SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 · 11­
or a false dream. ¦ 


subje~tof much controversy.·· 



The controversy of Opus Dei stems out of its conservative, almost dogmatic in­terpretation of the Church's role and the Church's teachings. Opus Dei's vision of the Church is that of one eye: an eye which sees all of human society as necessarily subordinated to the Church, and which sees individual piety as the responsibility of the Church. It does not question the Church, and when others do, and the Church responds with changes, as in the instance of Vatican II, Opus Dei ignores the results. Its one eye is turned forever to the past. 
Opus Dei, literally the work of God, is officially a Personal Prelature, a category created by the Second Vatican Council to regular self-mortifications and to weekly spiritual direction with a numerary. 
Numeraries are considered the elite of Opus Dei and have the most strictly disciplined lifestyle within Opus Dei. They agree to full availability to Opus Dei and commit themselves to celibacy. In addition to all· of the above, men numeraries agree to sleep on a plank one day a week, while women numeraries agree to sleep on a plank every day until they are forty. Numeraries must also regularly wear a cilice, a metal chain with sharp tips that is worn around the thigh. In addition, numeraries must once a week flagellate themselves with rope 
Qpus Dei's vision of the Church· is that ofone eye: an eye whichsees all of humansociety. as necessarily subordinated · to the Qhurch, and .. which sees•individulll piety as the reponsibility 
. 

Members of Opus Dei .· agree not to read such writers as Marx, .Camus, 
. Sartre, ·Milt Kant and Hegel. Opus Dei sees this abstentionas help­ing their members in the 
. search for personal sane-· ·tification. · · · 
by Peter Carter 
Pope John XXIII, on his deathbed, asked his· secretary "Please find me· the. answer to three ·questions so that I may die in peace. Are the Jesuits as rich as everyone says? Are the Franciscans as poor as everyone says? and What is Opus Dei?" Later the Pope's secretary returned· and the Pope asked, "Well, are the Jesuits truly as rich as everyone says?" His secretary replied, "Yes, Your Holiness, the Jesuits are as rich as everyone says." 

. The Pope then asked, "Are the Fran­ciscans truly as· poor as everyone says?" And his secretary replied, "Yes, Your Holiness, the Franciscans are as poor as everyone says." Then, before his secretary could answer· the third ques­tion, the Pope died in peace. 
Opus Dei is a complex and controver­sial organization. Founded October 2, 1928, by Msgr. Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer, Opus Dei . is a . secular apostolate dedicated to the sanctification of the Christian within his or her own profession or trade. In·addition fo 1000 priests, it includes 72,000 laymen and -women worldwide. 

which transcends territorial borders. The · Prelate of Opus Dei is similar to the Bishop of many dioceses (although not technically .a bishop) and has jurisdiction relating to matters of apostolic life and spirituality. This status allows Opus, Dei a certain autonomy while working in dioceses throughout the world. It .also il­lustrates the favor of Pope John Paul II, for he granted Opus Dei the status of be­ing the first Personal Prelature since 
.Vatican II created the category, 
something Opus Dei had wanted for 
many years. · · . · 
The goal of Opus Dei according to its founder Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer is "that each person should sanctify himself within his own state, in the place and condition which he has in Church and in. society." Opus Dei members attempt to reach this goal through a strict,personal, spiritual formation, which stresses in-· dividual piety as the surest way to sanc­tification. A member of Opus Dei agrees tq a yearly contract in which Opus Dei agrees to render spiritual guidance and the member agrees to work for his own sanctification. The spiritual guidance to which a member agrees includes daily Mass, ½ hr twice a day of prayer, .the rosary, special midday and nighttime prayers, the Preces (a special Opus Dei prayer), a gospel reading, and confession once a week. In addition members agree 
while saying a prayer. This strictly 
disciplined and sometimes painful 
spiritual formation is seen as necessary by 
Opus Dei members. 
Frank Hoffman, a public accountant who graduated with a history degree from Northwestern and an MBA from Notre Dame, is a numerary and is direc­tor of the Opus Dei house Windmoor in South Bend. Hoffman speaks of mor­tification as "necessary for sanctification ... for it strengthens the will and it is in the will that we love. It is also seen as a reminder of the pain Christ suffered on the cross and is something to offer up." Hoffman also claims "the best mortifica­tion is to smile for someone you find tactless." 
The founder of Opus Dei, Josemaria Escriva de Balaguer, writes in his closely followed and muchcrevered book The Way, "It is true, whoever said it, that the soul and the body are two enemies that cannot be separated, and two friends that cannot get along." These words by the founder of Opus Dei reflect an anomaly within Catholicism that has only recently been corrected by' Vatican IL The con­cept that the body is evil and the soul is good is one which most Catholics today still have to reconcile with new Church teachings and attitudes. The documents of Vatican II clarify the Church's teaching on the body and its relationship 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 to the soul. "Though made of body and soul, man is one. Through his bodily composition he gathers to himself the elements of the material world. Thus they reach their crown through him, and through him raise their voice in free praise of the Creator. For this reason man is not allowed to despise his bodily life. Rather, he is obliged to regard his , body as good and honorable since God · has created it and will raise it up on the · · last day." (Gaudium et Spes, p. 212) 
Opus Dei seems to hold a pre-Vatican II idea of the body and sexuality. This is illustrated not only in the view that mor­tification is necessary for sanctification, but also in the role of women in Opus Dei. 
The woman's wing of Opus Dei is an entirely separate organization which is linked to the men's organization only through the Prelate. The woman's apostolate centers around serving the men. The women cook and clean at the men's centers. With the exception of mar­ried Opus Dei members, there are no coed living situations or meetings. When asked about the sexism that is illustrated in these policies, Frank Hoffman ex­plained that, "since Opus Dei is in­terested in the individual person, .and men and women are different in­dividuals, it is necessary to have separate branches." According to Hoffman, "they love it." Still this seems to be a ra­tionalization of an archaic view of both women and sexuality. Women numeraries as mentioned earlier must sleep on wood planks every night until they are forty while the men numeraries but once a week. This policy illustrates an attitude that women need to ex­perience more harsh mortification in order to be sanctified, and is a subtle il­lustration thatwomen in Opus Dei's eyes are the lesser of the two sexes. · 
One· of the central goals of Opus Dei, 

'personal piety within whatever profes-1 sion one is in, is achieved only through a strictly disciplined lifestyle. Part of that disciplined lifestyle is illustrated in Opus 'Dei's policy of censo_rship, which is described as. a comprehensive review of books and authors. The goal of this com­prehensive review is to set guidelines as to what members of Opus Dei ought or ought not read. For example, members of 1 Opus Dei agree not to read such writers as Marx, Camus, Sartre, ·Mill, Kant and Hegel. Opus Dei sees this. abstention as helping their members in the search for 



sanctification, for, according to Hoff­man, "Opus Dei knows the truth as reflected in Church teachings, so why 
·read something which distracts from that truth?" Still, Hoffman says the guidelines are not strictly enforced and that, "they won't be followed unless the member wants to." 
Such intimidation of the intellectual freedom illustrates a pessimistic attitude concerning man's intellect. Opus Dei seems to believe that man's intellect is best controlled by external forces. If Opus Dei truly believes it has knowledge of an objective truth as reflected in Church teachings, then that truth should prevail regardless of what an Opus Dei member reacb. 

There is no doubt that despite criticisms of Opus Dei, Opus Dei's strict adherence to Church teachings is legitimate. Opus Dei, however, similar to the Catholic left, is selective· about which Church teachings to follow strictly and which to follow loosely. For exam­ple, Opus Dei puts a great deal of em­phasis on individual sanctity, but has no social justice programs. This is in direct contradiction to the significant and often ignored Catholic social teachings which even Pope John Paul II is using in such things as his encyclical On Human Work and in his dealings with Poland. Vatican II clearly states the importance for the lay apostolate to be that of working for social justice: "The laity must take on the renewal of the temporal order as their own special obligation ... Outstanding i: 
I 
among . the works of this type of apostolate (lay apostolate) is that of Christian social action." (Apostolicam Actuositatem) The emphasis on in­dividual piety and the lack of communal i life within Opus Dei also ignores the l richness of Jesus' mission, part of which was the creation of the family of God in which we are all brothers. 
Despite the inconsistent, yet strict in-. terpretation of Church teachings, the disciplined spiritual formation, sexist policies and possibly archaic attitudes on certain aspects of the Church, Opus Dei does fulfill a need within the Catholic Church-the need for a spirituality of work with which lay Catholics feel com­fortable:_ Catholics are spiritually 

,.
hungry. They often see their jobs as I: unrelated to their inner life. Opus Dei lends spiritual significance to its members' temporal occupations. ¦ • 


Ii 
15

SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
,,: 
I: 

NOTRE DAME CLEE CLUB: 
A Pedtke Family Tradition 

by Dan Poorman 
l charnctedzing the special camaraderie and esprit de corps of Notre Dame, people often refer to the Notre Dame community as a family. It is the dedication and sense of unceasing service of some of these family members that helps to make this a great University. 
One such family member, Daniel 
H. "Dean" Pedtke, served 35 years as director of the Glee Club from 1938 to 1973. Pedtke came to Notre Dame in 1936 as an instructor in the music department after having served four years as head of the music department at Saint Teresa's College in Winona, Minnesota. He became head of Notre Dame's music department in 1939 and held that position until 1955. Accord­ing to his wife Helen, known to Glee Clubbers as "Mrs. Dean," the title "Dean" was acquired quite by acci­dent, but came to be a term of endear­ment as time passed. 

The Chicago-born Pedtke had been considered a child prodigy. He began playing the piano at age five and gave his first recital ten years later. He graduated from DePaul University, and is one of only five to be named "Distinguished Alumnus" by that university. · 
Dean Pedtke made the Notre Dame Glee Club the internationally ac­claimed group that it is today. What he is most remembered for, however, is his gentle humble manner and close rapport with club members. For Daniel Pedtke, the Glee Club was very· much a family affair, and in­deed, the entire Pedtke family has become involved with the Glee Club. 
The Pedtke home stands on 14 acres 


about two miles north of campus. The house itself has an interesting history. It was designed completely by Dean Pedtke and was constructed with the help of the Glee Club. Mrs. Dean remembers Glee Club members form­. ing a fire brigade of sorts for passing cinder blocks during the building of the house, and even many of the evergreen trees that cover the wooded acres around the house were planted by club members. Dean Pedtke once remarked that because he saw the Glee Club members so often, he felt that he prob­ably knew them as well as anyone did. Mrs. Pedtke, however, recalls a turn­ increased the principal amount of the fund to $50,000. With extra interest payments last year, twelve $500 scholarships were awarded. During his time at Notre Dame, Professor Pedtke had worked untiringly for im­provements in the music department and a place for music in the strict cur­riculum of the day. The scholarship fund is a fitting reminder of his dedication. Dean Pedtke influenced many Glee Club men during his 35 years as direc­tor. Some alumni still return to the Pedtke home on home football . weekends. They enjoy a traditional bowl of chili after the game. Mrs. Pedtke. collects pictures of many Glee Club alumni· and is able to readily recall their names and current occupa­tions. "It's amazing to see them when they come back-the years just drop away." The Glee Club members treat Mrs.· Pedtke like a second mother. The members never miss her birthday, singing "Happy Birthday''. wishes to her, usually phoned in from wherever the group happens to be on tour. Mrs. Pedtke always ~eceives hand-engraved  BIG@ LUMBER CENTER • ARMSTllONG CEILING TILE • POWER TOOLS • CABINETS • lUMBER • pt'fWOOD • HARDWARE • OlYMPIC StAIN • Pf.UMBING & • PANElJNG ElKTRICAl SUPPUES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE W•• •11JkP. 1k1•n~, ,1 .,norsPlf EASY II ~ ~®1=1·t !!!!!!,!11.!!!I!. -~~~ 272-6500 125 OIXIE·WAY NORTHLUMBER ROSELAND CENTER  

ing point in her and the family's rela­tionship to the club. In 1947, Dean contracted rheumatic fever and was unable to direct the graduation con­
.cert. This was traditionally an oppor­tunity for ·him to meet and socialize with the parents and families of the Glee Club members. Though bedrid­den, he decided to invite a few parents over so that he could at least meet them. Fr. Barry, who·was then Glee Club Chaplain, led in the larger-than­expected group and Dean's bed became a receiving line. 
"It turned into a huge party," Mrs. Pedtke said, "and ever after all com­mencement guests of the Glee Club were invited to the Pedtke home for a party. Most years the number attend­ing was about 200." Mrs. Pedtke has many old pictures of people packed in­to the f13.mily room. 
Annual Glee Club picnics are a tradition which began long ago and continues still today. Each autumn the Glee Club plans the event, which begins with a Mass and includes foot­ball games in the backyard and "a good deal of beer drinking." "The boys always have a riotous good time," Mrs. Pedtke said. 
At the time of Dean's death, a memorial fund was begun for the pur­pose of scholarships for music students. Later, an anonymous donor invitations to the Glee Club concerts. and finds a reserved seat waiting for her when she arrives. 
The University is very appreciative of all the work that Dean Pedtke did while he was here. At retirement, the Pedtkes received a car which Mrs. Pedtke still drives today, and a Carib­bean tour for two. Mrs. Pedtke's most thrilling moment came in 1971 when she had an opportunity to meet Pope John VI in a general audience. Cur­rently, Mrs. Pedtke's interests include work in the cause of world hunger, the nuclear freeze movement and teaching music at a senior citizens' continuing education center. 
Through his caring ways and per­sonal efforts, Daniel Pedtke touched the lives of many young men in the Notre Dame family. Helen Pedtke, the Glee Club mom, continues that caring tradition even today, in the memory ofgood times past. I 

MERRICK'S 
Maple Lane Pharmacy 

00000 ¦ ••··••"40 
iiii\\;, 

'..•.·. •,!': ;::\'.'. ......., . 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••u•• 
.............................. 

''•• o o'., ••''',,,i II I IO•~•••• 
................ 
.::,,:n/i::I:I::II 

;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::::::: . 1 1
111!11! 1!1!1! 1111111111!1111!11!!1 
Closest to Notre Dame 18075 St. Rd. 23 
272-7747 

",r,~,frF::~fJ,r11:rr1xifr,~?fr?~,1,ern1ff:%.
: : : : =.:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~:::::::::::: 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984  17  
--­ 
.  - 
.  - -·­-------­ ---~­-­ 



\. 
THE 



by Sue Fischer 

goes through this same ceremony with the father, and then repeats it with the mother. This ritual continues in rota­tion--:--father, mother, oldest child, next oldest child, etc.-until ·all ·. family members have been greeted. The family then sits down to a seven-or nine-course meal containing such dishes as herring, baked sauerkraut with yellow peas, pierogi and fried fish. After dinner gifts 
:are exchanged and Christmas carols are sung as family members gather around the tree. Then everyone goes to mid­night Mass . 
.·rn Poland Christ.mas Day is spent visiting relatives a:i;id friends. Because it is a Holy Day, little or no cooking is done. A simple dinner consisting of ham, kielbasa, rye bread and vabka (sweet bread) or plecianka ( egg twist) is 
Mention Christmas and most Americans think of Santa Claus, "Jingle Bells" and presents under the tree. Those familiar with the work of Charles Dickens might even mention "foreign" traditions like plum pudding and Yule logs. Christmas around the world, though, is often quite different from our own commercialized holiday. 
In Poland, for example, Christmas is centered around. the family. On Christmas Eve, a plate of oplatki, a Polish wafer· similar to a Communion wafer, is placed in the middle of the table. Each family member takes one of these wafers. The wife then goes tci her husband and breaks off a piece of his wafer. They kiss and wish each other "Merry Christmas and good health. in 
• the coming year." Next, the oldest child 
--.--. 
. -. . . 
served. 

Family celebrations, an integral part of the Polish tradition, are important in Nicaragua, too. Sylvia Caldera, a Nicaraguan student at Saint Mary's College, explains that Nicaraguan families celebrate on both December 24 and 25, spending each day with one set of grandparents. During the evening, each child approaches a grandparent and receives a plate covered with ap­ples, grapes, Christmas candy or cake. Poorer people use national fruits such as bananas. The children are not permit­ted to eat their treats that night since they will be eating dinner, which usual­ly consists of turkey and filling---'---or chicken and rice for less fortunate families. 
The family celebration continues after midnight Mass when everyone 
. returns home with the grandparents to partake of a rum or wine punch. "Even the children have a little bit," she said.· 
Interesting! y, Nicaraguan children do not believe in Santa Claus· instead
' ' 
Little Baby Jesus, also called Little God, brings the gifts. He supposedly comes through the window and leaves the presents, unwrapped, at the foot of the bed. Little God knows what the children want because they have all 
.written letters which are left in front of an image of the Blessed Virgin Mary on December 8-the Feast of the Im­maculate Conception. This feast day actually begins the Christmas season, and from December 8 until the 24th churches traditionally have an early morning children's Mass. 
Nicaragua is not the only country with early morning · Masses, though. Saint Mary's student Regina· Bundoc and Andrew Gan of Notre Dame, both from the Philippines, mentioned Misa de Gallo, "Mass of the Rooster." This custom involves going to Mass at 5 am for a number of days before Christmas. 
Bundoc made reference also to a Philippine custom known as Aguinaldo: On Christmas Day, each child ap­proaches his godparents and kisses their hands. The godparents. then give the child a gift. After this, it's off to famiJ~, 
reunions and feasts. Le Chon; or roasted pig, is usually the main course at these feasts. Both Bundoc and Gan added that Christmas in the Philippines is actually very similar to Christmas in America. 
The same cannot be said for Christmas in Kenya. Louisa De Mello of Notre Dame said that while Kenyans do not do very much for Christmas, their celebrations are unique and tend to 
·revolve around dancing and eating. For example, tribal dances are .performed during the more festive parts of mid­night Mass. As is done for every festive occasion, the tribes kill a cow or a goat· for their meal. Also, each of the various tribes makes its own type of sweets. 
Christmas in Nassau, the Bahamas, is also a festive time. Karen Joseph of Notre Dame reported that most people concentrate on "stuffing their bellies" on Christmas Day. Then, on December 26, they celebrate Boxing Day, which is a traditional British holiday. .On this day, a festival parade known as a junkanoo goes through the streets of town.' The parade begins at 4 am and continues until 8 am. Large groups compete against each other to make floats centered around a chosen theme. (These floats are made of cardboard and decorated with multicolored crepe ~ paper. "Scrap groups" dance around ,A. the floats. Dressed in garb fringed with ( i 
\!

crepe, · these "scrap groups'' shake '/ cowbells, blow whistles and beat on goatskin drums as they dance through the streets. At the end of the parade, the winning group is announced and a monetary prize is awarded. 
All around thm world, Christmas is rriuch more than just Santa Claus. It is a time for family and friends, good food, and celebration; a time when we wish one another: 
Frohliche Weihnachten Feliz Navidad Joyeaux Noel fi'-"""t,nd,11.+ ~ 
Mele Kalikimaka itv(f ~ 'f{,,: or 11til I r,'1.· ' Merry Christmas!~! ~I·1V, ; :.t_::i' _ ----~ rIi I' • , I I --/ 
~ ==-==--= .., "--.,,.-=----=-=--·~ 


----_:­
-
-----~-------------­



Wmen's athletics are far from new in American universities and colleges, but the female student-athlete is an emerging new image in the collegiate realm. Women are continuing to take on a larger role in the sporting world, as most recently seen in the spec­tacular performances of athletes like MaryLou Retton and Mary T. Meagher in the Los Angeles Olympics. Many of the young athletes who par­ticipated in these 1984 Olympics are · female student-athletes with academic . responsibilities equaling their athletic commitments. The life of a student­athlete on any level, in international competitions or on the collegiate level, is difficult and at times frustrating. 

Saint Mary's College offers an athletic program to its students which allows them to become as involved as they wish, and to compete either in­tercollegiately or within the college community. Most students at Saint Mary's lead a normal academic-social life, and take part in all forms of athletics, from aerobic workouts to 
by Barb Blanchette 
varsity competition. The largest of the organized programs at the College is the Intramural program, which boasts a total of 1,116 participants in the 1983-84 year, 236 of whom par­ticipate in interhall flag football. Other intramural programs offered include co-rec volleyball, the Turkey Trot, tennis and racquetball ladders, co-rec soccer, softball and fitness workshops. The purpose of in­tramurals, according to an athletics guidebook, is to. "bring people together in social and physical ac­tivities for peaceful play and recrea­tion." -In this manner, no one is re­quired to be at any certain skill level, nor must they bear the pressures of in­tercollegiate competition. 
Similarly, club sports have been established to promote and develop the interests and skills of their 


members in various sports and ac­tivities. Some of the most popular clubs sports are Skiing, Sailing, and Crew which are organized in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame's NVA depart­ment, and Soccer, which is now pend­ing Varsity status. These stud~nt-run organizations offer a broad mterac­tion between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and through the teams sponsored by these clubs, students have the chance to develop their ski~ls in intercollegiate competi­
tion. . 
In contrast to these two levels are Varsity athletics which differ in the financial and competitive aspects, and in the types of sports programs of­fered. Many students join Varsity sports looking for competition and the "esprit de corps" which exists when each member of the team has made a commitment to building _a strong squad. Several Varsity Basketball and Volleyball players also -listed their reasons as an interest in fitness, a need to get away from the academic pressures, and a desire to be involved in a group which has their goals and expectations as a .com.mon ground. One player commented that being a Varsity athlete helped keep her from becoming "caught up in all the trap­pings of dress and fashion" which she feels are prevalent at Saint Mary's. Many athletes also have a stronger self-image and sense of personal abili­ty, more so than other students who are not involved in athletics at all. 
The Saint Mary's Varsity program now offers seven sports competing in the National Association of Inter­collegiate Athletics (NAIA). These sports include Basketball, Tennis, Softball, Swimming, Divirig, Track 

and · Field, Volleyball and Fencing. Though the travelling size of each squad is limited, there is no limit on the size of each team. The combina­tion of all sq11ads inv:olved normally adds up_ to between 110 and 140 players-approximately 5% of Saint Mary's students. 
The Varsity tryout policy runs on a yearly basis with no guaranteed spots for former players and a minimal amount of team cuts. Instead, cuts are replaced by the effective policy of weeding out the players with weak dedication in the early part of the season, and allowing those players with a strong interest to develop their skills rather than preventing them from becoming a part of the program. Each year there are also several posi­tions open due to those involved in overseas study programs, which allow new players to develop their skills as a part of the squad. For example, this year two of the top six spots on the ten­nis team are filled by freshman players. 

ccSaint Mary's College of­fers an athletic program to its students which allows them to become as involved as they wish, and to compete either in­tercollegiately or within the college community." 
The contact Saint Mary's can make with high school athletes also adds to the strength of the athletics programs. Although active recruiting has been slowed in the past _five years, Saint Mary's has profited from the talents of the many freshmen who are simply in­terested enough in sports to want to become a part of the teams. The methods most often used in recruiting have been the awareness and contacts made by individual coaches, applica­tion interest questionnaires, and the interest generated by various orienta­tion programs such as activities night. 
In intercollegiate status, Saint Mary's is a nonscholarship school classified in NCAA Division III as a Class A school, competing in District 21 of the NAIA. Saint Mary's has been criticized for not offering scholarships; however the College has deliberately 
· chosen to be an academic institution 
with sports as· a sideline activity. Ac­
cording to Dr. John-Duggan, College 
President, "We don't want to take our 
limited scholarship funds and give 
them to athletes when there are students with a greater financial need wishing to come here." Giving out sports scholarships would perhaps _ heighten the interest in the athletics 


. 
program, rewarding those students who devote their time and energy, and raising the caliber of the teams' skills. However, according to ad­ministrative sources, the level of stu­dent input which now shapes the 

i 
' 
athletic department as an organiza­!­tion for student benefit would nearly disappear, lost in the new regulations implemented to regulate these "paid athletes." The presence of scholarship athletes is also feared as a force which would undermine the goal of fostering i student interaction and team growth ! : i by placing the pressure of competi­I. ! . tion, as well as the expectations of per­formance, at a level where players are no longer playing for the same non-monetary reasons. . 
At an academically competitive liberal arts college like Saint Mary's, it is the idea of participation and dedica­

. tion which defines a successful pro­gram. In the philosophy of both the I College and the NAIA is the state­I ment, "a sound athletic program I.
I;
should be sponsored with the basic 

I 
;:· 
ccl don't think anyone takes it seriously; no one knows how much time the athletes put in, and they underestimate the 
.athletes' abilities." -A Saint Mary's Junior 



purpose of providing the benefits of participation in athletics to as many students as possible." In evaluating this statement it appears that this at­titude stifles athletics, nearly hides it from the student body. There are many student organizations which publicize scheduled events and likewise it is the responsibility of the College to publicize and support the programs it organizes. There are usually very few spectators at most athletic events. One senior athlete who participates on two Varsity teams feels, "The Student Body just doesn't support the teams, there's nobody at the games, and that really makes a difference in our attitude as a team." Usually there is very little publicity sux:rounding any given sports event, and, with the exception of the athletes spreading word about their own com­petitions, not many people really know what is going on. The Observer has been improving coverage over the last few years, and now students are aware that there is more than one Varsity sport. Yet student support of the individual teams and competitions 


I remains minimal. One junior, when questioned about the vis~bility of sports at Saint Mary's replied, "I don't think anyone takes it seriously, no oneI knows how much time the athletes put in, and they underestimate the · athletes' abilities." A sophomore replied, "Sports? At Saint Mary's?" Little emphasis is placed on physical activity .at Saint Mary's. Physical education courses are not re­quired, and athletes on a Varsity Sport receive only 0.5 credits per sport, while those students in the choir and band receive 3 credits per semester. Also, Varsity athletics at Saint Mary's aren't even given a status equivalent to high school sports, for the students and coaches keep the pro­
· 22 SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 grams moving with little or no en­couragement from the administration or from the Student Body. It may sur­prise many members of the College community to learn that in the last three years Saint Mary's has sent a number of teams to the National championships, where many SMC athletes were named All-Americans or Academic All-Americans. Another surprising fact is that two Varsity swimmers, competing in a meet against Notre Dame in 1983, set pool records at the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
Despite the good win-loss records and honors received, the general at­titude concerning women's sports is still very negative. This overall lack of interest in women's sports is partially due to a societal trend which appears in every college's athletic program. The general feeling that women shouldn't be athletically involved is being tackled by the presence of In­tramural and Club sports, however, and the issue of Varsity importance ought to be considered more seriously by all members of S.aint Mary's Col­lege. Maybe more people should know of the efforts behind the successes of the · Varsity teams, or of those graduates who have gone on to use their athletic skills in later life, in coaching, semiprofessional athletics, and as competitive members in the business world. 
wile improv=enG have boon made over the last ten years (some teams didn't have uniforms or even a regular place to practice) it is now the · task of the soon-to-be-implemented Athletic Association, composed of students, and the newly appointed Director of Athletics, to continue the improvements begun years ago. Saint Mary's must keep up with changes in all the areas which affect the liberal arts education, realizing the need for athletics in~he lives of "well-rounded students" and understanding the growing impbrtance of dedication to athleticsin th~ lives of students. ¦ 



f::iI,I\:, Mom and Dad Visiting? · Going For a Job Interview? In ROTC? Want to. Look Great for that Special Someone?_ 
Short on Cash? Come and Meet your friends at 
~lhl@ W@O'fu) . ~V ~lhl@~ 
Open

Edison Road at St. Road 23 
Mon., Fri., Sat.
State Rd. 23 
8-5 

· (Walking Distance from Campus) 
Tue., Wed., Thur. 277-0057 8-7,30 




I 
ii 
I I 
Pre-Heaven: A Major for th·e Future· 
by Laureen Wolfe 

Editor's Note: Recently, Scholastic spent an· afternoon having tea with Brother John Lavelle, and in the course of the discussion, the concept of "Pre­Heaven" was humorously exam_ined. While the content of that discussion was purely in ;est, Brother John hinted at the underlying need for all students to achieve a fulfilling_ and long-lasting. religious experience while at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Although "Halo Alignment, 101" probably won't become a part of our curriculum in the near future, Brotherfohn wishes to convey to students that our search for a career in this life shouldn't over­shadow our far-reaching "career go_al" of heavenly attainment. 
Have you ever taken the time to figure out what will happen to you once you have finished college, completed graduate school, and advanced in your career? Although many students plan now what they will-be doirig for the next 40 years, according to Brother John Lavelle, C.S,C., today is the time to be preparing for your afterlife, as well as for your· temporal career. "Pre­Heaven," a program designed to raise the collegiate _mind to the loftiest heights of Christianity, has been proposed by Brother John to aid Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in becoming well-educated Catholics. 
Brother John says most students seem to be taking pre-med and pre-law, but he keeps waiting for the day when a student will declare a major called "pre-heaven." Brother John has recently decided to take it upon himself to introduce such a major for he feels it would be wise for studerits to prepare themselves for heaven now. He thinks that many young people worry too much about what comes next after college. "Sure that's wonderful, but there is something beyond," he concludes. 
Brother John believes the students would find pre-heaven courses en­joyable and beneficial. Because heaven is a place of music, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would provide mandatory music courses for their students. The music departments' choir classes would prepare the students to sing either bass or soprano for heaven. Private harp lessons would also be taught for a reasonable fee. · 
Home Economics· courses_ could fulfill some of heaven's requirements. The students would have to learn to prepare several desserts-divinity fudge, angel food cake, and heavenly hash are just to name a few.· 
The Physics department would also have an astrophysic~ course, better known as astronomy. This class will help the student locate lieaven without difficulty. · 
Finally, the English and Humanistic Studies departments could provide the students with information about the lives of good people. Brother John suggested studying the lives of Saint Theresa, Dorothy Day, Mother Teresa of Calcutta, Thomas More, and Thomas Dooley as a start. "Not that people would have to pattern their lives after them, but at least they could be in-, spired," he commented. · 
Brother John encourages students, taking pre-med, pre-law, and engineering, to also take the pre-heaven program. Pre-heaven is an excellent program for those who want to graduate with a double major. For example, engineers can take courses in halo alignment arid wing-balancing along with their other classes. ·This will not only fulfill their core requirements, but also their spiritual requirements. 
Once the student has completed the core courses in the pre-heaven pro­gram, he can expect his degree later. How much later, no one can tell. But there will be a final test the student must pass once he arrives at the Pearly Gates. Not only will the final grade determine whether or not the student will be accepted, but Saint Peter will also take into account how much the student was involved in community service. By taking all this into considera­tion, Brother John feels that heaven's governing board will be able to deter­mine just how much students have really learned at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's about life and a "career" aimed towards heaven. ¦ 




~1.g;~[ t ~ ,_ 1qr_ '·:·.· '.:.,,.,,,.·,'·.··.!N··~.;1!?ff'd
~, ,. I \ f ..vz• 'i&;i,· , •. .·. .. . .·. 
1J,.>-J f-Ji ' . /) . . /';, '·. 

.:,>\· 
... -· .:
, 

½ 
?~ 
·~ 
"''. 
' 
.. 
·~ ~! ·,.­
' 
=--------~ 
~­

~ ,---:~:· _, 
. . ; .· .
'---',.._'i~t;:,,'"" 
'•,;;,:·;~~: 


----------------------------------------r 
The 

Demise 
"One day Br'er Fox went ter wuk 
en got 'im some tar, en mix it wid some turkentine, en fix up a contrap­shun wat he call a Tar-Baby en he sot 
er in de big road, en den he lay off in 
de bushes fer to see what de news was gwinter be. En he didn't hatter wait long, nudder, kaze bimeby here come Br'er Rabbit pacin' down de road­lippity-clippity, clippity-lippity-dez ez sassy as a jaybird. Br'er Fox, he lay low. Br'er Rabbit come prancin' 'long twel he spy de Tar-Baby, en den he f otch up on his behime legs like he wuz 'stonished. De Tar-Baby, she sot dar, she did, en Br'er Fox, he lay low." 
"Babble" is dead and dead things interest intellectuals. Dinosaurs, lost civilizations, and dead people all com­mand much attention from our "think­ing class." So why should the above passage escape our notice? 
Most of us know that the passage comes from Uncle Remus: His Songs and Sayings by Joel C. Harris. These stories were first published in 1881 and are examples of slave folklore that arose on the southern plantations. The Uncle Remus stories reappeared a few years ago in a Walt Disney production and even now are ·on a recording for children. Nevertheless, they are dead. They are twice dead. First they died with the slavery era, then with the genre. The genre, of course, is oral 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 

by Bud Luepke: 
of Oral Tradition 
\ 

tradition-story-inventing and story­telling. Today's American society has 
almost no oral tradition. Little is· developing, and the bit we have is be­ing paved over by other media, powered by rampant technological ad­vancements. 
". . . individual cultures are ·torn down and replaced by .the general culture of the media." 
· Oral tradition is spoken folklore told to entertain, stimulate the im­agination and educate. It involves in­genuity in the forming and telling, and attentiveness in the listening. All are in its action. Folklorist Dan Ben­Amossays that in the oral story, "the 
narrator, his story, and his audience 
·. are all related to each other as com­ponents of a single continuum." All are involved, entertained, and 
· educated. For instance in the above story, Br'er Rabbit greets the Tar­Baby but gets no reply. Br'er Rabbit becomes upset and says, "Y ouer stuck up, dat's w'at you is, en I'm gwinter kyore you, dat's wat I'm gwinter do." The voice would be bombastic, the face haughty, and the audience would 
actively respond to t~ese promptings. 
Then Br'er Rabbit fights the Tar­
Baby, becoming more and rhore en­
tangled in th~ tar. Br'er Fox trots by 
and says, "Howdy, Br'er Rabbit, you 
look sorter stuck up dis mawnin." The 
ironic reversal of the double meaning 
"stuck up" is both funny and valuable· 
as a moral lesson. 

Oral tradition contained the very 
spirit of a community. Through it, 
faculties of imagination, emotion and 
faith were developed. It unified a µeo:.. 
ple in message, image, and dialect, 
and provided constructive human in­
volvement. 

However, beyond idiomatic expres­
sions and such phrases as, "Where's 
the beef?" America no longer has. a 
functional oral tradition. -The reason 
for this is technology. In his essay, The 
Folkness of Folk, Ben Botkin says folk 
tales come from 'communities least af­
fected by modern technology. Now _ 
that virtually everyone has television, 
radio arid efficient ineans of travel, 
home-made, imaginative entertain­
ment has become obsolete. Botkin 
says, "Once the rustic had an advan­
tage over the city dweller.in increased 
motive to folk thinking and behaviour · • 
since he had to depend upon oral · ·memory and handed-down make it 
yourself culture for self-preservation : 
aiad self-gratification." 

Television is the pri;mary medium 
that has usurped oral tradition's posi­
tion in society. The average person 
watches about 6 hours per day, 90 % 
of which is controlled by the national 
networks. Many studies on American 
television point out that in order for 
the networks to draw a large viewing 
audience, programs must appeal to· a 
wide variety of people. The result is 
that plots are simple, and sex and 
violence are major themes and sub-
themes'. _ 

Comparing the two-media, oral tradition reigns largely superior to television. While he admits the cultural influence of television can be exaggerated, English Professor Th6mas · Werge says he is worried about the developing problems of television in modern society. He says television diminishes attentiveness, human con­tact, and reflective capacities. He says, "I tend to be appalled by the fact that people leave a blaring T.V. on when l come to visit. The human being should be the priority. Television stunts the imagination." People are numbed by its impersonal qualities. Unlike oral narrative, television lacks involvement, imagination, and in­genuity. Unlike oral tradition, televi­sion spreads a shallow and general culture over many individual cultures. 
But these faults of television are also indictments of technology. Werge says, "Technology creates distractions in which one can't remain attentive," and "technological devices hide the world." Technology is superficial to human life. In the-book Where We Are, John Steeley calls our society a "technarchy" where technology rules. He remarks, "we see function. after function liberated and alienated from human contact and control." Televi­sion, computers and robots remove human interaction and involvement like that found in oral tradition; In 
Contemporary American Social Prob­lems, Wesley M. Bagley says, "One result ( of technology) is that the world's peoples are becoming more alike"; and the same can be said for this country's ·peoples. The different cultures within the United States are becoming alike because they derive the same culture from the same tech­nological media. The result is that in­dividual cultures are torn down and replaced by the general culture of the media. Cultures begin to lack identity, 
· . imagination, spiritual worth, and a binding unity. · Oral tradition reinforced all these values that technology has stifled. It has been a. trade-off, oral tradition and the spiritual life for television and the technological life. Or in more real terms, Uncle Remus for The Bionic Man. ¦ 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
-~ 

~----~--------~-~ 
I 

The office room had grown sud­denly quiet and warm, so still that even Hank Bowman took notice and left his desk to go to the window. A black darkness hung over the town of Greenwood, a darkness darker than the night itself. He stood there, a sud­den chill running through his body. The moon in the black sky had turned red, and moments later, with the sharp clap of approaching thunder, vanished. It would rain soon. 
Bowman turned away from the window and returned to the desk. "The storm will surely bring the rats out of the sewer," he said, a strange gleam alive in his eyes. He rolled his red tongue across his lips, and as he did, a wicked grin cut across his face. He sat back in his chair and laughed a deep sinister laugh. He found his badge on the desk and pinned it proudly on his chest. As soon as the rain came the hunt would be on. 

II 

Old Man sat wedged between two old rotting water barrels on the pier. A warm wind had begun to blow and the water slapped the sides ofthe single-masted boats. Only the rags wrapped about his weak body offered comfort against the coming rain. 
Old Man spent all his nights this way, alone on the dock with the clanking and rattling of the old wooden fishing vessels~ The solitude pleased him. It gave him a chance to escape the town's watchfuleye. Here he could be away from the slum, · away from his home. Among the ships he was in a different world. He scratched his unshaven face and chewed slowly on a stale piece of bread taken from a trashcan on the harbor's edge. Time passed, and the weather grew worse. 
Before long he heard the quick cloppety-clop of footsteps along the brick harbor. The s(mnd of thunder nearly drowned them out. He heard a rushed whistling and thei:i a squeaky little laugh. Sergeant Elbert Elberhart was making his rounds, just as he did . every night. The skinny policeman stopped before Old Man and let out a high-pitched chuckle, his small round head bobbing as he laughed. 
"Fine night, eh," said Elberhart. Old Man nodded. "Fine indeed," he coughed back, clearing his throat. He turned his head to the side and spit in­to the water. 
A burst of thunder roared in the night air, complete with a flash of lightning, and then Jt started to rain. A violent wind swept across the har­bor and Old Man shuddered. · Elberhart jumped with the start of the storm. 
"Come on," he squeaked, helping Old Man to his feet. "Let's hurry down to the fishing shed and get out of this weather." He led. 0 ld Man to the small shack at the end of the pier. He pulled the door open and rushed · Old Man inside, checking down the pier with a quick turn. of head to 
Fiction 

by Chuck frhman 
assure himself that it was deserted and that no orie had been watching. Once certain he ducked inside and shut the
'

' :  ''  
door. .  .  .. _  . . .  

Elberhart was one of the few police officers that worked for the. town. And Greenwood needed only a few. Nothing terribly bad had hap­pened in quite a long time. Elberhart himself had never made an arrest in forty years. Of course, there had always been little wrong-doings: a pick-pocket her.e, an occasional . shoplifter, a barroom brawl. No, none of the horrible c"rimes that townsfolk heard about in the big cities everp.ap­pened. And because of this Green­wood was most proud. · 
But Elberhart knew things grew . · worse, and with winter soon to follow fall, conditions in Slum Side seemed doomed to deteriorate even further. Already a handful of street gangs hacl sprung up, and with food becoming more of a problem in the colder weather, slum discontent was expected to rise. 
Two years past, the town of Greenwood had plunged into an economic depression resulting from a failing fishing business. Most folks sur­vived the hard times, but many could not and in time, a portion of Green­wo~d deteriorated into a slum, a void of continual darkness, and its residents were ignored by the rest of the town. The town was polled, and the area was named Slum Side, a place of filth and decay. A place shunned by the de­cent people of Greenwood. Even after the town recovered from the depres-· · sion, conditions in the slum did not improve; they became worse. . 
Elberhart lit a small oil lamp and set it on a shelf among the fishing sup­plies. He and Old Man both sat perched on two barrels. Outside .the rain beat down upon the weather­beaten shack and danced wildly on the water, but inside all was calm. Old Man looked weaker and more tired than he had in the past, or so Elberhart thought. His cheeks seemed more sunken, his face more hollow.. Indeed food was already a problem· in · the slum. Usually the children and women of Slum Side would come to beg on the pier, barefoot and in rags, to ask for fish. Some would get lucky, others would get chased away, forced to go hungry. But the begging was no · longer allowed, and Elberhart thought it cruel. Most good folks detested the sight of Slum Side dweHers wandering down their clean brick avenues, touching their clean two-st0ry brick. homes, talking to their clean children, taking from their beautiful gardens, and now the police were exp~cted to keep them at bay, out of thegood side of Greenwood. But Elberhart made a single exception with Old Mari. He had always let the stranger sit out on the pier each night. None of the good town people ever saw him, and he was always gone by morning, hobbled back to the slums no doubt. 
Old Man seemed oddly silent and distant. 
Elberhart finally spoke. "What has got you down?" he asked. Old Man straightened up on the barrel, wiped his nose on. the back of his hand, and did not make a sound. Elberhart gave out a cough but said nothing. In time, 

Old Man met the gaze of his com­he had been beaten; the sight of him panion, and water collected in his ol~ made me ill. He looked straight at me eyes. "Elbert," he struggled to say, his as he lay in his blood, straight into 
body shaking. "There has been a death me. I could feel him, searching in the family." A long silence fol-· through me, into my deepest and lowed, and then he told Elberhart this darkest places, into my heart. It was 
"i
I;:,! story. then that he reached ·out his hand, and l grabbed it and did not let go. It 
He was crazy, of course, and I had was the first sign of recognition I had always known it, but I never showed_ ever got from him in two long years. it. He spent his days in one of the run­And then he spoke, and for once I down, grey brick buildings, in the _ understood. "Brother," he whispered,very darkness of Slum Side itself. And each word bringing pain. "You were 
he was burning himself, and I could all I had; you were my world, 'cause have saved him, too: He would sit by 
you meant the world to me:" And. 
a window near the doorway where _ then he died, and so did I. 
there was no door, arid stare· out from behind splintered boards. All day he 
Old Man looked at Elberhart. "I 
would babble, and smoke, speaking in know he crossed over," he said. "He unknown languages. All day I would _ went outside the slums, and now he is sif by him, never knowing if he knew dead. It has happened before. I have I was there. He never spoke to me. 
seen it;" . 

And he would burn himself, but r The rain outside had ended; the never gave up on him. He kept me go­storm had passed. Elberhart got uping. For him I lived. I would find · · nervously, excused himself, and left scraps of food and some cigarettes in the shack, his face red. Old Man's the streets and bring them to him. I
I story had disturbed him and it _.
forced him to eat. He wanted to · 
'11 ,I brought unpleasant thoughts into his 
starve, but I fed him. I fed him for
ii head. He hurried down the· pier, Old ­
me. I forced him to live. _ Man watching from the door, towards His body was sickly white, you the outskirts of Greenwood, to keep a know, and his face was like that of a watchful eye on the border.
skeleton's. And his body was dotted · with red marks, and I always -III :· wondered what sort of salvatiop. a cigarette could bring. He would press --. 
Hank Bowman walked into the of­the lit cigarette against his skin, and fice and shut the _door. He shookthehis expression would never change, wetness from his hair and hunghisand he never moved. He had a rain gear above thefurnace. It was · desperate need to know that he was near dawn and Elberhart sat at thereal. I could have saved him. 
desk sipping coffee; he had finishedBut three days ago, when I came with his night shift. Bowman slappedto the place, I found. him gorie. I_ · _ his fellow officer on the back and never thought he moved from the win­belched.
dow; I thought he had been frozen · 
"I got two ~f'emtonight," he ·. _­
there, an insane statue. -So I stayed in grinned. "One before the storm, andthe house for two days, too empty to one after."
be sad. He was my life and now he Sergeant Elbert Elberhart nearlywas gone. 
choked ori his coffee. 
And so it was tonight, before the coming of the storm, that I decided to 
IV

leave the house, and as l turned down the alley I saw him, my brother, a -
Elberhart tossed and turned as he
black form crawling through the filth. 
lay in bed during the final hours ofI hurried down to him, and I saw that 
30 SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 

One ·Writers Book 
•

Beginnings review 
by Mark Melchior 
"[on the train] ... what was new to me, not older than ten, was a landmark to him. My father knew · our way mile by mile; by day or by night, he knew where we were. Every­thing that changed under 
our eyes in the flying 
countryside was the 
known world to him, the 
imagination to me." ·. 
Eudora Welty's words come to us like the gifts of our landscape: gratifying our sensibilities in their sublime economy. In her latest work, One Writer's Beginnings (Harvard University Press, $10), Miss Welty traverses the course of her immediate family history to reach a. confluence which time afc fords to those who· court discovery and nurture memory. Where discovery 

· arid memory converge, one finds the clearly lighted path of truth, the proper way of seeing what lies beyond the train car window. It is not in the blur which comes from fixing one's gaze on a mark too near, nor is it in the still frame which a more distant focus affords, rather, in the recognition of both ways of seeing and the ability to recall both, there is where the gift lies. "And suddenly a light is thrown back, as when your train makes a curve, showing that there has seems startled by the con­
been a mountain of mean­
clusions she draws about ing rising behind you on 
her family and its rela­the way you've come, is 
tions; But the new concep­rising there still, proven 
tions do not falsify her now through retrospect." 
earlier ones; instead, they Uniting her past with 
justify them as they do present considerations in 
serendipity and its impor­

One Writer's Beginnings, 
tance to our movement. Miss Welty mixes fictional 
One Writer's Beginnings. 

.passages with nonfiction 
recovers the earliest traces to, ·at once, uphold the 
of young Eudora's percep­line between reality and 
tions and draws from fantasy, and submerge it. 
them as rich sources of In describing her family, 
future understanding. This she is alternately the 
is Eudora Welty's ar­young Eudora coloring her 
cheology to render expHcit perceptions magical and 
the relation of the writer fantastic, and Eudora the 
to her family and to her fiction writer, observer of 
fiction. "The events in our human frailty and falli­
lives happen in asequence bility. The mixture is not 
in time, but in their • marked by divisions 
significance to ourselves 

,,
within the work itself; but 
they find their order, a in.Miss Welty it seems, as 
timetable not neces­she chooses to emphasize 
sarily-perhaps not the continuous thread of 
possibly-chronological." · · rCVelation Which brings 
If the book One her to a respect for the 
Writer's Beginnings is .not "unknown in a human 
timeless, can our land­lifetime." At times she 
scapes survive? ¦ 

darkness. He told himself that he had 
never talked to Old Man. He doubted 
if the person even existed. One always 
has strange dreaijis, he told himself, of 
misery and suffering, but it surely 
can't be reaL He wondered about 
Slum Side itself; he had never been 
there, rio one had. It couldn't be all 
that bad. Itjust couldn't be. Besides, 
things would get better. And content 
with that thought, he fell asleep; the ·night a fading memory. 
V 

Old Man walked through Slum Side all that night, and as the sun rose he cut across the clean side of Green­wood to the single brick avenue that curved back through the surrounding 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 31 
forest and away from town. He cursed God for his brother's death. He cursed God because his brother's family had died. He cursed God for letting the woman and child drown. He cursed God for not letting his brother drown then. He cursed God for the storm that had turned the boat. He cursed God for being God. 
Old Man stood on the road for a moment. He wondered how his brother could have worshipped such pain. He wondered how the world could allow it. 
In time, Old Man started off dowri · the road. Once more he· set off to wander. The sun had dawned anew, bright, yet not bright, darkness all the same. ¦­




It is early December and I have small clearing. I vividly remember the been at Notre Dame nearly four beauty of the Currier and Ives scene. months. The weather has grown cold; The cabin roof and chimney were the snow is piled high; the roads and delicately blanketed, "downed" with 
sidewalks are slippery, treacherously the comfort of the soft and glistening costumed in translucent sheets of ice; snow. The moon shone clear and 
the bitter winds blow carelessly and bright on those clean, crisp evenings, a ceaselessly over the flat Midwest· beacon in the dark navy night against· plains. The weather protests the per­the vast sky and its multitude of 
sisting and rigorous schedule of twinkling stars. classes, which has become• a burden . Inside the cabin in the cedar closet with the difficulty and discomfort of were the boxes of handmade, lace 
the long walks across. campus. decorations, colorful Christmas or­Schoolwork and school activities are naments, and delicately carved, constantly demanding and consuming wooden caricatures which would every moment of the day. The days adorn a freshly cut spruce tree. There continue hectically, always bringing were always fresh boughs of holly and new crises-a· double Emil, a research · pine wreaths and cones to decorate the : paper, a lost notebook, an outrageous · mantel of the fireplace and to brighten phone'bill, a blind date for formal. It's the hearth. Candles of cinnamon and 
a Ferris wheel of emotions, and my cranberry and rose oil. burned in the thoughts fight to repress some of the · old fanterns. The aroma of Christmas demands and requirements of instant permeated the cabin. adaptation and preparedness to focus Everyone shared in the prepara­
on the ever-increasing anticipation of tions to make the holiday meal a the. holiday vacation ahead, a lwc­magnificent feast. Grandpa and Dad­urious reprieve in the Christmas dy hunted the pheasant for our suc­season. 
culent main course as Great-Our family· passes each Christmas . grandfather had done in seasons past. holiday in a solid and amiably In the old Franklin stove, Mom and weathered, sturdy log cabin, built by Grandma and Granny baked the my great-grandfather in the recesses bread and a delectable array of of the Maryland woods. I can clearly cookies and pastries for dessert. My envision the last-mile sleigh rides to sisters and I generously volunteered 
the cabin. When I was younger, our fingers to help clean the bowls of Great~grandmother (Granny), colored icings. Grandma, and Mother rode in the Christmas Eve was my favorite day sleigh that Dad and Grandpa and of the vacation. After our meal, we 
Great-grandfather tried to pull with donned our finest and warmest three little girls clinging to their legs clothing in preparation for our walk trying to be big and helpful. It was so · to the little parish about a mile away. exciting to reach our destination in the We took our path to the parish, the 
one Grandpa made years ago. He was 
ahead trampling the few branches 
which had dared to overgrow in it. I · 
followed closely behind Grandpa's 
stable figure to hear more clearly the 
crunching sounds that his heavy, 
black boots made in the crisp, newly 
fallen snow. The air was fresh. I could 
hear the birds which endured each 
winter in these mountains, and occa­
sionally the hoot of an owl passed my 
ears. The heavy scent of pine 
generously wafted through the gentle 
breeze. I felt the steady pulsation of 
life in the beauty and bounty of the 
immense forest. 
I loved the Christmas Eve 
candlelight service: I can hear the con­fident and assured voice of the minister during his sermon and the . melodious sound of my family singing carols. In the dimness of the candlelight the prominent figure of Jesus on the solid oak cross rose from 
the altar in silhouetted curves. 
After the service, my mother would 
tuck me safely in bed beneath 
Granny's neatly sewn patchwork quilt 
to anxiously await the arrival of Santa 
Claus. I would listen to my folks and 
grandparents remrn1sce of 
Christmases and holidays past as they 
sat around the fireplace. The fireglow 
danced across the rafters as the fire 
blazed and crackled. Granny rocked 
in the reliable old rocking chair, sing­
ing softly to herself the Christmas 
carols we had sung in church. Her 
gentle voice and her rhythmic rocking 
were such a comfort that I listened un­
til. ... 
My thoughts are interrupted by the 
loud clanging of the radiator as the 
furnace clicks on to heat up my cold 
room, and as I stream back into con­
sciousness, I am only sitting at my 
desk looking out the window onto 
south quad. The sun has set on the ex­
pansive horizon and twilight prevails. 
It will be dark soon; I can already see 
the moon in its quarter phase as the 
stars begin their nightly debut. I stop 
to think again for a moment of the up­
coming Christmas holiday and smile 
at the thought of my older sister in the 
last term of her pregnancy, expecting 
to bring a fifth generation of family to 
our ritual celebration. Gazing out the 
dorm window I am warmed by the 
beauty and bounty of nature and the 
faraway imaginings of my children 
spending their holidays in our sturdy 
cabin in the calm and peaceful 
recesses of those lovely Maryland 
woods. ¦ 



11~ 11[\I\L 

!, ' 11i1 . 1II, 

WSND 
Iilimi11.11111111,1111 mIi1111 I11 j 

American Public Radio 
WSND is scheduled to become part of the American Public Radio Net­work in late September, allowing us to continue bringing you a wide range of new and exciting fine-arts programs. These include: 
The New York Chamber Series The Cleveland Orchestra · The Sunday Morning Program: the 
latest in news and public affairs 

Business Times: a close-up look at current business trends and issues 
The Record Shelf: a critical review of newly released classical recordings 
Baroque and Beyond The list will undoubtedly expand and vary from season to season, focus­ing on the highlights of the musical calendar. 
MONDAY 
1:00 pm Chamber Masterworks 
3:00 pm San Francisco Symphony 
8:00 pm In Performance 
10:00 pm The Jazz Gallery 
TUESDAY 
1:00 pm Music From Germany 
7:00 pm From the BBC 
8:00 pm The New York Philhar­monic 
* All times EST 

Nocturne Nightflight 
An alternative to contemporary rock programs in the South Bend area, Nocturne (.12-?) brings not only new but innovative music to the rock scene. 
Jazz on WSND 
Each week there are 2 jazz shows on WSND: a jazz Nocturne which is Sundays at 12 am following the news, and the Jazz Gallery, Monday evenings at 10 pm. 
The First 50 Years 
Marty Robinson explores the early 
days of recorded vocal music. 
Presented each Thursday afternoon 
at 1 pm by a grant from Audio 
Specialists. · 
WEDNESDAY 
1:00 pm Baroque and Before 
7:00 pm America in Concert 
THURSDAY 
1:00 pm The First 50 Years 
7:00 pm In Recital 
8:00 pm Chicago Symphony 
FRIDAY 
.1 :00 pm 20th-Century Masters 
3:00 pm Phil~delphia Orchestra 

Daybreak/ Meridian/Tafelmusik 
Monday through Friday, WSND .features Daybreak (7-9 am), Meridian 
(12:15-1 pm) and Tafelmusik (5-7 pm), 
shows which concentrate on 
shorter, lighter works as well as 
news and public affairs. 
In Performance 
Each Monday evening at 8 pm, WSND will present digital record­ings of performances recorded in the South Bend area, including the Recital Series of the Notre Dame Department and St. Mary's Depart­ment of Music. WSND is proud to announce our continuing tradition of broadcasting the very latest con­certs by the South Bend Symphony, directed by Kenneth Kiesler. 
SATURDAY 
12:15 pm The Vocal Scene 
1:00 pm Saturday Afternoon Opera 
5:00 pm New Releases 
6:00 pm Collector's Item 
7:00 pm The WSND Request Program 
SUNDAY 
12:15 pm Music From Oberlin, 
3:30 pm WSN D Request Program 
8:00 pm On Stage 



I 
i
:! 
I 
, I 
•

artistic expression 

ART QUEST '85 Deadline: December 15, 1984 
The University Art Museum of California State University in Long Beach dangles $5,400 before artists whose works . fall into one or more of the following categories: Ceramics, Drawing, Fiber, Glass, Jewelry/ Metalwork, Mixed Media, Oil & Acrylic, Photog­raphy, Printmaking, · Sculpture, Wall Relief, Watercolor. "Art Quest serves as .a liaison between artists, both prominent and promising, and 
museums, g11-lleries, art dealers, consultants, cor­porate buyers and the public." All initial entries 
must be in slide form. 
NATIONAL CHAMBER 
MUSIC 
Deadline: February 15, 
1985 
South Bend will be hosting this year's Fischoff Na­tional Chamber Music Competition in March, bringing in ensembles from all over the United States to "meet and inspire one another, share their music, and compete for honor and prizes.'' The competition offers $5,200 · to participating and· quali-. fying ensembles, and the judges insistthat the ensembles be from three to five members, the musical repertoires consist of two complete works ofcon-. trasting style and period, and that the average age o{ensemble members not exceed thirty years. 

WRITERS & PHOTOGRAPHERS Deadline: January 31, 1985 
· The Allegheny Review, a national journal of undergraduate literature, is calling for submissions of short fiction, drama, poetry and black-and­white photographs. The editors of the Review glad­ly contribute $50.00 to the artist's cause upon publication. 
WRITERS & GRAPHIC ARTISTS 
Deadline: December 15, 
1984 

Alchemy Literary · Magazine craves good pieces of po~try' prose, . photography and graphic art to publish. The magazine is sponsored by San Francisco State University. 
HARPER'S ESSAY CON­TEST Deadline: December 31, 1984 
Waving a first prize of 

$1,000.00 and three sec­
ond prizes of $500.00, 

Harper's. Magazine invites 
full-time undergraduate 
college students to enter their essay contest, "The Idea of the Future.'' Par­. ticipants are requested to 
compose 1,500-to 

2,000-word.essays incor­
porating this theme in 

some way. The first-prize 
winner will be published 
in the magazine. 
DRAWING & . 
SCULPTURE SHOW 
Deadline: January 11, 
1985 

The 19th Annual Drawing and Small Sculpture Show, sponsored by the Fine Arts people at Del Mar College, welcomes all United States artists to submit two works, either in the drawing or the sculpture form. Approx­imately $3,000.00 in awards,. purchases, prizes and what-not is available, and all submitted works wili be made available for purchase. Sculpture ~ill initially be judged by slide, but all drawings must be sent in. 



WATERCOLORS & 
WATERCOLORS Deadline: January 8, 1985 
The Louisiana Watercolor Society most cordially welcomes artists to submit original, water-based paintings ( on paper) for . the 15th Annual Interna­tional Competition. The exhibition will be held in New Orleans, hosted by the Trade Mart Gallery. Artists who have not previously received a LWS award may compete; and all participants are limited to three slide entries. Gerald Brommer, interna­tionally renowned artist, teacher, and past president of the National Water­color Society, will be the presiding judge. 
ALL ARTISTS Deadline: December 22, 
1984 

Bergsma Gallery of Grand Rapids, Michigan, is will­ing to set free more than $3,000 in cash and pur­chase prizes for works in all media which qualify in their competition, "Michigan: The Place and The Lake II." Works will be handled as regular gallery sales with a 40 % commission for the gallery; and artists will be asked to submit retail prices with their pieces. Winners of both cash and purchase awards will be asked to join as regular gallery artists. Initial en­tries will be in slide form. 
BACH, HANDEL & SCARLATTI Deadline: January 15, 1985 
In recognition of the tricentennial anniversaries of J.S. Bach, G.F. Handel and D. Scarlatti, the 1985 Erwin Bodkey Competi­tion is hosting three in­dependent contests, offer­ing $2,000 prizes in each of the three categories. "The purpose of the com­petition is to encourage young singers and in­strumentalists under· thirty to perform music com­posed before 1791." The _ Bodkey Competition is open to individual per­formers as well as ensembles, and candidates will be required to submit a twenty-five-minute tape. 
NOTE 
The Fine Arts branch of Scholastic has more infor­mation on these competi­tions and exhibits. If you have any questions, give us a call. 



idle banter 
by Kathleen Doyle 

Two students pass each other on their way to class. The following con­versation ensues: 
"Hello, Bob!" 

"Hi, Kathleen, How are you?" 
There is no response. Why? Because Bob has kept on walking. 
What is this? It's an example of what this column is all about-idle banter. 
"How are you?" the polite question turned greeting is one of those little social conventions that have been drained of meaning. It has become a convention that people uphold without knowing that they do or even why they do. 
When this "question" is used in greeting, no one wants or expects to hear anything other than "fine" or "pretty good." The closest you can ever get to letting someone know that your day hasn't been perfect is to answer "not bad." The fact that they may not even care how you are is proven by the way many (like Bob in the example above) often keep on walking as they say it, anticipating the usual answer of "Fine. How are you?" 
Some people want to make "How are you?" equivalent to the more universal "hello" or "hi." (These two greetings are always used with those you don't know well.) When "How are you?" is used in place of "hi" or "hello," it is always said in a monotone with no rising intonation, a quality possessed by most questions. Obviously many of those who use this as a salutation don't even recognize the interrogative form they're using. Of course when "How are you?" is used in this manner it is always ex­pected that you will not answer, that you should not answer. 
SCHOLASTIC/DECEMBER 1984 
I began to realize the misuse of "How are you?" about a year ago when I went to Mass at Flanner. I had had a miserable day and was an­ticipating four midterms the following week-all on the same day. Well, I went to Flanner and, as I seated my­self on an ugly orange vinyl chair, one of the hall staff members said, "Hi. How are you?" And I answered "Fine." I wasn't really "fine," yet I gave the conventional answer. As I realized this, I said aloud, "Just average. In fact, terrible." My friends from Flanner tried to laugh but in­stead looked embarrassed. My would­have-been new friend frowned and moved to a seat on the other side of the altar. You can be sure I won't do that again. . 
There are lines similar to "How are you?" in that they are in question for­mat and serve dually as salutations. One of these is "How ya doin'?" The proper English form "How are you do­ing?" is not acceptable. Not only is this a slur on the English language, it's another catch-all conventional greeting. 
And then there's "How's itgoin'?1' which is in most cases not preceded by "hi" or "hello." What is "it," anyway? How is "it" going, where? 
The inanity of this verbal tradition is promoted in language learning. 
· When I learned French, ."la premiere lecon" was to say "Bonjour. Comment allez-vous?" The response had the same meaning as that in English. Only the sounds were different. "Bien. Et vous?" I guess this is an international phenomenon with no easy solution. But, having read this, maybe you'll be a bit more hesitant to greet someone with ''How are you?" "Fine." ¦ 

BULK RATE 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 

I 
i 
f: 
~­
! I 
r ' i 
~­
! 
j 
i\ 
ii 
! ;; ; 1 
.. 
f. 
,-·
i 
r 
r I
~; /
-
I 
1 

