Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disc© quasi semper vieturus ; vive quasi eras meriturns,
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 11, 1882.	Number 22.
Thought.
BY J. C. EABLE.
How many thoughts are pictures to the mind Of him who thinks them, and sweet rhythm, too, While others in their form no beauty find,
Nor hear the harmony they breathe to you!
Yet be not therefore to yourself less true, They think the best who think not with mankind, Who hear what others hear not, and who view Strange things, to which all other eyes are blind.
So let your course run in and out the stars, And deeper dive than the deep-rolling sea;
If you can mark the time of your own bars, What matter who may follow, who may flee ?
Think your own music, and despite their jars, Tune within tune, let tune with tune agree.
A Letter From Isaac Pitman.
The Scholastic has been honored with an autograph article from Mr. Isaac Pitman, of Bath, England, which we publish this week. Mr. Pitman is well known, the world over, as the inventor of Phonography, and, in conjunction with Mr. Ellis, the author of a phonetic alfa-bet of the English language by which its every sound and articulation can be represented with a clearness and simplicity that effectually do away with the labor of spelling. The great defect of our language is its absurd orthography. In the first place, we have not a sufficient number of vowel signs. There are fourteen vowel sounds in spoken English, and to express these, we have but five signs or letters. If we take the entire range of English vowels, we shall find that there are five simple vowels and 83 combinations of vowels, with 281 meanings, as has been shown in a table prepared by W. E. A. Axon, M. R. S. L., F. S. 8., in the Quarterly Journal of Science for July, 1873. In the second place, while there are not consonant signs enough to express English sounds, our orthography carries a dead-weight of superfluous letters that seem to have no other object than to confuse the learner. Two useful signs used in the old English—th in thin, think, and th in them, thence, thither, have been dropped. These Mr. Pitman has replaced. As Mr. Axon truthfully remarks, the object of all alphabetic writing is the representation of spoken sounds. For this purpose it is essential that we should have a symbol for each sound, and that th it symbol be used with regularity and consistency. An analysis of the spoken sounds of Gur language shows that we have thirty-eight distinct sounds (including’ the two vowel dif-thongs, long i and u, and the two consonantal difthongs ch,j), and that for the representation of these we have but
twenty-six letters, three of them mere duplicates. - Thia has led to the device of using two or more letters to indicate a single sound. Had this been done with uniformity, all would have been well, but, unfortunately, no system has been followed, and an examination of 3,000 monosyllables has shown 145 different methods of indicating the fourteen vowel and dipthong-vowel sounds. All these combinations of letters that represent only one sound are virtually one letter, and Mr. Pitman shows in a tabulated summary that the number of combinations now used to express imperfectly, and in a circuitous way, a few simple sounds in the spoken language, is above 200. This and other like imperfections, that form a conglomeration of absurdities, drew from the late Lord Lytton the remark that, “ A more lying, round-about, puzzle-headed delusion than that by which we confuse the clear instincts of truth in our accursed system of spelling was never concocted by the father of falsehood.... How,” he asks, “ can a system of education flourish that begins by so monstrous a falsehood, which the sense of hearing suffices to contradict?” It is related of Voltaire that when, in his painful effort to learn English, he discovered that the letters a-gu-e spelt ague, a word of two syllables, but that, if you increased the length by adding two more letters, and so got pl-a-g-u-e, the word became one syllable, and was pronounced plague (plaig), he threw the book across the room, fairly danced in Franco-philological rage, and wished in his own bitter way that one half of the English nation might have the ague and the other half the plague (plaigeu). “ Of course,” adds Prof. Max Mailer,—from whom we have the story,—“ Voltaire was a man of too highly peppery a temperament to be commended as a model; still, what rational conclusion ought to be drawn from the spectacle of a grown man, and philosopher, going off into such a fury over the bite of one sporadic mosquito out of the countless swarms that for years on years are singing around and inflaming the blood of all the little innocents in the schools ?... The question then, that will have to be answered sooner or later is this: Can this unsystematic system of spelling English be allowed to go on forever? Is every English child, as compared with other children, to be mulcted in two or three years of his life in order to learn it ? Are the lower classes to go through school without learning to read and write their own language intelligently ? And is the country to pay millions every year for this utter failure of nati onal 'education? I do not believe that such a state of things will be allowed to continue forever, particularly as a remedy is at hand—a remedy that has now been tested for twenty or thirty [forty] years, and that has answered extremely well, I mean Pitman’s system of phonetic writing, as applied to English.”
Thus far Prof. Max Mailer, Professor of Philology in
328	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in the University of Oxford, and the prince of modern philologists. Professors Sayce and Earle of Oxford, and Prof. Skeat, Anglo-Saxon Professor at Cambridge University, are also ardent advocates of the reform. To these may be added Drs. Morris and Murray, and Messrs. Ellis and Sweet, all Presidents, past or present, of the British Philological Society; Sir Charles Reed, President of the London School Board; Dr- Norman Kerr, Rev. Russell Martineau, Dr. J. H. Gladstone, and Mr. Chadwick. On this side of the Atlantic it found no less warm advocates in Professor Whitney of Yale, the late lamented Prof. Haldeman, of Pennsylvania University, Prof. March, and others. Of the distinguished Professor at the head of the English department at Harvard, the college boys, rightly or wrongly, narrate that he fairly exulted when they spelt outrageously, and hoped that, like so many Hampdens standing out against ship-money, they would keep on doing the same till the reform was instituted.
This subject of a reform in spelling is one well suited for the consideration of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, for every mother in English-speaking countries. It is emphatically “ a question on which to enlist the sympathies of women. It is not an abstruse one. It is one concrete with the tears, weariness and headaches of children........Let them get up an agitation in every household and schoolroom, and raise the cry, ‘King Herod and his minions are braining the innocents with spellingbooks,’ and take no rest until the reform is fully established.
We will acknowledge, for ourselves, that only a short •time ago we thought Mr. Pitman’s new method of spelling a barbarous one, and not to be thought of as an expedient out of our difficulties. So strong is early prejudice, strengthened by years of habit But the beauty and simplicity of the phonetic spelling in phonography disabused us, and we foresee that if the spelling reform be propagated in no other way the rapid spread of phonography will establish it at no very distant day. With these premises we introduce Mr. Pitman’s article.
(For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”)
The Speling Reform.
From Eizak Pitman, Bath, England.—Ei send a short ar-tikel for the Scholastic, kopid from this week’s Fonetik Jurnal, in parshiali reformd speling—az far az we kan go without niu teips. It iz kalld Semifonotipi. Your readers wil obzerv that in this Ferst Staje ov the Speling Reform, our langwej iz reprezented fonetikali tu this ekstent: —Each konsonant iz konfeind tu the reprezentashon ov wun sound, and everi short vouel and difthong iz alwayz eksprest bei its proper karakter, hweil the long vouelz remain in their prezent vareieti ov spelings, eksept that a flu anomaliz, az “receive, believe,” (reseev, beleev,) “move, prove,” (moov, proov,) ar korekted. Ther ar, houever, two eksepshonz tu this jeneral statement. Wun konsonant, “ th,” and wun vouel teip, “ u,” reprezent two soundz each, nameli thoze in “ this, thistle, but, put.” We hav tu chooz between the introdukshon ov niu teips and the giving ov a diupliket reprezentashon tu “ th ” and “ u.” The steil ov reformd speling most leikli tu be aksepted bei printerz in the infansi ov the reform, iz wun that wil giv them no trubel in geting niu teips, or oltering old wuns. Hwen the publik ei haz been for sum teim akustomd tu the apearans ov wurdz az prezented in Semifonotipi, no objekshon wil be felt tu taking the further step ov introdiusing niu leters for the long vouels, and for the siks konsonants ch (chin), th (thin), th (then), sh (wish), zh (vision), ng (long).
Theze deigrafs ar uzed in Semifonotipi az in ordinari printing.
It may be wel tu eksplain the use ov the vouelz more fuli. Ther ar onli feiv vouel teips in our langwej, “ a, e, i, o, u,” and they ar most frekwentli emploid tu ekspres short soundz, az in
man, men, nip, not, but, put.
The last vouel haz two funkshonz, az in “pulpy,” (u), “pulpit” (oo). Theze feiv vouelz ar also uzed tu reprezent long soundz, az in	-
father, favor, machine, cocoa, ------------ truly,
and herein leiz wun ov the diflkultiz, but bei no meanz the the prinsipal wun, ov Inglish speling. There iz no indika-shon on the printed paje ov diferent soundz being reprezented bei theze feiv leterz in “ cap, capable; met, meter; invalid, invalid (invaleed); pot, potent; dug, duty. Hwei do we not say “ dug, dutty,” az wel az “ pit, pity ” ? The truth iz we lay the meaning ov “ u ” in “ but, put ” upon the ferst konsonant ov each wurd.
Tu reprezent a long vouel in a reformd speling we must
1.	Diuplikate the short vouelz; in feiv kasez out of siks ; as, aa (ma), ee (there), ii (seen), oo nought, noht (note), uu (food); or
2.	Uze kombinashonz; az, aa (father), ai (maid fair), ee (feet) aw, au, oa, or ao (law, laud, broad), oh, oa, or, oe (vote, soap, foe), oo (food); or
3.	Inlrodius siks niu teips formd on the model ov the old wunz; az
B, 8,	j, O, &, ll,
father, fate, fair, feet, fall, foal, fool.
(Ferst Staje ov the Speling Reform.)
POETRI.
Poetri iz the antithesis tu Seiens. The preimari objekt ov Poetri iz the komiunikashon ov immediet plezhur; but this iz not all. Poetri izadishonalikaraktereizd by that pekiuliar degree ov ekseitment hwich areizez in the poet himself in the akt ov kom-pozishon. This pekiuliar state and degree ov ekseitment permits the produkshon ov a heili plezhurabel hole, ov hwich each part shal also komiunikate for itself a distinkt and konshus plezhur. Poetri iz simpel, sensiuus, pashonet. Hweil its sim-plisitl distingwishez it from the ardinus prosesez ov seiens, it also prekludz everi afekshon and morbid pekiulariti. Then sensiuusnes inshurz that definitnes ov imejri without hwich poetri bekumz flatend intu mere didaktiks ov praktis, or it evaporates intu a hazi and unthoughtful day-dreaming. And lastli, pashon proveidz that neither thought nor imejri shal be simpli objektiv, but that the true hiuman feeling shal worm and animate both. Poetri uzez langwej az her instrument; fashonz langwej tu her own purpos; and eidealeizez it tu en-abel it tu ekspres eideal biuti. The word chozen and transflg-iurd bei poetri iz the most enerjetik and universal simbol. Armd with this talisman, hwich she haz kreated for herself, poetri reflektsall the imejez ov the sensibel wurld, leik skulp-tinr and painting; she reflekts the feeling leik painting and miuzik; and that iz not all. Poetri kan ekspres thought en-teirli separated from feeling, form, kulor, sound, hwich duz not manifest itself in eni way. The hiuman wurd eidealeizd bei poetri, haz the depth andgrandiur ov the miuzikal note; but it iz luminus az wel az pathetik; it speaks tu the understanding, az wel az tu the hart.—J. G.
To those who are unaccustomed to phonetic spelling, and especially if they have never seriously considered the insuperable difficulties of our present orthography, the foregoing sample of semi-phohetic spelling may seem absurd; but when it is known that it removes all the old difficulties it stands to reason that it should be accepted.
THE NOTRE DAMfi SCHOLASTIC.	329
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Whittier, the Quaker poet—it is said—invested his first earnings in a copy of Shakspeare.
—It is reported that M. Coquelin has received the decoration of Chevalier de St. Jacques from the King of Portugal.
—The death is announced of Richard Brinsley Knowles, the only surviving son of the dramatist, James Sheridan Knowles.
—h. facsimile of the statue of St. Peter at Rome has just been executed at Paris by M. Froc-Robert, being a gift by Leo. XIII to the French Church in Boston.
—The Poles at Cracow have just put up a bust to the patriot and poet Mickiewicz, who during his exile in Rome was the intimate friend of James Fenimore Cooper and enjoyed the rare distinction of having his works translated into Persian.
—To a recent visitor, a young beginner in literature, Henry W. Longfellow said: “Always write your best — repeating it, with his hand upraised,—“ remember, your best. Keep a scrap-book, and put in it everything you write. It will be of great service to you.”
—Bret Harte pleads not guilty to the charge of pirating some of Lanigan’s fables. The.book bearing his name was printed without his knowledge, and he finds on examination that it contains only three pieces written by himself; the remainder of the work, some fifty pieces, being by somebody else. Bret Harte is a little tardy in this disclaimer.
—Of some of the most successful songs and song-writers, Church's Musical Visitor says: “Speaking of the circulation and pecuniary profit of songs, the writer says: One of the most popular songs is ‘My Grandfather’s Clock,’ by Henry C. Work, the author also of ‘ Marching Through Georgia;’ on which the royalty a year ago had amounted to $4,000. A song less widely known, but one that has had a like success, is ‘Tenting on the Old Camp Ground,’ by Walter Kittredge, of New Hampshire, which was written in the early days of the civil war, and whose sale has already reached hundreds of thousands of copies. Charles Dibden’s ‘Poor Jack’ was sold to a publisher by its author, with some other songs, for $300, but had long since netted the publisher upwards of $25,000. It has been reported that Stephen C. Foster, the author of ‘ Old Folks at Home,’ got nearly $15,000 out of that sweet plantation melody. This, Mrs. Johnson says, is not the fact, while it is true that he realized something like $20,000 from all of his compositions. E. P. Christy, of negro minstrel fame, paid $400 for the privilege of printnig his own name as author and composer on a single edition of ‘ Old Folks at Home.’ Foster composed between two and three hundred songs, words and music, more, it is said, than any other American; and many of them were first written on pieces of brown wrapping paper in the back room of a down town New York grocery. Of his ‘ Old Dog Tray ’ 125,000 copies were sold in eighteen months. This was almost a parallel success to that of John Howard Payne’s ‘Home, Sweet Home,’ of which 100,000 copies were sold in a single year, and out of which the publisher netted $10,000 in the first two years of sale. Many of our best-known songs were impromptu compositions. ‘A Life on the Ocean Wave ’ came to its author, Epes Sargent, naturally enough, as he sat one morning on the Battery looking off over the harbor of New York. Henry Russell, who composed the music to fit the words, sat down for that purpose at a piano in a Broadway music-store, and hit the melody after a moment’s fumbling at the keys. The copyright of this song became very valuable, though Mr. Sargent never got anything from it. Dr. Thomas Dunn English’s ‘Ben Bolt’ was a similarly happy and sudden thought, struck out to oblige his friend George P. Morris, who wanted a song for his paper, the New York Mirror. Another remarkable extemporization, though in a very different poetic key, was Bishop Heber’s ‘I see them on their Winding Way,’ which he composed one evening to suit a march played by a favorite cousin who was visiting in his family.’ ’’
Exchanges.
—Taking up a copy of The Cornell Sun that lay upon our desk, the first item in the “Sunbeams” attracted our attention—-“ Sophomore supper this evening.’* We wonder if that is the supper the Sophomores did not sup, but which was taken in before the supper hour by a lot of wily Freshmen? When the rightful guests arrived, they found the villainous Freshies had imposed themselves upon mine host and eaten the supper, leaving the tables covered with the debris of the feast. Of course, the wrath of the Sophomores suppurated at the trick that was played them, but it was too late to mend the matter. Freshmen will do such things.
—The American Short-Hand Writer begins its second vol" ume under the most favorable auspices. It has been en larged to sixteen pages, and a Reporter’s Department added, containing, among other matters of interest, a full page of fac-simile reporting notes from first-class pho-nographers using the various approved methods of writing, a column of reporting phrases and contractions, reporting reminiscences, etc. The January number has for frontispiece a portrait of Isaac Pitman, the inventor of phonography and a phonetic alphabet for the English language. Mr. Pitman is still living and an enthusiastic laborer in the propagation of phonography and the spelling reform. Besides the Phonetic Institute at Bath, England, Mr. Pitman’s son, Frederic, has a branch house in London, and from these centres tons weight of phonographic books [are turned out monthly to be scattered throughout the English-speaking world. Mr. Pitman’s “ Phonographic Teacher ” —the best book from which a student, with or without a teacher, can learn the rudiments of the art—has already reached, we believe, between 6 and 700,000 copies; the “Manual,” the next in grade, 336,000 copies; the “ Reporter,” 93,000; the issue of the “ Phrase Book” is not given, but it must be very large. The “ Dictionary," of which 10,000 copies had been printed two years ago, is already out of print, but a new and enlarged edition is in press. From this may be seen how rapidly the “ art of winged words ” is spreading. The fac-simile reporting notes in this issue of the Short-Hand Writer are, a page of Mr. Frederick R. Guernsey’s notes (in Isaac Pitman’s phonography) of the Guiteau trial, written fully and clearly, and as easily read as print; a page of Jas- R. Bacon’s (Graham’s): and one of 1.1. Doane’s (Munson’s). The Short-Hand Writer is published by Messrs. Rowell & Hickcox, Boston, Mass., who are also the American agents for Isaac Pitman’s books. The price of subscription to adepts in phongraphy is only $1 a year; to students, with the privilege, gratis, of having their exercises corrected through the mail, $2.50.
—The Musical Secord (published by Oliver Ditson & Go., Boston) is a regular weekly visitor to our sanctum, and we have no doubt our embryo musicians enjoy its well-selected articles, sketches and anecdotes relating to music and musicians. Each number of the Secord contains from six to eight pages of music, of which it may be enough to say that it comes from Oliver Ditson & Co., and is selected by Mr. Dexter Smith. From an interesting article on “ Patti as a Critic ” we take the following piece of
ADVICE TO YOUNG SINGERS.
“At this point the fair songstress was interrupted by the entrance of fonr ladies, a well-known music teacher and three of her pupils, who desired to pay their respects to the famous singer.
“ The music teacher expressed the desire that Madame Patti should hear her pupils sing, to which the Diva responded by re-peatingly kissing the young ladies and calling each a ‘dear,* and raising the piano-lid by way of preparation for the trial.
“ ‘ Now don’t be frightened,’ she remarked to the young lady at the instrument. ‘ Just sing as if no one was around.’
“ Thus encouraged, the pupil sang ‘ Punchinello,’ in very fair style.
“ ‘ Now I am going to have you sing that song very much better,’ exclaimed Patti, at the conclusion of the air, ‘ but you must pronounce each word in full, and distinctly. Now go on, once more. Jnst pretend that I am deaf, and can’t hear.’
“ Once again the young lady sang the song, and the improvement was at once remarked by every one in the room.
“ ‘ Oh! you little dear, that’s splendid; I knew you couldget better,’ exclaimed Patti, enthusiastically. ‘Now don’t for do this suggestion—always sing your words clearly and distinctly.’
330	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ ‘Pardon me for neglecting you,’ said the Madame, turning to the reporter. ‘After singing in all the large cities in this country I will return to London in time to appear in VeWt’da, the new opera, written expressly for Signor Nicolinl and myself, by Lenepven, maestro of the Conservatory of Music in Paris. When Vellida comes out there will be no other opera. Oh ! it is just grand, but pardon me, Messieur, I want to see your park; do come and see me again.’”
New Publications.
—Donahoe's Magazine for February is, as usual, replete with interesting matter. The following is the table of contents: I, Portrait of Washington.—Early History of the Church in Boston; II, Some of our Weak Points; III, The Flower of Finse; IV, The Jesuits and their Persecutors, II; V, The Golden Jubilee of the Sisters of Mercy; VI, The Augustinians of Dublin and their New Church; VII, Molly Vaughan, Sequel of an Eviction; VIII, The History of a Planet; IX, The School Question; X, True to His Memory; XI, From Elizabeth to Victoria; XII, French Estimate of Parnell; XIII, Anecdotes of the Late Archbishop McHale; XIV, The Irish Soldier in the Rebellion; XV, The Leos; XVI, Parody on “Believe Me, if all those Endearing Young Charms; ” XVII, A Smallpox Remedy; XVIII, The Execution of Robert Emmet; XIX, The Holy See—Coming Liberty; XX, The Nun of Kenmare at Knock; XXI, Character of Washington; XXII. The Dewy-winged Breezes were Soaring; XXIII, Our Young Folks: Five Little Farmers; XXIV, Useful Knowledge; XXV, The Humorist; XXVI, Talk with Our Readers; XXVII, Personal; XXVIII, Notices of Recent Publications; XXIX, Obituary; XXX, Rev. Patrick Cuddihy.
—The Century Magazine for February confirms the impression already formed that the magazine under its new name is better than Scribner's in its palmiest, days. The frontispiece of the current number is a portrait of Geo. W. Cable, engraved by Cole. The opening sketch, “ The Tile Club Ashore,” by W. Mackay Laffan, is plentifully illus-trated by a number of The Century's corps of engravers; as is also “ Brother Stolz’s Beat,” a sketch of the Moravian settlement in Pennsylvania. “Hermes Trismegistus,” a poem of two pages, is from the pen of H. W. Longfellow, and written specially for the magazine. Edmund Clarence Stedman contributes a poem, “Lovers in the Tropics." “Through One Administration," by Frances Hodgson Burnett, a serial begun in November, maintains its interest; so also does W. D. Howells’s “A Modern Instance. “ The Phidian Age of Sculpture,” by Lucy M. Mitchell, is profusely illustrated. These are but a few of the entertaining articles of the February number of The Century. Arthur Penrhyn Stanley contributes a brief review’ or rather a eulogy, of the sermons of Frederick W. Rob" ertson, in which a weak attempt is made to place Robertson above Dr. (now Cardinal) Newman. However the writer pays the great oratorian the following compliment:
“ No doubt many Englishmen would say that these sermons are far superior to those of Robertson, at once, in their excellence and their authority. The singular grace with which sacred subjects are handled in Dr. Newman’s is beyond all praise. There are hardly any passages in English fliterature which have exceeded in beauty the description of music, in his University sermons; the description of the sorrows of human life in his sermon on the pool of Bethesda; the description of Elijah on Mount Horeb; or, again, in the discourses addressed to mixed congregations: “The arrival of St. Peter as a Missionary in Rome”; the description of Dives as the example of a self-indnlgent voluptuary; the account of the Agony in the Garden of Gethsemane, and of the growth in the belief in the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.”
The Household Library of Catholic Poets. From Chaucer to the Present Day. Edited by Eliot Ryder. Joseph A. Lyons, University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Between them, Mr. Eliot Ryder and Professor Lyons have gotten out a very creditable book. It is better than Mr. Ryder’s prospectus would have led us to expect. The mechanical part of the work—there is a red-line edition—is admirable, though the use of a more open-faced type might have improved it. Great care has plainly been bestowed on the printing of the frontispiece—an en
graving of Chaucer. Nearly a hundred and fifty Catholic Poets and writers of verse are numbered in this volume. With the exception of the Rossetti brother and sister— whose Catholicity is, we think, doubtful, though some of their poems are Catholic in feeling—these were, or are, at least nominal sons and daughters of the Church,—American Catholic Poets are well represented. Indeed, Mr. Ryder sometimes runs the risk of slighting poets whose reputation is fixed, in order to give greater space to the younger and less known writers. His selections show a tendency towards merely lyrical poems, and wherever he can he hunts out a bit of vers de societe as an example of the poetic art. But this may be due not so much to the leaning of his taste as to a wise desire to make his book popular. The “Household Library” bears the marks of having been a labor of love. It has been conscientiously and carefully done; and if anything is lacking, it is not fur want of research and a desire to find missing gem . Crashaw might have bad a fuller and more characteristic representation than “ Out of the Italian” ; but tastes differ so entirely as regards the best things of favorite poets, that even this is hyper-criticism. This volume fully fills the place which Mr. Ryder, in his preface, announces that he intended it to fill. “It is to be questioned," he says, “ whether any poetical collection was ever attended with so many obstacles and such great difficulties. As the Very Rev. clergyman had pointed out, it was by no means easy to locate many poets as Catholics. The various dictionaries and cyclopaedias of literature, all of them edited by Protestants, have carefully concealed the religious faith of nearly all Catholic writers of eminence, and those who were not exceedingly well-known to fame have been ignored altogether." Mr. Ryder’s intention, which was to show that Catholics have written good poetry and much of it, is entirely carried out in this tasteful and carefully-edited book.—Freeman's Journal, New York.
Scientific Notes.
—A premium of £500 has been offered by Mr. Elis Lever, of Manchester, Eng., for the best system of electric lighting for mines.
—Celluloid is now being used in the manufacture of artificial eyes. The material is lighter than glass, and its non-friable quality renders it far more trustworthy in emergencies.
—Mr. Durgate has presented to the French Academy of Sciences $10,000, the interest to be given to the author of the work best adapted to console humanity. The first prize will be adjudged in 1885 to the author of a work giving the most exhaustive diagnosis of indications of death and means to prevent premature burial.
—There are at Rome, domiciled in the Vatican, three “ pontifical academies." They are the “ Accadia," presided over by Mgr. Stefano Ciccolini, which includes philosophy and history as well as poetry; the “Nuovi Liucei,” founded by Pius IX., in 1847, and the “ Academia d’Archeo-logia,” presided over by the illustrious Commendatore de Rossi.
—An Italian has invented a process for solidifying wine. From a small quantity of this extract may be obtained a bottle of generous wine of good taste and beautiful color. The object is to victual ships and supply armies. A chemist in Marseilles has found a chemical combination by which he can solidify and even crystallize brandy. The brandy in its new form looks like alum. It entirely loses its smell. The facility with which it can be transported is, of- course, the main recommendation of the new invention.
—The practice is common among the engravers and watchmakers of Germany of hardening their tools in sealing wax. The tool is heated to whiteness and plunged into the wax, withdrawn after an instant, and plunged again, the process being repeated, until the steel is too cold to enter the wax. The advantages claimed for this method are that the steel becomes almost as hard as the diamond, and when touched with a little oil or turpentine
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	331
S'
-7
the tools are superior for engraving, and also for piercing the hardest metals.
—It is claimed by a writer in Nature that the oil of the “ olachen” or “ ulikon,” the candle-fish of Alaska, possesses all the medicinal qualities of cod-liver oil. This fish has long been an ichthyological curiosity, and has been noticed by almost every traveller who has visited the coasts of British Columbia and southern Alaska. It is a small, silvery fisb, averaging about fourteen inches long, and in general appearance much resembling a smelt. It is the fattest of all known fish, and affords a very superior oil when tried out. Dried, the fish serve as torches. When alight is needed, the tail is touched to the fire, and will burn with a bright light for some time. No description can give an adequate idea of their numbers when ascending the rivers from the sea. The water is literally alive with them and appears to be boiling.
.—Among the many unexpected developments of electrical science is an application to the hiving of bees when they swarm, successfully tried by German experimenters. It was thought that by utilizing the electric force the bees might be stupefied for the necessary period of time without being injured, and the result proved the correctness of the idea. The first attempt was made upon the bees that bad gathered upon trees, the insects falling upon the ground in a kind of trance, which admitted of their being safely handled. The next stage in the experiment was to capture the bees when they were about to swarm. By introducing two ends of the connecting wires into a fully occupied honeycomb, and turning on the current, the bees were rendered inactive for about thirty minutes, while no bad results appeared to follow their awakening.
—Brom some correspondence between the Abbe Barthelemy, who, in the latter part of the eighteenth century was a curator in the Royal Library at Paris, and Mme. du Deffand, recently published, it would appear that the Abbe anticipated the invention, or rather the practical application eighty years afterward, of the electric telegraph. Writing from Duc de Choiseul’s seat in the country to Mme. du Deffand, then in Paris, he seeks to excuse himself for not having sent her a letter which she had been expecting, by saying that he had been engaged on some interesting experiments in physics. The passage is sufficiently remarkable to be worth quoting: “We are told that if you take two clocks, the hands of which are both magnetic in the same degree, and move the hands of one, the hands of the other will follow the same direction; so that when you make one clock strike twelve, the other will do the same. Supposing that these artificial magnets can be perfected so that force will extend from here to Paris, you must have one of these clocks, and we will have another, substituting the letters of the alphabet for the hours on their faces. At an agreed hour each day we will move the hands, and your secretary will put the letters together and read our message. The process might be simplified by making the needle (hand of the clock) strike a bell, to announce that the oracle is about to speak. There is really no limit to the possible application of this process.” Mme. du Deffand, evidently, did not put much faith in her correspondent’s scientific genius; for in her reply she satirically observes that it would no doubt “ be a very convenient invention for people who are too lazy to write.—New York Sun.
College Gossip.
—The “ Antigone ” of Sophocles is to be produced next March by the students of University College, Toronto, Canada.
—Harvard College has received a donation of $100,000 from the estate of a wealthy gentleman of Boston,—Isaac Rich, we believe.
—The Aihenosum states that a chair of Celtic has been instituted in the College de France, and that M. De Jubain-ville has been appointed to fill it.
—An exchange wants to know “whether our colleges turn out gentlemen.” Certainly not; gentlemen are allowed to go on and graduate.—Ex.
—The Rev. Father Clark, S. J., who has succeeded Father Coleridge in the editorship of The Month, was formerly a resident tutor at St. John’s, Oxford,
—It has been stated that no student who has used tobacco has graduated valedictorian at Harvard in 50 years, though five-sixths of the number in every class use it.—Ex.
—Some of the students of the Wabash College dressed up a gawky, long-haired comrade as Oscar Wilde, accompanied him on a lecturing visit to Crawfordsville, and dined with an aesthetic villager.
—The Art department of St. Mary’s of the Woods, this State, has an invaluable instructress in the person of Sister Maurice, who has done so much towards cultivating and refining the tastes of the young ladies of this and adjoining States.
—A young lady, recently graduated from college, desires to know if we would recommend her to continue the study of metaphysics, or to commence the study of higher mathematics. It is very vulgar of us, we know, but we have advised her to take a course of boilapotatology and cooki-physics.—Ex.
—B. P. Shillaber writes from Boston to The Hartford Evening Post in regard to the Greek play: “ At its first performance, during the applause awarded, there was a cry of‘Author! Author!’ near the door, which was supposed to proceed from a member of the legislature who had strayed in.”
—The Union Theological Seminary of New York, besides the gift of §200,000 from Ex-Gov. Morgan, has lately received donations amounting to about §180,000, and also has §80,000 promised for the endowment of a professorship. And yet its officers claim that it is in need of §175,000 more.
—An auction sale of the furniture of the house in which the Chinese students lived in Hartford, disappointed those who went expecting to buy real Oriental curiosities and ornaments,. Nearly everything in the building was of American design and manufacture. The only foreign articles were a quantity of garments which had been sent over for the boys to wear, but the fashions of Hartford had been preferred.
—This from the Boston Times: “The enterprise of the Harvard Herald must be appreciated by the citizens of Cambridge. • Last Thursday morning it had a full account of the final scene in the Guiteau trial on the streets of Cambridge at half-past five o’clock, an hour before the Boston papers reached that city. At half-past six it published another edition,’containing the usual amount of late college news.”
—Georgetown College Library has 37 vols^ printed before the year 1500, 268 printed before 1600, also several valuable manuscripts, among which are one attributed to the thirteenth century; one to the fourteenth century; one in the Irish character, attributed to Geoffrey Keating; one in Siamese character; and one found on the body of a Tripolitan sailor, consisting of a portion of the Koran, written in Arabic.
—“ Some of my readers may remember Virgil’s description in the ‘ Georgies,’ of bees leaving their hives in the morning, Mane ruunt portis: nusquam mora. A pupil of mine thus Englished the words: ‘ In the morning they rush forth from the gates: manners are nowhere.’ It was a boy educated in the Isle of Man, who rendered Tres gravissimi historici by ‘Three very grievous hysterics.’” —Diversions of a Pedagogue in Macmillan's Magazine.
—The ‘Rugby’ game of football has sunk to its proper level. As affording opportunities for a display of brute strength and trickery, it may be called a success; in all other respects it was an unmitigated failure. It has been superseded in England, and it promises to die soon in this country. The block game ought to be prevented at all events, and the most feasible plan for effecting this seems to be the substitution of kicking.the ball through instead of snapping it back,, in a scrimmage. Another feature in the present game which ought to be removed is the display of brute strength which the game involves. Rough playing and hard tackling occasion angry tempers ^nd ungentlemanly actions.—Yale Record.
332	THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 11, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: z
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he wiU confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who 'may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office 'of publication, as, usuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the SCHOLASTIC always will be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—“ Justitia,” Toledo, calls our attention to—well, something. He is right. We made the same discovery ourselves, but, alas! too late. Honor quibus honor debetur. Fiat “Jusitia”!
—The Classes are now in smooth running order for the second session. The great number of new arrivals has made it necessary to divide several of the classes in the Preparatory and Commercial Courses. The boys evidently have their “ coats off and sleeves rolled up for business,” and the few who dragged during the first session have nearly all “ folded their tents like the Arabs and silently stolen away.”
—The life-size portrait of Queen Isabella is completed, and looks “ admirably well,” as Prof. Lyons always says. It is in the main corridor, opposite the painting of Columbus. The Queen is represented offering her jewels to defray the expenses of the momentous voyage. A detailed description of this painting, which is greatly admired by all who see it, will appear in a future number of the Scholastic. The other paintings in the main hall will soon be begun, probably next week.
—One of the most important studies of the College Course is, unquestionably, that of Christian Doctrine,
whether we consider the loftiness of the speculative truths with which it deals, or the practical results to which it is calculated to lead. It is not surprising, therefore, that it has always received the most careful attention and liberal encouragement from the officers of the University. The “ new departure ” in the method of teaching, which was inaugurated two years ago, has borne excellent fruit, and the Scholastic has already spoken of the interest which the Seniors take in the semi-weekly courses of religious instruction.
To show appreciation of this fact, as well as to excite a healthy emulation during the coming session, the premiums promised for this branch are unusually fine. We learn that four gold medals for Christian Doctrine will be awarded at the Annual Commencement. Two of these have already been presented, and when the names of the generous donors, Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, and Very Rev. Father Sorin, are mentioned, it will not be neccessary to add that the medals are such as any student may well exert himself to win and be proud to wear. It will also be superfluous to say that anyone aspiring to be the fortunate winner may as well make up his mind from the start that serious efforts on his part will be indispensably necessary to success. Orrick, of ’82, we are told, has the lead so far in the race for the Dwenger medal, but his superiority is hotly contested by Otis and Solon, both of ’84, and, as the battle is not to the strong alone, nor the race to the swift, it is impossible to foretell what the developments of the next few months will be. The one point certain is, that the best man will win.
The names of the donors of the two other medals are as yet unknown to us, though we have a strong suspicion that Very Rev. Father Corby could enlighten us as'to one, if he chose to do so, but as soon as we learn them to a certainty we shall communicate the information to the read* era of the Scholastic.
—One morning, when leaving his tub, Diogenes perceived that he had a neighbor, a young man of a noble family, who, carried away by the fame of the Cynic philosopher, had resolved to obtain a share of his fame by imitating his manner of living. For this purpose, he had profited by the darkness of the night to roll a tub beside that of Diogenes. “ Very good,” said the old man, on seeing him, “ wisdom has found a disciple at last. But before I adopt you, you must complete the victory over yourself; relinquish all your goods, that I may distribute them amongst the needy.” “All my goods!” answered the young man, in surprise; “excuse me, I have forgotten something at home.” And leaving the Cynic there, he went his way to return no more. “ Foolish men,” said Diogenes, smiling, “ how can you be true to others when you impose upon yourselves ? Appearances are what strike you, and you fancy that in order to be wise the tub alone will suffice.”
Like the follower of Diogenes, there are many young men who seem to think that their mere presence at a seat of learning will, in some way or other, make them learned; that “ going through the course ” will make them scholars. A more stupid error could not well be conceived, and yet it appears to be a common one. Although daily contact with those following the same pursuit, the instructions of professors, learned in the various branches of science which they teach, and thoroughly in earnest in their work, easy access to libraries and the discipline of a
TSE noTre Dame scholastic.
333
thorough and practical course of studies are great advantages to a student, they suppose an inclination to acquire knowledge, and can never supply for earnestness or lack of purpose. Hosts of what are denominated “self-made ” men become distinguished in science, literature and art simply by persevering effort; with them, great industry supplies the want of the advantages enjoyed in schools. There are so many indifferent graduates of colleges nowadays, young men who have profited so little by the opportunities which they possessed, that with many people the distinction of an academic degree is without recommendation for ability or worth, whereas it ought to be the highest. To many students the remembrance of their graduation must be one of bitter regret at the thought of the golden opportunities lost and the scant benefit acquired. Now is the time to guard against such regret. A student’s first duty is to make the best possible use of bis time and surroundings.
—Among the art treasures at Notre Dame is an original painting by Van Dyke, the great master of the Flemish school. It was brought to this country from England many years ago, and presented to Very Rev. Father Sorin, first President of the University. Although it has always been regarded as something precious, and supposed to be the work of one of the masters, it was not until last year, when it was placed in the hands of Prof. Gregori for restoration, that the authorship was determined. The Pro-r fessor is one of the highest authorities in such matters, and his enthusiastic delight on discovering that the work was by Anthony Van Dyke may be imagined. The task of renovating the canvas was an arduous one, and required weeks of patient labor. It is needless to say that it was done well and con amore. Those who saw the painting before the Professor began work on it, would hardly recognize it now. The>ubject is the Crucifixion, and the size of the canvas is 32x48 inches. The painting has been elegantly framed, and encased in glass. It may now be seen in the Green Room of the College.	/
We copy from the Chicago Tribune of last Monday the following letter to Very Rev. Father Sorin, congratulating him on the possession of such a treasure, and thanking him for his patronage of the fine arts.. The writer, at the time the letter was indited, had his studio in Chicago.
Rbv. Padre:—Fit gentile e di Lei ben degno il pensiero, che le nasceva, in contemplare il magnifico qnadro che io le diss! essere ppera di Antonio Wandyke. Ho I’onore di farle i miei ■- piti altijcomplimenti; avendo veduto la cura che V. R. ha preso per conservare un opera di tanto valore, avendolo privato dalle inginrie del tempo che lo avrebbe scolorlto e logorato. Questa plttura 6 degna di stare fra i dipinti dell’ Angelo di Urbino in Vaticano, e nelle piu illustri gallerie d’Enropa; ed essendo V. R. tanto amatore delle Belle Arti e si perseverante, ben d ragione che la patria gliene sappia grado, e la voce dei bnoni si accord! a dargli plauso e coraggio.
Da parte mia non voglio'parerle presontuoso, ma le assicnro, dalla cognizione che ho dell’ arte, essere un vero originate del Wandyck, e V. R. pud pretendere qualunque prezzo, perche e molto raro di trovare un flamingo di simil .misura, clod di pollicl 48 per 32, e di egual merito come quello posseduto daV.R.
Perdoni questa mia lunga letters, ma come artists, non ho potuto fare a meno di rallegrarmi con un amante e cultore delle arti, cio che d sempre piii ad onore di questa Universita. Ho Ponord di dichiarami
-	Suo umilmo,	Luigi Gregori.
>	Chicago, 7 Ottobre, 1881.
Al Rev. Padre E. Sorin, C. S. C.
[Translation.]
Chicago, III., October 7,1881.
Very Rev. and Dear Father:—Your delicate appreciation of works of art inspired you with a happy thought when you examined the magnificent painting which I told you to be unquestionably the work of Antonio Van Dyke. Allow me, Very[Rev. Father, to congratulate you for having protected a work of such merit against the ravages of time, by the careful attention you bestowed upon it. This painting is worthy to stand beside the paintings of Angelo of Urbino in the Vatican, and would be a credit to the most illustrious art galleries of Europe; and, Very Rev. Father,! think it but right that your love of the fine arts, and your constant and unwearying patronage of them, should meet with the recognition and the approval which they so well deserve, and with which art should always be encouraged. For my part, I will not speak rashly; but, with the knowledge that I have of works of art, I can certify that this is an original painting of Van Dyke. Yon can set a very high value upon it, and should you feel inclined to sell it, ask any price you please, because a Flemish painting of this size and merit is extremely rare and difficult to be found.
Please excuse my long letter, but, as an artist, I could not but thank you, in the name of art, for the kind attention you have bestowed upon this precious painting, and congratulate you in general for the care and patronage which you extend to the Art department of your University. I have the honor to be
Your humble servant,
Luigi Gregori.
Personal.
—John Alber, ’69, is in the queensware business, at Logansport, Indiana.
—W. B. Morris, ’76, after passing a very creditable public examination, has been admitted to the bar at Vicksburg, Mis.
—John J. McEniry ’78, is now in Osborn, III. He has not been heard from lately, but we have reason to believe that he is doing well.	"
—We had the pleasure of a call, last week, from Judge Turner, of South Bend, who has just returned home after a long western sojourn.
—We had a visit on Thursday last from Mr. Andrew Kuntsmann and Mr. Caspar Eberly, of South Bend. Mr. Kuntsmann came to visit his son at the college.
—Mrs. Catharine Dunbar, formerly of Waukesha, Wis^ is among the visitors this week. Mrs. Dnnbar is an old and tried friend of Notre Dame, where she is always a welcome guest.
—Jacob Alber, ’67, is in partnership with Mr. F. A. Rettig at Wabash, Indiana, and is doing a first rate business. Mr. Alber is married and has an interesting family of four children.
—Mr. Walter Ball, ’76, visited the college on Friday last, having come up with his brother, Fred, who enters college this term. Mr. Ball is in the wholesale grocery business, in Lafayette, and is succeeding well.
—W. B. Ames (Commercial), ’74, is practising dentistry at No. 70 Dearborn street, Chicago. After leaving Notre Dame, Mr. Ames attended the Cincinnati College of Dentistry, where he was awarded the medal for oral chemistry in 1880.
—Mr. William Hoynes, A. M., ’68, is editor of The Daily Transcript, Peoria, Ill. Mr. Hoynes has been for many years doing editorial work, on different papers, and 'the signal success that has always attended his labors, jand the high compliments paid him, testify to his worth and ability.
—Among the visitors whom we were glad to see during the past week was Rev. Father La Lumiere, S. J., the revered rector of St. Gall’s Church, Milwaukee. Father La Lumidre has been a tireless worker for the past quarter of a century, and though a man of not many words, his labors speak eloquently for themselves.
334
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Mr. Levi Lynn, ’59, is editor of The Wabash Courier, a large, handsome and well-edited weekly paper published at Wabash, Indiana, in connection with which there is also a large and finely equipped printing establishment. Mr. Lynn is, we are told, a representative man in the Art Preservative in his section and refers with a feeling of pleasure to his college days at Notre Dame.
—Albert Rohrback, ’80, is with Messrs. Strouse, Loeb & Co., clothiers, Philadelphia. He is well and doing well. Renewing his subscription to the Scholastic, he writes: “ I deem it my duty, and the duty of every old student of Notre Dame, to support the college paper. It reminds me of good old times.” Mr. Rohrback expects to be here at the next Commencement. We shall be glad to see him.
—A pleasant letter from Thomas H. Hale, a well-remembered student of ’79, addressed to Very Rev. Father Corby, C. 8. C., announces a marriage which look place at Bunker Hill, III, on the 8'h inst. The lady’s name is Miss Joyce D. McCappin. “ Hunker ” rejoices, and sends kind regards to his friends at Notre Dame, of whom there seem to be a large number. Congratulations and good wishes are expressed by all of them.
—Among the visitors to the College during the week were.- Mrs. D. B. West of Chicago, whose son is now attending class at the College; Mrs. Garrity of the same city, who also entered her sons; Rev. Alfred N. Gilbert, Bushville, Ind.; Rev. James H. Stover of South Bend; Rev. Father Scanlan, of Salt Lake City; J. McEnerny, Neopolis, Ohio; L. G. Horn, of ’77, and D. J. Moran of Valparaiso, Ind.; Edward Byerly of South Bend; Judge and Mrs. Turner of South Bend; G. C. Connor and John C. Griffis, of Chattanooga Tenn.; J. D. Oliver and Edwin Nicar, of South Bend; C. C. Roberts of Michigan City, Ind.; J. A. Castanedo, of New Orleans.
Local Items.
—“All things gone up! ”
—A new altar has been erected in the College chapel.
—“New Arts” will be rendered to-night by a select company.
—It’s lamentable how many people there are who can’t spell “ Professor.”
—The Sorins had recreation on Monday, and enjoyed themselves “ immensely.”
—Among the new students are two Indians of the Peoria tribe, hailing from Missouri.
—“ Don’t clap me up until I get through; you might scare me, and make me forget what I have to say.”
.	—The current number of The Century contains a fine
’ description, with illustrations, of the game of Tennis.
s —Excavations for the foundation of the eastern wing / were begun on Wednesday last. The work will be pushed rapidly.
—All the whistling at Notre Dame is left to the winds. This practice is in violation of the fundamental principles of “ New Arts.”
— Our friend John refuses to join any “foreign grub table.” He says he is going to continue eating in the vernacular, like other sensible persons.
—Our postmaster is still trying to make the outside world understand that letters, etc., for residents here should be addressed simply “ Notre Dame, Ind.”
—No “ copy ” for the Scholastic can be received later than Thursday noon, and it is an accommodation to have it sent in as much earlier than this as possible.
—A western editor, in response to a subscriber who grumbled that his. morning paper was intolerably damp, says “ that is because there is so much due on it."
—Master John Pierre Devereux, nephew of Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan, of St. Louis, makes the 65th Minim. Only ten more are needed to secure the promised Parisian dinner.
—The Curator of the Cabinet of Curiosities returns thanks to Masters W. Warren, E. Bailey, and to the Presi
dent of the Horticultural department for three curious pipes.
—The weather during the past week has been exceptionally fine. Fair, but treacherous, we think, as the number of persons we have met complaining of “ a bad cold ” will clearly show.
—Masters Echlin and Hoffman display considerable skill in the brackets and other articles which they make with scroll saws. Others of the Preps, should follow their exampip.
—St. -Joseph’s Church, Lowell, is rapidly nearing completion ; the steeple, with its gilded cross, was erected last week. The church will be a handsome structure, and the pride of Lowell.
—Rev. Father Johannes, formerly attached to the Faculty of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, is now stationed at South Bend, where he will establish a German parish. The people are glad to have him among them.
—The pouch owned by Bloody Knife, a Ree Chief, and scout to Gen. Custer in the Black Hill expedition, and several photographs of Chippewa chiefs and braves, have been added to the collection of Indian curiosities.
—Rev. Father O’Connell is becoming a great favorite with the Minims. They look upon him as the great patron of athletic sports, and the few who can succeed in gaining access to his rooms to swing the Indian clubs are the envied ones of the department.
—There is a marked improvement on the part of the acclytes, torch-beareis, etc., in carrying out the sacred ceremonies, thanks to the careful training of Mr. Sullivan. We hope the servers will reach such a degree of perfection as to preserve silence in the sacristy.
—We are authorized to correct the statement, lately published in the South Bend papers, that Rev. Father Granger addressed a meeting of the Land League recently held in that city. It was Rev. P. P. Cooney, who made a few uncomplimentary remarks about the British lion.
—The “ entries ” since September already number more than four hundred. This list includes only those who are studying in the college proper. It is safe to say that during the past five months as many as five hundred young men have received instruction at Notre Dame.
—On the 6th inst., Very Rev. Father General celebrated the sixty-eighth anniversary of his birthday. He appears to be as vigorous and active as he was ten years ago. It is the heartfelt wish of his many friends that he may live to celebrate many other happy returns of the 6th of February.
- The north end of the Seniors’ study-hall resembles a conservatory, with its rich bloom of geraniums, roses and calla lilies. The large statue of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, in the same room, is fairly embowered in a dense foliage of the rarest plants and shrubs. The Seniors display good taste.
—Professor Lyons’ Scholastic Almanac has come to us for the seventh time from Notre Dame University, Ind. As on former occasions, we find it rich in valuable and readable matter suitable for such a publication. We wish the learned Professor a deserved success in his laudable venture.—Catholic Review.	.
—Mr. J. F. Smith is busily at work on a full-length, lifesize portrait of Pius IX, of glorious memory. The Pontiff is represented clothed in full pontificals, giving his benediction in St. Peter’s Basilica. The features are an exact reproduction of the portrait painted from sittings given to Prof. Gregori by the Pope.
—Those, or rather some, who for so many years endured the inconveniences of the old printing-office, are at length filled with joy, and have reason to be so. A visitor writes: “We took a walk the other day for the first time through the new office and were as much surprised by its magnitude as we were pleased with the completeness of its arrangements.”
—Frank J. Rettig, after only two months’ lessons in drawing, has finished a full-size portrait of his cousin, John Alber, a former student here. The likeness is so good that we could scarcely credit the assertion that Master Rettig had taken only a two months’ course, but we
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	335
are assured that such is the case. The work reflects credit alike on teacher and pupil. ■
—The enthusiasm with which Minims and small Juniors managed to put themselves in the way of the men ' and teams working on the excavations for the eastern wing simply baffles description. Our friend, Colgar and others of the same age, must have imagined themselves suddenly metamorphosed inio first-class engineers, or superintendents of public works.
—We direct attention to the autograph letter of the venerable Isiac Pitman, to be found in another column. ‘It is probably the first received by any college paper on this side of the Atlantic. We believe the Scholastic can claim the distinction of being the first among its contemporaries to call attention to the study of phonography, and to advocate a reform of our cumbersome orthography.
—The marriage of a well-known and popular student of the ante-fire days, Mr. Thomas Hale, of Bunker Hill, III., is noticed in another column. Mr. Hale is the young gentleman who was wont to declaim with so much spirit and energy an ode in which the refrain “ And ’twas hip, he said, hip, hip, hurrah!” frequently occurred. His many friends at Notre Dame now feel like repeating the refrain in his honor or for his benefit.,
—Messrs. Clarke, O’Neill, McCarthy and Orrick, of the Thespian Society, attended a meeting of patriotic Irishmen in South Bend last Saturday evening, and favored the assembly with some speeches and recitations which are favorably spoken of in the city papers. Rev. Father Cooney was also in attendance and spoke for about an hour on the rights and wrongs of Erin. Ex-Mayor Tong of the College Faculty presided.
—Our weather-prophet says that the weather is “ astonishing,” and that if it continues much longer the end of the world may be looked for. He accurately foretold the weather for last Sunday, and it is due to him to state that his predictions are generally correct, more or less. He has no scientific theories to explain why he is right or wrong, and his methods still continue to puzzle the brains of these not given to prognostications.
—An antique umbrella of faded hue and ribs of failing strength, the properly of the amiable Secretary of the Students’ Office, who valued it very highly as a family heirloom, bequeathed to him by a venerated grandsire, has been missing of late. Its disappearance is almost contemporaneous with the late visit of the former Rev. Prefect of Discipline. We .wish to make no insinuations, but is this another case of “post hoc, ergo propter hoe ” ? Explanations are in order.
-—The Scholastic says the life-size portrait of Columbus in the vestibule of the University “ is the observed of all observers, and the admired of all critics. It is certainly one of the finest of the many works of art with which the genius of Prof. Gregori has enriched the University.” Notre Dame is very fortunate in securing the services < f this Riman artist, who has already placed in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart creations of his brush which have no equal in this country.—South-Bend Tribune.
—The 14th regular meeting ot the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held in Columbian Hall, Thursday, February 2,1882 At this meeting, there was a spirited debate on the subject, “ Should the Electoral College be Abolished?” Messrs. N. Commerford, T. Fenlon, and J. O’Reilly were for the affirmative, while Messrs. J. Barry, J. Kindle, and E. Fenlon sustained the negative. Messrs. J. and M. Falvey and W. Johnson, who acted as judges, decided in favor of the affirmative side. Appointments were then made for the next meeting.
—We find the following complimentary notice of the Scholastic Annual in the Boston Transcript: “ The Scholastic Annual for 1882, prepared and compiled by J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., has reached us. It contains astrological and astronomical predictions for the present year, with a list of the Church days, days of obligation, fasting and abstinence days, the regular calendars, and a large amount of interesting literary matter by Catholic writers. The present is the seventh iSsue of the Annual, which has attained a wide circulation among Catholics, and has become a permanent “ institution.”
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held on the 4th inst. D. G. Taylor, P. H. Archer, F. Johnson, and M. L. Foote were unanimously elected members. N. H. Ewing read a well-written criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting. E Fishel presented a fair essay on Classical Studies. Compositions were read by C. Rose, A. Coghlin, and W. P. Mahon. Declamations were given by G. J. Rhodius, J. L. Heffernan, C. C. Kolars, and J. W. Guthrie. Public readers appointed for the coming week are: A. Coghlin, H. P. and C. F. Porter, W- Johnson, C. Mnrdock, C. C. Echlin, T. Hurley, C. Rose and D. G. Taylor.
—The Cecilians had a most enjoyable little reunion in Washington Hall, on Wednesday evening, Feb. Sth. An excellent supper—to which, needless to say, full justice was done—was taken at 7 p. m.,at the conclusion of which Rev. Father Walsh briefly addres ed the Association, complimenting them on their present prosperous condition, and expressing the hope that when they next face the public in May, they will acquit themselves even more creditably than in December last. Songs, music and dancing enlivened the proceedings during the remainder of the evening. Among the invited guests were Rev. Father O’Connell, Profs Lyons and Edwards, and Bro. Leander.
—The Minims—The horrors of examination have somewhat collided with our duties to our young friends; but these being now past we take up with pleasure some of the compositions we find on our table. The first that comes to hand is rather a lengthy one from Master Guy G. Gibson, a name not unknown to literature. He went to the exposition during the Christmas holidays, and gives his experience as follows: “We saw lots of animals and skeletons; one of the most remarkable was the skeleton of the mammoth, which was seven hundred (700) years old, and it was an enormous thing about nine (9) feet in length, and in diameter about three (3) feet, and it had tusks about two (2) feet long, and rounded like a bended willow branch, and so sharp that when you touched them they would run into your hand. If you were to see one alive, and it was mad, it would go to the nearest river or pond, and get its trunk full of water and throw it at yon in full force, and nearly knock you down, and if he took you on his horns or tusks he would kill you in an instant nearly. The next one was the skeleton of a giant who was in France. When a man was digging in his garden, he struck some stones, and he wondered what they were, and he took an axe and caved the stonework in, and he found the skeleton of a giant about twenty-three (23) feet long, and around him was four (4) feet, and his eyes [sockets ?] were awful big. His name was on a card; I do not exactly remember it; but his castle still stands on the Rhine river in France; [Master Gibson does not believe in “ Our German Rhine.”] and they think if they dig a little further they will strike some other ones. It is supposed to be one of their burial places. This one is noted for being so big. They have it nowein the door of the Exposition, with its legs stretched out, and many people can walk under it; and it is so old that they have to prop it up with poles and chains, to hold it together, otherwi-e it would come apart and fall down. The next was a little dwarf, who was married. She was so little—a foot high— and they [she and her husband ?] would talk so low that you could hardly hear her; and they had fine dresses and clothes. The managers furnished them with everything nice; and they could sing. They had a very sweet voice, and they were walking together, when one of the gentlemen lifted her up, and it scared her a little, though not enough to hurt her. And she was sewing her husband’s pants, and mending his clothes, and it looked so nice to see such little things. You could take them on your hand, and put them into your pocket, though some grow to be quite big. If you have read Gulliver’s travels you will well understand how strong they are, and how he [Gulliver] could not get up because they tied his hair to i he ground, and he pulled till he got nearly all the hairs out of his head. The next was the pin-punisher. It was an awful thing to get punished with one of these things .because in that case you are sure to get killed. The way it is made is this: it is made of laths fixed together, so that it will come tight together, with pins stuck in them; and so a person gets in, and they wind up something, and it closes, and the pins stick in him till he dies from the want of
336	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
blood. And many things are made to punish people, but not now; but away back, centuries ago, in paganism, they used to punish the people in this way.”
Documents as interesting as this have been accumulating on our hands, until we find ourselves in an embarrtu de richesse. A beautiful panoramic view of a cat orchestra by moonlight, painted by one of the young ladies at St. Mary’s, has been a study for the Minims, and the more artistic among them have exhibited creditable copies, although none have quite succeeded in reproducing the peculiarly fiendish leer of the principal cat. Comparing the copies, we should call Master Louis Young’s the most cataleptic, Master A. P. Roberts’ the most cataclystic, Master Rene V. Papin’s the most categoric, and Master J. J. McGrath’s the most catastrophic. The latter young gentleman kindly volunteers the information: “ These are four cats,” at the bottom of his cartoon.
Master Willie J. Miller expatiates on skating and other matters, informing us that Master John F, Nester is the best skater in the college. MasterNester delicately avoids trumpeting his own praises, but states that “ Ryan Devereux is about the best skater in the Minims: he cuts stars every little while,” which strikes us as “ circustickle.” Master •O’Connor deplores the cutting of the ice, which circumscribes skating privileges. Master Metz glories in Chicago, and Master Rene Papin in St. Louis, making contumelious remarks respecting the former metropolis. Master W. Prindiville is eloquent on the advantages of going West and growing up with the country. Master Joseph P. H. Garrity appears as a critic of the drama, and Master Paul P. Johnson gives what seems to be an allegory on the subject of the “ little fat man.” Master Willie Devine is pretty rough on the Juniors, and if we published his article in full, they would certainly waylay him and mob him.
Boll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. W. Ball, W. H. Bailey, F. M. Barron, F. M. Bell, R. Becerra, D. Corry, S. G. Clements, M. Carroll, A. B. Christian, J. Conway, G. Clarke, T. Clarke, N. Commerford, J. Delaney, J. Delaney, J. Donegan, J. Drury, A. Dehner, E. Eager, F. Ewing, B. Eaton, R. Fitzgerrell, W. Flannery, J. Farrell, R. E. Flemming, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, T. D. Healy, M. F. Healy, W. Johnson, J. J. Kelly, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kindel, A. Kuntemann, G. M. Kerndt, M. Livingston, H. M. Lannon, J. C. Larkin, J. R. Marlett, A. Meyer, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, W. McDevitt, H. W. Morse, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, E. B. Mason, J. Nash, H. Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, W. H. O’Connor, T. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, E. A. Otis, A J. Peery, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, J. P. Peifer, E. J. Ryan, F. Rettig, P. Rasche, W. E. Ruger, L. Steiger, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, H. Steis, A. C. Schiml, C. A. Tinley, W. Thompson, M. S. Thompson, C. B. Van Duzen, M. C. Van Loon, F. Wheatly, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, E. D. Yrisarri, J. B. Zettler, J. F. Zahm, C. Garrett, A J. Golonski, F. H. Grever, G. E. McErlain.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. Browne, W. Bacon, E. Bailey, W. Barron, A 8. Brewster, B. B. Baca, F. Barnard, G. L. Castanedo, A. J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, A. M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanagh, A M. Chirhart, J. A Devine, M. Dolan, C. Devoto, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, M. 8. Gooley, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, J. Gallagher, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, W. H. Johnson, F. R. Johnson, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kolars, Oscar Kempf, H. A Kitz, 8. Katz, J. Livingston, F. 0. Lund, H. M. Metz, J. J. McGrath, F. M. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock, W. H. McCarthy, M. E. iMur-phy, J. H. Meyer, J. T. Neeson, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, Fred Ryon, 8. Rosenhein, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, J. A Ruppe, L. F. Rivaud, G. H. Schaefer, H. Sells, E. Schmitt, E. Tappan, D. Taylor, A. T. Taggart, T. Williams, J. E. Warner, A. F. Wendell, W. J. Wilbur, W. Warner, C. Ziegler, G. S. Smeeth, Jacob Friedman, Albert Miller, J. W. Start, D. J. Quill, W. J. Jones, 8. L. Peery, A J. Vernier.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. T. Berthelet, Donn A. Piatt, J. H. Dwenger, D. L. Mc-Cawley, W. Welch, C. H. McGordon, E. P. Nash, C. Metz, W. P. Devine, A Devine, R. V. Papin, A. J. Otis, E. McGrath, H. J. Ackerman, J. A Frain, P. P. Johnson, B. B. Powell, E. S. Chirhart, J. L. Rose, F. J. Coad, L. P. Graham, J. Tong, T. Norfolk, J. P. Devereux, F. 8. Whitney, W. Walsh, J. Hopkins, C. A. Davison, D. A O’Connor, E. A. Thomas, T. E. Curran.
The name of Elmer Otis was omitted last week by mistake from the Roll of Honor.
In the list of averages, that of C. Van Duzen should have been 94; that of H. Steis, 85.
One Mile West of Notre Name University.
—Bulletins containing the exact account of the standing of each pupil will be sent to their respective parents and guardians.
The general success of the pupils at their examinations has given them great courage, and the second term promises to be rich in happy results.
—Visitors at the Academy during the week were, Mrs. M. K. Devereux. St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. J. A. Castanedo, New Orleans, La.; Mrs. B. West, Chicago, Ill.; G. C. Connor and Griffis, of Chattanooga, Tenn.; Mrs. J. Hollister and Mrs. C. N. Moore, Hillsdale, Mich.; Judge Turner, Mrs. and Miss Turner, South Bend, Ind.; Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.; Mathew Cullen and Mrs. Cullen, Frisco, Utah; Rev. L. Scanlan, Salt Lake, Utah.
—The exposition room of the Art department was decorated with the work of the pupils. The following is a list of the work and names of the young artists: Misses J. Spangler, A. and H. Nash, P. Ewing, J. Owens, 8. Hanbury, M. A. Ryan, N. Hackett, H. Hicks, A. Martin, had on exhibition cards decorated in water-colors with flowers, birds and other designs; Misses Van Patten, L. Lancaster, A. Rasche, S. Papin, M. Price, M. Casey, E. Vander Hey-den, P. Ewing, J. Spangler, Placques gold, frosted and black, ornamented with designs from nature, done in oil; Misses Rasche, Vander Heyden, L. and C. Lancaster, Fox, Wall, Donnelly, Waters, Beal, Reilly, and Call presented drawings from nature and the antique; specimens of modelling in wax done by Misses Rasche, Vander Heyden, Reilly and Fendrick.
—On the 2d inst. the examination of the highest class in music and composition took place in presence of Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., Rev. Fathers Shortis, Cooney, FrSre, Saulnier, Franciscus, C. S. C., and Professor Edwards, of Notre Dame University, and a number of visitors from abroad. We here give the programme carried out by the pupils:
SEMI-ANNUAL ENTERTAINMENT, Feb. 2, 1882. Chorus.......................from'Haydn’s “ Creation ”
Vocal Class.
Essay (Heldenmuth).............................Miss Claffey
Song “Ffeur* des Alps,".............................Wekerlin Miss Reilly.
March from Tannhauser.........................Wagner—	Liszt
Miss Fendrick.
Essay uNos actions, miroirouserty&te notrecaractdre," Miss Galen Vocal Trio “Barcarolle,”............................. Campana Misses C. Hackett, Reilly and Rentlinger.
Harp Solo.........................................Toulman
Miss Galen. Essay “The Effect of Character on Society,”....Miss Walsh Read by Miss Cavenor.
Song, “ Erl King,”................................Schubert
“ Spiniato and Polonaise,” (Opus 22)................Chopin
Chorus, “ Paradise and Peri,”...................Schumann
Vocal Class.

At the close, Very Rev. Father Sorin, Fathers Shortis and Cooney, each paid the young ladies high encomiums on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	337
the excellence of their vocal and instrumental performances and gave them much praise for the admirable manner in which they had treated the subjects of their essays. All present seemed highly pleased.
(Selections from “Rosa Mystica” and “St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited by the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Effect of Character on Society.
When we see that mass of humanity which the world styles “ Society,” swayed by some unseen power, we naturally inquire what is that power? and the answer is, Individual Character. As the wind plays upon the water, now gently rippling its placid surface, now sweeping it along in immense billows, so character playing upon society either gently elevates or depresses its tone, or sways it hither or thither with violent force. If character is the power by which society is ruled, then each one should earnestly try to be a noble character, since each one desires to be an active principle in human society.
But character is neither a special quality of the heart nor an acquisition of the intellect that may be obtained by labor or cultivation. No: for character is not only the aggregate of all the personal virtues, but likewise of the defects. It is an endowment of nature capable of being moulded into different forms, but the material cannot be changed. Some characters possess the plasticity and pliability of clay, and, like it, may readily be moulded into beautiful images or misshapen monstrosities. Others, possessing the hardness and inflexibility of marble, cannot be bent or moulded, but by careful chiselling may be transformed into grand and exquisite shapes.
But who are the character moulders and sculptors? Undoubtedly woman gives them the first crude shapings and often beautiful finishing touches, while the chiselling of those grander traits devolves upon man. But, in order to form character, the requisite models and tools must be used. Our holy Church offers us in her canonized sons and daughters models of every rank and grade in life, from the heroic soldier Sebastian to the timid Roman maiden Agnes, from the learned Pontiff Gregory VII to the simple French shepherdess Genevieve, from the noted German Emperor Henry II to the humble mendicant Benedict Labre. The tools with which we work are firmness, patience and perseverance. If parents wish to mould their children’s characters in beautiful castes they must possess these essential qualities, for in vain will they teach their children the nobility of self-sacrifice, truth or sincerity if they act not in accordance with their precepts. Woman, by her ngble acts of tender devotion, by her sympathy for the erring and unfortunate, by her courage and firmness in resisting evil, exercises a subtle influence even on the sinner and the cynic, and not only moulds the character of her own immediate circles, but society at large.
Though character embraces all the individual qualities, yet some leave upon it a deeper impress than others, as integrity, sincerity and firmness, and when these are united in an individual, even though marred by minor defects, he will receive the beautiful appellation of a “ noble Character,” while the unstable and insincere receive the humiliating title of a “ weak character.” The acts of an individual are frequently viewed from the stand-point of his character, as well as from their own intrinsic value. Even the
laws of a country, though they may be equitable and good, will not receive due appreciation if the character of their promulgator be below the standard. When God designs one of earth’s feeble instruments to perform a noble mission He endows it with corresponding strength of character, as the primitive Christians so often testified by their fortitude amidst the most cruel tortures. Had Moses, the great legislator of the Israelites, been weak and vacillating, could he have restrained the waywardness of those fickle people? And did not the pagan Lycurgus obtain his power over the Spartans as well by his firmness of character as by his prudent legislation? And so with England’s great lawgiver, King Edward, whose code even now forma the germ of English and American laws. Where can we find a more remarkable example of strength of character than in our great discoverer, Christopher Columbus, whose firmness of purpose and calmness of mind overcame all obstacles and restrained so often the mutiny of his com* panions ?
Every country has her representatives of noble character. Ireland points to her great emancipator, Daniel O’Connell; England to her Alfred, her Edward, and her Thomas More; Spain, her Ximmens and Isabella; France, her Charlemagne and her sainted Louis IX; Germany, her Rodolph of Hapsburg; Switzerland her dauntless William Tell; Poland her gallant Sobieski; America, her prudent, heroic and patriotic Washington; while the whole world points to the noble character of our late venerable Pontiff whose Won poatumus still rings throughout the world.
Society is based upon man’s mutual intercourse, and as each character, however humble or limited the sphere of its action, tends to modify other characters, so nothing can be more important than the development of this great element. No matter how good or beautiful a person’s theories be, or how eloquently defended, if the advocate be wanting in character they will be without effect; hence when potentates wish to reform their subjects they must show a noble example in their own characters, and not beat the air with idle words and flaunting mandate How beautiful is the strength of character exemplified in the heroic St. Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, who feared not the wrath of an earthly monarch, but fearlessly performed the obligations of duty!
The character moulders of society must be living members—workers rather than talkers, for nothing carries conviction so readily as action, “ the noblest and highest eloquence.” Character has been called the diamond which cuts all other gems; but character is more than this, for it embraces all the gems which adorn society. In all the world there is but one universal and uniform society, whose immutable principles strongly contrast with those civil, social and religious societies which are continually changing. This society is the Church, the most powerful of all character makers, which stands as a lasting monument of its Divine Author, bearing the impress of the divine character.
Thoughts on the Feast of the Purification.
Why, sinless Mother, bow thy peerless head To rite designed, for those ’neath primal ban By Mother Eve incurred ? Hast thou not heard The grand Archangel hail thee full of grace ?	.
Hast thon not read Isaia’s words sublime— “ A Virgin shall conceive and bear a son ” ?
338
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dost thou not hold on thy untainted breast The Son of God—The Word Divine made Flesh ? Bright angels round thee group—thy Son’s their King.— Why, royal Mother, bow thy peerless head To common law ? Such rites are not for thee.
Mother Immaculate! why thus conceal Thy glorious splendors neath such humble guise? But hark! methinks I hear again thy words In meek response to Gabriel’s embassy: “Behold the handmaid of the Lord: Let it	\
Be done to me according to thy word.” And thy exultant song “Magnificat” Had, too, its sweet, submissive, lowly strain: “ He hath regarded my humility, He hath cast down the mighty from their seat, He hath exalted those of low degree.” Yes, holy Mother, now'I plainly see Thy sweet submission to the ritual law Was meant to teach all proud, rebellious hearts How grand, sublime, to yield with generous grace To all God’s law or counsels doth command Obedience simple, humble—thou art crowned On this sweet Feast, as Queen of virtues rare;
’Tis Jesus’ Hand has placed this diadem On His own Mother’s brow Immaculate.
Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Mary Casey, Castanedo, M. Dillon, C. Ducey, Fisk, A. Gavan, Heneberry, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, M. Morgan, Martin, Mosher, O’Neill, Patterson, Paquette, F. Robertson, Rodgers.
Jb. PbbPm average 93—Misses A. Welch, F. Hibbins, J. McGrath, M. Wilkins, P. Ewing, J. Krick, F. Castanedo.
1st Jb., average 96—Misses Chaves, Campau, M. Castanedo, Mattis, Otero, Richmond, Robinson, Rigney, Schmidt, Sawyer.
2d Jb., average 96—Misses Mary Otis, D. Best, E. Burtis, J. McKenna, J. McGrath, M. Barry.
FRENCH EXAMINATION.
1st Class, average 100—Misses N. Galen and C. Lancaster. Promoted to this Class—Misses M. Feehan and Bland.
2d Class, average 98—Misses A. Cavenor, J. Reilly, M. Campbell, M. Morgan, 8. Semmes.
3d Class, average 98—Misses Edith Call. M. Price, J. Barlow, M. Paquette, M. Clarke, A. Clarke, A.Leydon.
4th Class, average 99—Misses A. Nash, Etta Call, A. McGor-don, 8. Walsh, C. Donnelly, J. Owens, E. Shickey, IC Rosing, Ave Price, Mary H. Ryan, H. Nash.
5th Class, average 96—Misses M. Chaves, C. Richmond, M. Otero, A. Sawyer.
GERMAN CLASSES.
1st Class, average 100—Misses C. Claffey, E. Chrischellis, A. Dillon, C. Ginz, M. Behler, M. Thomann.
2d Class, average 98—Misses M. Reutlinger, M. Fleming, M. Casey, M. Chirhart, J. Butts.
3d Class, average 98—Misses N. Keenan, E. Call, E. Todd, H. Van Patten, J. Spangler, E. Considine, M. Eldridge.
4th Class, average 90—Misses M. Coogan, M. Schmidt, C. Ducey, A. Eager.
Roll of Honor.
VOB POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND COBBECT DE-POBTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, 8. Hanbury, 8. Walsh, M. Clarke, A. Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley, Bland, M. Campbell, Edie Call, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fen* drick, French, R. Fishburne, Glennon, Heneberry, Lancaster, McKenna, A. Nash, A. Rasche, Simms, Shickey, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Etta Call, L. Coryell, M. Fishburne, Hackett, McCoy, Owens, Maggie Price, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, A. Rulison, Thompson, Thomann, Adderly, L. English, Fenion, Fleming, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Behler, B. English, A. Gavan, H. Hicks, M. Mulvey, Pampell, I. Smith, Eldridge, Ives, M. Watson. 2d Tablet—Misses Beal, Vander Heyden, Wall, Barlow, Keenan, Mowry, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Harrigan, Williams, Garrity, N. Hicks.
JUNIOR DEPABTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, M. Ducey, M. Chirhart, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, F. Robertson, W. Mosher, E. Considine, Canfield, J. McGrath, Welch, Condron, M. Coyne, Chaves, Mary Otis, Otero, C. Richmond, Robinson, Schmitt, Best, Charles. 2d Tablet—Misses J. Spangler, Semmes, Eager, A. Clarke, L. Heneberry, Morgan, Martin, O’Neill, Paquette, Wright, Rogers, P. Ewing, F. Hibbins, J. Krick, C. Ducey.
MINIM DEPABTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A. English, J. English, A. Rigney, M. Otis, J. McGrath. M. Castanedo, N. Brown, 8. Campau.
Class Honors.
The Examination average of Classes and the young ladies mentioned are those whose average is 90 and over.
‘Gbaduating Class, average 100—Misses Claffey, Cavenor, Galen, Hanbury and Walsh.
1st Seniob Class, average 100—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan and Wiley.
2d 8b. Class, average 98—Misses E. Call, Chrischellis, M. Campbell, Fendrick, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, Maude Price, A. Price, Rasche, Shickey, M. Simms, Wall.
3d Sb., average 97—Misses Barlow, Butts, M. Call, Etta Call, Maude Casey, M. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, C. Lancaster, B. Legnard, McCoy, N. McGordon, A. Mowry, Owens, Maggie Price, Mary Price, 8. Papin, J. Reily, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, A. Rulison, H. Ramsey, B. Semmes, J. Spangler, Todd, and Thomann.
1st Prep. Class, average 94—Misses Ducey, Eager, Fleming, Fenlon, Garrity, Newton, O’Neill, Pampell, Robinson, and Reutlinger.
2d Pbep. Class, average 94—Misses Behler, A. Clarke, M.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notbe Dame P. O., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic, and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies.
. THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition.—A large Musical Library in French, German, English, and Italian. Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design. Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Miss De La Barre, from Paris, a sculptress and artist of acknowledged superiority, has been engaged for three years as an addition to the regular corps of teachers in the School of Painting and Sculpture.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Maby’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.