Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 25, 1886.	No. 4.
In the Desert.
We wandered long- through pleasant vales, And over sunlit hillside slopes;
Each day we followed fairer trails,
And each day realized new hopes, And oft my dear companion said: “ Why should we leave this glorious land? Here let us bide till life has fled,
And rest content with joys at hand.”
I had no thought of further gain,
Nor wished to find a fairer land;
But rest to me was keenest pain;
Desires I could not understand
Still urged me on, until, at last, The desert wild before us lay;
Yet thoughts of places we had passed
Could not restrain my onward way.
Forward I went. The burning heat
Sent the blood tingling through my veins, Yet to my spirit pain seemed sweet;
I moved beyond all binding chains
Until the burning sun went down
And left us on the shining sands;
I saw my dear companion frown, And then she wept and clasped my hands.
For one brief space my heart turned back
To all that it had left behind;
But then I said: “No backward track
Should we pursue, were we inclined;
Onward our course, though deserts lie Around us, as day follows day;
The sun still gleams within the sky;
We have no cause to doubt our way.”
Through the brief summer night we slept The sleep of utter weariness;
The kindly stars their vigils kept, As though they pitied and would bless.
But night distilled no healing balm, And fitful dreams broke our repose;
Yet through the deep, unbroken calm We were not conscious of our woes.
But when the sun climbed up the sky, We drooped beneath its torrid rays, And knew, at last, that we must die— The sands beneath us were ablaze;
The very air seemed liquid flame;
The earth a sea without a shore;
We softly breathed the Father’s name, Said one last prayer, and all was o’er.
The stars that night their vigils kept Above two corpses, ghastly white;
Yet knew not that two spirits slept An endless sleep, more dark than night.
Rich were the vales and fair the slopes They left behind in discontent,
And death the end of all their hopes 1 Who shall condemn their punishment?
Press on in every noble strife, But follow not in pleasure’s path
If thou wouldst lead a Christian life
And ne’er invite the Father’s wrath.
Fling not thy scruples to the wind
When bold ambition pictures gain 1
Be warned by poor souls that have sinned And madly chosen paths of pain.
Eliot P. Ryder.
Thoughts on Geology.
What exhaustless food for thought is to be found in the researches of nature, whether we consider the symmetrical perfection of minute particles of matter as revealed beneath the microscope, or contemplate her in her grandeur and immensity! Nor can one help being struck with reverential awe at the regularity, the order and the conformity to law which everywhere manifests itself. Indeed, it is difficult to see how anyone can be a close, or even an ordinary student of this subject, and at the same time deny the existence of a necessary Being, the prime mover and law-giver of the material universe. In the close commune with nature, the atheist finds anything but a congenial atmosphere. He is at every turn brought face to face '
j8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
with facts which cannot be reconciled with the opinions he professes to entertain; he is confronted with truths which he cannot deny and which he invariably seeks to avoid, or refute with arguments too subtile to be entertained or too absurd to be noticed.
The deist, the infidel and the freethinker alike find fair sailing while they follow the paths of scientific and revealed truth; but as soon as they leave this course, they are like a ship without rudder oi' compass, floundering aimlessly through an unknown sea, and wishing that things were not as they are but as they would have them to be.
In the study of Nature it would seem that the proper place to begin, and the one first sought, would be the structure and formation of the earth’s crust. But, on the contrary, this was almost the last to engage the attention of man. . The Chaideans, within the first few centuries after the deluge, observed and noted the motion of sun and planets in their course; calculated their times of revolution and measured their distances; in short, their knowledge of Astronomy was little, if any, inferior to that possessed by the scientist of the present day. The same is true regarding the Hindoos, the Egyptians, and the Aboriginal inhabitants of Mexico and Peru. Not until the present century has man been tempted to make extensive researches regarding the structure and composition of the earth’s crust. He has found this to be a subject replete with information as useful as it is interesting. Through the eye of science the earth, as it existed during the successive stages of formation, is opened to his view. He is enabled, by the study of up-heaved strata of rocks, to conceive the meaning of the term chaos; to see the world emerging from that state where darkness and desolation reigned supreme—before the strength of the sun had animated the face of nature, or before the refulgent beams of the moon were reflected from the waters of the deep.
Rising still higher, he beholds the gradual development of life. In the rocks of each succeeding strata are found the petrified remains of the animal and vegetable life then extant. The geologist is enabled to describe with accuracy the leading and, in some cases, the minute characteristics of each succeeding period; to draw a map of the earth as it then existed, showing its seas, islands and continents; in short, the geologist is enabled to write the physical history of each period with almost as definite accuracy as though he were relating facts falling under observation at the present time. The same agencies that entered into the formation of the successive strata are still at work, and 100,000 years hence the bed of the ocean may be a continent, and if the world be still inhabited, the men of that age will study the rocks now in process of formation just as geologists of to-day do those of the Carboniferous or Silurian age.
One of the first truths noted in the study of the earth’s crust is that the planet is older than was formerly supposed. Thus, the rocks of the Arch-asan time, which in North America have an average thickness of 30,000 feet, show that so great an 1
accumulation of marine beds required a very long era. For great thickness of strata represents either a long period of time, or else violent action, and in the rocks of this age both agencies were evidently required. How far back geologic time dates is a question that.has not, and perhaps never will be satisfactorily settled. Butthat the earth required long ages for the formation and various changes evidenced in its structure cannot be denied. When this fact was established, the infidel exulted, thinking that at least a portion of Holy Writ had been annihilated, and that, the falsity of one material part being established, the rest must necessarily be declared worthless; that, having destroyed the foundation and groundwork upon which Christianity rested, that grand superstructure which had for eighteen centuries withstood every storm would speedily collapse. But one truth, whether scientific or revealed, cannot contradict another, and the only error that existed was that occasioned by the hallucination in the brain of the infidel himself. Had he investigated more carefully, or reasoned more clearly, his mythical battering ram would never have been thought of. For although the Book of Genesis declares that in six days God made the heavens and the earth, yet there is nothing from which it can be inferred that the days mentioned are of twenty-four hours’ or of 240,000 years’ duration, and Mr. Infidel, or anyone else, has as much right to claim that the latter was meant as well as the former. Besides, the day which is measured by one revolution of the earth upon its axis, or the time between two successive transits of the sun over the same meridian, could not have existed in thebeginning; for,according to the Book of Genesis, it was not until the fourth day that the sun was made and began to give forth its light; consequently before that, day and night could not have existed; so Mr. Infidel, instead of knocking the foundation from under Christianity, has been vainly attempting to raise a structure of his own on a foundation rarer than gas. Nor is the word “day” now considered in this restricted signification. We speak of “a man in his day,” thereby meaning the period of his active life; or11 the fashion of the day,” and the like, from which no definite idea as to time can be formed. In the Hebrew language the term “day,” primarily, had the same signification, i. e., a period of time indefinite in duration; so the infidel, be he scientist or be he skeptic, is at liberty to make the time of the creation of the material universe as long or as short as he can find facts to substantiate his position. On the other hand, the truthful scientist is compelled to admit that Moses was either an inspired writer, or else he possessed an acquired knowledge of the composition of the earth’s crust equal, if not superior, to that of the geologists of the present day, which latter hypothesis is utterly improbable.	•
When many of those all-wise skeptics undertake to explain the causes for the existence of material facts, they do so in a manner not only absurd, but also ludicrous. Thus, for example, Voltaire maintained, with all seriousness, that the marine fossils found on the top of the Alps were dropped there
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by pilgrims returning from Palestine. And even as late as the present century, there were many men, claiming to be learned, who maintained that these fossils were but freaks of nature, the rocks taking- the form of animals and vegetables.
While recent geological researches have cono o
firmed our belief in the inspired word, they have, likewise, in a material sense, tended to add to the conveniences and comforts of man, besides adding to his store of interesting knowledge. Thus man has burrowed, as it were, into the bowels of the earth and levied tribute on the mineral wealth there concealed, and scarcely a year passes in which new and valuable discoveries are not made in this direction. A quarter of a century ago the discovery of petroleum in Pennsylvania cheapened and revolutionized the mode of illumination in private houses. This discovery was made just at a fortunate time, when the supply of whale oil, then depended upon, began to be exhausted. In like manner, another’ agency has been discovered in the sub-carboniferous area, which is both changing and cheapening the mode of illumination, and the power employed in manufacturing—that is, the supply of natural gas, the area of which extends over a large portion of the continent. The factories in Pittsburgh are now run almost exclusively by this agency, and the cloud of smoke which hung like a pall over the city for years has been lifted as if by magic. Sunshine and pure air reach into homes, and the clean-faced stranger is no longer an object of curiosity and envy.
Comparatively little is yet known regarding the distribution of minerals throughout the earth, and every additional investigation, or discovery, if carefully noted giving sufficient details, is a scientific work which may, when the facts are complete enough, lead to valuable generalization. Considerable difference of opinion has existed in past years as to the true geological age of several of the formations studied in North America, arising from the fact that American scientists have heretofore used the European standard, believing it to be inflexibly applicable in all parts of the world. Accumulated experience has shown, however, that the various evolutional tides of organic life have not been the same on both continents. Thus a certain grade of vertebrates, invertebrates, and plants are in the strata of, and collectively characteristic of a certain geological period in Europe; while in America the same grade of plants is found to have existed much earlier, and the same grade of vertebrates to have continued much later. In short, by using the European standard in America, the Cretaceous and Tertiary types of organic life would be reduced to the same strata. From the fact that all fossiliferous strata are sedimentary accumulations of seas, or other ’ large bodies of water, the remains of invertebrate animals are by far the most abundant, because they lived in and upon the sediment while it was accumulating, while land, animals and plants could only have reached their place entombment through some accident, as a flood washing them from shore. Foi’ this reason invertebrates are the most reliable, and, in some cases, the only ones considered in deter
mining the geological age of the strata containing them. Besides, there are several groups of strata, transitional in their character, that different specialists, viewing them from different standpoints, have placed a little higher or a little lower in the geologic scale. This is but a natural condition of things; for where the geological series is complete no one can say where one formation ends and another one begins. Although the changes in geological ages have been slow, yet great changes have taken place-even within historic times. Thus, while the continents possessed essentially the same outline at the close of the Cretaceous as now, yet they have undergone various modifications, even since the deluge. The climate in the Northern Hemisphere has grown constantly colder, and fertile fields and valleys that once smiled and fructified beneath the rays of a genial sun are now barren wastes. Thus, for example, the flora of Greenland was once the same as that now met with in Indiana. And even within the past three.hundred years the climate of that country was comparatively mild and fertile.
Modern science has shown that the strongest powers in nature may be rendered subservient to the will of man; and that it is within his power to change the climate and habitability of entire continents. American engineers have shown that it is possible to change the direction of the Arctic current which washes the shore of North America, by constructing a wall or breakwater across the Strait of Belleisle between Labrador and Newfoundland—a distance of about ten miles. That this can be accomplished they have proven beyond cavil. The effect of such an undertaking would be to turn that cold current back and force it out across the Atlantic, in which case the warm Gulf stream would flow north, washing the shores of the continent as far as the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The effects on the climate can readily be foreseen. The Eastern states and Canada, in climate, would be rendered similar to California, Oregon and Washington; while Great Britain and the countries bordering on the North Sea would become uninhabitable. Public policy and self-preservation on the part of the latter would naturally place undecided opposition to any such proj'ect. And the law of nations would forbid such interference with the natural flow of currents.
Another mighty project declared to be practicable by French engineers is a canal by which the waters of the Mediterranean Sea would be let into the basin composing the desert of Sahara. That such a feat is possible, there is no doubt, as the level of the desert is considerably below that of the ocean, and it was once the bed of an inland sea. But what the results would be is not so certain as in the case of the Belleisle breakwater; as it is not certain that a sufficient volume of water could be -maintained there to withstand the fierce evaporation of those torrid regions. But after the work had been completed, and an inland sea existing, what the effects would be are largely problematical. That the climate in the immediate vicinity .would be considerably moderated, and that the outlying
6o
THE NOTRE DANIE SCHOLASTIC.
plains, now arid wastes would become fruitful, there can be no doubt. Yet France, in enriching one part of the world, might impoverish herself in the same proportion; so there is little prospect that that nation will be found willing to expend millions of money on an undertaking which in the end might
J	o	o
prove to be suicidal. P. J. Goulding.
An American Artist.
The Catholic Church has ever been the protector of the arts and sciences. It was under her fostering care that art took its rise in Italy. It was through her endeavors that the Christian artist was encouraged, until modern works in painting and sculpture rivalled those of ancient Greece.
In the United States there arc many gems of art placed in the Catholic churches throughout the land; and though our country is young as a nation, and the members of the Church have not been famous for their wealth, yet much has been accomplished in the way of art. Music owes much to the American Catholic, Mr. R. R. Springer, whose late demise sent a thrill of regret throughout the extent of the country. It was his generosity which gave to Cincinnati her grand Music Hall; to him she is principally indebted for one of the five great organs of the world, and he it was who founded her great College of Music.
' The Church, in painters and sculptors, has not as yet in the United States been prolific; yet she can claim as one of her sons the greatest of American portrait painters, George P. A. Healey—an artist whose fame is not limited to the country of his birth, but has crossed the seas.
From his boyhood, Mr. Healey showed a great taste for art; and before he had far advanced in years he had exercised his brush in a few small undertakings. It is related that some of his efforts were seen by Sully, the celebrated miniature painter, who was pleased with them because of the great promise they indicated. Encouraged by this great painter, young Healey determined to make painting his profession, and set to work with great zeal. In after-years, when Sully was shown by Healey his portrait of Audubon, the naturalist, the elder artist bowed and said: “ Mr. Healey, you have no reason to regret my advice.”
In 1832, Healey’s first portraits were exhibited at the Boston Athemeum, where they attracted much attention. Shortly afterwards he sailed for Europe, where he studied several years in Paris and Italy. Haying visited Rome, Florence and other cities renowned for their art treasures, he went to Paris, and thence to London, where he painted portraits of many distinguished men, among 'wliom were Gen. Cass, the then United States Minister, the Duke of Sussex, and others. Having finished his engagements in London, he returned to Paris, where he was called :to paint the portrait . of- the -citizen-King, Louis Philippe. The king was so highly, delighted with the work, of the artist
that he gave him a commission to paint a portrait of Washington, which, when finished, was placed in the historical gallery of the palace at Versailles, where it may now be seen.
It was in 1840 that Mr. Healey exhibited in Paris his portrait of Gen. Cass, for which he was awarded a gold medal. Not long afterwards the Americans then residing in Paris, wishing to compliment M. Guizot for his pamphlet on Washington, commissioned our artist to paint a portrait of the distinguished French statesman and author. __	o
The picture was life-size, and now adorns the walls of the Smithsonian Institute, Washington city. King Louis Philippe then gave him other commissions, among which were the portraits of Gen. Jackson, and other distinguished men in the United States.	■
After having filled the commissions of the king, Mr. Healey spent some seven years in making studies and in painting one of his greatest works, “ Webster Replying to Hayne,” which now hangs in Faneuil.Hall, Boston. His next important work was a picture representing Franklin, Lee and Dean negotiating a treaty of alliance between France and the United Colonies. It was for this work he was ' awarded the second gold medal at the Exposition held in Paris in 1855. During that year Mr. Healey returned to the United States. > He took up his residence first in Cincinnati, but he removed thence to Chicago, where he remained for the next ten years, successfully engaged in portrait painting. From Chicago he again crossed the ocean, remaining abroad until 1875, acquiring honor and glory in every city visited by him. In Italy he received an honor never before accorded to an American: he was invited to place his portrait among those of the distinguished painters in the Uffizi Gallery at Florence, a compliment not paid to every foreign artist, and one to which even many native artists of note often vainly aspired.
Mr. Healey has painted a great number of historical portraits of the leading personages connected with the late Rebellion, all of which are of great interest and rare merit. At the Centennial Exposition he contributed a picture representing an interview between Lincoln, Sherman, Porter and Grant preparatory to the well-known march to the sea.
Among the many famous portraits of this artist are those of the late Pope Pius IX and the poet Longfellow. Of the first of these a writer says: “ There is a pleasant story told of Mr. Healey’s portrait of the Pope at the first great Paris Exposition. It was ordered by a. Cardinal. As Mr. Healey had no means of obtaining a sitting of Pio Nono, he made careful studies of him during some, public ceremonies, and painted . a ,remarkable portrait. When the Cardinal heard how the work was done-;,-he took it for granted that it was bad, and refused.-’ to receive it.: The Pope, hearing the story, sent,.; for the portrait and painter, arid gave him a sitting.-. But the picture had been so carefully painted that. it needed no change. .The Cardinal, repenting of ' his rashness, in a day or two sent for it, but his. request was politely declined, and the picture, duly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
blessed by the august original, is still in the artist’s ■J	O	0	7
possession.”
Mr. Healey is a true, devoted and practical Catholic, and has received many distinguished favors from prelates in Rome. The late Pope Pius IX, some years before his death, as a mark of esteem and in recognition of his talent, created him a Chevalier of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. Our artist is a gentleman of whom the Catholics of the United States may well feel proud.
B.
Hannibal.
Before Rome was, Carthage flourished — a wealthy, commercial and warlike republic. Gradually and persistently, for a period of six hundred years, her power and dominion increased. She was warlike, first because of the necessity, of defending herself from the barbarians of Africa; subsequently through a desire to increase her commerce and extend the empire. Pier conquests extended into Africa, Sardinia, Sicily and Spain. Rome, jealous of the increasing power of her rival, Carthage, began the long, bitter* strife known in history as the three Punic wars. The Romans being sue-cessful in the first of these, the power of Carthage was weakened. During this war there was born in Carthage the greatest general the world has ever produced—Hannibal, a man destined to make the Romans tremble at the very mention of his name. For generations the Barcinc family to which he belonged had been a family of warriors. Hamilcar Barca, his father, a distinguished general in the first Punic war, completed the subjugation of Spain. At the early age of nine years, Hannibal accompanied his father on this memorable campaign. It was then Hamilcar led his son to the altar and bade the boyish warrior swear eternal hostility to Rome. When, at the age of twenty-two, he appeared before the army, all eyes saw in him the image of his father; and at twenty-six he was at the head of the Carthaginian forces.
Immediately his thoughts turned to Italy and the Romans; but his real aim was well concealed until all Spain lay at his feet, and Saguntum, an ally of Rome, was captured.
The rich booty thus obtained and generously divided among his soldiers, secured their confidence and increased their ardor and gained for him popular favor at home. The principal men of Carthage were the friends and supporters of Hannibal, and heartily acceded to Rome’s declaration of war.
The security of Spain being provided for, the march onward to Italy is undertaken. The Pyrenean hills recede from sight; the Gauls are subjugated; an army of sixty thousand is speedily transferred across the Rhone; northward, now, to avoid the enemy hovering near, the expedition takes its course that Hannibal.may be able to meet them on their own grounds in the heart of Italy with an army not weakened by useless battles. The Alps, the towering Alps, snow-capped and pathless, steep, precipitous, cold, dreary, desolate,
will they, can they surmount them? Ah! “Beyond the Alps lies Italy.” It is late in the fall; the snow covers the mountain; amid blinding storms and harrassed by mountaineers, the dejected and downcast army, greatly reduced in numbers, reaches the summit. From the mountain-top Hannibal shows them .Italy, urges them to make one' more effort and this rich and lovely land will be theirs. Quickly descending the southern slopes of the Alps, Turin is taken; then appears the Roman army. In words of fiery eloquence, Hannibal reminds his men that they cannot turn back; they must fight, conquer, or die. He re uinds them of plunder, of victory, of glory. He recalls the conquests of Spain, of Gauls, of the Alps. The battle of the cavalry is fought and won. There flock to his standard tribe after tribe of neighborino-Gauls.
The battles of Prebia and Phrasymenus follow with the most complete annihilation of the Roman army. Italy is overrun; whole districts are laid waste. The next year the Romans, thoroughly alarmed, sent into the field an army twice as large as ever before. The contending forces met at Cannae, Hannibal having little more than half as many men as the Romans. Seventy thousand Roman knights died upon that bloody field. History records no more famous battle.
Rome seemed now at the mercy of Hannibal; but so strongly fortified and ably defended was the city that additional forces were considered necessary. These were demanded of Carthage—supplies of men and money were ordered. But a powerful faction, jealous of the success of Hannibal, caused the army of thirty thousand raised for him to be sent to other parts. Forsaken by his ungrateful country for fifteen years, Hannibal time and again defeated the Roman armies and captured towns and cities. The attempt of his brother Hasdrubal to reinforce him with sixty thousand men ended in disastrous and overwhelming defeat. Hasdrubal dead, and Carthage unmindful of Hannibal, all hope of further conquest in Italy was lost. Meanwhile, the Roman General Scipio had conquered Spain and carried the war into Africa. Bitter defeat fell upon-the Carthaginians in their own country. Now, in the hour of their adversity, their thoughts turn to him whom they had so long neglected; but, alas! too late for Him and for them. Scipio had devastated and captured cities, scattered two armies, and was advancing upon Carthage. Hannibal had: little prospect for a successful defense. With a hastily-collected army he met Scipio at Zama. For the last time he exhorted his men to fight valiantly for their homes against an enemy whose army he had so often defeated. But vain was the struggle. Against overwhelming odds his army fled, and Carthage fell. Peace was purchased at a terrible cost by the vanquished. Rome triumphant, Carthage at her feet, the career of Hannibal as a soldier is ended. But his commanding ability finds scope as a statesman. Appointed to a position of honor and authority, his redress and wrongs and the protection of- the downtrodden poor from the wealthy extortioner brought upon his head the wrath and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hatred of the rich. Rome lent a ready ear to their accusations, and the greatest foe to Roman power became an exile. Death came by poison.
All the greatest masters of the art of war, from Scipio to Napoleon, have joined in their homage to Hannibal’s genius. In comparing him with other great leaders of antiquity, we must bear in mind the circumstances in which he was placed. Feebly and grudgingly supported by the home government, he stood alone at the head of an army composed of men of many nations; yet not only did he retain the attachment of the men, but trained army after army; and long after the veterans that had followed him over the Alps had dwindled into a remnant, his new levies were as invincible as their predecessors.
In a reputed interview with Scipio, Hannibal is said to have ranked himself as the third greatest general the world had ever known; and had he conquered him whom he was addressing, he would have claimed a position above Alexander, Pyrrhus and all the military chieftains of the world. There was no presumption in the assertion, but the decided, honest conviction of him whose superior ability not even his successful rival nor succeeding generations of man could gainsay.
P. E. Burke.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Pope Leo XIII has a new volume of Latin poems ready, one of which treats of the unbroken succession of Roman Pontiffs, which will last unbroken until the end of the world.
—Cardinal Hergenroether has been directed by the Holy Father to gather the documents necessary . for the publication of a veritable history of Giordano Bruno, who was burned in Rome in 1600, in order to oppose it to the falsehoods- published by the anti-Catholic journals.
—The Messenger I Athenes says that interesting archaeological discoveries have been made at the site of the temple of Esculapius at Epidaurus. A Venus Genitrix, life-size, without the feet, has been unearthed, and it is said to bear a close resemblance to the Venus of Milo. It belongs to one of the finest epochs of Hellenic art.
—Two ancient sepulchres, placed one above the other, have been found outside the Porta Portese in the Mangani vineyard at Rome. The upper sepulchre, a simple sarcophagus, was covered with tiles which bear circular stamps denoting the place of their fabrication, and, incidentally, their date. The lower tomb, over a yard’s depth beneath the . upper, was also covered with tiles.
—Miss Hester Crawford Dorsey, a young poetess of Baltimore, some months ago contributed to the American a poem entitled “ Dethroned,” and dedicated it to the Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph, to whom she sent a handsomely engrossed copy through Mr. James Fenner Lee, American Minister at Vienna. She has received a flattering
reply from the Austrian charge d'affaires at Washington, with the assurance that the Emperor had made an exception in her case, the court of Vienna having, since 1867, declined accepting the dedication of all publications bearing upon the tragic event of Queretaro.
—A French missionary, Father Duparquet, has discovered documents of much value in the Museum of the Propaganda. Amongst others is a manuscript of a Capuchin Father, formerly missionary at St. Antonio of Sogno (Congo), and there is also the archives of the former mission of Loango (now French Congo) bound together and containing three manuscripts: 1. Essay of a Congo grammar, according to the Congo or Malembra accent, 48 pages; 2. Congo-French dictionary. It is complete from A to Z; 3. Register of baptisms, marriages and deaths during the two years 1774 and 1775. This register is not of much importance to-day; but it is not so with the grammar and dictionary, which may be of great assistance to travellers in the new Free State of the Congo.—Pilot.
—The. long and difficult task of forming the catalogue of the Vatican Library, undertaken by the distinguished De Rossi and Signor Enrico o	o	a #
Stevenson, under the direction of a Commission appointed by the Holy Father and presided over by Cardinal Pitra, Librarian of the Holy Roman Church, has been so far successful. They have completed the compilation and printing of four volumes, which furnish an account of the literary treasures contained in the celebrated collection known as the Palatine, which contains the manuscripts and printed books that came from Heidelberg during the Pontificate of Pope Gregory XV (1621 to 1623). It was in 1622 that the Vatican Library received the famous Palatine Library of Heidelberg, which was donated to the Holy See by Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria. It contains many rare volumes collected from the monasteries destroyed by the Lutherans in Germany. There is one volume of this catalogue sent to be printed. The foui’ volumes now ready were presented to His Holiness, July 29, at a special audience.
Scientific Notes.
—Buffalo is going to have a tremendous clock'.-The dials will be twenty-five feet in diameter, 361 feet above the street and lighted by electricity.
—F. Siemens, of Dresden, is stated to have succeeded in casting glass as hard as any cast metal, and not dearer than cast-iron. Experiments are now being made at the Siemens glass foundry at Dresden to ascertain if this material can be employed for ties on railways. Specimens of this hard glass have been made suitable for millstones,
—There is, of course, no disputing the truth of a thing that can be proved by mathematical demon-, stration. For instance, this proposition advanced by a professor of mathematics, to his pupils: “ It i.s,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
evident that if it takes one brick-layer twelve days to erect a wall of given dimensions, twelve bricklayers ought to do the work in one day, 288 in an hour, 17,280 in a minute, and 1,036,800 brick-layers in a single second.”
—The centenary of the discovery of animal magnetism was commemorated to some extent at Paris. It was on September 3, 1786, says the Pilot, that Galvani observed the first movements of animal magnetism in the legs of dead frogs suspended to the iron bars of a balcony in his house. That was a fatal day for frogs, for throughout Europe they were slaughtered by thousands in order to prove the experiment of Galvani,
—Prof. Cei'ebotani, of Verona, has contrived an ingenious instrument for ascertaining the distances of accessible and inaccessible points from the observer and from each other—in other words, an easy method of range finding. The apparatus consists mainly of a pair of telescopes mounted on a stanu and fixed on a tripod for use. The telescopes are both brought to bear on the object, and a reading is then taken from a graduated scale on the instrument, Wllichj compared with a set of printed tables, gives the distance. Distances can be measured between far-off objects, and by means of a sheet of paper fixed on a drawing board, a rough plan of the country under measurement may be sketched. In the same way the distances of ships at sea or of moving objects on land can be determined. Thus the contrivance appears to be Well adapted not only for land surveying, but particularly so for military purposes. In fact, it is stated to have been already adopted in this latter connection by the German Government, and will probably be by that of England.
—We deeply regret to have to chronicle the death of the distinguished Catholic scientist, Professor Frederick S< Barff, which occurred at Buckingham, England, on the nth ult. Elis experiments and discoveries in chemistry, many of which have been at the same time brilliant and useful, have opened up an entirely new field of research, and won for him a foremost place in the world of science. He was Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Academy, in the ill-fated Catholic University of Kensington, and until his health failed taught the same branch of science atBaumont College. Besides being a distinguished man of science, Professor BarIF was also a scholar and an artist, and the frescos in the church at Stonyhurst remain as one cherished memorial of his skill as a designer. He was a member of many learned societies. Professor Barff was born on Oct. 6, 1824. After receiving his degree at Christ’s College, Cambridge, he took orders in the Church of England. He became a Catholic in 1852, and remained a faithful and devoted son of the Church to the .close of his life.—Ave Maria.	-
Centennial of a Distinguished Catholic Scientist.
During the last two days, Paris has celebrated, with unprecedented demonstrations of joy and respectful sympathy, the centennial anniversary of
the venerable savant Chevereul, unprecedented and unrivalled, because he is the only great scientist of our times who has attained the late hour of life upon which he has entered.	'
Michel Eugene Chevreul was born Aug. 31, 1786, in Angers. His father was a well-to-do physician in Angers, professor in the medical faculty, and a talented writer. Old age seems to be hereditary in the family, Chevreul’s father having died at ninety-one, and his mother at ninety-three years. Chevreul is yet a very tall man, square in the shoulders, and walks quite erect and straight. .
After the revolution, the-University of Angers was disestablished, a school for chemical and physical studies being put in its place; which school Chevreul attended between the ages of eleven and seventeen. In 1S03, Chevreul went to Paris, after having been taught the elements of chemistry by a professor named Heron. In 1S06 he was appointed director of Vauquelin’s laboratory, and professor in the Dycee Charlemagne, and during the same year he published the results of his first experiments. In 1S06 seven papers came from his pen, of which three were on coloring-matters (indigo and Brazilian wood). Four years later he was appointed aide-naturaliste in the Museum of natural history, then examiner for the- Ecole Poly technique; and at thirty he was professor of chemistry in the Gobelins, the world-known manufactory of tapestry, and director of the department of tinctorial baths. In 1826, after the death of Proust, Chevreul was appointed member of the Academy of Sciences, to which he has belonged ever since. Not one of his colleagues of that time is yet living. In 1830 he became a professor in the museum, and some time after director, holding the former position till the present day—though not so actively the last two years—and the latter till 1SS3. Ele is a member of a great number of foreign scientific societies, and since 1S75 kas at" tained the highest dignity in the order of the Legion PLTonnenr. Ele never misses a meeting of the Academy of Sciences, and it is not long since one could meethiminthe7?zzerfcx E coles, walking to the institute, hat in hand, and hands behind the back.
During the war of 1S70 he remained in Paris the whole time of the investment, and lived in the museum, notwithstanding eighty German bombs shattered to pieces the magnificent hothouses of the Jardin des -plantes, and one fell quite close to his own laboratory. It was in a letter written during January, 1S71, to Abbe Lamazon, in answer to a note of the latter, that Chevreul used for the first time the expression he prefers when speaking of himself—«the dean of French students.”
A catalogue of Chevreul’s works would be a work in itself. The two most important branches of science studied and developed by Chevreul are the chemistry of fat substances, and the theory of complementary colors. By his researches in the’ former of these, Chevreul has given methods for obtaining a number of very important and useful substances, such as stearin, glycerine, etc. Millions ; have been earned by the application of his methods. — Condensed from ’•'■Science? of Seft. 18.
64
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 25, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Lit-■ erary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, St.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
. Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The poem which appears upon our first page was written almost upon his death-bed by the late E. P. Ryder, whose early demise we chronicled a few weeks ago. The circumstance under which it was written will account for its apparently unfinished state, while the many beautiful and touching lines it contains reveal the true poetic fire of this gifted young writer.
O	JO
may happen in our midst; and very frequently the general gossip in our local columns supplies information to parents which otherwise it would be difficult for them to procure. At the same time, the local news of the place serves to give the students more interest in their classes, their sports and pastimes, and their general daily life.
In order to keep those who in “ days of yore ” attended class at Notre Dame well posted as to the whereabouts of their former companions we publish each week, under the head of “Personal,” such reliable information regarding them as we can obtain, and thus recall to the memory of the old students many happy reminiscences of bygone years.
As there are many young men attending class who are gifted with a pleasing manner of writing, which has been and is daily improved by the instruction which they receive in class, certain columns of the paper are allotted to them in which to have printed such compositions as may be found worthy. The fact that the essays contributed by them not unfrequently have been republished in other papers proves that they have more than ordinary merit. In addition to this, in order to cultivate a taste for literature, for art, for music and for science, each week all the current news pertaining to these important subjects arc duly chronicled.
Thus it will be seen that, as stated in a general way in our prospectus printed above, the Scholastic possesses a peculiar inteiest for parents of students at Notre Dame, at the same time being of general interest to all friends of our Alma Mater.
The Daily Mass.
A Word about The “Scholastic.”
Allow us to say a word or two about our paper. The object for which it was originally started, and which the Editors still keep in view, is to give the parents of students at Notre Dame a knowledge of the progress of their sons in class and of their conduct in general. This information is given in the Roll of Honor, Class Honors and List of Excellence published each week. When parents see the name of their son figuring in these rolls, they may rest assured that, as the case may be, he is either succeeding well in his classes or that his conduct is satisfactory to prefects and teachers. Of course, more particular reports are sent to the parents at the beginning of each month by the Prefect of Studies, in which the exact standing of their sons is noted; but the general report is printed in the Scholastic each week—and only by means of the paper do parents receive the report. Hence our journal is of great use to the parents by giving this information, while, at the same time, it serves to. encourage the student to study, the harder because the.knowledge of his success is made public.
Yet,.as a simple list of names would be uninteresting, we make use of our columns to chronicle everything of interest to parents and students which
One of the most commendable practices of devotion which is perpetuated by the piety of the students is the custom of attending the daily Mass in the College chapel. It is the duty of all those who understand what is meant by the Sacrifice of the Mass to consecrate the first moments of the day to this devotion. There is no human act so deserving of merit, so fruitful in blessings as the devout attendance to this great Mystery; and it matters not what may be.the pressure of study and scarcity of time in which to learn a difficult lesson, he who first pays to his God his tribute of Christian love and gratitude chooses the better part and will be rewarded for it. No consideration will divert him who knows the efficacy of the Holy Sacrifice, from the pleasing duty of attend ance at it; for he knows well that the time spent with God is not a loss, but a real gain; for while ' he gives his little time to the Master of all knowledge, he will, in return, receive from Him a goodly share of wisdom. If we might view spiritual things from a business point of view, the honor we give to God in the first half hour of the morning is good policy. The interest which we receive on our.investment must needs be high. What mat-ters it that the lessons are long and difficult; that the “duties” to be.done for class are hard, and that the. time at: our disposal is short—is not God. all
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
□
powerful, and can Ele not render all things easy to comprehend—quicken the understanding, aid the memory and make all things clear to us which would otherwise demand hours upon hours of reflection and research?
St. Thomas’ great school was at the foot of the crucifix. There he gained from God his great knowledge. Let the students make the chapel their great study-room, where they will receive the teachings of God; not that they are to neglect study—but, consecrating the first moments of the day to God, and devoting the remainder of their time to hard study, God will assist them and enable them to learn more than they would otherwise be able to do.
Those who through fear of a little exertion or of a loss of time do not attend the daily Mass lose the best of means for securing’ not only their spiritual but their temporal good. The want of faith is the cause of the lukewarmness which God condemns, and is the real obstacle to a better policy. Ele who attends the daily Mass will necessarily be filled with the spirit of faith, and will receive the gift of appreciating the advantages which are offered to students in college days—advantages for which in after-life they will look in vain.
B.
Reception to Mgr. Straniero, Papal Ablegate.
Last Saturday evening an entertainment was given in Washington Hall in honor of Mgr. o	o	o
Straniero, the Papal Ablegate, who brought the scarlet beretta to Cardinal Gibbons, and who was passing a few days on a visit to the University. The exercises, though brief and almost improvised, were very pleasing and proved acceptable to
the honored guest of the evening.' o	o
ing programme was carried out: Overture—Romeo and Juliet”....i
Solo—Piano—“ Rhapsodic llongroise ” — Solo—Song—“ Lucia di Lammermoor.... Address from the students....... Solo—Song—“ Good Night ”........ Latin Address................... Saxophone Solo—“ Fantasie ”..:.. Grand March.....................
The follow-
String Quartette .....R. Oxnard
... .W. McPhee ... ,B. T. Becker ......W. Jewett ......J. Kleiber ... .Prof? Kindig ......Band
Each of the numbers was well presented and reflected credit upon those who took part. In particular the addresses were well prepared, delivered with grace and ease and proved highly interesting to the esteemed prelate to whom they were presented. Our limited space will permit us to present here only the address of Mr. Becker, who spoke as follows:
Right Reverend Monsignor:
It is my joyful task to extend to you, in the name of the students of Notre Dame, a hearty welcome. Notre Dame has, ere this, had occasion to bid welcome distinguished and honored visitors. Prelates eminent for learning and their successful work in the interea of the Church; renowned mis-fionaries, who had returned from barbarous la nds, where, in their apostolic zeal, they had toiled and suffered for the extension of Christ’s empire; illustrious representatives of American statesmanship; famous artists and scholars have in turn been the pride and ornament of her hospitality. But in now felling you that to none of them was a warmer or a more cor
dial welcome ever extended, we express our own sentiments no less than those of the Faculty and the entire Community. For our feelings towards you are not only those of pride and pleasure at having met you personally; they are intensified by a sense of the nature and the significance of your mission to this country. We know that in honoring you we honor our Holy Father, who has chosen you one of the heralds bearing .the glad tidings which have made American Catholics burst forth in one acclamation of joy and gratitude; who has selected you from amongst his chamberlains as pontifical messenger to bring the insignia of one of the most exalted dignities on earth to the distant Cardinal, and to convey the Father’s blessing to an illustrious son. There may have been other ministries more conspicuous than yours, but surely none in which dwelt a more tender ora more lovely spirit; none to which the heart’s warm requitals could have more joyfully responded. I need not tell you of the happiness we, the students of Notre Dame, felt in common with American Catholics at large when we heard that the Pope, seeking to fill up the ranks of the Cardinalate, had gone beyond the confines of his own country to the New World, and had chosen an American for that exalted position, and an ikmerican so eminently able to cope with its difficulties and responsibilities, and so worthy of the surpassing honor We were happy, also, because the Pope’s choice showed that he had recognized the loyalty of American Catholics, in whom the appeals or the commands of pontifical supremacy have never failed to call forth the prompt and full echo of filial love and obedience.
Once more, Right Reverend Sir, we bid you welcome! a thousand times welcome! and we assure you that the pleasure we have felt in seeing you in our midst will ever dwell deeply in our memory.
On the conclusion of the exercises Mgr. Straniero arose and addressed the students. He spoke in English, with a slight Italian accent that lent a charm to the clear, ringing- voice and well-chosen words and sentences in which he expressed himself-He spoke of the great pleasure he had experienced in his visit to Notre Dame,—a pleasure that he had longand often anticipated for himself, having heard so much of this far-famed institution of learning,, and having long desired to see it for -himself, and now his expectations had been more than realized; the best descriptions he had heard had but done incomplete justice to the reality. On his return to Rome he would tell the Holy Father of all that he had seen and heard at Notre Dame, and of the great, glorious work it was accomplishing in the domain of religion and education, and he would not fail to ask a special blessing from His Holiness for the students, their professors and the Community of Holy Cross. The Monsignor concluded with a few words of good advice, and asked Rev. President Walsh to grant the boys a general holiday as a memento of his visit. Needless to say the request was granted, and the Rt. Rev. Monsignor ■ most heartily cheered.	•
- *
On Sunday morning, Mgr. Straniero officiated at Solemn High Mass celebrated in the church at Notre Dame. In the evening, accompanied by Rev. President Walsh, he took his departure for the East, carrying- with him the assurance that his memory will be cherished by all at Notre Dame to whom the Monsignor had endeared himself by his charms of mind and manner, as well as by the significance of the mission which had called him to this country arid made him so beloved by the American people.	-	.
66
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
[From the uj\T. 2". Freemans JournaV'\
Luigi Gregori.—Director of the Art Department in the University of Notre Dame.
---- j
THE SCENES IN THE LIFE OF COLUMBUS. /
There are three pictures in Philadelphia which\ have attracted a great deal of admiration from qualified critics. These are the “St. Francis de Sale*,” already placed in the Cathedral of SS. Peter and Paul, and the “ St. Patrick ” and “ St. Vincent de Paul,” soon to be placed there. They were painted by Luigi Gregori, whose decorations of the beautiful Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame, Ind., and of the grand entrance hall of the University there, first brought this artist—whose reputation in Europe is acknowledged—into notice here.
« Gregori ” was a household word in Italy before it became known in this country. The artist was introduced to the Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., by His late Holiness Pius IX. Father Sorin wanted to secure worthy pictures for the church at Notre Dame. The Italian artist consented to paint them, and he became very much interested in his work, and entirely reconciled to a climate which is as different from that of his native place, Bologna, as that of Bologna is from Nice.
The exquisite Gothic church at Notre Dame bears traces of work worthy of any cathedral in the land. Gregori has the traditional Roman manner; but, fortunately, he is without mannerisms of any kind. The Stations in this church are marvels of expression. Some of them are unfinished —for Gregori was compelled to paint without models. He- will probably complete them satisfactorily to himself—he is the most exacting of critics—after his next visit to Rome, where he will go to prepare himself for a great picture, to be placed over the main altar.
As we have said, Gregori’s Stations of the Cross are marvels of expression. This is not confined to the faces only. The hands, the feet, the attitudes, all speak as plainly and emphatically as they do in the famous “Angelus” of Millet. Two characteristics strike the observer in studying these' pictures—their unmistakable atmosphere of devotion, and the art exercised in grouping the figures in them. There is not a single forced attitude or theatrical position. The woman in the mob who threatens with her hand does so naturally, and her hand merely seconds the look on her countenance. And the dignity, the serenity, the pathetic sweetness on Our Lord’s face, find a fitting counterpart in the tenderness and suffering in Our Lady’s. The expression of these two principal groups is carried out with a firm hand. It deepens and deepens, until il culminates in the awful consummation. It requires great faith and great courage to paint as Gregori paints.
The less material qualities of Gregori’s work are forcibly impressed on us in the Stations. But when we examine his noble series of scenes in the life of Columbus, on the walls of the entrance hall of the
University, and his portraits of ecclesiastics, we are struck by the richness and glow of his color. The '‘French painter, Vibert, is considered by picture-buyers to be the one great painter of red and purples, particularly ecclesiastical red and purples. But Gregori’s color is even deeper and more rubylike. It flames and glows. It is, at the same time, color with a texture, and not a mere blotch of paint ■-dropped on canvas, to make a sensational effect.
The Columbus historical tableaux are unequal, but all nobly conceived and broadly executed. The portrait of Queen Isabella is perhaps a little theatrical, and the spots on the edge of her robe give at first sight the impression that the plaster- is pealing from the wall. But, happily, this is only a false impression. The two boys waiting at the monastery gate is a picture full of the finest sentiment and tenderness. The reception of Columbus after his return to Spain, and the planting of the Cross, are two magnificent bursts of dramatic force and color, which are the more effective preceded by the minor tones of the preluding pictures, and succeeded by the betrayal and the death of Columbus.
The last is, from, an artistic point of view, an example of Gregori’s versatility; from a religious point of view, the most triumphant of the scenes. These scenes teach history more fully and finally than any number of printed words. They are an introduction to the Catholic history of America, made by a Catholic and a man of genius. They are worthy of the closest study and the highest praise.
They are on the walls of the entrance hall. Each •student repasses them frequently. Some of these students are young and careless; but the pictures are treated with respect, almost with reverence, and no boyish hand has attempted to deface the walls, which they elevate to something far beyond mere walls. In fact, the presence of Gregori, and his pictures at Notre Dame is a constant and liberal education in itself.
Gregori is now decorating the Cathedral at Dubuque, la.
Books and Periodicals.
—C. W. Bardeen, Syracuse, N. Y., publishes a number of series of “ Memory Selections.” These consist of short and striking quotations from authors and writers arranged upon tablets in a style such as to fix the attention and aid the retentiveness of the memory.
—We acknowledge the receipt, from Messrs. Benziger Bros.—New York, Cincinnati and St. Louis—of a splendid oleograph portrait of His Eminence Cardinal Archbishop Dr. James Gibbons, of Baltimore. The work is well executed and pronounced an excellent likeness of our second American Cardinal. The size of the picture is 10x13 inches, and sold at 60. cents a copy, free by mail.
—Donahoe's Magazine for October contains, among its many interesting contents, articles on the following subjects: “A Visit tp the Field of
f v
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
67
Aughrim ”; “ Novelists and Novels ”; “ The Real and the Unreal”; “Why am I a Catholic?”; “Michael Davitt”; “The Most Unfortunate of the Human Race,” etc., etc. As an appendix, Gladstone’s recent pamphlet on the Irish Question is published entire.
—For variety, interest and instructiveness the October number* of the Catholic World is worthy of commendation. It opens with a comprehensive - article on “ The Borgia Myth ” by the Rev. Dr. Brann, who clearly and concisely dissipates the calumnies regarding the character of Pope Alexander VI. J. R. G. Hassard contributes an interesting sketch of the late Abbe Liszt. ’The other articles include papers on “A Royal Spanish Crusader”; “ A Catholic View of Prison Life”; “ English Hymns”; “ Christian Unity ”; “Progressive Orthodoxy”; “Secular Germany and the Vatican”; “A Chat about New Books”; etc., etc.
—Mr. David W. Judd’s illustrated correspondence from the West is the leading feature of the American Agriculturist for October, which presents a greater amount and a greater variety of reading matter than ever before appeared in a single number of this periodical. Nearly fifty writers of reputation all over the country write upon topics pertaining to the Farm, Garden,Hearth and Household. There are four full-page engravings by well-known artists, and nearly too other original engravings of farm animals, farm and household conveniences and labor-saving appliances; scenes at the fairs, new designs for rural buildings, etc., etc.
Personal.
—Jos. M. Byrne (Com’l),’79, of Newark, N. J., spent a few days at the College during the week.
—Frank C. Smith (Com’l), of ’St, is now of the firm of Kellstadt & Smith, Merchant Tailors of Circleville, Ohio, and doing a big business.
—Among the welcome visitors last week was Mrs. Geo. J. E. Mayer, wife of Geo. Mayer, ’65, who came to enter her son in the Minim department.
—Frank C. Hagenbarth, Junior Scientific of last year, has decided to abandon the student’s life for a little while, and has betaken himself to practical work in the Clayton Smelting Works at Clayton, Idaho. He is in the Assay Department, and applying successfully the theoretical knowledge acquired at Notre Dame.
—The Faculty has received a valued accession in the'person of Mr. John Fearnley, a student of Oxford College. He has been appointed to teach Latin and two of the higher English classes. Mr. Fearnley is a young man, and has been in the United States only a short time, but he has already won many warm friends, and begins to feel quite at home at Notre Dame. His pupils are much attached to him.	.
—Rev. A. Queret, of Galveston, Texas, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week.
Father Queret is acting Vicar-General of the diocese of Galveston, and one of the pioneer missionaries of that part of the country, having been engaged in missionary work in Texas since 1856. . An amiable gentleman, and a learned and zealous priest, he made many friends at Notre Dame during his brief visit.	.
—Hon. T. G. Turner, an old friend of Notre Dame, for many years a resident of South Bend and more recently of Kansas Citv, Mo., was a welcome visitor to the College during the week. Judge Turner’s frequent visits to the University in times past,.both social as well as literary—for he often lectured and spoke before the students—are remembered with pleasure, and we hope that opportunities may be found for the frequent repetition of the same in the future.
—Among the visitors during the week were: James H. Pender, Columbus, O.; W. W. Shay, Victoria, Texas; Mrs. Julius Groll,and Miss Mary Groll, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mrs. J. B. Raynor, Mrs. A. M. Woolforth, Wm. Madley (Jr.), W. McGuire, Chicago; Carrie M. Wilhelm, North East, Pa.; Mrs. G. E. Swallow, Helena, Mont.; Airs. A. D. Bogart, Miss S. Miller, Rahway, N. J.; R. L. Thurber, Muscoda, Wis..; Mr. and Airs. A. AL Amidon, Albion, Afich.
—Mr. and Mrs. T. Nester, of Marquette, Afich., were welcome visitors during the week, entering their son at Notre Dame and their daughters at St. Mary’s. Their ride from South Bend to Notre Dame will be a memorable one, having been caught in the fierce hail storm of Wednesday last. All congratulate them upon their providential escape, as described in the following extract from a letter received by Very Rev. Father General from-St. Mary’s:
“. . . . I must tell you a little incident of the storm yesterday that, I am sure, will interest and edify you. Mr. and Mrs. Nester were bringing back their daughters to St. Mary’s and their son (one of your princes) to Notre Dam'-. They were between South Bend and Notre Dame during all that terrific storm. The windows of the carriage were broken to pieces and their baggage dashed from it and strewn along the road. Mrs. Nester says she had no other thought but that they all would be killed. Mr. Nester put his head and arms through the broken window to help the driver control the horses. The girls, silent and terrified, cowered down on the floor of the carriage and clung to her; and the dear young boy clasped his hands and praved aloud the whole time: ‘I never thought,’ she added, ‘that he knew so many prayers.’ ”	.
Local Items.
—Equinoctial storms!
—Rain every clay this week.	.
—Baseball booms in spite of storms.	A
—-The societies are strongly officered.
—The Elocution classes are largely attended. .
—Prof. Lyons went to Chicago on Thurdav. ' , —Class.Honors will be. published two weeks.
hence.	• A . :
■ —The Military companies will reorganize.in it few days.	A
€8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Euglossians will appeal’ in full force on the 13th.
. —The Minims are already organizing games for St. Edward’s Da}’.
—The public courses of Christian Doctrine were inaugurated on Thursday.
—There are fifty more students in the College here than this time last year.
—The century plants in front of the College weathered the storm bravely.
—A boat-race, a bicycle race, and several other races are being talked of for the 13th.
—The Jlora of St. Edward’s Park suffered greatly from the equinoctial storm on Wednesday.
—Now, that a new tune has been substituted for the old, all symptoms of homesickness have disappeared.
—300 pounds of putty was the express order dispatched immediately after the storm of Wednesday afternoon.
—There have been fresh arrivals of students every day since the opening of class, and the cry is: “Siill they come!” ■
—Yesterday ^Friday) the thermometer registered 9S0 in the shade—a sudden change after the storms of previous days.
—The classes of Philosophy have a larger attendance than ever before. This speaks well for a grand boom for the Classical Course.
—Just think of it! Five panes of glass in the one solitary window of the sanctum broken by those hailstones! Well, well! Subscribe for the Scholastic!
—The Minims express their thanks to a generous friend who, on returning recently from Europe, presented a beautiful Parisian statue of St. Aloysius to St. Edward’s Hall.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association tender Rev. President Walsh their thanks for the splendid piano which he has presented to their society-room.
—“ That is the Boy Anarchist,” said Mr. Ar-drapper, as a mcasly-looking convict passed on his way to jail. “Ah, indeed!” said Mr. McBokum, “then I can’t say much for Anna’s taste.”
—In a few days, steps will be taken to reorganize the choir among the students. All who are gifted with good voices should consider themselves honored by being admitted to membership.
—Prof. Lyons has published a new edition of “Pizarro: A Drama in Five Acts” originally written by Richard Brinsley Sheridan, but now remodelled and arranged for male characters and made suitable for presentation in colleges and schools.
-—Thanks are returned by the Curator.of the Museum to Mr. Hahn, of Grand Rapids, for three fine specimens of minerals which he presented to the Cabinet of Mineralogy; also to Mr. Wm. H. Dee, of Houghton, Mich., for a beautiful specimen of copper ore.
—It is expected that before the end of the month
the soft, mellow incandescent light will shed its mild rays over the genial denizens of the printing office. Great then will be the rejoicings by the Eds., the Compos., and the pressmen. Speed the work, once more say we.
—It is a remarkable fact that our local weather prophets sustained no damage, cither to person or property, in the severe storm of last Wednesday. The chief of the prophet-brigade claims that they arc exempt, through special arrangements made with the clerk of the weather.
—We publish in these columns the elections in the various College societies of which reports have been handed in to us. It is gratifying to note that each of them has been largely benefited by the increased attendance, and we hope their advantages will be still further appreciated by the new students.
—The Scholastic box—to the right as you enter the Students’ Office—is not a Post Office box. So, please do not deposit your letters therein. You may, however, fill it with “ Personal ” and “ Local ” items, and other valuable contributions to make our college paper artistic and interesting. Come one, come all.
—Signor Gregori intends to leave for Europe some time' during the coming month, in order to make several important studies with a view to complete and perfect his designs for the fresco work on the new addition to the church. He expects to return early in the spring, when he will at once engage upon his series of fresco jxiintings which, he intends, will be the greatest works of his life.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Society was held on the 19th inst. The following are the officers for the coming session: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. A. Morrissey and Rev. M. Regan, Gen. Critics; J. R. Kleiber, 1st Vice-President; B. T. Becker, 2d Vice-President; J. Wagner, Recording Secretary; D. Latshaw, Corresponding Secretary; J. Stubbs, Treasurer; J. Neill, Historian.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus’ Philopatrian Society was held on the evening of the 20th inst. The following are the officers for the coming session: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President; Bro. Leander, C.S.C., Promoter; W. McPhee,1st Vice-President; W. Vandercar, 2d Vice-President; C. Senn, Rec. Secretary; I. Bunker,Treasurer; S.Nussbaum, Cor. Secretary.
—A crayon portrait of Mr. Martin I. J. Griffin, the indefatigable worker in the field of'American Catholic History, has been added to the gallery of eminent Catholic laymen. To Mr. Griffin, more than to any other man, is Philadelphia indebted for the interest her people take in church history. At present he is preparing to publish a life of Rt. Rev. Mgr. Egan, D. D., O. S.F., First Bishop, of Philadelphia. The book will have for frontispiece an engraving made from’the portrait of that Prelate painted by our own Gregori.
. —The first regular meeting of the Guardian
. v
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6g
Angels’ Society, was held September 18, for the purpose of reorganizing. The officers for the ensuing session are as follows: Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director; Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Mr. J. P. Thillman, C. S. C., President; Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Promoter; F. Crotty, ist Vice-President; C. Mooney, 2d VicePresident; J. McIntosh, Secretary; A. Sullivan, Corresponding Secretary; W. Martin, Treasurer; G. Dunford, Librarian; P. Keefe, ist Censor; C. McPhee, 2d Censor; F. Toolen, Standard-Bearer; FI. Tillenburg, Sergeant-at-Arms.
—For an impromptu entertainment at the beginning of the year, the one given last Saturday evening in honor of Mgr. Straniero was all that O	__ “
could be desired. The Quartette overture by our skilled professors of music was above criticism. The piano solo by Master Oxnard was worthy of his reputation, and the songs by Master W. McPhee and Mr. W. Jewett, showed their fine voices to advantage and were heartily appreciated by the audience, as evidenced by the prolonged applause with which they were greeted. The addresses by Messrs. Becker and Kleiber were well delivered and presented one of the most pleasing features of the occasion.
—A friend, whose reputation for veracity has thus far been unquestioned, informed us yesterday that among the chickens killed in the neighborhood during the great hail-storm of Wednesday, there were some through whose bodies the large hail-stones passed as if they had been shots from a rifle. We repeated the story to another esteemed friend—one well versed in agricultural matters, the force of projectiles, and all that kind of thing—but he frowned upon us, and even when apparently indisputable corroborative testimony was produced, would not give credence to the tale. However, though we have been unable to verify it for ourselves, yet in deference to the first friend mentioned, we deem it fitting to make an item of the report.
—The Bishops’ Memorial Flail has been enriched with the following gifts: A mitre owned by Bishop Pellicier, of San Antonio, Texas; the precious mitre used by Rt. Rev. Bishop Fenwick, first Bishop of Cincinnati; thirty-six letters written by various Bishops, presented by Very Rev. W. Corby; twenty-three photographs of different Prelates, presented by George Rhodius, of Indianapolis; five letters written by bishops, presented by Mr. Philip Nolan, of Philadelphia; sandals, purse, and green and gold cord for pectoral cross used by Archbishop Hehni, presented by Very Rev. Father Keogh; large bust of Bishop Foley, and pedestal, presented by Mr. J. McGuire, of Chicago; engraving of Bishop Borgcss, presented by J. Thomas, of Monroe.
—The ist regular meeting of the Senior Baseball Association was held Thursday, the 23d inst. The following are the officers for the coming ses- • sion: Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President; Bros. Paul and Emmanuel, Directors; W. A. Cartier, Treasurer; B. T. Becker, Recording Secretary; J. I. Kleiber, Corresponding Secretary and Field
Reporter; Chas. B. Combej Jr., and J. Cusack, Captains. The following were elected to membership: E. Benner, G. Cartier, A. Cooper, F. F ehr, E. Dillon, M. Mulkern, M. Akin, J. Meagher, G. Craig, P. Brownson, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, T. O’Regan, W. Dorsey, D. Regan, A. Triplett, L. Arado, M. Kelly, A. McSweeney, J. L. Sullivan, A. Vandercar, D. Quill, R. Newton, T. Smith, FI. Smith.
—The first regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club was held Tuesday evening, Sept. 21. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. A. Zahm, Assistant Director; Rev. M. Regan, Critic; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, A. M., Hon. President; Bros. Emmanuel and Paul, C. S. C., Promoters; W. D. Lally, ist Vice-President; F. Jewett, 2d Vice-President; A. Gordon, Treasurer; L. C. Bolton, Recording Secretary; G. S. Crilly, Corresponding Secretary; C. Voorhees, Historian; G. Houck, ist Censor; Prudhomme, 2d Censor; J. V. O’Donnell, Sergeant-at-Arms; A. Larkin, Librarian. The following new members were elected: G. Craig, V. Padilla, J. Hampton, S. Kendall, C. Rheinberger, R. Newton.
—A storm of wind, rain and hail, the like of which had never before been witnessed in this locality by any surviving inhabitant, broke over us last Wednesday afternoon. Though short in its duration—lasting about ten minutes—it did great damage. The hail stones were, in many instances, as large as hens’eggs and rained furiously. Many panes of glass in the windows of the main building and other buildings, the exposed electric light • globes, including about twenty of the lamps in the crown and crescent of the statue on the Dome, were all broken. The glass roof which covered the large and beautiful conservatory, filled with rare flowers, was completely demolished and many of the plants destroyed. It' will take but little less than $1000 to repair the damage done. Fortunately, the beautiful stained-glass windows of the church were protected by wire-netting, and thus escaped injury; otherwise, the loss would be almost irreparable. Notre Dame has always been fortunate in its freedom from storms which have _ raged elsewhere, and an exception like that of W ednesday only makes us the better appreciate our general security.
—The first and second regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association were held Sept. 12th and 22d, for the purpose of reorganizing. The following are the officers.for the coming session: Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. A. Morrissey and Rev. M. Regan, C. S. C., Assistant Directors; J. A. Lyons, A. M.,. President; J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Flon. President; Bro. Alexander and Bro. Marcellinus, C. S.’C.,, Promoters; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., and Prof. Kin- . dig, Directors of the Orpheonic Branch; Prof.'A. J.-. Stace, Prof. Wm.Hoynes, Critics; E.J. Darragh, , ist Vice-President; C. West, Jr., 2d Vice-Presi-.; dent; T. Goebel, Recording.Secretary; L. Chute, ■ _
THE NOTRE NAME SCHOLASTIC.
Treasurer; R. Oxnard, Corresponding Secretary; P. Wagner, Historian; W. Henry, ist Censor; L. Preston, 2d Censor; M. Luther, Sergeant-at-Anns; F. Long, ist Monitor; E. Ewing, 2d Monitor; L. Smith, Librarian; C. Spencer, Marshall; W. H. Austin, Prompter. The following were admitted to membership: W. H. Austin, L. Preston, S. Adams,AV. McKcnzee, L. Luther, H. P.Vhay and W. W.AValsh.
—The students of St. Edward’s Hall had the honor, on Tuesday, of a visit from Right Rev. Monsignor Straniero—Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. J. Zahm and Signor Gregori accompanying him. The Monsignor seemed greatly pleased with the reception given him by the Minims. Pie complimented the young erentlemen on their good elocution and graceful manners. He said: “I am told you are called ‘princes,’ and you deserve'the title, if politeness can confer it.” He spoke to them of the great advantages they7 enjoy at Notre Dame, and hoped they would make the best use of them. He drew their attention to their beautiful study-hall and to the great pleasure it must give them to spend their study hours in the midst of such beautiful surroundings. He noted, with evident pleasure, little boys from all parts of the country—from New Orleans, Brooklyn, Denver, Helena, etc. The “ princes ” will not soon forget the visit or the kind words of encouragement of the honored Monsignor.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to Rev. Father D. Callaert, of Manistee, for valuable documents; to Mr. Wm. Hahn, of Grand Rapjds, for History of Kent County, Mich.; to Sister Mary of the Cross, Dubuque, for a daguerreotype and a photograph of Rev. Father O’Donohough, founder of the Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary; to Mrs. Hayden, of Dubuque, for photographs of many of the early missionary priests of Iowa; to the Trappists, of New Mellary, for a complete set of their table utensils to illustrate the poverty practised by their Order; to Brother Malachy for a discipline used by7 the monks of La Trappe; to Very7 Rev. ,W. Corby for sixteen letters written by7 various missionaries; to Mrs. General Jones, of Dubuque, for manuscript notes; to Rev. M. Regan for photograph of Philadelphia Jesuits; to Mr. D. D. Myers, of Dubuque, Iowa, for case containing two silver medals, showing face and reverse of the Grant memorial .medals; to Mrs. Fitzhugh, of Bay City, Mich., for bronze medal in case of Washington Allston, 1847; bronze medal of Ferdinand, Philippe Louis C. H. Duc D’Orleans, bronze medal of Napoleon and Louis Phillippe, specimens of silver and filigree work made by7 the Ursulines of Lima, granite from the tomb of Napoleon; to Master Richard Oxnard for American silver half dollar, 1807; to Mr. J. Kleiber,’86, for bust of Cleveland made of macerated greenbacks; to Dr. Rente, of Dubuque, for dried toad used by Indian medicine men, cross made from redeemed greenbacks, piece of the stockade of Andersonville prison. ’ .
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
L. Arado, G. Archambault, M. Akin, F. Ashtdn, T. Becerra, E. Britt, Jno. Brown, P. Brownson, P. E. Burke, C. W. Bowles, E. V. Bowles, A. B. Burnham, F. Baca, H. Barnes, E. Benner, C. Bush, S. Craft, E. Coady7, G. Cooper, W. Cartier, M Colina, S. Chaves, M. Crane, W. S. Castleman, Geo. Craig, Wm. Crowley, Geo. Cartier, Jos. Cusack, W. Dorsey, ^1. Dore, G. Deary, E. Dillon, J. Dougherty,* C. J. Eyanson, A. J. Eisenhauer, A. Finck, Jos: Ford, A. P. Gibbs, J. S. Gallardo, A. Gordon, Jno. Geisler, G. Houck, F. B. Hinchman, E. Hiner, Jno. Hampton. S. Hummer, C. A. T. Hagerty7. E. A. Howard, T. Jordan, J. A. Judie, J. M. Kelly7, Jno. Kleiber, F. X. Kreutzer, S. Kendall, J. C. Langan, J. Lyons, H. B. Langan, G. Lais, A. Leonard, A. Larkin, S. McSweeney, Geo. Meyer, W. McNamara, Jno. Meagher, L. E. Meagher, V. E. Morrison, L. A. Mohan, T. G. McDermott, G. D. Morrison, A. Major, F. E. McDonald, F. E. McErlain, P. A. Martineau, B. McAllister, J. McDermott, H. B.McKlveen, Jno. Murphy, R. McGinnis, G. W. Mallay, W. E. Moffatt, A. McFarland, ^1. Mulkern, J. O. Malley, A. C. McGinly, C. P. Neill', F. A. Neff', R. C. Newton, P. J. Nelson, D. F. O’Connor, W. F. O’Rourke, T. O’Regan, V. Padilla, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, P. Paschel, F. Prichard, T. H, Pender, D. Quill, H. Roth-ert, R. Ramirez, F. Rodriguez, C. E. Rheinberger, R. L. Raynor, D. C. Regan, W. J. Rochford, J. C. Rudd, F. Suing, W. E. Sullivan, O. W. Sullivan, G. II. Sullivan, A. Sproehnle, C. J. Shields, C. Stubbs, A. S. Triplett, B. Taylor, C. Voorhees, R. Valasco, H. Werst, F. Weber, A. S. Williams, E. A. Zeitler, F. Shannon.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Adelsperger, W. Austin, H. Bronson, R. Bronson, E. Blessington, E. Bodley, C. Badger, I. Bunker, W. Bell, J. Bull, G. Brabrook, W. Boland, F. Baca, F. Benner, H. Boland, Burns, S. Campbell, E. Campbell, J Clarke, B. Clarke, F. Carney, C Cavanaugh, W. Clifford, F. Cobbs, J. Casey, J. Cooney, F. Coad, L. Chute, F. Chute, W. Curtis, D. Cartier, Cleveland, A. Duffield, L. Dunning, P. Dungan, Decker, W. Devine, J Doss, E. Ewing, S. Fitzharris, M. Falter, J. Flynn, F. Flymn, H. Figge, Flood, Fisher, Gallar-neau, T. Goebel, F. Garber, H. Houston, L. Hoffman, J. Henry7, W. Henry, P. Houlihan, J. Hart, C- Hurd, T. Hake, A. Hake, E. Hannin, J. Hayes, J. Hampton, Hove, B. Inks, C- V. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, A. Joyce, N. Jacobs, E. Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, J. Katz, F. Kellner, A. Kutsche, J. Keating, M. Luther, F. Long; T. Mahon, D. McKendry7, L. Monarch, .W. McKenzee, M. McCart, E. Mathewson, J. McMahon, J. McCormick, W. McCormick, H. Morgan, j. McGurk, L. Macatee, W. McPhee, J. Mul-burger, McNulty, Moncada, Morrison, T. Noud, R. Nations, S. Nussbaum, J. O’Connor, J. Ormond, W. O’Brien, Oxnard, J. Pfau, L. Paquette, C. Paquette, L. Preston, W. Quealy7, H. Roper, A. Redlich, C. Ramsey, A. Rudd, M.Reynolds, D. Stephens, B. Stephens, P. Sweet,N. Smith, C. Senn, E. Steele, C. Spencer, L. Smith, M. Smith. F. Taliaferro, D. Tewksbury, H. Vhay7, W. Vandercar, J. Warner, F. Wilbanks, L. West, L. White, P. Wagoner, Walker, C. West, W, Welch, W. Walsh.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	*
W. Ackerman, A. Backrack, II. Backrack, S. Backrack, R. Boyd, C- Boettcher, F. Bloomhuff, M. Blumenthal, F. Crotty7, J. Conners, E. Conners, E. Cook, A Cohn, R. Clendenin, C. Connor, W. Connor, G. Dunford, L. Doss, Jas. Dungan, J. Dungan, J. Dempsey. L. Dempsey7, C. Dahler, E. Foote, T. Falvey7, E. Falvey7, G. Franche, C. Franche, C- Grant, G. Gale, R. Graham, O. Griffin, O. Haney7, E. Hillas, E. Jewett? W. Kutsche, C. Koester, J. Kain, P. Keefe, T. Kerwin, G. Klaner, M. Lowenstein, M. Lewin, R. Lane,. J. -McIntosh, C. McPhee, A. Morgenweck, C. Mooney, II. Mooney, Aug. Morgenweck, W. Martin, F. Mainzer, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, A. Mason, W. McDonnell, R. Munro, S. McGuire, J. D. O’Mara, A. Nester, W. Prior, L. Paul, D. Quill, W. Rowsey, L. Riordan, L. Stone, E. Savage, A. J. Sullivan, S. Steele, G. Sweet, F. Smith, B. Triplett, F. Toolen, Fred Toolen, T. Tomkins, C. Taft, H. Tillenburg, A. Wlliamson, W. Williamson, S. Witkowsky7.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jftaty's Academy.
One Mile TPest of Notre Danie University. ■
—Eleanor Kendall’s account of the reading in St. Agnes’ Literary Society excelled that of her competitors.
—On Friday, the Society of the Children of Mary was reorganized. The election of officers will be made on the 24th inst.	.
—The Society of the Children of the Holy Angels was reorganized on Tuesday. The election will take place on Tuesday next. '
—Miss Clara Richmond, of Elliott, Ill., and Miss Margaret Murphy, of Red Jacket, Mich., former pupils, write expressing their devotion to St. Mary’s. They also send their subscription to the Scholastic, and say they could not do without it.
—The officers elected by the members of St. Catharine’s Literary Society are as follows: President, Miss Lillie Van Horn; Vice-President, Miss Louise Blaine; Secretary, Miss Mary Rend; Treasurer, Miss Grace Stadtler; Reader, Miss Hannah Stumer.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society was organized for the scholastic year on Tuesday, and the follow-ins: officers were elected: President, Miss Estelle Horn; Vice-President, Miss Isabella Snowhook; Secretary, Miss Mary Frances Murphy; Treasurer, Miss Georgiana Faxon; Librarian, Miss Lucretia St. Clair.	.
—-On Sunday evening, instead of the usual distribution of weekly notes, the Prefect of Studies, for the benefit of pupils who have but lately entered the Academy, explained the meaning of the notes, and so clearly set forth the nature and aim of the rules that all are placed on their guard against their infraction.
—The election of St. Angela’s Literary Society took place on Tuesday. The following officers were installed: President, Miss Ellen Allnoch; Vice-President, Miss Gretchine Wehr; Secretary, Miss Florence Moore; Treasurer, Miss Catharine McNamara. The “ Life of Blessed Imelda Lam-bertini ” was read.
—The newly-elected officers of St. Agnes’ Literary Society are as follows: President, Florence Steele; Vice-President, Charlotte Bragdon; Secretary, Mary Lindsey; Treasurer, Eleanore Blaine; Librarian, Cora Prudhomme. Miss Eliza Allen Starr’s beautiful “ Life of St. Agnes of Rome ”---- patron of the society—was read.
—On Sunday, the festival of Our Lady of Sorrows, Very Rev. Father General celebrated High Mass and preached a beautiful discourse on the mystery of the day. After the Mass for the Children of Mary, in the Chapel of Loreto, he added other reflections on the same fruitful subject, in the usual instructions given on Monday .morning. The hearts of: all were moved by his allusion to
the effect produced on the heart of the child when beholding her mother’s tears. •
—Although we have but just passed the middle of the month of September, Saint Luke’s Studio has already produced some excellent work. Miss PhiI-omena Ewing, who received the Gold Toner Art Medal at the last Commencement, has drawn two fine piecessince the openingof the session—“ a hand with velvet drapery,” in which the effect of light and shade is admirably brought out; also “casts in groups from the antique,” equally well executed. The Misses Lora Williams, Adelaide Duffield, Catharine Brophy, Adelaide Gordon, Agnes Egan, Grace Stadtler, and Elizabeth Foin have likewise already accomplished some very good work.
—Thanks to the thoughtful kindness of the Prefect of Studies, ever the true friend of Art, the Studio has again received a rare collection of 1st proof steel engravings, etchings and photographs. Among them may be mentioned a photographic reproduction of the original painting by Paul Thomann of the baptism of the great Saxon Chief, Wittekind, who, having being conquered by Charlemagne, is converted to Christianity; St. Mark’s Place, Venice, and Ancient Italy, from Turner; Mountain Pasturage, Auguste Bonheur; The Poor Man’s Friend, by F. Faed; Photograph of Dante, from the original mural painting by Giotto; Parting Day —an exquisite etching by Clements—and many other valuable treasures of art.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mrs. I. W. McCormick, Missoula, Montana; Mrs. T. Donnelly, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. J. McEwen, Mrs. J. Roth, Mr. Denis Quill, Miss M. Quill, B. F. Touman, Mrs. C.Hurd, Mr. W. Dunne, Mr. F. Hodgins, Mrs. A. M. Worf oik, Chicago; Mrs. G. C. Swallow, Helena, Montana; Mrs. D. Bacon, M. M. Bacon, L. Lacey, Niles, Mich.; I. H. Pender, Columbus, O.; M. Forester, La Porte, Ind.; Judge T. J. Turner, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mrs. K. Ladrurge, Little Rock, Ark.; Mrs. L. C.Wynn, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. Wm. F. Thompson, Ithaca, Mich.; Mr. and Miss D. Sheean, Galena, Ill.; Mr. T. Anderson, Frankfort, Mich.; Mrs. C. H. Kingsbury, Cassopolis, Mich.; A. Dunkin, London, O.; Mr. G. Hummer, Iowa City, Iowa; Miss Columba McAffe, Columbus Missouri; Mrs. J. C. Rudd, Owensboro, Ky.
—At about four o’clock p. m., on Friday, the long looked-for honor of a visit from Monsignor Straniero, deputed by His Holiness Pope Leo XIII to visit our shores for the purpose of bringing the scarlet beretta to His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons, came to St. Mary’s at last. The Monsignor, after visiting the Convent and Novitiate and receiving the congratulations of the Community, repaired to the Seniors’ study-hall, where ti.e pupils and friends who were invited for the occa sion had assembled to greet him, and the following, programme was presented:
Entrance—Sturm Marsch....................Liszt
Misses M. F. Murphy, H. Guise.
Welcome Chorus.....................Vocal Class
Solo..........................MissM.F.Murphy .
7*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Greeting to the Envoy of Pope Leo XIII.... M. F. M urphy Scene de Bal.............................Rafael Joseffy
Miss E. Horn.
Tannhauser—Transcription.. ..............Wagner-Liszt
Miss A. Shephard.
Vocal duet—“ Autumn ”.....................Mendelssohn
Misses R. and V. Henrich.
Retiring March........................Prestissimo Galop
.	Misses L. Van Horn, M. Rend.
Very Rev. Superior-General, Rev. president Walsh, Rev. Father Maher and Sienor Gregson accompanied the distinguished gnest, and were seated near him. Madame Gregori, Mlle. Fannie Gregori; Mrs. Rudd, Mrs. John Blaine and Mrs. McCormick, of Helena, Montana; Mrs. Shephard, of Arlington, Nebraska; Mrs. Gavan, of Lafayette; and Mrs. Cameron,of Chicago; Mrs. M. M. Phelan, of Lancaster; and Mrs. Atkinson, Baltimore, were among the invited guests. Monsignor Straniero expressed his pleasure, and thanked the young ladies for the entertainment of welcome. On Saturday morning the distinguished guest offered the holy Sacrifice of the Mass in the convent chapel, at which the pupils assisted. Hekindly remained at St. Mary’s during the day, visiting the various departments, everywhere showing a warm and genial interest, especially in the department of music, being himself " a skilful musician passionately devoted to the art.
On the 19th inst., the members of the Graduating Class called upon Monsignor Straniero, and were delightfully entertained. When the young ladies were about to take leave, the Monsignor kindly presented his card to each one; and to the Superior of the Academy, who accompanied them, he gave his photograph. Though the noble head and countenance are true to life in the picture, the mobile play of expression, which everyone who has conversed with Monsignor Straniero must have admired, is not conveyed by the camera, and this remarkable charm is missed.
. Spes Ulrica.	• .
BY MARTHA L. MUNGER, Class '86.
• ■	I.
The way of life is not a summer sea	-	-
With soft winds playing, white waves flashing free, With clouds just lightly shading azure skies, And graceful forms where’er we turn our eyes;
ii-	’
; Nor is it yet a dew-crowried garden plot
Where pestilential vapors enter not;
.Where birds of sunny plumage swell their song Weaving their gay enchantment all day long;
'. in- .• z ' \	'
Nor a Utopia; a.calm heaven below,	.
.Where truth is loved, and falsehood none can know; Where virtue in the hierarchy blest .‘A .
. Form of nobility, the only test. -	. - . .
' ' t \ y . - IV. r ,	■ / ; , , . / :
Nd! Life is but a stormy, treacherous main, .
A pathless wild—a sterile desert plain; .
-J J. A .land whose flowers and paradisa! shade ; ..
Are guarded still by. fiery flaming blade. •. . '
v.
Ah, none within that consecrated place
Can enter, save by might of heavenly grace;
Save by the narrow, thorn-environed road
Whose sapphire radiance leads the soul to God.
" vi. .
One hope alone is worthy of our trust;
All else beside must crumble into dust:
It is the hope our mission to fulfil—
To meekly do our “ Heavenly Father’s will.”
VII.
■ Nor is this mission lightly to be won;
Complex the task, the duties to be done.'
Many the perils, even at the last	-
That we may lose the labors of the past.
VIII.
Happy our lot, in plastic days of youth, Beneath the Altar’s shade, to learn of truth;
Our footsteps guided by the gentle care Of souls who trust alone in faith and prayer;
IX.
Happy that we have learned that pleasure’s light
Is but the Igiris-fatuiis of the night, The ominous flash that tells of deep decay And fatal dangers on the perilous way.
The light that we shall trust; the heavenly dawn To cheer us still when hues of youth are gone, Is found in meek conformity, and zeal	-
To work God’s pleasure and dur neighbor’s weal.
XI.
The Sanctuary with its solemn spell, O, what a power it hath, deceit to quell!
• Its still monitions, its mysterious force
Lure upright souls to Truth’s omniscient source.
XII.
And this is Paradise—a heaven on earth;
’Tis bliss in trial, and in sorrow mirth.
Breathing its consecrated air for years,	;
No wonder that we turn away with sighs and tears;
XIII.
And our one hope, the guerdon of our strife, Is truth to Alma Mater throughout life.
Here, by the untiring hand, the loving heart,	'
We have been schooled to act the wiser part;
We have been armed against the tempter’s art.
XIV.
O, may we never fail to faithful prove .
’ And worthily requite unselfish love .
That faltered not, but dealt with honest truth
With imperfections of our wayward youth.
"	. SV'	"
Spes unica! a blissful hope that throws
A light celestial over earthly, woes;	.
_. That holds the soul unfaltering, and the glance Uplifted to the; sun-illumed expanse,
“ Secure that God hath left no work to chance.”
' ■ _v.xvi. .	'	' .
' He sees the little sparrow when it falls,	.
And marks dur course, forth from these convent walls, \ ; His-glory guide pur way ; be our one, hope	' ‘
Till life’s fair sun'sinks ’neath its western slope.