
.. The perfect giftfor the one youlove. 
A perfect Keepsake diamond says . it all, reflecting · . 
your love. in its brilliance and beauty. And you can . 
choose with c_onfidence because the Keepsake guar-· 
antee assures .perfect clarity;· fine white' color and ··precise modern cut. There .is no finer diamond ring.· 

,-,....-----. --·--------. --.--.. . -.·,:
·. 
IHow to Plan Your Engagement and Wedding:(
IEverything about planning your engagement and wedding in a 'beautiful 20 page I I booklet. Also valuable information about diamond quality and styling._ Gift offers I . . for complete 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book and giant full color poster. All for 25¢. I·
I . . •. ... -. .· ·1­I Nam~· . I ·.·.· 
· · · 1 ·· 
. IAddress . . ; . I City_ . . I , .· l_scai~: :': __ · <',·.: ·/:,<·•· ':_;:·C-·'ij/· ;. ···:· •:I · l·K~epsaRe Dia'niond Rings; B~x90, Syracuse,·Ne~xork1~201;1· \ 
•[!ind Keepsake Jewelers in Yellow pages or dial free 800-243-6100. In Conn. 800-882-6500J ·. ':-·' 
• •. I • • • ' . ·•c ,,., 
WE'D JUST LOVE.• 
TO HEAR·­
FROMYOU! 
Questions? _ Opinions? Complaints? Rude Comments? 
Write to:_­
.Editor· .SCHOLAST.IG Magazine ' LaFortune Student.Center· 
•Notre Dame, IN 


Cover: by Tom Everman Photographs: THE'· OBSERVER 5 -/ · Trent Beaton 13 /; Gonzalo Steven Reyes .16 / 17 l SCHOLASTIC,Archives 25 / All other photographs by Tom Everman. -. Art Work: Bernie Valenti 2/22, 23 /Terry Donahue. 2, 19 / Theresa Rebeck 20. ·. Correction·: • The photograph, appearing on page 27. of the third• issue of SCHO­LASTIC, October 8, 1976, was courtesy of 
THE DOME. .. ­



Scholastic 
Volume 118, No. 4, November 5, 1976 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES  
' 4  Civil Rights and .S~udent Rights:  
. Different Spheres of Freedom  .Barbara Frey  
' 7 .Speak Softly But Carry a Big Stick  Tom Westphal  
. 8 . The Renaissance·.. Man · ·  Annemarie Sullivan  
.10  Toward ~ Psy~hology Departmerif'of Being  .  Michael Lavalle  
13 . Chairman Siuda  · Lisa Michaels  
-14 , . .The Post-Dantley Era  Kevin _Connolly  
18  The ;First Frontier  Nicholas.,Durso  
20  The Final ­Frontier  · Joseph Caverly  
24  Run For Your Life  Robbie Moore  
25 · Breakfast of Champions  Rosemary ·Mills  
28  Defenders in the ke Arena  John Delaney  

REGULARS 16 Gallery·.-Gonzalo Steven Reyes 22 Perspe«::tive Peter H. Korth 26 Jottings Gilda M. Montalvo 30 · The Last Word . John Phelan 
-. 

Editor 'i' , _ 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 
Annemarie Sullivan Design Editor),; . , Bernie -Valenti ­
Production Manager 
Charles Sweeney · Copy Editor · 
Karen Caruso .. 
Cultu.ral Editor . Gilda M. Montalvo Sports Editor· · Tom Kruczek 
News Editor• 
Kathleen McElroy 
Photography Editor 
Tom Everman · · 
Advertising Manager ,,t· · 
Kay Andrews Business Manager, c; .. · Joanne Toeniskoetter Advisory Board ..· -.· Ronald Weber, Carl Magel Bro.. John Benesh, C.S.C.; J~mes Cook, Richard ,Conklin• 
·staff · Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne. White, Dave Beno,· John Kenward, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Feord, Mike Mc:ises, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Barb Frey, Gary Harden, Julie Runkle, Jim Ryan, Sue Hart, Johri Bartone, Andrew Gotuaco, Randy Cashiola, Mary Ann Chambers, Jim,. Romanelli, Maureen· Reynolds, Sherry Simon, Mark J. Ondash, Cary Gerber, Jay Tidmarsh, Tom Browne, Jim Jordan, Ed· Rodgers, Norman Burkhart, Keith Connor, Maria Maggi, Maureen Kelly, Mary De Roche, Karen Mahakian, Betsy Birch, Jennifer Ryder, Christie A: Herlihy, Clare· Leary, Maribeth Horne, Deborah Childs;· Jill Justice; Andy McKenna, Carol Smith; Hector Cecilo Ham, Don Orban, Theresa Rebeck, Mike Doherty, Howard Rand, Lisa Fulks, Tom Westphal, Robbie Moore, Rosemary Mills, Kevin. Con­nolly, Joseph Caverly, Nich_olas Durso,, Michael. LaValle, Lisa Michaels, Sheila Kearns, Peggy McGuire, Fran Gilbert, Russ O'Brien, Carol Ruppert, Marc No·vak, Burt Brunner, Dave Dreyer. -. . . · _ Hall Representatives: Kim Gumz, Mary Millen, Tom Westphal, John · McLutchon, Russ Angelo, Greg Skranznas, 'Sheila Gavan, Mary Reppa, Wendy Fencl, Kevin Paulson, Joe Lauck, Norman Burkhart, D·avid Perry, Ed Rodgers, Kevin Gorman, Don Osborn, John Delaney, Jeff Scholemer,. Kathy. Connely, Jessie Reed, Jim Jordan, Burt Brunner, .Dan 
Lombardi, Russ O'Brien, Tom Browne,. Terry Molony, Ruth Hohl, Julie Runkle, Clare Leary, Barb Frey, Jay Tidmarsh, John Muldoon, Matt Branyansky, Joe Caverly. The opinions expressed in-Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic 
and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. · . Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556_... The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational -Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year· except during vacation and examination periods; Scholastic is pririted atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The. subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556;. All tinsoJjcited material becomes the property of Scholastic. • _ . · _ _ . . copyright© 1976 Scholastic/ all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro~ 
duced without permission: -. -· : . -. ­
Civil· Rights a~d Student Rights: 
.. ·.nifferent.·spheres of freedom. 
It is a home football weekend, the Rights law and is currently doing biggest game of the year. You and research in this area. . . your roommate make a sign refer­· · · The subject of rights necessarily ring, to · the opposition in terms stems from the U.S. Constitution which are· slightly less than tasteful. · itself. Under the Fourteenth When your rector sees it hanging Amendment' no state shall· "deprive out of your dorm window, he asks. any person of life, liberty or prop­you to take it down in terms which erty, without due process of law; are slightly less than polite. You nor deny to any. person within _its claim freedom of speech. He claims jurisdiction the equal protection of you'll soon be enrolled at your local the laws." . All actions of· public CO!1}munity college if you do not schools, as functions of the state, comply with his order. Do.you have are subject to the· provisions of this a case? _ amendment. Their actions -are "ac­
You are a woman student apply­tions of the state" and, as such, all ing for university employment.-You students in public institutions are are qualified to hold a specific posi­ticiri and have .the job_ in the bag untU: they notice your name is Patricia. and not Patrick. You ac-· cuse them of discrimination because of sex. They tell you to take your · purse and leave. Can you fight it? 
_·As. a student in a private uni­versity,· you are in a different legal setting than. your friends at state· schools. Your sphere of freedom is· defined not:by the constitution but by the administration and its pol­icies. Many implications of this have come tci-light in numerous· court de­cisions _over the past few years. Private schools . have become in~ creasingiy aware of the limits of their power tinder the law. At the same · tinie, students .are beginning 


David Buchbinder

to realize to, what. extent' their civil rights are affected by their. enroll-. guaranteed virtually every freedom ment in-these institutions. · granted in the·Bill of Rights.' Notre 
"For the ·most part,'' according~to Danie, as a private institution, does Dr. Donaid Koinmers, Director of riot fit. tinder' 'ihis' description ~f the Center for_ Civil Rights, '.'stu--"state. action" and is :free from the dents here do not enjoy,the kind of responsibilities of· the Fourteenth rights . which are -enforceable in a··: Amendment; . . courf of law.''_. This .means_ th.at a.:. -State action is the key to under~ student at Notre Dame is bound to _standing the. legal difference be­the rules a~dJegulations _of _the. tween __a public and private_institu­University whether or not he ·be-. tion. '"An individual alleging that a lieves in their validity. . private educational,. institution · has : Third-year · iaw student; ' David deprived him of his constitutional Buchbinder, stated .it more strongly. • rights. must show that the institu­,istudent, rights ,are' totally at.the _-. tfon,:acted on' behalf -of the 'state," whim, of the ·Notre Dame admin-• explains• Dr. Philip Faccerida, Geri~ istration." Buchbinder, who works -~ eral Counsel. to the University, hi. -a in the Legal Aid and Defender As-. paper dealing· .with· the. consti~ s6ciation, is interested in Student tutional regulation -of private .coi~ 
. by Barbara French 
leges and• universities. "If state ac~ tion is not shown, a private school can be sued only as an individual citizen."* 
.· · What this comes down to is that if a ·student at:a·private college felt that his basic civil liberties were being denfod, he could, in fact, bring .suit· in the courts. But, before he ,could make a case of his individual complaint, he must prove that the :school's actions against him were ·public in nature. If this is proven; then the private institution., must :submit to the laws of the state and ,the subject can claim a violation of his constitutional-rights iri 'a federal 
court. 
What constitutes state action? It i~ .a complex and' rather nebulous legal concept _because it _is_ .con­stantly being redefined by the de­cisions · of the ·. courts. · Each time a case arises having to: do with state action, it . is -handled individually. Specific circumstances. _must be weighed before the court is able , to determine whether or not state ac­'tion is·'present in a private' i11stitu~ tion. Because of this case~by~case 
. interpretation, the only· guidelines a school can follow regarding state action are precedents of the court. 
"Generally," writes .Faccenda .in his analysis, "the actions of a pri­
. vate university are held to be state actions when the private institution is · an integral part of' the· public purpose or when the state has such an active role in the private insti­tution ... that it must be recognized as a joint participant in ·the· chal­lenged activity.'' _ · 
If an institution like Notre'Dame were ever challenged · successfully in a court of law on the basis of state action, it would have terrific ·conse­quences for the University.· as _a whole. All actions · of the school 
*Dr. Philip Faccenda and Kathleen Ross, "ConsUtutional and Statutory Regulation of Private Colleges and Universities," in Valparaiso Law Review. 
-SCHOLASTIC 
would become directly subject to the Const;itution · of .the United States. -This-would "change the. es­sential' character of the University,•i according to Buchbinder. "It would raise-:the question of · the · religious nature of Notre. Dame; Crosses ·in the· classroom ·would· be in violation of · the· First Amendment clause barring-. the establishment of state religion:'' 
Realizing · these consequences, private universities must constantly be aware of the current decisions of 

. the· court in the area· of school law. "When we talk about constitutional rights,"-,·remarked Dr;·: ·Faccenda, "we are ·not talking about the Teri Commandments, but a body of liv­ing law.'. It changes from month to 
month a_nd-we";have to··stayiup·on 

that. Dynamic law is our· system and it must be handled in this way;'! ·There are 0 certairi ,federal' regula~ tions'which must be met,by• Notre 
Darrie. because ·of.the federal. subsi~ dies it.·receives;'. These grants are notr'sufflcient evidence of: state 'ac­tion but.do:allow the·goveminent to . impose regulations regarding -poli.;. cies • of . racial or ·sexual discriinina.; tion on private schools. Notre Dame; . in . its·; status . as ·employer,· is· also subjecf"·to>laws regarding labor 
.· standards,· health arid. safety ~'re.;. quirements and equal··· employment opportunity. . .. _Get_ting·back to the sittiatiorispre­sented''.at the beginning· of the ar.:. ticle,~i1: can be seen that the student who har1gs .. a'' sigri: out. his · window. has,. little· ;chance· of . successfully ·_ challenging ''the·>University· on·.the basis. of. free speech. He. Would· be 
· forced. to prove• state action by the University: before the federal ·courts would even hear•his plea. ·In· a·state school, . the-· forced removal of · signs might,·be: a·' questionable·· action, . in that .the schools· may.• 'only regulate free "speech in terms of -time, ! place or manner and not content. Unless a·sign:was blatantly-obscene,'a-state schoo1:·probably.· could ,not penalize a··student for "displaying it. · .r • • -.In.-the ·second_ case,·:that.of sex discrimination· in seeking, a:.job;' the woman·· would · . have -< legitimate grounds to. sue ·the: University. The federal· government does have -juris­diction in a matter :· such· as this. 
NOVEMBER:5, 1976 
Notre Dame,· as ·well as a:11 · other private · educational institutions;•: is. subject to the Civil Rights Act of 1964 : which provides equal oppor­tunity· in employment for all • per­sons,· no matter what their religion; color, -sex or national origin;, 

· Students at a private university may be under a different authority, yet ·Dr., Faccenda·· claims that the difference between their rights and those' of '.students at state schools is . ·not, very great. "Leading private ·. institutions·~ ·.will • ·provide • substan­tially· the same 'rights , to students that the. Constitution requires. public schools to;p:rovide, and many,times even ·inoreJ', Faccenda,: noted that colleges'". have . never . been as con~ scious of the · legal consequences ' of their, actions:-as they are 'at the present .:time; dn the.:face of ·in-,· creased ·litigation .in this ,area.:.In his paper he: states ,his 'Conviction "that -: private· universities, would : be 
well advised.· to comply voluntarily with laws. which admittedly only ap. ply · to the public institutions, · be­cause to do so will allow an orderly transition and· prevent the risk of stricter enforcement . which always attends an unfavorable judicial de­termination;" 
Though none fail . to acknowledge the·loss. of _immediate constitutional rights . which accompanies enroll­ment in a private school; there are many who, see this. as the most favorable academic -... atmosphere. "I'm not sure I'm convinced that a university should have a firm struc­ture of legality a:kin . to the larger society," -reflected·· Professor . Kom­mers: "We are a community, a fam­ily, . and· hopefully are. bound py cer­tain• kinds ·of values and attitudes toward· life which should protect us \Vithout a specific legal code.'.' Kom­mers professes a strong belief in the value, of:private education and ;its institution, which serve to strength­


. en the cultural and religious plural­ism in America. Because of this, he feels -that "a university can legiti­mately impose rules and regulations on the behavior'. of its students which are · designed to maintain the uniqueness and distinctiveness of the institution as well as the cul­tural and religious heritage it repre­sents." 
Kommers believes that there is a definite distinction· between the kinds of rules a school could impose and what they should -impose. He stated that there is no legal prob­lem in the specific policies Notre Dame chooses as a private insti­tution, but that the policies followed should be liberal·· and compassion­ate. If a student, for· instance, were accused of breaking the law, it would be up to the administration to take, what it feels are necessary actions. "A university can properly expect· behavior which corresponds both to civil law and the expecta­tions of the school." In the same line, students · should think of the responsibilities to fellow students, faculty and the community as a whole, according.to Kommers, that correspond to their rights within the university. 
Dr. Faccenda also emphasized the 
community aspect of a private 
institution like .-Notre Dame. "I 
think that we can explain anything 
that happens.around here based on 
the· fact that we.· are a university;" 
He noted that in the·past there was 
a common acceptance of the· stand­
ards of the academic community 
and· consequently no need for their 
justification over and against the 

law. "It came as a shock to the older . generation when the younger gen­
eration questioned such things ·as 
civil Jaw... Faccenda remarked that 
it was unfortunate that so many indi­
viduals within · private institutions 
retreated to the law. "I. don't like 
to• see the segments of the Univer­
sity come ·at ·each other with law­
yers. !think that is stupid."· 
Buchbinder, on the other hand, 
feels . that. Notre• Dame student 
rights are being restricted by the 
University. Using the censorship of 
the student press . through the de­
nial of funds as an example, he 
claimed that the civil liberties of 
students are being violated by ad­
ministrative . policies. . The recent 
regulation· of WSND sportscasting,. 
as well . as the budget cuts. to the 
Scho'lastic, would be in violation of 
the rights of the student press if 


N.D. were a public university. The courts have stated that student com­munications in public universities and colleges cannot be controlled for purposes of content.• Though it is hard to prove this claim against an administration simply on the. basis of .the denial of financial ·support, Buchbinder claims t!}at at a state university the student media might win a · court decision on ._these grounds. "It is a gross . hyprocrisy that the people who run this' school travel the world screaming about human . and civil rights while deny~ ing them to their own students." .. Buchbinder. doesn't believe .. that · Notre Dame will ever be held."state action" in the courts. Being one. of the most private of private institu­tions in this country, there·will. have to be many. others challenged suc­cessfully. with regards to this . con­cept before the . courts would ever touch Notre Dame. Because of this, Buchbinder suggests that-if students want a guarantee of their. consti~ 

· tutional rights and Hberties, iti~.up 
· to them to. draft a bill. of rights (the one from .the Constitution would do) and have it accepted by the University administration. "And that's a_ difficult task," admitt:ed ,the law. student. How well is one equipped to face the legal order of society after at~ tending a schooi like Notre_.Dame?. Faccenda. points to the "quasi-sanc­tuary theory": that students some­times possess. '.'Some students think they can get ,'away with•.. anything;•_• he . commented. ·Those . who see .. the private university as ashelter from the laws are misled. "We are part of_St. Joseph county and must abide 
by its laws." · · · · In light of this, one may be con~ · cerned about the knowledge of civil · rights one has. upon leaving -Notre Dame. ·Faccenda stated that, )'Stu­dents should .be aware that the out­side community. has limitations that are _generally .tighter. than · those within any school.".·:-.·· Dr.· Kommers,·:on the subject of. civic responsibility, . remarked, ,"I would hope the University would be structured in such a. way that stu­dents .would be aware .of . their . rights." Within a private university he added, .. "People · should be given a large measure of freedom, margin for making. errors." 
SCHOLASTIC 


"Hello! Speaking of Sports! You're on the air!" With these words the radio announcer . greets a curious sports enthusiast. These few words, however, are noflost in a sea of 'air­waves but are the trademarks of a sports talk show that is-fast becom­ing as much of a tradition here at Notre Dame as the Irish Guard. 
"Speaking of Sports" originated four years ago 'whenRocky Maurasco and Mark Arminio 'recognized the need for a radio show with a talk­about sports format in the Notre Dame cominuriity'. Th.e , two were familiar with this type. of program­-ming and . felt that a. sports show would be very successful on such a sports-minded campus. . .. 
. With Maurasco's graduation, Arm­inio took over the broadcasting reins and. molded ''.Speaking of Sports" into' the popular, phone-in ,sports show that it is today. 
-Serving_ as Mark's apprentice dtir­big the past two years was Joe Don­nelly, ·who now hosts and directs the show. His endeavors at WSND have ranged from a• fiv:e-minute weekly sports show to play-by-play hockey and football to hosting the talk, show. Assisting Donnelly this year are Paul Hess and WSND Sports Director Ted Robinson. 
"Speaking of Sports" devotes most 


Speak 
Softly 
But 
Carry 
a 
Big 




Stick 
of its on~-hour time segrrie~t toques­tioris and ·comments phoned in by listeners. Recent sports · scores and news are reported periodically throughout the show.. Topics of dis­ctission vary from Notre Dame ath­letics to college football to profes­sional sports. :Individual players, coaches· and teams are all possible targets for the sports enthusiast who cares to. publicly vent his views. 
During a recent early -· October broadcast, for instance, the major le~gue baseball playoffs· were the major topic of discussion. Donnelly , ;in,d Robinson related. the scores of the day and gave in-depth analyses . of each team's. chances fo win the World Series. Callers asked for play­off predictions as well as prognosti­cations.on the upcoming Notre Dame basketball and hockey seasons.~ -._ 
A major sports issue this fail has been the refusal to allow WSND to broadcast Notre Dame hockey. · On his-October -10 broadcast, Robinson voiced avery demanding and persua­sive plea for independence. He felt that the administration's ban on hoc-· key broadcasts signified an infringe-m·ent on the media's right to freedom. of expression. · 
The obvious necessary ingredient for a successful show of this nature is response of the listeners. Accord-


Ted Robinson 
by Tom Westphal 
ing to host Donnelly, -"So far this 
school year, many people have been 
calling up on Sunday nights keeping 
our phones busy, which seems to in­
dicate that we are doing a good job." 
A problem often encountered in 
phone-in talk shows is listener a­
pathy or ignorance of sports topics. 
Not so at Notre Dame. "People 
around here are very sharp on 
sports/' _insisted .. Donnelly, "and 
'Speaking of Sports' gives the list­
eners the opportunity to be armchair 
quarterbacks ·. and voice -their per­
sonal opinions over the air." ­
. When asked what a talk-show host 
contributes to_ the success of the pro­
gram,. Donnelly replied, "Respect for 
people who call in, a good sense of 
humor and a quick wit. Active par'.". 
ticipation by the audience, however, 
is the major reason for success." 
In the past, "Speaking of Sports" 
has featured a few N.D. varsity ath­
letes, and' Donnelly hopes to have 
more guests in the ·future.. Coaches 
Lefty Smith and Digger Phelps are a 
couple of big names that the show 
would like to attract. .. Guests such 
as these would, it is believed, build 

up the listening audience tremen­· dously. · ­
''Speaking of Sports" is ·the only 
time, as Joe Donnelly puts it, "where 
you, the listener, can be the coach." 
NOVEMBER 5, 1976 


The Renaissance Man 
by Annemarie Sullivan 


Which professor at Notre. Dame mine the source of his distinctive . the center of a revival in research has served as an editor of the Ency-interest in education, literature and on St~ · Thomas· .Aquinas arid Aris­clopaedia Britannica, has raised philosophy is more difficult. After totle. The Committee on the Liberal brussels sprouts and plans to raise high school in Arizona, Otto _Bird Arts had just been established under the original French wine grape next studied in the English Honors pro-the direction of_: Mortimer Adler, year, designed his home library ac-gram at the University of Michigan . Scott Buchanan ·and Richard_ Mc­cording to the divine proportion, has at Ann Arbor. Looking back, he once· · Keon. The great emphasis on medi­eight children, is a firm believer in remarked, "As an undergraduate -eval studies and on the· theory and classical, well-rounded education, . at least as a senior -I was in-. history of theJiberal arts influenced and is an excellent model of such an_ terested in two things: poetry and his later accomplishments. educated man? He is Dr. Otto A. love. The connection is not always Dr. Bird then went to the Univer­Bird, one of the most versatile and fortuitous. In my case, it led not sity of Toronto, where Etienne Gil­fascinating men at Notre Dame. He only to marriage, but to my Ph.D." son had established _the Institute of is also the author of Cultures in Con-Love and poetry were the basis of Medieval studies, in order to. com­ff,ict: An Essay in the Philosophy of Otto Bird's master's thesis at Mich-plete his doctoral studies. He con­the Huniariities, which was recently igan on the medieval love lyric. His siders his teacher at Toronto to be published by Notre Dame Press. study of medieval literature led him one of the strongest influences in. his 
Dr. Bird's interest in agriculture to the University ofChicago to learn academic career.· Dr: Bird explained, might easily be traced to his father, more about the philosophy and theol-i,Etienne is my model and ideal of an a gardener and a lawyer, and to his ogy of the same era. In the fall of historical scholar~ i admire'him'and grandfather, a farm~r-But to deter:. 1936, the Univer~i'ty of Chicago was I owe much to him." ' ' . .--'· ·.: 
During World War II, Dr. Bird taught at SL· John's ·university in Brooklyn and'wrote for the Center of Inform'atiori Pro Deo, <an . interna~ ti.onal Catholic news agency. After the· war, he. returned to'. Chicago to work. with Mortimer Adler·•o·n "tlie Sytt.91>ticon; an index of :the Great Books of'the ·western World;; _ _ . 
. · Because of Dr; Bird's ·reputation and. experience with ·the'great.books and the liberalarts; Fr/Jolin Cava­naugh, president of the University of Notre.Dame, asked him t·o start'the General Program. of Liberal Educa­tion at the University: In 1950, Dr. Bird began as director and professor 
in the newly fo4nded department; he 
served in ·both··capacities· unti.l 196.3. 
In 1963, he was ,presented.':with"the Notre Dame-Faculty Award'for out~ standing services/' ; . · <;·· '. '·: '· '. ·.. :"The.14th year after' startirig"at 
Notre Dame· was'' my first' .oppor~ 
tunity for a sabbatkal, which I·took in ; order to :work. on a.. book . for 
Adler'~ institute: The Idea of Justice. 
-. .. ... :. ; ... ': ' ' ' : ; . ·: ~ .. .. . •, .', -~ , .::. . . 



From 1964 until 1970, I also served 
as an executive editor for Great Ideas 
Today [an annual publication by 
Encyclopaedia Britannica]." In the 
late 1960's Dr. Bird served as a mem­
ber of the planning committee re­
sponsible for the new edition of.the 
Encyclopaedia Britannica, also under 
the direction of Adler. 
"Mortimer Adler is my other most 

important teacher," said Dr. Bird. 
"He gave me the opportunity for 
experience and provided outlets for 
me. Much of my work is the 
result of the outlets his institute 
l)rovided." 
Dr. Bird accomplished the actual 

writing of his_ most recent book, Cul­
t'ures in Conflict, in 1973-74 as a fel­
low at the' Institute for Ecumenical 
. ­

and Cultural Research· at St. John's 
Abbey.in Minnesota ..In 1974, he re­
tu~ned .to· Notre Dame, :w!J.ere_h~ _is· 
now ·a ·professor. in the. General 'Pro~ 
gram of Liberal Studies. S.ince hi~ 
arrival in. _1950, Dr. Bird has· seen 
many changes in .the General Pro­
gram's . method . of studying the 
classics. :G.P. students .used' to have 
a _language . requirem_ent .of French 
and Latin, and they used to read 
more of . the· classics ..than they do 
now, However, Dr. Bird still values 
his experience in teaching arid still 
appreciates the main objectives of 
the program · which have not ·. 
changed.. 
"My_ great delight in teaching in.· 

the. General _Program .is that the· 
common academic background of the 
I • . • 

students and the reading of the great. · . books encourage really good discus.:. sion." Dr. Bird feels thaf. the dis~ •· 
· cussion in the G.P. classes is as much . : 
of a learning experience. for himself 
as :for his students. He began Cul­
tures in Conflict by . acknowledging 
that the G.P. experience helped shape 
the development of his book. His· stu-.. 
dents unquestionably benefit from his_· 
experience and· knowledge,. and they 
enjoy his entertaining stories and. 
unusual tidbits of information. •. ·. : : · 
.This is Dr. ·Bird's flriat•-year at .. _Notre Dame; He plans·. to.'retire .in ·_. will: co~tinue to. pursue his a~cicati~n . Otto_ Bird, like .19th century humani­'southern Indiana;where he will build, .'.of agriculture and his vocation of tarian Matthew::. Arnold, is "above with the help of .his family,· a· house . ;inteiUdual •· culture by establishing all, _a believer in culture." which he has ·already designed . . He his. _own ·vineyard and by writing . 
-· .
.. .· .. ' 
,, ,_:. "' 
·-·.,.. ' 




Toward A 
Psychology Department 
Michael LaValle is a graduate stu­as psychologists since the merg-er," dent taking courses in the Counseling related Banikiotes. There is now an Program of the Psyclwlogy Depart­increasing range of dissertation ment at Notre Dame. . topics to show the merger's stimu­
lating effect on counseling students.· 
Several years of discussion and The process of· merger, however, planning culminated this past June was not uncomplicated. The idea met when the Counseling Program offi.ci-with great resistance from members ally became a part of the Psychology ·of the Psychology Department nght Department. The merger marked the up untH a final decision was reached. end of an Education Department that When the department was fonne<fin had functioried with little cohesive-1965, a deliberate choice·was made ness. It was also an attempt to . by the University to follow priiri~ly broaden· the scope of. a young psy~ · an experimental-research orientation, chology program. -as this was the direction· of the field 
Prof. Paul Banikiotes,· Director of at the time... Subsequently, many the Counseling. Program, explained the operations of the·education cur­riculum: "To look at literature and see what was. being offered . would lead one ·to think the department was enormous." CoW1seling was only ­a part of the department; · degrees were also offered in history of edu­cation, religious education, and sev­
•eral other areas. · "With only 15 faculty members, it seemed as though one professo~ was responsible for an ·entire program." 
The merger provides several means to "firm upft the CounselingProgram which received its American Psy­chological Association certification in 1972. Students are-riow exposed to more expert training in statistics and can pursue interests in social psy­chology and applied behavioral an-. alysis which were not. available to them before. Additional core r~ quirements, while not an altogether pleasing result of the union to grad­uat_e students, are designed to meet requirements of theprofession. "Stu­dents really have more identification 

of Being 
by Michael LaValle 

faculty members· had ·serious doubts that the Counseling ·Program could enhance the department's value to the University and to ·the discipline . · Perhaps the most unenviable posi~ tion of all was' held by the Depart­ment· Chairman, John Borkowski: Away on sabbatical, Borkowski was faced with mediating between the feelings of his colleagues and his own belief in the benefits of merger both for the Counseling Program and the Psychology Department. From Bor­kowski's point . of view, ·. the ·· main advantages for the department were the expansion of the range of course 


£~g·:try~~1_w,iaf_~~g§_~ ;:_t':':1\{\f;~~0~;r, 
.~'. ,>_•:• "•~•---:~ G 
• • .'•.....' _;.: -:, ·•-: ·,:~~-~;: ·~ ,_·-•• 

Student -reaction -to his 'appr()aCh is .Professor Paul Banikiotes 
offer.ings' .iii--the . u·ndergraduate j cur­ricuium . arid. the_ solidification, . yet enlargement, of the _operating'.·base oftlie graciuate.program: ­. Borkowski worked hard for their merger, feeiing tl1at it responded to both the desire ·ot°.the administration to· broaden the··department .and his concern for. conditions enabling_ fac­ulty_ members to pursue _their own interests . without taking on other 
responsibilities. -. . 
. Expanding .the;depa~ment_ comes a~_ a_ br~~th of. fresh air for ~any students, psychology majors and non­majors alike.-:The seemingly-.narrow orientation·_ of the faculty pri_or to the merger has l;>_eE?Il an issue of great 

con_cern among students. "It would be foolish not to respect the behavi­oral or learning point of. view that · we ~re taught because it is prevalent ·: today. But to see other ideas dis-. regarded. and even· downgraded .be-c·. cause they ·don't agree with those of ' the. professor or with what •is ',cur­rently fashionable seems even more . foolish," -notes. a:··senior·.psychology ·:.:: 
quite favorable·: . "He.has a bias like··· everyone 'else. But he _really helps ment in the College of Arts & Letters students Slee where other points of . with . offices·;-in. a separate . building~ view fit in:_ or contradict his prefer-'While roorri is . rieeded for research ence.;, Tageson· admits to "feeling _laboratories, Burrell points out that 
· alone" in the type of.material he...the separation hinders exposure to presents but expresses the hope that.. ·new .ideas; "What;. ·often_ gets. a the . merger will . initiate a more __ teacher thinking is an informal dis­diverse range of thought for ·students --cussion over.iunch or in· the· ha:llways to·explore. -· -. . _· . with a colleague from another de-.. .. •Ariottier psychology ---major re--· partment." :_ . \. ­
marks that. learning. differe~t ·. ap~ . preaches to psychology -has meant having to approach .the theology and .philosophy departments·. ''And often that: ·doesnit -• .help ' because those courses are theological or phifosophi­· cal approaches . fo psychological· 
:-· issues/' · . .--. _:i:Fr. David Bu~rell, chairman·ofthe . ,_Theology Department,· suggests tliat ·part of 'the· problem is. one of'lo­
·cation. Aside from the Music Depart-: ·uke to· see is for psychology students 
•ment, psych~logy is· the only depart---·to complete· their major requirements NOVEMBER 5, 1976 
-: .. Borkowski concedes' that the phys~ ical arrangement is a hindrance, but one that can be.overcome. "Psy-: chology· . can . probably •·interrelate _with more disciplines than any other area." _Citing psychology as .an at­tractive·. preprofesslonal major and an excellent . complement to ,most other majors, :Borkowski has high hopes for increasing_interacUons be­tween departments. :"What I ;would 
r:· ·: -j 11111J1 1L~ ..r,-~..~-. -­
i:r :; .:r.;~:-:;>_ ~ ­~~:.~-:t. {__,.~ ~ f:• . 
{? 1 ~ .~.--~.~-'
,.,:'{ I I'; < ~';, 
,­
.~~ ~ .•" .
..,.._. 
.1,•­




iit0 

,t,J~i~" 

early. · Then _the senior year can be spent pursuing·• interdisciplinary_ ,in­quiry with -a thematic ·concentra­tion." Currently, such a possibility is avialable in' linguistics; where the topic :is dealt with in the English, philosophy, and modern _ language departments as well as the Psychol­ogy Department. The ,aging. program in the Psychology Department is ·in­creasing· in popularity among -stu­-dents largely. through the · efforts . of Profs. John Santos · and Donald Kline. This topic, having roots in sociology, theology; and ·economics, 
· would seemingly benefit a great deal from such an interdisciplinary ap-. preach. · 
·--Borkowski points out that the de­velopment · of such programs must arise from student interest. ··-~'This type· of program· requires professors getting '· together, becoming .: ac­

quainted, and earning each other's 
trust and respect. To become in­• • • • 
volved in such a process on top of 
their already busy schedules would The late psychologist Abraham 
require that students really want· it Maslow theorized that when an indi­
to happen." vidual's basic needs for food and 
With the m,my possibilities for ex-security are met, he is free to pursue 
pansion, Borkowski cautions against other types of needs -"being­
expanding ·at the.sacrifice:of current needs." By this, Maslow was refer­
departmental strengths:· Whtie a de-·ring to an individual's growth via the 
partment's. national ranking is diffi-exploration. of one's potentials and 
cult to document, ·the success of the actively integrating them into day­
psychology program, even before the to-day living. : Maslow's theory is a 
merger, is impressive. The best indi-convenient perspective from which 
ca tors are placement illto top grad-.to view the history~of the Psychology 
uate schools and subsequent sue-Department. ·. 
cesses in the field..t(Alinost all the The arguments over orientation 
students who apply to graduate . and expansion are likely ·to continue. 
school .trom our undergraduate pro-Students ruthlessly . critical of' the 
gram not only are accepted but per-. department for its narrowness often 
forni at the top of.their dass. Many . :overlook the_ positive aspects that 
of the majors have done quality re-· accrue from such an orientation. Few 
search and the publication record. of . students would take issue with either 
psychology students is a unique char: . the willingness of professors in the 
. acteristic . of. the department." Bor-.department t~ help interested . stu­
kowski. feels it is important that the ·· · dents become involv~ in research·or 
department not. lose track of the 
direction of its past efforts which 
have earned for the program the re­
putation of excellence it now holds. 
Banikiotes concurs: "Different :ap-, 
proaches must be integrated; but the 
fact remains that no matter what· 
area· of·psychology one pians to en­
ter, . coming from a research~oriented. 

undergraduate program xirtually in-·· 
sures a person. of. more opporturii-. ; . 
ties." · · 
The issue.of how much ·the dep~rt~ , 

ment should expand itsofferings to. _.. 
stu_dents . boils down to conceptions . 
of the role a university· department plays in education. Borkowski views the ·. ~eaction ·.to >the department's orientation as partially related to the people and: the tradition at :Notre Da~e. · Referring to the theological atmosphere at the school, Borkowski claims that the situation here often lends itself;·to. a:misunderstanding about what• psychology. is as a pro­fession. "The .primary purpose· of .our department is to prepare the stu­dent iri the contemporary mode. of the subjectmatter. The focusing of a department's orientation represents · the best· available prediction of what 
wm be of worth to the discipline and · 
society." Fr. Burrell remarks that. 
prevailing orientations . should not 
necessarily dictate the curriculum of . 
a' departm~ritd-::--"The department 
may b~-reflectinga: narrowness fathe 
field.",,.. . . . . . 

. 12 
the invaluable worth of such expe­rience. 
But, with programs to meet a student's needs of professional pre­paredness firmly established, the de.:. partment can now afford to foster a greater concern for the general needs ofstudents interested in psych'.oiogy. Professional preparation ·'should' 'riot exclude a student's growth:" Students need to decide· for themselves. wh~i is and is not of· worth in their dis­cipline. '.It is a. personal' matter that becomes · , · intellectually.' frustrating when· opportuniti_es for contrasting opinions are li~ited; The merger pro.: vides a·-'cnicial ;base • for·'th'.e· con­tinued growth of -the department'. The initiative now m1:1st be_ taken:_by students to coirimunicate·'their· feel­ings arid' ideas .in encouraging the movement ·toward· ·a;psychology· d~ partment that . will' become .·better able to meet the variety· of: pr_ofes.: siorial and' educational , needs . of.· its 
students;·' · · 
<!tbatrman 

~tuba 
by Lisa Michaels 

Josef Siuda -few Notre_ Dame students·attach any meaning to this name. Perhaps even fewer are aware ofhis endeavors in a small workshop in the basement of the South Dining Hall. Yet Josef Siuda has become a Notre Dame institution_ in his own right. Single-handedly; he has played a major part in the preservation of tradition, at a school which thrives on tr~dition.__ He has gone so far asto infuse a spirit and quality of the Old World_ Iri;o -the University. :. 
Josef Siuda has been employed by the University for 25 years -ever since coming to the United States as an immigrant from Poland in 1951. 
. During that time he has served the South Dining Hall in the capacity of both a carpenter and a mason. His handicraft is present everywhere. In the past few years, however, his skills have been chiefly concentrated on the complete restoration of the antique chairs in the dining hall and their matching tables. · 
"Joe," as he is affectionateiy refer­red to by the dining hall personnel; ­is an· Old World craftsman· in the purest serise of the term. He prac­ticed -this trade in Poland before im.: migrating to the States and has suc­cessfully. maintained, along with ·his prowess·-in carpentry, an attitude of pride in his ·handiwork which is so characteristic of the old country: All of his restoration work is conducted entirely by hand -each chair being treated as an individual work of art. ­Thus, each restored chair bears ·the supreme quality of handmade crafts"­manshipJ: and, after being treated by Joe,-is in many ways superior to the original. ·· The process of rehabilitation is ·a painstaking· one in :which each sec,;; tion of the chair, down to the small-

-est part, is dismantled and then even­tually reassembled. Each of the anti­que oak chairs is completely stripped ·of_ all finish and lacquer and all the wood ·is _sanded. When the. chair is reassembled, one coat of stain and -two coats of varnish;are applied. The finished result is,. in effect, a brand­new chair expected to. survive an­other 50 years of brutal SouthDining 
·_ Hall wear. It is of a lighter ·_shade than the original chair, thus provid~ ipg the dining hall with ari overall lighter•· appearance. 
The University has employed Josef -Siuda to do this work not merely out of desire'. to preserve tradition, but rather out of necessity.. _The Phoenix Chair Company of Wisconsin, which was originally responsible for -.. the --construction onhe chairs. in 1927~ is no · 1onger in existence. · No -other · compariy has perpetuated the "bow-' ing process" by which ~e originals were built. ..· This heat~mechanized process allowed the back bows of the : chairs to be constructed out of one piece of wood whereas today several pieces would be glued together. The dining hall was forced -to ·purchase some of these modem-built chairs 

three· years ago when ·they increased their seating· capacity.· These. chairs have -already proved ·to be· poor in durability, thus affording Old' World craftsmariship a: small 'victory over modern technology. 
-Frequently the· University is be­sieged with calls . from those ·in­t~rested in' purchasing_-these antique chairs and tables. Understandably, they are always refused. There is no exact estimate of. the monetary worth of each of the chairs, but one unofficial appraisal places their value at approximately $100: 
Josef Siuda plans to retire in March of this school year. After 25 _ years of service his retirement is cer­tainly deserved. However, the pro­cess of restoring the chairs is only half complete, an·d there is no· one to take his place._ His apprentice, grad­uate student Barry _O'Connor, _con­fesses that he does not have the ability to . conduct· the process him­self. Mostimportantly, though; it is unlikely that someone will. be_ found who would instill as much pride in his work_ as does Josef Siuda. The University hopes to .persuade Josef Siuda to stay on part-time after March. The_. qualities of antiquity which he so . creatively expresses are too valuable to be lost, 
Th<2 · Post-Dantley Era 
Fo~ Digger Phelps, this · season represents a definite challenge. In the fallowing interview with the Scholastic done on <;)ctober 15, the Notre Dame head basketball coach discusses the coming season and same .of the proble'ins which .are making this season a very important one to the Irish mentor. . . Scholastic: Are -you planning. on adding anyone to replace Dantley, Rencher and Laimbeer? · . Phelps: Hopefully, we'll be able. to find three. or four guys at the try­outs;. We'really need them because there isn't a guy. on the team. who doesn't miss practice because of injuries or exams or studying. But that's part of the role of playing basketball here at Notre Dame. These guys will . dress for . home games but -they won't be able to travel with the team and they will be making -a big sacrifice because they won't play much .. We'll also be looking at some football players later,· but much of that will depend on tryouts. ,Joe Montana· and Rusty Lisch ·. are good ballplayers and Kevin Hart has been in camp with us for· a couple. of years,· but these guys have to' satisfy their commit­ments to football first. (Editors note: The evening of this interview, tryouts for the team were held and .Phelps chose Billy Sahm, Tim -Healy and Chris Fabian from the more than 50 who tried out.)·· Scholastic:. Who do you expect to pick up the bulk of'the scoring with Dantley gone? Phelps: Dave Batton-has beefed up to 235. lbs., and we expect him to be very physical and control the in­side game along with Billy Paterno and Bruce Flowers. We have a lot of experience in the backcourt with Dice (Ray Martin), Duck (Don Williams) and Carpy (Jeff Carpen­ter); Rich Branning will definitely make· a ·contribution but he'll· take time to fit .into our system. I think Kuz (Dave Kuzmicz) .· as a ·senior 

..will be a factor. The only player whose status . is questionable is ;'Randy Haefner because of the back -'.)njury he suffered last year. All in · all, I would say that it's really un­known as to who will do most of the scoring. ,Some nights you. might see. two. guys with 25 points and an­
·other-night there might be four or five guys in d~uble figures. What we're interested , in is scoring 90 points . per' game , which was our average last -year. We also want to improve our team defense, so that on some nights we can win with 70 or 80,points. Scholastic: -Do you think that Billy Laimbeer will be back next year? . Phelps: Yes, I think Billy will be back next year, because he wants to come back. He is now at a junior ­college in Toledo, and if his grades are acceptable, he'll be back· next year. He's .had a lot of offers over the summer from schools where he . 
by Kevin Conolly 

could play right now but he turned them down because he wants to be at Notre Dame. Some of Billy's problems came about because he is 6'11" ·and people notice him. He 
.has the potential to do better aca­demically but he had trouble mak­ing the emotional adjustments to Notre Dame. ·But I ·think that he has matured since then and he will be· back. Scholastic: Do. you think that. the pressure from the students·on him next year will' be any worse than it was this year? Phelps: It will be a·case where'the students will have to give a" little and so will Billy. It's a shame that the students didn't see the last two 
·games he played for Notre ·name last year. In. the Manhattan and Pittsburgh games, he _played -tre~ mendously. • John Shumate had to go through many of the things Billy has_ had to here. People. thought 


and to do that you have to open University. We can't recruit any with ·a great game, and we felt junior college or transfer students. Maryland would be that sort of I know what the percentages are game. That day (Nov. 27), both the of becoming a national champion. football team and the basketball We could be a powerhouse, but it team will be on national television, has to be in a different way. I think and that is the first time that will Gary Novak is a good example of happen. ·By playing a tough sched-my •.. goal in coaching. When Gary ule early in the season, as I believe was a sophomore, we were 6-20 and in, you find out early what you can . lost to Indiana and UCLA by more and cannot do. Then, when you get · than. 50 points, but two years later into ·the meat of the schedule later we stopped UCLA's winning streak on in the· year, you forget about· and we were ranked number one in what. you can't do and just concen-the country. Gary tasted the good ·. trate on what you can do. This along·· with the bad, and that gives us a good indication, also, as integration of good and bad into to what we wiHhave to improve on everyday life is going to make Gary to get the postseason bid. a helluva _doctor. I try to get this Scholastic: We've talked about the message across to my players and ..· early portion of the schedule, which anybody I'm associated with. · : is · tough, but toward the end we Dwight Clay called me last winter play teams like LaSalle, San Fran-because he got cut by the Atlanta 
Shumate had a bad attitude·in his cisco and DePaul, who are aiso Hawks and he said, "Coach, it's a 
·· early years here, but when he left tough. What are your thoughts cold world out here." And I said, Shumate was loved by everybody'. about those teams? "Dwight, I've been trying to tell I think that when Billy comes back Phelps: It is very important t~ you that for four years." The most and he blocks a shot or dunks a get" the consistency that a team important thing to me is to teach basket it will open the door fora. needs by playing the very best my players how to coexist with the new relationship with the students. teams that we can.·· Also it's im-reSt of the world. The sad thing is that sometimes portant in recruiting, in that· a Scholastic: Do you have any plans people make judgments about peo-player who comes here knows that to coach pro ball? ple based on rumors, and the next he will be playing against the top Phelps: No, because there are too thing you know, the thing is really . teams and all of the top players in many inconsistencies right now snowballing and rumors are flying the country that he's heard about. with player salaries and relation­about something that happened San Francisco and. DePaul both ships between players and man­' three or six months earlier. Billy -come near the end of the schedule agement. Besides, I like the color is going through the same things and they are great teams to prepare and excitement of college ball. that everyone goes through at one for the. NCAA's against. San Fran-There's a lot of security in this job time or another in their lives. He's cisco is the team to beat: I know here. I want my kids to be able to going through a growing· period-that I do a lot of crazy things with mature into well-rounded people and I'm speaking· of physical and scheduling, but it'H be an important and I believe this is an ideal com­mental growth. All I can say is plus to. play San. Francisco right munity for them to do that. 
give· him a chance and it will · be . near· the end of the season, because 
interesting to see what. happeris. you know that_ if they come in 
_ScholMtic: What do you think were rated in the top four or five teams, · the causes that precipitated Ber-t_!le arena will really be hopping nard Rencher's departure? for that game and then DePaul the Phelps: I think in fairness to Ber-.Saturday afterwards, so it will be mi.rd, it was a case of him being his . a good prep for the tournament. 
. own ma1' and he just didn't feel he Scholastic: What do you consider fit. into the Notre Dame mold, and to be_ your number one goal in as a resuU he was very unhappy .. ·coaching right now? here. You have to remember that Phelps: .Well, you have to look at everyone you bring into Notre my goal compared· to the public's Dame isn't going-to live and die for· goal, which is. the national cham­Notre Dame. So I'm glad he got pionship. Obviously,· I'd like Notre. out now_so he can readjust his life Dame to. become national cham­to what he wants to do. pions"but I have to realistically Scholastic: This year's schedule look at our limitations here. The lo_oks like _one>i:>f, Notre Dame's admissions requirements are very toughest, especially starting with stiff and many of the top high Maryland. . . ." . . school players become ineligible Phelps: We wanted to ~pen with a. fro~ our point of view because they game_ that_ w~uldattract attention, would-not .be able to get into the 
·NoVEMB_ER 5,-1976. :. · 
. 15 




NOVEMBER 5, 1976 


The First Frontier 
by Nicholas Durso· 

It speaks well for the sturdiness .of . soon be gone. Tourists migrated to encouragement for the rise of the the Western film that it has survived the West in droves and periodicals Western film. since 1911 when Thomas Harper Ince began to turn to Western stories, the Of all the money~making for­(1880-1924), who inherited the West-popularity of which sent editors of_ mulas for successful films that the ern as a stale formula, gave it a logic eastern magazines hunting · cease-Hollywood of the 1930's developed authenticity and vitality that the lessly for contributors. The figure of and. refined (the backstage musical, world has been .responding to ever the gallant hero who is always will-.. gangster story, kno.ckabout farce and since. With Ince's two-reel War on ing to risk any odds appeared in the Walt Disney cartoon), the most the Plain.s and three-reel Custer's fiction of Jack London and in the solidly satisfying and most ... truly Last Fight (both in 1912) it seemed period of the Spanish-American War American is the Western. Its popu­that the true historyof the West was · generations of Teddy Roosevelt. The larity seems to be constant and it is being portrayed on the screen. With Western also continued an American the pride of a sedentary American his production of The Bargain (1914) melodramatic tradition that had ap-society. Today, when moral issues Ince brought to the screen the love, are so ·cloudy and complicated, we
;:.,;.0~~£;£•~~~:~::; t;~Mlt_,:{:: . Ft~~~~;E1·~1~ 
five decades. ; :·;,~,_:; crystallize its .moral conflicts in 
tio~~i:~~ ~::te~; ~:t~it:/~~~ tl~{: :::~:e ;~~r;:c~~;:at~:t~~=ist!~; unique American drama known as r deals with emotions in their pure the Western film has flourished for state rather than with sublimations 50 years without any sign of fa-of them. Certainly no other art form tigue because it has fixed in the has so little variety. minds of moviegoers an image of the As cliche as the Western film Old West more romantic than the might be, it does not provoke our Old West ever really was. It is for resentment. It satisfies us in the this reason that some purists of 'the same ways as Greek tragedies, Western trace its influence back as Moliere comedies, opera, the Kabuki far as Homer and other writers of dances of Japan, bullfights and base-the epic. It might even be possible to ball games -we like them for the suggest that the twentieth century simple reason that they follow fixed Western owes many of its character-peared in America as early as the patterns and stylized gestures. istics to medieval morality plays or writings of James Fenimore Cooper, The formula of the Western film to novelists such as Sir Walter Scott dime novels and the works of senti-often focuses our attention on the and Robert Louis Stevenson. Each mental novelists. The work of Bret main street of an Old West town that argument has its own validity but Harte firmly established a foundation in less than excellent films strikes us· the reasons for the rise of the West-. for the Western film and the interest as unbearably ·picturesque:. These ern might be more easily ·found in in Western pulp fiction that was to streets are filled with the stock char-' recent movements in American cul: flourish at the turn o(the century. acters of the truculent villain,. the. tural history. The genre owes much For. the Arnerican:S of the Roose-pretty .. and prim schoolteacher, ·the of its success to the combined influ-, velt era, the West was the last fron-doctor, the boozy and amiable· sher­ences of events and cuUural changes tier of freedom and individualism iff, the' bartender;. the rough but that took place around _the year 1900. and a fortress against industrialism. benign prostitute-and the :cowboy· ~­
There was an increased interest in . In Western films we continually ·see hero. The one constant i.n 'the· for-. the West during the last two decades· the West portrayed as a physical and· m~la is,the hero and ,e>ne. fact .that, . , of the nineteenth century. Economic . psychologicar' frontier, and our own links John Wayne in Red River. with ; 
problems brought to mind the ·star~ conflicts between an industrial arid .. Alan Ladd in Shane with such recent: ·· .· tling truth that the West.was filling agricultural America arid a nostalgia heroes as Clint Eastwood in The Out,;. up and the wide open plains would for the past have provided a large law Josie Wales is that they are not 
\.,_,, 

18 .... . -..~' ~-.. :.SCHOLASTIC 

different men but one man. He is the authentic folk hero, the white knight of American mythology. Like all folk heroes from Beowulf on, he is a composite of folk types and possesses automatic traits. He is a man of unflinching courage, a man with no past (High Plains Drifter) who roams the· range vanquishing his · foes.· He is sometimes fond of hi_s horse which is often smarter than ' the rest of the people in the film. Likewise, the cowboy has always been-and always will be-awkward in love. It is for this reason that the cowboy and his girl are probably the most· inarticulate and uninteresting lovers in the whole realm of film en­
tertainment. Certainly, the. simplic-· 
ity of dialogue in the Western film 
is a theatrical oddity, for it often 
tells the viewer. absolutely riothing 
in contrast to the dramatist's tech­
nique in any other medium. 
In an atte~pt to satisfy whatever 

urge there might be for horse opera at Notre Dame, Cinema .'77 brings to campus five classic Western films. · Red River (Nov. 14) stars John Wayne, Montgomery Cliff and Walter Brennan, and brings to the screen 
the clash between. the moral outlook . 
· of a younger and older man and the 
NOVEMBE~ 5, 1976 
violence that lies beneath their dis-. on the draw than anyone else. De­
agreement. The film was made in. . spite . his every effort to live peace­
1948. ably, he is continually forced into 
The. Gunfighter (Nov. 15) stars situations that require him to use his · Gregory Peck and portrays the .· gun to kill. The act for him is shame-shocking story of a hired gun haunted by his past. The hero ·is forced to come to terms with his own family life and his reputation as. a killer that serves to thwart it. The film is one of the first examples in the genre of the psychological .west­ern. Its portrayal of an anti-hero, although misunderstood by critics at the time of its production (1950), exerted an influence on films that were to follow it. 

Shane (Nov. 16), like The Gun­fighter, is about a gunman (Alan Ladd) whose fate it is to be quicker 
.. :,, <'. 

-~ fJ;-i"." 
~! i}.J.J;.,
.11 • :},·.,. (. 

ful, and it isolates him from ordinary people, forces him. to lead a lonely existence and cuts him off from human contact. Unlike many other Western films, Shane (1953) makes 
. no attempt to glamorize the kiHer. The director most readily asso­cia ted with the Western is John Ford. His films, such ·as Stagecoach and My Darling Clementine, are classics of the genre. Ford's The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence (Nov. 17) stars John Wayne, Jimmy Stewart and Lee Marvin. In this romantic tale of the West, Ford's sentiments lie with the common man, the pioneer, whose courage and desire cause him to fight on according to the Old West's basic code of survival. The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence (1962) is an excel­lent example of the hero whose indi­viduality is threatened by the polit­ical and industrial growth of a coun­try no longer concerned with the ruggedness of the individual. · Like· The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence, Lonely Are the Brave (Nov. 
18) shows the cowboy hero as an anachronism in a modern mechanical world. No longer pitted against the black-hatted villain, the hero places his undying individualism against helicopters and electronic gear in a chase through a world that gradually 
. closes.in upon him. In recerit years,. the Western film and variations upon it have con­tinued .to grow in number and popu­larity. Recent · films such as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and Missouri Breaks are testimony to the fact. Incredible asit may seem, after more than 60 years of being exposed to the lores, traditions and dramas of the West, our interest has not yet been exhausted. 



The Fil'lal. FrOntier · 
.. Until now, the privilege of break­ing earth's bonds of gravity to ex­plore ,.the dinal •frontier . belonged exclusiv~ly to astronauts and cos­monauts, .,while we, the. ~•are-nots," could only watch via .satellite. The common man's. reveries of ·adven-. ture in space may well be approach­ing reality.,:Recently, the National :Aeronautics.and Space:eAdministra­tion (NASA} announced a.new pro­gram whereby college and second­ary school students as well as fac­ulty .will have the opportunity to
-. . . . 
participate. in Space Shuttle mis­
sions; . . 
. Shuttle crews will consist of as many as seven persons including a commander and pilot chosen from . the NASA Astronaut Office, The NASA personnel will be respon­sible for control of the vessel dur­ing. launch, • re-entry and all other 
) 

maneuvers.· in space. They will also .maintain Shuttle systems.. One to four payload specialists w111' be se­.· 1ected for ·each .mission primarily to ~ecute:the planned experiments. 
At least orie Notre Dame.student. .is actively seeking acceptance into ·the training program.· Senior Dexter ,Gourdin, a.5-year engineering-econ-. 'omics maJor, has 'long. dreamed of 
voyaging into outer space. The'·ad-. venture of being a modern-day ex­plorer appeals to Gourdin, but he emphasizes qualifications over de­sire. In his own words, "The Space Shuttle will have no sightseers. ·Every• crew member will have his· job to do."' Each mission specialist will play_ a vital role in achieving the operation's · goals. Gourdin specializes in computers at Notre Dame and hopes that his knowledge in this field will gain him a place· 
by Joseph Caverly 

· in the program. . . 
Gourdin, realistically assesses his chance of flying aboard the Space Shuttle as slim. "Anyone meeting the minimum requirements can ap­ply to the program," stated Gour~ din, "bu{ the· more experienced and more :qualified .. persons, such as those with doctorates in' their fields will be· chosensfirst.":. 
To· qualify· as a candidate, '.an appHcant must have a· bachelor's degree from an accredited institu­tion in engineering, biological or physical science, or' mathematics· completed by December of. 1977; He . 
. or she must also be able. to• pass the. NASA Class II spaceflight,physical and not be less than· 5' or'. more than 6'4" tall. Accepted candidates must . then ·complete . a two-year . training program at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center ,at Roust.on 
,. SCHOLASTIC 

in order ·to ··gain a detailed knowl.;-­edge of Shuttle systems and mis­sion objectives. 
Besides · ·the actual "Mission specialists" working on board the spacecraft, ·creating • experiments and . planning projects to be per­formed·, by. the Shuttle's crew are other possibilities for civilian in­volvement. , · The Shuttle spacecraft, designed to be reusable, will further the work of experimental .inve~tigation in space begUI! ~y Skylab. 'After being launched, ·,',the Shuttle . will" execute m!ssions lasting up to 30 days. Upon its return to earth, -the vehicle. will once again be" readied -for :takeoff, manned_ by-a-new crew with a dif­ferent set of tasks to perforin. 
Research_ organizations : around the country._ are _currently. compet­ing for NASA's support. for their particular ·experiments .. NASA·must be convinced. of the necessity for an experiment to_ be, conducted in the space environµient and_ also ,of,the 
· value of its possible results before . approving it for a Shuttle mission. 
Dr. A. Murty Kanury and Dr. John Lloyd ot' the Notre Dame En­gin-eering Department are now in­volved in· preparational work for combustion experiments to be per­-formed in ·space ... At present they are considering as many as 20 com­bustion experiments but this number will be cut down to only one or two by next year. According to Dr. Kanury, . conditions of near zero gravity in space facilitate the obser­vation of combustion processes. . l 
. The-results· of combustion experi­ments performed in space -may lead to -cleaner ways ·of burning · cheap but high polluting fuels such as soft coals or diesel gas. This is just one of many, possible examples of bene­fits, to,_be derived from experimen­tation: in .space. The effects of zero gravity on biological ·processes. or of:, solar and . cosmic radiation ·on · various_ materials-:may also be in­vestigated · by· scientists in other fields. 
Should one of the experiments proposed by Dr. Kanury and Dr. Lloyd be selected by NASA to be 
. used in space, someone capable will be needed · to perform it. Being naturally curious about space, Dr. Kanury said ·that the opportunity to make an expedition there is at first glance inviting. But curiosity is one ·matter, and commitment· to the m1ss10n specialist . cand.ida te 
. program quite another. 
The child's. dream of landing on the moon .may have faded ,with re­ality. .But space is_ endless, and somehow the dreams still reach to­ward the unapproached . mysteries of the last frontier. , . 
"There's a starman waiting in the sky He's told us not to blow it ;'Cause. he knows it's all worth­while." David Bowie 


Perspecti'7e 

Drag queens are the only people in the world who know how to make eyeshadow out of spit and blue­
-jeans; This unique talent undoubtedly augments their popularity in .the niore innovativegay circles, Profes­sional drag queens; of course, are not drag queens at all; but female impersonators, and swear by Helena Rubenstein. Perhaps the profes­sional's make-up is more cosmetically appealing, but not even Max Factor has been able to capture that Levi blue. 
· Many gay men wear Levis, but very few of them wear eyeshadow. Many gay women wear Levis, too, 

•and it may not come as a big stir_. prise that a lot of them wear' eye­shadow.· These observations do not merit elaboration, unless one wanted to imitate Gertrude Stein and write a short story about gay men, gay women, Levis, and eyeshadow. And who would want to? ·Straight men and women follow similar patterns in the wearing of Levis and the usage of eyeshadow, and no one makes much of a fuss about it. . 
This nonsense just goes to show you that men are men and wo_men are women, gay or straight. At this point I am only wondering if there are any straight males who wear eyeshadow. I suppose so; anything's possible with Maybelline. It would 
·make an interesting thesis question for a degree in cosmetology. Or is that cosmology? 
The answer to that last question would plunge us even deeper in this sponge-bath in metaphysical con­

-fusion. The significance of the drag queen is not her eyeshadow, but her presence in the world as a facet of 
-the gay subculture. It might be best to leave her prancing about the 5tage in some bar, her salivated ­jeans crumpled on a chair in her dressing room. 


We've paid our cover charge, and we don't want to leave right away. The poor drag queen has already bored us to tears, however, so we look around this. new and strange locale for some other form of amuse­ment. Why is it strange, and new? Because we've never been to a gay bar before! Atleast, let's pretend we haven't. I bet I'm going to have to pretend a lot harder than you are. · 
Anyway ... how do we know it's a gay bar? It's kind of dark ... but it can't be The Library;·some of the people in here are too old. The music is very loud ... but it 

c·an't be Shula's; some of the people are too young. And we drove south 
· instead of north. And come to think of it, that woman up on the stage is not only boring, she's pretty weird. Our eyes become accustomed to the darkness -this is the darkest bar we've ever been in -and we see that men -lots of them -are dancing with other men. And women with other women. I turn to you, nudge you in the ribs, and say: "I think we're in a gay bar." You reply: "Don't touch me." · 
Well, you're probably a little nervous. I'm not quite as nervous. · Maybe I knew it was a gay bar all along. Maybe I brought you here on purpose. Maybe I'm gay! Maybe you're gay! 
But enough about us. What are. these other people doing here? They're· drinking and dancing, and 
· talking to friends. They seem to be ·enjoying themselves. Once in awhile we see two people kiss. We might · see two people making out in a comer. You shake· your head in puzzlement. "Are we at Fat· 
by Peter H. Korth 
making out in-the corner are men.. "For their sake, I hope it's riot Fat Wally's," I reply. ·With a.'n increas­ingly firm conviction· that this is not ·a_ student bar, we sitdown at a table to await further developments. 
Out ofthe gloom appears alarge 1 man wearing a leather vest; he has no shirt on. He strides by our table, his bulging bicep brushing my cheek as he does: "Did you ·see that man?" I whisper. You nod vigorously. "His idea of good sex would be to beat you to a pulp," I say. You ·· blanch. "Just kidding," I add reas­suringly. He really is harrnless; he . really is butch. Suddenly, the waiter 

. _appears at our table with two _ drinks. You explain that we did not ­order them. "I know; dear," he says, "your friend -ordered them for you.''. We see a friendly fooking chap_ across the room. He waves at, us. You have broken out into a cold sweat. You turn to me and whisper rapidly: "That waiter is in my theology class. Arid thafman.who•: · bought us the dririk is my Collegiate Seminar teacher." . . . 
You realize now thaUh.ere ar~ many gay people around you, and not only in this bar. Their complexion does riot have a lavender hue, and the men do not wear eyeshadow. "Are'these people really gay?'' you ask. I nod in affirmation. "Do you want to know who else is?'' I ques­tion; · You're a _bit· hesitant, but · your curiosity is aroused. "William ­
F. Buckley," I say; Your jaw drops. • 

_Now I'm started. !'Many'.famous. people are either gay or bisexual. Tchaikovsky, Leonard. Bernstein,'­
.· Michelangelo,· Tennessee Williams, -Edward Albee, J. Edgar Hoover,· . Proust, Julius.Caesar, Shakespeare, 
W. Somerset Maugham, Plato, ·cole · · Porter, Rodin, Walt Whitman; and · ._ Mickey Rooney."_ · _ 
"That'sonly to mention afew," I 

But suppose we're in that bar? Wally's?" you query. The two people -· add, takini(a sip from my drink._ 
22 ·_ SCHOLASTIC
) 

"Do you want to hear about famous lesbians? Gertrude Stein ..' ." You interrupt me. "Not J. Edgar Hoover," you beg. "And Mickey · • · Rooney;'; I reply. I begin to realize that I must not give you too much information all at once. We sit in silence as you abs·orb these fasci­nating revelations. -. 
I prepare iny next parry: I could tell you about the 65 gay bars in Chicago; even about the two others · in South Bend. About DIGNITY, the national organization for gay Catholics, and INTEGRITY, its Episcopal counterpart. I could point out the frequent magazine articles, consistent newspaper coverage,· the appearance of gay characters on network television shows, and 29 weekly gay radio shows in 14 states. 
Would you believe that there are approximately 20 million homo­sexuals in the.. United States? You would .not be, quite as doubtful if you had seen all the bars that exist in nearly every city, and realized that only an estimated one of every ten homosexuals has been to one of them. There have always been gay people around, and the majority of them have been undetected, because they weren't that different from straight people. 
A copy of the Advocate, a national gay newspaper, is lying on the table next to us. I pick it up and turn · to ·the want ad section. I read aloud: "Young W /m -29, masculine and attractive, 5'10", 165 lbs, ath­letic, bright, sincere Leo. Have an open mind; am -very wealthy. · Seek young friend for long-temi relation­ship.'' You eye me strangely. "Im­pressive," I say, pointing to the ad, "but is he of good family?" You aren't quite sure if you get the joke. 
We once more direct our attention towards the drag queen, who has reappeared with a· fresh coat of spittle. "Is that really a man?" you ask. I confirm your suspicion. Now it's your turn to drop a bombshell. "You know, she's really not bad­looking." For a moment I thought I was going to swoon, but I pulled out my salts and came to my senses. 
This whole evening has seemed like a bizarre fantasy. Were we in a gay bar? If we were on Western, Lincolnway, or Jefferson, the chances are good. Am I gay? Are you gay? Does the drag queen really make . eyeshadow out of spit and bluejeans? I'm not betting on · anything. 
When we got back to campus, you couldn't resist a parting question or two. "Is Cat Stevens really bi­sexual?" I smile. "So I've heard." You hesitate a moment, and then: "PaulNewman?" I draw you a bit closer. "To. the best of my knowl­edge, he's not," I whisper, "but I'm not committing myself to anyone until I know for sure." 

-· 

Office_in ~e ACC..-On Friday's, Ang­-stadt reviews this ledger in order to

rnmoo ~mf 

survey individual . progress. _Those participants who are eligible will then receive certificates in. commen­dation . of, their_ achievements. Issued


Wmmf ·~~~~ 
by Non-Varsity Sports, these awards by _Robbie Mo<>re cite the .accumulation of so~, 100-, 250".', :500".', -750-, .and 1000-mile pro­
"It takes a bit of discipiine, but sity athletics. gressions and in increments of every once you get started on it, -it becomes Structurally, the program follows 500 miles. thereafter. • a habit.'_' Such. is the .enthusiastic an outline -composed of three stages Although the program'sfi~t organ-. opinion of Col. John Stephens (As­(Beginning, Conditioning and . Sus-izational meeting -. was · held_ Sep­sistant .Athletic 'Director and former taining) as. described ·in a booklet tember 30;·· -interested person~ may professor of military science) re­which serves as Angstadt's guide. still joiri by contacting Angstadt. He garding participation in the "Run for Although these three phases of pro-may be reached in his office·. at -the Your Life" program here on campus~ gression are not treated as abs~lutes, ROTC building (626_4) _where he will A s~lf-monitored,· self-inflicted exer­they. ultimately encourage a three-eagerly explain_.,the details. of his cise, it draws upon the aerobic theory mile run in 25: 30. In general, the program. Otherw~s~, , . an , appoint-.for buUding strength, s~ina. and cadets record ~verages of seyen mentwith the Interhall Office may be endurance. This . type of physical minutes. obtained, by caHing 6100 · concerning training is beneficial for everyone -As a w~ekly priority, Angstadt the program. ,:, . · . students, st~, _and faculty -_alike. recommends a cumulative tqtal _of As the members time themselves According to -_Col. Stephens, it !s seven to ten miles.: He _is careful to in Cartier. Fiel4, as they-run. one of "good for the vital processes, and stress, though, that these workouts . the scenic courses which the sergeant helps keep you in shape." should not be overdone, and a par-has mapped out, or as they receive 
Instituted last -year by Sergeant ticipant need not run every day. It their first 50-mile certificate, they Eugene Angstadt of the Army ROTC, is the participant's prerogative to take pride in their accomplishments the sport's enrollment has jumped establish his own routine. Yet, in and success in-the program. ­from 40 to 200 participants. -Al­moderation, a daily run will no(be . _The future of the program, Ang­though this figure continues to grow, detrimental to the well-being-of the stadt feels, is bright. In fact, he antic­it is ·still mainly comprised of Army, participant. -. .· -ipates that at least 300 new mem-Air Force and Navy ROTC cadets. As an initiate, the new member · hers will be with the program by the However, Angstadt attributes this · receives a log in which to record the end of the. year,'and he will sign up minority of interest-to bad publicity. dates and the lengths of perform-as many people as he can recruit -. In the future, he hopes that he may ances. A composite of these personal even, he says; "up to ·and including be able to arouse· the interest of records is kept in the Interhall Sp_e>rts Father Hesburgh !''. · Notre Dame and St. Mary's women, (presently between 15-20 females are 
running) as his communication with the public improves. __ 

For example, Angstadt points -.out­that a·small number of· Lewis resi-­dents run together in the mornings. 
-If, as he states, he could co~tact them, he might secure their member­-ship. ·The sergeant himself; as "re­cruiter -·administrator~ participant," 
runs 15 miles per week with the group.'_ ­Even Col. Stephens has learned to juggle his time for the program. He 
and a small group· of·staff. and fac­ulty sacrifice their · noon hours in order to run their minimum of two to 

_~ree miles. Besides keeping them­selves physically fit, their regime en­courages them to skip their midday meal. By reducing their caloric in­take and increasing daily exercise, these members successfully control. · their body weight. As an example, -_ 
· Col. Stephens now weighs little more than he did when he played univer­
24' ) 


Breakfast of Champions 
Before the final games are over 

and the national champion is es­
tablished, the only indication of the 
best college team in the nation 
comes from· the Associated · Press 
college poll and the United Press 
International college ratings. These 
rankings are more important to the 
independent teams .such' as Notre 
Dame th~n to the conference squads. 
Although· it does: not assure a team 
of becoming:: a <national champion; 
the number-one ·rating, 'even for a 
week; is something to be strived for. 
'.fhe ·Associated ,Press poll is not, 

as many. people believe, the opinion 
of any AP employee;· It. is, in· fact, 
the opinion 'of a group of-:sports 
editors of newspapers, television an­
nouncers· and· radio station broad­
casters. that subscribe to the AP 
service.• These people rank •the . top 
15 teams and send their choices in to 
the main AP offices in their states. 
The votes 'are. then sent' to · New 
York City where they are tabulated. 
First place ·•votes are worth· 20 
'points, second '.place -18,. third 
place -16, fourth place _; 14; fifth 
place -12, sixth place ~ 10, and 
the ·1ast nine piaces decrease by one 
point each. 
There are 63 voters in'this · poll, 

all oi which are . geographically pro­
portioned; This number, according 
to Hers.chel· Nissenson, college· foot­
ball editor of the AP, ·was arrived 
at in -1936.:when the present system 
of the .poll.was put into effect. At 
thaL time •.there •.were. 126 major college football powers in the na­tion. Each of. these was allotted one­half · vote .. , Today, the number · of votes· per state is .still derived: by this system. Indiana; at the present time, is given :only ,one vote; one­. half each for .Notre Dame and .Pur­
due .. • Of.course, ·these.numbers are 
only an approximation as itwould 
be impossible to have· a person vote 
.one.and· a half times.. The number 
per state is not constant,·.mainly be­
cause no team is guaranteed of be­
ing a major power ,from _orie. year to 
the next. . : . . . 
by Rosemary Mills 


the UPI ratings are geographically proportioned. At present, there are two coaches voting in the state of Indiana. Picked on the basis of ex­perience and national recognition, the coaches on the.· board remain from year to year. If necessary, however, they ·may be replaced by younger and less experienced coaches. 
As in the AP; each coach picks ,the best teams (only ten as com-
Although the present polling sys-pared to 15 in. the AP) in his opin­tem has only been in existence since ion. The votes are sent to the UPI 1936, there were polls before this office in New York where they are date.. As early as the second decade _added together and the final list is of the 1900's, Walter Camp picked compiled. what he considered the top teams The UPI rating system was in the country. After his death in started in 1950. Joe Carnicelli, ex­the late 1920's, .other ratings were ecutive sports editor of the UPI in given. Most of these were on a one New York, gives two basic reasons 
·man basis, such as that started by for its. beginnings. The first is of , Alan Gould, a former sports editor its being a service to the public. of the Associated Press. This was · Sports is, after all, primarily high the beginning of the· AP poll. In in the public interest. The second contrast to the present system, . reason .· is the competition which however, this poll was not published exists between the Associated Press weekly. In the mid 30's, the poll Service and the United Press Inter­. was opened to all the AP sub-national. As an additional fact of scribers. ·It was not until 1960 that interest, Mr,. Carnicelli pointed out the board was limited to a set group. the fact that the UPI prefers the 
Some of the writers who par-title ."ratings," to that of the com­. ticipate in .the poll are Roy Darner monly referred to poll. ·of· the Chicago _Tribune, Jon Roe The coaches' ratings have some of .from the Minneapolis Tribune and the top names in. football today. 
Paul Hornung from the Columbus The list includes Johnny Majors of · Dispatch; Pittsburgh, Woody Hayes of Ohio The United Press International State, Bear. Bryant from Alabama, 
"college rating is: done in . coopera-·Barry· Switzer from Oklahoma; tion with the American. Football Frank Kush of Arizona State and Coaches Association. This is done Notre Dame's Dan Devine. by dividing the country into seven Both the Associated Press and sections,· with six · coaches voting. · ·the United Press International rep­
:from each area., Like the AP poll, resentatives were adamant on the influence and importance ·of the rankings. It was proposed that· a ·feam playing one of 'the ·higher ranking teams were more "psyched" ·for the game than if it were playing · a team which was not ranked at' all. Also, it was · said that when two teams are extremely' close in ability, the fans are not loathe to express · · their opinion of errors on the part of the coaches: · · · 

NOVEMBER 5, 1976 



Jottings 

AHard Road Travelled, Trust Found 
Our jeep jiggles up and down bumps and curves on the rocky, cactus-dotted mountains. It's already four o'clock and the air is getting colder and colder. Someone up there must have mixed up his months; July is supposed to be hot and sticky, ·I thought~ But I'm from Mississippi and this is northern Mexico. Since ten o'clock this morn­ing I have seen nothing but rain clouds above us, dust clouds behind us, and an occasional burro slowly shuffling his weary legs down the little trodden path. 
Bucky and I should reach La 
Bendita before long. ·The people of the rancho, or village, should be expecting us; Padre Michael Flan­
. nery, an Irish missionary, told them that we would be coming to take. care of their toothaches. Whistling Dixie between mouthfuls of Mexican chocolates, Bucky, a dentist with a molasses drawl and a copy of Spanish in a Nutshell glued to his back pocket, scans the area. Only two weeks ago he had'asked me to go to Mexico with him as his interpreter . and assistant..How long ago that 2 seems. We spot the weathered stucco 

by Gilda M. Montalvo 
rancho behind its living walls of huge 
cacti. One old ranchero greets us 
with a salute: "Viva Porfirio Diaz!" 
Diaz was deposed in 1910. ;A few 
leathery faces timidly approach the 
jeep, while the rest of the group ­
about 30 villagers -form a pros 
cession behind a fat matriarch 
whose folded arms hold a threadbare, 
tightly stretched, gray0 green shawl 
over her massive shoulders:and 
back; we nickname her Big Marna. · 
After inspecting. us from head to toe, 
she smiles, shakes hands with us, 
and .offers to lead us to the .dentist's 
office. I quickly glance around the 
dirt plaza and find eight one-room 
huts,. but no office . 
. Big Mama ushers usinto the. 
largest of the huts, her home. -We 
soon discover,that it is also home 
for eight children, two roosters, a 

pig, and. a little mutt -all free to ·enter and leave at will. Two sarape­covered mattresses hide most of• the dirt. floor. An iron stove, layered with years of tortilla. drippings and · spilt chili sauce, guards one corner. • 
As we arrange Bucky's equipment· 
on the splintered table in the other 
corner, Big Mama drags our first 
patient in ..• We learn that her name 
is Dorita, she is almost nine years 
old, Big Mama is her niama, and she 
has two abscessed molars..The teeth 
must, come out.. 
While squirming in the makeshift 
dentist's chair, a crude bench·from 
the church next door, Dorita surveys 
the gleaming tools: As I prepare a 
needle• with anesthetic, .• her curiosity 
transforms into. open distrust. 
blurt out a cheery comment: "No 
duele." ("It doesn't hurt.'.') With 
one swift injection, my attempt to 
set her at ease boomerangs. Con-· 
vinced we are liars, enemies, perhaps 

even·brujos (witch doctors), she ·glares at us, spits on· the cracked 
floor of mud, and·clenches her bony, 
brown. fists. · · 
Twenty minutes later she is still glaring. Bucky, ready to start pull­ing, tells me to keep Dorita's arms. • 
SCHOLASTIC 


out of his way, so I grab them. Although they are only half the size of mine, panic had made them twice as strong. No one has to tell Dorita to open her mouth; it is wide open 
·. with screams before Bucky even comes near. Struggling to hold Dorita's head steady, crushing her daughter's perfect, glossy, black plaits, Big Mama stands behind us. · With a worried face, she flashes tis an anxious smile and hisses, "Cayate, nina. Son buenos." ("Quiet, child. They're good people.") Bucky wrenches out one molar. Blood gushes with a scream that fills the room. Dorita's wind-chapped cheeks crack with her sobs, and her tear-blurred, brown eyes accuse us of every crime a Mexican rancherita can imagine. Her shoulders jerk; her plastic shoes, laced with dusty, frayed, velvet ribbons, scissor the air. The straw Jesus, nailed to the wall, hangs his head over. us. Bucky, still curved over Dorita, wipes beads of-perspiration from his forehead with blood-spattered arms. ,Big Mama and I have not moved. My arms-are stiff, and my face is tired of its frozen smile.. · Blood, waqn and wet and mixed with saliva, spurts on my arms, on Dorita's faded dress, and on the puppy nap-, ping by. my: feet. Snuggled against my leg, sporting a new coat of crim­son spots; the puppy· guards his little mistress in his sleep.. · The smell of blood, mingied with the fumes of old tortillas, . chili ­peppers, -and grit, hangs heavy in the windo_wless room. My stomach feels queasy.,A swarm.of flies buzzes over, under; and through us. Several crawl on my arms, and one has taken a liking. to my nose..Two old cocks conduct_ a_ lively quarrel under the table. .: , . . :-. .Each minute takes a siesta before roll~ng into the next. As_ neat rows of catgut zipper the gaps left by the . cor!od~d molars, the flies' tncessant -· buzz magnifies and slowly r~places _. ]?orit;i's _cries of fear. Her body _. s~akes less, and less, an_d finally· ­heaves one long, las_t sig{l, , .. A~t~r, :\Vrapping Dorita_'s molars i_n .tissue, -~ harid them to her,. pat _ her glossy, black head, and tell her, . · "Fuistes njna buena y fuerte." -(-'iYou 
NOVEM_BER 5, 1976 
were a good brave girl.") ·The . involuntary heroine runs her tongue gingerly over the tracks in her mouth, grabs her Kleenex-wrapped trophies, smiles at Bucky hesitantly, and scampers .out of the hut. 
Big ·Mama, blood-drenched Bucky, and I follow her to the courtyard. · Rusty -cans, bursting with bright red and yellow blossoms, fix the last rays of the sun on the stucco windowsills. As a few pigs and a -~ burro raise their heads at the com­motion, the rancheros cluster around Dorita, congratulate her, and pay homage to her two teeth. · 
The lines of toil, wind, and sun on Big Mama's face deepen as she smiles and thanks us. Assuring her that the little white pills·are buena medicina; .good medicine/I hand her_ a· bottle · of Bayer aspirin· and give her instructions for using it. After taking the bottle,. her eye~ 
~ ~....1'-• f"'t 
..... 
ilJI. 
i J~ ,-. ~r~ 
-....: '> 
~ 


~'::!.•~~=----1~r.... .,,. 

light on Bucky, and she comments that Bucky is one of God's special angels. In this land of dusty brown faces and burros, his fair skin, blue eyes, and curly blond hair do look angelic. With Big Mama's statement our status changes; we are no longer friendly strangers. Now we are strange, but welcome, friends. 
Before the sunlight · completely withdraws -there is no electricity 
. here ....:..:. we shake hands;:pat heads, peer into mouths; hand out more aspirin, and promise. to return tomorrow.. Rattling off along list of names, Big Mama hands us a sack of . tortillas for the road and assures us that the morning will bring much business and many pa­tiEints. As we reifa:ck ·the jeep, a swollen little face reappears. Firmly extending her arms to us, Dorita wishes us a good-trip down the mountain. ­



Defenders in the Ice Arena 
"The most demanding position in all of sport" is the way N.D. hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith de­scribes. the_ goaltender. ·Most people think that one who plays such a position must be bordering on in­sanity. For those unfamiliar with the game of ice hockey, Smith likens the goalie to a baseball catcher at­tempting to snare a "ball" travelling at speeds approaching one hundred miles per . hour. The "pitcher" can be anywhere from two to 60 feet away, and can move around. Also, other players may be moving be-t\veen the pitcher and catcher. Take away th.e signals and add a ball., which can dip,. flip, and curve, and · you have asituation which confronts the goalie approximatelyforty times each game. . ­
· · Smith is fortunate to•· have the services. of two outstanding goal­keepers for his Irish varsity. Juniors john Peterson and Len Moher com~ pose what Smith calls "the best goaltending twosome in the Western' Collegiate Hockey Association." For the past two seasons, the netmind­ing -chores have been split, with each ·man playing one -of the two 
games m a weekend series. This 
· year, the. coach plans to go with the "hot hand." He explains, "Lenny and John have matured-to the point where they can handle the··pressure of . playing in consecutive games." Peterson and Moher saw the reasons for the "one night on-one night off" system as not only relieving the enormous pressure but also as en­abling both of ·them to gain expe­rience in .college· hockey. · However, the change is welcome. As Peterson says, "Len and I now have enough confid_ence· in our abilities .to play .an entire series." -. . ­Size_ is not an overwhelming fac­
· tor in ·determining the worth . of.· a goalie. Peterson, -Notre Dame's biggest netminder ever ·at 6'2", 183 lbs., believes his stature gives him an advantage in .cutting down -the ·angles of opponents'· shots.· Moher, as a result ofhis 5'9", 155-lb. frame, has found it-necessary. to develop .quick reflexes and an _aggressive style of-play. · A goaltender's per­formance is a product of what he· does with his size. The smaller man is quicker since h~ does 'riot natu~ rally cov~r as large an _area as the 
·­
by John Delaney 
bigger. man. · ' 
The third-year players also differ in their respective . methods : of guarding the:net Moher is a ''flop~ per,,; that is,. a goalie. who stays relatively low to .:challenge the shooter. A "stand-up'.', netminder is one who tries·_ to:. direct' the puck away· from the· net-arid remain off the ice as much as possible. Neither technique is necessarily better, ac­cording to Smith; both:can be ex­tremely. efficient. 

· · .What kind of person does it -take to put· on. 35 pounds of ·equipment and station himself between the.of~ fense and the net for -60 minutes? Coach Smith looks for. his man iri the crease to be intelligent, coura­geous·and quick. Moher aptly states, "Being a . goalie is eighty. percent mental." Peterson concurs,'.-"Con­centration is -the name· of the game in the-nets.",,·---­
As paradoxical as it may seem, a 
goalie must,.be£ an excellent skater. 
His agility i!dimited by his cumber­
some equipment, yet he has to move 
around to adequately play his posi­
tion~ -Once a goalie has·reached the 
college level; •his physical abilities 
are fairly -:evident, although· Smith 
looks to. improve·· his.· goalkeeper's 
strength and :reflexes: · -. 
The .psychological requirement is 
especially ·obvious wheri ·'a goal is 
scored. "What's done is -done" is• a 
good expression of the goalie's feel­
ing after the opposition has put the 
puck in the net. The essential thing 
is to'forget about the'.score and con­
centrate on· the next shot.-·Another 
instance of the need for a· disciplined 
state of mind· is when one's' team is 
ahead by a large margin.' Peterson 
says, "The goalie's job· is; to. allow 
the lowest possible number of goals. 
It doesn't· matter by how :many 
goals his team' :may · be~:·ahead." 
Moher follows the puck wherever it 
goes, "to maintain my level of con~ 
centraticin; ·. to avert ·a lapse that 
could leaci -to a turnarourid"in the 
game." , 
,.. SCHOLASTIC 


. ~. ... . ,. : 

Mental preparation before a._game is instrumental for each of the Irish goalkeepe~ .. , Moher r~views,;: the sho_(?ters and offensive style of the 
_opposing club. P,eters_on, in, ad_dition to a person~! , homework session, likes, to relax-:his ,eyes _and.avoid ·an readirig _on game·. days. -,VVhen, he is relaxed, he;is better able to concen­trate a~d;;psyc~e .. h_imself /for. the cont~st. . ; ;~/-. . . . ,·~: r 
The, goaltender is· not_. alone in th~ duty .to, protect th~ .~et'... Two defensemen,_,one playing to..the..left and :one.to the right of)he 'goal, con~titute -the first . li~e of protec­tion., Preventing a score is the ·com~ biiied. task of . the . goalie and. the 
· iow shot to his stick (right) side difficult to stop. John· dislikes a _shot coming after a pass from be­hind the net, against which he has no time to prepare for the advanc­
. ing puck. In his game, preparation is the key to shot blocking and this situation minimizes his opportunity to make ready for the attack. · A 0-goalie's·-importance: -to ..his hockey team cannot' be overstated. Coach ·Smith. singles the goalkeeper .out as the most essential ingredient in the scheme of his team.-. Peterson sees his role in a similar Ught and observes, "A team is usually up.or down with its goalie. Good net play inspires· good offensive play.'' Moher compares his 'job .to that· of · a foot­ball quarterback, saying, "The goal­tender ·directs.-traffic, _helps his de­fensemen by telling them· things they cannot see. He-. can also be ·a real aid in .beginning his t~am•s of­fensive rush• by. guiding the puck 'and his: teammates-_ out of, the· de­fensive zone. He has the entire rink .in .his vision."; _--.Coach Smith; in his 24th·.year of coaching· hockey,-echoes the ,senti­ments of many fans -when : he·. re­marks, :"I ·still wonder why -some­
. one. would : become a goalie." He cites the demands of-the :position; especially the activity after -a goal has been .scored. "Punished" more 
than any other athlete when he 
commits an error, the goalie is sub­
jected not only to a halt in play, but 
he stands alone in his crease as the -red light flashes and the opponents 
celebrate in front of him. 
According to the pair of Irish 
goalies, the crowd plays:'._ an im­
portant. part -in_ their game. -Since 
hockey: is such a taxing : sport, 
mentally: and .physically/ an en­
thusiastic crowd spurs -the net­
minders to better performances. "A 
good crowd_ makes you _want to do 
your best," comments·.John Peter­
son, '.'and a _hostile crowd makes you 
want to prove yourself." Moher likes 
big crowds, in _home . and away 
arenas. "I love playing in Madison 
against -Wisconsin. When 8,600 
people point at you ·and call you a 
sieve, it pumps your adrenaline at 
an -even faster rate. · It --really in­
spires me to play my best and prove 
8,600 people .wrong." ­
This year the Irish will be·going 
with a different -strategy for util­
izing the-~o very talented: goal~ 
tenders. Whether it will work better 
than the · on one day, off the next 
system· ·that has been used for the 
past two seasons is open to question. 
As . of. now · the strategy appears 
sound, ·but the real evaluation of it 
will be macie-come March when the 
WCHA play-offs_ are held._ 
defensemen, :but -siiice the final .re­sponsibility: ~sts Qn the Sllf:?ulders of the ,man . between the . pipes;, he be~-~e:pnuitof fueburden.: : ;·. __ •When the little rubber disc comes zooming in ."at incredible speed_s, -the­goalie should· certainly fear for, _his life.. However,-'th~. is far; from J:he 
. truth.-''.A go~lie :accep~ --the fact that. he could be seriously ,injured," says~Peterson, "but _his job.is to stop . the puck, :regardless of ,the ris~ JI!:· volved." Moher -.goes further ;and ·. adds, "If _a.go_alie is af~aid ~n_,the ic~. he. 9-.0~S~'L!)elong _in_ th~_game." ~e it -with _his.,glove~. hand, ;_stick,­skate, .leg,. chest, ormask, the goal­tender. is determined to stop : the puck frc;>rn t~~jding: the 1M.ne._ -<: i· , · Due;. to their· . different_ · styles · of play; the: N.R.· gciaiie~ disagree on what is their,most difficult play. For Moher, a. deflected shot is the hard­est to defend, since he moves. with -the. -puck. If the shot hits a skate or stick, and changes direction, he _ must compensate immediately to make the sav:e. .Lenny also finds a 

NOVEMBER~ 5, 1976 
•-.:. 
1, 
j! 
I i ! 
! 
I 
I 
~ 
!! 
r
ii 
11 
Ii 
I 

The 
Last 


Word 

The·_ dust. is beginning • to settle. of budget control, we are seemingly 
WSND, the student-operated radio guided toward goals that are set by station, and · Bro. Just Paczesny, the University. I have been told by vice-president for student affairs, a University official that Scholastic have .retreated to their respective had better shape up or it won't exist corners after . a heated and vocal in a few years. ·What does it mean confrontation over station program. to shape up? Shape up to what? ming;, ·Accusations and threats,. .in-Without the freedom to choose dignation · and· rage .have all -been · our directions, -. and without -the registered. Yet, in spite of all the freedom to make our own mistakes, commotion, · nothing has been I can see activitie~ only stagnating. gained: the exact relationship ·be-. We do not pretend to be· profes­tween the Office of Student Affairs sionals; we should· not be expected and the student activities is still as to be professionals. Bui ·we are. nebulous and treacherous as, it· ,was There •seem to be· levels set -for' us; before the blow-up. ,.,_ and failure to reach these levels 
A myriad· of questions of specific resuits in a penalty of ·some' kind. problems has been raised; What can That is professionalism~ ' WSND broadcast? What' can Scho~ ·. . I. ani not· corriplainirig'a.bout the lastic publish? How can Stude_nt existence of levels~ T-actually' be­Affairs control student activities? lieve that the levels which! set for None_ have been answered. In fact, · Scholastic are · much ·higher than the questions themselves· act:as a any the University has set. But the smoke~screen which obscures a-more· condemnation for failure should not subtle• and far-reaching ''problem: , come from the University; it should the University's attitude toward stu-come_ from ·our •readers; The same dent activities. · . applies·•to WSND: if no one wants 
Why does Notre7)ame·have stu~ hockey, the listeners, not· the Uni­dent activities 'in the first place? versity, should force "it off the air. An idealist arguing for their ex~ ·So what happeris now?. Everyone istence would claim that they are _could scamper back to -their own a necessary part of a complete edu~ litUe worlds and ignore the situation; cation. "Extracurriculars are an hoping that· the ineinories ·of con­outlet for student' expression that flict will dissi1>ate. Or we could ·have , complement the learning in the a power struggle, which would be classroom,". our educational philo-. over before it began ·(after an)··who sopher might postulate. "They are . controis _the rrioney?).' Or there the ying to the yang which is found could be some discussion amf com­.in textbooks. Activities of this ·kind -· promise between: the parties. There ·are the most personal type of edu-does •exist a benevolent middle cation, and they help build the ideal···. ground which·· benefits both ·the· ac­Renaissance · man." tivities and · the ·University.'. The 
But is this really the situation? _ only way to reach it is through I don't think so. It seems that the open· and honest discussion.· . University views these activities as ' I nope that this compromise can a luxury; something they "give" to be sought and found. Otherwise, I the student body. There is no posi-think activities are doomed to sub­
.tive support that encourages us to servience or to non-existence. Con~ continue to learn, but rather re-trolling the student activities may strictive guidelines that deny us the be done by people who feel it ' is opportunity to choose our direction. their responsibility, but that is a Through the negative reinforcement thin guise for intellectual fascism. 
30 
SCHOLASTIC 


. THE ND STUDENT PLAYERS AND THE ND SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENT: 
JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE :AND WELL 
AND LIVING IN PARIS by Blau and Shuman music by Jacques Brei 
performances No.vember 5 & 6 · · · at 8:30 p.m. 
in Basement of LaFo~tune The Nazz admission $1.00 
STATEMENT OF OWNE-RSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION 
(H,,,..lu.J•r.,.ll!(CJ/,lf.11 

...UUSMClltJl'•-•..ilAd"'"" 

tln1Y ¦ ca1t¥" ot •rotN..J.~tw:-~""-''="~..,,.,_•"'--------1
IC111TOQ(N--Ad<ftt•' ......~.:'~~~!~J~n11 •: t\, In •'-"'"''­
7.uwr&flff/_r:;.;;::,:.:..~L.14~'~'!'.:~:.,r:~~J=l!!.!:.,r:!..!ri,,,'"""'"4.rlM...-•---•of-•
----•'"-'•"'l_"1,,,,_.,.....,_.,,.,.....,.,,-,~•r•-,.,-.,....,__,-.,u,.,,....,.,.,....,1,1..., 
__......... /f--•,•~--,,_•~i,,n,,-"'4/,,,11,-¦ .... ---H-ldll..fd(_. __~.... ­
......, 
1----=•n1="?"!'.it.Y ot Jlotrw 

L lltNOWN DO"-OltOLf'[""· MOftlO..GUS....NU011l!l'I stCVl'IIT'I' liOlt><RS OWNING on tlOlDJNO t P-lllClNT o" ""'-"'ll o, TOTAl Alllul'NTO, IONO!lMOATGtt.('l(l(UIQTHUttECUko'fl(S 11/fll<n ______ 
t.FOfl1COMPL1:T1::m e-r ..,_,.. ~.,.,.I.. nflG-IZATIONS~UTH«llt>l~O TOMA.II. AT UtC•At. RATEi /B~cflc,• Ut UJ,r.s•o-­TM~r,o-,fvftc1~,--_..,,,o.,.,.ofll,bo,..,~•.n'-.,... ..••••-n.,..,1f.,.f-•---......,.~..--J 
AVEl'IAG[ NO. COl'U'I ~ACH 
ACT..AL NO.C~~t.o, l<Nc;Lt 

IO. lltTtNT ANO HATI.IMII OJ cmcuv,11cm 
165UIE OUl\1"'4f'l'ECEOINU 

!HUia f'U91.IS~!D ..r,l<IS.T ,,,f-------j '11M0JlfT>I': 
Fll....'J.':~­f,ooQ
l<loO
·• 
•· ,.,.,oca11tu1.ano"

L SAL0.•'1'••-•<-.. I'll •L•n~ ....o c ..-......,._.1'
V,.N_ot• AND<;l'ILJMH, .. HLCS 
,00 
loOo 

I;. 'l'OTAL ....,o cu•CuLA'l'ION ,:,.... • , 1001 ~ ,..,, 
loOo
""° 

........... DtSTotlGUT•o• .,. ....,L.CAIONU:ot o• ou•o:• ...r ..... 
,zc,o

·"""L'"•• egMO'LONf;NIANY0 A•o OTHC:N Oat i; O.Of'ot• 
= 
5(,00 
P,-r•JOOYl>I..........HUt 
"""
loOo lo00

t. or•oc:11: ...,._._,,T ov,.. , u .. -.,,-wrro,---.&D
t-2----'-=-=.·"--------,--'------1----+---i
-
f,ooQ f,ooQ 
11, I1n1ify lhal lhe 1J.1.1,·mc-11b ,n;,J,:o by 1114: 

,[ ~M~=-;;~•:,'C'l-:,":,_-r~;;~o.-o.onoot. ~••'-•-1.00..•u:M•n• abtft-orteurn•t"l.;aU1lf't'mrltll'. I/j (.,,,;,( r· {•J.,./..,/fA . · l.&.toou:u ..... , ,_11vi. UV l"VIILI-IILll:i ..,,..~"•'I Al''" M..:.uy,nuAH»,...." ..... 1.1.:.1.:t)"..,_.,_,,.,as_,, 
:t, U. ll C, >fi21 ,..._... to, -11-,1 ,_.,, ~,._ ...,....., ...... _,....._,__.._ ,,..,,o,1 ""'""" ----•Y~i!l<>I,.... 11,,_
:::-.:.::;-:.::::::.;-...'::!-i"",--,~1>-•---...,....__,.,_I>""'......... __________.. 
----..... ,_... -... .,.i. __,__,,...,......__....i-.....-,........--..-.. ,-,......~"""'-­
-...-..-L,..,J.,,,,u r..c.;i... •
-s, 

The Notre Dame Debate Council presents: 
·:THE 26TH ANNUAL· NATIONAL 
,• . , 

. , ' . 
INVITATIONAL :DEBATE TOURNAMENT .. 
featuring top teams from across the nation 
Preliminary rounds will begin on Friday, November 5,
. . . ­

at 4:00p.m. and on Saturday, November 6, at 10:00 a.m. and will be held on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Final rounds, to be held in Hayes-Healy, will begin at · 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, November 7 . 
. The topic of all rounds will be Consumer Product S,?fety. The public _is cordially invited to attend. 
NOVEMBER 5, 1976 . 31. · 


::--. ------. -.. ·\\" ... ~.:, 
·. --.'. _,: ·-.. 
:·.,:.... ;·::,,-.: ____ ,. 
',.,\,a_; -~ .· '',>; ..... -: 
•, 

G 







