2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
.rle, also, had a
Geaitd Tour
of EUROPE
Take a squint at the family archives over this Easter vacation—the daguerreotypes of the Grand Old Grad off on his GRAND TOUR, and his exuberant letters home: "indescribable luxuries on ship" . . . "swift, eagle-like flight of passage" .. . "truly epicurean fare" .. . "hospitality wedded indissolubly to perfection in seaman-
ship" .and "the delightful fellow voyagers, among them one whose beauty makes me
tremble like an aspen leaf e'en as I pen these inadequate lines in her blushing praise."
Of course, the dears met on either HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE or NORTH GERMAN LLOYD, those express services founded in 1847 and 1857 in the charming Hanseatic cities of Hamburg and Bremen. (Lois of adjectives, Greek Leiter fraternities and romances have
had this shipboard origin during the past 80 and 90 years.) For ihese lines set the pace of luxury-security-speed that leads right through the ages (with almost Fourteen Million passengers carried) into our 90th and 80ih Anniversaries in the ultra modem way....
the North German Lloyd swifi expresses BREMEN and europa, and palatial COLUMBUS; the Hamburg-American Line's Famous Four Expresses^—NEWYORK,HANSA,HAMBURG, DEUTSCHLAND wherein Cabin Class, even in the height of season, is only $171 up io Irish-English ports, with $5 more io Cherbourg, $13 more io Hamburg.
College Orchestras on Summer Sailings
Expresses from New York midtown piers to mid-European ports—Cobh, Southampton, Plymouih, Cherbourg, Hamburg or Bremen.
-. Take YourCar Along...More ihanl400withuslasiyear.Ideal touring abroad. Ask for booklet: "Moiorbridge io Europe".
Like having the Dean for a faiher-in-law.. that's consulting With our EDUCATIONAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT. All about Summer Courses Abroad and Specials in Aris and Sciences ai German Universities (jusi like Grandfather did) and all other matters concerning Students on Grand Tours. Personal Consultations arranged on your inquiry.
ElirOpQ .... June 19
Deutschland . . June 20
Columbus . . . June 26
Deus yorh . . . June 27
Bremen .... June 30
Hamburg . . . juiY 1
Europa .... juiy 7
Hansa .... juiy 8
Deutschland . . juiY is
Columbus . . . July 15
QUICK—YOUR TRAVEL AGENT, if you want to pick your accommodations in Cabin Class, Tourist or Third Classes. Delay is hazardous. Or inquire of—
130 West Randolph Street, Chicago
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
March <9, <937
No. <9
SIXTEEN BATTLERS WILL SEE ACTION TONIGHT
Honorary Judge Layden He'll look 'em over.
BARNEY ROSS IS HERE FOR FINALS OF BENGAL BOUTS
•
Barney Ross, welterweight champion of the world, and retired lightweight champion will act as honorary referee at tonight’s Bengal Boxing Show in the gymnasium at 8 o’clock.
Ross will come here from Chicago and will probably referee one or two bouts, assisting referees Napolitano and Nate.
Ross follows a long list of famous sport figures who have filled this same capacity. Among them are: The late “Packy” McFarland, “Tuffy” Griffiths, and Danno O’Mahoney.
After several years of ring warfare Ross retired undefeated from the lightweight throne, won the welterweight title and still holds it. He is rated as one of the most colorful of all modern champions.
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, was instrumental in securing the services of Ross for the bouts. Ward himself -will not be able to attend.
"Best Fights in Bengal Bout History" is Prediction
By Frank E. Larwood
With Frank Schiavone promising the greatest crop of boxers ever seen at Notre Dame, with Athletic Director Elmer Layden heading an imposing array of officials as an honorary judge for the third time, and with advance ticket sales indicating a record crowd, tonight’s Bengal Bouts in the Notre Dame fieldhouse at 8:00 p.m. should prove the biggest and best.
Sixteen boxers will be battling for eight University championships. Only three of the titles are being defended: the heavyweight, the 147-pound and lightweight divisions. In addition there will be two feature attractions consisting of a wrestling act between the redoubtable Race and Fogel and a Ghost Fighter in the ring with Jim Hack.
Other officials include Mr. Frank Lloyd and Robert Proctor, ’04, of Elkhart, honorary judges. The referees will be Dominick Napolitano and’ George Nate with William F. Sheehan and Eugene (Scrap) Young, both registered A.A.U. officials, acting as judges. Jim Quinn and Chet Grant will be timers, and Joe Boland will announce the show.
Tickets have been on sale in the
Manager Paul Barker He sells ducats.
RAZE OLD BUILDING TO MAKE WAY FOR NEW RESIDENCE
•
After 50 years of service, the long East wing of St. Edward’s hall has started to fall under the assault of the wreckers. The old wing is being destroyed to make way for a new residence hall, a duplicate of Cavanaugh Hall.
It is expected that the new hall will be completed in time to house 196 students next fall when school opens. The new hall has not as yet been named.
The addition of the new building will increase the number of students lodged on campus to 2,560. Modeled on the plan of Cavanaugh, the new building will be of the modified collegiate type featured in the newer buildings on the campus. Plans for the building were drawn by Magin-nis and Walsh, Boston architects, and construction will be done by Thomas Hickey, Inc., South Bend.
This is the second major building project on the campus this year. The new Biology building is in the process of being equipped and dedication will take place in the near future.
The now condemned wing of St. Edward’s was erected in 1888 and was used as a gymnasium for the “minims,” the grade school students. Since 1929 the wing has been used for student rooms.
residence halls since Tuesday, March 9. For the convenience of those who have not yet secured their tickets Scholastic staff members and student managers will have them on sale in the various halls after supper tonight. Tickets may also .be purchased at the box office in the field house.
The entire proceeds from the final and preliminary bouts will be given to the Bengal Missions in India. The boxing show is one of the chief media for student support of the missions.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
SINGING IRISH ON SHELL CHATEAU MARCH 27, SIX STOPS SCHEDULED ON EASTER TOUR;
GIVE CONCERT HERE AFTER EASTER
DONNELLY IS NAMED SENIOR FOOTBALL MANAGER
By Eddie Huff
As the highlight of a ten-day Easter trip, the Notre Dame Glee Club, comprising forty men and Director Joseph J. Casasanta, will sing Bantock’s “The Volga Boatman” on Joe Cook’s Shell Chateau program over the National Broadcasting Company Red network from New York City on Saturday eve-
ning, March 27, at 9:30 p.m,, E.S.T. from the repertoire of the Glee Club. The Metropolitan appearance will be the first of six engagements in as many different cities from March 27 until Saturday, April 3.
Including five soloists, the Glee Club will depai-t from the campus, forty-strong, on Wednesday, March 24. Following their radio appearance, the choral group goes to Malone, upper New York state, for a concert on Easter Sunday evening, March 28. Malone is the home of Ralph Cardinal, a member of the Glee Club.
Ridgewood, N. J., is the scene of the third stop in the itinerary, the Glee Club singing under the auspices of the Holy Name Society of that city on Tuesday evening, March 30.
A tentative appearance books Prof. Casasanta’s choral entourage for a parish concert in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on Wednesday, March 31, this marking the first of three stops on the return trip.
The Altoona, Pa., chapter of the Knights of Columbus has booked the singing Irish for Thursday, April 1.
It is likely that Friday, April 2, will find the Glee Club pei-forming in the Carnegie Music Hall of Pittsburgh for the benefit of St. Paul’s Orphanage, at the invitation of Rev. Francis Huber and Dr. Leo O’Donnell, Notre Dame alumnus.
Jersey Club Announces Easter Train Rates
The Jersey and Met clubs announce an eleven day round trip limit of $24.85 to the metropolitan area. Arrangements are being made for a special train to leave the South Bend Union station about 1:00 p.m., on the 24th. It will be necessary to have 30 or more leave on this train. To leave earlier 25 or more must be able to go on the same train and will be granted a ten day return limit.
Quinn announced late this week the possibility of leaving on Tuesday. The rate will be the same.
Tickets will be on sale the first of the week on the campus with the same arrangements as at Christmas. Those interested see Joe Quinn, 117 Alumni, or Joe Brien, 235 Alumni.
This number was selected by the sponsor
Pres. Cassidy, Director Casasanta Lead their men eastward.
Epicurean Treatise Is Discussed By Kohn In Radio Talk
•
The Patricians offered another in their series of radio talks Monday evening when John J. Kohn, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, delivered a paper on Lucretius and the Epicurean Philosophy.
“The importance of the Epicurean atomic theory to Lucretius,” Kohn said, “was principally to prove that the existence of eternal uncreated atoms accounted for the creation of the world. Although this theory falls far short in explaining the creation of the world,” Kohn continued, “it is, nevertheless, fundamentally the same theory used by present day scientists in their chemical research. Lucretius strongly believed that the laws of nature were fixed. God, he thought, interfered with these laws when, if beseeched by prayer, He granted the request of the supplicant.
“The Epicurean doctrine of death as taught by Lucretius accounted for the widespread acceptance of Epicureanism,” the speaker continued. “The soul, Lucretius believed, was mortal and experienced a similar death with the body. With this philosophy, he was able to take away the yearnings of immortality of his followers.”
Kohn concluded by citing the far-reaching influence of Lucretius. In Virgil’s sixth Eclogue, the speaker pointed out, we find the creation of the world to be in accord with Lucretius’ doctrine of cosmology.
By Frank Reilly
John P. Donnelly was named senior football manager by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, at a banquet given the managers in the Lay Faculty dining hall, Wednesday evening. Donnelly succeeds Paul Barker.
Donnelly, who lives in Michigan City, Indiana, is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. By virtue of this appointment he becomes head of the managerial organization. Associate manager appointments include the manager of the stadium, James W. Mulhern, of Palisade, New Jersey, and William P. Condon, Greenville, Miss., manager of equipment.
Lundgren Gets Basketball Post
The basketball managership was awarded to John C. Lungren, Sioux City, Iowa, a junior in the College of Science. Thomas D. Bond, junior in Arts and Letters from Franklin, Ohio, received the baseball managership.
Thomas A. Kelly, Anaconda, Montana, junior in Engineering, received the track managership; Donald W. Fisher, Utica, New York, was awarded the tennis managership, and Joseph F. Nigro, Trinidad, Colorado was appointed manager of fencing and golf.
Sophomore managers who will continue their work next year are: Robert C. Bolz, Joseph F. Dray, Joseph R. Gorman, Robert J. Kvatsak, Lucien J. LeCroix, Daniel C. Sheedy, Andrew F. Wilson, Albert F. Van Huffel, and alternate sophomore managers are: Laurence A. Burnett, and John A. Siegel.
Layden Is Toastmaster
At the banquet Wednesday night, Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, acted as toastmaster, and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., and Prefect of Discipline, were guests. The entire coaching staff and senior managers of all sports were present.
This year’s freshman managers moving into sophomore positions are: Collins, Donahue, Dowd, Duffy, Engel, Geary, Guerin, Hart, Hussey, Kelly, Kennedy, Maddelena, Maher, McDermott, McEniry, McGuire, McHugh, O’Donnell, O’Dowd, O’Gorman, O’Meara, Philpott, Dowers, Preston, Reddy, Ryan, Ryan, Santini, Tobin, . Warburton, Whitman.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
TO HOLD 2ND ANNUAL ROCKNE MEMORIAL PROGRAM SUNDAY
•
The second annual Rockne Memorial program, again sponsored by the Kansas-Oklahoma Club, will be held in Washington Hall Sunday, March 21, at 8:00 p.m. Bob Seigfried, a senior from Tulsa, Oklahoma, is in direct charge of the program.
A full program of speeches and movie shots will.be presented according to the plan. Thomas Hickey, South Bend contractor, and one of Rockne’s best friends while at the
Schwartz and Siegfried Help honor Rockne
University, will deliver the principal address. Mr. Elmer Layden, intimately associated with Rockne as one of his “Four Horsemen,” will speak in tribute to the memory of his old coach.
The committee in charge of the movie shots, chiefly news reel clippings, under Chairman Clay Murray, has arranged a half hour program to be featured by the showing of one reel of never-before released film. Another bit of film has been shown only once in public.
Al Schwartz, one of the senior football managers, will also give a short talk. The program will be announced by the president of the Kansas-Oklahoma Club, Jim Downey, of Tulsa.
Missouri Club Forms A Basketball Team
Instituting something new in the line of campus club activities, the Missouri club organized a basketball team, at a meeting in Carroll Rec on March 9.
Ed Reardon, president, hopes that this step this year will have the effect of creating a basketball league for the regional clubs next year.
Plans were made for a Smoker to be held April 15; and a committee of Richard Bowes, Ernest Maurin, and । Al Nigro were appointed to arrange details.
DR. JEREMIAH FORD, PROMINENT EDUCATOR, ROMANCE LANGUAGE HEAD AT HARVARD;
AWARDED 55TH LAETARE MEDAL
Dr. Jeremiah D. M. Ford, noted chairman of the department of Romance languages of Harvard university, Cambridge, Mass., and Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, became the fifty-fifth recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity.
BASIC PRINCIPLE OF MAGNIFICATION IS TOLD TO A. S. M.
•
Mr. H. W. Zieler of New York City, president of E. Leitz, Inc., addressed the Notre Dame chapter of the A. S. M. on the subject: “Optics in Metallurgy.”	.
Mr. Zieler spoke at 8:00 p.m. on March 18, in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Being an acknowledged expert in optical matters, having conducted courses in microscopy in Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and before the New York Microscopical Society, the latter of which he is vice-president, Mr. Zieler possessed a very thorough fundamental knowledge of the subject and had the gift of presenting the intricate—as well as the simple— clearly- and interestingly.
In his address Mr. Zieler discussed the fundamental principles of magnification and resolution, of interest in all fields of microscopy, and dealt especially with applications of microscopy to the examination of opaque objects, particularly as required in metallurgical examinations.
“The broad discussion of principles of microscopy will be of great interest not only to metallographists but to all who use the microscope in any field of endeavor,” he said.
A special event will be the visit of the A.S.M. Chicago Chapter to Notre Dame April 24.
Dr. A. B. Kinzel, chief metallurgist of Union Carbide and Carbon Research Laboratories, Inc., will be the speaker.
The members are requested to do their utmost to attend the meeting and introduce at least one new member before that date.
For membership, apply to Secretary W. C. Troy, 401 Walsh Hall, or to the department of Metallurgy, University of Notre Dame.
NOTICE!
The Barbershop will be open next Monday and Tuesday nights, March 22 and 23, until 8 o’clock.
Announcement of the award made by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, of the University and chairman of the Laetare Medal Committee, stated that “Catholic schol-j arship is recognized in this year’s I award of the Laetare Medal. For • more than 40 years Professor Ford ■ has contributed in a very scholarly i way to our knowledge and apprecia-I tion of Spanish and French literature. He has fostered international understanding and respect, which is a vital basis of world peace.”
Dr. Ford, who has been active in higher education since 1895, has received academic awards from a dozen European nations and decorations from four: France, Italy, Roumania and Spain, for his work in literature and history.
A native of Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Ford has headed Harvard’s department of Romance Languages since 1911. He received his Ph.D. at Harvard in 1897 and holds honorary degrees from the University of Toulouse and the National University of Ireland. In the past he has served as guest lecturer at the University of Paris and at the Spanish university.
Presentation of the medal will not take place until at some future date not yet determined.
The medal is recognized as the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. Traditionally, the name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Richard Reid, lawyer and educator of Augusta, Ga., and editor of The -Bulletin, official weekly publication of the Catholic Laymen’s association of Georgia, was last year’s recipient of the award.
Hear Fr. Lisewski
Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., who spent part of last year in Germany, spoke of his observations made there at a meeting of the German club held Tuesday in Carroll “Rec.”
A German quartet, composed of Peter Nemeth, Paul Larmer, Theodore Prekowitz, and Joseph Pawlowski, entertained.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
CHICAGO'S FORMAL TO FEATURE MUSIC OF STAN NORRIS
•
Stan Norris and his 12-piece NBC band has been engaged to furnish the melody for the annual Chicago club Easter formal to be held in the Grand Ballroom of the Knickerbocker hotel, according to announcement by Martin T. Burns, chairman of the dance.
In addition to Norris, the strolling musical group at the Glass Hat room of the Congress hotel, the Dictators, will play during the intermissions so
Bandleader Norris
Vacationers will dance
that there will be continuous music for dancing throughout the evening.
The price of the dance has been set .-at $3.00 per couple and reservations will be taken on the campus at room 123 Walsh hall, at any time before the vacation period and in Chicago .at the Knickerbocker hotel on Saturday, March 27, and Monday, March 29.
John Maloney, president of the club, announced that a special fare on South Shore trains of $2.60 for the round- trip has been secured. The going ticket will be good only on the twelve, one, and two o’clock trains on March 24; and only those trains having a total of 30 or more on the return trip will be allowed the reduced rate. The limit for return is April 4, Sunday.
February 25, 1902—During their sojourn in Washington the members of the relay team had the pleasure of an introduction to President Roosevelt.
Tickets For New York Trip on Sale Monday
Those using the Metropolitan club’s Easter Vacation special train to New York on the New York Central railroad must leave South Bend on Wednesday, March 24, and return not later than Sunday, April 4, Joseph J. Brien, club president has announced.
The special train will leave South Bend Wednesday at 3:00 p.m. if 110 tickets ’ are sold. Tickets will be on sale at the campus book store the afternoons of Monday and Tuesday, March 22 and 23. The fare will cost $24.85 for the round trip.
The Metropolitan club will hold a handicap golf tournament for its members shortly after the Easter holidays. Plans also call for the organization of a baseball team. Games are to be scheduled with other campus clubs.
Local Attorney Gives Advice to Lawyers
Walter Clements, local attorney, addressed the Law club at its monthly meeting, Thursday, March 11. He was introduced by Thomas Konop, dean of the College of Law.
Mr. Clement in his talk gave some beneficial advice to prospective young «
Philosophical Essays And Poetry Among Highlights in Third Edition of "Scrip"
Featured by numerous short stories and essays, the third issue of Scrip, quarterly literary magazine, was issued last Friday afternoon. Several poems and the Freshman sketches are high points of the issue.
“Triad” by Charles B. Nelson is an effective sketch of the membership of the typical American family — father, mother, daughter — whose characteristics are portrayed in a striking manner.
Paul Thomas’ “Manshape” and William P. Mahoney’s “Suicide Culture” are two philosophic essays on man’s nature. The former deals with the premise that we must know man in his entirety to understand him. The latter condemns materialism as the destroyer of the intellectual power of man and proposes that this materialistic culture should be replaced for a spiritual culture.
Of the short stories, “The Travellers” by John M. Broderick and “Carnival” by D. I. Dickinson, present graphic pictures of real life and are told-in extremely vivid language.
DONAHUE IS ELECTED FRESHMAN CLASS PRESIDENT
•
Thomas B. Donahue, of Boonville, Missouri, was elected president of the Freshman class at an election held Monday in the Carroll recreation hall. By a vote of 226 to 156 Donahue defeated Robert F. McEniry, of Milwaukee.
For secretary, David J. Bernard, of Los Angeles won out over Thomas J. O’Reilly of Lynchburg, Va., by a vote of 215 to 157. Gerald Donovan, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was automatically elected vice-president. Frederick Fox, of Utica, N. Y., was elected treasurer by virtue of a two-thirds majority over his nearest opponent.
Arthur Hoffman, of the Students’ Activities Council, was chairman of the election board.
lawyers who plan to enter the profession. He disclosed some of the tasks and difficulties that encounter the new men who enter the law business.
Patrick J. Fisher, president of the Notre Dame barristers, announced that tentative plans are being made for the Hoynes banquet, an annual event given by the University law-> yers.
A new feature is inaugurated in the presentation of three concrete descriptive sketches on the same subject, “Country Road.” The three writers in this section are: John W. Meany, Burley Johnson, and Carl Maxwell Schalliol. The feature will be continued in the last issue of the magazine.
The freshman sketches as usual are of a very high standard. Featured among them are the sketches of the blue in the writers’ lives as developed by four different freshmen. Other sketches are on unrelated subjects, and most of them develop along the lines of realism and vivid concreteness.
“Two Words About Rain” by Joseph O’Brien, C.S.C., describe the feeling of spring approaching, a timely subject and one very well presented. Other bits of poetry were contributed by Joseph Collins and O’Brien.
A new Scrip personality appears in the stories by D. I. Dickinson, whose “Hunt Day” and “Carnival” are among the finest printed this year in the magazine.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
7
JOHN J. O'BRIEN IS KILLED IN AUTO ACCIDENT
With the suddeness that characterized the passing of beloved Knute Rockne, death came to John J. O’Brien, end coach of the football team and assistant track coach here at Notre Dame, when his automobile crashed into a pillar of a railroad
John O’Brien “Rest in Pence”
viaduct at E. Ninety-ninth street and Avenue L, on route 6, out of Chicago, last Friday morning, March 12.
Johnny O’Brien became famous in the annals of Notre Dame athletic history as “One-Play” O’Brien. His first taste of fame came to him during the football season of 1928, when he was sent into the Notre DameArmy game by Knute Rockne and caught a touchdown pass that gave the Irish a 12-6 victory over the West Pointers who were heading that year for a national championship.
Two years later his fame was to give Notre Dame another victory. Sent into the game as a decoy, Johnny O’Brien went out for another pass and drew the entire secondary with him while Marchy Schwartz went for a touchdown that beat the Army 7-6.
Johnny came to Notre Dame from Los Angeles where he had established a brilliant high school record. After graduating from Notre Dame, he spent three years as assistant football coach under Rip Miller at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. In 1934 he became head football coach and athletic director at St. Edward’s university in Austin, Texas. Then in the spring of 1936 he returned again to Notre Dame and was made assistant coach both to Coach Layden of the football team and to Coach Nicholson, of the track team.
To Establish Students' Mission Crusade Unit At Meeting Monday
•
By George Haithcock
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University of Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker at the first meeting of the Notre Dame Unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade next Monday, March 22, at 8:00 p.m. in Room 127, Main Building.
Other speakers at this organization meeting will include Brother Severin, C.S.C., who spent ten years doing missionary work in Bengal, India, and Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C., spiritual adviser of the Unit.
To join in the work of the Mission Crusade is really to join in a special phase of Catholic Action. While the primary purpose is the education of the members, the Crusaders lend theh* spiritual and material support to both foreign and home missions.
Leaders of the Crusade Movement believe that it is able to challenge Catholic youth to effective leadership in the warfare with the present enemies of Christianity and to develop standard-bearers of the Faith.
An extensive drive for new members will be opened by Patrick Bannon, student organizer. Officers will be elected and the constitution will be adopted. Application for a charter will be made to the national Crusade headquarters at the Crusade Castle in Cincinnati.
All students of the University are eligible for membership. Anyone interested in this work is urged to be present for the initial meeting.
Student Port Sponsors New Essay Contest
An essay contest for university students is being sponsored throughout the United States by the Propeller club of the United States, a national organization devoted to the improvement of the American Merchant Marine.
The contest for Notre Dame students is being sponsored by the recently formed Student Port of Notre Dame. This Port is similar to several other Student Ports, all of which are members of the national organization.
The object of the contest is to interest young Americans in the needs of the American Merchant Marine. The title of the essay is “What The American Merchant Marine Contributes to the Prosperity of the Nation.” Copies of the announcement of the contest, with rules and the prize to be awarded, will be found on the Bulletin Boards of the Commerce and Main Buildings.
DEBATERS ENGAGE IN DELTA SIGMA RHO TOURNEY TODAY
By Robert McClain
Competing for the second time in intercollegiate debate meets within two weeks, the Varsity debating team left early this morning to participate in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, today and tomorrow. Twenty teams have entered the tournament.
Arguing the varsity question: “Resolved; That Congress should have . the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry,” the Varsity debating team won five contests and lost five debates in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, March 5 and 6. Thirteen teams were entered in the meet.
The affirmative team of Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle, veteran debaters won four out of five contests, defeating Iowa university, Chicago university, Kansas university and Creighton university, and losing to Carrolton college. Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, defending the negative side of the question, defeated South Dakota university and dropped contests to Minnesota university, Texas university, Iowa State Techers college and Iowa university.
The Notre Dame affirmative team was placed in the upper 25 per cent as to rating in the meet. Iowa, Texas, and Iowa State Teachers college also were placed in the upper bracket. Richard Meier won individual honors for Notre Dame by being placed in the upper bracket for his eloquent delivery.	'
Professor William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech and varsity debate coach, accompanied the team to Iowa and acted as one of the judges. No official score was announced for the tournament.
In the first of the dual debates with Michigan State, the Notre Dame negative team of Charles Osborn and Thomas Mulligan, defeated the affirmative team of the Michigan school at Lansing, March. 7.
Following the victory of the negative team, the Notre Dame affirmative team of Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle lost a decision to the Michigan State negative team in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, March 11.
John Kowalski and Byron Kettles represented the negative side of the question for the Michigan school.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
FETE KEOGANMEN AT YEARLY VILLAGERS TESTIMONIAL
•
More than 400 guests paid tribute last night to the Notre Dame basketball squad at the annual testimonial banquet given by the Notre Dame Villagers in the Oliver hotel.
The Keoganmen finished one of the most successful basketball seasons by winning 20 games and losing a scant three, thus clinching the national basketball crown for the second consecutive year.
Timothy Galvin, T4, of Hammond, Ind., presided as toastmaster. Guests present included the Varsity and Freshman court squads, the University band, members of the Notre Dame faculty, the athletic department, and sport authorities from out of town.
Speakers of the evening were: John Longfellow, coach of Elkhart High school; the Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., representative of the University; Jimmy Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times; Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; Elmer Layden, director of athletics; George Keogan, head coach of the Irish basketball team; Tony Hinkle, coach of Buler university; and Dick Miller, INS sports writer* from Indianapolis.
Climaxing the featured variety of the evening was the showing of the pictures of the entire Notre Dame-New York university game that was played in Madison Square Garden earlier in the year. Following this, monograms were presented to the members of this year’s squad.
Assisting Ted Prekowitz, the president of the Villagers’ club, in charge of the banquet, was John Lechner, the general chairman of the event.
Ball Price Approximate $8.00 Sullivan Says
A price of approximately $8.00 has been .set for the 1937 Senior Ball on Friday, May 7, it was announced this week by President Parker Sullivan.
“Arrangements as to committees, orchestra, and tea-dance will be completed after Easter,” Sullivan said. “We are anxious to announce the general price plans before the Seniors leave for the Easter holidays.”
“It may be necessary to vary this figure, but we are endeavoring to keep the cost at an absolute minimum consistent with a formal Ball, good music, and tea dance.”
James Gorman Hack, ex-roommate of the great “Zug” Fitzpatrick, is the top “card” in a senior class which boasts at least a full deck. He attended Loyola and Culver, captained both football teams, was all-state at each school. Favorite song is “Seven Years With the Wrong Woman”— his long-time girl up and married somebody else last year. Puts on his act tonight with Joe McNally, who scored as W. C. Fields in the Pontiac Program recently. His cowboy and
fishing routines are famous. Likes accounting so much he is making a career of it—required three years to pass one semester. For three years, off and on, he played football for the varsity. Nicknamed “Gomer” because of his resemblance to Ohio State’s All-American center.
Once was mistaken for the father of a girl he dated. Wishes he could be as quick at studies as he is at gags. Specializes in asking questions, the answers to which he already knows. Boxed himself into Bengal Bout fame last year. Writes pointless .poems. His reading of several Sociology texts has left him with psychoses, neuroses, and various imaginary ailments. Since his estrangement from his Chicago sweetheart, he has been in the open. market,, and wants a date for the Senior Ball. St. Mary’s, please apply.
Watch for him tonight—he’ll slay you. He makes no attempts at keeping in any kind of shape, and at present, weighs 195, only 15 pounds more than he should. He’s boasting now that nobody will bet on his opponent tonight. You’ll know why very soon.
I FOREIGN CHEMIST TO LECTURE HERE
APRIL 2
•
Continuing the series of University lectures, Dr. Arthur Binz, a well-known chemist from the University of Berlin, Germany, is to speak here on April 2 in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. His subject is “Chemical Progress in Medical Applications.”
Dr. Binz is at present spending two months lecturing in American colleges and universities under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation of Philadelphia, Pa.
Special invitations have been extended to the membership of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, the St. Joseph County group of the American Medical association, hospital staffs of South Bend and Mishawaka, St. Mary’s College and other groups to attend the lecture.
Henry B. Froning, head of the departments of chemistry and chemical engineering, who is in charge of the program, expects that students, faculty members, and the general public will avail themselves of the opportunity to hear the noted chemist.
On a previous lecture tour, in 1930, Dr. Binz, who is also the editor of a prominent German chemical magazine, was elected to honorary membership in the American Medical association.
ORIGIN OF ALPHABET TRACED IN WEEKLY FACULTY TALK
•
The faculty radio talk Wednesday evening was given by Professor De-vere T. Plunkett, of the Department of Classics. The subject of his talk was the “Origin of the Alphabet.”
Professor Plunkett traced the origin of the vowels used in our language to the early Greeks, while, he said, the Romans contributed the letter-forms as well as the transmission of the alphabet to the civilized world. “This last contribution,” he remarked, “is perhaps the greatest of all.”
“It is significant,” he continued, “that the truly progressive nations of the-world today -are-all employing the Roman script.” While the movement for an international language, such as Latin, or an artificial one, has met with little success, yet the Roman alphabet has become truly international, he concluded.
Next week, the faculty radio talk will be heard on Monday evening instead of Wednesday. Professor Apodaca, of the Department of Economics, will speak.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
9
THE WEEK
From Little Acorn. . .
On a rainy, slushy afternoon, we were confronted by a demure pair of ladies’ pumps, resting neatly on the steps in front of the west entrance to the Commerce building. They seemed so mutely expressive that we stood there for fully five minutes before going into class, watching and waiting for a claimant. None came and we went to our work, late. Two hours later we made a point of using the same door to leave and the same shoes were still there, half-filled with water. Even now, though the shoes are gone, the memory is fascinating. If anybody is ambitious and imaginative, there might well be the basis for a Hollywood hit in the incident. Properly handled, a corking movie might be built around the sight. Picture the opening shot of a forlorn pair of pumps, the rain sopping into the snow, and suddenly, from inside —a scream. Egad, that’s box-office!
* * #
Sound Sleeper
When Alumni hall was changed last year from a junior to a senior residence, we thought privately that there would be trouble. And this year a peculiar jinx is clinging to the boys from Alumni. Only the other night one of them, a fine, upstanding Irishman, met with an accident. He went to sleep with his arm resting lightly and comfortably on the radiator next to his bed. Six hours later he awoke with a scream. His arm was still on the radiator, but he had acquired four smarting blisters on his wrist. The sores had already broken. Why hadn’t he been awakened? There can be only one possible solution. During the hours of repose his arm had fallen asleep, become numbed. We believe we got the story straight, and there’s a moral: live in Walsh, where beds are never placed near radiators and where life goes on at an unhurried pace, punctuated by the crash of bowling balls. Our rates are reasonable.
* * *
It Can Happen To You
For the neatest movement of the month we submit the formation of the B.E.P. (Bald Eagle Patrol),,at table 100 in the west dining hall. Of the 12 men at the table, four are members and four more are well on their way. Disciples of the group are people who are losing, or have lost their hair. One who has only a high forehead or shiny temples must be content with the rank of private. The balder you are, the higher your
By John A. Gillespie
standing. There is a special salute, a march step, and much raillery. The men hope to eliminate the embarrassment attached to baldness by ridiculing it themselves. New members are eagerly sought. Beneath the bright and flippant exterior of the MajorGeneral, (the baldest of the lot), we sense a breaking heart. Several times we’ve caught him peeking enviously at a thick-haired neighbor, and eating his soul away in despair. P.S. Our rank is private, rapidly and terrifyingly developing into lieutenant.
« * *
Discrimination
We hereby register a heated complaint against the local system of athletics. For seven weeks the members of the golf squad have been on a training table. None of them has so much as touched a club in justification of his secluded eating. And it will be another two weeks before any practice can be had. In all this favoritism we see a cause for indignation. Many able baseball players are working out daily in the fieldhouse, but they are accorded no culinary privileges. As far as we know, the fencing team wields its sabers and foils without special diet. Narrowing the field; we play a vicious game of pingpong but we must eat with such nonathletes as debaters and managers. For months now we have been expecting the Knights of Columbus to offer us B.R.T. in exchange for our services on their ping-pong team; at the very least, we hoped for playing privileges on the cuff. Not a peep have we heard from them. Our quarters and dimes go regularly into the already bursting coffers of the Knights. In wrathful conclusion we demand that the golf men be made to merit their position; let them give putting exhibitions or public lectures, or perhaps autograph tees at every athletic event.
* # *
Not Interested
The freshmen, they are a funny bunch. We were on our way to the recreation room in Cavanaugh basement a while back; it was our first visit and we had heard that the layout was luxurious. Outside the elegant edifice we met a resident and asked him how late the room was open. He didn’t know. We then asked the shortest route. He said “Just walk in any door and ask somebody.” A bit nettled we inquired as to the condition of the tables. The answer came in one word: “Lousy.” So we went to Brownson.
'Laity Founded Orders/ ' Bishop of Ft. Wayne
Says to Knights
•
The Knights of Columbus of the Second Indiana District were hosts of the Notre Dame Council No. 1477 at a banquet in the main ballroom of the Columbia Club in South Bend, Sunday, March 14. The banquet was given in honor of St. Patrick and was attended by some 400 members of the Knights of Columbus and their guests.
Leading the speaking program was His Excellency John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. Bishop Noll spoke on the duties of the Catholic laity and of conversion, and cited that most of the religious orders were founded by laymen' and laywomen. Mr. Raymond M. Foley, director of Federal Housing for the state of Michigan, spoke on “Catholic Laymen and Social Justice.” Mr. Walter J. Hackett, a Chicago humorist, entertained.	.
Paul M. Butler, of South Bend, toastmaster, introduced the district and state officers.
Plans for the K. of C. ball, scheduled for April 23, are taking shape as are plans for another initiation on May 2nd.
Lauds Fr. O'Donnell's Poetry at Forum
“The late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of the University of Notre Dame, is the outstanding Catholic poet of this country.” This was the opinion expressed by Prof. Norbert A. Engels, professor of English at the University, in his address before the meeting of The Catholic Forum in the University room of the Hotel LaSalle, Monday, March 15.	.
Professor Engels began his discussion with a short biographical sketch of Father O’Donnell, with particular emphasis on his world war experiences as an army chaplain, and his term as president of the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Engels devoted considerable of his time to reading aloud excerpts from several of Father O’Donnell’s poems. He pointed out the excellence of the construction as well as the depth and profundity of the matter. The poems are characterized by an easy flowing rhythm. Father O’Donnell was especially effective in his treatment of nature, giving a rich comprehensive treatment of the external world.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
TOAST RUETZ. HICKEY AND MURPHY AT
PARISH DINNER
•
In honor of Louis Hickey, John Murphy, and Joe Ruetz, the members of the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph parish in South Bend, gave a banquet in acclamation of the distinction of being the first parish in the United States to have three men on the Notre Dame varsity football team at one time.
The banquet was attended by 250 football lovers of South Bend, who showed their interest in Notre Dame football by filling the dining room to capacity. Frank Coughlin, captain of the 1920 football team, was the toastmaster.
Among those on the speaking program were Jack Ledden, sports editor for the South Bend Tribune; Jim Costin of the News-Times; Mr. Frank Miles, who acted as general chairman of the affair; Mr. Elmer Burnham, who coached the three boys at Central High School and who is now at Purdue; and Rev. J. J. O’Rourke, C.S.C., who gave a short talk on the “Family.” Coach Elmer Layden gave the final address in which he eulogized the merits of the boys, and talked of Johnny O’Brien, who was to have been one of the speakers.
Following this, taps were played for Johnny O’Brien, and later the pictures depicting the highlights of the 1936 season were shown.
Sociology Head Attends Anthropology Session
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology, this week-end is attending the International Symposium on Early Man at the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa.
Some of the world’s greatest authorities on prehistoric man are attending the Symposium in celebration of the one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Academy.
Rev. Teilhard de Chardin, one of the pioneers ig. the discovery of the Pekin Man in China a few years ago, is one of the notables attending. This finding is regarded by modem anthropologists as one of the most important discoveries ever made.
February 26, 1877
As spring is fast approaching, we would respectfully call attention to the great need of cement walks between the college and presbytery, connecting the various buildings around the western wing of the Main Building.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Not Only Queer But Ridiculous!
It is queer that some students in American colleges should believe that “to be interested in religion is to tag oneself as being queer” Yet, according to the report of Dr. Thornton W. Merriman, counselor of religion at Northwestern University, that is one of the main reasons (we would substitute the word alibis) why so many modern college students either hesitate or positively refuse to designate their religious faiths when questioned on the subject.
Interesting If True
In a recent investigation conducted at the University of Toronto, it was found that the majority of coeds secure higher grades when they are in that undefinable and bewildering state known as “being in love.” Males, however, react just the opposite, for when Cupid becomes their main deity their scholastic averages begin to take an awful beating.
My Hat and Coat, Women!
For one blissful week the men of Swarthmore University could use the above imperative tone when addressing their feminine campus companions. They have an institution in that Pennsylvania school called “Coed Week” during which Swarthmore coeds must coax for their dates, help the males divest themselves of coats and hats when requested to do so, and finally tote their books if given the task. Girls snagging the most dates during the week are given prizes. . . . But we bet the poor man pays through the nose for the rest of the semester.
■ Another New Course
Week after week since last September our exchanges have told us about some new course being introduced or added to the traditional college curriculum at one school or another. This week we were informed that ten colleges in or around the city of Detroit now sponsor a one-hour weekly concei-t performed by the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. Students signing up for this course and attending the concerts receive college credits. .. . . With or without the credits we think it is a fine idea. -
Briefly Noting—
Within a month Dayton University will send six of her debaters out on the road to forensic glory. They will be gone over a month,-and in less than thirty days will engage twenty-
CALENDAR
Friday, March 19
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Boxing, Sixth Annual BENGAL BOUTS, University Gym, 8:00 p.m.; Debating, Delta Sigma Rho Debate tourney, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
Saturday, March 20
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 11:30 a.m.; Debating, Delta Sigma Rho Debate tourney; Movies, “Meet Nero Wolfe,” Washington hall, first show at 6:40 p.m. for freshmen; Track, Butler Relays, Indianapolis, Ind.
Sunday, March 21
Palm Sunday; Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 6:45, 7:30, 8:15 a.m.; Meeting, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall, 11:00 a.m.; Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Concert, Glee club, Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.; Meeting, Chesterton Society, Law building, 10:30 a.m.
Monday, March 22
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.; Meeting S.A.C., basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting, Servers’ club, Sacristy of Sacred Heart Church; 6:30 p.m.; Debate, Varsity vs. University of Florida, John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, 8:00 p.m.; Faculty Radio talk, Prof. Apodaca, 7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 23
Organized adoration, 7:30 a.m., until Benediction, 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, March 2 k
Easter vacation begins at noon.
eight opponents. . . . Mftny students at Jordan College earn their tuition expenses by working on one of the nation’s greatest mushroom farms which is located in that section. . . . Do you remember that attractive, acrobatic coed cheerleader who inspired Northwestern followers last Fall in our Stadium when we tangled with the “Cats?” Well, her name is Kay Stewart, and she recently signed a five year contract with the Paramount Motion Picture Corporation. ... To rile Notre Dame New Englanders we offer the following quip clipped from The Tatler:
Enthusiastic Renting Agent: “Now here is a house without a flaw.”
Harvard Graduate: “Then what is one to walk on?”
FOR THRILLS!!! FOR FUN!!!
FOR BENGAL’!!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
11
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame, Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C..........Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.......................Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER..................Managing Editor
Departmental Editors	s
John A. Gillespie_________________________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle____________________________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo---------------------------In The Juggler Vein
Louis DaPra--------------------------------------------News Editor
Harold A. Williams Michael Mongoven
Richard Riley_________
George Haithcock______ Frederick Sisk________
Thomas Marker_________
Gregory Byrnes________
Vincent W. Hartnett) Harold A. Williams }
News Staff
-Assistant News Editor Frank Reilly Robert McClain
.Vincent de Coursey ----John Callaghan ----James Hufnagel ----Graham Starr ----Literary Editors
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett---------------------------------Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride------------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby John Clifford
Charles Callahan-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott--------------------------------James A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger Art Editor
George Elmore
William R. Dooley, 26_______________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	March 19, 1937	No. 19
TONIGHT AT EIGHT ...
THE PUBLICITY barrage has been laid down with a terrific and everlasting roar, the fighters have trained for six weeks to a battling edge, three nights of preliminaries have narrowed the field to 16—in short, the stage is set for the Sixth Edition of Bengal Bouts.
From first gong to last it will be a full, colorful, riproaring evening of real thrills. Anyone who has ever seen the Bengal fighters slash away will never rate it below tops for entertainment—and it goes at twenty-five cents.
This year’s turn-out has been the largest in history, the preliminary battles have been the most hard-fought, the fighters themselves think the field unsurpassed. And they should know after three solid nights of leather tossing.
For five years the Bouts have turned over sizeable checks to the Bengal Missions—in fact, the largest single contribution from student sources. This year it should be even higher, it will be higher only if each and every sport fan, and that means 3,000 on this campus, turns out Friday at eight.
Barney Ross, world-famed leather thrower, will be here to give added luster to a show already sparkling with talent. It would be a shame to miss it for a small quarter.
R. I. P. . . .
IT WOULD be futile to write copiously about the death of John O’Brien. The vacancy he leaves will be his most eloquent eulogy. But no hero passes without leaving a mark which deserves study.
John O’Brien, as closely as any individual on the campus, epitomized much of the famed Notre Dame spirit. His was a clean buoyancy of soul that was somehow clear and bubbling.
John would resent preaching. He squirmed under praise. Writing of John and his sterling character, his accomplishments, his ideal life, can do nothing to fill the void he has left in a young family.
Notre Dame realizes its loss, Notre Dame men the world over know keenly what they have lost—they will not forget John O’Brien.
THANKS IN ADVANCE ...
WITH this year’s boxing show poised for action tonight, we take the bit in our. teeth and will endeavor, in some feeble fashion, to thank some of those who have cooperated so splendidly. To print an individual list would be to produce a tome. Yet we want each person who has been connected in any way with the success of the Bouts to know our sincere appreciation.
Without the services, advice and sage counsel of Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University, the bouts would not be possible at all. We realize this and in our realization thank him humbly for yeoman service.
This year we present a twelve page program of the bouts. This is made possible through the generous support of advertisers. We thank them sincerely and urge those attending the bouts to remember these generous firms.
Frank Schiavone has tackled a Job fit for three men and he has done it nobly. Thanks to Frank are small recompense for his hours of labor. But we know he has the sincere thanks of the promoters and the fighters he so ably tutored.
To the University officials, from the president down, we offer sincere thanks. Every request was met with immediate and whole-hearted cooperation far beyond the mere cursory. There has been no request made, regardless of its nature or scope that’ didn’t receive enthusiastic hearing. We hope the success of the bouts will express in some small manner our sincere thanks.
Risking the monotony of constant repetition, we cannot fail to single out the managers for their valiant service. The managers have nothing whatever to gain by slaving to sell tickets—and yet they responded with enthusiasm and real work.- To Paul Barker and his cohorts “Many, many thanks.”
The Ave Maria press has been generous to a fault. We have made a neat slice into their quarterly returns by receiving so much free attention from printers, pressmen and office assistants. We hope our thanks in some way make recompense.
It is with no intention of slighting anyone that we must close our litany. When the final returns are in certainly many more will come to mind—and we cannot fail to give some tangible evidence of real appreciation. To everyone who in any way helped us, and the number is legion—we thank you in the name of the Bengal Missions.
A PICTORIAL PREVIEW
OF TONi
• PART OF THE GALAXY OF FIGHTERS AND ENTERTAINERS WHO STEP UNDER THE RING LIGHTS TONIGHT AT EIGHT O'CLOCK.
Phil Dahar, heavyweight champ, who throws his first glove of the 1937 campaign in tonight's finals.
Race and Fogel, "Grunt and Groan," set for their debut under the bright lights. May the best man spin!
A bit of old Bengal action J such action as never seen in B
Two huskies mix-it during the long training grind. Scenes like this make tonight's finals "tops."
Trainer Schiavone looks o' s Durkin watches hopefully.
MGHT'S STELLAR PERFORMANCE
• EACH YEAR SEES NEW THRILLS, NEW CHAMPS, AND NEW INTEREST IN THE BENGAL BOUTS.

tior n B
Tonight's finals bid fair to produce gal Bout history.
The "Go Get 'em Ghost" and "Shadow" Hack come out of dank dungeons to flail away in ghastly vengeance.
Oliver Helland, 147 pound star, who comes to the finals tonight in a class which always produces sure fights.
; o'
some of his boys before the "big test."
More action history as a fighter waits for the "nine count" to flash back. There'll be nine counts galore when the '37 boys get in the squared circle.
14	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
ATHLETICS
SIXTEEN FIGHTERS BATTLE THROUGH PRELIMS WILL MEET TONIGHT FOR BENGAL TITLES SEMI-FINALS CLOSEST IN YEARS
By Gene Vaslett
St. Patrick’s Day has seen many a fine Irishman in many a fine fight, but never so many as those held last St. Pat’s Day in the local field house as a prelude to the finals to be held tonight.
There were fights a-plenty during the Bengal prelims from the bantams to the heavies, and the winners of the three days fighting richly deserve the privilege of appearing in tonight’s bouts.
In the 118-lb. class Jack McGurl fought his way through the preliminaries in fine style and by virtue of his win ovei' Frank Farrell will meet John Powers, diminutive freshman, in the finals tonight. McGurl continually kept Farrel on the run with a long left hand, and it looks as though Powers will have trouble tonight.
Vince Garucharri, slim 126-pound-er, defeated George Griggs in the semi-finals and Fitzpatrick in the quarter finals to win the privilege of meeting Russ Dolce, conqueror of Bob Mullen, tonight. Gurucharri, a Filipino, .looks classier than Dolce, but the Dolce boy has more fighting power, and the bout will be close.
Don Hanning won a close semi-final over Tom O’Malley, finalist in last year’s 126 class, and will meet Gabriel Velez in the 135-pound finals.
The 142-pound contenders gave the preliminary spectators a fine show. After the semi-finals were over Jack McNicholas and Jim Brown were the men who beat all who faced them, and they will meet tonight.
Oliver Helland, champion in the 142-pound class last year, scored a technical K.O. over his semi-final opponent, Dick Burkholder, and will meet “Slim” Thompson who defeated Ed Fraser in the wildest bout of the semi’s.
The middleweight division had the largest entry list of the eight classes. Lou Purcell, champion of two years ago, scored a technical K.O. over Bob Blake in his first fight and took the decision from Karl Fricke in the semifinals to win his way to the finals. He will meet another veteran of the Bengals, Jim McGuire, who defeated Vince Dollard in the bouts Wednesday night. The McGuire-Dollard fight (Continued on Page 16)
CAGERS END SEASON WITH THREE WINS OVER FOES
Notre Dame’s basketball artists closed a very successful season by squeezing through a 39-35 thriller at Marquette, by overwhelming a helplessly stunned Minnesota squad with a 44-18 score, and by loafing almost listlessly through a 36-18 party at Detroit. In winning 20 games of their 23 game schedule, the Irish defeated every team which they met.
Johnny Moir was the high scorer of each of the last three games. In the Minnesota game he passed his last year’s record of 260 when he heaved seven baskets through the hoop and flipped in three fouls; in the Detroit game he counted for seven baskets again and added four fouls to bring his season’s total to 290.
In the last few minutes against Marquette, Tom Jordan lofted the leather through the basket to break a 35-35 tie, and then, with 15 seconds to play, Earl Brown iced the game with another two-pointer.
Against Minnesota, Notre Dame bombarded the basket for eight points in the first 90 seconds. After Kundla had popped a one-hander from the foul circle for the Gophers, the Irish whirled 12 more points before the shareholders of the Big Ten championship could score again. The rest of the game was anticlimax except for the final few minutes in which the two seniors of the squad, Don Allen and John DeMots, each contributed a basket to the score.
Against Detroit, the team piled up an early lead, and as painlessly as possible inflicted the first home loss of the season on the Titans.
SPRING PRACTICE TO START SOON
FOR IRISH
•
Pigskins were hurled through the air and over two hundred cleated feet churned up the soil as the freshman football team took the field for the first practice of the spring training season. This was on Monday, March 8th, but since then Old Man Winter has stepped in and there has been no further opportunity to continue. It is ironical to note that although the weather has been too cold for football practise, it has been tod warm for the proposed outdoor wintei' sports program.
Coach Elmer Layden had hoped to have the freshmen out for a few days of limbering up before he called out the varsity squad, but at the present both outfits are waiting for a bit of warm sunshine and a cessation of the intermittent snowfalls. It is very doubtful now that the varsity men will be able to start any training before the Easter vacation, but the freshmen may get in a couple of sessions before Wednesday.
Meanwhile a few of the Irish back-field combinations have been running through a few of their plays in the gym every afternoon to brush up on the signals and to prepare themselves for the more strenuous work that is to come. All the backfield men appear to be able to join spring practise, but the line will be missing next year’s captain, Joe Zwers, who is recovering from a recent appendectomy. Another end who was injured in the Pitt game last year but who is fully recovered and ready for action is Jerry Clifford. Naturally enough the team has also suffered an inestimable loss in the death of Johnny O’Brien.
Once practise actually gets under way it will continue for approximately six weeks and will culminate with the annual Yarsity-Old Timers’ game early in May. Fundamentals will be drilled on for the greater part during the early sessions with such things as blocking and tackling being stressed most. A kicker must be developed to replace Joe O’Neill, and a few passers of the Wilkie-type are to be sought. The coaches will have the chance of selecting likely-looking freshmen candidates for varsity lineups to give them experience for the long and strenuous season of 1937.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
15
NOTRE DAME RETAINS CONFERENCE TITLE IN C. I. C. MEET
•
For approximately one minute the Notre Dame track team stood silent while tribute was paid to their late friend and assistant coach, Johnny O’Brien. Then they overcame superb competition to win their eighth Central Inercollegiae Conference indoor track title in 11 years.
Notre Dame scored 28 points. Michigan State, a pre-meet favorite, finished second with 24 points. The Spartans had trailed Nicholson’s crew 24 to 23 going into the mile relay. Wayne University, of Detroit, also had 23. Notre Dame took second in the relay, Michigan State was fifth, while Wayne went unplaced. The Pitt baton tossers won this event.
The Irish qualified eight men in Friday evening’s extremely fast trials. Michigan State and Pittsburgh placed six and five members respectively. Bill “T-bone” Mahoney, star N. D. hurler, was forced out of Saturday competition as a result of pulling a leg muscle during the Friday trials.
Al Tohnich, co-captain of Wayne, was the sensation of the two day carnival. After winning the 60-yard dash in 6.3 seconds, and the 60-yard high hurdles in the meet-tying time of 7.5 seconds, Tohnich stepped over the barriers in the 65-yard low hurdle race in seven seconds flat to set what is believed to be a new American indoor record for the event. Tolmich scored 15 of Wayne’s 23 points.
Ed Burke, of Marquette, won the high jump with a bar-scaling leap of 6 feet 4 inches. Drake acquired five points in the pole vault when “Chick” Eivens was returned the victor at the disappointing height of 12 feet 6 in. Socolofsky, Kansas State husky, took first in the shot-put with a heave of 48 feet four inches. Notre Dame scored heavily in this latter event with a second, third, and fourth by Faymonville, Levicki, and Beinor respectively.
In the mile run, Greg Rice, diminutive, barrel-chested, Irish sophomore, ran a cool and steady race to win in the amazing time of 4:16.2. This mark broke the meet and gymnasium records, as well as his own Notre Dame record which he established against Drake three weeks ago. Gene Gormley, of the locals, placed third in the two mile race which was won going away by Feiler of Drake in the excellent time of 9:24.
The half mile run gave Irish and South Bend track enthusiasts an opportunity to glimpse a real Olympic winner in the person of John Wood-(Contimied on Page 20)
AL WATROUS TO AID NOTRE DAME GOLFERS; FACULTY GOLF TOURNEY STARTS APRIL 2 LARGER ENTRY LIST IS EXPECTED
ROSS ADDS GLAMOR TO EIGHT FIERY BENGAL BOUTS
•
By Mark J. Mitchell
Promptly at eight o’clock tonight, the 1937 issue of the Bengal Bouts will go to press in the fieldhouse. And approximately two hours later, the completed edition will see eight champions crowned, and the presses stopped for another year.
Outside of the championship fights themselves, the feature attraction will be the presence of Barney Ross, the world’s welterweight champion and former lightweight titleholder. He will act in the capacity of Honorary Referee, and will probably officiate in one or two of the bouts.
Ross’ presence is in line with the traditional policy of the Bouts to have some person, notable in fistic circles, as an added attraction. Other years have seen such champions as the late “Packey” McFarland, “Tuffy” Griffiths, and Danno O’Mahoney as guests at the annual show.
The completion of the semi-finals Wednesday night narrowed the large field down to sixteen contestants. In the flyweight division the slugging Jack McGurl will meet John Powers. Vince Gurucharri and Russell Dolce will battle for bantamweight honors. Gabriel Velez, lightweight runner-up last year, will have a fight on his hands when he meets Don Hanning, conqueror of Tom O’Malley, who was last year’s bantam-weight runner-up.
A sturdy puncher, Jack McNich-olas, fights Jim Brown for the 142-pound title. Oliver Helland, one of the two defending champions and Golden Gloves semi-finalist, trades blows with the elusive Slim Thompson at 147 pounds.
The 160-pound class should provide one of the best scraps of the evening with the savage jabs of Lou Purcell matched against the equally fierce infighting of Jim McGuire. The light heavyweights will offer something equally entertaining. Harry Marr, a clever boxer and a great defensive fighter, meets Tom Leahy, a determined, hard-hitting freshman.
The heavyweight event, winding up the card, will present the other defending champion, Phil Dahar, and the man who has earned the right to challenge him, Walt Runte. Dahar’s terrific punches against the staying power of the massive Runte will mean anything but a tea party.
In order to give the Irish golfers a few of the finer points of the game, Al Watrous, noted golfer, will come to Notre Dame several times this spring to work under the supervision of the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., coach of the Irish team, in smoothing out the rough spots in the Notre Dame'team’s game.
Mr. Watrous came here last Fall and was so favorably impressed with the school and the golf team that he offered to return this year as assistant to Father Holderith. Watrous will come here occasionally at the beginning of the season and again just before the Intercollegiate meet.. With the aid which he will give to Notre Dame’s already well-developed team, the Irish golfers should be well prepared to have a banner season.
Close upon the announcement of Watrous’ appearance came the news of the Faculty golf tournament which
Professor Cletus F. Chizek
Come one, Come all.
is to be be conducted by Father Holderith and Professor Cletus F. Chizek during April and May. The tournament will be open to all members of the Faculty, Athletic department, and Administration departments of the University. The tourney is a revival of the faculty tournaments which reached their highest point of success two years ago.
Entries in the tournament must be filed by April 2 with Father Holderith, Mr. Chizek, Mr. D. L. Campbell, Mr. John Scannell, and Mr. Art Haley together with the fee of seventy-five cents. This fee will entitle the participants to play ten rounds of golf without additional charge. Entry blanks and explanatory rules are being mailed to those eligible for competition.
Entrants must submit the attested of at least three 18-hole qualifying scores by May 1st at the course dubhouse. From these scores flights will be arranged and handicaps given so (Continued on Page 18)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
V SWEET AS HONEY
Sweet as a well-seasoned pipe, on the first smoke! And the honey-curing keeps it sweet. Special attachment supplies (1) automatic free draft (2) double action condenser. The best pipe you can buy for $1. Nothing else has its flavor.
YELLO-BOLE
Eight Battles Set
(Continued from Page U)
was the closest of the evening, both boys being evenly matched.
Tom Lahey, a newcomer, and Harry Marr, four-year veteran, will face each other in the light-heavy finals tonight. Leahy conquered McHale, and Marr defeated Harbert in the preliminaries.
The heavyweight boys fought for the right to meet Phil Dahar, defending champion. After the smoke had cleared away Walt Runte was the man who won the honor. His semifinal bout with Bill Ryan was one of the highlights of the prelims, and it looks as though Dahar will have trouble with the bulky freshman.
The general consensus of opinion was that the bouts this year were the closest contested in the history of the Bengals. Tonight’s finals promise to be the best show ever put on at Notre Dame.
Dentistry offers an opportunity in the field of health service for men of ability. Government statistics show that in recent years, for each dental school graduate, there have been two physicians and four lawyers.
Since rating of dental schools was started twenty years ago, Marquette University Dental School annually has been given the highest rating —A— by the Dental Educational Council of America. The diploma is recognized in all states.
The close relationship of the Dental and Medical Schools at Marquette University is an advantage to students.
Entrance requirements: Two years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
For complete information concerning opportunities in dentistry, write to the Secretary, Marquette University Dental School, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
’Phone 3-6121
506 W. South St., South Bend, Ind.
RAILWAY Express
■AGENCY^W'lNC. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
MILWAUKEE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
17


ELCOME HOME! That's what the comfort of railway travel really means nowadays. On the railroad—and on the railroad alone—you can fully enjoy yourself while traveling.
As you ride at high yet safe speeds, free from jolts and skids, you can eat, sleep, read, write, stretch, relax, listen to the radio, breathe cool, clean, sweet air and make yourself fully at home
under the kindly -ministrations of courteous attendants alert to your
every need.
For these and other benefits, you must credit thorough air-conditioning, smart interior decoration, up-to-date car construction, improved roadbeds, heavier rails, adequate power and—most important of all—a
personnel interested in service.
Typical of railway modernization for comfort is the fact that by the end of the year the Illinois Central will have in service 157 air-conditioned cars of its own, in addition to air-conditioned Pullman equipment. All the railroads and the Pullman Company together now have more than 8,000 such cars.
REMINDER . . .
Railway travel today is a thrilling experience, full of the spirit of youth. On your next trip learn how deservedly enjoyment, coupled with economy in price, has increased railway patronage in recent years.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
-----AN INDIANA NAILROAD---
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
See You at the Bengal Bouts Tonight
LITTLE Fendric
Just awarded his
varsity
letter ... and he’s proud too that the cigar he smokes is a LITTLE FENDRICH PANETELA . . . the athlete’s smoke and the choice for college gatherings . . . because they’re milder . . . mellower ... more uniform!
ON DOWN THE LINE
GLENN HARDIN, Olympic 400-meter hurdle champ, has a movie contract awaiting him as soon as he gets rid of his southern accent.
TUFFY TAV ANO, 4 foot 11 inch, Duquesne forward, is one of the smallest players in college basketball today.
Faculty Tournament
(Continued from Page 15)
that all entrants will have an equal chance to win the prizes. Match play will be conducted as follows: first round May 2 to 8, inclusive; second round, May 9 to 15; semi-finals May 16 to 22; and final matches May 23 to 26 inclusive. All contestants eliminated in the first round will be automatically eligible for consolation competition. Mr. Chizek wishes all faculty members to participate and assures them that all will have an equal chance to break into the higher rounds.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
GLASSES Properly FITTED

DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
19
FENCERS WIN LAST MEET OF YEAR
The Irish Fencers ended their 1937 season on March 8 with a victory over Wisconsin, scoring 10% points against 6 % for the Badgers. In the foil event the Irish won 8 out of the 9 bouts and almost clinched the meet in that event alone. Both McAuliffe and Seco won all three of their foil bouts, while Captain Telmo de Landero won two of his three.
Wisconsin was strong in the epee, holding Notre Dame to the % point scored by McAuliffe when he tied Alberts in one bout. McAuliffe lost his other epee bouts to Polansky, 2-3. Seco also lost to Polansky, 1-3, and Captain de Landero lost to Alberts, 2-3.
The highlights of the meet came when Scarlata in the first sabre bout defeated Capt. Kafton, 1936 conference champion, 5-3, and when Zerbst after trailing 3-0 in his bout with Batterman came from behind to tie the score at 4-all, and then scored 2 more points to win.
Captain de Landero wishes to express his sincere congratulations to Coach A. L. Morley of the Badgers, to Captain Kafton, then- great leader, and to all on the Wisconsin team for their splendid form and fine sportsmanship.
MAX
ADLER
“The Big Store on the Corner”
Has all the latest Arrow things in a wide variety of styles and colors. . .
ARROW. . . selected by Men for Men
From Arrow shirts right down to ties, handkerchiefs and trunks . . . we’re headquarters for Arrow merchandise.
BlBtnorth's
You can’t wear your sheepskin!
You seniors who are still on the drawing account might better begin now to stock up with several dozen Arrows before you step out into the cold, cold world. Later on you’ll thank us for the tip—and have shirts aplenty, for Arrow shirts are made to stand the gaff. Be sure to see your Arrow dealer today.
TWO DOLLARS AND MORE
Mitoga^tailored to fit	Sanforized Shrunk
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
C. I. C. Meet
(Continued from Page 15)
ruff, one of the Pittsburgh Panthers. The long and lengthy-striding Olympian won his race by the simple expedient of going out in front and staying there. Johnny Francis and Rice, of N. D., finished second and third respectively behind Woodruff. Pitt also accounted for the 440-yard race when Panther Art Thomas repeated his victory of last year.
Other point-getters in the team competition behind the first three were Drake, 18; Pittsburgh, 17; Western State, 13; Michigan Normal, 13; Marquette, 11; Kansas State, 9; Butler, 7; and Kentucky, 1.
Stop with	:
GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, *02 : at the	•
Lins Golden Court :
Motor Hotel	;
On U. S. 66	i
Will Rogers Highway	:
Tucumcari, N. Mex.	■
Filling Station and Cafe	:
in connection.	■
66 BAFFLES inside
FILTER-COOL SMOKE
WHEN Hollywood wants to film a scene requiring hundreds of "extras,” it makes a telephone call—and gets them.
This is made possible hy a central casting-bureau, whose amazingly fast service is based on systematic use of the telephone. This organization has a telephone switchboard where as many as 30,000 calls a day are handled in bringing actors and producers together.
Another example of the value of telephone service to business and social America. It is the
constant aim of Bell System make it ever more useful—constantly better.
men and women to
Keep in closer touch with home — by telephone. Rates to most points are lowest after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
BELL TELEPHONE
MEDICO
BAFFLES BREAK UP SMOKE STREAM ■ ■ FILTER REALLY FILTERS

StO wtuiin ma 1U SUKS tbotitie
FINEST * ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
• CAN BUY
■MEMDOrmUE
I0MITHIN6 WONDtIFUl 80tS ON INSIOI
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filler invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interiorkeeps juices and flakes jn Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves the taste and aronia of any tobacco.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19,1937
21
DROLLA. DARCY WIN BOWLING. HANDBALL TOURNAMENTS
With some of the tournaments already completed and the others all underway, the winter sports program is proving itself an enthusiastically received innovation this year.
In the singles tournament in bowling, John Drolla of Walsh met Ted Trefzer of Dillon in the finals and won his match. Of the 156 entries, the 32 highest scores qualified as finalists for the elimination section of the tournament which was decided by match play. Drolla, the ultimate victor, barely qualified when he rolled off a tie for 32 place and won his match.
Jack Darcy, Off-campus, finished first among 103 entrants when he won the finals of the handball tournament after a hard battle with John Claire of Sorin Hall. He lost the first game in the two out of three match, came from behind to win the second, and then moved on to take the third game and first place honors. He defeated Mark Lonergan of Sorin in the semifinals, while his rival moved into the last round with a victory over Bill Foley of Alumni. The doubles tournament, which has just begun, will not be finished until after the Easter holidays.
“Mike” Shea of Morrissey Hall reached the final round of the billiards tournament when he beat Morse of Brownson in the semi-finals with 150 points to his rival’s 115. After Lonergan and Corcoran have met in the other semi-final bracket, the winner will play Shea to decide the tournament.
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
The trophies are to be displayed in the book store or some other convenient place before they are awarded. For the handball and billiards tournaments, each trophy is an appropriate figure on a small baccalaureate stand with the figure on the winner’s trophy gold plated, on the runner-up trophy, silver. The bowling trophies are similar to these except that a miniature bowling ball replaces the figure.
MW
Safety . . . Speed . . . Economy . . . Dependability — they’re all in the big transportation package waiting for you on the South Shore Line. Just make your plans via South Shore Line electric trains —we’ll get you there on time, SAFELY.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
OH
Process-Aging Prevents Tongue Bite
Edgeworth Guarantees that ProcessAging Prevents Tongue Bite
TONGUE BITE is the bane of pipe smokers. We guarantee that Edgeworth will not bite the tongue.
The use of the finest Burley tobaccos will not prevent tongue bite. It’s the processing that does it. As every tobacco expert knows, pipe tobacco can be rushed through the plant and save big sums of money. It is pipe tobacco, but it is not Edgeworth.
Our method is Process-Aging—a process as vital as the aging of old wines. There are twelve required steps, each under laboratory control. It takes 4 to 7 times as long as might seem necessary. But in no other way can we guarantee that Edgeworth will not bite the tongue.
We ask you to try it under our money-back guarantee. IfEdgeworthbitesyour tongue, return it and get your money back. You can’t lose.
Edgeworth is made in three forms to suit the two types of pipe smokers.
Edgeworth Ready Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice are cool, long-burning tobaccos preferred by seasoned pipe smokers.
Edgeworth Jr. is the same tobacco, also Process-Aged, but cut for a milder, free-bumingsmoke.Bothareguaranteed against tongue bite.Try one of them today todiscovernewpleasure inyourpipe.
Please accept 50<! Gold Plated Collar-Pin for only 10<J when you buy Edgeworth. Merely send inside-white wrapper from any tin of Edgeworth with your name and address and* 10e to Larus & Bro. Co., Dept. 400, Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH— EDGEWORTH^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, MARCH 19, 1937
Pre-War and Post-war
No, we're not talking about your favorite brand of Scotch but about the clothing preferences of pre-war and post-war generations. Every impartial survey and poll clearly indicates that the great majority prefer Hart Schaffner & Marx—the most famous of all quality makes.
That goes for surveys of exservice men now in their late 30's and early 40’s. It’s just as true of university men, as shown in polls by important college newspapers. And if there’s any question of what America’s best dressed men think, we’d like to' show you a survey made by the country’s foremost magazine exclusively for men—the Trumpeter Label leads ... by far!
If you’d like to see the reasons for this strongly entrenched leadership, drop in and look over our collection of Flart Schaffner & Marx Clothes—exclusive with us in town. More than ever, the models, colors, patterns—the fee! of the fabric—all point to deep, sound value. Drop in soon.
SAM’L
SPIRO & CO.
South Bend, Ind.
Father Hope Addresses Rangers at Smoker
Inaugurating the first in a series of planned events for the remainder of the year, the newly formed Rangers club held a smoker last Thursday evening in the Lay-Faculty Dining Hall.
During the course of the program, Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, spoke. Included also were a number of skits presented by the members of the various states in the organization.
The executive president of the club’s council, John W. Gallivan, acted as toastmaster and announced during the latter part of the smoker that the next activity of the club would be held in the near future.
JOIN THE EASTER TRAVEL PARADE - - - DOUBLE SAVINGS ON GREYHOUND TRIPS
WHEN YOU BUY A ROUND-TRIP TICKET
One-Way Cost of
	Fm Return Trip	
New York 		.$12.25	$10.25
Grand Rapids.	. 2.45	1.75
Buffalo		.. 7.15	5.75
Detroit 				„ 3.50	2.80
Pittsburgh 		. 6.15	4.95
Toledo			. 2.50	2.00
Springfield		.. 4.10	3.30
Battle Creek		. 1.85	1.50
Cleveland		„ 4.15	3.35
St. Louis		. 4.00	3.20
Washington		. 11.40	9.15
Philadelphia		. 11.65	9.45
Boston 		. 13.75	11.00
Syracuse 		. 9.15	7.35
Rochester		. 8.15	6.55
CAVE the cost of a smart new Easter hat.... take your weekend trip by Greyhound. You make a big saving going . . . and an even bigger saving returning . . . when you buy a round-trip ticket. You can travel three miles in the carefree comfort of a Greyhound bus at the cost of driving your own car one mile ... for Greyhound fares are now lowest in history. Enjoy a closeup view of the countryside all decked out in new Spring finery—arrive at your destination relaxed and refreshed. It’s good business anytime to travel anywhere by Greyhound!
UNION BUS DEPOT
133 S. Lafayette Blvd.	Phone: 3-8283
St. Vincent de Paul Society, 10 Lyons Hall
GREYHOUND
’Santa Maria" Features New Lecture Series
The March issue of the Santa Maria, official publication of the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame Council No. 1477, was distributed Monday to campus Knights. Featured in the issue, edited by William J. Gomber, was a summary of a program of free lectures to be delivered by faculty members throughout the St. Joe Valley area.
The program, formulated by Eli M. Abraham, district deputy and financial secretary of the Notre Dame council, has been divided into two circuits in which speakers will work. The Inner circuit is composed of South Bend, Mishawaka, and Elkhart; the Outer, Plymouth, LaPorte and Goshen.
Noted Metropolitan Opera Star
finds Luckies easy on her precious throat—
Marjorie Lawrence says
BRILLIANT SOPRANO OF THE METROPOLITAN OPERA COMPANY
"You must have a big voice to sing Wagner. My favorite role of 'Brunne* hilde’ in Wagner’s ' Gotterdammer* ung’ is a very exacting one. Yet— when I am back in my dressing room after I have finished singing, there is nothing I enjoy more than lighting up a Lucky. It is a light smoke—so gentle—so smooth—that it does not irritate my throat in the least. I agree with the others at the Metropolitan that a light smoke is a wise choice.’9
Lin independent survey was made recently among professional men and women—lawyers, doctors, lecturers, scientists, etc. Of those who said they smoke cigarettes, more than 87% stated they personally prefer a light smoke.
Miss Lawrence verifies the wisdom of this preference, and so do other leading artists of the radio, stage, screen and opera. Their voices are their fortunes. That’s why so many of them smoke Luckies. You, too, can have the throat protection of Luckies—a light smoke, free of certain harsh irritants removed by the exclusive process "It’s Toasted”. Luckies are gentle on the throat.
THE FINEST TOBACCOS— ‘’THE CREAM OF THE CROP”
A Light Smoke "It’s Toasted”-Your Throat Protection
AGAINST IRRITATION-AGAINST COUGH
Copyright 1937, Ths American Tebaeeo Company

Modern factories ... spotlessly clean like your living room at home . . . that’s where Chesterfields are made.
The Champagne Cigarette Paper is pure . . • burns without taste or odor... you can’t buy any better paper.
The mild ripe tobaccos are aged two years or more...like fine wmes are aged.
Refreshingly milder... more pleasing taste and aroma..• and best of all They Satisfy*
(jhesterfield
x'	a milder better-tasting
Copyright 1937. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.