T E
The taste folks take to
(and talk about/..WI
1 £

You’ll like the extra good taste of Winstons, too! And the way that exclusive Winston filter — snowy-xohite and pure — really lets the rich flavor come through! So, if you aren’t already enjoying today’s most talked-about flavor-filter combination, get yourself a pack of Winstons right now — for flavory filter smoking!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
Smoke WINSTON ..enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip! f
“What’s it like to be
A PHYSICIST AT IBM?”
Five years ago, college senior Nick Hemmer asked himself this question. Today, as Administrative Assistant to the Quality Control manager, Nick reviews his experience at IBM and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your career as a physicist.
“I was tremendously impressed,” says Nick, ‘‘by my first plant tour. When you go through the facilities—meet the men and get an idea of the problems they handle—you can’t help but become interested. Add the friendly, informal work atmosphere, and you know right off the bat these people have a story to tell.”
Nick came to IBM in 1951 with a B.S. in physics. He started as a Technical Engineer—in Test Equipment Engineering—working on an analog bombing system. When that project moved from the Endicott to the Poughkeepsie plant, Nick followed it, becoming first an Associate Engineer, then a Project Engineer. As the lat-
Heading up Quality Engineering
ter, he worked on IBM’s first transistorized electronic computer—the 608.
By November, ’55, Nick was heading up Quality Engineering in the Quality Control Division of the Poughkeepsie plant. Recently promoted to Administrative Assistant to the Quality Control manager, Nick now concerns himself with the fundamental operations and policies of this 450-man division. Quality Control is responsible for the performance of IBM’s vast array of business machines— from simple sorters and punches to the “electronic brains.”
What an IBM physicist does
“The problems of Quality Control in this business are endless,” Nick reports, “and fascinating to the physicist. There’s process control—of the manufacture of components such as transistors and cores ... of the contents of a gas ... of the concentricity of an etch solution ... of the diffrac-
DATA PROCESSING ♦ ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
tion of alloys ... or of the properties of metals, such as the resistivity of germanium. Then, there are the important ‘analysis of failure’ and reliability studies, in which you seek to determine, for example, the ‘life
Problems fascinating to the physicist
expectancy’ of a device, the mean time between failures, or perhaps which step in a process has the greatest effect on the equipment involved. You may be asked to control the deposit of glass on X-ray tubes to avoid spill-over, or microscopic spotting. Or you may be dealing with arc-suppression, or gaseous electronics, the grass roots of instrumentation; or in the estimation of tolerances, or
Extensive educational facilities in correlation coefficients—that is, in physically sound numbers.”
Nick has been instrumental in encouraging many college physics majors to come to IBM. “I find they’re interested in questions like these,” he says: “How would you go about determining the ‘life’ of electrons in transition from the valence to the conduction band?” Or, in the manufacture of magnetic inks, “How can the grain size of the iron content be controlled ... or its viscosity regulated over wide temperature ranges? How would you control the concen-
• TIME EQUIPMENT • MILITARY PRODUCTS
tration and concentricity of colloidal solutions?” “Present a job in terms of actual problems,” believes Nick, “and you’ll get the man’s interest— for it’s his career and his future that have top priority.”
How about further study?
Nick has taken full advantage of IBM’s extensive educational facilities to get ahead at IBM. He took at least one course each semester on subjects within his immediate work area— courses on digital and analog computers and on their components such as cores and transistors. He found time to take management courses as well. “If you want opportunity for study,” Nick says, “IBM will provide all you want.”
Promotion almost inevitable
Asked about opportunities for advancement at IBM, Nick says, “The situation could hardly be better in that respect. With sales doubling every five years on the average, promotion is almost inevitable.”
IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to be a physicist at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, mathematicians and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of Engineering Recruitment, Mr. R. A. Whitehorne, will be happy to answer your questions. Just write him at IBM, Room 9301, n90 Madison Ave..New York 22.N.Y.


IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES

UOP
The Notre Dame "
Scholastic
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
Join in the drama of the oil industry—investigate the opportunities at UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANY, pioneers in engineering, research and development of refining and petrochemical processes—here is your opportunity for a career in one of the following fields—
Research Development	Field
Engineering
Our Representative will be on campus MARCH 25
To interview applicants
Contact your placement office for an appointment
UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANY
30 Algonquin Road, Des Plaines, Illinois
Forty Years of Leadership in Petroleum Refining Technology
SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS!...
MONDAY NIGHT on Tune in
NBC NEWS
7:45 p.m. EST
Learn about career opportunities in the world’s largest container-research program!
On Monday night, American Can Company devotes a part of its TV show to a presentation of the opportunities for scientists and engineers in Canco’s famed research program. Through the TV camera you will see examples of the many exciting projects now under way in Canco’s five research laboratories—projects that involve a challenging variety of scientific inquiry.
Monday night, tune in NBC NEWS (7:45 p.m. E.S.T.). Check newspaper for local time and channel.
AMERICAN CAN COMPANY
NEW YORK • CHICAGO • SAN FRANCISCO
Vol, 98 March 22, 1957 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
a
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
V
JIM STEINTRAGER ............ News	Editor
JAMES McDONALD ............Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ..........Feature Co-Edi tor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor FRANK SPIERING   Assistant Features GEORGE CLEMENTS.........Assistant News
JIM DULAN ............. Assistant	News
BOB WILLIAMS .......... Assistant	News
HARRY McKEE.....................Assistant	Cop^
MARSH PIDGEON...........Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON ..............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN................Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY.....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom BanchofT, Mark Bradley, -John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-J nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, RogekJJ Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim , Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe. Jim Goethals, ' Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg ; Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, | Doug Zilliox.	‘
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Ed- i wards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. £ Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mike Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Repiesented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weeklv during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University ol Notre Dame. Ad^k. dress ail manuscripts to the Editor, Dox 185. NoirUr Dame, Indiana.
4
The Scholastic
I--------------------------------------------------)
A Campus-to-Career Case History	}
After securing field data, Mac McLeran lays out plans for new and additional telephone services.
Figuring on the future
Thurston B. McLeran, called Mac by his friends, is an engineer with Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company at Decatur, Georgia.
Much of his work is concerned with the future—planning for telephone service to meet predicted demands a year, or five years ahead.
“My biggest job to date,” Mac says, “has been engineering additional communications facilities for an airbase and adjoining aircraft factory in our district. This means making field studies of the customer’s requirements and planning how new telephone facilities can best meet them. Then I translate this in
formation into working plans for our construction and installation people. It’s a big job, and gives me a lot of responsibility. It’s challenging work, too, for an engineer.”
Figuring on his own future concerns Mac also. He graduated from Georgia Tech in 1952, with a B.S. in Electrical Engineering. He went with the telephone company because of the advancement opportunities it of- • fered. Today, Mac is married and has one child. He looks forward to an interesting career in a growing business where individuals can advance as far as their abilities will take them.
There are many rewarding career opportunities in all Bell Telephone Companies, and at Bell Tele* phone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer can give yon more information about Bell System Companies.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
March 22, 1957
5
0
Parker-Il inienwd Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS 115y2-117y2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Whterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115y2-117y2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult our campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 366 Alumni
At the Movies
AVON
Edge of the City (A-2). John Cassavetes, Sidney Poitier. In spite of the fact that it includes two bloody fist fights, one of which is conducted with stevedores’ loading hooks and ends in murder, this picture is a drama with . sociological overtones. Its primary concern is the development of a close friendship between two young men, one of whom happens to be a Negro. Cassavetes is a vagrant who comes to New York seeking employment. Poitier is a Negro worker who takes him under his wing, takes him home to his wife and family, and introduces him into an inter-racial community in New York.
Summing Up: A good idea poorly done.
Co-hit: Hot Summer Night (A-2). Leslie Nielsen, Colleen Miller. Leslie Nielsen plays an unemployed reporter who discovers that a notorious gangster is hiding in the town of Chatsburg. Knowing an interview with the famous bad man would assure his' future, he takes his bride to the mangy town which apparently adores the outlaw as he is their only claim to fame. When he gets to see him finally, one of the “boys” kills the boss and takes over. He decides to hold the reporter for ransom. The plot is slender and the acting is only fair.
GRANADA
Cinderella (A-l). With the original cast.
PALACE
Rock, Rock, Rock (A-l). Tuesday Weld, Teddy Randazzo, Fran Manfred. Now catch this cats, Tuesday Weld plays a starry-eyed teenager who will lose her handsome, rock’n’roll contest winning boy friend, Teddy Randazzo, to that new girl in town unless she can find money enough to buy a beautiful evening dress for the Spring prom. Well, Pop puts his foot down and our heroine gets into heaps of trouble. However, so the audience will not go out of the theater* sobbing, Frankie Lymon and The Teenagers, La Vem Baker, Chuck Berry, and just so many of the all-time greats sing all the songs you have come to know and love in the last few months.
Summing Up: It’s hard to sympathize with a girl who thinks one per cent of one dollar is one dollar.
The co-hit is one of the great Bowery Boys’ hits, the name of which escapes me at the minute.
RIVER PARK
The Girl He Left Behind (B). Tab Hunter, Natalie Wood. Tab, drafted into the army, carries on like a spoiled child and his superiors are about to give up and send him home, when our boy suddenly comes to terms with himself and becomes the best soldier in the outfit. He does this by saving several of the men from certain death while on maneuvers. Natalie Wood is in the movie because she is a girl and she is young.
Summing Up: No, Tab does not sing in this movie.
Co-hit: Don’t Knock the Rock (A-l). Bill Haley and his Comets, Alans Dale and Freed. This, gentlemen, is what is regarded as a “cool” picture. The plot has the teenagers on the defensive because those silly grownups don’t appreciate “good” music. The plot, however, is thrown out the window after a few minutes and the “cool ones” just rock the rest of the movie.
Summing Up: This is the only picture ever made without a director.
COLFAX
Men in War (A-2). Robert Ryan, Aldo Ray. This one is about a company cut off from the battalion during the Korean War in 1950. In their attempt to join the main forces they encounter snipers, mines, machine-gun nests, and above all they have to learn to put up with each other. Robert Ryan, as usual, is the tough-as-nails officer who deep down has a warm spot for the troops. Aldo Ray is the sergeant who thinks that officers are just about the greatest thing ever invented.
Summing Up: Since this is the 75th anniversary of the Knights of Columbus here, I think we should skip the flicks this week and spend our dollar for far more worthy purposes. The bouts will undoubtedly be better than anything showing this week.
4
The Scholastic
S^CGfM
gby Bryan Woods
the big fix
I
; I received the following letter recently from a young lady, and feel that her problem may be a common one, so I am , printing her letter and my reply. I hope it may be of aid to anyone else in the [same spot.
Dear Bryan,
The other night myself and a few of ^the other girls were having a typical ' teen-age pajama party, listening to Julius La Rosa’s keen new pajama party I album (which comes as a premium with ' every truckload of Seven-Up you buy,) and shooting up a little H. You know, the sort of things a bunch of girls do when they get together. Well, anyway we started talking about your column, which we think is more kicks than a j 40-pound monkey. Now as we are all > dgoing to college next year, we -wish you would do us a favor! You’ve written about how to be a successful college man, but how about us girls? How about a few words of advice on how to be a successful college girls?
Hopefully, Four Readers
P.S. How are things around there ) Awhen you need a fix? I mean, can you Wfind that “Man.”
Dear Typical Teen-agers,
If you’ll lay down those hypodermics for a minute, I’ll try to do my best for you. First of all, I must explain to you that every college has its regulations and wherever you go will be no exception. There is a time and a place for ^everything. This includes dope addiction. So when you arrive at college, it would be best to find out what the rules are concerning it. Extra curricular pastimes can’t be allowed to interfere with studies, so if you want to shoot . up, ask first.
One of the most important parts of -^college is your social life. You will be March 22, 1957
fortunate in having an interest and a hobby already. When you get there, look around and see if you can find others who share your interests. Chances are there may even be an organization on campus already of those with similar interests. If not, maybe you could start one. If there is no “Users Club” when you arrive, think of the fun and valuable experience to be derived in getting one going.
One final point. While most girls who come to college are looking for “that man” it isn’t usually exactly the same one as you are interested in. So if you overhear someone say they’ve found “The Man” at last, don’t jump to conclusions. Likewise, when you hear it said of someone or other that he or she is a pusher, similar caution must be exercised. But by approaching college with an attitude of co-operation and in the right spirit, I am sure you will find it a rewarding experience.
B. W.
P.S. Have you tried tranquilizer pills yet? They’re quite the thing now, and very collegiate.
CURRENT EVENTS, ON CAMPUS AND OTHERWISE, THAT NOBODY IS REALLY INTERESTED IN ANYWAY
The new deal has come to the library at last. Never again will there be monumental feats of pilfering such as the fellow who in my freshman year managed to swipe 15 volumes of the Encyclopedia Brittanica by carrying it out in a laundry bag. They’re destroying imagination and initiative by this red tape stuff, I’m afraid. I talked to Wimpy again though, and he authorized me to promise a return to the good old days.
Just in case there is anyone who hasn’t already heard it, there’s the story of the fellow over in the science college
who sent to three different chemical companies for free samples of some kind of acid. The first two companies each sent him a quart, C.O.D. For quite a while he heard nothing from the third, and had almost given up hope, until he got word that there was a railroad tank car full of the stuff waiting for him
. on a siding downtown. The acid was free, but there were a couple hundred dollars due for storage charges on the tank car. And they say AB men are in a world of their own.
ATTENTION, INVESTORS
This is your chance to get in on the ground floor of a surefire project. We are now forming a corporation to start a California Cat Ranch. Sound good? Here’s how it works. We start off the ranch with a stock of ten thousand (10,000) cats. We figure an average production of 12 kittens a year per cat. Now cat skins sell at thirty cents ($0.30) apiece giving us a profit of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) a year.
How will we feed the cats? Next door we start a Rat Ranch with one million (1,000,000) rats. Now the rats will breed twice as fast as the cats and give us a total production of four rats per cat i per day as food.	i
How will we feed the rats? Simple. j We feed the rats with the carcasses of	j
the cats we just skinned. Now look	j
where we are. The cats are eating the 1 rats, the rats are eating the cats, and | we are sitting back raking in the profits and counting our money. What could be easier?
But you must act fast. Shares are selling at five cents (5c) apiece now, but . they won’t stay there long. Buy now, while you still can. Opportunity Is Knocking! Answer The Door And You’re Rich Foi’ Life! Corner the catskin Market NOW!
7

THE DIFFERENCE IS OBVIOUS!
Look what a difference just two or three years has made in the styling of a man’s suit! The change was rather gradual . . . but the difference is quite obvious now! And the change isn’t just in looks . . . the new men’s clothes are much more comfortable, too.
See the Campus Shop’s selection of Haspel Dacron and
cotton wash ’n wear suits, only...................39.75
_ On the Campus—Notre Dame


The Scholastic
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY ...
PAY	PAY	PAY
3 JULY ■ AUG	SEPT
No interest or carrying charge
a
Get your wardrobe up to date . . . without straining your budget. Select what you need now and charge it the Campus Shop way . . . pay for it out of your earnings this summer! Yes, you can get whatever you need in the way of fine clothing or furnishings at the Campus Shop now and pay one-third in July, one-third in August, and the balance in September.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
^GILBERT'S ^ampu$@hopc
On the Campus—Notre Dame
March 22, 1957
False. While 71 % earn part or all of their expenses, the breakdown is: 17% earn nothing; 25% earn less than 20% earn >4 to 14% earn >4 to 34; 24% earn % to all.
False. They might like to, but there are just so many more college men than college women that they can’t. However, it is true that college girls usually marry college men.
True. The waistband is usually the weak point of most underwear, but Jockey developed a special, long-wearing, heat-resistant elastic (with U.S. Rubber and the American Institute of Laundering) that actually outwears the garment itself.
Men in the know
know true from false
More than 50% of college men earn at least half their way through school
College men usually marry college women
The vital part of Jockey underwear lasts longer than the rest of the garment
Men on the go
JOCk^U underwear
BRAND •
made only by
HONORABLE OR NOT?	•
Editor:
An honor- society is a group of individuals who have been distinguished by qualities of scholarship and leadership. This definition applies to organizations which “give recognition to men who de-serve it”—the so-called real honor society.
An honor society might also be defined as a select body of students who are working as a recognized organization to promote the academic, religious, and social ideals of the University. It is in this sense that the Blue Circle can be called an honor society.
It should be noted that most of the students are acquainted with the notion ‘ of the real honor society. Consequently many students assume that members of the Blue Circle should be distinguished by achievements in scholarship and leadership. To judge the Circle under this limitation is unfair to its stated purpose. But without some orientation it is only natural that the students expect the Circle to be a Teal honor- society.
This mistaken assumption about the character and purpose of the Circle makes it a target for frequent criticisms and results in a cynical attitude among the student body. With this understanding it becomes debatable whether the Circle adds to or detracts from its prestige by the title of honor society.
Bill Bowman 135 Farley
IVAN THE GENIUS
Editor:
I believe the time has come for a favorable criticism of Ivan “the Terrible” Osorio. So far he has been classified as dehumanizing and nauseating. A fellow student went so far as to say that he was ashamed to send the Scholastic home. Maybe there is some validity in each of these criticisms, but it seems to £ me that both have overlooked the main idea of the cartoons. These cartoons attempted to give a humorous aspect to the spirit prevailing at the time of their publication—the after Xmas letdown, the final exam panic, the exotic mashed potatoes. Cartoons are cartoons. Overemphasis of human characteristics is their humor. If Osorio’s radicalism is to be censured, then how is much of our v “modem art” to be justified? Perhaps i these cartoons offended some readers, but by the majority they were accepted and dismissed with a chuckle. (As they were intended to be.)
The Scholastic is essentially a magazine for students, and I don’t think that
(Continued on page 36) A.
IO
The Scholastic
* concert series
This year’s Concert and Lecture Series closes with the appearance of the Player’s, Inc. troupe next Saturday and Sunday nights in Washington Hall. It’s truly a shame ; that the University’s cultural season has to come to an abrupt end a full two months before the close of the ; school year.
। While this year’s program has presented a diversified I array of talents, I cannot help but feel that a more exten-®sive schedule is needed at a university of this size. Notre Dame should be the cultural leader in this area, for the city of South Bend cannot support a concert series by itself.
I Notre Dame, together with South Bend, could present a year-long series which could prove financially successful if handled in the proper manner.
The major hindrance to such an undertaking is, of course, the lack of an adequately-large auditorium. Washington Hall simply does not have the necessary seating capacity. Almost prohibitive prices would have to be charged to attract top-drawer talent and still make ends w meet.
However, I do believe that with the cooperation of civic-I and cultural-minded citizens in South Bend the program could be expanded greatly at small risk. Season subscriptions could be sold to these people at a rate which would cover a fixed percentage of each program in the series. I am convinced that there are several hundred citizens of the South Bend area who would be more than happy to act as patrons for a first-class concert and lecture series.
i The University’s Concert and Lecture Board might act ®in cooperation with a citizens’ committee to secure the best available talent. In this manner the contacts and finances of the two groups might be utilized to the fullest extent. Also, such a step would undoubtedly help improve relations between the University and the local community.
A second phase in expanding the series is the introduction of a more varied fare. At present the University’s Concert and Lecture Series seeks to attract artists from a number of different fields. To a certain extent they have been successful. But if the Notre. Dame man is to be de-^veloped fully, he should be exposed to as many artistic and academic fields as possible. Classical music and heavy drama alone will not produce this well-rounded individual. Light comedy, jazz, and more lectures should be added.
Finally, I believe that the lecture aspect of the series should be emphasized more. Granted that music and drama make up a large part of one’s cultural diet, nevertheless the college student should be exposed to the leading scholars of the day. Political scientists, economists, philos-a ophers, and historians of world acclaim .should be attracted ®for lectures under sponsorship of this series. Even those men who hold to so-called “radical” beliefs should be encouraged to lecture here. Their appearance would add much to the intellectual development of our students, and it would cause Notre Dame students to be well-informed and discriminating in their beliefs.
Possibly this plan is too advanced for the present time. However, I do believe that this proposal should be investi-® gated in full by the Concert and Lecture Board.—C. McK.
time flies
Time usually goes by faster than we can complain about it dragging along, and we frequently find ourselves caught short and forced to make decisions we haven’t prepared for. The academic year is now narrowing down to the home stretch and a lot of unfinished and new business . has to be taken care of before the tent can be folded up. Spring football practice has to be held so the coaching	|
staff may get an indication of next fall’s misery or joy;	|
paunchy seniors cut down to half a pack a day and limber	I
up for their last crack at glory on the interhall softball	|
fields; and the campus “politicos” trot out their best hand-	|
shakes, smiles, and “better days ahead” preachments, in	|
hope of establishing themselves for the year ahead.	3
(Yeah, here it comes again guys, another blast.)	I
I thought I’d presume that comment and attempt to	I
set the record straight before the cause was lost. In recent	|
weeks we have been criticized for criticizing, with an off-	I
hand rebuke that has obscured our intent and limited our	I
effect to some degree. We are too “negative” it is said,	I
with an offended tone suggesting that any kind of adverse	|
comment is “negative”. The fact of the matter is, however,	|
that we have felt it worth-while to bring to the attention	|
of the student body some of the deficiencies in our system	$
of student government, so-called. We feel further, that un-	j
less these deficiencies are seen by people working in this	J
system, and steps are taken to correct them, the system	1
will remain a farce and will never achieve anv real good.	J
But it seems that our chief effect has only been to offend	|
people; people who feel that the system is good, as “God	|
is Good and America is Beautiful.” Our argument is not	5
with the system but with the refusal to admit it can be	|
improved. Our criticism is of the attitude that “what is,	:
is, and what can’t be, won’t be.”
Perhaps we are at fault, however, for taking the wrong approach. Maybe we should have said, “sure it’s- good, boys, just go in there every man for himself and one of these years it’ll all work out through process of natural I selection.” But somewhere along the line I’ve heard some- I thing about truth thriving on criticism.	I
Well this season’s “student government” still seems to	I
be stumbling in the dark and time is growing short. So	|
here, for the benefit of the brighter tomorrow, are a few	|
brief lines of “positive” criticism. (If such a thing is	|
logically possible.)	|
First of all, the student body should look for candidates I who understand the overall picture and the basic problems | of student life. All-camnus midnight lights and morning | checks aren’t basic considerations; student responsibility is. I If the students are to have responsibility, their elected representatives must first find out why they don’t have it now. and what can possibly be done to bring it to them.
Secondly, men should be elected who will realize that the Student Senate is not a debating forum. Too many Senate meetings have been mired down in fights over incidental technicalities and semantic points. On these too-frequent occasions the floor divides into several antagonistic factions, each insisting on the last word, with the president relegated to the position of a parliamentarian and the essentials of any issue going by the board.
And thirdly, the Senate is a full time job. Elect someone . who will work at it; in your interests and the University’s.
~J.N.
March 22, 1957
11
PHILCO
bait '51 Ms V kt Ptnico CM < PHILADEy X
L. j Woods,	E
director of Res, d that! X neering	and cont*"' Z
Philco s P'^nd Expansion m < uing g1	field — notably! D
, the electronics	transistors,! R
in color tele	,cssing sys-l
I computeis, « I missiles 'Aa,sl^ terns and	and rcwaru-
opened up’	for young en- ■
ing opportuAutists to extend
1 S“p>“^ develop™'"1 ,
\1 that 8	and tl“4 J
) the home '““"^elepinK enWe 4 Zl necessity ‘tomatic washers! J 1 I new lines o edition to othei I < .	cns'- j
\ “Xloea^ / 1 ““‘'’in"*” Philadelphia »r“l I I tones m tne * of its pro-1 J provides m^ith a choice of L / I the graduate level.	fuUl
4 I The company ncouragCSl / I tuition ref und P *" oU at the I SS ! staff nrcmbeis to e	vania,]
? I University	of	P	Jinologyj
jK Drexel	Villanova
:::? Temple	Joseph’s
::p ! University or
7 I College. -----------------

Seeks Graduates in
•	Electrical Engineering
•	Physics
•	Engineering Physics
•	Chemical Engineering
•	Mechanical Engineering
•	Physical Chemistry
•	Mathematics
•	Aerodynamics
. . . For Research, Design, Development and Production Engineering positions on Air Conditioners, Antenna Systems, Automatic Machine Test Equipment, Automation Equipment, Communications Equipment, Electron Tubes, Electronic Computers, Electronic Data Processing Systems, Fire Control Systems, General Household Appliances, Guided Missiles, Home and Auto Radios, Home Laundry Equipment, InFra-Red Systems and Devices, Microwave Radio Relays, Microwave Systems, Multiplex Equipment, Navigational Aids, Radar, Ranges, ReFrigerators and Freezers, Remote Controls, Servo Systems, Sonar, Systems Engineering, Television (Industrial and Military), Television (Monochrome and Color), Thermodynamics, Transistors and Semi-Conductor Devices, TV Broadcast Equipment, Underwater Ordnance.
C«Ktacl yewt PLACEMENT OFFICE Haw
to Establish an Interview Appointment with Philco Engineering Management Representatives
on Thursday, March 28
LITERATURE ON "YOUR FUTURE WITH PHILCO" CAN BE HAD BY CALLING AT THE COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE OR BY WRITING TO MR. CHARLES LUPTON, Manager College Relations PHILCO CORPORATION PHILADELPHIA 34, PENNSYLVANIA
r
12
The Scholastic
Ivte one afternoon last week, eleven f students sat around a table in a seminar room on the third floor of the I’. A. O’Shaughnessy building. Their attention was directed to a bespectacled student at the blackboard, pointing to a hastily-chalked diagram of the Notre Dame campus.
“As of this week,” Bob Borchers was telling WSND department heads at their weekly meeting, “we can be heard again in every residence hall.”
A few days after this announcement, a modest notice, typed on yellow paper, was posted on the bulletin boards of Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls. The notice informed the residents of those buildings that the new WSND ^transmission system had been completed, that they could once again pick up the student radio station in their rooms, and that they were cordially invited to tune in. The notice further apologized for the failure of the station to reach the sophomore “quad” during most of the year when work was being completed on the new system.
These two announcements quietly sig-£naled the end of a more than three-year project which employed, at various times, the combined services of 25 fulltime WSND technical engineers and a large army of volunteer help from other WSND staffers, such as announcers, newsmen and record librarians.
The job involved countless man hours of work, and long periods of toil in Athe WSND workshop on the sixth floor “of the O’Shaughnessy building and in cramped and almost unbearably hot University steam tunnels.
Borchers, a junior physics major from •Evanston, Ill., and chief engineer at the station, helped design the new system and bring it to completion this year.
W The system consists of a new trans
mitter, three miles of television-type coaxial cable, laid underground across campus and hooked-up to individual amplifiers for each residence hall and two more miles of cable in the studio itself.
WSND operates on a carrier-current transmission system, which differs from the system used by professional stations which send their signal through the air through antennae. The campus station feeds its signal through a system of lines in steam tunnels into the powercurrent in each hall. WSND can therefore be heard only in these halls and at St. Mary’s College, which is served by a separate transmitter and transmission system.
Borchers says the new system should result in better sound and a louder-signal for WSND listeners.
The matter-of-fact attitude which accompanied the announcement of the new system’s completion was characteristic of the way the WSND staff and department heads operate. Though there was natural elation over the finish of an arduous and important job, big projects fit into the day-in, day-out routine of WSND like a hit record on a turntable.
The birth and growth of the station, which observes its tenth anniversary this month, was quite a project in itself . . . one approaching miracle proportions. Visitors to the studios and many professional radio people who have viewed the facilities of what must still be regarded as one of the youngest of campus activities find it hard to believe that the operation was built up and is kept going entirely through student effort.
Many names stand out in th ten-year-story of WSND’s growth. Borchers’ name is one of them, along with his former associate and predecessor as chief engineer, Charles T. Casale. Other-names include such an assortment as Frank Cronan, the station’s founder,
1947 w
N D 1957 by Jim Meagher
March 22, 1957
13
June Valli Sings
Bill Ryan, Ted Byrne, Tom Knott, Pat McCartan, Chazz and Jack, the Vulgar Boatman and the Zulu Warrior.
Though it can be said by stretching a couple of points that Notre Dame radio is more than ten years old, as Prof. Jerome J. Green made history by tapping out wireless messages from the campus to what was then called St. Mary’s Academy a mile away, and some old grads claiming that a “home made” station was in operation back in 1945, student radio on the campus emerged in 1947.
Cronan, an electrical engineer from Waterbury, Conn., was then a member of an inactive student radio club. He mulled over the idea of starting a campus station until he couldn’t bear to just think about it any more. Scooping up the few remaining dollars in the club’s treasury, he purchased a power transmitter, enlisted the aid of a few other members, and began sending out nightly programs.
The original birthplace of the station is somewhat disputed, but most agree that Walsh Hall was the originating point for those first record broadcasts. While students began picking up the station, which Cronan named WND, University officials started hearing it, too. Administration approval of the activity came when Cronan pointed out that it could be supported by the sale of advertising to South Bend businessmen, who would recognize that the campus station would be the most direct and quickest medium of contact with the Notre Dame student.
The prediction has been borne out, with national, regional and local advertising providing enough revenue for the station to be a self-supporting activity.
Equipped with blessings from the Federal Communications Commission in Washington, D. C., Cronan and his 14
newly-recruited staff set up new studios in the band room in the rear of Washington Hall. Programming in those days consisted largely of an announcer systematically going through a limited stack of popular and classical recordings, with quite a bit of musical repetition reaching the listener’s ears. But the first night of operation from the band room introduced Requestfully Yours, which clicked so surely that it has remained on the program schedule as one of the most popular of the station’s offerings.
Not long after their equipment was uncrated in Washington Hall, however, Cronan & Company were given the boot from their new quarters and they had to move to the press box high atop Notre Dame Stadium.
With all this shuffling around, combined with the obvious difficulty of starting an expensive project like student radio, the WND pioneers were becoming somewhat disheartened. But the administration, warming up to a lasting enthusiasm for student radio, stepped in with a $300 grant and a promise of
A Bulletin on the Teletype
permanent studios in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Cronan’s crew looked upon the new Fieldhouse studios as the last word in plush facilities. Wall-to-wall carpeting in Studio A, which also served as a lobby, meeting room and reception area, combined with acoustical panelling on the walls to give broadcasting a professional sound as the station again hit the airwaves with a master control panel, turn-tables, and other equipment installed by Cronan.
The situation was still far from perfect, though, as disk jockeys in tiny Studio B soon found out. The WND studios were right next door to a favorite hangout of Bengal Bouters, wrest-
Election Results Scoreboard
lers and gymnasts, whose bumps and tumbles caused many a record needle to jump a half-dozen grooves or so. But things picked up, and South Bend station WSBT donated an old remote broadcast unit which was promptly installed as the new master control board.
Programming became more varied andf advertising increased, meanwhile, as the staff began to grow. In March, 1951, Cronan, who was still around as station manager, decided to switch from 630 kilocycles, the original dial location of WND, to 1230 to get a position free from outside interference which would allow better transmission of the programs over the shaky wiring and battered transmitter. Since then, the sta-j-tion has moved to 640.
Additional technical improvements came under Cronan’s successor as station manager, Hawley Hall. Hall, along with Ted Byrne, chief engineer, began building a new control console and revamped the faltering transmitter. Byrne is often referred to by old timers as “the man who built the station” and the technical installations he began have-been carried to completion and developed further by the technical crews under the leadership of Casale and Borchers.
In the Fieldhouse, which is now termed “the ugly building” or “the old place” by present staffers who enjoy the luxury of the spacious O’Shaughnessy tower studios, new personalities began to develop. One of the earliest signs of this was the unusual early rising of a lo^~ of Notre Dame slumber addicts who' hopped out from under the covers at 7:30 a.m. each day to catch WND’s Out of the Sack with Chazz and Jack. Chazz Schubert and Jack Hynes scored such a hit during the wee small hours, that they were moved to a nightly comedy show in 1952 and kept the campus in stitches with half-hour epi"
The Scholastic

“And we’ve just received a new album . .
sodes of “Randy Cornball, Space Cadet,” and other whimseys.
Other personalities began tickling the Notre Dame eardrums and funnybones, too. Along came a character called the Zulu Warrior, for example, whose late afternoon show kept everyone by their radios until six o’clock, the resultant jam-up in the dining hall causing quite a headache for the management of the
£ local eatery.
And then there came, a few years later, a somewhat porky creature calling himself “The Vulgar Boatman,” who took over the late afternoon Relax show one semester and renamed it, appropriately, The Hour of Harm, claiming he orginated from “Vat 69, Lobund Basement.”
While personalities such as these were blossoming, and shows such as Penthouse Pops and The 1230 Club began getting top campus ratings, ways were constantly sought to improve the station under the management of Jack Mahar and Bob Freckles, who followed Hall at the helm. And then came Bill Ryan, one of the most important figures in the history of Notre Dame radio.
Ryan, now managing a Florida radio station, served as station head for three years. During his tenure WND became WNDU and the station planned to move once again. It was Ryan who sought to have provisions for new radio studios included in the plans for the proposed liberal and fine arts building. His efforts were successful and in February, gk 1954, under the guidance of his successor, Tom Knott, student radio moved to
its present location. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., University executive vice president, searched the rubrics for an appropriate ritual and dedicated the station in March of that year. A wealth of new equipment was installed, financed by a loan from the University which was paid off from station earnings within two years.
Following Knott into the manager’s
The brains behind it all.
chair was Kick Beeman, a soft-spoken but forceful leader under whom the station continued to expand and prosper while eyeing University plans for a new commercial radio and television station on campus.
In the spring of 19-5-5, Pat McCartan took over direction of the station, which was asked to relinquish its call letters in favor of the new commercial operation which was to begin broadactsing during the following summer. WSND was chosen for the new tag, the last three letters standing for “Serving Notre Dame.” But, despite the new commercial operation, the Student Voice held its own and under McCartan stressed even more the station’s two principle aims: appealing and responsible programming aimed primarily at a student audience, and intensive student training in the varied fields allied with radio.
Last spring McCartan, a graduating senior, stepped aside and handed the reins over to Fred Corkill. The University then honored McCartan, who was entering the Notre Dame College of Law the following September, by making him a non-teaching fellow and faculty moderator of WSND. He replaced Prof. Jerome A. Fallon of the Department of Speech, who is on a leave-of-absence. Prof. Fallon had served as moderator since formal University sanction was accorded the station in 1948, and helped guide the operation, in its i-ugged beginnings.
Corkill, a lean, sandy-haired PFA senior from New Canaan, Conn., is one of
March 22, 1957
15
The Night People.
the few WSND staffers on the station roster who recalls life in the “ugly building.” He became traffic manager of the station in the spring of his freshman year, was made business manager in 1955 and served in that capacity for a year before becoming station manager last April.
He agrees that the installation of the new transmitter and transmission system is quite a step forward for WSND, but, though steeped in the traditions of the station’s colorful history, he isn’t the type to look back for very long. The station has other ambitious projects on the fire.
Among them is On Stage, an hourlong student drama presentation which featured Country Girl as its first performance two weeks ago. The productions are directed by Bill Chesson, station sports director, who illustrates that versatility among staff members isn’t a thing of the past, despite increasing specialization resulting from the mounting number of students working on the station. Other plays slated for the series are Marty and Bus Stop.
Other projects, falling into the hands of Borchers’ seven-man technical engineering staff, are the installation of a new remote line system and the installation of a new transmission system for St. Mary’s, patterned after the one recently completed for Notre Dame listeners.
Corkill presides over a staff of around
80 students, less than half of whom are ever heard over the air. They come from all colleges of the University, are not required to take any special radio courses and receive no pay or academic credit for their work. They serve in 11 departments, including business, traffic, sales, technical engineering, program engineering, program management, news, sports, record library, announcing and public relations. These departments are headed by experienced staff members who meet with Corkill weekly to discuss station problems. These meetings, beginning at 4:30 p.m. each Friday, frequently last until past six o’clock.
WSND’s present quarters are located on the fifth and sixth floor of the O’Shaughnessy building. First to greet a visitor to the tower is the record library, the largest of its kind in the area, which houses over 15,000 selections of all kinds of music, the basis of WSND programming.
Before going past the “sound lock” into the studios proper, the visitor comes across the News Boom, a tiny cubicle just large enough to house an Associated Press Teletype machine, which transmits national and regional radio news and sports copy around the clock.
Production shows, such as On Stage and Editor's Notebook, and news and sports news broadcasts, orginate in Studio A. Disk jockey programs are done chiefly from Studio B, a more compact studio equipped with two record
turntables and its own control panel. ’ All programming is regulated from the Master Control booth where the production engineer on duty can watch goings-on in both studios through large, double-paned glass windows. In this room are two magnetic tape recorders, two transcription turntables, and an FM receiver, which provides mood music to campus listeners every morning. Master Control also houses a patch panel, which resembles a telephone switchboard, and is essential for such operations as remote broadcasts and “split” programming, which sends John Beardon’s Dixie Special over to St. Mary’s each afternoon while Notre Darners are hearing Relax at the same time. Here also are the “guts” of the station—the new transmitter and limit- -ing amplifier, the most essential components of WSND’s technical operation.
On the sixth floor is office space for the station manager and department heads, and a workship for the technical engineers, who are charged with keeping the station’s costly equipment in repair.
“Last year a survey we took on campus showed that students listened 68.4 per cent of the time to WSND in _ comparison to 31.6 per cent for all of the South Bend and Chicago stations combined,” Corkill says, “we’re proud of that figure, but we must constantly strive to improve our service to that audience if we are to justify our existence as a dynamic and useful student activity.”
And despite its professional organization and equipment, WSND is indeed primarily a student activity. The Bev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., University vice president in charge of student affairs, put it this way:
“What makes WSND work are the student participants. They have proven themselves responsible in both programming and business operations.”
16
The Scholastic
THE PARENT-SON WEEKEND
“This will come in handy tonight."
This past weekend the parents of the class of 1958 visited the campus in order to see their sons put through their regular routine. It seemed as though the parents enjoyed exactly what the students denounce. The food was rather good and the weather was exceptional.
Friday afternoon brought most of the moms and dads to the campus, and since nothing special was planned for them, the sons had a chance to show their parents the various South Bend restaurants and night spots.
It was a bright day Saturday, and the juniors got another chance to see the campus in springtime. After registration and guided tours, lunch was served in the Dining Hall, under normal conditions, and the parents did seem to like it, even after all the propaganda that their sons brought home.
The committee planned tours to South Bend, LOBUND, and the television studios of'WNDU. The hardier people decided to walk the 1700 acres.
Late in the afternoon, after many tired profs and department heads had tried to explain the reason why this certain student had received an FA with half the semester still to come, the parents went to a movie on campus life and Sorin Hall held a wonderful reception.
The President’s Dinner was held in the Dining Hall that evening. The Glee Club entertained after the meal. The concert was highlighted by a special St. Patrick’s Day program.
Father- Hesburgh concluded the dinner with a talk, explaining exactly what the University tries to do with the men that are sent to it. The president stressed the exceptional qualities in the Notre Dame man.
After the dinner a reception was held in the LaFortune Student Center where the parents had a chance to meet Father Hesburgh, as well as the other members of the Administration. From there the visitors and their sons adjourned to celebrate the eve of the great Saint. The weekend came to a close on Sunday with a special High Mass at Sacred Heart Church.
The Junior- Parents-Sons Weekend was the fifth of its kind, and it was announced by the committee that it was the biggest ever. Mr. J. Arthur-Haley began the affair, and then went to Florida. Now the class officers and their committee handle the arrangements. Bernard Pellegrino, the president of the class, headed the committee.
17
“Watch out for the stairs!”
White table cloths et al.
“No smoking in the Dining Hall!”
Photos by John Twomey
18
The Scholastic
True Confessions}
A Half-Hearted Attempt »
by Jerry Murphy and Bob Kiley
O
BY the time that a senior has reached this stage of the game, March of a four-year stay at Notre Dame, he generally has developed one of two attitudes: he is a cynic regarding anything and everything pertaining to student life, or he is no longer a student in any sense of the word; for he is merely passing time away until that first Sunday in June when he receives his degree.
This state of affairs is intensified, when a senior finds himself occupying a position in Student Government. He can be a cynic and direct his cynicism at his own past, and at the record of the organization to which he belongs. In short, he can destroy the personal meaning attached to his own accomplishments and injure the value of this organization. On the other hand, he can kick away the traces, mechanically fill out the term of his office, and unconsciously neglect to provide his own ideas for those who must follow in his steps.
We find ourselves in March of our senior year, and we find ourselves teetering on the brink of either cynicism or passive resistance. This article represents a half-hearted attempt to fill two pages in the Scholastic. What follows will appear strange to most and 'will appear idiotic to any friends that we may have on campus. Too often things that are meant to be said are not said because they are judged as being unimportant by those who should be saying them. Unfortunately, what we are about to say does not seem particularly important to say. Why, then, do we bother to say it? We really don’t know, but perhaps it will mean something to someone, somewhere, or sometime. We know this seems trite, but, the fact of the matter is, that it is the truth.
Kiley: Murph, why did you get into Student Government?
Murphy: Two very simple reasons:
personal ambition and Joe Daley (Student Body President 1954-55). I kept on as my chances for advancement grew.
Kiley: Why did you stay after you got “tromped” in last Spring’s election?
Murphy: Again very simple—I like Student Government, and the things that it was doing; and I felt that I had something that I could give in the way of experience to this year’s Student Government. I got into this thing early when there was a chance for a big take, but what you brought in at the end of your junior year?
Kiley: For two years, I enjoyed heaping abuse upon Student Government and laughed at the Wednesday nighters. For
“Ya gotta be positive, Joe!!”
some reason unknown to me now, I decided to run for Commerce Senator. I was elected because I passed out “lollypops” to the freshmen, and here I am now.
Murphy: What did you set out to do, if anything, once you were elected?
Kiley: I was going to reform Student Government. Because of my action,'Student Government was to become meaningful to everyone on campus. How? I
didn’t know, that was to come as I went along my merry way.
Kiley: What’s the greatest thing that you have taken away as a result of four years in Student Government, Murph?
Murphy: The other fellow has an opinion; he has a right to express it; and the least I can do is listen to it and respect it. Secondarily, it has been a great experience in human relations. But, above all, I believe, it has given me a fuller appreciation of Notre Dame.
Kiley: You’re a politico, Murph. How many friends have you lost because of it?
Murphy: I haven’t lost any real friends and have made a lot of good ones. I don’t think real friendships are at stake in this type of “political” community. People tell me that I have a lot of enemies, but it never ceases to annoy ® me that I never seem to know who they are. I’ve had a lot of time to make enemies, Kiley. How do you shape up, in view of a year’s venture, on this same question?
Kiley: I keep my door locked at night. If a person hates my guts because of some kind of a position that I might hold, then that’s good, because the position must mean something to that person. £ If he hates those same innards because of me and not the position, then that’s good too, because he can vote for someone better the next time.
Murph: What was your single greatest experience in Student Government?
Kiley: That’s hard to say. Perhaps my greatest single experience occurred not at the University, but in Chicago last August. I was a delegate to the W National Students Association Ninth National Congress. Why was it a great experience? I found out that some people think differently from the Notre Dame, or better—Catholic, way of thinking. I discovered-that it was -these people.and people like them with whom I must associate when I leave Notre Dame. Perhaps,
20
The Scholastic

•'my faith began to mean a little more to me at that moment. Defending the faith oi- my ideals is easy to talk about and not so easy to put into practice. Also I learned that people hold firmly to many sets of ideals, and that they are not to be shied away from, but to be respected for their belief.
Kiley: Murph, what’s wrong with student government at Notre Dame?
4^ Murph: You know, Bob, I wish that just once before I leave, that someone would ask what’s right with Student Government.
The biggest trouble with Student Government is that everyone is trying to find something wrong with it. To be honest, I think that it’s pretty damn good. I know that there’s room for improvements: permanent hall residence, better continuity in the Senate (perhaps only 16 Senators ought to be elected in the spring), more emphasis on the spiritual and academic life, sounder hall government, a deeper and more meaningful freshman orientation program, and a hope that people will stop condemning Student Government to the point that no one desires to enter and to improve it. If a few people stopped shooting off their mouths and contributed something of a • positive nature, we might get the help necessary to initiate a few improvements. It’s a cinch that I don’t know all the answers.
Murph: What do you think the future of Student Government is, Bob?
JJ
But look, peons, somebody has to run.'
Kiley: I really couldn’t say right now. I will say that if—if all who are concerned with the future of Student Government can bring themselves together to address the problems in the Senate (poor communication, a few very weak individuals in the Senate every year, a lack of unity of purpose, a neglect of considering important matters, concern with trivial things, etc.) the future will be “rosy.” When I say everyone concerned (whether they be negative or positive) , I mean students from all segments of student life—people in the campus media of communications (Scholastic, WSND), the scholars, the YCS’ers, the administration, everyone. When they can sit around a table or a number of tables and discover what the true basis of government is, then Student Government can go forward and build something that is meaningful to all these segments of university life.
I know this much, Student Government can’t call this type of meeting—if you want to call it that—it’s up to you who are reading this article, if you are that interested, to do it. Frankly, I don’t think it can be done.
Murph: Was it worth it after four years, you might ask? Definitely yes. The greatest part of my education at Notre Dame came from my association with people, many of whom were in Student Government in some capacity or another. It’s really difficult to sum up four years spent in one activity with any
feeling of exactness. All I can really say is that I enjoyed every minute of it.
Kiley: My only real regret concerning Student Government is that I didn’t attempt to take an active part in it until such a late date. I’ve noticed that there are many freshmen and sophomores who are reluctant to enter into phases of Student Government because of a fear ' that they are inexperienced or that they will never get anywhere anyway. Student Government, however, needs active underclassmen—people who can act and because of the knowledge accompanying action, learn from experience what the problems in Student Government are and how progress may be speeded up. It is impossible to tell anyone what is needed to make Student Government more meaningful, only by learning for oneself can one hope to lead, and in turn, to contribute to the Notre Dame Community.
To those of you who have managed to Wade through thus far, we hope that some of these personal feelings may mean something. Perhaps some of the comments were corny and tended toward the trite, at times, but then, that’s the problem with semantics . . . oftentimes it’s very difficult to express what you really want to say. At this point it might be good to attempt to express also a thought which should not be left unsaid. First, we would like to comment on an area which seems to interest all . . . Notre Dame discipline. To put it very bluntly Notre Dame discipline as a whole is good, however, the manner in which students accept this discipline often is bad. Discipline can only be meaningful if it is regarded as healthy for the individual by the individual. Playing games with the rales, such as cops and robbers adds nothing to the development of the individual which we hope all are seeking. The cry seems to be for the University to encourage selfdiscipline and to eliminate imposition of rules from above. However, until the Notre Dame student proves that he is capable of assuming the responsibility necessary for self-discipline, there can be no relaxation of imposed discipline. It doesn’t seem to make sense to “Ride the little rales” (which are indeed irksome at times) if you can’t accept the important ones.
There is another cry which usually rings out during the second semester of the school year: “Why aren’t we being represented?” . . . “What’s the senate doing for us?” This, Notre Dame Student Body is your problem. No one made you choose this or that particular senator. You did it with your own little votes. Make sure you have a good man running for an office. If you can’t find him, run yourself. We did it . . . why can’t you? Let’s quit being Monday morning quarterbacks and start planning the ball game 'before it starts.
21
March 22, 1957
This Is Our Life.Jn Lent
22
The Scholastic
* Michael Rabin to Appear as Guest Soloist With South Bend Symphony Here Sunday
Michael Rabin will appear as guest violin soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in the Drill Hall on Sunday. The program will consist of a Beethoven’s Symphony No. 6 in F major, w Symphony Estagnole by Lalo, and The Holberg by Greig. The concert will begin at 4 p.m.
Mr. Rabin made his recital debut in Carnegie Hall at 14. He had previously appeared with the Rhode Island Philharmonic, the National Orchestral Association, and on the Telephone Hour. He is the youngest artist ever to appear on this radio program. Since then, he has w been reengaged for the program several times?
He began his music study at six under the tutorship of his mother, for many years a faculty member of the Juilliard School of Music. The next year he switched from piano to violin. His father, an accomplished violinist, has played with the New York Philharmonic for over 30 years.
» Since his debut, Rabin has appeared with the New York Philharmonic-Symphony, and the Boston, Cleveland, Detroit, Dallas, Los Angeles, St. Louis, and Baltimore Orchestras, among others. He
Architects Win Prize
In Design Competition
Two 21-year-old Notre Dame architecture students have won the $1,000 first prize in the 1957 national design competition sponsored by the Indianapolis Home Show.
They are Noel Blank, Toledo, O., and David Billmeyer, Wisconsin Rapids, Wis. Their design of a single-story ranch house was judged the best of 226 entries submitted by professional architects and a architecture students throughout the country. Leon Chatelain, Jr., Washington, D. C., president of the American Institute of Architects, headed the jury which selected the prize winners.
The home designed by the two Notre Dame students will be built and featured at next year’s Indianapolis Home Show, officials of the annual event said. Another Notre Dame student, Jaime Saenz, of Q Cali, Colombia, designed the prize-winning home in 1954.
Specifications of the competition called for a home for an elderly retired couple. The Blank-Billmeyer home was selected, Home Show officials said, for its arrangement of space with hobby areas so situated that the husband and wife could be * together even while busy at their own ” interests.
recorded eleven Paganini Caprices for Columbia masterworks when he was 13.
Even before his recital debut, he had received the praise of Dimitri Mitropoulos and George Szell. Mr. Szell com-
MICHAEL RABIN
Violin virtuoso.
mented: “He is the greatest violin talent that has come to my attention during the past two or three decades.”
In 1952 Mr. Rabin made a concert tour of Australia, and in 1954-5 he visited Europe, appearing in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Italy, Belgium, Portugal, England, and France. In Italy, he gave 15 conceits in 18 days. He played at the LaScala Opera House in Milan, and at the Teatro Argentina in Rome.
Recently he recorded the violin soundtrack for the MGM motion picture “Rhapsody.”
. Tickets for the concert are $1.50 and $2.50 for the general public. Notre Dame students will be admitted free.
International Relations Club Little UN Conference Apr. 4
April 4 has been set as the date for the Little United Nations Conference sponsored by the International Relations Club of Notre Dame, in connection with the Student Senate. Both the afternoon and evening sessions will be held in the Ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center, lasting from 3 to 5 p.m. and from 7 to 10 p.m.
Full representation of all UN nations is expected. As yet, there are still several nations open for assignment. Any student wishing to represent a nation is urged io contact Pete Keyes in 401 Walsh or John Valaik in 158 Alumni.
ATTENTION, SENIORS
- The annual Senior banquet sponsored by the Alumni Association will be held this year on April 4 in the Dining Hall. All seniors who wish to attend this free steak dinner must pick up their tickets between March 25 through 29 at the Alumni Office in the Administration Building.
Juniors Set Tourneys In Swimming.Handball
The Junior class has just completed the first phase of its class athletic program. The basketball tournament was won by the Rebounders of Dillon Hall. The next phase will be competition in swimming and handball tournaments.
The basketball tournament has been in action since the beginning of the semester, with 75 participants on nine teams. The tourney was highlighted by three overtime games and the championship game between the Rebounders and the Ganders was a seesaw battle all the way with the Rebounders finally capturing the championship.
The swimming tourney will have individual and relay competition and the handball tournament will have singles and doubles championships.
After handball and swimming, the next two tournaments will he in golfing and tennis, last on the agenda. The golf tourney will be run in Calcutta style, that is, there will be teams of three men each, one with a high handicap, one with a low handicap, and one with none. Winners will he judged by total score. The tennis tourney will have singles and doubles championships.-
Trophies will be awarded to the high point man in each activity. To culminate, the competition a banquet or picnic will be held at the end of the program for all participants.
The Junior Class committee wishes all class members to enter as many events as they like. The major purpose of this program is participation in at least one activity or more.
Rev. Murchland to Conduct Graduate Students' Retreat
The annual Graduate Student Retreat will begin Friday, April 5 and continue through Sunday, April 7. Rev. Bernard Murchland, C.S.C., will be the retreat master. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will speak at the Communion Breakfast concluding the retreat.
It has also been announced that the Graduate Student Dinner Dance will be held Saturday, May 11.
March 22, 1957
23
Players Inc. to Perform Here March 30, 31; Tickets to Go on Sale Wednesday Afternoon
Players Incorporated of Washington, D. C., will present Shakespeare’s Henry IV Part I and Brandon Thomas’ Charley’s Aunt in Washington Hall on March •30 and 31 respectively. Tickets for the performances may be obtained March 27, 28 and 29 from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and 6 to 8 p.m. Orchestra seats will be §1.50 and balcony seats will be §1.
The Players, now on their eighth annual tour, performed Shakespeare’s King Lear and Much Ado About Nothing here last year.
In their seven previous seasons of touring the United States, Players Incorporated has given more than 700 performances of the great works of Shaw, Shakespeare, and many other well known authors.
In each of the past seven seasons the Players have traveled approximately 40,000 miles through 30 states and Canada. In addition, the troupe has made four tours to U. S. military bases in Europe, Japan, Korea and Alaska.
Founder of the organization is the Kev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., head of the Speech and Drama Department of Catholic University of America. Robert Moore, president of Players, will direct Charley's Aunt. Directing Henry IV will be Leo Brady, a well known playwright and novelist.
All members of the company are former students of the Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University in Washington, D. C. The players all have had professional experience. They are selected for the company because of their acting ability.
Playing the role of King Henry IV will be Edmund Torrance. Torrance, who has worked in radio, television and films, played the title role in Much Ado About Nothing last year. William Callahan, veteran of 36 weeks on Broadway in Anastasia, will play Falstaff.
Appearing in Charley’s Aunt as Lord Fancourt will be Ken Lynch, Jr. Mary
COMMENCEMENT GOWNS
Tomorrow is the lost date for all undergraduates, graduates, and faculty members to rent caps and gowns for the June Commencement Exercises. Measurements will be taken from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Vet Recreation Hall. A Bachelor’s gown will cost $3.10 to rent, a Master’s $3.60, and a Doctor’s $4.10. There is an additional charge of $3.75 on the Master’s and Doctor’s gowns for the hoods. Terms are strictly cash.
van Valkenburgh will play the role of Amy Spettigue. Lynch has extensive radio and television experience and has toured with the New York company of Mr. Roberts. Miss van Valkenburgh worked extensively in films and television while working for her M.A. at Catholic University.
SENIOR RETREATMASTER
Father McCarthy to preach here.
Variety Show Scheduled For Next Week at SMC
“Manhattan Mad-Caps,” the Saint Mary’s Variety Show, will be presented next Friday and Saturday in O’Laughlin Auditorium. The show featuring a cast of 140, will be a series of six scenes in New York.
Tickets for the presentation will be available in the Rathskeller of the La-Fortune Student Center on Tuesday and Thursday afternoon, from 3 until 5 p.m. Ticket information is also available at the box office in O’Laughlin Auditorium or by writing Box 331, Saint Mary’s College.
The show will open with a chorus number, followed by a French restaurant scene, a glimpse of Schubert’s Alley on opening night, and a trip from uptown “society” to downtown Greenwich Village. This is followed by a view of a robbery of an exclusive Fifth Avenue salon, and the show closes with a review of Metropolitan news as it hits the office of the Tinies with a number entitled “Stop the Presses.”
Jean Giddens is directing the production, which was written by Kate Queally and her committee. Peggy Maher wrote the original score, with lyrics written by Kay Hardesty and Betty Drey.
Jesuit Priest to Give " Retreat for Seniors
The Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, S.J., director of Laymen’s Retreats in Denver, Colo., will preach the Senior Retreat. The Retreat will open at 7:15 Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Saturday, March 30, and continue through Sunday.
Fathei- McCarthy is a graduate of St. • Louis University, where he received a B.A. and M.A. in psychology. Later he headed the St. Louis University Psychology Department. Father McCarthy also has a Ph.D. in psychology from the University of London, and has written several books in that field.
For a number of years Father McCarthy taught mathematics and biology at Regis College. He has also served as president both of Regis and of Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.
Four conferences will be held on Saturday. They are scheduled for 9 and 11 a.m., and 4:30 and 6:45 p.m. A Rosary will be recited at the Grotto at 2:30 in the afternoon.
On Sunday the Retreat will continue • with 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, followed by conferences in the Engineering Auditorium at 9:30 and 11:15 a.m. A question period at 2 p.m. and a Holy Hour at 4 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church will close the Retreat.
In deference to the Seniors, all residence halls have arranged to hold their day of recollection on this weekend so that the spirit of the retreat may prevail as much as possible throughout the campus.
* r Salk Polio Shots Scheduled
For April I I Administration ।
The campus Salk Polio Vaccine com- ) mittee announced recently that approximately 180 students will be given their third shots on April 11. Postcards will be sent to these 180 informing them of I the time of their shot.	i
This group includes only those stu- • | dents who received the first two shots before they came back to school last fall and who have had the polio permission cards sent in by their parents.
The third polio shot for those who have received their first two shots in the campus program will be given early next fall.	;
Bill McCullough, committee chairman, _ i also announced that the Student Infirm- * ary has requested that no more students attempt to receive their polio shots at the Infirmary as there is no more vaccine available.
Seniors and others who are leaving Notre Dame this June are reminded to get their third shot sometime in September or October.	& i
The Scholastic
24
*Mal+by Band to Play For 1957 Senior Ball
Pan American Conference Opens Saturday; Four Hundred Midwest Students to Attend
Richard Maltby and his orchestra will play for the 1957 Senior Ball, according to an announcement made this past week by the Senior Ball Committee. “Reflections” will set the theme for the dance kto be held Friday evening, May 10, in the Navy Drill Hall.
Plans for the remainder of the weekend include the annual dinner dance at the Erskine Country Club on Saturday, and a Communion Breakfast on Sunday. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the guest speaker at the breakfast.
Ticket sales will take place April 8 .through April 11. Dinner dance tickets
RICHARD MALTBY
Notes for ‘Reflections’
will go on sale Monday evening, April 8, in the Engineering Auditorium. Due to the limited number of tickets, the sale for the dinner dance alone will be handled on a first-come—first-serve basis. Those who obtain dinner dance tickets \vill obtain bids, hotel reservations, and Communion Breakfast tickets all on April 8.
Students from Fisher Hall and off-campus as well as graduate students will get their bids, hotel reservations, and Communion Breakfast tickets on Tuesday evening, April 9, in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. , Wednesday evening, April 10, is reserved for students from Alumni Hall and Thursday for Walsh Hall and any students unable to get tickets on their assigned night. The ticket sales on April 9, 10 and 11 will be held in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center.
The price of the bids will be $10. Dinner dance and Communion Breakfast tickets will cost $8 and $3 respectively.
Over 400 students from colleges throughout the Midwest are scheduled to attend the Pan American Conference which is to be held on campus this weekend. The theme of the conference will be “North American and Latin American Student Problems in a Foreign Culture.”
The conference will highlight speeches by Mrs. Fritz Adler and Dr. Fred B. Pike. Mrs. Adler is Vice-Consul of Paraguay in Chicago, while Dr. Pike is an assistant professor of history at Notre Dame.
The major areas of discussion at this conference will be: the role of the Church in Latin America, and the orientation, economic, social and political problems. Following seminars on these major topics, a general session will be held to receive reports from the indi. vidual seminars.
University Announces $150 Tuition Increase
The University of Notre Dame has announced a tuition increase of $75 per semester or $150 per year effective with the school-year beginning next September. The increase raises the school’s tuition from $750 to $900 per year. Board and room rates for students living on the campus will remain the same.
According to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president and treasurer of the University, the higher tuition was dictated “by rising costs in all areas of the university.” He cited particularly the area of faculty salaries where steady increases have been made during the past few years and must continue for some time “if we are to attract and retain the most qualified people in the teaching profession.”
In order to help boys of limited means obtain a Notre Dame education, the University had decided upon an increase in stipends for student employment. For. example, students now earning $300 per year in campus jobs will earn $360 next year. Certain scholarship grants also will be increased proportionately.
Father Joyce also announced that the University is establishing a special revolving loan fund to help upperclassmen finance their education. Loans up to $100 per year will be made to qualified sophomores, juniors, and seniors, he explained, in the hope that no boy presently at Notre Dame will be forced to interrupt his education because of the increase in tuition rates. Incoming freshmen will not be eligible for this particular form of assistance, he said.
The conference will open with registration of delegates tomorrow afternoon. Following registration the delegates will be given guided tours of the campus by members of the Blue Circle Society.
The first general session will open tomorrow evening in the Engineering auditorium. After short opening ceremonies, Mrs. Adler and Dr. Pike will speak. There will be a short movie commentary on a South American country and a full- ' length movie to conclude the evening’s program. .	.
Sunday’s activities will open with 8 o’clock Mass at the Sacred Heart Church. The Mass and sermon 'will be given by the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne. The delegates will reconvene at 10 a.m. for the individual seminars on the major areas of discussion. A general session will follow.
There will be a mixer for the delegates to the conference at the LaFortune Student Center on Sunday afternoon. - A variety of Latin American entertainment will be featured at this mixer. The conference will close with a special television presentation over WNDU-TV featuring some of the dignitaries attending the conference.
This Pan American conference is sponsored by the LaRaza and Human Relations Clubs of Notre Dame, and the Santa Teresa Club of St. Mary’s. Faculty moderator for the conference will be Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C. .
Chicago Lawyer to Lecture Before Undergrads April 3
“A Practitioner’s Thoughts oh Education for the Law” was the topic of a	;
talk by R. C. Stevenson, senior member	i
of a Chicago law firm, in the Law Audi-	i
torium last Wednesday evening. This	i
was the third of the series of talks, ! arranged in cooperation with the Notre Dame Pre-law Club, for the benefit of undergraduates who may be interested in studying law.	■
Stevenson is the senior member of the respected and long established Chicago firm of Stevenson, Conaghan, Velde, and Hackberg. He is counsel for the United States Steel Corp, and other- important clients.	'
The fourth talk of the series will be given by Carl McGowan on April 3. McGowan, formerly a professor of law at Northwestern and now a member of the Chicago firm of Ross and O’Keefe, is general counsel for the Chicago	and	s
Northwestern Railroad.	|
25	i
March 22, 1957
■ SONIC CafjtL
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store— he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a Capri phonograph for as little as $19-95. This month’s special buy is the Capri 550. It’s a portable 4-speed hi-fi phonograph with WEBCOR automatic changer. Features are twin speakers, a quality amplifier and a smartly styled cabinet in attractive Two-Tone Forest Green. Specially priced at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N. Y.
NEED A PEN? WIN A WATCH!
BULOVA:
men's senator ladies' jill A
17-jewel	$42.50
given free to a purchaser of SHEAFFER pen item
drawing May 17
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J.TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost First Bank & Trust Co.
Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations; Domestic and Foreign Tours
The Little Singers of Paris will perform at ; St. Mary’s College in the O’Laughlin 1 Auditorium tomorrow evening. These 30 i poor children have travelled throughout ' the world singing. Tickets for the perform- i ance are $1.50 and $1. Further information i about tickets and the performance can be i obtained by calling the St. Mary’s box ! office: CE 3-9042.	!
i
Claramae Turner Sings i ! In Concert Here Tonight j
Claramae Turner, contralto with the Metropolitan and San Francisco Opera : Companies, will appear in Washington. Hall tonight at 8:15 as part of the Notre j Dame Concert and Lecture Series. i
Miss Turner is one of America’s busi- j est concert artists, appearing regularly with major symphony orchestras, on tele-^ vision and radio, in addition to her work A in opera and extensive concert tours. This year she is making hei- debut in , Europe.	;
Tickets for the performance are avail- ! able this afternoon from 3:30 to 5:30 J p.m. and from 6 to 8 p.m. tonight. Tickets j are $.75 and $1 for students and faculty, I and $1 and $1.50 for the general public. J
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
Kuhn Named ND Delegate * To Advertising Conference
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
Robert Kuhn, a Commerce senior from Hollywood, Calif., was selected as Notre • Dame’s representative to the “Inside Advertising Conference” to be held in New York City the week of April 1 through 6.
In New York, Kuhn will compete against senior advertising students from_ 60 leading American universities for the < award of “Outstanding Advertising Stu- | dent of 1957.” The contestants will be ? judged on the quality of a report pre- j sented on some particular aspect of the I advertising field.	|
Notre Dame has taken part in this J national conference for the last three years and won seventh, first, and second^- j places respectively.	I
The Scholastic 1 I
26
* First Annual 'Help Week' Set for April 6-12; Students Needed to Aid Area Charity Groups
The first annual Notre Dame Help "Week will open on Saturday afternoon, April 6, and continue each afternoon except Sunday until Friday, April 12.
During this week it is planned that w approximately 150 students will donate their time and services in performing ■various unskilled jobs needed by recognized charitable and social organizations in the South Bend-Mishawaka area.
The purpose of this Blue Circle-sponsored help program is two-fold: to assist the local charitable and social organizations in their commendable work, and to acquaint the Notre Dame student with the workings of such organizations in the communities of South Bend and Mishawaka.
Eight organizations including the St. Joseph County Association for Mental Health, Goodwill Industries, Children’s
Dispensaiy and Hospital Association, Circle of Mercy Day Nursery, St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League, YWCA, Children’s Aid Society, and Healthwin Hospitals have requested help. Since help is needed each afternoon, it is hoped that students who are free any afternoon during Help Week will volunteer.
St. Mary’s College has been invited to help out on Saturday afternoon with a come-as-you-worked party tentatively scheduled for Saturday night. Transportation to and from the work will be provided.
Anyone interested in participating in Help Week should contact his hall president or Jim Short, 348 Lyons, no later than March 27, indicating the dates he can work, the hours he will be available on these dates, and any specific manual skills he may possess.
Rev. Barrosse to Speak On Meaning of 'Scrolls'
The Rev. Thomas 0. Barrosse, C.S.C., will speak on the Dead Sea Scrolls in his talk, “Scripture Today,” which will be held in the Student Center Amphitheater at 8 p.m. on Thursday.
In the lecture, Father Barrosse will discuss what the Scrolls are; why they have caused so much excitement (since their appearance in 1947 the Scrolls have been the’ subject of over 500 books and articles), and just what place they hold in Scripture studies.
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1947, Fathei- Barrosse studied theology for four years at the Gregorian University in Rome. Then he studied Sacred Scripture at the Pontifical Biblical Institute for three years, and while in Europe visited the Holy Land for three months. During his talk he will show slides from his tour of the Dead Sea area.
e
e
Grooms your hair while it treats your scalp. Controls loose dandruff. 1.00 olu$ tax
SHULTON New York • Toronto

March 22, 1957
27
Research, development, and production activities at Northrop Aircraft, Inc., in Southern California, create a continuous demand for young men who wish to build a permanent career in engineering and science. In addition to a diversified production program in its several plants, Northrop is engaged in many vitally important, classified projects necessary to our country’s defense
If your training qualifies you for positions m the categories listed below ...if you want to settle in the Los Angeles area and work in Northrop’s new multi-million-dollar engineering center... if you want to build a successful career in one of America's foremost research, development and production organizations... if you want to enjoy many outstanding benefits that are unexcelled in the industry, including Company-paid life, health, and accident insurance, two weeks and two days annual vacation plus an extra week at Christmas, both with full pay...if you want to work where your ability will be continually encouraged...please contact your school’s placement office and make an appointment for an interview with one of Northrop’s representatives.
THESE FIELDS OFFER CHALLENGING OPPORTUNITIES
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING • CHEMISTRY
PHYSICS • MATHEMATICS • CIVIL ENGINEERING
Campus interviews will be conducted by Mr. Dave Meltvedt, Engineering Personnel Representative of Northrop Aircraft, Inc., on Monday and Tuesday, March 25th and 26th, at Notre Dame University Engineering Placement Office.
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT, INC.
HAWTHORNE, CALIFORNIA
28
The Scholastic
Uliik Sauu
BENGAL CLASSIC STARTS IN FIELDHOUSE
Boxing Action to Get Underway Monday Night •In 26th Renewal of Annual Bengal Bouts
by JACK GRADY
For the past eight weeks the room located behind the upper stands on the west side of the Fieldhouse has been a beehive of activity. Scholars turned pugilists have been punching bags, sparring, doing calisthenics, skipping rope gkand receiving instructions in the art of self-defense. All this activity has now called to a halt.
Ropes which men have been using to gain co-ordination and improve their footwork, now hang from hooks at the far end of the room, the daily two-mile runs to build up wind are finished, the three heavy bags potential champions have punched with hopes of adding more power to their punch, hang motionless ^by the entrance and punching bags smacked daily to increase speed have ibeen detached from their hooks. Nappy’s cry for leg calisthenics, “You have to have a pair of good legs to get you away if you’re being beaten,” is heard no more. The ring boxers used for sparring, trying out new punches and combinations, and worked to put all the fundamentals taught them into one smooth motion, is ^now empty. But the real action is just •starting.
KEEP THAT RIGHT UP
£	McGinley and Prendergast prepare for Bengals.
Monday night in the same Fieldhouse the square circle will be set up for the 26th time when, what Rocky Marciano has called, “the fastest collegiate boxing I have ever seen,”—the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts—officially begin. These bouts, which began as a result of the boxing program initiated by Knute Rockne in 1923, were first sponsored by the Scholastic in 1931, and this year will again be sponsored by the Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, as they have been since 1946.
A crop of boxers that is “one of the 'best in years as regards both quantity and quality,” the cooperation of South Bend businessmen and an advance sale three times greater than last year’s add up to what should make this year’s fights one of the greatest ever.
Fifty hopefuls have been divided into nine weight divisions, with pairings according to individual ability to be made by “Nappy” Napolitano after the official weigh-ins on Monday morning. Each bout will consist of three two-minute rounds, with a one-minute rest period between rounds. Because of the large number of entrants some of the boys
TENTATIVE PAIRINGS FOR MONDAY NIGHT.
127 lbs.—
Reaux vs. Stepan 135 lbs.—
Odem vs. Young
Franco vs. Donovan 147 lbs.—
McGivern vs. Houk
Lynch vs. Finn
Herber vs. Gallaccio Kleindorfer vs. Moore Steinberg vs. Delamielleure 157 lbs.—
Waters vs. Voorhes 167 lbs.—
Distasio vs. Nacozy
Abood vs. Brelsford 190 lbs.—
Colosimo vs. McGinn Heavyweight—
Mondron vs. Ciesielski Prendergast vs. Connor Healey vs. Lawrence
will receive byes, the byes going to the better of the fighters. A minimum of 16-18 bouts is scheduled for opening night.
In the 127-lb. class Al Stepan appears to have the inside track. Stepan, a junior from Pangbom, will be out to regain the same title he held as a freshman, forfeiting it last year when he did not compete. Also slated to fight in this class are veteran Gene Reaux of Fisher who is back for the third time and Dennis Landry, a sophomore from Howard who fought in the Novices this year- and emerged as champion of the 130-lb. division.
Leighton Young will probably be the pacesettei- in the 137-lb. grouping. Young, representing Lyons, was the runner-up in this division in 1956 and this year will be called upon to face four newcomers to the bouts in the persons of Ed Rohrbach from Badin, John Donovan as a representative from Morrissey, Harry Odem of Dillon and Cavanaugh’s entiant, Ross Franco.
Although lacking in quantity, the 142-1b. division more than makes up this deficit in quality and experience. Ed Ricciuti will probably be the man to beat. Ricciuti was titlist in the 140-lb. Novice division last year and runner-up in the 147-lb. class of the Bengals as well. Stiff competition will be provided him by .Andy Staniszewski, the Novice winner
29
March 22, 1957
SCORING SYSTEM FOR BOUTS
The scoring system for the Bengal Bouts is as follows: The three top halls in ticket sales as of Sunday night will receive 15, 10 and 5 points, respectively.
A fighter who wins on Monday night will receive three points for his hall. A Wednesday night win counts four while a win in the finals will count five.
Totals will be kept up to date with the leading hall receiving the SCHOLASTIC Award on Friday night.
in the 14-5-lb. class this year and Dave Cowdrill, an Off-Campus junior with three years’ experience behind him.
South Bend’s Bob Fitzsimmons, who put on the gloves for the first time this year and punched his way to a title in the 150-lb. Novice division, will be back again for the Bengals, fighting in the 147-lb. pairings. Standing as roadblocks in his path to the crown will be Bernie McGivern, an Off-Campus junior with last year’s 145-lb. Novice title to his credit, Badin’s John Finn and Tom Lynch of Dillon, runners-up in the 155 and 150-lb. divisions of the Novice this year, and Off-Campus sophomore, George Houk, will be back for another shot after an unsuccessful attempt last year. Also in this division, but fighting for the first time are juniors George Kleindorfer and Bill Berber as well as Farley’s Don Gerne.
Four veterans and three newcomers
JUST MADE IT
Cowdrill and Lynch at weigh-ins
RETURNING CHAMP ABOUT READY
Dick Murphy points for another title.
make up the entry list for the 157-lb. class. Past Novice and Bengals semifinalist Bill Moore will represent Badin while Ron Delamielleure, back for the second year, will attempt to bring the title to Morrissey. Off-Campus will be represented by Hugh Ball, making a second attempt in this division, and John Steinberg, this year’s 155-lb. Novice title-holder. Making their initial appearance in the Fieldhouse ring this year
will be Pete Gallaccio, St. Ed’s sophomore, and Wilfred DeCamillis and Dave Voorhes, both of Off-Campus.	W
Defending champ Dick Murphy of Pangbom will find stiff competition facing him this year in his 167-lb. division. Barring a recurrence of the injury which kept him from competing in last ; year’s Bouts, Frank Nacozy of Lyons ji will be out to wrest the crown from Mur-phy. Nacozy is a Novice champ from !• 1956. Two other past Novice titlemen, St. Ed’s sophomore Bill Brelsford and Off-Campus’ Bob Miller will once again' try their hands in this division. The Sportsmanship Award went to Miller	»
last year. Newcomers to this division	1|
are Howard’s Caram Abood and St. Ed’s | freshman Vince Distasio.
The only veteran competing in the 177- j lb. division is Bill Glass, Off-Campus senior returning for the third time. ; Other men competing for Pete Noznes- . = ky’s vacated title will be Pangborn’^ I j twins Don and Kevin Reilly, Bill Hickey of Off-Campus and Sorin’s Roger Kiley. | Moving into the heavier divisions, we I find a fight card that looks more like j Terry Brennan’s notebook, with eleven j of the twelve boxers being football players as well.
Two ex-champions head the contenders in the 190-lb. class—Walsh’s Pete Noz/t. nesky, last year’s 177-lb. champ and4 Dick Shulsen, titleholder in the 175-lb. division in 1955, this year representing Pangborn. Entering the ring for the first time will be Farley’s Doug McGinn, sophomore fullback Jim Colisimo, and junior halfback Dick Lynch.
John McGinley, defending heavyweight (Continued on page 34)
The Scholastic II
30
TIME OUT
The officials of the University of Kentucky went all out last week to make things as pleasant as possible for the participants in last week’s midwest regional of the NCAA tourney. Of course, there was a reason for this. Probably the biggest reason was the fact that the year before, the Wildcats under Adolph Rupp had been mistreated to the utmost by the Iowa fans at Iowa City. Kentuckians pride themselves in their hospitality and they were not going to let any display, like the one at Iowa, happen again.
Each team was greeted upon arrival by pretty U. of K. coeds and the Wildcat Monogram Club. A giant motorcade took the teams through the town and then to the NCAA headquarters at the Phoenix Hotel. No one was more impressed than Coach Johnny Jordan who called it the greatest welcome ever given a Notre Dame basketball team. “I’ve been coaching for 22 years and I’ve been to my share of tournaments. But this is the finest reception and the greatest display of hospitality I, or the teams I’ve coached, ever have received,” said Jordan.
There is another reason why the Kentucky officials went all out. They want the Finals at Lexington next year and they want them badly. The press was treated equally as well as the teams. Press accommodations at the spacious Memorial Coliseum left little to be desired and they even went so far as to conduct a three-hour tour of the racing stables throughout the Lexington area including Calumet, Coldstream, Castleton and Faraway. They certainly proved that they can handle the Finals and this writer won’t be a bit surprised if they get them.
IRISH LISTLESS AGAINST STATE
Not too much more can be said about the Michigan State game that has not already been said. It was something that was bound to happen sooner or later. The Irish fought to the very end but they just didn’t have it. Someone could have started a fire in the Coliseum but it wouldn’t have been enough to spark the locals. It wasn’t their night and one could tell it from the beginning. Michigan State had its troubles too but they hung on. The Spartans played inspired ball against Kentucky the following night to gain a spot in the finals at Kansas City tonight. Even Notre Dame though, looked better than Kentucky on Saturday night.
NORTH CAROLINA CHOICE IN THE FINALS
Tonight it is Michigan State against North Carolina while Kansas takes on defending champion, San Francisco. The experts are looking for the Tarheels to face Wilt and Co. tomorrow night but the Spartans and the -Dons can’t be discounted. We’ll pick North Carolina as the 1957 NCAA Champions.
EXTRAS: Tom Hawkins is listed on both NYU and Marquette’s allopponent team. On the Violet squad, “Hawk” was second in voting to Gary Clark of Syracuse. Others on the team were Rod Hundley of West Virginia, Guy Rogers of Temple, Angelo Lombardo of Manhattan and Lloyd Sharrar of West Virginia. On the Marquette team, he was second in voting to Wilt Chamberlain. Louisville placed Charlie Tyra and Jim Morgan while Missouri’s Lionel Smith rounded out the team. . . . Hawkins also made LOOK Magazine’s District 4 team. . . . The win against Pittsburgh last Saturday was the 100th win for Coach Jordan. He has only 51 losses 'in his six years here. Not a bad record considering that 25 of those losses were recorded in the previous two years when the Irish were rebuilding after great years in 1952-53 and 1953-54. . . . Jordan’s tourney record now is 12-4. . . . The Irish wound up the season winning 15 of their last 18.—J. G.
Irish Relay Team At Cleveland Tonight
Following their excellent showing in the Chicago Daily News Relays last ■Saturday night, the Irish tracksters face a busy schedule this week-end. Tonight the Irish relay squads along with freshman Ron Gregory will compete in the^ Cleveland Relays. Bill Keegan, Barkle^i Ewart, Joe Foreman, and Aubrey Lewis will handle the mile relay chores, and Ed Monelly, Al Porter, Dick DiCamillo, and Dale VandenBerg will team up in the two-mile event. Gregory will be facing the toughest competition in the country, including Ron Delaney, unbeaten in his last 14 mile runs, Fred Dwyer, Ted Wheeler, and Laszlo Tabori.
Coach Wilson is sending only the mil^ relay team to the Canadian Indoor Championships at Hamilton, Ontario, tomorrow night. And in this race Dale VandenBerg will run second in place of Barkley Ewart for the Irish.
In Chicago, the Irish only entered two events, and they handled themselves very well. The two-mile relay team won its event in the fine time of 7:43.8. Off to an early lead, ND fell behind at the mile_ mark. Di Camillo took the baton in thircr^ place but passed the leaders to put Notre Dame ahead with one-half mile to go. Anchor-man VandenBerg pulled away to win by twenty-five yards.
The ND mile relay team took second to a superb Villanova squad, anchored by Olympic quarter-miler Charlie Jenkins, which covered the distance in 3:16.0. Villanova was just one and one-half seconds off the world indoor recor<^ of 3:14.5 set by four Olympic runners, George Rhoden, Andy Stanfield, Mal Whitfield, and Herb McKenley, world record holder for the 440. The Irish ran a creditable 3:20.3 but were twenty-five yards back after the first half, and Villanova was able to maintain this spread the rest of the way.
The Irish would probably have cracked 3:20 except for a mix-up among the offi^ cials at the first baton exchange. Theyxr put the two second men in the wrong lanes.
OFFICIALS FOR 1957 BENGALS
Referee: George Van der Heyden.
Judges: Albert Doyle, Emery Nemeth, Bernard Witucki, Edward _ Moriarity.
Timers: Roy Biondell, Frank Maxwell.
Seconds: Gene Hedrick, Alec Mc-Angus.
Trainer: Gene Paszkiet.
Physician: Dr. Crowley. .
Tournament Clerks: Jack North, Sr., Charles Webber.
-------------------------------------<
The Scholastic
32
• Spartans Topple Irish NCAA Cage Hopes; Rebound to Trim Pitt in Consolation, 86-85
1 Lexington, Ky., March 15.—Michigan State University smashed Notre Dame’s i NCAA title hopes here tonight by de; feating the Irish 85-83 in the Regional ■ round of the NCAA tournament.
1 ! $ The story of the game can be summed up in one word—rebounds. The simple fact is that the usually tough Irish couldn’t buy one here tonight, and State picked off more than their share. The Spartans outrebounded the Irish 60 to 44.
NEITHER TEAM HOT
Neithei- team was exceptionally hot . from the floor in the sloppily played ' W contest, which was marred by such rule infractions as steps, double dribbling and fouling. Notre Dame outshot the Spartans from the field, making 29 of 73 attempts for 39.7 per cent. Michigan State connected on 33 of 91 attempts for a 36.3 percentage.
Notre Dame jumped off to an early lead, holding a 15-8 advantage with just six minutes elapsed.
) £ Then the Spartans came to life. John Green and George Ferguson led the MSU attack to a one-point lead with 3:19 to play. From there until halftime the lead changed hands four times, with the Spartans holding a 37-36 lead at the intermission.
. After the Irish had grabbed a two, point lead, the Spartans’ machine ex; ploded with ten straight points to take i definite command.
A LITTLE OF THAT SOUTHERN HOSPITALITY
U. of K. Monogram Club greets Irish upon arrival.
March 22, 1957
From this point the Irish closed the gap until, with seven minutes to go, Bob Devine’s two free throws tied the game at 65 apiece.
In the next minute and a half however, State scored eight points to make it 73-65.
In the closing minutes of the game the Irish fought back but were unable to close the gap.
Irish captain, John Smyth, topped all scorers with 25 points. He was followed by teammate John McCarthy who had 21 and State center Green who had 20.
Lexington, Ky., March 16. — Notre Dame University completed its basketball season here tonight as they defeated Pittsburgh University in the consolation championship of the NCAA regional playoffs. The score of the game was 86-85.
STRONG REBOUNDING
The Irish victory was a combination of strong rebounding and good free throw shooting. The Irish outrebounded Pitt 50-38 and outscored them from the charity line 32-19. Pitt was able to stay in the contest by shooting at an amazing 49.3 percent. They scored on 33 of 67 attempts from the field. Notre Dame on the other hand was able to convert on 27 of 74 tries. The Irish shooting percentage was 36.5.
The Irish started slowly and trailed 10-2 before John Smyth scored the first
Notre Dame field goal. The Irish remained cold and midway in the period trailed 14-5. However they fought back and gained a 25-25 deadlock with six minutes to play in the half. Then Notre Dame took command and grabbed a five-point lead until Pitt again got hot and scored six straight points. The Panthers regained their lead • and held it until halftime when the score read: Pitt 38, Notre Dame 36.
The Panthers trailed through the first six minutes of the second half until they took a momentary lead of 54-53. Then a Notre Dame spurt gave the Irish a 71-61 lead with eight minutes remaining.
Again Pitt came back. They tied the score at 72 all. Then Notre Dame shot six straight free throws to lead 78-72. But with a little over a minute to play Pitt came back to trail by a single point. Two more free throws by Devine insured the Irish victory despite a closing second basket by Pitt’s Milan Markovich.
Pitt’s John Riser was high man for the game with 34 points. He was followed by Notre Dame’s McCarthy and Smyth, who scored 23 and 22 points, respectively.
Lack of Experience Hinders Irish Outfield
With the loss of last year’s captain, Dan Nespo, and the shift of this year’s co-captain, Jim Cusack, to first base, baseball coach Jake Kline faces the problem of forming an outfield combination . around only one returning monogram winner, Bob Senecal. Senecal, a junior, returns to the club for his second year of varsity competition. He will be expected to hold the right field position which he filled last year.
The other outfield posts vacated by Nespo and Cusack, centei- and left fields, are still open. Sophomore Gene Duffy, the Irish basketball playmaker, seems to have the jump on the rest of the field by virtue of his work in last fall’s practices. The left field position remains wide open for the rest of the outfielders. Leading contenders are Bud Ahern, Bill Reis-sart, John Donahue, Paul Sopko and Bob Gearratano. Ahem and Reissart both return from last year’s squad which gained the first round of the NCAA championships. Donahue, a junior, Sopko and Gearratano, sophomores, are playing their first year with the varsity squad.
Last week Coach Kline held two intersquad games among his 40-member team. Hitting was stressed in the club’s first workout in the confines of Cartier Field, but then inclement weather forced the practice sessions back into the Fieldhouse.
33
i
] Tennis Activity Opens | With Indoor Tourney
-1 Last Saturday and Sunday, Notre
Dame’s tennis team opened activity by y competing in the University of Chicago Round-Robin Indoor Tennis Tourna-j ment in Chicago. The quadrangular 1 affair, with the Universities of Iowa and ! Michigan beside the host team providing the opposition, was a tune-up encounter j for the squad. There was no official •| point total kept.
? Coach Tom Fallon was “well pleased” |	with his sophomore dominated team
’	since ND captured one of the six
flights and fared well in the other matches against strong competition. Michigan and Iowa are expected to show
the two best teams in the Big Ten this season.
Maxwell Brown, a sophomore player from Louisville, Ky., took the measure of Davis Cupper Barry MacKay from Michigan on Saturday before being beaten by Art Andrews of Iowa, on Sunday. Brown was playing first-man position for the Irish.
Chuck Vanoncini, who represented Notre Dame in the fourth bracket, was the only first place finisher for the squad. In the second flight, Ron Schoenberg, another sophomore, came in a respectable third. ND’s best player last year, former captain Harry Smith, who has been set back to third-man by his two sophomore teammates, finished third in the No. 3 bracket. One of his sets lasted a marathon 32 games.
Bengals Start Monday ©
(Continued from page 30)
champ, will have five football players and an ex-champ to contend with this year. McGinley won the title last year when he decisioned the champion, Chuck Connor, in a very close battle. Connor will be back this year with the hopes of regaining that title. Other men with the intention of •wresting that crown from^ McGinley are freshman halfback Pat Healey, Dick Prendergast of Sorin and Dick Ciesielski of South Bend, senior Bob Mondron of Off-Campus and Howard’s Don Lawrence, all of whom are making their initial appearance on behalf of the Bengal Missions, and all of whom “Nappy” regards as on equal footing with the defending champions.
How KEARFOTT’S
Training Program Works...
KEARFOTT is interviewing on your campus
Thursday, April 4
Make your appointment now with your College Placement Office
Kearfott’s leading position in the development and production of aircraft control and navigation instruments makes the company a fertile ground for the young engineer to develop his talents and gain the experience which means success in his chosen profession.
Assisting in the design and development of today’s most advanced systems, the graduate engineer quickly gains in knowledge of the functions and applications of the gyros, synchros and other components which comprise systems. You will share in Kearfott’s vital role in TACAN, inertial guidance, stable platforms and other servo mechanisms for today’s most important jet aircraft and industrial development.
A “learning by doing” philosophy is basic at Kearfott. As an assistant Project Engineer, you are given assignments in several engineering laboratories to determine in which you can make your best contributions and find your greatest satisfaction. Under the guidance of senior engineers and specialists, each man takes his project through from inception to final production, thus acquiring a broad experience background. Success depends on individual initiative and resourcefulness.
A Subsldlarr 01 General Precision Equipment Corporation
137® AAAIN AVE^ CLIFTON, NEW JERSEY
In addition to close association with the engineers whose work has set new standards for the industry, you enjoy an educational assistance program to help you further your formal education, supplementing the “learning by doing” program through which you will choose your field of special interest.
Decentralized plants provide ample opportunity to become familiar with top management and distinguish yourself through initiative and imagination. Salaries and benefits are liberal, and advancement is based on your own value and contribution.
NOTE:!/you cannot attend an interview on this day, please write for more information to Robert J. Sperl, Technical Placement Supervisor, Engineering Personnel Office.
tt COMPANY, INCORPORATED
34
The Scholastic
* Debaters Represent ND In Contest Eliminations
Debate team President Paul Coffey and Vice President Jack Martzell are representing the University in the National Elimination Tournament at Purdue this weekend. Teams from the Midwest are competing in the tournament £ which will determine the Midwest representative for the national championship to be held at West Point during Easter vacation. The debaters will take both sides of the direct economic aid question.
In other debate team activity, Claiborne Johnson and William Barrett took part in an exhibition debate before the student body of St. John’s College, Collegeville, Minn., on March 19. They took £ the negative side of the direct economic aid question.
Yeshiva University of New York City presented the negative argument of the economic aid question against Notre Dame’s affirmative team consisting of Gerald Goudreau and Robert Dempsey here on campus last Tuesday.
Sorin Students Draw Plans For Redecoration of Chapel
The renovation of Sorin Hall began last week with a new coat of paint. Part of this redecoration will involve the hall chapel, plans for which were drawn by four Sorin students, Gene Bertoncini, Tom Pezzuti, Frank McCann, and Bill Schafer.
Work is expected to begin on the chapel sometime this semester and be ^completed by the beginning of school next September.
Plans include new confessionals, mahogany paneling, a dropped ceiling, and a recessed side altar. The shrine of Our Lady will be moved to the front of the chapel and space will be left in the rear for future murals.
Civil Engineering Graduates
Work and Live in Wonderful Wisconsin
A rapidly expanding highway program offers: Permanent civil service positions Training program Rapid advancement Challenging work
Positions now available in construction and design. Interviews: 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
Monday, April 1
Be popular...get more fun out of life
C0MEIN1D ,
NOW
and be a sought-after dance partner
•Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A. minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS, Monday, Ma: ch 25—Placement Office.
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT, Monday and Tuesday, March 25 and 26—Placement Office.
W. L. MAXSON, Wednesday, March 27—Placement Office.
Everybody knows that good dancers have the best times. How about your dancing? Does it get you invitations? If not, let one of Arthur Murray’s talented experts show you die shortcut to popularity. You’ll be amazed how easy it is to learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. And it’s such fun you’ll wish you’d started years sooner. So come in now and be sure of having the time of your life at your next party.
PHILCO, Thursday, March 28—Placement Office.
STATE OF WISCONSIN, Monday, April 1—Placement Office.
KEARFOTT, Thursday, April 4—Placement Office.
(^FARNSWORTH, Friday, April 5—Placement Office.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing
120 E. Wayne St.
CE 2-3339
March 22, 1957
Cramming for Exams?
Fight "Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
M- large economy size flO* 4 (for Greek Row and Jl(]^ Dorms) 60 tablets—
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
Europe
60 Daye frw" $525 Orient
<43-65 Day* from $998
Many fours include college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up, Souty America $699 up* Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and Around the World $1398 up.
UTA
Chicago
ItWTURBOW ypPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Repercussion
(Continued from page 10)
their morals are endangered by Osorio’s cartoons. Nor do I think that the cartoons are indicative of a moral and intellectual collapse of the student body. I concede, however, that where an impression is to be made on the readers outside the University, a steady diet of cartoons on the cover may not be in good taste; but I feel that an occasional page of Osorio’s “genius” will benefit the Scholastic. Ivan’s humor is here to stay, so let’s recognize it for what it is: a caricature of Notre Dame life.
Octavio J. Gandara 415 St. Edward’s
DISTORTION
Editor:
In last week’s issue of the Scholastic, a story appeared which I had written and submitted to the magazine. Certain misconceptions have subsequently arisen concerning my position on certain issues in labor-management relations which I would like to clarify.
Without my knowledge or consent, certain deletions were made in the story which did much to convey a false impression and to perhaps change the entire meaning of the story. It was not intended as a diatribe against unions and strikes in general. Rather it was an etfort to show how certain abuses in such relations can have an effect on numerous individuals who are even remotely concerned.
Without these deletions, I feel that my point would have been clearly conveyed.
James McDonald 104 Sorin Hall
LOUIE’S LAMENT
Editor:
In the seven years I have been at ND I have seldom felt excessively inhibited by the rules of this University; nor do I now. But when the rules of St. Mary’s interfere with my enjoyment and the enjoyment of so many more people, I think it’s time for something to be said. I am referring, of course, to the unfortunately abrupt conclusion of Louis Armstrong’s terrific concert in the Field House, which seems to be attributable to the required departure of the St. Mary’s belles.
In my estimation it represents a painful discourtesy, not only to the entertainers but also to the rest of the audience as well. Furthermore, if inflexible rules are so very essential to the smooth operation of any non-penal institution, may I suggest that next time they be allowed to make quiet exits and the entertainment be continued.
Charles W. Allen
Department of Metallurgy
Home Movies
FUNATO MAKeTfUN to SHOW^_
THE EASY KODAK WAY
Pick up a free chance on the Anscoflex camera set with every purchase from the Photo Dept.
BROWNIE M (MM CAMERA
Aim-and-shoot convenience ... new low price
Color movies are a hobby for the whole family — and now, they're easier-than-ever to enjoy, easier-than-ever to afford! Kodak’s wonderful Brownie Movie Cameras are available here at new low prices. Big selection of easy-does-it models, featuring the world's most popular movie maker, the Brownie Movie Camera with f/W lens.
$37.50
Notre Dame Bookstore
UHIIS UBURTui BNK SHF
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
36
The Scholastic
e
Electrical Engineers
If you are interested in Electronic Research and Development and improving the "State of The Art" ...	•
The
W. L. MAXSON
Corporation
IS INTERVIEWING AT THE
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS and has challenging and rewarding careers in the fields of:
---------------, I I
Wednesday | 1
1
March	<
1
27th	i
I I
is the date I i
I _______________I
• Computers	Countermeasurers
Microwaves Navigation Ordnance Radar and Engineering Evaluation
See the Placement Office for time available on the interview schedule and take your first step toward a career of lifetime satisfaction.
* The W. L. MAXSON Corporation
460 West 34th St. New York, 1, New York
March 22, 1957
37
Bach Paife
the non-individual
I w I
by FRANK SPIERING

There is a tremendous surge in our modern society toward developing individualism. Orators, politicians, clergymen, and psychiatrists have constantly been trying to motivate modem man to think for himself, to rebel against the maze of slogans, cliches, and ideologies which are the essence of our civilization. There is, however, an even greater emphasis being placed on not being an individual. Upon this latter phase depends the future of mankind.
An individual is an independent being who remains above the thinking and the trends of the world around him. He is never pressured into taking a stand or making a decision. He scrutinizes his environment with a questioning eye, and draws his convictions without fear of public opinion.
His thoughts and opinions are his own. In the contrary a non-individual is the segment of a pattern. His goal is just to fit into a preconstructed niche. His resiliency enables him to be molded into any shape, any form. He is never bothered by the restless desire to change or better anything. He has the wisdom to be guided and influenced by everything.
No man should ever be an individual. He should never think for himself and draw his own conclusions because this process could result in his substituting fallacy for truth.
How does his opinion compare with the wisdom of centuries? He never has the right to think that his intelligence might be more perceptive than the great thinkers of all time. Men like Aristotle,
38
Thomas Aquinas, and Kari Marx set down certain patterns for social existence. The average man is not in the position to question these authorities, who devoted their entire lives to this study. He should bow without questioning before the wisdom of the ages, making their thoughts his.
Never will he be guilty of having an original idea. And if he ever does, he has enough discretion to be able to camouflage it, so that it is imperceptible.
A non-individual is an asset to any community. His practice of always “going along” is an aid to stabilizing society. He is the solid citizen who is constantly assenting and cooperating. Never is he the flagrant radical or the bitter iconoclast. His world is a rose colored existence. “See no evil, hear no evil” is the motto by which he lives. His eyes are shut, his ears are closed, his head nods automatically.
In history there have been many famous individuals. John the Baptist, Thomas More, and Joan of Arc are a few examples. Each one of these came to an unnatural end. An individual who is willing to stand up against society will always face this risk. A non-individual is secure, for he will neither be questioned nor martyred.
You should never be afraid not to be an individual. You may be called a conformist, but in reality anyone who would label you with such a title is probably basically unstable. They are the type who are constantly fighting against the traditional scheme, beating their . heads
against a passive world. These poor misguided people will never realize the se.G curity of blind conformity.
It always takes courage not to be an individual. You may see gaping flaws in the world around you which demand an individualistic viewpoint, aspects which you, yourself, could alter. You may be tempted to speak out concerning these situations, yet think of the tremendous courage it takes to merely ignore them.	S
A person who is not an individual will always be liked by his fellow man. No one appreciates radical change in traditional practice, because it usually implies that they could be wrong. A good, sound non-individual is always willing to agree and to praise.
A clear thinking non-individual will never have to conform to exist, rather he. will exist to conform. Conformity is noW his master, it is his servant. He will never have to flee the pattern of conformity, because he has the advantage of being able to see things from just one aspect. Think of the satisfaction and lack of frustration that are his, as compared to the uncertain restlessness of the individual who is always the critic. The non-individual will never be plagued b'^k ulcers or neurosis. He cushions his from day to day, always bypassing unpleasantries of prospective crises, mind whirls in one direction, at speed.
Anyone can be an individual, but it takes only a person who realizes his true place in the “pattern” and is basically, sound, not to be.
life the His one
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
A frank message to	/
graduating electrical and mechanical /
ENGINEERS 7
You know it ... we know it ... so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fence/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. f
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)'We are an old, young organization. Old, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronicsytOur technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and /atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
M	ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
APRIL 5
MISSILES . RADAR • ANTENNAS • MICROWAVES • INFRARED • SOLI! STATE • TEST SHIPMENT > INDISTRIAL T. V.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
[ive Modern!
Pick the Pack that Suits You Best!
Newest, modern box. Crush-proof.
Closes tight! Flavor stays in . .. everything else stays out.
Smoke modern L&M and always get
full exciting flavor
...PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP
Yes. you are free to choose . . . only when you smoke modern L&M. And only L&M gives you the flavor . . . the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M . . .
AMERICA S FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE