SCIENHFIC TESTS PROVE
UICKY STRIKE MILDER
THAN ANY OTHER
PRINCIPAL BRAND!
REPORT
tWS»L®
from
LET YOUR OWN TASTE
MARLENE DIETRICH says: "I smoke a smooth cigarette-Lucky Strike!”
COPR . THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Settee Means fine IMacco
So round, so firm, so fully pocked — so free and easy on the draw
The Scholastic
These scientific tests ere confirmed independently by a consulting laboratory with more than 15 years' experience in cigarette research.
is our 01^“ ’	tn
analytical fto^8 "Based o^ ^oigarettes
six ma-3Oi
are the tn
FOR SMOOTHNESS ANO MILDNESS
There’s never a rough puff in a Lucky!
2
Via N. Y. Central
Editor:
We of the Metropolitan Club would like to take this opportunity to thank publicly the New York Central Railroad and Mr. Barnard Deegan, South Bend 9 Passenger Agent, for the excellent service given to the men who took the “Pacemaker” over the Easter holidays.
It was largely through the efforts of Mr. Deegan that the students from the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut area received the opportunity to purchase reduced roundtrip tickets for the vacation travel. Mr. Deegan’s frequent trips to the campus to set up the machinery for the students and his last minute checks at the station before train time helped a great deal in the hectic last minutes before we rolled East. How thoroughly he did his work can be attested to when it is known that approximately 200 Notre Dame men traveled via the Central at Easter.
It is hoped that this move by the ’‘ail-road will set a precedent for coming vacation travel. If this happens, we can again thank Mr. Deegan.
The Officers of the Metropolitan Club, A	Al Laporte, President
What’s New in Music?
Editor:	■
We at Catholic University receive copies of the Scholastic via the college newspaper exchange route. As I leafed through the latest edition, I came to the conclusion that Jim Brett’s music column (March 10, p. 33) does not accomplish the purpose for which it was intended.
As far as I can see, Mr. Brett has completely avoided the issue at hand— and I refer to his obligation as a music “critic”—to present some sort of intelligent analysis of current releases. He has filled his allotted space with a collection of insipid comments on seven dull tunes. If he intends to make a policy of mentioning such songs (?) he should at least take some sort of critical stance and hold to it.
Certainly there are many concurrent events in the music world of much more importance than the release of Dinah Shore’s latest opus. The emergence of a new Stan Kenton “Innovations” orchestra dedicated to destroying “. . . the stagnation which hangs over the music business” (as Stan puts it) is worthy of an entire column. Likewise, the forming of a 1950 band by Charlie Shavers,
(Continued on Page 32)
(Pat. Pend.)
winner either way
new and different pullover that g-i-v-e-s
Tailored gabardine in front.. .
knitted comfort in back ... smart all around
Short sleeves, §4.95; long sleeves, S5.95
Van Hensen v.
"the world’s smartest” SUlflS
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK1, N. Y .

The Place to Go for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
B April 21, 1950
3
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
With the development of Neoprene Type W
Science Again Outpoints Mire
Motor mountings, wire and cable, sponge, gaskets, swim caps are among possible uses for Du Pont’s new Neoprene Type W.
NEOPRENE — the chloroprene rubber produced by Du Pont research— has long outpointed natural rubber onmany counts. Because of its greater resistance to chemicals, flame, heat, sunlight, weathering, oxidation, oils, grease and abrasion, it is widely used in such products as industrial hose, conveyor and transmission belts, insulated wire and cable, hospital sheeting, gloves and automotive parts.
Until recently, however, certain natural rubber compositions couldn’t be beaten when it came to "permanent set” characteristics. Released from the pressure of prolonged deformation, they returned more nearly to their original shape.
• This recovery factor is important to some manufacturers, particularly the people who make gaskets, seals,
.....w ww ,	..... ...... ......................................... .we* .-.•.... .£ A.A.JH
diaphragms, sheet packing, soft rolls and vibration-dampening devices.
NEW PRODUCT NEEDED
Much as they wanted to use neoprene because of its other superiorities, they often needed more resistance to permanent deformation than it afforded. So they used natural rubber, but were never quite satisfied with the way it resisted deterioration in severe service.
Du Pont scientists went to work to solve the problem. Skilled research chemists, physicists, engineers and others pooled their efforts. The result was a new polymer named Neoprene Type W.
NEOPRENE TYPE W INTRODUCED’
Chemically, the new neoprene is quite similar to previous types. But
Jackson Laboratory, Deepwater, N. J., one of Du Pont’s laboratories which participated in the development of Neoprene Type W.
its molecular structure has been changed so that the mechanical properties of its compositions are more nearly like those of rubber. With Neoprene Type W, it is possible to producevibration-dampeningdevices that are not only highly resistant to oils, heat, grease and sunlight, but recover better than rubber from prolonged pressure.
Neoprene Type W also provides the basis for compositions that have a low modulus of elasticity—are easy to stretch. More attractive colors are possible. Soon it may appear in such articles as swim caps, where bright colors and head comfort are important. The brighter-colored compositions should also appeal to makers of appliance cords, coasters, sink mats, stove mats and toys.
In developing the uses of Neoprene Type W, Du Pont is working with hundreds of manufacturers and distributors. Once again a "partnership” of big and small businesses will cooperate to give Americans the benefits of an advance in science.
★ ★ ★
SEND FOR "The Story of Coal, Air and Water,” a 28-page illustrated booklet describing the chemical ingenuity behind the development of neoprene, nylon, and other products. For your free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington, Delaware.
■EG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
GreatDramatic Entertainment—Tune in "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
4
The Scholastic
‘the week
by Jack McGoldrick = t
Top of the Week
The robins and other little feathered folk come early to Indiana. . . .
Forecast: changing
It’s said that variety is the spice of life. If this is true, then northern Indiana weather should be better seasoned than the wood in Washington Hall. Where else can you have a real, live blizzard, plus rain, floods, windstorm, ten below freezing and sixty-five degree weather—all within the octave of Easter Sunday? Even the little birds were faked out this year. Those well-fed robins that arrived from points south a few weeks ago, now look hungrier than some of the students. One of the little winged creatures was complaining bitterly about the post-Easter snow, until he was reminded by a resident of Farley that actually, Red Robin is better off than Sam Student. Said Sam to Red: “we’ve got to take what the weatherman has to offer until June . . . you birds can shove off for as long as you want—without being-cut out of class.”
lots of laffs, since Ernie Simon knows absolutely nothing about baseball.
Over on WIND (appropriate call letters), Bert Wilson does the games from Wrigley Field. He can be identified by his pet phrase, which is “we don’t care who wins, as long as it’s the Cubs.” Bert gets particularly excited during a Cub rally (man on first and only two out) when they only need eight runs to tie it up. A Chicago Tribune columnist said the other day, “we don’t know yet who’s going to throw out the first ball at Wrigley Field, but we do know that Bert Wilson will throw the first fit.” WJVA in South Bend will also carry the Wilson broadcasts of most of the Cub games.
If you can pick up WHBF in Benton Harbor on your crystal set, you can listen to Harry Heilman do the Detroit Tigers games. As a former major league ballplayer, he makes up for a monotone voice by a real knowledge, and expert interpretation of the game.
And don’t foi-gat the Notre Dame games from Cartier Field, which will all be broadcast over WND.
Life at Notre Danie: VI
George Bregel, known in the Commerce school as “Chubby” received an
unusually low grade on a test the other day. As the prof slipped the paper to George, he remarked: “Mr. Bregel, you appear to be better fed than you are taught.” To which Chubby replied: “that’s because I feed myself, and you teach me.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . because the weather here is for the birds.
WRANGLERS OPEN
The Wranglers, oldest discussion group on campus, are accepting new members this week. Applications must be presented in writing before April 26 to:
Chairman
Membership Committee
310 Alumni Hall
Notre Dame
Applicants must be able to show a scholastic average of 85 per cent or better.
Play Ball
As we go to press, the major league baseball season is just about underway. The citrus circuit games were enough to whet the appetites of the baseball fanatics hereabouts, and it looks as if 1950 student interest in the national pasttime will be greater than ever. On a cosmopolitan campus like this, there are loyal fans of all sixteen major league teams, but unfortunately, nearby radio and television outlets aii- only the games from Chicago. Of course, the Cubs and Sox are daily subjected to treatments by the other clubs, so you’re bound to catch your favorite sometime.
One interesting phenomenon about hearing the games here in the middlewest is'the funny little men who do the play-by-play. For the benefit of Freshmen and transfer students who have never heard a game from Chicago, the WEEK will fill up a little space in a discussion of these baseball broadcasts:
The White Sox games are done by Bob Elson (WJJD, 1180 kc.). Bob is a vociferous gentleman who is slightly partial to the hometown lads. He constantly reminds his listeners to “stick with those Sox,” and to “listen to Ernie Simon’s musical scoreboard” after each game. This fifteen minute feature is good for
April 21, 1950
IT’S NOT TOO LATE! You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe With International Youth PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip
Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Inc. 150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
Entertainment
APRIL 21
PALAIS ROYALE—The Junior Class will put on its best bib and tucker for their big event of the year — the annual Prom. Pretty imports have been arriving all day and will grace the campus with their charms for the rest of the activity-packed weekend. April Showers is the theme of the formal and it is hoped the title won’t have anything to do with tonight’s weather. Jimmy Palmer and his band will start things going at 9:30. The witching hour is 1:30 with late permissions granted until 2:30.
COLFAX (through—perhaps—May 3)—That best-selling rib-tickler, Cheaper by the Dozen (Legion of Decency Rating A-l), has been made into a so-so film with Clifton Webb, Jeanne Crain and Myrna Loy heading the cast. Those who have read the book will be disappointed some at the miscasting of “Belvedere” Webb as the rambunctious pater of the family. The technicolor film has not caught all the humor of the book, but comes above average just the same.
AVON (through April 28)—If you like the tear-jerker type of film then My Foolish. Heart (B) is right up your alley. It handles a delicate problem with restraint and Susan Hayward turns in a fine performance in the leading role. Outside of these commendations, though, few from here should find this satisfying entertainment. Dana Andrews, Kent Smith and Robert Keith are the main supporting players.
PALACE (through May 26)—Columbia has rushed Cargo to Capetown into release, hoping to cash in on Broderick Crawford’s and John Ireland’s success in the prize-winning All the King’s Men. But the film isn’t worthy of these actors’ talents. The co-pic is The Pa’.i-mino (A-l), filmed in technicolor. The coming attractions summed it up perfectly: “A Boy, a Girl and a Horse”!
APRIL 22
CARTIER FIELD—Coach Leahy will pit his Freshmen team against the Varsity at 2:30 for an intra-squad tussle. The battle has been scheduled mainly for the benefit of all Junior* Promers.
WASHINGTON HALL—The schedule says Lost Patrol. After last week’s disappointment — Canadian Pacific instead of Wuthering Heights — anything can be expected. Patrol is an oldie starring Boris Karloff and Victor Mc-Laglen.
PALAIS ROYALE—An informal dance will be sponsored by the Student Council for all classes, with emphasis on the Junior Class party-goers. Gene Hull will play from 8:00 to 11:30.
APRIL 23
SACRED HEART CHURCH—The 9 o’clock Mass will be reserved for the Juniors and their dates. Curious onlookers can watch the after-Mass parade from the Sorin Hall steps and decide for themselves how the taste of the ’51 men stacks up.
APRIL 24
WASHINGTON HALL—Emmet Lavery’s The Gentlemen From Athens will begin a three-night run under the guidance of the University Theater.
APRIL 28
ERSKINE COUNTRY CLUB—A limited number of bids, 100 to be exact, are to be sold for the annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal. Gene Hull and his men will provide the music.
Next time you know you’re going to have to stay up late studying, pick up a jar of Nescafe*.
Nothing helps you through long sessions like coffee. And no coffee is easier to make than Nescafe. It’s instant. Simply put one teaspoonful of Nescafe in a cup, add hot water (preferably boiling) and stir.
Good? It’s delicious! Nescafe just naturally makes a better cup of coffee, because, it always keeps its roaster-fresh flavor until you release it in the cup.
Yes, coffee the Nescafe way gives you all the flavor and “lift” of pure, freshly roasted, freshly brewed coffee, without the fuss and muss of brewing.
Nescafe is the instant way to pure coffee enjoyment. If you like good coffee—you'll love Nescafe. Get a jar next time you shop —keep it on hand for all occasions.
Mo® people drink Nescafe7 than all other instant coffees I
•Nescafe (pronounced nes-cafay) is the exclusive registered trade-mark of The Nestle Company, Inc. to designate its soluble coffee product which is composed of equal parts of pure soluble coffee and added pure carbohydrates (dextrins, maltose and dextrose) added solely to protea the flavor.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91
April 21, 1950
No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.	'
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS__________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE  Features JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO ____________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY  Circulation ROBERT WILDEMAN __________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch. Roger Blatz. Justin Bolger. Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan. Bob Butler. Don Carbone, Jim Carrig. Jim Clark. Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon. John Corrigan. Frank Cotter. Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley DuIIea. Carl Eiberger. Bob Finney. Tom Foote, Bill Gorman. David Hayes, Jerry Howell. Tom Kelley, John Kelly. Rik Klein. Joe Lang. Lou Meece. Don Mulvihill. Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy. Tom Murphy. Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch. Tom Reedy. Neal Scarlett. George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss. Bill Delaney. Ray Dittrich. Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Joe Moresco. Ted Prahinski, Bill Reidy. Frank Ronnenberg. Bob Rubery. Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley. Larry McDermott. Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
From the Editor’s Desk..
Good Will Ambassadors
Between semesters this year and during the Easter vacation, both the band and the glee club made their annual tours throughout different sections of the country. Yesterday the band came back from a trip that began on Easter Sunday in Sterling, Illinois, and ended Tuesday in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Altogether, the band played in seven cities in six states.
The glee club made its tour in the east, opening the trip by appearing on Ed Sullivan’s television show with Milton Berle, Robert Q. Lewis and Ken Murray. After this auspicious beginning, the club followed up with a concert in New York’s Town Hall and other engagements in New Jersey, Buffalo and Toledo.
Accurate figures on all the persons who heard, the concerts is not available, but using an average figure of 1,500, around 25,000 people saw the two groups. When the fact that the same organizations made . a tour between semesters and that they have been making these trips for many years is taken into account, the amount of publicity these men get for the University is tremendous.
Everywhere the band and glee club go, the members are treated royally. Small towns, and often even the large ones, turn out in droves to hear them. The papers are filled with advertisements and stories about their arrival. In many cities, they are given a bigger welcome than the football team would get.
Besides representing the school, the members have a good time on the thousands-of miles tours. They are usually crammed into chartered busses, but they get a chance to see the country and make new friends. The band has arranged its tours into three cycles, so every man who is in the band for three years will get a chance to see most sections of the country. Top attraction for the glee clubbers this year was a six-day stay at the Biltmore Hotel in New York this year and a winter vacation in Florida last winter.
The days when the American public considered Notre Dame to be j'ust a “football school” are rapidly disappearing. It is the work of University publications, the science researchers and the band and glee club among others which is destroying the old and false idea altogether.
o	o	o
Member of the Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue. New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: A sure sign of the beginning of Spring at Notre Dame is the opening of the William J. Burke Golf Course. As the northern Indiana skies cleared and the weather got warmer, hundreds of students polished up their clubs and headed for the fairways. The couple on the cover are just finishing their 18 as the sun sinks.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
Friend in Need
With the Notre Dame Foundation still lacking §512,000 to meet the costs of the new Science Building, civic leaders in South Bend have backed a Greater Notre Dame Fund to raise the remaining amount. Men from all over the city are directing the large-scale drive which is scheduled to be completed some time in May. The affair is well-organized, even to the point of an official headquarters on Main Street.
The men behind the drive have good reasons for pushing it. They cite the fact that the University is one of South Bend’s largest businesses and employs a great number of people. Besides this the students do a lot of buying in the local shops. Any building that will be done in Notre Dame’s long-range plans will be done by South Bend architects and contractors. Surely these reasons are impressive, but we believe that probably the biggest reason why South Bend is cooperating so whole-heartedly is that the city and the University’ have been long-time friends and have helped each other repeatedly.
April 21, 1950
7
them auf Philip Morris l ■■ ^***^^** lMdin9 br’"d >• V89e«’h
In Just ONE MINUTE... you can prove to yourself PHILIP MORRIS is definitely less irritating - therefore MORE ENJOYABLE—than the brand you’re now smoking *
■ . .. light up a PHILIP MORRIS. THEN, just take a puff-DON'T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
And NOW ...
. • • light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
MAKE NO MISTAKE . . . Only ONE cigarette is recognized by eminent medical authorities as definitely less irritating. That cigarette is PHILIP MORRIS!
7 A' J
w CIGARETTE HANGOVER r"nS M°RE PLEASURE!

MORRIS orer America!
Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
। VOLUME 91, NUMBER 22
APRIL 21, 1950
Annual Junior Prom Revelry Begins Tonight With 'April Showers' Theme at Palais Royale
Tonight, some 300 Juniors and Seniors and their- dates will make merry during the 1950 Junior Prom in South Bend’s Palais Royale ballroom. Beginning at 9:30 p.m., .the dance will continue until 1:30 a.m. Those students attending the dance will have until 2:30 a.m. to get back to their rooms.
Decorations for the Prom are scheduled to follow an “April Showers” theme. With this appropriate idea, the Juniors have adequately transformed the staid ballroom.
The Prom-goers will be led by the co-chairmen and their dates. Miss Kathleen Gill will be escorted by Mike Jacobs of Alumni Hall. Kathleen, a sophomore at St. Catherine’s college at St. Paul, Minn., is from Minneapolis.
The other queen, Miss Joe Anne Cummings, is the date of Tom Meyer. Hailing from Wilmette, Ill., she is a sophomore at Chicago’s Mundelein college.
After- listening to the sweet music of Chicago’s Jimmy Palmer, the dance-• goers will have plenty of other events
Miss Kathleen Gill
scheduled to insure enjoyment of the weekend.
Saturday afternoon, Frank Leahy and his lads will put on a special two-hour scrimmage for the cavorters. From 2:30 until 4:30, the gridders will go through their program.
Miss Joe Ann Cummings
That night, most of the couples will probably attend the Monogram Dance sponsored by the Student Council. The dance, to be held in the Palais Royale, will begin at 8 and continue until 11. Arrival and departure at the informal affair is optional.
Sunday morning, the couples wall have the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church reserved for them.
GRADUATING SENIORS
Any Senior graduating in June or August who did not have his picture taken for the DOME of 1950, is asked to bring or mail h's name and home address to the Publications Office in Farley Hall basement. This will insure his receiving a copy of the book by mail when they are published.
Student Play Opens For 3 Days on Monday
By BOB FINNEY
The next production of the University Theatre, 77ie Gentleman from Athens, by Emmet Lavery, will be given next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington Hall. After making the discovery before Easter that it should be top-flight entertainment, we wanted to know how the play was actually shaping up in the hands of the local talent. So we braved the sub-zero temperatures of Washington Hall last Friday night to see what we could see.
What we saw was encouraging. Truthfully, we found ourselves enjoying it so much that we stayed longer than we had ’ intended to. The players were working ; on the first two acts while we were there, ! and it was the first rehearsal without ; books. Action as well as lines was stress-	i
ed and there were many pauses as Direc-	j
tor Hanley pointed out the best gesture i or the best position to his actors.	i
Lou Garippos as Steven Socrates i Christopher seemed made for the part | of a small town racketeer who suddenly j finds himself in the big league, even i down to a racketeer’s “dialect.”	i
A particularly good comedy scene was | the heated discussion of the hero and his I sidekick’s blackmailing attempt between ! a gushy congresswoman, played very well by Ann Gullia, and two congress- | men, leaders of “Sock” opposition.	I
All the actors seemed to be enjoying | the play themselves, and made up an I appreciative audience when they were - | not actually on stage. We found that 1 play directors sound a lot like football I coaches, giving their charges the old	|
“hopeless” line: “This thing goes on in	g
about a week and if you don’t get to 1 work we’ll never be ready.” But Pro- 1 fessor Hanley confided to us on the side that he thought the play was shaping up very well.
The play revolves around Steven Socrates Christopher from Athens, Cali- i fornia, a newly-elected congressman, who ■ learns many things. He learns that his fellow congressmen aren’t the pillars of
(Continued on Page 32)
April 21, 1950
9
I
Knights Announce Dance And Other Spring Plans
Chairman Jim Slattery has announced that the 1950 Knights of Columbus Spring Formal will be held next Friday at the Erskine Country Club. Gene Hull and his orchestra will supply music for the occasion, which is strictly formal. Girls are requested, however, not to wear flowers.
Only 100 bids will be issued and the affair is for Knights only; the bids are priced at four dollars, including tax. They may be obtained from Hall representatives or from the K. of C. officers. The dance will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.; 2 o’clock residence permissions have been secured. Tom Carroll is Ticket Chairman and Tom Feeney, Arrangements Chairman.
The Knights are also completing plans for their annual spring picnic, set for May 18 at Hudson Lake. Chairman Art McGrath says refreshments and transportation will be provided. The picnic, too, is for members only. The 1950 Bengal Bout Banquet will be held next Wednesday, at 7:30 p.m. at the Ramble Inn, for fighters and committeemen of this year’s bouts.
A First degree initiation is scheduled for May 2 and prospective members are requested to contact K. of C. headquarters in the basement of Walsh Hall. Council Elections will be conducted at the last meeting of this year, May 16.
Campus NRO Unit to Get New Executive Officer
Commander Sigmund A. Bobczynski, USN, has received orders to replace Commander B. F. McMahon, USN, present executive officer of the Notre Dame NROTC unit, in August, 1950, and assume the duties of executive officer here. Commander McMahon has been promoted to the rank of Captain, effective in June, but he does not know his new assignment yet.
Commander Bobczynski comes to Notre Dame with a distinguished record and nine years in submarine service. He was graduated from the Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1939 with a B.S. degree. He then completed a course at the U. S. Submarine school in New London, Conn., finishing in April, 1941. He served on submarines all through the war, and during the course of the war he received the Silver Star- and three Bronze Stars. At present he is commander of the submarine USS Diablo.
The new executive officer of the Naval Cadet unit is married and has four children. He will report here on July 15.
10
Co-Chairmen Reveal 1950 Senior Ball Plans
The class of 1950 received its first announcement this week about plans for the annual Senior Ball from the co-chairmen, John Thornton and Verne Kelley. The affair, which touches off a complete weekend for the departing Seniors, will be held May 12 in the Navy Drill Hall.
Opening time for the dance has been set at 10 a.m. and will last until 2 a.m. Residence will be at 3 a.m. Car permissions will be granted for the weekend, whch has also been planned to provide a maximum of entertainment for Seniors and their dates.
Co-chairmen Thornton and Kelley have released the names of men working on the class program for that
Chairmen Verne Kelley and John Thornton
weekend. Business Manager for the Ball is Robert Schlosser; Scribe, Dick Willenbrink; Favors, John Donnelly; Tickets, William Shanahan; Arrangements, Richard Fitzgibbons and Roy Porter; Rooms, Donald Romano and William Eggers; Refreshments, John Whalen and Edmund Foley; and Publicity, Joseph Herrington and Louis Louro.
Special Activities will be handled by Kevin O’Shea and Charles Mouch; Property Maintenance, T. V. Williams; and the enormous decorating problem which the Drill Hall presents has been assigned to Architects Edward Denning and Vincent DeCrane. Production elements of decorating are under John Ferry and Robert Rohling.
Saturday afternoon, May 13, has been declared by the Athletic Department the occasion of the Old Timers game. Plans for either a buffet supper or an informal dance after the game
are being directed by Andrew Me- I Cormack.
Sunday morning of the Senior Ball weekend, the graduates and their guests will have a section in Sacred Heart church reserved for them at the 10:10 mass, according to Rev. Richard J. Grimm, c.s.c., prefect of Religion.
An orchestra has not as yet been selected but Thornton and Kelley have been consulting with music agencies • during the past month. Bands that have been sought but have been signed elsewhere include Jimmy Dorsey, Glen Gray, Ralph Flanagan, Claude Thornhill, and Freddie Martin. Since prospects at the moment are not what the committee would wish them, the cochairmen have decided to delay in hopes of a better selection.
Bids will be on sale in the lobby of the dining hall, beginning in approximately one week. There will also be several ticket sellers in the Senioi-halls (Dillon, Walsh, Howard and Sorin). Room reservations may be obtained when the bid is purchased. Those wishing to work on decorations should contact either John Ferry in 230 Walsh or Robert Rohling in 332 Walsh. - « * ■ .
Summer Scholarships Fixed by Nansen Fund -
Two scholarships of §600 each are to be awarded qualified graduate students wishing to attend the American Graduate School in Denmark during the year 1950-51 by the Nansen Fund. The grants stipulate that the successful candidates also attend the Oslo Summer School.
The Fund, established recently in Houston, Texas, through the cooperation of Jesse H. Jones, former Secretary of Commerce, and a group of Texas businessmen, has the purpose of promoting greater understanding between peoples of different nations by exchange of students and other education exchange activities.
Courses of study are held at the University of Copenhagen until the middle of March, when the School moves to the University of Aarhus for the remainder of the term. Lectures are given in English by leading -Danish professors, officials of the public administration, and other experts in specialized fields.
The Admissions office for the school is located at 588 Fifth Avenue, New York 19, N. Y. In addition to the two awards for study in Denmark, the Nansen Fund will also provide scholarships for study in Norway and Sweden. Twenty-eight students, representing 17 states, are currently enrolled in the Danish program.
The Scholastic
Council Elections Set For Early May Date
Greater .efficiency in Council activities is the aim of a group of amendments passed at this week’s assembly. Almost all elections having been scheduled for the second Tuesday in May,
the Stay Council will be elected on third Monday.
Those representatives chosen in Tuesday elections will sit in with old body and come into power at
the
the the the
semester’s end. In the past, .election of Council members has been held in the fall. In virtue of the constitutional changes, it is hoped that new members may become better organized as a unit and more acquainted with parliamentary procedure during the summer hiatus.
Bill Jonak, Vice-Commodore of the Sailing Club, addressed the assemblage in quest of a $500 loan for his group. Stressing the club’s recent expansion in membership, he brought out the need for a corresponding growth in facilities. The Student Council tendered its approval to the loan, further action to be taken on the matter.
A request for funds by the International Affairs Club to send representatives to a meeting in Anderson, Ind., was granted. The assembly will be patterned after the United Nations,
with Notre Dame representing Finland, and the Ukraine.
The Student Council dance Palais Royale this Saturday
France,
at the will be
known as the Monogram Informal. The Monogram Club, it was brought out, has no connection with this, said club being inactive.
Outstanding students in Spanish are to be awarded books as prizes, according to the La Raza club’s approved proposal. The club’s plan to plant a tree, bearing a plaque commemorating their organization, somewhere on the campus, also received the nod from the Council.—Charlie Dullea
Chem. Engineers Hear Lecture
Last Wednesday, Mr. Alex C. Frederick of the Eutectic Welding Alloy ® Corporation of New York presented a demonstration on welding techniques and a film entitled “The Eutectic Story” for the members of the A.I.Ch.E.
An open discussion on the “Aims and Objectives of Chemical Engineering Training” will be conducted Thursday evening, April 27, in Room 213, Chemistry Hall. Both faculty members and students will participate.
Club members will meet at 7 p.m. on Mav 4 for a tout- of Drewry’s.
• .. ..L...........
Construction to Begin on Four New Buildings On Notre Dame Campus in Coming Months
By J. K. O’BRIEN
The long-awaited Science Building will soon be a reality. In addition to this, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, recently announced that three other buildings will be erected on the campus during 1950-51. These four buildings, a part of Notre Dame’s $25,000,000 long-range building program will be, besides the Science Building, a Liberal and Fine Arts Building, a new residence hall and a Notre Dame Inn.
The cost of the new structures will total $5,000,000, all of which is being made possible by endowments and gifts from alumni and friends of the University.
Construction on three of the buildings will begin as soon as preliminary plans for them are completed. Over $1,238,000 has been raised to meet the costs of the $1,750,000 Science Building and work vail began on this structure as soon as the difference of $512,000 is obtained.
Civic leaders in South Bend have taken it upon themselves to raise this $512,000 deficit. As announced last week, a group of prominent South Bend citizens will soon open a wide-scale campaign to raise the funds. Preliminary groundwork was laid for the campaign at a recent banquet held on the campus. Mr. Harold S. Vance, president and chairman of the board of directors of the
Liberal and Fine Arts Building scheduled to go up soon.
Studebaker Corporation, was named as director of the fund-raising program. He will be assisted by other South Bend residents and Foundation officials from Notre Dame.
Facilities Crowded
In making public the building program, Father Cavanaugh pointed out that enrollment at the University has risen to 5000 from a pre-war level of
3200 and that all facilities on campus are crowded.
The new Liberal and Fine Arts Building will house most of the departments of the College of Arts and Letters. Cost of this building is set at $1,500,000, exclusive of equipment. The funds for the building were donated by an anonymous benefactor. Besides alleviating crowded conditions in the Administration Building, the new structure will possibly contain quarters for the Wightman Memorial Art gallery. The Wightman Memorial will be transferred there from the Library, making more space available for library use in that building.
The Notre Dame Inn, also a gift from an anonymous donor, will have between 75 and 100 rooms to accommodate parents of students, visitors and guests of the University. Hotel space in South Bend often proves inadequate for visitors to Notre Dame during the football season, graduations and weekend dances. Cost of this building will be about $800,000.
The new residence hall, the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial, is being made possible by a gift of $1,000,000 from Mi’s. Fisher. Of this sum, $750,000 will be used to construct the hall, while $250,000 will provide a fund for student loans. Fisher Hall will be similar to other residence halls on the campus, housing about 2 0 0 students on four floors.
The Science Building is planned to overcome present crowded conditions in the laboratories and classrooms of the Departments of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics. A 4,000,000-volt and a 2,000,000-volt atom smasher will also be located in the Science Building.
The Liberal and
Fine Arts Building will face the Rockne Memorial at the opposite end of the quadrangle, immediately east of Engineering Hall and the Chemical .Engineering Building. The Notre Dame Inn will be built on the northeast corner of the Burke' golf course.
Fishei- Hall will be located west of the Dining Hall and south of the Rockne. The Science Building will be between Jie Fieldhouse and Chemistry Building.
April 21, 1950
11
Speakers Announced for Trade Conference To Be Sponsored by Commerce College
By BRYAN COUGHLIN
A tentative schedule and some of the speakers for the third annual World Trade Conference, which will be held in College of Commerce on May 11, have been announced.
The morning session will consist of round table discussions of various problems in foreign trade, such as Advertising, Traffic, Management, and the like. Luncheon will follow at which William S. Honneus, Advertising Manager of Time International, New York City, will speak on “Public Relations in Foreign Trade,” The afternoon public panel discussion will be followed by a reception for the guests and speakers in the Rockne Memorial and a dinner at the Oliver Hotel.
The leaders of the morning round table are: Traffic and Freight Forwarding, Alfred J. Kelley, Treasurer of the D. C. Andrews and Company, import and export freight agents; Advertising and Sales Promotion, Mr. A. E. Albini, Advertising Manager of the Studebaker Export Corporation; Finance and Credit, Mr. C. J. Reuthling, Assistant Cashier of the First National-Bank of Chicago; and of Export Management, Fitzhugh Granger, Merchandising Manager of International Harvester Company.
The speakers that have been announced for the afternoon public panel discussions include: Mr. Honneus, Mr. E. L. Davidson, of the Chicago Regional Office of the United States Department of Commerce, Martin H. Plotnick, President of Martin Plotnick and Company, and the above round table discussion leaders.
Mr. Denis A. H. Wright, Superintending Trade Consul (British) for the Midwestern Region, will speak at the dinner on, “The Dollar Gap—The British Foreign Trade Problem.” Mr. Wright was born and educated in England, receiving his B.A. (Second Class Honours) in the Honour School of Modern History from Oxford University in 1932, but he spent the first ten years of his life in Hong Kong. He was in business in London for the first few years after his graduation, but has been in the service of the British government since 1939: Vice Consul at the British Consulate in Constanza, Rou-mania from 1939 to 1941; in Turkey from February, 1941 to 1945, in charge of the British Consulates at the ports of Trebizond (to 1943) and Mersin (19431945); from May, 1946 to December, 1948 he was Commercial Attache to the British Embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, where he served on many delega
12
tions and commissions for negotiating trade agreements, compensations, and conferences.
In January, 1949, he was appointed to his present position. This is one of the four newly created posts, Atlantic, Pacific, Southern, and Mid-Western Superintending Trade Consuls, whose purpose is to promote British exports to the United States by finding new markets and distributors in the U. S. for British exporters.
More than 100 businessmen interested in foreign commerce are expected to attend the Conference. Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing, is Chairman of the Conference.
Theologian Speaks on 'Church and State'
Rev. J. Courtney Murray, S.J., professor of theology at Woodstock College, Maryland, will address faculty and students in Washington Hall this evening at 8 p.m. on the topic “Church and State.” Sunday night at 8:15 p.m.
Rev. J. Courtney Murray, SJ.
will mark the appearance of Zino Fran-cescatti, violin soloist, with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in the Drill Hall.
Father- Murray, one of the most distinguished of American theologians, is in the forefront among those Catholic scholars attempting to answer the charges of those who claim the Church is seeking through political pressure to
acquire a position of preference in the *-United States. He is editor of Theological Studies, the outstanding American theological journal.
Time magazine recently carried an account of the debate between Father Murray, who is to speak tonight, and Dr. Bowen, president of the Princeton Theological Seminary. The theologian has also addressed students at Harvard University concerning Paul Blanshard’s X book, American Freedom and Catholic ~-Power.
Mr. Francescatti will appear as violin soloist with Edwyn Hames wielding the baton. Before coming to the United States the virtuoso was already famous throughout Europe and South America. Owner of the fabulous “Hart” Stradi-varius, dated 1727, he has played with every major- orchestra and on every leading concert course in the country. The artist’s father, a cellist, studied violin with Sivori, the only direct pupil of the renowned Nicolo Paganini.
May 3, 4 and 5 will see Washington Hall occupied each night at 8 p.m. Indiana’s Secretary of State, Charles Fleming, will speak on safety the first night. On the next evening, Professor Mortimer J. Adler of the University of Chicago is to investigate the subject of Character and Intelligence. Baritone Earle Spicer will appear on the third evening in a recital.
Lawyers Complete Annual Ball Plans
Edward Coleman, chairman of the annual spring Law Ball, has announced completion of arrangements for a gala evening of dancing at the Erskine Country Club Friday, May 5, 1950. Future barristers will dance to the music of Myron Walz and his ten-piece orchestra from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m., -with resident permissions until 2 a.m.
The dance will be semi-formal with the wearing of formal dress optional for the male contingent.
Miss Virginia Koschnick, a Senior at St. Mary’s College, will be the honored queen and guest of Chairman Coleman. Miss Koschnick is from Indianapolis, Ind.
Committee chairmen have been announced for the affair with John “Pep” Fanelli acting as chairman of the ar- ’ rangements committee, Vincent Cunningham and Armand D’Agostino in charge of decorations. William Etheridge will head the bid committee and George Brady will lead the committee on music.	*
In the words of Coleman, “De minimis non curat est” (the law does not concern itself with trifles), or, in other words, the lawyers will be promised an evening of the best entertainment
W
The Scholastic '
Notre Dame Receives NFCCS Praise for Its Contribution to Overseas Service Program
Council to Resume Dances on Saturday
By DON CARBONE
For its outstanding accomplishments in raising funds for the Overseas Service Program, the University of Notre Dame received high commendation from the seventh national congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, meeting in Pittsburgh last week. The University’s contribution of $10,000 led the nation for the third consecutive year.
Concerning Notre Dame, the NFCCS officers and chaplains expressed the hope that a school of such prestige would soon take a more vibrant part in the organization.
Toward this end the Notre Dame delegation of Jim Garvin, Ed Farrell, Bill Kirchner, and Art Frericks conferred with other representatives and the national officers, and have formulated plans to revitalize the campus council.
The resulting policy for next year will be put into effect during the Freshman orientation program in September. Next month Rev. Joseph E. Schieder, a representative of the National Catholic Welfare Council, will visit the campus to discuss these plans with members of the administration and local NFCCS officers. Reorganization of the national commission set-up is also planned as part of next year’s national program, outlined by the congress.
The NFCCS has received international recognition for its work in Foreign Student Relief, which includes the placing of D.P. students in Catholic colleges in the United States. President Harry S. Truman and other national dignitaries sent congratulatory messages to the congress. It was voted to continue the OSP fund-raising drive.
The Notre Dame delegation, while expressing its approval of the fundraising campaign, pointed out that the idea was losing its appeal with the average Catholic college student, and suggested that projects similar to the Notre Dame Charity Chest be inaugurated as part of the national program. A motion to that effect was immediately passed.
Dick Murphy, vice-president in charge of international affairs, reported on a recent audience with Pope Pius XII. His Holiness commended the work of the NFCCS, particularly regarding student pilgrimages to Europe.
The congress passed a series of resolutions pertaining to international, national, and scholastic affairs. One of the most important measures was
Bill Kirchner
a recommendation to President Tinman that “he appoint within the near future a personal envoy to His Holiness the Pope.”
In the elections at the closing session of the convention last Saturday, Jim Garvin, president of the Notre Dame Council of the NFCCS and campus OSP chairman, was nominated for the post of first vice-president in charge of regions. He was defeated by Dick Breen of the St. Paul-Minneapolis Region.
Louis Manderino, chairman of the congress, was elected to succeed Brick-ley as national president. Both are students at St. Vincent’s College in Latrobe, Pa.
The four Notre Dame delegates were all active in the convention proceedings. In addition to his candidacy, Garvin represented the Chicago Region on the resolutions committee. Fan-ell served on the nominations committee, while Kirchner gave the nominating address for Garvin and took part in the Student Government Panel.
Frericks was praised by the Liturgy Commission for his part in promoting Notre Dame’s accomplishments in lay liturgy work. Frericks is chairman of the Chicago Region Liturgy Commission.
South Bend’s Palais Royale Ballroom will be the scene of extensive activity this weekend. Following the Junior Prom there Friday night, the Student Council spring series of dances will be reopened with the Monogram Dance Saturday night.
The first dance in the series, an innovation this year by the Council, was held in the Palais Feb.. 2. The Monogram Dance is to be held Saturday night, April 22, from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Residence for Notre Dame is 12 midnight while St. Maly’s has 11:30 permissions.
Music will be provided by Gene Hull and his orchestra. Bids may be purchased at the door for $1.50, and times of arrival and departure are optional, another innovation by the Council.
Manager for the affair will again be Verne Kelley, senior representative on the Student Council. Tom Farley will act as assistant. This dance will be the second in the series of three Student Council dances to be presented this semester. The third is tentatively scheduled for May 6.
Car permissions have been extended to Junior Prom-goers by the Office of Student Welfare. Only those who attend. the Prom will receive the permissions however.
54 in Pilgrimage Group; Plan June 10Departure
Four “displaced persons” will be included in the Notre Dame pilgrimage to Europe.
At a meeting of the pilgrimage group last Tuesday night, F. W. Edgerton of Edgerton’s Travel Service, arranger of the tour, announced that the 54 passengers more than filled one plane. Four persons were left.
But Mr. Edgerton had a solution. The four who-volunteered to be “displaced” will leave on another plane on June 8, two days before the main group embarks. They will spend the two days either in Ireland or in England, all accommodations prearranged, and rejoin the others in London.
The main body of travelers will leave New International Airport in New York City on the afternoon of June 10, returning on the morning of July 11. Oddly enough, it was not mentioned when the “displaced four” will arrive home.
The meeting was essentially intended as a question period. Detailed information, answering all questions, will be sent to each pilgrim in a few days.
£ April 21, 1950
13
Glee Club Stars on Ed Sullivan TV Show
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke directs the Glee Club on TV’s Toast of the Town program in New York. The singers also presented a concert at Town Hall while in the East.
and in Springfield, III., Notre Dame £ alumni and friends heard the Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., instructor in Political Science. At Grand Rapids,' Michigan, the Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.s.C., professor of English, was the guest speaker.
Two members of the staff of the Laboratories of Bacteriology (LO-BUND) made Universal Notre Dame Night addresses. Professor James A. Reyniers, Director of LOBUND, spoke ft in Rochester, N. Y., and Professor Robert F. Ervin, Business Administrator of the laboratories, addressed the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, Wis.
John B. Kanaley, co-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation in New York City, spoke at Providence, R. I. On the program at Saginaw, Mich., was the Staff Project Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, John N. Cackley, while John P. Burns, Assist-ant Alumni Secretary and Managing * Editor’ of the Notre Dame Alumnus, addressed a group at Dixon, Ill. Professor Edward F. Barrett, of the College of Law, was the guest speaker at Monroe, Michigan.
Here at South Bend, the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley heard Professor Thomas J. Stritch, Head of the Department of Journalism, and Hugh Burns, Athletic Trainer. The observance was held here on the campus.
Alumni Clubs Observe Universal ND Night
The twenty-seventh annual observ-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night was held last Monday night, April 17, when more than 20,000 Notre Dame alumni and friends paid tribute to the academic, cultural, patriotic and religious achievements of the University.
Notre Dame alumni and friends in 105 communities throughout the United States and in six foreign countries gathered for the annual observance. Many of the Notre Dame alumni club meetings heard talks by members of the Notre Dame administration and faculty.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.s.C., President of the University, spoke at the Chicago observance held Saturday night, April 15. Appearing on the Chicago program with Father’ Cavanaugh was Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law. Father Cavanaugh also spoke at the Baltimore, Md., observance on April 17.
In Detroit, ,Mich., the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. S. C., executive vice-president of the University, was the principal speaker. The Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations, spoke at the Memphis, Tenn., observance on April 11,
14
in New Orelans, La., on April 13, in St. Louis, Mo., and in Omaha, Neb., on April 18. Appearing with Father Murphy in Omaha was Frank Leahy, head football coach.
Elsewhere in the country, the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., University registrar, spoke in Los Angeles, Calif., on April 17, and in San Francisco, on April 18. Two other Notre Dame deans were on the speaking list. Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, spoke at Charleston, S. C., on April 17, and at Harrisburg, Pa., two days later. Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, was a guest at the Indianapolis, Ind., meeting.
Speaking at the Newark, N. J., gathering were two Notre Danre representatives: the Rev. Henry F. DeBaggis, C.S.C., instructor in Mathematics, and Edward W. Krause, director of Athletics. Hugh Devore, former ND head football coach and recently appointed to a similar capacity at New York university, was also on the Newark program.
The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, addressed observances in Elmira, N. Y., on April 16, and in Utica, N. Y., on April 17. In Camden, N. J., the Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., former Head of the Department of Religion here, spoke,
Spring ’Season' Opens With SMC Semi-Formal
St. Mary’s College opened the Spring social season last Saturday night with their annual Spring Formal dance. Sponsored by the Sodality of Our Lady under the General Chairmanship of Kay Motta, the semi-formal dance was held in the Social Hall and the Stapleton Lounge simultaneously. Music was provided by Gene Hull and Bud Simpson.
CLASS ELECTIONS
Because of an amendment to the constitution of the Student Council it will be necessary for the off-campus representative on the Student Council to be elected at the same time the class elections are held. This election is the second Tuesday of May. It is therefore desirable that the students living off-campus who desire to become candidates for this office submit their names to the Student Council, Room 111, Main Building, prior to April 24, 1950, the final date for admittance upon the ballot.
The requirements are the same as those outlined for other class offices, an academic average of 80%, and a clear disciplinary record.
The Scholastic
Chicago Band to Play At Frosh Spring Dance
Regardless of what the fickle Indiana weather may be like on May 5, the Freshmen and their dates will dance to the music of Chuck Granger and his orchestra amid a tropical settingin ‘‘Some Enchanted Evening” at the Palais Royale.
Chuck Granger
The orchestra, prominent in Chicago music circles, consists of 13 pieces, including Granger’s trumpet. A girl vocalist, Peggy Cummins, is also featured.
Freshmen Dance committee prepares for affair on May 5. Seated (I. to r.), J. Gallagher, B. Munns, J. Gores, R. Korzen, W. Reidy; standing (I. to r.), W. McMurray, W. Dorgan, M. Dolan, J. Blackburn, B. Kelly, T. Field, J. Kelley and T. Reedy.
Date problems for the dance are being handled by Jerry Kelley and Bill Dargan. Kelley is arranging a date bureau consisting of girls from nearby high schools and colleges. He may be reached any evening, between 7 and 9 o’clock, at 256 Zahm. For out-of-town dates accommodations at the LaSalle and Hoffmann Hotels have been procured at a reduced rate. Arrangements must be made by April 26 with Dargan at 204 Farley.
The semi-formal dance will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., and the Frosh will have 2 o’clock and car permissions for the evening. Corsages will not be allowed.
At ?3 per couple, bids are now being sold at the Dining Hall and by these hall representatives:
Farley: Don Hardin, Mike Begley, Joe McCauley and Mike McNulty;
Breen-Phillips: Bill Gaudreau, Joe Boivin, Tom Murphy and John Houck;
St. Ed’s: Gerry Marshall, Mickey Dolan, Bill Riley and Bill George.
Zahm: John Brady, Dave O’Leary and Al DeCrane.
FBI Chief Praises Symposium on Russia
J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has hailed the results of the recent Symposium on Soviet Russia as a valuable contribution “to every segment of our American society.” Writing to Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the FBI chief stated that ’such a Symposium . not only helps expose the errors of Communist thinking and the viciousness of their practices, but also “reveals the nature of the social framework in which it developed.”
Though unable to accept an invitation to attend in person, Mr. Hoover assigned a special FBI agent to attend in his behalf. A real service is rendered the country by such activities, he feels, by aiding competent scholars in penetrating to the very core of the Communist problem.
“Possession of the truth is the very life of a democracy,” Mr. Hoover continued, stressing that democracy trembles not before knowledge of it, but before ignorance. In this way, the fruits of such a Symposium are of value to every segment of American society. Speaking in behalf of lawenforcement, the Washington official declared that every strand of knowledge so developed, w-hich brings to light Communism’s falseness, “is not only a sei-vice to law enforcement, but to the American people which law enforcement serves.”
The convocation, featuring eight speakers w-ell versed with the inner-workings of Soviet Russia, was conducted under the auspices of the Committee on International Relations. Its purpose was to obtain, a deeper understanding of the nature and policies of the Soviet Union.
Late Daily Masses Said In Dillon and Cavanaugh Halls
Graduate and other off-campus students now have the opportunity to attend a later week-day Mass on campus. Rev. Richard J. Grimm, c.s.C., and Rev. Edmund J. Murray, c.s.C., prefects of Religion, have inaugurated Masses at 8:10 a.m. in the Dillon Hall i chapel at 8 a.m. at Cavanaugh Hall * daily except Sunday.
As a means of further promoting a greater devotion to the liturgy, the Mass in the Dillon chapel will be recitative three times a week if practicable.
The late Masses will be continued on a daily basis as long as attendance warrants it, Father Grimm said. The 7:20 a.m. Masses in both chapels are not affected.
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS
Off-campus engineers and architects who did not receive their issues of the “Technical Review” in the mail during the past week can pick up their copies in the Dean’s office in the Engineering Building.
April 21, 1950
15
Midnight, and the University sleeps.
tasks while the “army” slumbers.
Dawn comes on.
A
rises to a new day . .
"army
While students sleep through until dawn,
several
On duty every
long Indiana night is a
engineers are on duty at local buildings' heat and electricity.
They come, labor the setting and
the an-
on the
Classes were The residence since eleven,
campus in daylight, and depart between rising sun.
Midnight is past.
one stirs.
over seven hours ago. hall lights have been out and the last stragglers
have just signed in.
And yet, even in the late hours of the night, workmen toil about the area.
few lonely lights shine forth where the “sentries” stand post, keeping their solitary vigil over the vast encampment.
To them, the midnight tolling of bells only means the beginning of other day, for their tasks remain the “swing shift.” They rarely see
All is quiet. Sleep.
But here and there about the campus the “night watch” makes its rounds. A skeleton crew goes quietly about its
The University sleeps yet. Morning bells sound. The “watch” retires as the
T

Notre Dame s busy Student Infirmary is kept in operation through the night by
Soon after the hordes of hungry Notre Dame students vacate the tremendous Dining Halls a compact staff descends to wash and polish the marble floors each night.
Campus Night Watch Toils as Students Sleep
Heat and Power Plant regulating the University

nurses like Mrs.
Katherine Deloras Joies
Walt Zenner, a student worker, checks nightly the barriers leading up to the Library's second and third floor valuable and renowned Wightman Art Gallery

Debaters Selected For Army Tourney
The Notre Dame Debate Team been selected to participate in
has the
Fourth Annual West Point National
Invitational Debate Tournament to be
held April 27 to tary Academy.
Notre Dame is all parts of the
29 at the U.S. Mili-
one of 32 teams from United States to be
Forty and Eight American Legion Post, and the Air Force association will also give medals to outstanding Cadets. The Chicago Tribune will present two medals for excellence. The recipients of these awards will be announced in a future issue.
The next day, May 9, the inspecting party will go through the classes and check equipment. They will also look over the administrative and supply records.
28 and May 3. These lectures are sponsored by the International Relations Committee which was founded last Fall in order to study the interaction of religion and democracy in preserving international order. The Committee presented the Russian Symposium earlier this semester.
Marriage Institute Ends Second Successful Run


."rtV.
invited to enter the West Point Tour
nament. Teams were chosen, out 1,009 eligible schools, on the basis student population, regional interest debate, and the number of states each district.
oi of in in
Last Thursday, ND’s talkers invaded Texas for the first time in their history, participating in the University of Texas Invitational Tournament, held in Austin, Tex. Entering the Texas competition, the squad has won 35 debates, losing only six. Included in the victories are first place in the Boston University National Invitational Tournament and a tie for first in the Tan Kappa Alpha National Tournament at the University of Kentucky.
The Notre Dame first team is composed of William Carey, Pittsburgh, Pa., and William Dempsey, New Ulm, Minn. Leonard Sommer, a member of the Department of Speech, is director of forensics.
Air ROTC to Third Annual
Undergo
Italian Lectures Here On Western Europe
Sponsored by the Committee on International Relations, Dr. Maurio Einaudi, son of the first full-term president of the new Italian Republic, will deliver a series of eight lectures on “Christian Democracy in Western Europe” here during the next two weeks.
Now Cornell son of In his
a professor of Government at University, Dr. Einaudi is the Italian president Luigi Einaudi, lectures, he will trace the de
velopment of Christian democracies and also discuss concrete governmental programs in France and Italy. Mr. Einaudi traveled through those countries last summer gathering material for a
research project on economic and litical forces at work there since end of World War II.
Dr. Einaudi will present talks
po-the
at
4:15 p.m. on April 25, 26 and 27, and May 1, 2, and 4. The other two addresses will be given at 8 p.m. on April
The Marriage Institute has finished another successful course. The Institute was undertaken to supply the students with the necessary information about Christian Marriage. The forums were held at night to avoid any conflict with class schedules. This more convenient schedule, one night a week for eight weeks, resulted in the signing up of 275 students — largest

•r
z
The forums showed that the role of husband and father is an important part of education. The forums, mostly by laymen, were informal, with questions afterwards. With the exception of one night, they were for men only.
By the end of the eight-week series and the last of the 16 panel speakers, the students who attended the course of lectures realized at least one thing if nothing else — that life, and especially married life, consists of more than just movies, dinners, and dances. This realization is the beginning of conjugal wisdom and that is the first step to finding happiness and success in marriage.

The Third Annual Air ROTC unit at be held here on May specting party will Colonel Allison, Air
inspection of the Notre Dame will 8 and 9. The in-be headed by Adjutant General
of the Tenth Air Force, together with Major Horton Sickle, professor of Air Science and Tactics at Michigan State. The purpose of the inspection is to evaluate the Air ROTC program at Notre Dame and to check its progress.
Colonel Allison and Major Sickle will arrive at the campus on Monday, May 8. They, along with the officers of the
Notre Dame been invited Dining Room University.
Air ROTC unit, have
to lunch with the
in the Faculty officials of the
At 3:45 on Monday
afternoon, the
entire Corps of Cadets will pass in review in a parade to be held on the mall in front of the Rockne Memorial. The University Band will supply the music for the parade. At this time numerous awards will be made to outstanding cadets. The American Legion Auxiliary of the Department of Indiana will present $20 and a medal to the outstanding Air Cadet. The American Legion Post 284 of South Bend, the
"I hear they lowered the entrance requirements."





April 21, 1950
17
No Walks for Meals — No Lines to Wait in — And From the Campus’s
Most Unusual Residence Hall, It’s . . .
Seven Minutes to*t
The Cardinal leaned across the oak table and scrutinized the blueprints. They had been submitted to him here in Rome for his official approval. They were sent in by a group of Religious called the Congregation of Holy Cross who ran a college in a part of the Middle-West United States. The plans were for a seminary to be erected on the campus of this college for the Philosophy phase of the training of young men for the priesthood. Somehow the architect had made not one but two mistakes . . . there were no provisions made whatsoever for a kitchen or lavatories!
“What do they have there—angels?” asked the Cardinal. And for almost thirty years since that day Notre Dame men have asked the same question about the inhabitants of the “residence hall on the lake.” “Who are these ‘blackbirds of
Moreau Seminary was named after the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
the campus’?” “What do they do?” . . . “What’s the story here?”
To most of the ND student body, Ben-edicamus Domino is merely a phrase used by the priest at the end of Mass. To the Moreau seminarian it has the equivalent meaning of “Rise and Shine!” or “Hit the deck!” These are the words bellowed by the boy with the big brass bell which starts things rolling in the house named after Rev. Basil Anthony Mary Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the congregation. The “Regulator’s” voice, after he has climbed four flights of stairs, continuously ringing the bell, resembles a tired town crier; but at five in the morning Christopher Lynch would sound like Andy Devine . . . and besides, it’s easier on the ears than the ever-popular electric gongs of other halls.
Life is characterized by the bell. It is
the bell that calls the students to religious exercises, meals, chapel and classes; yet there is no resentment but rather a deep-felt joy as each knows that the bell represents the vox Dei, the £ manifestation of God’s will for them at that particular moment. At classtime the snowy pathways along' the lake are fringed with a black border as the Mo-rovians—tassel-cords swinging and capes flying—set out towards the Dome, seven minutes away.
From All Walks of Life
But who are these men you addressed as “Father” your Freshman year and now probably call “Brother” instead of “Mister”? First of all they’re not angels but ordinary Joes just like yourself. They wear the religious habit of the congregation—biretta, cassock, collar, cape and cord. Their ages run from 17 to 31; their backgrounds are even more diversified. Many of the “Misters” were students at Holy Cross Seminary from one to four years; others have held such past positions as chemist, coal-miner, mechanic, chicken-picker, reporter, insurance man, and tobacco salesman.
Some of the veterans among them include a gunner on a torpedo-bomber, parachute-packer, combat marine, radar specialist and a deck-officer on the surrender ship “Missouri”. Morovians represent the United States from Colorado to Massachusetts (and two from Texas) ; their patchwork pattern of personalities being joined by the common thread of desire to serve God.
Believing in “first things first,” their whole day of activities has the Tabernacle as its center; God is the hub of not only the religious, but also the intellectual activities of the nine priests, four brothers and seventy-seven seminarians who live in the yellow brick building.
The residence itself has religious simplicity but is far from drab. The library, while comparatively small, possesses a wide range of reading matter; the main accent is on Philosophy, the seminarian’s
18
The Scholastic
tltMtuA
Photos by Dick Gorman
ie Dome
John E. Fitzgerald
' “major” while at ND. A miniature bookstore carries all the necessities for personal and school use. Although monogrammed sweaters and beer steins are ^iot sold, the novelty of not paying for the goods received more than compensates. The books themselves are handed down from year to year in keeping with the vow of Poverty. Hence it is not unusual to find a seminarian using’ the same book one of his present teachers had while at Moreau.
At five-thirty on an average day the seminarians, washed, dressed and (the older ones) shaved, enter the chapel to begin a half-hour meditation on some Atopic chosen the night before. Mass be-'gins in the five-altar chapel at 6 a. m. While the Community or Main Mass is being said by the Superior—kindly, graying Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., the side altars of the Blessed Virgin, St. Joseph, St. Aloysius and the Sacred Heart are in continuous use. The latter altar displays a mammoth ten-foot wooden statue, hand-carved by Father Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., the famous sculptor, ^while he was a student.
Breakfast In Silence
After Mass and Thanksgiving, the seminarians file down the echoing corridor in black swanns to the “refectory” for breakfast—a walk of a full thirty seconds. All stand while grace is said in Latin, the language of the Church. The meal disappears quickly before the appetites of young men who have been up for two hours. There is no talking permitted. ^Above the clopping of coffee cups and ^rattling of spoons, the voice of the seminarian appointed “Reader” for the day bravely attempts to provide mental food along with the puffed wheat.
The food is cooked in a kitchen wing * which was added on to the building about the same time plumbing was installed. The food is much better than “wholesome.” Far too often in any institution the word “wholesome” has become
(Continued on Page 30) ^pril 21, 1950
■MbiAmb
Seminarians trudge seven-minute Lake Road walk to classes, rain, snow or shine.
Father McAvoy, Moreau's Superior, conducts a class in the house across the lake. Three "Misters" study in the Sem's comparatively small, but well-stocked library.
4
See Sunday’s South Bend TRIBUNE
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Dornan Love a Man
Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
Law Reviews Select ND As Site of 1951 Conference
The University of Notre Dame has been selected as the site for the Second Conference of the National Association of Law Reviews in the Fall of 1951, it was announced by Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the Notre Dame College of Law.
Representatives of more than fifty (j law journals from all parts of the United States are expected to attend the conference. Addresses will be made by prominent educators and jurists on topics of current legal interest. A series of informal forum discussions also will be held on various law review problems.
By virtue of its selection as the site for the Conference, the Notre Dame College of Law will assume the responsibility for direction of the Association until the Conference.
Elmer A. Steffen, Jr., editor of The Notre Dame Laivyer, has also been appointed the first National Chairman of the Association, which was organized last October to coordinate the efforts of law reviews throughout the country. Steffen, a native of Indian-i apolis, Ind., is a senior in the College of Law at Notre Dame.
Chicago Alumni Present Award to Dean Manion
Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, was presented the third annual Notre Dame Faculty Award of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago last Saturday night at the Chicago observance of the 26th annual Universal Notre Dame Night.
The award, which was inaugurated in 1948. is made annually to a member of the Notre Dame faculty for outstanding contributions to the field of learning. First recipient of the award was Professor James A. Reyniers, Director of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame (LOBUND). Last year’s winner was Dr. Eugene Guth, Director of the High Power Physics Laboratory at Notre Dame.
Dean Manion, who came to Notre Dame in 1924, is noted as an authority on the Natural Law. The Notre Dame xjx law dean was instrumental in establishing the Natural Law Institute in the College of Law at Notre Dame in 1947.	:
The Institute, which has been held annually since that time, features addresses by internationally prominent authorities who advocate observance of the Natural Law, or the Law of God, as the basis of all human rights. Leading educators, jurists and other legal authorities from all parts of the nation annually attend the Institute.
The Scholastic
20
Scholastic Sports
Klinemen Will Open Rugged Week Tomorrow
Overflow Crowd Jams Fieldhouse to Witness
Meet West. Michigan Team at Kalamazoo
Nineteenth Annual Bengal Finalists in Action
On the night of April 1 an overflow crowd of over 5,000 boxing fans filled the Fieldhouse to see two champions retain their titles, a perennial master lose his, and five new champs crowned, in the 19th annual Bengal mission bouts.
Opening the evening’s card, Sophomore Sal Fiorella of New York City decisioned Pat Ross, St. Mary’s, Pa., in a rather slow bout. Fiorella’s aggressive third round punching earned him a split decision and the 127-lb. title.
In the 137-lb. crown battle a hard punching, classy Johnny O’Brien of Green Bay, Wis., pounded out a unanimous decision over- a game and smaller George Chopp of Chicago. O’Brien hit oftener and harder. Chopp, being smaller, had to carry the fight to O’Brien and took a terrific beating- in the process. In the second round O’Brien opened a cut over Chopp’s mouth. In the third the ref wanted to step in and stop the battle but Chopp refused to quit and finished the bout.
Two freshmen, Ed Roberts of New Rochelle, N. Y., and George Novotny of Gary, Ind., vied for the 147-lb. bauble and the taller Novotny came away with
the crown, mainly on the power of his effective counter punching left which staggered Roberts in the first, opened his nose in the second, and found him a tired and beaten fighter in the third round. Novotny, noting his opponent’s helplessness, failed to press the fight in the final round.
In a repeat performance from 1949, classy Vic Roblez retained his 157-lb. title by besting hard-punching Joe Brown and gaining a unanimous but soundly booed verdict. In the first round, Roblez pounded hard to Brown's midsection and heart before being dropped for a nine count. Roblez was hurt by a low blow and was awarded a three minute between-rounds rest. The round was called a draw. Showing remarkable recovery power Roblez hit hard and moved fast in the second round, ducking Brown’s deadly blows for most of the round as he doubled up the Arizona lad with telling blows from both hands. Toward the end of the round, Brown tagged Roblez with a loaded right to the jaw. Roblez went into the final round tired and with a bleeding nose, but he (Continued on Page 23)
Weather permitting, Notre Dame's baseball team will play three games in the next four days. Tomorrow will find the Irish opposing Western Michigan at Hyames Field in Kalamazoo. Included in the Broncos six defeats last year were three at the hands of Notre Dame whose third win over W.M. knocked them out of the N.C.A.A. and gave the Irish the fourth district crown.
Not too much remains of last year’s 18-6 crew. However, Coach Maher has-compiled a brilliant 121-70 record with the Westerners and isn’t likely to let green material slow him down. For mound duty, righthander Jerry Hogan and Lefty Gene Schlukeder, both 5-1 returning lettermen, are receiving the best nods.
Second baseman Jerry Coleman, only infield holdover, will attempt to steady the three greenies who will surround him in the infield. Lettermen Don Groggel and Ted Bauer and an untried candidate will attempt to patrol the outfield. Both boys are allergic to the hickory with Groggel hitting a measly .237 last season and Bauer toothpicking his way to a scant .166 during the same period.
The catching chores seem to have caught Dick Brumy who is a fine receiv-
Don Grieve, Bob Nemes, Jack Hilbrich at banquet in honor of Irish nine by Bloomington, III. KCs during Easter road trip.
Dick Giedlin stretches for throw to complete double play in game against Illinois Wesleyan. Irish took season's opener, 4-1.
April 21, 1950
21
er but another weak-sticker. Although his team shapes up none too strong on paper, Coach Maher figures to find suitable manpower on his 37 man roster to cause a few headaches among this season’s opposition.
Hoosiers Strong
On Monday, Irish rooters can watch their stickmen cut a few capers on Car-tier Field to the tune of “Indiana, My Indiana” as Coach Ernie Andres brings his hurryin’ Hoosiers to do battle. Last year’s co-Western Conference champs should field a capable team. Basketeers Bill Tosheff, Gene Ring, and Lou Watson merely exchanged their court savvy for a little diamond strategy to equip themselves for diamond duty in which all three figure prominently.
Tosheff, McGee, and Bauer are expected to be the one, two, three throwers for the Bloomington boys. All three are junior lettermen. Behind the plate, Coach Andres has no worries in thrice letter-man and ace backstoppei- John Gorki's.
South Bend’s Gene Ring is back again at shortstop surrounded by an all-letterman infield. Guarding the sacks will be John Kyle at third, Woody Litz (for his fourth season) at second and John Phillips on the intiial sack.
Out near the fences, the Hoosiers boast an excellent garden trio in Bill Brabender, Harry Moore, and Lou Watson. Each knows what the glove and bat are used for and has a letter for his diploma. Brabender, after a two year layoff, is again shaping up in left. Center field is no problem with the diminutive Moore, his .303 average again holding-open house there. Right field houses the Hoosiers’ slugger, Watson, whose .347 swatting average would send any fly seeking cover.
Wolverine Invasion
On Tuesday, April 25, your trusty I.D.’s will again be in vogue, as Ann Arbor comes to Cartier Field in the person of Michigan’s Wolverines. The Wolves, who split Western Conference honors last year with I.U.’s Hoosiers, are currently rebuilding with the outcome depending on the sophs. Coach Ray Fisher, who is in his thirtieth season as baseball coach, reports all positions wide open.
For pitching chores the Wolves have three righthanders, Ed Grenkoski, Dave Settle, and Bob Hicks. Their search for a portside chucker seems to have led to soph Al Vergona who is coming along fast. Behind the bat, prospects are somewhat dimmer. Pete Palmer saw limited
22
action last year and appears to have an inside track on the monkey suit job.
Down on first, Flint’s veteran sacker, ■ Hal Morill, reigns supreme with Ed Fro-scheiser understudying. Base two houses Bill Bucholz and either Gerry Dorr or Ted Berce will handle the hot corner while Marty Marion’s spot again goes to Captain Bob Wolff.
About the brightest spot in Fisher’s lineup are the three outfield posts. His topflight trio, who will roam out there, consists of Leo Koceski, who has pawned his football cleats for b-ball spikes. Ralph Morrison and Vic Freylinger. Pat Hatzmark, Bob Fancett, and Linn Painter give this potent three plenty of reserve strength.
Trackmen Face First Test of Outdoor Slate
Three field events men and a hurdler will represent Notre Dame tomorrow in the Kansas Relays, the season’s first outdoor meet for the Irish. The field event men are shot putter Johnny Helwig, pole vaulter Jim Miller, and javelin thrower Jack Murphy. Bill Fleming will compete in the 120-yard high hurdles.
The outdoor season was originally scheduled to open two weeks ago at the Southern Relays, but Coach Doc Handy scratched the Notre Dame entry because he felt the men were not ready for competition at that time. He still feels that the runners are not ready, so Notre Dame will have no representatives in any of the relay races at Kansas tomorrow. The runners will get time trials on Cartier Field tomorrow or Sunday instead.
The late arrival of spring has kept the men from getting in shape for the outdoor season. Not until last Saturday was the whole team able to take an outdoor workout and that has played havoc with the season’s plans.
Tomorrow’s meet will mark the return to competition of Bill Fleming, the team’s top notch hurdler, who had to skip several meets at the end of the past indoor season because of leg injuries. Bill took several workouts last week and though he had a little trouble, it looks as though he’ll be OK for the outdoor season.
Jack Murphy, who made a name for himself as a javelin thrower last year as a sophomore, will get his first 1950 competition tomorrow. The big boy, a Look magazine high school All-American pick in 1947, has been especially handicapped by the cold weather. He hasn’t had a chance to really test his throwing arm this season.
On the other hand, the cold weather hasn’t been too much of a handicap to Johnny Helwig or Jim Miller, since they’ve been able to practice their events almost as well indoors as out.
—Ted Prahinski
Frank Wallace Writes Baseball Story for Boys
Francis Wallace, former president of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association, an associate editor of Collier’s, and author of some twelve books, has written a book for younger sports fans, called Big-League Rookie. The book has just been published by the Westminster Press in Philadelphia.
A baseball story for boys, Big-League Rookie tells of a boy from a
Francis Wallace
coal-mining town who goes from the sandlots to a major league training camp, and there enters into the suspense, tension, and desperation that’s a part of the battle for positions in the big leagues.
Big-League Rookie is Wallace’s first book for young diamond enthusiasts. A student at Notre Dame during the historic reign of the “Four Horsemen,” Wallace is well known for his “Pigskin Preview” which appeared annually in the Saturday Evening Post. His home is in Bellaire, Ohio.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS APRIL 22—BASEBALL at Western Michigan TRACK, Kansas Relays GOLF, Indiana, here 24—BASEBALL, Indiana, here GOLF at Purdue 25—BASEBALL, Michigan, here	
The Scholastic
Bengal Finalists
(Continued from Page 21)
traded well and clinched expertly to take the fight from Brown.
Aaron Dyson, hard punching Negro lad from Indianola, Miss., opened fast in his 167-lb. junior division bout with Matt Clune and kept Clune on the defensive for all three rounds to win the title.
Dyson scored in the infighting in the first and swung roundhouse blows which won him the fight.
Ed Smith, crowd-pleasing middleweight, retained his title by stopping-cold a vicious, rushing Frank Hamilton who very convincingly had erased Hugh Schickel and Dick Hyland in preliminary bouts. Hamilton used his rushing tactics only once, in the second frame; but he was not equal.to Smith’s deadly scoring blows to the body and midsection. Smith took Hamilton’s effective right well throughout the fight, and consistently landed two and three blows for every one of Hamilton’s. Smith staggered and dropped Hamilton with a right to the jaw which put Frank down for keeps as the ref counted him out in 1:21 of the final round.
In the finest fight of the evening that went the distance, Sophomore Joe O’Brien, Canton, Ohio, out-punched and out-boxed George Briody of Chicago in a rough slugfest in which both fighters fought furiously and hit hard and often.
O’Brien, was a very fine fighter with remarkable ability to land consistently telling blows to the head and midsection carried the fight to Briody most of the time. He started a flow of blood from the rugged Briody’s nose in the first and in the second cornered and inflicted punishment on Briody with left jabs and a scoring one-two volley. In the third O’Brien, still wary of the powerful Bri-ody, withstood an opening barrage from
the Chicago lad and countered effectively to take a unanimous decision as a pleased audience applauded appreciatively the wellfought bout.
Heavyweight History
In a heavyweight battle which will go down in Bengal history as one of the most exciting, rough and disputed battles, big Gus Cifelli of Philadelphia showed little brotherly love as he trapped South Bend’s Zip Roemer on the ropes and proceeded to hit the four-time champ with everything but the ring posts with an exhibition of windmill punching that had the house standing, shouting- and gasping! The referee, Georgie Nate, halted the battle and awarded a TKO to a happy Gus Cifelli as a gym-shaking- roar, equally mixed with boos, threats, applause and approval went up from the crowd.
Roemer claimed, and historically speaking, justifiably so, that he had taken beatings of perhaps equal fury in previous bouts and came back to win. Referee Nate declined and a joyous Cifelli had the crown.
At intermission time, His Excellency, Bernard Sheil, auxiliary Bishop of Chicago was awarded the 2nd annual Bengal’s recognition award in honor of his work with the Chicago CYO and Jim Engel of Minneapolis, 157-lb. boxer, who was beaten by Joe Brown in the preliminaries, received the Bengal Sportsmanship Trophy. In announcing his thanks for the honor Jim gave praise to the man most responsible for this highly successful 19th annual Bengal Tournament, Dominic Napolitano.
In the opening event of the Bengal semi-finals, Sal Fiorella of New York City scored a fast T.K.O. over Charles Sheerin of Kokomo, Ind., in 1:54 of the second round. Fiorella was the aggres
sor, but Sheerin fought back savagely until he was floored by the Big Town lad. Sheerin got up before the ten count, but Referee George Nate .stopped the fight.
Dan Brennan of South Bend gave Pat Ross, St. Mary’s Pa., quite a bit of leather to worry about in the first round of their 127-pound clash, but Ross proved the better wrestler in the last two frames and managed to eke out a split decision in a very close judgment.
In the 137-pound division, George Chopp of Chicago sacrificed both height and reach to his lanky opponent, Joe Straub, East Rockaway, N. Y., but won the unanimous nod of the judges by his well planned, cautious attacks. In the same class, Leo Hickey of Ithaca, N. Y., made a game but fruitless attempt to stop the clevei* attack of John O’Brien of Green Bay, Wis. O’Brien, with his potent one-two punching, was awarded a unanimous decision.
Sal Fiorella and Pat Ross trade punches
Smith stiffens Hamilton with left hook
Roblez stops Joe Brown with a left jab
Briody covers up against Joe O'Brien
April 21, 1950
23
Joe Brown of Sanders, Ariz., decision-ed Dick Windishar of McKinnville, Ore., in a 157-pound meet. Brown was the aggressor all the way, but Windishar’s long-left made Brown very cautious in his attack. Vic Roblez of Bingham Canyon, Utah, earned the right to meet Brown in the finals by his decision over Tom Chisholm of Pampa, Texas. The Texan fought valiantly, but Roblez kept his left mitt in Chisholm’s face most of the time.
Last year’s 157-pound champion, Ed Smith of Pueblo, Colo., jumped the semifinal hurdle with his impressive decision over Bob Bickert of Lincoln, Neb., in the 167-pound class. In another 167-pound contest, Aaron Dyson of Indianola, Miss., pounded his way to a split decision over Dan Finn of New York City in what was probably the best fight of the evening. Finn’s powerful left harassed Dyson throughout the fight, but the Mississippi lad’s ability to take it, and his aggresive-ness, won him the nod.
George Novotny's right at Ed Roberts
George Briody of Chicago won a split decision over his very able opponent, Jim Sampaii- of St. Paul, only after his third round rally, which drove Sampair into the ropes and from corner to corner. In the last bout of the evening, Joe O’Brien of Canton, Ohio, using his long reach to its best adyantage, won a unanimous decision over Bill Kramer of Eldora, Iowa, in a light heavyweight match.
Campus Interhall Leagues Open '50 Spring Season
The campus interhall baseball and softball leagues, though bothered by bad weather, went ahead with plans for the season. Representatives from the various hall teams have submitted
24
their entries to Frank Maxwell and Ernie Szezkely, in charge of softball and baseball respectively.
Last Monday was the league’s opening day as the interhall clubs began a three-week season. To make sure that softball and baseball squads from each hall won’t be dominated by the same players schedule conflicts have been made between the two leagues.
HEROES OF PAST
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By JIM BRISLIN
It was a bleak, cold day at Yankee Stadium in 1929. A Rockne-coached eleven was locked in a scoreless battle with a fine Army team led by the great Chris “Red” Cagle. Few in the stands knew it, but they were about to witness the writing of another page in the legendary saga of Notre Dame football. Late in the game, Army penetrated deep into Notre Dame territory; Cagle faded back to pass. The ball sped goalward—then it happened! A green-jerseyed figure grabbed the pigskin on the 2-yard line, cut for the sideline, and outstepped everyone on the field as he sped 98 yards to give the Irish a 7-0 victory over the Cadets.
The story of that run, and the man who made it, has been told and retold countless times. The Notre Dame hero that afternoon was, of course, Jack Elder. Many versions of the story are misleading, however, for they make it appear that until that afternoon in New York, Elder was just another name on the scoreboard. Such is not the case, for Elder had long before made his mark in the world of sport. That run against Army was just the outstanding perfoim-ance in a brilliant athletic career.
John J. Elder had never played football before coming to Notre Dame, in 1926, but he learned quickly under the tutelage of Rockne and picked up two monograms in the sport before graduation. He first stepped into the football limelight when he scored both touchdowns in the 1928 opener against Loyola of New Orleans in a 12-6 Irish victory. A few weeks after his performance against Army, Elder threw one of the longest passes on record. It traveled 55 yards through the air to right end Tom Conley and enabled the Irish to eke out a slim 13-12 win over Southern California.
For all his activity on the gridiron, Elder’s main forte was track. He won three monograms while at Notre Dame and captained the track team through the 1929 season. Track coach John P.
Nicholson must have thought of Elder as an angel in disguise. Here’s what he did in the 1929 season alone: Won the Kansas Relays century in :9.8, finished first in the state meet and C.I.C. outdoor meet (setting a then meet record of :9.9), came in second in the Illinois and Drake Relays, and third in the Ohio Relays. Add to this the fact that he tied the world record in the 60-yard dash (6.2 seconds) at least twenty times during his career and ran the hundred in :9.6 to tie the Notre Dame record and you begin to wonder just how they managed to keep the cinder-paths cool enough to practice on while Elder was in school.
It is no cause for wonder, then, that Elder, during the years he wore the colors of Notre Dame, was acclaimed the fastest man in collegiate football. Larry “Moon” Mullins, describing Elder’s run to the late Jim Costin, remark-ed that aftei- Jack reached the fifteenyard line it was just a case of “interference follow me” and Mullins figured he deserved some sort of commendation for being able to keep up with Elder for as long as he had.
The Elder success story does not end with his college career. Since graduation, he’s been doing right well for himself. After leaving school, Jack put in a two year hitch, from 1930 to 1932, as sports writer on the Chicago Herald, and Exam-iner. In 1932, he was appointed Athletic Director of the C.Y.O. in Chicago, a post which he held until 1943.
On March 26, 1941 he was made Secretary of the State Athletic Commission of Illinois to succeed Barney Ross. He held this post until 1943 and, again, from 1946 to 1949. In the interim, he was a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve, stationed at the University of Wsiconsin and San Francisco.
After his release from the Navy, Elder accepted a position with the Sinclair Refining Company and has been with that organization ever since. At present he is branch manager of that concern in Cleveland, and has charge of all Sinclair service stations and industrial accounts in that area. Although it’s been a long time since Jack matriculated here, he still keeps in close touch with happenings at the University and is vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland.	©
Romance came to Jack’s life in the person of Miss Kathryn Ann Schevers, whom he married on Jan. 4, 1941. The Elders have six children. The first four were daughters, but the last two were boys, and, perhaps someday another Elder may carry the mail for Notre Dame. If he’s anything like Elder, Sr., there may yet be some sunny sayings from the lacrimonious lips of Frank Leahy.
The Scholastic
Basebailers Cop Two, Drop One in Early Play
By BILL DELANEY
Opening the season with a win at Illinois Wesleyan, the Notre Dame diamond crew came hack to Cartier Field to split a pair of games. They beat Chicago 6 to 2 but lost to Ohio University 4 to 1.
A trio of Coach Kline’s hurlers each threw three innings in the opening game of the season and held the Illinois Wesleyan Titans to one i5un and three hits, all singles. Notre Dame was only able to get four hits off Titan pitcher Ed Gilbert but three of them were doubles and they came at the right times. Notre Dame won the foursided pitchers battle by a score of 4-1.
The Titans, fresh from a ten-game trip through the southlands, were held hitless until the sixth when they touched up southpaw Jerry Ledwidge, a sophomore from Pinckney, Mich., for all three hits and the lone run. Mike McGrath and Jack Hilbrich pitched before and after Ledwidge and looked very good. Hilbrich gave up no hits, walked no one, and struck out three in his tour.
The Irish drew first blood in the second inning when Jim Manning fol-
More Sports on Page 28
lowed up a walk to Dick Giedlin and a hit batsman around a force out with a big two-base hit up the left-center field alley, driving in both runners. The last two runs came across in the very next frame on another double, this one by John Cunningham with the bases 0 loaded on three walks.
Two games with Iowa and one with Michigan State were called because of bad weather. It is doubtful that these games will be played later.
The opening game at Cartier field put the damper on things that weren’t already damp. A steady drizzle delayed the start of the game 15 minutes and then when it did get underway the boys from	Ohio	University took	advantage of	Bob	Nemes wildness	and
a	an error by	Tom	Martin to score three
"	runs before	a man was retired.	The
Bobcats scored one more run in the second and won the game 4-1.
Bob Perman, a left hander who looked about five feet tall, scattered four Irish singles and though he was hit more solidly than Nemes at times his teammates were always there to grab the ball. The lone tally he gave up came in the ninth -with two out when he walked pinch hitter Ralph Sjoberg with the bases loaded.
April 21, 1950
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by flack Meaney
Presicw Magazine
Notre Dame football fans will have an opportunity to purchase a special football preview magazine to be published this summer by the Notre Dame Press. Forty thousand copies of the mag are scheduled to roll off the presses around the end of August.
Jack Campbell
Most of the material will be taken from last year’s football issue of the Scholastic, but it will also include sketches on the up-coming Freshmen as well as the general outlook for the 1950 season. Details on price, distribution, etc., will be announced later.
Bengal Battler
There have been some pretty fair boxers that have come out of the 19 Bengal Bout tournaments, but you’ll have to go a long way back to find a record as that hung up by Bill “Zip” Roemer. In five years of Bengal Bout competition, Zip knocked out .every opponent he faced — except one.
It was a wiser Gus Cifelli that climbed into the ropes the night of April 1 to challenge Zip for the heavyweight title for the second straight year. The big guy kept his left in Roemer’s face and didn’t make the mistake of letting the four-time champ use his kayo left. Gus didn’t give
Roemer a chance to make the third-round comeback that has characterized so many of his past fights.
There may be better boxers and maybe someone else will come along and win four championship crowns. But for the guy with the dynamite punch, we’ll pick Zip Roemer.
Diamondmen Get Seasoning	'
Four members from Notre Dame’s District Four championship nine of last year signed by major league teams at the end of the season are in need of more seasoning before they can get a crack at the big time. Lefty Dick Smullen, who reputedly turned down a $40,000 bonus from the Philadelphia ?hils in order to get valuable minor league experience, has been returned by Toronto to the Phillies farm chain for reassignment. The Louisville Colonels, of the American Association optioned pitcher Jack Campbell to Scranton. Campbell had another year of college eligibility left but elected to make the jump into the pro ranks. Ben Koziik has been optioned to Decatur of the Three-I League by Des Moines. Rip Sewell of blooper ball fame will handle Gene Lavery, assigned to Charleston, S. C., by the ‘ parent New Orleans Pelicans.
Time Out
The 1950 NCAA Baseball Tournament will be held in Omaha, Neb., starting Thursday night, June 15. This year, representatives from each of the eight NCAA districts will meet in a double elimination tournament to decide the College World Champion. With revenue from radio and television rights as well as from gate receipts, officials expect the tournament to pay for itself. The University of Texas is defending champion. . . . Football isn’t the only sport around here that has spring practice. The basketball season ended just last month but Coach “Moose” Krause is already getting ready for next year. From all indications. The Irish should floor a potent squad next December. . . . Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of the Famous Four Horsemen backfield, has a son following in his football footsteps. Harry, Jr., is aiming for the starting signal caller berth — at Michigan. . . .
25

c
Names Make News
r.-
First couple right, take a peek!
For perfect flavor, Beech-Nut seek!
Sashay around, peek once more!
Reach for Beech-Nut at your store!
Y’ can’t beat Beech-Nut for quality and longer-lasting flavor. Swing to Beech-Nut... Beech-Nut Gum!
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., served as chairman of the committee on graduate study at the recent National Catholic Educational Association Convention in New Orleans, La. Father Moore also represented the University at the Midwest Conference on Higher Education in Chicago, Ill., that ended yesterday. He was chairman of a study group on “Evaluating the Services of the Faculty Member.” . . .
TOM SHEEHAN, former Irish star catcher and baseball captain, is now managing the Carroll Merchants baseball team, an Iowa semi-pro league club. He is a native of New Haven, Conn., and for the last two years has been in the Pittsburgh Pirate farm system, playing for Albany, N. Y., York, Pa., and Indianapolis. . . .
In the elections held during the closing session of the National Catholic Education Association convention in New Orleans last week, Kev. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., professor of education, and Brother WILLIAM MANG, C.S.C., director of studies for- Holy Cross Brothers here, were reelected as vice-presidents-general. . . .
THOMAS W. KERRIGAN of Sidney, Ohio, and Howard Hall has announced his engagement to Miss Shirley Pulliam of Covington, Ky. Kerrigan is a Political Science student in the College of Arts and Letters. . . .
In conjunction with his candidacy for the nomination for United States Senator from Indiana, DR. CHARLES C. PRICE, Head of the Department of Chemistry, is currently engaged in a statewide speaking campaign, presenting his ideas on united world government. . . .
DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science, is making a three-week trip through the East, during which time he will visit various medical schools. He spoke before the Notre Dame Club of Charleston, West Virginia, on Monday, the 17th, which was Universal Notre Dame night. He also talked to the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Wednesday, the 19th. . . .
ARCH WARD, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, has been named “Notre Dame Man of 1950” by the
University alumni club of Chicago. He was awarded a plaque for his work with the Notre Dame Foundation. . . .
Lt. ROBERT E. LEE, Jr., ' Notre £ Dame alumnus, was recently sworn in as Lieutenant Commander at the Naval
Lieutenant R. E. Lee gets promoted
Air Station at Pensacola, Fla. He is a native of Chicago and previously served with the Naval Air Transport Service. . . .
Order Conducts Holy Hour For Intention of Students
Wonder why the churchbells were ringing so much at 4:20 yesterday afternoon?
The Congregation of Holy Cross is conducting a holy hour each Thursday afternoon for the intention of the student body. The weekly service in Sacred Heart church begins at 4:30 p.m.
To pray for vocations — religious and otherwise — is the purpose of the hour of prayer. Although the need for priests and Brothers is ever great, the prayers will be offered chiefly that each Notre Dame student will realize and pursue that life’s work which will best contribute to- his individual salvation.
Students, faculty members and their families are invited to join the priests in the whole hour or for the rosary, litany, and benediction services beginning at 5 o’clock. The first half-hour consists of private prayer.
The Scholastic
26
The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ
Now that the vernal equinox and the Easter cycle, with its attendant confusion regarding full moons and first Sun-£ days, have slipped past us it seems like a propitious moment to take stock of Spring, though the weatherman seems more bent on playing Winter Wonderland than Easter Parade.
This is the silly season when a young man’s fancy is reliably reported to spin like a weathercock in a South Bend sirocco, and the Joe in the newspapers is more likely to be DiMaggio than Stalin. Accordingly, let every wilted Williams and creaky Cobb search through his bag V of miscellany and grab the old ball and glove in preparation for the Graduate Softball League currently being formed. Anyone wishing to form or join a team is urged to see El Wolicki, our local Happy Chandler, in the Physics Building, and get the details.
In line with the decision to expand the Graduate Association’s Executive Council, a representative has been chosen from the Engineering Division. Carl Ju-a lien, a student in Metallurgy, and an ac-five member of the original Association during a previous tour of duty at Notre Dame, has been selected to fill the post. His term will expire in January along with that of the previously elected officers. A representative from Arts and Letters will be chosen shortly. John Delaney of the History Department is in charge of arrangements for the nominating meeting, assisted by Joe Evans of Philosophy, and Don Kiene of Eng-G lish.
The Catholic Grads are to be commended for making a very representative showing at the Graduate Mass during Lent. However, to dispel any confusion, a Mass is still being said daily at 8:10 in the Dillon Hall Chapel, and attendance is somewhat less than satisfactory. Let’s make an all-out effort to make it a few days a week at least. This is an excellent chance to partici-0 pate more fully in the liturgy by offering a community sacrifice of the Graduate Body.
The ubiquitous grapevine is currently loaded with the message that a banquet is being planned for May as a windup to the initial semester of operations of the Grad Association. Plans aTe now being made under the direction of Bob Wil-mouth and Ed Simmons, -the phriendly philosopher.
April 21, 1930
MIDNIGHT SNACKS WITHOUT COOKING
Delicious Scandinavian delicacies that make wonderful hor d’oeuvres, perfect between-meal fillers! For yourself, your friends or a delightful gift for the folks back home.
The VIKING
Norwegian Kippered Herrings — Herring Tidbits in Wine Sauce — Lingonberry Preserves, imported — Norwegian Snacks, fillets — Ry-King, Swedish Crisp Bread — Brisling Sardines in Sild Oil — Swedish Fish Balls, Haddock in Lobster Sauce — Karvi Cheese, Caraway spiced — Anchovies, Sprats Paste.
Send for FREE Catalogue showing beautiful Scandinavian gift items. Money back if not delighted.
No C. O. D.s please.
ALL FOR $3.50 P. P. PAID
SPECIAL—The NORSEMAN assortment has esery item in the VIKING ... .	different delicious items—Twice as much—for onlv $5.95 p.
Write to—	'
assortment plus nine p. paid .
NORSE SPECIALTIES. Inc.
Dept. ND-1 Highland Hills, N. Y.
Golfers are nuts about the new Spalding Dot®...with Spalding’s improved winding (”Tru-Tension”).
Gives maximum distance combined with sweet feel—Plus famous Dot dick. True uniformity assured.
The high-powered Spalding Al«-Flite® is "Tru-Tension" wound, too. And for toughness plus distance, it’s the Kro-Flite® and Top-Flite®.
Dot and TOP-Fl1TE at Pro Shops Only.
SPALDING
'yjjjjjjjQ sets the pace in sports
27
Ne+men Aim Volleys A+Wayne Racketeers
As has been the case in all the spring sports here at Notre Dame, the weather has been holding back the progress of the tennis team. However, Coach Walter Langford will send his lads against Wayne University this afternoon on the home courts. Weather permitting, of course. This will be • only the second meeting of the two schools in this sport. The only previous encounter took place in 1945 at Wayne in which the Irish were victorious, 7-2.
About the outcome of the match today, Coach Langford was very doubtful. Because of the difficulty of getting started on any serious practice so far, Langford was rather pessimistic on the coming season. As yet, no suitable doubles combination has been worked out due to the limited practice. This factor seems to be the thing that is holding the team back from an otherwise good season. If Coach Langford is able to hit upon a good combination for the doubles, the season should be highly successful.
The squad that will represent Notre Dame against Wayne is comprised of six of seven possible men. They line up in this way: Bob David, a veteran from last year, is slated for the number one position. Bob is followed by Gene Biittner, the captain of the team. In the third and fourth positions, Coach Langford has two Sophomores ready to show their form, Matt Tuite and Tom Overholser. Fifth man on the team is Junior Jim Hennessey. The sixth spot has as yet not been decided. However, either Herb Hoene or Pat Tonti will start at that position.
As far as any pre-season predictions, Coach Langford was not too specific. He believes that the team will have to fight all the way to take six of their ten scheduled matches this season. Things will shape up in a more definite manner after this afternoon’s match is over and Langford has a more precise idea of the strength of the team.
—Bill Reidy
Keglers Defeat Indiana; Shut Out Loyola Five
Well on the way to a record season, the Notre Dame bowling team rolled over Indiana four games to one on April 1. The Keglers amassed 4627 pins for a 185 average per man. On April 15, the team swept all five games from Loyola, as Jim Shapiro of ND led with a 963 pinfall for the match.
28
With one week of competition remaining, the campus league races promise to be decided in the final games. In the Gold League the Dayton Club leads by only two points, followed by the Philadelphia Club, the InterAmerican Club and the Chem Engineers. The Metallurgy Club leads the Pittsburgh Club and the K. of C., also by two points, in the Blue League.
Golfers Drop Opening Match +o Iowa, 17-13
Handicapped by very unfavorable spring weather which prevented any lengthy practice sessions, the ND golf team under the direction of Rev. George Holderith, c.s.c., dropped the first match of the current campaign to Iowa by the tight score of 17-13.
Tom Veech was low man for the Irish with a brilliant 69. However, Gene Slack of Iowa took the medalist honors with a 68. Those were the only sub-par rounds but Tom Klett and Miller of Iowa were one over with 71 each. In the best ball matches the Irish were beaten badly with Veech-Marzolf doing the best by gaining an even split with Carlson-Slack. Hudak-Murphy lost all three points to Ferguson-Kromer and Tom Klett-Maury White lost to Fields-Miller, 2^-%.
In the singles Veech, 69, took three points from Carlson, 73; Marzolf, 72
Rev. George Holderith and members of the 1950 Notre Dame golf team. Left to right are Tom Veech, Maury White, Father Holderith, Capt. Paul Hudak, Bob Rolfe.
lost to Slack, 68, 2-1; Captain Paul Hudak defeated Ferguson 21/2-% and outscored him 72-73; Murphy dropped all three points to Kromer and was outscored 75-70; Maury White, 75, broke even with Fields, 74; Tom Klett, 71, dumped Miller, 71, 2-1; and Bob | Rolphs, 76, lost to Anderson, 72, 1-2. Totals were Iowa 17, Notre Dame 13.
The Irish squad had had only three _ 18-hole rounds prior to this opening o match due to the inclement weather. Nevertheless, Father Holderith, the coach, was very well pleased with the team’s showing.
Yesterday the team met the 1949 National Intercollegiate Champions i from North Texas State College. As a result of winning the championship last year the Texas team was given a trip North to meet Notre Dame, Ohio „ State and Army. They have two of last year’s champs returning along with a very fine aggregation of sophomores.
Tomorrow the linksmen meet Indiana on the Burke Golf Course. On Monday, they journey to Lafayette to meet a very strong Purdue squad which is 1 made up mostly of seniors.	.
The remainder of the schedule:
Apr. 29—Loyola (Chicago) at ND May 6—Northwestern at ND 8—Wisconsin at Madison 13—Minnesota at ND 18—Detroit at Detroit 20—Washington (St. L.) at ND 22—Michigan State at Lansing
The Scholastic
Leahy Intensifies Practice To Make Up for Rain, Snow
With spring practice about half over, Coach Frank Leahy is giving his boys plenty of practice to make up for the days lost on account of bad weather. A scrimmage last Friday was followed by another on Saturday and, as usual, B the backfield looked as though they were ready to start the 1950 campaign.
Bob Williams did all the quarterbacking with two sets of speedsters working with him. What may be the backfield that goes against North Carolina next Sept. 30 has, besides Williams at quarter, Bill Barrett and Bill Gay at the halves and Jack Landry at full. Barrett is heavier than he was last fall but the extra poundage hasn’t P slowed him down a bit. Taking handoffs from Williams, Bill scored several times on end sweeps and off-tackle slants. Jack Landry and Bill Gay had equal success in tearing apart the defensive line, made up mostly of freshmen. Gay and Barrett were on the receiving end of most of Williams’ passes.
Leahy called in his second backfield of halfbacks Petitbon and Paolone, a freshman, and Del Gander at full. On kthe first play they scored when John Petitbon galloped 20 yards around right end and outstepped everyone in sight. The rest of the time they were in there, the second trio operated just as effectively as the first.	9
Up front were Chet Ostrowski and Jim Mutscheller at the ends, Bill Flynn and Bob Toneff at the tackles, Fred Wallner and Paul Burns at guards and Jim Bartlett at center. Captain b Jerry Groom is still recovering from a knee operation.
COMFORTABLE! GOOD LOOKING!
??Dude Ranch” Sports Shirts
Short Sleeves §4.50 Long Sleeves $5
For that next square dance, for picnics, for sitting in the bleachers, you’ll be most comfortable, and look your casual best in one of Arrow’s smart “Dude Ranch” shirts. Bold plaids and checks in sturdy, washable cotton. They’re honeys!
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ostrowski injured his nose, which he had broken the day before, whereupon Mutscheller moved from left to right end and freshman Vince Moschievitz took over at the left flank position. Moschievitz and Petitbon divided the point after touchdown chores between them.
It's ADLER'S for
ARROW
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen Mgr.
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
April 21, 1950
29
4
Seven Minutes
(Continued from page 19) a synonym for “tasteless, dull and monotonous.” Brother Andrew Corsini and Brother DeSales are good cooks. They have to be! Since they live under the same roof as those they cook for, the two have to be careful.
With breakfast over a short group visit is made to the chapel. The remaining time before classes is used in doing “obediences.” These are the individual work assignments given the seminarians for maintaining the house in perfect order. These tasks make ample use of the various skills brought to and learned in the religious life. Electrical repairs, corridor sweeping, chicken tending, haircuts and tailoring are but a few of the jobs performed in the miniature city-under-one-roof.
The students’ rooms are self-sanitized;
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clue* are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest dose* midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next mue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS 20th CENTURY-FOX. This modem age is the 20th Century; a furry friend is a fox.
g BLANCH, N. C. The Dogwood State is North Carolina. Blanch means to pale, or grow white.
£ CHESTERFIELD—ABC. The smoke that satisfies is Chesterfield. In the frame the initial letters of lines 1, 8 & 3, spell ABC.
WINNERS...
David J. Amberg, 239 Dillon Hall David V. Hayes, Jr., 346 Farley Hall Rev. Thomas James Brennan, Corby Hall Don Current, 349 Badin Hall James Ramsey, 249 Dillon Hall
the seminarians make their own beds. Newer men “double-up” on the fourth floor and gradually inherit single rooms, moving down a floor or so as they advance in “house age.” This is calculated according to their length of service in the Congregation. Only the brisk and eager members, fresh from Novitiate (a year’s “basic training” in the religious life) can stand the grueling grind of foui’ (five, counting the basement) flights of stairs to climb several times a day . . . and it’s so easy to leave behind a notebook!
Having some of their classes downstairs is a convenience, especially in winter; these, however, are exceptions. For the most part the “blackbirds” hike it over to and around the campus the same as any other students. Besides being good exercise, walking helps train the seminarian for getting around the Holy Cross foundations he will man
Edward S. Waters, 245 Lyons Hall Conrad Arnold, 115 Cavanaugh Hall E. B. Murphy, 227 Zahm Hall Robert Vignos, 228 Zahm Hall Augustine J. O’Bryan, 406 Howard Hall
someday in Canada, England, France. Chile, India, Brazil and Australia.
Our seminarian has come to Moreau after a Postulancy of varying length and a year of Novitiate. The former is taken at the “little Sem” here at ND or at Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary, North Easton, Mass. There are two Novitiates, corresponding to the eastern and western provinces of the congrega- w tion. At the end of his Novitiate he was presented with the cape and cord signifying temporary vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. These are binding for a year and are renewed annually for a period of three years. From there he was sent to Moreau to begin or complete as the case might be, the Philosophy phase of his college training.
Four Years to Go
Although some of the “scholastics,” as they are now classed by the congregation, are wearing the crucifix received at perpetual profession of vows, there still remain four years ahead of them after graduation to master Theology before ordination. These years will be spent by most at either Holy Cross College or Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, both located on the campus of the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C. A few are sent to Rome where they live at the congregation’s house on the Via Aldrovandi while studying at the Gregorian University.
Dinner is at 12:20. This follows the Particular Examination of Conscience; a religious exercise designed to ferret out and correct faults. During the meal a portion of the gospels is read and this is followed by a selected religious book; that is, unless the reading is cancelled by a Deo Gratias. The expression is voiced by all when the Superior rings the table bell, granting permission to talk rather than listen. The conversation runs to sports, the forthcoming hour of recreation after dinner, class and homework gripes, and even philosophy.
Silence is maintained at all times in specified parts of the building. Like smoking cigars, one gradually gets used to it and enjoys it after awhile. This does not mean that should part of the steel-plated outer roof decide to descend on some unwary Morovite, that his companion, after noticing, would quietly step aside saying Requiescat in Pace to himself. Common sense and charity are bases for all the house rules.
The afternoon “rec” is from 3:15 until 4:15. Except in very inclement weather this is taken outdoors. Although some find it hard to leave the books, within three minutes after the bell has rung, the majority are into their old clothes and clumping down the corridors towards
30
The Scholastic
the stairs. The quiet is shattered by the trampling of 154 feet scrambling down the stairs and out for an hour of football, baseball or just plain walking. Handball and basketball are played in the adjoining tar-floored gym; yet in winter, skating and hockey are the favorite sports for- most—when and if the lake freezes.
Those of you who rise early enough on a Sunday morning, have doubtless heard the Moreau choir. The Polyphonic Choir as it is called has been in the movies and heard several times on national networks since it was first organized. Few have heard of Moreau’s “other choir” for those possessing ears of metallic substance. The public appearance of this group is reserved for the long Tenebrae services of Holy Week. Practice is held twice a week for the latter and three times for the former.
Time is at a premium and must be budgeted carefully by the student-philosopher. Besides the many and varied religious exercises in which he daily participates, there is the Little Office of The Blessed Virgin. This is a miniature version of the Divine Office which the seminarian must say daily in preparation for the time when he will pray the longer office in his Theology training. Study time is therefore limited. There are no radios, bull-sessions or noisy distractions, which helps greatly in using the little study-time to the best advantage.
John’s: Wfoensttp School of late
Approved by American Bar Association Member of Association of American Law Schools
Three year day and four year evening courses leading to degree LL.B.	.
(Summer Sessions conducted)
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February. Law School Admission Test dates: May 7, August 6, November 8, 1950. Application to take test must be filed ten days in advance with the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.
Further information may be obtained from	-
REGISTRAR — St. John’s University
School of Law
96 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn 2, New York
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger Nail Test
Weekly Holy Hour
Once a week, at a time of his own choosing, the seminarian makes a private Holy Hour. Likewise, once a week a public Holy Hour and exposition of the Blessed Sacrament is held. Daily except Saturdays and Sundays a selected book is read in chapel at five o’clock for fifteen minutes. This is followed by prayer in private, stations or office until supper at six.
The evening “rec” period is the big event of the day, ranking second only to morning Mass. Cigarettes are “Verbot-en” until the student leaves Moreau for his next training stage. Cigars are passed out on feast days and big occasions, but only then; therefore the first stop is the pipe stand. This is a huge pyramidi-H cally-tiered table called the “Seven Storey Mountain” on which the community’s pipes are racked. The philosophers load up with Sir Walter Raleigh, the house brand, unless someone’s Aunt Gertrude has mailed in a can of aromatic latakia root to puff. Although the com, munity life is one of true equality, the t individuality of its members finds an . outlet in their choice of pipes. The “smoke stacks” range in size from miniature corncobs to miniature saxophones. All that is lacking is a Turkish hookah
April 21, 1950
ALL panda-monium just broke loose for this little guy with the hairy ears and two black eyes. Somebody snitched his Wildroot Cream-Oil! You may not be a panda — but why not see what Wildroot Cream-Oil canda? Just a little bit grooms your hair neatly and naturally without that plastered-down look. Relieves annoying dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff. And Wildroot Cream-Oil helps you pass the Fingernail Test! It’s non-alcoholic . . . contains soothing Lanolin. Get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And always ask your barber for a professional application. In case there’s a • panda in your house — keep some Wildroot Cream-Oil handa for him!
of 327 Burroughs Drive, Snyder, N. Y.
"Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.

31

water-pipe-with-tube. The bull-sessions amid the smoke and click of pool and ping-pong balls may run from why Mar-itan was wrong to whether “The Anthro-popagi” was a suitable name for one of the house touch-football teams.
At seven-thirty recreation is ended by the bell and all retire to chapel for night prayer. After this, study. There are no “midnights” and “lights out” is at ten. Yet the Moreau seminarian does not regret any of this. He knows that now is the time to habituate himself in doing all for Christ as a future Holy Cross Father. But tomorrow he must be up at five and ready to head to class on schedule, just like any other Notre Dame man. After all, it’s only seven minutes to the “Dome.”
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
the latest in a long line of great Tommy Dorsey trumpeters, .is deserving of at least a passing mention ... (or was Mr. Brett unaware of it?). Furthermore, the piano stylings of George Shearing, Erroll Garner and Eddie Heywood are all of far more significance than the waxing of Maggie Whiting-Jimmy Wake-ley duets, of which Mr. Brett thinks so highly.
In any case, I feel that Mr. Brett does not understand the obligations concomitant with the post of music columnist, nor does he in any way fill them. Until better music columns appear on the college horizon, I am
Gene Feehan Catholic University of America
History Department Plans Discussions Tuesday Night
The final History Department Discussion will be held next Tuesday at 7:45 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building.
The topic under discussion for this session will be “The Relation Between History and Literature.” Rev. Paul Beichner, c.s.c., Head of the Graduate English Department, will give the first paper on “History and the Student of Literature.” The second paper will be given by Mr. Richard Kilmer of the
LIFE IS SHORT COLLEGIANS!!
Why not devote it to God as a FRANCISCAN TEACHING BROTHER? In the Classroom—On the Ball Field—In Club Activities—At Camp CHRIST and YOUTH need YOU!
Write: BROTHER LINUS, O.S.F.	41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
Department of History on “History and the Record of Literature.”
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, c.s.c., former president of Portland University, will serve as chairman for the discussions.
After the presentation of the papers there will be a discussion open to the public.
Freshmen Oratorical Contest Moves Into Semi-Final Stage
The semi-finals of the Freshmen Oratorical Contest will be held this afternoon at 4 o’clock in Room 250 of the Main Building. Contestants are Lamont McLaughlin, Robert Johnson, David Hayes, John Houck, Edward Graham, Robert Niquette, James Stanton, James Ingram, Edward Manier and Mr. John Gerber, c.s.c. Finalists will compete next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Judges for the finals will be Mr. Louis Radelet, Rev. Paul Bailey, c.s.c., and Mr. Bernard Feeney. The winning contestant will receive a $10 cash award. Mr. Frederick B. Govern is in charge of the Oratorical Contest.
Student Play
(Continued from Page 9) wisdom that he had pictured, that it is difficult to be honest and be a successful politician, and he also learns that his namesake, Socrates, was “quite a guy,” who believed in the things he fought for. He resolves to create a stir- in Congress by introducing a bill on his first day, and picks a world government bill which was defeated in the last session. He is told it is hopeless, but goes through with it anyway.
The second act relates his troubles in trying to force the passage of his bill by honest means, and the persuasions of his Athens racketeer sidekick to blackmail his associates into voting for his bill. “Sock” bought his way into Congress, but holds government as something sacred, and now really wants to be honest.
How he decides whether to save his political career or his conscience climaxes the play. And we know one thing
after attending the rehearsal. We are definitely going' to the play to see if his conscience wins out.
No ticket will be required during the three-night run of the play. Also, there will be no reserved tickets. Entrance is open to all members of the student body, of the faculty, of the staff and any guests they might bring. Curtain time is 8:15.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
ELY. MINNESOTA mhhbc*
Quetico - Superior Wilderness Complete outfitting service $3.50 a day with Grumman aluminum can o e s. Food* your choice—extra.
50-page Canoe Country picture booklet mailed postpaid anywhere for $1.00
"BASSWOOD LAKE LODGE on Minn.-Canadian border. Main
Lodge and 20 log cabins, k / Modern bathroom facil-ities. American Plan rates $8.00 and up. Also housekeeping cabins.

Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18. N. Y.
The Scholastic
32
• Historian Analyzes Russian Issue in 'Review of Politics'
The current crises between Russia and the Western world would be inevitable even if the Soviet Union were not a Communist dictatorship, according to English historian Herbert Butterfield in the April issue of The Review of Politics.
According to Professor Butterfield, the potential conflict is based on old problems which have little or nothing to do with differences in ideology. The most important diplomatic issue, he says, is “whether Russia should dominate those countries of central and eastern Europe which run from Poland, through Czechoslovakia and Hungary to what we now call Yugoslavia and the Balkans.
“The predicament would not be removed even if there were no Communism in the world at all, or supposing that every state involved in the problem were a Christian state,” he declares in his article. “The basic problem would not be fundamentally altered . . . (with) all the power of modern Russia in the hands of the Tsars, instead of the regime of the Soviet.”
Professor Butterfield proposes a return to “the older methods of diplomacy, which will recognize the persistent tragic fact in all human relations — the inevitable conflict of human wills.” Our only hope for peace, he says, lies in an objective “historian’s view” of international disagreements.
“We ought to be straining our minds to think of new things and to enlarge the bounds of understanding,” Professor Butterfield concludes. If this broad outlook does not prevent war, it may at least “remove some of the unwisdom that has made victory itself so . . . disappointing.”
Frank Leahy Helps Select
Head football coach Frank Leahy participated in the selection of the “All-Star Baseball Team of All Time” foi* inclusion in the recently-published book Biff Time Baseball, by Harold H.
Celebrities1 All-Star Nine
Hart. More than’76 famous fans, including governors, senators, cabinet members, coaches and sports writers, were polled to determine this All-Time team.
Two things every
College man should know!
for granite. An earthy type with rocks in his head. Thinks nitrates are cheaper than day rates. Wouldn’t be caught
ossified without a “Manhattan” shirt.
Corsages
FLOWERS for All Occasions
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
widespread collar with French cuffs. Does something for your natural contours.
That tiarrow ’’Manhattan” tie
is a pretty smart specimen, too.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
21, 1950
33
Roughly Speaking by Ken Zhoten
At Last
Spring arrived last weekend with a bang. And it was none too soon for everyone concerned. You can always tell when Spring arrives at Notre Dame— this year in particular. The ND barber, Joe Molnar, shaved his moustache to welcome in the fair season; Badin Bog, the area in front of the Biology Building, and the space between the Fieldhouse and the Science Building were stashed with scrub baseball games; the concrete tennis courts had an overflow crowd over the weekend; and the golf course looked like the Masters Tournament.
A few of the smart divoters thought they'd escape the mob by getting up early Sunday morning. If they only knew that everyone else at 7 o’clock Mass had the same idea in mind! The attendant at the links said, however, there were even earlier risers than the 7 o’clock golfers. He arrived at a quarter to six and there were already several foursomes on the fairways.
Despite all the rain lately, the course is in fine condition. The greens are still a little rough, or maybe that’s rationalizing poor putting. Holes 7 and 8 looked somewhat like the Okefenokee Swamps. Someone is going to get a bushelful of golf balls when the flood recedes.
Another sure sign of Spring was the intra-squad baseball game last Sunday afternoon. Typical Indiana weather has kept the team indoors for a great part of their practice. Nonetheless, Coach Coach Kline’s men looked pretty good. Once they scrape off some of their rust they ought to be hot.
There’s one improvement that could be made out on the diamond—but it has nothing to do with the team. It’s that pitiful scoreboard. If a new one can’t be put up this year then the old one shoul ’ get a paint job. Right now it is hardly visible from the stands. Perhaps it will be fixed up by the time this is published, but if not, then how about attending to it? Student Council: could you take any action on it? Or, how about some Class taking the responsibility?
The final sign that Spring has surely arrived—it will probably snow today— were the locust-like visitors that descended upon tlie campus over last weekend. Some students had a field day ogling all the strollers. Such a treat should continue this weekend, in par
ticular, with the Junior Prom crowd. Every home-town belle will be here . . . sometimes you’d think ND’ers never saw a girl!
A Step Forward
At a quickie meeting of the Junior Class held just before the Easter vacation, Student Council President Bill Kirchner put forth a plan that sounded fine. He said the Council was soon to take steps whereby the classes would be able to maintain a hold-over treasury. Profits that each class made on any undertaking would be kept separately in individual class accounts.
If, for instance, a class rponsored a successful dance and made a profit on it they would be able to carry it from one year to another. Such a plan means the classes could have a cushion and never need to worry about going into debt. If they should lose money on an affair they would have some funds to pay off the expenses. Such a system has long been needed at Notre Dame.
It’s inconceivable that any class would end up their Senior year in the red. Each class will surely have a sum left upon graduating- and that could easily be put to use by either buying the school a class gift or donating it to some University activity. It would also offer each class a sense of being a four-year proposition, rather than, financially speaking, a year-to-year unconnected thing as they are at present.
Here’s hoping President Kirchner’s proposal wasn’t just talk. The idea is in the Council’s lap now.
Two Accolades
The Class of ’51 began their Prom with many halts and starts. Something-seemed definitely wrong with the way it got things rolling. In the past two weeks, however, the Juniors have gone to town. From the looks of things tonight’s bigdance should be a tremendous success. Everyone is pulling for it, but only by tomorrow morning will the verdict be decided.
As for the forthcoming Freshman Dance—the upperclassmen could learn a few lessons from the first year men.
• Their publicity campaign started well in advance of their affair’s date. Few on campus could not help knowing there was to be a Freshman dance. Placards have announced it and constant blurbs have been broadcast on WND. There’s no rea
son why the Freshman Dance shouldn’t go over the top, but if it doesn’t it won’t be the fault of the fine committee in charge.
Politics
The annual campaigning for next year’s class officers is just around the corner. Any day now the parties will open their drives for elections. The past two years has seen an upswing in interest in these elections. All indications point to a repeat of the hoopla. It’s better to wait until all parties toss their collective hats into the ring before this column takes up the matter- further. For now, however, a reminder might be in order for everyone—not just the politically-minded—to take part in these campaigns. Much can be gained from this activity, for good class officers is a sure way of making a good class.
Just A Note
Please notice: ive didn’t use the pronoun WE once. It can be done!
34
The Scholastic
Imagine the thrill of owning one of these new Elgin Watches! Their styling has won the highest praise of America’s “best-dressed”. Their perform-anceand dependability are assured by such technical achievements as the DuraPower Mainspring.
So let it be known that the gift you want most is an Elgin Watch. When you get your graduation Elgin, you can look forward to years of pleasure and satisfaction. It will be a faithful companion and constant reminder of your graduation day.
fak, in,
April 21, J950
35
Chesterfield Contest and Winners — Page 30