'1 
THE OBSERVER scholastic 
.~-/pl; 

course evaluation booklet/spring 1972 
NOVEMBER 27, 1972 

YEAGER MOTOR Co.1 1·nc. BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO 
• 
SALES 

• 
SERVICE 

• 
PARTS 

• 
ACCESSORIES 


"Where customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531 


THE OBSERVER. scholastic 
course evaluation booklet/spring1973 
Sc 4 
8 
: . 10 15 18 

-23 l 
' 28 31 33 36
' . 
38 ,, . 41 
·,44 
.:46 
. ,,. 
48 

: ~ ' -. ' .49' 
50 
52 
• '.:'... ,~~~ ·~ ·_ -•• > 
-~. ., . ' 
ARTS & LETTERS american studies art economics english general prograr:n' 

-government history language music philosophy psychology sociology-anthropology theology BUSINESS 
.ENGINEERING 
SCIENCE chemistry geology mathematics. phy?iCS 
..... 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
53 -art 54 economics-business 55 education 56 english 
60. language 

.. 58 history 59 humanistic studies 

61  mathematics  
62  music  ....  
63  philosophy  
64  psychology  
65  political scjenc~  
66  science  
· 67  sociology  
68  speech and drania  
69  ADDENDA  

70 · ARTS & LETTERS ADVISORY COUNCI_L -12 EPILOGUE 

,• NOVEMBER 27, 1972 
VOLUME ·H6, NO. 7 
,· ~. 

-:·. •i-. The opinions :expressed in the SCHOLASTIC · ,: · ·' are those of the au 0thors and editors of the ' · ·: '.,:_:· ScHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the · . · ·.. ' ·-· :, · opinions of the University of Notre Dame, .~ , -: .-•its administration faculty or the student body.
~ _, ~· ,·' ~ , ~ ' 
>···. ··'.,...:.,; ·Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, 
, · · .:·: · ,:·. ·. . Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for 
• . ,_·-' ·. . ,· ·.-. national advertising by .National Educat!onal : · . -· :·.: ·· .,:, Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, .. : ·. . . · : '· -New York; .N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly 
·. ·,. . · :., · ·..,:: : •.during the school year except during · · :: -7_ · · vacation and examination periods, the · · -~ • ·.:_\ -i" .-ScHoLASnc is printed at Aue Maria Press, 
_, ,,_-. :,·.:·-~·~:::_c,•Notre Dame, ,Ind. 46556. The subscription .,._:;· _:: ••0 •\'~t::·: rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are 
-·:0·•;,· ·,::_:, -., 'available from the SCHOLASTIC-Please address 
. ,:·-...-, '.; :;c~,-'.t . .'ali manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre ' .. :·>:ti;;.;t.,.·Dame, Ind. 46556. Allunsolicited material. ' :·.i:·i,:,; :":becomes the property of the ~HOLASTIC..


:•tli~fjji:~ , 
. , ~ 

Publishers . 
John Abowd and Gregory Stidham 

,Editors 

James. Pauer,. Terri Phillips, Joseph Runde, TimothyStandring 

Production .Director 
Jo~ph Witkowski, . 
Art .Direct.or 'Michael Lonier

s ff 

·, fQ , : = _._, oHarry . Chung; Gregory e,:mti; Kerry Mcr+:'amaJ~1am,
' ' T M d I n 
. . _. :: .. · .' ': · :cynthi_a~,;,Nilles _-Kathy . Mirro, om O Q I ' 
/a ··.__ .,

,' :_, ·:'Munsch~·,:Mark' Niederkorn, Dave Rust 
,:__ .'{ ,it~'<; : • .···. . . 


Course Evaluation Staff. 
American Studies: Greg Conti, Chairman. 
Ann Arbour, Gus Huisking, Lynn Lee, Jim Purvis. 
' 

Art: Casey Pocius, Chairman. 
Tom Baxter, Kevin McGill, Nan Smith, Tim Standring. 
Economics: Dale Be.lock, Chairman. 
John Abowd, Mike Casale, Buz Craven, John Horrled, Bob Kelly, Jim LaDue, Jim McDermott, Dave Tobben, Larry Velchek. 
English: Dave Kravetz, Jack Wenke, Chairmen. 
Dan Bekavac, John Bryan, Timothy Corrigan, Mart Fertig, Mike French, Kevin 
J. Graham, Chris Lussier, Juan A. Manigault, Mike Moore, Gerard Ricigliano, Pat Roach, T.C. Treanor, Bubby Vespole. 
General Program: Mark Moes, Chairman. 
P. J. Bitari, Bert Brenner, John Coleman, Rich Elega, John Estuno, Tom Franklin, Mark Gaffney, Bruce Hooper, Ann Martin, John Moskop, Mick Quiecen, Janet Reimer. ­
Philosop~y: Kitty Carroll, Chairman. 
Dan Baker, Michael Baum, Jim Carroll, Tom Filiak, Jose Fonzalez, George Pertzak, Phil Schuster, John Zeis, Joe Zoucha. 

Physchology: Greg Vesonder, Chairman. 
John Agosti, Mike Furrie, Mike Lilienthal, Kevin McMullen, Bob Palick, Dennis Wilson. 
Sociology-Anthropology: John Niederman, Chairman. 
Mike Graham, Wayne Hall, Kevin Hoyt, Jim Lepley, Mark MacGowan, Eddie Miller, Mike Mohrman, Mike Sayres, Joe Zulli. 
Theology: Dick Thoen, Chairman. 
Patricia King, Paul McGee, Rick Ridenour, Ed Shaughnessy, James Schellman, Alan Schreck. 

Business: Courtesy of Business Weekly·. 
, 
Thomas Fitzpatrick, Edward Garbarino, Shawn Kelly, Robert Michelotti, Joe Sedlac, Marty Siemion, Mark Wilcox. 

Government: Barbara Kimble, Thomas Leahy, Chairmen. Engineering: Mike PauliuS, Chairman~ 
Paul Colgan, Phil Dunn, Candy Kelly, Pete Lenik, Fred Lochbihler, Jerry Lutkus, Paul Simon, Gary Wilbert. 
History: Jim Munsch, Chairman. 
Rich Botzwick, Cindy Ceraso, Ralph Cipriani, Guy Fairweather, Jim Gabreski, Rich McCarthy, Chris Mecca, Leo Meirose, Tom Miller, Jack Richeson, Tom Sarb, Jim Smith, Bob Sprott, Mike Young, Eric Z~grans. 
Languages: Robert D. Nuner, Chari man. 
Charles Connell, Robert <;ioYette, Timothy Herrick, George A. Matten, 0,arles O'Geen, John,. Papa. 
Music: Mark Sears, <;:hairman. . . ,, .,· . . 
George Gaspar. 
Science: 

Chemistry: Jin, Kaduk. Geology: Bob Rieser. Mathe~atics: Gery Berry, John Kurtzke, Co-chairmen. Phil Cernanec, Mike Coan:. ·Dean Harvalis, Bill Heineman, Wizard McNulty; Tim Millunzi, Steve Roth, ·victor Space, Tom Trudell. Physics: at Wyant, Chairman; Mike Brines, Dan Dzurisin, Gene Milinelli, Jim Sweitzer. 
Saint Mary's College·:. Terri Phillips~ Chairwoman 
Art: Particia Helgeson, Terri Lustic, Kathy.OStermeyer, Mary Ann Zdinak. Business-E~~omics: Susan. Armstrong. Education: Mary Pat Essman. 
•. English: Kathy Mirro, Ka~hY,.Brac~en. HistOf'.'Y: Natalie Bwyer. Humanistic 
Studies: ~arbara Allen. lal')gu~es: Ka~hleen ·McGury, Sara Angeli, Francois . . Thompson,-M.~thematics: , Dianne. LoGuidice .. Music: Mary McArdle. 
: . . · -· · •. , •· • ,''3,T:-::.. ,.. ·.· . _Phil0.5.0PhY,: Cyn!h_i!'i M,11es. ~yc~ology: ·~bbi~ Schwartz. Political Science: B~rbara Benton,· M,n,que D_uPre, Leon: F~to, B. McCleod, Cyril O ~n~~r,<:v.,, 0 Bur;ni. TL!"~-s,c~ence,: .Ro.sa,:ine .Wolf. Sociology.: ..P.eggy. Scanlon. Speech and Michelle de la Rue, G. Raff,. · -· 1 Orama: Mary H~nson. . . . . . .. · , . ' ·:-.· ·· . . 


the following five-part outline was the key used by notre dame evaluators in .reviewing courses offered in the spring semester 
Content 

This section focuses on the professor's statement about his course. What we want here is a general description of the course---its subject matter {authors periods of history, theories, etc.), the approach the professor plans to folio~ concerning the subject matter, the insights and skills that he expects to convey to the students. We can't escape the in~erent philosophical nature of this section, but you, as the evaluator, can help the professor clarify his description by asking certain pointed questions. Above all, remember that this section is informational and should not include any of your own comments. Enumerate also prerequisites 
for the particular course. . 
Presentation 

Here describe briefly how the course is taught. Tell whether the course·is lecture, discussion, or a mixture of both. Again, ask the professor for this in­formation. Don't rely on your past experience with the course--he may have changed its format in the course of the year. Note also his use of audio-visual 
materials. · 
Readings 

List the texts (including authors), readings, materials, records, and maps that a student is required to purchase for th~ course. List the prices of these books. Describe the number of handouts (major), magazines, and books in the reserved bookroom that a student is expected to read. How many books does the student have to read in this course per week? 
Organization 

List what is expected of a student in a particular course--papers, projects, quizzes, exams. Give the number of papers and their average length in typewritten pages. Give the number of tests and whether they are take-home or in-class. Describe the nature of the tests---are they a review of text information and notes, or do they give a student the opportunity to express his thoughts on course material. Ask the professor how he integrates the student's work into the course grade--e.g., 20 percent final, 40 percent papers. Do not mention ·the average grade iri' the course. 
~;~ 
Comments 

This section makes or breaks our course evaluation booklet and your own evaluation of a particular course. In the past, this section has become a forum for extravagant praise and biting criticisms of a professor and his course (many of which were not sup'ported by evidence). We want neither of these two ex­tremes nor a mild wishy-washy comment about the.course. We don't mean to be overly restrictive concerning your comments, and we want to give just praise and criticism its due. But, if you have something to say, back it up with specific examples and reasons or don't say it at all. Also, speak with two or three other students who have taken the course and question them as to their comments about the course. Use their ideas to either substantiate and expand your critique or to point out the weaknesses in your criticism. 
Try to answer this qu'estion in making your comments: ~as the course suc­cessful in regards to the expectations the professor had (which you have listed clearly in your Content section>? If riot, why not? If so, why? Did other insights or skills emerge from the course ·which were not expected? Make use of all the variables--presentation, readings, organization--to justify your comments. Was the profes·sor's presentation· effectiv:e--did his lecture style transmit course information, were his discus~ions adequat,ely m(?derated? Think of this section 

'. · · :, as·a conclusion to an essay in that'your comments refer to information cited in 
, , ~ . . • ---.• .. •1~~...,c . 
.-·:·the other sections, and don't suddenly appear from the heavens.·"· ·­
.... . .._ .'· .. 
(I) 
<
0
-
C 
Q
....
-· 
0 
:J 
.... 
0
-, 
3 
C
.... 


arts and letters 
American· Studies 
Strifch Arnst 357 The Arts in America 
Content: The course, an American Studies elective open to all students, is a 
survey of the arts of the u.s.Music, film, photography, pop art and sculpture are 
covered, but special emphasis is placed on painting and architecture. While 
concentrating on American innovations and contributions, the basic aim of the 
course is to increase the student's appreciation and understanding of art in 
general. 
Presentation: This is primarily a lecture course, but questions and discussion 
are encouraged. Slides, films, and records will be used frequently. 
Readings: Required texts include: Kouwenhoven, The Arts in American 
Civilization; Andrews, Architecture, Ambition and America; Knight, The 
Livliest Art; Rose, American Art Since 1900; Langer, Problems of Art. 
Recommended: Nye, The Unembarrassed Muse and Harris, The Artist in 
American Society. 
Organization: There will be eight short papers (2 or J pages), a mid-term and 
a final. 
Comment: Any student desiring a broad overview of American artistic ex-• 
pression will find this course both informative and enjoyable. Mr. Stritch is an 
interesting lecturer, and he possesses a keen sense of humor. He likes to know 
his students on a personal basis, and is always available for outside consultation. 
Schlereth Arnst 360 Growing Up American 
Content: This course will interpret the American past through a selected 
survey of autobiographical writing from the seventeenth to the twentieth cen­
tury. The class will examine the problems and possibilities of the 
autobiographical genre as a historical source, and gain insight into the -practice 
of the historian's craft by exploring (via research, interpretation, writing) one's 
own history (autobiography) in twentieth-century America. 
Presentation: Two lectures a week will each be followed by a question­
discussion period. Readings will be read parallel to lectures and student essays 
will be ccmpleted at monthly intervals. 
Readings: A tentative list of required works includes: Richard G. Lillard, · 
American Life in Autobiography; Benjamin Franklin, Autobiography; 
Frederick Douglas, Life of a Run-Away Slave; Geron_imo, Story of My Life; 
Lincoln Steffens, Autobiography; Henry Adar:ns, The Education of Henry 
Adams; Alfred Kazin, A Walker in The City; Gertrude Stein, The Autobiography 
of Alice B. Toklas; Richard Wright, Black Boy; Studs Terkel, Hard Times, An 
Oral History of the Depression; Thomas Merton, The Seven Story Mountain; 
Norman Podhoretz, Making It; and P. Nagourney and S. Steiner, eds., Growing 
Up American. 
Organization: Three'Essays will be assigned; the first, "Autobiography and -Biography; Two Approaches To The Historical Past", will be 4 pages; the 
second, "Autobiography As Various Experience; Exploring A Parallel Past", 
will be a 4 page response that touches a student's ·own geographical identity, 
vocational aspirations, or life-style preference; the third essay, "Autobiography 
and the Personal Past: Doing Your History in Twentieth-Century America", will 
bea 15page (maximum) major essay. There will bea final examination. 
Fisher Amst 450 Writing for Publication 
Content: Students write articles that will be considered for publication in various kinds of magazines. 
Presentation: For the first few weeks Professor Fisher lectures on the fun­damentals of magazine writing. After this brief introduction students are free to write articles of their choice. As each student begins to prepare his artic~~ he 
eets with Professor Fisher to discuss any problems !n research or writing :chnique. Near the end of the semester the class meets regularly again to tie things together. . • 
Organization: students write a minimum of two magazine articles that have been thoroughly res·earched. In the past Professor Fisher has usually arranged to have these articles printed in local magazines. Thi~ means that stu_dents al~ have to meet with the editors of these magazines to discuss the potential of their 
articles. . • th 
com.ment: Professor Fisher has a wealth of knowledge concernm~ e business of writing and publication, and his insights may be helpful. But 1f }'.OU think you alre~dy have the basic ability to write for pu~lic~tio~, stay away from this course. 1t does not really teach you how to wr•te, It simply provides a knowledge ol techniques that have been used in the past for successful ma~azine 
writing. 
Meaney Arnst 452 Foreign Views of America 
content: This is a course designed to shed light upon the American Character by means of comparative foreign views on the subject. This is a reading course and the primary emphasis will lie in the readings. Through the agreements and disagreements of foreigners on the American Character the student can gain ~ better insight into the image projected by the American people in progressing periods of history. , 
Presentation: Being a reading course this one will meet only once a week, 3FS, for an occasional seminar. The primary emphasis will be upon the student's grasp of the readings and his capability to coordinate the view:,. 
Readings: The readingJist for the course includes: Crevecoeur, Letters from an American Farmer; Tocqueville, Democracy in America; Bourget, Outre 
·Mer; Martineau, Retrospect of Western Travel; Dickens, American Notes; Mackay, American Notes; Arnold, Civiliution in the U.S.; Bryce, The American Commonwealth; . Stevens, The Land of the Dollar; George, Hail Columbia; Brogan, The American Character; llf 8. PPtrov, -Little Golden America; Munsterberg, The Americans; Yong-Park, ,.. ¦1 Oriental View of American Civilization; Myrdal, The American Dilemma; servan-Schrelber, The American Challenge; Revel, Without Marx or Jesus; Maritain, Reflections on America. These readings will be subordinated by contemporary periodical literature that is pertjnent to the material of the course. The emphasis of this periodical literature will.be that of LatinAmerican and canadian writers. 
Organization: Each student will be responsible for the assigned readings for the week. He will also be held responsible for active participation in the discussions of the works. In Professor Meaney's own words, this course will be somewhat "independent studies". Professor Meaney requires no tests and no 
.papers in the course. The class will be·limited to 10-15 students in number and is 'open to all students. 
Mea~ey Amst 456 American Television 
Content: This course c~sists of ·a critical review of contemporary American televi.sion productions. This course will be open to the entire University, but_ the~e will be a maximum of .a students in the course. Professor Meaney will attempt to analyze television achievements in the fields of news and special events, entertainment, sports, advertising and public TV as evidences of our social needs and values. 
Presentation: This course will be presented as an aiternating lecture and discussion period. There will also be one videotaped viewing per week covering one of the many aspects of American television.-On the lectur.e discussion· day, the student will be held responsible for the correlation· of· the readings to the ­
screening. ' · 1 
·course eval\.t.afion 


Readings: The reading list for American Television will be as follows: Bar­nou"-1, The Image Empire; McGinnis, The Selling of the President, 1968; Bogart, ;rhe Age of Telt-vision; Arlen, Living Room War; Friendly, Due to Cir­cumstances ryond Our Control; Schiller, Mass Communications and American 1:=mpire: 'Neinbert, TV in America; Mickelson, The Electric Mirror: Politics in an Age of Television; Barret, Survey of Broadcast Journalism ( 1970-71); Meyer, About Television; and Boorstin, The Image. There will also be some govern­mental literature concerning the Television Regulatory commissions and the acceptability of certain topics for broadcasting. 
Organization: This will be similar in format to Maritime America. There will be a mid-term and a final. There will be two in class papers and there will be a term paper (8-10 pages). The major emphasis of the course is once again upon the students own thoughts about the material and his discussion in class. If a students shows sufficient initiative in his work and in his class participation t>e may be exempted from the paper. 
Comments: This is the first offering of both American Television and Foreign Views of America·. This is the first time also that Maritime America will be of­fered as a seminar. Professor Meaney is not a demanding professor, but he is an expecting professor. He expects his students to be prepared to do the work assigned and also to have a bit of intrinsic knowledge of the topic. His class discussions are well handled and he doesn't force the direction of the class. He opens the discussions with a few general questions and allows the participants to lead the discussion in the direction that interests them most. He will add a learned insight to the ideas that are expressed and will research any topic that is in doubt. He can definitely enlighten any interested_student in the area of the American Character and it's development in any of the various aspects of American cultu.r~-
Meaney Arnst 484 Maritime America 
Content: Professor Meaney is teaching this course to help illustrate the om­nipresent influence·of the sea upon the people of America. The course is essentially a seminar critique of American involvement with the sea. The Background of Americans and the sea as well as the evolving characteristics of America as a seafaring nation will also be considered. The American artistic and economic gains from the presence of a maritime culture have survived two centuries, and their involvement in the American heritage will help to highlight this maritime influence upon the American Character. 
Presentation: This is a new seminar class open only to American Studies majors. (Enrollment 10-15 students) Professor Meaney plans to teach this course in a lecture discussion style. This will necessitate a lecture for part of the class on various aspects of the reading, and then a period of discussion between the students and himself. He is open to the ideas of every studer,t and does not discourage individual thought. 
Readings: The seminar will cover approximately one book per week. Some of the selections from the reading list are as follows: Dana, Two Years Before the Mast; Melville, Moby Dick; Garner, The Captain's Best Mate; Brown, My Ditty Bag; Mahan, From Sail to Steam and On Naval Warfare; Morison, John Paul Jones; Clark, The Clipper Ship Era; Murphy, Logbook for Grace; Goodrich, Delilah; Wouk, The Caine Mutiny; Heggen, Mr. Roberts; Sokol, Seapower in the Nuclear Age; Gullion, U.S. Merchant Shipping Policies and Politics; and ·An­derson, The Merchant Marine & World Frontiers. Accompanying the preceeding books, there will be literature from the U.S. Committee on Commerce con­cerning U.S. Maritime Policy and the Proceedings of the U.S-. Merchant Marine Conference. 
Organization: There will be two tests, a mid-term and a final. There will also be two short in class "papers", which will be a small quiz on one· or two of the classes. Professor Meaney places great emphasis upon class participation. There will also be one paper (8-10 pages) due near the end of the course. If a student puts forth a reasonable effort to participate in class discussion, and does good on the midterm he may be exempted from the term paper. 
Schlereth Amst. 486 Chicago: 1870-1920 
Content: This new course in the American Studies Department is designed to acquire insight into the possible existence and relationship of a regional culture (Chicago and the Midwest) and the national culture. It will use the methods of the various disciplines (history, architecture, literature) toward explaining the 
·origins, development, and consequences of the cultural movement often called The Chicago Renaissance. Its students should also gain expertise in the in­terpretation of diverse source materials and cultural artifacts by studying, in depth, a segment of the American.cultural experience in a sp_ecific time period and geographical area. This a a senior seminar open to twenty American Studies 
majors. , . . --. 
Presentation: There will be two sem_inar 'niee.fings ~ "".eek, ex~epi ~he~ a research expedition is scheduled: The core ~f_'th~ seminar will 9e orge;mi~ed around the mutual exploration of a variety of cultural issues through short doc·uments, interpreta!ive articles, fiction, photographic sources, etc., that· 
individtial 'seminar members may place on reserve and assign the seminar in 
nov. 27, 1972 
anticipation of their class presentations. Student written work will be completed 
at two intervals: Essay I-March 8; Essay II-April 25. Three group research 
expeditions will be made to Chicago during the semester (Transportation costs 
will be minimal but students will be expected to bear this expense as a part of the 
course). 
Readings: Paperbacks to purchase are: Ray Ginger's Atgeld's America 0958), Arthur Siegel's Chicago's Famous Buildings, A Walking Tour, and a choice of literary work by authors such as Garland, Sandburg, Fuller, Herrick, Ade, Hecht, Driesser, Anderson, etc. Reserved Readings to be used extensively are: Bernard Duffey, The Chicago Renaissance in American Letters, A Critical History; Harold Mayer & Richard C. Wade, Chicago, Growth of a Metropolis; Carl W. Consit, The Chicago School of Architecture; and Chicago History, a publication of the Chicago Historical Society. 
Organization: ·Two papers are required; the first topic-"Chicago in Fiction" should be covered in a 5-page paper, the second essay topic-"Chicago Studies" .will be a major research study based on primary source materials (15 page maximum). Students will be expected to attend and participate fully in all seminar sessions and research expeditions. During the course of the semester each student, probably in collaboration with a colleague, will pr:epare and be 
responsible for a class presentation. 
Comment: The most important aspect of Mr. Schlereth's approach to his 

teaching is his interest in students' individual work. His is always available for 
student consultations and he is prompt in returning written work with thoughtful 
comments and criticisms. This course will be a new approach to American 
regional study both for Mr. Schlereth and the department. 
Stritch Arnst. 560 Prophets of Technopolis 
content: The themes of this course, an American Studies Senior seminar, are described by Mr. Stritch as "the dynamics of mass society and the interaction of technics and civilization: whether electronics and automated technology are developing a new sensibility and a different culture, expecially in the United 
States." Presentation: Professor Stritch plans lecture once a week, leaving the second meeting for class discussion. Since discussion will play such an important role in the course, enrollment will be limited to fifteen students. Readings: Include selections from Kostelanetz, Beyond Left and Right; Br­zezinski, Between Tow Ages; Adams, The Degradation of the Democratic Dogma; McLuhan, Understandin~ Media; Ortega y Gassett, The Revolt of the Masses; Ellul, The Technological Society; Toffler, Future Shock; Skinner, Walden II; Fuller, I Seem to Be a Verb; Gabor, Innovations; and some science fiction. Organization: There will be a short paper, based on the readings, due every other week, and a take-home final. 
Fisher Arnst. 343 Visual Communication 
content: This is a course in the theory and practice of basic design -line, shape, form, color, harmony, and balance. The fundamentals of film production, television, advertising and writing are covered. Only 25students may enroll. It is required of all American Studies majors with a communications intent, other students are allowed if places remain. 
Presentation: The course emphasizes learning by doing. After about two weeks of lectures and slide presentations on design theory, the students spend the rest of the semester putting theory into practice with design proie.:ts. 
Readings: None. 
Organization: The course consists of 13 to 15 assigned design projects, in­

cluding the creation of a design textbook as the course progresses. The projects progress from simple to non-representational; from cut and paste to more complex designs of book jackets, record covers, brochures, magazines and three ­dimensional packaging. Ample time and instruction are given before each project, therefore, late projects are strongly discouraged. Cuts are limited as 
the majority of the work is done in class. 
Comment: If you don't have imagination now, you will after this imaginative course. For once in your college life you have the opportunity tO'transcend all conventional lines of thinking. It provides an area in which to explore your creative ability, so that one not only has the opportunity to explore the secrets of design but also have a creativ!i mind-expanding experience. 
A philosophy of teaching? Not sure I have anything so grand, or that I'd spea .. it openly if I had. I teach because I like to and because I'm lucky enough to be able to. Mostly it's pleasure, especially in an area so rich in classroom possibilities as American Studies. No excuse for being dull here; no excuse for not generating some intellectual excitement and feeling some yourself. Probably never an excuse regardless of the area. Tom Wolfe (the younger) says that teaching is the American for second rate. I think he's wrong but suspect it's a good thought to have sneaking around inthe backof your min(!. It helps prevent har,<lening of the facial muscles---and that might be a start for a philosophy of 
teaching. Ronald Weber American Studies 
Art 
Frost E. Ose Art 100 Survey of Cereal Box Art 
Content: A. Study of puffed, chex and flake cereals as nutritive ~culpture, with special emphasis on the kinetic aspect (cereal sculpture in milk-and-sugar environment) and the sensory aspect (i.e. snap! crackle! pop! aud crunch, with some consideration of oosh and squoosh). B General survey of box architecture, including classical Greek and Roman predecessors. 
C. In depth treatment of cereal-box graphics, intended to acquaint the student with the historical development and aesthetic significance of the genre. Reference will be made to the use of the medium as propag~nda, also as a decorative e!ement in the Supermarket. 
Presentation: There will be three lectures a week and one lab. Readings are recommended. but not mandatory. 
Organization: Each student is required to submit two papers (napkins ac­reptablel and a statement of twenty-five words or less on a given theme, e.g. "Why I love Carrot Crunchies." 
Readings: Minimum Daily Requirements; Ingredients; Special Offers; and Recipes, Handicrafts and Fights with Corn Flakes. Lab Fee: Two box-tops ar.d 50 cents. 
Staff Art 100; 2001 8001 400 Units I-IV 
Content: This is a special series of courses designed by the art department primarily for majors. The student elects a certain number of credit hours and he also elects the medium and the professor that he wants to work under. The philosophy behind this system holds that the artist workS best on his own time and on his own initiative. The various mediums for the artist's expression are also subject to change. Thus, he·may study many different fields all in the same semester. 
Presentation: The student works on his own time. He has a weekly meeting w,th his instructor in which the student's work is discussed and analyzed. At the end of e-ach semester. the student presents his semester's work to a reviewing board consisting of all the members of the art department teaching in the unit system. This group decides upon the student's final grade. 
Readings: If professors assign readings, it is rare. The amount of work ex­pected is dependent on the type of art form (painting, sculpture, etching, etc.) that one has chosen. Both quality and quantity are emphasized. 
Comments: This is a fine system for an artist to work under. The structure of the unit is up to the professor and student. There is one drawbcll.Ck many students select the same instructor. Thus, several professors are..over~oaded Nith many student meetings. 
Salvador O1 Reilly Art 107 Armadillo in 20th Century Art 
Content: Um, this ocurse concerns itself with the presence, use and symbolic significance of the Armadillo in middle ,and contemporary 20th century art. Open to all armadilloes and their friends, this course should be taken only after havlng had Art 006 (Armadillo In 19th Century Art) as a prerequisite. 
Presentation: Lively and informal or dull and structured, depending where you head's at (between the left and right shoulder north of the Adam's Apple and south of heaven l. 
Readings: "Armadilloes I Have Known" (O'Reilly), "My Most Unforgetable Armadillo" (O'Reilly). Readings will be supplemented with pornographic pictures of the female 'Dillo and perhaps a field trip to Texas. 
Organization: None, to speak of. 
Comment: This is a very fine course, especially if you've never had a·course with an Armadillo before. Actually, they're very cuddly and friendly creatures underneath that hard exterior. Make nice pets, too, as well as "objets D'art" and kinetic sculptures. · 
Leader Art 152 Art Traditions 
content: Art Traditions is an introductory course intended for all students wtf want to learn something about Western art. The second semester of this courst begins with the Middle Ages and goes up to modern times. Mr. Leader calls the 


course a "comparative study of style" and he tries to communicate to his students a feeling for each cultural period. Presentation: The course has a slide-lecture format. Representative pieces and notable exceptions are shown from each period. Readings: Readings in Art History, Vol. 2 (Spencer), Art, Style and History (Longaker). 
Organization: There are three exams, including a final. They are all objective with the material drawn from the readings, lectures and slides. A research paper is optional. 
Comments: Art Traditions is a very fine course, especially if you can afford to take only one art course. Mr. Leader's enthusiasm, first-hand knowledge and personal anecdotes make the classes most enjoyable. The exams tend to be difficult, though students agree tha't they are fair. 

Kaufman Art 218 Industrial Design 
Content: This course is a continuation of the fall semester (Art 217) but not necessarily a prerequisite. The idea of developing visual thinking is carried over 
_ to apply these sensitivities into communication of those ideas. Emphasis is placed on drawing and presentation techniques. Hopefully this will allow the student a chance to build an identity as a design communicator. The last half of the semester is used to apply newly developed talents into a comprehensive design problem. The course is open to all students interested in drawing things from gum ball machine~ to race cars. • Presentation: Slides, drawing demo's, extensive discussions, critiques and work sessions. Readings: "Experiences in Visual Thinking" (McKimJ. Organization: Five drawing. and presentation problems, plus one in-class sketch test. Last half of semester pulls all material together into a com­prehensive design ~lution. All problems must be handed in on time or it is "'.ery easy to fall behind and not finish. Comment: More comprehensive that the fall semester curse with loads of drawing experience. · 

Flannigan Art 370 A History of Sculpture 
Content: Not a chronological history, but a comparative study of sculptural form East and West, pre-history to the present day. Emphasis will be on the development and comparison of form and style. The materials and techniques of sculpture (bronze, clay, marble, plastic, etc.) and their influence on form wilrbe discussed. Emphasis Will be on the periods of history when· sculpture was the dominant art. 
Presentation: Slide-lecture. There will be various guest lecturers and critics. Actual sculptural ·objects will be used when appropriate. · Readings: ;'llo required text. Several paperback references books will be suggested. Reference books and visual material available in the library. 
Organiz.ation: Periodic announced quizzes on lectures and readings. A mid­semester progress report of a semester-long project that will be presented to the class toward the erid of the semester. The semester project is worth SO percent of the final grade-quizzes 30 percent; final 20 percent. 

B~ckman and Kaufman Art 418 Industrial Design 
Content: Industrial Design 217-218 should be taken as prerequisites, unless abilities for visual thii:iking and drawing are evident. The course is made up of advanced design problems dealing with areas in: marketing research, product planning and creation, corporate identity, manufacturing methods, human factors, systems design, visual communication, and appearance. Areas of development may be in· either prod1,,1ct or tr.ansportation design. Assignments are comprehensive and are presented to develop the professional designer. 
Presentation: Format of the course is: 1. presentation of problem; 2. 
discussion of ideas; 3. critique of solutions. Student-professor raport is en­
couraged on an individ~aJ le~el. t«:> w!!rk.out !=~rtain de~icienci~s. Team pr~jects 
are also encouraged as a·means of learning from others. ··' · ' 
. Readings: As the-problems require. 
-• • •• ,-,' < ,. ~ • • .,• • f'. • !-~--. ,. r 

Organization: An advanced studio experience being rather loose but also professional. 
Comments: A growing experience from student projects to professional confidence. 
Rushton Art 459 Mannerism 
Conter:it: Course will cover sixteenth century painting, sculpture, and ar­chitecture, primarily Italian. The class will approach the problem of defining mannerism as a stylistic movement in terms of the works of art and the artistic theories of the period and further problem of relating the artistic movement to 
the rest of sixteenth century culture. Presentation: Primarily lecture but including discussion and excursions to nearby museums. Readings: Only one textbook is required, J. Shearman's Mannerism; however, much of the reading will be taken from books and articles placed on reserve. 
Organization: One 3 to 4 page visual analysis of a work from the Notre Dame Gallery collection. One research paper of 10 to 12 pages. Two hour exams (essay). A final exam (essay). 
Fern Ar_t 462 Modern Art, the 20th Century 
Content:. A close look at the most exciting and influential movements of modern art and archite~ture. Among these are German Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dada, and Surrealism. The organic architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright and the more severe geometry of the International School of Ar­chitecture are included in the survey. Th0 post World War II movements of Abstract Expressionism, Pop Art, Minimal Art, and a variety of new media will conclude the study of modern art. , 
Readings: Modern Art, H.H. Amason. Organization: Mid-term and final examinations, plus one or two quizzes. A term paper required of art history majors and graduate art majors. 
Porter Art 466 18th Century Art 
Content: The cultural achievements of England, France, Germany, Austria, Spain, and Italy will be the focal point of this course. The greatest stress will be placed on painting, sculpture, drawing and graphics as well as architecture. Rather than treating the century chronologically, the course will deal with a variety of problems. The eighteenth century certainly one of the most colorful and exciting periods in the history of art will be examined for its gallantry and elegance as exemplified by the paintings of Watteau, Boucher, and Gain­sborough and its passion for realism and rationalism as well as its passion for realism found in 'the paintings and drawings of Goya and Hogarth. 
Some lectures will deal on a comparative basis with genre, still-life, por­traiture, fetes galantes, etc. The thoughts and influences of Diderot, Voltaire, and Edmund Burke will also be considered as will the battle between the Poussinists and Rubenists. 
Several lectures will be conducted in the University Art Gallery employing the strong 18th century collection, and will focus on the "object." 
Organization: The class will be divided into three teams responsible for one project and possible future exhibitions for the University Art Gallery The projects will consist of writing the catalogues of exhibitions that include a show on 18th Century English Painting; an exhibition concerned with over 200 un­published 18th Century drawings (of which the class will try to establish their provenance, style, and possible artist); and finally, an exhibition on the physiogamy on charicature. The results of each team effort will be delivered orally for the class. There will also be a mid-term and final "thought organizer." 
Texts: Michael Schwarz, The Age of the Rococo; Praeger Publishers, S9.95 in hard cover. Eighteenth Century France: A study of its Art and Civilization, University Art Gallery, Notre Dame. No charge to students participating in this class. Julius Held and Donald Posner, 17th and 18th Century Art, Prentice Hall, Inc. (not required but available and good for supplementary readings.) 
comments: Dean Porter is in a class of his own when it r,efers to art historical studies. His approach is professional, scholarly and yet with a flavor not unlike that of Sir Kenneth Clark of Civilization fame. The classes are definitely spiced with a casual informal quality; Dean encourages refutation to his statements, and as a consequence, arguments are commen with both sides finding that the end result is usually the same. Needless to say, the course is highly recom­mended. It is not often that one receives the chance to work with the ob jets d'art under the. astute direction of Dean Porter. 
Staff Art 210 Studio Art Introduction 
content: This course entails a mixture of both lecture and discussion, however a grea't'°deal of emphasis is placed on individual obse~vations and creativity. 
Presentations: The staff does a fine job of relaying aesthetic principles to the students and help them develop personal styles and techniques. 
Readings: There are no formal readings or texts required for the course (outside reading and study are encouraged). Certain art materials are needed. The average cost of the necessary materials is about S12. 
Organization: There are a series i;,f short papers concerning art exhibits and other aspects of art required during the semester. Two brief, informal exams, which may be considered more as quizzes, aregiven. The material on the exams is usually reviewed immediately before they are given. 
A great deal of emphasis is placed on the individual's independent work in drawing, painting, sketching, etc. This makes up the bulk of the course and receives heavy consideration when grades are evaluated. I might add that no great amount of art dexterity is necessary to do well in the course. 
Comment: The course allows the student to express himself and think ab­stractly. It gives him an opportunity to get away from the rigorous pressure characteristic of courses that require a person to think concretely. The course requires enthusiasm and intent. It allows one to be intellectually stimulated, to mold the course material to fit his own needs and have fun at the same time. 
Rushton Art 476 Master Draughtsmen 
Content: Major European artists from the fifteenth to the early twentieth century selected on the basis of the quality of their draughtsmanship. In each case the class will consider: 
1. 
Different types of drawings, sketches, studios, etc. 

2. 
Different media and techniques employed. 

3. 
Different approaches to drawing as an expressive art form. Presentation: Primarily lecture but including discussion and excursions to nearby museums. 


Readings: D. Mendelowitz, Drawing, is the text. The majority of readings concerning the individual draughtsmen will be taken from books and articles OP. reserve. 
Organization: One research paper of 10 to 12 pages. One hour exam (essay). A final exam (essay). 





Economics 
Skurski Econ. 224 Principles of Economics 11 
Content: The course provides an ov-erview of the basic concepts of microeconomic theory. Three major topics are treated-during the semester: 111nrket pricing systems, labor and anti-trust, and international trade. Pricing is dealt with on a generally theoretical level, while the second and third topics are rirounded ,n more practical applications and examples. 
Organization: The course is divided into two parts. Mr. Skurski lectures twice c1 week to the entire class of 300-students, while the third hour is spent in tutorial ,qroups of approximately 15-20 students, taught by doctoral students. Tticre are two hour long exams each counting 25 percent and a comprehensive final worth 30 percent of the total grade. The remainder of the grade is deter­111 med in the tutorial sections, either by quizzes or papers. 
Readings: Two books are required. Samuelson's Economics, (ed. 8) covers the material treated in the lectures, while tutorial discussions are drawn from tile readings rn The Economics of Public Issues, by North and Miller. 
Presentation: The material is presented in the typical large lecture class format, i.e the flow of information is usually one way. Questions are en­tertained. but often serve t.o break up the continuity of the lecture. Tutorials are vc1ried, with some teachers lecturing, while others concentrate on discussion. 
Comment: During the first part of the semester, Mr Skurski's lectures were ell most strictly a reading of an outline. This was due to the fact that this was his f ,rst experience ,n teaching a principles class. As the semester progressed, Skurski became 11ot,ceably more at ease with the class size and format, and the quality of the lectures improved accordingly. The lectures__ were more in­teorated, i'nd the attention level of the class rncreased. The tutorial, on the other hand. rienerally fell short of achieving its purpose. Therefore attendance was sparse e).cept around exam time. 
Swartz Econ. 224 Principl_es of Economics 11 
Content: The second semester principles course is a prerequisite for economics majors and those entering the School of Business Administration. Its main function is to introduce the student to microeconomics and the theory in­volved therein. Relative prices of particular goods, a quantitative breakdown of the national income aggregates into various goods and services, maximum profit equilibrium, and the theory of production and marginal profits are among the topics contained in the course. Principles of Economics 11 deals with the individual firm and the theories on which all rational consumers should act: It oives an analytical look at the reasons why consumers buy or don't buy, or why producers do or don't produce. 
Pres~ntation: The course is divided into a lecture twice a week, and small tutorial meetings once a week. Mr. Swartz makes a special effort to assure that the material is understood by the students and is available after class should the student seek additional help. The tutorial sessions are handled by graduate students and are set up to allow for discussion of the principles presented in the lectures. and 1o discuss assigned related readings. Because of the large class size and the atmosphere of the Engineering Auditorium where the classes are held, students might have the tendency to fall into a valley of ennui. Mr. Swartz, however, manipulates his jokr--s, uncanny wit, and his knowledge of. the subject matter to make the class fast moving and rewarding. 
Readings: In the past, Samuelson's Economics (S10.95) has been the required text." There has been a change to more timely readings in the past two years, with the related readings covering such topics as the economics of baseball and football. 
Organization: In the past there have been two-tests and a final exam. The two tests are weighted at 25 percent of the final grade, while the final counts 30 percent. All tests are in class and are derived from the text and the lectures. Tutorial quizzes vary in number depending on the teacher and are based on the readings. 
Comments: Mr. Swartz's common sense approach to micr:oeconomics puts this somewhat abstract topic within the grasp of the person-who is I not mathematically inclined or business oriented. However, due tot-he fact that the principles and theory in this course build upon one another, ·the student is_ required to keep up with the assigned textbook readings if he·is to-understand what Mr. Swartz is trying to bring out in class. With a car,.eful reading of the text, and faithful attendance at class, the studenT ·will usually be rewarded \vith ·a 
ttrade above the usual class average of 2.7.  - ·  mo~  
... .  :'' .,-,t:':.'J  
8  

Zech Econ. 302 Intermediate Macroeconomics 
Content: This is a required course for all Economics majors. Mr. Zech's ob­jective is to convey a basic understanding of the economic structure as a whole and the effects produced by changes in any of its components. In the early stage of the course especially, he will emphasize implications of governmental policies concerning consumption, investment, taxation, etc. After this basic framework is laid, the model theories of Keyres and the monaterists will be ~tudied, always with real life applications in mind. There are no prerequisites. 
Presentation: The course will be generallv of the lecture type with classroom discussion hopefully becoming an integral part. Throughout the semester, students will be involved with computer simulations of the material. (No knowledge of computer operations is necessary.) 
Readings: Tentatively, the required text will be the same as the last two semesters, Macroeconomics, Dernberg and McDougall. Besides this, there will be readin9 on reserve and periodic handouts in class, 
Organization: Mr. Zech has put no weights or percentages to his assignments, but says that along with the computer work, there will be only a mid-term and a final. These tests will involve ?pplying theory to contemporary economic situations. 
Comment: This is the first time that Mr. Zech will be teaching this course. The material is dry, but he will try to make it interesting and relevant. He'll always rome to class prepared and able to answer·questions in an understandable way (c;omethinci which is often difficult-in economics.) It was not too long ago that Mr. Zech ~as on the other s,ae ~f the lectern. It is easy for students to talk with him. Finally, his testing and grading methods will be fair. His objectives have nothing to do with making his class have a "bell-shaped" distribution of grades. 
Davisson Econ. 302 Intermediate Macroeconomics 
Content: This is one of the required courses for the economic major, and it is 

also the first time Prof. Davisson will teach the course. He plans to take a policy 
oriented approach rather than concentrate on Keynesian Macro Theory. Prof. 
D,wisson says it will not be a good preparation for those few going on to grad 
school in economics, but should serve the regular major well. 
Presentation: As he has done before in Econ 301, Prof. Davisson will combine 

lectures, readings, and computer assisted instruction, including tests of a few 
<'mpirical statements. The readings will be both Keynesian and anti-Keynesian. 
Readings: The theoretical Keynesian material will be covered in Dernberg 

c1nd M,Dougal's Macroeconomics, but there will be another volume of anti-_ 
Keynesian material assigned later. 
Organization: Since it is his first time in a while to teach Macro, Prof. 

Davisson wil_l probably be flexible in his approach. However, he plans to spend 
the first two weeks on Nixon policy in the context of model analysis, and 6-8 
wPeks on theory and policy, with the rest of the course devoted to policy. Prof. 
Davisson is as yet undecided about tests, but he will probably have at least one 
take-home and several computer assignments. 
comment: Prof. Davisson is an economics teacher, but I get the impression he 

is more interested in teaching than in economics. His experimentation with 
, ornputer instruction is just one proof of this statement. However the computer 
instruction programs are in a state of flux and tend to much time at the terminal 
until you 9et used to them. His grading policy is generally accepted as fair, but 
some students are upset by his dislike for granting minuses and plusses in 
cir acting, because it's a long way from an A to a B. 
Durbin Econ. 310 Economics of Consumption 
Content: This course is open to all juniors and seniors with an AL or BA intent. It deals with economic p_rincipl~s and practices in the U.S. directly related to the •onsumer and_ his vieWf?Oint. It provides analysis of advertising, fraud, finan­
• ing, _insurance investme~t and otf,er factors relating to consumer demand. There· are no prerequisites:for the course. · -· 
.Prese~tation: Tp~_class, is design-~d-to include a mixture of. both lecture and ~,c;, us_si?': an~ uses the l_e~t~~es to iri!r_oduce the ;tudent to the-material and to 1•'.'-'.£/•~~-a.~a_s•c: u~~~~~t?n,di~g of the spbjec! ~aJ,ter-. · ..• , 

'co·urse evaluation 
Readings: The basic text used for the course is Economics for Consumers by Gordon and Lee, priced at SS.95. Handouts are also distributed to aid the student in his studies. 
Organization: There are usually four exams given, based largely on the material given in the lecture. An optional paper assignment has been offered in the past. The tests are of equal weight, and are often take-homes. 
Comments: For the student interested in the analysis of consumer problems, this course provides the opportunity to compare his line of thinking with the facts available in the subject. The lectures provide an outline of the essentials of the economics of consumption. Lectures are easy to understand and are centered around relevant topics, but at times can appear to be somewhat trite. Fr. Durbin is a fair grader and will do anything he can to help the student. Though the course is not technically rigorous, it can be worthwhile for those who seek an introduction to consumer economics. 

Croteau Econ. 421 Money, Credit, and Banking 
Content: This is a basic course, formerly required of Economics major, giving 
an over-view of the monetary and financial system in the U.S. The course in­
cludes the monetary system, the Federal Reserve System (both structure and 
operations), and a bit of fiscal policy. Banking in the U.S. is also very closely 
examined. · 
Presentation: Professor Croteau presents the material 'in lecture format, 
although since the class is not large, he does encourage class participation in the 
form of questions. 
Readings: All readings are taken from the text, An Introduction to Money ~nd 
Banking, by Campbell and Campbell, for Sll.00. It's a new text so it is probably 
not available used. 
Organization: There are frequent quizzes, the number of which may vary 
from semester to semester but average out to approximately one every two 
weeks, plus a cumulative final. Because of their frequency, the quizzes do not 

cover ~uch material, and are.not very difficult, but they do count a great deal in . the computation of the final grade. 
Comment: Professor Croteau has a very dry sense of humor, which he brings 
out frequently in class. However this is rarely sufficient to overcome the equally 
dry content of the lectures, which incidently, come almost directly from the text. 
Classes therefore are often boring. In addition, Prof. Croteau rarely challenges 
his students. The grading policy, however, has been one that is quite pleasing to 
the students. 

Worland Econ. 411 The Political Economy of Thomas Acquinas 
Content: This course will be taught for the first time on the undergraduate level and will be cross-listed in the departments of Economics and Government. According to Professor Worland, the course will cover: "A study of the doctrine of St. Thomas concerning the place of Economic activity in the life of the polis; of his theory of property, exchange, and justice; and of natural law as a critique of capitalism." 
Presentation: Professor Worland's teaching techniques center around his experiences with the particular class. He usually has two weekly lectures sessions and a Friday seminar session. If a good rapport is developed between the students and teacher, the class will most likely progress into a seminar course, in which Professor Worlan~ will present certain principles to be developed by the students through class discussion. 
Readings: There will be no assigned textbook. The readings will be on reserve in the Reserve Book Room. For the most part ttie readings are short, but con­cise. The Preliminary Syllabus is long, but Prof. Worland plans to make deletions. 
Organization: There will be a test, an option of a second test or a paper, and a final. His exams in previous courses have included a short identifications section and an essay section; the student will always be able to make a choice from several questions. The exams demand that the student have a firm grasp of the 
subject matter. 
Comments: Professor Worland is one of the true intellects in the College of Arts and Letters. He is an exciting teacher, who transmits his enthusiasm for economics to the students. He is also a very personable man, who is always 
available to aid students.· A final note: it is not necessary to have a vast knowledge ofeconomics, but it would certainly be helpful, ifone had a principles course in Economics. 
McDonagh Econ. 455 Labor and the Law 
content: Fr. McDonagh has designed this course to give the student an in­troduction to the labor movement, and how it has affected and been affected by the legal system in the U.S. After an initial examination of the history of the labor movement, a review of precedent-setting cases is studied, taking into account those factors that causf(I the care to arise, and the case to be decided. By chronologically examining these Supreme Court cases, the framework of labor. law as it exists today is dissected and examined. 
' _... .J • 

nov.27,1972 
Presentation: The initial classes are lectures by Fr. McDonagh that estabfish a background for the student in the subject matter. The remainder of the course material, examining the court cases themselves, is accomplished by student presentations, researched and obtained from Supreme Court records. • 
Readings: The basic text is Myers' Labor Law and Legislation, priced at $9.95. Use of the Law Library's Supreme Court publications is also necessary. 

Organization: Two tests and a final comprise approximately 75 percent of the final grade, and are derived from lectures and principles presented in the cases examined. The remainder of the grade is the result of a 10-20 page paper on a labor union's history and legal activities. 
Comment: Labor Law provides an interesting insight into the labor movement in the lJ.S. Though in the Economics Department, an economics background is not needed. Labor Law is a good intro course for the prospective law student, since it entails much reading and research by the student. The grading is equitable, and just the interesting nature of the field of labor aself makes this a worthwhile course. 
Bonello Econ. 467 Medical Economics 
Content: Medical Economics will beoffered for the second time this semester. There are no pre-requisites which makes the course attractive to non-econ majors, especially pre-professional students. Medical Economics attempts to describe the medical care industry in the United States today, to analyze current problems, and to explore possible solutions to the problems raised. 
Presentation: Dr. Bo'nello's lectures are clear and complete. Good notes are both easy to take and important to have. Presentation is primarily lecture, although questions are encouraged at all times. Basic economic materials will be presented in proportion with the number of non-econ majors in the course. Students may find themselves responsible for one medical joke over the course of the semester. 
Readings: The Doctor Shortage by Rashi Fiein, around SJ.00. Probably some readings on reserve in the library. · 
Organization: There will be a mid-term and a final, both essay-type exams. A paper will also be required. It may be either a short paper, done individuallyon a specific problem or a group research effort• 
Comments: The course presents an opportunity for Dr. Bonello to deal with a small undergraduate section. Quite a switch from his Principles course. It is an informative and enjoyable learning experience. 
Masters Economics of the Labor Market 
Content: This course is intended to examine the strengths and weaknesses of 

economic theory as a tool for understanding the labor market. Prof. Masters 
intends to concentrate on the analysis of policy issues. Topics include unem­
ployment, manpower programs, the economics of unions and labor market 
aspects of education, poverty and discrimination. 
Presentation: The course will be. fifty percent lecture and fifty percent 

discussion. Students will be asked to direct the discussion of different readings. 
The course will not beheavily tied to the text. 
Readings: The text is Reynolds, Labor Economics and Labor Relations {about 

Sl2). An optional readings book will also be available. 
Organization: There will be a rpidterm, final and one paper 00-15 pages). 
Dugan, Jones Current Issues in Political Economy 

content: This course will examine the economics of issues related to racial discrimination, education, pollution, wartime economies, radical and capitalist economics and poverty. 
Presentation: Profs. Dugan and Jones will alternate in lect.uring on each of the six topics the course covers. Each series of lectures will be followed by a seminar discussion. Ifthe cf ass is large it will besplit for the discussion sessions. 
Readings: The main readings book is Gordon, Problems of Urban Economics. Secondary readings books are Lindbeck, Criticisms of the New Left Economics and Schoolboys of Barbiana, Letter to a Teacher. Most of the reading for the course is in the library reserve room. 
Organization: There will be one short paper (5-10 pages) and one long paper 

(20 pages). There is no final exam. 
Comments: Profs. Dugan and Jones teach this course every spring semester. 

They bring a wide variety of outside interests into.the course as backgropnd for 
the lectures. The course constitutes a good introduction to many ofthe economic 
issues involved in modern policy making but the number of issues covered 
precludes going into depth on any of them. Hence, the course is a good survey of 
issues for the student whose specific intereijs do not include an in depth course 
on any of the topics. 
Schultz Econ 443i Complex Analysis in Economics".. 
Content: The study of the applications of complex analysis to economic theory. It includes the method of squaring imaginary numbers and applying that to deficits to -'f(!tt[J balanced Federal budgets, and the special forms of ratio analysis which, when applied to unemployment and inflation, turn increases into a "simple trends towards economic stability." 
Readings: Richard M. Nixon, The Use of Imaginary Numbers in Economics. Organization: One term project, to develop a "feasibly balanced" federal budget. 
Comments: This course is very successful in proving that the use of magic wands and imaginary numbers in analytic economics provides Whatever results are desired. 



Eng,ish 
Sullivan Eng. 302-402 Fiction Writing 
Content: This is not a how-to-do-it course, the professor emphasizes. What' is sought is development or improvem'ent of prose fiction style in a writers' workshop atmosphere. The experiences of writing and discussion can achieve this end only if the participant is disposed to them. 
Presentation: Each week's class is discussion of several of the participants' stories. distributed to all class members by means of ditto. Anonymity is preserved. 
Readings: The stories of class members. Organization: Three short stories or their substantial equivalent are required of each writer for the semester. 
Comments: Professor Sullivan is a sensitive and resourceful writer-critic who can capably lead discussion. He draws extensively on his own experience, literary and otherwise lifelong, in illustrating concepts, suggesting models, and recommending readings. What makes the course successful ultimately is an enthusiastic class of writer-discussants. The best way to insure the class's success is to examine one's motivations beiore registering. 
Davis Eng. 303 Intro. to Literature 
Content: This course is an introduction to literature in two senses: it will at­tempt to develop the student's ability to read literature with reasonably full understanding and sensitivity, and it will introduce· basic theoretical and technical problems of literature. General concerns treated will be, among others; how to read fiction, and general theories of fiction; how to read plays, and general theories of drama; reading poetry, and problems in poetry; general theories of literature. 
Presentation: The course will proceed entirely by discussion, which with Mr. Davis is usually quite substantial, assuredly not lacking in intensity, interest, or content. 
Readings: Booth & Burhans, 31 Stories; J.M. Morrell, ed., Four English Comedies; Francis Fergusson, The Idea of a Theatre; X.J. Kennedy, In­troduction to Poetry; Clea nth Brooks, The Well Wrought Urn; Wellek & Warren, Theory of Literature; Wilbur Scott, ed., Five Approaches to Literary Criticism; a novel and a book on problems of fiction, as yet undetermined. 
Organization: Eight short analytical papers and a final exam. 

Comments: Mr. Davis's specialty is Renaissance literature, but his interest and competence ranges into the modern sphere without strain. His discussions, as mentioned above, are generally good and consistently illuminating. One can learn a great deal about how literature works from this man; his scholarly knowledge of his field(s) does not intimidate the student in a discussion situation. A good man, both for breadth of scope and intensity of treatment. 
Huber Eng. 309· Non-Fiction Prose Writing 
Readings: Ken Macrorie,. Telling Writing; the MLA Style Sheet (2nd, revised edition); Qunitilian, lnstitutio Oratoria, Vol. 3. 
Organization: Students write a series (approximat~ly ten) of papers of three to four pages each ranging over the various types of prose writing, from the autobiographical sketch to dramatic and book reviews. Most assignments are revised after a series of class workshop discussions. The final exam consists of a revision and a rewriting of some of the work done earlier in the semester. 
Comments: Papers written for other courses may be brought in for con­

sultation. Writing opportunities will be provided for people who hate literature. 
Students will be expected to occasionally read a book, see a movie, attend a 
lecture, and look at the world around them--in lieu of a long reading list. 
Nicholson Eng. 314 Intro. to British Literature 
Content: This course is an intensive survey of English literature from Old English writings to nineteenth cent~ry writers. An immense undertaking, but Mr. Nicholson concentrates on .the main_ writers of a period, studying a<Single work in detail, rather than givin_g a broad, shallow touching· on a· number. ,ofl different works. This gives th~_student more an:in-depth· appreciation· ofrln:.. dividual writers and sfyles typc;ial pf the_period. ·~,, . · ·· ,--:-,, 
Presentation: The course is almost entirely made up of lectures. Oc­casionally, Mr. Nicholson will try to stimulate class discussion by asking questions concerning the students' interpretations of the works. 
Readings: All material is confined in The Norton Anthology of English 

Literature, a two volume work available in either paperback or hardcover. 
Organization: Two in-class exams and a final exam. One or two short papers 

may be assigned. 
comments: This is the second part of a two-semester course, but the student need not have had the first part. In this part, Mr. Nicholson will more-or-less take up where he left off the previous semester, which, un~ortunately, means that the student will probbly .wind up having to buy both volums of The Norton Anthology. The course itself has a fascinating presentation, as Mr. Nicholson seems very knowlegeable in his subject matter and very lively in his reading of passages from the book. But he tends to move too slowly through the material, often favoring spending five or six class periods on a single work. And when the st1udent looks at a 2,000-page book and sees that Mr. Nicholson has spent half a semester on perhaps 200 pages, he knows that the class will never cover all the material it should. He is also occasionally overloaded with the wealth of material produced by Mr. Nicholson's deep analyses that he becomes confused, a problem that is compounded by fairly ambiguous test questions. If you're looking for an easy survey course, skip this one, but if you want to learn some in­depth analysis techniques, and don't mind working a bit, this one is for you. 
Lordi Eng. 320 Drama 
Content: The course will be an introduction to some of the most important 
plays of the three great periods of western drama--Greek, Renaissance, and Modern. Each play will be treated both as representative of its cultural milieu 
and as a distinctive literary creation. Emphasized will be thematic concerns, 
structure, characterization, imagery and genre. Special attention will be given 
to changes and developments in dramatic forms from ancient to modern times 
(from the heroic tragedy of Greek and Renaissance drama to the anti-heroic 
modern drama) and to the changing modes of dramatic expression--poetic, 
symbolic, realistic, naturalistic, romantic, expressionistic, absurdist. 
presentation: Lectures, followed by class discussion. 
Readings: various dramas of: Sophocles,-Eur.ipides, Seneca, Shakespeare, 

Racine, Ibsen, Strindberg, R~stand, Checkov, Pirandello, Lorca, Brecht, 
Ionesco, O'Neill, Albee. 
Organization: There will be a mid-term, and one long or two short critical 
papers. 
Comments: Students in Mr. Lordi's classes will find him a knowledgeable and 
entertaining lecturer. Some, howev~r, will not be able to relate to the nature of 
I1is lecture style. His tests tend to be a mixture of objective and subjective type 
questions; he grades the papers very hard, especially the final. 
Walton Eng. 322 The Novel 
Content: The course begins with a long introduction to the art of the narrative and, from there, seeks to present a highly inclusive conception of literary form. 
Presentation: The format of the course is lecture, due to the usual heavy enrollment. However Dr. Walton encourages the students to discuss the material, raise questions and to present viewpoints that do not coincide with the one he will be elucidating. Thus, teacher and student are able to remain in top 
furm. · Readings: Cervantes, Don Quixote; Bunyan, The Pilgrims Progress; DeFoe, Robinson Crusoe; Balzac, Pere Goriot; Dickens, Oliver Twist; James, The Turn of the Screw; Conrad, Heart of Darkn~ss; Mann, Death in Venice; Joyce, The Dead; Kafka, The Castle. Organization: An exam after Don Quixott; and The Pilgrims Progress will be given. Two short critical papers will be assigned on novels of the student's choice. The remaining novels will be included in the final take-home examination. 
Call~han)~!lg.:323 Fantasy and Science Fidion ,-c.,., 
Content! The course might well be entitled "Mythology· of·the·Machine·Age." Through novels, stories, and poetry Mr. Callahan proposes to e?(plore··man's 
· course evaluation 

relationship to his technology as a literary theme of the last two centuries. 
Readings: Seventeen books, from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein to Kurt Vonnegut's Player Piano. J. R. R. Tolkien and other popular twentieth-century masters of fantasy will not be taught. 
Organization: Two exams and at least three papers. 

Comments: Mr. Callahan, hecause of a prior teaching of this course, is con­vinced that he would be unable to cover in this class all the works suggested by the course title. 
Sandeen Eng. 327 Poetry 
Content: Doctor Sandeen·s course is designed to lead the student to an ap­preciation of poetry both as an art form and simply as poetry. Poetry from all ages and traditions is examined with regard to point of view and tone, form, and poetic imagery. Dr. Sandeen also pl ans to spend considerable time this semester on contemporary trends. A new area of discussion this semester was a study of the relation between poetry and the so-called "plastic" arts. The emphasis in the course, however, is always on the poems themselves---and the student's intuitive and creative responses to them. 
Presentation: Dr. Sandeen has noted that it takes two persons to make a poem; the poet and the reader. As such, he encourages a free and lively discussion in class, punctuated and stimulated by his own comments. At times the class lapses into a lecture, but it never seems to drag, and questions and comments are always welcome. Probing questions and insights from Dr. San­deen serve to keep the discussion moving. 
Readings: Three comprehensive and uniquely oriented anthologies are required: Abcarian, Words in Flight; Simpson, An Introduction to Poetry; and Rosenthal, The New Modern Poetry. Readings are taken about equally from each. 
Organization: There are three requir~ papers or projects, and a take-home final. None of the papers are really assigned; Dr. Sandeen suggests several creative and academic possibilities throughout the semester and the student is free to make his own choice. Students are encouraged to be original and in­novative in these assignments---there is no pressure to "produce". 
Comment: Probably the greatest aid to the student's appreciation and un­

derstanding in this course is Dr. Sandeen's obvious enthusiasm for poetry and 
poetic expression. This enthusiasm is very catching if one engages in careful, 
open-minded, and serious reflection on the assigned material. This course offers 
the student the opportunity for a truly enlightening and rewarding experience. 
The world of poetry is here revealed (not taught) by a professor Whose 
knowledge and insights only serve to make the students encounter with it mar ­
enjoyable. 

Martin Eng. 329 Maior British Writers 
Content: The course will be an attempt to reproduce the spirit of the two semester survey of British literature that had formerly been offered. The object of the course will be to provide a substantive introduction to the major figures in the field. Rather than trying tp cover the entire expanse of British Literature, the course will focus on certain key figures and examine them as individual writers. Minor emphasis will be placed upon historical continuity. The course will include such writers as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Donne, Milton, Pope, Swift, Keats, Tennyson, Eliot and others. There are no prerequisites. The assumption at the outset will be that the student has had no previous exposure to the 
material. Presentation: Mainly, the course will be lecture and discussion. . Readings: The text that Mr. Martin will use is t'ajor British Writers (Shorter Version)(Harcourt and Brace). Organization: Mr. Martin will assign four short papers and a final exam will be given. There will be no mid-term. 

Huber Eng. 333 Arthurian Legend
-----=----------­

Content: A study of the legend of King Arthur beginning in Celtic mythology,_ chronicle history and pseudo-history, and French romance. Particular attention ·will be given to the English tradition; Sir Gawaine and the Green Knight, miscellaneous romances, and Malorv.. There will be excursions into legends in other languages, particularly the stories of Tristan and the Holy Grail. Althou~h the course will consider historica·I and mythical aspects of the legend, the main concern will be with individual works studied as conscious literary creations. There will be a look beyond the Middle English period to try to find reasons for the decline of interest in the matter of Arthur during the Renaissance, an~ oc­casional reappearances in later literature. . 
Readings: Brengle, ed., Arthur of Britian; Geoffrey of Monmouth, History of the Kings_of Britian; Malory, Le Morte d'Arthur, tr. K. Baine~; ~rian SJ~ne, !r., Sir Gawaine; Gottfried von Strassburg, Tristan; Christien, Arthuria1o Romances; Tennyson, Idylls of the King; T_wa!n, _A Connect~cut Yank~. (Readings-in modern English translation generally, with some Middle English 
SUP~.1~~-ents.) . 
nov.·27,, 1972 .. 
Organization: Take-home quizzes, short paper and oral report, long paper, final exam: Student reports may venture into Arthurian literature outside the middle ages (C.S. Lewis, Arnold, Wagner, T.H. White, Broadway, or Hollywood, to name examples). · 

Soens Eng. 344 Late Shakespeare 
Content: Late Shakespeare is a continuation of a course offered first semester by Prof. Rathburn appropriately entitled Early Shakespeare. This course will study the plays beginning around 1600 to the end of Shakespeare's career. The lion's sharfe of the course will focus on the 'great' tragedies, however, a smaller segment will be devoted to the romances, often called the "problem plays." Some sonnets will also be occasionally studied as they relate to a particular play or literary style therein. 
Presentation: T~e course will basically be a lecture, but Prof. Rathburn will often depart fro,n his lecture format when stim4lating discu5sions spon­taneously evolve. Prof. Rathburn will also attempt to organize auxilliary discussions on some weeknight, but this will probably depend on the class's interest or lack thereof. Recordings of all the plays are available at reserved times and any other time at the audio-center of the library. Students are urged to utilize this facility. Prof. Rathburn has initiated a series of Shakespeare's films to be shown periodically and this program will continue next semester on a greater scale. 
Readings: The basic recommended text is the Hardin-Craig edition of Shakespeare's complete works, however, any reputable edition of either the complete works or a solo work will-suffice. 
Organization: There will probably be two tests and a final exam, some of which will be take-home and some in-class. The tests are not cumulative and, on the take-home tests, a choice of questions will be provided. There may also be a few medium-length papers. The actual size and type of paper will probably be determined in the course of the semester. 
Comments: Prof. Rathburn's lectures are scholarly and dynamic. He has that regretably rare combination of a seemingly limitless knowledge and infectious enthusiasm for the subject. He approaches each play from various perspectives, for example, recurring images and motifs, theatrical techniques, historical context, etc. His lectures also incorporate various literary criticisms of different critics. In addition to the scholarly approach and obvious enthusiasm one also tends to delight in Prof. Rathburn's frequently humorous imitations of different characters in the plays. This all adds to quite a relaxed atmosphere in which all the previously mentioned elements of Prof. Rathburn's class sort of give one a singularly extraordinary incentive to learn not only in the class but on his own. 
Gal'.'vick Eng. 355 Literature of 18th Century Europe 
Content: This course will focus on the tension between order and disorder in 

the literature of eighteenth century Europe. English, French and German 
writers will be the main consideration for investigation and the readings will be 
fairly complex. The views of each writer emerge through various modes of 
communication ranging from philosophical prose, satiric poetry to verse drama. 
How each work has a place in the history of order will be an ultimate concern of 
the course. 
Presentation: Mostly lecture. However, Mr. Garvick values comments and 

responses from the student. He bases his work on an association with the 
students in a one-to-one relationShip. Witty, challenging, frequently en­
tertaining, he hOlds the class ·interest with unusual energy. At the same time, 
he tries to find out Who'sout there as this mixture creates an aura of spontaneity 
and mutual interest. 
Readings: This is a program of readings, subject to minor changes: Moliere, 

The Misanthrope, Tartuffe (verse drama); Rochefoucauld, Maxims . (philosophical prose); Swift, Gulliver's Travels (satire, in four books); Pope, An Essay on Criticism, The Rape of the Lock, An Essay on Man, Dunciad IV (satiric and philosophical poetry); Diderot, d'Alembert, and others, Encyclopedia (sui generis; a milestone of Western culture---we'II read representative sections.}; Voltaire, Candide (satire); Johnson, Rasselas (Oriental romance, with a dif­ference); Laclos, Les Liaisons Dangereuses (epistolary novel); van Goethe, The Sorrows of Young Werther (novella}, Faust, Part I (verse drama); Lewis, The 
Monk (Gothic novel); Burke, Reflections on the Revolution in France Cpolitical­
philosophy}; Paine, The Age of Reason, Part I (anti-theology}; Blake, selections 
from Songs of Innocence and of Experience, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, 
as much else as we can manage, along with passages from Christopher Smart's 
Jubilato Agno (lyric and vatic poetry); Hegel, Reason in History (philosophy}; 
Sade, 120 Days of Sodom, is optional, with an optional lecture for those who wish· 
to attend it. The work attempts to dramatize sexual fantq5ies: it has a place in 
the history of order: J. Christopher Herold's The Horizon of the Age of 
Napoleon; R.J. White's Europe in the Eighteenth Century, and The Newgate 
Calendar may be consulted C\r not consulted, according to the student's needs. 
Organization: There will be three exams; no papers. 
Comments: Mr. Mr. Garviek's specialty is the eighteenth century. His 

knowledge and enthusiasm for the subject matter of the period is undeniable. He 
has.his own unique idea of order, and, although some of the insensitive criticize 
his approach on the basis that his lectures Should be more tightly organized and 
better focused, Mr. Garvick's style is thoroughly a different kind of ed_~~ational 
experience. Toe sensitive student _must,10 quote Forester, "only connect." 
Slabey Eng. 382 American Literature since 1900 

Content: This course continues the survey of the American literary tradition begun in English 381 (which is not a prerequisite). The coverage is extensive rather than intensive, though close study will be given to some individual writers and works. Twentieth-century American poetry, prose, fiction, and C:rama, when considered as reflections of intellectual, social, and cultural forces im­pinging on the sensibilities of writers, will be seen as oscillating between the poles of self-and sodety-consciousness. 
Presentation: Because of the wide scope and large enrollment (80 students), this will be a lecture course, but time will be alotted for questions. 
Readings: The basic text The Literature of America: Twentieth Century (edited by Mark Scharer) will be supplemented with several paperbacks: Fit­zgerald's The Great Gatsby, Faulkner's Light in August, Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath, and Miller's Death of a Salesman. 
Organization: There will be two examinations during the semester, several short papers, and a comprehensive final examination. 
Comments: Mr. Slabey's lectures are highly organized and stick closely to the material at hand, although frequent puns and word plays help make for a relaxed classroom atmosphere. This is a survey course, and students should not expect an intensive analysis of the works covered in the course, but rather an overview of literary trends of the century. 
Kolbenschlag Eng. 383 American Writers Survey 
Content: The course presents a study of the evolution of cultural consciousness in America, with a special emphasis on the narrative form as a reflection of cultural consciousness, through representative works of both the 19th and 20th centuries. Sr. Kolbenschlag emphasizes American fiction as a synthesis of several traditions and the development of style as a reflection of a changing world view of Americans. There is no prerequisite and the course is open to all students. 
Presentation: Because of the survey nature of the course there is an emphasis on lecture; however, pertinent discussion is welcomed at all times. Sr. Kolbenschlag is very well prepared and her lectures are precise and thought­provoking. Because quite a bit of material is covered in any one lecture, nonattendance is discouraged. 
Readings: Poe, Selected Writings; Hawthorne, The House of the Seven Gables; Melville, Moby Dick; Whitman, Leaves of Grass; James, The Bostonians; Hemingway, Farewell to Arms; Faulkner, Light in August; and three or four modern novels possibly including such authors as Kickey, Oates and Nabokov. 
Organization: There are two short papers of approximately five pages apiece and a final. Except for Moby Dick, the course covers about a novel a week. 
Ccmment: Sr. Kolbenschlag is an excellent teacher and is not at all dull. Although the p'ace is fast and it is hard to get into any one novel very deeply, the student still manages to learn quite a bit about each work and its author. This course is especially recommended for those without a strong background in literature and yields a great deal of general knowledge of American literature as well as specific knowledge of the works and authors covered. The work load is not excessive; the books are enjoyable reading and it is generally an excellent course. 
Garvick Eng. 384 Hemingway 
Content: The course will examine some of the major works of Hemingway in the hopes of explicating the author's unique view of the world. The course will try to give the student a sense of what that view actually was, and will explore in a serious (but not too deadly serious) manner Hemingway's search for values. A main consideration will be the author's concern with the moral views of good and evil as they relate to being---not just to the ethical. These "moral questions" 
'become ontological ones which mark Hemingway as a philosophical writer of considerable subtlety. Presentation: Since the enrollment will be unlimited, the course, in an­
• ·ficipation if its great size, will be almostall lecture. Mr. Garvick will use audio­visual aids and there is a good chance that the class will be held in Washington Hall. The "stage" suggests a greater dimension of presentation---should we say, "performance?" Readings: Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway, The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms, Green Hills of Africa, For Whom the Bell Tolls, Across the River and Into the Trees, Old Man and the Sea, A Moveable Feast, By-Line: Ernest Hemingway (anthology of newspaper articles, etc., written by the author). Highly recommended: Baker, Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story; Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays; Epictetus, The Enchiridion. Mr. Garvick will make suggestions to individuals beyond the reading list upon request. Organization: There will be two exams and possibly a paper 10-20 pages in', length. .·' 
Comments: Mr. Garvick's approach to li1erature and teaching is a unique andii exciting one. Hemingway is a unique writer. What more need be said? Takei them if you are a student who is interested in determining values---How should I~ live? What are the values that endure? ·: 


· McDonald Eng. 385 Maior American Writers I 
Content: A study of how five American authors envisioned their roles as ar­tists in nineteenth-century America. Primarily the course will consider the moral, aesthetic, and social implications of their chosen identities, although 
-some attention will be given to political corollaries. A significant part of the readin,9 ..c-011sists of literature about the creation of literature. The rest of the assigned reading takes up characteristic work on other themes by each author. These works will be examined to determine to what extent their subject matter and form are exolicable in terms of the artist's vision of himself as an artist. ·Readirigs: l'lla:ha.niel Hawthorne: "Earth's Holocaust," "The Birthmark,;'k "The Artist of the Beautiful," "The Old Manse," "Rappaccini's Daughter," "Ethan Brand," "The Gray Champion," "The Maypole of Merry Mount," "Roger·Malvin's Burial," "My Kinsman, Major Molineux," The Scarlet Letter; The Marble Faun. Edgar Allen Poe: Selected stories, poetry, and criticism. Emily Dickinson: Selected poetry. Henry James: "The Beast in the Jungle," "Daisy Miller," "The Turn of the Screw," "The Aspern Papers," Portrait of a Lady; The Spoils of Poynton. Mark Twain: "The Mysterious Stranger" and selected stories. The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court; Huckleberry Finn. Organization: There will be an hour exam, a final, and three papers which will be approximately five pages long. (Review compiled from professor's description of the course.) 

Dougherty. Eng. 386 Maior American Writers 11 
Content: This course will offer an interpretation of "The Twenties", a decade of great literary achievement, by concentrating on the work of six men, active then, now regarded as major writers. ' 
Presentation: The course will be basically lecture. However discussion will not be discouraged by the teacher. 
Readings: Poetry from Ezra Pound, T.S. Eliot, and Wallace Stevens; Eugene O'Neill, Three Plays; F. Scott Fitzgerald, The Great Gatsby and a book of short stories; Ernest Heminway, In Our Time, The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms. 
Organization: The students' responsibility is to read these books and to· write three take'-home exams (one of them the final) on them. Since this reading list excludes the work of many other men and women, who but for the vagaries of criticism would be "major" too, the students are also asked to choose from another list two additional books, on which they will write 1200-word papers. The required books list for about $16. 
(Review compiled from professor's description of the course.) 

Werge Eng. 388 Mark Twain and the American Tradition 
Content: The title gives it away. This course is a consideration of the writings of Mark Twain, and their common roots with other important American liferary works. The course is all bound up with that occasionally amazingly explicit phenomena, the "American Experience." 
Presentation: Since the English Department hasn't put a limit on the number· of students for this course, odds ar_e that·the class will have upwards of fifty students in it. This will necessitate a considerable amount of lecture.material, although Prof. Werge gives serious consideration to questions raised in class by students. 
Prof. Werge is a superior lecturer. His perorations are very unified; never losing sight of the larger goals of the _course. Additionally, his wit is distinctly Twainian---i.e., delightful. Class members have been known to leave their sick­beds to catch his lectures, thus endangering the health of other members of the class. 
Readings: Reading Mark Twain for class is like eating dessert for dinner. From Twain himself: Selected ·shorter Writings (ed. by Walter Blair), The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, Life on the Mississippi, Adventures of Huckleberry. Finn, A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, and Letters from the Earth. Additionally: Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, Crevecoeur's Letters from an American Farmer, and Harte's The Outcasts of Poker Flat and Other Tales. 
Organization: Notdefinite at this point, but in the past Prof. Werge has asked for three five-page papers or two papers and a test. The paper topics are g~nerally broad and imaginative, and they are usually weighed equally in determining a final grade. 
Dr. Werge is not an easy grader. However, the grades he gives·are usually pretty well-considered, and t-ie is always happy to discuss them with the student. Papers are usually returned a week or ten days after they are collected•.. 
Comments: Many students wit~ extensive experience in the English Depart­ment will report that Prof. Werge is the best of a very good lot indeed. His lec­tures are low-keyed, dignified, and eloquent; his anecdotes are sophisticated and just plain funny. He takes an active and very authentic interest in his students. He is consistently honest. His knowledge of American Literature--­particularly of the work of Clemens---is unquestionably thorough. 
Many students with extensive experience in·American Literature will ·also 
' ~ • ~.-­
~· 
cou~se evaluation 
report that Mark Twain is the best of the lot. Students who wish to commence a serious study of American Literature would be hard put to find a better starting point than this very potent combination of Mark Twain and Thomas Werge. 

Garvick Eng. 391 Modern British Literature 11 
Content: This course will be a survey of modern British literature ~fter 1930 with Eliot, Orwell, and Becket providing the controlling order of the in­vestigation. Mr. Garvick is interested in discovering with his students the various "world views" of awide range of major modern British writers in hopes of a synthesis of ideas and awareness. 
Presentation: Lecture, mostly. However, he will entertain and encourage questions and responses which arise during the course of the class. 
Readings: The following is a tentative reading list: Eliot, Murder in the Cathedral, Selected Poems, Four Quartets; Orwell, Down and Out in Paris and London, The Road to Wigan Pier, 1984; Auden-Isherwood, The Dog Beneath the Skin, The Ascent of F-Six; Becket, How It Is, Waiting for Godot; Huxley, Brave New World; Greene, Brighton Rock; Waugh, Brideshead Revisited; Burgess, A Clockwork Orange; Amis, Look Back in Anger; Osborne, Luther; Behan, The Hostage; Untermeyer, Anthology of Modern British Poetry (the same text used in the first part of the-course). 
Organization: Mr. Garvick is not interested in developing abilities in terms of giving alternatives to works of art. Hence, three exams in class; no papers. (Note: The student must read all material as a measure of commitment is desirable.) 
Comments: Judging from the success of the first part of the course, the second should prove to be equally exciting, stimulating and informative. Mr. Garvick considers his class as a process of inquiry. It is not for a communication of the finished products of reflection, but, rather, for an unfolding of awareness with a fresh, spontaneous approach. He sustains an enormous amount of energy and enthusiasm throughout, and values the same measure of intensity on the part of the student. In every way, a "Garvick course" demands that the students exert a sensitive effort in the hopes of becoming men and women of knowledge. 

Slabey Eng. 392 Contemporary American Novel 
Content: In surveying the last two decades of American fiction, the focus will be on the aesthetic of the "new" American novel, "contemporary" indicating not only a time but forms of thinking, feeling, and writing. There are no prerequisites, but an acquaintance with literary modernism and experience with the critical reading of fiction would be advantageous, especially early in tt\e semester. 
Presentation: A mixture of lecture and discussion contingent upon class size and the energy of the students. Maximum enrollment will be forty. 
Readings: A tentative list incluqes O'Connor, Wise Blood; Ellison, Invisible Man; Bellow, Seize the Day; Malamud, The Assistant; Percy, The Moviegoer; Cheever, Bullet Park; Nabokov, Pale Fire; Barth, The Sot-Weed Factor; Mailer, St. George and the Godfathe;; Vonnegut, Slaughter-house Five; Kosinski, Steps; Brautigan, Trout Fishing in America; and a collection of short fiction. · · 
Organization: The course will consist of lecture and discussions, a mid-term essay, a final paper, and a comprehensive final examination. Mr. Slabey has taught the course before on a graduate level, and details of the adaptation to the 300 level, including some assignments and class procedures, will be determined by the size of the class and the interests of the members. 
Krier Eng. 405 Semina·r in Comparative Literature 
Content: Mr. Krier, in his usual apologetic manner, cannot offer any super­~tructure or c~nsummating goal for this course. Rather, the course is simply intended to bring together good minds with good books. Accordingly, the course will gather together a very broad---both ii"\ genre and era---collection of literary works, from French, American and British authors. 
Presentation: The course will be controlled by the discussion and effort of the students. Mr. Krier's interposition as a lecturer will undoubtedly be the ex­ception rather than the rule. Be prepared to speak: Mr. Krier will not ac­comodate the tired English major. · 
Readings: Shakespeare, The Tempest, Hamlet; Prout, Swan's Way; Dickens, Our Mutual Friends; James, The Ambassadors; Beckett, Mo.loy, End Game; Wallace Stevens, Poems; Jorge Borges. Tentative Only! 
Organization: No tests, and probably a few papers. 
Comment: Mr. Krier's only problem is his natural self-effacement and hesitancy to force his ideas. Beyond this very slight dimunition, he is an en­thusiastic and enjoyable professor. He is young and urges new concepts in examining literature. Consequently, while very adequately handling earlier writers, he shines 'with ·James, Borges, and Stevens. 
Mr. Krier is highly recommended on the seminar level, both for his approach to literature and for the enjoyable atmosphere he exudes. If literature has become a mechanical disgorging of notes for ·all of you junior and senior English majors, Mr. Krier is a healthy and valuable change. 

nov.27, 1972 
O'Malley Eng. 417 Modern Catholic Writers 
Comments: Mr. O'Malley is a true prophet. One ought not take his course out of aoy pedantic desire to "cover" particular authors, genres, or periods of history in any conventional sense of those terms. He provides no neatly systematized knowledge, for he is above all a man of vision: his lectures---which are truly the substance of the course---are difficult, but only becauseof their vast allusive range, embracing regions of night and incredible illumination. 
This semester, Mr. O'Malley will confine his considerations to specific authors, dealing with many of the writers who he considers to be in the modern Catholic tradition---Dostoievsky, Lawrence, Bernanos, Guardini, Kafka, Eliot, Silone, Rilke, and many, many more. The cosmic generalities which charac­terized his Philosophy of Literature class this fall here find roots in specific writers. His Christian intensity, however, is not thereby diminished. 
Mr. O'Malley does not demand work from his students; he invites them to submit to him what works they can, in honest response to his lectures. He hopes that the students in the class will meet together in colloquia to discuss the material of the course. Occasionally, such students will have the rare good fortune of being invited by him to dinner at the Morris Inn. The course is an experience of this man and his vision---hiS faith and his love. Let yourself be humbled before this man, as he humbles himself before his God. His classes, if fully entered into---but few find the strength of soul---lead one to acquire some glimmering of a truly Christian insight into the present state of art and the nature of our world. 
Kline Eng. 427 Old English Language and Literature 
contenti A study of Old English phonology, graphology, morphology, syntax and metrics, not as valid ends in themselves, but as,preparatory to the readings in the course, in the original language, of select poetry and prose. 
Presentation: Lecture. Readings: Gatch. E., Loyalties and Traditions: Man and His World in Old English Literature; Moore and Knott, The Elements of Old English; Clark-Hall, J.R., A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary. Organization: Lectures and outside reading's on relevant historical, social, political, and religious backgrounds and influences. Daily recitation and weekly quizzes. Four examinations; no exemptions from the final. comment: This is the first time that Mr. Kline is teaching Old English on the undergraduate English major level. Students that venture into this area will find Mr. Kline a quite knowledgable but demanding teacher. However, students will also find that the course is worth the effort. 
Martin Eng. 458 18th Century British Drama 
Content: The course will be a study of the principal figures of 18th Century drama between 1675 and 1777. The emphasis will be placed on the comic dramatists. The period is not particularly noted for profound excursions into tragedy. Ethrege, Wickerly, Congreve, Gay, Goldsmith, Vanbroth, Sheridan and others will be included in the course. 
Presentation: The course will basically consist of lecture and discussion. Reading: The text is British Dramatists: Dryden to Sheridan (Houghton and Mifflin). 
Sniegowski Eng. 464 Victorian Prose 
A discussion of Mathew Arnold in Professor Sniegowski's Victorian Period seminar produced a set of terms intended to describe the poet which also apply to the instructor. He is a "sensitive man and a sensitive thinker." With charm and enthusiasm he guides his students through that "age of transition," laughing, violently nodding his head to a student's insight, pondering, lamenting the limitations of the fifty-minute period, learning as well as lecturing. Each class the student may find himself in that ambiguous state of mind which fit. tingly corresponds to a transitional age: the origins of the particular academic pursuit seem vague and the desired peace of the resoultion is always to be sought in some future meeting, illusive, tantalizing. 
The presentations are informal while the discussions depend largely· on the students' enthusiasm though they tend to be low-key and intelligent. The work required is reasonable and commensurate with the course level. The instructor's personal interest in his students is unquestionable as is his desire to always aid and incite those who know him. It is for those who have minimal exposure to the period, a surprisingly stimulating discovery. Those with more background in that area will find the interest and benefits are functions of what the student is willing to invest in the pursuit. For the student who enjoys finding more than a treasure of pedantry when exploring, Professor Sniegowski is a fine guide. 
Collins Eng. 486 William Faulkner 
Content: A one semester course dealing with the ncivels of William Faulkner, open to English Majors Who have taken one college course in twentieth-century literature in English. 
Presentation: The course is a true seminar Where discussion and intelligent difference of opinion are held in reverence. Prof. Collins is the foremost authority on Faulkner today and currently is writing a two volume biography of the artist. He has an abyssful knowledge of the subje_ct that students feel free to tap, in or out of class. But the emphasis remains on student thought and discussion with expert guidance from Prof. Collins. 
Readings: The Unvanquished, Soldiers' Pay, Th~ Sound and the Fury, As I Lay Dying, Sanctuary, Light in August, Absalom, Absalom!, The Wild Palms, The Hamlet, and Go Down, Moses---ten novels. 
Organization: One critical paper is required at the end of the semester. There are no exams. Grades are de-emphasized, but are based on the student's con­tribution in class and on written work. 
Comment: The opportunity is presented here for the serious student to plunge into Faulkner and the mainstream of twentieth-century literary consciousness as deeply as he wishes. Prof. Collins' overwhelming knowledge of Faulkner plus his sensitivity to literary progression as a Whole affords the student an excellent chance to study the creative genius of Faulkner in a scholarly atmosphere. Seminar size is limited to twenty---closing time is soon after opening. 
Matthias Eng. 499 Contemporary Poetry 
Content: The course will focus on the work of six or eight of the following 
British and American postwar poets: Richard Wilbur, Robert Lowell, Sylvia 
Plath, John Berryman, Charles Olson, Robert Duncan, Frank O'Hara, Robert 
Bly, James Wright, Allen Ginsberg, Gary Snyder, Ameer Baraka (LeRoi 
Jones), Phillip Larkin, Ted Hughes, Thom Gunn, Charles Tomlinson, Christoper 
Middleton, George MacBetn, Hohn Sil kin, Nathaniel Tarn, Tom Raworth, Gavin 
Bantock. 
Reading: Tests: John Matthias, 23 Modern British Poets; A. Poulin, Jr., 
Contemporary American Poetry; Hall, Pack, _Simpson, New Poets of England 
and America; Charles Olson, The Distances; Robert Duncan, The Opening of the 
Field. 
Organization: The student will be asked to write two reviews of volumes 
published within the last five years, a review of the poetry published in a literary 
quarterly or poetry journal from 1965 to the present, and an introduction to a 
hypothetical anthology of your own making. There will also be brief exams. 
Comments: It would be difficult to surpass Mr. Matthias' knowledge of 
Modern poetry. He knows personally many of the writers who will be discussed 
in the class. The lecture format of some of the classes occasionally proves to be 
rather formal and, at times, dry. However, when discussion ensues, a free in­
teraction of ideas tends to facilitate a deeper understanding of the material. Mr. 
Matthi~l> is particularly well-suited to this style of presentation. 
Brzenk Eng. 525a The Victorian Novel 
Content: The course will be an intense study of some typical novels of the 
Victorian Period. 
Presentation: This is a course where discussion will be important. 
Readings: Dickens, Hard Times; Thackeray, Vanity Fair; the Brontes, Jane 
Eyreand Wuthering Heights; Hardy, The Returnofthe Native; Butler, The Way of All Flesh; Gissing, The Odd Women. 
Organization: E:ach student will read a minimum of nine novels, choosing other works of the period as the basis for c.iass reports and papers. Three papers (5-8 pages), a midsemester test and the final examination will constitute the minimum of written work. Students are invited to present special reports and to lead class discussions in areas where they have special interests and com­petence. 
Walton Eng. 525b Studies in Fiction: The Heroine of Sensibility 
Content: This course is being offered for the first time and will be opened to English majors and graduate students. A "feminine principle" will be in­vestigated in the development of the novel form. 
Readings: Bunyan, The Pilgrims Progress II; DeFoe, Roxana; Richardson, 
Pamela and Clarissa; Radcliffe, The Mysteries of Udolpho; Godwin, Caleb 
Williams; Austen, Mansfield Park and Emma; c.. Bronte, Jane Eyre; James, 
The Turn of the Screw; Lessing, The Golden Notebook. 
Organization: There wilI be two Short critical papers on novelsofthe student's 
choice. The remaining books will be covered in the final. The course will consist 
of lecture and discussion. · .· -, •. ­
Comment: Professor Walton is interesting and insighttul in his lectures. 
Students Should enjoy the generally loose atmosphere of the class and the "easy-· 
going" style of lect_uring that Mr. Walton uses. ·Papers must·be concise and to · 
the point•. Mr..Walton i~ concerned with the ideas that the student-presents in his • 
papers a11d how well the student-penetrates-to•the core of the.question at hand.·.· 
Epicurious Eng. 569 The Chauvinistic Novel 
Cortent: This course ·will attempt to evaluate the whole spectrum of Chauvinis!it literature from Tom Jones to A Clockwork Orange. Primarily a non-psychological approach, the seminar will proceed in a manner Which should encourage members to "do it like it was." Wasserman Test results of authors covered will be available, however, as well as other classroom crutches for hoarding consumption. The instructor wiShes to emphasize that his approach will be rigidly literary, but hardly literal. Because of the great body of the work to be covered, skimming for the more salient features will at times be en­couraged and exploited. Prerequisite for the course is to be male. 
Presentation: Obviously obvious. 
Readings: Of course only works by male authors about female characters primarily. Definitive list available after review by censors. Organization: Platoon. Comments: Active participation in class is clearly the most important feature 
of the coarse. Discussants are presumed to be aggresive, intolerant, abusive, and otherwise conduct themselves as all-round good guys. Hopefully, the coarse will reward class members with a sense of "The Chauvinistic Experience." 
Krier Eng. 574 Modern American Fiction 
Content: This is the first time that Mr. Krier will offer this course, it having 
been formerly taught by various other English profs. Mr. Krier has designed 
this course to reach a realization of Modern American Fiction in two ways; 
primarily through an intensive study of two great American writers, Ernest 
Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, and secondarily through a less intensive 
look at four, possibly five, other important American novelists. The readings 
and lectures will revolve around the question of what the artist feels is the 
capability of his particular field, fiction. 
Presentation: Being a small seminar course limited to ten undergraduate 
English majors and five graduate students, the presentation will be largly in­
formal discussion in which Mr. Krier hopes to play an active part. 
Readings: Hemingway, three novels and several short stories; Fitzgerald, 
two novels and several short stories; one novel each by Faulkner (probably 
Absalom, Absalom ), Dos Passos, Wolfe and Steinbeck. There may also be a 
novel by Willa Cather. 
Organization: There will be no tests; rather students will prepare one ex­
tensive and intensive research paper and one medium size paper to be presented 
in class. 
Comment: When reading a novel, Mr. Krier primarily_looks for two things: 
what the author feels the capabilities of language are and how he presents this in 
the book, and thematic structure. It is his hope that the student~· will be able to 
blend this viewpoint with their own to obtain a deeper appreciation of their 
reading material. This is easier said than done though, and Mr. Krier has ex­
perienced occasional past failure to communicate his ideas to his students in 
larger lecture courses. However, the small size of this seminar may eliminate 
that problem, and Mr. Krier should come across with interesting, though at 
times quite abstract, insights to American fiction. 
Werge Eng. 578 Studies in Mark Twain 
Content: A similar, but more intensive, study to EngliSh 388. Knowledge of 
American Literature and the "American Tradition" is generally assumed. 
Twain's works are studied in their relationShip with his Autobiography, and with 
an eye towards the overriding moral and political concerns of-nineteenth­century America: particularly the attempt to find the "usuable past" upon which Americans could further their literary tradition. 
Presentation: There will be someWhere between seventeen and twenty-two 
students in this class. It is a seminar, and will be conducted accordingly. Prof. Werge establiShes the tone and direction of the class, and then Shepherds the discussion. His presence is dominant but never obtrusive. Prof. Werge's singular felicity is in hisability to handle a discussion. He handles questions with . wit but always seriously, and respects if not grants opinions differing from his own. The class encourages discussion, but reticent members ofthe class are not 
penalized. 
Readings: Required: Mark Twain, Autobiography (edited by Charles Neider), 
The Complete Short Stories (edited· by Charles Neider), Selected Shorter 
Writings (edited by Walter Blair), The Innocents Abroad, The Adventures of 
Tom Sawyer, Life on the Mi~sisslppi, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, A Con­
necticut Yankee in King ~rtllur's Court, The Tragecly of Pudd'nhud Wilson, The 
Mysterious Stranger, Letters from the Eartll, and Mark Twain: A Collection of 
Cri~l~al Essays (edited by H~ry NaSh s.fl'.'_ith.) The two books Neider edits are 
hardcover, and. tt;i~ ... ~~raphy alone. .costs $10.00. ·Recommended: 
Crevec~eur~s.L~rsfrom an Ameriul'.I Farmer; Harte's TIie Outcasts of Poker 
<' '' '. ,. ·•• ... l J,-. • • •' • . 
·.course eva~uation 
/ 
•· 
Flat and Other Tales, Twain's Roughing It and Mark Twain on the Damned Human Race, (edited by Janet Smith.) 
Organization: Although this hasn't been finalized, there probably will be two five-page papers·on specific topics and one longer paper Which.will generalize on the whole of the course. 
Comments: This course has been taught before, successfully. Prof. Werge is intellegent, thorough, demanding, and very witty. His abilities sparkle in seminars. English majors who pass through four years at this University without taking one of his courses haveoni'y themselves to blame. 
Matthias Eng. 589 W.H. Auden and the Literature of the 
JO'S 
Content: The focus of the course will be Auden and his special idiosyncracies in relation to his poetry. Other authors of the period will be treated only with regards to Auden. The first two thirds of the course will deal with Auden in relation to the times and to those other authors. The final third will deal with the Christianized American emigre. 
Presentation: The course will meet only once at its assigned time. After that it will meet once a week in a seminar room for three hours. These meetings will be at night. 
Readings: Auden, The Collected Shorter Poems, The Collected Longer Poems, The Orators, A Certain World, The Dyer's Hand, and addenda on ditto; Auden and Isherwood, The Dog Beneath the Skin, The Ascent of F-6, On the Frontier; ,Orwell, The Road to Wigan Peir; Isherwood, Berlin Stories; Spender, World Within World and The Destructive Element; Caudwell, Illusion and Reality; Upward, The Railway Accident and Other Stories; Skelton (ed.), Poetry of the Thirties. 
Organization: Two seminar papers and much talk. Comment: Professor Matthias is well versed in the Marxist Aesthetic so predominant in Auden's early work. This should make for interesting discussion 
Thibodeau ·GP 244 History of Science I 
<;ontent: In this course, the student will be looking at a variety of ways in which man tries to approach and view nature. The course will begin with primitive man and the discussion of the magical and mystical aspects of science. 
The progression of Greek thought from eary naturalistic theories to Plato and Aristotle will be a rna jor topic of the semester. Presentation: This course is usually taught as a lecture but there is always an opportunity to ask questions or discuss specific areas of interest. 
Readings: The course will covere the following books: Aristotle's Physics, Plato's Timaeus and Theatetus, and The Forge and the Crucible by Eliad. Also an article entitled, "Greek Medicine as Science and as Craft" by Temkin will be read. Since Professor ThibQdeau spends much time with the material as well as giving necessary outside information relevant to the readings, the student is respon.sible for about 20 pages of reading each week. · 
Organi.iation: The requirements for History of Science I will most probably be three 5-page'papers and a final. It is also possible that one of these papers may be converted into a midterm. Both the midterm and the fjnal will be essa_y. Grades wi'11 ··be based on the above. . . . . .. 
Comments:· Mr. Thibodeau is a fascinating teacher_ Whos~ attiJude towards ... science-is very humari. He knows his material well and really wants the students to learn and.understand it, not just:meniorize the facts.• Sometimes in his en~•' thusiasm for the subject, Professor T~ibodeau's lectures tend to wander. At this 
point; the :student should just listen. 

nov. 27, 1972 
during the early part of the semester.The discussion,however,may descend into dialectics in the latter part of the course. For anyone interested in Auden, the literary trends of the thirties, or the Marxist Aesthetic this course and Prof. Matthias should be well worthwhile. 
Sandeen Eng. 675 The Transcendentalists 
Content: This course will be an attempt to determine the distinctly American qualities of the New England Transcendentalists. The Puritan past, con­temporary foreign influences, and the impact of Trancendentalism on sub­sequent American culture will be examined. Transcendentalism will be con­sidered both as an individual expression by various authors and as a communal movement. The lesser Transcendentalists will be studied, but the main em­phasis of the course will be upon Raph Waldo Emerson and Henry David 
Thoreau. · Presentation: Since a limited enrollment is expected, the course will be a seminar devoted to informal discussions and in-class presentations. Admission restricted to graduate students. Readings: Stephen E. Whicher, ed., Selections from Ralph Waldo Emerson; Henry David Thoreau, Walden and Civil Disobedience, Norton Critical Edition; Perry Miller, The Transcendentalists; George Hochfield, ed., Selected Writings of th~ American Transcendentalists; William R. Hutchinson, Transcendentalist Ministers: Church Reform in the New England Renaissance; and Myron Simon and Thronton Parson, eds., Transcendentalism and Its Legacy. All of these are available in paperback editions. Organization: Besides the in-class presentations and participation in class discussions, each student will be required to submit two papers of moderate length. There will be no final examination. 
Comments: "The Transcendentalists" has not been offered for several years. English 675 thus offers students of American literature an excellent opportunity to familiarize themselves with the New England Transcendentalist Movement. 

"I know perfectly well what happened in the Socrates case, but I still think a lot can begained by trying to engage people in conversation. Some---1 have a list of names at home---take conversation with surprising seriousness, speaking in sentences, using metaphors, and the like; these you seek out, even at the risk of boring them. Apart from the obvious things---Rassetas, The Castle, Four Quartets---there are only a few modern writings I go back to often: the Testem Benevolentiae of Leo XI 11; various pieces by S.J. Perelman; the inscriptions on certain walls. Otherwise I want some actual human response, right?" 
J.D. Garvick 
General Program 

Thomas GP 242 Ethics 
Content: This course is a basic course in ethical theories. The time periods covered range from the 5th century B.C. to the modern era. The course provides an understanding of the ethical theories ofseveral philosophers, and Dr. Thomas often draws on theorists not represented in the readings. 

Presentation: This is primarily a lecture course. However, Professor Thomas frequently goes beyond the text and treats topics which may not seem, to less experienced observers, to bear directly on the subject at hand. Questions are encouraged. Compared to most General Program courses, discussion plays· a minor role. 
Organization: One paper of significant length is require:!. Professor Thomas welcomes papers that are interesting and creative. The student has a very wide range of possibilities open to him for topics which may be considered. Professor Thomas does not go in for exams; nevertheless a final may be expected. 
Comments: Professor Thomas has had a most interesting background and when he relates his experiences he can make for a most informative class. The readings·are at times tedious; liowever, the Professor makes up for that by his illuminating comments. Professor Thomas' lectures may drag, but his humor is deliciously subtle· and some students find his ruminations delightful. Some students felt that there could have been more discussion, but others welcome the lecture format. At any rate, one is sure to gain some insights and a true sense of wonder. 
Moore GP 242 Ethics 
Content: Here is a course which considers some of the major ethical writings from Plato to the present, with applications to certain contemporary moral issues such as abortion, sexuality, human rights, and the philosophy of law. Dr. Moore describes it as a course in the logic of moral discourse. His aim is to present logical and conceptual analysis of various moral concepts, including those of justice, responsibility, right, ethical relativism and others. His own views will be presented along with detailed, critical exposition of key texts drawn from the Western tradition in philosophical ethics. Much attention is given to the Kantian so-called "deontological" approach and the Bentham-Mill utilitarian one. 
Presentation: Dr. Moore lectures thrice weekly and he always encourages questions. Often, his lectures focus on questions that are raised in the beginning of class. 
Readings: The tentative list is: Plato, Euthyphro, Meno, and Apology; Kant, Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals; Mill, Utilitarianism; Dewey, Theory of Valuation; Rawls, Justice on Fairness Con reserve); Camus, The Plague, The Stra-nger; H.L.A. Hart. Law, Libery, Morality. 
Organization: Grades will be based on a 20-page paper and a final. 

Comments: Professor Moore is a captivating lecturer and has the abiltiy to speak in an immediate way about ethical problems. This is a fine quality in a man whose task is the analysis of language. He is a young man and seems definitely interested to the questions which concern the students. Most im­portant. he excites students to do some incisive thinking on their own. Those who disagree with Dr. Moore benefit as much, ifnot more, than others. 
La Porte GP 244 History of Science I 
Content: This is the first of a three-semester' sequence in the General Program's History of Science, and it is a requirement for all GP Students. The course begins with the early philosophic, mathematical, medicinal, and scientific thought of the Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, Mesopotamians,, and Moslems, and extends approximately to the beginning ofthe middle ages. · 
Presentation: Le::ture, although questions, comments, and discussion are always encouraged. Attendance is required, and more than three unexcused absences can affect the grade. 
Organization: There are three tests during the course of the semester, each equivalent to one third of the final grade. The first two tests are of the take home variety, and must have a minimum length of five double-spaced typewritten pages. The student has a choice of essay questions on these tests, and he is required to integrate the lectures, readings, and his own understanding of the material into his answer. Instead ofthe take-home, the student may elect to do a research paper on some topic in the history of science. Dr. LaPorte welcomes this approach, and is eager to offer assistance in terms of suggestions, topics, sources, and bibliographies. 
The final is an objective, in-class, cumulative examination, consisting of 50 identifications.of which the student must do 25. Because of the great amount of material covered during the course of the semester, the final requires a con­siderable amount of study if a high grade is expected. It is by far easier to put a little extra effort into the first two examinations ui order to take some of the pressure off oneself during preparation for the final. 
Comment: The course succeeds in achieving its goals, in that it provides a comprehensive overview of science in the Ancient period. It is especially valuable to the GP student, since the material covered fits in well with the literature and philosophy of the SophomoreGP Seminar. However, it is for this very reason that the course is unattractive to non-majors, as its real value'lies in its integration into the GP concept the "whole education." 
It should be noted that much of the material covered in the course is more philosophic than scientific in nature. This is because the distinction between science and philosophy had not yet arisen, and early science was primarily concerned with explaining natural phenomenon. For this reason, the readings take on a philosophical perspective and unless the student is really interested in the philosophy of science, he should not take the course as an elective. 
Dr. LaPorte is an excellent teacher, in that she has an extensive background that is reflected in the detail and preparation of.her lectures. She has great enthusiasm for the subject, but thisenth-usiasm is often not experienced by the student, this due more to the natureofthe material than to the presentation. The student should be prepared to take extensive notes, to,. work through Kirk & Raven's Presocratic Philo~pher, and, ifhe really wa~ to get something out of the course to askquestions on the material,either dur)f1g or after class. 
Nicgorski, Crossen, Thibodeau GP 282 Seminar 11 
Content: This is the .second of six ·GP seminars and its content is .Partly reflected in the readings. But insofar as the content is determined by discussion, it is hard to describe. A general description would be in vain. It might be mentioned, though, that this seminar tends to be more political than the other ones because ofthe largenumber ofreadings concerned with thestate. · . 
Presentation: There are approximately-fifteen people in each of the three sectior:is. Dis~ussion is led by the repective moderators. 
Readings: Saint Thomas Treatise on Law; Dante's Inferno; Machiavelli's Prince; Francis Bacon's New Organon; Galigeo's Dialogue on the Two Chief World Systems; Descartes' Discourse on Method; Locke's Second Treatise on Government; Federalist Papers; deTocqueville's Democracy in America; Mill's On Liberty; Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil; Newman's Idea of a University; Thoreau's Walden and Civil Disobedience; Melville's Moby Dick. 
Organization: Class participation is a must, as most of the grade depends on it. In Dr. Nicgorski's section, each student will be required to assist him in leading the seminar for a particular work. Each student will write a paper for him on some topic related to that work. Dr. Crosson will require at least one paper in his section. Grades are determined by class participation, papers (if any), and a 30 minute oral final exam. . 
Comments: Dr. Nicgorski is an extremely competent seminar leader. He is able to initiate discussion, pursue key issues, encourage student participation' and, at the same time, somehow manage to remain removed from the seminar activity. One sometimes finds a leader who dominates the seminar to the extent that students views are repressed; not so with Dr. Nicgorski. He realizes the value of the seminar as a teaching tool, and creates an atmosphere in Which all views are openly expressed while being subjected to critical evaluation. He is especially well suited to this sophomore seminar for two reasons: (1) the readings in political science are in the area of his s·pecial interest; (2) the en­thusiasm present in sophomore GP students balances well with his particular style of teaching. As a final remark, it should be noted that the success of this seminar depends upon the participation of the students enrolled; for if par­ticipation is at a minimum and Dr. Nicgorski is forced to control the seminar, it will very quickly become boring. But if students take the initiative and are prepared to critically examine the texts, his may be the best available of the three sophomore seminars. 
On the other hand, Dean Crosson is an extraordinary man who takes a great deal of interest in teaching. He leads his seminars skillfully by making use of important and pointed questions. His knowledgeofthe books is unfailing, and he is never at a loss to offer a new line' of inquiry if one should go stale. His reluc­tance to make a point before students have discovered it by themselves can slow things down. The Dean's forceful way of directing the siminar has intimidated students at times. Dean Crosson is a fine teacher for those ready to speak out and be strongly challenged. 
Ken Thibodeau is an historian of science with a great concern for liberal education. He may be a bit reticent at times, but his questions are aimed at breaking bad thinking habits, and they do. One can hardly go wrong in choosing amonQ these three men. ' 
Rogers GP 342 Drama 
Content: Dr. Rogers structures this course to let the student obtain a feel for the development of drama from its Greek origins to its modern manifestations. Special emphasis is given to the birth ofdrama and its religious meaning, as well as to the mythopeic forms of tragedy and comedy. The course is a requirement for GP juniors, though others have taken it in the past. 
Presentation: Dr. Rogers lectures during only a moderate portion of the time, • for in this course, as in many GP courses, the Socratic teaching method prevails. Dr. Rogers handles such a class well, for his wealth of erudition and acute critical faculty serve to provoke interesting and thoughtful discussion. 
Readings: Last year's readings are subject to a few revisions, but it is all there is available now, since Dr. Rogers is on sabbatical this semester. Last year's syllabus : Arthur Miller, Death of a Salesman; Luigi Pirandello, Six Characters in Search of an Author, Liola; Henrik Ibsen, Wild Duck; Shakespeare, Twelfth Night, Much Ado About Nothing, Romeo Juliet, Othello, King Lear; Ben Jonson, Volpone; Richard Brinsley Sheridan, School for Scandal; Aristophanes, Birds; Aeschylus, Prometheus Bound; Corneille, Le Cit; Racine, Phedre; Moliere, Tartuffe; Anouih, Antigone; J.M. Synge, Playboy of the Western World; Jean Genet, The Balcony. 
Organization: There will be a final and one 10-15 page paper. Also there will be a midterm of the take-home variety and-or a series of short dramatic exer­cises and small papers. Last y.ear, groups of 3-4 students were given the chance to act out their clcamatic exercises. 
Comments: Those who know Aristotle's distinction between a science and an art will appreciate Dr. Rogers• approach to drama. The class does not only analyze and argue dran:ia, but also it creates·its own short skits. Writing a dramatic scene affords the student an opportunity to consider artistically things and personalities in his own social and academic worlds. Dr. Rogers ·knows drama and is especially exciting When handling Shakespeare. He creates genuine enthusiasm for drama. The course is highly recommended for those who wish to enjoy a singuli!rly ediQying educational experience. 
Cronin GP 342 Drama 
Content: Ten to twleve plays will be read, and they will be chosen from ~n­cient Greece, from France, from Russia, from plays by Checkov, Ibsen·, Shaw, and Shakesp_eare. The plays ~ill be chosen to illustratedifferent ways that plays have been writen, and that they are in historical sequence is merely accidental. Hamlet may be studied, and if so, one quarter toontfthird of the course will be 
set aside for,. it.· :~,;; . , · •:. · 
course eva.lyation 
Ur. Cronin said that he will approach the plays dramatically. Sociological, 
philosophical, and historical approaches to literature are anathema: the question will always be, "why did the author do such and such," not "why did the character." 
There will be five or six papers during the semester, and they are an integral part of the course. The st_udent is expected to correct, recorrect, andl'finally go over the papers in confession. As a palliative to this bloodlust, there will be no final examination, but there may be a final paper which will count mo·re than the others. In it the student will be expected to show what he has learned about drama, and hopefully about writing. · 
Comment: In.order to get grades.from Dr. Cronin, one must work reasonably hard. But when one does, h_~ gains a great deaL J:le-not-only learns about writing, he also learns to enjoy drama. In the process he will i:::ime across values that he probably never took seriously, but probably should tiave considered. And if they are sometimes important for our own real lives, they are also in­dispensable to enjoying a play. I have personally found, that not only the plays, which were studied came to life; but many others as well. 
Crowe GP 344 History of Modern Science 
Content: Professor Crowe will treat several topics in the history of the development of scientific ideas since Newton. Included will be treatments of Darwinian and other evolutionary theories, post-Newtonian astronomy and cosmology, the beginnings and development of the modern atomic theories. Certain aspects of the modern discovery of non-traditional algebras and geometries will likely be viewed as well. Dr. Crowe has done some new work in the history of 20th century astronomy and plans to discuss, along with the basic material, both the "Great Debate" of the 1920's regarding the size of our galaxy and the evidence for and against the existence of extraterrestrial life. 
Presentation: Each section of the course is presented primarily by means of lectures and is spiced with occasional presentations of slides or printed illustrations. After historical treatment of each topic, several meetings are used 
or class discussion of the materials. Questions and comments are always in 

,rder Readings: Several paperbound books are to be purchased and will be plemented ·by extensive bibliographical material on each topic. Also there are occasional selections to be read from books on reserve. Required readings are minimal and students are encouraged to pursue the topics to a depth according with their interest. 
Organization: There will be two one-hour exams and a final. One or both may be take-home exams. Tests are designed to allow the student to show what he knows, keying lecture material, and allowing much freedom of treatment to the students. One researchr paper will be required. Final will count about 3o percent. Term paper will count 15 P.ercent, and the rest of the grade will be determined by the other tests. 
Comments: The course may surprise the non-historian by its detailed and scholarly approach to the topics. This writer, prone to less disciplined speculation, found it a bit tedious at first. But the course becomes a lesson not only in the history of science but also in historical method itself. Though philosophical its orientation, it never drifts far above the plans of fact. 
Lyon GP 446 Intellectual History of the World Since 
1789 
Content: The course is concerned with the interaction between and parallel development of art, literature, music, and social and political organization as reflections on the historical experience of European man from the French Revolution to the end of World War 11. Because of the tremendous scope of the subject matter, the treatment allowed by the limits of the course is necessarily episodic. The episodes, however, are chosen for their influence on later times, and not due to the personal quirks of the instructor. 
In addition to a general familiarization with the movements of European history since 1789, the course (both first and second semester), attempts to provide a partial framework for the integration of materials.treated out of historical context in another General Program course (e.g., the seminar). It also attempts to provide certain insights into the working of the dialectical process of cultural integration and disintegration exemplified in recent Western History. 
Presentation: mixture of lecture and discussion, with an emphasis on class particiption. 
Readings: Morese Peckham, Beyond the Tragic Vision; Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spoke Zarathustra; Sigmund Freud, Civilization and Its Discontents; H. Stuart Hughes, Consciousness and Society; and George Steiner, In Bluebeard's 

,Castle. 
Organization: Two 3-5 pp. typed essays, or one 3-5 pp. essay plus one class report (on such works as Dostoyevsky's The Possessed; Gordan Zahn's In Solitary Witness; S. Friedlander's Counterfeit Nazi; Whattaka Chamber's Witness; etc.). Mid-semester examination. Final examination.· One-third of the final grade (roughly) for each of the following activities: a) participation; b) written (and class) reports; c) examination Cs). 

-Comm~n,s:. ·,The episodic natur.e-.of the course, although necessary, is someWhat frustrating in that it,creates_a.desJre..tQ.. uocterstand those things that couid not be covered due'to lack ciTtime. However I ttiose thafare covered are the 
nov. 27131972 
most significant and have proved of interest and value in the understanding of 
the intellectual and cultural history of Europe. 
I was particularly impressed by his approach to the material. In his 
coverage of courtly love during the first semester, for example, instead of 
reading a text or a treatise, we read Peter Abelard, a novel which is an example 
of courtly love. The cause, the effects, the historical context and the nature of 
courtly love were explained in class. Some of Peter Abelard's and Heloi5e's own 
writings and letters were also presented. 
The readin£!S for the first semester were both interestil')_g and ins~ghtful. Class 
attendance was necessary because points not covered within the readings were 
presented. It was also necessary in order to understand the causes, effects, 
historical context, and the nature of the various aspects covered. The lectures 
were, however, very interesting and worth attending and the course was worth 
taking. 

Whitney, Lyon, Cronin GP 382 Seminar IV 
Comment: This is the fourth course in the sequence of required Great Books seminars within the general program. It is primarily taken by second semester GP juniors, although non-majors have also benefited from it (for example, as substitute for the Collegiate Seminar requirement.) 
Readings: Cellini's ,Autobiography; Erasmus' Praise of-Folly; Luther Three Treatises; Montaigne In Defense of Raymond Sebond; Shakespeare The Tempest; Rosseau First Discourse; Smith Wealth of Nations; Burke Reflections on the Revolutions in France; Pain Rights of Man; Hegel Reason in History; Marx & Engels Basic Writings; Darwin Origin of Species; Flaubert Madame Bovary; Tolstoy War and Peace; Veblen Theory of the Leisure Class; Freud General Introduction to Psychoanalysis. 
Presentation & Organization: Discussion of the texts and the various issues which these raise. Often each student is required to open a discussion with a question or some background information--which becomes a leitmotif in the discussion. 
Comments; Most GP students are already acquainted with Dr. Whitney from her Concepts of Man course. Last spring her seminar depended very much on what the students brought to it. Doctor Whitney did not "lead" a discussion. She expects and welcomes her students raising various questions suggested by the works. This tendency had mixed results: while leaving the seminar process flexible, it also sometimes left classes without much direction or resolution. 
Dr. Lyon displays a scholarly aptness in flushing out unique and challenging 
questions·from the textual mater.al. His questions seem to correlate with the 
readings only after concentrated reflection. As in most GP seminars, the 
questions placed by the moderators are an education in themselves. 
Ed Cronin is full of surprises. His course is rather unpredictable, excpet in one 
respect. He will require a good deal of writing and rewriting and he will spend a 
goocl deal of time with anyone interested. 
Moore GP 442 Ways of Knowing 
Content: Dr. Moore plans to evaluate certain disciplines and elucidate the various ways knowledge is attained through them. Attention will focus on psychology, the physical sciences, political and social sciences, and their methods of discovery and justification ·will be considered and criticized. Although there are no formal prerequisites, some knowledge of the major western philosophers and their: s.ontributions to thought will be expected. Readings: The readings will probably include: Fodor's Psychological Ex­planation, Thomas Kuhn's The Stru::ture of Scientific Revolutions, Sir Karl Popper's Conjectures and Refutation, Peter Winch's Idea of a Social Science, and selections from Ludwig Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations, and Wilfred Sellar's Science, Perception, and Reality. Organizatiol'!: This is a lecture course, but there is always a good deal of 
debate and discussion. Dr. Moore respects and requires intelligent questions but the prospective student is best forew:arned that he'd better brush uo on his logic if he wants·to prove him wrong. Two 10-page papers ·and a finaI determine tne 
grades. Paper topics draw from class discussion; the papers requir.e some hard thinking. Comments: Although many things are presented and definitions given, one 

cannot help coming awav from this course with a sense that he has really learned something. Dr. Moore is an exciting lecturer who calls on everyday experience and prior readings to provide clarity to points which would otherwise be difficult to grasp. He builds arguments, then subsequently destroys them, and in the process reminds students how difficult precise kinds of thinking can be. 
Bird GP444 Intellectual and.Cultural History 

Content: Dr. Bird wilI deal with developments in the history of ideas from the eighteenth century to the present. -The major themes of the course will include the rise arid development of the human and social sciences, the Positivist ideal of scientific culture from Auguste Comte to B.F. Skinner, criticism and reform of the ideal Christian culture, and the conflict between the sciences and the 
17' 

humanities. Historical breakthroughs are most often interpreted as the result ot conflict between opposing cultural ideals. 
Presentation: Dr. Bird uses a lecture format, each lecture dealing with a different topic. He encourages students' questions and tries to answer them completely. Dr. Caponigri from the department of Philosophy will be a guest lecturer on the development of Catholic culture. 
Readings: The required readings: Man and Culture, ed. D. P. Verene (Dell 

Books); J.S. Mill's The Logic of the Moral Sciences (Lil: Arts); Religion from 
Tolstoy to Camus, ed. W. Kaufmann (Harper Torch); C.P. Snow's The Two 
Cultures (Mentor Books). 
Organization: Prof. Bird may assign one research paper. There will be one 

final examination. The qrade will qe determined from these two sources and 
student participation in class. 
Comments; Dr. Bird is an educator of long standing and as much can be 

learned from the instructor's approach as from the content of the course. 
Rogers, Hunt, and La Porte GP 482 Seminar VI 
Content: This course revolves around some of the great books of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries. The books have been carefully chosen and are good examples of the thought in the periods which they represent. 
Government 
Presentation: Seminar-style, with a small number of students carrying the discussion. 
Readings: The readings are fairly long and for the most part very interesting. They are: Hobbes, Leviathan; Swift, Gulliver's Travels; Diderot D'Alembert's Dream; Neitzsche, The Use and Abuse of History; Goethe, Faust; Dostoyev­sky, The Brothers Karamazov;Kierkegaard, Philosophical Fragments; Weber, Essays in Sociology; James, Principles of Psychology; Jung, Memories, Dreams, Reflections; Eleaide, Cosmos and History; Camus, The Stranger; Sartre, No Exit and Other Plays. 
Organization: There may be a paper assigned in any one of these s2ctions. Cuts are discouraged--Dr. Rogers, for one, regards inattendance as a personal insult. 
Comment: Since this is the last Great Books Seminar for GP majors most of the students are familiar with one another. For this reason the atmosphere of 
0 

the class is conducive to good discussions and a serious discussion of the readings. Dr. Rogers is an excellent teacher who takes a personal interest in his students and their questions. He is very familiar with the readings, since he taught this course last year. The seminar method of teaching is second nature to him. 
_ E. Br. Hunt has been teaching the great books for a long time. He does not become greatly excited over them; indeed, he seems to greet most intellectual systematizing with a knowing grin of disapproval. His knowledge and insights into what the bo_oks express in nonetheless unsurpassed and his seminar is a delightful experience. 
Lopach Govt. 240 Politics 
content: This course, is first, an overview of political science, and second, what political science at Notre Dame is like. The course is divided into four major areas: American Government, comparative government, international relations, and political theory. The course is to help the mainly sophomore class to decide if they would like to continue in a government major. There are no prerequisites for the class. 
Presentation: The classes will mainly be discussion-oriented. The class is 

divided into four to six small sections to facilitate this discussion, and be stimulated by the problem and case oriented lectures. Mr. Lopack is the prin­ciple teacher, who is assisted by three gradate students. 
Readings: Two of the books for this class are the Borzoi Reader in American Government and What Country Have I? Organization: This course will require one long (about ten pages) paper along with an essay midterm and final exam, both taken1n class. 
Bartholomew Govt. 340 American Government 
Content: This is the basic American Government course in the department. But make no mistake, it is not simple in either approach or difficulty. Prof. Bartholomew makes what could be a dry and boring course into a detailed and challenging one. Besides the basic study of the Legislative, Judiciary, and Executive branches of the government, in a careful and conci_se meth.od, he also covers topics such as interstate commerce, reserved and implied pt>wers, and the interrelationships of local, state, and federal governments. It is a requirement for all government majors and has no prerequisities. · 
Presentation: Class time is wholly given to lectures. There is little class discussion as such, but questions are always welcome, answers being straight to the point. · 
Readings:-The reading load in this course is heavy. Even though there is only one textbook, Government by the People, 8th edition. In addition, the student is responsible for selected articles from U.S. News and World Report. The student should also purchase Summaries of Leading Cases on the Constitution, by the professor for the SO or so cases that are covered. 
Organization: There are four very factual papers required which are not overly difficult and are graded on a 1-10 scale. There are three tests which require a great deal of memorization. The four reports are worth the same as two tests and, together with the three quizzes, make up 75 percent.of the grade. The remaining 25 percent comes from the cumulative final. 
Comment: Professor Bartholomew's courses require quite a bit of work, but for the student who is truly interested in the subject matter it is well worth it•. Professor Bartholomew is an excellent teacher. His straight-forward approaeh gets the material across to the student. His knowledge otlthe subject matter is unexcelled. He is one of the eminen°t authorities in this field, and tti~ studen:t cannot help being impressed by his knowledge. Professor Bart~olom~•~­courses are difficult, but are highly recommended tor the interested student . . ,-__ 
Kommers Govt. 340 American Government 
Content: American Democracy in theory and practice will be the focus of Mr. 

Kommers' presentation of American Government. There will be an emphasis on 
the problems of government rather than mechanics with the stude')'"responsible 
for the specific forms_ and structures. Several substantial topics in the areas of 
public policy and the process of decision making will be covered. This course is 
one of the four basic courses in the Government department and there are no 
prerequisites. 
Presentation: This course is divided into two 75-minute periods and each class 

will consist of a formal lecture followed by a short discussion period. Questions 
and individual comments are welcomed and usually provide for an interesting 
discussion. Mr. Kommers is more concerned with your understanding of the 
nature of government than with your memorization of the structures, so 
questions and discussion are an integral part of the course. 
Readings: The readings will consist of a series of paper:backs dealing with 

certain problems in areas of American Government. A few possible books 
mentioned were: Neustadt, Presidential Power; Krislov, The Supreme Court in 
the Political Process; Davidson, Kovenock & O'Leary, Congress in Crisis; v.o. 
Key, The Responsible Electorate; Schattschneider, The Semi-Sovereign People. 
Organization: There will be a midterm and a final plus one or more papers. 

The student will be given much leeway as to subject matter, and every paper 
will be defended personally in a short session with Mr. Kommers. More em­
phasis is placed on your writing than tests, so quality and substance are ex­
pected. Tests are usually essay and are designed to test what you learn as op­
posed to what you memorize. 
Comment: Mr. Kommers is an excellent teacher and makes it a point to know 

his students. He likes questions and is more than eager to hear your viewpoint. 
He does have a tendency to lose the organization of his lecture with discussion 
and some important points may be passed over or not covered thoroughly 
enough. Since he places such great emPhasison writing,he will go out of his way 
to aid the student in developing his projects. Any student who really likes a 
challenge to think will find Mr. Kommers very challenging. 
Williams Govt. 341 International Relations 
Content: Mr. Williams orients this introduction to the study of international relations around a dialectical interplay of the theoretical and the actual in the foreign policy sphere. After an exposure to fundamental conceptual tools, the student is presented with a wealth of informati.on and-facts, and is given the task of ordering chaos into a meaningful and coherent perspective. In this way, one leaves the course not with the fading imprints of gross memorization, but with an invaluable ability to grasp reality from the disordered realm of international politics. The s~m~ster~s. studY.-!t>c~ci~-'°ut: segments: a theo_retical in­troduction into, the .world of modern nation-states;. an examination of the in­tricacies of arms and deteren~e; a consideration ofinternational organization; and an all too briefoverviewof the psychological aspect of political conduct. 
course ey~tuation 

Readings: Deutsch; The Analysis of International Relations; Rustow, A World of Nations, Problems of Political Modernization; Kennedy, Thirteen Days; Art and Waltz, The Use of Force, International Politics and Foreign Policy; Claude, Swords into Plowshares; George, Woodrow Wilson and Colonel House; also, several other readings on reserve. 
Organization: There are three 75 minute tests which involve long essays and cover material primarily found in the readings. A final is also given. 
Seitzinger Govt. 342 Intro. to Political Theory 
Content: The main enduring problems of political order will be dealt with 

through the systematic thought of the outstanding Greek, Christian, and modern 
theorists. Major emphasis will be given to the thoughts of Plato, Aristotle, 
Augustine, Machiavelli, and Hobbes. · 
Readings: Since this is the first time Dr. Beitzinger will be teaching this 

, ourse. the ·re~dings should be essentially the same as those required in Dr. 
Nicmcyer's rourse. 
Organization: Students will be required to do a number of short essays along with mid term and final. 
·Niemeyer Govt. 342 Political Theory 
Content: One of the "Big Four" required for a government major, the course is designed to provide the student with a fundamental knowledge of the authors and concepts of western political thought. It covers the attempts to explain the order of being from the standpoint of man as a participant in that order. 
Presentation: The class meets three times a week: two lectures and a discussion session in which the class is split into several groups. Dr. Niemeyer gives the lectures while teaching assistants run the tutorial groups which con­centrate solely on the readings. Attendance is taken in all classes and there are three cuts. 
Readings: The readings are Frankfort, Before Philosophy; Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics and Politics; Augustine, City of God; and Hobbes, Leviathan I and 11. Al I but .c;ity of God are paperback. 
Organization: Weekly 12 page papers are due over the readings and total one­fifth of the final _grade. There are also two 11 2_pa9epapers each worth one-fifth of thegrade which cover topics from the reading. The mid-term and final-essay tests-again worth one-fifth each, presuppose a working knowledge of material from both the lectures and the readings. 
Comment: Dr. Niemeyer is oneof the top men in political theory today. He has an excellent knowledge of his subject and is an experienced lecturer. His courses are demanding and the student will most likely be faced with a heavier-than­average work load. Even the conscientious student will have to do more than just turn in the papers and take the tests to get a high grade. 
Pomerleau Govt. 343 Comparative Government 
Content: Pomerleau plans to stress a comparison of different political systems in different regions, with an emphasis on the USSR and the countires in Latin America and Western Europe. Three sets of government will be con­sidered: the military-civilian system, the Presidential-parliamentary sytem, and the authoritarian system. Th& course will look at all parts of each system and then determine how each system as a whole differs from the other systems. Fr. Pomerleau hopes to impart a familiarity with political terms and patterns in a comparative context and with the dynamics of transfer of power to his students. 
Presentation: Lecture with-questions answeri:d after each class. Readings: Politics in Brazil by Thomas E. Skidmore; $2.95.; Political Forces in Argentina by Peter Snow, S3.50; Politics in France by Henry Ehrmann, $3.95; A Political History of Postwar Italy by Nornam Kogan, S2.95; The Government and Politics of the Soviet Union by Leonard Schapiro, Sl.95. Fr. Pomerleau places the required books on reserve in the library. About 15 to 20 handouts are given in class and one additional book will be required for a short book report. Organization: Two exams and a short book report, each approximately 33 percent of the grade, will be given. The esams are long essay questions, each with two or three questions. The report will be about 4 pages on a book approved by Fr. Pomerleau. 
Arnold Govt. 348 American Bureaucracy 
Content: The study of the development of Public Administrati~n is the main focus of the course. Throughout the course, the role of theory and an examination of issues in the management ot' Public Admin!stration are discussed with a more technical emphasis than the· first semeste~ of this course:_ Thus the :-study will include personnel policies, budget voting, control of · organization: administra'tive' law,~ 1and 'problems of bureaucracy and a democratic· state. '·· . . , 
nov. 27',-1972 
Readings: Blou and Meyer, Bureaucracy and Modern Society; M. Crozier, The Bureaucratic Phenomenon; W. Sayre (ed.), The Federal Government Service; C. P. Snow, The Corridor of Power; A. Wildavshy, The Politics of the Budgetary Process; A. Art, The TFX Decision; P. Woll, Administrative Law; P. 
S. Selynick, TVA and the Grass Roots; E. Redford, Democracy and the Ad­
ministrative States; and a number of articles and short cases. Organization: Lecture class, three equally weighted tests, no paper. Comments: Professor Arnold is an interesting and scholarly teacher. His 
classes provide ample opportunity for a student to obtain a solid understanding of the subject. At times his lectures appear tedious, but a well placed question can initiate an engaging discussion. Professor Arnold is very receptive to students' particular interests and questions. And usually his comments are as humorous or they are informative. The Presidency is a subject of general in­terest while the American Bureaucracy implies a list of more specific interest on the part of the student. On his tests Professor Arnold encourages constructive thinking by each student and supporting facts are part of an"A" grade. 
Seitzinger Govt. 406 Natural Right and Political Science 
Content: This course will be an examination, in light of classical and Christian principles, of modern formulations and criticisms of natural law thought with special emphasis ori criticism by the positivist and historicist schools. The consideration of jurisprudence provides a sound basis fo any endeavor to un­derstand the nature and the meaning of law. 
Readings: Leo Strauss, Natural Right and History; Carl Friedrich. The Philosophy of Law in Historical Perspective; Felix Oppenheim, Moral Prin­ciples in Political Philosophy. 
Organization: One long or several short essays and a mid-term and a final. 
Comment: Dr. Beitzinger's extensive knowledge of history and religion. as 

well as his complete grasp of all aspects of political theory, make him an ex­
ceptionally able instructor in any course dealing with political theory. His 
qrading policy is very demanding but very fair. His presentation leans towards 
informality yet is of high quality. Dr. Beitzinger has the ability to present a well 
structured lecture without reliance on notes. In 342 lecture will be emphasized, 
while in 406 class discussion will be important. Dr. Beitzinger is often critical of 
trends in modern political thinking, yet the student is encouraged to disagree. 
The student, however, must be prepared to substantiate his position. The 
Natural Right course will be of special benefit to any student planning a career 
in law. Either course will be beneficial to a student seeking a well-rounded 
education in political studies. 
Goerner Govt. 418 Literature and Politics of Albert Camus 
Content: This seminar is an intensive study of the literary works and philosophical and political essays of Albert Camus. The attempt is to focus broadly on different strains of Camus' thought---the philosophical, political, and the aesthetic---and hopefully, to discover the points at which they converge. Camus' position as a member of the Resistance and his dealings with Jean Paul Sartre and other Marxist intellectuals establish him as a focal figure in modern political philosophy. His renown novels and plays receive equal attention. 
Organization The class meetsonce a week, usually at the professor's home, for at ·least a three hour discussion. Each week one student presents a paper (usually about 10 pages) on one of the books. The discussinn generally picks up from there. The quality of the class varies widely according to the quality of the presentation, class receptivity, and general mood. 
Readings: The texts, all by Camus, should include: The Stranger; The Plague; The Rebel; The Myth of Sisyphus; Caligula; State of Siege; The Misunderstanding; The Just Assassins; Exile and the Kingdom; Resistance, Rebellion and Death; The Fall; and also Camus' Lyrical and Critical Essays. 
Comment: Goerner's knowledge of Camus is absolutely first-rate and, more importantly, he has a feel for the method of thought that shapes all of Camus' writings. His seminar style is to ask leading questions and probe individual responses before offering his own reflections and formulations on the material. Professor Goerner in a seminar is a unique experience. The free-style of the course, combined with the great ability of Goerner and the genius of Camus, can make the course even more than expected. 
Reiter Govt; 422 American Public Opinion 
Content: The course deals with the role of.public opinion in the American political system. Special attention is paid to how it is formed, how it is measured, can it be manipulated, is it rational, its impact on public policy, and whether or not is hould have an impact. The topics that are touched uQ_on include theories of public opinion, structure _of public opinion, the psych.ological, sociological, and political roots of public opinion, and the effect of the media on public opinion. 
P,:ese_ntation: The course is structured to be a lecture class, but discus~_is encouraged. The small size of the class helps discussion. Yet it is primarily a lecture set-up. 
Readings: The readings are found mostly in the reserve room of the library. Professor Reiter concentrates on using chpaters from other books and articles in journals. Only two books are required for purchase--V.O. Key, Public Opinion and American Democracy and Backstrum and Hirsch, Survey Research. The radings are consistentthere is generally something specific to be read for every class period. 
Organization: There is a mid-term and a final. The students also compile a survey project in which they are required formulate and conduct a poll. Then a ten-page paper is due commenting on and analyzing the survey. The final grade is made up of the final and the class participation counting the most. The paper and midterm count for less. There is no average final grade yet as this is the first course that Professor Reiter has taught at the Universitv. but early marks 
have shown him to be rigorous in his grading. 
Arnold Govt. 420 The Presidency 
Content: This course intends to provide a broad overview of the origins, structure and character of national executive power in the United States. Always present in the course is anattempt to consider the original design of the office and the contemporary character of the office. 
Readings: J.M. Bvrns, The Deadlock of Democracy; Hamilton, Madison, and Jay, The Federalist; H. Laski, The American Presidency; G. McConnell, Steel and the Presidency; J. McGinness, The Selling of the President; R. Neustadt, Presidential Power; N. Palsby, Congress and the Presidency; N. Palsby and A. Wildavsky, Presidential Elections; R. Harris, Decision; and J.M. Burns, The Lion and the Fox. And a number of articles and short cases. 

Organization: Three equally weighted tests from a lecture class. Student participation is encouraged. A short paper is required. 
Reiter Govt. 423 American Political Parties 
Content: The course deals with the role of parties in the American political system, with special attention to whether they are fulfilling their proper role, whether they are dying, Whether it makes any difference if they are dying, and the development of the party system through time. Specific topics include historical development, party organization and leadership, voting behavior, station politics, and national party politics--the Presidency, Congress, and the nationnal power structure. The course isone semester and primarily comprised of junior and seniorGovernment and American Studies majors. 
Presentation: Professor Reiter prefers to lecture throughout the class, but questions are encouraged. Discussion is minimal, but due to the nature of the material, when they do occur they are lively and worthWhile. Lectures tend to stick very closely to the readings through the topic will occassionally stray. The lecture: tend to be a restatement of arguments found in the readings. 
Readings: The readings are varied, with most to be found in the library in the reserve room...generally book chapter and journal articles. Required for purchase will be the American Political Science Association's report on responsible parties; James Q. Wilson, The AmateurDemocrat; Everett Ladd, American Political Parties; Angus Campbell et_al., The American Voter; V.O. Key, The Responsible Electorate; and Alexander Bickel, Reform and Con­tinuity. 
Organization: Th_ere is a midterm and a final. The students also have the option of doing a series of about six short papers (three pages) or a twenty-page research paper. Exams are in class and they attempt to integrate readings with a chance for original exposition; e.g., the student is asked to evaluate an issue on which the readings present various sides. The bulk of the grade comes from the final and the paper Cs). The midterm and classroom participation count for a bit less. 
Comments: In the future this could prove to be a very rewarding course. Professor Reiter is new to Notre Dame. He is very brilliant in his field, but simply lacks the experience and confidence that comes with a few years of teaching. This year's class had to serve as a guinea pig for the course and resultingly suffered. During the first half semester, the reading load was ab­solutely stifling. When it was finally pointed out that the reading load was far too heavy, Professor Reiter reduced it considerably and vowed to keep it much lighter second semester. The course is almost a necessity for government majors concenttrating on American Government, and it is very profitble for an American Studies major with an interest in government. But be warned--the course can prove rigorous and fifficult. 
The Public Opinion course is much the same. Reiter is extremely well-versed in the field ofpublic opinon. But Ms lectures too often get bogged down in a mere recitation of s1atistics. The formation of the class survey Is a highpoint of the course and it can prove very rewarding. 
Kertesz Govt. lnternationaI Law 
Content: Professor Kertesz's course is designed to give the studenra· grasp of the basic concepts of International Law. . The development of the· "Law of Nations" is traced from its early formation in ancient Greece to its present status in the atomic age. Special emphasis is placed upon its development under the Pax Romana era; Hugo Gr:ot_iu_s as.the father of the modern law; and present day difficulties caused-by an ideologically divided world and the reluctance of <1overnts to recognize the existence of a lw to which their national interests are 1'xpected to be subordinated. Besides studying the historical progression of International Law, significant cases nnd international disputes ar~ examined to determine their influence upon the law. 
Presentation: A balanced lecture-discussion approach is used by Professor Kertesz in presenting his material. During the course of his lecture Professor Kertesz welcomes an question students may wish to ask and allows discussions to take place on questions asked or the material presented. 
Readings: Law Among Nations ($11.95) by Gerhard von Glahn, is the text used for the course. It is easily readable and serves as an important supplement to the lectures. Handouts which deal with current problems in International Law are issued throughout the course. In addition to ttie basic text the student is advised to purchase a Historical World Atlas by Rand McNally (Sl.00), and the "Charter of the United Nations" (10 qmts). The reading load is moderate, rnnsisting principally of readings from Law Among Nations. The student is encouraged to supplement his assigned readings with selections from the Reserve Book Room. 
Organization: Students who enroll in Professor Kertesz's course are given a 111oderate but steady work load. Two tests plus a final are given, in which the student is expected to display his knowledge of the historical developments as well as the concepts of International Law. The tests cover material from both the lectures and the text. In addition to the three tests, a research aper or of approximately 12-15 pages is also required. Students are free to write on any topic involving International Law. 
Comments: After completing this course the student has a greater un­derstanding of the position of lnternation Law in the modern world. Because of the immense time frame covered, in-depth examination of particular developments or ·concepts is left to the student through thj!_ use of the bibliography and references on reserve. For the curious student whose interest in International Law, has bee~_stimulated, the moderate work load permits him to study in greater detail areas that are of particular interest to him. 
Professor Kertesz himself brings interest to the course. Throughout the rourse he freely tells of his experiences in the Hungarian Foreign Service. These experiences help the student to grasp the particular concept being em­phasized. The Professor has had innumerable contacts with world diplomats, and other scholars of international relations. By sharing with his class events from his life, the student who takes his course is given a greater insight into the complexitiies of international reltions and becomes a more sophisticated ob­server of international events. 
Cour Govt. 432 American Civil Liberties 

Content: This course involves a study of the teachings of the Supreme Court on the Bill of Rights and other liberties mentioned in the Constitution. A treat­111ent of the more pressing problems concerning American civil rights is <'Xamined. An emphasis is found on those civil liberties stemming from the basic freedoms o~ Jh..e_BllLof. Rights. An introductory course in American Government or American Political History is a prerequisite. 
Presentation: Fr. Cour's presentation consists mainly of highly-organized and comprehensive lectures on topics assigned for the day. The lectures closely follow the assigned readings. Due to the well-ordered, extensive organization of the lectures, discussion is held to a minimum. Questions are entertained but not sought. 
Readings: Two basic texts are used during the course: Civil Liberties Under the Cons~itution by M. Glenn Abernathy ($7.95) and An Introduction to Law by c. Gordon Post ($1.95). 
.Organization: Two fair in-class exams are shceduled, a mid-term quiz and a fi!'~I ~xamination. In _addition, a 15-page term paper concerned with a specific nv1I liberty problem Is required. The basis for the final grade is taken from achievement in the tests and paper, as well as interest and participation in the 
work of the class. 
Comments: Some students given the traditional complaint that Fr. Cour's le~ture style is too soft spoken and dry but the student who holds such views has­1111ssed much of the educational experience which can be gained from this 
course. Fr. Cour's extensive knowledge nn the teachings and actions of the Supreme Court is one of the superior qualities. As was stated, his structured organization and precise treatment of the topics are thorough and can reveal much to the student interested in the teachings of the Supreme Court on civil liberties. Fr. Cour is willing to help an interested student provided the student seeks help. Anyone who puts time and an honest effort into the course will be 
aptly rewarded. 
-Bartholomew Govt. 434 American City Government 
<:;ontent: T°his course, will cover the. organ!_zation and processes of city government. The leg~I a_spects of the three,maior types of city government will 
be dealt with. · • -~~~··'·· ·" 
course evaluation 
. '.i: 
Presentation: The first month or so of the course will consist of lectures, after which there will be a quiz. During the seonc half of the course, each student picks one area in which he concentrated (police, fire, etc.) and makes an oral report on it. As each student does his report on the area he chooses, the class covers that area in the casebook. 
Readings: There is no textbook as such. There will be a casebook, Case Problems in City Management. ~ organization: There will be a test after the first half of the course. After this 
_each student picks an area which he investigates in depth and presents a report on it covering this area in South and Bend and his hoemtown. He will also present a case study in some problem in this area in either South Bend or his hometown. The buil of the final exam will consist of four reports: book report on some book on city government, a bibliography report, a report on the city court, and a report on the city council. 


Goerner Govt. 442 Comparative Government II 
Content: First of all,Comp. 11 is nothing like Comp. I. If you are looking for an analytic approach to an additional assortment of foreign governments to to Ivanus' or Brinkley's course because you would be far from home in Goerner's Comp. II. Goerner prefers to steer clear of the strictly analytical or scientific approach to government. Instead he offers What he is the best at... a theoretical approach to the study of a living society and its basic political structures. He focuses on the aspects of labor, work, and action, and their relation to the political community. The scope of the course ranges fror'n Middle Egypt to 20th century African tribes, and back to his favorite, the Greeks. It is neither chronological or evolutionary in approach and at times d1{es appear to rather disjointed in this regard. 
Organization: Last year this course was organized as a seminar. But this year, in an attempt to tie things together better, Prof. Goerner is going to offer it in a lecture-question format. He is still thinking about the idea of incorporating some kind of discussion into the course and chances are this question will not be decided until the first day of class. In any case, there will be a mid-term and a final (essay, of course) and one paper <topic to be determined by student and teacher). 
Readings: Turnbull, The Forest People; Frankfort, Before Philosophy (or one of his others); Tacitus, De Germania; Stephenson, Mediaeval Feudalism; Homer's Iliad; Andrewes, The Greek Tyrants; Aristotle, Constitution of Athens; and the principle book, Arendt's The Human Condition. 
· Comment: Any course Goerner teaches is worth taking simply because of Goerner. He is unquestionably a brilliant teacher. And if his lectures don't lose you (he does have a tendency to side-track among the fine points), you will find his style unique and even strangely inspiring. The student who is not oriented toward the theoretical though, can easily find himself in the wrong course. If on the other hand you are as much a student of political theory as political science then this course, and Goerner, can be good for you. 
lvanus Govt. 444 Government and Politics of East­Centra I Europe 
Content: This is a on~-semestercourse that deals with the organization and functioning of the Communist political systems. The purpose of the course is to make one aware of the methods of So'(iet control, and the political and ideological chan·ges that have occurred over the years. Some particular aspects of the class include a look into the revisionist movements (both political and economic), the Warsaw Pact, and COMECON. Two questions that will be con­sidered in the course are: What are the causes and essences of the divisiveness in East Central Europe? How did the Soviets establish themselves politically in these countries after WWII? This course is open to anyone, but is made up mostly of seniors and graduate students. 
Presentation: Classes consist primarily of lectures with some class discussion. It becomes quickly evident that Prof. lvanus has a thorough knowledge of the subject. The class meets once a week, and each time a variety of topics are covered. He has the ability to coherently pr•esent his material, and keep his students interested. 
Readings: The exact reading list for the next semester is not known. lvanus chooses from a wide variety of books concerning the governments of East Central Europe. These books provide the student with background material, and suggest different methods of interpretation. At times mimeographed articles are also passed out. The student has ample time each week to complete his readings (which by the way have been cut down to a certain degree, owing to difficulties in the past), and all texts are available on reserve. 
Organization: There is a midterm and a final examination. Each student will also be required to write a bibliographical essay discussing several books, one or two of which the student may choose. lvanus is a fair grader, and the tests are a good exercise in evaluating one's grasp of the subject. 
·~ !. i ' t 

nov. 27, 1972 
Comments: lvanus came here from Yugoslavia during WWI I, and as a result much of the material is supplemented by his own experiences. He is a very qualified teacher, and by the end of the course the student has a much better understanding of the political analysis required to appreciate the political situation in East Central Europe, or anyWhere for that matter. lvanus tries to know each of his students personally, and is always available and willing to help with any questions one might have. The opportunity alone to share with 1·,anus his experiences makes this a very worthWhile course. 
Moody Govt. 456 Government and Politics 
Content: This course is primarily concerned with the areas of Southeast Asia and India.Since the countries of Southeast-Asia are fairly numerous the poliUcs and governments of these countries will not be covered in any great dE:tails. There will be depth enough, however, to gain a firm knowledge of the politics and governments of the area. Theoretical considerations will also be discussed to some degree. • 
Presentation: Mr. Moody at present feels most comfortable with the current format that he uses. The class consists of informal lectures Which may be in­terrupted by the student at any time to ask a question or raise a point. Discussion on any point rel at~ to the subject matter is encouraged. 
Readings: The readings are: A.H. Hanson, Janet Douglas, India's Democracy; Samuel P. Huntington, Political Order in Changing Societies; Lucian W. Pye, Aspects of Political Development; John T. J\4cAlister, Jr., Vietnam: the Origins of Revolution; Amry Vanderbosch, Richar'd Butwell, The Changing Fall of Southeast-Asia; Gunnar Myrdal, Asian Drama: An Inquiring into the Poverty of Nations; and Edward Luttwak, Coup d'Etat: A Practical Handbook. Cost runs around S20-25. 
Organization: There will be a midterm and a final, taken in class. Also in the wor~ load are three analytical book reviews on books bearing some relation to the subject matter of the course. The reports may not be on the required readings and are an average of 3 to 5 pages in length and are due approximately the first class of each month. The tests are of a general essay type and deal with the central points of the lectures and the required readings. The tests require a firm knowledge of the lecture notes as well as the concepts presented in the readings. The exams are graded fairly and should be no problem to the student who has done the work. The grading system works out to approximately one third for the paper, one third for the midterm and one third for the final. 


Moody Govt. 458 Chinese Political Thought 
Content: Current Chinese Political thought today is both the evolution of the Confucian system as well as the breakdown of that system. The influence of Marxism is also quite evident ih today's Chinese ideology. In this course the evolution of Chinese Political thought will be traced from Confucius to Mao Tse­Tung. The major amount of attention will be placed upon the effects of the thought of Mao on China and upon traditional Confucianism. 
Presentation and Organization: Basically, thesameas government 456. 
Readings: The readings are H. G. Creel, Chinese Thought from Confucius to Mao Tse-Tung; James T.C. Liu, Wei-ming Tu, Traditional China; Joseph R. Levenson, Confucian China and Its Modern Fate: A Trilogy; Chou Tse-Tung, The May Fourth Movement; Stuart R. Schram, The Political Thought of Mao tse-Tung; Robert Jay Lifton, Thought Reform and the Psychology of Totalism. Cost approximately 20 dollars. 
Brinkley Govt. 480 Soviet Foreign Relations 
Content: The course presents an historical study of Russian foreign policy and is divided into five parts: I. Origins and Foundations; 11. Militant Advances and Strategic Retreat: 1917-1927; Ill. Stalinism and the Search for Security: 1928­1940; IV. World War II and Communist Expansion: 1941-1953; and V. Peaceful co-existence and Polycenerism: 1953-1970. 
Presentation: The course is basically lecture, although questions and com­ments from the students are welcomed. Professor Brinkely's lectures are concise and informative. 
Readings: There are two basic texts for the course: A.B. Ulam's Expansion and Coexistence: the History of Soviet Foreign Policy and Russian Foreign Policy, edited by I.J. Lederer. In addition, Professor Brinkley provides a four­page list of "recommended" readings. Students are urged to "pick and choose" from the list cthose books which they consider interesting and worthwhile. At certain points in his lectures, Professor Brinkely refers to some of the books on the "recommended' list, and he is available outside of classif students want information on any of the remaining books on the list. 
Organization: There are four tests given. Last year, the first three tests were essay, while the last was objective. The tests necessitate a close study of the lecture notes for the course, and they are an accurate reflection of the student's gasp ot the subject covered in the course. Although no papers are assigned, 

those who had the inlination to do so ·may submit "extra-credit" papers or book 
reviews. 
Comments: This course is highly recommended for students interested in the nature of Soviet Foriegn Policy. Professor Brinkley brings to the course a wide knowledge ot Russian Foreign Polic):' and conveys his knowledge well to the 
students. 
Pomerleau Govt; French Foreign Policy 
content: The course will involve a comparison of foreign policies of Great Britain, Germany, Italy, and France, with an emphasis on France. The domestic origins of foreign policy will be investigated as well as major foreign policy programs of these nations, such as NATO, foreign aid, and the Common Market. The prerequisite courses are Govt. 341 and 343. 
Presentation: Short lectures by Fr. Pomerleau or 30 minute presentations by students followed by discussion. 
Readings: French Foreign Policy Under DeGaulle by Alred Grosser; German Foreign Policy in Transition; Bonn Between East and West by Karl Kaiser; Britain in Tomorrow's World by Grant Huge; The Politics of Italian Foreign Policy by Norman Kogan. The readings will be supplemented by articles from periodicals put on reserve. 
Organization: Each student will give a 30 minute presentation. Grading will be based on this presentation, a termpaper of approximately 10 pages, and class participation. each counts approximately 33 percent. Emphasis will be placed on reading and discussion. 
comments: Fr. Pomerleau is a very good professor, and quite enthusiastic and knowledgeable in his field. His lectures, although disorganized at times, are interesting and informative. Between the lectures and the readings, students will get a good view of different governmental systems and the analytical tools useful in comparing these systems. Fr. Pomerleau is quite interested in his students and is readily available to students in need.of assistance. 
Niemeyer Govt. Tradition of India 
Content: The purpose of this course is to delve into the Indian Political Order. Ttie classical text of Indian tradition will serve as a background for the study. 
Presentation: There will be one 3-hour seminar each week. There ar~ no prerequisites for this course. 
Readings: The course reading list will include the Upanishads, Epochs, Ar­tashastra, and Shankara's Philosophy. · 
Organization: If the class is small, course work will center just around the seminars. Each student Wilrlead one seminar working a report into a paper. There will be a final examination. 
Niemeyer Govt. Reconstruction of Political Order 
Content: The spring semester is a continuation of the first half of the course and assumes it as a prerequisite. The course consists of readings in those philosophies, historians, classicists, and political scientists who vastly expanded the concepts and categories of the science of man in our day thereby making a spectacular contribution to the reconstruction of order. 
Presentation: The course will mostly be informal lecture centered on discussion. The discussion will meet twice per week. Readings: The reading list includes books by Bergson, Gonas, Loewith, Lubac, Zaenher, and Voeglin. 
Organization: Undergraduates will give book review-essays along the lines of a term paper. Graduate students will give reports which are then worked il')to a -paper. There will be a mid-term and a final. 
Moody Govt. 484 International Relations in East Asia 
Content: This course will deal primarily with four National States and their interactions with one another in the Far East. The Nations concerned are China, Japan, United States and the Soviet Union. The topics will be handled as to the way one of those four countries relate to one of the other three in their dealings in the Far East. There will be no attempt to show all four interacting with each other at the same time. It will, therefore, take the form of a series of somewhat disconnected topics all pertaining to the Far East. 
Presentation and Organization: Since this is a new course, there is at this time no definite format planned. Mr. Moody hopes it will evolve into a seminar type of course with oral reports and no midterm. A term paper on a suitable topic is also possible. The readings planned for this course are to be very extensive. It was originally planned as.a graduate course with an undergraduate number fol"· interested students. 
Readings: The readings are to include the following plus others: Wolfgang Franke, China and the West; Robert Butow, Japan's Decision to Surrender; Tang Tsou, America's Failure in China, 1941-1950, vol. I & II; Conrad Brandt, Stalin's Failure in China; Robert c. North, Moscow and Chinese Communists; Allen S. Whiting, China Crosses the Yalu; Donald S. Zagaria, The Sino-Soviet Conflict, 1956-1961; Wayne Wilcox, Asia and the International System; Robert Jay Lifton, Revolutionary Immortality. 
Comments: Very often the decision as to the merit or lack of it pertaining to a 5ertain course depends not so much on the information supplied by the in­structor, although it is important, but on his method of getting his points across. It is in this way that Peter Moody's courses areof merit. Not only are they timely as to subject matter but his lively informal lecture style seems to be able to convey to his students the knowledge that he has on the subjects, which is ex­tensive. He follows a somewhata prepared plan but is more than willing to• cla"rify or discuss some points in detail during the lecture. Outside of class he is usually readily available if problems do arise. 
:\;']• -/ 
.--,... i•J--:.~,b-·· .-;-_ ~ --·. -: ,-<~~,..~1J.tsr-: !!r!r £t '--~-· .._;: ,-?·_~q_ ..:-,.-~-:,:~-~ -'•J\_"'1~ ~'~:'!!FHitG. ~ ,
4 ·, 
course evaluation 



History 

Kritzeck Hist. 304 The Near ·east in the 20th Century 
Content: This course is an examination of the political and cultural history of 
the, Near East, an area construed by Professor Kritzeck as ranging from 
Morocco to Indonesia. It centers, however on the origins of Arab nationalism, 
the rise of Zionsim, and the continuing conflict spawned by the birth of the state 
of Israel. Professor Kritzeck plans to begin study with British and French im­
perialism of the 9th Century, and concludes with a detailed analysis of the 
Middle East situation as it exists today. The class will undoubtedly be comprised 
of mostly junior and senior history majors, though a sincere interest in the 
subject matter is the only prerequisite for the course. 
Presentation: A Kritzeck "presentation" must be experienced to be believed. 
Though he intends to lecture more this coming semester than he had previously, 
his adroit use of audio and visual aides greatly increase one's appreciation and 
enjoyment of the material. In addition to lectures and "presentations", which 
will deal with major personalities as well as historical events, class discussions, 
in seminar fashion, will occur periodically during the semester---otten to the 
accompanyment of a guest expett in the particular field. 
Readings: Students will be asked to read two or three major histories of the 
period, all of which will be on reserve. Because of the experimental nature of the 
course Cit has only been offered once before), Professor Kritzeck is presently 
undecided as to which books he will require. A reading list will be issued the first 
class session with his selections, and some additional 10-15 suggested sup­
plementary readings, all fairly short and rather informative. Handouts, too, will 
abound and prove extremely helpful. 
Organization: A mid-term and a final will be administered, covering the 
readings and lectures. Additionally, a "major" paper is obligatory, concerning a 
topic of particular interest to the student in the area. The tests are eminently fair 
and provide an excellent vehicle for demonstrating one's knowledge, or lack of 
it, to the professor. Class attendance of a regular basis is indispensible for doing 
well in this course. 
Comments: Professor Kritzeck is unquestionably the finest authority on this subject in the United States today. Any course he teaches tend.s·to become as much a course on Professor Kritzeck as on the material. Despite his passionate · Iove for the Middle East and his genuine friendliness with st~6ents, the course will by no means be "jock". But for the truly intellectual brilliance and, History 304 and the glimpse of Professor Kritzeck's intellectual brilliance and integrity 
will be profoundly rewarding. 
Moore Hist. 309 Medieval England 
Content: This course is an examination of the political, religious, and cui,ural developments in England from Roman times until the end of the War of Roses, roughly from 55 B.C. to 1485 A.O. Attention will be given to the changif\9 social conditions that occur during this period. In addition, the course and influence of the various invasions will be covered. Particular emphasis will be put on the fluctuating relations between England and the Continent. 
Presentation: This is basically a lecture course, though, a certain number of class hours will be devoted to discussion. Organization: The grade will be based upon participation in discussions, the mid-term and final exams and a five page book critique. ·Readings: Not yet drawn up. 
Comments: This is the first time that Ms. Moore will be offering this course. Ms. Moore has a reputation as an interesting lecturer and a good discussion lead~. · 
O'Connell Hist. The Reformation 
Content: This is a new one-semester course. It covers the history of the Con­tinental Reformation until about 1600. It will deal with such matters as the social and economic background of the Reformation, the intellectual trends which led 
-to the Reformation; the personalities of the great figures, like Luther, Calvin, Zivingli and Ignatius Loyola; dynastic politics and the uses of religion; the personalities of the politicians Char:les V, Phillip II, Henry IV, Coligny, William of Orange and Sixtus V; the theological basis of Protestanism; the spread of Protestanism; the Catholic reaction as seen through the Council of Trent, the work of the Jesuits and the renewed vigor ofthe papacy. Presentation: This is a lecture-discussion course. Readings: The basic text is The Reformation by Own Chadwick. There are three other books: Here I Stand by Rolan Bainton, Calvin by Francis Wendell.' 
nov·. 2/,.J972 
and The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism by Max Weber. All books are paperback. 
Organization: Undergraduates will be expected to read the above books. They will be expected to write a report on each of the latter three books. There will be two in-class exams. These will consist ofshort answers instead ofessays. 
Graduate students will be expected to do all of the above and in addition will be assigned extra readings, mainly periodicals. They will also be required to prepare a bibliographical essay or analyze a primary source to a similar project to be determineed in consultation with the professor: Grading policy will be announced the first day of class. 
Comments: The ge.,eral consensus of students that have Father O'Connell is that he is an excellent lecturer. He manages to keep their interest in a 75-minute course which is not easy. · 
Bernard Hist. 322 The French Revolution 
Content: History 322 is a course which covers the years directly preceeding the French Revolution and concludes with the defeat of Napoleon Bonaparte. It is the second half of a course which is offered during the first semester. The first section of the course is not a prerequisite; neither is a knowledge of French. 
Presentation: Professor Bernard mainly lectures although he encourages discussion. Occassionally, slides will be shown of Paris at the time of the Revolution; a practice which enhances the course greatly. 
Readings: The required texts are as follows: LeFebvre, The Cor.iing of the French Revolution; Sydenham, The French Revolution; Rude, The Crowd in the French Revolution; Padover, Life and Death of Louis XVI; Palmer, Twelve Who Rult>d; Bienvenu, The Ninth of Thermidor; Brinton: The Lives of Talleyrand; Markham, Napoleon; De Caulaincourt, With Napoleon in Russia; Kafker and Laux, The French Revolution, Conflicting Interpreters. (The last entry is required for graduate students only.) 
Organization: Professor Bernard gives three tests, non-cumulative, on the relevant readings and notes pertaining to the class since the previous exam. Attendance is optional as is a term paper. (Graduate students are required to research one paper.) 
Comments: Professor Bernard is a highly-competent instructor and adds a definite vitality to a period in time long dead. He is available to the student at almost any time and is willing to reconsidei:-points docked from an exam. Though many who take this course are history majors, there are also many non­majors enrolled. Professor Bernard seldom wave,-s from the course material and keeps the class moving at a steady pace. 
Aspinwall Hist. 325 Liberal Catholicism, 1859 to present 
Content: This course will study the origins, development and failings of 

Liberal Catholicism in Western Europe and the United States. Special attention 
will be given to France, England and America, particularly Lamennais, Nion­
talembert, Newman, Brownson and their successors. 
Presentation: The format will include fectures and discussions. 

Readings: The required reading will 'include H. Maier, Revolution and Church: the Early History of Christian Democracy 1789-1901; E.E.Y. Hales, The Catholic Church in the Modern World; E.E.Y. Hales, Pio ~ono; A. Dansette, A Religious History of Modern France. There will be additional readings assigned during the course. 
Organization: Not yet formulated. Three essays will be required. Comments: Dr. Aspinwall is a visiting Professor from Scotland. He has not previously taught at Notre Dame. 
Ward Hist. 324 20th Century France 
Content: An examination of the history of France from about 1900 to the present is the focus of this course. Dr. Ward's emphasis, as usual, involves detailed knowledge of the period on the part of the student (Ward already knows it all>. Some say that the man prefers to test for trivia, but, if the student reads with some thought, everything will be all right. Tti.ough the course generally attracts junior and senior history majors, sophomores and graduate students also participate. 
Presentation: Dr. Ward avoids the well-loved Notre Dame History Depart­ment style of lectures-only. His class alternates between discussion (he asks a number of incisive questions--discussion follows) and illustrated presentation. These illustrated, audio-visual lectures are both interesting and informative. Before class discussions, short quizzes, which concern the readings, are given. The readings and quizzes. prepare the student for the midterm and the final. Fortunately or unfortunately, however these tests are rather demanding. 
Readings: Easily the most important reading for this course is Paul Gagnon's France Since 1789. Seven additional books also appear on the syllabus. 
Organizatio"!: One's final grade is generated from the grades received on the midterm (30 percent), t.he final (30 percent), and the quizzes (40 percent). No papers_ · ' 
Comments: If you, the student, do not care for the study of history, beware. Despite the course's being a well-constructed one (all elements contribute to gaining insights), and despite Di-. Ward's incredible tea~hing ability, the course can become a nightmare for the ill-prepared. Read the readings, please. History majors, naturally, interest themselves most in this subject, but non-majors suffer absolutely no disadvantage here, unless apathy sets in. 
Ziskind Hist. 325M History of Ancient Rome 
Content: This course will concern the political and constitutional history of the 

origins and growth of Roman power in Italy and the Mediterranean from earliest 
times to the conversion and death of Constantine in the Fourth Century A.D. 
Presentation: The primary means of presentation will be lecture, though questions and comments are always welcome. Readings: The assigned readings will include an anthology of primary sources in translations_ 
Organizaticn: There will be three examinations: a midterm and final ­examination covering materials dealt with in the lectures. The third examination will be given on the last class day of the semester. This test will cover the student's understanding of outside readings which will be a Roman historian in translation. The writing of a term paper is optional. 
Szczesniak Hist. 340 Japanese History 
Con!ent: This course is a survey of all Japanese history. Its-purpose is to 
acquaint the student with a general picture of Japanese culture, with a few of the 
recurring historical problems of the Japanese, and with Japan's position in the 
modern world. The first half of the course traces the development of Buddhism 
and Shintoism, of the Japanese nation-srate, and of Japanese literature and 
Philosophy. The second half is devoted to Japan since the Meiji Restoration 
(1868)_ The major problems discussed in this latter section are the Wester­
nization of Japan, her attempts at establishing a Far Eastern empire, and 
Japanese-U.S. relations. There are no prerequisites. 
Presentation: The course is taught in lecture form, which is relieved by the 
Professor's personal anecdotes and witty observations on Japanese history. The 
lectures tend to supplement the readings rather than explain them. They follow 
Japanese history chronologically rather than "topically, though he sometimes 
departs from this rule to cover a topic like religion or literature. Discussions are 
rare, although questions are welcomed. 
Readings: The following books are required: de Bary (ed.) Sources of 
Japanese Tradition, Vol. I and II; Duus, Feudalism in Japan; Morris (ed.), 
Japan 1931-1945: Militarism, Fascism, Japanism?; Reischauer, Japan: The 
Story of a Nation; and Sansom, Japan: A Short Cultural History. The books are 
pertinent and easy to read_ Total cost is around S25. 
Organization: At midsemester one is required to submit, to be graded, a progre_ss report on on one's reading and term paper research. A 15-20 page term paper is due at the end of the semester. The one examination requires a good ~nowledge of the material, but is not overly demanding. The progress report is worth ~O perc~nt of the grade; the ter!TI paper is worth 30 percent; and the final exam 1s worth 50 percent. The remainder of the (inal grade is based on the 
Professor's opinion of the student and class attendance. 
Comments: The material is foreign to most students and Professor Szczesniak realizes this. His purpose is to acquaint the students with another culture and with the historical basis of its modern problems. The only skill required is the ability to write a good, accurate term paper. History, government, and literature _majors would find the course of particular interest.· The only drawback ,s that the scope of the course is perhaps too ambitious for one 
semester and should be allowed to stretch over two semesters. -
Norling Hist. 350_ Europe 1920to present 
-. 

Content: This course is a study of European history from the Treaty of Ver­sailles to the present. Professor Norling stresses the political, diplomatic/and military developments of a turbullent Europe. ­
Presentation: Professor Norling's lectures are well organized and extremely interesting. He welcomes questions and goes to great lengths to ensure their answer. He objectively presents both sides of histori_cal arguments, usually finishing with his own personal opinion of the situation. 
Readings: Following tradition, the reading load in this course is quite heavy. Each book is ~xtremely interesting, however, and reading them won't put the student to steep. All paperbacks, they are: Raymond Sontag, A Broken World; 
24 . 
Gordon Wright and Arthur Mejia, An Age of Controversy; Ortega y Gasset, The Revolt of the Masses; George Kennan, Russia and the West Under Lenin and Stalin; Alan Bullock, Hitler: A Study in Tyranny; George H. Waller, ed., Pearl Harbor: Roosevelt and the Coming of the War; John Lukacs, A New History of the Cold War; J.F.C. Fuller, The Conduct of War--1789-1961; Erich Remarque, All Quiet on The Western Front; Bernard Norling, Timeless Problems in History; and Richard M. Watt, The Kings Depart. Total cost should be around $25. 
Organization: Reading quizzes are given on each of the books. They are given to ascertain who has been reading the books but can be quite challenging. There are no papers except in an instance where the student opts to write a book review instead of taking the quiz on the book. There are two major exams, a midterm and a final, with a combination of essay choices and multiple choice questions. The tests are usually lecture-orientated, but referral to the readings will be helpful when appropriate. 
Comments: Bernard Norling is loved by many, disliked by some, but usually respected by all. His courses are straight lecture though his lectures are fascinating. His is always well prepared and has honed lecturing into an art which is both informative and spked with wry, often hilarious historical anec­dotes that help hold the student's interest. (He has not received numerous teaching awards without reason.) 
This course is an excellent scholarly analysis of the political, diplomatic and military history of Europe in this important period. However, from a personal point of view, one of the most interesting things about the course is Dr. Norling himself. The man is a fascinating mixture of skepticism, cynicism and idealism. He is consistent only in proclaiming the universal depravity of mankind and in decrying the liberal-anarchist view that man is intrinsically good. Oddly enough, at times he struck me as trying to use history as a moral teacher to prove the empirical existence of original sin and the fallen nature of man. He would un­doubtedly be dumbfounded by such a judgement, though, since he claims to subscribe to the dictum that "History is just one damn thing after another." The man is occasionally accused of being machlavelian and with reason, but then he is a scholar of that same ethos from which Ma-chiavelli formulated his prin­
ciples. ­
The course entails a heavy reading load but it is worth it. The fact that the course is so consistently full is a testament to that. If you are conservative, you will love the man; if you are liberal, you will be horrified by him; but whoever 
you are, I can guarantee that you will be stimulated or provoked by him. In many ways because of the sheer iconoclasism of the teacher, I recommend this course highly. 
Bernard Hist. 357 London and Paris: A Social History 
Content: This course consists of a study of the comparative development of two great cities of Western Europe from Roman times to the present. While topography and the urban scene are touched upon, primary emphasis is on the people who lived in these cities; how they governed themselves at various historical stages; their views of their communities vis-a-vis State and Church and the ~est of the nation; how they organized their economic fife; how they coped with the problem of the poor and the sick; the measures they took to enrich the intellectual, recreational and aesthetic life of their communities. To avoid becoming a "survey" course, the course is organized into a small number of major time periods and conclusions are presented for each. , 
Presentation: Prof. Bernard r~lies primarily on a lecture format. Discussion of the topics under consideration is often encouraged and welcomed, however. Prof. Bernard also plans considerable use of slide projections. ··Readings: There will be about 2,500 pages of required rea_-...;ngs chosen by the 
student from an extensive reading list. __ Organization: There will be a mid-term and a fina! exam. In the past, Prof. Bernard's tests have included both essay and objective questions, and they have been drawn about equally from lectures and readings. There will also be, a required term paper. , 
Comments: This will be the first time that this course has been offered. The following categories of students would particularly profit from the course: Students planning a European visit either in the foreign programs or in­
dividually; French and English majors; those with an interest in urban studies• history majors and others wishing to study Western Civilization mirrored in tw~ great urban microcosms. Knowledge of French is not required. Mr. Bernard is an excellent lecturer a~d usually the material he covers is very interesting. His tests are extremely fair. Because this will be the first semester in which this course will beoffer~d, it is necessary to prejudge iton the basis of Mr. Bernard's 
_oth:r course~_. In th•~ ':ase, the course is highly recommended to anyone with any interest at all in the c1t1es of London and Paris. , ­
.Corbett ~ist. 345m History _of the Middle Ages 
Content: This course is a continuation of Prof. Corbett's first semester course beginning after the end of the Investiture Controversy (c. 1150). It will deal wit~ the economic recovery of Europe, the Crusades, the political and consntutional history o! .France, Ger'!lany, Italy, and England in the eleventh through fif. teer;ith ce!1turie's, the rise of medieval culture (the university, art, arc~itectur':! 
course eval_uation 
l • • .. • • ~ 

and literature), religious reform, and the beginnings of the Renaissance. 5uch 
topics as the Normal Invasion, the Albigensian Crusade, the Black Death, the 
Avignon papacy, and the Hundred Years War are discussed. 
Presentation: Mr. Corbett relies primarily on a lecture format, though he 

accepts and encourages questions at any time. Visual aids are used occasionally 
and Mr. Corbett plans to present two films from Clark's Civilization series. 
There are also periodic class discussions on certain topics of the Sullivan book 
mentioned below, of which the student is notified well in advance. 
Readings: The readings include the following carry-overs from the first semester: Richard Sullivan, Critical Issues in History: The Middle Ages; Marc Bloch, Feudal Society; Brian Tierney, The Crisis of Church and State, 1050-1300; Henri Pirenne, Economic and Social History of Medieval Europe; Friederich Heer, Medieval World; Walter Ullman, A History of Political Thought: The Middle Ages; and Ham'mond's, Historical Atlas. New books for the second semester include Charles P€tit-Dutaillis, Feudal Monarchy in France and England; W.K. Ferguson, The Renaissance; Edouard _Perroy, The Hundred Years War; and Huizinga, The Waning of the Middle Ages. 
Organization: There are two'in-class exams and a term paper (about fifteen 

pages) required for the course. Each counts for about one-third of the final 
grade, though the greatest emphasis lies on the paper. Each exam consists of a 
small number of objective questions (dates of church councils and regns of kings 
and popes being favored) and one or two essay questions which require an in 
depth examination of course lectures and readings. . 
Comments: Prof. Corbett succeeds very well in enlightening his students that 

the Middle Ages were not the Dark Ages. While Prof. Corbett's lecture style in 
the past has been described as "somewhat dry," the student interested in this 
period will find the topics covered colorful and the insights and person of Prof. 
Corbett extremely valuable. Prof. Corbett is very reasonable in his 
requirements, very fair in his marking, and extremely interested in his students. 
This course is recommended for majors concentrating on European history and 
non-majors with a genuine interest in this period. 
Smelser Hist. 362 History of the American Revolution 11 
Content:' This course is a continuation of a first-semester course of the same 

title. It begins with the surrender of Cornwallis and concludes with the election 
of George Washington as president. This course is only open to those who have 
credit from the first semester section. 
Presentation: It is primarily a lecture course, though questions are en­

couraged. Professor Smelser uses an overhead projector _extensively for maps 
and other important material. 
Readings: The basic texts are Smelser's American Colonial and Revolutionary H!story; Colburn's The Colonial Experience: Readings in Early American History; Hawke's U.S. Colonial History, Readings and Documents; Walsh's The Mind and Spirit of Early America; and Morison's Sources and Documents Illustration The American Revolution. The readings are seldom boring and only certain pertinent passages are necessary. • 
Organization: Four one-page book analyses are required periodically by each 

student. A mid-term and a final are the only exams. While the mid-term is 
qenerally of the essay format, Professor_ Smelser has a reputation of giving 
trivial and difficult objective finals which count 50 percent. 
Comments: Professor Smelser is an exceedingly competent teacher and 

students generally don't mind the work. The class moves along quickly and 
seldom drags. It has been a favorite for many years at Notre Dame and comes 
highly recommended. 
Kerby Hist. 363 Civil War and Reconstruction 
Content: The course, actually the second semester of a two-semester course covering the middle period of 'American,history, handles the years 1837 to 1877, 
examining in detail the crisis of disunion and reconstruction with an effected reorganization of the American political system. The focus is political, with the emphasis on the breakdown of the Republic's second party system (Jacksonian Democracy and Whiggery), and the foundation of the nation's third party system (Democracy and Republicanism>. Themes of sectionalism, slavery, reform, manifest destiny, the nationalization of the Union, the war, and the progress and failure of reconstruction will be dealt with. 
Presentation: If enrollment drops below twenty, Prof. Kerby may attempt to organize the course along lecture-discussion lines. Most probably, however, it will remain straight lecture. The lectures are invariably well prepared and well delivered, and the professor has no problems at all in holding a class's interest for 75 minutes. 
Readings: The r;eading list i.s perhaps the longest around for an undergraduate history course. Fourteen books are required. Half of these are specified by the ~.-ofessor; the other seven are chosen by the student from a list of "topical readings." The seven requ;red--specified are: Banks and Politics in America by Bray Hammond, Reconstruction After The Civil War by John Hope Franklin, Means and Ends in American Abolitionism by Aileen Kraditor, Disruption of the American Democracy by Roy F. Nichols, The Development of Southern Sec­tionalism by Charles Sydnor, Freedom's Ferment by Alice Tyler, and The Jacksonian Era by Glyndon Van Deusen ---paperbacks all. Graduate students have their own special bibliography. 
nov. 27, 1972 
Organization: Three or four book reviews, maximum of 500 words each, drc required. One must be on a reqvired--specified book, the others on books selected from the list of topical readings. There are two exams, a midterm and a final, consisting of one or two essay questions and five or six identificaations. Graduate students must also write a fifteen page research essay on a topic of their choice. 
Comments: The course, obviously, will demand an inordinate amount of the student's time. It is well worth it. In his first year at Notre Dame, Prof. Kerby has demonstrated an amazing depth of knowledge and insight into American history, as well as a competence and flair for communicating it to this students. Highly recommended for anyone who has an interest in· the period and C'nough time lo do at least partial justice to the readings. Highest recom­111endation for history majors looking to fulfill American history requirements. 
Moore Hist. 365 Women in American History . 
Content: This course will investigate the social role and public image of women in different periods of American history. It will allow students to examine the hazards and possibilities, the shortcomings and the ac­complishments of previous experiments in the restructuring of family in­stitutions and sexual roles. It will study both the variety and ttie continuity of women's historical experience. 
Presentation: Lectures will be given twice a week and will provide the necessary historical and social background to each period, including in­formation regarding family structure, child-rearing practices, women's economic functions and legal position. The third hour of the week will be devoted lo a discussion period and students will analyze and discuss relevant cultural documents assigned each week. 
Readings: The reading will most likely be the same as the previous semester. Included are Morgan, The Puritan Family; Stowe, Uncle Tom's Cabin; Rolvaag, Giants in the Earth; Wharton, The House of Mirth; O'Neil, The Woman Movement; Fitzgerald, Save Me the Waltz; Robinson, The Power of Sexual Surrender; Plath, The Bell Jar; Friedan, The Feminine Mystique; Angelou, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings; and Morgan, Sisterhood is Powerful. Eleanor Fl,xner's Century of Str.uggle is on reserve but the readings from it, though useful, are not required. The total cost of the books is about S15, but many books can probably be bought from students who took the course first semester. An average of a book a week is assigned. 
Organization: Eacti memberof the class will choose one of the weekly lecture topics as the subject of a paper. The paper should be between ten and fifteen pages with appropriate footnote and bibliographic citations. Students will also lead one discussion of their chosen topic in the weekly seminar. There will be an hour long, in-class, mid-term and a take-home final. 
Comments: You chauvinists who think this is going to be a jock course can forget it. The work is demanding and the pace of the readings gets hectic at times; but the various aspects of the course were well integrated, and lecture topics followed one another in good relational fashion. Ms. Moore presents a competent overview of the position of women throughout U.S. history. To this male, at least, the information was novel and interesting and students were encouraged to do their own follow-up and draw their own conclusions. Some found the instructor too opinionated for their tastes but sometimes this was a relief. It removed much of the "moderator" image in the discussion groups, which were usually quite lively. No one is expected to follow any "line" but be prepared to back up anything you say at any time. This is no ordinary survey course. Unless you are prepared to think seriously and openly about the material, proceed with caution at registration. 
Aspinwall Hist. 366 The Progressive Era 
Content: This course will concentrate on the domestic developments in American society between 1900 and the First World War. The origins, motivations and impact of Progressive reform will be considered in con­temporary figures, including President Roosevelt, John Spargo, Jane Addams, Robert Hunter, novelists and negro leaders. Readings will be assigned during the course which will also require three essays. · 
Reading: The basic required reading will include G.E. Mowry, The Era of 

Theodore Roosevelt; and A.S. Link, Woodrwo Wilson and the Progressive Era, 
1910-1917. 
Comments: Dr. Aspinwall is a visiting professor from Scotland and has not previously taught at Notre Dame. 
Gleason Hist. 377 1Problems in Immigration History 
Content: Whereas last semester's "American Immigration" presented a genera'! survey of the patterns of migration, settlement, and adjustment to A111erican life by the immigrants, "Problems in Immigration History" will be concerned with specific topics. Some of those to be dis&ussed include New Ethnicity, Comparison of the Black and Immigrant Experience, Immigrants .:1nd Politics, Immigrants and American Nationality, Nativism, and Indians as an Ethnic Group. There are no prerequisites to the course. 
Presentation: The course will include lectures, discussions, and student reports. Emphasis will be placed on the discussions and student reports. Two or three weeks will be devoted to each of the topics being discussed. 
Readings·: Two or three article length readings will be distributed to the class as a basis for discussion for each topic·. There will also be a supplemental list of ten to twelbe books which students will use as a basis for their reports. 
Organization: In addition to a written midterm and final there will be several short book reports and perhpas another writing assignment of greater length. 
Comments: Dr. Gleason knows his subject well; He frequently offers numerous sources of outside reading for those who wish to look into various topics in more depth. He welcomes discussion during class and is determined to make discussion the essence of this course. For those interested in the study of immigration and often their own grandparents the course is highly recom­mended. 
Dolan Hist. 382 Problems and Issues in American Religion_ 
Content: This course will investigate selected issues in religious history. They 

will include--Revivalism, Liberal Christianity, Urban Church, American 
Catholicism, Social Christianity, Church and Peace. The emphasis later in the 
semester will be on the problem of Christian pacifism in America. 
Presentation: The course will comprise both lectures and discussions based on 

these issues and the problems they raise for the Church. Primary sources will be 
used together with some secondary books. 
Readings: Type of readings for the course: Walter Rauschenbusch, 

Christianity and the Social Crisis; Robert Cross, ed., The Church and the City; 
Charles Chatfield, For Peace and Justice: Pacifism in America 1914-1921. 
Organization: ·Lecture, discussion and individual research will be the three 

components of the course. There will be a final and the the student will write a 
paper on some aspect of the issues investigated. The class meets two days a 
week--the first will be primarily lecture and the second discussion. 
Comments: Mr. Dolan not only teaches what he feels--he feels What he 

teaches. He is among the best of the "good and decent" men on this campus. 
While Prof. Dolan1s course sometimes appears to the students to lack 
cohesiveness, they are all designed to encourage the students think about the 
issues covered and make some resolution of those issues. F.'rof. Dolan's course is 
extremely valuable to those interested in the position of the Church in modern 
America and the problems of Christian pacifism. 
Pike Hist. 387 U.S.-Latin American Relations 
Content: This course deals with U.~.--Latin American relations from the early 1800's to the World War 11 period. The complexity of U.S. motivation in its relations with Latin America is stressed, with consideration being given to economic factors and security considerations in addition to idealism ·in shaping policy. A consistent attempt will be made to present Latin American as well as 
U.S. attitudes and points of view. Presentation: This is basically a lecture course, though, students are en­couraged to ask questions and interject questions and criticisms. 
Readings: The readings for this course are divided into two parts. There will be six paperbacks required for the entire class. They are Harold Blakemore, Latin America; Peter Calvert, Latin America: Internal Conflict and Internal Peace; Donald Dozer, ed., The Monroe Doctrine: Its Modern Significance; the basic text by Frederico Gil, Latin American-United States Relations; George Pendle, A History of Latin America; and C. Neal Ronning, ed., Intervention in Latin America. These works have a combined length of 1,416 pages and a total cost of Sl4.80. 
Five additional books will be chosen by the student in conjunction with the Prof. These books will focus on a single topic or on U.S. relations with a single Latin American country, and may deal with material up to the present. 
Organization: There will be a take home mid-term. The final exam will consist of a short written analysis, ten to fifteen pages in length,on the five books chosen by the student. This report will analyse the books against the background of lecture material, drawing attention to agreement and--or disagreement and presenting the student's viewpoint and perspective. 
Comme_nts: It is rumoured that Frederick Pike knows everything about Latin America. He, however, denies this and says that there are at least one or two things that he doesn't know about Latin America. Whatever the case, a course taught by him about Latin America or Spain is bound to be a topflight scholarly proposition. 
Professor _Pike likes to think of himself as ~longing to _the school of "in­tuitive" historians Who rely as much upon an understanding of the human spirit as upon_strict facts fof}'!terpreting_hi~ory. Despite his excellent scm>larShip and his painstaking doc.um~tation of almost everything he says, Dr. Pike tends to do some free. Wheeling,intuiting occassionally, Whieh· leads to· some 'unusual results. He admits to having a large streak of anarchism but also considers Francisco Franco to be the best ruler Spain has had since Felipe 11. ,(He can't stand people smoking in his class; some anarchist!) . 
The emphasis of Dr. Pike's_ type of scholarship is towards interpreting and understanding the human ethos as it unfolds in history. There is no pre­occupation with simply memorizing facts. This style of pedagogy reflects itself in his tests. They invariably consist of a take home in Which the student develops and interprets some idea or topic in a written essay. (Confidence in one's writing ability and a cert~in amount of facility at it tend to help make this course more enjoyable.) 
Dr. Pike's lectures are interesting, though, usually perforated with staccato pronounced Spanish names. This is the first time in eight years thar he has taught this course and he will hand out a lecture outline at the beginning of e_ach class. Among other things, this aids greatly in following the Spanish names. 
This course is much work for anyone seeking an easy elective but for anyone with a interest in our Latin neighbors, the course and Pike are an opportunity not to be missed. 
Szczesniak Hist. 388 Russian History Since 1725 
Content: This course presents a general history of Russia from the reign of Peter the Great to the present. It concentrates on the internal developments in Russia as opposed to Russia's foreign relations during the period. Special em­phasis is placed on the background and movement of the Russian Revolution. There are no prerequisites for the course. The class is composed equally of juniors, seniors, and sophomores, with history majors and non-majors alike. 
Presentation: Professor Szczesniak's lectures·are well organized and leave little room for discussion. Questions however are pe_rmitted. It has been said in the past that Mr. Szczesniak has a tendency to read his lectures, and that his presentation is dry and sometimes dull. However, he does try to spice things up with personal anecdotes and witty observations pertaining to the study of Russian history. 
Readings: There are six books of readings in addition to the basic text, Florinsky's History of Russia, Vol. II. The reading is somewhat burdensome, however; not impossible and not su~ject to quizzes. The readings are generally interesting and are necessary for a complete picture and understanding of the Russian scene. At midsemester,· one is required to submit, for a grade, a progress report on one's reading. In addition, an exam is given exclusively on the readings after two-thirds completion of the course. 
Organization: There are four main grading criterion for the course: the 

· midterm report on readings (10 percent), the test on readi11gs (20 percent), a 15­20 page paper (30 percent), and the final (30 percent). The remainder of one's grade ClO percent) is based on class attendance, and on Prof. Szczesniak's opinion of the student. Comments: This course is not overly difficult. Examinations are essay-type and very fair. In addition to the lecture notes, Prof. Szczesniak places a strong emphasis on the assigned readil')gs, ·and your grade is determined to a large extent on how well your test work reflects the readings. In spite of the fact that the course sometimes drags, it is worthwhile, and d,oes acquaint the student with Russian history. · 
O'Connell Hist. Tudor England 
Content: This is a majors course designed to give the student a detailed 
background of the history of England from 1485to 1603. The course will delve into 
the personalities of the Tudor monarchs; trace the development of centralized 
bureaucracy; and discuss the events leading up to the Reformation and the 
repercussions thereof. The course will also include the constitutional dilemma 
between the king and the Parliament; the nature of diplomacy of this age of 
increasing self-consciousness; and the cultural achievementsofthe era. 
Presentation:. The classes are a combination of lecture and discussion. The 
bulk of class time is spent on lecture, however, Fr. O'Connell welcomes 
questions and is willing to divert his lecture in order to accomodate student 
initiated discussions. 
Readings: The reading list consistsof four books, all paperbacks. Included a·re .a historical biography,· a historical novel, an additional monograph and a general survey text of the period. 
Organization: .The course will entail _two exams and three book reports. The 
exams will be given in class and they will consist of short answer, objective 
questions based on the text and class notes. Thethree papers deal in content with 
the three historical works assigned. The c;fesignated length is five to eight pages. 
Comments: The objective of this course is to provide the studentwith a broad 
overview of Tu«;ror England, as well as insights into the social, political and 
religious d~velopments of the Elizabethan period. Fr. <;>'Connell is an exciting 
lecturer. His lectures are well _researched, easy to follow and interesting. The ..Prof. brings wit and great erudition to the course. The objective tests are dif­ficult. The papers are g!aded and evaluated with scrutiny and attention. Fr. O'Connell strives for. technical accuracy and an interesting expression of historical insights and ideas. 
. course e~a'i'uation 
Fitzsimmons Hist. 400 History and Historians 

Content: The objective of this course is to understand the nature of historical inquiry and of historical composition. 
Organization & Presentation: During January and February students are asked to read Herodotus, Thucydides, assigned sections in Lowith :and Stern, Gibbon and Burckhardt. Some of the lectures of this period as well as all the discussions are vital. There will be two hours of examination on this material. Early in March, students will be asked to read Higham and that reading period will be followed by an examination. In the same period they are asked, in a discussion with the instructor, to choose a modern historian and to prepare an analytical evaluation of at least two of his works. As the course membership may be too large to allow everyone to give an oral report nine reporters will be selected by lot to take over the last three weeks of April and other members will submit written reports (3,000 words maximum--minimum) in three copies. All members of the class are expected to read all the papers and before the final class eac~ member must submit three critiques of five hundred words of each class report. There is no final exam. This course prescribes heavy work until near the ~nd but in compensation the end is easy. • 
Readings: Students are-asked to purchase the following works: Karl Lowith, Meaning in History; Fritz Stern, The Varieties of History from Voltaire to the Present; Edward Gibbon, Qecline and Fall of the Roman Empire and Other Selectetl Writings; Jacob Burcl<.hardt, Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy and other Selections; John Higham, History: Development of Historical Studies in the United States; and one other work still to be chosen. 
Blantz Hist. 402 American Society Since WW 11 
Content: The purpose of this course will be to study the political, diplomatic, economic, social, and cultural development of the United States from 1945 to.the present. Although the military and diplomatic history ofWorld War 11 wilt" be discussed by way of background, the principal topics of consideration will be the Fair Deal Program of President Truman, The Cold War, Korea, the Eisenhower years, the New Frontier, Viet Nam, President Johnson's Great Society, Civil Rights, and the social and intellectual climate of the period. There are 110 specific prerequisites for this dlurse, but a general knowledge and interest in American history would be beneficial. 
Presentation: Father Blantz's lecturing format is geared to aid the student in note-taking, review, and continuity. Each class begins with a brief introduction to the topic and ends with a brief summary. · 
Readings: Father Blantz makes it a poim to exclude readings which are merely a compilation of facts. The authors are top-notch and the readings are ;nteresting. They are: Eric Goldman, The Crucial r;>ecade; Paul Hammond, The Cold War; John Brooke, The Great Leap; Harry Truman, Years of Trial and Hope; Dwight Eisenhower, Mandate.for Change; Winston Churchill, Triumph and Tragedy; Lyndon Johnson, The Vantage Point; and Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., A Thousand Days. The total cost will be about S20. 
Organization: Three examinations and two short book reports will be required. The tests require a sound knowledge of the readings and lectures, but mere memorization and regurgitation will not enhance the student's fortune. The tests are graded fairly with several notations to aid in the understanding of the result. 
Comment: Father Blantz's knowledge and love of the subject enhances the learning atmosphere of the class. His ability to quote the authors from memory and his knowledge of historical sidelights make for an interesting class. Fr. Blantz is easily available for consultation and any other help the student needs.. 
Ward Hist. 4~_0 Biography: The Past in Portrait 
Content: The course will consider exampl~s of biography in their relationship to history. Various categories of biographies will be studied ranging from full length portraits to fictional works. The main thrust of the course will focus on the ideas of the biographers and their works. There are no pre-requisites for this course, and it is the first time Dr. Ward will be teaching it. 
Presentation: Emphasis will be placed on seminar discussions, with oc­casional slide lectures. Exten~ive use will be made of audio-visual material. 
Readings: In comparison with other history courses, th_e readings will be moderate. Among the paperback books studied will be Mattingly's Catherine of Aragon, Lytton Strachey's Eminent Victorians, Speer's Inside the. T~ird Reich, as wefl as a few other books yet to be determined. In addition, the class will be supplied with selected dittos articles relating to bit>graphical study. 
Organization: There will be po required papers/which is always a relief to any student taking a history course. There will be quizzes on some of the reading assignmen·ts; and the final will count approxir;ria~ely 30 percent toward the finaL grade. In his previous courses, Dr. Ward has always presented fair tests, and if the student has done the readings he should do reasonably well. 
Comments: .James Ward· is a concise, lucid teacher, and his,classes are seldom dull. His combination of slides and lecturei is an educational ·experience; it is obvious that·he puts a great deal of time and effort in_to each slid~ sh~w. !he class size for ,this•course should be small enough_ so that_the seminar discussions ... will be lively yet,intelligent. Dr:·ward is able-to ~sk the right questi~ns in'_his.":._ 
.'1' I •. • 

nov.27, 1972 
. ·.:. \.":. 

discussions so that all the students have a chance to participate. Above all, he• takes a personal interest in the student, and h·as been known in the past to invite students to his hpme for a gala evening. This course is recommended for history as well as non-history majors. The student will not be bored with trivia, but Dr. ward will help guide him to probe and analyze historical ideas contained in biographies. 
smels~r Hist.-Colloquium on the American Revolution 
Content: ·This course is an in-depth study of specific subjects related to the period beginning in 1763 and ending with the ratification of the Constitution in 1788. Because of poor publicity last semester, only four students w~re enrolled. One needn't be a history major to enroll, and there are no prerequisites except a genuine interest in the period. · 
Presentation: In this course, Professor Smelser switches from lecturer fo Iistener. However, lectures are sfill primary to the course, but they are given by members of the class. This course is one of a growing number of history courses to be limited in number. Mr. Smelser has definite plans to keep the enrollment lo twelve students for the purpose of giving each his or her chance to report, or indulge in some incisive·questioning. 
Readings: The only required reading is Professor Smelser's American Colonial_ and Revolutionary History (revised edition), cost Sl.95. This manual must be obtained because it contains the questions on which the students are to report. It also has valuable bibliographies from which research material can be drawn. 
Organization: Each student is required to present. once a week, a researched answer to assigned questions from the end of chapters in Mr. Smelser's manual. The amount of time allotted to each student for reporting will depend upon the number enrolled. The report is expected to be given with as few notes as possible. A good oral delivery is hoped for, but not expected. When the talk is over students are encouraged to question the speaker, after which Professor Smelser will comment and add insights to the repo,:t. Professor Smelser wifl base grades on his evaluation of each student's work. 
Comments: Colloquium on the American Revolution is a unique course. It serves a double purpose in helping the student to give a good oral presentation while learning about the American· Revolution at the same time. Professor Smelser is: one of the most distinguished scholars in the field of American Colonial and Revol_utionary History. He. has acquired an amazing amount of knowledge of the subject, and is a gentleman worldly enough to apply much of it to situations relevant to the student. The professor is interested in his students, and periodic office visits are the best way to benefit from this interest. This is not an easy course. The hard work of researching and organizing a topic is repeated every.week. However, if one wants a unique educational experience, this course cannot be overlooked. ·It. also solves a problem students have been ·clamoring about.for a long,Jime, and that is a closer student-faculty-relationship, 
Language 
Hunt Lang. 400 Latin Classics in Translation 
Comment: Latin Literature in Translation is a one semester course presenting those representative works of Latin classicism which portray the eternal elements of the Roman mind. The works studied include aspects of the philosophical, metaphysical, literary and historical thoughts starting from the zenith of the republican era to the abyss of the post-Augustan age. The studies are directed toward the conscious needs of the different students and while the class offers an excellent classical foundation to the student of letters, there is sufficient material in the course and especially in the lectures, to interest the most casual man of science or commerce. There are no prerequisites for the course. 
Readings: The books read during the semester are the Lyric Poetry of Catullus; the first existential Roman--he was fired with lust and hate towards a woman who had one thousand lovers at once! De Natura Rerum by Lucretius, is a philosophical and metaphysical tract by a man of wisdom who first reasoned the existence of the atom. De Amicitia and De Senectute (On Friendship and Old Age) are two works by Mr. Republican himself, Cicero, a Roman whose dialogue on friendship contains nuggets for modern society. The Aeneid of Vergil, Professor Hunt's personal favorite, is the text for approximately one-fifth of the semester. The Annals of Imperial Rome by Tacitus describe to great and exhausting length the intrigues of Imperial Rome. Mr. Hunt gives the work his insight where it is needed yet he is kind enough to summarize the duller parts-­emphasizing the murders, tyrants and affairs which spiced the decline. The Metamorphoses of Ovid should be read, if only for an understanding of the mythological allusions in Romantic poetry and all of Western literature. Juvenal's Satires are excellent paradigms for the modern wag. And for those who saw Fellini's orgy, Petronius' Satyricon will complete Professor Hunt's exploration of the Roman spirit with a glance into its more erotic nature. · 
Presentation and Organization:-This three-crerlitcourse will most likely follow previous scheduling in 75-minutelecture-discussionsessions held twice weekly in the latter part of the afternoon. There is one term paper of length sufficient to deal with some concept in Latin Literature which has stimulated the student. Professor Hunt has a final comprehensive essay type examination. The final in spring 1972 was quite fair and judged the student's awareness and perception. 
Comment: Mr. Hunt is a highly disciplined scholar. This course in Latin literature reveals only a fraction of his knowledge. The poetry of a Latin phrase, the imagery of antiquity's flower, or the infinite variety of student reaction can .transform the scholastic Professor Hunt into the lover of wisdom he truly is. He is most understanding in his evaluation of each student and if he sees one of his ideas take root in the fertile mind of a student, a rewarding experience occurs for both himself and the student. Mr. Hunt admits he has a great tendency to talk too much in class discussion, yet a perceptive student will be quick to realize that such a tendency is only a virtue of a man of such great intelligence. 
Gatto Lang. Tolstoy 
Content: This course is basically with the major works of Tolstoy. Through the readings, lectures and discussions, the students become familiarized with the life and philosophy of this great Russian author. There are no prerequisites for the course. 
Presentation: The class is conducted in a seminar fashion. No examinations are given, but each student is required to do the readings and to give an oral , presentation on a particular work of Tolstoy,or on some aspect of his philosophy or technique. The final grade evaluation will be based upon the presentation and class discussion. 
Readings: A collection of Short stories, including the Death of Ivan lllych and Family Happiness; several major novels, eg. Anna Karenina and War and Peace; parables for children and adults. 
Comments: Mr. Gatto is a most congenial person, Which makes for a relaxed, enjoyable atmosphere in the class. The course is beneficial to students Who have philosophy, as well as literary, interests. 
--, " 

Rubulis· Lang. Literature of t~e .Soviet Republics 
< ·-• 

Content: Th.is cour;se,i:5 a stUdy of the literary·schools, movements and writers among the Soviet nafiogalities, e.g; Armenia, Georgia, Tzerhaydzhen, etc. The works include an examination of prehisroric hero_ic epics and typical mot~fs, 
such as a Caucasian version of Romeo and Juliet, and are compared to those of Western and Eastern Literature. 
Presentation: The course consists of lectures Which are well prepared by Mr. Rubulis. Usually a short background of the social and historical situation of the writer is given, and then the class will head a selection of his works. Mr. Rubulis gives an interpretation of the work and encourages class discussion. From time to time slides of the various countries are shown. 
Readings: Because this is the only course of its kind, there is no textbook available for it. Instead, the selections are all given out on mimeographed sheets. Mr. Rubulis has done all of the translations and preparation work by himself, and has sought to include those works which can also be useful in the study of comparative literature, history, or political science. 
Organization: There are three tests including the final. They consist of two or three short essay questions, and ten to twelve quotations for which the student must identify the work and author. Mr. Rubulis is a fair grader. 
Comments: This course is worth taking for those who are interested in com­
parative literature. The classes are usually quite interesting, and Mr. Rubulis 
transmits his enthusiasm to the students. 
Carineau Lang.~ Pushkin-Chekhov 
Content: This course, being offered for the first time, concerns itself with the writings of Pushkin and Chekhov. Their works will be considered against the literary and social backgrounds of the times in which they lived, with emphasis placed on the understanding of the aesthetic aspects. There are no prerequisites for the course. 
Presentation: Emphasis is placed upon class discussion, with lectures being used only 'to introduce the works and to clarify certain points. By posing per­tinent questions, Sr. Sophie encourages the students to develop their own criticisms and analyses of the authors and their works. 
Readings: There are two required texts for the course: Pushkin (Modern Library Edition) and The Works of Anton Chekhov. 
Organization: The student is expected to keep up with the readings and to participate in the discussions. If the class is small and each student is able to discuss extensively in class, there will be no final. If not, an oral final is given. Two short papers, one dealing with each author, are expected at the completion of the course. Grades are based mainly on the papers and discussion, with the, oral final, when necessary, being used to see ifthe student has read the material: 
Lazenby Lang. 450 Greek and Roman Mythology 
Content: The professor covers the main Greek myths and highlights of Roman myths and concludes the course with a discussion of the Eleusinian Mysteries, Orphism, and Mithra. The material is approached factually, thematically, and from a standpoint of relative importance. The Greek world generated many interesting myths with influence on the Western world in art and literature. It would be impossible to elaborate on the recurrence of various myths in Western culture, therefore the emphasis is placed on a factual study of the myths themselves. Greek mythology predominates, as Roman mythology was largely reworked history or "captive" Greek mythology. There is no language requirement or other prerequisites and the course is open to students from all colleges. · 
Presentation: By the nature of the material, the course is taught in a lecture situation. However,'Mr. Lazenby becomes familiar with each student by name, and is always willing to answer questions or to arrange consultations. The course will be taught in two sections. 
Readings: The text for the course is Classical Mythology by Morford and Lenardon. The reading is by no means difficult, although there is much in­formation to be remembered. 
Organization: At least four announced quizzes will account for: two-thirds of the grade. Although this is more work for the.professor, this makes it easier for the student, as the material dc,es not pile up too heavily before a quiz. The remaining third of the grade is based on an objective final examination. The questions are comprehensive, aimed at the student's general knowledge of mythology. For example, the professor asks for parallels between myths rather than the more particular type of question asked in the quizzes. 
Comments: Greek and Roman mythology constantly recurs in our everyday use of language and in· our contact with art and literature. The presentation of the material is m_ore than adequate and the lecture is never too quitkly paced. Mr. Lazenby certainly accomplishes what he intends to do. 
coursee'vaIuar,on Columbus Lang. 416 Intro. to Generative Grammar 


Content: The study of language from a rationalist point of view. It stresses the innateness hypothesis and seeks the underlying similarities of languages by concentrating on the·differences. This is done via a Generative Grammar ap­proach and although the English language transformations are emphasized, the course does cite many non-lndoeuropean languages. Some knowledge of a foreign language is helpful but by no means required. 
Presentation: The course is centered around the texts by a combination of lecture and discussion. Dr. Columbus welcomes questions in the class and he often centers class discussion on questions of his own. 
Readings: The basic texts are An Introductory Transformational Grammar by Bruce Liles and Language and Its Structure by Longacker. The total cost is less than ten dollars. 
Organization: There is usually only one exam (final} in the class but the students are expected to keep up in the readings and with whatever problems or exercises are assigned. The exam is a composite of the entire semester and the student is graded on his general understanding of the course. The grades are very fair. 
Comments: At the beginning of the course some of the material may seem unclear, but as the course progresses all the pieces fit together. Dr. Columbus is often available for help or consultation. The course is much more than its title may indicate and it could be of special interest to majors in Psychology, Philosophy, Sociology, and any other area dealing with human speech. 
Vacca Lang. 46S Periclean Athens 
Content: Focusing on the Greek Renaissance period, the course details the social, religious, and moral climate of fifth-century Athens, and the conflict in thought that imaged its genius and eventually led to its decline. 
Presentation: The foundation of the course is centered around readings on which lectures and discussions will be based. All of the readings are in English. 
Organization: There will be three take-home exami11ations dealing with a single topic that the student will develop throughout the semester; the last exam being a compendium of the student's thought on his topic. Although this is the second halfof a two semester sequence, there are no prerequisites. 
Readings: Thucydides, The P.el~p_enesiar. War (which will be emphasized the most); Three Plays by Aeschylus/ Three plays by Sophocles; Four plays by Euripides; Three plays by Aristophanes; Two short works by Hippocrates; and Plato_'s Symposium. There will also be secondary texts by Finley and Bowra. 
Comment: If you are looking for a course where taking notes and memorizing them is the norm, Periclean Athens is not a good choice. Mr. Vacca is an exciting and penetrating lecturer, and he expects the student to devote as much time to the readings as he does. He asks questions, expects answers, and looks upon discussion as spontaneously arising from the provocative nature of the material. From past experience, Vacca's courses are exciting, demanding, and eminently worthwhile. One caution, though---if your ego is fragile, do not tread here. 

.Lazenby Lang. 456 Roman Archaeology 
Content: This course starts with a consideration of prehistoric sites in ltaly,t Etruscan art and architecture, and moves on to the art and architecture of ancient Rome and its farflung empire. Through an analysis of education, food, clothing, religion, household arrangements and political institutions, one gains an understanding of everyday life in the days of Caesar, the emporer Augustus, and his successors. · 
Presentation: The presentation consists mostly of visual material selected from the extensive slide collection of the Department of Modern and· Classical Languages. Due to the visual nature of the course, regular attendance is highly recommended... 
Readings: There is only one text, The Mute Stones Speak by Paul MacKen­drick. ·· Organization:-The final grade is determined by at least three quizzes (more than ample preparation is given) and a final examination. 
Comments: Mr. Lazenby is a very enthusiastic mentor who is more than willing to field any and all questions from the class. He is abreast of the most · recent literature in his field, and has an intimate knowledge of everything that goes on in class. Lectures are supplemented with artifactsaisplayed from Mr. Lazenby's per.s.onal collection; No previous kno~ledge of Greek or 'Latin is 
required. 
nov. 27, 19.72. 
Hunt Lang. 400 Comparative Literature Seminar 
Texts: Theory of Literature, Wellek and warren; An Essay on Criticism, Hough; and Introduction to the Comparative Study of Literature, Corstius. 

Comments: This course itself serves as the central core for those who go on to major in comparative literature, but as this program has been offered for the first time this semester, the.number of these is very small. Considering that this is offered on an undergraduate level, itwould be difficult ifnot impossible to deal directly with theory and method of literary analysis. On this basis, Mr. Hunt centers this course on the study and discussion of concrete works of literature before dealing in depth with the manner of literary criticism. The format is that of a seminar and emphasizes discussion of the works considered. The central core of the course involves the study of works according to the categories of genre, period, and theme; in which works of literature are chosen to cross national lines, tradition, and time periods. The semester is divided into four studies in genre, period, and theme. This semester, this consisted of two period and two genre studies, though next semester, Mr. Hunt intends to make one of these into a theme study. During the first few classes the members of the seminar discuss where their interests lie and play a major role in determining the nature of these studies and the· works to be considered. This semester, for example, there was a genre study in tragedy, Antigone and Othello being the works considered, and a genre study in the epic considering Homer's Odyssey and Magister Ludi by Hermann Hesse. The period studies were 19th century 
Romanticism in which the poetry of the English Romantics, Keats and Coleridge, and Stendhais The Red and the Black were considered; and 20th century in which the poetry of the 20th century Moderns, Stevens, Eliot, Thomas, and Yeats, and The Magic Mountain by Thomas Mann were read and discussed. Each study is usually planned to take two weeks, but the plan is flexible and can be extended depending on student interest. The second part of this co1,1rse usually consists of the last 3 weeks of the semester, during which the texts and principles of criticism are discussed along with visits by the other instructors in the Comparative Literature Department who talk about their work in the fieli:I and what they are currently doing. A 5-page paper of some comparative study is asked of the students to be handed in on the last class day, and what this is to entail is left mainly up to the student. During the course of the semester, each student is asked in addition to do approximately 2 independent assignments on some material to be discussed and presented before the seminar, for example, the explanation of some poem considered in the bodfof the course. The course is taught as a seminar, with little if any lecturing,,per se, mainly consisting of discussion of and individual reactions to the works. Participation is stressed as the size of the class is generally small. 
Recommendation: I would recommend this course for anyone interested in 
expanding their knowledge of literature. Mr. Hont is a very capable instructor, 
always full of ideas, and open to new interpretations. The course is quite fluid 
and flexible. At times the reading may seem overwhelming, but Mr. Hunt is very 
understanding and is willing to give more time for the larger works. The class is 
almost always interesting and never dull. It is very much worth taking, ex­
pecially for language and English majors who are asked to contribute most in 
their own field of knowledge. But wherever your interest lie, this course can only 
be highly recommended. 
Lanzinger Lang. 459 American-European LiteraryRelations Seminar. 
Content: The comparability of themes and motifs in American and European literature constitutes the major concern of Professor Lanzinger's seminar. Through this approach the seminar examines cross-Atlantic literary relations and concentrates on the European or "Old World" theme used by American writers. These concepts are observed with increasing intensity from the early nineteenth century on. The seminar not only demonstrates the complexity of contemporary literary relations, but also ilfumfiiatesthe similar and different cultural attitudes in the United States and Europe. While the seminar leisurely flows over the familiar and already well-explored areas of cross-Atlantic literary influence and receptions of authors from the other side, it determines that each literary movement had its counterpart across the Atlantic. Every major literary figure was certain to cause a response and a critique, and the examination of the nature and extent of these responses is the seed of the seminar. Discussions of the James Fenimore Cooper vogue in Germany and France during the 1930's and 40's, the receptions of Whitman, Poe, Sinclair Lewis, Dreiser, Thomas Wolfe, Hemingway and Faulkner in Europe considered vis a vis the reception (and subsequent revivals) of Mann, Hesse and Kafka in A~erl_ca lend substance and intrigue to the ::ourse. Comparisons of Hawthorne's Scholar and Goethe's Faust Kafka's Rossman and Melville's Redburn, as well as the death themes evident in Hemingway and Thomas Mann bring the seminar to full flower. Professor Lanzinger prefers participants to have a reading knowledge of a foreign language, but this is by no meanl:i a prerequisite. 
Presentation: Last year the class met once a week together in a lecture type situation. It-will then be divided into two discussion-seminar sections for the, second meeting of each week. The lectures are clear and definitive, and questions are activelysolicited. The good Professor enjoys getting directly to the point, so quite a few themes may well be discussed in a single period. Class size is-limited to twenty. . 

Readings: Alexis De Tocqueville, Democracy in America; J. F. Cooper, The American Democrat; Hawthorne, The Marble Faun; Melville, Redburn; Mark Twain, Innocents Abroad; Henry James, The Europeans; Henry Adams, The Education of Henry Adams; Ernest Hemingway, The Sun Also Rises. While the volumes are assigned in their entirety, Professor Lanzinger stresses certain chapters and excerp1sto a very great degree. 
Organization: The entire seminar, its readings and discussions, is centered around the formulation and writing of a research paper. While length is not emphasized, approximately 20 pages is realistically considered necessary to treat one's selected theme justly. A midterm and final complete the con­siderations taken in the grade determination. They will be objective, com­prehensive examinations consisting of appr~ximately twenty short answer question. Taken together, the pair of tests carries about the same weight as the research paper. .. 
Comment: The course load is not overly burdensome, however, to do well one must take meticulous notes and be.prepared to answer the test questions wit_h similar precision. Just as Professor Lanzinger is direct and to the point, he expects his students to emulate his directness on the tests. Approximately 70 percent of the students in last year's seminar participated in the Innsbruck, Austria foreign studies program, and two graduate modern language students completed the seminar. It is conducted for the serious student and one can draw as much from the seminar as he puts into it. Finally, Professor Lanzinger's charming old-world spirit not only makes him easily accessible to students, but it undoubtedly qualifies him to conduct this course. With his rich background in both American and his native European literature, he offers more insight into this topic than most professors throughout the country, much less this univer­sity. He is a distinctive man offering a novel course in a virgin discipline. 
Hunt Lang. 452 The Nature of Tragedy 
Content: -.e course analyzes chronologically a representative_ series of· 
!!.~gedi~ f_r~m_ di!f~r!-!!'.~ per_iods _in th~ We~tern Cult~re, giving rise to a com­parative form. The course aims at an introduction to different national varieties of 1he 1ragic "genre"---as comprehensively as possible. A fuller understanding of the underlying nature of the tragic "phenomenon" itself is emphasized in the earlier half of the course. 
Readings: The texts will be: the Oresteia (Aeschylus I), the Theban Plays (Sophocles I), Medea and Hippolytus (Euripides I), Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare) and Othello, Phaedra (Racine), Rosmersholm X.and Bygmester Solness (Ibsen), and finally Absalom, Absalom! (Faulkner). Students who are able to read one or more of the works in the original language are encouraged to do so, but no language is required. In addition to the primary texts, two critical works will also be required reading: Poetics of Aristotle and Definition of Tragedy by Oscar Mandel. 
Organization: Approximately one text a week will be treated in class, perhaps too brief for concentrated analysis of each one, but the major themes and ideas recur sufficiently to allow penetration as the course proceeds. One or more papers of critical analysis.may be requested for the term. There will be a term: paper in addition to a final exam. Mr. Hunt is flexible in his demands and open to' suggestions from students, a reflection of his true concern for the students: However, he does at all times demand a close and studied reading of each text. Mr. Hunt desires that the class.spend as much as half of the time in discussion of the works, but in his own excitement often keeps lecturing. Few students would be insensitive enough to stop him once he's touched by the muse. Comment: I need not comment on the value of reading the different tragic poets together from a comparative standpoint. Mr. Hunt is well capable of exploring fully the basic idea of tragedy itself, both asa form of literary art and as a factor of human existence. Students who would appreciate a greater understanding of the tragic phenomenon itself will not be disappointed. As a teacher Mr. Hunt is thoroughly prepared with both background information and critical insights into the tragedies. He is possessed of a unique and contagious excitement for the material, as well as a deep concern for the student. Mr. Hunt is ,elatively new at Notre Dame, and his courses are bound to become popular among the students. He has the genuine ability to be a friend and teacher to those who have questions, and to have an open mind tor tho~ who think they have the· answers:· . .,. 

. ' 

cour~e evaluation 
Music 

Biondo . Music 101 Orchestra 
The· Notre Dame Symphonette will be organized next semester under the direction of Dr. Biondo. The program is open to all interested instrumentalists. An a~d!tion (for the purposes of seating) will be necessary. The group will meet one night each week. The orchestra will involve itself in a study of the symphonic literature for various periods. There will probably be a joint program with the Mixed Chorus some time during the semester. 
Maloney Music 111 Mixed Chorus 
This "course" is being offered for the first time next semester. It is being introduced on the basis of the response on the part of the Notre Dame Women to a music-department questionnaire·distributed this semester. It is open to all interested students (men and women) of the community at Notre Dame and membership will be determined by audition. Choral literature will oe presented in the context of performance preparation. The group will be involved in two programs: one with the Notre Dame Symphonette and the other in conjunction with the Elkhart Symphony Orchestra and the Mixed Chrous of IUSB. The chorus will meet once a week for aooroximately 1½ hours. 
Hager Music 214 Modern Trends 
Contents: This course will be offered for the first time next semester. Its purpose is to study the development of the music of the twentieth century, beginning with Debussy and the Impressionists. and continuing through a study of the theories which serve as the foundation for contemporary computer and microtonal music. The general literature of the "art music" of this period as well as specific composers will be examined in detail.. 
, Presentation: Primarily lecture and demonstration. Readings: Twentieth Century Music, An Introduction; by E. Salzman. Comment: There is a prerequisite for those who wish to enroll in this course. A 
student must demonstrate previous experience in the field of music, either a 
. preceding course in music appreciation or music literature, music theory, music history, or previous training for musical performance. Serious and critical examination of the contemporary developments of music is the specific purpose of this course; consequently, comparable listening skills must have been developed by the student iri order to adequately participate in this endeavor. Father Hager brings to this course a wide background in modern theory and compositional techniques. His familiarity with the field in itself indicates a valuable course. 
Cerny Music 251 Beethoven 
Content: This is a course offered for the first time next semester. In it, Mr. Cerny intends to present a general historical background of the development of seethoven---as man and as artist---in the context of which the growth of various specific musical genres (symphony, piano sonata, string quartet, etc.) may be traced. 
Organization: The organization of this course will, to a large extent, be determined by the number of students who enroll. Readings: The Life and Works 9f Beethoven, by J. Burk; and Sullivan's Beethoven: His Spiritual Development. 
Comment: There is a prerequisite for this course. Students wishing to enroll must be able to demonstrate some previous background in music (i.e., previous courses in music literati.Jre--appreciation, music theory, music history, etc.) It is a checkmarked course, and permission of Mr. Cerny must be received as a condition for enrollment. 
Mr. Cerny, new to the department of Music, has already demonstrated his capability in the field of, music history. A semester course involving a con­centrated study of the genius of Beethoven under his direction should be most enlightening. However, one thing is apparent: the nature of the material presented in the course will require more than just passing interest on the part of the student and will demand time and effort on his part. For those who are willing to aooly themselves, this course should prove most rewarding. 
nov. 27, 1972 
Leahy Music 243 History of Music 
Content: This section of Music History is designed primarily for the non­major, and its content is newly revised for this year. The material presented begins not with the ancient Greeks, butwith the late Baroque { Bach and Handel) and extends to the early modern period (Debussy and the Impressionists). In addition, the Classical (Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven) and Romantic periods will be discussed. The emphasis of the course is the establishment of an historical perspective of music in relation to the other arts. 
Presentation: The format of the course is a combination of listening to 

examples of music from the various periods, as well as lecture and discussion. 
Readings: \":hat texts Dr. Leahy plans to use for this section are not as yet 

known. 
Organization: There is usually some outside listening required as an addition -to the class material. A test on each period as itis finished. Whether these will be 
in-class tests or of the "take-home" variety will be determined by Dr. Leahy 
sometime later. There will be a final exam. • 
Comment: Originally this course was intended as a parallel to the section·for 

the music majors. However, because of its non-major emphasis, the develop­
ment of ancient and Renaissance music has been dropped. The development of 
music from the time of Bach and Handel is generally of greater immediate in­
terest to the average person. In addition, the study of early music can be 
somewhat difficult without an understanding of theory previously acquired. As it 
is, the course attempts to convey an understanding of music in the context of 
cultural and artistic development as a whole. Its analysis of music is rather 
more historical than a general music appreciation course. Dr. Leahy'_s com­
petence in this field has been repeatedly demonstrated. His knowledge and 
enthusiasm for music combine to create a very pleasant---and intense--­
atmosphere in which the study of music becomes something more than merely 
academic, but rather becomes a personal involvement of the interested student. 
The experience is well worth the time and effort required. 
Leahy Music 242 Music History 
Content: This section of Music History is the second part of a two-semester study of the evolution of music. Because it is intended to present a deeper analysis of the History of Music, this course is primarily designed for music majors, though non-majors with at least some background in music and who wish to explore the field in somewhat greater detail, may also take the course. The second semester will begin with a study of the late Baroque period ---the music of Bach and Handel ••. and continue through the modern period. 
Presentation: The format of this course has, in the past, been primarily a combination of lecture and listening. However, Dr. Leahy---who will have just returned from Europe---may make some changes in this general plan. 
Readings: The textbook for this course is A History of Western Music, by D.J. Grout. In addition there is usually recommended outside reading from related books, source materials from the periods under discussion, and an outside examination of. the music itself. 
Organization: Dr. Leahy's plans for tests and quizzes are as yet not known. There will probably be a test at the end of the study of each period of music. The tests are generally designed to make the factual knowledge presented in the class relevant and applicable to particular situations and examples. To show--­through the music itself---the historical development of music, is the basic purpose and goal of the course. In addition, either a term paper or performance project and a final exam will probably be required. 
Comment: This course provides the student with an intensive exposure to the development of music in Western civilization. The emphasis is always on the performance of the music itself---how it sounds to the listener---and not merely on what music theorists had to say about it. The study of how and why certain qualities of sound were developed and how they influenced later developments is the foundation for the course. Dr. Leahy is himself a noted music historian who brings to -the class a wide background in this field and an enthusiasm for the material which proves to be somewhat contagious. Those who have studied with Leahy in this area have found it to be sometimes demanding, but always enlightening and quite valuable as a musical experience. 
Pedtke Music 212 Classical Masters 
Content: This course is devoted to the history of musical development up to and including the Classical period, the emphasis being placed on the structural form of various compositions written in the period 1750-1850. Certain selected symphonies -from the works of Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and Brahms -are covered in some detail. The class attempts to provide the students Who have either a limited or no significant background in classical music -with the ideas, 

-the structures, styles and techniques which embody the music of this era. Presentation: The format of the course is basically lecture. The first two weeks of the semester are generally devoted to an el'.(planation of the basic principles of music, as well as a survey of music history leading up to the classical period. During the remainder of the semester, the various symphonies are discussed individually and played in class. Readings: There are no required readings for this course. Organization: There are three tests plus a final exam (emphasis on this last). The tests involve the playing of any given section of a particular symphony, which the student is expected to identify, as well as name the composer and answer certain other questions. There are a number of short identification quizzes given throughout the semester. The student is also required to turn in cs notebook at the end of the semester for evaluation. Comment: Mr. Pedtke does a commendable job of explaining the ideas behind, and the structures of, classical music in layman's terms. Little outside work is required of the student, although it is highly recommended that he prepare for the test by listening to the symphonies in the audio-center of the library. The student is not expected, and would not expect, to leave the course with a firm understanding of music theory. The course, however, provides enough comprehensible information about symphonic structure to give one an appreciative ear for classical music. 
Hager Music 215 ______________;;...
Meaning of Music 
Content: The material presented in this class has evolved over the years to become a highly integrated presentation. Father Hager presents materials from the historical development of the arts ih Western civilization as a means to relate music to its sister arts and thus to establish an aesthetic theory of music. He incorporates many of the thoughts of such intellectuals as Maritain, Langer, and Meyer. The forms and styles of music are examined in relation to its meaning. 

Organization: The material of this course is presented through a combination of lectures and demonstrations. As the bulk of the material presented is not derived from "required texts" regular class attendance is essential. The students are given the choice of a semester-project, a notebook, concert reports, or a combination of these. 
Readings: The Enjoyment of ·Music by Joseph Machlis is strongly ·recom­mended. 

Comment: Since his resignation as chairman of the Music Department, Father Hager has devoted much time to the refinement of the presentation of this course. In addition, the maximum number of students permitted to enroll has been significantly limited. Both these circumstances have combined to improve an already-valuable course. It is an inten!?ive class which · though designed for non-majors and has no prerequisite -has been valuable t~ ,those students who are interested,enouRh to devote some time and effort to the ,un­
derstanding of an csesthetic.,ofmusic. . . ' . ,. .. 
~ ~ • (. ' ~ •• ., -i; ....... 
32­
Maloney Music 213 Introduction to Opera 
Content: The emphasis of this course is on the operatic literature of the nineteenth century, with some study of its historical development from the Baroque period to modern times. Father Maloney attempts to provide the context in which opera, as the musico-dramatic genre, can be more significantly experienced by the average student. In addition, he seeks to convey a b~tter understanding of the human voice as the fundamental musical instrument. This he accomplishes through a comparative analysis of several interpretations of the same operatic work, in order that, at the conclusion of the semester, the student may be able to evaluate the performance, as well as the content, of a particular opera. It is an attempt to give an historical, as well as an artistic and critical, perspective of what can be expected in the world of opera. Although no particular musical background is required, at least a basic desire to discover the meaning of opera is assumed. 
Presentation: The major emphasis in the course is on listening. Lectures are­designed to.supplement the readings, as well as to stimulate and guide class discussion. 
Readings: There are tworequired texts for this course: Opera as Drama-·· a critical work by J. Kerman (this may be changed next semester); and Opera Themes and Plots ---a handbook of synopses by Rudolph Fellmen. 
Organization: The usual assignments for this course are the listening to and the criticism of one or two operas from a personal point of view, taking into account the historical, dramatic, musical and performance aspects of the work Cs). This is the bulk of the outside work required. In addition, much outside listening is suggested and encouraged with the intention of broadening and in­tensifying the understanding of the opera. The number of tests varies from semester to semester and are used primarily for the student to focus on his own exploration of the materials with which he has come into contact. This involves a familiarity with the readings and the lectures, but also allows for any knowledge or experience of opera which the student develops on his own. 
Comment: Opera is a part of the world of music ---and of drama---which is sometimes overlooked. Father Maloney, who is himself an accomplished singer, brings to the course an extensive personal background and a thorough un­derstanding of the literature of opera. Although the required workload is not particularly heavy, a student taking this course is expected to apply himself as much as possible to the exploration·of opera as a complete artistic genre. The entire presentation and organization of the course' is directed toward the in­dividual student response to the literaure of opera presented, and, ultimately, the value of the course and the intensity of the experience of opera is determined by the student himself. The material is presented thoroughly and in an effective combination for as complete an exposure to the literature of opera as an in­troductory course will allow. For those who are interested in this approach to a somewhat neglected artistic genre, and who are likewise willing to give of themselves in order to achieve this experience, the course ca.n be very rewar­dina and is recommended as such. 
Biondo Music 230 Fundamentals of Music 
Content: The course is a study of the most fundamental asp·ects of music theory. It is designed for non-majors who have little or no previous background in the field of music and who wish to approach the study of m_usic from the direction of basic theory rather than from music appreciation per se. The em­phasis is on the sunctional aspects of music (i.e., scales, shord structures, etc.). Dr. Biondb attempts to present to the interested student the important harmonic fornulae of music. Beginning with more contemporary "popular" styles of music generally familiar to the students, Dr. Biondo proceeds to familiarize the class with the aspects of music of a more "classical" variety. In this way, a greater understanding of the structure and operation of music may be derived. 
Presentation: The basic format of the course is lecture. Readings: There are no required.texts. The material of the class is presented from Dr. Biondo's own extensive material on the subj~ct. 
Organization: The structµral nucleus around which the course revolves is, of course, Dr. Biondo's lectures. These are as informative as they are informal. Each day the material presented in the prec~ding class is reviewed. There are three tests _given during the semester, for each of which there is more than adequate in-class review. Daily assignments are given in order to enable the student to focus on the material and 'to prepare ·him to apply the knowledge derived from the course to specific musical situations. 
Comment:. This ;'s an excellent course for people who have little previous familiarity with music and who would like a· greater understanding of its tec!'lniques and basic fornulae. The purpose of the.course is to foster a greater enjoyment of music through greater awareness of its operations. Dr. Biondo is a highly capable instructor wtfo has·mastered the materials of his field and is able to present them in this·c,ass in a most informative and enjoyable manner. The ever.-inc:reasing enrollment testifies to the success~nd enjoyment derived by the stuqep~~}rom _thi~ sours~;_,.;·. . , , ;: :. 
course evaluation 
.. '. 
Philosophy 
Fitzgerald Phil. 231 Philosophy of Man 
Content: This course hs been around a long time and will probably continue 
along standard lines this semester. Ethics and problems of human behavior 
constitute the subject matter of the course. Dr. Fitzgerald will combine 
historical readings with his own lectures in an effort to lead the student to a 
viable personal philosophy. The course will be divided in two sections: the first 
half draws heavily on contemporary sources and questions the need for and 
justification of moral systems, the second section deals with man's nature as 
interpreted by traditional thinkers. 
Presentation: It is clear that an elective of this sort depends primarily on the interests of those taking the course. Those seeking an elective to ~ill a requirement will find exactly as much in the course as they contribute to it. Keeping up with the reading and getting into class discussion will make the course an extremely interesting one. Dr. Fitzgerald has taught this course many times and can be expected to get to the issues involved with great facility. 
Readings: Selections from Russell, Ayer, Moore and Hare for the first half; Plato, Smart, Broad and Harding for the second. Organization: Two short papers, quizzes and a final. · Comments: Come with some interest in ethics and the course will be rewar­ding. . 
Sharkey Phil. 254 World Views 
Content: The purpose of this course is to introduce · the student to the philosophy of comprehensive world hypothesis. To do this Mr. Sharkey has decided to study the world views of seven philosophers or philosophical modes of thought which serve to represent four major periods of philosophy. The­Philosophers to be studied are Plato and Aristotle representing the Classical period,'The New Scientists (Galileo, Descartes and Newton) and Berkeley of the 17th and 18th centuries, Hegel and Kierkegaard of the 19th century, and A.N. Whitehead of the 20th century. The course attempts to compare and contrast these four different world views. studying the various reasons for their development and the effects that they have had and still do have on the world. In addition to the study of these hypotheses other basic issues such as the role of philosophy in the modern world and the relationship of philosophy to science and :>ther arts will be discussed. 
Presentation: The course will be given in two 75-minute periods a week. It is basically a lecture course with a good amount of emphasis on discussion. At least 3 whole periods will be devoted entirely to discussion. 
Readings: Plato, Timeaus (85 cents); Wheelwright, Aristotle (Sl.95); Burtt, 
The Metaphysical Foundations of Modern Science ($1.95); Berkeley, Three Dialogues (75 cents); Hegel, Reason in History (95 cents); Kierkegaard, Sickness unto Death and Fear and Trembling ($1.95); Whitehead, Science and ·the Modern World (Sl.95). 
Organization: Three short papers (no more than 3 pages) and a final exam will be required of the student. Each grade will count as ¼ of the final grade. The final will probably be a take-home. The papers will be due at the end of discussion of a particular period and are thus spread out pretty evenly through the course. \ 
Comments: Mr. Sharkey succeeds in providing the student with a good in­troductory study in cosmology. He has a very good grasp of the material and is able to present it to the class in a way that presumes no prior experience with philosophical study. Because the course extends from Plato into the present it gives the student a good idea of how philosophical thought develops and changes and also helps the student see how philosophy can relate to and affect the world in different historical periods.;. 
Mr. Sharkey is a good lecturer and makes the class as interesting and as easy to follow as possible. He encourages questions and discussions and goes to great lengths to make sure that he is being understood. It is unfortunate that the course meets twice a week f.or 75 minutes as Mr. Sharkey himself will admit. It can becorne tiring. But the enthusiasm and energy that he puts into his lectures and also the discussions help alleviate that problem. Anyone who is the least bit interested in what he is saying. should not have too much trouble with the 75. 111inut_e periods. 
The reading load is not heavy and the selections are good, although some might prove a·bit heavy for a student unacquainted with philosophy. The lec­tures reinforcethe readings very well. The papers are not very difficult, and Mr. Sharkey is a fair grader. There is a lot to be gained from this course. A student 
I ­

.'iov. 27, 1972' · 
who is interested and willing to piJt a littTe effort into it can gain some very good insights into the questions and arguments that can arise around philosophy and the effects that these can have on t~e world. 
Evans Phil. 275 Basic Concepts of Politi!=al Philosophy 
Content: Basic questions about man in society are covered in this introductory course. Mr. Evans tries to tie "eternal" questions about the nature of the state, the individual and the community, and the problem of authority with more everyday questions concerning leisure in society and problems such as capital 
punishment. Presentation: Mr. Evans is an entertaining lecturer who tends to repeat hi~ points until they are crystal clear. One certainly comes out of the course with a good knowledge of the essentials covered and discussed. Readings: Plato, Aristotle, Saint-Exupery, Pieper, Maritain, Simon, Maciver, Huxley, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Popes John and Paul. While the readings cover a wide spectrum of interest, they are not overwhelming, nor do they presuppose any previous work in political philosophy. Organization: Three "area" exam·inations and a final. Mr. Evar.~ expects a stu_dent to be able to relate broad themes from one work with another. An ability to integrate concepts learned from one writer with those of a second writer is crucial 
Comments: The course and the teacher have been long-time favorites at Notre Dame. Those who can appreciate a man interested in discovering new surprises in every new event will enjoy the course. · 
Manier Phil. 281 Science and Human Values 
Content: The course will be a development of·general themes about different attitudes towards science. It will focus on such topics as utopian and anti-utopian images of science, and the politics of environmental quality. There will be II be sociological, historical, and philosophical approaches to science, showing ways that moral and political values help structure the scientific. The aim is to aid students in making informed moral judgments of their own aconcerning these problems. · 
Presentation: The course will be lecture and discussion, with approximately half the time devoted to each. 
oreadings: The course is divided into four sections with several readings in each out of which the student will chose one or two. Among the book mentioned are: N. Chomsky, American Power and the New Mandarins, Huxley, Orwell, 
B.F. Skinner, Kurt Yonnegut, Jr.; P. Ramsey, Fabricated Man; Dubos Ward, Only One Earth; Ehrlich, Population--Resources-Environment; J. Haberms, Toward a Rational Society. 
Organization: Two ten-page papers. Topics developing any of the above themes or on issues of the sort developed in G. Hardin's Scientific American Reader: Science, Conflict & Society. One examination reviewing work of the 
semester. 
Kung Phil. 284 Contemporary Philosophy 
Content: This course deals with the development of twentieth century thought. The areas of philosophy to be covered will be phenomenology, existentialism, and analytic philosophy. Rather than a technical investigation of these studies the course will present more of an overview of them, with the student getting a picture of the whole realm of thought. The two philosophers who will be covered more than others are Sartre and Russell, although others will be mentioned from time to time in connection with certain topics. 
Presentation: Texts of the lectures will cover topics from textbook readings. Much material in Dr. Kung's lectures covers topics not in the readings, or adds to the readings, so class attendance is important. . Readings: Contemporary European Philosophy by Bochenski, Analytic Philosophy by Gross, and Being and Nothingness by Sartre. 
Organization: The student will have to write one large paper on one of the philosophers in the course. The student may choose the philosopher himself. There will be a final and, as of now, the status of a mid-term is doubtful. Most likely there will not be a mid-term. · 
Comment: This will be a new course for all practical purposes because Dr. Kung last taught contemporary philosophy nine years ago. Being a European scholar himself Dr. Kung offers insights into the thought of the philosophies taught that one might not get from another professor. This course is designed with non-majors in mind and would be well wortti the time for someone in­terested in philosophv but not majoring in it. 

McMullin Phil. 286 Ways of Knowing 
Content: Another name for this course may be comparative methodology_ 
Father McMullin is going to examine the method for discovery and explanation 
in basicly four disciplines. He will cover natural science, Mathematics, History, 
and Literary Criticism. He will also look at the historical development of the 
problem so that one may get a feel for methodology. The subject can get very 
hazy and uninteresting unless one is acquainted with the fields to a certain ex­
tent. Professor McMullin stresses the point that it should be a course mainly for 
seniors in arts and letters and science who are interested in the method of 
justification arid discovery in the different aspects of knowing. 
Presentation: This will depend on the students. Father McMullin does not like 
to lecture constantly and wishes to have his students ask questions and pose 
problems which might seem relevant to them. 
Readings: Father McMullin will distribute many dittoed articles. W.V.O. 
Quine's book, The Web of Belief, and various readings of Plato, Aristotle, 
Descartes, etc., will be required. 
Organization: :There will be a midterm and final and one large paper and 
possibly a class presentation of the paper. 
· Comment: Father McMullin is very much involved in his job as a teacher and 

expects the same out of his students. He doesn't believe that the work in the 
classroom should be ail one way. His lectures or thoughts for the day are very 
informal and seems at times to be rambling, but he always returns to the subject 

at hand. One problem seems to be his over-enthusiasm in natural science and 
some feel he spends too much time on it. Overall any course with Professor 
McMullin is genuinely academically stimulating. 
S. Brennan Phil 345 Existentialism 
Content: One could very well begin with the Socratic exhortation "Know 

Thyself." Existential philosophy presents a view of the human individual ac­
cepting himself through his freedom and responsibility, involving himself in 
human interrelationships, and appropriating God to himself. The emphasis is on 
the "existing" human individual rather than a theoretical one. Kierkegaard, 
Sarte, and Marcel are the principal existentialist ph!losophers studied. 
Presentation: The course is basically taught by lecture, but much time is 

devoted to discussion in class to clarify any difficult points. The two methods 
combined develop a solid and clear meaning of existentialsim for the student. 
Readings: The books to be read include: A Kierkegaard Anthology, ($2.95}, 

Sarte's Nausea (Sl.50) and Being and Nothingness (Sl.45}, and Marcel's The 
Philosophy of Existentialsim (Sl.75). Furthermore, in addition to Sarte's play 
No Exit, which is required reading but need not be purchased, another book on 
existentialism will be also read. Pertinent sections from each book will be 
assigned to give the reader a solid background on the subject matter. The 
reading load is light but difficult. 
Organization: Dr. Brennan has not decided whether to give 2-3 in-class exams or to substitute 2-3 six-page papers for the exams. The tests or papers will be equally weighed. A final comprehensive exam will be given with more emphasis placed on its grade value. 
Comment: The course and the professor are excellent. The reading material for this course is dense and at times difficult. Dr. Brennan lectures on the material with a confident command and mastery of existential philosophy that renders many difficult points clear, ludd, and manageable to the student. She possesses a vigor for teaching that makes the course presentation interesting and relevant. Discussions abound in class and it is not surprising if at times they take up 15-20 minutes of class time. They_are not, however, intended to "pass the time," but rather dwell on significant points in the form of reaal class discussion. Dr. Brennan keeps liberal hours for consultation and is sensitive to the needs of her students. In all seriousness, it would be rather difficult not to grade the course and Dr. Brennan with an "a." 
Mcinerny Phil. 347 Kierkegaard 
Content: This rather complex study will concentrate on Kierkegaard's "movement away from philosophy." Some time will be spent on Hegel and the philosophy of religion; and also on Kierkegaard's literature. Professor Mcinerny aims to place Kierkegaard in the 19th century in terms of his con­temporaries. 
Presentation: The course is basically lecture with questions encouraged especially in the discussion of the fragments and postscript. 
Readings: The readings will include The Philosophical Fragments and The concluding Unscientific Postscript, with the total cost around SS.00. There will also be a selected bibliogr:aphy and reserve books available. i 
Organization: As in his present course of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy, Professor Mclnerny,will give-the students guideline questions out of which a take-home exam will beformed to be handed in a week later: There will ,be,three or four such tests and no papers. 
comments: Professor Mcinerny is a highly knowledgable man, having had several books, including novels, published. The student will benefit greatly from ,1is diverse interests and wide field of knowledge. Meeting personally with him may aid in understanding his lectures. 

1Evans Phil 373 ,Philosophy of Maritain 
Content: The major topics for this course will be: The Nature of Philosophy; Notio11 of 'Christian Philosophy;' Different Ways of Knowing Reality; Ap­proaches to God; Notion of 'Integral Humanism;' Philosophy of Education; Social and Political Philosophy; Philosophy of History. 
Presentation: This course will be to a great extent 'Directed Readings' and 'Seminar in character{ 
Readings: The readings with possible slight variations will be: Introduction to Philosophy; On the Use of Philosophy; Education at the Crossroads; The Range of Reason; Art and Scholasticism and the Frontiers of Poetry; Creative Intuition in Art and Poetry; Existence and the Existent; Approaches to God; Integral Humanism; Man and the State; Philosophy of History. It will often be the case that only parts of these books will be required for the course but all of them are recommended in their entirety. All the books wili be available either· in the Reserve Book Room or in the Maritain Center.of the library. Not all of the books are available in the Bookstore as some of them are out of print, however, those available there are paperback and relatively inexpensive. 
Organization: There will be two exams and one paper. 

Comments: Professor Evans has an unparalleled knowledge of Jacques Maritain's work. All of the subjects mentioned above are covered quite thoroughly. Professor Evans is open to and encourages all questions both during the class and outside of class. He is most generous with his own time. The most attractive feature of the course is, perhaps, the feeling one gets that Professor, Evans is the living paradigm of philosopher and the material he presents. It is indeed a singular educational experience when one learns by such an example. 
Pahi Phil 359 Indian Philosophy 
Content: Mr Pahi deals with a wide spectrum of Indian thought and a good overview of the different Indian systems which is quite a task. The course deals with not only metaphysics, but delves into ethics and relition as well. Probably a more accurate name for the course might be Indian Systems of Thought, since there is no strict separation between the philosophical and religious that he covers. 
Depending on the time factor, Mr. Pahi will cover five or six different schools of thought. The order in which he covers them is not usually the same from semester to semester, but in the past he h·as broken it up into these main areas. The Upanishads and Vedas are very primitive primarily devotional and proverb like writings and give a good view of the beginnings of Indian Philosophy. Samkhya-Yoga is also a very early system, but this is highly metaphysical in character. The "Bhagavad Gita," the historic book of the savior Krishna, deals mainly with ethics and the threefold path to salvation. Another section of the course deals with the highly sensual and materialistic Carvaka system and gives a good antithesis to most of the other schools. Finally Mrs Pahi deals with Buddha and the schools which de_veloped after his death. 
Presentatioi:i: This is primarily a lecture course but Mr. Pahi is always willing to answer questions. He is concerned that everyone understand the abstract theories with which he deals. 
Readings: Radhakrishnan's, A Source Book In Indian Philosophy, is required as is Koller's, Oriental Philosophies. There is also much material kept on reserve for additional readings and research work. 
Organization: There will be a mid-term and a final, as well as two short papers, and one long paper or class presentation. Mr. Pahi is especially pleased if these presentations are done adequately. 
Comments: This course is well worth it especially for those who are philosophy or theology majors, or anyone interested in mysticism as such. This should not frighten anyone away who isn't interested in these areas however. Indian thought is very alive and interesting as is the instructor himself. There are few teachers at Notre Dame who enjoy their courses as much as Mr. Pahi° does and hence he can make it enjoyable for everyone. This is not to say that it is not a demanding course. The required readings are average for a three hundred level course, and extra readings are constantly suggested. T~ only drawback of the course may be that it seems to move too slowly at times for Mr. Pahi is very concerned that everyone understands what he is talking about, but generally the lectures_.are very good. 
Binkley Phil 379 Aesthetics 
Content: The course is intended to give the student various aesthetic philosophies and particularly the transition from art as beauty versus art as expression. Next semester's course will spend more time on the expressionist theories of twentieth century art rather than on the earlier aesthetic: ·theories. 
Presentation: A semi-formal lecture-style is presented two times a week while the other class period ·is one·aimed·at discussion with film projections of art works, movies and the like. Since the theories. are difficult to 1.mderstand, 
-\. ' 
course evaluatitm 

questions are readily encouraged in class. The teacher follows the readings quite closely in the lectures. 
Readings: The readings have not been selected yet. They will probably include those of Collingwood and other modern philosophers. Last semester's course used Philosophies of Art and Beauty -$10.95. 
Organization: Mr. Binkley's .format includes 3 or 4 in-class essay tests. The emphasis is on basic notions explained in the course and on the ability of the student to formulate his own answers to the major questions about the arts. A short paper may be done instead of taking a test. 
Comments: The aesthetic theories the course is intended to explain are somewhat difficult to understand. Mr. Binkley· succeeds in bringing home the concepts. His loose, open style of teaching is a bit slow in lecture periods, but is very conducive to the informative and satisfying weekly discussion period. 
Manier Phil 380 Evolution and Society in the 19th Cen­tury... 
Content: The course is an examination of the structure of Darwin's 

evolutionary concepts and their interaction with ideas in other fields (political 
economy, sociology and anthropology, literature, philosophy, and theology) and 
with concrete social circumstances, particularly the problem of poverty in 19th 
century England. According to Professor Manier, "I will pay particular at­
tention to th~ role of metaphor in scientific theory, particularly those which 
imply a king of personification of nature: e.g., natural selection, the struggle for 
existence, and design, and others more widely used in the natural sciences: law, 
causal determinism, and chance. 
Presentation: Probably the same as his Philosophy 281. 

Readings: There will be selections from Darwin's Origin of the Species and Descent of Man; T.R. Malthus, An Essay on the Principle of Population; Wm. Paley, Natural Theology; H. Spencer, Selections From the Principles of Sociology; Marx, K. and F. Engels, Selections on the Theories of T.R. Malthus; 
T.H. Huxley, Man's Place in Nature. 
Organization: One long research paper in two sections of 15 pages each, with 

suggestions for possible topics given. Also there will be one examination 
reviewing the work of the semester. 
Comments: As Professor Manier has just completed a sabbatical year with 

intense study of solutions to the problems presented by Darwin's theory, he will 
be a very adept teacher for the course. He is easy to talk to and concerned and 
sympathetic with the students. He is especially interested in getting students 
from other majors, e.g. social sciences, English, etc. He will investigate the 
relations between the various disciplines, and the studF!nts' papers may be 
written from the students own field of interest. A very worthwhile and enjoyable 
course. 
Weiher Phil 383 Concepts of Natural Science 
Content: This course, as Father Weiher plans it, will be introductory but not an introduction: Although it will not be a highly technical one, students from science and engineering departments should find it interesting and relevant. However, the course will appeal to anyone interested in the philosophy of natural science. Father Weiher believes that if you want to understand crucial concepts such as space, time and causality you must understand how they were derived. This does not mean the course will trace the history of natural science; instead it will be an epistemoligical account. Father Weiher also works on the presump­tion that science is not radically different from other human activities. Rather, it is a sort of specialized observing, perceiving and thinking, special in that it considers the technical ideas in science. The course should be an excellent discussion of these ideas. 
Presentation: The class will be a mixture of both lecture and discussion. The size and involvement of the class will determine how much time will be devoted to dis'cussion, although Father Weiher stresses its importance. 
Readings: Father Weiher hopes to use Conceptual Foundations of Modern Science by Marx Wartofsky as his only text. 
Organization: Father Weiher gets away from T-t.1re-False type tests preferring instead problem essays. There will be at least three such problems to be thought about and handed in as short papers (3-4 pages). The final exam will be essay. type and, if acaderyiic regulations permit, take-home. Exam and papers are counted equally in determining the final grade. 
Comments: Father Weiher has not taught this course for several years, but is eager to do so again, seeing it as a consequence to the course he is.teaching this semester. He is well versed and knowledgeable in the fields of science; the course should be rewarding to aspiring scientists and philosophers alike. 
Welu Phil 399A Phenomenation 
content: The course will evolve from the working definition of phenomenation as given by the professor: the act of inducing mental awe. From this base each student is expected to grow in the knowledge and practice of phenomenation ala Hegelian derivations in the twentieth century. 
Presentation: Phenomenation in lecture and discussion. 

nov. 27, 1972 
Readings: Carroll-Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass, Brautigan, In Watermelon Sugar; Vonnegut, Slaughterhouse Five; Thoreau, Walden; Rilke, The Lay of the Love and the Death of Cornet Christopher Rilke; Crevecouer. Letters from an American Farmer. Philosophical essays to go along with the literary works listed above will be distributed by the Professor. 
Organization: Ethereal. No papers or tests or quizzes. Students will be graded on in class phenomenation. 
Content: The class will be conducted in the tone of the "Jabberwocky" lost in the time free existence of Tralfamadore. Miss Welu is an expert in the field of phenomenation being both a practitioner and teacher of the art, and, while she is extremely demanding in her requirements, the course is quite enjoyable and highly worthwhile. 
Ludman Phil 400 History of Modern Philosophy 
Content: This majors' course is a standard history from Descartes to Kant 

with a fairly careful study of the substance of the material. The course aims to 1produce an insight into root, epistemological, and metaphysical problems of the modern period. Consequently, not too much time will be spent on proofs for the 
existence of God. 
Presentation: The course is-mainly lecture, with some discussion initiated by 

"very good, very intelligent" questions from the students. 
Readings: The readings will probably consist of the following: Descartes' Meditations, Locke's Inquiry, Berkley's Principles of Human Understanding, Leibniz's Course on Metaphysics, and Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. 
Organization: There will be no papers and three or four tests to be done in 

class. 
Comments: The student will undoubtedly find Dr. Ludman an interesting and 

highly stimulating professor. His lectures have an aura of intellectuality, which 
although at times may lead to confusion on the part of the not-so-serious student, 
is in the long run greatly beneficial. Dr. Ludman comments: "If you walk in off 
the street, you won't be happy with the course. It's a technical course with a 
focus on difficult metaphysical problems." 
,Loux Phil 424 Metaphysics 
Content: Professor Loux says that the point of the course is to give people an idea of basic metaphysical problems and how people have handled them. It should give the student ideas on how to handle these problems for himself. The course will be problem-oriented rather than doctrine-oriented. 
Presentation: Lecture interspersed with discussion. 

Readings: The readings include the following anthologies, focusing on a combination of classical and contemporary works. The Ontological Argument_ by Plantings, The Cosmological Argument by Burrell, Universals and Par­ticulars by Loux himself, The Free-will Problem by Enteman, and Individuals by Strawson. The texts run about Sl.75 apiece and there will also be zeroxed papers available. 
Organization: There will probably be four papers of three to five pages each as well as two exams. 
Comments: Professor Loux is a highly intelligent man and is well-liked by his students. The course should be well worth taking. According to Loux, the dif-· ferent metaphysical problems which shall be covered are as follows: 1) The mind-body' conflict; 2) Free will; 3) Nature of Time; 4) Universals; 5) In­dividuation; 6) The categories; and 7) God's existence. 
Sayre Phil 426 Theories of Knowledge 
Content: This course will study the development of epistemology, the theory of knowledge, from _the Pre-Socratics to Berkeley and Kant. Special attention will be paid to the Platonic dialogues, particularly the Theatetus and Sophist, and to the Critique of Pure Reason by Kant. 
Presentation: This is basically a lecture course. These lectures follow the readings closely and are intended to explain and supplement the text. Dr. Sayre is amenable to and encouraging of class discussion, but the success of this depends entirely on the class's willingness to respond. 
Readings: Required texts are: Cornford. Plato's Theory of Knowledge, Bobbs­Merrill, $2.25; Berkeley. Three Dialogues (Between Hylas and Philonius), Bobbs-Merrill, $.95; Kant. Critique of Pure Reason, St. Martin's, S4.50. All texts are in paperback. There are few if any handouts. 
Organization: Requirements are not quite settled. There will be at least one term paper and a final examination, with the possibility of one or two ,short papers. 
Comments: Dr. Sayre may well be one of the best lecturers in the Department of Philosophy, and he has some notable expertise in this field. The material is occasionally difficult, but Dr. Sayre is quite apt at the clarification of abstruse 
concepts. 
This opinion may well be a matter of taste. I have heard it expressed that Dr. Sayre, while an excellent seminar leader, is poorer and more boring as a lec­turer to a large class. It is in any event agreed that his tests, though tough, are fair and fairly graded. 
Burrell Phil 427 Philosophy of Reiigion 
Content: A discussion of key philosophical issues in man's response to th~ 

ontivation named "God." Aquinas will be studied as a classical baseline, and 
more contemporary questions posed against this background: verification, what 
difference does it all make?, meaning (diverse senses), metaphor and truth. 
This is a course of majors. 
Structure: Fr. Burrell does not have the "foggiest idea of what the hell the 

structure of the course will be." 
Comments: In spite of Fr. Burrell's indecision as to the form of the course, he 

said that rei;ld;ngs will consist of selections from the Summa Theologica, the 
Confessions of St. Augustine, and possibly McKinnon's Faith and Verification. 
As to written requirements, he requires one essay establishing the classical 
baseline, one criticizing a contemporary work as the subject, and a final. One of 
the strong points of this teacher is his ability to handle phi1osophical discussions 
(and all other sorts). He will be intense, while at the same time clear. However, 
students who are "green" in philosophy are advised to shop around thoroughly 
befpre deciding on this course. 
Pahi Phil 432 Intermediate Symbolic Logic 
Content: This is a continuation of a prior course in Symbolic Logic, Phil 431, and presupposes some material taught in the first course. Dr. Pahi intends, "To develop and study formalized Peano arithmetic as a formalized axiomatic theory, and to utilize these results for Recursive Function Theory and Elementary Theory of Numbers. In addition, to establish the foundationally important results of the G9del lndompleteness Theorem." 1 
The results of Rosser, and Church's Undecidability Theorems for Predicate Calculus and Piano Arithmetic are also covered. Presentation: This is a lecture course, the material does not lend itself to any other tormat. 
Readings: There are no required books. Readings are provided in a series of handouts prepared by Dr. Pahi, in longhand. These are quite valuable, providing a needed supplement to the lectures. They are the result of several years of careful revision aimed at maximum clarity and importance of the material covered. 
Psychology 
Organization: Requirements consist of one mid-term exam and one final, plus a number of take-home problems. There will be perhaps greater emphasis on these homework assignments than in previous years. 
Comments: This course deals with a rigorous system of mathematical logic, and moves at a fairly rapid pace. Those interested iri .taking should have a reasonably firm grounding in mathematics or formal logic or both. . 
The lectures are well-prepared, and the course is polished. One serious dif­ficulty is that Dr. Pahi is often teaching classes with widely va_rying backgrounds in mathematics. As a result, his lectures sometimes seem to range from over-explanation of the maddeningly trivial to confusingly fast coverage of the somewhat obscure. Dr. Pahi i? i)'lterested in making !he material as cleas as possible, and willing to explain in detail any point which is unclear. It is necessary, however, to make questions specific, so that he does not get sidetracked onto a topic already understood. 
Dr. Pahi is well-versed in·this area, and the course can be extremely helpful to students with the reouisite abilitv and interest. 
Kung Phil 444 Phenomonoiogy 
Content: The development of the phenomenological movement into what it entails in contemporary times. Although many philosophers will be brought in from time to time Husserl will be covered in depth. There will be no historical view as such, and, though the course will be for majors, non-majors are welcome. There are no pre-requisites for this course. 
Presentation: The presentation is mostly lecture. Questions are welcome from the students. ' Readings: Phenomenology and Existentialism by Solomon, Phenomenology and the Crisis of Philosophy by Husserl, and Phenomenology by Kockelmans. 
Organization: There will be no mid-term, but there definitely will be a final. The student will have to do a large paper which will be a concrete exercise in phenomenology according to the phenomenological method. 
Comment: Phenomenology is Dr. Kung's favorite subject so he will work hard to make it interesting. Do not let the word ','phenomenology" scare you ·out of taking the course because the subject is worth studying and is interesting, especially if you are a philosophy major. · · 
Ryan Psych 341 Statistical Exp~riments 
Content: This course is-required for all Psychology majors. It is aimed at 
oiving the student a working knowledge of statistics used in evaluating ex­
perimental data. The content of the course is highly mathematical. However, a 
large background in math isn't required and more emphasis is placed on theory 
tha~ actual calculation. ·' 
Presentation: The course consists of two lectures and one lab per week. The 

labs involve a review session and a quiz. In the class lectures Mrs. Ryan uses an 
overhead projector a great deal. Questions are welcome., 
Readings: Fundamental Statistics for Psychology by Robert McCall is the only text used in the course (SB.95). 
Organization: There are three exams given during the semester. These are 
not meant to be cumulative but, because of the type of material, they usually 
are. The weekly quizzes are meanfto prepare the studeht for the tests and are 
used to raise a student's grade. · 
Comments: Mrs. Ryan is avery good lecturer. She tries to illuminate·material 
that would otherwise be very confusing. She takes a personal interest in her 
students and is readily available for consultation. The·course.is for psychology 
majors only because of the difficulty of its material. 
Walter Psych 342 Experimental Psych II 
Content: This course is required for all psychology majors and irtroduces the student to the scientific methodology of psychology. It is divided into two sec­tions: the lecture, in which the emphasis is on design and understanding of. ex: periments in major areas of psychology and the lab in which the emphasis is on performing and writing up experiments. The aim of the course is·to give. the student an exposure to the field of experimental psychology,. through the 'in-. tegration of statistical methods·and research. .-• . . ..· . 
· Presentation: Although this is primarily a lecture.course, Or. Walterts 'style qives the classroom a relaxed atmosphere, which partially makes ·up for the difficulty of the subject m~tter. · · · • · · 
Readings: The text used was Exp~rimental Psychology by Andreas. Besides the text there was a number of outside readings from various other sources. Dr. Walter has stated that the Andreas book will probably not be used in the future. 
Organization: The lecture grade is determined by two in class tests and a final exam. The lab grade is determined by three lab write-ups ar:id one test. 
Comments: Dr. Walter was asked to teach this course about two weeks before school started and as a.consequence was still organizing through the first few weeks of school. This resulted in the tact that many of the students had a tiard time putting the lectures into any sort of perspective. As the course has progressed so has the organization and so these complaints t,ave faded. 0ne of Dr. Walter's greatest assets is his availabi!ity.-With a little effort the student is able to talk with Dr. Walter (not always seriously} about psychology. 
Naus Psych 352 Intro to Social Psychology 
Content: This c~urse is designed to provide the student with an overview of the type of problems investigated by social psychologists, the conceptual tools and methodology of social psychology and "to help the student further develop his ow11 thinking about man's social behavior." · · 
Presentation: The format of the course will be a combination of lectures and small group discussions. The first class period of each week will consist_ of an introduction to a given problem area by the instructor. The second class period will involve discussions in small groups about core topics derived from ,the problem area or about sei,n~ relevant.empirical studies. The third class period will be devoted-to a sharing of the reprints prepared by each small group and to rnmm·entary by the instructor. 
-Organization: The course requirements will consist of tests, a paper and some r'esearch which will.be discussed with the students who enroll. .__ Readings: Two texts will be used ·in the c~urse: E.E. Sampson's Social Psychology and Contemporary Society and. Penner ·and Dertkes' Social . Psychology--The. Student'Reader. ..'· 
· Comments: The course promises to be a great·deal of work but will provide an cxcellent·overview-of social·:psychology for-the-interested student. Dr. Naus' lectures are always lively and.the format for·group discussion provides an at~ mosphere in which students can exchange ideas'and;• in effect, t~ach each other. 
,course ev.aluation 

This c~urse is strongly recommended for those students interested in sociology or social psychology. 
Anderson Psych 354 Abnorma I Psych 
Con_t~nt: Dr. Anderson has said that the approach to this course will be quite atrad,t,onal. Probably the course should be retitled as "Anderson's course in Relativity." Dr. Anderson will begin by defining what constitutes "abnormal" behavior. His definition (sl will set the tone of the course for the greater portion of-the semester. The course examines the various approaches to abnormal psychology ranging from the medical, psychoanalytic and existential to the learning and animal models of human psychopathology. Definitions and theories of anxiety anywhere between the pure phenomenological position of lierkegaard to the a theoretical position of Skinner are discussed along with a consideration of various neuroses, including phobias and psychosomatic disorders. Probably some of Dr. Anderson's more favorite topics such as the research he conducts in his lab, masochism, and the sexual behavior of Notre Dame students may also be discussed. 
Presentation: Dr. Anderson's lectures could roughly be characterized as highly energetic and interesting. Few students cut his class. His lectures are well prepared and organized. However, when the occasion arises, he will digress to a wide variety of personal experiences and anecdotes·which usually are quite humorous. Dr. Anderson is well versed in the field, and usually presents a s~imulating and challenging class. He is open to question and opposing points of view-In fact, he offers any student the opportunity to debate, or refute, any of his studies or interpretations with the result, if successful, being an "A" in the course. The atmosphere of the class is relaxed, yet academically rigorous. You may even get invited to go sailing with him sometime in the spring. 
Readings: No definite text has been selected. Suinn's Fundamentals of Behavior Pathology which was last spring's text will be dropped. Possibly a series ~f paperbacks and outside readings on reserve will serve as the text. The student should take extensive class notes. 
Organization: Two or three multiple-choice tests of approximately sixty-five questions. The tests are designed to see what you know and how well you ~an apply your knowledge. The questions are ambiguous, but fair. To do well on Dr. Anderson's tests requires some hard-core studying. Grades are tabulated so that the highest mark equals one-hundred percent. It is possible through this method, though improbable, that everyone in the.class could get ari "A" if the scores of C'veryone are very tightly distributed. Emphasis should be placed on the class 1;otes, and asking for a review session should improve your performance. 
Comments: This course is recommended to all psych majors as one of the better courses in the department, and also because in many cases, as completion of a requirement for graduate school. It is open to anyone, but psych majors and 
.pre-med students are usually in abundance. Either you will love him or you will hate him, but it is guaranteed that Dr. Anderson will intrigue you and challenge your conceptions of yourself and the world around you. 
Farrow Psych 356 Psychological Testing 
Content: The course offers a thorough survey and practical application of basic testing principles-including development, standardization, ad­ministration, scoring and evaluation of psychological testing, particularly I.Q. and personality testing. 
Presentation: The first half is devoted to the "theory" of psych·ological testing--comprised by the lectures of Dr. Farrow and readings in the text. The second half of the course provides practical application of the principles covered earlier in the semester, including administration, scoring, and evaluation of intelligence tests and personality inventories. · 
_Readings: Although not definite yet, ttie text wil most likely be the third edition of Psychological Testing by Anne Anastasi. · Organization: Grades will be determined on the basis of a midterm exam, a 
· major ·paper, four shorter evaluative reports on tests administered by the students, and overall class performance. The major paper requires an outline of the development of a test of any psychological attribute which the student chooses. · 
Comments: Although not a strict requirement, students should have an adequate background in social science statistics and experimental psychology. 
A.-Sid Binhocher Psych 369 Psychology of LSD.... 
Content: The course deals with a serious control regulated inquiry into the psychic mainifestations of disturbances in subject bipeds with a large cranial capacity due to induced affect of.a known hallucinogen referred to.as LSD. Emphasis will be placed upon factor and statistical analysis of the unknown parameters tangential to the central theme of reinforcement of the known variations of the psychical processes subject to the etfect of the compound. These variations will be ascertained by repetitive induction into the organism of the necessary patterns of assimilative behavioral processes of .the afore­mentioned·compounds through non-aversive conditioning to be administered in the referential environment of controlled conditions that will be constructed and 
_manipulated by the professor and the students in order to make for more con­
nov. 27, ·1972 
sistent data tabulations excepting possible interruptions necessitated by the 
pressure exerted upon the organism by certain bodily processes. 
Presentation: Prof. Binhocker believes that a medium must be struck bet­

ween strict empiricism and introspection. As a result he has struck open the 
method of empirical revelation of first hand introspective experiences. He 
believes that in this manner both he and the student can study and experience 
the phenomenon consisting of the subject of the course. 
Organization: According to Dr. Binhocker, the majority of the course will 

consist of labs. He believes that here there is no substitute for first hand ex­
perience of the phenomena. The Jabs will be held in t~e Professor's house in the 
evening and may often run late. There will also be lectures and discussions with 
Mr. Binhocker discussing with the students in the discussions and Mr. 
Binhocker lecturing to the students in the lectures. Students are known to oc­
cassionally take over the lecture since they quickly develop a facility at it equal 
to that of the Prof. 
Readings: The readings will be first rate material. They will include Electric 

Kool Aid Acid Test; Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes by Mother Goose; The cat in 
the Hat by the Cat in the Hat; Poetry by Allen Ginsberg; and of course lots of 
B.F. Skinner. 
Comments: Dr. Binhocker wanted to call this course "Trips to the Frontier of Knowledge." This is one of the few courses offered on the campus that can be guaranteed to change your life. Some have been so changed by it that they have no further need of education and have dropped out. There is one objection that this course impairs the mental facilities for other subjects: Having taken this 
.course myself I can gyf ytl SITLU ti no impairment of mental functioning, ieutal gri fach mia,;&½+! !Sin addition. ~e!--ewqi opxne.d., dndkeidk insights into the mysticalsri yri bri cripatendi that is fine experience sepackakakc+ Cloer 3-'! ! ! and recommend !&¾+Spil highly &½lasr op cata the course. 
Giantonio Psych 474 Topics in Human Sexuality 
Content: The course is based on the assumption that the student's knowledge of sex ans sexuality is minimal, even if the student is experienced. Mr. Giantonio feels that the sexually active individual is not necessarily the sexually knowledgeable individual. Great stress in the course i-s put upon the biological and psycho-physical development. contraceptive technique and venereal disease, and the human sexual response. Other topics include homosexuality, sexual dysfunction, pornography, deviancy, feminism, and the future of sex. 
Presentation: Class meetings are divided between lectures and discussion 9roups. The lectures are not so rigidly structured so that only pure facts are presented. Instead, Mr. Giantonio puts a great deal of emphasis on active • dialogue among the class, invited guests, and himself. It is his desire to expose what the students think about sex and to foster· the exchange of these ideas. Because the class will be large next semester (150), discussion groups will also be implemented. The discussion groups will take up between one-quarter and one-half of the semester. Approximately ten students will be in each group with two trained discussion leaders, one from St. Mary's and one from Notre Dame. The purpose of the smal groups is to avoid the problems which a large group poses when a discussion ensues. These are: (1) the class can become an endless bull session due to the volume of various opinions, and (2) people are more like!y to be inhibited in larger groups and reluctant to speak out. The small groups are not intended to besexual encounter groups. The success of these groups is wholly dependent on the student's participation in relevant discussion. 
Readings: The texts are Human Sexuality by James Mccary and the Student Guide to Sex on Campus. A few mimeographed handouts are also used. Organization: Grading is based on individual performance on a project in the small groups and possibly a quiz covering lecture material. 
Comments: Mr. Giantonio recognizes the importance of dialogue within such a course. He also emphasizes the importance of the individual dealing with matters of human sexuality in an honest manner. TMe lectures and presentation are intended tc be thought provoking and a challenge to the individual. Mr. Giantonio desires feedback from the students in order to facilitate the proper coverage of the subject matter, for he is the first to admit his knowledge of the subject is not all inclusive. The male-female ratio is kept as low as possible to prevent-the discussions from being totally one-sided. The course on the whole can be interesting and informative to those individuals who make the effort to participate. 
Whitman Psych 487 Mental Retardation 
Content: The basic format will involve lecture and discussion. Several guest speakers working in the area of mental retardation will be scheduled. Topics to be covered will include: An overview of the history, research, etiology, training (treatment), prevention strategies, and current perspectives in mental retar­dation. The following books (required) will provide the student with a general overview: 0The Mentally Retarded Child (~obinson & Robinson) and New 
Directions in Special Education (Jones). 
Organization: Two one-hour long tests plus several short quizzes. In addition, an in-depth paper examining a special topic in mental retardation or in­volvement in a clinical (educational) program with retarded children will be 
required. 
Comments: This course is open to advanced psychology students and in special instances, to nonmaiors. In both· cases, permission of the instructor is required. Enrollment will be limited to a maximum of 25 students. Students not genuinely interested in mental retardation will be discouraged from coming into the course. . 
D~wson Psych 540 Advanced Perception-Cognition 
Content: This course for senior and graduate student is modeled after-Dr. Dawson's graduate course Cognitive Processes. The format will be that of a seminar with emphasis on the readings from the two required texts and on in­class reports. The topics covered will include: cognitive processes, perceptual processes. "thinking," problem solving, cognition and the computer, language, and concept formation. Dr. Dawson will.integrate a perceptual and a /earning point of view from the two required texts. 
Organization: The grade will be based on three (3) non-cumulative exams which will each be worth 25 percent of the grade. The last 25 percent will be based on class participation and on short (10-15 minute) reports presented to the class. The exams will probably be identification or definitions and essays. 
Readings: Ulrich Neisser, Cognitive Psychology; Bourne Jr., B. Ekstrand, and R. Dom~owski, The Psychology of Thinking. 
So~iology-Anthropology 
McDonough Psych Practicum in Testing 

Practicum in Testing is a course in which students are taught to administer, score, and interpret IQ tests. The Wechsler. Adult and the Stanford-Binet In­telligence Sclares are the two tests studied in depth. Administration methods, the issues involved in IQ testing, as well as the theory behind testing are covered. Students this semester are required to give fifteen individual IQ tests and write up psychological evaluations, as if they were working in a clinic. Testing of adults as well as children is required. 
There is no text, but books relating to the course are put on reserve in the library for the students' reference, and various handouts of mimeographed material are given. Hypothetical psychological evaluations are presented in class. which the student is to criticize. 
The mid-term consists of taping a session in which the IQ test is administered. The final is tentatively scheduled to have Dr. McDonough sit in while an IQ test is given by the student. 
Dr. McDonough shows genuine interest in his students, although at times the classes become a bit tedious. However. next semester this course will be offered for on1y·2 credits (instead of 3) which should alleviate this problem. 
Survey of the present class shows that the students find the course interesting and valuable, probably due to the small number of students in the class and the fact that practical experience rather than theory is studied. 
Rubel Anthro. 228 Intro to Anthro.. 
Content: In addition to being an introductive course in anthropology, the 

course will carry an underlying theme of comparative religions, and how 
religion is a product of a culture. He will compare different peoples and dif­
ferent societies and how those differences have come about with emphasis on 
ritual and jagic as well as religion. 
Presentation: The course is basically lecture, but the students are always 

welcome to view their comments. 
ReaC:ings: The books include: Lessa and Vogt A Reading in Comparative 

Religions, Redfield The PrimitiveWorld and Its Transformations, and old world 
archaeology from Scientific American. 
Organization: Tests are challenging but most fair ifall the material has been 

given a thorough going over. He has been known to limit them to just a midterm 
and a final. 
Comments: Introduction courses can at times be so comprehensive they end , 

up covering little. Therefore, although covering from the primitive world to the 
present, this course should contain a certain'continuity if the underlying theme 
of religion and rituals is kept. It sounds like an interesting approach as an in-. 
troduction to an interesting and upcoming field ofstudy. 
Press Anthro 432 Physical Anthropology . . 
Content: This course is designed to provide the student with a thorough un­derstanding of the aspects of man's biological being. 'Fossil man' will be discusse<! and the morphological changes that he undergoes to his present day stature; modern man. The importanttopics to be covered will be concerned with providing an understanding ofthe biological basisof man's ability to use culture, the evolution.,,of this ability, its present development, and its future. .-: 
Presentation: Well prepared legure-discussfon~~oriente<h• Also~ine or two ; · movies will supplement the lectures. ,-,---·:. -~•t! ":\•w::• :· ·, ~-; ::. 
Readings: Text is yet undecided and several special readings will be assigned or handed out. Organization: There will be one or two one-hour exams, a final, and a 4-6 page research paper on a topic which will be assigned. Comments: Mr. Press' lectures are well prepared and organized. He welcomes all questions and discussion. He feels he is obligated to present more 1 than just what the text does and he is well prepared to do so. 
Rubel, Samora Anthro 436 Chicanos in the U.S. 
Content: This course attempts to understand social, economic, and politica positionsof Mexican Americans in the U.S. society, and how and why they are sc characterized. Concepts such as: discrimination, segregation, healtt problems, failures of schools, and legal and illegal immigration· will be discussed. 
Presentation: The course is team taught by Rubel from Anthropology and Samora from Sociology. From 45-S0minutesofthe class will be lecture from the two profs in the room for each class. The remaining 25 minutes will be spent in seminar-type discussion. 
Readings: Although riot specified at this writing, the readings will deal with social science and history. Organizati~n: Number ofthe tests isnot yet known. The important part of the course will be class participation responding to the lectures. 
Comments: The fact that both men are leaders in their respective fields on peasant societies, should make this course a rough one to pass up. The fact that it is being attacked from two different points of view, should offer an in depth and interesting insight intooneof America's minority groups. ­
Moore 438 People of the Mediterranean 
Con,ent: T'1is_ is an anthropological seminar dealing with the Mediterranean as~-cul_tur~ ~r.E;a:. ~mij~asis ~ill .be plac~.o~ in~lvi~ual research assignments. Comment: This will be a seminar type course in which the individual's own· 
,

,,,•• .... ~#,# .. --1,_,..... , ...,;.0,.,.,. ~· ··-, ... 
work-is essential.'Mr. Motile tias never ta·ught-this course before out he has a s'pecialinterest'in.-hisari4a wiiith"'shouict maketh~ccilirse stimulating:· 
IJ.,,~2'!"::f)-,t,,~:;!;••! •int~~_: 'E".,"lf Jt' t~}_':' '.!~'~! !)\.:,•: •I~,-,_,, 
course ~~·a_luation 
:... \. . 
Moore Anthro 460 Culture Change.. 
content: Covers the major theoretical contributions to the study of culture change. Readings cover a variety of culture change monographs, but American Indian studies will be emphasized. . 
Organization: This is a lecture and discussion course with reading assign­ments that are representative of 400 courses. Grades are determined primarily by a take-home mid-term, a paper and a final. 
comment: Mr. Moore is a competent and interesting lecturer who allows ample time for the discussion of the material. He is able to bring potentially dry material into a relevance becauseof his enthusiasm and interest for the subject. 
Bellis Anthro 465 People of Africa .. 
Content: This course is intended to be an introductory survey of Sub-Saharan African peoples and their cultures. The course is divided into two parts. The first part of the course_is a study of the physical geography, history, and general cultural patterns found in Sub-Saharan Africa. This is the framework upon which the second half of the course is based. The second half of the course is geared to the study of specific tribes or cultural groups. All geographic and cultural areas of Sub-Saharan Africa are covered. 
Presentation: The course is basically a lecture course, however ample time is given for discussion and questions. There is ample time given to complete thP. reading assignmets. 
Readings: There are two text books used in the course. Both are interesting and easy to read. The first book, Africa and Africans by Paul Bohanna and Philip Curtain, provides an introduciton to Sub-Saharan African history, geography, and general cultural patterns. The second book, Peoples of Africa edited by James Gibbs, is a collection of short ethnographys. A small amount of reading in the reserved reading room ·is also required. 
Organization: The grade in the course is based on mid-term and final exams ahd a 10-20 page paper. The exams are essay type. 
comments: Professor Bellis is a very interesting lecturer and is usually willing to clarify a point that is not understood. He often relates his own ex­periepces in Africa as a supplement to course material. 
O'Neil Anthro 472 Socialization in Cross Hyphen Cultural Perspective.. 
content: Prof. O'Neil is offering this course for the first time this spring. Essentially, its purpose will be to pick up Where last year's Culture and Per­sonality course left off. The differing manners of socialization in terms of personality will be examined as will various theories of social learning and the process of enculturation. All of these will be studied as they are manifested in 
different cultures. 
Presentation: Prof. O'Neil plans to gear the course primarily towards 
discussion. Emphasis will be placed upon student-initiated discusssion and a 
seminar format-is likely to evolve. Lectures will also be presented usually to 
introduce or illuminate upon the assigned readings. 
Readings: As Prof. O'Neil feels that no truly adequate textbook has bee~ written regarding this aspect of anthropology virtually all readings will be in the Reserve Book Room. There is a possibility that a source book in socialization will be assigned but as of now no such book has been selected. 
Organization: The student will be expected to prepare at least one major paper and the prospect of one or two shorter ones is not remote. The findings of the major paper may be elucidated orally before the class. The topic of this paper is of the students own choosing with aid available from Prof. O'Neil. Also, at least one in class test is to be expected. 
comment: · Prof.·O'Nell's extensive knowledge of psychology as well as an­thropology -m·akes for a fascinating look at how one's culture ef~_ects his per­sonality a~i vice versa. The opinion of anthropology majors regarding his previous couse was that it was one of the best courses offered.by the department and there is 'no reason to believe that this course will be any less successful. 

nov. 27, 1972 
Virginia T. Rosebud Soc. 400K Virginif} and Frigidity 
Content: The course will attempt to explore the relation between the effect of 
chastity and frigidity and the inter-personal, intra-penetrable inter-relationship 
between the socio-cultural cause of and the realities of thecontemporary 
phenomena of virginity. 
Professor Rosebud hopes to achieve with the class a rationale for this state in 
contemporary society. She will cite several points for and against the 
proposition of virginity in the modern society. 
Presentation: The course will be all lecture. 
Readings: Mailer, The Prisoner of Sex, Green, Ther, The Female Eunuch, H. 
N. Smith, Virgin Land, J., The Sensuous Woman, and Bullfinch's Mythology. Organization: The papers will be short.and three in number. There will be no mid-term and the final will consist of one introspective essay question. 
Comment: Ms. Rosebud is well acquainted with this topic. She is visiting for one semester only and this course will have unlimited enrollment after a fashion. Only girls will be admitted. 

Dodge Soc. 410 Juvena I Delinquency.. 
Content: The course will examine the nature and characteristics of 
delinquency. This includes an analysis of the causative factors involved, 
evaluations9f the legal aspects of delinquency, and the methods of control and 
prevention. The major topics covered are the questions of what is juvenile 
delinquency; how is it distributed in society and why this pattern of distribution. 
Etiological approaches and theories of delinquency are covered. 
Presentation: Professor Dodge's courses are lectureorientated, but questions 
are welcomed as Professor Dodge feels a great need for the student to un­
derstand the material presented. 
Readings: H. Voss' Society, Delinquency and Delinquent Behavior is the only 
required book, but there may be reading assignments from the reserved book 
room. 
Organization: There will be two three midterm examinations and a final plus 
a possibility of a paper depending upon the size of the class. 
Comment: Astudent wishing to take this course should be prepared not just to 
learn about juvenile delinqency, but to master the subject. Professor Dodge's 
lectures are fast-moving and demanding, as are his tests. The student must be 
able to come to an understanding and realization of the material on h,s own, as 
Professor Dodge believes that in this way the student truly learns the subject 
matter. 
Barrett Sociology 419 World Urbanism 
Content: World Urbanism provides for a comprehensive study of world cities. A balance of a solid review of 30 classics in the field of urbanism and con­centrated study on a city of each student's choosing yields not only a good theoretical background in urban planning and problems but also much practical information on any city you choose. 
Pr.esentation: Professor Barrett reflects a great knowledge of the subject in his highly succinct if not often critical treatment of the books he chooses to review. Discussion and comments are usually welcomed but you better be ready to defend your view as Professor Barrett lets you get away with little. 
Organizaiton: A final presentation of research and analysis on your city along with a written report on it in the form of a final paper are reqllired. The presentrations often develop into informative discussions as people from or with a special interest in your city areoften invited to attend. 
Comments: Professor has some very different and fascinatirig views on the philosophy of education. His approach is a refreshing change from the common routine of study. However, the point which makes the course succeed is his individual interest and enthusiasm for each student's work. 
Noell Soc. 430 Complex Organizations 
Content: The goal of this course, which is being offered by Professor Noell for the first time, is to make the student familiar with the different ways in which sociologists have approached social organizations. The course is intended to offer a broad perspective into the structural aspects of complex organizations. Both the traditional and more modern approaches to the sociology of organizations will be explored. Professor Noell feels that an introductory sociology course would be helpful to students ta.king his course but adds that this is not necessary. 
Presentation: This course will combine some basic lecturing with strongly encouraged class discussion. In addition to this, the size of the class permitting, Professor Noell has in mind a class project whereby the students will conduct some actual case studies of their own outside of the classroom. 
Readings: The texts which will be required have not as yet been definitely decided upon. In all probability there will be required three sociological an­

David Dod~e•s philosophy of teaching is "not to teach". What he means by this is that his job in teaching is to provide to the student a guideline Which a student may use to come to his awareness of the subject. Professor Dodge believes that one can only truly learn what he experiences. He says, "if I have to tell you What it is, you don't know What it is". He wants to make his course to go through the stude_nt, not the student just to go through the course. He wants the student, When finished with his course, to experience a feeling of mastery over the material. He hopes that the student will use the experience gained from the course throughout his life. Professor Dodge hopes to relate to his students something lasting, the feeling that man is alone and vulnerable but that this situation can be coped with by a continuous striving to master the self and the world one step at a time. 
thologies and perhaps several short monographs in addition to these. 
Organization: There will definitely be at least two exams; one mid-term and a 

final. A paper will also be required. This paper will most likely concern the class 
project, if such a project has been possible. 
Sasoki Soc. 433 Socia I Psychiatry 
Content: Prof. Sasaki plans to take a sociological and cultural approach to this course. Complete pl.ans for the course have not bee~ made out yet, but a general idea of subjects to be covered has been forrl!ulat~d. The subjects will include: (l} Psychiatry: Its diagnoses and techniques; (2) Deviant bel)avior and mental illness; (3) Social Epidemiology of mental illness; (4) The patient career--prepatient phase; (5) The patient career--in-patient phase; (6) The patient career--post-patient phase; and (7) Cross-cultural psychiatry. 
Prerequisites for this course are either Soc. 111, some introductory course, or Sociological anaysis. 
Presentation: This course will be less lecture and more discussion. There is a possibility of student presentations because Prof. Sasaki feels that in this way the students will keep abreast of the readings and he anHcipates a small class to enable this. 
Readings: The texts for this course are Silverstein, Harry (ed.) The Social Control of Mental Illness New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1968; and Spitzer, Stephen P. and Denzin, Norman I. (eds.) The Mental Patient: Studies in the Social Deviance New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1968. Also, another book, probably a current paperback, may be required. A. couple of films may be shown during the semester. 
Organization: There will be quizzes and exams for this course, no papers or projects. There will be four exams and one final, each counting the same; the final will be non-cumulative. 
Comments: Prof. Sasaki is a well qualified and knowledgeable teacher. His lectures are sometimes a little unorganized; but he keeps them interesting with personal experiences. Prof. Sasaki is aware ofstudents' problems and is always available and willing to help. 
Fink Soc. 470 Character and Social Structure in the 
U.S•.. 
Content: Being taught by Professor Fink for the first time, this course will be concerned with the relationship between social structure and in_dividual per­sonality. In investigating this relationship, the course will examine the socialization settings of adults and children (e.g. family, school, and oc­cupation), and the relevance of certain social psychological theories such as role theory and psychoanalytic theory. Also the course will examine how socia! change causes personality changes and vice-a-versa. A background in social psychology will be helpful, but not necessary. To take the course, one must be a Sociology or Anthropology major or have the consent of Professor Fink. 
Presentation: Professor Fink intends the course to be a mixture between lecture and discussion, depending upon the sizeof the class. 
Readings: The readi°ng material has not been decided at this time, but im­portant references to be used include: Smelser and Smel~er, Personality and Social Systems. Lindsey and Aronson ( eds,), Handbook of Social Psychology 
Organization: Professor Fink likes to decide with the students of the class the structural aspects of the course, such as exams and papers. But there will probably be a research project and a final exam. , 
Comment: Professor. Fink has a vast amount of knowledge concerning theories and current -~es~arch· in-social psychology. This knowledge, plus an endless enthusiasm for the subject, is presented to the student through adequate 
but at times confusing lectures. The students in Professor Fink's courses are ' given a very free and active role in determining the direction and success of the course. 
Robel Anthro ·473 Health, Culture and Society 
Content: This course deals with relationships between man and his physical and social environments. It will explore some stresses present in the en­vironments and how those stresses are associated with the fact that some segments of society are more susceptable to mental illness, organic illness, drug addiction, and accidents. 
Presentation: Will be lecture based, but student participation will be stressed and encouraged. · Readings: A paperback by Rene Dubos • Man Adapting ' and a hard bound book by Scotch and Levine Social Stress. 
Comment: The professor is very excited and interested in this course. This vatality and enthusiasm coupled with a first hand practical knowledge of the relationship between health and culture, especially in peasant and rural societies, should make this course a good one. 
K. Weigert Soc. 481 Political Sociology 
Content: This course is designed to introduce the student/to the major theoretical and empirical works in political sociology. Topics cdvered include: key concepts (e.g., power, authority, influence), the issue of power and distribution (elite versus pluralist models. at the community, national and in­ternational levels), approaches to the study of power diJtribution, political beliefs and behavior, and sociological issues in political change. 
Presentation: The lectures are a fine supplement to the someWhat bur­densome theory Which is read. Questions are always encouraged and answered with enthusiastic and elucidating responses. There are periodic discussions in which all are encouraged to participate. Everyone is given the opportunity to put the assimilated theories to work. These duscussions reinforce the student's understanding of the readings and lect.ires and.enable him to see the con­temporary issues of power distribution operating on various levles in th~ social structure. 
Readings: Three books will be required: Marvin E. Olsen, Power in, Societies; Jack Newfield and Jeff Greenfield, A Populist Manifesto; and Ken­neth M. Dolbeare and Patricia Dolbeare, American Ideologies: The Complete Political Beliefs of the 1970'5. In addition, several articles will be placed on reserve. 
Organization: There will be an individual paper, an exam and a group. projectCthe grade for Which is provided by the individual group members). 
Comments: This course is concerned with social causes and consequences of given power distributions within or between societies and with social and political conflicts that lead to changes and allocation of power. Last spring there was a mixture of both junior and senior sociology majors and graduates in sociology and government. This distribution contributed to the value of the duscussions. 
This is Dr. Weigert's specialty and She presents.the material in an enthusiastic manner. She creates an atmosphere Which is both congenial and.conducive to learning. Her concern for individual understanding is unparalleled. ·However, Dr. Weigert expects the student to reciprocate this interest in class discussion and in his work. This is the second time the course is being taught and all the rough edges of'the previous presentaion Should be ironed out. This course is recommended for sociology majors searching.for a refreshing approach to their discipline. ·. '" \\~ 
course evaluation 
.... 
..., ..., 
.... 
..; 

I 
I 
I 
I 
Amen ·Theo. 110 My'h and Religion 

I 
Content: Through a consideration of two works by Mircea Eliade, the writings of Fr. John Dunne and Carlos Castaneda, the interrelationship of myth and relition will be explored. By grasping a better understanding of the myths and rituals of other cultures, perhaps we may come to a better understanding of our own religiou~ myths and rituals. 

Readings: Mircea Eliade, Myths, Dreams, and Mysteries, and Rites and Symbols of Initiation; John Dunne, csc., The City of the Gods, and Search for ··Godin time and Memory, and The Way of All the Earth; Carlos Castaneda, The 
Teachings of Don Juan: a Yaqui way of Knowledge, and A Separate Reality. Organization: Midterm and final--both essay type, three papers. Comment: Maury Amen is an excellent teacher and especially so when 
working with material of this sort. He relates to both the material and the students with the excitement of learning as discovery. Consider this an ex­traordinary opportunity to encounter a new depth of religious meaning with a man and other students interested in pursuing the "path with Heart." 
Mertensotto Theo. 206 Medical Ethics 
Content: This course is primarily a series of discussions on topics of con­
troversy within the field of medicine, covering such subjects as abortion, 
sterilization, artificial insemination, cosmetic surgery and organ tran­
splantation. It is hoped that the few conclusions reached by the discussions will 
facilitate the decision-making processes someday to be faced by the class, 
composed wholly of junior and senior premeds~ There are no prerequisites. 
Presentation: At the beginning of the semester, each student is assigned his 
topic for research. Following the initial two weeks of Fr. Mertensotto's lectures 
on basic ethical concepts, the series of student presentations begins; this will 
take up the rest of the semester. Each student is expected to encapsulate his 
research in a paper whose length is determined by the student himself, and to 
submit it to the class on the day preceeding his topic's discussion. In this way, 
Fr. Mertensotto says, "The class writes their own text." The discussions are 
usually fascinating; it's almost impossible for the premed to become bored 
during class. 
Readings: There are no assigned readings, although two or three short papers 
will be recommended throughout the semester as extra reference in a par­
ticularly controversial area: In fact, these two or three books, in addition to each 
student's own paper and his reading of the other students' papers usually con­
stitute the work for the semester. There are usually two or three short answer 
essay tests and these are unannounced--the rationale being that the student is 
spared the time and worry of preparation. The prime indices for standing in the 
class, however, seem to be participation in class discussion and coherence of 
ideas presented there and in the paper. 
· Comments: For the premed, Notre Dame offers no better course. The subject material is both relevant and stimulating, the work load is light, and the grading is liberal. Fr. Mertensotto keeps the class humorous with a very easy style, and interesting guest lecturers are often added to flavor the course even more. This ·could certainly prove the most valuable educational experience for a premed's 
curriculum at Notre Dame. By all means, don't miss this one. 
Kapascinskas The. 212 Jung and Theology 
Presentation: The course will be set up in a colloquial fashion. Mr. K. lectures for the first fifty minutes or so and then it is usually opened up for class questioning and discussion. -, · _ Readings,: C.G. Jung, Psyc,hology. and Reli_gion..E~st .and West, Aion {both· from the C~ll~{ted Works), J!3CO_bi,_C.G. Jung._ Ct~~re_.may be supplementary readings o~~s_u,b_stitutions to_ this ljst.) _, .. •: ­

nov. 27, 1972 
Theology~ 
Org_anization: Final, project, and journal. Project is to reflect the student's 
personal interest in the material. The Journal is something to be worked in 
throughout the course of the semester. 

Comments: Mr. Kapascinskas knows the material very well and his lectures present the basic structures of Jung's 'fantasy of the phenomena' lucidly. However. in order for the full benefit of the material to be derived by the students it is necessary that the readings be done carefully ~ind that one invests oneself to some degree in them. This is a worthwhile course in which one could learn a great deal. This writer recommends it for anyone interested in pursuing such a discourse with serious intent. One can learn a great deal this way and ~njoy doing it. 
Rosenstock Theo. 215 Jewish Theology 
Content: The course is divided into two segments during the semester: in the first. Rabbi Rosenstock delves into the essence of religion and the basis of the Jewish belief; in the second, the study consists of the Jewish faith as it is today. 
Presentation: Rabbi Rosenstock has worked hard on the material he presents; vet, it is not designed to overpower the student. His basic concern is in the un­derstanding of the point rather than the belief in it. The course is capable of a large degree of dialogue, and the Rabbi is very willing to discuss any .student interests. 

Readings: The Old Testament. The Source, Basic Judaism. Organization: Grades for the course are divided into four equal areas: mid­term exam, paper on The Source, final exam, self evaluation (paper). 
Comments: The entire course is centered arounc the individual's attitude on life. Consequently the tests are personal rather than factual. Although the lec­tures sometime breakdown, they are usually very pleasurable. The lowest grade ciiven in the course is a C, because the Rabbi feels that his conscience will not allow him to fail a student as long as the war continues. 
Biallas Theo. 240 Theology of Religion$ 
Content: This is an experimental course Which was taught by the teaching team. The course will explore the questions about the relationship of theology and community service in the community at large (i.e. aged and dying f 
Presentation: The class is team-taught by Fathers McNeil, Cormier and Stella. There is a three hour seminar, once a week; there are also workshops several times during the semester, which facilitate sharing and reflections on various experiences. 
Readings: This semester readings included Dibs, Suffering: A Test of the Theological, and selected articles(H. Nowen, etc.}. The readings for next semester will be changed, pending class discussion of their effectil,<::,.?SS. 
Organization: There will be written reports during the semester, weekly log:., stu_dent evaluations of workshops, responses to re3dings. The case studies provide an opportunity for integrating the semster in relationship to theology and other perspectives. 
Comments: The value derived from the course depends to a large extent upon the members of the individual teams and the team leader. The structure of the class is flexible, and the course was enjoyed primarily because of the close associations formed within the groups. The course comes highly.~ecommended. 
McNeil Theo. 230 Theology and Community Service 
Content: Mr. Biallas' aim is to amplify the student's personal dimension and qive the student an ·attitude of fresh awareness·, new sensitivity to himself, to nature, to others and to God by examining various existentialists and humanists. 
He tries to take off certain blinders. Some of the men taught include Feuerbach, Nietzsche and Kierkegaard. 
Presentation: Mr. Biallas has a sincere, easy.going, enthusiastic lecture style and explains the topic thoroughly. He is definitely a most interesting lecturer. He is spontantous and values class discussion and questions highly. He has an ability to explain very complex concepts. He usually lectures the first fifty minutes of the class and leaves the last 15 minutes open for criticism and discussion. 
Readings: The reading list will probably include The Portable Nietzsche; Bonhoffer, Letters and Papers from Prison; Kierkegaard, Sickness unto Death and Fear and Trembling; Dostoyevsky, Notes from Underground and The Grand Inquisitor. The cost does not exceed S10.00. Some of these may be resold. The reading load per week is not excessive though it is essential to the course. 

· Organization: Mr. Biallas assigns two 7-10 page papers and a 10-page take­home final. Grades are based on the papers, class participation and the final. · Comment: Mr. Biallas encourages intelligent discussions. His enthusiasm is 
apparent and his interest is contagious. His lectures are well prepare~ and cohesive This course comes recommended. Most of the students, when asked whether they would take another course from Mr. Biallas, replied In the af­firmat,ve 
Giradot Theo~ 246 Far Eastern Religion 
Content: This course is an introduction to the philosophical and religious traditions of China and Japan. Systems to be covered are primarily Taoism, Confucianism, Shintoism, and Zen Buddhism. An attempt will also be '?lade to show how these various philosophies have been integrated into the spirit of Eastern life. As the course is an introductory survey it is open to anyone with an interest. 
Presentation: Because of the size of the class this semester, Prof. Giradot was restricted almost exclusively to_ lecturing. However, he does welcome questions and will not discourage discussions. 
Readings: The readings are generally good with a stress on interpretation rather than primary source material. There will be five or six required readings; among them Thompson, Chinese Religion; Kitagawa, Religions of the East; Dumolin, A History of Zen Buddhism; and McNaughton, The Taoist Vision. Extensive use is madeof the reserve book room. 
Organization: The student is required to write one paper based on a representative text and two short reviews of required books. There are two essay exams \'.-hicri are not overly taxing. The final _grade is a combination of all these aspec~s. 
Comment: Prof. Giradot is not a dynamic lecturer nor is the course able to fu:fill the mystical image many students have of the East. But Prof. Giradot does have a firm grasp on his subject area and will provide the student with a solid understanding of the development of Eastern traditions. 
Weiss Theo 302 Christian Scripture 
Content: This theology course is a survey of the literature and theology of the 

New Te~tement, with emphasis on scientific and theological hermeneutics. 
Presentation: Dr. Weiss lectures during most of the class but the lectures are 

fairly informal and questioning is always in order and appreciated. 
Readings: There is one text book plus readings from the Bible (New 

Testament). The text book is very helpful in getting at the New Testament 
readings and acids some things that are not touched upon in the lectures. 
Organization: There were four tests throughout the semester. There was no 

fina! nor any assigned papers. The tests were taken during a_ class period and 
covered only material covered since the last test. The grading policy is neither 
hard nor easy and pretty much dependent upon performance on the tests. 
'Com_ment: This course is required for Theology majors but could be of_ interest and value to any one who would like a deeper insight into the literature of the New Testament. It-is not a difficult course to do well in and it is possible to learn a great deal in the course of the semester. 
Nogosek Theo. 250 Theology of C.S. Lewis 
content: The purpose of the course is to explore the basic theology of C.S. Lewis, one of the foremost Christian writers of the 20th century. The readings to be studied offer a wide variety of theological subjects and literary forms-­science fiction, tanta?Y tales and theological essays. Lewis' works reflect his· deep knowledge of the Christian life and liis topics cover most o(the questions or problems one might have concerning Christianity. 
Presentation: Father Nogosek's primary interest is what the students get out of each book. As a result, most of his class time is used answering theological questions that have been sub_mitted beforehand. Occasionally, Father Nogosek devotes an entire class to lecturing on the theological observations_of Lewis. 
Readings: All the books are by Lewis and in paperback. The reading list in­

.eludes: out of the Silent Planet, Perelaudra, That Hideous Strength,' (science fiction trilogy}; Mere Christianity; The Great Divorce; Screwtape Letters; Till we Have Faces; The Hour Loves; and four of the stpries frofn the collection 
-about the Kingdom~·o{ Nornia. ~. ·' 
Organization: A mid-term and a final, two papers, and class participation will form the final grade. 

Comment: This semester's class was overflowing with students. As a result of the enthusiastic response, the course will be offered in two sections next semester. Father Nogosek plans to adjust his style of teaching to fit the class. However, the student can be sure that much of the time will be. spent in discussion. . 
This class is recommended to those who desire to learn more about Lewis' piercing insights into ·Christia·nity is all about. However, he avoids the traditional "heavy" explanation of Theology and concentrates on the basics in a way which one can understand without having to reread each sentence three or four times. Since the course concentrates mainly on the fiction of Lewis~ one can do the assigned readings (which are numerous) in a comparatively short time. 

Father Nogosek has an interest in the individual's opinion. His knowledge of Lewis enables him to answer most questions that one might have about Lewis and Christianity. The student who is looking for the theology course with a dif­ferent twist will enjoy this very worthwhile course. 
O'Connor. Theo. 104 Challenge to the Church 
Content: Fr. O'Connor will not focus on structural or juridical aspects of the Church, but rather on those aspects which are most controversial today and the deep spir_itual roots which give the Church its meaning and value. The Church merges, not merely as an institution, but as a living community of faith and love. 
Presentation: Lecture and discussion wilI be balanced, as the subject material and the students' interest dictate. 
Organization: Two or three tests, an optional paper, and a final. 

Readings: Hans Kung's The Church will be the primary text of the course. The book serves to illustrate some of the crucial points at issue in the Church today, and offers the student a point of view considerably different than that of the professor. The "Kung-O'Connor" dialogue should prove to be a lively and enlightening one. 
Storey Theo. 304 Church Evolution 11 
Content: Church Evolution 11 is the second half of the history course required 

of all theology majors. It has been described as "A chronological and topical 
survey of the historical evolution of the Church, emphasizing its theological, 
liturgical and structural developments." What this means is that it exposes one 
to a living dimension of the (for the most part) European past which too many 
have long considered Jjead and buried. If you think the church and the men and 
women who have lived before have nothing much to do with you, this course will 
show you new ways of seeing. The only problem is, the course is half over. It was 
also filled to overflowii:ig this semester, and you may have trouble getting in. But 
it's well worth the effort to try. 
Presentation: Dr. Storey is one of the finest lecturers to be found at Du Lac. 

His factual knowledge is as specific and detailed as his perspective and un­
derstanding are deep, and he delivers both with style. Whatever you think of 
what he says, these are classes you do not sleep through--he engages you, he 
draws forth a response from you, he educates you. 
Readings: The readings will be as generous as ever--one each week, with a 

paper too. The final list has not yet been determined, but past years have seen 
such gems as Dame Julian of Norwich, Nicholas Cusansu, 'the Archpriest 
Avakkum, the Pilgrim, John Henry Newman and Thomas Merton, to name but a 
few. These books, nearly all primary sources, and uniformly excellent, provide 
the student with his own opportunity to see firsthand the'minds and lives and 
faiths of great and glorious individuals. 'Tis only sluggards and dawdlers and 
slouchers who murmur and sough and shoot out their lips at this sweet yoke. 
Organization: No exams, lots of books and papers Cone per week), and lec­

tures twice a week; if you get the course for 5 credits, you get a two (so they say-­
it's never less than a three, usually about a four) hour seminar discussion on the 
book of the week. 
Comment: William G. Storey is a teacher and an historian. He will tell you 

stories about martyrs and saints~ kings and bishops, popes, monks, money­
lenders and politicians, about liturgy, incons, incens~, about church and state-­
and he will weave of these threads of human and divine history, the patterns of 
past and present. I am trying to say this isa good course. Itopens up dimensions. 
It offers much. If you pass it up,"you have missed a great deal. 
Yoder -Theo 413 War, Peace, and Revolution 
Content: Dr. Yoder has not offered this course for two years, but he does not foresee much change in the general content. The course will include debates concerning Christianity and violence, beginning with a consideration of the "just war" logic. He also plans to discuss significant theories of nonviolence and violence throughout the course of Church history. 
Presentation: Well-planned, informative·lectures constitute the ·crass format, though it has been commented that the historical nature of these lectures often becomes dry. Dr. Yoder, however, is aware of this drawback, and encourages class discussion. The class will meet once a week, .tor three hours, and as it is generally a large class, will include lecture as well as discuc:c;ion. • ,:,,:·; . 
____ . . .. · · course evaluation 
.,_,,. 



T.M.H. Theo. 277 Theology of Course Conflict: Bilocation.. 
Content: This course, to be offered for the first time this semester, is an ap­plied-aggiornamento-free-style realization practicum. Participants will strive to achieve a sense of how their own peculiar positions in tradition related to the modern owrld's. Certain highly refined questions will be asked and answered in a dialectical inquiry with a strong accent tending toward the none-too-regional. It is prerequired that the student have another course scheduled for the same hour so that actual bilocation can be attempted. Those who succeetd most ad­mirably will receive the grade "A" and recommendation for canonization. Those deserving commendation will receive the grade "B" and be considered for beatifica1ion. 
Presentation: The lectures will be team~taught by the professor and his alter­
ego. Discussion in choro voce intelligible. Readings: Lectio Divina, modified according to need. Organization: One major thesis is required for the semester, to be submitted 
in toto, to be examined by a special band of Dominicans imported for the pur­pose. Comment; An Augustinian frame of mind is perhaps most suitable for this exercise. 
Organization:·Course assignments have tended in the past to come primarily at the end of the semester: most of the reading, two short book reports or one more extensive paper, and a final exam (essay) concerning "the classic op­tions" covered in the course. The midterm will deal with the factual, historical discussions of history which have been covered. 
Comment: Dr. Yoder is one of the mosfemminent Monnonite historians. He is also-a r'enowned Ethicist, though this is only a hobby. His familiarity with the elements of the radical reformation and all dimensions of the pacifist position make his course a most valuable experience. 
Giradot Theo 420 Taoism 
Content: Taoism is the "little tradition'.' of China, the sub-conscious revoltof the Chinese Confucian mentality. In its classical aspect it presents a philosophy quite foreign, yet in many ways surprisingiy similar to the Christian experience. The course deals with it in all of its aspects; from the origins, through the classical philosophers Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu, and finally presents a syn­cretistic overview of the latter Taoist religion. Because of the nature of the material those who are merely curious are referred to Pr.of. Giradot's Far Eastern Religions course. 
Presentations: Prof. Giradot's in-class style is basically lecture but he is open to other's opinions and experiences: Midway through the semester and again near t~e end of the semester the class breaks into seminars to discuss primary texts. These seminars are led by students and tend to bring some of the inherent difficulties of the readings out into the open. 
Readings: The readings in.elude two general introductions; Welch, Taoism; and Kaltenmark, Lao Tzu and Taoism; and also primary sources--Waley, The Way and Its Power; Watson, Chuang Tzu, Basic Readings; Graham, The Book of Lieh Tzu. Students are expected to read a number of articles in the reserve book room. 
Organization: Work consists of two short book reviews and one research paper {10-15 pages). There is an in-class midterm and the final can be either in-class or take-home. Grades are based primarily on the paper and tests·are participation in the seminars will also help. · 
Comment: This semester was Prof. Giradot's first teaching experience and the course often seemed disjointed. He had trouble get_ting organized at first and did not necessarily deal with aspects in which many of the students were in­terested. However, Taoist studies are still in their infancy and Prof. Giradot is dealing primarily with an aspect that no other scholar· has yet handled. This leads to a degree of confusion but can be very interesting to be in on the ground floor of original resea~ch. 
Quinn Theo. Crisis in -the Church 
Comments: The condition of the church that to one person can appear as "c·risis," from another viewpoint can appear to be the opportunity of centuries 

nov. 27, 1972 
for the church. While these views may in some respects be irreconcilable, -in 
others they may be complementary views of the complex situation. The course 
will try to gjve the historical and theological reasons why the present situation in 
the church is both crisis and opportunity. There will be discussion of the present 
climate in the church with regard to doctrine, worship, ethics and the structure 
of the church. There will also be consideration of ecumenism, the church's 
relation to the Jews, to o!her religions and to unbelievers. 
Organization: Besides Newman's Apologia and Essay on the Development of 
Doctrine, a variety of readings from various books, encyclopedias and journals 
will be assigned. In addition to a quiz on the discussions and readings every 
week, a mid-term and final exam, a paper is required. 
_Burtchaell Theo 407 Theology of Grace 
-.:ontent: This course will center on the theme of grace, the free gift of a loving god to sinful man, and will discuss the implications of this understanding in terms of theology, liturgy and ethics. 
Presentation: Last year, the structure of the course was based on lecture with the class broken down into "discussion panels" which focused on one of several historical periods i_n which a controversy arose concerning grace (eg Luther, Pelagius, the Jansenists, etc). By and large, th-ese discussion panels were disappointing and so Fr. Burtchaell has decided to take a different approach. Instead of presenting materials on a period for a class discussion, the groups will be enjoined to investigate the corpus of literatureon grace in their period, for the purpose of discussiong among themselves as a sort of seminar, and for one or several meetings with Fr. Burtchaell. With the resulting elimination of "in­fluence" in the sense of a lack of responsibility for a class presentation, the degree of benefit derived from these groups will depend in large upon their own maturity, as well as directions given to them by Fr. Burtchaell, both in meetings ,md in the body of the lectures themselves. 
Readings:_ Aga1h,_rneseW1i1 ~e d 11gnter control of readings than there was la~t semester. Five or six books will be required reading, but more information, is 
as yet, unavailable. ' Or!;'inization: The basic structuring of the work load will be a series of papers, the number of which is as yet unspecified. No length has been set, but Fr. Burt­chaeil does consider afive~page paperto be "a table of contents," thereby an-• 
ticipating ten-twelve pages each. There will also be a final exam. 
Comments: The course, at its inception was to have been called "Philemon's Problem," but the publication of "Portnoy's Complaint" cut that dream short. Instead, the student is brought face-to-face with freely imputed righteousness, for otherwise grace would not be grace. Keeping in mind the obvious in­consistency that in Theology of Grace your salvation will be by works, this is a unique (and quite possibly the last) opportunity to share insights of Fr. Burt­chaell's own brand of systematic tmaetogy which is quite good indeed. · 
43 > 

business 
Apple Marketing 231 Principles of Marketing 
Content: The main aspects of the course are: strategy and planning, in­
ternational markets, grid concepts, marketing mix, wholesaling, retailingrand 
physical distribution. This is a required course for all business majors. This 
course would also be valuable to the non-major who wishes to get a broad un­
derstanding of marketing. · 
Presentation: Professor Apple is an excellent lecturer and keeps the interest 
of the students for the entire period. At times, he makes use of charts and other 
visual aids in order to get a point across. 
Readings: Basic Marketing by E. ·Jerome McCarthy (4th ed.) was the text 
used last semester. 
Organization: Two tests and a final exam. There are no quizzes or papers. 
Comments: Professor Apple has a r·eputation for very fair grading polici~s. 
He does an excellent job in covering the material and the tests are very com­
prehensive. Professors Bender, Mayo and Weber will also be teaching this 
course. 
_Goulet Finance 231 Busin·ess Finance 
Content: Emphasis is placed on thepractical application of finance. Com­
putations, calculations and ratios comprise the course. The main topics covered 
are:. financial analysis, financial planning, evaluation of capital expenditures, 
cost cif capital and bonds. This is a requfrement for all business majors, but may 
also prove worthwhile for the non-major as well. 
Presentation: Professor Goulet spends a good deal of time reviewing the 
homework probelms. He devotes the rest ·of the period to teaching new 
materials and using problems for illustration. Questions and discussions are 
always a welcomed part oif the class period. 
Readings: Corporate Financial Management by Raymond P. Kent, and Self­
Correcting Problems In Financing by Robinson and Robinson were the two 
bQoks used this semester. There are also occasional handouts. 
Organization: Mid-term and final and three unannounced quizes. 
Comments: Goulet's grading policies are generally regarded as being quite 
fair-. He does a good job livening up his lectures with many personal comments. 
Professors Conway and Farragher will also be teaching ttiis course: 
Aranowski Accounting 261 Basic Accounting 
Presentation: Chapters from the text, Using Accounting Information, ex­plicating the use of accounting reports by mangers, non-managers, government ageencies, etc., are studied with an att~mpt to reveal to the student the extent and importance of accounting in the buiness world. There are usually three thesis plus a final exam. Tests include material from the text as well as lee­tures. Both a theoretical and practical understanding of the material is demanded. Tests are graded fairly and returned promptly with student right of appeal. 
Comment: 6ecause Prtif. Aranowski has changed his approach to problem solving (as opposed to a theoretical approach), the course becomes more practically orientated, permitting· the arts and letters student essential insight into, the instruments involved 'in the l')'laking of business decisions. This is reinforced by real lifesituations recalled by Prof. Aranowski in his function fS a CPA in South Bend. This course is highly recommended, expresssly for those 
Arnold Finance 372 Insurance 
Content: Prof. Arnold states on the first day of class that the major a~eas of study will be the life insurance contract and liability and property contracts. Other insurance types are also discussed though the above are the areas of major concentration. The class contains mostly business majors though it is open to all students. 
Presentation: Prof. Arnold does much lecturing on the content of the assigned chapter readings and in addition, integrates this with much of his own personal experience with a commercial insurance firm. This adds an extra dimension to the course, The overall mood of the class is interesting and questions are well received at any time. 
Readi!'9S: General Insurance by Bickelhaupt and Magee (S11.50). Organ1zat1on: There are 2-3 tests in addition to a final and all tests are! 

weighted ev7nly. The tests deal primarily with the notes from the cla~s lectures. ~ttendance_,s not_ mandatory though it is beneficial if one wishes to grasp the! ideas and st,pulat,ons of the various insurance contracts. There are no papers or· pro_ie_ct~. 
Comments: Prof. Arnold conducts an interesting and sometimes hua,,orous class which you probably won't wish to miss often. His tests are fair• and require a good understanding of the material presented in class in order to do well. Overall the course is extremely practical and worthWhile for B.~. andnon: 
B.A. students. 
Houck Management 461_ Legal Aspects of Business 
Content: This course is not to cqyer the "impersonal" aspects of business, such as contracts, as the title may probably imply. Rather it is an inquiry into the developments and the effects of such developments on the amount of care and responsibility an employer must show for his workers to remain within the law. Professor Houck's effort is to show this development and how some economic, ideological and legislative facts have affected it. Also covered is the importance of the proper fact determination, both socially and for the trial, in order to bring about proper social justice. 
Presentation: Professor Houck runs a "quasi" lecture class. He knows what ­he wants to get across to the students and proceeds in that direction but will gladly partake in an open discussion of the ideas brought forth in order to insure individual understanding of the topi_c. Personal insights are gladly received and in this respect Professor Houck wjll always encourage any student to coment. 
Readings: The text is The Legal Process by Auerback, Garrison, Hurst and Mermin. 
Organization: The student is expected to read the assigned readings relevant to the topic which is-to be discussed. Without sue prior knowledge, the student might be lost at first but the professor's easily understood way of talking on the. topic will generally alleviate this probelm. Work consists of three or four papers on relevant topics to be discussed and written by a four or five member group. These gro_ups are to meet frequently to re-hash the material coverd in class. The final for the course consists of a group project. This project is an analog of the development of Employer-Servant liability with an overlay showing how it has beenaffectedbythgecourts,legislatureandtheory. Notests. 
Comments: This has been one of the most ·enjoyable course taken by this-, writer. Professor Houck is quite a teacher and quite a man. He.has superb in­sight and a belief in the righteousness of his subject and a knack for motivating the students. The three credits you earn will man nothing ·comparttd to the consciousness you can develop for the pli~ht of the workingman bypartaking in 
cont~mplaUng.-law school! • :•.•:•:~·•·.• ·~ ...,. ,--'.-, •.• -. ..·.-.:.. .:;,..,:,-.,:..1 ..•_.,_:·,.: ,~;-,;;x,,,., _ _:-.,...__}~~~-~~5.!.-~!'5~if:,J~~'\J;!~'if~}';-~~~1. ~~~!~91.Jl~f}f!!_SS· ,. -'!f:.::~>:,:,, _. 44 · · course evaluation 
.:-t \.: 

McMichael Management 465 Business Law 111 
Content: Business Law 111 is a course that deals with trusts, estate and gift taxes, and estate planning. It is a course which could prove very helpful to the student later on in life when he confronts the problem of setting up his estate. Various types of trusts and their tax effects are discussed. 
Presentation: Professor McMichael spends most of the class lecturing but questions are always welcome. Estates and trusts are Professor McMichael's specialty and he offers many of his own experiences as a means for un­derstanding the subject matter. 
Readings: A 60-page booklet prepared by Professor McMichael in outline form. Notes can betaken in this booklet. 
Organization: There are four tests given throughout the semester. The tests deal with the material in the booklet and notes taken in class. These tests fairly indicate knowledge of the subject.. Class attendance is not mandatory but is strongly suggested in order to do well in the course. There is a 2500-5000 word paper due toward the end of the semester. It must be handed in for successful completion of the course. 
Comments: Class can drag along at times but Professor McMichael's real life experiences tend to liven it up. It is a valuable course from which the student will get the most out of later in lif~ and will also presently, find it interesting. 
Dincol Accounting 476 Federal Income Taxes 
Content: This course is focused on Federal Income Taxation as it pertains to individual corporations, partnerships, and sole proprietorships. Taxation is part of life for everyone arid it is helpful to be knowledgeable in this subject. No previous business or law background is required. 
Presentation: This course is structured around the lecture with some discussion. Prof. Dincolo knows his field and gets many practical tax situations across to his students. 
Organization: Prof. Dincolo gives three examinations and a final on the text and his lectures. The tests are difficult, but fairly graded. Problems are assigned for homework and class attendance is helpful. 
Readings: The text.will be the 1973 Federal Tax Course which is detailed and abreast of the times. Comment: This course is valuable for anyone who pays taxes. Do not expect to become a tax expert, but a person with a good knowledge of taxation. 
Houck Management 488 Innovation and Technology. ~ 
Management 
Content: The course is one which examines a vital dichotomy in business and soci~ty: the industrial inertia and technology under which we now live; and the vision of society which most students have. This view of technocracy and alternate systems lends itself to an unusual, and fascinating, class in the business department. 
Presentation: This is one of the few seminar-type courses m the business school. Students and teacher share responsibility for the discussions and the direction of the class. The course begins with and carries throughout the theme of the United States being at a fork in the road: one leads to Maximum Technological Growth, the other to Humanistic Growth. The class :· based on these outlooks, and varies with the enthusiasm of the students. Moreover, it can be said that the discussions are excellent, or at least above the level normally found in the business school. 
Readings: The readings constitue an integral part of the discussions, and therefore the course. The books include: Greening of America, The Pursuit of Loneliness, the Making of a Counter-Culture, The Age of Aquarius, Daedalus: Toward the Year 2000, and The Student as Nigger. Students,are encouraged to expand this list and to share their thoughts with the class. 
Organization: Loose. The success of the class depends on the contributions 

from the students. The motivation for the reading and contributions is the in­dividual's alone. The grades are reflections of the contributions in class: that is, not the quantity of talk but the quality of comments. Attendance is .not required, but the high percentage of the class present shows how enjoyable the course is. An "intellectual diary" is kept during the semester as students develop their thoughts through it. small group discussions, and class par­ticipation. No tests or lengthy papers are required. 
Com men ts: Dr.-Houck is truly one of the great men in this university. His, course adds excitement and encouragement to the business school and the 
' students within it. The loose organization differs greatly from the normal routine of business classes. rt allows the student to examine, share, and develop his ideas in a comfortable atmosphere . Hopefully, too it will allow the students to adjust easier to the business world they face. The·exposure to different and challenging thoughts is an excellent vehicle in broaoening the business student's education. Besides being greatly in demand by the students, this course is also highly recommended. 
r. 


eng1neer1ng 
Lucey Mechanical Engineering 213 -·Nuclear Energy 

Content: This course is designed to acquaint the non-technical student with an 
overview of the sources and uses, both current and potential, of nuclear energy. 
Topics covered include applications of radioisotopes, biological effects of 
radiation, principle c1pplications and safety of nuclear reactors, application and 
effects of nuclear explosives, nuclear fusion, and future prospects. There are no 
pre-requisites, as such, and this course is open to ali students. 

Presentation: Mr. Lucey'~ lectures were very well prepared, interesting, and 
supplemented with several movies dealing with different aspects of nuclear 
energy. . 

Readings: The text is Sourcebook on Atomic Energy by Glasstone and· costs 
about S14.00. Mr. Lucey also will hand out several booklets from the A.E.C.'s 
"Understanding the Atom" series. 

Organization: There are 2 one-hour tests, together worth one-third of the final grade; one paper which should be a critical review of some aspect of nuclear energy about 10 pages long, worth one-third of the final grade, and a 2-hour final worth one-third of the final grade. 
Comments: Mr. Lucey's classroom style is very easy going and informal. He 
presents some very technical material in a manner that can be understood by 
almost any student. There are two separate grading scales, one for science and 
engineering majors and another for arts and letters students. ­
Tenney, Echelbarger, McFarland, and Singer Civil Engineering 213 Man and His Environment 

Content: Designed for non-engineering majors. Involves the study of the relation of man to his environment, with emphasis upon the proper control of the environment by scientific and engineering methods. Topics include en­vironmental .,problems in air, water, and land, and systems ~pproach to en­vironment. 
Presentation: Lecture-discussion format, planned but informal. Field trips within the South Bend area. 
Readings: No required texts, some suggested readings. 

Organization: Two exams, one final, one term paper. A choice allowed bet­ween objective or subjective exams. 
Comrrients: Excellent course for ever;yone interested in the environment and associated problems such as pollution. A difficulty encountered by the professors is in gearing the course to suit the diverse backgrounds of the in­dividual students :.vho represent a wide cross-section of the student body. Technically, the professors are more than competent, and appear to enjoy teaching the course. · 
Ingram Aerospace Engineering 213 Space-Technology , 
Comments: This course is designed for the non-engineering student to give him a feel for the field of aerospace engineering. Dr. Ingram covers a wide range of topics, from fundamental aerodynamics to interplanetary space travel. Always, however, he tries to make all the subjects relevant and rarely does the material get into much technical detail. Guest lecturers add much to the course also. Most notable is Dr. Nickolades and hitexplanation of Notre Dame's in­
• volvement in the development of the parafoil. The aerospace department has tried to give the non major an interesting course on the topic and apparently they have succeeded as evidenced by the near perfect attendance at each class. 
Presentation: Lecture-discussion orientated. Audio-visual aids in forms of slides and films. Readings: Consists of contemporary literature of socio-technical interest, and readings from various technical magazines. 
Organization: Short papers, one exam. Possibly a long-term project (depending on student interest), designed to give a feel of engineering to the outsider. Class discussion to be of considerable importance. 
Graves . CE 450 · business, Legal and Professional Relations in Engineeri.ng.. 
content: The course deals with the business and legal considerati9ns pf _the engineer. Contracts, specifications, law suits, labor unions and land sales are some of the topics discussed. Relationships between owner, contractor and engineer are considered along with the ethical limitations and obligations. Contract procedure is developed along the linesof private prac1ice, but attention is directed to matters in which government procedures differ. 
Presentation: The lectures are along the same lines as the material in the text and are often dry due to the technical nature of the topics discussed. Professor Graves quite often interjects the lectures with practical. examples coming from his many years of professional experience. The recounts of these experiences are most often interesting and give the student a feel for the professional and business oriented aspects of Civil Engineering. 
Organization: The homework assignments are essentially the readings. Th~re are three tests in addition to the fi_nal. The tests are generally multiple choice with a couple of small essays. 
Readings: There is one required text, Engineering Contracts and Specifications, from 'which the test material is taken. The readings amount to about 2 chapters a week. 
Comments: The content of the course is a must for every engineer since it will have applications in every area of work. The material is not very difficult in terms of subject matter and thegrading is lenient.
. ·,,­
y 
' --. ­...-.:_ "~--=:-:_:-.../_-=:·_,,...•-;.: --_ ~: -:.~",.-'-t~~~-----­

. -· ·course evaluation 


Horsburgh Architecture 552 Ecology of Cities 
Content: "The city shares with all other forms of life an 'aesthetic of purpose' which reveals the influences of location, people and function." The principle consideration is the context of the city in time and human aspirat!On. 
The initial concept of a city as a living organism (biopolis) introduces the city in a different realm with the vicissitudes of the inanimate fabric now transpoied to the natural laws of biological life, in origin, structure, and growth. 
The course is open' to all majors and is urged for those who seek an awarenes· of urban conditions. 
Presentation: Horsbrugh's lectures are informal and presented with a thoroughness that fully commands one's attention. He encourages students to ask questions which usually result in interesting discussions with a diversity allowed with students of different majors. Lecture is complemented with use of slides and various literature. · 
Readings: A varied and well chosen book list is provided with a range of reading for those interested in aesthetics, law,-sociology, history and city planning. A short Cl-2 page) paper is asked from each reading expressing the reaction of the student. Books are available from the libraries. No text required. 
Organization: The seminar meets once a week for three hours. Students are required to select and review a city well known to them for presentation and analysis. A written review is to be submitted in support of the verbal presen­tation. Grade is based on the paper and class participation.. 
Comments: Mr. Horsbrugh is open to all intelligent viewpoints. The course depends largely on the individual student who, must incorporate Mr. Hor­sbrugh's lectures and class discussion with individual research. As Mr. Hor­sbrugh gives excellence he likewise demands it from his students. He has proven to be a great aid and companion. 
nov. 27, 197-2-i\f:-:, :-· : 
. 
•
science 

Chemistry 
Bottei Chem. 334 Analytical Chemistry 11 
Content: The course contains much of the material Jhat was presented in Chem 333 with emphasis on the procedural description of an experiement and a mechanical description of the instrument' used. Absorption and emission spectroscopy, electro-analytical methods, NMR,· mass spectroscopy, x-ray methods, and thermoanalytical methods are the main topics covered. Almost all the instruments a chemsit would use in his entire lifetime are presented. Chemistry 334L is offered but is not required. Its value is worthwhile as one will receive first-hand experience in using some of the instruments ocfered in the lecture. Experiments performed last year:· were polorography, flame photometry, gas-liquid chrornotography, infrared spectroscopy, conductrometic· analysis, x-ray crystal diffraction, and differential thermo analysis. The list of experiments is flexible and will be changed from year to year. 
Presentation: Chem 334 is a lecture course where questions are a·nswered as_ they are brought up. The "writers-cramp" experience.in Chem 333 is not present as 95 percent of the material is provided on ditto sheets. This releases the student to absorb the information as it is presented instead of worrying about , 
writing it all down. Readings: Williard, Merritt, and Dean: Instrumental Methods of Analysis, cost Sl3.95. , . . . .­Organization: There are 3 to 4 hour exams; a final exam and 3 to 4 problem· sets which.count as one test. Grades i".1 the lab are based solely on lab·reports. 
Comments: As in the first semester course, "the more a student studies, the· more he will learn." Dr. Bottei plans a four-prong attack in his teaching method as much of the material is repeated in _the lect_ure; th·e lab, a pr<;>blem set, an·cl: finally on a test. The information is invaluable to anyone ,continu_ing ·in chemistry. One drawback is. the unavailability of many instrument!. -<;>vered. iry ·: 

Bretthauser .Chem. ·420 Principles of Biochemistry 
Content: The maj~r areas covered ·in this.course are proteins,. enzymes, 111ctabolic synthesis and breakdown of proteins, lipids and carbohydrates, and the structure and function o(nucleotides and nuceic acids.· Also included in the 
ro~rse is a study of the replication, transcr::iption,·arcl translation of genet_ic in­formation. The major metabolic pathways and cycles are studied in detail, with en1pliasis upon those processes occt.iring in the human body and higher a11imals._ Organic chemistry and general chemistry are, prerequisites for this_ coursp and it i~ advisable to have a background in biology. · · 
Presentation: Biochemistry is a. iecture ~ourse which meets three·_times· a · week. Even though a great deal ofn1aterialis covered in the_lectures, the student will find that the lectures are excellent. ·or.· Bretthauer present inform'ation and . insight not-available in.the book in his lectures and the 'student will find .the lec:t~res very helpful in unde·rstanding the material. .Relevant.questions'are , answeredduring:the lectures.An optional ·worksh·op is offered two afternoons a· . week to aid st~dents in working problems and to dear·up any difficulties en­·· countered in the lecture material·. ·.. . · . · . · ·, 
Readings: The textbook for ·the course, is Biochemistry by Lehnin.ger. Although the price• is. high ($17.95), the" book· is excellent _and presents the 
111aterial in a straightforward. manner_·with many helpful illustrations.. . . . Organization:·,There are two hour exams and. a non-cumulative fina! exam. Short quizzes which may or may..not be given each week· also count together as. on·e t~our ex·am: ·Problen=i sets are ncit iissigned but'are strongly recommended. The course requires a great deal of memorization but exams are designed to test-
primarily the student's abiilty 'to apply concepts presented in the course. . ... C Comments: -There' is no getting around the tact that this fast-paced course. .-.required. a gr_eat de~l -of :work:._ At times, th·e student is held responsible-for 
the lecture for the lab course._ Besides his excellent enthusiasm, knowledge arid·.·. '. material-not'covered·in 'the lectures, but ·which is explained in the book. -This availability, Dr. Bottei is one of the most amiable persons in the ,entire coi.Jrseglves the studen·t a good foundation in the fundamentals of biochemistry, chemistry department. .." . ...· · · · -. · · · --:' · · · : , _ · · 




,_. 
\ 

Winkler Geology 450 Geology for Engineers and Planners 
Content: This course is a one-semester introduction to geology emphasizing 

the understanding of soils and geological concepts related to engineering and the 
environment. Central topics include, earth materials, earth movement, 
glaciation, mountain building, groundwater and·water pollution, erosion, ear­
thquakes, oceans and shorelines, and geologic maps. As an environmental 
geologist, Dr. Winkler stresses the environmental significance in understanding 
these topics. · · 
Organization: The course schedule includes two lectures and a short lab 

period (50 minutes) each week. Occasional Hims, frequent slide presentations, 
and one afternoon tiela trrp supplement the lab and lectures. Testing includes: 
a midterm, final exam, and a few lab quizzes. {All are announced.) Assign­
ments are basically readings from the textbook: Gilluly, Waters, Woodford 
Principles of Geology, 2nd ed. (second hand editions usually ordered) and 
Hamblin-Howard Laboratory Manual in Physical Geology, 3rd ed. 
Presentation: Although Dr. Winkler .appears to skip around in h·is lecture 

topics at the expense of an organized presentation, his great enthusiasm for t·he 
subject matter compensates for this. Besides providing variety to the course 
and making the lectures more interesting, his excellent slide presentations 
relfect his own experience and knowledge of the subject matter. · 
·comment: After taking the course one could not help being impressed by Dr. 

Winkler's concern that. people working with the environment {especially ·.eng.ineers and planners) have a basic knowledge of the materials that they are ·working with (i.e. soils and earth features). This is a good course for.a student 
w·" could only afford a one-semester introduction to geology, with the emphasis·.· 
p·laced · on soils, earth features, and the environment. 
Geology 

Geology 250 ~rinciples of Oceanography 
Content: -A complete coverageaoout the oceans: the origin of the.oceans t:1nd ocean basins, continental drift, life in the oceans present and past, importance of 
· reef-builidng organisms; oceans will be also discussed as the principle source for salts but also as the future reservoir for many metals growing into short supply. Shore line erosion and oceanic sedimentation are other important aspects of oceans, as well as influence by man's interference; this also includes pollution of oceans. A required 1-day field trip to Lake Michigan studies resources, shore line development and man's influences. . Readings: Turekain, K.K., Oceans-:Foundation of Earth Science Series, 1968, Prentice Hall, Inc., 120 pp., and The Oceans-A Scientific American Book, 1969, 
W.H. Freeman ·and Company, 140 pp. . 
Organization:Slides, movies and overhead projections will amply be used as audiovisual aids. Two one-hour examinations, frequent short quizzes and a final examination make up the semester grade. 

.. :: 
' -. r. 
Mathematics 
Clay Math 110 Modern Logic 
c..ntent: In this CC'urs-=!1 Dr. Clay intends to cover the Calculus of Propositions 
which is essentially a formalistic method of analyzing arguments, sets; 
relations, and functions; and the formalization of a specific topic still to be 
decided, for example, probability. The approach to be used in covering this 
material will be to follow the textbook closely. 
Presentation: Basically, this course will be lecture but could be partly discussion ifthe sizeof the class permits. Dr. o'ay is alwaysopen for questioning during the class, and this helps to promote some discussion. 
Readings: The text will be Introduction to Logic by Patrick Suppes. The price 
is S7.50. There may be some handouts and additional readings in some other text 
or reference books, depending on the topic that is chosen to be formally 
developed. Extra-credit work is possible in this course. 
Organization: There will be weekly homework assignments, constituting 15 
percent of the grade. There will be three tests, two in class and probably one 
take-home, and one final exam. The tests and the final will mainly but not en­
tirely·cover material from the text and from the lectures. The 3 tests each count 
for 20 percent of the grade, and the final counts 25 percent. 
Comments: This course is a general elective directed primarily at AL students as an alternative to taking Elements of Calculus. It is not simply a requirement filler, however, With the options available to freshmen, Modern Logic should be taken only by those who are genuinely interested in an in­troductory course in logic. 
Dr. Clay is very much interested in his students~ but still it must be said that this course is meant for the student in the sense that the material is presented to him and it is his to do whatever he wishes with it. Thus the course is exactly what the student makes of it. 
Smyth Math 108 Modern Geometry 
Content: Starting with the foundations of the classical Euclidean geometry, Dr. Smyth presents the significance of Euclid's fifth postulate, the parallel postulate, as it is related to the physical world. He then proceeds to discuss a different physical geometry in which all the fundamental properties of Euclidean geometry hold with the exception of the parallel postulate. The student will see that from this· single change in assumption arise many in­
teresting logical consequences. For example, in one such geometry, the sum of the angles in a triangle is always less than TSO degrees as opposed to equaling 180 degrees in the well-known Euclidean geometry. The proofs of this and other results peculiar to this system will be presented in a manner descriptive as opposed to anc1.iytical. 
Presentation: Because Dr. Smyth wants to make sure the material presented is grasped by the students, discussions on topics being covered as well-as lec­tures constitute the class time. Students should feel free, in fact, are encouraged, to ask questions in order to clarify more abstract concepts. 
Readings: Dr. Smyth has been unable to find a suitable text for this course because books dealing with this subject generally assume a higher level of rnathemat;cal sophistication than is expected of the students who take this 
course. Thus the student should plan to rely heavily on handouts and class notes. 
Organization: Most of the final grade, approximately 80 percent, will depend on how well the student does on two in-class hour exams and a slightly more heavily-weighed comprehensive final, with the remaining 20 percent determined by performance on periodic homework assignments. 
Comments: This course is designed mainly for those wishing to fulfill their math requirement, but might well be chosen as an elective for one who wishes to expand his knowledge of mathematics without taking a rigorous higher level course. Although the material as it is presented is not overly difficult, neither is it suitable for the student who war.ts to meet his math requirement as easily as 
possible. One choosing this. course should be interested in the methods and principles of geometry and plan to spend some well-invested time studying the highly substantial material that is being offered. 
Although Dr: Smyth does not attempt to push the class too fast through the material, he nevertheless expects each student to learn most of that which is presented. This is exemplified by the fact that, of the five or six parts of each exam, the student is generally asked to answer only four or five of them. Dr. Smyth also waits until he feels the students satisfactorily understand the subject matter before testing them. Thus, any student who spends the time the material of this course deserves can be assured of being rewarded. 
Ryan Math 136 Enriched Calculus 
Content: This course is intended to give students an understanding of the theory of integral calculus. The course covers the same topics as Mathematics 126, with less time devoted to problem solving, and more emphasis placed on theory and proofs. The course is a compromise between the problem solving of 
Mathematics 126 and the rigorous proofs of Mathematics 166. This course is not a requirement for any major. The students consist, for the most part, of physics majors and engineering students desiring a challenging course in integral calculus, along with some math concentrators. 
Presentation: Three class lectures will be accompanied by one tutorial session each week. Professor Ryan will personally conduct the tutorial sessions, which should help to develop a good interaction be.tween professor and student. Professor Ryan has no formal policy regarding class cuts. 
Readings: The textbook is Thomas' Calculus. and Analytical Geometry (Sl3.95), which is the same text used in Mathematics 125, 126;225, and 235. 
Organization: The student's grade will be determined primarily by his per­formance on·the three examinations and the final. The quality of the student's homework will be used by Professor Ryan when making borderline grade decisions. 
Comments: The success of this course depends primarily on :he students. Students who had little trouble with Mathematics 125, and who desire a greater· understanding of the theoretical concepts of calculus offered in the Mathematics 125-126 sequence, should find this course worthwhile. This course is not recommended for students who had any difficulties in Mathematics 125. Physics majors and engineering students will find that the additional emphasis placed on t~e theory of integral calculus in this course will help them in future science courses. Non-mathematics majors desiring to transfer to the mathematics major program at the beginning of their sophomore year will discover that Mathematics 136 provides an excellent bridge into the highly theoretical 
Mathematics 265 course. 
Goodhue Math 211 Computer Programming I 
Content: This is an introductory course in computer programn~,ng and problem solving using Fortran-IV batch. The student is also exposed to PL-1, Basic and Fortran IV using the teletype. Emphasis is placed on practical ap­plications of the theory presented in the classroom. Integration, Gaussian elimination, the Gauss-Seidel method of solving systems of linear equations and linear programming are among the topics covered. There are no prerequisites for this course. · 
Presentation: The class lectures are the important part of the course because they present the fundamentals of computer operations. Homework assignments rome from the lecture material and it is in working the homework assignments that ttie student incorporates the fundamentals covered in class. 
Readings: The textbooks are Elementary Computer Applications by Barrodale, Roberts and Ehle ($5.95) and A Guide to Fortran IV Program by Daniel D. McCracken (S4.95). 
Organization: Professor Goodhue's policy in·undergraduate courses has been to administer two tests and a final examination. These tests together with homework assignments and two or three more substantial programs will determine the. student's grade. This semester two teaching assistants were available for consultation if a student was having trouble; this will probably be the case next semester. 
Comments: This course is tremendous for the student who wants to become acquainted with what computers do and what is necessary to make them go. It is a good background course for anyone in any field and provides an opportunity to see how "dumb" the machine really is. 
Clay Math 222 Algebraic Structure~ 
Content: Dr. Clay plans to make this course a theoretical study of groups, rings, and fields. In particular, he will spend more time on groups and fields than on rings, limiting his discussion of ring theory to polynomial rings (the real numbers under addition form a group; under addition and multiplication they are a field). This course is a requirement for sophomore math concentrators. Although this course follows Linear Algebra (Math 221) in the schedule, there are no prerequisites other than a general background in mathematics. 
Presentation: This is a lecture course, in which Dr. Clay intends to stay rather close to the book. An optiona~ tutorial session will probably be set up for those students who-have problems in the course. 
-Readings: Dr. Clay is not sure which book he will use, but it will probably be either Elements of Abstract Algebra by Dean ($11.50) or Topics in Algebra by Herstein (S11.50). If Dr. Clay does use Herstein, he will not go into as detailed a study as Herstein does. 
Organization: _There will be three tests and a final, each of which will be designed to test the student's !Jnderstanding of the material rather than his ability to carry out computations. In all likelihood, one of the tests will be take home. Homework will be regularly assigned. However, Dr. Clay .considers homework to 1:>e only an indicator to each student,as to how well he understands 
. the material._Homework will·not'be formany:.counted.in•the grade. If a studem wjshes to.do extra-credit work, Dr.,Clay will accep~it.r::-: -· 
,... · · · ·._,~_•,,·.:··,,· .. ·:.: .. · -,'course·e\,aluation 
~. r\: ! • ~ :~ 

Comments: Dr. Clay feels that students in engineering who wish to learn algebra on more than a computational level would do well to take this course. Also, students in Arts and Letters who are interested in mathematics would be advised to take this course. Besides the optional tutorial sessions, Dr. Clay will have office hours for students who f:lave trouble with the course. 
Ryan ·Math 438 Topics in Geometry 
Content: Dr. Ryan plans to start out with studying surfaces, their construction and decomposition---sort of "cutting and pasting"...and then vector fields on surfaces. Special problems of vector fields are the problem of "pits, peaks and 
passes" and the (impossible) problem of combing hair on a billiard ball. (A "pit" is a minimum in a vector field, a "peak" a maximum and a "pass" is a saddle point.) After this, Dr. Ryan isn't sure What he will do. One possibility is doing graph theory; another is doing some differential topology. If Dr. Ryan does differential topology, advanced calculus will be a definite advantage; otherwise, the only prerequisite is freshman calculus. Math 437 is not a prerequisite for this course. 
Presentation: Three lectures a week. Readings: The text for the first part of the course will be Initiation to Com­binatorial Topology by Frechet and Fan (paperback). · Organization: There will be two tests and a final, all in class. Homework assignments will count in some fashion towards the final grade. 
Contemments: One goal in the beginning of the course is to get the student to intuitively "see" what is going on. While this is not a major-level course, if Dr. Ryan does do differential topology, this course will be very useful for a student qoing to graduate school in mathematics. Further, while this is a 400 level math rourse, interested science and engineering students should en joy this course. 
Huckleberry Math 324 Statistics 
Content: This course is a sequel to Probability (Math 323 taught by Dr. Huckleberry this semester) and should not be confused with the Math Statistics course being taught this semester. Prerequisite for this course is Math 323 or something similar. Topics to be covered will include laws of large numbers, estimcltion, testing hypotheses and analysis of variance. 
Presentation: Three lectures? week devoted to clarifying and expancling the 

text. Readings: Probability and Statistics by Dwass (S14.95). Organization: There will be two tests during the semester each of which will 
have roughly equal emphasis on lheory and applications. Dr. Huckleberry is not sure whether he will give a final exam or assign a semester project. A homework notebook will be kept and turned in at the end of the semester. 
Comments: Any student who will be using statistics in his work would do well to take this course. Dr. Huckleberry gives good lectures and is available almost all day to any of his students. Dr. Huckleberry is also the person to see if you are interested in. being an actuary. ' 
Polly Nomial Math 314 Advanced Mathematics from an Elementary Point of View . 
Content: The necessary and sufficient condition for taking this course is knowing what a Prime Unitarian Number is. This course has something for everyone ... advanced counting for accountants, map coloring for Army ROTC, ring theory for girls, logs for lumberjacks, integration for sociologists, square roots for botanists, and measure theory for Big Ten refs. Other topics will in• elude Christianity as a study of cross products and a study of homomorphism composition (horn on the range). Having established-the above as the basis, Dr. Nomial will coyer.polynomial rings, division rings, nonassociative rings and bathtub rings. A guest lecturer (possibly Frau Doktor Dot Produktl will talk about finite fields, infinite fields and football fields. Those who get annihilated by the fields test will go on to the Elysian Fields. The special topic at the end of the term will probably be possibility but may also be either a discussion of right and wrong cosets or the problem "whether or not a knot is a knot or not." Finally, the class will discuss Boyer's Law---i.e. mathematical discoveries are never named after the real discoverer•••and whether Boyer's Law applies to Boyer's Law. This course is a sequel to Math 271. 
Organization: After the class solves its identity crisis, it will decompose into groups. For those who find no relations in the course, there will be a free group. However, Dr. Nomial has certain reservations about this group structure---she feels that there is always someone in each· group who adds nothing to the group. 
Presentation: Each group will give a unique presentation of itself. After this, the class will then calculate its own presentation. 
Readings: While this course is open to the whole university, Dr. Nomial does hope that the class will be literate. Each student will have to subscribe to "1he Plane Truth" magazine edited by Garner Ted Strongarm. Other readings wlU·be The Book of Numbers and Sex and the Singular Matrix by "M". Suggested and well-liked by the last class is Group Sex, or Commutativity Makes all the Dif­ference by Abe Eelian. 
comments: DDr. Nomial gives this course her personal touch by being sen• sitive, commutative, and associative. This is an ideal course. Although the material will often seem complex, everything in the course is actually on a real plane. The course itself sometimes goes off on a tangent, but this is not a bad sine. 
nov. 2i;·1972. · · 
as it has to if if is to go anywhere. This course is the math department's answer to "Sex and Marriage"--•it's as easy as pi. Because of the anticipated 9emand for this course, prospective students are urged to ca·I1, write or visit Dr. Otto Morphism, Room 433CCMB, phone 7984. At St. Mary's, call collect. 
Neisendorfer Math 335 Rea I Analysis 
Content: The goal of this Cf'\urse is to teach the student how to do analysis rigorously. Dr. Neisendorfer plans to do the construction of the real numbers, some elementary point set topology, metric spaces, series and sequences, power series and convergence tests, and Fourier Series. If time permits, Dr. Neisen­dorfer will do something on Hilbert Spaces as a prelude to Fourier Series. This course is required for junior math concentrators but may be taken by juniors and seniors in science and engineering. 
Presentation: Three lectures a week. Readings: The text will be Rudin's Principles of Mathematical Analysis (S9.95). . Organization: Dr. Neisendorfer has not clec1ded how to run the course next .semester yet. He thinks he may have one take home test which will probably be harder .than the other tests he gives 
Comments: Dr. Neisendorfer thinks that physics majors would not be wasting their time taking this course ... sorne of !he material, especially Fourier Sl'ries, will be very useful to physics majors who po on to graduate school. 
Mast Math 326 Functions of SeveraI Variables 
Content: This course is intended as an introduction to functions of several variables. While Dr. Mast will assume that the student has a· basic un­derstanding of linear algebra, he does plan to go over the linear algebra needed for the course. Next, Dr. Mast will cover some topics in the calculus of vector functions, including partial derivatives, gradient. the chain rule, line integrals and the inverse and implicit function theorems. Dr. Mast will then cover the theory of vector fields, including the def operator, surface integrals, differential forms and the theorems of Gauss, Stoke and Green. The prerequisite for this course is Math 226. The majority of students in the course are physics majors. 
Presentation: The course consists of three lectures a week. In these lectures Dr. Mast attempts to give the student a more geometric view of the topic than does the text. He also likes to show the application of the theorv to real problems in physics. Occasionally, Dr. Mast will clsk questions to promote student in­terest. 
Readings: The text is Calculus of Vector Functions by Williamson, Crowell and Trotter (third edition, S12.95). The take-home test will require the student to do outside research in the library. 
..Organization: There will be two in-class tests. a take.home test and a final. The take-home is given to the students near the middle of the semester and is due at the end of the semester. Outside research and student collaboration on the take-home are encouraged. Homework will be given but will not be a part of the 
•curse 9rade. This course is required for phy' ,cs majors and is extremely worthwhile for any student who wants to do graduate work in any science using mathematics--for example-, physics, engineering, economics and chemistry. Dr. Mast places emphasis on being able to understand the material rather than being able to reproduce complicated proofs. The purpose of the take-home is to teach the student how to solve the sort of mathematical problems he may run into in doing research. Dr. Mast is friendly and concerned about his students and is even willing to change a test grade if the student can demonstrate to Dr. Mast that he really knows the material. 
Haaser Math 425 Complex Variables 
Content: This course is intended as a broad treatment of the theory of func­tions of a complex variable. Some of the topics to be covered include complex numbers, power series, analytic functions, mapping of ]lolomorphic functions and complex integration. The emphasis in the course will be on the practical aspects of complex analysis, so that less time will be spent on rigorous proofs and more time on stating the results carefully and developing an intuition for the subject. Dr. Haaser will try to make applications pertinent to the students taking the course. Prospective·students should have taken ealculus through Math 226 or the equivalent. 
Presentation: The general format will be that of three lectures a week. Dr. Haaser, as he intends to mold the course to the interests of the students, invites questions and comments. 
Readings: The text will be Introduction to Complex Variables by Greenleaf. 

Organization: Most likely, there will be t~vo tests, each making up 20 percent of the grade, and a final (40 percent J. The remaining 20 percent will come from the weekly homework assignments. 
Comments: Junior and senior science and engineering students should find this course both interesting and useful. Complex analysis ties together much of the subject matter covered in freshman and sophomore year, giving a more coriJplete picture. As such, the course has philosophic merit. Also. there are 11,any applications of complex analysis, the most prominent being fluid mechanics and electrostatics. Although this is an upper.level course requiring a ~lOod m.ath background, it is not designed for math majors, and consequently will be less riqorous. 
Physics 
Rollefson Physics 343 Electronic Devices 
Content: A required course in the physics major's sequence, Electronic 
Devic':!s is an attempt to familiarize the student with the basic components and 
circuits that comprise much of the electronic equipment so important in modern 
scientific experimentation. The student is introduced to transistors, basic 
amplifiers, operational amplifiers, oscillators, pulse circuits and a more ex­
tensive treatment of logical and digital electronics than previously experienced. 
Prior knowledge is helpful as little time is devoted to these. Most students will 
have had freshman and sophomore physics, !Jut any course in elementary 
electricity and magnetism will be sufficient. · Presentation: The course consists of two lecture sessions and one laboratory 
session per week. The lectures concern material contained for the most part in 
the readings, while the laboratory meets all afternoon and constitutes a concrete 
introduction to the topics covered in the lectures. Students are required to build 
certain elementary circuits and to test their operation. 
Readings: Basic Electronics for Scientists by James Brophy is the only 
required text. Course material not included there is provided in handouts. 
Organization: Three tests are administered during the semester on the 
material covered and, along with the final, determine 75 percent of the course 
9rade. The remaining 25 percent is determined by the quality of the lab work, 
the student's effort in the lab, the evaluation of a lab book which the student i? 
required to keep, and a short oral lab quiz. 
Comments: Dr. Rollefson is an able lecturer, capable of taking the some what 
complex, often fragmented material and presenitng it in an orderly and 
digestable manner. The material covered is interesting enough, especially when 
logic circuits are introduced at the close of the semester. 
The laboratory is sometimes frustrating with seemingly more materiel 
required than can be completed in one afternoon. However, Dr. Rollefson has 
arranged to eliminate several of the points of frustration and is confident that 
any student can complete the work in an alternoon--though it may sometimes be 
a long afternoon. 
Kenny Physics 348 Nuclear and Elementary Particle Physics 
Content: This course is an introductory course intended for junior physics majors. The course treats four topics: the nucleus (an introduction to systematics), collision theory of simple systems, elementary pdrticles and symmetry principles, and the strong, weak, and electromagnetic interactions (in both the nucleus and elementary particles). Though divided into these parts, the course will be taught emphasizing a phenomenological approach, thus unifying the student's grasp of the physics. Dr. Kenny wiH try to teach the material in the light of its present status in physics. 
Readings: The course will not be taught according to the outline of a text Nuclear and Particle Physics by Paul will be used as a reference. 
Organization: The course will be a typical physics lecture course. There will be two examinations and a final. The student will" also be expected to read an article from a scientific article and write a report about it. 
Tonasch Physics 350 Solid State Physics 
Content: The course is an introduction to some basic topics in solid state physics and is intended to providethe student a basis from which more advanced work may be done. A broad spectrum of topics is ocvered: all of scientific in­terest and several others with obvious technological implications. Examples or the topics covered include crystal structure and binding, diffraction, lattice vibrations and photons, the free electron, Fermi gas, and. an introduction to energy band theory. The standard majors' sequence in physics is assumed as a prerequisite. 
Presentation: Standard lecture course., 
Readings: The required text is Kittel's Introduction to Solid State Physics, 4th ed., which sells for about $15.00. Only about half of the book is covered, but it is the classic text on solid state physics and therefore well worth the cost. · · 
Organization: The student's grade is determined by three 90-minute quizes, a two-hour final exam, and performance on the homework assignments which count collectively· as one quiz. · 
Comments': The content of the course is sufficiently basic to make the course almost essential for those who intend to do advanced work in physics, but it has other merits as well. Dr. Tomasch is a meticulous lecturer who uses the black­board well; the student has every opportunity to keep a complete set of notes. Dr. Tomasch's enthusiasm for the subject matter is evident in the lectures. He is always willing to confer with a student on a one-to-one basis, and will go to great lengths to clarify a point. His test are well-designed to evaluate un­derstanding of the subject matter, although they sometimes encourage a par­ticular appraach to the problems which Dr. Tomasch has taken in class. 
Funk Physics 450 Physical Techniques Applied to the Life Sciences 
Content: An intermediate level laboratory course taught in cooperation with the Department of Biology. The experiments stress modern physical techniques as applied to the life sciences and include investigations of electrical properties. 
of nerves and muscles, ex-rays, nuclear radiations and detectors, tracer techniques, optics of the eye, and other optional experiments. Intended for Pre, Professional, Biology, and other student interested in the life sciences. Prerequisites: Physics 222, 224 or equivalent. 
Presentation: Empha~is will be mainly on the laboratory integrated with supplementary lectures concerning such material as nerve and muscle physiology, radiation detection methods, and physical instrumentation. Overhead projections are utilized and Mr. Funk provides copies of the notes so the student can concentrate on the lecture material entirely. 
Readings: Although there will be no required texts, one or two will be strongly recommended to the students as primary supplementary texts. Many of the readings may also come from original journal publications. 
Organization: There will probably t-e no tests, the grade ·being determined enti..ely by the student's performance in the laboratory. This will be judged· mainly by the reports submitted after each series of experiments. 
Commets: This course would bean excellent choice as an elective of Junior or Senior science majors with an interest in life science. Since much of the material demands knowledge of various physical processes, the student would be advised to adhere rather strictly to the prerequisites. The biology will be developed as needed. The possiblity of a teaching team of members from dif­ferent departments is probably the biggest asset, because one has material presented from the men who are most familiar with each topic. Mr..Funk, the major instructor, is intimately familiar with the various radiation topics and 
, physical instrumentation. He tends to avoid the rather trivial aspects of ex­periments and the student the~efore can spend his time getting down to the basics of each investigation. Because of this, unless a student is willing to work to utilize the course to a maximum, he would be wise to avoid it. Enrollment will be limited to 12 for the coming semester . 
./ 
' .--.~~·~r:-~ ";~,j'~!\_~. ·:;,\ ,.._; ~·:t-i:-: -;,-=-1: ~ J -: ...;i~,:"~ 
course:evaluation 
st. mary's college 


Paradis Ceramics 
Content: Ceramics is the art of working with clay and all its possibilities. Students begin by learning the basic methods of hand building as an introduction 
•
to the medium. Throwing on the potter's wheel is demonstrated shortly af­terwards, as an alternative and--or supplemental method of achieving a finished work. The complete process of firing is explained, and the glazing of the pieces is done within the following weeks. Emphasis is placed not so much upon quality (in the beginning l as on understanding of the basic fundamentals as they relate to the medium. 

•
·-1rious throwing techniques and glaze experimentation form the core of the ln,_rmediate section of this course. As students expand their creativity in the medium, the understanding of good ceramic design is discussed in more depth. 


Major projects and advanced glaze and form experimentation constitute the Advanced Ceramics course. Students are expected to know the complete process of pot-making, and to assist in some of the firings. 
Presentation: 

The course is presented in 2-hour studio labs, twice a week. But the major por­
tion of the work is done outside of class hours, necessitating an allowance of 
extra time to be put in by the student. Critiques in design and glaze results are 
given as the pieces are made throughout the semester. 
Readings: Two basic texts are used, mainly for outside resources and in­

spiration. They are: Ceramics by ~-~-Nelson, and A Potter's Handbook by 
Bernard Leach. · ·· · 
Organization: The course is designed to be taken on a full-year basis, and 

those students not willing to become involved in the process for a complete year 
are asked not to enroll. It becomes too difficult to attain any degree of 
sophisticated work if the course is limited to only one semester. Two tests are 
given-· a midterm and a final, both based on glaze chemistry. 
Comment: Tfor those interested in making a committment and spending some 

extra hours to become one with the earth, your reward will be the secrets she 
shares. Those not interested in making the effort to form a relationship with the 
clay will waste their time. One soon learns that clay and play are not only fun 
and 9anes. 
Battles Contemporary Criti_c_is_m____-=------­
comments: The course deals with a critique of artists working in more than one discipline. This includes a stress on the interrelationship of the arts, and in depth studies of specific individuals such as: Richard Wagner, Erich Satie, ~ohn Cage/ Leonardo, Michelangelo, Paul Klee, D.H. Lawrence, Henry Miller, Wiiliam Blake, andand e.e. cummings. The readings and lectures center on these figures. The class is organized for experimental learning·. There are no exams or required term papers, but a class presentation involving the entire class is asked of each student. Field trips are also part of the course. 
Paradis Art Form 
com.:nents:· Experiments in form are dealt with by each student in his own choice of materials. Technical guidance and criticism from the aesthetic angle are included, but the student works a great deal of the time on his own. The various media include plaster casting, sculpture in sfone, or clay, metal welding, and just about any other medium a student might wish to explore. Jewelry making is also a part of the course. 

Art 

Kelly Art Advanced Painting 
> 

Comments: The course is directed at students already experienced with painting, and is generally composed of. art majors. There is no set number of paintings required, and a great deal of freedom is encouraged. Critiques and individual st1,1dent-teacher discussions of each work are important. 
Raymo Photography I, II, 111 
Content: Beginning Photography--Use of the camera, film developing, and 

printing. Basic exploration of the photographic medium through a creative 
problem-solving approach. Intermediate Photography--lnvestigation of 
manipulative photographic techniques as a means of picture making. Ex­
perimentation ·with a variety of photographic materials. Advanced 
Photography--Experimental photography using a wide variety of media and 
ideas. Related field trips, films and visiting photographers. Individually 
directed projects. 
Presentation: Projects. introduced through use of slides, books, photographs 

and class discussion. Techniques are presented through group demonstrations 
and student instruction on an individual basis. 
Organization: The semester is arranged as follows: a two week introductory 

session, including introduction to the camera, processing, and printing 
techniques ---followed by a five, two week project sessions. Typical project­
session organization: 1st class day of two week period .. introduction of project. 
slides and ·class discussion; 2nd day of 1st week .. shooting and processing of 
film; 3rd class day .. 2nd week -· printing and darkroom work; 4th class day .• 
2nd week -· group critique of project photographs. 
The last project is followed by a week of preparation for the final presentation 

which includes the mounted, final prints of the best work submitted for each 
project. 
Comment: The assignments give the student direction but do not restrict him. 

The student is allowed to work in any creative manner he pleases. Mr. Raymo 
encourages experimental growth. The whole atmosphere of his classes is open 
and free. It is a demanding course, but one that the student enjoys working for. 
Good work and improvement is expected of the student. As a teacher, Mr. 
Raymo is considered by his students as one of the best they have ever had. All 
leave the course having learned about the camera and the photographic media, 
with the pleasure of knowing they truly en;oyed the course, while learning. 
Levin Art Design 
Content: The object of this course is to learn successful use of line, shape, color, volume and texture. Techniques using various instruments and media are involved. The final objective is combination of technique, varied media, and basic elements of design, in order to develop the student's ability to transfer such elements to other areas besides basic flat pattern and layout. 
Organization: The course will involve 2 studio periods a week (each 3 hours long). The course is ~ssentiallv· a sequence to the first semester course in which basic emphasis was on line in a black and white environment. Mechanical techniques involving instruments such as ruling pen, T-squares, compass and exacto knifes are learned. 
Presentation: This semester will be incorporated into the use of basic clements of design. Projects will involve color as shape, color as volume and 
color  as  texture.  Volume will  also be explored  in  a  variety of media and  
clements.  
53  

Comments: The course is a basic introduction to mechanics, tecnnioues, and media. It is disciplineo in its expression as well as numerous in the numerous projects involved. However, the course is an excellent background for any art major. especially tt.ose..planning a future carea-in design, layout, illustration, advertising or any professional art care€r. 
Lefin Painting Studio Art 

content: Tnis is a studio course designeo to inttoduce the student to painting as a means of creative expression. The course is a study of color, light. space,· shap,;:, ano volume and their relation to the human form. Oil, acrylics, and watef'colors are the primary media used. Students are encouraged to explore the effects of other media, and to mix the various media. 
Economics-Business 
Presentation: Because this is a studio course, each class consists of three hours of work in the studio. There is an informal critique session every two or three weeks during \vhich each person's work is reviewed. Miss Levin en­courages learning through open discussion and honest criticism of each piece of work. 
Organization: 'Work in the course consists of a series of projects. One project is assigned per week to be handed in on Tuesday. Some of the work is done in class. Students are also expecteo to keep a sketchbook throughout the semester. 
Comment: The course is demanding and tends to be time-consµming, but is well worth the time spent. The art department graciously allows non-majors to take the course, which is as valuable to non-majors as majors. An important clement of the course is the emphasis placed on the student achieving personal qrowth through his own analysis and handling of each project. This requires serious effort on the· part of the student. The course is extremely worthwhile in that it allows the student an outlet for creative expression through which he may better understand himself. 
Slaby Bus.-Econ. 251 Principles of Economics I 
Content: This course introduces the student to the subject of economics. 
Because it is ;}nly a semester course, it deals mainly with American economics 
but gives some foundation •o the economizing problem as seen on an in­
ternational basis. The fields of concentration include an introduction to 
American capitalism, national income, employment, fiscal policy, monetary 
policy. economic stability, and American economic growth. 
Presentation: Although this course is predominantly lecture, much time is 
spent on discussion of problems from the two workbooks and any other problems 
that migh1 arise. 
Readings: The main text book is Economics, fifth edition, by McConnell. Two complimentary books used are Economics, Mathematically Speaking by Bingham and Study Guide to Economics !>Y McConnell. 
Organization: Grading is based on four tests, none Qf which are cumulative, 
and occasional pop quizzes. 
Comments: Although Mr. Slaby attempts to answer questions offered by the 
students, they are often left feeling they know nothir3 more than they did before 
they askeo the question. However, he does try and ~s usually success.ful. _ 
Jackson Bus.-Econ. 302 Cost Accounting. 
Content: This course is intended to cover some areas of Accounting 11 but will go intG much more detail. However, the process of cost accounting_will take up the larger portion of class time. Because this course is still in the planning stages, there isn't much more known about it. 
Presentation: Most of class time will be spent on discussion·of problems presented in the book, but there will be a minimal amount of lecturing by the teacher. 
Readings: Mr. Jackson has not decided on a texthook yet. 
Organization: It is-intended that there will be three tests and a final exam that will include material from the beginning of the semester. There will be no papers or any other type of outside nass project. 
Lindower Bus. Econ. 315 Personal· Income Tax 
Content: The course will cover personal income taxation in great detail, in­duding such things as how to file a tax return and for what purposes tax money is used. Time will also be spent on investments, insurance, and on other types of taxation. giving the student an overall background on the workings of taxation. 
Presentation: There will be very little, if any, lecturing by the teacher. In• 
stead, discussion and problem solving wm be the basic format of the class. 
Readings: The main text book will be Your Federal Income Tax by the In­
ternal Revenue Service. There will be two more complimentary books also by 
the Internal Revenue Service. · 
Organization: The number of tests is not known but they will usually be open book exams. The final "'."ill be a tax return w~ich must be completed by the student. 
Jackson Bus.-Econ. 408 Advanced Marketing 
·Content: This course will be somewhat of a continuation of Marketing 1, but it 
will deal with the matter in more detail. Although it handles all aspects of 
marketing, the fields of concentration in the course are marketing planning, 
distribution, consumerism, a,:id theory of retailing. Since this course has never 
been offered before, it is still in the planning stages. 
Presentation: Although there will be some lecturing by the teacher, class will 
basically be a discussion of individual cases and problems presenteo in the book. 
Readings: There will be a case book on marketing but the name of it is not 
known yet. 
__Orga·nization: There will prob~bly be only two exams---a mid-term and the fmal. Other wo~k that will be required includes an independent project in some area of marketing and a few short papers discussing anything relative to the 
course. · . -· ..c:o~·!!lents: Alth?ugh Mr. Jai;:kson is ~;s~-~oing, it is necessary to:do all the work. When problems_ ?rise_, he is mo_r,~.~\h~ij::wi1Jil'\g to explain them to the student and overall, he does a Qood job. 0 · · · · 
course evaluation 
~. 

Jeglic Education 302 Math for Elem. Education 
Many students go into this course with a misconception--that-th-is"""WTIToea course in mathematical methods. The real purpose of this course is a review of arithmetic and geometry on a sophisticated level. The mechanics behind both geometry and arithmetic are studied, and insturction is given in the un­derstanding of the "why" of math instead of the "how". If any methods are shared in the process of the course, they are given as an aside to the basic con­tent. The book used is Mathematical Ideas: An Introduction by Charles D. Miller. There are three tests, the dates of which are announced the first day of class. There are short reviews in class before each test. The final is divided into two parts--the take-home of five general math questions and the regutar two hour final. Dr. Jeglic will take into consideration that the stude11ts in this course may have different math backgrounds. He is exacting and expects performance from his students. 
Bochtler Education 304 Developmenta I Reading 
Comments: This course is geared to the future elementary education teacher The course is spearheaded towards helping the future teacher understand th~ basic foundation upon Which children develop their ability to read. The course offers facts, live examples, and material examples presented through both lecture and discussion. The student is encouraged to both learn how the children's skills develop in reading and to prepare him or herself for a classroom situation. "The First R" is the principal text book though "Teacher" is also read in the course. Furthermore, outside readings may be done in the reserve reading room. There are three exams, none of Which are cumulative. The exams are based on classroom material and the text. The tests ascertain Whether or not the student has grasped the method which has been conveyed. Several different ideas are presented on each subject with no bias given as to Which is the best. One main project is due at the end of the semester. The course itself serves a most beneficial purpose in that it allows a teacher to choose his or her own method of teaching. The professor is an excellent example for the future teacher. He covers much material, opening discussion, to everyone. The class is a most worthwhile Or>"' 1or anyone interested in the education of children. 
Bamenek Education 319 Physical Science 
Comments: Education 319 is the Physical Science course which is required for elementary education majors but is open to everyone. As the name itself im­plies, the content of the course concerns the study of the motions of the earth. Every type of science is covered in this course from physics to astronomy. The Professor, Dr. Bamenek, encourages a relaxed atmosphere in his classroom. The book which he uses for the course is "Investigating the Earth," a science book on the junior high level. One should remember that this course is taken by students whc may not have a science background and therefore the book proves quite useful as reference. The lectures given are correlated with the chapters in the book. There are approximately four tests during the semester and a two hour final. The student is expected to keep a card file of useful information which the future teacher will be able to use in practical experience. Dr. Bamenek is con­cernect with his students and always is willing to help. He tries to keep in mind that the course is only background material, not specificaliy designed for science majors, but open to the campus community at large. 
Education 353 Children's Literature 
Comments: The Children's Literature course is oriented to familiarize students, most of whom are perspective teachers, with the various types of books for children. By the end of the course, the student is capable of choosing those stories, poems, and novels which children enjoy most. Not only can they choose tales that children like best, but they are also able to identify those books which are the most beneficial to young readers. 
The course consists of lectures and discussions of the following books: The Odyssey, Medieval Romances, German Folk Tales, Perrault's Fairy Tales, English Fairy Tales, When Shlemiei Went to Warsaw, The Annotated Alice, The Wind in the Willows, Great Expectations, and The Golden Journey. Each week two reviews, written as analyses of children's books, are required. Poetry readings are presented and discussed by both the teacher and the students. A final term paper is due at the end of the course; the results of this paper can be used later in classroom teaching. 
The course does require a large amount of reading and sincere concentration. However, having done the work with some effort, the student, does gain ~ great deal of knowledge concerning child.~~~s _literature. He becomes aware of exactly Why literature is so important a11d appealing to a child. 
m 
a. 
C 
n 
C
....
-· 
0 
::, 

nov. 27,-1972 
English 
Berberi English 305 Introductory Linguistics --­
Content: A broad introduction to the principles and techniques of general linguistics, including phonologic, morphologic, and syntactic analysis of language in general, with English as the focal language; all foreign language structures are integrated in the course. 
Presentation: Dr. Berberi is undoubtedly one of the most interesting people on campus. His lectures are informative, though somewhat dry, and he integrates his various ideas of life and living into every class. Questions are welcomed enthusiastically, and Dr. Berberi adds such an enjoyable personal touch to his lectures that it makes up for the somewhat dull material. He is extremely learned in his field, and has a great enthusiasm for his subject. 
Organization: Midterm, final, and several ·•practice" quizzes. One oral report or discussion in his office on a linguistic book that is on reserve in the library. One paper on some facet of linguistics, (about 7 pages). Various exercises are due throughout the semester. The only other requirement of the semester is the detailed outlining of any book on the history of the English language. The work load is relatively light, and is mostly "busy" work. · 
Comments: Students are expected to attend class and turn in all assignments. The course is informative, and should oe recommended to students who have a genuine intere,st in the structure of language. The course is worthwhile, and Dr. Berberi's style and quite delightful mannerisms make cla$ meetings very enjoyable. Dr. Berberi makes himself available at all times for extraneous discussions and is quite anxious to promote good student-teacher relationships. He is a fair grader and is not out out to "trap" the students. 
Klene English 351 Shakespeare 
Content: This course covers fifteen plays written by Shakespeare, propor­tioned among the comedies, tragedies, and histories. 
Presentation: Sister Jean spends only a minimal amount of time lecturing to the class. The student is urged to participate as much as possible; it is to the advantage of each student to do so, for a considerable portion of the final grade depends on class participation. 
Readings: The reading list is: Midsummer Night's Dream, Romeo and Juliet, Richard II, I Henry IV, II Henry IV, Henry V, Much Ado About Nothing, As You Like It,Twelfth Night, Hamlet, Troilus and Cressida, Othello, King Lear, Antony and Cleopatra, and Cymbeline. 
Organization: There is only one exam for this course, which is the final. Three short papers dealing with an aspect of three different plays are required; sub­ject matter of the papers is usually left to the student's discretion. 
<:;omments: Sister Jean Kline offers a stimulating course for both majors and non-majors. The knowledge which she has of not only Shakespeare but also the Elizabethan period is vast. It is unfortunate that her lectures are so limited. Her standards of quality are demanding, yet just and fair. 
Vacca English 354 Modern Drama 
Content: This course is a study of the works of playwrights of the modern age, covering a wide range of authors and countries. It begins with an emphasis on the plays of Henrick Ibsen, the originator of modern drama, and includes selections from such authors as Strindberg, Chekov, Shaw, Brecht, Miller, and Albee. 
Presentation: Each student is expected to lead a class discussion which is a dominant feature of the course. · 
Readings: Daniel Dodson, Twelve Modern Plays; Henrick Ibsen, Ghosts and Three Other Plays; Bertolt Brecht, Caucasian Chalk Circle, Galileo, Mother Courage and Her Children; Edward Albee, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. 
Organization: Besides the direction of one class discussion, three brief papers are required. There is a midterm and a final, both largely non-essay. 
Comments: This class is recommended for majors and non-majors alike. Mrs. Vacca conducts it in a relaxing, informal atmosphere that makes for stimulating discussion. She is quite flexible in the time limits set on assignments although she does expect regular class attendance. Mrs. Vacca lends to the discussions her own extensive knowledge of modern dra.ma and provides keen insights into the works studied. 
-h
Kane EngIIS Literature 365 Modern Poetry 
The tern~ "modern" in !his cour:.: does n~t-~ean_ cont~'!1.P~r~~~-an~ ~~~ student ta~mg the course with that m1sconc~pt1on m_ n:11~~ w1I! be disappointed. Th_e stud~ •_ncludes the w~r~s of-such established µoets as Ezra Poundand·T-.S.· Eliot, Wilham Carlos Wilham, Wallace Stevens and Marianne Moore. The. 

co~r~e deals more with the ~raditional than with the modern. There is a good deal of anthology reading, study in form and rhythm, and some commentary. 
The nature of·the course lends itself to.discussion.and .herein lies the heart of the class though there is some lecturing. Class time is used for explor.ation and discussion; it is not merely a reiteration of homework. 
The reading assignments are given from class meeting to class meeting necessitating regular attendance. The daily readings generally include a· number of poems by one or two poets to be prepared for discussion. Five books costing about S15.00 are covered during the semester. 
There are no papers, no quizzes. There is only a final plus an individual's in­tense study of one poet, to be given orally, privately or in class. A limited number of written exercises are included in daily assignments. The bulk of one's grade depends on class participation. 
Sister Franzita hopes that the course will give students the opportunity to read poetry which would normally be overlooked. The class provides time to simply talk about and enjoy poetry. In this type of class, based primarily on informal discussions, a definite teacher--student rapport is most necessary. Sister Franzita takes a formalist approach towards poetry that sometimes seems elementary though she deems it necessary. It is Sister's assumption that after successfully completing this course the student will be capable of handling nearly any poetry.over the next twenty years. 
English Neoclassical Literature 
Content: This course attempts to present the climate and thought of this period as explored through the writings of four men: Dryden, Pope, Swift, and Johnson. The course not only instructs the student in 17th and 18th Century thought, but also teaches the student how to effectively read poetry, recognize patterns of argument, deal with modes of presentation, and appreciate the "poetic ex­perience". In keeping with this period, the course also has a philosophical flavor. 
Presentation: The course is a combination lecture-discussion class. The lectures, however, are offered in a conversational mode which makes the course more accessible and interesting and less conducive to note-taking. Class par­ticipation comprises about 25 percent of course presentation. 
Readings: Throughout the course the student is required to read: Selected Works from Dryden (including at least one major play); Selected Works of Pope; Gulliver's·Travels by Swift; Selected Works of Samuel Johnson; and Rasselas by Samuel Johnson. 
Organization: The student is required to take a mid-term and final exam, along with several pop quizzes. At least one short paper (3 pages) will be assigned. 
Comments: The course relies greatly upon the student's individual ability to handle the material. It is comprised primarily of English Majors as it is a required course in this department. Much outside personal study is required to appreciate ttfe course. 
Michaud Romantic Movement 
This is an excellent course for the student interested in the discovery ~f the 
"self." Mr. Michaud explores the concious and the unconscious in an attempt to 

discover the aesthetic theory and pra..a;ce of the Romantic poets. The Romantic 
movement itself is a spiritual journey ~~ich moves from the realm of nature to a 
fr~edom of the imagination. The quest'is to attain a concious awareness of the 
self as well as to 1tensify it. The studetf will struggle with the Romantic concept 
of reason as opposed to feeling and the jfro!>h!wl of death as he reads Coleridge, 
Wordsworth, Blake, Keats and Shelre,. • 
Mr. Michaud's lectures are·stimulating and thoroughly prepared. He invites 

questions and student opinion and is truly excited when a student is , "enlightened." A Romantic at heart, Michaud only assigns two short papers (seven pages), and a final. Michaud's teaching ability and creative mind make 
this class more than a worthwhile _experience. · 
Bosco Poetry Writing 

Jhe poetry writing course at St: Mary's is one of discovery and of personal expression. It is geared for students who are seriously interested in writing, whether they be experienced or are just beginning. Students meet in informal discussion groups or workshops where one-third of the ciass time is devoted to selected rE:adings and the remaining twosthirds to reading and discussing the stu_~l'!nJs'. OV\!n poetry. A~ong the r_ea~i'?_gl> ~r,e·i~cluded On Creative Writing, a collection of illustrated ess_ays on vario_~;gef!re~_~f literature,edited by Paul 
· · ··Engle, Director:·of the· Program-of-Ci:eative-Wi:lting,at the. University.of Iowa;. . Modern Poetry & the tr·adition,· a "synthesis ·of .;,odern ·crltical~opinion on 
course evaluation 
.:.. ""-~ 

poetry" by Cleanth Brooks, Gary Professor of Rhetoric, Yale University, ana Ariel, a collection of poems by Sylvia Plath. In addition to the above, students may bring in anthologies which they feel would contribute to the general overview on poetry as a genre. Students write on topics with a certain emotion in mind as mental gymnastics which enable the student to use as much creative perception as possible. The student, through writing and discussing the written poetry, tries to define what a poem is, and the essence of her own style. In ad­dition to class, there are special workshops which the student is under obligation to attend. Different writers criticize the student's writings, discuss various poetical methods and give pointers which aid the student in becoming a better writer, a better poet. There are no papers per se, as the student is constantly writing for two out of the three fifty-five minute classes each week. There is some type of exam at the end of the semester although Mr. Bosco has not divulged its content as of yet. It seems as though it will require the use of the student's creative faculties as he has named it "CATSUP" on the semester syllabus: "Figure it out yourself." It is my opinion that the course can be useful, interesting, and of a "good" quality-if the student takes advantage of the op­portunity to write and improve him or herself by doing so. The student must be of a curious and serious nature, willing to take the initiative towards growing creatively through Mr. Bosco's excellent directives and serious concern for the student as a creative individual and perhaps, if he or she works at it, ... a poet. 
Bosco Fiction Writing 
Content & Organization: Mr. Bosco desires to make this course .ei,-in aesthetics as well as a writing course. The studtmts are expected to turn in everything from brief character sketches to longer short stories. Due to the nature of the course there are no exams, but students are to receive grades according to their participation and initiative. 
Presentation: There are no lectures; -the class consists of discussion and criticism of student's work by the students themselves. The readings are discussed occasionally. 
Readings: The Poetic Image in Six Genres, David Madden; On Creative Writing, ed. Paul Engle; As I Lay Dying, William Faulkner; The Bell Jar,-S,ywie IUath; Tristram Shandy, Laurence Sterne. 
The readings are intended to aid and inspire the students in their writing, but they are not studied in detail. 
Comments: This is Mr. Bosco's first semester at St. Mary's and his first semester of teaching. The class meetings frequently degenerated into student bull sessions with little or no direction by the professor. Due to the scarcity of. deadlines and no grade pressure, students without self-motivation to write find procrastination an ever present problem. Mr. Bosco is a sincere and dedicated teacher, but seems to lack experience in bringing out the student's potential. 
Kane Survey of English Literature 
The course concerns English Literature between the fourteenth and eighteenth centuries including plays, prose, and various types of poetry, all of which are interesting selections . from a wide range of authors. The book is helpful in giving the student background into the respective periods and biographical notes about the author aid the student in understanding the motives for themes. 
The class is rigidly constructed and little of the work assigned is·actually discussed in class. Sr. Franzita is \·ery well read in this period of literature and expects a high degree of comprehension from her students. Two to three times per week, a quiz is given of a three minute duration which somewhat limits the students' time·in answering a reflective question. :rhe material covered is ex­tensive and though the tests are inclusive, there is a diverse range of questions requiring considerable knowledge in each of the areas studied. 
Noel 'American Novel 
This course consists of American ,literature ranging from the 18th to 2oth century, an elaborate study of various styles, and thematic structures. It moves in a rapid progression from the early American novels of Cooper, Hawthorne, Melville-and Twain, to the contemporary works of Howells, James, Norris, Hemingway, Barth, and Bautigan. 
The course is primarily lecture although Miss Noel's intellectual wit sup­plemented by the readings, stimulates interesting class discussions. The requirements involve extensive readings, as many novels are discussed in detail in a limited amount o.t time. The course demands two brief papers, two evening exams, and a final. 
This course is a definite challenge, yet very enjoyable and worthwhile. 
Klene Entlish Maior Renaissance Writers 
-'-------·----·--------------------­
The contenfof th~ course consists of the major writers of 16th century England such as Marlowe,, Sidney and Spenser:·and those of the'17th century such as Donne, Jonson,· and Milton. Tliese are si.ipplemented by brief studies in More, ­Wyatt, Surry,.and ·castiglione: ' • · · ' · · 
These writers are presented against the background of. English society during the reign of Elizabeth and James I. All the trends of the day including mythology, the classics, Ciceronianism, neo-platonism, pageantry and man­nerism are blended into the literary selections. Other trends such as humanism, science, the pastoral and the masque are also explored. With such a historical, social, and literary framework, students are expected to discuss and suggest ideas to contribute to its unity. . 
The prose selections include Sidney's Defense of Poesy, Castiglione's The Courtier, More's Utopia, and Nashe's Unfortunate Traveler. Poetry ranges from Marlowe's Hero and Leander, Milton's. P=>radise Lost Spenser's Faerie Queene, and Shakespeare's Venus and Adonis to sonnets and songs of Spenser, Sidney, Shakespeare, Wyatt,·· , Surry, and Donne. Drama selections are taken from Marlowe's Dr. Faustus and Tamberlains, and Jonson's Alchemist. 
Requirements include class participation. mid-term, final examination, and two papers. Sr. Jean provides a broad spectrum ·of the Renaissance as · many elements outside of its literature are exr;lored in depth. Themes, trends, styles, and patterns are traced which provide a united structure to study the major literary figures and works of the era. Outside refere~ces and critiques ar~ encouraged to deepen student's insights into the age. But Sister Jean's solid background in this era perhaps provides the greatest wealth of informat\on. 
Detlef English Literature Chaucer 
Content: Chaucer as taught by Mr. Detlef can be quite an experience to the interested student. The content is· what one might expect from a course in Chaucer: thoughtful and detailed study of Chaucer's major works as well as relevant literature of the period. 
Presentation: Mr. Detlef is most knowledgeable'in background, and source material, and humourous anecdotes concerning the works. He presents his in­terpretation of Chaucer strictly through lectures, which sometimes take a rather slow pace. However, they are always helpful to the understanding of the assigned readings. _ 
Readings: The readings include: St. Augustine's On Christian Doctrine, Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy, Coccaccio on Poetry, in/addition to the \.orks of Chaucer himself: Canterbury Tales, Book of the Duchess, and flomance of the Rose. Also included is Emile Male's The Gothic Image. 
Organization: The course requirements include one paper, and three examinations, not including the final exam: 
Comments: The professor and the course arP h('th good and well worth the student's time. The class is almost always enlightening with the exception of Fr. Detlef's tendency to get bogged down in what often seem to be insignificant details. 
nov:27,·197f ' 
History 
Tull History 312 U.S. History since 1865 ­
Content: The course deals with the development of the political, economic, and social institutions in the United States·-from the period of the Reconstruction to the present-Much emphasis is placed on the presidents and the details fotheir elections, the New Deal and Franklin Roosevelt, and America's involvement in the two World War5. The class is comprised mostly of Junior History majors but many students from St. Mary's and Notre Dame select this course as an elective. 
Presentation: The cour5e i5 based primarily on lectures by Dr. Tull with very little class discussion. Dr. Tull does emphasize, however, that student questions are welcome and occasionally very interesting discussions result. Dr. Tull's lectures are long, and note taking is continuous during the entire 75 minutes. However, hi_s subject matter more than compensates for this. His lectures are biographical in nature giving interesting insights into the characters of various figures in U.S. History•·-facts which are unobtainable from the readings. Most of his lectures contain material of this kind ---the readings are meant to com­plement the class presentations and this fact is made obvious to the student. 
Readings: Tile readings are basically rnterestinq and3nd informative; they in­clude. Current, Williams and Freidel's American History: A Survey, vol. II, George Mowry's Th.e Era of Theodore Roosevelt,; Arthur Link's Woodrow Wilson and the Progressive Era; F.L. Allen's Only Yesterday, William Leuchtenberg's F.D. R .. and the New Deal; and Louis Lomax's The Negro Revolt. 
Organization: There is' a mid-term and a final exam consisting-of iden­tification, essay and multiple choice questions. Dr. Tull also requires two critical book analyses selected from the bibliographies at the end of selected chapters in the text. There are also in-class quizzes on the various readings which consist of a choice of essay questions selected from basic ideas presented in each book. The final gr.;de is determined on a percentage basis: mid-term--35 percent, quizzes--20 percent, book reports--10 percent, final exam--35 percent. 
Comments: For the most part Dr. Tull's class is extremely infor~ative and interesting. He has a dry, subtle wit which animates the lectures and which projects his personality to his students. Dr. Tull is considerate of students' problems and is very willing to accomodate various conflicts in a student's academic schedule. The course would be advantageous to anyone who has even a vague.interest in the subject, for Dr. Tull is excellent in cultivating a deep appreciation of United States History. 
Black History 342 Europe in 20th C.entury 
Content: This course covers the events of the 2oth century that shook and 
reshaped the world. Major overviews entail WW I, WW 11, a study of Hitler and 
his influences in Germany before and during WW 11. Special attention is given to 
WW 11 and its effects afterw2rd on European government, politics and leaders. 
The course title is self-explanation of the course topic material, aside from 
topics brought up in class discussion. 
Presentation: Lecture classes are fast moving with interesting opinionated 
(perhaps oiasedl interjections that are allowed to the historian, Dr. Black. 
1here is very little class discussion usually, aithough it is invited by the 
professor. 
Readings: The text is Europe since Waterloo by Robert Ergang, Ph. D. Also, 
The Approach of war 1938-1939 by Christopher Thorne and Hitler, a Study in 
Tyranny by Alan Bullock. 
Organization: There are three one hour tests, one cumulative; one 10 page 
paper concerning some topic in the readings is required as a creative attempt to 
evaluate or interpret an event with hfstorical significance. 
Comments: Dr. Black demands attendence unless the student is sick; class 
absences will affect the grade. Tests are fair but very comprehensive. Lectures 
and class participation seldom vary with a movie or other media, other than 
maps. On the whole, Dr. Black knows his history and consequently designs a 
good lecture with the interesting personaJ"conservative anecdotes he is famous 
for. 
Pullapilly History 352 Rise and Fall of Western Im­perialism.... 
Content: This course deals with the European co1onization of Asia and Africa. The semester of study will begin with the first colonizations in the late 15th century. Emphasis will not be placed so much on specific events; rather, stress will be put on themes such as the following: 1. how political control was established over the areas; 2. how the European countries ran the Asjan and African lands; 3. what cultural and general political changes resulted from the colonization; 4. how nationalism increased in the late 19th century and led to the 
exp~Jsion of the colonial powers. The course concludes with a study ot rn~ a,-­termath of WW 11. . -• • • 
Presentation: The course will be b~sically lecture. Stud_ent part1c1pat1on and questions are welcome but most "student participation" will take the form of student projects. , . . . 
Readings: The course readings have not-yet been selected but will consist of , several paperbacks. . 
Organization: Since the course is a thematic study, there ~111 be no tests. students instead will write "theme" papers and execute a proIect on~stud~nt­selected topics. . . . , 
comments: Because this is a new course, the way rt rs handle~ by Dr. Pullapilly will most likely be greatly influenced ~Y _s~udent d~rres. D_r. Pullapilly is very concerned with the students on ~n rn~1v_1dual ba)lrs an_d will help students choose topics and select readings from b1bl1ographfes which he 
Roa&. 
The course is open to non-majors as well ashistory majors. 
Cassidy History 354 S1,::,Saharan Africa 11 
content: This course will be exploring Africa south of the Sahara in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries. It will include the influential factors con­cerning this area and time in history. Presentation: A joint effort will be made by the professor and the students throughout the duration of the semester to present, develop and discuss the material. · Readings: The reading material has not yet been decided upon, although a variety-of books are available on this subject. , comment: Dr. Cassidy is hoping that this will be an "involved-class" course. A prepared class is necessary for the success of the semester. 
Zatko Hist. 373 Soviet Bloc since 1945 
Content: This course might be termed a history of culture and folklore since early 18th ·century. The emphasis has been on the culture progression of the Slavic countries, with little reference to the politics. 
Organization: The course consists of lectures, but comments from the 
students often interrupt these. Often unorganized, Father Zatko has a habit of 
rambling about his own experiences. The lectures are hard to follow, for he does 
not pursue a single thought pattern. Not taking is very_difficult. 
Reading: No text book or assigned readings as such, but an extensive list is 
given to choose from for outside reading. 
Organization: Midterm, final, and four book reports of about 4 to 5 :-,ag£:S each. 
Comments: As stated before, this is a highly unorganized course, arrd one feels 
as if he might be in the· midst of a Freshman year Western Civ. course rather 
than an upper division history or gove,rnment course. As far as giving any 
knowledge of communism in the east central European countries, this course is 
completely wor:thless. 
Pullapilly History South Asia 11 
Content: Dr. Pullapilly's course will begin with an investigation of the cultural origins of several South Asian states. Concentration, however, will center on contemporary situations and developments. The countries to be under con­sideration include: (l) Ceylon, (2) Cambodia, (3) Thailand, (4) Indonesia, (5), Burma~ (6) Malaysia~ and (7) Vietnam. 
Presentation: The course will follow a lecture format with individual student reports, movies, and slides supplementing the program. 
Readings: A single textbook will be used: In Search of South East Asia, a modern history. Selected readings on specific countries will also be required, but these should be designated by the professor throughout the semester. 
Organization: There will be no tests, but the student is required to fulfill one of the following options in order to complete the course successfully: (1) a short summation (3-5 pages) on each of the above mentioned countries; (2) a special niaior project on a single country, period, or person-which is to be presented as an oral report and must include a bibliography. Dr. Pullapilly will help select the topics for the above reports. 
Comments: This course can be beneficial to all students because of the significance of South Asiai:i problems in contemporary times. Dr. Pullapilly is sensitive to any difficulties which his students might encounter, and is always willing to help resolve such problems..The class meets twice a week for 75 minutes and tends, at times, to drag a bit.' 
course ey~luation 

Presentation: Lecture orientated; questions permitted. Readings: One text, and a number of dittographic handouts. Zatko History 432 . Russia and Eastern Europe 11 Organization: A choi~e of four book reports, or two book reports and one term paper. Two tests and a final. 
Content: The material of this course provides added insight into the Comments: Majors and non-majors alike may find this course to their liking. development of the Russian state. Coverage begins in the early 17th century and Lectures are both informative and interesting, for Eastern Europe is Fr. Zatko's ends with the present day, placing emphasis on only significant trends and specialty. The workload is not unbearable, nor is the grading policy. The im­events. "Social, c_ultural, political, and economic" aspects are presented, the portance of this course is obvious in light of Russia's position in the modern latter two being particularly stressed. world. 
O'Brien Hum. St. 19th Century Art 
Content: Although this course has not been previously offered, it should be a 

good class since the course content is interesting and Miss O'Brien is well versed 
in the field of art history. Emphasis will be placed on 19th century French 
painting, but sculpture and architecture will also be explored. Some of the ar­
tists discussed will be Ingres, Delacroix, Van Gogh, Gauguin as well as the 
Impressionists. · 
Presentation: Miss O'Brien usually presents a lecture with slides, but she does 

encourage discussion. Qn occasion this style of presentation becomes fatiguing, 
but only because much material must be covered in a short time. 
Organization: The work load is relatively light. No texts have as yet been 

chosen, but there will probably be 2or 3short paperbacks. There is a midterm, a 
final and a 10 page paper, each counting approximately one-third of the final 
grade. · 
Comments: This should be an excellent course for anyone interested in 19th 

century art, as Miss O'Brien is bo.th competent in art history and an enjoyable 
person as welI. · 
Schlesinger Hum. St. Cultural History IV 
Comments: Cultural History is, as the name implies, a history course. The emphasis is not upon minutia, however; Cultural History treats the political, philosophical, religious, literary, artistic and social trends of of various areas in the life of Western man. Dr. Schlesinger's lectures are stim,ulating and tightly knit; each lecture completes the meaning ofthe previous lecture and anticipates the theme of the following. Cultural History IV will treat the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, specifically from 1815 to the present. Nineteenth century movements which will be studied include naturalism, liberalism, socialism, imperialism, and the rise of democracy. Twentieth century movements include communism, fascism, and the post-War world. 
Cultural History IV is designed primarily for second semester senior Hum­anistic Studies majors. The class meets three times a week at 2:00 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Attendance is important; Dr. Schlesinger allows few cuts. The booklist includes five or six paperback~; the readings accompany the lectures. The required work load is minimal, yet constant, for example, a preparation of thirty pages for each class meeting. Dr. Schlesinger assigns a short book report which is due by the end of the semester; there are two tests, a mid-term, and a final. Class participation is encouraged . 
. .. .. . . 
... ' ) .... .. '~ 

nov. 27•; ,1972·­
Humanistic Studies 
Humanistic Studies Program 
Humansitic Studies is an interdisciplinary major which introduces the student 
to various aspects of Western civilization, with history, literature, art, theology, 
and philosophy viewed as interrelated factors. 
Rather than relying on conventional textbooks, the course uses, whenever 
possible, works of synthesis based on critical scholarship as well as original 
works by major authors such as Augustine, Dante, Erasmus, More, Luther, 
Pascal, Voltaire, Goethe, Marx, Ibsen, Camus, Toynbee, and others. 
In contrast to the customary method of classroom lectures, Humanistic 
Studies emphasize discussion and dialogue. In this way the program hopes to 
over·come the passive attitude prevalent among so many college students. 
The Program is committed to the view th'at humanistic studies "directly in­.volve men in the anguish, achievements, and asi:-irations of other people, and in 
incurringhuman questions of artistic form, moral value, and personal belief." 
(James Billington, Princeton University) 
Graduates of the Humanistic Studies Program have successfully used their 
college training as a preparation for teaching in colleges, high schools,'anti 
Montessori schools, for work in paralegal studies, government service, jour­
nalism, administration, public relations. and other occupational fields, as well 
as a basis for pursuing further study in graduate schools and law schools. 
Schlesinger Hum. St. Cultural History II 
Content: Cultural History 11 deals mainly with three events: the decline of the Middle Ages, the rise of the Renaissance and the Reformation. Dr. Schlesinger presents these as important periods in the development of Western man,not only for their immediate effects but also for their long range consequences. 
Readings: Most of Dr. Schlesinger's lectures coincide with the assigned readings, which are of moderate length. These readings include selections from Huizinga's The Waning of the Middle Ages, Gilmore's The World of Humanism, Chadwick's The Reformation and Harbison's The Age of Reformation. Though the work load is somewhat light, the course remains challenging. 
Organization: There will be a midterm, a final and one 6to Spage book review. Dr. Schlesinger does not demand that the student do a lot of outside work, but he does expect regular class attendance since his lectures are an integral part of the course. 
Comments: Most students enjoy these historical periods and expecially Dr. Schlesinger's approach to them. He is an exceptional professor and his Cultural History is a very exciting, vital course. 

Language 
Bayhouse 20th Century French Novel.. 
Content: In teaching this course~ Sister Anna Teresa proposes to study the 20th 
Cemur·1 French Novel as a way of investigating the evolution of Frehcn thought 
from the eno of the 19th Century 10 the present day. This analysis will entail a 
chronological survey beginning with the literary tradition of the 19th Century, 
proceeoing tp 7he transitional period with Proust, the novel of research, "lit­
terature engagee" and concluding with the "noveau roman." 
Presentation: Probing into the modern novel necessitates an awareness of the 
ph;losopht and social trends of the times. Sister Anna Teresa hopes to provide 
This anc she is certainly most qualified in this field. 
Organization: The class will be conducted in a series of short lectures followed 
ny ciscussions in symposium style. Sister wants to include small group oral 
reports to enhance participation and involvement. One major paper will be 
reouired, The topic left to the student's own choice. The testing procedure 
comprises one final exam in which the students will be allowed to exhibit the 
!echniques and ioeas which they have learned. This course is obviously for 
maiors ano otners wno are very well prepared to read and study in depth the 
works chosen by the professor. 
Readings: Novels of Proust, Gide, Mauriac, ,.Aalraux, Sartre, Camus, Butor, 
and Julien Green. 

Bomer French Readings 
Procedure: Readings done out of class and then discussed in class. Professor 
Bomer presents his ideas but strongly enocurages his students to discuss them 

and present their own ideas. There are 2 short papers (2 pages), a few quizzes, 
homework is graded, ano there is a final exam which is not cumulative. 
Readings: There are short readings from the 20th century upon which 

questions are based which demand stylistic analysis rather than mere content 
analysis. There are 1or 2complete length works which are also read. There may 
be some outside readings from the 18th century through toe 20th. 
Corbett The Age of Enlightment 18th Century French literature 
The Age of Enlightenment is the age of outstandi11g French philosophers. In 
this course the student will study several well known authors and learn how 
many of their ideas influenced society and later literary works. 
The C-ollection Litteraire book of the 18th century by Lagarde and Michard will 
be used as a basic reference book. In addition to this book, the student will read 
several-individual works which are found in paper-back editions. They include 
Les Lettres F-ersanes of Montesquieu, Zadig and Le Dictionnaire Philosophique 
of Voltaire, Le Neveu de Rameau and some Extraits-0f Diderot, Les Reveries du 
Promeneur Solitaire and excerpts from both La Nouvelie Heloise of Rousseau 
and from L'Encyclopedie. 
Emphasis is placed on teacher's leacures and class discussions. A lecture class will probably be followed by two class discussion periods. There will be a mid-term and approxiamtely three short ( 2 to 3 pages) papers during the semester. The final will be a paper, around 5 pages, the choice of which is either suggested by the teacher six weeks in advance or left up to the student. Flexibility, however, is stressed so that the students may voice their own opinions about the procedures used in the course. 

Quinterros Lang. ·Latin American Fiction 
Content: This class is a look at the fiction which has come from Latin American countries,.by looking at a few outstanding novels by Latin American authors. It also treats of some representative short stories from Latin America. 
Presentation: Mostly a lecture class with class discussion and presentations by members of the class. There are also films and slides to enhance an un­derstanding of the locations of the novels. 
Reading: Novelistas Contemporaneos Hispanoamericanos by Fernando Alegria; Maria by Jorge lsaacs;.Los de abajo by Mariano Azuela; El Hermano a5no by Eduardo Varrios; Dona Barbara by Romulos Gallegos; Don Segundo Sombra by Ricardo Guiraldes; Pedro Paramo by Juan Ruffo. 
Organization: After approximately every three novels, there is a written test in class. In addition, at the end of the course, a long, (approx. 8 pages) term paper in Spanish must be written. 
Comments: Miss Quinterros has an·excellent background in literature and culture and adds a considerable amount to the class. She enriches the class by lecturing about the history and background of the author and the location of the novel. Her selection of books seems to be very comprehensive and represen-. tative of Latin American literature. 
de la Torre Spanish El Cuerto Espanol 
Content: This course deals with the Spanish short story, its history and 

tecnniques. ,v1rs. de la Torre opens the course with a lecture concerning the 
history of the short story. On this basis, the remainder of the course is built, 
culminating in effective analyzation of short stories by the students. A secon­
dary though important objective is the improvement of students-' conversational 
and written skills in Spanish. 
Presentation: The course follows a lecture format, though class discussion is 

strongly encouraged. All lecturing and discussion is done in Spanish. 
Readings: Two texts will be covered during the course of the semester: 

Cuertos Espanoles def Siglo Veinte, and Visiones de Hoy. 
Organization: Daily class preparation generally consists of reading one short 

story. Furthermore, each student will be required to prepare a presentation of 
one short story which will be given during a class period. The presentation 
carries the weight of a test, and wilt be included in the final grade. Tests proper 
include only a mid-term and a final. There will also be a paper on the Spanish 
short story due at the end of the semester. 
Comments: Mrs. de la Torre is a very pleasant woman, as well as being an 

interesting teacher and lecturer. Her tests are difficult as.the student is asked to 
recall, practically word for word, the contents of the professor's lectures. The 
course is valuable for any student wishing to continue the study of Spanish. Not 
only will the student learn about an important element in Spanish literature, but 
he-she will also imorove vocabulary and conversation in Spanish. -
Luita Spanish Civil War 
. -------------------------------­
Content: This course deals with the Spanish Civil war and although it touches 

upon the background of Spanish history,_it deals primarily wiht the years 1930­
1940. 
Presentation: The class is mainly lecture each day about the reading and also 

participation by the class with each member dealing with a specific chapter or 
book and repor:ting to the class. 
Readings: The Spanish Civil War by Hugo Thomas; El hombre de la Cruz Verde by S. Serreno; Los cipresses creen en Dios by Jose Gironella; La Familia de Pascual Duarte by Camilo Cela; Fiesta al Noroeste by Ana Maria Matute. 
Organization: After each book is covered in class, there is usually a take-home 

exam. There is also a final. 
Comment: Mr. Lauta is an excellent teacher for this course because he and his 

family actually lived throughout this period in Spain. He is able to add so much · 
of his own experience to the class and makes it infinitely more interesting and 
enjoyable. Also the informal atmosphere of the class makes it free from 
pressure. 
de la Torre The Spanish Middle Ages 
Content: Literature of the Spanish middle Ages from works in the 12th century (El Poem a de Mio Cid) to the works in the late 15th century (La Celestina). · Readings: ~I Poema ~e mio Cid, El libro de buen amor, El romancero, La Celestina, and selections from Antologia de la Literatura Espanola by Del Rio. 
Organization: One term paper dealing with the subject material. One com­

prehensive class presentation of another specific area in the subject material. 
Two exams---midterm of an objective nature, final of an essay nature. 
Comment: The material studied is difficult in that it deals with literature 

written in a primitive and formative stateof the Spanish language. An attempt is 
made to put the literature studied into a historical and cultural context. Mrs. de 
la Torre is very competent in her field and eager to assist the student in un­
derstanding the material. Class presentations by the students are useful in that 
the student delves comprehensively into an area of the subject material. There 
is question of the total benefit of the other students as to correctly understanding 
and completely covering the material presented. More clarification and-or 
summary of t~e ~aterial by the instructor is appropriate and necessary. The 
test of an ob1ect1ve nature appears to be too specific and not an accurate 
measure of the st~dent's ability to deal with and interpret the literature. 
~aita -Spanish Composition and Syntax 
Content: This course contains reading from a grammar book and a com­

par~!ive civilisation book but the main content of the course is the daily com­
pos,t,ons done by each student. 
-Pres~?tation: Mr. Laita teaches a review of grammar and also an analysis of . the wrrt,~g style_s of well-known Spanish writei:-s. He also corrects commonly-
made mistakes m student work-· 
course evaluation 

Readings: Fondo Y Forma, Gustave Andrien, the grammar review book·; Modos de Vivir by Julian Maris, a comparison of life in the U.S. and Spain. Organization: Composition of varying lengths are due daily. There is a monthly grammar exam. 
Comment: Although the grammar review is rather dray and boring, it is necessary to perfect one's Spanish. Mr. Laita realizes this and does his best to liven the class with interesting subjects to write about, and discussions about life in Spain. He also is a great help to students because he corrects each com­position very carefully and shows the best way for the student to express himself in Spanish. 
Berberi Italian Special Studies 
Italian: Special Studies, a three credit hour course, offers contin'ued practice in conversational skills and vocabulary building to the student with some 
·background in Italian ·conversation and grammar. Signor Beroeri·, the profess r, is very demanding, requiring both seriousness and dedication tc learning on the part of the student. Yet, Berberi's classes maintain an ex­ceptionally informal atmosphere. 
0 

Tl1e text used is Giorno per Giorno by Louis Kibler & Mariquita Noris, published by Macmillan. Two chapters are assigned for each class, which meets for one hour once a week. 
A student's success in this course, i.e. in learning Italian, directly corresponds to the degree of conscientiousness with which he has followed Signor Berberi's assignments and recommendations. Signor Berberi's value as a professor at SMC is reflected in his quality of teaching---he has both an outstanding capability as a professor and an exceptionally sincere concern for each in­dividual student's success in the course. 
Mathematics 

Jeglic Math 211 Elementary Number Theory 
Content: As an introduction, Dr. Jeglic will spend about two weeks on sym­bolic logic and set theory to ease the student into the ideas of number theory. (For specifics, see the Bulletin of St. Mary's College, 1972-73). Principally, the course is designed to acquaint the student with the art of mathematical proofs. This art develops due to the theoretical aspect of the course. However, practical problems, such as diaphonic equations, are not neglected. Elementary number theory is primariiy for sophomores intending to major in math. Those wishing to supplement their basic math courses, those undecided about a math major, and the better freshmen students of Calculus I are also invited in order to compare this type of mathematics to calculus. Since it differs appreciatively from the "type of math found in calculus, it should help one decide about the field in general. 
Presentation: Dr. Jeglic has a captivating enthusiasm in presenting material but the student does have to keep up with him. He explains things clearly and precisely, but rapidly. He encourages response from his students in the form of questions, if comprehension is lacking, and to answers to his questions directed toward any student at random. 
Readings: The required text is Elements of Number Theory, by I.A. Barnerr, and supplementary problems and sheets are pr~vided. During the course, the student is referred to other books in the same field. 
Organization: There will be three tests and a final. The final includes two or three problems that can be done at home. Regular homework must be handed in. 
Comments: Although hard work is involved, the feeling of "playing with numbers" (as Dr. Jeglic describes it) is sure to be experienced. Dr. Jeglic has a dynamic attitude toward his subject, which is quite contagious. His tests are fair and pertinent, but one finds the amount of material needed to be learned con­siderable. However, what one learns is helpful in many other types of math, or mathematically oriented courses. The class is a relatively small one. 
Prullage Math 318 Elements of Probability and Stati~fics 
Content: This course is a theoretical approach to the concepts of Probability and Statistics. Dr. Prullage plans to stress mathematical theory rather than applications, although some practical problems will be studied. 
P'resentation: The course will basically be a lecture course but Dr. Prullage encourages class participation and welcomes any questions pertaining to his lec,tures. 
Readings: The text, Introduction to Probability and Statistical Inference by Harold Larsen, is easily readable and equally divided between probability and statistics. · 
Comments:: Dr. PruII age has a breadth of knowledge in this field. He plans to gear the course to the level of the class and is willing to conduct extra problem sessions if the students so desire. His explanation of the subject matter is usually very clear and he intends to give the student a firm background in Probability and Statistics for future use. 
Miller Math 362 Topology 
content: This is a course in introductory topology. Topology has its roots in geometry.and analysis. It encompasses the study of real and complex functions, 
. . . 
nov.27, 1972 
and the properties preserved by a certain group of transformations callect homeomorphisms. Presentation: A math lecture course, with much utilization of the blackboard. Readings: The text used previOl}Sly has been Elementary Topology, by Michael Gemignani. 
Organization: The number of tests is left up to the discretion of the class. Usually there are three tests and a final, along with occasional homework assignemnts to be turned in. 
Comment: This course is intended mainly for math majors, as it is part of a two course seque:1ce required for majors. Prerequisites for the course are Calculus 111 and some Abstract Algebra. Geometry is not required. Some time may be taken outside of class time to go over any difficult assignments. Any person with individual difficulties can get additional help after class or by set­ting up an appointment with Mr. Miller. 


Music 
. Hennesse_y Brass and Percussion 
Content: This course is directed towar.ds a general understanding and ap­
preciation of the use or playing techniques of various brass and percussion in­
struments for band and concert orchestras. 
Presentation: This course can be best appreciated if it is taken as an elective. 
It is presented through technique study on a college level witth the realization 
however that most or all class members have never played either type of 
instrument. Tt:~refore, one must start oneself on an elementary level and build 
up. 
Readings: Keeping up with the two basic texts on Percussion and Brass in 
order to understand the problems and acquirt: me basic knowledge of a begin­
ning student is the only real requirement. However, some problems may beset 
the non-major who lacks knowledge or understanding of the basic overtone 
series, fingerings, or concert key changes, to name a few. 
Organization: One third of the semester is spent on brass techniques, one-third 
on Percussion, and one-third of basic knowledge. There is one mid-term and one 
final, a few pop quizzes are possibilities. The course is partly lecture with much 
time spent lea,:ning the playing techniques of each instrument. 
Comments: The course itself is highly enjoyable, whether or not one has 
played before. Class participation and attendance arenecessary. Mr. Hennessey 
is exceptional for teaching college elementary band. However, for the non-mu~ic 
oriented, he needs to give more time to basic understanding. Considering what 
he has to work with, the outcome is enjoyable. I w~uld suggest to anyone seeking 
a way to relieve those mid-week tensions, to parti<:ipate. · 

:; -:;-._ ~-G: ;: :-·~-, :::·.) ..­
·3'·· ': ::::·-::.r:~ ~;.--:--1~~,':•·-. ·,-:,:.­
Lawrence Music Literature 
This course is a survey of the periods of music from medieval to modern times. It helps the_ student develop an appreciation of the music through study and listening. It shows how the composer was affected by his times and how he ex. presses himself through his music. 
There is one text and some outside listenings required. There are brief quizzes on each period of music. A mid-term,·a final and a small term paper are also !:_equired. The student is also expected to attend two concerts and submit a brief report on each. The assignments are minimal, and the quizzes·are simply 
multiple choice. Dr. Lawrence has a well organized class·, and keeps the stutlent interested by relating his lectures to various pieces of music. 
Lawrence Baroque Music 
The ~ubject of this course is Baroque music from Monteverdi to Bach with the inclusion of some Classical music. Class presentation is based on lectures, but a good deal of outside music listening is also required. Discussion anp questions are always welcome and gladly answered. 
The readings required are of moderate-length. There is a single text, though several outside readings are strongly recommend~d. Outside music listening and score reading is necessary. 
The class is generally well organized, but if an interesting tangent is men­tioned it may be pursued. A mid-term·, ·a·nnal an·d 2-3 short papers will probably be assigned. ·. · ·· .···. ,:· •, ·•• --·. 
Dr. Lawrence is very ~nowledgable and interested in his subject and subjects ·elated to it: fie• has ·great. concern1 for ·his·students and for· presenting an in­tormativ-e.-interesting class. This class~is primarily. geared for music majors. Some·backgroond knowledge·fs hetpfuf'but-not:necessary. Also helpful is an ability to read and understand music a'nd its terminology. · · · 
,· ~; ' : .::• '"O•. ,·..J'_,;;, .• :~·t,.,,..t.; ~'"'\1 U,.-~ff•': •~,•:,.,r:1 \,i : . •:--:· ,•~ . ~ · .':. .. ~•• 
~,. :t·,,;J•i ...1.·,:~t,...-!;_, ~'"-i!:d:.i'..;,:•! ..!i1:"!; :"it--o: p,;~ 1•i'!1r\11.H .-:f11:~:-··:.·.,· ·1·,,z -<.~-~:...-. ~1 ... : b~.::1 J t.j:,1;·1 -J,~ ~: ,~o~~; :•:.:::j=-r,'::.: ;; ....1, ... O.i!:a ·:'.:~;~fi, n ";• -• L-;, ...-,. ,~) 
Smith Mathematics Differential Equations 

Content: This course is a study of differential equations, their various types and solutions. Also covered are linear equations, so that a working knowledge of linear algebra is assumed. Several methods of solving differential equations give the course an applicable nature and make it very worthwhile. It is open to all students but usually only math and science students are interested. 
Text: Introduction to Differential Equations by William E. Boyce and Richard. 
C. DePrima. 
Organization: If you have had any course.under Dr. Smith, you'll know what to expect in the way of organization and requirements. He is known for his fairness and understanding of his students' problems, but this in no way implies an easy grading policy. There are usually three test~ and a final. 
My teaching philosophy is divided depen.ding on whether I am teaching math and science majors or liberal arts students. 
When teaching math and science majors, I try to develop the mathematics in the course carefully and consistently being especial!Y careful to point out the relevance of the material to other related areas. I expect students to understand the concepts well enough to be able to connect up related topics on their own. I consider a test a failure unless each studnet has learned something new while taking the test. As a result I do not require any memory work ( I allow students to bring definitions and formulas into a test with them l and I am not strict on time limits for test taking. I feel that an A is an honor grade which can be earned only by afairly complete understanding of the course material. On the other hand it is very unusual for anyone to f?)il my course. I believe in scheduling weekly problem sessions and individual help sessions but I do not push students to take advantage of these. 
When teaching liberal arts non-math or science majors, I try to acquaint the students with the peculiar thought process which a mathematician uses. My primary goal is to sufficiently motivate the student ~ that she can overcome her fear or dislike for the subject and to help her gain confidence in her ability to solve problems in an organized logical way. I view the actual course content as a vehicle to attain the above ends. As a result I may give a make-up exam if I feel that the first exam weakened the majority of students' confidence in their ability. I always assign a paper in which the student must evaluate her own mathematical creativity and use it to solve a problem not treated in class. This paper counts up to 25 percent of the final grade and provides good feedback on how successful I have been. I try to keep the course content relevant (for example, I try to bring in computer applications whenever possible). I try to maintain a problem solving approach in the classroom and keep my lectures as informal as is practical. I point out the importance of homework to learning mathematics and spend a significant portion of class time answering questions or helping the students answer questions on their homework. I feel that tests should be learning experiences but attempt to structure them so that most of the students are successful. I try to make the final ·grade more a measure of how well the studen't has been able to maximize !']er creative ability in math than a measure of her·natural ability. 
Peter D. Smith , 
Asst. Prof. Math 
St. Mary's College 


Fleck Philosophy 204 17th Century• Phi_losophy 
Content: This course will consist of an Inquiry into the J)tlilosophical thought of Hobbes, Descartes, Spinoza, Leibnitz, and Locke. It includes the metaphysical questions treated by these men, as well as both the natur.e of1tnowledge and the nature of the human mind. It is to be, essentially, a course in understanding the philosophical issues faced by the above men. Though not a survey course, the students will do problems in philosophy, and consequently each must possess an introductory background in this field. The introduction of these issues into the Wth century will be dealt with. The course will also examine the cultural 
framework of the times, particularly the science of the period. 
Presentation: It will consist of two thirds lecture and one third discussion. 
Readings: Hobbes' Leviathan; Descartes' Medltatl,ns and Discourse on Method; Spinoza's, Ethics; Leibnitz's Discourse on Metaphysics ~nd some philosophic correspondences; John Locke's Essay Concerning Human Un­derstanding; Copleston's History of Philosophy, Vol. 4. All of these are to be found in paperback form. 
Organization: There will be no exams. However, one paper, eight to ten pages in length will be required. Written work will include a philosophy notebook, consisting of two parts: 1) the main arguments and conclusions of each of the men studied. 2) Comparison of the men, as they dealt with the issues, critic!5I analyzation of such, and reflections of the student. The above-mentioned notebook is required as Mr. Fleck feels that the process of education is a process of discovery for each student. Thus, the notebook becomes an integral element in both the student's personal progress and private development. 
Fleck Phil 310 Contemporary Trends in Philosophy 

Description: This course will mainly be a survey of the major movements in 20th century philosophical thought. The movements to be included are: Existentialism, Phenomenology, Linguistic Philosophy, Process Philosophy, Marxism, Pragmatism, Neo-Thomism, and Positivism. The men to be con­sidered are: Heidegger, Jaspers, John Dewey, G.E. Moore, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, John Austin, Gilson, Whitehead, Lennon, and A.J. Ayer. This requires an introductory course. 
Presentation: It will consist of two thirds lecture and one third discussion. Readings: Volumes 2 and 3 of Contemporary European Thought: Rise of British Philosophy and Continental European Thought. Both are in paperbacks. 
Organization: There will be no exams. There will be one paper, about eight to ten pages long. The main written work will be a philosophy notebook, Which will consist of two parts: 1) the main conclusions arid the arguments for these con­clusions, of each of the men studied. This will be an indication if the assigned readings were intelligently done. 2) comparisons of the men and of the movements, critical attitudes toward this, and any reflections of the student. 
Comments: Mr. Fleck's philosophy of teaching: His role in the classroom is 
that of a stimulator of inquiry into philosophic issues, rather than that of a 
dispenser of information. · 
Nasser Phil.' Philosophy of Religion 

Content: The first half (or the first two-thirds) of the course will be devoted to some of the principle classical and contemporary problems in the philosophy of religion, e.g., the cosmological, ontological, _and teleological "proofs" of God's existence, the problem of evil, and the meaning of religious assertions, among other problems. Class procedure will deal ~Ith understanding and assessing the classical problems on their own terms, and then formulating these in the language of contemporary analytic philosophy. The second half (or the last third) of the course will be devoted to the so-called "Christian-Marxist dialogue": the controversy between Christians and Marxists over such issues as the content of human nature, the nature of good life, the significance of history, and the organization of social life. 
Presentation: The class will consist of half lecture and half discussion. 
Readings: The required readings are: Alvin Plantinga, The Ontological Arguement; David Burrill, The Cosmological Arguements; Nelson Pike, God and Evil; MacIntyre, Marxism and Christianity. . 
Organization: There will be no exams during.the course of study, nor will there be a final. The student is expected to write either a series of about three short papers or devote his time to one main topic (this topic being of his own choice, of course) and write a larger and more complete paper to be completed two weeks 
1
before the end of the semester. 

nov. 27, 1972 
Philosophy 

Gozdowski Phil. Seminar: Heidigger 
Content: The bulk of the course will deal with an in-depth reading of Heidegger's most influential work, Being and Time. Before plunging into Being and Time, the stage will be set by briefly surveying: a) the earlier history of Existentialist philosophy, the mood of which (as opposeC: to its intellectual content) was highly influential on Heidegger; and bl, certain philosophical beliefs or assumptions against which Heidegger consistently and vigorously protests. 
Being and Time is easily one of the most significant books of the 20th century; it has affected fields as diverse as Theology and Psychology. The course at­tempts to '.'get inside the book," work with it, and derive an understanding of Heidegger himself. 
Presentation: The class format will consist of half lecture and half discussion. 
Readings: Barrett, Existential Man, and Heidegger, Being and Time. 
Organization: There will be one long research project Cl~-20 pages) on some 
specific aspect of Heidegger. There will also be two exams, a midterm and a final. Comments: This course is recommended for only those who take their philosophy seriously. 

Gozdowski Philosophy of Natura I Science 
Content: This course will be a look at science from the philosopher's point of view; that is, it will be an attempt to look at those aspects of science Which in­terest and, at times, puzzle the philosopher. Among the topics to be explored will be: the nature of scientific explanation, the notion of a law of nature, and the status of scientific theories. The pertinence of "science" as an established and fixed body of truths about the world and as an ongoing and historical process of inquiry and discovery will be demonstrated during the course of the semester. The tension between a philosophical and scientific overview of the world will play a large part in the discussions. 
Presentation: The class is based upon lecture, but Mr. Gozdowski expects a good deal of discussion. 
Readings: Butterfield, The Origins of Modern Science; Hempel, The Philosophy of Natural Science; Toulmin, The Philosophy of Science; Hansen, Observation and Explanation; and Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. 
Organization: There will be three short papers (3-5 pp.) and one com­prehensive final exam. 
Comments: Mr. Gozdowski is a fine lecturer conducting each-class section in a well organized manner. He presents the reading material in an honest, straight­forward manner. Otten Mr. Gozdowski and the student work out complex philosophical problems together. This course is especially recommended to science majors. 
Nasser Contemporary Marxism 
Content: The course will begin with an introduction to Marx's early theories of human nature, and the labor and production processes, and hi.slater writings on political economy, sociology and revolution. The principle theoretical con­tributions of Lenin will be discussed and analyzed. The remainder and bu1k of the course will be dnroted to an examination of the mian doctrives of such contemporary Marxi;ts as Mao Tse-Tung, Herbert Marcuse, George Lukacs, and Paul Sweezy. Philosophical problems will be presented as intertwined with problems of political economy, sociology, and history. Thus, the philosophical problem of human nature becumes as much an historical problem as a "philosophical"one, and the problems of identifying the agent of revolution and specifying the current historical epoch necessarily presupposes certain philosophical commitments. 
Presentation: The class will consist of half lecture and ha.If discussion. 

Readings: Karl Marx, Capitol; selections from Vol. 1; Karl Marx, Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts; V.I. Lenin, State and Revolution, What Is To Be Done, Imperialism; Mao Tse-Tung, Four Essays on Philosophy; Herbert Marcuse, Reason and Revolution, One-Dimensional Man, Essays on Liberation; 
P. Baron and P. Sweezy, Monopoly Capital. 
Organization: There will be no exams during the course ofstudy, nor will there be a final. The student is expected to write either a series of about three Shdrt papers or devote his time to one main topic and write a larger and more cpm­plete paper to be completed two weeks before the end of the semester. 
Comments: Allan Nasser is by far one of the most excellent lecturers available. His lectures are extremely clear, concise, and very well organized. They definitely inspire the student 'past the lecture' into related areas of the student's interest. These assets are diminuative, however, when compared to the ~alue and content of each class period. No time is wasted by the student trying to assess 'where the professor is at,' for Nasser has very definite opinions, (and clear reasons for those opinions) which he is in no way reluctant to share. 
Psychology 

The discussions are aimed at a further explanation of the material and related points, but more importantly at finding out exactly 'where YOU are' regarding personal ideologies, political stances and biases, and moral values. While holding strong political and social views himself, he is, at the same,time, ex. tremely open to the challeng·es brought upon him by many a 'conservative' student and firmly believes in learning from and being challenged and changed by his students. For an expansion of social, political, and historical con­sciousness, Allen Nasser is highly recommended. 
Pangrac Child Psychology Content: Child Psychology deals with the development of children from the pre-natal period through early childhood. Emphasis is placed on the study of the maturation of children, their personality development, and the methods of learr~ing to which they are normally exposed. Presentation: The course follows a lecture format. However, questions are welcome, and discussion desireable. Readings: A single textbook will be used throughout the semester, Child Development and Personality by Mussen, Conger, and Kagan. No outside readings will be required. Organization: There will be two tests, a mid-term and a final. A short sum­mary on an article in the field of child psychology will'also be demanded of each student. The topic is left to the student's choice. Comments: Though Dr. Pangrac is a bit difficult to follow at times, the course itself is interesting, and recommended to all persons who have an urge to.delve into the study of psychology.  
Nutting Seminar in Psychology Content: Seminar in Psychology is based on in-depth study, investigation, and interpretation of the major works of several prominent psychologists. Presentation: The basic format is that of a seminar; though lectures are in• ·termittently presented, and class discussion is strongly encouraged. Readings: The required readings include: The Science of Human Behavior by B.F. Skinner; Summer Hill by A.S. Neill; William James Psychology by William James; General Introduction to Psychoanalysis by Sigmund Freud. Organization: Class org~nization is loosely woven. Students are only · responsible for the final examination, the subject of which is left entirely to the student's choice. Comments: The quality of the course is excellent. Its loose organization enables the student to easily retain the substance of the course. Professor Nutting is an exceptional man, capab1e·of offering material in both a reievant and interesting manner.  - 
Scrivener Psych. 156__ General Psychology Content: Introductory Psychology attempts to expose students, through selected articles and a traditional text, to both the topics under investigation by psychologists and the rehabilitative methods currently employed by qualified persons in the field. · Presentation: The class generally follows a lecture format, but the professor strongly encourages -self-understanding through dialogue among students on controversial issues. Required· Readings: Three textbooks are, used for the course. Basic Psychology and Psychology: A Social Science are the two main texts which present traditional as well as modern psychological theories. The third book complements the former two through adapted readings and experiments which serve as a follow-up to the theories. Organization: There will be two tests, a mid-term and a final, which are based on mastery of the psychologist's vocabulary, and on comprehension of con­temporary issues in the field of psychology. Mr. Scrivener also encourages active exploration, questioning, and creative thinking by requiring students to keep a notebook which records ttieir personal ideas and interpretations of the material studied. 64:,  : -~  ,.., ' .. , . : • : " _j, ~  -. ~ _., ~: ' . -~,  .•  ..~  '  



course e~aluation 
Tondreau Pol. Sci. 212 Europe_an Government 
European Government provides the studen·t with an in-depth study of.,the political institutions of selected European powers, the historical and cultural framework within which these governments have developed, and the strengths and weaknesses, success or failure of their social and political systems. Policy approaches are probed through a laboratory type seminar based ·on individual student presentation, class dialogue and critque. 
The materials used are paperbacks. Evaluation for grades rests on class performance and examinations. 
Bohan-Tondreau Pol. Sci. 152 -Politics of American Democracy 
-
-· ....
-· 
n 
0­
U) 
n
-· 
CD 
:::, 
n 
CD 
Content: This course approaches the study of American government on the_ national leyel from the assumption that government does not operate in_ a vacuum, but emerges from the total cultural concept of American society which conditions and shapes its development and course of action. Attention is given to the idealists' concern for values and goals in American politics, and to the im­portan:e of American political institutions and their development. The cours~ takes the studernt from the American Founding through the departmental op.!rations of the government and the formulation of public policy. 
Presentation: The course format is one of lecture and dialogue. Readings: The course utilizes a text and some outside readings. Organization: Grades are based on a combination of objectively and sub-. 
jectively oriented exams, and class performance. 
Comments: U-a course in American politics is to promote good citizenship, there is all the more reason not to avoid embarassing political problems or to pretend that unpleasant social and economic conditions do not exist. Such a course must develop student's ability for independent analysis and judgment as 
o the operations of their government in order that they may better appr_eciate its involvements as well as recognize inconsistencies between promise and per ormance. 
.. Tondreau Political Sc~. 32_1 State and Local Governmel'.lt 
Content: There are more than 100,000 state and local governments in the United States. Each state varies in the names it gives its officers, in details of election procedures, and in many other respects. But general principles and major problems and political processes are surprisingly uniform. The student ....,ill be encouraged to translate them into specific terms applicable to their own state and community. . 
The focal point of this study will be on the policy process: the interrelationship of 9overnment and politics. Based on the assumption that it is impossible to understand government without appreciating the political context in which the 9overnment structure operates, structural considerations will be intermeshed 
: with case studies and other relevant materials to emphasize the fundamental and political aspects of state and local government. · 
Presentation: The course will utilize a seminar format. Each student will be expected to lead class discussion on assigned materials, and to corretate.the .workin9s of their own state and city governments to the basic ideas and prin­

ciples developed in the course. . ., Readings: The assigned material will be drawn from· various sources, in-. -· . 
~ ... : .... \J!J)tt.~ 
, dudin9 paperbacks, reprints and government reports. · ~ 

..:; c.'lnib·.. 1 <
· Organization: There will be two examinations in the course. Class pJi-.
·' 
.,tormance will wei9h ,heavily in the final grade. :', 
--,..,, -,i-~..~i;.-!'K--~~.,........,•..-~~>-.~i'\..~~ ~
• ~ 1972• _..~,.~7.'?':'\:q:>~:7"~w:rir~~j,~t,t,..-"'l;J~',!.•_;.-.. ,,..~-r"."!!?.>.>'"t .:,1~.1j t~-T• ~­
nov~~ri~ 4 ,._,., ••~••'••_•• . • • . "" • • , I • 
if.1\4'CJ ~~ r :!:}f;:·• 


Science 
Lichtman Physics 101 
This course approaches physics in an analytical manner. Since both Biology majors, as well as non-ma!ors, take the course it is presented on a less scientific level. Very little emphasis is placed on numerical data, but theory is stressed. The class meets three times per week and a two hour lab is required. The theories discussed in lecture are demonstrated in the lab. There are two or three hour exams, a final, a team paper and weekly lab reports. Two books are the required outside readings. An assignment is usually given which consists of twenty pages of reading and five problems every time the class meets. 
The course is not challenging for the science major, but may be for the non­major. If high school physics was taken, this course is highly repetitive. The professor explains theories through demonstrations and answers questions during class. No formal lec~ure is presented. • 
Feigl Org;anic Chem. II Exp. Organic Chem 11 
This course is organized to accommodate two objectives. The first of these is to cover, at least in an introductory fashion, the field of organic chemistry. In this regard, there are, by actual count, 4,867,932 separate pieces of factual in­formation which must be assimilated by students at the rate of approximately 973,582 per test period. While this feat is not beyond the attainment of your average St. Mary's student, the learning procedure is usually (make that in­variably) accompanied by weeping and gnashing of teeth, threats of sukide (or, alternately, threats of changing one's major) and general disharmony among the ranks. . . 
Once committed to memory and made available for speedy and specific recall, this information becomes the basis for a series of games (also referred to as homework problems and test questions). It is in these games that the second objective of the course is supposed to be realized. The second objective is to develop a facility in the application of analytical reasoning to chemical problems. The rests and homework problems eventually follow a predictable pattern in terms of the types of questions asked, but the answers are expected to show an increasingly sophisticated approach, that is, what was an acceptable answer in the beginning of the course would be considered simpleminded and therefore unacceptable later on. 
The format of the class is entirely q·uick-paced lecture. The lecture closely follows the textbook of Morrison and Boyd. Among the topics emphasized is spectroscopy. Dr. Feig I is known to update various outdated facets of the "classical" textbook, mainly in respect to Dr. Feigl's "specialty,"· Polymer chemistry. Dr. Feigl is extremely interested in the student as an individual and will not lose patience even after hours of individual tutoring. The tests, 5 in total, are more than extremely challenging as they expect that the lecture material is completely digested. Hence the emphasis is placed on applications of this knowledge. For this reason, Dr. Feigl's course is recommended for those with chemical intents. 
Because the material covered in the lab is more advanced than the knowledge gained after one semester of Organic Chemistry, Experimental Organic Chemistry _I I is taught as a third semester. Again this course has the distinct advantage of Dr. Feigl's personalized attention. If one has a true leaning towards a chemical career, he will find tlitSi course extremely practical, having the opportunity to operate various laboratory instruments incl_uding a gas chromatograph and infrared spectrometer. 
Pilger Physical Chemistry 
Most of th_e·students th~ught the textbook used to be.good. No term papers are given•. Exams are thoughtfully corrected and returned within a ·reasonable 
~ t; --. _ •., •• ' ­

._..... ;; "•_ 
amount of time. 
Exams cover the basic eenqtets of the course. They cover the material done in 
class discussions as well as assignments outside of class. All the students felt the 
exams involved a fair degree of reasoning and were clearly worded. However, a 
majority of them felt the exams were not a suitable length for the amount of time 
in which to finish them. The exams are handed back graded. All exams are 
announced and are announced early enough to allow for suf(icient study. The 
final exam is comprehensive. · 
The grading criteria are made clear at the beginning of the course. Class 
participation is of little importan:e while attendance,is important. Grading is 
done on a curved scale and the majority of the students in the course received 
the grade they expected. 
Dr. Pilger's organization of the course was rated as excellent and his 
preparation for the lectures was quite good. A majority felt the lectures com­
plemented the readings and were very interesting. Most felt Dr. Pilger was 
intereste~ in them and encouraged them to ask for help when they needed it. 
They would consider taking another course from him and felt he was a very fine 
teacher. · In regard to the extent to which the students felt this course broadened their intellectual development, the majority rated it as very good and would highly recommend it to another student. 
Bambenek Chemistry 162 Quantitative Analysis 
This course explores in some depth one facet of a subject introduced in general 
chemistry, namely solutions equilibria. The topics covered are: slightly slightly 
soluble species, acids and bases, arid oxidation ---reduction equilibria. 
The purpose of this course is to consider the behavior of electrolytes, strong and weak, in aqueous solution. This behavior is considered from a quantitative viewpoint. This viewpoint is exemplified by emphasis on problems. While specific problems are not assigned, the student is responsible for problems at the ends of text chapters. Supplementary problems are also used. 
Content: This is a four credit course which includes two hours of lecture and 
one four hour lab a week. Consists of an introduction to Quantitative methods of 
analyzing chemical unknowns. lnclud~s Gravimetric and Volumetric methods. 
(Precipitation Titrations, acid base titrations and Oxidation Reduction 
titrations). Lecture consists mainlyof explaining the mathematical calculations 
behind these methods.. .. Presentation: Lab work is done independently for the most part so it is dif• ficult to correlate the lectures to the lab. The lectures do however consist mainly of presenting the mathematical calculations used in laboratory work. Readings: Skoog and West, Analytical Chemistry, An Introduction, and In­troductory Analytical Chemistry Lab 'Manual written by Dr. Bambenek. Total cost, $12.00. These are the only two texts used in the course. Organization: There are three tests during the semester and a quiz every week. A total of 11 quizzes are given of which only eare counted. There is no midterm, but there is a final. Tests count 30 percent, quizzes 10 percent, Final 20 percent, and lab 40 percent of the final grade. Comments: A difficult course which requires a certain amount of 
mat~emat!cal ability. Dr. Bambenek is more than willing to help any student who 1s having problems at practically anytime, and is nearly always available. t:te does not try to make the course too difficult and will do whatever he can to 
make it easier for a student. It is however the nature and content of the course itself which makes it a ctifficult one. It requires that the student keep up with the work in order to keep from being hopelessly lost,'and as previously mentioned a knack for math would make it much easier. Lab work is done independently so that there is very Iittle pressure there, and there are no lab tests which also tends to enhance th~ popularity_of th is portion of the course. . . . .. 
.' -: \. "' -,., .":. .. •; ~ ­
-course evaluation 
1, ', 
Sociology 

Terzola Soc. 203 Socia I Problems 
Content: This course is designed as an examinati'on and evaluation of: 1) the natureof social problems and the sociological perspectives used to explain such; 
2) the nature and extent of several selective social problems and types of deviant behavior--homosexuality (and human sexuality in general as time permits), mental illness, and criminality; 3) the societal response to problem behavior---in particular, the institutional growth of asylums (mental hospitals, prisons, etc.) 
.. Presentation: Lectures comprise the format of this course:·not, however, to the exclusion of all class participation. Questions and discussion are welcome, and, considering the nature of the subject matter, usually proves interesting. Attendance is not taken, but it is advisable since Mr. Terzola's 'challenging' tests include much from the lecture material. 
Readings: The basic text of the course is Clinard's Sociology of Deviant Behavior, which provides •the background and further clarifies the material covered in class. Supplementary reading includes three or four books concerned with specific deviant behavior problems. Humphrey's Tea Room Trade is a participant--observation study of homosexual behavior and one of the required readings. Professor Terzola is as yet undecided about the other texts. 
Organization: The student is graded on the basis of performance on tbree tests (including the final) each counting as one-third of the final grade. The'tests are detailed and objective in nature, covering much theory and terminology. 
Comments: Professor Terzoia's lectures are interesting and informative. He requires a lot in terms of knowledge of the material read and presented in class, but he is a fair grader. He offers the option of writing a paper in lieu of taking the first test, and is interested in offering his assistance when needed. 
Brumm Soc. 209 Social Psychology 
This course is concerned with the study of actual, imagined, or anticipated person-to-person relationships in a social context as they affect the individuals involved. ,.· 
The material is presented through lectures given by the professor based upon readings assigned in the class texts and various outside readings. Other· books ·elating to major sociological studies are also included in the required reading 
ist. 
The type of examinations to be taken are often discussed by the students and the professor, although the professor requests oral exams, two throughout the semester. This enables the student to get a firm understanding of the material discussed. 
The professor gives a fairly good lecture and tries to present the ideas clearly and without bias. The material read by the student is often easily understood, but the professor has the tendency to make this seem quite abstract at times. However, class participation is encouraged allowing the student to express his views and and suggestions. 
Brumm Soc. 329 Sociology of Religion 
Content: This is a survey course dealing with the social and socio­psychological aspects of religion in primitive, technological and non­technological societies. Using a comparative approach, data concerning the influence of relition upon social action and organization will be considered through various theoretical perspectives. Consideration will be given to the function of religion in fostering and retarding social change. 
Presentation: Depending on the size of the class, participation will be en­couraged. But, basically the format will be lecture presentations. 
Readings: Elizabeth Nottingham's Religion: A Sociological View, and Thomas O'Dea's The Sociology of Religion will be the basic texts. Other readings will be assigned during the semester, sources being available at the I ibrary. 
Organization: As yet undecided, Dr. Brumm plans definitely to have an or~I final exam and possibly an oral mid-term. 
· Comments: Not currently being offered, it is hard to say much about this rourse. Dr. Brumm is a thorough teacher and very enthusiastic about his sub­ject. He is always glad to answer questions and offer his assistance when 1:ecessary. Because his lectures tend to be very involved, attendance b_ecomes 11,andatory. 
Hess Soc. 331 ~9,ciology o_f Social Welfare 
Content: Sociology of Social Welfare is a part of the Social Welfare curriculum of the sociology department, which provides undergraduate training for social 
lOV. 27, 1972 
workers. Focusing on the development of social services in Europe and America, the course describes the various services offered by the-field of social work, and their structure in the various agencies which serve as settings. Social services comprise an integral part,of society, and social workers are active in countless settings, in contrast to the stereotyped image of the welfare worker. For example, psychiatric social work and medical social work represent new developments in the field of social work. Case studies are included in the text to demonstrate the way a particular soc_ial worker in a social agency such as a family agency, would handle counseling of the clients. 
Presentation: Lectures as such are not presented; material from the assigned text readings is the chief source of discussion except for questions from the class. Tours to several agencies such as Family and Children Center and the Sheltered Workshop for the mentally retarded are included. Several movies are also presented. 
Readings: Readings are from the text The Field of Social Work. 
Organization: There is ;t Short mid-term analysis of an article from a journal of ~ocial work and a mid-term exam which is divided into an objective part and a case-study essay on a multi-problem family situation. There is also a final exam probably similar in structure to the mid-term and a 10 page term paper on the type of social work which most interests the student. 
Comments: Mr. Hess is a teacher with valuable experiences in numerous realms of social work. He has done social work in schools, the Welfare Depart­ment, Family and Children's Center, and Catholic Social Services, among others. Such a course as Sociology of Social Welfare possesses tremendous potential in helping students comprehend the development of the field in its myriad of dimensions, especially when it is taught by an experienced social worker such as Mr. Hess. However, some changes must be made, including the pr~c;entation of lectures which broaden the material in the text, and which do not follow rigidly along the lines of the text. There are many students contemplating entering the social work profession, or engaging in a counseling profession who are eager to take a course covering such material. 
Ostric Soc. 361. Prehistoric Anthropology 
This course deals with the physical and•rultural origin and development of 
111an. It includes the study of geological phenomena, pa1eontolo.9ical characters, 
archaeological remains, and fossil man. 
The study is presented primarily through the class lectures concentrating 
upon the material assigned from the class text and various outside readings. 
Two 2-hour comprehensive essay examinations are held at the end of each 
quarter of the semster. One oral report is also sometimes assigned. 
The course material itself is quite interesting, but the class situation does ,..ot 
often provoke personal participation. The professor is well-informed on thf:' 
subiect, but the presentation of his material leaves much to be desired. His 
lectures are often repetitious and too often biased. Concerning his tests, the 
Professor places too much emphasis upon memorization of the material rather 
than upon personal interpretation. 
Terzola Soc. 373 Crime and Delinquency 
Content: This course will involve an examination of the legal system and its processes, and a consideration of its operations. There will be a study of 'of­fenders', and the structure of different types of criminal behavior. It will further include the etiology and theories of criminality and juvenile delinquenc_e with consideration of situational and psychological factors as well as remedlal measures. 
Presentation: The material will be presented in lecture fashion. 
Comments: The r_est of this course remains in the planning stages as of now. 
-Pilger Soc. 374 Sociology _of Child Develo~ment 
Content: This course is concerned with the development of children from birth to age twelve. It covers the varied aspects of growing up in the United States today, including an application of sociological theories and concepts to the field of rhild rearing. It also discusses the influence of family, siblings, peer groups and social institutions on the child. Beginning with the effects of birth it traces the development of the child progressively through family, school and peer oroup' adjustment. 
Presentation: The material 'is presented in lecture form to a great extent. Class participation is encouraged by questions usually concerning the students own youth. Discussions resulting are often· interesting and amusing. Th!:! tec­tures themselves follow an age continuum and bring to light many interesting and sometimes surprising realities about growing up. 
Readings: Background material about the socialization of children is presented in the text Child and Society. Young's Land of the Giants is also in­corporated into the second half of the course. A short ·book of one's choice and an assigned short story on reserve at ttie library are the only other reading requirements. 
Organization: The course requires two ten page papers ,and one short book report. No tests are administered. Comments: Mrs. Pilger is an interesting and lively lecturer, and the course, While not an e~remely demanding one is worthwhile. 
Adams Soc. 376A Sociology of Life Cycle 
Content: The course includes an examination of the mi;ljor life cycle changes in the middle and later years, their impact on other aspects of the life.space, and the social adjustments made by various groups to these changes. Major changes include: marriage and adjustment to a spouse; parentho_od and adjustment t~ children--the diad, triad, etc.; empty nest and departure of the last child from the home; pre-retirement preparation, retirement and income maintenance; grandparenthood; widowhood and declining health and activities; friendship; and death and bereavement. 
Readings: The text for this course is Leonard Benson's The Family Bond. Other readings include ten to twenty assigned articles. 
Organization: The course is designed to cov·er selected readings assigned from a variety of sources. These are intended to introduce the student to the theoretical and practical orientations of the topical areas mentioned above. 
Speech and Drama 
During the latter part of the course, panels of "experts" will be invited to r_epresent the academic, organizational and personal viewpoints of the areas covered. A term paper "examination" of the geograp_hical age structure of the students home town and an inventory of the social-structural designs for tran­sition from one ·age in the life cycle to the next will also be expected of the student. _ 
comment: This will be the first course Professor Adams, currently teaching at IUSB, will be offering at St. Mary's. 
Byrne Sociology 376B Medical Sociology 
Content: This course covers the sociological aspects of medicine; epidemology, the sick role, the physician role, hospital administration· and function, and medical care in the United States. 
Presentation: The first half of the ~emester is spent in lecture and discussion. The second half involves class presentation of extensive bibliographic material in the interest of the student. 
Readings: The texts are: Patients, Physicians and Illness and The Sociology of Health. 
Organization: One paper, written and presented to the class, and an in-class midterm will determine the grade received. The mid-term covers the material presented in the ·class lectures and the assigned readings. There is no final exam. Attendance is advisable, however, because class participation counts heavily. 
Comments: Dr. Byrne is a fine lecturer and the course is interesting overall. 
Syburg Speech and Drama Development of Drama 
Content: This is the second half of a two semester course which covers the development of drama from its beginning with the Greek playwrights to its present form. Development of Drama I is not a prerequisite for this course, but it provides a frame of reference that can make the course an even more valuable and enriching experience. Development of Drama 11 is a study of modern 
'drama, beginning with the work of Henrik Ibsen, including plays by Strindberg, O'Casey, Shaw, Brecht, Pirandello, and ending with Peter Weiss' Marat Sade. 
Presentation: The course is a combination of lecture and discussion. Professor Syburg gives introductory lectures to the various sections, but normal classes consist of a discussion of the assigned play with Mr. Syburg giving some material as a basis for discussion and then opening the class to free discussion. 
Readings: Normally, one must read a play for each class period, and it's not reading that can be put off because there is a short quiz every day. No one knows exactly how much these quizzes figure in the final grade, but it's advisable not to miss more than three or four of them. All of the plays, with the exception of Marat Sade, are in the book Masters of Modern Drama by Block and Shedd. The book is quite expensive (Sl0.95}, but it.is an excellent anthology containing many of the 'best' modern plays and is definitely a book you'll want to keep and refer back to again and again. 
Organization: There are two tests given jn the course, a mid-term and a final. The mid-term combines objective and essay· questions while the final is a comprehensive essay exam which requires one to synthesize the semester's material. Also required are five or six two page papers of descriptive criticism on either the productions of the ND-SMC theater or on tapes of productions. 
Comments: If you have even the slightest interest in drama, be sure to take this course. Admittedly, it is not a snap· course and does require quite a bit of 

... work, but what you can get out of the course is well worth the effort. The readings are excellent, and Mr. Syburg combines an extraordinary command of. his material with a dry wit and an enthusiasm fro the subject matter that is contagious: Development of Drama 11 will undoubtedly be remembered as one of_ the best courses of your college career. 
Bergman Speech and Drama_ Stagecraft 

i. Comments: This course is a technical approach to.production in -the theatre. The student has the opportunity to learn exactly what is entailed in set· con­struction, painting,-etc. The mode of presentation is participation· by the· 
students, and supplementary lectures by r-llr. Bergman. The text used in the course is Scene Design and Stage Lighting by Parker and Smith. The course is 

_organized i~_such a w~y that each ~tudent is expected to spen_d 90 hou~s-o~s_i~:. :· ~· 
Bain Speech and Drama 374 Directing I 
Content: The student is given directing guidelines which he applies to direc­ting situations and special problems. 
Presentation: The course consists of lectures, discussions, demonstrations and exercises. The textbook, Hardie Albright's Stage Direction in Transition, serves mostly as a supplement to the lectures, and as a guide to the exercises. In addition, each student must read four paperback volumes of The Modern Theatre, each consists of five plays. From these plays come the material for the mid-term. · 
Organization: There are no written exams or papers assigned in directing. The grade is determined through class exercises, a mid-term, and a final. The mid-term is directing a scene from an assigned play. The final is a one-act play of the director's choice for which the student must write a detailed prompt book to supplement the play. . 
Comments: Dr. Bain is an energetic teacher; and he likes students to "do" in class. The atmosphere of the class is comfortable and informal. The course is outlined for the serious drama studey,ts and would not be easy for the student without a strong threatre background, it requires a great deal of work. Dr. Bain is an understandinq prof and appreciates effort. 
Ballinger Speech and Drama Acting I 
Content: This is an introductory course in Acting open to all ND-SMC students. Taught by Charles Ballinger, it is a "learning by doing" course. Solo im­provisation scenes begin during the second week of school. Subsequent work includes two person improvisations, scenes based upon plays, and some scenes taken.from plays. Each seen~ is criticized by class and professor, giving prime. importance to believability: 
Readings: The text used is Acting is Believing by Charles McGaw. Critical papers are required based upon the acting in the department productions of the semester. There is usually an objective test during the course of the semester. 
Organization: A large amount of time is spent outside the class in rehearsal of scenes, which balanc~s the minimal ~mount of reading. Comm·ent: During the cour:se-of the year, there is much room for variation and experimentati_on---a true "learning experience." .. , , .­
. . ... . . __ 
Syburg' Speech and Drama ""-al I -• -t t· 
_ . : -VJ, n,erpre a IOft . · Contin~: Thi~-c~urse ;s.~~-i~ned ~0°fa-,;:, iliar.iz~.the student. with-the techniques 

class ~rking on va~10~~£)r:_odut:1on crews. The other requirement 1s a-:~m-_ .,. and pnnc1pl?s rnvoJ¥~.\n ~heora!.inJ~rpr!!tati~>n.o!t~e.litei:ature.-: -~: 
1

prehen_s1ve exam_ sometime_ dun~g the semester. Th7s!agecraft c?urse 1s:an:~ :··:;_Presentation: There are no_\'!'r.it!~_t~sts. Tl'!e.stud~_t~_are ,.evaluated on the 
excellent _and ~Joyable opportunity for anyone who 1s interested rn  learning  • -quality of the material they select to interpret and their ability to successfully  
about the_technical a;pects of the theatre.  ex~cute them. The final consists of two parts: a fifteen minute poetry 'J;~a;ding  
68  ·  course evaluation  

• .md a twenty to thirty minute program in which the student presents selections performance. Depenqing upon the size of the class, each stuaent will be required centered around a particular theme. During this final period each student is to do a reading every other or every third class. requLred to submit a written critique for each of the other students' programs. Comments: Don't miss this course. If you do, you've deprived yourself of a Non-majors should not be hesistant about signing up for this course, for although most enjoyable and qorthwhile learning experience. Mr. Syburg has an ex­the class is composed mostly of Speech and Drama majors, Mr. Syburg grades tr·aordinary command of his field, and his talent as an oral interpreter is spell-on the basis of the individual's improvement during the course of the semester. ,binding. It is impossible to leave this course without the same enthusiasm and 
Readings: There is one text assigned: Oral Interpretation by Charlotte Lee. love for the subject that Mr. Syburg possesses. The only regret most students Organization: The course is largely performance--oriented. A lecture is given have in taking Oral Interpretation is that it isn't a two-semester course, or a before each section and Mr. Syburg gives a thorough critique following ea~h three-semester course, or... 
i 
I addenda 
l 
i 
I I 
i 
1 Jame~on Econ. ·484 Economic Development of Latin 1
America 
content: The course will concentrate on the contemporary economic problems in Latin America, after an examination of the historical experience of the region. Topics include the role of the multi-national firm in Latin American 
! development, and the Andean copper market. The primary descripJive deviceIwill be the dependancy model, which combines internal and external con-Iditioning in economic development. , , Readings: The main readings for the course will be Stein and Stein's Colonial t Heritage of Latin America and Griffin's Uderdevelopment in Spanish Am!rica. IAdditionally, Robert Baldwin's Economic Developme~t and Growth w!II be ! recommended as an introduction to development economics fro students without i a previous experience. Other readings will be Yanqui Dollar by NACLA and 1Colin Bradford's Forces for Change in Latin America-US Policy Implications. 
The cost of the texts should not exceed S15. 
Organization: The course grade will be based on a mid-term and final :xam. Additionally, a research paper and group project--countsy study will be required. . . 
Comments: Developmental economics is one of the most challenging and interesting fields in the descipline. Ken Jameson's famil_iarity with_ the fi~ld, especially the Latin American aspectsof it, would make this a rewarding cour7e for any student interested in Latin American problems. The work load will :>robably be heavy, but worth the effort. 
.. 

Davis~on Econ. Intermediate Macroeconomic Th~ry 
Content: The course, 41/t requirement for majors, is intended to provide c working knowledge of price theory and resource allocation: It will cover con sumer behavior (using utility and indifference analysis), production functions. and equilibrium.models for markets. Mathematical methods are available, but 
• t . 
are not emphasized. . 
. Presentation: Oavisson's course is primarily a lecture, because of the sometimes sticky content covered. He is always willing to stop for questions and uses them to emphasize the most difficult material. Additionally. Mr. Davisson _frequently uses the.computer--both as a teaching tool with tutorial programs for topics such as elasticity and production functions, and for t~e market simulations. Students participate in two major games: one covering perfect competition and the other an oligopoly situation. Davisson in one of the top men in the field of computer assisted instruction. 
· Organization: The course grade comes from a combination of two in-class exams, which require understanging -the comcepts and applications of the material at hand, ana two take-hOmes. 1nere is a final. The h·o~ework for the 
course is primarily the"computer work, which is checked. 
... ' ' . . ~ . ~
, ~ 

,ov. 27, 1972-· 
Comments; Microeconomics is not an easy course to teach. The material is dry, and ususally bears no obvious connection to reality, despite its usefulness in economic analysis. This disadvantage to the student is expected in any micro class. It just ain't fun material. 
Additionally, Mr. Davisson is not a popular professor. Part of his reputation stems from his identity with the course--he is one of the few men in the depart­ment who has taught the course in the last few years. But another part of his unpopularity is his difficulty in communicating with the students. Because of this, the student often seems to be more on his own than he would desire. An asset of the course is the use of the computer programs--it makes the theory as real as possible, and also gets students used to the machine so that they can escape the mythology of it. 
Masters Econ. 465 Economics of Race and Poverty 
Content: The course examines two contemporary socio-:.conomic problems, Race and Poverty. Each is studied first from a theoretical side and then from an 
·empirical angle. Under the topic of Race several areas are thoroughly in­vestigated: Discrimination in Housing, Employment, and Education; Dif­ferentials in Black-White Income, Black Capitalism, Black Separatism; and Mexican-American Farm Workers. In the area of Poverty the co~rse examines several issues: The Poor, Income Transfers and Related Programs, and Minimum Wage Legislation. Other current problems and studies related to Race and Poverty may also be discussed if time permits. 
Presentation: When this course was first offered last semester, it consisted primarily of lectures by Professor Masters or by guest speakers. This year Professor Masters hopes to integrate discussion sessions more fully into the 
. class meetings. He does welcome questions on any aspect of Race, Poverty or Economics in general. Readings: Professor Masters has prepared an extensive reading list for this 
course. The student is expected to read all assigned books or articles, all of which are available in the Reserve Book Room. The reading material which is closely studied in class, is varied with emphasis on theories, empirical studies and policy questions. 
Organization:For this course only 2 tests are given--a mid-term and a final. A term paper ist also required. Porfessor Masters' essay exams expect that the student has done his work. Each question requires an in-depth answer based on the readings and the lectures: The grade the student gets reflects the amount of work and time he has devoted to the course. 
Comments: Certainly this course requires much work; however, if you really want to explore a variety of theories, research studies, and policy solutions to both the problems of Race and Poverty, get into this class. At times Professor Masters' lecture style may seem to be dull, but the addition of discussion sec­tions will change this aspect of the course. Although the grading policies may seem to be tough, they are fair. Economics of Race and Poverty will probably be a small class in which you can really learn a lot. Don't miss the opportunity to 
,take this rn11rc:ol 


The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council has asked department chairm.en in the college to recom­mend names of upperclass students who might serve as advisors for other students wishing information about courses in that particular department. Addresses and phone numbers have also been included where possible. Please feel free to contact anyone on this list. (Note: Sophomores might also retain this listing for help in choosing a major next semester.} 
Student Advisors 
American Studies: Dan Bekavac, 213 Flanner, 1052; Joseph Rund~, 44_8 Lyons, 7995; Jim Pauer, 21 Old College, 6333; Greg Conti, 719 Rex St., 232;2693; Jim Purvis, 01 Sorin: 8436; John Canna, 349 Sorin, 8546. · · · ·:: · 
Area Studies: Edward Eckerley, 320 Grace 1047; William Friese, 223 .Dillon,
1692. . . . . 
Art: Margaret Kleinheny; Jennifer Luhrs, 10io Notre Dame A~e. Apts.; Mark Riley, 1303 Michigan Ave., LaPorte; Edward .Scloego, S..0lli Ivy Road, South. Bend; Timothy Standring, 824 So. Bend Ave., 233·:5336; James Lewis Thomas; · John Vitale, 1179 S. Bend. Ave. · · ·' ' 
Black Studies: Vince Campbell, 3 Fisher, 1875; Carl Ellis on, 6749; Terrence Harris, 354 Alumni, 1218; Susan Jackson; R. Irvine, 402 FiSher, 3057; Robert· Syburg, 1146 So. Bend Ave., 233-4300. 
Economics: Sue Anderson; Dale Belock,-246 Lyons, 7924; Mke Casale, 423 Grace, 1814; B·uzz Craven, 622 California, 234-9535; John Horeled, 534 Jackson; 
. ,.
Larry Velchek, 364 Dillon, 1849. 

English: Timothy Corrigan, 801 Park Street, 234-2334; Patrick Crowe, 1317½ Lincolnway, 232-7442; John Dicola, 805 E. Corby, 234-4914; David Kaminski, 101 Keenan, 7474; Dan O'Donnell, 315 Notre Dame Ave., 232-9828; Neil Rosini, 1112 Grace, 1802. 
General Program: Burt Brenner, 438 Niorrissey, 1741; Dennis Oark, 915 Grace, 6726; Bill Kane, 333 Zahm, 8995; Diane McDonnell, 42-4 WalSh, 8155; John . lll'oskop, 6550; Mike Sherrod, 327 Grace, 1741. 
Government: Paul Dziedzic, 801 Park Street, 23-4-2334; Con Ferris, 426 Farley, 6887; Tom'Long, 364 lll'orrissey, 3636; William White, 232-0841; Dick Williams, 2301 S. Williams, 287-4069. 
History: Richard Bostwick, 254 Farley, 6797; William Dasso, 1527; Rose Lennon, 239 Baidn, 6941; Leo Meirose, 6934; Peter Romanski, -435 Stanford, 8769; Mark Servillo, 324 Breen-Phillips, 1322; Rob Sprott, 309 Lvons, 7935.. 
L~nquages:Robert Goyette (Linguistics), 287--4-488; · William Loughran (French), 1332; Raymond Pauspach (German), 232-5336; Tim Herrick (classics), 1779; Sally Fischer (Russian), 523-1051. 
Philosophy: Thomas Filiak, 7735. 

Psychology: Larry Carr, 820 Notre Dame Ave.; Mike Lilienthal, 7838; Donald Olek, 1100; Nancy Parker; Greg Vsonder, 269 Dillon, 1758:.Frank Viehman,922 So. Bend Ave.; Dennis Willson, 517 Leland, 23-4--4259. 
Theology: James Backes, 339 Holy Cross, 3211; Theresa Dellemano, 1009 Lawrence, 233-8766; James Schellman, 329 St. Joe, 3875; Thomas Wilhelm, 9 Lyons, 7832. 
The Arts and Letters -Student' Advisory Coun~il 
Neil Rosini (President) (Eng), 1112 Grace, 1802; John AboWd (Econ), -41 Lyons, 7812; Dan Kogovsek (Soc), 712 Flan~er, 1-436; Larry Johnston (Govt), 1112 Grace, 1802; Bill Matthews (Soc), 361,cavanaugh, 1535;,_Oan O'Donnell (Eng), 315 Notre Dame Ave., 232-9828; Walter Spak (Govt>, 39 Sorin, 8'52; Otris White (Govt), Allen St., 232-0841; Fred Antczac (Phil), 204 Farley, 6752; Pete, Homer, 100 lll'orrissey, 3447; Rose Lennon (Hist), 239 Baciin, 69-41'; Guy Randles <Govt), 201 FiSher, 1943; Mike Sherrod (Gen. Progl, 327 Grace, 17'1; Mike·Davis Csoph), 147 Alumni, 1048; Jim Gresser (soph), Old College;l612; MikeWahoske Csooh ), 136 Keenan, 3240. . . · ' · 

,. ,. -.I
_,: 


· course evaluation 


Join 
MUG CLUB 


MEMBERSHIP INCLUDES: 
-Beautiful handcast china mug -Pitchers of beer only $1.00 -Large steins only 20 cents -Monday thru Thursday after 8 p.m. -Membership is limited 
713 E JEFFERSON 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 

-.... ·-...

~=(:·,lL.r:.~...:.:~-· · t · · · · q· 1
k/~:i,-:i~•y wwau 1or.~~~--·..! 
;,:;~U:youthink.the Seiniriarylsaplace or~dyandmeditatfo~ -· ) 
;.:_ ~*rerlght.Butthere.issomuchmore • · . : ··., .· :.i ;~~--1-~~st~ou.-becomeinvolvedfrom'~hestart , ~ :;: __ = .'-· ! ~5-\~we~f~dedwith tlie belief th~t each~,hagapi~_ ~ ··; 
SANTA1 S STOREHOUSE OF GIFTS 

;=:= .:Each~ bas a· job. Sometimes, many jobs. And e~ch ¢oI_t~·. -! / =_.•,tribufes his own unique -talents and is given the fyeedom ; t:·.·:'aridt:&esupportherieedstoachievehisgoals. _ •.. · · = : 
[=;·\The Paulist is a man on the move. His:mission is'to ~plet. _; \::_:par;ncularly ~ people of North ~ca·'!he issues· and.· .j 
137 N. MICHIGAN ST.

:/-,_proµlems we face today-in~ce;poverty. peace. ~ar~ • ! 
i..· -mnstbetheconcernofthe_Churoh. , • , · -. · ·. ~­
SOUTH BEND

E(;vv&kev~ the.Paulist.student serv~ ihe Christian.O:nninu~. :I 
, ...-... -.,. · · · nity-ina ··sh.or~i~, ~-! 
city schoola_yQUth cenfet;.. ·\ 
or a campus.or-in~..·-i 
cations. he is concerned.-.~..'. 
Involved.;Right BO'W··:~ ·. :·. \ . ; :~ :-.: ( 
, . · 'When oo conuidt-. · ;. ... ·. ·i 
,. Y,, -~·,.,
i/!J t9 the..~a:~diftts/ itJ~~t~)l;: ,J 
.. , , ----'..3',.v:..t.~...;.. ltt.,,, :L-.J.:,:y, •. . ..
:{j/ ~ WU~o;,1, ~~~ ~ ~~--,: =:·· : \ 
.· • > Far.tiirae" lnfim,raffc,a lfflfe=:;· -~ -~ .-~ FatherDonald_C. ~--~i-·.. ·:·~

\.~· Roooim,~... :,.:., ........ ~ ,..<.;;+:~.&.+' :.-..:--,·::-·t .."i; -·· ... -.... , ·· . -__ .. _.. . · · --­
,,; l\tlJ&t~··.; . . 
. -415~ ~Street·.:··· ~-:--.·A=.'.)_: NewYorktN.Y.10019·.· -. ::..::· _:, .· .. ·: 

>£1.Lii.1:I;i.t.,.:,·:A»'>7f,<~~.... ,·."···-·'·•·. _· _..,.._: .. ·.•·-· ,:: 




.. ' 




Chn.!lltm:1~ t.rc:,ttmns a l.t Blad~. Fon-sr. handmade 1n E1.n,a11 frum ori~m.iL thrcc•1.hncnsmnal dt.-sign, to ddight the. 

lolit.'("mr. for tre.iSurt:J g:1ft,. choose from o,cr .!00 nems. e,tt.h fJJnJ-pamccJ in gd}' Chri~cm,1s ,olor3
• I Our ,a.ralor ual 011 rtq,uJt S.,n.J $1 D,ponr R1fw11dabt,. 
ORDlR~ AIR \IAJLlD "''JTIJJS <! IIOURS 01 RECEJrT 
A• ,\ L E \ A~ D E R eo. 
N•w Yarl.,N. Y
98 Rivrrsid• Orin, 
R. K. MUELLER, INC_. 


Dovvntown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St. 









