6
— Cbc-
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
D!SC£ q)VASI-SSmPGI^ VICTVI^ VIVG -QVASi CRAS-MORITVieyS--
Vol. L.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, .February io, 1917.	No.. 18.
Vision. j	____
BY SPEER STRAHAN, ’17.
• THE-stars are snowy buds that fall Over heaven’s garden Avail, Where celestial buds in spring Gleam with silver burgeoning.
All in vesture shining bright, Through the evening’s hidden light, ,	' . Beneath those boughs I saw Christ go,
f '	His wounds like amethysts aglow.
The soft wind shook those blessed trees, Budding through eternities, And I saw the stars like white buds fall Over, heaven’s garden wall.
Wilfrid Ward: An Appreciation.
BY MICHAEL J. EARLY, ’17.
. The era of the physical sciences is passing. Men no longer seek to explain the phenomena of life in the terms of physical science, but have recourse to metaphysical. A new period of philosophical thought has come upon us, and with its advent there has come likewise a greater interest in Catholic •philosophy. When men began to turn from the natural to ■ the supernatural they did so with a certain reluctance, and they required persuasion, as well’ as enlightenment before they admitted the truth of the metaphysical. As a consequence the science of Catholic apologetics has taken On a new importance. Daymen as well as churchmen have recognized this, and perhaps none more clearly than the late editor of the Dublin Review, Dr. Wilfrid Ward. -• Wilfrid Ward has been the foremost lay apologist of this period of transition and his exposition, of Catholic doctrine was all the more forceful for the reason that it was the work
of a layman. During the last twenty years of his life he took up and explained in the famous Dublin quarterly the misunderstood questions of the Catholic religion. And his death, coming at the moment -when the intellectual and religious controversy is at its height, is deeply felt in the-world of Catholic literature and. apologetics. For not only was his influence felt in Ireland and England but his name was -known and honored wherever an English-speaking Catholic lived. If his death is a loss to the Catholic world, it is no less a loss to the literary world of all England, for as a- man of letters Ward ranks among England’s best.
Born in the shadow of Oxford University and spending his youth in and about London, he was always an ardent Englishman. But he was not an Englishman only. He realized that his work was catholic; that it lay above and beyond the confines of one nation/ His ideal stretched out into the great wilderness of contested religious principles. He was first of -aliia Catholic, and such a Catholic as his father had been, animated with the father’s zeal, and inspired by the father’s ideals.	■ -
It is not given to ever}'- man to be reared among the great. Such, however, was the fortune of Wilfrid Ward. We are all familiar with the religious revolution in England known as the Oxford movement. William George Ward, the father of Wilfrid, called by the poet Tennyson the “most generous of Ultramontanes,” was the most rigorous of converts and a master in Catholic theology. He was at the same time the friend and intimate associate of England’s greatest men—Tennyson in poetry, Huxley* in philosophy, Tyndal in science, and Newman and. Manning in theology. Naturally the younger Ward, child though he was, was constantly thrown into the company of his father’s associates, and throughout his . life he upon every occasion ’ honored these distinguished acquaintances of his childhood-.
From his memoirs recently published, we.
ME SCHOLA STIC. ,
was a biographer in a sense as;.exact and more., exalted than we apply to the biologist; he. realty dealt with life and the springs of life.” His biographies are almost autobiographies. He succeeded, and this is no small matter, in almost completely obliterating himself in his biographical writing, in., merging himself in the very life ■ of his.subject,, and thus was able to write with a sympathy. and discernment common to few. We can justly sa)r that he was a most exceptional student of life-and. character. He studied his fellow-beings with almost superhuman intensity and in a manner that inno way betrayed his own thoughts concerning his subject. If Ward had done no other writing than, his series of biographies, he would none the less surety have immortalized his. name.
Yet it was as a Catholic writer and an apologist, that: Ward achieved, his • greatest fame. Early in life he conceived his ideal, and through- . out the years he endeavored to attain it. That . ideal was the reconciliation of all faiths, and . chiefly the reconciliation of the Anglican, with the Roman. Like .his -illustrious predecessor, Boetius, he’endeavored to find in Catholicism matter of common interest to non-Catholics, and in. setting- about this task he wished to place religious belief upon a philosophic ba'sis. He r.eadily recognized that this would be almost impossible under the Scholastic exposition, for - Scholasticism was then little understood by the ordinary Catholic and less by Protestants. In searching for, a.means he found what he was looking for in Newman’s “Essay on Develop- . ment.” His ambition was to make clear the doctrines of the Catholic faith to the- majority of the people'in-England; he. did not aspire merely to harmonize the difficulties of the educated. He felt his helplessness in so great . a task and.longed for the day of general educa- . tion of a religious character. Catholicism cannot . oyercome the prejudices -of ages unless the Catholic and the non - Catholic; youth are instructed in both sides of the controversy. In his later years .he. recognized the materialization . of his ideas in the Institute at Louvain, in the Catholic University at Washington, and in our own University of. Notre Dame of which he. spoke so feelingly in the Dublin Review. .
As a man, Wilf rid. Ward was. deeply human, simple andf sympathetic to a degree almost, unknown in a than of his position. We_at Notre Daniewhowere/'fortunate enough to have attended his lectures two, years; ago remember'
282 -	•	THE NOTRE DA
get a very quaint and verj* beautiful picture of the home life of the Wards at Old Hall, near St. Edmund’s College, during the early life of the children. The mother seems to have been the initiative and the dominating force of the inner home. The father was, according to the son, “a dim figure in the background, of whom we were in great awe, but whom we seldom saw.” The, character of this home is a striking contrast to most of the homes of today. “The Catholic Church,” says Mr. Ward, ' “was our one serious interest. Our dreams and our day-dreams were of its offices and of its • hierarchy.” The Ward children played, at the Mass and the various ceremonies of the Church with the same, intensity and intelligence as most children play .soldiers. This deep and fervent interest in the Church and her work 'instilled by the silent yet forceful example
of the father, remained with Wilfrid Ward until the last, growing dn power and fruit as the years went by.
Wilfrid Ward holds a unique place in the world of letters. That. he was a vital force in the thought of his day is undoubtedly , true.
. Strange as it may seem he was neither of the early nor of the late Victorian age, nor can he be called a modern. Ward was alone in t his work. With William G. Ward, there were contemporaries in Catholic philosophy, Manning, Wiseman and others less known, but with Wilfrid Ward we can find no contemporary. He cannot be classed among the younger number of brilliant writers of whom Hilaire Belloc and
.Cecil Chesterton are striking examples. He is .too. far removed from the ideas of current . literature for the latter; . and not distant
enough for the former. He is, as it were, the bridge between the extreme orthodoxy, as exemplified in his. father, and the present * moderation in religious thought. '
Mr. Ward’s great contribution to modern time's is his series of biographies and his apolo; getic writings. He was a born biographer. The ’ life of Cardinal Wiseman is accorded by critics - to be his best work. As a chronicler of life he achieved such success that a living writer, has :	this to say of him, “He was certainly among *
other things, a great biographer: and it is likely enough that few in current fashion will ' understand how great a thing that is tp be.
The word is often used for the sort of, man who , is not so much a biographer as a graphographer;
- a mere writer' about writings. . Wilfrid .Ward
"7'-.---NT*. S'C s-'
THE NOTRE DAME
him as a tall dignified gentleman, courteous and delightful, with a deep and resonant voice, quiet and unassuming and very interesting. That Ward felt the greatness of the men with whom he was early associated, and his „great . debt to them, we cannot doubt. Agnostic, theologian, and poet, he had welcomed in his youth, and he welcomed them in the prime of his life, attributing to no man an ulterior motive, believing in the sincerity of all and appreciating their positions with a sympathetic judgment. He endeavored to correct where he ~ perceived an error, but he, nevertheless respected the man, in spite of his error, provided he was sincere. Thus it was that Ward was a welcome figure wherever philosophy, -psychology, or theology was seriously considered. - He was a Catholic at all times, but never a bigot, for bigots can exist within, as well as without, the . Church; He was a very clever conversationalist both with young men and with old. An associate says: “He was an astonishingly young man for his years, and an attractive companion for men younger than himself; he yet seemed somehow to be the contemporary of the great men whom he had known as a boy, Huxley or Tennyson or Manning. It was- not in the least that his friends felt as if they were talking to an old man, but it was'as if they were talking to one of these great men in his prime.”	.
As an entertainer, Wilfrid Ward was a surprise
, to all. -A good musician, a singer and a clever elocutionist, he more than entertained. In the interpretation of Tennyson he was at his best.
G. K. Chesterton says, “I always felt as if I . had seen and listened to Tennyson merely from having seen and listened to Ward.” _
Wilfrid Ward is now dead.’ He has left us at the very time that our need of him seems greatest. For twenty-five years he guided the destiny of the Dublin Review, and no one man has been deemed capable to take up the task where he has left off. He has done a great work. Perhaps the world will never understand it and appreciate it fully. We cannot gauge his influence upon the,English mind. That he was appreciated and respected by his opponents has been the wonder of his career; His influence-was subtle and far-reaching and his success lay-not in the out-and-out rejection of narrow principles- by his opponents but rather in the . molding of the English mind to a less narrow y and a more open view of Catholicism and
' Catholic doctrines. ‘
SCHOLASTIC ■ ' -	283
-	X	* '
Varsity Verse. \
Waiting. .	. .
The wind runs wild on the sea tonight,	;
And the clouds in the sky hang low;-	'	■ L
The darkness rustles with misty rain,	.	- ;
And the foam flies,—drifting snow.
A fisherman’s on the sea tonight, *	-	~
And he struggles with helm and oar,	/	;
And prays, as he makes for the distant light	"
In a cottage on the shore.	- ,
The wind is wild on the shore tonight,	-	. . >
And the lightnings dance on the lea; -	/
The crash of waters that strike on the beach	'
Comes up like a wail from the sea.	W
A woman waits on the shore tonight,	,	_
But out on the treacherous swells,	.	.
Where the waters keep her heart’s delight,	‘ '
Her anxious spirit dwells.	A - .
- - *■*'
The wind is low on the sea tonight,	'
And the mist is a funeral pall; . ’	:	. .
The sea-birds are singing requiems,	W
In the .caves of the ocean wall.	.
A woman waits on the shore tonight.	-	2.
And keeps her tryst with pain; ’	>	-	?. J
She does know of the mystic rite, ■	' - .
Nor that she waits in vain.	_ W . /
B.. Matthew.
Bereavement.	*
Fast through the glimmering city street, . ,	- _ ;
Down to where you lay, .	,	:
Came Death on unreluctant ,feet	.
And took your life away.	...	*
To the starry heavens I cried aloud
To where your soul had gone;	-	,	-?
And sudden through a parted cloud ..	''/Ay1 J?
A new star shone.	' .	55'
• Thomas F. Healy, ’ig.	, 5
Seventeen.	: •' ;
■ As he walks down the stre.et,	'	* 'Ay. 5
Looking saintly and neat	.5
In his new suit and bright-lustred shoes, '	‘	' yy.
Both his cheeks are as red '	"	.	. K 5
- As his necktie; and head, :	- y' - j-'AyAy;;
For he thinks everyone knows the news. ' yJy
'	’	* *	“"’...'I' N -"Ai
Though he wants to be gay
As he goes on his way,. ' - ' ‘	. ••
And to walk with a step full of vim;-	y-.---yxAA^lA;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
284
Still he shivers and shakes, . While he swelters and bakes, For it seems every eye is on him. -
• Now the reason that he Feels this criminal glee, Which has set all his head in a whirl,	-
Is because, in dismay,	•
He is now on his way
For the first time to call on his girl. '	. J. J. JK, '20.
• The Reason.
When I sighed, "Are you wed, My sweet little miss?”
She gloomily said, '	When I sighed, “ Are you wed? ”	*
. “No, it’s rheumatiz, Fred, That makes me like-this!”
' When I sighed, "Are you wed,	.
My sweet little miss?”
• Barrett Anderson, ’20.
The Vendetta.
BY JOHN J. SULLIVAN, JR., ’iS.
- “Say, Freshie, drop that cane!” ■
James Pembroke Junior turned about angrily, and regarded the speaker. The young man before him was thick and square of shoulder and coarse-featured. . - Pembroke flushed indignantly. “A very common person indeed,” . ‘ he thought to himself.
“Well, don’t stand there staring, Reggie dear. Drop that cute little cane now, and hurry on home before it gets too dark,”-repeated the aggressor, . grinning contempt at „ the freshman.	•
James Junior grew more indignant. “Drop this cane, did yOu say? I should say not. Who .’ are you anyway? Take my advice and mind • your own affairs, sir.” He had. not yet heard ' of the regulation which forebade freshmen the use of canes. And he wondered who this might be who was thus challenging his right to sport ~ a'carie if he wished.	..	.
The stranger then tried to snatch the cane from; the ~well-gloved hand of its owner. But . Pembroke quickly\drew„it awajr, and, fairly. , purple with, rage, he - raised it and slashed it - . ’; - fiercely‘across •'theface of.his ;assailant, produ-’’ > cing for the instant on his cheek a livid welt.
The man hesitated for a second under the sharp -pain of the stroke. Then, with an angry curse, -he charged, caught the cane in mid-air, snapped it in two, and, seizing the frantically struggling • Jimmie, sat down :on the edge of the college walk, where, with the object of- dispute, he administered to his victim a sound, substantial -old-fashioned drubbing. ..Rising finally) a little breathless from the exertion, he tossed the cane and its owner into the road. *
“.Let that be a lesson-to you, young fellow,” • he said. The grin had returned, and he seemed very well .satisfied with ..the world as he stood -there fingering the bruise on his left cheek. “And don’t be ashamed to tell, anyone that Bill Hargrave taught you.” ■	. .
With a chuckle he went-his way, leaving the humiliated Pembroke to think it over. -
Jimmie gathered himself up from-the dusty road. His face burned from anger and mortification. He blessed the darkness that helped ’ him to his rooms unobserved. -	-
The greater part of that night he lay awake.
-His whole spirit was utterly outraged. • Help- • lessly. he remembered the great strength of '
. Hargrave. The name kept ringing in his ears.
He knew he hated that name and its bearer'	.
more than’’anything else? Over and over he promised himself Vengeance. His would be a -real vendetta'. If fie were only as strong as Hargrave! He deplored the time fie had wasted in the past. It had been his own fault. He had been a weak fool. But ’ now,—and choking back the sobs, he made his solemn vow. He would make himself strong also. Just give him time’and he would show them! Untilthen his ' revenge could wait. It was not till the small hours of the morning, that ke fell to sleep'.’
He awoke with the memory of his disgrace. Fervently he renewed his 'resolution of the night before: He flung his silver cigarette-case Out upon the’ campus before he was fully dressed,	■
and froin-that moment' he trained scrupulously to'his purpose; ‘	•	■ .	•
When' the" Freshmen were called out, Pembroke donned a suit and reported to the coach. 'More as a joke than anything, he was retained oh the squad. He did look, out-of-place in a. football suit. Laughingly they called him the “Infant .Whirlwind.” Day after day he did in the gymnasium the long program of .exercises	-
he had mapped out "for ‘himself. Then came track and basketball and baseball. He. tried . -
"THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC \	285
hard at all of them. That year also he learned ' to swim. By. June strange new'-lumps were beginning to form on his biceps, and he had lost all of his old-time pallor. After commencement he left for home, the standing joke"in the school’s athletics.	.	'
When he had settled himself in- the plush chair and the train was speeding him toward the city, he.thought it over. Hargrave, he still hated with all the original' fervor, and the thought of vengeance was just as fresh as it had been the night it was born in his wounded '	heart. So far he had done his best. But he
.	must keep at it. His father had written and
asked him if he-had made his -plans for. the summer. He had not answered the letter, but as he sat there, he was considering the matter very seriously.
“Dad,” he told Pembroke Senior, shortly after he got home, “I have my own plans this summer and I won’t need any money.”
The sire was very much surprised at this, sudden purpose. When his breath was restored ' he looked the bov over carefully; with a vague wonder in his heart, he asked the boy no questions. He would let the youngster do for himself as propos.ed. At the close of vacation the boy returned. There was a healthy glow to his tanned cheeks. He had grown taller, and gained about twenty pounds. He merely’explained that he had been on a farm.
The first thing Pembroke heard upon his arrival at college was that Hargrave had failed completely in. the final examinations and was repeating his Sophomore year. “Well,” thought Jimmie, “that will give me one more year.” He tried for the varsity‘football team and made the . third squad. 'The nickname “Infant Whirl-.wind” .still stuck to him. Often'as he limped . back .to the “gym” after a hard scrimmage he felt like giving it up. But the thought of Hargrave promptly revived his determination; That'year closed, .and, though Pembroke- was: still a joke, he was becoming less sb. ' ■
Again- Jam.es Pembroke, Jr.,' disappeared during the summer months: In September he came -back home with' ten-pounds more" and another ‘ inch .added ’ to. his stature.- ' His hands were’ calloused and his skin was tanned-to a dark brown. His muscles were large and as hard as India rubber. - He started the. junior year by making the second squad and he played opposite Hargrave on the line. Pembroke gloried in this though he received most of the hard knocks.
Toward the end of the season he was put into . .' one of the big games for a few minutes. There-, . V after he was still -known, as the “-Whirlwind,” -but the “Infant” had been-dropped. He made . -a place on the. swimming team, and in the .	•- .
spring he succeeded in capturing one on the varsity nine. Meanwhile he was among, the -	.
best in the classroom. He,deft school,for the -third time still hating Hargrave with all his . soul. . .	.
The “Whirlwind” made up his mind wfiile he was packing away a few pennants and pictures in his room. This would be his last chance. He felt* sure of his success, but he needed some- ■	.
thing different from the farm this summer. .	.
So a letter went to his home town explaining • things, while a train carried him -in the oppo- -	"
site direction.	.
A few days later a young man walked over to • the proprietor of a large hotel in a very popular . summer resort and inquired whether he needed ‘ a good porter that was willing to work. The proprietor looked him over, and smiled. ’ ‘	.
“Looking for exercise?” he asked.	,
“Something like that,” assented the aspirant?-. James Pembroke got the job.
And it was exercise. All through the hot . summer months Pembroke carried trunks from-the station to the hotel and from the hotel to -the station. Very often he had to carry them . up -two or three flights of stairs. After fie had '	,
been at the hotel a week he could tell within a'	.
pound the weight of any trunk he. touched. J . At- the end of A,ugust he fired himself. In his socks he stood now an even six feet, and tipped' the scales at two hundred. He was all sinew and -muscle,: and the latter were of banded steel..-' In his-pocket was a wallet of seventy-five dollars.- ' which he. felt that he had really earned.	,
Three days after the-“ Whirlwind” -arrived -' - . at college for his final, year; he broke the- record- - . for strength. It had-been held by Bill Hargrave-. - • The antagonists began their ‘football < practice j ~ together. Bor a'while they held their; old: - ; positions opposite each other. Then Pembroke- ' .;' was changed to the first squad and Hargrave' ■	" ’
to the second.. That year Pembroke made the: • ' touchdown that beat Cornell, and he'was-the-idol of the college. -He also won his letter in swimming. All through the year he worked J -hard in his classes. Just -before graduation- . \' y-he knocked a home-run which won the last game -"y? ..J and the intercollegiate championship. - . A .
The evening after commencement James - J J
286	THE NOTRE DAME
Pembroke Junior looked for Bill Hargrave. The- time had come. He had noticed that Hargrave had been avoiding him of late, but7 that afternoon he met him face to face as Hargrave was leaving his room.
“I say, Hargrave,” he said quietly, “come over to the room a minute, will you?”
The thick-set fellow nodded silently and followed him.' When they were both in Pem-' broke’s room, the latter turned and faced his enemy. .
“Sit down, Hargrave,” he indicated a chair, “I want to talk to you.”
The other sank in a -chair, and, regarding Pembroke in silence, waited. '	.
“I’m not going to explain the purpose of this little talk because you know it as well as I do,” he began. “But if you think you don’t, I want you to recall an evening'four years . ago when you took a little well-dressed fop and gave him the beating of his young life. I was . that kid, Hargrave.. I guess you know that, and I’ve never forgotten it. . The time of evening up the score has come. Do you think I’m able to do it, Hargrave?”
“Yes, I suppose so,” came the answer very slowly. “But it’s not going to be easy------ remember that.” -
“Don’t you think I ought to thrash you, Bill? Wouldn’t you do it if you were in my place?” asked Jimmie.
“I’m pretty sure I would, Pembroke.”
“Well, I won’t, Bill Hargrave! I’ve been thinking it out and I want to tell you something. ' That old score of mine was settled long ago, though I’ve just realized it. I’ve thought of nothing else for the last four years, and every time I tackled you out on the field there, every time I pushed your face into the mud and charged you on the line, I was paying back . part of that score. I feel how that it, is'fully
paid. 'But that isn’t all. In one-way you are the best friend I’ve - ever had: for, if-' it -hadn’t been for you, I’d have been sitting out there on .the bleachers these last four years, smoking
the ‘ coffin-nails ’ and yelling myself ‘ hoarse.
• I’d never have done a thing. myself. Bxcept for you I’d still be the weak-kneed fop you thrashed
. that blessed day on the college path. So you see, Hargrave," if anything, I’m in debt to you.
. I suggest we square* up matters with a dinner . . at theUotel. Are you going to shake oh it, Bill ? ”
' Hargrave “shook.”. ,.. y .. J. . '	?
SGHOLASTIC
In Memory of Sister Clare.
Peacefully rest, tired feet,
For many years that trod	.
In humbly serving sweet
The hillways up to God.
O tired heart, happily rest
Where there' is rest in store,	-
Safe in your Saviour’s breast,
With Christ forevermore..
. C. L. O’D.
How to Place-a Manuscript.
~ BY DELMAR J. EDMONDSON, T8.
. A young author who is seeking a place in the field of literature should know that a great deal depends upon the letter which accompanies the manuscript submitted to periodicals. That editors know more than other people is an illusion, commonly cherished by all save the struggling writers whose contributions have been rejected with painful regularity. These latter know that very often editors are at least lacking in judgment and slow to recognize talent.
In many cases, however, the failure of literary tyros may be. attributed to the kind of letters enclosed for the editors, who are not demigods that they should be treated in anywise. differently from other correspondents. A person may be just as free and familiar with an editor as he would be with an unreasonable bulldog in August.	.	-1
After examining into the practice of the most successful in communicating with, their publishers we venture the following advice to those who are ambitious to break into print. Couch the wording of your next epistle along these lines and the result will - be sure. And once you have succeeded in placing an offering; you can send in all your earlier efforts and they will be. accepted without question. : Most of the literature in the magazines to-day is published simply because the: authors, thereof once wrote something really worth, while. .	.
i. Do; not typewrite either manuscript or letter. The handwriting of the author always gives To the affair a. personal touch, a literary tone that appeals to the editor at once. : .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
z. Write on both sides of the paper. Evidences of economy appeal to everyone, and particularly to an editor, since the price of paper has gone up.	‘	.
3.	Start off in a friendly manner calculated to put the editor- at his ease,—in some such fashion as this: “I hope this finds yourself and family doing real well.” If the date of the letter is near some holiday you might wish -him many happy returns. In short, demonstrate at once that you accept him as-your equal, intellectually and socially.
4.	Follow -the introduction with a. few appropriate remarks on any subject that .may suggest itself: the probable outcome of the war; your reasons for favoring the abolition of the general, property tax; your opinion as to your neighbor’s piano-playing (restricting-yourself, if you can, to language that involves no violation of the postal laws).
•5. Start the body of the letter by intimating that you are writing not for. pleasure but to earn a living. Let the editor see that you are determined to have a literary career, willy-nilly. If you have had experience as a pugilist or a football player, don’t fail to mention the fact, enclosing a photograph’ of yourself garbed accordingly. Many a poor manuscript has been saved by a bellicose recommendation. \
6.	On the. other hand, you may adopt a different tone, and work on the sympathies of the editor. Speak f er vent ly of an invalid mother, or children, five, six; or upward, according as you would appear poor or middle-class.
7.	Give a short bnt optimistic history of the manuscript: to what periodicals it has already been submitted; your estimate of it (eschewing false modesty), and of the editors who have returned it, hinting that, unless all signs fail; they will be seeking new positions ^shortly-. . - 8. Do not fail- to include a ■ biographical sketch of the person who first gave you the idea that you have : a talent for literature. 'State whether or not there have been signs of insanity in his family at-any time since 1492.	'
9.	Do not be too: brief: "If you cannot think of anything else' copy 'into your letter 'a few paragraphs from the American Constitution or from-“Gulliver’s Travels”. It is. a good plan to distribute these excerpts here and there in unexpected places that;-they. may be at once surprising and pleasing- to . the editor. ’ -
. If you follow these instructions your manuscript, will undoubtedly be placed—somewhere.
-287
The Lady of . the Dome. /
BY AUSTIN- MCNICHOLS, ’19.
Serenely fair and pure she-stands on high ~
In golden dress, and round her head doth show ■
A gatheied host of heaven’s stars aglow:
She hears our prayers, and treasures up each sigh
As through the falling snow we pass her by, Whence looking up to her from down below -We unseal all our cares that she may know .
The heaviness and faults that in us lie.
For mother-like she heals the troubled mind, . =
Gives rise to joyous peace instead of hate; :
Her eyes are ever on our blessed home, -- - -
Her. presence makes of us a gentler kind;
In her we place our trust, our love, our fate,— The blessed Lady of the Golden Dome. .
_ — ——---------- ' — ■
For France.
... BY J. KENNETH BOYLAN, ’17. . .
CAST OF CHARACTERS, ’’	.
In order of appearance.
Madame Lefevre, a widow. " ' '
Babel her grand-daughter.
Celeste, her daughter-in-law. ■ .	■
Jean, her son.	"
Alphonse, an old neighbor.	.
Scene: Madame Lefevre’s cottage in northern France.	'
Time: September, 1914. .	,
The curtain discloses a typical French living’room of the peasant class. There is a door at the right-of the room, opening, into the kitchen; another at the back of the scene, opening into the garden; a large double window in the center of .the back wall; and a fireplace'at the left of the room.
. Mada'me Lefevre sits before the fire, with knitting in her. lap untouched, gazing into the fire. . .
s Enter from door at rear Babet.
-; Babet. .Grandmere! Wake up! They, say at the village that the Germans have come . twenty- miles further. Do you think they will come here? .	.	.
Madame. Hush, Babet. The Germans will not come. Our brave soldiers will . sweep -them back when they come to the front.
~ Babet. But, Grandmere, the men tell such stories of the things that the Germans are doing. Don’t you think-they will stop when my'papa- meets-them? Why. do they come to our country? ..	,	. ~	.
Madame. It is the way of the world, Babet;.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
28S
Men think they must fight because the Kaiser says so.
Babet. But why must my papa fight? When will he come back?
Madame. He fights to save France from the barbarian; and when he has shot the Germans he will come back to us. Let us kneel and pray for him and for France.	'
(As they pray, Celeste passes the window slowly and enters the room hesitatingly-:)
Celeste. Mamma!	-	.
Madame. (CaZzuZy) Speak quickly; tell- us the news.
Celeste. On the list it says that Andre— Andre—is—(weeps).
Madame L. Wounded?
Celeste. Yes.	•
Madame L. Is that all?
Celeste. No—he is dead.
Madame L. Dead! Andre! My baby, my firstborn.	.
Babet. My papa; what is the matter with him? (runs to Madame).	-	-
Madame L. He has been hurt, child. (Raising her head) And the others, Celeste? ’
Celeste. They—too—have—
Madame L. Pierre and Louis! Three, together? .	.	.
Celeste: Yes, at the Marne. •
Babet. Grandmere, what is the matter? Why are you' so still? Tell me what has happened.	"
Madame L- Hush, child; say your beads for—our—heroes.	"
Celeste. My husband! Andre! -Dead! (buries her. face in her apron).
- Madame L. ■ Andre—Pierre—Louis! Three —three. Mother of -Borrow, strengthen me! My boys—gone, - forever.'	-	■ .
Celeste. But Jean: they said nothing, of him on the list. He is safe.'
MadantE L. My baby, Jean—he is too young to go in the rank.—God spare -him*for me.' One’out of four!	- • :
’ (Silence js unbroken save for the weeping of Celeste, until Jean enters, running- through door at back.)
. Celeste. ■ Jean! 'He is safe!	•
. Jean'.’ "Mamma! (embraces'Madame Lefevre).
Madame L. My son! My son! You. are safe?’ /	■ L ' ; .	.
* - Jean. Not a scratch on:my body;’ but my mind—it is scarred forever. I shut my-: eyes. .
My ears are full of shrieking shells and bursting bombs. I am almost insane. I hate war.
Madame L. (Drawing away) Jean! What are you doing here? Have you run away from— my son, look at me.	,	.
Jean. . I could not endure it; mother. • It terrified me; and then—Henri fell beside me, his head crushed. I shrieked and ran—I think I am mad. • '	'
Madame L. My boy! You are too young for such things; but you must go back. France needs you for her life; to save her from the Germans. You must go, my son. •
Jean. But it is so terrible—-	■	'
Madame L. * Jean, do you forget the mail whose name you bear?' Your, father’s father, who died when the Germans came the last time! You must avenge him. See his picture there on the wall! If you are his grandson you' must go back and fight for the right.
Jean. ’ For France! The slaughter will be . glorious, now that my - grandfather’s . spirit goes with me; For France and for you, mamma.-
Madame. Yes, my son,—for France— Goodbye!	-	.	’
Exit Jean through door at rear.
Madame L. It is hard—four sons for war.
Celeste. (Softly) But it is for France. .
Madame L. Yes, for France; to drive the warring Hun off the earth. But four sons— Celeste. They have fallen in a holy work. .
Madame L. (Not hearing) Andre—Pierre— Louis—and—jean!. My babies! . They are gone—:to save France.- .	' ■ -
(Shouting without and cries of “ Vive la France.” Celeste rushes to the window.)
Celeste. The crowd about the mayor’s steps—the}- are rejoicing.	.
Madame L- Perhaps the -reports they • told you of are-not true.	,
Celeste. Some one comes.	.
(Sozmd of man. with -wooden leg approaching. Enter Alphonse, an old man of the neighborhood).
Alphonse. (Out of breath) The Prussians— are defeated; They have begun to retreat.
Celeste. Victory!.	.
Madame L. But my sons: is it true that they have fallen? ~	.
Alphonse.’. They, have:—-but they are martyrs that France might live.
MaDame L. Then they are with the Blessed
Mother now.
Alphonse. They say that , an angel host, I see. nothing but blood and flashes of steel, with flaming locks that blinded the Huns,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	289 • . -■ <>
swung mighty swords beside the Marne and saved France. •	.	'
Celeste. An angel host? -
Alphonse. Yes, with Michael at their head. They killed half the .Germans. God is with us; • we shall win now. ■	•	-
Madame L. ■ Angels! Like the days of Mac-cabaeus. Were there no' others, saints or spirits?
Alphonse. - I-do not know; the messenger told-only of.angels.	, - v .	- ■
Madame- L. I am- sure there- were others: My father, who fought-so bravely—and Andre and-Pierre and Louis—I am sure -the -Blessed Mother sent , them to aid- France.
Celeste. -Then they have protected Jean from harm, too. He must still live. .	- .
Babet. And the Germans won’t come here,. will the}1-? - ' ,	\'
Madame L. N°» Babet. We are -safe and France-is safe, for God is with'us.- •
Babet. . -But my- papa: will he-come' back . to me soon again?- .	’	-
Celeste No, child; he has • gone a longway.	- - -
Madame L. We -have given him to God, and God has used him to save France. It is our sacrifice for France.
'	. (CURTAIN.)
. ---------.«<*.------
From Father. .
BY JOHN V. RILEY, ’17.
A letter from John B. Frost,. beef-pa,cker and cold- . storage magnate, senior member of the firm of John B. Frost & Co., to his son, John B. Frost, Jr., who is bn his honeymoon:	.
Mr.-John B. Frost, Jr.,	.	'
Hollywood Inn,	-	.
' Hollywood, North Carolina. ■
My.-dear Son:	-	■ .
Your last received. - Glad' to -know you- and Elizabeth ' are sb- thoroughly enjoying yourselves. She is a splendid girl, my boy; and as far as I can see,, isn’t as useless.as most of the young ones of these .days. If she proves to be half the woman your mother was, or even as efficient as-your brother Jim’s wife, then you’re lucky indeed. ■	‘	■
Henry had trouble with the new car yesterday, so I went down to the office on the “L.” Across the aisle sat a female with a pet pug.
I tried to hide behind my TH&wn^but it was
no use. She made such a fuss over the cur 1..^ couldn’t read. I guess everyone else in the car ; L A ,' had the same trouble. To begin with she was .	< J
■ dressed up like one of Vanderbilt’s pet horses— .	. -T
and the pug, he sure looked disgusted with life. \ • J It’s a good thing I’d had my breakfast or the ’ . . - ' sight would have ruined my appetite. . •	_	’
I tell you, there’d ought to be a law against * 5.-such tom-foolery; it ain’t right. Such women J J ought to be whipped in public.. I’ll bet that .	-
woman would throw a fit if some kid crawled . ■ r up into her. lap. But that pug, he had a blanket • wrapped around him, so he wouldn’t take cold.	:
when the trainman opened the car door, and	A
he wore a silver collar. And all the time-he';	.
kept shifting from one paw to the other, when- '	.; .
ever she’d - call him : some dam-fool' name,.' -V just as though he was having all he could' do-to '	, .
keep from jumping out the window -and com- > . > mitting suicide.	‘
My boy, the poop man that’s her husband * ' : . sure has grounds for divorce. Oh yes, I’m sure • L. • she was married; such women always are.” Na* V doubt she’s too busy with 'her suffrage club -or the society of - free thought or free love, > - : or something like that, to spend time having’ . ' / any kids of her own. I suppose she’s one of A-~ them new women I read so much about in the-- -	7 Jz
magazines. -Well, then give me the old-fashioned-’ ; ... ’ 7 kind, the kind your mother was, my boy/arid z ■ y, I’m thankful neither your brother nor yourself, '■ picked out a pug fancier. Keep Elizabeth out- ■	... -
Z	_ _	* k
of these new-fangled societies. They make-life.	-
miserable for many a man.' Is it any wonder - '7	;
the divorce courts are crowded all the time? - J . ' If that woman had children of her own, she :	< *
wouldn’t have time to nurse a pug on .the5- y? elevated and spoil a day’s work for a whole' -' . ->.• car-load of hard-working folks.' I tell you such: 7: _	?,
woinen have a lot to answer for.	' .
Well, my boy, you’ll forgive your old dad - . ? for going on such a rampage, but the sight just ’ > - y.y made my blood boil. You’ll understand; ’ Give *'. - T my love to Elizabeth, and have a good time, -. •TN both of you, and remember I’m thinking ofv-7 'NAN you. May run down and come home with you' - ’ VLy if things aren’t in too much,of a rush he^e. -. -	. Lf
Your affectionate father,	'-NN
John B. Frost. ' ~ CNN
P. S. In my heat about the female and her Jyy mutt, -forgot to say we have closed that deal , J-y-y ■with J. P. Morgan & Co. for three nriffion y . sides of bacon and two million hams; for triey^LyyJ Alfies.	‘
200	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per. Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana
L.	FEBRUARY io, 1917	No. 18.
BOARD OF EDITORS
-	Howard R. Parker, ’17	Speer Strahan, ’17
	Edward J. McOsker, ’17	Harry E. Scott, ’17,
	Michael J. Early, ’17	John A. Lemmer, ’i8
	Stuart H. Carroll, ’17	Charles W. Call, ’18
	Delmar J. Edmondson,’i8	Thomas F. Healy, ’19
-	F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’18	
' —The action of the. Indiana. legislature in adopting statutory prohibition was the expected culmination of the powerful “dry” wave ... experienced throughout the state.
Prohibition _, „ ...	,	°	. ..	,
' Indiana Prohibition has enthusiastic adherents and equally enthusiastic
opponents. It is a question which draws forth abundant vehemence from both sides. It is a subject in which the people of Indiana have for some time been vitally interested, and it is a subject in which they should be more vitally concerned today, after the controversy over a saloonless Indiana has been determined, and the practicability of the problem confronts them. The work of the legislators in making into law that for which two hundred. thousand voters petitioned is not the completion of prohibitory activity. A mere prohibition decree on the -• • A: statute books is but the beginning. With public sentiment indifferent to the enforcement of siich a law, it is very likely to do more' harm than good. We believe, however, that Hoosiers generally now desire a prohibition that prohibits. . Tlie power of the press of the state may • be counted upon in the attempt to secure and enforce effective “ dry ” legislation. Prohibition in Indiana will be a decidedly interesting experiment. No one'denies that .the evils of intem-perance.are as-great in this state as elsewhere. A / : No one questions the need of serious reform of * the liquor traffic. Whether dr not prohibition A A ■is the solution of the problem depends somewhat \-A.:.;-,a upon the character of the -law ' the Indiana
legislature gives the people; but it depends mostly upon the willingness of the people to give the law a fair trial. We know that prohibition will not result in the millennium. The .task of the prohibition statute is to reduce the evils of intemperance,. and upon the conduct of the Indiana people in helping to enforce the statute depends its: ultimate success. -------------------:---------------
—The , death of Brother . Potamian of the Christian Brothers is a loss to American Catholic scholarship. During seventy years of his life,
.	, he taught many thousands
Brother Potamian. of boys who hold his memory in benediction. He was the author of scientific works of great value and was successful as a practical experimenter in electricity. He was a favorite lecturer before learned audiences. Best of all, he was a conscientious and devoted religious, and the crown of scholarship sat nobly on his humble brow. The world'is the poorer for his going, but at least it will cherish the memory of his holy and useful Jife. R. I. P. ---------------------------------
Advice to Debaters.
In the Scholastic for 1901, Dr. Austin O’Malley, then professor of English literature at Notre Dame, gives some very pertinent advice to debaters, which we reprint here for the benefit of the candidates of this year:
As to material:
1.	Be certain you understand the meaning of every word in the- question under- discussion, and that you foresee all possible interpretations of the question’s meaning. - .
2.	Group your argumerits so that useless repetition may be avoided. Commonly the order'to follow is: begin with good arguments; set the weakest arguments in the middle of the speech; and end with the'strongest arguments. In team-work each man selects a separate group? of arguments, and arranges These in the “Homeric Order” mentioned in this paragraph^
3.	Do not try to use every argument you .find: a multitude of . arguments is often confusing. Insist upon-a few strong proofs which will vividly affect . your audience. Remember a hearer must carry your arguments in his memory, and a multitude of arguments will be forgotten. ' .
4.	.. Express :yourself very clearly and accurately. Do not trust to your, power of'extemporary speech; but do not, on . the. other hand, leave the audience with the opinion that you have-recited a memorized .“piece.” .-./AAA. . \ . A	. .
• 5-; In a>debate,1 when’ the time is limited, avoid' a long'exordium: .2 ' ; .	/ A AJ\ AA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'
3s
" 6. - Use short, snappy sentences in a speech. Be concrete. (See Spencer on Style).	’ -	.
7, Before writing an important debate read a book like Baker’s on “Argumentation.”	.
, As to manner of delivery:
1. Be modest but confident.
’ 2. Do not walk about the stage like a.bear in pain. A man that has command of his nerves, and consequently of his audience, does not prance. At the most, you may change your position by a single step when you enter upon a new line of thought.	'
3.	Stand firmly; do not sway at the hips. Keep your hands out of your pockets and your handkerchief _ within your pocket. /	• • - "
4.	Gesture is a motion of the. hand or arm which is used by serious speakers only to emphasize a word or phrase. A debater should remember that he is not expected to give an exhibition in calisthenics: never make a gesture merely for physical exercise, and always finish a gesture by an end-stroke with the hand from the wrist. Do not gesticulate across your face, and avoid theatrical, linked and "pumping gestures.
5.	Avoid any article of clothing that will distract the attention of the audience. Gentlemen do not ' wear diamonds. ■	..	,
6.	Never drink water (or anything else) while you are speaking.	’
7.	Eat only a light meal if. you must speak soon after dinner. '	.	'
8.	Speak distinctly, not harshly. Avoid provincial pronunciations. Use English, not the street vulgarities of your own city. Remember that a is not 0, nor 0, a;
’ u is not 00, e is not i. Place your accents properly. Forgetfulness of this i;ule irritates a cultured judge.
9.	Do not verbally slug your opponents.
10.	Do not hurry.	'
11.	Do not end with formulas like, “I thank you for your attention.”
Book Review.
VERSES. By Hilaire Belloc. With .an introduction by • Joyce Kilmer. Laurence J. Gomme, New York. pp. 91. $1.25.
English poets writing English prose are many, but, conversely, few prosateurs can contend that “a bolder note might swell” if in their hands were placed the poetic lyre. Though, as Francis Thompson said, it is more often lack of inclination than of ability which indisposes a poet to the . effort of prose-composition, yet courage and achievement are connoted in the prosewriter who succeeds in verse. Ruskin attempted it -and failed, and of all writers of descriptive prose, his glowing passages seem to need nothing but rearrangement in the interests of rhythm and rime to make of them perfect poems. In Belloc, the metrical necessity always aids, and is perhaps sometimes responsible < • for many unexpected bursts of poetry., .	'
A writer who is known for .his prose appears at some ' disadvantage when he enters the lists of song. His work will be judged and appreciated chiefly by critics who are themselves poets, and the modern scales’in these1 professional hands are almost as relentless as
29I
those provided Dionysius in Hades. But Mr. Belloc’s ■ \ choice of “Verses” for the title of his collection has--disarmed violent critics, while Mr. Kilmer’s informing > introduction prepares the casual reader for more j-enjoyment than he would anticipate.	. .
. The performances of most public figures in poetry '• are almost uniformly stale, or at least ordinary. Not ~ so with Hilaire Belloc. Freshness and strength, and an t \ exuberance, almost of youth, make the volume interest- •	;
ing and treasurable. At unexpected turns a delicate" • touch reveals the poetic insight. All song must have .• intervals, but dignified, satirical, or gay, the intervals in this poet are rarely uninteresting.	- ...
Hilaire Belloc is known on both sides of the Atlantic for a keen parliamentarian, a brilliant historian, and .	- -
a discerning military strategist. To these claims for , remembrance Mr. Kilmer adds manifold distinctions. ‘Heis a Frenchman, an Englishman, a Roman Catho- . lie, a soldier, a democrat, a practical journalist, and v poet.’ Enough to give us pause. But hold;—he:-is	. ■
always all of these,* and “in all these characters-he .	.
utters his poetry.” Of this the verses themselves give best proof. “To the Balliol Men in Africa,” ’ "Courtesy,” “The South Country,” “The Death • and Last Confession of Wandering Peter,” and . a . delicious satire,. “To Dives,” are pieces which, will -appeal with recurrent freshness to as many different . tastes. The collection covers a considerable period . of time, but years do not count where poetry is con- -cerned. And because of the poetry that unexpectedly lurks in these pages, the collection and publication of - . Hilaire Belloc’s verses has been a work worth -while. , -	Speer Strahan. . _
Varsity News.;
—The “feller” that is always saying “gimme v-winter” should have been supremely happy -	\ ?
this week.	.	.. .	> -
* —Professor Vera has returned from a two	Z
months’ leave of absence, during which time he.. / w.-s visited Mexico and South America. ‘	(
—The K. of C.-dance held at the Oliver ’ . Hotel on January. 31 st was successful from every point of view. Fifty-five couples were present. J - e’"'
—Mrs. Elizabeth Courtney of Detroit, often W /' . a welcome guest of the University, delivered an W E?; illustrated lecture in Washington HalL last .<-W. Saturday evening. .	.	. :
—The dance.committee of the Senior class
met Tuesday to complete plans for their.dinner . .'Ei? dance which will be. held at the Oliver Hotel, ' .
the evening of April the twenty-third.. .; -.	- ' W?
—Students of ’ the .engineering department
have.been invited to attend the national con- Ji’EEE-vention of the American Association of Engi- _ neers' which will be held at the Hotel LaSalle, Chicago, beginning February 8th, ' :	. .E
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
292
—Seventy-five of the students in Brownson Hall are enjoying general permission for after-.noons in consequence of their inability to score a single demerit during the quarter, November to February. We . have not heard from the Seminary yet.
—A social session of the Knights of Columbus was held Tuesday evening, January 23rd. Many knights from other councils, and the applicants for entrance into Notre Dame Council were present. A splendid program was rendered. By far the most interesting and appreciative event of the evening was the discourse by Father Schumacher on St. Thomas Aquinas. It was a half hour of instruction and encouragement. The Council is indeed grateful.	-	*
Personals.
/	—The marriage is announced of Senor Rafael
I Garcia (M. E.,-’n) and Senorita Maria Gutierrez. The. ceremony took place Februarj^ 2nd in Puebla, Mexico.
_ —Mr. John E. McPhee (B. S., ’90; M. S., ^95)
- and wife announce the arrival of John E. Jr., January 21st. The little newcomer is a citizen of Denver, in the state of- Buffalo Bill, and it is expected he will some day join the Notre Dame " contingent from the Wild West.
—James Francis Cahill (EE. B., ’14) and Miss ■	. Queenabel Gardiner were married January
^7 31st, at EaSalle, Illinois: Dan Curtis, the * . bride’s cousin,’ acted as best man. Cahill was a noted athlete, having been one of our basketball captains; Congratulations from Notre
. Dame!	.
/	—William Poyntelle Downing (EE. B., ’14)
‘ and Edward A. Hayes have formed a part-
' nership for the practice of law, with officessat . no North Water St., Decatur, Illinois. “Poynt”
' is remembered here for his ability as an organist, having been' a wizard at manipulating the big pipe organ in the University Church.
—Melady Brothers, South Omaha, Nebraska? is the name of a firm-well-known and highly successful in the Live Stock Trade of the west.
.	. Here at the .University the name is - of special
* interest, since “Gene” Melady, a member of the ■ Erm, took part in the first intercollegiate football game in the history of Notre Dame athletics.
-That was back in 1887 when We played Michigan on our home grounds. Melady and nearly all
the other members of that first team will be here for a reunion next June.
—Earry Lajoie (EE. B., T5).secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, sends us information of the marriage of Miss Mae Ry al to “ Wild Bill” Donovan, ’15. -The ceremony took place at SS. Peter and Paul’s Cathedral in Detroit, Jan. 25th. “The event was properly celebrated by a number of ‘Bill’s’ Notre Dame friends,” says Larry, adding that Mr. and Mrs. Donovan have permanent “barracks” at 891- Larned~St., East Detroit, Michigan. '	.	.
—The Hiberno-Argentine .Review,, published in Buenos Ajwes, reprints a portion of Father Cavanaugh’s “Opening Sermon” and adds: “After all the best test of any school—in fact-the only real test—is the class of men it turns out. On that test Notre Dame has no reason to be ashamed.” The same issue reprints an article by EAbbe Germain in a Quebec editorial. In introducing the reprint it says:	--
In'these days many Argentine boys, on the closure of their school course, are wont to seek in the United States of America a university to enter a professional career. Very often Catholic parents are slack in the matter of searching round for the best possible univer-■sity, and not infrequently it is the university with the biggest name that they.are apt to select, paying little attention to the conditions and surroundings, moral and material, in which their boys will be thrown. This policy is frequently fatal to their boys. . If parents had no other recourse, their action would not be so culpable, but when they have for the choosing a Catholic university, second to no university in the world, like Notre Dame, their negligence'is indefensible.
Obituaries.
Mrs. Kate Spalding., - ■
Mrs. Kate -Spalding, sister of the late Arch- bishop of Peoria, passed away recently at her home ■ near Lebanon, ‘Kentucky. .Just a few daj’-s.before her death Mrs. Spalding presented to the University for the Bishops’ MemorialHall a large and valuable portrait of her uncle, Martin John Spalding, the distinguished archbishop of Baltimore. .The readers of the t Scholastic are requested to remember'her in their prayers.	"
; "Mr. John Drum. .	.
In the death of Mr.’John Drum on'February 1st the University; lost one of'its oldest and most loyal inmates. The deceased was. born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,'in 1844. He came to Notre
THE: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dame in 1856 and learned the shoemaker’s trade inUt. Joseph’s Industrial School. Since then, with the exception of a brief period passed vin South Bend, he has been the foreman of the local shoe shop. For a good sixty years he has been in his humble' way a part of Notre Dame. Throughout his long term of faithful service he cherished a quiet, genuine devotion to the old school, which he had seen develop almost from its beginnings. When the alumni of the early days visited Notre Dame they always inquired where they might find their old friend, John Drum.1 The death was very sudden, occurring after only a-short illness.
---------------- The Club Column.
- Press Club Banquet.	*
Members of the newly-organized Notre Dame Press Club enjoyed their first banquet at the Nicholson Inn last Tuesday evening. During the evening, Howard R. Parker entertained with piano selections and Harry Scott. with vocal solos. Plans for the future activities of the club were discussed “round the table.” Rev. Paul Foik, C. S. C., librarian of the University, was a guest of honor. The others in attendance at the banquet were Professor J-; M. Cooney, head of the school o’f journalism^ Edward J. McOskef, Stuart H. Carroll, Leo S. Berner, Howard R. Parker, Harry E- Scott, William Kennedy, Robert Carr, Charles Grimes, Charles W. Call, Joseph Merrion, and John W ard. ' ■ .	•	•
•	Washington Hallers Organize.
' Students' who 'live in Washington Hall* are planning the /permanent organization' of a social club.’ ,'Preliminary plans have been discussed aiid an informal organization has been
-	effected. ' Within a short time, officers will be elected. One of the social affairs planned by the
■	club is a 'banqiiet, to be held in the near future.
’ ‘ Interstate Plans Complete. .
Notre Dame’s first annual Interstate. banquet .will be held .next Wednesday night in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel. -Committees-in charge of the affair are busy putting the-.finishing touches .to their work, and indications . are that the banquet will be even more successful than the originators of the plan had hoped. :	'	..	’
Several important meetings-of the executive committee were held during the week and reports
293.
of .progress in the plans were enthusiastic and encouraging. Treasurers of the various clubs, forming the finance committee, have’been in charge of the sale of 'tickets.	:
The sale closed Thursday morning. Although a complete account of the number disposed of has not been made as yet, it seems certain that between two hundred and two hundred and fifty students will attend..	,	.
Members of the committee in charge promise that the entertainment at the banquet will be something novel. They refuse to divulge the character of the program, holding it as one qf the big surprises of the evening. The committee on entertainment .consists of Stuart. H. Carroll, chairman, Emmett Lenihan, John. U. Riley, Thomas Kelly and Harry E- Scott. The ways-and-means committee is made up of Andrew McDonough, chairman, Wallace Coker, Paul Fogarty and Frank Kirkland.
The banquet will start promptly, at 7:00 o’clock Wednesday evening and the fun will begin with the first course. .
Athletics.
The Baseball Schedule.
Six games with conference schools, a visit _ by Leland Stanford University late in May,. -and Michigan as attraction for commencement week are the outstanding features of the baseball schedule for 1917, recently announced-by Coach Harper. Nineteen games have been arranged, constituting the best schedule Notre Dame has had in a long time. Winter baseball will start in the gymnasium as soon as the floor is vacated by the basketball men toward the end of this month. Batterymen and out- -fielders seem the greatest need at this early date. Captain Kline, Wolf, Spalding, and Meyerr infielders of last year, will all be on hand. Following is the schedule of dates, games and places.	•	‘	.
April 13, 14---------------------Illinois at Urbana
April 17__________________Wisconsin at Notre Dame
April 21_____________.•___Notre Dame at Madison
April 24..-L______________.Marshall at Notre Dame
April 26__2_____________Kalamazoo at Notre Dame
May 2__________Western State Normal at Notre Dame
May 4_____________________Wabash at Notre Dame
May 5_____________________Purdue at Notre Dame
May S__________l___Michigan Aggies at Notre Dame
* May ri_____________Polish Seminary at Notre Dame
May 16, 17________________:„Niagara at Notre Dame
/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
May 22......................      Purdue	.at Lafayette
May 23_______________Leland Stanford at Notre Dame
May 29.....„„St.	Ignatius (Cleveland) at Notre Dame
June 1, 2________________...Michigan Aggies at Lansing
June 9___________________.....Michigan at Notre Dame
RED AND BLUE MEET.
Mediocre performances marked the annual Red-and-Blue Meet held in the gymnasium last Saturday afternoon. The talent of the team was nearly equally divided between the two squads, • and Captain John Miller’s Blue squad finished just six points ahead of Charlie Bachman’s Reds,—54 1-2 to 48 1-2.
In the track events the dashmen and hurdlers looked to be about the only athletes near top form. Bergman arid Mulligan' made excellent time in the sprints, while Kirkland and Starrett put up good exhibitions in the two hurdle races. Captain. Miller’s 55 2-5 seconds in the quarter mile is somewhat below his previous performances. McDonough and Kasper ran a ‘ ‘ suspicious ’ ’ dead heat in the half-mile. Meehan did the mile for the first time in his career at Notre Dame, • and finished with plenty of reserve, in 4:43 3-5. Coyle and Noonan were . content to set a very deliberate pace in the two-mile, but Noonan, like Meehan in the mile, was travelling the long route for the first time.
In the field events Douglas high-jumped 5 feet, 8 inches; Miller’s broad-jump was 20 ft., u inches; Bachman put the shot over forty-one feet; ;and Bachman, .Yeager, McKenna, -and Rademacher tied at 10 feet, 6 inches Jin the .pole-vault.
-Coach Rockne’s novice-races were an interesting innovation. Lockard won the forty-yard . dash: from a large field. McGuire, the Brownson youngster, made the. excellent time of 59 1-2 in the quarter-mile, and Van Winegan stepped, the .mile in fine fashion after Leing pressed the entire distance by Galloway.
Corby Hall won a postponed interhall relay race from the Day Students in 1:42. Summaries :
40-yard dash—won by Bergman, Red; Mulligan, ~ Blue,-.second; J. Miller, Blue thirds Time, 4 3-5 sec.
40-yard high hurdles—won by Kirkland, Blue; Starrett, Red, second; Schibelhut, Red, third. ’ Time, 5 3-5 seel-; J ’	■”	; : .- '	. ■ ' =
Running-high jump—won by Douglas, Blue; Dona-hue,( Red,'(second; . Schibelhut, R.ed, third. Height, y'" Y-Y-y yj''-. "-. ■ - ?
■ One-mile' ifun—-won by.. Meehan; Blue; Call, 'Red, second .;'Tinie;4 43 3-5/	- v > — —-----ty- -- :
/Shot-put^ .Bachman, Red; ?-Ward Miller, Blue,, second; \ Jrahzf Blue, third. - Distance, - 41 ft:, ' ' ' - y "E - "• t. bL*',-	-- -	•< -	-	_ .	-	~	-- - ~ " Ji _ _	'
_ 7 1-2 in;	;	\	: -v .n--.-x.-y< -
440-yard dash—won by John Miller, Blue Hackett, Red, second. Time, 55 2-5 sec.
40-yard Ion hurdles—won by Kirkland, Blue; .Starrett, Red,’second; Schibelhut. Red, third. Time, 5 2-5 sec.
SSo-yard run—McDonough, Blue, and .Kasper, Red, tied for first. Time, 2:07 3-5.
Pole-vault—Bachman, Red; McKenna, Red; Yeager, Blue; Rademacher, Blue, all tied for first. Height, 10 ft., 6 in.
220-yard dash—Won bjr Bergman, Red; Mulligan, Blue, second. Time, 24 2-5 sec.
Running broad-jump—won by John Miller, Blue; Spalding, Red, second; McGinnis, Red, third. Dis-. tance, 20 ft., 11 in.
Two-mile run—Noonan, Blue, and Coyle, Red, tied .for first. Time 11 :o6.
Novice Events.
40-yard dash—won,by Lockard; Malinski, second; Keenan, third. Time, 4 4-5 sec.
One-mile run—won by Van Winegan; Galloway, second. Time, 5:15/
440-yard dash—won by McGuire; Smith, second; Malinski, third. Time, 59 1-2 sec.
St. Viator’s, 26; Notre Dame, 46.
Notre Dame defeated' St. Viator’s College Tuesday afternoon by a margin of twenty points. A. terrific spurt in the first half, .in which McDermott scored eight baskets, put the gold and blue so far ahead that, at the .beginning of the latter half, Coach Harper withdrew
' McDermott, ■ Daley,. and King, to save them for the. Wabash game later in the week.
St. Viator’s played a stubborn defensive game and managed to elude the Notre Dame guards often enough to pile up a total sufficient to win most games. Outweighed and out-reached, they (never stopped fighting, and it was only the very superior dexterity of McDermott and Cassidy in shooting baskets that made, their margin of defeat so wide.
Daley has reconsidered his purpose of giving up basketball, and played a good game during the,'first (-half against St. Viator’s. The value -of his return is somewhat offset by the declaration of Grant that he will-be unable to take part in the indoor game any more this winter, and that he will take'the time off to recuperate before the dpehing^of the baseball and outdoor track?, seasons.'	;
Corby won : an/ exciting relay race from Sorin between the? halves of the St. Viator’s game. /Spalding, Malinski, Ryan, Hayes, Lockard, ( and Keenan; ran. fori Corby ; /Meagher, Baujan, Rydzewski, Slackfofcl, Vogel and Hayes sprinted for Sorin.- ■;	c . X

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
295
Scents o’ Humor.
.	One Every Minute.
{Apologies to the Saturday Evening Edwin Lefevre.)
. It gives me the blueses
. And dimses my eyeses
- To read in the newses,
, “The stock market rises!”
I might have bought scoreses Of stockses at parses, (The same ones that soarses Clean up to the starses.)
But cold were my sockses,
I. e., my two feetses:
I bought me'no stockses
Up there in Wall Streetses.
And that’s why I pineses And cryses and sigheses
To read in headlineses "The stock market rises!”
.Dan was an Irish farm laborer who, industrious, was unable to earn more
though very than a. bare
living for himself, his good wife Nora and their little boy. To help along, Nora worked for her more fortunate neighbors, doing the rough work in their dairies. These good people appreciated Nora’s faithful efforts, so that each week she was given something extra, a "thillagh,” as the Irish call it.. This “thillagh,” coming from farmers who' were not wealthy, was tendered not in money but in some commodity that . would be of use in Nora’s household. And so it was that every Saturday Nora brought something home to her Dan,- whether a loaf of home-made bread, an apron full of potatoes, a couple of eggs, or a few sods for the hearth. '	.
One Saturday evening Nora came to the little house on the hillside with a . brimming pail of fresh milk and placed it on the floor where Dan would be sure to notice it. when he came home for his meagre supper.
In his excitement he allowed his foottocometoo
Sure enough he noticed it the first-thing. He asked where if came from and .what they could do with such
a'quantity of milk	...
: " Why? it’ll sour before the three of us can begin to close to the pail of milk—-and he spilt his dream.
finish it,” he said, as he measured the pail with-his .	• ■ broad hand to see if it was really as large as it
.	looked.	..	.
Nora, poor woman, was at a loss to know what to dp with such a precious gift. For a few moments both Post an to Sf-oocj jn thoughtful silence. Their child, a boy of ’’ eight years, came in from the fields where he had _ been hunting bird-nests, and, seeing his parents in _ meditation, crept quietly into a corner by the open ' , fire-place. .	'
At last Dan broke the silence, saying, “Nora, I have it.” .	’
"Tell us,” said Nora eagerly. -	.
"Well,”_says Dan, “we’ll sell that milk and get as many eggs as we can. Then you can go an’ , get the . loan of hatchin’ hens from some one o’ the neighbors. . When the eggs are hatched an’ the chickens are raised we can have more eggs an’ keep on hatchin’ an’ raisin’ chickens until we have enough to be able to sell;, then by’n by we might be able to buy an oul cow. The cow’ll have plinty o’ grazin’ by the side o’ the road. Between the milk from the cow an’ the eggs an’ the chickens we might be able to buy a little patch on the . side o’ that hill where the bog was drained. By goin’ along nice an’ aisy we could soon have, a couple o’ more cows and then we would be able to sell our milk to the creamery. By savin’ we could buy one o’ them little bonemare ponies-they do be sellin’ at the fairs ' sometimes. The pony would be very handy for bringin’ the milk to.the creamery.”
To all this the boy in the corner listened with the . keenest interest, but hearing his father speak of having a nice pony he could riot restrain his enthusiasm and burst out:	' -
“An’ father! can’t I be ridin’ the pony roun’- the ; field when he comes back from town?”
“G’long!” roared Dan, wrought, up by, his imaginary possession of wealth, “G’long! ye young- . brat, and don’t be afther breakin.’ the pony’s back.”
296	/ ' 'THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
r " The bursting of" a frozen water pipe on Monday eyening flooded part of the Main Building and caused some damage to the.University '■archives. . The water seeped into a large safe ’ containing many valuable documents.
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to February 3, 1917..
-.The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the ■
building committee:	’ r
$2000.00 '	.
Samuel T. Murdock, 'SS.**
■	$1000.00''
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68; Right-Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75; M. F. Healy, ’Sa;--John C. Shea, ’9S; Clement C. Mitchell,’02; Byron V. Kanai ey,-’04 ;_Daniel P. Murphy, ’93; John P. Lauth, ’68.	..-'U-L--’’ ’ ...	'■ ..;	-
■	■^$500.00---	-	- v -
Robert Sweeny, ’03;: GI A. Paquette,'’90; Rev.-John Dinhen,-,’6s: -Warren A. Cartier, '87; Stephen B.Rleming, '90; Thomas Hoban, *r'991 Angus D. McDonald, ’00; William .-A. Mclnerny„-.'oi: -Joseph ;M. Byrne,-’79; Cassius McDonald- '04; William -p/.-Breen,. ’77;
Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09; C. C. Craig,'85;
Frank E. Hering, ’98; Peter P. McElligott, ’02; James J. Conway, " '85; George Cooke, ’90; John Dowd, ’99.	• ' -
’	<	-	" -	$300.00	.	•
Frank-N. Maas, '77.	...	•
. $250.00	.
Fred E. Murphy, '93; John M. Flannigan, '94; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B. Naughton, '97; Peter Kuntz.'98; John H. Fendrich, 'S4; John Eggeman, '00; A. A. McDonell, ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, .’99; R. A. O'Hara,’89.	• t	.
.	$200.00	;
- W. G. Uffendell, ’01; John O’Shea, Ti; ’James F. Kennedjr, ’94;
- ’ Louis C." M. Reed, ’98; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Joseph J.-■Sullivan, ’02: G.’A. Faiabaughf’04; Robert Anderson, .'83; Joseph - Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J.; VanAntwerp, ’14;. L. J. Keach, ’oS; Rt.
Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94: F. A. ..Kaul, ’97; William Hoynes, ’77; Edwin J. Lynch, To; T. D. Mott, ’ '95; F. Henry Wurzer, '98; Paul R. Martin, ’13; 'Timothy V.
•Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan,-’04; Daniel Madden, ’06; Fred J.- Kasper, ’04;-J. S. Corby, ’98;: Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F.
_Cushing, ’06.	.	7 .	‘	'	•-	.
■'	‘	.	$150.00
Rev..Michael Shea, ’04;, Ambrose O’Connell, ’07; William Byrne, - .:’95; .James L- Tong,.’94; .W. A. Draper, ’06; James E. Deery, '09.
■	-	$120.00 .	-
.	. .Maximilian St. George, 'oS. .	.	.
- , ’	‘	$100.60	_
1 Oliver J. Tong,’73;.Hermann C.R. Piper, Ti; Rev. Edmund OCon-nor, ’94; J. L. Lamprey,’03; Walter Joyce,’07; GeorgeN. Johnson; ’95;
, William H. Roland; '88; William J. Granfield,’13; M.O. Burns,’86;
Rev. Michael Ryan;’95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James’Frederick Coll, ; -’89; George J. Hanhauser,’01; James Pl Fogarty,’00; ,R.ev; John B.
McGrath, ’80;.: John F. Fennessey, '99; Cyril J. Curran, ’12; Einest.
' E. L. Hammer, -’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin. Wile, • I74;
. Francis C.’Schwab,.’p2; , Rupert F. Mills, ’14; William H. McCaity, .
- ’99« 7-Edwaid. J. Glynn/ ’n; Frank.P. Crowley, ’09; -Thomas'B.
' . Curryj-’-T4; James-A. Curry, ’14; Harry V. Crumley, ’03; Harry S.'Calii11;-’o8; 'Walter V. Heekin, ’65'; William McKenzie,'88; Rev. -. Bernard P. Murray; Mark M.-Foote, ’73; Patrick J; Houlihan. ’92;
\E- J.; Maurus, '93; -Thomas J. Swantz,-.’04; H..G. Hogan,, ’04;
. Harol_d P. Fisher, ’o6;- John B. Kanaley. 'og; James-E>Hihes, ’09;
. John'p. McMahon, 'q9;~Rev. JohnM; Byrne; 'oo;"j; H. Gormley,.'
- ‘ ’63;V^ihoinas O’Neill, '13; Robert E/Pioctor, ’o4; John F. O’Con-
. nell,;'i£; .Frank C. Walker. ’09; Rev/ Gilbert jennings; 'o8; George
' O'Brien/’gqUvitus Jones, ’62; W:_ AlDuffyr’oS; Rev. J. H. Guend-
. lirig,\T4; Fred C.McQueen,'op;;--.GharlesJStubbs,.’88;Rupert
. • 'ipionoyah, jlq8;_Rev.- Francis H;yiGayisk, T4; Rb Rev.; Frank .
.^FBtjen, ’95;.-Frank L.’McOskefj’’72;'t Charles E./Ruffing, ’85;
. "•'^am«''F; "Foley;'T^'; Rt:;RevATJ?C.;'Q’Reiily;'’6'9;'; Thomas J.< Welch, ’05; ’William E.~ Cotfer, -’laU'jolm ’C? Thily; TY; " "johnT?
k . O'Connor, -’72; T. P. b’Sullivari; T’qa; / G.. M; - Kerndt, '82;" ’ Dr, ' j ■ Frank - J. - Powers, ■■ ’94; q Revk Johri ~ Talbot Smith, p'07; ~ Daniel, C’ " ./--Dillon,. ’94; Thomas C; Butler, ’o8; Edward M. Kennedy, ’08; -;
John J. Kennedy, ’09; Peter M. Ragan, ’92; James D. Barry, *97 Fred L- Steers, 'n; Walter'Clements, ’-14; Edward J. Catlton, T6 Leonard M. Carroll, T6; Luke L. Kelly, T6; Frank E. Swift, T6’ C. P. Mottz, T6; Samuel Ward Perrott, T6; Edward C. Ryan, T6’ James Fiancis Odem, T6;-Emmett P.;Mulholland, T6; Thomas A. Hayes, ’16; Frank J. Hiss,-T6; Joseph J. McCaffery, T6; Walter , P. McCourt, T6; M. J. McEniry,’81; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15;
James F. O'Brien, .’13; Michael L. Fansler, ’04; A. C. Fortin, ’01; Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05; M. H. Miller, To; William D. Jamieson, ’05; Grover F. Miller, T6; -Thomas A. McLaughlin’;'T6; EdwinsH. Sommerer, ’16; Joseph O’Sullivan,'T6; .Jacob E. Eckel, T6; Vincent
-Mooney, T6; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward M. Schaack, '93; Anton C. Stephan, '04; Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07; Harry F. McDonagh, To; Charles W. Lahey, ’13; Adam J. Kasper, ’93: 'George W. Kasper, ’95; Robert A. Kasper, ’07; Charles Girsch, ’94; Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07; John B; Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, ’12; Edward K. Delana, .’13; Harry Curtis, ’oS; Charleb Cullinan; ’07; Daniel Cullinan, '07; Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly,-'SS; James V. Cuningham, '07; M. H. Miller, To; Frank X. Cull, ’oS;- Jesse E. Vera, To; Walter Duncan, '12; James W. O'Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, *n;- Dr. H. G. McCarty, '12; James Dubbs, ’06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’n; William R. Ryan, Ti; William A. McKearney, ’08; Maurice J. Breen, ’09; Raymond C. Langan, ’93; Charles A. Grossait, '96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney, Jr., ’14; John J. McShane, ’14; Henry A. Wim-berg, '96; Gerald S. Clements, T4; John G-Wimberg, '96; Philip B. O’Neill, ’02; Elmo A. Funk, ’08.	.
.	$75.00	- —	.	'
John W. Costello, ’12.	’	‘
$50.00	•
Rev. J. E. Scullin, '09; Louis P. Chute, ’92; -William Fish, ’12; J. Clovis Smith, ’14; . Frank ,B. .Cornell, '00; Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Major, '86; Charles Vaughan, '14; Stephen H. Herr, To; , J. N. Antoine,-'70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart; '12; Jay Lee, ’12; Albert F. Gushurst, '09;. Edward P. .Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burke, '83; Rev.. M. L. Moriarty, To; Rev; John,-P. Quinn, ’83; Simon E.. Twining, ’13; J. V. Birder, ’13; "Cecil E. Birdei, ’14; M. Emmett Walter, 'T5;- Ralph Eberhart,'’02; Rev. John M. .Gerenda, ’09; Timothy.P. .Galvin,. T6; Ray-M. Humphreys,;’i6; Hugh E. Carroll, T6; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14; Louis P. Hari, T6; Joseph D. Kovacs, T6; Patrick Maloney,..T6; J,F. Delph, T6;’Hugb O’Donnell, T6;' James Sanford, T4; Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15; Francis H. Hayes, ’14;. Raymond J. Kelly, T6; -Ernest. P. Lajoie, ■ T5; Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William. Milroy, .’13; Dr. Robert Frost; '02; Eustace Berry, '03; A Fiiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin,.’14; R. B. McConlogue, ’69;-Thomas . J. Jones," ’03; Twomey M;’Clifford, T3; Cletus H.-Kruyer, ’12;
Dalton B. Shouids.’09; Albert B. Oberst,’06.	.
;	$40.00. .-	4 .	. :	'	. ■
V. E. Morrison, '89; Gerard N.- Krost, '04.	-	-
' $25.00	/	*
■John M. Culligan, '15; Joseph M. DeLorie,. '02; Simeon'T. Flanagan, '14; ,W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen. ’09; Rev. A.’A. Lambing, ’83; James M. Riddle, ’13; Henry .Hess,-'82; Dr. E. M. McKee, ’06; Robert "B. Gottfredson,'’13; Rev. John H. Mullin, Ti; ,,L N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92; Frederick Williams, ’13; Rev. Joseph Toth, ’u; ^Joseph M. Walsh, ’14; Max-Adler, -’89;, John G. Mott, .’95;' Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, .T6; C. I. Krajewski,-/16;-Joseph P; Flynn, T6; John P. Conboy, '16; W. W. Turner,’5'-T6;-- Alfred Fries, T6; J. A.'McCarthy, T6; J. Hairy Sylyestre^Jd; Harold P. Burke, ’16; Peter C. Yearns, .’16;'Fred JJ.Rralritowski, T6; • Francis J. Kilkenny, '12; Edward T5-''T?igel, T1;
t,TH&ma^ir?'jDooley,' '97; Mark-A. Devine,' To; Daniel’E-_-Cooney, • zTp;--Fre^jnt'Arhfield, ’12; - W. W..Harlcss,*’86; Edward-j. Walsh, ’^q;-^Thoinas/Curran, T6; D. D. Myers, Jr., ’00; Dennis. Moran, T4;<XStJPAWelch, ’12;-Ralph A. Reitz, ’14; Lawrepce-Luken, ’02. .	■/; ’ ' $20:00 ; .	-•/>-' ’ U'” - ‘ ”
LGagriel’payezac, ’94;. James R; Devitt, ’13;- "Albert AriGlockner,
Julius M.’:-H^^	. : -	./	" 7:5-. V
$i5-<>o
J
Bernard Dutch,-£13.
. /- IL-J- OiComii^ ■’■73*;"’Patri T;-Markey, '08; Edward;hMarkey;£c6;
Alfred 'Vigrios,/95jffidrinULT'Shirii^ ; * Frank- Niedeckeh/^og;. - Harry Kirk, ’13; Loiiis Chute, ’92; J.JJDeasey, ’06; H. King, ’16;' - -James E; Roach’,' ’16;- J.-E.-Hogan,' T6;\ Frank Maher. ’oa; Frank
TV. Bloom,’84.'. ■ 4':-. '-.J’/”
RobertlD.;, Murphy,' ',’oif ';MarkrDuhcan,''’i5; ■ Hiram.Halliday, ’06;/Claude. S. Moss,’’95;.- John’Bell,'-’o8;‘, P.-M. ’O’Meara,-’’09. ’ _ .

.y