' ­
-. . .
. . ~ 
I . FROM TOKYO TO TOLEDO: STUDYING AB.ROAD SING WITH YOUR SUPPER AT PAT'S PUB 
i ' ' ' ---• . 


PHOTO ILLUSTRATION TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO . PAGE MIKE 
KRISTEN 
08 
MCNARY CAPONI Students relaxing on the Cliffs of Moher in County Clare. Ireland V 
.r•:".~-,~.--v.$_,..,· 
. ,,.,,, .,...·,1_ -.· ·. 
. ·, __ _ .ii\.
...... ·.,,'.I· 
» Road to Recovery by Jimmy Atkinson The lrjsh hope to use their bye week to snap out of a two­game slump. » NAZZin' it Up by Brigid Sweeney The Battle of the Bands gives campus groups a chance to show their stuff.  V\fide Open Spaces .. ··compiled byAnnie Rohrs . . . 08Thinking of studying abroad?, Sch_olas­tictakes alookat thH perks ofsome of 24 I ·Notre Dame's -most popular and exotic i prqgrams·, from theirsocial scenes to local cuisines. . . I -­--.. . -Case Closed? . · · · _ · 1---2 .· 26 byChristopher Kelli •. · . · . . . • The :adminh,t.ration busted what may •.I  
» Pat's Pub: Satisfying the Irish Appetite by Tracy Evans A great place for a steak served over the Fight Song. From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds ND Notebook 4 Calendar Campus Watch 18 Final Word Splinters 20  •_~!-~fe~_.faes_~_ -~~l?_~7_s_u____ t~! t~ii~~\~dut28 . . fined ND's'cfrug culture? . I· . ·. . . . 30 f ~Jt:t!f):i/0P 31 The _women's basketball . team hopes32 thaLa year .of experience · and · a . new offensive _strategy wBI avoid an early. season heartbreak.  

..:j 
FR o M THE E o, To·R · . •· ·. ·_ " -~ ·-· 
. ' . 
Goody Two-Shoes 
Two cigarettes: That's all it took to lose my two best friends in eighth grade. I was with them that day for the first time on one oftheir regular trips around back of the brown-brick school. (They hadn't wanted to bring me along be­cause they knew I wouldn't smoke. And they were right; I didn't like the way it smelled.) But they were my friends and I was happy to be with them. So, we leaned coolly against the wall, and I watched them drag on the white sticks one had snagged from her multi-pack-a-day dad. I looked down at the uncut grass and breathed the dry smoke, wondering whether I could learn to like it. It took about five minutes for a school official to sweep in and nab us. We saw him coming and my friends discreetly smashed their cigarettes against the wall, but he already had seen enough. He ushered us inside, past the baseball diamond and the little kids playing in the dirt, down the hallway-my friends looked down, ashamed, while I, my cheeks equally hot, tried smiling to mask the disgrace -and into the headmaster's office. We shared the humiliation, but the headmaster decided that I would not share the punishment with them. Although they were ultimately let off with a warning, they never spoke to me again. While it's an extreme case, my disinterest in drugs -even those as mild as cigarettes -often has marked me as an outsider, or at least a goody two-shoes. Except at this university. ''There isn't a drug problem here:' my tour guide announced to me and other high­school seniors on my campus visit. "Alcohol, maybe. But no drugs, not really." And at face value, there isn't. Not really. There are not hordes of students using illegal drugs in dorms or at off-campus gatherings. Why? Because campus culture revolves around alcohol, not drugs. And, although university action rarely serves as an accurate barometer of student behav­ior, the administration has made relatively few arrests regarding drug use. That's why officials were shocked last spring when they apprehended four students in a donn room for drug use and realized there were several more involved. While the university's drug culture certainly doesn't rival that ofother schools, it still exists as a little talked-of subculture. And now that the administration has begun to vigorously, well, weed out everyone and anyone associated with any and all illegal substances, the subculture that ran underground to begin with has burrowed further beneath the administration's radar. Scholastic's Christopher Kelly unravels the story of how the administration up­rooted one ofthe campus's main drug lines, and how that student's arrest has affected campus life for drug buyers, sellers and users. Our reporter spoke to many sources to gather the details ofthis story, many ofwhom could face serioll$ consequences should their names be revealed. For this reason, we have changed the names and identities ofall students involved. 
&{~
Sarah Childress, Editor 
. 
Vol. 144, No. 06 • 14 NOV 2002 

SCHOLaSTIC 
Editor In Chief Sarah Childress 
··· 
Managing Editor · · Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor Cristin E. Fenzel 
Assistant Managing Editor Annie Robinson 
· News Mike Borgia •· 
Christopher Kelly 
.:· Campus Life Sean Dudley, editor ··, Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
. Sports 
Gerard J. Mesklll, editor · Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment 
. Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 
· · Ryan Greenberg, manager 
Eric Doversberger, creative director · Michael P. Griffin , Curtis Leighion · David Redenbaugh 
Tekla Sauter 
Photography Mike McNary, editor Lies! Marx, assistant 
Graphic Design Maryn Necel, editor 
Copy · Cecilla Hadley, chief 
} Mo Ertel ·. John Hadley · Kim Thompson 
·.. Distribution ··:': Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
. Mary Ursu, manager 
Online · Jamie L. Moran, manager 
Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morit11ros 
:-;-· Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame . c' and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, ' 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is ·: , Copyright © 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of .:•· this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be . ·':' reproduced in any manner without written consent of 
· the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic 
.-'. magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN , 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must 
be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. All . letters must Include the writer's name, address and .-: phone number. Ooh, guess what we found. All letters / must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request ) In certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to · '::,-. edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made .'· more than 21 days after publication cannot be 
·. guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per.year. 
• Avallable back issues are $2.50 per copy; please ·:·. specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the { annual football review are available at $5 per copy._ ···, Advertising rates available on request. The opinions 
, . expressed In Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student ., body. 
'· 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 




Our team at Moreau Seminary 






Lou DelFra, C.S.C. --~ 

' 

~b.~\ 
~ 
Mike Griffin, C.S.C.















I 
i 
l 
i 
; 


Charlie McCoy 







Joo Miller, C.S.C. Andy Sebestn, C.S.C. 
Neil Wack, C.S.C. Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL'<!:>' 

ILicense to Thrill Alum adds his own twist to the Notre Dame license plate AISLINNDOYLESince fans invade campus decked the current design in the shadow of the tax. out from head to toe in Notre Golden Dome, was created by Joshua Six other states -Delaware, Virginia, Dame gear on football Saturdays, Rich, a 2002 Notre Dame honors gradu­New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania it seems only natural that their cars should ate in fine arts from DeKalb, Ill. Sedlack and Maryland -also offer their own follow suit ­all the way down to their felt that some students shied away from Notre Dame license plates. Proceeds go license plates. the interlocking ND altogether while de­to Notre Dame's Alumni Community The Notre Dame license plate, available signing their entries due to its strong as­Service Program which, through the through the Alumni Association, has been sociation with athletics, while others felt University's 200 alumni clubs, sponsors given a new look. With the goal of in­that the Golden Dome was too abstract to activities such as Habitat for Humanity creased marketing appeal in mind, Chuck render well on a license plate. Rich's de­and Alumni/Student Appalachia service Lennon, associate vice president of Uni­sign, however, involved both. "Josh came trips and projects. D versity Relations, proposed that the plate, to the conclusion that using which brought in approximately $50,000 both elements would strike the last year, be redesigned. appropriate chord, and there Lennon and the Association approached was agreement from the Notre Dame professor Richard Sedlack's Alumni Association," says junior-level typography class and asked Sedlack. them to redesign the plate. After research­The Association unveiled the ing, discussing and critiquing license new design in May. Indiana plates and license plate iconography, they motorists can apply for the were given free reign to design and sub­plate through the Notre Dame ! l.'mit a plate to be voted on by members of Alumni Association. Each plate the Alumni Association. The winning de­costs $25, not including a $12 sign, which places the interlocking ND of processing fee and an excise  
We all have our hidden talents ­those um, tame the flame? mysterious and bizarre skills we practiceTen Qu«:pflgns Dan: From a guy in the Juggling Club my during the wee hours ofthe weekend morn­freshman year. Then, Student Activitieswith so~~iP.'.{?JJY\;~91!\guys ... 1--~&1::-t~:lh J1·•;: y• i-.~~~!V/~~--·­ings (after a long night of studying, of told us there were too many dangers. Now course), those we choose to divulge only to we just do it at Torquemada [Zahm's our most trusted friends or even those that annual festivities before the first pep rally]. we keep entirely to ourselves. Then, there Darren: Basically by trial and error are people who display their talent with fi­(laughs). We were just sitting around a e,y pride. Scholastic caught wind ofsome campfire over the summer and thought, truly unique students and their rather gutsy "Wouldn't it be fun?" -talent: Breathing fire. Sophomore Darren Luft and senior Dan Crowley ofZahm Hall Has it ever backfired on you? told us about their burning contribution to Dan: Ifyou hold it too long or ifthe wind a dorm tradition and why its always better blows. to spit. Darren: Yeah, sometimes ifcomes back. At the Torquemada, I definitely singed my eyelashes, and now they're all nice OK, so how did you guys learn to, and curled. PHOTO COURTESY OF DAN CROWLEY 4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 14 NOVEMBER 2002  

' 

l , . -. -~ . e -. ~. . . 
"I'm not looking to get drunk. l.'m just taking it one beer at a time." -student, on what he would say at a Halloween party dressed as Tyrone Willingham 
> 
"I'm going to fall! I'm going to fall! If not in your class, then at 
some point I am going to fall!"
> · -marketing professor, commenting on the wires along the floor of a DeBartolo classroom 
"Theology makes me hot." 
-theology professor 

-overheard Steak 'N Shake patron, telling his friend not to worry about drinking his beer in the restaurant 
-overheard student to another student who was explaining how bees fly 
I28 Years Ago Educational Reading
In the September 22, 1974 issue ofScholastic, a student attempts to enlighten his "intellectually deficient" classmates with descriptions ofwhat really lies between the two covers ofsome great masterpieces ofliterature. 
Paradise Lost -the epic journey ofa student from his home to a university. The Sun Also Rises -an optimistic weather speculationfor the greater South Bend area. To Have and Have Not -a comparison and contrast ofsenior students' postgraduate plans. Catcher in the Rye -daring expose of how booze ntined the career ofa famous baseball player. The Wasteland -story behind a major university's refi,sal to build more student housing. House ofMirth-aguide to bars andtaverns in the Michiana area. ­Grapes of Wrath -yarn about a student wino who goes mad. The Book ofJob-the who, what, where, when and why ofsecuring employment. 
Suddenly, many ofyouaremuchmoreinterested in reading the classics, right? 
-Jennifer Osterhage 
let's blow some fire ... just to lighten things up, literally. 
Do your parents know you do this? 
Darren: Yeah, my dad was really pissed, so I decided to not tell my mom. She found out a year later and was not a happy camper. Dan: My mom spent a good time trying to talk me out ofit, ya know, "It's dangerous, you're too cute to do this." 


So do you like spicy foods, too? 
Darren: I can't stand them. I think pepper is ~picy. Dan: Yeah, I'm not a fan. 
-Tracy Evans 

Were you guys always into fire? Like, are we talking closet pyres? 
Dan: Yeah, I was never the little kid with matches, but in chemistry I had fun! 

How do you "breathe" the fire? 
Darren: You just spit [lighter fluid] all out of your mouth and use a lit torch. 
Do you know many others that do this? 
Dan: Just a few of the people who picked it up in the Juggling Club. Darren: I don't really know of anybody else here. 

So, does it taste funny? 
Darren: Weird thing is, I use lighter fluid and you can't taste it at all. You don't even know how much you put in your mouth. Dan: I use paraffin. It's kind of oily but a little less harmful if you swallow it. 
Do you have to do anything special afterwards? 
Dan: Drink a lot ofwater, just to rinse out. Darren: One time, my friend got real sick, so I make sure to have a jug ofwater with me at all times. 
Do you frequently display your talent to get girls or anything? 
Darren: Most times that I do it I'm really, really bored, and the party's pretty awful, and then I_ decide, ya know, what the hell, 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 





'I Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
t 
SIXTY-DEGREE WEATHER 
Don't let the weather deceive you 
-we're still in South Bend. 
Normally by now we're buried 
under three feet of the white stuff. 
INSECTS 
It's mid-November. Shouldn't they all be dead by now? One of the few negative consequences of the above call. 
REPUBLICAN CONTROL Now they've got the Presidency, the Senate and the House ... Eh, we never really believed in that whole "separation of powers" thing anyway. 
t ELECTIONS Despite the above result, at least they're over, which means no . more ads. We won't miss scary pictures of politicians glaring at us between Friends and Scrubs. 
++ THE FIESTA BOWL Hey, Oklahoma just lost! Oh, wait, it doesn't matter ... 

SIDEWALK CHALK WARS 
What's next -pigtail-pulling at recess? 

NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 

This season, TV's best shows must do , . 
-=




,.]J

battle in the hardest time slots 
IMATTKILLEN 
No one ever said there were too many Fox has scheduled one of its best new good shows on television. There's showsinthedead-endFridaysat8p.m. time enough Yes, DearandDrew Carey out there slot. Firefly is a smart sci-fl drama from the to ensure that no one will complain about masterful creator of Buffy the Vampire the networks carrying too many quality Slayer. The creators ofFirefly have packed shows. At the same time, . though, the it with fascinating characters, crackling networks always seem to bury the best dialogue and the possibility for extended shows in impossibly stifling time slots, story arcs made famous by shows like Buffy. forcing viewers to choose among several The problem is that the type ()f audience excellent shows in a interested in a show like single time slot. this usually is not sitting 
Easily one of the top five 
ABC's Push, Nevada around with nothing to 
shows on television, Alias
already has fallen prey do on Friday nights. 
must do .battle each week 
to this network epi­Fox's other problem 
with The Sopranos, Angel,
demic. The show was occurs on Tuesdays.
Malcolm in the Middle and
cancelled recently after Another superb drama
Law& Order: Criminal Intent. 
it failed to gamer an entering its sophomore 
All of these shows compete 
audience at 9 p.m. season, 24 must prove 
for that key 18-to 49-year­
Thursdays. Airing itself in the ratings this 
old demographic, making it 
opposite a behemoth ·year or it might not be 
even more difficult for a
like C.S.I. and a back for a third. At 9
complex show like Alias to
youthful audience­p.m. Tuesdays, it faces 
grab any decent ratings. 
friendly Will & Grace, Smallville, Frasier, 
Push's ratings went ABC's new comedy 
from poor to abysmal in a matter ofweeks. Life With Bonnie and CBS 's formidable The 
The show tried to be a bit too Twin Peaksy Guardian. 24 managed to increase its ratings 
without that show's eerie charm and modestly in this same slot last year, but its 
detached creepiness, but Push had a lot of · competition is even stiffer this time around. 
potential. With an open spot on Mondays at 9 p.m., 24 
At least ABC's Alias is holding its own in could find an even larger audience in the 
another impossible time slot, Sundays at 9 post-Boston Public spot. 
p.m. Easily one of the top five shows on In an ideal world, all the best shows would television, Alias must do battle each week be separated on the schedule, each given its with The Sopranos, Angel, Malcolm in the own competition-free time to thrive and Middle and Law & Order: Criminal Intent. succeed. But this is network television, and All ofthese shows compete for that key 18-as such, that will remain a pipe dream. In the to 49-year-old demographic, making it even meantime, everyone can take solace in the more difficult for a complex show like Alias greatest invention in the history ofmankind: to grab any decent ratings. theVCR. . 0 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN Source: Bill Thistlethwaite, Landscape Services 
At this university that is notorious for terrible weather, fall is perhaps the most tolerable season with its crisp air, bright skies, football and, of course, the changing foliage. These leaves, once fallen and piled, tempt even the most reserved student to jump in and flail about like a young child. The leaves don't sort and remove themselves, however: That's the job of Landscape Services. 
~ 

Approximate-amount of leaves removed daily: eight to 10 tons. Approximate number of men required to clean leaves daily: eight to· 10. Total hours worked by men cleaning leaves daily: 80. Equipment used to pile and dispose of leaves: four to five power leaf blowers and one large truck with a large vacuum. How long until fallen leaves are reborn as compost for flowerbeds: three years. 
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 14 NOVEMBER 2002 

It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $2.99 sound? 
The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

Got the urgerM The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 


Going Abroad & Beyond 
ANNIEROHRS
Notre Dame has 24 international studies programs in 17 countries around the world. Each ofthe programs offers its own unique opportunities for students ofall backgrounds and majors. Scholastic features a number ofthe programs and gives the low-down on what it's really like to spend time in another country. 
London, England 
oo Social Scene: There's a lot to do in London in your free time. Activities range from going to a play or concert to hanging out in pubs. According to se­nior Becky Luckett, who spent the 2001 spring semester in London, "the .bar scene [ abroad] is a lot more low-key." And while students are in London to take classes, "[professors] don't give you a lot to do outside ofclass, so people have more free time." 
oo People/Location: The Notre Dame classroom building is inthe heart ofLon­don, located next to the National Gal­lery and a minute's walk from Trafalgar Square. "You were so close to every­thing;' says senior Katie McCarthy, a fail 2001 LonDomer. Luckett agrees: "You could walk to school a different way ev­ery day because there are so many little neighborhoods. It's beautiful and safe. The proximity [ of student housing] to Hyde Park was a major perk," Luckett 

says. 

oo Food: "British food itselfisn't fine cuisine, but there's usually good Indian food in London ... it was nice to try dif­ferent types of ethnic foods," says McCarthy. The apartments that house ND students are in a Middle Eastern 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
neighborhood, and restaurants there are particularly good. 

oo It's Important To: Go to Camden Market, Luckett says. The sprawling ba­zaar houses several individual markets. 
Toledo, Spain 
oo Social Scene: Grace Choi, a senior who spent herjunior year in Toledo, says "The nightlife is insane! It gets busy around 12 or 1 [a.m.], the clubs go until 6 or 7 in themorning ... it's pretty amaz­ing." Lesha Zielinski, a senior who spent the fall of2000 inToledo, says, "There's tons ofbars. The whole culture, staying out super-late ... there's a lot ofvariety even though it's a small city." More club­bing opportunities exist in Madrid, which is only an hour away by train. 
oo People/Location: "It's the most gorgeous little town ... an ancient city in the middle ofagriculture. It looks ex­actly as it did in the 1400s. You can see shepherds in their pastures," says Choi. 
oo Food: Zielinski describes the food in Toledo as ''bland. Every family was different, but when we think ofSpanish food, we think ofMexican or Mexican­American food. They don't even have salsa there, and a tortilla is a totally dif­
ferent thing." 

oo It's Important To: Stuffa backpack and hope on the train -to anywhere. "Don't surround yourself with Notre Dame the entire time you're abroad," says Zielinski. 
Dublin, Ireland 
oo Social Scene: Amanda Rubio, a senior who spent the 2002 spring semes­ter in Dublin, says, "The nightlife's re­ally cool, it's really different because the pubs are kind of down-home, not pre­tentious. You can find people from age eight to age 80. There are some clubs, but it was more popular to go to pubs instead." 
oo People/Location: Rubio describes the Irish as "so friendly, unbelievably friendly. If you get lost, I had a couple people actually walk with me to the place [I was trying to find]." Kristen Caponi, a senior who spent last year in Dublin, says, "The people wh!J were friendliest were first-and second-year students. Third-years already had established friendships." · ~ 
oo Food: According to Rubio, "They have a lot ofAmericanized food. Pizza, Burger King, McDonald's ..-. Irish 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 


food's pretty good, it's just high in calo­ries. We had meat and potatoes, pota­toes, potatoes, potatoes." 
oo It's Important To: "Go to Galway and the Aran Islands. You have to climb two ancient forts that are on the islands: Dun Aengus and the Blackfort. They're on cliffs that are hundreds of feet from the water," says Rubio. 
Rome, Italy 
oo Social Scene: Rome is host to lots of bars that cater to Americans, as well as numerous dance clubs, says senior Elizabeth Van Westen, who studied there all of last year. oo People/Location: Rome is full of life and great shops and restaurants, Van Westen says. It's also very easy to travel from Rome to other European countries on the weekends. 
oo Food: Van Westen describes the food simply as "fabulous." 
oo It's Important To: "Go to Trastaverde ... it's one ofthe older parts ofthe center ofRome," says Van Westen. It's an interesting neighborhood right along the river with lots of shops and restaurants. 
Monterrey, Mexico 
oo Social Scene: Monterrey is a very small program, so there's really no ND social scene. However, the local social scene is huge, according to Jamie Solis, a senior who studied in Monterrey last spring. There are bars and clubs, with many places offering· live music and dancing. ''It's a really socially oriented culture," says Solis. oo People/Location: Monterrey is two hours south of the Texas-Mexico border. It is a large, industrial city. Solis describes the city as "very safe," but "borderline chaotic" because of traffic problems. oo Food: According to Solis, the food is all homemade, rich and very fresh. Monterrey is famous for its goat meat, or taqueria. · oo It's Important To: See the Cola de Caballo, or Horsetail Waterfalls, says Solis. 
Athens, Greece oo Social Scene: Jason Klocek, a se­nior who spent the spring of his jun­
14 NOVEMBER 2002 
ior year in Athens, describes the nightlife as similar to Spain's, in that it doesn't start until after midnight. 
oo People/Location: Klocek describes Athenians as having "a gruff exterior that gives way to a very friendly side." Though the city is crowded and con­gested, Klocek says "the fun part is ex­ploring and finding the little things. There's always something to do in Ath­ens." 
oo Food: The food in Athens is "great and cheap," according to Klocek. There is lots of meat and potatoes, and French fries are very popular. Meals are typi­cally long, especially on weekends and in the evening. 
oo It's ImportantTo: Go to the Acropo­lis in the morning because it has a great view all around Athens, and then just walk through the historic part oftown in the afternoon, Klocek says. 
Fremantle, Australia 
oo Social Scene: There's a big empha­sis on the nightlife in Fremantle, but "it's not such a big deal to go out like it is here [at ND]," says Andrew Polaniecki, a senior who studied in Fremantle last fall. Because the drinking age is 18, al­cohol is a significant part of the social scene, but it's more of a quiet social scene. 
oo People/Location: The people in Fremantle are "much more laid-back ­it's not such a busy life-style," says Polaniecki. oo Food: The students have a cook who makes them traditional meals two times a week, and they cook on their own the rest of the week. There's a big em­
phasis on seafood, as well as Indian and 
Asian food. 
oo It's Important To: Simply enjoy "being where you are at the time," says Polaniecki. 
Paris, France 
oo Social Scene: "Dress up, hop on the metro and go out clubbing. Paris has the best nightlife, but be ready to drop several euros. Covers can run as high as 20 euros, and a pint can go as high as . eight euros. On the other hand, clubs are open until at least six and sometimes eight in the morning. Take a nap before­hand!" says Patrick Dunnigan, a senior who studied in the city all of last year. 
oo People/Location: "Learn the lan­guage quickly, or you'll get frustrated very easily in the big city. You need to stick up for yourself," says Dunnigan. He calls the ND program's location "the best of any program, bar none. Right in the center ofParis, everything is at your fingertips. Trains leave for everywhere 

SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 





in Europe, and the metro is great. Air­ports are so accessible.You can't get any better." 

oo Food: Students are responsible for finding their own food. According to Dunnigan, "There are student cafeterias that are subsidized by the government all over the city. A full meal from two euros 50, you can't beat that." 
oo It's Important To: Travel, Dunnigan says. "From Paris everything is so ac­cessible. The Notre Dame trip to Aus­tria for Christmas is a blast." 
Nagoya, Japan 
oo Social Scene: "The city's got two million people in it. There are four or five clubs and just a ton ofbars everywhere," says senior Gavin Hagens, who studied in Nagoya all of last year. 
oo People/Location: Hagens describes the relationship between American stu­dents and local people as split generationally. The younger generation, he says, is much more welcoming than older people. "The kids you go to school with will be very receptive to you," he says. 
oo It's Important To: Go to Tokyo, "be­cause it's a world unto itself, basically. It's just so different from America," Hagens says. 

Santiago, Chile 
oo Social Scene: According to senior Margaret Laracy, who spent the spring ofthis year in Santiago, it is "definitely a metropolitan city. There are a couple of fun areas: there's a neighborhood called Della Vista, which is kind ofmore bohemian, but we liked it and spent a lot of time there. Another place was Providencia-there were some fun bars there." 
oo People/Location: "It was beautiful when we got there. But they have really bad smog problems in Santiago, and no central heating," Laracy says. The smog problem was sometimes so bad that stu­dents would be advised not to do too much outdoors for a few days. 
oo Food: Says Laracy, "The food is pretty good. It's not what you would expect of Latino food. It's not really spicy. They use a lot of salt and they really like mayonnaise." 
i 
oo It's Important To: Go to Macchu

I 
Picchu, in Peru. "That was the single most incredible thing I did," Laracy says. "It's a four day hike to the [Incan] ruins, and the city where you start from is a beautiful city layered with history. The ruins are set against incredible backdrops." 



Innsbruck, Austria 
oo . Social Scene: "It was fun. We would go out to bars, and we wouldn't interact much with other people, but we had a lot offun among ourselves;' says junior Anne Lauinger, who spent last year in Innsbruck. oo People/Location: "Picture this: turn around 360 degrees, and it's all moun­tains," Lauinger says. "It's one ofthe most gorgeous places I've ever been." She de­scribes the local people as "friendly, and courteous, but they're not going to start a conversation with you." oo Food: "Oh my gosh, the food is the best! It's really rich. The chocolate! We got a stipend, so we could pick our own 
food," Lauinger says. 

oo It's important to: "Make friends and practice your German as much as you can, even though you'll feel stupid and out of place. You'll regret not doing it when you get back," says Lauinger. 

Shanghai, China 
oo Social Scene: "Though I've never been to New York, the international pals that I went out with said the nightlife was a lot like New York's," says juniorAdam 
Krenn, who spent the spring oflast year in Shanghai. 
oo People/Location: "It's a beautiful city," says Krenn. But if you don't like cement, you might not agree. Krenn also says, "Shanghai is a developing city with construction in every direction you look." 
oo Food: According to Krenn, "The food was delicious, plentiful, and dirt cheap. I miss it." 
oo It's Important to: Interact with the locals, especially wheri ''discussing simi­larities and differences and views. The best part ofit was just meeting people," says Krenn. 
These are only some ofthe abroad programs Notre Dame offers. Others are located in An­gers, France; Puebla, Mexico; Xalapa, Mexico; Berlin, Germany; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Vladimir, St. Petersburg, and Moscow, Russia; Perth,Australia; Jerusalem, Israel; To­kyo, Japan; and Cairo, Egypt. D 





University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, l$l, Bisexual Students 
THE STAN.DINO COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDE~T NEEDS . .• 
., . 
•

The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
'f!lembers (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students · and their friends; pertinent library resources in .. 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •
• 

. Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31@nd.edu •
•
•
•

• University Counseling Center •
•

• 
(Individual counseling) •
" •
•
.. Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen •
•

• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nq.edu •
• 
0 •• 
. For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
•

• 
•• •

• 
·····························~················· 

Avoid oblivion byreaching out to 7,500.students, staff, and alumni by advertising in Scholastic . 
Contact Mary Ursu at mursu@nd:edu or call 1-0594. 
urritos & sombre ft,t,)WkiJiitti§t\'}t(from Boracho Bumto) Tuesday, November :19th ~o:oo pm• :12:00 am Come byto hear a sample of Matt Nathanson! Class hats will be on sale for $i:s. Sponsored by: Junior Clan Councill Formore information Yisiti www.nd.edu/-ciasS04  

'. ._ ' ... • ~ • ' • ----J ---~----~---· 
. ---------'---'--~­

Ii!:,1 II),f 
., 
'···,II 
' 
! 
ii 
11 

CASE CLOSED? 
Last spring's drug bust was :one of the l_argest in recent-memory. .As· the university continues -to: seek out·. suspected users,· ~otre ·oame's drug culture retreats deeper into the shado~s. · 

CHRISTOPHERKELLY 

It's like our own underground community," says one Notre Dame student who frequently uses marijuana on campus. "And because it's forced to be so hidden, it draws many ofus together into our own secret world." Long overshadowed by prominent alcohol consumption, . drug use at Notre Dame has evolved into a rarely men­tioned subculture that for the most past, has remained just beyond the administration's reach. However,_ a recent at­tempt by the university to wipe out the drug community 
has shaken up this "secret world." . 
Last spring, four freshmen -Nick, Gordon,· Tjpiothy and Bryan* -were named as drug users by Clifr;'an al­leged drug dealer, who was allowed to withdraw after com­plying with the university's request fo name the students to whom he had sold drugs. {Cliff declined to comment for this article.) This year, other students that Cliffnamed still are beingsummoned by the Office ofResidence Life to face punishments for alleged drug use last year. These ongoing investigations will continue_ to distort the blurry lines that define the Notre Dame drug scene .. 
\ . 

*Editor's Note: The names and identities ofstudents in this story have been changed/or their protection. 


12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 


All four students met Cliff, a fellow fresh­man, during their first semester at Notre Dame. Nick was introduced to Cliff early last fall through a mutual friend, but did not learn that he was a drug dealer until around Thanksgiving. A drug user himself, Nick soon developed a close friendship with Cliff. 
Also a drug user, Gordon first met Cliff when he went to his dorm with a friend to purchase marijuana. He had never seen Cliff prior to their first meeting, but had heard that Cliff had been giving out his number at parties to potential clients. "He liked good music and good bud and so did I," says Gor­don. 
Timothy also began to buy drugs from Cliff, who he came to know through the on­campus job they shared. Bryan heard ofCliff through another drug user in his residence hall, and called Cliff one day to ask for mari­juana. 
These four only were a few of the many students who bought and used drugs from Cliff during the school year. 
At first, Nick smoked marijuana with Cliff a few times each week, but they soon began to use it more frequently. "During the sec­ond semester, we smoked together almost every day unless I had a test or paper that I had to work on," Nick says. 
The pair usually smoked marijuana out­side Cliff's residence hall. But as it grew colder: "We became braver, and we just smoked in his room," Nick says. Other us­ers recall using marijuana with Cliff in his room, near his dorm, at secluded places on campus and at off-campus parties. 
Nick and other sources who knew Cliff say that he changed from a casual user to a major dealer over the course of his fresh­man year because he realized the large amount ofmoney he could make. The simple economics presented ari irresistible equation: extremely high demand plus unusually low supply equal a profiteer's paradise. 
"Cliff was the dealer on campus," Nick alleges. He estimates that Cliff earned be­tween $500 and $1,000 per week from his few dozen clients. Nick says that many people, including some staff members of Cliff's hall, were aware of his activities but looked the other way. Nick and Gordon say that Cliff often showed offthe money he had earned from drug sales. On two occasions, "Cliff pulled out arubber-banded wad of cash to show me," Gordon says. 
"Everyone I knew at Notre Dame who smoked weed knew Cliff," says Gordon. He also alleges that Cliff sold marijuana at roughly double his purchase price -and he wasn't selling small amounts. "It was common for him to unload an ounce in a day," Gordon says. Calls from students look­ing for drugs were common and consistent in Cliff's room, says one anonymous source. 
Timothy alleges that Cliff claimed he Dame administrator. 
Having survived the first semester un­scathed, Cliff and his supposed invincibil­ity were eventually tested. On March 25, Cliff was caught using drugs in his dormi­tory and soon apprehended by university officials for alleged drug use. Nick, who was with Cliff at the time, and other sources have provided Scholastic with the following ac­count of the night's alleged events. 
The simple economics presented an irresistible equation: extremely high demand plus unusually low supply equal a profiteer's paradise. 
would sell a quarter-pound ofmarijuana per week, when he had it. He also alleges that Cliff would pay about $3,300 for a pound of marijuana and sell it by the following price plan: $50 per 3.5 grams, $95 per quar­ter-ounce, $180 per half-ounce and $350 per ounce. Some friends were entitled to five dollar discounts, while other friends occa­sionally would receive drugs at no charge. Timothy also says that Cliff held "business hours" from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. in his room for potential buyers. 
Cliff did not limit his drug use to smok­ing marijuana. Nick says he used mush­rooms a few times with Cliff, as well as MDMA, commonly known as ecstasy, on two separate occasions. They also experi­mented with Vicodin, a prescription pain reliever. 
In early March, Cliff pressured Nick to steal a bottle of ether from the biology lab. Ether can be used to manufacture metham­phetamines or other stimulants. But Nick and other sources say the ether was never used, and was stolen only as a joke inspired by the film Fear and Loathing in Las Ve­gas. 
Cliff's reputation grew as quickly as his business. But sources say that he was never afraid ofgetting caught. Many former users say that Cliff acted as ifhe were invincible, ofteri bragging that he was related to a Notre 
Cliff had smoked marijuana earlier that evening. At one point, the assistant rector walked by, and stopped because there was a suspicious smell coming from the room; he observed Cliff behaving as ifhe were under the influence of marijuana. Cliff ran to the door to try to convince his AR that he had been smoking cigarettes in the room, and had lit incense to cover up the smell. How­ever, the assistant rector also noticed a glass bowl in the room that obviously was de­signed for drug use. 
At midnight, Cliff's rector called his room and asked him to come downstairs. Nick remembers seeing 'two Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police cars in front of the dorm as he waited in the dorm's lobby around 12:45 
a.m. According to the NDSP blotter, a po­lice report was filled out at 3:08 a.m. on March 26 for a "drug abuse violation" at Cliff's residence hall. 
William Kirk, assistant vice president of Residence Life, came to the hall that night to search Cliff's room, and he talked briefly to Nick and Cliff's roommate outside ofthe hall. (Kirk declined to comment on Cliff's case due to federal regualtions and the na­ture ofhis position.) Around 1 :30 a.m., Nick and Cliff's roommate were asked to write statements concerning their knowledge of his drug use. 
Hoping to stay out oftrouble, Nick wrote 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 

that he was not in­volved with any drug use. "I stated that I deduced that Cliff was smoking pot, but that he did not do it around me or really talk about it with me," he says. He also claimed that he had no knowledge of Cliff dealing marijuana or us­ing other drugs. 
Because he was under the influ­ence ofmarijuana and apparently stressed by the situation, Cliff was taken to the infirmary. Before leaving, however, he handed over some of his mari­juana, his drug paraphernalia and the bottle ofether. 
When Cliff re­turned from the 
HIGH TIMES Notre Dame drug users are being driven underground by recent administrative investigations.
infirmary, he was 

·told that his room had been searched again, and that pharma­. ceutical antidepressant pills and more mari­juana were found. Timothy says that after the second search, a Residence Life official his drug sales. Also in this third search, ac­cording to Timothy, Residence Life confis­cated the pictures from Cliff's room. 
Nick's room also was searched that after­

"Even though -[Notre Dame drug use] is modestly lower than the national average, we still consider it a problem." 
-Rev. Mark Poorman 
university vice president of Student Affairs 
suggested that Cliff remove a bulletin board  
i  from his wall that contained photographs of Notre Dame students using drugs. Cliff did  
not take down the pictures.  
ti ii  The next day, Cliff's room was searched for a third tirne, and authorities found the  
!I  thousands ofdollars he had collected from  

noon, without his permission or knowledge, but the administration found nothing ofnote. 
Not wanting to be expelled from the uni­versity, Cliff began to cooperate fully with the administration. As students are requested to do by duLac, he wrote an initial statement about his experience with drugs. While back in his hometown awaiting Residence Life's decision, Cliff sent a letter to Kirk that re­counted his entire experience with drugs, starting with his use in high school. Scho­lastic obtained a copy ofthe March 29 let­ter, in which Cliff wrote that he abandoned his drug habit and turned to God. Cliff ended his letter by asking tlfat Notre Dame allow him to withdraw from the university instead offace expulsion. 
At one point in: his letter, :Cliff listed 22 names of students• with whom he had used marijuana and other drugs. Gordon, Timo­thy, Bryan and Nick all were named in this letter. Sources say Cliff also turned over his cellular phone records to Residence Life. Timothy says that he saw a handwritten list that Cliff also provided to Residence Life containing the names, addresses and phone numbers ofhis client base. 
Sources say that after he was caught us­ing drugs, Cliff appealed to his relative at the university. Sources who knew Cliff dis­agree on whether the administrator played a role in his withdrawal process. Some say the administrator did not support Cliff at all, and wanted to see Cliff receive a fair punishment. But some sources strongly disagree; Gordon says that Cliff bragged about his relative suc­cessfully "calling in the big guns." 



While the exact terms of his withdrawal are not known, Cliff was allowed to leave Notre Dame and avoid expulsion. 
Once he starting cooperating with the ad­ministration, Cliff told the university that Nick had stolen the ether found in his room. Nick was scheduled for a Residence Life hearing on April 12 for the allegations that he had stolen ether and used drugs. 
As permitted by duLac, Nick read the university's information about his case. He learned the administration had summoned an expert to investigate the possibility that "crystal meth," a synthetic amphetamine, had been produced in Cliff's room. Accord­ing to a document in the file, crystal meth can be produced with ether and antihista­mines, the latter of which Cliff apparently kept for his allergies. Nick says that they had no intention of creating c1ystal meth. 
Two days before his hearing, Nick re­ceived an e-mail from Residence Life tell­ing him that new information had been added to his case: the letter than Cliff had written to Kirk. In it, Cliff wrote that Nick and other students had used mushrooms and ecstasy with him. Cliff also accused Nick of using the ether as a narcotic with him, a claim that Nick denies. 
After reading the letter, Nick decided to withdraw rather than face expulsion. Kirk signed the necessary paperwork, but not be­fore Nick agreed to write a statement nam­ing those with whom he had used drugs. In his statement, Nick admitted to using mari­juana, mushrooms, ecstasy and Vicodin, and named some drug users. He says he fully complied with Kirk's request. The day be­fore the scheduled hearing that he never at-· tended, Nick officially withdrew from Notre Dame. 
Nick returned to campus twice after his withdrawal. On his second visit, his former rector told him that he had been banned from campus. A few weeks later, Kirk informed Nick that he would never be allowed on cam­pus again. Nick feels he was treated unfairly. "I was not the main source ofdrugs at Notre Dame, I was merely a user..." he says. 
Nick also was frustrated by the university's handling ofthe entire situation. "They had to find out everyone who used, and that just doesn't seem right," he says. "They did not just kick out those they bla­tantly found using drugs, but anyone who was con­nected to them. They knew people were using drugs at Notre Dame, but it scared them that there was a big ring." 
While Nick was preparing for his trial, Timothy re­ceived a call on his cell phone from. Re si.dence Life. He was informed that Residence Life had "an envelope" for him, meaning he would be given a trial as well. He be­lieves that Residence Life received his cell phone number from Cliff's hand­written list. Timothy was named by Cliff as a user and was also seen in one of the pictures on Cliff's wall. He was convicted of posses­sion of drug paraphernalia and fined $300, but was neither expelled nor forced to with­draw. 
Around the same time, a Residence Life employee brought a package to Bryan's room. The package, like the one given to Timothy, contained a copy of duLac, a let­ter explaining to Bryan that he should meet with Residence Life, and other materials. At his Residence Life trial, Bryan says he was found guilty of"violating the school's drug 

policy" and expelled from the university. Bryan also believes he was treated unfairly. "Notre Dame assumes that since drugs are bad, therefore any kid who uses them is bad," he says. 
In a meeting with Kirk, Cliff also named 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 

Ii '' 
BARE ESSENTIALS Some ND students have faced punishment for possession of drug paraphernalia. 
Gordon as someone who had used marijuana and ecstasy. Gordon was scheduled to have a hearing for these charges, but instead de­cided to withdraw from the university, act­ing on advice from Kirk and Residence Life and Housing director Jeff Shoup. 
During a meeting with Shoup prior to his withdrawal, Gordon was informed that be­cause he currently was on probation for an unrelated offense, he would almost certainly be expelled. Like Nick, Gordon had to write an affidavit before he was allowed to with­draw. He listed two students that he knew had used drugs, but says that both were stu­dents he already knew were leaving the uni­versity. 
Gordon has his doubts about the overall Residence Life systein. "In a ResLife hear­ing, suspicion is on the same level as proof of guilt. The results in this case were defi­nitely unfair." 
Cliff's withdrawal and the subsequent punishment of those implicated have had a significant effect on the drug culture at Notre Dame. Many drug users were afraid to com­ment for this article, even anonymously, for fear ofa backlash from the administration. 
Along with a new sense offear, drug us­ers have experienced a reduction in the sup­ply of drugs. "Almost everyone on campus ran out of pot last year after he [Clift] got busted," says Jen *, a student drug user. Nick also learned from Austin *, another user, that it was difficult to get marijuana the first few weeks of school without Cliff. Another stu­dent believes that Notre Dame users have begun to depend on local residents for their supply. Other say that many minor dealers have taken control ofthe market once domi­nated by Cliff. 

Nick also believes that because the ad­ministration did not catch everyone who regularly used drugs last year, there are many drug users who still attend Notre Dame. 
But compared to the estimated drug use at other universities, activity at Notre Dame is relatively low. The Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education (OADE) performs yearly surveys of randomly selected Notre Dame students. According to the most recent sur­vey, just over three-fourths ofNotre Dame students ·have never used marijuana. Also, nine out of 10 students said they had not used marijuana in the 30 days prior to the survey. Use ofcocaine, amphetamines, hal­lucinogens, opiates, and other hard drugs by Notre Dame students all are estimated at ex­tremely low percentages. 
"The drug-use level here is much lower than state schools," says OADE director Gina Firth, whose office exists to help stu­dents with alcohol and drugs problems and is not involved with the discipline end of campus drug use. While she declined to comment on Cliff's case, Firth says that stu­dents caught using illegal drugs besides marijuana immediately face more serious punishment and do not pass through her of­fice. "Notre Dame students have a strong moral value against illegal. drug use," she says. "It's the type of studen( that we draw here that is kind ofturned offby [ drug use]." · 
Low numbers of studen( users have not affected the university's hard-line stance on illegal substances. "Even though [Notre Dame drug use] is modestly lower than the national average, we still consider it a prob­lem," says Rev. Mark Poorman, university vice president of Student Affairs, who de­clined to comment on Cliff's case. 
Despite its relatively loose alcohol en­forcement policy,. the university has tradi­
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 


tionally upheld stricter rules concerning stu­dent drug use. Some students have theorized that the school's recent changes to the alco­hol policy, designed to decrease high alco­hol consumption on campus, will increase the likelihood that a student will experiment with drugs. 
Firth and Poorman don't think so. "It's my understanding that those who engage in high-risk alcohol abuse will be more likely to use drugs," says Poorman. " I don't know of any evidence to support an inverse rela­tionship." 
Although duLac's rules regarding drug use have not changed, Firth believes that the university's attitude toward marijuana is dif­ferent this year. "The awareness level is in­creasing. We've increased our training with the residence hall staff significantly to try to let them know about trends and things to look for," she says. 
Poorman, whose office is responsible for the language ofduLac, does not see any dif­feren~e from last year in the manner Notre Dame handles drug cases. "Both the poli­cies and the enforcement [ ofdrug use] have remained constant," he says. He also be­lieves that drug use at Notre Dame and col­leges across the country has remained fairly constant over the last five years. 
Firth says she is concerned that students often will jump to conclusions about the university's treatment ofa particular student without knowing the complete story. "You might get a slant on something," she says. "You can't see the background information. People get these really confused misperceptions ... but there's a reason be­hind that." 
The reason is that Residence Life and other branches of the administration must hold all information-about a student's case as confidential, and therefore the public never receives all of the information used by Residence LifeJo determine a student's punishment. 
Firth also worries that ifan "underground'' subculture exists at Notre Dame, students might hesitate to seek assistance from her office out offear that their names would be leaked to the administration. Firth stresses that any student who comes through her of­fice is granted complete confidentiality. 
Still, Firth is not sure if this subculture actually exists. However, students who use drugs at Notre Dame firmly acknowledge the existence of a small underground com­munity. "All the kids who smoke on cam­pus know each other," says Jen, who says she enjoys peaceful walks around the lakes and in-depth conversations with other us­ers. She also believes that it's a different type ofstudent who is involved in the drug scene at Notre Dame. "I think we're just more laid­back than the other students here," she says. "Good friends get together over a mutual acceptance of marijuana. I have met some really amazing people here through it." 
Drug users at Notre Dame experience a different way of living than their peers. One student says that "dorm life" is not favorable towards drug users. Poorman's beliefs support this, because he says that students who use drugs are more likely to be attracted to off-campus living. Some students say that on-campus drug users have to make significant attempts to hide their activities. One source noted that when he was in Cliff's room, he saw only clothes and record players, instead of the liquor bottles and beer posters that other students display. Apparently, Cliff made some efforts to prevent any suspicions of illegal behavior on his part. 
"The drug scene is definitely taboo. No one talks about it or wants to have anything to do with it," says Dyson *, another user. 
"I think the average Notre Dame student is too nai:ve to even realize that there's a drug scene here." 
The police investigation of this incident was closed on June 3, 2002 and referred for administrative review. Currently, Nick and Gordon study at other universities. Timothy still is at Notre Dame, and Bryan, who is working a full-time job, will continue his _ education at another college next semester. Nick says that Cliff plans to continue his education at a small college in his home state. 
However, the investigations into drug use at Notre Dame are far from over. The infor­mation Cliff provide still is being used by the administration to allege drug use by stu­dents. According to Nick, Cliff has written more statements to help prosecute students he named last year. Residence Life has yet to contact some of the students named last year in Cliff's letter, so some students might not even be aware that they were named. 
With Cliff willing to testify against many ofhis former clients, perhaps the university's search into the drug scene has just begun. Already under-discussed and under investi­gation, drug use at Notre Dame only will be pushed further underground. 0 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education surveys a random group of students each year on their drug activity. According to the most recent survey, the following percentages of students have never used these drugs:  
,­marijuana 75.4% , -­ 
cocaine 98%  
-amphetamines_ 95%  
hallucinogens 96%  
opiates 98%  
sedatives 99%  
steroids ,. 99.7%  
inhalants 97.8%  

14 NOVEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 




Howdy, Gipplings. Before tucking in to this week's tips, the Gipp would like to commend FlipSide for their latest excellent alternative creation: Board Game Night. That's right, ladies and gents, there is something to do on the weekends. Be on the lookout for other ultra-hip FlipSide activities, such as "Section Knitting" and "Sit Around by Yourself and Look at Internet Porn Night," coming soon. Now, some tips. 
Fireworks 

Our first tip takes us back to rural Tennessee, to a roadside fireworks stand where a gang of tipsters decided to stock up on combustibles. But bottle rockets and black cats were not enough for these pyros. They went for the biggest thing they could find: a 21-shot, artillery-sized Roman candle. 
Knowing full well that you can't waste good fireworks, these young gents decided to plant their beast in the middle of South Quad, so that everyone could share in the festivities. Our tipster tells it best: 
"We recruited a friend who was ballsy enough to light it and quick enough·to book it should NDSPD decide to take in the colorful display as well. He put the bad boy in a duffle bag and casually walked onto South Quad smoking a cigarette. He took a little stroll around and placed the gi­normous can ofdestruction on the concrete circle in the middle of South Quad ... lit the fuse with the cigarette, casually walked away, and proceeded to watch the show for himself while sitting on the bench in front of Alumni." 
Perhaps the most impressive part of their story: the NDSP never showed. Something really serious -like human sexual contact -must have happened in order to have diverted the attention ofour entire police force from a fireworks display on South Quad. 
Give Me a Sign 

Here are a couple of quickies from a vast collection of tips the Gipper has received, all concerning the same guy, whom the tipsters insist on calling "Joe." 
Joe had been living it up at Finnegan's, as he is purportedly wont to do, and he decided to steal something large and functionless, as he is also wont to do. This time, he selected a large aluminum sign off the barroom wall, which had to be folded down to size. Like any expert thief, he shoved the package under his shirt, leaving it sticking out above and below, and casually exited the bar. 
Once he got outside, he was approached by a policeman, who asked him ifhe was stealing something. Joe replied, "It's my shield, officer." 
And, magically, the cop let him go without another word. 
Not too long after, Joe and his buddies, who seem to thrive on their friend's stupidity, were at an off-campus party together. After plenty of celebration had been had by all, they headed outside to find a cab. Joe was instructed to flag the next one down, but for some reason he thought it would get the cabby's attention better if he hopped up on the bumper, strutted the length of the hood, and took his place atop the cab. 
The driver, evidently unamused, floored it and sent our friend flying off the roof of the taxi. Joe lay still on the pavement for a moment, while everyone took in what had happened. But then, as someone approached to feel his pulse, Joe sprang back to life, flailing wildly and swearing vengeance on the malicious cabby. 
Unfortunately, some concerned citizen had called the police, and the fellows were forced to vacate the scene. 
There are a few other stories about Joe 


Thursday., 

November 21st Doors open at 8:00 pm Alumni-Senior Club . 
Free Admission 


'i 
1\ 
I:, I 
1.: 
IThe Rant When it comes to NFL overtimes, are quarters more important than quarterbacks? 
by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king ofsports at gmeskill@nd.edu 
Almost all major professional sports in America use a sudden-death system to determine contests that are undecided after regulation time. The NFL employs such a system, and, frankly, it stinks. When two NFL teams are tied after four quarters, they play a 15-minute sudden-death overtime period. A coin toss decides who begins the period on offense. This means the winner of the toss can defeat its opponent without playing defense, a scenario that oc­curs often enough to warrant criticism. Since this overtime system was adopted in 1974, a whopping 25.5 percent of overtime games have ended after just a single posses­sion. Even when games progress beyond the first possession, teams that win the toss win the game about nine percent more often than those that lose the toss. Prior to the 1994 season, the NFL moved kickoffs from the 35-yard line to the 30-yard line. Since that change, almost one-third (32.6 percent) ofovertime games have been won on the first possession. The problem has been most evident this year. In 2002, 77 percent of the teams that won the overtime coin toss also won their overtime contests, with 46 percent winning on the opening possession. So in essence, the most important decision of an NFL overtime period might be in guessing which side ofa tossed coin will be facing up when it hits the ground. Absurd doesn't even begin to describe the NFL's current overtime system. On top of being stupid, it also is unfair and strategically limiting. I've already covered stupid and un­fair, so let's focus on why this system hurts football strategy. When both teams are guar­
Jimbo's Jabber 
The man himself brings you ... 

anteed at least one possession, as in the college football overtime format, the team with the first possession must run its offense not know­ing what its opponentwill do once they change posession. In the NFL overtime system, each offense needs only to push itself into field­goal range, since any score ends the game. NFL overtime finishes reflect this mentality, as nearly 70 percent have been decided by a field goal, while only 26 percent have ended in a touchdown (ties make up the rest of the percentage). 
Looking at all of the above statistics, you don't have to be John Madden to figure out 


In 2002, 77 percent of the teams that have won the( 
overtime coin toss also have contests. 

that a failure to ensure each offense at least one opportunity to take to the gridiron unbalances the playing field. So, why doesn't the NFL have a system that allows both sides an equal number of possessions? There is no good answer to this question, because the NFL should have a format that ensures both teams the opportunity to score. 
One solution to this dilemma is to adopt the college football scheme. In the NCAA, each side is given one possession to score, starting from their opponent's 25-yard line. If these two possessions do not determine a winner, the process is repeated. Once teams reach the third overtime, they are required to attempt two-point conversions on all touchdowns, a rule designed to reduce the number of overtimes. 

FOOTBALL: In Saturday's 30-23 win over Navy, junior cornerback Vontez Duff became the first ND player to return a punt, interception and kickoff for touchdowns in the same season. VOLLEYBALL: On Saturday, the Irish beat Syracuse (21-5, 11-0) to clinch the Big East regular season title. Freshman middle blocker Lauren Brewster ranks fifth in the nation in 
While this system is vastly superior to the NFL's, there are a few arguments levelled against it. First, it eliminates most special­teams play. Since the ball is placed on the 25­yard line for each possession, there is no need for kickoffs or punts, and consequently, there also are no returns. Since special teams are a fundamental part offootball, many purists see this omission as a glaring problem with the college format. Second, it often takes too long. In several college games that reach overtime, the extra periods become a battle between kickers, the direct result of starting both of­fenses within field-goal range. 


won their overtime ~: r~ . 
Heeding both the advantages andthe prob­lems ofthe college system, the NFL should mold a new overtime format. Rather than placing the ball at the 25-yard line, the team that loses the toss could kick off. From there, overtime would be played regularly with a few exceptions. First, there would be no clock. Second, should Team A score in the opening,possesion, Team B would be given one drive of its own to match the score. Should Team B succeed, the contest would continue until one side outscored the other on a round of possession. In all cir­cumstances, each team would be given an equal number of opportunities on offense without eliminating. field position battles and special-teams play. It would allow foot­ball teams, not coins, to decide the games. . 
blocks per game with 1.63. MEN'S SOCCER: The 15th-ranked Irish (11-5-3) suffered an early exit from the Big East Tournamenron Saturday as Georgetown won a 2-1 overtime game in the quarterfinals. Senior forward Erich Braun scored Notre Dame's only goal. WOMEN'S SOCCER: On Friday, the team faces Ohio State at Alumni Field in a first­
14 NOVEMBER 2002 



CADick·~~tR6s'AW~r~~~~mifinalistl ·. lt~Hor best linebacker itUhe nation, ·· rtrfsenior}hiddle linebacketCourtri'ey Our Calls (i"\l\fatson, at 6-.1, 232 lbs.,'I~ a formi: . 
Women's Soccer 

.I,,;. da~!e{foice agail']st Iris.h .· 0pp9~ :)• ,2'ii>i'.; ·> .::.Jler@t pespite missing . th~. :firs(/ . ' OPPONENT: OHIO STATE;:f"'hy9;gafrie§ of the year wi_th a·,virijfff 
WHERE: NOTRE DAME, IND.

1t infection, Watson, leads •the·team~·• 
WHEN: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15TH,

;\(•irr';tickles with 81\!-J:le::also1?:68§~.,:­
<eight tackles f9rJosies, thrE!~ ~.a6~s;;{ 7 PM EST an~ three i,1!.~12.~·P!~~~..)?rfo'0 of~~l: wh1?h he r,~l~J]led for:~::\?Nchdown<< ;i. •. ,,, ·-'• Coming into NCAA tournament play, 
Notre Dame hasn't enjoyed the same 

\4~~~plnS~;s.t£~~::::i~ttj2.:;;:;" ., '•· ;J~?.:~~~~~~ ''.;~/,:: level of success that it has the past 
\':}, obJof•tlie/mi.ddfo linebacker is:Wheiitlitfothei:,team runs the ball, it's to > few years. That won't stop the Irish 
','\'~ :-· l ,~.:·t';~',(,y :i,•;"Ji•t.t·..'.•~ ~ ~~'t"~~j• ,,-·~,) ..-.;:_:.-,:1.;,f.(1 1,-,·•· :...~~~ 
'"' sfQitJb,'tfrun: When1t}iy,cfilier te~p:{pis'ses the ball/i't'fto play intermediate or-,, from running all over the Buckeyes this weekend. Notre Dame wins, 3-0.
" ,§hij~Bieathr~tites.-~~~t!x:~~(aajiri~th the tight ends·;~&nmng backs, slot receiv­
GERARDMESKILL

\ #~fjl'm resp9ns\l?JeJ6'.]"i'iifh~lays called in the huddle, get everybody lined up,··.
~ p;~'::,,•i·.'.v .· • .,r,ftA~i)S---~-·~i"X-!t..~f~.. :,•.;<· ··:•·~-~--· ·· · ', · ·. • 
SPORTS EDITOR~{make the coh'ecf°cli~cks,..and be a leader on the fielci:\FL .·. . . · . : . ·. .•

-'\f~·~~-:i . . . ..., __,_,-f•.•;,; ..~,_~:....::-:-.:.~ ~:? ~--:, .•. :~:.,. :.--.-.... ~'..:.-". . ·: _·.-.. 
: '.1 \ • . .,~ttitude;of:'t,fe)teain after the Boston C::91Ieg~:!g~i:h~f>wa(frustiatiori; ,.
ft· ;;"., -........ '.;.,,,,:~~ : ¥ . ": . ' ..., ..._,,.,~·-: -~,,.~·,'.,,:,~···,-, .,., .. ,'. 
~~ sMv:e.thouglitwe should have played better-to wili:thatgame:'During,thef'. 
The Irish finished the regular season by:it:week;i1t:fin,{&re!ofJu~t urg~pcy ortrying to ge~:,J,ette//mrl corrJ'&t~-W#!hings 'Yf >; 

winning four of their final five games,

,?.did wrong against Boston,(::6Uege so we c.ould go_ 9ut ther¢and win aM~U:~~Navy,'/ : >allowing them to host Ohio State in the,th, .';'F4~,bigg~st g~Dl~ CifmY~,r,~'er'(so far) is: the I\41~,higar{'gflme this y'~"-'¥!" --:~;)Vay\). 
first round of the NCAA tournament. ND Ii.ii~1.iJ.• . ~e won~i(.·,[m~.~~filidii'owdose that was. Thatwth be asp~cialpartof ""'·,~.•~.·¥;.:;·{.: will use its momentum and home field ~~j,l 1fwe fimsh.1t ~ut_the way we should. '~ft{½i advantage to defeat the Buckeyes, 4-2. 
: f t(J Myfavorite a!!±t•~~player is: Randall Cunningham. He was agreatqu 'C?ki{: DAVIDMURRAY . fl,'~ ·and a great athl;{;·'fti:~h'the r~ason I wore No. 12 in high school. Now;\, ... nf?'. ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR , a linebacker, I like Ray Ii~s\ Qfthe Baltimore Ravens] a lot because I think:Jfe•~;; "" the best at the Iineback '~;~n. . . · ••··. · -? My fayorite.N otre Da · .tion is: the pep rallies, the way that people come The Irish use the home field to their 
t,.::,~if:>~,... :;·.
)r?ui · · · · ss ofwhethe _3.-3 or6-0: Therearestillalotofpeoplethatcome advantage. Amy Warner and Amanda out·,, fans are al ere. Guertin each score twice while Erika> Bohn stands tall in goal, recording the 
eto ND: Fo .. ,,,.. ,, .. story and tradition:Ijust wanted to be a patt ofthe 
. , .. ,.:~-:·.),'>-'.:;-t!-t . 
shutout. Notre Dame 4-0hio State 0.

e tradition arla!ma'ke a difference. . . · . 
JIMMY ATKINSON 

.'!l, est stadium;:Yijt~]}Jl_een in:.· Michigan [Stadium] wasn't that loud. 
n,,'( . r.:~-. •',•,•/' ·<<''.,·\<1. 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

,.Te .. Jee [N.eyland~SJij,c,{jµ,'.tnf\Yas loud my freshman year. . . ·. •. •. ·.. \Y-~({f~,!)·to g'et iiio1iVfil{~~tigafue: Ijustthinkaboutthe opportunity that ·· we have''vhen we• go on the fieltt.tI~d9n't need much more motivation than that. 
I 
./~lf'V;e..;~~~eJheicbanc:e·to to'.·~rtNim·play ~iwin arid put ourselves in the OUR CALLS RECORDS situation to be the best foam in.the counfry is enough motivation for me. DAVIDMURRAY: 2-2 ;• ··. •·· -· : .~Ji,;imyA,tkinson > JIMMYATKINSON: 2-2 
; ~ . . . . . ' ~. . ·. . 
GERARDMESKILL: 2-2 

round NCAA Tournament game. The winner sophomore center Cory McLean and junior tournament featured teams from Indiana, of that game will play the Purdue-Eastern right wing Rob Globke. Louisville, Purdue and Syracuse. Illinois winner Sunday, also at Alumni Field. MEN'S BASKETBALL: The Irishdefeated MEN'S GOLF: Freshmen Tommy HOCKEY:Thelrishsplittheirweekendseries the EA Sports All-Stars 81-64 inan exhibition Balderston, Mark Baldwin, Eric Deutsch against Miami (Ohio), losing 3-1 on Friday game. Senior guard Matt Carroll led the and Scott Gustafson have been ranked top night and winning 2-1 on Saturday night. In squad with 18 points. in the country according to Golfstat's Saturday's win, sophomore goaltender WOMEN'S TENNIS: Junior Alicia Salas Freshman Class Impact Rankings following Morgan Cey stopped a career-high 44 shots. andfreshman Kelly Nelson eachwon singles the fall season. ND's two goals came in the third period from titles at the Eck Classic on Sunday. The -Jimmy Atkinson 
14 NOVEMBER 2ooi SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 

ij 
. I 
i 11 
I 
11 
i 
iJ
I, ii Ii 

1i 
ii!
!I 
'I 
lj 

PETERKEEFE 
Frustrating. Last year's opening month ofplay for the Notre Dame women's basketball team was frustrating for players, coaches and fans alike. The then-defending National Champions began the season with a dismal 2-4 record, a stretch that included a humili­ating loss to Michigan -a team they had blown out during their National Champi­onship season -and a double-digit loss to Purdue in a rematch of the championship game. The Irish were juggling many differ­ent lineups, dealing with early season inju­ries and a roster that included six freshmen. Tears were shed, bad shots were taken and the Irish dropped out ofthe rankings for the first time since 1998. "It was a wake-up call," says sophomore center Teresa Borton, a freshmen thrust into the lineup for injured Amanda Barksdale. 
Even coach Muffet McGraw was frustrated: "I miss my old team," she said at the time. 
But as the season progressed, the quality ofthe team's play increased. Then-freshman forward Jackie Batteast started to find her niche as the Irish went 13-2 through a stretch of Big East games including a nine-game winning streak. Although the Irish won 20 games, they were blown out by three ofthe top teams, losing by 15 points to Purdue, nearly 30 points to UConn and almost 40 points to Tennessee in the last game. If the Irish want to be serious contenders for a na­tional title this season, they will have to be able to play competitively against these top teams. In order to do that, this year's sopho­more class -which includes three of the team's five starters: forward Batteast, cen­ter Borton and forward Katy Flecky-must stay healthy and continue to improve, es­pecially Batteast. 
Batteast, who played at Washington High School in South Bend, Ind., anchors the Irish offense and is arguably the best pure athlete and most complete player on the squad. A versatile scorer, Batteast is able to take the ball inside or step back and take the three. She scored 13 .8 points per game and led the team in rebounding with 7 .8 per game last year, while also taking home the United States Basketball Writers Associa­tion National Freshman of the Year award. 

"She is probabiy the smoothest player I've ever coached; and she can get to the basket and rebound_as well as anyone I've ever seen," says McGraw. With her re­bounding and shotblocking abilities, Batteast is able to dominate the game without even scoring. Her long arms break up cross-court passes.-:-in the recent ex­hibition game against the Houston Cou­gars, she recorded three steals. Batteast's versatility also was displayed in the same game when she grabbed a rebound on the 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 14 NOVEMBER 2002 

defensive end and then took it coast-to­coast for a layup. 
Batteast must remain healthy for the Irish to live up to their potential as a team -last year, her late-season injury neutralized the Irish offense, which had a hard time scor­ing without her. After her stellar freshman year, opponents will be looking to double­team and put increased pressure on Batteast. If Borton can continue to develop her po­tential as another scoring threat, however, the Irish could bum teams who double-team Batteast. Borton was extremely impressive in the exhibition game against the Cougars, dropping 20 points and grabbing nine boards. "She runs the floor so well," says McGraw. "She has a lot of strengths and is going to play a big part in our team's suc­cess at both ends of the court this year." 
Forward Katy Flecky, who started the last seven games oflast year when Batteast went down with an injury, rounds out the frontcourt for the Irish. In the exhibition game, she had four steals, knocking the ball away when the Cougars tried to pass to the low post. 
A strong backcourt also 
season, averaging·-4.9 per game. She is one of the fast­est players in the country and paced the Irish on their Europeon tour this summer, with 
13.5 points, 5.3 assists and 3.3 steals per game. "LeTania's a great leader," says Borton. She will run the team's new triangle offense, which McGraw implemented over the summer. 
The triangle offense is NBA-tested and has been used successfully by the Jordan­era Chicago Bulls and, more recently, the Los Angeles Lakers. By positioning three Irish players on the perimeter, three-point opportunities will open up ifthe Irish can 
L. swing the ball and catch .their opponents off guard. However, the first option ofthe triangle offense will be to get the ball down low to the post players, who will be cutting to the hoop and popping up to the foul line as well as setting screens for each other. 
The fact that McGraw implemented a complex new offense shows her confi­dence in her starters. However, a key to running the triangle offense will be the team's ability to run it with many differ­ent combinations of players when the starters are on the bench. McGraw has faith in her team: "We'll pretty much be able to sub for anybody, and that's some­thing we really need. We'll be able to play a lot of different combinations." The new offense is designed to draw on the strengths of the Irish personnel, but the Irish have had trouble running the offense effectively without the starters. The of­fense stagnated when Severe, the starting point guard, left the game during the ex­hibition against the Cougars, leading to two shot-clock violations. 
The Irish players who will see the most 

will be vital to the Irish as well if they hope to compete for the Big East title. Guard Alicia Ratay is the senior cap­tain and is coming off a sea­son in which she averaged a team-high 15.4 points and 5.5 rebounds per game and was named to the All-Big East Conference first team. She is the Iron Woman of this Irish squad, playing in every game since her freshman year. Jun­ior point guard LeTania Se­vere led the Irish in assists last 
"[Batteast] is probably the smoothest player I've ever qoached, and she can get to the basket and rebound as well as anyone I've ever seen." -Coach Muffet McGraw 
off-the-bench minutes are sophomore Kelsey Wicks and freshmen Megan Duffy and Courtney LaVere. Wicks can play ei­ther shooting guard or small forward, and she is a solid passer who also can knock down the outside shot. Duffy will be able to give either guard a rest and run the offense. Although she had five turnovers in the ex­hibition game, she found her niche and turned in a solid performance with six points, seven rebounds and four steals. 
"Megan has the total package at the_ point, and it will be a matter of time to see how quickly she learns the offense," says McGraw. "She's got a great presence on the court. She's vocal and, for a fresh­man, you don't always expect that." On one of her first plays in the game, the southpaw stole the ball and took it in for an easy layup. "I'm just trying to come in and do anything they need me to do," says Duffy. 
LaVere also played well in her first game at the JACC, recording 12 points and six rebounds. Lavere is 6 feet, 3 inches and mostly will be relieving Borton at center, though she also was used at power forward in the scrimmage. The · roster is rounded out by Karen Swanson, Jill Krause and Jeneka Joyce. 
The Irish are ranked No. IO in the pre­season AP poll. In the Big East preseason poll, they tied for the first place ranking with Connecticut, and therein lies the challenge. Two years ago, the Irish took two out of three from the rival Huskies and wound up with the National Championship. Last year, the Irish were blown out when they trav­eled to the Gampel Pavilion and ended up losing in the second round of the NCAA 
tournament. In order to success­
. fully make it out of the BigEasttoumament, the Irish must challenge the Huskies. This year, the Irish and the Huskies meet twice in the regu­lar season with the pos­sibility ofmeeting again in the Big East tourna­ment and in the NCAA tournament. Luckily, one of the two· regular season games is at the Joyce Center where the luck of the Irish nearly always prevails. (A 51­game winning streak at 

home was broken by a loss only late last season.) 
The success ofthis Irish team will hinge on how they play in their games against UConn and the other ranked opponents, whom they play early in the season: No. 2 Tennessee, and No. 8 Purdue and No. 19 Colorado State. Though it is easy to look forward to those leviathan battles, "Every team will be tough," Borton says." We can't overlook anyone." 
With solid team basketball and a balanced offensive attack, this year it is the Irish who hope to frustrate their opponents in the opening month ofplay. . 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 


JIMMYATKINSON

The ugly side of Notre Dame's two-faced football team has surfaced. The downward spiral began in the waning mo­ments of the Florida State game and continued throughout the next two weeks until the final minutes ofthe Navy contest. The Irish team that used to get the better ofteams by winning the turn­over margin week after week now is finding itself turning the ball over and struggling to earn victories against even the most meager opponents. The problems of the last two weeks appear to be mental. It is a difficult task for any coaching staff to get a football team up to the 
After dismal performances against 
Boston College and Navy, the Irish 
look to recapture their glory 
level that it needs to play at every week. "You can't tum on focus 
and concentration like a light switch," says coach Tyrone Willing­
ham. 

In college football, any team can beat any other team on any 
given day. One or two big plays can make all the difference. Couple 
that with a mental lapse or two, and you have the recipe for an 
upset. 

Case in point: Boston College. Against Boston College, two failed 
fourth down conversion attempts, two turnovers and a botched field 
goal snap resulted in the Irish being turned away empty-handed 
from the red zone five times in six trips. The team's inability to finish 
and hold onto the ball was the only aspect lacking in its game that 
afternoon. The result was a 14-7 loss and the end of almost any 
chance at the National Championship. The bottom line is that the 
Irish were not mentally prepared to play the Boston College game. 
They came out flat and unfocused. 
Against Navy, complacency took hold. Notre Dame had won the 
previous 38 contests. Navy's only win of the season came against 
SMU in their first game of the season. Navy's run defense was 
ranked 109th in the nation. Navy ran an option attack, which Notre 
Dame had thoroughly shut down in the Air Force game just a few 
weeks ago. But history doesn't win football games. And Notre Dame, 
unable to execute properly for most ofthe game, nearly discovered 
that the hard way. 

"I was very concerned about the fact that we had played the op­. tion before and that may have worked against us because you can get complacent," said Willingham after the game. 
"[The Navy game] was just a matter ofnotexecuting and waiting 
for that spark to come," says quarterback Carlyle Holiday. They 
almost waited too long, needing a late f<;mrth-quarter comeback to 
avoid losing to Navy for the first time since Reisman winner Roger 
Staubach was the Midshipmen's quarterback in 1963. 
Despite winning the game, the Irish felt as though they under­
achieved. "Guys were happy to win," says middle linebacker 
Courtney Watson, "but guys weren't happy with the performance. 
The last three weeks, we haven't performed up to our abilities, and 
that's something we need to worry about We need to focus on that." 
VERY 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 

Another problem was that safety Gerome Sapp and defensive lineman Cedric Hilliard were out ofthe Navy game nursing injuries. Fortunately, the Irish have a bye this week to refocus and get healthy. 
"We've always said that anytime a bye week shows up," says Willingham, "we'll find a way to use it to our advantage. We have a couple ofguys we need to get healthy, so it's great timing." 
The bye week also should provide play­ers with ample time to mentally regroup. For nearly an eight-quarter stretch, going back to the end ofthe Florida State game through the first third quarter ofthe Navy game, the Irish have been outscored 51-22. Hopefully for Irish fans, the end ofthe Navy game is a sign that the Irish can regroup and return to midseason form. 
An equally, if not more daunting oppo­nent than Navy comes to South Bend a week from Saturday. Rutgers, although 1-8, led 1,338 yards, nine touchdowns, and 16 inter­season. They are stocked with a high­Miami going into the fourth quarter before ceptions. Seven different receivers have over powered offense (ranked 17th nationally) the Hurricanes pounded the Scarlet Knights 100 yards on the season with tight end L.J. that averages 420 yards per game and a with a 28-point outburst. Ifthe Irish are lack­Smith leading the way with 280 yards on 25 tough-as-nails defense (13th) that allows luster-again next week, the result would be catches. At the running back position, only 295 yards per game. Undoubtedly, devastating. A loss to Rutgers likely would Markis Facyson and Clarence Pittman have the leader of the Trojans offense is quar­end any shot at a BCS game. shared time to combine for 614 yards on 213 terback Carson Palmer, who ranks 12th 
carries and two touchdowns. Through nine in the nation in passing efficiency, com­November 23rd vs. Rutgers (1-8) games, Rutgers's offensive line has allowed pleting 217-of-346 passes for 2,746 yards, Series Record: Notre Dame leads 3-0-0 3 7 sacks. All signs indicate that the Irish 22 touchdowns and eight interceptions. In 
On paper, Rutgers looks horrendous -defense should have a field day, as long as it his last three games alone, Palmer has but then again, so did Navy. In analyzing can keep focused. thrown for 1,113 yards and 13 touch­the statistics, one finds that Rutgers ranks downs. Freshman sensation receiver Mike 40th in pass defense, allowing 199 .56 yards November 30th at USC (7-2) Williams also has come on strong in the per game, 95th in run defense, allowing 190 Series Record: Notre Dame leads 42-26-5 last several games for USC, gaining 913 yards per game, and 109th in turnovers, av­Earlier this week, Willingham indicated yards on 58 receptions. eraging a -1.22 takeaway-giveaway margin that his coaching staff would use this bye Defensively, the Trojans are led by line­per game. week not only to prepare for Rutgers, but backer Matt Grootegoed, who has 59 tack­
However, one cannot overlook the fact also to begin initial preparations for USC. les, including 11.5 for loss and five sacks, that the Scarlet Knights gave the defending National Champions the scare of a lifetime "The last three weeks, we haven't performed up to our 
when they led MiamU7-14 going into the 
abilities, and that's something we need to worry about." 
fourth quarter two weeks ago. Well aware of Miami's hardships two weeks ago, Will­-Courtney Watson, middle linebacker 



ingham cautions those who take Rutgers lightly. "[Rutgers] played one of the better teams in this country almost toe to toe so that means when they're playing their game, they are very difficult to deal with," he says. Special teams have come up with big plays for the Scarlet Knights this season, as they have had six kicks blocked, including a punt block that was returned for a touchdown against Miami. 
Offensively, Rutgers spreads the ball around to many players, and there is no clear-cut leader. They platoon two quarter­backs, Ted Trump and R yari Cubit, who have combined to complete 127-of-273 passes for 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 
and safety Troy Polamalu, a Jim Thorpe Award semifinalist who has 54 tackles, in­cluding six for loss and two sacks, despite missing two games with an ankle sprain. 
A loss to Boston College and an subpar win against Navy might be all the moti­vation that the Irish need to prepare to step up and return to winning as usual. "Even though we're winning, our guys expect more and I really like that," says Willingham. Notre Dame knows it still has much to prove in its final two con­tests. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 

The players themselves will prepare only for Rutgers, but coaches will use this week as an opportunity to look at additional film and take extra notes on USC. 
After falling in overtime to Washington State, the Trojans are on a hot streak, win­ning their last four games going into this weekend's match-up against Arizona State. An at-large BCS berth could be on the line for both Notre Dame and USC when these two clash on Thanksgiving weekend in Los · Angeles. 
The Trojans should prove to be the tough­est opponent that Notre Dame will face this 
. ,. 

. ·,'\·:--:.,_
ld::l
-,;.____ :--:.,, 


Campus bands i showcase talent at I\! annual festival 
BRIGIDSWEENEY
Ask about the Notre Dame music scene, and kids in the know will tell you the same thing: "The music 
scene at ND," Neil Carmichael of Static says, "is sorely underappreciated." 
It's a sentiment shared by most ofND's student bands and performers. "I don't know that the general population of ND is too aware of the music that is getting made around here, but there's some great stuff going on," Partrick Brennan of The Choir Invisible says. "I think the diversity of the music being made is pretty impressive." 
I: In the hopes ofshedding a little light on i the oft-overlooked world ofstudent bands, 
I 
. ! 
NAZZ will kick off its 15th annual contest Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Alumni-Senior Club. 
Despite being billed as a battle ofthe bands, NAZZ tends towards celebration instead of competition. "NAZZ is all about supporting 
,, the local scene, showcasing new bands, and 
:j 
! having fun," says WVFI station manager and NAZZ participant Tim Bradley. 
Featuring a host of performers whose sounds range from folk rock to hip-hop, the Student Union Board-sponsored event pro­vides a "rare opportunity to play in front ofa respectful audience;' says Luke Nueller, a two-time veteran performer at NAZZ. 
Scholastic heard from some of NAZZ's bands and solo acts on their origins, inspira­tions and aspirations. 
COMPLETING THE SQUARE 

Northern Indiana experienced its own British Invasion ofsorts when Completing the Square first performed as the Alpha Bet at Lafortune Ballroom last spring. Seniors Tim Bradley, Jesse Fa and John Fanning all 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
studied in London last fall, where they bonded over Weezer and Alkaline Trio cov­ers and eventually began writing their own songs. Upon returning to campus, they per­formed as the Alpha Bet until the May graduation of drummer Nick Wymbs. This fall, the Square was fully formed with the addition of senior drummer Dan Schmid. 
In keeping with their quasi-British roots, Completing the Square mentions the Kinks and the mod-punk group Chisel as inspira­tions. Bradley characterizes the group's sound as "melodic indie rock with some synth and vocal harmonies." 
Bradley and Fanning occasionally contem­plate the possibility ofpostgraduate London­based rock stardom. Should the Midwest's al­lure prove too overwhelming, the group might relocate to Michigan next year while Fa at­tends dental school. 
In the meantime, Completing the Square performs regularly. Recently, the group played with The Choir Invisible, Small Brown Bike and Clark at QuadRock, and with Clark and New Orange at the State on Halloween. On November 21, it will take the stage with the Detroit-based band Res­cue. 
Completing the Square also promotes campus music via the online magazine Mindset. 
"Despite what one might think, Notre Dame has a thriving, close-knit music scene," Bradley says. ·"Almost every week­end there's a basement show somewhere, generally within walking distance from campus. We're doirig om:best to spread the 
word." · 
THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 

From its inception earlier this year, The Choir Invisible has strongly emphasized mu­sic over individual roles. "We're sort ofaband in flux," explains senior guitarist and vocalist Patrick Brennan. "Any time one ofour group offriends writes a song,-the idea is that we'll all work on it and play it, and because we all play a few different instruments, the band will change according to what the song calls for." 
Clearly, the Choir places a h1gh premium 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 

-
on flexibility and variety. In addition to Brennan and fellow seniors Leo O'Connor, Kiernan Moriarty and Ben Dillon, the band includes a fifth, "ever-evolving" member. 
"Our drummer is possibly the most in­visible choir boy, as we've played with three already," Brennan says. Senior Pat Bayliss, bass player and singer for Clark, fulfills those duties often: 
The Choir members cite characteristically varied influences, from the Beatles and the Who to the Clash and Elliott Smith. Brennan notes that the Choir's music is more or less pop with a punk rock delivery. 
The band's NAZZ debut follows last· week's performance at WVFI's QuadRock and countless basement shows. 
THE KINKY BOOTBEASTS 

The Kinky Bootbeasts had a somewhat unusual beginning, the result of a last­minute schedule change at a 2001 event called ND@Nite. When.another performer suddenly couldn't make it to perform his acoustic set, junior Dave Lodewyck and senior Joe Andrukaitis stepped iil. Accord­ing to Andrukaitis, the two "grabbed their guitars, threw together a setlist 20 minutes before the performance, and the Bootbeasts were born." Freshman drummer ·Nate Origer.became a fellow Beast earlier this year. 
The Bootbeasts' dedication to their music definitely is well-grounded. When asked to . describe the group's sound, Andrukaitis sun­ply responded, "We rock. Hard." Influences include the similarly intense Andrew W.K., a solo artist out of Detroit's punk and metal scene, and Spinal Tap. 
This year, the Bootbeasts already have played at various house parties around South Bend. Lodewyck andAndrukaitis both bring two years ofexperienceto NAZZ.Andrukaitis praises the laid-back nature ofthe event, not­ingthat "anyone trying to be competitive about NAZZ is just kidding themselves." 
STATIC 

Certainly the only campus band whose members include sibling rappers, Static lays claim to a sound uniquely its own. Citing muses such as Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, Soul Live and Linkin Park, the six mem­bers blend hip-hop and jazz.fusion into their own eclectic mix. 
Senior guitarist Neil Carmichael, who has been playing guitarfornearly eight years, went to high school with senior emcee Pooya Ghiaseddin. Ghiaseddin and his brother Parham, a freshman, have been rapping since 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 

ried about a certain scene or iinage," he said. "It's so pretentious. Here, people just want to hear music." 
JORDAN LINVILLE 

After winning an Indiana statewide com­petition for original piano composition as a high-school junior, Linville nearly wound up a music major at Indiana University. Boasting 13 years ofpiano experience and six on the guitar, his sound combines com­plicated chords with an emphasis on lyrics. 
Linville, a senior, notes the difficulty ofa career in music, especially coming from Notre Dame. "It's really tough to let your­self try and be a musician or some kind of struggling artist when you've just dropped $120,000 on an education," he said. "This school's reputation and alumni network is great for some career paths, but a job at Co­lumbia Records is not one ofthem." 
Nonetheless, the already-published com­poser, who claims Adam Duritz, Cole Por­ter and Billy Joel as inspirations, has not given up hope. After graduation, he says, "whatever I do, I'm going to make a go at playing on the side." 
LUKE MUELLER 

Mueller began playing guitar four years ago, as a freshman at Notre Dame. After beginning to write his own songs a year later, he brought his folk-rock sound public, regularly perfonn­ing at Acoustic Cafe and the past two NAZZ shows. A fan ofPearl Jam, Bruce Springsteen, RadioheadandBobDylan,Muellerdoesn'tbave to worry about losing motivation for his art. ''Music doesn'teverstop;'he said,"and life never stops providing me opportunities to write." 
While this year's NAZZ offers a diverse grouping ofstudent talent, all the performers are members of ND's much-ignored music scene. Take it from the artists themselves: The music is here, but the listeners aren't. "There are some incredibly talented musicians walk­ing around this campus," Linvill~ says. "You've just got to stray away from the keg a little to find them." 
The following artists round out NAZZ's performance list: $huger in the Raw, The Olivia Newton John Project, Karma, Poor Yorik, Station One, Kevin Leicht, and Chris Trice. D 
Tickets are $5 in advance and $8 at the doo,: 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 



BRIGHT LIGHTS AND LOUD MUSIC The inside of Pat's Pub in Mishawaka is stacked wall-to-wall with Notre Dame items, right down to the leprechaun I wallpaper. The pub even plays the Notre Dame fight song while blue-and-gold lights blink throughout the room.
I i 
TRACYEVANS men ts in Irish sports history, reminding din­additional trophy winners visiting the Col­ers of those glory days students hearken lege Football Hall ofFame, including ND's 
Pulling into the isolated parking lot back to with their kelly green shirts. own John Lujack, dropped by to add their ofa small, barn-style restaurant off "It's amazing, the loyalty, and how deep own signatures. the main streets ofMishawaka, cus-that goes for a lot of people. They will go Cocquant, who tracks his 13 years at Pat's 
I 
tomers looking for Pat's Pub might ques­around and look . . . We've actually had by football seasons, grew up in the shadow tion whether they have found the right place. people genuflect in front of things," says of the golden Dome, eating at the restau­Once they open the door, however, and see Maury Cocquant, Jr., owner of Pat's Pub rant with his own family of eight. With a layer upon layer ofclassic Notre Dame para­since 1990. Fans young and old have been full house almost any night ofthe week, he phernalia, all doubts are put to rest. coming to take in the pub's atmosphere can count on seeing the faces ofboth local 
For the true Irish fan, Pat's reputation as since the mid-1970s. 
I 
a virtual museum of football folklore has He estimates his col-made it a coveted find. The cozy atmosphere lection to be an in­and familiar treatment unfold to exceed vestment of roughly >> The cozy atmosphere and even the highest expectations. And though $10,000. 
familiar treatment unfold to exceed 
the pub is touristy, this doesn't detract from The more vener­the dining experience. ated attractions were even the highest expectations. 
Signed footballs, black-and-white game donated. One of the photographs and leprechaun wallpaper most notable pieces, cover every inch ofthe room. I smiled at a Cocquant says, is a recent addition: the 34-24 score sheet from football given to him by former Notre Dame and seasonal regulars. Customers can count this season's victory over Florida State. In­quarterback Paul Hornung signed by 26 on a familiar wait staff, too: Some employ­dividual photographs of the football team Reisman Trophy winners. Homing donated ees have worked at Pat's for more than 20 are tucked beside pictures capturing mo-the prize, and then its value doubled when years. For Notre Dame families looking to 
28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 14 NOVEMBER 2002 

l_ 

» What: Pat's Colonial Pub 
» Where: 901 W. 4th Street 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
(574) 259-8282 
» Price Range: Typical entrees 
run from about $12 to $20, 
including choice of soup/salad 
and potato/vegetable. 
» Why should you go: It's an 
experience that affirms your ND 
pride, and you can count on a 
decent piece of meat. 
» What you should watch out for: Make reservations in ad­vance, and be prepared to strike up a conversation with anyone in this snug dining room; not recom­mended for dates or light eaters. 
share in the legendary experience, tables are booked for game weekends as early as July 14th and usually are full by the first week of school. 
I was startled out ofmy reveries of Rudy and Rockne by someone loudly clinking his water glass. The strands of blue and gold lights that line the room began blinking wildly and the restaurant filled with the sounds of the marching band playing the Notre Dame fight song.,.Smiles and clap­ping replaced (?Onversations as diners took the chance to immerse themselves in Notre Dame revelry. This is one ofthe pub's more unique traditions since its beginning, and the song contributes.to the high-energy at­mosphere for fans. 
"You'll think you're at a wedding party during those game weekends," Cocquant jokes. "Occasionally, if someone gets too insistent, we have to give them a plastic cup so they don't break the glass." 
Pat's does not discriminate among cus­tomers. Although the majority ofdiners are avid Irish fans, 95 other school songs are on file to meet special requests. Often, the room will be divided between groups offans visiting for the game, making for an even more lively dining experience. But Cocquant says that Pat's clearly is loyal to its hometown heroes. · 
"The lights only flash for Notre Dame, 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 
and Notre Dame is always played first," he says. "And, we always play Notre Dame right after to sort of cleanse the system." 
As a tempting portion of crab dip and toasted French bread floated in front of our noses, people at the next table dug into a thick steak and plate full of fried chicken with mashed potatoes. Selecting a meal at Pat's isn't easy. The restaurant has been lauded as serving the best seafood in the Michiana area for the past three years. Its menu boasts an entire page of selections ranging from the popular walleye, coated in a signature mustard-pretzel dipping, to striped bass, swordfish and shrimp. Cuts of meat are offered with a choice of dressing -marinated, blackened or literally smoth­ered with a wine-enhanced mushroom sauce. Appetizers include onion rings, es­cargot, and a decidedly cheesy Caesar salad. A variety of styles of potatoes add weight to the already hearty home-style portions.­
While servers are attentive and prompt, customers don't feel rushed, and parties take advantage ofthe family-friendly atmosphere to linger over conversation. Our food was spaced between miniature cones of orange sherbet, a classy and fun touch to the ser­vice. Portions are presented in a simple yet appetizing manner, and students can rest as­sured that a Styrofoam box will accompany them back to their domi rooms. 
Our table was satisfied with the range of menu favorites, from marinated steak to Ital­ian-seasoned chicken with fettuccine alfredo. I opted for one of the pub's more famous entrees: The thick-sliced pork chops. Served with applesauce and cooked to or­der, the tenderness of the meat belies its near-inch thickness. Daily specials intro­duce even more choices, adding ribs, pasta and meat specialties to the menu. Late-night offerings, served from 10 to 11 p.m., include a more casual selection of hot sandwiches and burgers. Homemade fruit pies and cheesecakes are on the pub's list of tempt­ing desserts. 
When dinner was over, we regretted hav­ing to leave this haven of Domer pride. Maybe it was our bulging stomachs or that we couldn't help but find more and more unique wall-hangings to admire. As we lin­gered in the doorway, I noticed the collec­tion of photographs Cocquant had taken with celebrities and ND athletes ofthe past and present. The charm of Pat's Pub lies somewhere between these photos and the plush red booths, a tradition that unites he­roes and fans in the very same spot over one thing -an appetite for the game. D 




I Coulda Been a Contender 
Why you should always look at least two hand-grips ahead 
I 
I 
I 
I 
0 ur government would have us believe that Saddam Hussein represents the single greatest threat to the American way oflife the free world has ever witnessed. As such, those in charge of our military have tried to drum up support from both the American people and our allies overseas for a full-scale invasion of Iraq. While no doubt feasible, this plan is far more expensive and time-consuming than the plan for the elimi­nation of Saddam that I now propose: We need Nitro, Laser and Gemini to go kick some ass. As I was recently informed, my game-show column neglected to tell the reading public of a very important contributor to the competitive universe. I speak, ofcourse, ofthe only slightly jingo­istic '80s classic American Gladiators. Correctly assuming most viewers had gotten tired ofscreaming answers at their televisions, American Gladiators fulfilled our primal need to watch mildly pumped accountants get the ever-

loving hell whipped out ofthem by Reople whose names belonged on could be to anyone, beyond getting me shampoo or car oil bottles. As the a drink at the Backer on a Saturday. TV executives saw it, answering The real trial-by-fire, however, was questions is all well and good, but The Wall. Essentially a climbing wall there's something about having a with the additional fun of life-threat­monosyllabic, steroid-fiend named ening injury, The Wall required con­Turbo grab you by the ankles and tenders to scramble to the top and ring fling you from a 50-foot climbing a bell before a gladiator pulled them wall that gets the blood pumping in from The Wall and sent them tumbling a way Richard Kam just can't du­(all together now) to the mats below. 
tl1at only the most famous or ludicrous deserve mention. The first, and perhaps most well known, was The Joust. Contenders would battle against gladiators with oversized Q-Tips until one ofthe par­ticipants was backed into a trap door and sent flailing to the mats below. In all honesty, the event was ridiculous enough that any sarcastic comment I could make would actually lend credibility to it Just to recap, the event was grown men in spandex beating each other with giant foam Q-Tips. The only way we could make this more asinine is to somehow involve The Rock. 
On to mettle more attractive. The Human Cannonball was ex­actly what it sounded like, and it was ultimately more tragic than entertaining. The gladiator stood on a pedestal and the contender, swinging on a huge rope, would let go at the point he believed his trajectory would send him flying into the gladiator and carry them both to the mats below. While this undoubtedly taught us valuable lessons about falling into things, I still don't see what use a star in this event 
plicate. 

For those ofyou unfamiliar with the show, the premise ran more or less like this: Two "contenders" (typically white-collar guys who had been hitting the gym and felt as though they had really accom­plished things, muscle-wise) competed against each other in a se­ries of events leading up to the glorified obstacle course that was The Eliminator. The contenders would not justbe competing against each other, however, but also against the gladiators -behemoths with veins in their arms bigger around than my thigh. The fact that these guys are now hawking used cars in Reno or nursing the man­breasts they acquired from years ofsteroid use at a Remaining Men Together seminar is somewhat beside the point. To a 10 year-old kid, Ice and Atlas were the peak ofphysical development, and the grueling endurance trials they put the contenders through were of­ten duplicated in backyard wrestling matches that my parents would later term "the worst idea in the long, sad history ofbad ideas." 
Which brings us to the events themselves. While there were nu­merous ways to punish the contenders, space constraints dictate 
The thrill came from watching the con­tender soar effortlessly up The Wall, only to see him hesitate at a point where he had not planned out his ro.ute. Slowly, he would retrace his steps until suddenly Nitro (it's always Nitro) grabbed his ankle and flung him like a fish in a Seattle market. This had the obvious benefit of teaching kids about the futility of toil in the face of adversity, but The Wall's biggest asset comes in the simple message it conveys: You make damn sure you have your route planned out, or Nitro's coming, and he's bringing the pain. Word to your mother. 
The anachronisms of Vanilla Ice aside, I'm glad American Gladiators was around for me during my childhood. It showed me that only the physically able were worthy of,praise, thereby setting a standard ofperfection that I could never hope to live up to. And if that's not healthy for a young child's psyche, I'd like to know what is. (The answer, as it turns out, is not Rocky Road ice cream. Believe me, I've been down that road, and it only ends in tears.) 0 

30 SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 14 NOVEMBER 2002 


There's nothing like the open road stretched out before you and the wind i:ri: your face -unless it's the notorious wind tunnel you battle every morning. on ·the way to your. 8:30 class. Here are some activities to keep you busy no matter how far you want to venture. Don't ; forgetto submit your events to scholast@nd.edu. (All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.) 
A walk across campus What: Mystery Theatre When: November 16, 9:30 p.m. Where: LaFortune Ballroom How much: $2 Why: It's elementary, my dear Watson! And at that price, it's almost complimentary. The Mystery Shop from Chicago will perform a short, three-act play dur­ing which characters reveal clues about a murder that has taken place. Between acts, audience members can examine evidence and talk with characters. Spend the night unraveling this Flipside-sponsored whodunnit. After all, it's not often that you get to play Sherlock Holmes. 


Another walk across campus What: Road to Perdition When: November 14, 10:00 p.m.; November 15 and 16, 7:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. 

Where: 101 DeBartolo Howmuch: $3 Why: It's a Tom Hanks movie. No, seriously, Roger Ebert says thatRoad.to Perdition, which tells the story ofthe mob's effect on a family living in 1930'8Chicago, is wonderfully acted and praises its cin~matography; Apparently the film is soaked with scenes involving rain, snow and other forms of wetness. Maybe it will make you think South Bend's damp dreariness isn't so bad in comparison -at least for a few hours. 
A short drive What: Turning Over a New Leaf When: November 16, 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. Where: Robinson Community Learn­ing Center How much: Free Why: You'll be helping local residents by cleaning up the 
leaves in their yards while spend­ing quality time with your friends. To sign up, contact your dorm service commissioner or send an e-mail to slongenb@nd.edu. 



A trip across US 31 What: "An American Para­dox: Justice and the Prac­tice ofthe Death Penalty" When: November 21, 4:00 

p.m. and 7:00 p.m.; Novem­ber 22, 12:00 p.m.. Where: Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, St. Mary's College How much: Free Why: Since Illinois reinstated the death penalty in 1977, 12 men have been ex­ecuted and 13 have been exonerated based on innocence or lack of evidence. Here's an opportunity to explore this controver­sial issue. Listen to a lecture by Sheila Murphy, retired presiding judge of the Sixth Municipal District Circuit Court, Cook County. 
A two-hour drive 
What: My Kind ofTown 
When: Fridays, 12 p.m. to~ p.m., through December 20 
Where: Chicago Water Works Visitor Center, 163 E. Pearson 
How much: Free 
Why: Take advantage ofthese few away football weekends and experience the hustle and bustle ofa buzzing metropo­
lis. In celebration ofthe city's musical history, the Chicago Office ofTourism presents leading Chicago performers in 
concert at the historic pumping station across from Water Tower Place. After the concert, you can wander down Michigan Avenue or 
State Street and enjoy some fine dining. You might even start checking items offyour holiday shopping list before Thanksgiving. 
14 NOVEMBER2002 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 




Think Globally, 
by Amanda Rothey 
Live Simply 

After living out of a large backpack for a month, I realized that I have way more stuff than I can ever use. 
Amanda Rothey is a junior history and German major from Pittsburgh, Penn. She spent the 2001-2002 school year studying in Innsbruck, Austria. 

Ablock away from the Notre Dame student office in Innsbruck, the Leokino theater of­fers a taste ofcinematic flavors from across the globe. Each new release promised a peek into an exotic culture, from New Delhi to Newfound­land and anywhere in between. Like these films, my abroad experience in Innsbruck allowed me a unique chance to view the world from another perspective. But instead ofsip­ping a Coke and munching on popcorn, I was in front of the camera and inside the scene. Lost in the plot ofmy life, I only now am beginning to re­alize how my abroad experience has affected the direction my story will take. I always have been rather high-strung in an American, Burger King sense: I want it my way, right away, with little room for substitution. While living and traveling abroad, I learned to leave my pretentiousness at the door and go with the flow. I never would have thought that I would sleep. on the grimy hallway floor ofan ·Italian train as greasy, older men eyed my friends and I, or that I would share a bunk bed with a home­less woman who slept for 20 straight hours. In my imagination and in• real life, these situations were not the most pleasant ones, but I dealt with them, and feel. that 1·am much less demanding that things be perfect all the time be­cause of these experiences. Life does not always provide a soft bed and warm food. I learned to ac­cept that, and appreciate the comforts ofhome more than ever. As I found that I could deal with less-than-per­fect circumstances with my own ingenuity and char­acter, I began to worry less and less about material possessions, and my list of things I could not live without became shorter and shorter. After living out of a large backpack for a month, I realized that I · have way more stuff than I can ever use. I went about simplifying my possessions -and my life. 
While I still love to shop, I control my spending much more responsibly than I did before last year. Traveling definitely brought out the cheapskate in me: "Twenty­three Euros for one night! We're not in London, for God's sake." I watched my budget closely, but at the same time, I never let money issues hold me back from experiencing as much as possible. Living the simple life materially and financially shaped my traveling ex­periences, and I continued to cut back throughout the year in Innsbruck. 
When I returned to the U.S. with my downsized attitude and material wants, I felt reverse culture shock. I longed for the romantic Altstadt and spicy kebab. Amongst the Expeditions and Tahoes, I wanted to hop on the O-bus or glimpse one dopey Peugeot. At restaurants, I barely could eat halfofa meal. Immersed in my own super-sized American culture, I missed the smaller scale ofEuropean life. My relation to size and time in both cultures has influenced my philosophies on everyday life. Be­ing a college student at a competitive university, I have to stay on the ball with classes and assign­ments, but I refuse to be too stressed out about any­thing related to school. After experiencing many diverse challenges while in Europe, I have confi­dence that I can handle whatever a professor will assign. My self-assurance has grown, and I embrace challenge more readily than in the past. 
As my sense of self has become more defined through the challenges ofliving abroad, I also have found my American identity strengthened. For all ofour faults and relatively young cultural traditions, I believe that Americans are blessed to have inher­ited our unique democratic· and capitalistic tradi­tion. As a still-maturing-~oc:iety-'at the fore ofworld 
-political power, we must continue to bear in mind that our influence and reputation precedes us wher­ever we travel in the world ..People around the world recognize the American ideal; we now must increase our own global awareness in order to appreciate and integrate into the world community completely. 
Ifyou have any desire whatsoever to study abroad, take advantage ofthe amazing opportunities offered through the university'. Get out there and savor ev­ery minute you spend overseas. D 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 

~~--------­
~ 

-. . 
I • -• 
Off Campus 
Sean Dudley 







