Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Dave Chmiel at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune.
Office hours are 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday.
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic!
SCHOLASTIC!
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE B
Courtesy of Oliver Williams
ENTERTAINMENT 7 Music
The Pink Dots Slint
10 Theatre State of the Art: Student Theatre at Notre Dame
COVER 14
Williams Travels to South Africa
16
Waishe: Divest Now
18
Smaller Numbers
CAMPUS LIFE 19 Cricket Comes to Campus London students bring British sport to South Bend
SPORTS
21
Setting Their Sights High Despite some early season struggles, the Irish lacrosse team has its sights set on an NCAA berth
WEEKLY DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor's Notes
3
Editorial
4
On Other Campuses
5
Behavior Modification
6
Week In Distortion
12
Coming Distractions
23
Final Words
APRIL 11,1991

On the Cover
Also in this Issue
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 132, No. 20
April 11, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR Jon Paul Potts
CAMPUS LIFE EDITOR
Kristine DeGange
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Dave Holsinger
ENTERTAINMENT ASSISTANT
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
While the eyes of the world (a.k.a. CNN) were focused on the Persian Gulf, major developments were taking place in South Africa. In February South African President de Klerk called for the repeal of many of the laws forming the Aparthied system.
Scholastic News Editor Kate Manuel and her staff of reporters worked overtime to report on the changes in South Africa and their ramifications forNotre Dame. A series of three articles examine the issue in depth.
Heidi Taboni spoke to Fr. Oliver Williams on his recent visit to South Africa. Williams continues to be a proponent of selective, rather than total, divestment.
In the next article, Dreama Whitaker reports on the reaction of Dr. Peter Walshe and two South African students studying at Notre Dame. All three call for the university to do more in its response to Aparthied.
The last of three articles describes the impact the changes in South Africa have had on Notre Dame’s Anti-Aparthied Network. Elizabeth Hayes writes that despite declining membership, the group’s leaders remain convinced of their position.
Scholastic presents its editorial views on the facing page, but read the articles and decide for yourself.
Dave “Dave” Holsinger takes his final bow as entertainment editor with a look at the growing student theatre scene. Over in Campus Life, writer Mary Schultze investigates an unusual new club sport, while Sports writer Jim Kuser reports on a team with NCAA tournament hopes. Of course, all the usual Departments and Entertainment columns return for your reading and dancing pleasure.
Doubletake
This week Scholastic presents two “Final Word” columns. Outgoing Student Body President and Vice President Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar look back on a year in office, while on the next page their successors, Joe Blanco and Dave Florenzo, map out their plans for the year to come.
Your Turn
If you’ve got something to say about a campus issue, try writing a “Final Word” yourself. Got comments or criticism for the magazine? Write a letter to the editor. Scholastic encourages your involvement. For now, though—“just read it.” Enjoy the issue.

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny.
Ian Mitchell Editor in Chief
LAYOUT/SYSTEMS MANAGER
Patricia Doyle
ADVERTISING MANAGER David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN,46556and printed oiThePapers, Inc., Milford, IN46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/year and back issues are available al $125 j copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions oftheentire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame,itsadministral km, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicitied materials become the property of Scholastic,
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Leiters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University st udenls should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All leltersmusl besigned. Nameswill bewilhheld upon request in certain instances. ’
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene Sy the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
Too Late for Divestment
“The time has come for the students to demand a referendum, vote for a moral policy of divestment, and compel student government to act on their decision. The student government must fulfill its role as a representative body by forcefully presenting the student’s position to the Administration until we are heard. The Administration, for its part, must recognize the moral imperative motivating this issue and divest Notre Dame of its holdings in South Africa.”
-	Scholastic editorial, October 28,1985
“Notre Dame should have divested a long time ago. As one of the leading Catholic universities, it had an obligation to, yes, be responsible in investment policies, but more importantly, to lead in matters of human rights issues. Positve effects from Notre Dame’s direct involvement in South Africa are minimal while the value of divestment is great.”
-	Scholastic editorial, April 30,1987
“In 1986, Notre Dame should have divested from South Africa. Instead, the board of trustees chose to take a6 wait and see’ attitude. One month later, the political situation was declared a state of emergency. Still, Notre Dame chose not to divest. To some, the freeing of Nelson Mandela along with other minor changes would indicate positive progress on the apartheid front. These are minor concessions made with the intent of silencing opposition.
“Notre Dame is still obligated to divest.”
-	Scholastic editorial, March 1,1990
Scholastic has consistently called for divestment since our first editorial addressing the subject in 1985. We weren’t wrong—Notre Dame should have divested its holdings long ago. Now though, in 1991 the reason for advocating a policy of divestment seems less clear. The dismantling of the entire Aparthied system appears to be at hand. Fr. Oliver Williams has reported that the ANC leaders want those groups still in South Africa to maintain their presence. If that is their position, Scholastic will support it.
Notre Dame was wrong not to divest. Failure to remove the university’s holdings from companies operating in South Africa morally implicates Notre Dame in the crime of Aparthied. But now a new South Africa does finally appear to be on the horizon, and the least Notre Dame can do is help bring it about.
— Scholastic
< \;: ‘:■ ■. ■■ ■ ■ ■ 1 '■
Notre Dame's student magazine, ?■.
■Bf j	stop by 303 LaForfune between jn
3:00 and 5:00 p.m. Monday — Friday:;
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
APRIL 11,1991
3
U.W.-Madison Stresses Oof
as U, Florida
Fleshes Out
South Carolina Dumps Groovy President
BURPing at Berkeley
James B. Holderman resigned from the presidency at the University of South Carolina prior to being indicted on charges of using public office for personal gain says the College Press Service. Among the funds Holderman stole were $315,000 for retaining Jehan Sadat, widow of Anwar Sadat, as a lecturer and $158,000 in salary and living expenses for actor Robby Benson to teach a film course. Also reportedly on Holderman’s agenda were allocations for Greg “Johnny Bravo” Brady to instruct music and the inventor of the Leisure Suit to teach fashion marketing in order to uphold the effort to revert South Carolina back to the 1970’s.
Running Their Pants Off at Florida
An article in the South Bend Tribune reports that ten university track teams converged on the campus of the University of Florida to participate in Florida’s Second Annual Nude Relay. Villanova University unofficially won the contest. “If I had known, I would have watched. Nobody informed me about this,” was the comment offered by Florida’s President John Lombardi. He wasn’t going to participate folks, he just wanted to watch.
A group calling itself BURP (Berkeleyans United for a Right Press) recently stole 16,000 copies of Berkeley’s Daily Californian newspaper according to the College Press Service. Apparently the paper did not celebrate the U.S. victory in the Mid-East enough for BURP. “Today we have freed the campus of your vile reporting, but only for a day,” said one BURPer. Obviously, the A-Team is still extremely popular out at Berkeley.
Stress at U.W.-Madison? ‘Sha, right,
The impersonal nature of a 43,000 student university and a faulty student advising system have caused the University of Wisconsin at Madison to institute “Six Week Exams” according to the National On-Campus Report. The exams have upperclassmen interview freshmen to see how they are progressing in certain areas of student life. The story failed to mention if the Six Week Exams will interfere with Madison’s annual pot fest on the lawn of the Administration Building, a more popular method of relieving their “stress”. □
Edited by Mike Owen
4
SCHOLASTIC
Clubbie and Games Round Two And A Girl Who Dates Animals
Dear Mr. Manners:
Recently, a student calling himself Clubbie wrote in to your predecessor, Dr. Head, to ask advice regarding a Games Room Attendant in LaFortune (whether or not he should approach her, offer her a tuna sandwich, etc.). I am that attendant, and wish to respond to him with the following poem. Will you print it? And, since you yourself are a professional in the area of proper etiquette, could you give me some hints on how to tactfully approach this mysterious young man? Thank you so much.
Dearest Clubbie,
A pen is your tuna, . the paper your bread, And my ears to digest it that nourishment your pen and paper hath fed.
Yet this nourishment is but temporal, if I ne’er see thine eyes, And without any action , how will I know that your memos aren’t mere lies?
Thus thou must reveal the truth.
For, like a tuna without a fin—
if this is but a game you see, Our relationship, quite lame will be.
Yours Waiting,
A lonely games room attendant.
Finally someone who knows how to construct a proper personal letter! Might I suggest to future correspondents that this pattern be followed so that insults and sarcasm on my part are kept to a minimum. (Well, not really, but if you’re nice, I won’t make sick jokes about your mother).
Anyway, I’ll respond to your letter, Games, as soon as I can see the computer screen through these welling tears. If I understand you correctly, “Clubbie” has been offering himself to you, yet not wanting to sacrifice your pristine image as a pool room attendant, you have been hesitant in your response. I see no reason why you two should not be united in eternal bliss. Someone who can offer a
metaphysical tuna love sandwich to a random admirer is pretty special. How to do this? Step 1) Forget tact. There is none of it present on this campus, and I don’t want you to face ridicule from others by starting to use it. Step 2) Find out who this admirer is by surveying the LaFortune lounge lizards -Pool players, computer geeks and various “long-haired freaky people." Step 3) If he’s decent, offer him a token of affection like, say, one of your monogrammed “I Make Change” T-shirts from your job. And if all else fails, Step 4) Time to check out. If you can’t make it with a guy named Clubbie, no one can help you.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I have a romantic dilemma. I seem to be attracted to amphibians. Earlier this yearl dated a snake. Now I’ve got this shark after me. And to make matters worse I’ve been scamming with an eel on and off all semester.
What’s wrong with me? It can’t be my driving ability or ability to hold down alcohol. I’m intelligent, friendly and usually don’t smell. Please help me.
Brain-O, Sophomore, P.W.
What’s wrong with you Brain-O? To put it bluntly, you are an idiot. None of the animals you have mentioned are amphibians. How many sharks have you seen hanging out on the lawn of P.W. having a cig as their gills flake off? Didn't the nuns beat you with a bat until you memorized "King Philip Come Over For Grape Soda?" How did you make it this far without memorizing your animal kingdoms? And why do you insist upon classifying your men as animals? I hope you are not inferring that we are your pets. The Year of Womyn is winding down, honey, and when it does we officially begin the Decade of Men. Also, your use of that word “scamming,” judging your coolness by your drinking ability, and a fluctuating level of body odor cause me to wonder if these animals aren't actually stuffed ones from your room rather than decent Notre Dame students.
Dear Readers: Please send your questions concerning etiquette and other pointless subjects to:
Mr. Manners, c/o Scholastic, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail Also, I know it's spring and everyone has their love juices pumping, but please try to limit your love inquiries. I'm not Dr. Ruth nor Pope John Paul and I get mighty sarcastic toying with your campus love affairs. That is, unless you like being toyed with, in which case you are really messed.	□
APRIL 11, 1991
5

More Than Museums
Dave Barry, the prize-winning humor columnist and my personal hero, sums up the Monroe Doctrine like this:
Part One	: European countries are not allowed to interfere with the affairs of the sovereign nations of our hemisphere.
Part Two	: But we are.
Part Thr	ee: Ha-ha-ha.
This depiction is pretty close to the mark, and it comes close to describing most articles written by students “studying” abroad:
Part One: I am in one of the world's most exotic capitals having the time of my life.
Part Two	: You are not.
Part Thr	ee: Ha-ha-ha.
Well, I can’t say that my column will be much different. I’m spending a semester in London, where the natives have funny accents, the weather is lousy, and the game of basketball is several decades behind the rest of the world. Just like Notre Dame, essentially, except for several hundred sights to see and several thousand pubs. Consider this a guide to a typical day in the life of a Notre Dame Londoner.
Getting dressed in the morning is one of the most difficult problems we face, because fashion here is so complicated. Many of us try to blend in by dressing like Europeans. This is next to impossible, because most young Europeans try to dress like Americans. It’s pretty easy to pick out the Americans in a crowd, since they’re the ones wearing black turtle necks, while the British are the people with the NFL jackets and high-top sneakers.
After leaving our flats, we either panhandle or go to the American Express office for more money. Britain’s economy is notconsumer-oriented, which is a polite way of saying that everything is really expensive and service is not a priority. In addition, the exchange rate is so bad right now that it’s cheaper to wipe your nose on a dollar bill than to buy Kleenex with it. You can’t wipe your nose on British money, which mainly consists of thirty-seven different denominations of coins. This is why America overtook Britain as the greatest commercial nation: while we were industrializing, the British were still trying to count the leftover change from the Crusades.
6
A typical day in London often involves a trip to a museum. You don’t have to be over here very long to realize that Europe is practically dripping with museums, simply because Europeans have centuries upon centuries of old stuff. When Americans accumulate old stuff, we generally stick it in a landfill or bum it. Since Europe doesn’t have enough room for landfills and the Green parties have this fetish for breathable air, Europeans have to get rid of their old stuff by stashing it in museums. Museums are great places to spend your lime, because they are usually free. However, if you go to a large museum it’s very important to choose one with sufficient variety. A common European pastime is to go to a museum of Christian art and see how many nearly identical portraits of Madonna and Child you can examine before going bonkers and running for the door. My personal record is nearly three dozen, but I only got that far because of a thunderstorm outside.
London is different from many of the other foreign “study” programs in that good food is not part of our everyday experience. British cuisine is organized around a single comprehensive principle: sustenance. Of course, this is still a step up from the dining halls, where the official motto is, “They can always call Domino’s.” Actually, the food problem over here is mostly our fault, since we cook for ourselves. At this point I need to break with tradition and pay homage to the dining halls, since one of the things we miss most about the home campus is theconveyor belt for dirty dishes. By the time I get back, the automatic dishwasher might have replaced Nintendo as my favorite invention of the 20th century.
Nightlife in London differs from nightlife in South Bend chiefly in the sense that it exists. London’s eight thousand pubs owe their livelihood to two important laws. The Quainte Oide Pubick House Act, passed by the infamous Drunken Parliament of 1707, requires that drinking establishments be maintained at fifty pace intervals along every city street. The second law is the BBC Act, which encourages pub patronage by prohibiting anything even remotely interesting from being shown onBritish television at night. Ithasnot been easy giving up reruns of Who's the Boss in exchange for pints of ale at the local, but in our fervent desire for cultural assimilation, we do what we can.	q
by Roger Hipp
SCHOLASTIC

The Legendary Pink Dots Their New Release, The Maria Dimension, Transports the Listener and ’’Denies Boundaries”
Just when you think you have heard everything, here comes a band that denies boundaries. They are not industrial, even though they use strange samples and share a label with many industrial bands. They are not new age, even though Their music is somewhat experimental, incorporating violins, clarinets, sitar, saxophones, guitars, keyboards and the glockenspiel. They are not “progressive,” even though Edward Ka’Spel, the lead singer, sounds like a bizarre cross between Robert Smith and Howard Devoto. A prolific collection of musicians, the Pink Dots have been putting out eclectically experimental albums for the past ten years. Their albums have been released on obscure European indy labels, and Play It Again Sam records, which is centered in Belgium and Chicago. They were formerly associated with Wax Trax, and are now with Caroline Records, the new home of industrial bands Front 242 and A Split Second. The Dots’ latest release is entitled The Maria Dimension.
To the majority of you who are not familiar with the Pink Dots’ style, the experience of their music truly makes the listener forget his or her real surroundings. Hypnotic strains of unusual instrumentation flow through the ears, accompanied
by Ka’Spel’s hauntingly strange voice singing undeniably hallucinogenic lyrics and telling stories that often deal with large distortions of reality. While the usual Dots strain runs through all of their work, each album is surprisingly different. The MariaDimension is a decidedly more subdued and coherent work than last year’s often frightening “Crushed Velvet Apocalypse,” which attempted to enter the most horrific drug-induced nightmares about descents into hell and the apocalypse, a theme which occurs often in the Dots’ music. The Maria Dimension is a much longer work, consisting of 14 songs, many of which deal with the themes of the iconography of the Virgin Mary and other saints, religious chaos and breakdown and creation and destruction. From “our lady selling tissues for the tears, for all the years of blessed rape, in the name of our sweet Lord,” in “Third Secret” to “pretty name fora slave” in “Belladonna,” the Virgin Mary as a symbol ofboth the oppressor and the oppressed, and as the standard by which women are judged. This is established through Ka’Spel’s usual trippy storytelling and hallucinatory imagery. To say that “Expresso Noir” is another descent into hell, “The Ocean Cried Blue Murder” deals with
the environment, “Pennies for Heaven” uses the theme of money and salvation or “Char-aderama” is about the masks of social situations, hardly does justice to the loaded lyrical content and subconscious images which scream to be interpreted. The image of Buddha losing a dice match with Mohammed and heading back to Nirvana in the album’s closing track, “Crushed Velvet,” or the personification of death causing elements such as fire, hurricanes and car wrecks in “A Space Between,” are prime examples of the Dots’ off-kilter way of presenting stories.
The music on The Maria Dimension is definitely of Eastern influence. It is evident that the Dots took some inspiration from such sources as Indian chants and Peter Gabriel’s “Passion,” especially on the longest track, “Evolution,” which presents images of creation and reincarnation with samples of babies crying, and percussion and keyboards thatarequite reminiscent of Gabriel’s work on “The Last Temptation of Christ.” From the haunting Mexican strains of guitar strumming in “Belladonna,” the watery piano sound of “The Ocean Cried Blue Murder,” the strange samples of “The Grain Kings,” and the new •age space sounds of the beautiful instrumental, “Home,” the
Pink Dots display an unrivaled diversity of style and emotion.
Although not quite as violently strange as previous works, The Maria Dimension both soothes and subtly disturbs through the Dots’ unique style of instrumentation, vocalization and lyrical imagery. On this work more than others, The Legendary Pink Dots attempt to transcend and transport, returning to ritual aspects of humanity dealing with the divine, not unlike Hispanic and Indian cultures. On the inner sleeve, voices “sometimes from beyond” are credited, as is the quote from “Crushed Velvet;” which sums up the transformational ritual quality: “So it goes we stand alone by standing stones and turn them into circles.” Lead singer Edward Ka’Spel, often credited as the Prophet Qa’Sepel, is the guru who attempts to draw the listener into his transcendent world. More often than not, the mesmerism is quite successful.
by Jason L. Winslade, WVFI-hack, regular music contributor for Scholastic, and all-around good guy □
| APRIL 11, 1991	' ,	7
I i	■■
1 .
While perusing through some back issues of Scholastic, I became overwhelmed by a vicious wave of uncontrolled angst. As a result of this, I truly believe the old adage “the more things change the, more they change the same.” Quoting my mentor, Tim Adams (ND *87), in the September24,1987 Scholastic, “Tough decision, trying to decide which one’s more pathetic: the longhaired, tie-dyed, sensitive souls who wile away their days playing hacky sack and strumming their acoustic guitars, languidly wishing it were 1967 again... or the jockish Domers sporting their oh-so-hilarious Spuds MacKenzie t-shirts, in a seemingly desperate attempt to uphold the ‘party animal’ image that we college students are purported to aspire to...”
As my workspace is invaded by the wailingjams of WVFI’s Grateful Dead show, as the happy, young Bookstore-Basketballbouncing Domers migrate across campus from their single annual extracurricular activity and as I await the coming of The Guess Who with the eagerness of a Domer at a G.G. Allin concert, I’ve decided to review an album that 99 percent of those wholesome, milk-fed Domers would absolutely detest. No particular reason, but just to be wildly spiteful in a non-violent context (you know, the “punk rock thing”).
The little gem of mention is by a bunch of boys called Slint, a band that is cut from the same noise-epic mold as contemporaries Bitch Magnet and H.P. Zinker. Released posthumously on Chicago’s Touch and Go label, Slint’s second LP, Spiderland, strangely reminds me of a humid afternoon

Slint’s New Release and Springtime Domer Angst
in the Summertime. On a warm Summer day, the temperatures climb, and large cumulonimbus clouds appear, signaling the approaching storms. A quiet blanket of pacific calm settles over the area, punctuated by the lone percussions of birds and human activity. Suddenly, the thunderstorm rips into the area, releasing a tempestuous mixture of rain, hail, winds, thunder, and lighting. The tense calm has been snapped, and the full fury of the heavens wreaks havoc on the earth below.
The meteorological metaphor above can best describe the music of this Kentuckybased quartet. Throughout each song on Spiderland, vocalist Brian McMahon (exSquirrel Bait guitarist) mumbles a murky babble of unintelligible mutterings, maybe' spoken, possibly sung, but definitely very hard to understand. Slow down R.E.M.’s Fables of the Reconstruction, leave Stipe’s. hidden vocals in place, but bring Messrs. Buck, Berry, and Mills’ instruments sharply into the foreground, and one would have an adequate musical analogy for the uneasy mood created by Slint. The hollow banging of drums and repetitive bass/guitar cycles only add to the band’s mysterious aura. All this time, the listener is forced to choose which part of the song is worthy of capturing his/her attention. Is it the humble, yet oppressively troubling lyrical speeches of McMahon or the crisp yet dampening accompanying music? A distinct tension is created, and the complacency becomes almost hypnotic.
Out of nowhere, Slint turns up the Marshalls and bursts into a blazing fireball of energy, taking the listener by complete surprise, but not getting as caucophonous as one might think. The sound-bome-explo-
sion, however, seems almost natural to the song, just as thunderstorms fit into the general weather phenomenon. The full effect is realized on the LP’s final cut “Good Morning Captain,” a seven-minute masterpiece that achieves a new level of experimental punk rock raving. While most other songs on Spiderland utilize loud drums and piercing guitar, “Good Morning Captain” relies almost entirely on the emotion carried outby McMahon’s mad ravings.
I’ve run out of cliched adjectives that fittingly describe these Kentuckians (see last week’s Sarcastic), so I can only continue to observe how the warm spring months bring out the tie-dyed, guitar-strumming Republicans on Fieldhouse Mall. From this, I can imagine that much of the music echoing amongst the University of Our Lady’s sheltered minions will be recorded before 1980, and the sparse tunes recorded after Pink Floyd’s The Wall will display the artistic expertise of Noodles Kuegel. But one percent of Notre Dame student population is a noteworthy 100 people, and they could be the only ones here who have the guts to choose a generation that rel ies on genuine originality and authenticity, not romantic time-machine trips or a surrender to the day-glo consumer universe created “for our own good.”	□
Jeff Jotz, misunderstood guy and sensitive artist, is still Music Director at WVFI and is a regular contributor to Scholastic. He honestly believes that Phil Collins is the antichrist and has possessed both Billy Joel and Elton John. Paraphrasing Satan, “We are legion”
SCHOLASTIC
State of the Art
Student theatre at Notre Dame
This year has been a good one for theatre-goers at Notre Dame. Productions ranging from comedies like Arsenic and Old Lace to farces like While the Lights Were Out, to musicals, dramas and experimental productions have all had successful runs on Notre Dame’s campus in the past year. . In the past few months, traveling companies have brought their talents to campus as well. The Broadway Theatre League of South Bend brought a traveling production of Andrew Lloyd Weber’s Starlight Express to the J.A.C.C., and the experimental theatre company Theatre Grottesco brought their production of Fortune: The Rise and Fall of a Small Fortune Cookie Factory to Washington Hall.
The most popular and also the most numerous productions to have run on campus, though, have been productions by studentorganizations. Some of these groups s are associated with a certain dorm (for i instance, the St. Edward’s or Cavanaugh Hall Players), while others are independent (the Notre Dame Student Players, the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company).
The remainder of the academic year will :	see several more of these student
’	productions.	A group making its first
' appearance in the Notre Dame theatre scene | is the Not-S o-Royal Shakespeare Company, ;	; which will present Shakespeare’s The
Comedy of Errors on April 26 and 27 at 8 p.m. at Theodore’s. The Not-So-Royals, who operate under the auspices of the Arts and Letters London Program, owe much of their inspiration to the London program. Director Scott Brutocao and Producer Paul Salvatoriello had the idea to put together a
Man Cashore (2)
The newly formed Not-So-Royal	Actors from the Not-So-Royals rehearse
Shakespeare Company will put on “The a scene, (bottom) Comedy of Errors” at Theodore's on
April 26 and 27. (top)
APRIL 11, 1991
9
k i
; production of one of Shakespeare’s plays j	while studying in London in 1988, and their
; idea turned into a reality this spring when J	they began work on The Comedy of Errors.
While in London, both Paul and Scott got J caught up in the Shakespeare scene, which i; drove them to form a Shakespeare group on ■; campus, and now their work on The Comedy ;	of Errors will fulfill a longtime ambition of
? Scott’s to directone of Shakespeare’s plays.
Paul is using his past experience in the Notre Dame Student Players on the production j side of the show, and their ambition is now ‘:	well on its way to becoming a reality.
Trying to stage a production of one of :; Shakespeare’s plays might seem to be a bit j' overambitious for a student group, but ? Salvatoriello and Brutocao are confident | that their production will be succesful. As | Paul said, “Anything in a university setting -j is a learning experience, and the whole project in a student production becomes a < learning experience for everyone involved.”
< Their production involves 21 students, and the students have financed the major k part of the production so far. As in any student production, costs have to be kept down, and the Not-So-Royal players are no J exception. Their set, though, will be kept minimal for both more than just financial reasons. Salvatoriello explained, “The set is k also minimal for artistic reasons. We really i want people to focus on the beauty of the language more than anything else.”
Their choice of a show is also in keeping within the limits of a student group. The h Comedy of Errors was recommended by ! I	producers from Stratford-upon-Avon as a
'	wise choice because of its humorous nature
H and also because it is much shorter than 1 many other Shakespeare plays.
The story of The Comedy of Errors focuses upon two sets of twins, the I Antipholus brothers and the Dromeo brothers. The Antipholus brothers were | separated at birth, and each of the brothers j	has one of the Dromeos as a servant. A
!	series of errors starts to occur when
Antipholus of Syracuse (played by Brad i Newcomer) comes to the town of Ephesus ■ to look for his brother, Antipholus of ( Ephesus (Geoffrey Koplas). The wife of ; Antipholus of Ephesus, Adriana (Michelle ’ Rossi) mistakes him for her husband, and even the twin servants confuse the two
10
Antipholus brothers.
In the script, the Dromeo twins are men, but those characters will be played by women acting as men in the Not-So-Royals’ production. Dromeo of Syracuse will be played by Julie Van Tiem, and Dromeo of Ephesus will be played by Maura Weiler. Another major role, Luciana (the sister of Adriana), will be played by Wendy Verkier.
The Comedy of Errors should be an excellent production, and the casual, intimate setting of Theodore’s should lend to the audience being drawn into the show. The first ever production of the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company should mark the beginning of yet another tradition among student theatre groups at Notre Dame, and their efforts to involve students in Shakespeare both as actors and audience are certainly a welcome addition to the Notre Dame theatre scene.
Another student theatre group, Irish Accent, will be presenting their second annual dinner theatre, a comedy called The Boys Next Door. on April 12 and 13 from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. Doug Heberle, one of the founders of Irish Accent, said that their group was formed two years ago with the intent of bringing a different kind of theatre to Notre Dame. As Doug explained, “We aim for a high level of audience involvement — we want to acknowledge the presence of the audience and involve them in what’s going on.” Doug feels that audience members are left feeling like “voyeurs” in many productions, and that direct involvement in the show would keep the audience’s attention and leave them feeling more satisfied after the show. In keeping with this notion, all of Irish Accent’s projects involve the audience directly in the performance, which proves to be both a challenge for actors and a new experience for audiences. The group’s first semester projects have focused on improvisational comedy, again involving the audience directly, and in the second semester they have turned to dinner theatre productions. In the dinner theatre performance of The Boys Next Door, the food will be served by actors in costume and in character, making the production unique in the sense of making the characters exist beyond just what is in the script.
“The whole thing is a performance,” said Heberle. “It really makes the actors have to
know their characters. With a scripted performance, you read what’s there and put your character into it. This kind of performance brings the character out of the script, develops it more and creates more of a challenge for actors by making them invent their own dialogue in character.”
Irish Accent’s production of The Boys Next Door is also being put on for charity, and the charity was chosen specifically to fit in with the play’s story, which focuses on “four ‘specially abled’ adults who live together in an apartment.” Tickets are available through Thursday, April 11 at the LaFortune Information Desk for $10. There may be a few tickets available after that date, and these can be obtained (if available) by calling 283-2924.
Another recently formed organization, the Flanner-Siegfried Players, will be presenting the play Nuts by Tom Topor at the Library Auditorium from April 18 to 20. This production will be the second for the Flanner-Siegfried Players, who staged a production of Agatha Christie’s Mousetrap last year.
Producer Steve Fuller said that the Flanner-Siegfried Players had originally intended to stick to mysteries, but the amount of mysteries available for production was limited, so they have turned instead to the courtroom drama of Nuts. which focuses on a prostitute who is put on trial for murder. Director Rich Delevan is very enthused about this play, and the genre of courtroom drama is one that should work well for a student theatre company.
Like many other student organizations, the Flanner-Siegfried players have been hampered by a lack of venues for theatre productions here. As Steve Fuller explained, “The library auditorium isn’t the greatest place in the world to put on a show —the stage is small, and the seating capacity is real limited.” Fuller, along with many other producers of student theatre groups, feels that the opening of the new performing arts center will be a real boon for student-run theatre organizations here. Steve Cattapan, the producer of Cavanaugh Hall’s production this year, agrees and suggests that there may even be a further increase in student theatre activity when Washington Hall is freed up after the opening of the new performing arts center.
Another suggestion made by Fuller is the
SCHOLASTIC
establishment of a network of dorm and
other student-run theatre groups, an idea which is shared by Jeff McGarrity of the Notre Dame Student Players. This network would enable groups to schedule shows around each other, share lists of actors and technical crew members and facilitate better communication in general among directors and producers so that productions would be better publicized, better scheduled and would allow more students to be involved. The major problem with this is that no one wants to take charge of putting this network of people together. While the existence of such a network would be beneficial to all student theatre groups, it would require a great deal of work on the part of a few people to establish such an organization.
Regardless of the existence of a formal network for theatre groups, Notre Dame has seen a tremendous surge in the amount of student-run theatre groups on campus in the past few years. John Cook, director of this year’s St. Edward’s Hall Players production, suggests that the new activity is due to the increasingly academic nature of productions put on by the Department of Communication and Theatre. Cook suggests that student groups are trying to put
Margaret Roper (with box) and Patti Costa rehearse a tense scene from the courtroom drama “Nuts.”
on “theatre that’s more accessible,” rather than the serious, academic productions which have been the norm for the COTH department. This idea of student theatre filling a niche that can’t be filled by departmental productions is also held by Doug Heberle of Irish Accent, who says that his group was organized for the specific purpose of producing shows which directly involve the audience,	like
improvisational comedy and dinner theatre productions.
Heberle also suggests that the COTH
productions limit student participation in
theatre because the department only produces a small number of shows each year, and parts in those productions are more hotly contested by student actors. The departmental shows are also limiting to the extent that many actors lack the experience demanded by the department-run shows. This “intimidation factor” may be one of the major reasons for the sudden popularity of dorm and student-run productions. Steve Fuller of the Flanner-S iegfried Players says that the student-run productions allow students a chance to participate when they might otherwise feel intimidated by trying out for one of the COTH department shows. The dorm and student-run groups lessen, competition among actors for parts and also provide a more relaxed atmosphere in which actors and crew members can work.
Whether this lessening of competition is really good in terms of the overall quality of these productions remains to be seen. Student-run theatre groups do provide many students with a chance to become involved in either production or acting which they otherwise might be denied, and there is always a learning process which takes places with any involvement in any
production. Jeff McGarrity of the Notre Dame S tudent Players suggests that there are four purposes which student theatre groups (or any theatre group) serve: (1) to be financially sound, (2) to entertain, (3) to provide a fun experience for the performers or (4) to educate — actors should leam more about acting, producers should learn more about production, etc. The learning experience would seem to be the most important of these, but McGarrity is somewhat skeptical about whether actors in student-run productions actually leam more about acting by becoming involved in dorm or student group shows. Most student groups slick to conventional, well-known shows, rather than something more “experimental” or unusual, a fact which would seem to support the idea that education isn’t really a major role of these student theatre groups.
The flip side of this view, though, is one held by Paul Salvatoriello of the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, who suggests that “anything in a university environment is a learning experience.” He said, “The whole project in a student production is a learning experience for everyone involved, and that’s the really important thing to keep in mind about any production.”
In any case, students are instilled with a love of the theatre that will remain with them long beyond their college years. As Steve Fuller of Flanner-Siegfried commented, “Students who take part in these productions get an enthusiasm for theatre that will stay with them — it’s good that they at least pick that up, if nothing else.”
No matter what the function of student theatre at Notre Dame, there has definitely been an increase in both quantity and quality of student productions. This is a trend that will hopefully continue into the future, as the opening of the new performing arts center will provide even more opportunities for student groups to run their own productions. The infusion of culture onto campus is also welcome, but student theatre still has a long way to go before Notre Dame will have a thriving theatre scene.	□
by Dave Holsinger
Dave “Dave” Holsinger is Le Grand Poisson du Soir, in addition to being the Entertainment Editor and Staff Masseur for Scholastic. He will be bugging out of this rag real soon.
APRIL 11, 1991
11
!■
: ii I
■I
ij
■P
Cool, Goofy, and Stupid Things from History
April 11
1947- Jackie Robinson, major league baseball’s first African-American, signed with the Brooklyn Dodgers.
1968- LBJ signed Civil Rights Act.
1983- Harold Walsh Elected Chicago’s first African-American mayor.
Birthdays:
Secretary of the Treasury
Nicholas F. Brady
Designer Oleg Cassini
Real prominent woman Ethel Kennedy
April 12
Birthdays:
Small person Tiny Tim
Actor and real dreamy guy David Cassidy Hoosier and wiseacre David Letterman
April 13
Birthdays:
Playwright and misunderstood sensitive artist Samuel Beckett
President, brewer, and Jeffersonian Thomas Jefferson
Writer Eudora Welty
April 14
1865- President Lincoln assassinated.
Birthdays:
Actor, Shakespearean, and Shakespearean actor John Gielgud
Actor and Psycho Anthony Perkins Community servant Pete Rose
April 15
World Cow Chip Throwing Championship opens in Beaver, OK.
1912- The unsinkable Titanic sinks.
1980- Philosopher and Depressing guy Jean-Paul Sartre dies. Bummer.
Birthdays:
Painter and Italian guy Leonardo DaVinci Hee-Hawin’, down-home guy Roy Clark
April 16
1862- Slavery abolished in D.C.
Birthdays:
Producer, Actor, and quiet guy
Charlie Chaplin
Royal babe Queen Margrethe of Denmark “Blue Velvet”- Crooner, Pennsylvanian, and Polish Prince Bobby Vinton
April 17
1989- Polish Solidarity granted legal status.
Birthdays:
Playwright and New Englander
Thornton Wilder
Revolutionist Samuel Chase
“The Sixty Minutes Man,”
Harry Reasoner
April 18
1775- Paul Revere woke up the residents of Boston whining about
some Redcoats.
1906- San Francisco Quaked.
Birthdays:
Lawyer Clarence Darrow
Actress, Parent Trapper, and Pollyanna
Hayley Mills
Thursday, April 11
5:30 pm- Irish Heartlights 3&6-mile Fun Run, St. Mary’s Lake
7:30 pm- Riley Lecture Series, Dennis Oppenheim, New York artist, Snite
8:00 & 10:30 pm- SUB movie, “Amazon Women on the Moon,” Cushing, $2
Friday, April 12
7:30 & 9:45 pm- Film, “Reversal of Fortune,” Snite, $2
8:00 & 10:30 pm- SUB Movie-”Pump Up The Volume,” Cushing, $2
8:00 pm-1:00 am- GSU Income Tax Party, Wilson Commons
Saturday, April 13
Freshman Class Trip to Cubs/Pirates game, Wrigley Field. Buy tickets through Friday at LaFortune Desk, $12 12:00 pm- Baseball Double Header vs.
Xavier, Jake Klein Field
7:00pm- Hawaiian Luau, South Dining Hall. Tickets $5 at LaFortune Desk
7:30 & 9:45 pm- Film, “Reversal of Fortune,” Snite, $2
8:00.& 10:30 pm- SUB Cartoon Night, Cushing, $2
Sunday, April 14
EARTH DAY- festivities at SMC 12:00- 7:00 pm- Native American Pow
Wow, Stepan Ctr., Free Admission 2:00 pm- Opening and Reception for the
Reilly Collection, Snite
8:00 pm- ND Chorale and South Bend Symphony Orchestra, Sacred Heart Church
;Mdre Infomtatwri, f
On Campus ; J 7®
J^ortunelnformation^
Student UnionBoard:239-7757
: Snite Film Series ®tli®239-7361 7
CampusEven'ts;News Line: 2^
JJACCTicketTnfofrriat^^
WMenuLihe:!2^

Theatres
: lOOCentef:^ Scdt&daie.^h^ Towri'&Country®
University Park East: 277-7336	:
•Uffiyeisi$;^

Monday, April 15
12:00 pm- Reading/Luncheon with Sonia Gemes, Thomas Stritch, and Ralph Mclnery, University Club. Lunch $5
7:00 pm- Baseball vs. UIC, Covaleski-Stadium	, ,
7:30 pm- Film, “A Woman of the Dunes,” Cushing, $2	.
Tuesday, April 16
7:00 pm- Film, “My Beautiful Laundrette,” Snite, $2
9:00 pm- Film, “Ariel,” Snite, $2
12
SCHOLASTIC
Wednesday, April 17 Trip to the Art Institute of Chicago, for more info, call 239-5516 5:00 pm- Baseball vs. Chicago St. U.,
Covaleski Stadium 7:00 pm- Film, “Secret Behind the Door,” Snite, $2 8:15 pm- Lecture, William Webster, Director, CIA, Library Aud. 9:00 pm- Films, “The Red Nightmare,”
“The Road to the Wall,” and “Secret Behind the Door,” all Snite, $2
Thursday, April 18 7:00 pm- Baseball vs. Michigan, Covaleski Stadium 8:10 pm- Flanner/Siegfried Players, “Nuts,” Library Aud. 7:30 pm- SMC lecture, “Woman, Structure, & Creativity,” O’Laughlin 8:00 & 10:30 pm- SUB movie, “Heathers,” Cushing, $2
Friday, April 19 8:10 pm- Flanner/Siegfried Players, “Nuts,” Library Aud. An Tostal Reggae Sun Splash Featuring THE WAILERS w/YAAB A GRIFFITHS & TRAXX, $10 LaFortune Box Office 7:00 & 9:45 pm- Film, “Henry & June,” Snite, $2 7:30 & 11:00 Movie, “Dances With Wolves,” Cushing, $2
Saturday, April 20 11:00 am-1:30 pm- Fisher Regatta & Picnic, St. Mary’s Lake Hogstock at Stepan 8:10 pm- Flanner/Siegfied Players, “Nuts,” Library Aud. 7:00 & 9:45 pm- Film, “Henry & June,” - -	Snite, $2
7:30 & 11:00 pm- Movie, “Dances With
Wolves,” Cushing, $2
In order to get your stuff in here, send a brief description of your time-consuming activity to Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call us at 239-7569 and leave a message on our way cool answering machine. The purpose of this column is to inform you of films (Snite), movies (SUB), lectures, and otherwise unproductive ways to spend your time.
WHYDOTHEYCALLIT^
Well, you lame-o, corne tp Stepan this Saturday night and find out... -/-'ppp' p.:’.pr?;t SpY'"’
V:00 SYR	; p:; A' pp ;	\ ‘
7:15 Good Question '■i'p- '" ■•	. ■-: ■ p
7:30 .Thee Bitch Hogs	1	-
7:45 The Five O'clock Shadows / p ;
. 8:00 •.. Jester• • ■ '■ ■ ..':...:	>p :. . p.p; \■ ... ip:.
’ 8:15 Smear p P;:.pS.’ .. p:p<pp ppp Ppp; ■
8:30 Chronic Desire p; \p ' p pp 7	.
8:45Sister Spleen p? p'Apppp ... ■ p>p? p’'
■ 9:00 The Castaways ^AppApppSpA-. :p p
•'J9:15 ■ The Metlatones ipp Sd dp p: ? Y'd	< •
9:30: Bone Forest'p; ;Sp	p Pl
9:45 :Heaven's;.Irail:\ 1;^	ppppp
10:00 ice Nine	p.; dppp-p ■' : p'pp Y■ .■ ’• v
.dlO:15Headless:Tbrso p
p 10:30^ Tartar •GurC.;p'/:;'\^
S 10:45 The Be;dspihs\:' ppr ' pp P'p
^lliOOlNAZWp-S^
11:15 The FootTudop^p^Ppp:^
■pll.:30.;boby.KncJl&^
Hli45.:Doghausd	Pp^/v p;;?
■ 112: db JAMP 7	J ; Bii;®
s^iscHOLASTibsTAFFPLubb
(okay; well Dave "Dave" HoIsinger arid Uzzie are;in
APRIL 11,1991
13

H

Williams travels to South Africa
Notre Dame associate provost part of council asking how American institutions can further the changes in Apartheid
As the Republic of South Africa faces tremendous changes in the 1990’s, so does the University of Notre Dame’s involvement with South Africa and South African investment
Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C., associate provost and associate professor of Management at Notre Dame, traveled to South Africa in March with the three other members of the National Advisory Council, a group set up to monitor and advise U.S. companies
Through his involvement with the National Advisory Council to American firms with operations in South Africa, Associate Provost Williams has met with such prominent South African leaders.
involved in South Africa. His visit was part of an attempt to assess how U.S. institutions should respond to recent — and coming — changes in South Africa.
The new South African government’s promise to remove the last remnants of statutory Apartheid has brought into question the appropriateness of future economic sanctions. Thus, the council’s visit was an attempt to find out what can be done to aid black South Africans in their fight for social
justice and political freedom.
The African National Congress, which had previously called for total divestment, asked that foreign companies now remain in South Africa to help rebuild the economy and aid in the transition to blackpolitical and economic control, Williams said.
“The council’s key recommendation is for U.S. companies to prepare for the day when all the top management positions are held by blacks. And they will have to implement affirmative action on a really grand scale,” he said.
Williams said he believes it will be about ten years before South Africa will see a majority of black leadership and that this will be due to the present lack of education in a large percentage of the black population. “But we are in the planning stages now,” he said.
The council, as well as the university — whose policy Williams helped in formulating — has always supported limited economic sanctions, called selective divestment, as opposed to total divestment. Selective divestment means selling off holdings in any institution contributing to
14
SCHOLASTIC
prolonging Apartheid. It also includes continued investment in companies which use their presence for the benefit of black South Africans.
The current university policy states that the university cannot invest in any company that sells goods or services to the South African police, military or government. The university is further forbidden to invest in any bank that makes loans, directly or indirectly, to South Africa or that trades or sells South African currency.
Williams said that one faculty member has calculated that, if the university had retained one of its oil company holdings, it would have profited upwards of twenty million dollars with the recent surge in oil prices. He also said, “But I would find this morally objectionable.”
This selective divestment position of the university and the council has long been in opposition to the policy of most black South African leaders, however. The African National Congress and the United Democratic Front have called for total U.S. divestment, claiming that the “outright alienation of the South African government” is essential for ending Apartheid.
The university, instead, chose to base its policy on the then-urgings of Inkatha and the South African Bishops Conference, which called for selective sanctions. Specifically, the university has responded to the Bishops’ statement that “ ... intensified pressure can only be justified if applied in such a way as not to destroy the country’s economy and to reduce as far as possible any additional suffering to the oppressed through job loss.”
Williams supported the University’s policy by saying “the companies there have been gradually serving as a real eroding pointin myjudgment.”Hecitedtheexample of several U.S. companies which purchased land in all-white, areas and built integrated housing.
These accomplishments contrast, he said, with what has happened as a result of those companies which pulled out their South African operations. Most of these companies were bought by white South Africans. The new management has employed blacks, coloreds and Asians as “nearly slave labor,” while dropping all previous social programs, he said.
Williams was uncertain whether the collapse of statutory Apartheid would have come more quickly or easily had the univer
sity and U.S. companies chosen a different investment policy. He doubted the end would have come any sooner and said that the debate over selective or total divestment had cooled as the anti-Apartheid movement entered a new stage.
The National Advisory Council resulted from the Principle Program instituted by Philadelphia minister Leon Sullivan. Sullivan, a civil rights leaders serving on the Board of Directors of General Motors, recognized the need for a “regulatory system” to monitor the policies and actions of U.S. companies in South Africa.
With the objective of dismantling Apartheid, Sullivan also authored a strict code of behavior for U.S. firms operating in South Africa. Implementing these so-called Sullivan Principles was to be the work of the Principle Program, which would be directed by Sullivan himself.
For several years, the Principle Program reported on companies’ progress in meeting their social responsibilities while operating in South Africa. Each U.S. firm was audited and “graded” on their compliance with the Sullivan Principles.
By June of 1986, however, Sullivan had become disillusioned with the headway being made through the Principle Program. He issued a statement calling for drastically increased pressure on the South African government if Apartheid were not dismantled within the following year.
One year later, with Apartheid still firmly in place, Sullivan disassociated himself from the Sullivan Principles and the Principle Program by requiring the total divestment of all U.S. companies’ holdings in South Africa.
From 1987, when nearly one hundred U.S. companies had already withdrawn from South Africa, the council has monitored the activities of the nearly seventy companies remaining in South Africa. It has met regularly with members of the African National Congress, Inkatha and the black labor movement to discuss the effects of U.S. investments and the extent of economic sanctions.
Williams said, “We kind of review what the companies are doing, and how they could be more effective in dismantling statutory Apartheid ... once statutory Apartheid goes, it is unclear what our (the council’s) role will be.”	□
by Heidi Taboni
Notre Dame — South Africa Connections
1948 — The Nationalist Party institu- y ' tionalizes Apartheid. .
1964 — Nelson Mandela.is sentenced . - to life in prison;	.	. ;
1978 — Leon Sullivan reformulates the Sullivan Principles. '
■The university reiterates a policy of selective divestment. ,.	, : ;
'.1980 — The university sets up the . < South African Education Program. .
1985 — P.W. Botha, South African \ President, offers, to release Mandela if : : he would “unconditionally (reject) ..
violence as a political weapon.” 7 Hcsburgh joins with 94 other college
■ presidents in a letter asking Congress : to impose sanctions on the government J
? of South Africa.
. The Notre Dame Board of Trustees k strengthens its position by: specifying. that the companies and institutions in which Notre Dame invests be working ‘ to end Apartheid in the whole ofSouth: African society.	V
1986 — Winnie Mandela calls for total : divestment. ■ \ \
f-The South: African government ;
; declares a state of emergency granting-itself.the ability, to detain:any indivki- o
-. ual, without charge, for ah indefinite ■ ;< ..time.. .:	. "A-k-
r The 46-bishop administrative board of* if the U.S. Catholic Conference calls fof :;. : ■ divestment by all t‘Cathqlic^ f'fk
and other Churdfentifies^
- :TOe io^dfof Tihstees, calisjfor'^ ■'review of its policy in lightof the rec-.. . -ommendatidns SuUiv'aih;:wduld.make.ink' ;'i987A.U^.i'A^
-: \■''	;'. 'r ' :f'.' (con'ifort 'page ^^'^
APRIL 11, 1991
15
1
Walshe: Divest Now
Notre Dame professor, joined by South African students, calls for the university to do more
While the university has responded to South African Apartheid by selec-i tive divestment and instituting the South ' > African Education Program (SAEP) in B 1980, some members of the Notre Dame i community feel that both measures are inadequate responses to the problem of Apart-
। - : heid.
j	A firm believer that the policy of selective
: divestment is inadequate, Peter Walshe, i professor of Government and International ? Studies, said, “Notre Dame’s continued investmentin South Africa is oneof the more
; shameful stories in our history.”
i “There is one central point that people ■' should understand, that is that the white I	South African government has only come to
i	the negotiating table because of two mount-
ing pressures: internal black protest, which was making South Africa ungovernable, and international economic sanctions, which i were crippling the economy. These sanctions deprived the South African govem-i ment of the resources it needed to repress the ! black unrest and to bribe elements in the j black community into cooperation with it । (the South African government),” he said.
! “While certain Apartheid structures have i	been dismantled, there are still major prob-
11	lems ahead. The Internal Security Act is still
11	in place and people are being detained with-
i	out trial. The Native Land Act (1913) is
/	about to be repealed butthcre is no mecha-
■ij	nism for redistributing land in favor of the
j|	great African majority who are confined to
13 percent of South Africa. There is no j	agreement as yet on how to bring a new
16
constitution into being,” Walshe said.
“I was on sabbatical in South Africa last year where it was very clear that the South African Council of Churches, the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the African National Congress and its allies were all calling for the maintenance of sanctions until the South African government has
/“It's • important td recognize that the anii-Apar^ heid movemerit is^ at thiiS'
. . - ' -'' ' ' ‘	’* 1 '	; z: ✓ * /?.
moment, for sanctions to > bemaintain^^
South African go ment /hbsk®
; nev^ noh-raaal 4constU i 111 filSII
-’Petefe
dismantled Apartheid and accepted a new non-racial constitution,” he said.
Walshe added, concerning Oliver Williams’ recent visit to South Africa, “Rev. Oliver Williams, for the last decade, has
been associated with the drive to increase investment in South Africa in direct opposition to the policies of Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress. His policy of continued investment in South Africa was also in conflict with the United States Catholic Bishops call to divest and in conflict with the policies of his own Holy Cross Order (which) divested.
“Rev. Williams’ recent visit to South Africa where he met Mandela and other black leaders was in a context where the South African government had been forced to the negotiating table, and where Mandela and others, quite rightly, are now strategizing about new policies for a future in which investment may be appropriate.”
“It’s important to recognize that the antiApartheid movement is, at this moment, for sanctions to be maintained until the South African government has negotiated a new, non-racial constitution,” Walshe said.
The South African Education Program, which was created in 1980 and reaffirmed in November 1986’s Board of Trustees Report of November 1986, is likewise perceived as an incomplete response, on the part of the university, to Apartheid.
Notre Dame’s two SAEP participants this year are grateful to the university for bringing them to the United States to study. However, neither feels that such a program is, in itself, enough; both feel there is more to be done by the university.
Neither student wished to have their names used in an article on the university’s responses to Apartheid.
SCHOLASTIC
Peter Walshe, professor of Government and International Studies, has long been a critic of Notre Dame's policy of selective divestment
One student said that the university has done a wonderful thing in bringing them here and that they are grateful. It is a great opportunity to be studying here and to be able to reflect on the issue outside of the situation and hopefully to be part of the solution back home, the student said.
This same student, however,mentioned feeling that the SAEP students are being used as "economic pawns". Thisstudentsaid that the university could do more than it presently does.
The other SAEP scholar described a commitment to the struggle to end Apartheid and
a personal duty to work towards a “New South Africa.”
While expressing gratuitude to the university for being here, the student said that “changing structures (is) not enough ... (as long as) Apartheid is still in the hearts and minds of people.”
This student described being hasseled by the university for being politically active.
The SAEP supports two South African students at Notre Dame this year: one receives free tuition and the other free tuition plus a living expenses stipend. □
by Dreama Whitaker
Notre paine d South Africa Cdhn'eetlpnrg’;
Bishop Desi^
Intonato
mediateandcbmprehedsive^^ ;dn'Sbuth-Afrida.”j-'<’;';y^ pesburghsig^ the i^esideiip of sevefsd .'universities and^ouhda^ the government of South Africa 'negotiate..
A student gover^ent xndum reveals that 45 p ercen t ofthe - ' undergraduates support to ' ? ment, 25 percent suppoir iiniyen^ '^■policy and 30 percerit'haye:^^^ opinion.... <7---■; 7y yy d'TheHolyC^ , .7iyests.all.its South' Afric^i holdings. ■. /Sullivan abandons his own principles ./as “inadequate;”
1988 — The Indiana Prdyinoetof thq;£t:
■-many NofrejD^ ■ vofes to- divest?7.7,'' ; iTheHotreDame^ jssueskr^p^ vAdniinistrafibri'anfrihe^barb .'Trustees id “en^'the financial	:lOyf
xompficityfrjatl'lb^ ^toenfiy pngag^^ 7n;its'hpldings\f^^^
; hayeWt^tsdh SdutfrAfnca^::/^ £K ,/y v)j 3: <7....	X -7
19S7'%The^
■its most rp.cehtTormulafion.pf^ ;Sputh(Afr^^ jPQ.hp^stiiltonbtral^ ?divesti^
.c.all^.-'fbr,onIyjEth^
■S,d&iHiAi^
//y;. 7 >' 7 7." ..y	??KS7
7990:^'lNelsbn:W^^ jfrbth^dly&reJdTi^^
iiperUpiedgedto'disma^

APRIL 11, 1991
17
B
Smaller Numbers
Anti-Apartheid Network loses members because of apparent changes in South Africa
The Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network has changed a lot since the days when their 1988-89 pro-divestmentprotests drew hundreds of participants to the steps of the Administration Building. Now the Network has three active members, who attribute the decline in participation to the changes which most people perceive as having taken place within South Africa.
Because of decreasing news coverage of South Africa and the release of black antiApartheid leader Nelson Mandela, few of the 250 people who signed up as members of the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network for 1990-91 have participated in any of its activities, said John-Paul Checkett.
Checkett, head of the network and a first-year graduate student in Counseling, said that participation in the network’s activities has decreased and that the few vigils the network held were poorly attended.
The decrease in participation is a major concern for Checkett, who said that “students have lost interest in the situation there.” He said this disinterest arises because the oppression of blacks in South Africa is not as “big an issue” as it once was and because of the appearance that blacks are gaining political freedom.
However, Checkett remains skeptical of progress toward equality for South African blacks. He said, “Political freedom for blacks is still a long way off—one person one vote.”
The network is presently working to help blacks in South Africa by following the lead of black anti-Apartheid groups within the country. “People who live under the oppression of Apartheid know best how to combat it,” said Checkett.
The network also continues its conviction that full economic sanctions against the
South African government should stay in place until more significant progress has been made toward removing Apartheid.
“Divestment is really not a key issue any more. Notre Dame has waited too long. We’ll listen to Mandela and Tutu and other black resistance leaders. The sanctions should stay in place until political concessions have been made,” said Checkett.
Vienna Colucci, a second-year graduate student in Peace Studies and a third-year member of the network said, “Nelson Mandela is saying keep the pressure on — now it’s more important than ever. We’re committed to saying ‘no’ to an injustice.”
The network formed in 1984, at a time when anti-Apartheid organizations were forming on campuses across the nation, as an outgrowth of various on-campus social justice groups.
Since then, the network has actively opposed the university’s policy of “constructive engagement.” A 1985 university policy condemning Apartheid and outlining university actions empowered the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees to divest the university’s holdings in companies operat
Checkett.
by Elizabeth Hayes
Scholastic File Photo
During the network's 1988-89 pro-divestment protests, the steps of the Administration Building were packed with members. Now the network has only three active members.
ing in South Africa if these companies were “not influencing the dismantling of the system of Apartheid” or if “circumstances (warranted) this action because of further deterioration of conditions in South Africa.”
Network members could not support this university policy of “constructive engagement” and began holding noon vigils every Friday at the Administration Building. “(Constructive engagement has) always been a failure.,-You keep giving money to the government and telling them to change, but they don’t and you still give them money,” said Checkett.
The Network’s 1988-89 activities received extensive coverage in the media and sparked a Breen-Phillips film about the network which was shown at that year’s Morrissey Film Festival.
Since then, interest in the network has waned, and the network is now holding a “watch and wait” position. “Even though the group is dormant now, if the need arises we’ll regroup. Remember that steps have been made, but this is not a dead issue,” said
18
SCHOLASTIC

Cricket Comes to Campus
London students bring British sport to South Bend
Despite its anonymity, the Cricket Club aims to make a resurgence on theNotre Dame campus. A similar club existed a few years ago, but with the increased attention given to Olympic sports, it fell out of existence.
This “new, improved” Cricket Club is the brainstorm of Marko Burgar and Tim Caslin. While over in London last semester, they came in frequent contact with the sport. So as they became involved with it, they decided to bring cricket back to Notre Dame. Thus, with the help of government professor Peter Walshe, an extraordinary cricket player himself during his days at Oxford, Burgar and Caslin formed the Cricket Club this past January.
With both the help of Professor Walshe and the India Association (a group of Notre Dame graduate students with Indian backgrounds), the Cricket Club has begun its journey toward campus-wide recognition. Currently, the club raises money solely from dues collected from the players and equipment donations from the India Association. “We hope to have people who haven’t seen the sport come out and try it, and hopefully things will start to pick up,” team president Burgar said.
While not many people know about the sport of cricket, it actually is the predecessor to the American game of baseball. According to Burgar, cricket started in England around the eighteenth century and spread to the British Commonwealth Countries where it remains popular today.
Usually the best players in the world come from these countries.
Although similar to baseball in that cricket players also use bats and balls, cricket differs from it in many ways. First, the score of a cricket game ends up exceedingly higher than that of baseball. In the exhibition match against the India Association last Sunday, the Club won 70-40. As baseball’s main action takes place in a set boundary on the field, especially in the outfield, cricket’s area is more widespread with most of the action taking place in an area called the wicket, located in the middleof the field. In addition, cricket games can often last much longer than a standard nine inning baseball game.
Matt Cash ore
Cricketer Satish Kandarpa tries to hook a ball coming toward his head to square-leg and is caught out.
APRIL 11, 1991
19	;
—Cricket is a game played by two teams of 11 people a side,	replaced by another batsman until the entire side has batted.
. played on a round field approximately 150 yiirds in diameter. :	■'A X A A' , .	.	•	•
; , In the center of the field there is a strip called the wicket with — He can get but by having the stumps knocked down, by the
a set of three stumps at each bind, a:: ■' A. /:; A'';;: A A; A AXAX . bowler, having a fly ball caught in the air after it is hit, or having ■AsXAkAAAA AX 'XX A>A. ■ '■ A ■ i-'- As A'A AA A AAA' •_■ ■ ; ■	> i the stumps knocked down before he finishes crossing the wicket
Abatsmanisstationed at either set of stumpsbythebatting	attempting to score runs.	A:" ’■
iv:(«dexx:vVs\'. <//'?	AxA' -a : aX„ . • . ’ ' .
AAAAx-X XA' A X ":>•' X.' At .A A. A-;xk ’AX	' AaaXxX; — When the fielding side dismisses die entire batting side, they •
!A—The fielding side bowls at the batsman in an attempt to get . switch roles and the same thing is. done until the other team is all ?>lurirput/;'f\X;''kA v a	A-A"'	. .	'	•
The batsman can hit the ball anywhere inithe field, and at A—The side with the most runs wins. ■ '	'	•
his discretion, can attempt to score runs by crossing the wicket ,'.wA; . A;.\ A ’A xAXA/w < • A' .	.
: A to die other stumps and exchanging sides with the other — In major international thatches, both teams are entitled to bat A batsman. Each time this is done one run is scored:.- The A;. 'twice; which sometimes extends the game toa period of five days! : batsman remains on the field until he is but. He is then A.' A A'> X-'' courtesy of Marko Burgar, Cricket Club President
Man Cashore
Cornelius Thomas spin-bowls for the Cricket Club,
Because there is no wide scale university league in the United States, the Cricket Club presently meets about twice a week to practice. Consisting of almost equal numbers of graduate and undergraduate students, they meet one night to practice during club time; and on Fridays they can usually be found outside preparing for upcoming games.
Even though this club is just beginning, they have set high goals for themselves. This year alone they will have competed against four teams, mainly on the road. One of their most important games, as far as gauging their team ability, is against the Chicago Falcons here at Notre Dame on April 27. The Chicago Falcons are one of the top teams in the country and were ranked among the top ten cricket teams last year. Furthermore, the club, with the India Association, plans to travel over the summer to a 14 school tournament at Akron, Ohio. The majority of competition will come from big schools with established cricket teams and will prove to be an invaluable experience for all the ND players.
Although the remaining exhibitions, are away from campus, except for the match against the highly-ranked Chicago Falcons, the Cricket Club invites anyone interested to come join or at least watch and learn more about this very interesting sport. As Bugar said, “We want to revive the sport of cricket at Notre Dame because there has been an important resurgence of the sport on the national level.”	q
by Mary Schultze
20
SCHOLASTIC
Courtesy of Sports Information
Senior midfielder John Capano
Setting
Despite some early season struggles, the Irish lacrosse team has its sight set on an NCAA berth
Sights High
By Jim Kuser
XT ot too long ago, lacrosse was an un-11 heralded sport at Notre Dame. There was no club or varsity team, but there was a small core of enthusiasts that banded together and brought the sport popularity.
Today, lacrosse flourishes at Notre Dame.
There are dormitory teams, a women’s club team and a men’s varsity team. All of these teams participate vigorously in lacrosse, a sport of high excitement that requires agility, skill and speed. If one wishes to observe a team that has forged a new frontier for Midwestern lacrosse, the Notre Dame men’s varsity team is it.
Finishing last season ranked 17th in the Associated Press poll, after losing a tough game to top contender Harvard in the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s post-season championship tournament, Nome Dame has gotten off to a slow 4-4 start this season but has earned the respect of the Eastern lacrosse powerhouses. Although Notre Dame does not have a stellar overall record, it is in contention for an automatic
Midwestern bid to the NCAA’s. A tournament bid is guaranteed to Notre Dame, Air Force, Ohio State or Michigan State, and the Irish have already defeated Air Force 14-8 at home on March 27 and waits to play Ohio State and Michigan State on the road on April 27 and May 4 respectively.
Although the la
crosse team approaches every game as if it were to decide its tournament bid, it is comforting to know, as one player said, “that we can make the tournament by beating Air Force, Ohio State and Michigan State because the rest of our schedule is so tough.”
To say that the rest of the schedule is “...so tough” is an understatement because this season’s schedule includes ranked teams Hofstra, Mount Saint Mary’s, Loyola and
Villanova, who beat the Irish earlier in this spring, as well as Cornell who the Irish play in the upcoming weeks. Although Notre Dame has lost to these teams, with the exception of Loyola, the games have been close. Here lies the fundamental problem with the lacrosse team —putting together a complete game of good execution.
“We go into games well-prepared. Coach Corrigan always has us ready to play,” said
APRIL 11, 1991
21
Courtesy of Sports Information
Senior tri-captain Dave Barnard anchors a tough and experienced Irish defense.
sophomore midfielder Ed Lamb. “Unfortunately, during the games, we have momentary lapses that cost us dearly. For example, against Mount Saint Mary’s, it was a tied game until we let them score a string of quick goals. Against Villanova, we let them score six goals in the third period. Inconsistency is our curse.”
Playing with the best of them is not easy. Notre Dame is gaining respect but i t needs to cement this respect by pulling some upsets.
The head coach of perennial powerhouse Johns Hopkins was quoted as telling the head coach of Loyola that, “... we deserve all that we get because we do not have any Notre Dames on our schedule.” Perhaps this coach will eat his words if Johns Hopkins faces the wrath of the Fighting Irish in the NCAAs. .
Head coach Kevin Corrigan does not let such derogatory comments get him or his team down. A master of the physical and the psychological elements of lacrosse, he turns these words around and uses them to bolster morale among his charges.
“I think that Midwestern lacrosse is getting better. I think that it is something that everybody in lacrosse will become proud of,” Corrigan said. “In creating the Midwestern bid to the NCAAs, it has helped to create a situation where peopleare willing to do the things to have top programs.
“It is important for all of us to promote lacrosse nationally, and my players are the primary ambassadors for the game in. this part of the country. They have a responsibi 1-ity and an obligation to give the sport they love the best possible showing they can.”
Corrigan’s knowledge of lacrosse has established his reputation as one of the best coaches at the collegiate level. This national reputation has helped him in the recruiting process for Notre Dame.
“When I first came out here I went on the road a lot, almost with a scatter shot approach. I would just talk to as many people as possible, go to schools and talk to guys who were interested,” he explains. “Now, we have done a better job of targeting the kids who are going to have an interest in and an impact on our program. And we have gotten much more interest in our program. What I do now, I go into homes and visit with the kids and go to the schools and talk to their coaches. All the kids that we are interested in are top prospects in the country, and they are being recruited by other top programs.”
This personal approach to recruiting is beginning to make a signi ficant difference in the caliber of players that Notre Dame is bringing to build its program to a level of national prowess. Leading scorer Mike Sullivan, a junior attackman, is one of a new breed of Irish laxmen — he is a possible All-American this season.
In spite of its slow start, do not count the Notre Dame lacrosse team out. It is certain to make a run to the NCAAs under Corrigan’s guidance. Stand-out players Mike Sullivan at attack, Brian Mayglothling at midfield, Dave Barnard at defense, and Chris Parent and Pat Finn at goalie want to prove to the national lacrosse community that the Irish have arrived. A supporting cast of players like Ed Lamb, Bill Ahmuty and Tom O’Brien increase the prospects of a
strong finish.
Good coaches can take a team that is down and out and make it into a contender. It took Lou Holtz three seasons to build a national championship team. It took Digger Phelps three seasons to build a 26-3 team. It, took Kevin Corrigan two seasons to build a NCAA tournament qualifying team. And this, his third season, may be bound for greater things than it has shown so far.
“If we can improve our consistency down the stretch, we will be all right,” he said. “The really great teams are very, very consistent.”
This Notre Dame lacrosse squad is playing under aggravating adversity. Not only did it lose five starting players to graduation, but it lost five starters to injuries.
If the lacrosse team were healthy, it would surely fair better. Given that it is not healthy, it has not faired too badly.
“What is great about this team is the cohesiveness and the desire to win,” said freshman midfielder Bill Ahmuty. "With this kind of determination, things will have to gel at some point. I speak for all the guys on the team when I say that we are excited to be playing for Notre Dame, we are excited about this season and we are excited about
our future because the team is so young.”
Time will tell how good the Notre Dame lacrosse team can be. A word to the wise: do not bet against the Fighting Irish in the future.	□
Corrigan has used a more personal recruiting approach to lure the best players to Notre Dame.
Courtesy of Sports Information
22
SCHOLASTIC

Out With The Old...
Pasin and Tombar reflect on the past year
We would first like to thank the student body for giving us the opportunity to serve as Student Body President and Vice President. When we ran for these positions in February 1990, our platform included several goals. During this past year we have worked toward attaining these goals in the following ways.
Knowing that it was impossible to represent the student body without being in touch with them, we sought to improve communications between Student Government and the student body. We tried to achieve this goal by visiting every dorm for our “On the Firing Line” open forums, through the installation of the “FRED line” for suggestions by telephone, by having Student Body Addresses in order to make the Student Body President and Vice President more accountable to the student body and by writing letters to the editor to convey our priorities and concerns. -
We also wanted to continue Student Government’s tradition of providing valuable services to the student body. The most notable of these being the creation of the 24-hour lounge in debasement of LaFortune.
In order to articulate the student body’s concerns to the Administration, we presented thorough reports to the University Board of Trustees. The reports covered the topics of social space, race relations, a follow-up report, class sizes and volunteer activity at Notre Dame. The last two reports will be submitted this May.
Our greatest goal was to transform Student Government into an organization that deals with issues of importance which not only affect our community, but also “life
beyond the Golden Dome.” We attempted to do this through the “Public Forum on Contemporary Issues” lecture series, by sponsoring student exchanges with Latin America and by our controversial co-sponsorship of the Washington, D.C. Right to Life trip. These various activities were intended to broaden the scope of the issues addressed by StudentGovemment by sparking discussion and debate on campus about important issues.
None of these goals could have become a reality without all the selfless work of those involved with Student Government. We thank you all for your invaluable help.
According to the Undergraduate Student Body Constitution, the primary role of the Student Body President and Vice President is to serve the student body. But what does that really mean? We do not believe that it merely means doing what the majority wants. Rather, it means weighing popular
opinion and one’s own personal beliefs in every decision. Being a true leader may sometimes mean challenging the majority’s beliefs. Ultimately, one must act according to his/her most deeply held beliefs and convictions.
Joseph Blanco and Dave Florenzo have excellent ideas and a solid commitment to work hard. We are confident that they will do well next year and we wish them luck.
At the risk of sounding trite, this past year has been an incredible learning opportunity. In addition to learning much about Notre Dame, we have learned much about ourselves. It has been an extraordinary year. Once again, we thank the student body for allowing us this privilege.	□
by Rob Pasin and Fred Tombar Rob Pasin is the outgoing student body president and Fred Tombar is the outgoing student body vice president.
APRIL 11,1991
23
...In With The New
Blanco and Florenzo share their plans for the upcoming year
The first thing that we would like to do is thank Rob and Fred for the tremendous amount of work they put into Student Government over the past year. They were able to make it a more effective organization than the one that they inherited. We will strive to continue this trend so that Student Government will be better able to make strides in three crucial areas.
These areas include service to the student body, the voice of the student body uttered so that the administration can hear it, and a commitment to the world. The three are interlinked and must be balanced if student government is going to adequately address the concerns of the students.
Student Government must deal with individual student concerns. We must use the resources that are available to us to ensure that students can be helped on the micro level. We will do this by increasing our emphasis on the Student Life department of our cabinet. Through Student Life we will continue to fund the pilot GOLD program. GOLD stands for “Guidance and Orientation for Long-term Development.” The purpose of this program is to promote social interaction, to provide informal peer guidance, and to stimulate intellectual growth among first year students through the establishment of small peer groups. We are going to increase the use of the Student Voices program so that students may have some central place to voice their grievances. Also, we have decided to keep FRED line, a question that we know has plagued many of you.
The next area where student government must focus its attention is the area of student input with the administration. The primary tools that we may use are the reports to the Board of Trustees. These are a very effec-
tive way to get our message out. In October we will be doing a full report on the problem of teaching and another report on the disciplinary procedures that will include a look at the administrative hearings in Residence Life and the honor code. However, simply writing a report will not accomplish a tremendous amount. We will follow up on these reports by looking into what is being done to implement them. We will use the model of the current Recommendation'and Implementation.committee oh diversity to help us focus our efforts.
The third major focus of Student Government is the world. Notre Dame is a unique university and is therefore saddled with a special responsibility to the world. We are planning a Pan American conference of student leaders from Catholic colleges and universities. At this conference we will address common concerns about the role of students at Catholic universities and col
leges. It will also help the Notre Dame student body to become more aware of the concerns of our counterparts in Latin America. We are also looking into joining a new national program called Into the Streets. This is an organization that helps to coordinate service projects and organizations. Also, we are striving to obtain funding for a lecture series that Rob and Fred started. This is an excellent opportunity to interface with the world around us.
We are fortunate to inherit a very healthy Student Government and to have had Rob and Fred ease dur transition and helpful and we pledge.to them and to you that during our Sesquicentennial year we will do our best to meet your needs.	□
by Joe Blanco and Dave Florenzo Joe Blanco is the new student body president and Dave Florenzo is the new student body vice president.
24
SCHOLASTIC
JJ ■////
DON’T MISS OUT S
SIGN UP FOR THE FOLLOWING
EVENTS APRIL 10-12 FROM
4 - 6 P.M. IN THE SUB OFFICE	, X
(THIRD FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE)
MOODY MONDAY	« cAf
•OBSTACLE COURSE*	KY ^6*
ALTERNATIVE TUESDAY
•SLAM DUNK CONTEST	0<<
•AIR BAND/LIPSYNC CONTEST
•GOLF TOURNAMENT*	c
•MATTRESS DRAG*
WHOOPIE WEDNESDAY ’	°
•TREASURE HUNT*
THIRSTY THURSDAY
SAIBT MART S COLLEGE
•BIKE RACE*
•MR. CAMPUS CONTEST
FRIVILOUS FRIDAY
Sponsored by The Olive Garden
•PIZZA AND PASTA* CONTEST
•COMEDY-IMPROV-IMPERSONATION CONTEST
PSYCHADELIC PSATURDAY
Sponsored by Alumni Association & Domino’s Pizza
•MORNING RUNS*
•ROAD RALLY*
•MUD TUG-OF-WAR*
•CHARIOT RACES
SIUIH-NT UNION HOARD