Cbc
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DlSCe-QVASI-SCmPGR- VICTVRVS- VIVS -9VASI- CRAS-M0RITVRV5-
Vol. XLIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October 15, 1910.	No. 5.
Founders’ Day Odes.
Our Founder.
The Discoverer.
CHARLES C. MILTNER, ’ll.
JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll.
^NGULFED in darkness drear,
Of helpless ignorance and guilty fear,
A nation lay in woe severe.	•
Longing for light but all in vain—
From alien lips perforce they knowledge sought, Until what day their prayers to Heav’n were caught;
Thyself, the boon, from o’er the distant-main.
Fresh from thy natal sod,	-
Zealous’ with zeal that burned of faith in God, Thy lips e’en kissed these hills untrod.
No guerdon thine of wealth or fame—
Thy life in Christ long since was wholly lost;
Nor didst thou falter once or reck the cost
If aught of glory thou couldst win His Name.
Champion of truth and right,
Thy dauntless figure towered midst the fight
When sinful hearts strove uncontrite.
No standard thine of eagles gold—
But raised on high in spirit hands the cross
Thy soul sustained midst sickness want and loss	.
Of comrades brave when death’s dread trumpet rolled.
Strong in those rugged days,
When savage hate and scorn beset thy ways;
Soldier, thou fought'st, nor wreath of bays -Entwined was set upon thy brow.
But firm of faith thou didst not know defeat
Of righteous cause, of noble strife, how meet That we should celebrate thy praises now.
Victor, thy course is run—
And yet the weft thou fashioned is not spun,
The battle is not wholly won. •
Still, valiant sons, thy hope and pride, ' ' Press on amidst the din of battles roar.
The cross of Christ their standard as before— Great Sorin, be thy spirit still their guide.
^HACKLED in Pharao’s bonds, repentance done, God pitied once again His chosen band,
And sent, deliverer of His people, one
To lead them out into the promised land. -
Inspired by God the prophet Moses brayed
The tyrant’s scornful rage and angry boast;
With plagues and blood the monarch's land he laved— The desert yawned before his pilgrim host.
The perils of the waste no terror held
For him whom God had chosen to command;
His trust, the murmurs of the faint heart quelled, Until afar he viewed the promised land.
With bread from heaven was their hunger stayed, He struck a rock, their weary thirst to slake; ■
By day a cloud, by night a beacon played, Their pathway to illume, their course to make.
Thus Providence, in days of old, reserved, The treasure to our erring parents given; .
And once again untrodden pathways served To keep inviolate the right to heaven. *
Now Europe, foully ^glutted with her lust, Glowed with the smouldering fire of heresy;—
Her pride was soon to grovel in the dust—
To save His Word, God sent It o’er the sea.
For this great task and holy was decreed
The humble Genoese, the instrument;
And Spain, from Moorish bondage lately .freed, Helped him to raise to God this monument.
Faith at the helm" and Hope the. guiding-star, Columbus sailed the vast and trackless waste;
He rent the veil of fear, and travelled far, And in sweet vales the cross of faith he placed.
No rose so sweet but has its hidden thorn;
The cup of joy hath ever sorrow’s dregs;
For man to pain and misery is born, And every joy its compensation begs.
The prophet could but view7 the promised laud;
He entered not: Columbus died alone,	.
And felt in death ingratitude’s fell hand, Nor knew the glories that we call his own. -
66	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Charles Carroll of Carrollton.
JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll.
(continued.)
IS return found America in a state of ferment. The obnoxious Stamp Act had been passed and it everywhere raised the righteous protest of the colonists. The landing of the Maryland stamp officer was at first prevented, and after he had accomplished it by stealth he was hung in effigy by the angry citizens. The state of affairs is described by Charles Carroll in a letter to friends in London. “The Stamp Act continues to make as much noise as ever. The spirit of discontent in the people rather continues to increase than diminish. The stamp master of Boston has been obliged to resign his office; the house building here for the reception of the stamps has been leveled to the ground. Our stampmaster, Zacariah Hood, is hated and despised by. everyone; he has been whipped, pilloried and hanged in effigy.... His last dying speech has its humor: it contains, as most dying speeches, an account of his birth, parentage and education.... Should the Stamp Act be enforced by tyrannical soldiery, our property, our liberty, our very existence, is at an end. And you may be persuaded that nothing but an armed force can execute the worst of laws.”
He indulges in some reflections on the absurdity of England’s policy of antagonizing the colonies by “a measure which will inevitably end in the ruin of the English Empire. ” And he reflects the general spirit of the colonies, as the situation was understood at that time, when he says that they are “far from aiming at independence,” for though they were ready enough when the time came, few had any idea that ■ a separation from England would be .the ultimate result of the measures of resistance.
Politics and, courtship were mixed for the few succeeding years, and Charles Carroll does not come prominently before the people again until after his marriage. He was engaged to a Miss Cooke, a relative of -his, and was to have married her in November, 1766, but she fell ill and died. His grief, though sincere, seemed to be short-lived, however, for he was
soon paying his attentions to another relative, Mary Darnall, whom he married on June 4th, 1768. It was probably about this time that he made the acquaintance of George Washington and began the warm friendship that was to continue until the death of the illustrious general.
Charles Carroll of Carrollton first appeared as a champion of the people’s rights in 1773. For three years a discussion had been going on as to the right of the governor to determine official fees by proclamation. - The people resented the action of the executive in- so doing, but . the governor was upheld by the officials whom he benefited in this way. The longcontinued discussion came to a head in 1773, when a series of articles, signed “ Antilion,’’ purporting to be a debate between the “First Citizen” and the “Second Citizen” on the subject of the proclamation,. appeared in the Maryland Gazette. The “First Citizen,” who attacked the proclamation, was given decidedly the worst of it until Charles Carroll stepped in, and under the pseudonym of the “ First Citizen” asserted his right to be heard, as his views had been misrepresented. He replied to the arguments of “ Antilion,” Daniel Dulany, whose identity, as well as that of Carroll, was an open secret, and hereafter the debate was between . the “First Citizen” and “Antillon.” In a series of four letters he completely routed his antagonist, and at the same time showed that the “pupil of St. Omer’s,” as Dulany had sneeringly dubbed him, was a far better master of English than the graduate of Cambridge. This victory made him immensely popular with the people of Maryland, and at once brought him into prominence as a champion of popular . sovereignty.
In December, 1773, the wrath of indignant Bostonians broke forth in the famous “Tea Party. ” The same spirit of resistance to ' unjust taxation was felt in other colonies, and in Maryland a Non-Importation Agreement was entered into to prevent the landing of the tea. However, some Scotch merchants of Annapolis, willing to turn an honest penny, violated their agreement and ordered a shipment of the tea. An indignation meeting of the citizens was called, and the owners promised to destroy the tea. According to McMahon and Grahame, the owner, Anthony Stewart, on the advice of Charles Carroll, burned the vessel as well as the cargo as the only safe means of appeasing the anger of the people.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Continental Congress met in Philadelphia in 1774, and Charles Carroll accompanied the '	delegates there that he might be present at the
i	deliberations of that important body. John
1	Adams, who met him there, described him in
J	his diary as “ a very sensible gentleman, a
4	Roman Catholic, and of the first fortune in
t s America. ” 3 g	Charles Carroll was present at several meetings
i	pf importance called to protest against acts
|	of English aggression, and on November 9,
j	1774, he was named on the Committee of
|	Safety of the town of Annapolis and Anne
1	Arundel County. This was followed, by a
1	resolution that the members of the Committee
1
I of Safety, including Charles Carroll of Carrollton, f be admitted to the Provincial Congress. Thus ] Charles Carroll of Carrollton, whose grandfather '	had, by an act of religious intolerance, been
*	deprived of office nearly sixty years before,
j	was, in the	face of a common foe, raised to a
'i	position of trust, by disregarding the provisions
I	of that act.	For the next quarter of a century
J	his services	were unselfishly given for the good
:	of his country.
,	He was present at both sessions of this con?	vention in the year 1775, and was placed on the
4	permanent correspondence committees of both
’	the county and province. The next session
;	was held in April, 1775. The news of the battle
;	-of Lexington, received at this convention, made
|	it evident that a/med resistance was necessary,
f	and they adopted certain provisions relating
to the militia. At the next session, held in s July and August, the “Association of Freedmen of Maryland” was formed, and its regulations served to determine the acts of the colony ■until the adoption of the constitution. Their proceedings in the matter of forming companies of militia, manufacturing guns and gunpowder and ■ issuing paper currency, were similar to the acts passed by provincial conventions of all the colonies.	rsjJ J
<	The struggle of the colonies against the
oppressive measures of Great Britain was now assuming definite form, although few realized even yet that the final outcome would be independence. General Washington had been appointed commander-in-chief of the army. The surrender of Ticonderoga and the struggle at Bunker Hill had convinced them that in strategy and valor the}’’ were equal to their antagonists. Not content with fortifying and strengthening posts at home, General Mont
gomery planned an expedition into Canada. This bold stroke, had it been successful, would have greatly strengthened the American cause by its moral support as well as the point of vantage gained. Congress meanwhile determined to gain the aid of Canada, if possible, by peaceable means, and with this purpose in view organized a commission to go to Canada to treat with the Canadians for an alliance or a treaty. The predominance of Catholics in Canada as well as the fact that French was almost the universal language of that country, no doubt moved Congress to select Charles Carroll of Carrollton as the colleague of Benjamin Franklin and Samuel Chase in this undertaking. Reverend John* Carroll, afterwards Bishop Carroll, the first American bishop, accompanied the commissioners. The trip was a dangerous and not at all a pleasant one. The hardships of traveling by canoe and in sleds over snow, as well as the frequent transfers necessary, rendered the j'ourney fatiguing.
The mission of the commissioners was unsuccessful. It was found impossible to proceed to Quebec, so the commissioners remained at Montreal, and with the army in the vicinity*. The army was suffering from smallpox and from lack of provisions, and appeals for relief. were heard with indifference by Congress. The disheartening news from General Thomas at Quebec, who had been routed with great loss of men and guns by troops landed from British men-of-war, and the disastrous accounts from General Schuyler, made the possibility of enlisting Canadians in the cause seem more remote than ever, and Benj'amin Franklin, accompanied by Father Carroll, set out to return early in May.
Charles Carroll and Samuel Chase remained behind to look after the remnants of the Canadian army, as they said, in the capacity of “ generals, commissaries, contractors and j'ustices of the peace, ” so after calling a council of war, towards the end of May, they decided to -“ maintain possession of the country between ' the St. Lawrence and the Sorel, if possible; in the meantime to dispose matters so as to make an orderly retreat out of Canada.” Chase and Carroll immediately set out on their return and arrived at Philadelphia on the nth of June. Soon after, by the defeat of General Sullivan, the Americans were forced to evacuate Canada?	. -
Immediately on his return to the colonies
68
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
t
Charles Carroll repaired to his home in Maryland, and returned to the Maryland Assembly. A resolution unfavorable to independence had just been passed by the Assembly; Carroll secured a reconsideration of the question, and on June 28th they instructed their delegates to the Congress to vote in favor of independence. On July 4th, two days before the closing of the Assembly, Charles Carroll was chosen as one of the delegates to the Continental Congress.
The Declaration of Independence, which had passed on Jnly 4th, was not -prepared for the signatures of the members until August 2d, when Charles Carroll of Carrollton, with the other delegates, signed the immortal document. -Everj' man present had staked his all.in that measure, yet none had so much to lose in the world’s goods as Charles Carroll. •
He remained at Philadelphia attending the sessions of Congress until the middle of August, when he returned to Maryland to attend the Constitutional Convention. While in Congress he had been made a member of the Board of War, the committee having in charge the executive end of the conduct of the war.
Charles Carroll did important and con-_scientious work in the Constitutional Convention of Maryland, in the consideration of the Constitution and Bill of Rights. His important contribution to the former was the determination of the manner of choosing senators. He provided that senators should be elected by forty electors, and that vacancies in the body should be filled by an' election in which the senators themselves should act as electors. This method of choice remained in use for more than, sixty years after its adoption, and it proved a satisfactory way of securing a small and conservative body of men to act as a check on the more radical house of delegates.
The progress of the war at this. time was communicated to Charles Carroll by his friends with the army, by official dispatches and by reports from the cities. The news of the surrender of Fort Washington was communicated -to him by his friend James Sterett, who said further that the enemy seemed to have received news of the intention of coming to Philadelphia, and, with a view to preventing that move, had embarked troops either to send them up the Delaware or to harass the Southern States.
It is worth noticing at this time the opposition of Charles Carroll of Carrollton to the legal tender bill' passed by the House of Delegates
‘of the Maryland Assembly, because it was the attitude maintained by him consistently throughout his public career. He protested against the passage of such an act because it would lead to intolerable abuses, first by debtors who would give this greatly depreciated paper for debts contracted previously by them, and then by speculators who would make money out of the subsequent depreciations.
A letter from Carroll to Benjamin Franklin in August, gives news of the war. He recounts the loss of Forts Ticonderoga and Mount Independence and blames these losses “to the dilatoriness of the New England States in not sending sufficient forces to defend the lines; to an unhappy .difference between General Schuyler- and Gates, the foundation of which was laid before you left Congress; and. lastly to the improvidence of Congress in not giving positive orders for evacuating those posts and the removal of the stores before the arrival of the enemy at Crown Point.”■
He then gives some general observations concerning the state of the country and the conduct of the war,; and continues: My greatest apprehensions arise from the depreciation of our paper money; if we emit more bills of credit they will fall to nothing; we can not tax to the amount of the charges of the war and of our civil establishments; we must then raise money by lotteries or by borrowing. But the adventurers in lotteries will be few, and the monied men will not part with their money xvithout a prospect of having their interest paid punctually, and in something that deserves the name of money and -will serve the uses of it. If the annual interest of the sums borrowed could be paid in gold and silver it would be a great inducement to monied men to lend their money to Congress; where one pound is now lent forty pounds would then be -lent. If bills of exchange drawn by Congress on some house in France would be accepted to a certain amount, considerable sums proportionable to the obtained credit might be speedily raised by the sale of such bills, particularly if advantages were taken by the public of such exchange.”
Commenting on the high prices prevailing, he says that a-bushel of salt sold in Baltimore, for £9; cloth which sold for 10 s. now brought £4, 10 a yard; “rye sells as high as 10 s. per bushel; the distillers gave that price to distill it into whiskey; stills are set up in every corner
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the country. I fear they will have a pernicious effect on the health and morals of our people.”
Colonel John Fitzgerald, of Alexandria, Va., staff officer of Washington and a great friend of Charles Carroll, kept him well informed of the movements of the army at this time. A letter from “Morris Town” in March gives the news of the arrival of the French vessels in the harbor of Boston, and the expected arrival of several French officers. He complains, in a letter dated some time in August, of the failure of Lord Howe to attempt to force his way into Philadelphia. Howe had sailed a month since, and no one was aware of his destination. The troops at Fort Schuyler had been successful iii two small engagements. Clinton was strengthening his position in New York and throwing up redoubts along the Harlem River.
In August and September, Carroll visited the army in the field and reported to Congress on its condition. On this occasion, and in Congress, as a member of the Board of War, he had ample opportunity to witness the shameful neglect and- abuses of officers and men. . Congress was in session at Lancaster at this time, and took up the troublesome question of the Articles of Confederation. The delegates from Maryland put up a strong opposition to the proposal that Congress should settle the western boundaries of those states claiming to the “Mississippi or South Sea,” but when the Articles were voted on for adoption— October 30—only one delegate from Maryland was present.
About this time the spirit of the confederates was raised by the news of Burgoyne’s defeat at Saratoga, and high hopes were entertained that the success would be followed up by the defeat of Howe at Philadelphia. Shortly after, the scandal of the “ Conway Cabal ” made gossip for the inactivecongre ssmen. Charles Carroll, Sr., had evidently made some remarks de- ’ rogatory to the character of General Conway at this time, as he received a letter of selfjustification from Conway in November of this year. Fortunately, the plot to displace General Washington was discovered and defeated without any harm coming of it, but ended in Congress renewing Washington’s commission as Commander of the army with greatly increased powers.
(To be continued.)
69
Phil’s Mystery.
c. L.
It. was the night of the big “smoke.” That was the short and the slang of it for smoker.. Moon and his co-laborers had put on their final and finest touches with alt the care of a barber when finishing a hair cut. -
“It’s a beauty!” was Skive Maxman’s tribute as he surveyed the scene. All freshmen were present by right of inheritance. Certain others were present by right of invitation. They separated into groups, ate, smoked and made merry in informal fashion. The committee on decoration had done its work in rare good taste and was now prepared to enjoy the evening. In a seemingly haphazard fashion Phil started trick playing on a deck of cards which he had with him.
“Now, fellows,” he said, “here’s a trick that’s a genuine mystery.”
“Phil,” corrected Berger, “you mustn’t speak of a mere trick as a mystery.”
“Well, this trick is a mystery.”
“No, it isn’t a mystery—cant be.”
“But it is.”
“ No, ’tisn’t.”
“My! but that’s clever argument—‘yes, ’tis, no, ’tisn’t!”’ broke in Joe McDermott, making no attempt to conceal his irony.
“Weil, how can you argue with him?” Phil pointed at Berger and flung the final pronoun with supreme disrespect.
“With ‘him!’ Don’t speak of me as him, you big rube. This University will have to go some to calcimine your rough hide with manners.”	.
“ What’s the matter with him? I guess her won’t do. So there’s nothing else left.”
“0 yes, there is. Instead of saying argue with him. when referring to me, your superior, you must say ‘ argue with Mr. Berger.’ I trust you catch me, Phil.”	.
“ No, I don’t catch you, Berg, but I certainly will: catch you,” and Phil made a motion towards him.
Berger waved him back. “Everything in its place, Phil. No roughhouse here to-night.’?
“Come on with that trick, Phil,” cried several who were impatient for the “mystery.” Phil began in the usual style of the professional trick performer.
70
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Gentlemen, I have here a deck of cards, an ordinary deck of playing cards, which I now present for your examination.” He presented them and they were duly examined with sus-piciouscare. Alaxman scrutinized the spots: John Donlan shuffled the deck as if he meant to displace every card from the position it occupied when in Phil’s hand. Berger next received the pack and took a bite at it, which caused the performer to remark: “I hope the gentleman doesn't mistake it for a piece of cheese.” The cards were returned without further comment and pronounced satisfactory. The would-be card shark then resumed the thread of his explanation.
“ Now, gentlemen, you have examined these cards and find them ordinary playing cards. I now propose to face these cards toward you. Beginning with the top card, which is nearest me, I will remove each card in turn, with its face to you and its back to me, and will tell you the color of the spots.”
“Go ahead!” the}- commanded, and Phil began, o
“Red!” So it was.
“Red!” So it was.
“Red!” So it was.
“They're stacked!” cried Berger. “Donlan is in on it and stacked them.” Berger accordingly shuffled and handed back the cards to the performer. Donlan protested he was not “in,” but Fritz waved hirn off with—“You’ll have to show me!”
“Red!” Correct again.
“Black!” And again.
“Black!” And again. So on without end.
“ Blindfold him. He has some fellow giving him signs,” cried Joe McDermott in triumph, feeling sure he had solved the ‘mystery.’ A handkerchief was bound tight across Phil’s eyes. The performance continued. '	.
“Black!” And black it was.
“Red!” Yes, it was red. So he called out each color without a single miss.
“Pick them out anywhere in the pack, Phil, and then call them,” suggested Metz. Phil did so, and with equal success;
“That’s one on me,” said Berger.
“I give it up, Phil; what is it?” Joe McDermott felt this was the easiest method.
“Yes, Phil, let’s have it.” .	-
“Well, take this bandage off my eyes.”
They did so. Phil addressed himself to Berger ■ in his most solemn manner.
“Berger, look into my right eye.” Berger did so.
“ Now look into my left.” He obeyed.
“Seen anything green in either?” No, Berger hadn’t.
“I thought not,”. cried Phil, pitching the cards on the table with a wave of triumph. He remembered his Hamlet, stood up and delivered:
“Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me. You would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would pluck out the heart of mjr mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass. ’Sblood! do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe?” , Then mounting a chair he bent down and pointed a finger of disdain at Fritz. “Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me, you can not play upon me?” This future Booth slid down on his chair exhausted as it were from his effort.
“Then, you won’t tell?” Joe McDermott had still a ray of hope.
. “ No, sir. The secret is. mine, and I’ll keep it.”
“Where did you get it?” asked Berger. Phil touched his forehead with the index finger. “Here, where thought lives.” Then he exclaimed with positive utterance :
“And no man in all this goodly company has the brains, the talents, the mind, the intellect, the caput,—yes, gentlemen, the caput—to find out my mystery.” Pride goes before a fall.
Moon had been silent all the while. Moreover, he had watched Phil very carefully while that young man performed his card “mystery.” Now he said with his accustomed calm:
“Let me see the pack, Phil.”
“Yes, Mr. Moon. Glad to oblige you. You think you’re in on it perhaps?”
Yes, Moon thought so, but he didn’t say so. He simply took the pack, and with his hands below the table so as not to be seen by the others he ran his finger slowly along the back of three or four cards. He looked at the faces of these cards and said in a matter-of-fact manner:
“The trick is not so difficult after all.” Phil put forth his boldest front.
“You can’t do it, Moon. You know you can’t, ! know you can’t,—they know you can’t.” ^>“Do it/Moon, and shut him up!” encouraged Joe McDermott.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“He can’t, I tell you,” persisted Phil.
“I’m inclined to think I can, Phil.”
“ Moon, you’re bluffing. No man in this whole U. N. D. can solve my mystery—the mystery evolved from the brain of Philip Donnelly.”
“Put him to the test,” cried several. Moon was blindfolded. He faced the cards and called off the colors even faster than Phil had done. There was a roar of laughter and all manner of hurrahs for “ Westfield card shark” and his sham mystery. Phil took it all good naturedly. In fact, he had a sort of pleasure whenever the crowd turned on him.
“And now, Moon, explain,” commanded Joe McDermott.
“Joe, I wouldn’t insult you by explaining. It’s too simple.”
“I won’t be insulted, Moon. Go ahead.” “I’m afraid you would.”
“ Don’t be silly. When I say I won’t, why I won’t, and that’s all.”
“Very well. Now it’s all done by what they call the hypnotic self.” Phil became interested and acknowledged Moon’s glance with a scarcely perceptible nod. The others were all interest too. “You get, let us say, the color red firmly fixed in your mind. Exclude every other idea but that. Face the card to your audience. Keep the color strongly fixed in your mind. The color in your mind and the color on the card will correspond.” Had anybody else said this Joe would have laughed him to scorn. But Moon did not play jokes, and Joe was captured.
“ But how can the color on the card be the same as the color in your mind?”
“By self-hypnosis and thought-transference.” The explanation was satisfactory even if Joe didn’t understand the complete phraseology.
“Let me try it, fellows.” ventured Joe. Moon tied the handkerchief across his eyes, while Phil held a very brief conversation by signs with the others.
He was presented with the pack. The first' card he pulled forth was black. He called it correctly. The next was black. He called it red. The next was black, he called it red again, and so on for some minutes. The lads expressed their wonder in hushed exclamations, and Joe was in a rapture of joy. All this time the other freshmen and their guests were having their amusements in different parts of the room. “Skive” Maxman was in - favor of
rapping the crowd to order and giving a demonstration to all freshmen and their friends. Joe was delighted. Berger thought ’twould be just the thing. Phil and Moon objected.
“ This trick belongs to the bunch and shouldn’t „ go beyond it,” said Phil. Joe took his own meaning and the others took theirs:
“By all means let the trick stay right among ourselves,” added Moon. They were all willing. Phil and Moon showed good heart and good judgment. Joe didn’t mind being tricked by his chums. Had they exposed him to the ridicule of the whole Freshmen class and their visiting friends he would have gone his own way with bitter memories.
The smoker came to an end, and everybody pronounced it the most successful in years. Good nights were said, and all - wandered to slumberland. Phil was on the brink of a long sleep when somebody rapped lightly on his door. It was open. Joe McDermott answered to his “come in,” and turned on Phil’s light.
“Say, Phil,” he whispered, “that thing doesn’t work so well.”
“What are you talking about?”
“ O that hypnotic business. Just now I hung up a pair of black socks on my door. I closed my eyes and thought like mad about red. I opened ’em again and the black socks were still black.”
“What would you expect them to be?” questioned Phil.	•
“ Don’t know, but I expected to see red ones.” Phil stuffed yards of bed quilt into his mouth to keep from screaming. Joe looked on. Then graduallv he understood.
“So ’twas one on me? And Moon too! It’s all right. But say, Phil,” and the strange light came to his eyes and lingered and faded, “had you fellows exposed me to the crowd I think I’d leave you to God. And grandmother says that’s the worst of all curses. But I haye no sore spot now, for you and Moon stopped it. But tell me the trick or I’ll keep you awake all night.”
“The trick?” queried Phil. “O, yes! Why I simply put the smallest possible pin mark on the back of the red cards and feit for the mark with my finger. It’s an old trick. I’m surprised none of you knew it.”
“Not so much, after all,” cried Joe with disappointment.
“Not in comparison with self-hypnosis.” But Joe was gone. .	-

72
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
A Touching Farewell.
I wandered by the river- bank, The stars were shining bright;
A silvery voice came trickling through The silent halls of night.
A voice not strange but long forgot— The singer seemed affright—
Alas! we met, and I received
My last mosquito bite.
C. M.
Back Again.
AVe’re back again at old N. D.
Beneath the golden dome.
How erood it seems once more to be Within our college home!
Once more to roam among her halls We come most willingly,
Once more we answer to her calls, Once more her sons are we.
And all her bells to us sound sweet,
And all her tasks are joys, For life indeed seems quite complete
To N. D.’s lustv boys.
F. L. M.
Here A.gain.
Ig the morning when each mother Wakes and tells her darling son
That the last day of vacation
Has long since its course begun;
When by dint of all-day hustling, Which has nearly turned his brain,
Luckily he boards the platform Of the last out-going train.
Is he sad or glad or mad, or
Does he feel a trifle gay?	:
Tell us truly, youthful students Tell us, you who’ve felt that way.
Meet the boy on his arrival,
While he’s feeling pretty blue,
Grin and slap him on the shoulder, Telling him “How do you do;”
When at night he dreams he’s living Once again at “Home, sweet Honie,”
And the morning bell starts ringing And he sees the near-by dome; ■
Is he sad or glad or mad, or
Does he feel a :rifle gay?
Tell us truly, youthful students, ’
Tell us, you who’ve felt that way.
T. A.L.
The Last Mosquito of Summer.
The summer moon was hanging low, The clouds were piled up high;
A man and maid were-watching for A comet in the sky.
The moon was new and so were they At this four-handed game;
He said the day was awful hot, She said it was a shame.
He said it seemed quite funny that The sun should be so hot
When it had rained but yesterday.
She murmured, “That’s just what.”
He said he hoped it wouldn’t rain
Again to-morrow night;
She, meekly nodding her assent, Replied, “Ain’t it a fright?”
Her honeyed words inspired this man: He viewed her form divine,
And glowing with a new-found love, Exclaimed, “Wilt thou be mine?”
The summer’s last mosquito passed
Just then—his. dirge was sung;
For as she softly gurgled “Sure,”
Was heard a low-voiced “Stung!”
J. F. O’H
_ A Tragedy.
A toothsome bone
By the roadside thrown
And a little pet named “Pug.”
A hurried meal
And a painful squeal,—
And a brand-new parlor rug.
T. A. L.

“The Dream of Gerontius.”
PATRICK A. BARRY, ’l2.
Mankind has ever been religious; and civilized or uncivilized, cultured or uncultured, every nation has had its traditions, its beliefs, and its divinity. It is in the nature of man to worship divinity. This is true of all men;, but it is the Christian who really worships. The noblest trait in the character of man is that of religious love—love of his Creator. Beholding the world about him, awful in its greatness and perfect in its plan, man stands in awe of the grandeur, the wondrousness of it all, and he meditates on the majesty and power of its Creator. But it is the poet, the gifted singer, who must needs give vent to his emotions at such thoughts in poetic language; his heart bursts with emotion and love, and words can scarcely express his feelings.
This is the religious sentiment from which all true poetry springs. All art, as well as poetry, must be inspired with this religious sentiment, this passionate love which urges man to great and noble deeds, not seeking his own glory
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
but that of the Infinite. Such was the spirit which filled Cardinal Newman when he wrote the “Dream of Gerontius.” The old Latin proverb, “Ad maiorem Dei gloriam,” was ever in his mind.	'
As a prose writer Newman has few equals; and it is as a prose writer rather than as a poet that he is best known. “The Arians of the Fourth Century,” the “Idea of a University,” and “An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent” came from his pen. At the time of the Oxford Movement Newman entered the Catholic Church; and being accused of insincerity, he published the “Apologia pro Vita Sua,” that remarkable piece of dialectical literature. These writings gave the author an enviable reputation in the field of letters, a reputation which has grown steadily until to-day it is quite generally conceded that Newman is the greatest master of prose in our language.
This reputation as a prose writer has quite overshadowed Newman’s poetic efforts. He wrote a good-sized volume of poems of various lengths and merit; but when Newman the poet is mentioned, “Lead, Kindly Light” is the first poem that comes to mind. But he wrote a longer and better poem, which deserves a high place in English literature. The poem stands alone in the fact that it treats of the subjective side of the soul after death. Dante had his characters tell why they were in hell, but did not give us any idea of the tortures the souls were enduring by having the souls speak of their condition.
For purity of diction Newman’s poetry is no less remarkable than his prose. Terseness and power begotten of simplicity are the marks of his writings. However, Newman’s poetry contains but few really poetic words, and yet he furnishes both power and rhythm. What description is as powerful and rhythmical as that of the approach of death and the feeling of the soul passing from the body? Gerontius exclaims:
’Tis death—O loving friends, your prayers!—’tishe!... As though my very being had given way, '
As though I was no more a substance now, And could fall back on nought to be my stay, (Help, loving Lord! Thou my sole refuge, Thou) And turn no whither, but must needs decay
And drop from out the universal frame	•
Into that shapeless, scopeless, blank abyss,
That utter nothingness, of which I came.
The use of varied metres adds much to the impressiveness of the poem. ’ Gerontius speaks
73
in rhyming verses, but as soon as the soul leaves his body, it speaks in the lofty and sublime language of blank verse. And so do all the spiritual, the supernatural characters. On the other hand a short, rapid movement is used when the demons speak in a manner suggestive of the noises of the Inferno. The demons assembled near the judgment court, “hungry and wild, to claim their property and gather souls for hell,” are heard to cry out:
Low-born clods Of brute earth They aspire	•	-
To become ?ods, By a new birth And an extra grace And a score of merits
- As if aught	'
Could stand in place	•
Of the high thought And the glance of fire Of the great spirits, The powers blest, The lords by right,
' The primal owners,	'
Of the proud dwelling	•
And realm of light,— Dispossessed Aside thrust, Chucked down By the sheer might Of a despot’s will	.
Of a tyrant’s frown.
The poem from beginning to end is in strict conformity with Catholic doctrine and practices; it presents a true picture of the death-chamber with the priest reading the prayers • of the dying and with friends praying for the soul’s repose. Then the soul departs to its judgment. Judgment is passed and the. soul is consigned to Purgatory:
And ye great powers
Angels of Purgatory, receive from me My charge, a precious soul, until the day, When, from all bond and forfeiture released, I shall reclaim it for the courts of-light.
And then the Angel leaves the soul, saying encouragingly:
Farewell, but not forever! brother dear,
Be brave and patient on thy bed of sorrow; . Swiftly shall pass thy night of trial here,
- And I will come and wake thee on the morrow.
In conclusion, let it be said that the “Dream of Gerontius” deserves to live and is worthy of a high place in literature, perhaps just below Dante’s masterpiece. But it must live as the only poem which deals with the subjective side of the soul after death.	.

74
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the
University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV.	October 15, 1910.	No. 5.
Board of Editors.
THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ I 1
ARTHUR J. HUGHES, ’ 11
JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll JOHN C. TULLY, ’ll PAUL RUSH, ’12
CHARLES J. MILTNER, ’ I 1 FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ I I RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ 1 I JOHN P. MURPHY, ' I 2
—A tradition has existed here that students shall not smoke anywhere on the front lawn of the University. Some have forgotten or affect to override the A No-smoke Ordinance, time-honored custom.
The more the pity! This “no smoke ordinance” is a tradition which has given us an air of respectability in the past and has never failed to impress visitors.' The tradition is one well worthy to live. In future let it not be followed out more in the breach than in the observance.
—The other day John Tully, president of the senior class, wished to resign his position owing to the press of other duties. The senior class thought other-Certain Lessons from the wise, and refused to
Senior Class. accept his resignation.
A warfare of good feeling followed in which the upper classmen won out after some oratory had been expended. As a result, Tully is still president. The incident teaches a lesson, which is useful for our immediate world and for the world beyond our gates. Those who covet office seldom receive it with good grace. Those who do not often have it
thrust upon them. It teaches an added lesson. The class of this year has proved from the beginning, and proves to-day, that it is possible for all classes to set aside small jealousies, self-
seeking, and to work for the good of the organi-O’	o	o
zation. The results will be apparent: good fellowship, unity of aims and efforts, and when the good-bys shall have been said in June there will linger a wealth of pleasant memories.
—The concert season has opened. As will be seen from the list to be published next week, varied and high-grade programs are to be presented in Washington In Regard to the hall during concert season.
Concert Course. It seems needless to discuss these general lectures and musical programs as aids to culture. The great majority of the students already know and appreciate them. Those who do not will learn by time—if they are teachable. This, however, they must learn right now: If they do not appreciate they must not interfere with the enjoyment of those who do. They must not consider themselves free to enter Washington hall and spoil for others that which mind or training unfits them to enjoy.
They may have their own ideas as to what constitutes entertainment. There is no law except the great law of growth and enlightenment to force them to accept other ideas. But there is a law to prevent them interfering with the enjoyment of the audiences that will assemble in Washington hall during the present scholastic year. It is not necessary’ to be more specific. The programs to be witnessed are a part of the plan of education which the University has mapped out. Some may not have reached the age of appreciation. Others may not have reached the age of behavior. That is neither here nor there. There must be no interference with the full enjoyment of the programs of the concert course.
*	V
—Hardly fifteen years ago a little machine went puffing up Madison Avenue in New York City, choking and stopping suddenly and then starting on with jerky lunges,
Practical	coughing an evil - smelling
o o	o
Aero-Navigation, blue smoke and rattling like a kitchen shower. Every time it stopped it was surrounded by a crowd of curious onlookers who made it almost
- impossible for the long-suffering mechanic to apply a wrench to a bolt. The machine carried a passenger besides the driver—carried, that is when it went. To-day, tens of thousands of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
these machines may be seen on the streets of that city, carrying the commerce of the city, conveying business men and pleasure-seekers, shoppers and promenaders. The automobile has become such an important factor in the world of business and pleasure that it would now be next to impossible to get along, without it. Last week a man-bird flew from Chicago to Springfield in record time, arriving before a special railroad train sent to accompany him. But two stops were made en route. Another record flight was made to St. Louis from Spring- -field a few days later. Of course, the outcome of this can not be predicted with certainty, but the very fact that the attempt is made shows that aerial navigation has reached a stage of comparative security. The heavier-than-air machine, the only one that seems a commercial possibility, has almost passed the experimental stage; it is much more of a practical thing than was the little Madison Avenue car of a few years ago. The aeroplane may have come to stay.
—Happily the day has passed when the printed page, as such, is given absolute credence. Unfortunately, however, the day is here when any neoTalk of Morality! logical numskull who may be able to construct a grammatical sentence is tendered the printed page as a medium of expressing to the world the most amenable conceptions of morality or even of common decency. Much has been said of “free love” and “affinities,” while the most prolific source of “copy” for the yellow sheets is the testimony of the divorce courts. All this is deplorable enough and, it was hoped, nothing more rabid would be forthcoming. Yet, even in so sanguine a hope, there is disappointment. The reason follows: “ Unlimited families are a curse. It is a crime for most people to have even as many as two children. The world would be better if most marriages were childless and most children orphans.” This statement quoted in the Chicago Record-Herald from the writings of one “Lillian Bell” is thus commented upon: “Who but ‘Lillian Bell’ would thus strike from the shoulder on a subject which most persons hedge with subjunctives and muffle with a saving clause?”, Yes, who? No one, we hope, except the above-mentioned Lillian B. to whom the Record Herald gives a space which more
75
properly and profitably might be given over to market quotations. By all means let Lillian pass on. The world will be better for her going. The atmosphere will be clearer, the sun brighter. .	.
----------------------_
—Just now it is Portugal that thinks the old regime has outlived its usefulness and should be supplanted by a new form of government. Of course, the Portugal a Republic? only form of government which could possibly be adopted by a modern- nation is the republican. The prevalence of evils in their government has been a long-existing source of grievance to the Portuguese. Anarchy and astounding incompetence, aggravated by un-1 awful greed, have, for many years, characterized the present regime. Conditions have become gradually worse, so that now almost ■ any change must be an improvement. At 4ny rate, the present crisis marks a new era in the land. Whatever the outcome of the affair may be, it can not be altogether an unmixed evil. If the establishment of the republic is best calculated to restore peace and prosperity among the people, it certainly deserves the sincere sympathy and moral support of wise political leaders.
Notice to Parents.
There is a movement on foot to organize an excursion of students to the football game between Notre Dame and the University, of Michigan on November 5th. At the request of a committee of students the President has taken the matter under consideration. He wishes it to be understood in advance that no student will be permitted to go to Ann Arbor who has not previously received permission and money from home. The regular classes of Saturday, November 5th, will, in event of this excursion, be held on the preceding Thursday, November 3d. Parents are hereby notified that unless they are heartily disposed to permit their sons to go on this excursion there is riot the slightest necessity to do so. Large numbers of the best students will remain at home as a matter of choice. Those who do go can easliy make the entire journey and return for §10.	’
76
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Founder’s Day.
LITERARY AND MUSICAL PROGRAM.
Founder’s Day is one of . the great days at Notre Dame. The story of the privations and sacrifices that have made, possible such an institution as ours, is dear to every student’s heart; the name of Father Sorin will live forever as one that stands for all that is good, noble and Christ-like.
The exercises in celebration of the day this year began with a literary and musical program in Washington Hall on Columbus Day, the eve of Founder’s Day. The program this year was exceptional because of its versatility. The University is fortunate in having a harpist of remarkable ability in the person of Irvin S. Dolk, and his number, as well as the well-rendered selections of Professor Sauter and Charles J. Robinson, contributed to give pleasing variety to the afternoon’s entertainment. The orchestra had a pleasant surprise in store for the students, for although it has been organized only a few weeks, it was equal to a professional orchestra in the rendition of its selections. The literary numbers were well received and were very _ good considering the short time given for preparation. The program follows: Selection...............“The	Prince of To-night”
University Orchestra Ode........................“Our Founder—Sorin”
Charles C. Miltner, Philosophy, i Ode..................................“	Columbus ”
John F. O’Hara, Philosophy, ’n
Song—“Notre Dame”..................The	[Audience
Piano Solo—Prof.	Carl Sauter..........Selected
.Violin Solo.....................    .Selected-
Charles J. Robinson, Engineering, ’12
Harp Solo..............................Selected
'	Irvin S. Dolk, Law, ’13
Selection..............“The Goddess of Libery” University Orchestra
“Sorin”.7........................C. L. O’Donnell
■ Francis J. Wenninger, Letters, ’n
“Columbus”.................-......Joaquin Miller
Claude A. Sorg, Science
Song............“Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean”
The Audience
March—“The Plutocrat”........University Orchestra
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The patron feast of St. Edward’s Hall was celebrated with the usual ceremonies. Solemn high mass was sung in Sacred Heart Church by Rev. Father Maguire; Rev. Fathers Schumacher and Carrico acted as deacon and sub-deacbn, respectively. Rev. Vice-President Crum
ley sang mass for the Minims in their chapel.
After the morning services, the annual novelty meet was held, the events being continued until late in the afternoon. The meet was pronounced by competent judges to have been the most successful in many years, the day being perfect for such performances and the boys being in excellent spirits and fine form for the contests. After the final consolation race was run the winners assembled 'in the gymnasium to receive their prizes. Following - is a list of events and winners:
Bicycle races—Grade I: H. Schloeman, first, J. O’Connell, second; grade II: H. Lensing, first, N. Courcier, second; grade III: J. Railton, first, J. Bowles, second; champion race won by H. Lensing
Broad jump—Grade I: G. Townsend, first, H Schloeman, second; grade II: G. Cunningham, first, N. Wittenberg, second.
High jump—Grade I: S. Vyzreal, first, J. O’Connell, second; grade II: F. Sickler, first, R Cagney, second.
Running races—Grade I: G. Madigan, first, A. Dee, second; grade II: K. Krippenee, first, H. Taylor, second; grade III: W. Cagney, first, R. O’Connell, second; grade IV: S. Pcugnet, first, E. Fletcher, second.
Three legged race—Grade I: F. Powers, first, G. Beane, second; grade II: L. McBride, first, A. Moynihan, second; grade III: W. Cagney, first, R. Stoll, second.
Hurdle races—Grade I: N. Barry, first, G. Holden, second; grade II: O. Richardson, first, M. T.erned, second; grade III: E. Golden, first, D. Outhuse, second; grade IV: J. Shannon, first, H. Devoux, second.
Sack races—Grade I: G. Martel, first, J. Dodge, second; grade II: M. Dixon, first, J. Polakow, second; grade III: F. Green, first, J. Newton, second; grade IV: T. Welch, first, J. Rail ton, second.
Consolation races—Grade I: D. Smith, first, H. Gonzales, second; grade II: H. Lensing, first, R. White, second; grade III: T. Johnson, first, L. Osborne, second.
Apostolate of Religious Reading.
The director of the apostolate wishes to thank the following firms and doctors for generous contributions to the library fund: Mclnery and Doran, .Beyer’s Floral Store, George Wyman & Co., Adler & Co., Mangold, Photographer, Petersen and Adler, Renfranz, Tailor, Beitner’s Shoe Store, John C. Ellsworth, Dr. Senrich, Dr. Boyd-Snee, Dr. Stoeckley, Dr. Eucas. The director bespeaks for the foregoing the patronage of the students. The amount of money received so Jar this year is S63. The director hopes to obtain sufficient money to buy a hundred books.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Visit of Dr. Lepicier.
Class Affairs.
The University was honored last Wednesday by a visit from the Very Rev. Dr. Lepicier, the famous theologian of the Propaganda in Rome. The name of Lepicier is one of the most distinguished in modern theology. The eminent doctor received a cordial welcome from Faculty and students. He dined with the President of the University on Wednesday and addressed the students in the east dining-room.
The Opening Concert.
The Skovgaard Concert party opened the concert season last Saturday with a program that covered a period of one hour and a half. Mr. Skovgaard' was the chief artist, rendering a number of ■ excellent selections on the violin, the instrument over which he exercises almost complete mastery. The rendering of Chopin’s Nocturne, Op. 9, No. 3 was particularly effective. Miss Alice McClung is a capable piano player and an accompanist of ' high merit. Miss May Warner' sang simple ballads, which showed good judgment, since her voice is neither very'- powerful nor very pleasing. .	'
The younger element in the audience needs to be reminded that stamping of feet, longcontinued hand clapping, repeated curtain calls and generally any of the “hurrah” methods of peanut gallery are quite out of place in Washing-ton Hall.
THE SENIOR CLASS.
The senior class, in a meeting last Sunday afternoon, refused to accept the resignation of President Tully, and he will continue to lead the class this year. It was decided also to ' levy a monthly assessment to pay the joint expenses of the class. The editor- of the Dome was permitted to choose another editor to assist him in his work, and was given the liberty to make his selection from any senior class. The generous and friendly spirit of this year’s seniors has been manifest on more than one occasion and has called forth much favorable comment.
JUNIOR LAW CLASS.
The junior law class held its annual election during the week, and selected the following officers: president, John P. Murphy; vicepresident, James Nolan; secretary, Chester McGrath; treasurer, John Costello; sergeant-at-arms, Warren Burke.
Sophomore Class.	-
It is understood that a meeting of the sophomore class was held during the week, and the following officers were elected: president, Frank Crowley; vice-president, James Devitt; secretary, Martin Heyl; treasurer, Gilbert Marcille; sergeant-at-arms, Raymond Honan.
Society Notes.
Band Concert.
Ciricilla’s Famous Italian band was the attraction in Washington Hall on Thursday afternoon. For an hour and a half, we were entertained with a program made up of classical numbers interspersed with several selections from modern musical comedies and national hymns. A novel feature of the performance was the conducting of the boy-leader who directed several selections. Under his baton, the interpretation came forth more perfect than from many a more experienced leader’s direction. While the program, as a whole, was inferior to that of such bands as Victor’s, nevertheless, Ciricilla’s is a very high-class organization, and we,enjoyed its performance thoroughly.	.	.
HOLY CROSS TEMPERANCE SOCIETY.
On Monday the Holy Cross Total Abstinence Society celebrated the feast of its patron, Father Matthew. In the morning, Mr. Lahey the president of the society, delivered an eloquent and powerful address in the chapel. Mr. Lahey dilated chiefly on the reasons for total abstinence. The meeting in the evening was one of the most successful in the history of the society. The musical program contained a number by the Holy Cross Orchestra, a piano solo by Mr. Norckauer and a song by Mr. B.-Mulloy. The literary numbers were excellent. Mr. Miltner’s ode to Father Mathew was a beautiful tribute to the great apostle of temperance. Mr. Forrestal gave a short resume of the temperance preacher's work in a carefully written paper. The humorous side of the
78
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
program was left to Mr. Rosewicz and his rendition of “ Stage-struck” certainly established his reputation as an entertainer. The subject of Mr. Wenninger’s talk was “The Seminarian as a Total Abstainer.” There were beauty, truth and conviction in the speaker’s effort. Father O’Donnell was the guest of the evening and gave the society the benefit of his experience as a total abstainer. His words of sound counsel and beautiful exhortation were profoundly impressive. Father French, the Spiritual Director, closed the program with a few words of appreciation and encouragement.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS.
Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus held its regular bi-weekly meeting on Tuesday, Oct. ii. Routine business was transacted and the Knights were addressed by Mr. M. Caveney, formerly of Holy Cross College, Worcester, who spoke of the great work done by the Knights of Columbus in other places and of j-the degree of distinction already won by the local council. Focal knights were invited to attend the solemn high mass given by South Bend Council at St. Patrick’s church tomorrow at 10:30 a. m.
BROWNSON LITERARY SOCIETY.
The Brownson Literary and Debating Society held its third regular meeting last Sunday evening. The question for debate was: “Resolved, That public utilities should be owned and operated by the municipalities.” The affirmative was supported by Messrs. T. Mahoney, F. Derbin and H. Carroll; the negative, by Messrs. W. Cotter, M. Morrissey and F. O’Connell. The debate was very interesting, both sides bringing out many strong arguments. The decision of the judges was givemin favor of the affirmative. Other numbers on the program were: “The Last Leaf,” by R. Schindler, “To a Waterfowl,” by E. Riedmann, “Christmas Treasures,” by H. Gefell, an address by G. Coyne. The reverend critic addressed the society on “The Culture to be derived from a Literary Society,” which was appreciated by all. After the reading of the constitution of the society by the secretary, the meeting adjourned.
' ;------------------
Personals.
- —Among the students in Brownson Hall this year is Amos Kendall Clay whose father
was a student at the University from ’62-’66.
—Raymond T. Conron, student ’03-’05, of Danville, Ill., brought his brother Carl to the University last week. Raymond is in the hardware business in his home town.
—Air. Jeff E. Wheeler of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is another member of the Grand Son Club. His father, Charles E. Wheeler, was a prominent student here in the ’70’s.
—The marriage of Miss Alice Marion Cassidy to Air. Arthur George Drumm took place at 8 o’clock, Wednesday, October 12, in Sacred Heart Church, Center Avenue, B. E., Pittsburg. The groom was one of our most popular students of recent years. The Scholastic expresses the felicitations and best wishes of the University for a happy life.
Obituary.
The death is announced of Dr. John N. Eyan-son who passed away October 2d after a very brief illness. John Eyanson was deservedly popular at the University. After his collegiate work here he made a brilliant medical course, and a few years after his graduation his mind gave way under the strain of hard labor, and for some years his intellect had been partially clouded over.
' To Frank E. Byanson (Litt. B. ‘96) and the other members of his family, the Scholastic on behalf of the University expresses sincere condolence and promises prayers.
Calendar.
Sunday Oct. 16-—Brownson Literary Society.
“	St. Joseph vs.	Corby.
“	Band Practice	after Alass.
Monday, Oct 17—Orchestra Practice.
“	Band Practice	at 3 o’clock.
Wednesday, Oct. 19—Civil Engineering Society.
“ Philopatrian Society.
Thursday, Oct. 20—Walsh vs. Brownson.
“ Band Practice after Mass.
Saturday, Oct. 22—Buchtel vs. N. D. Cartier
Field. ‘
Local Items.
—Caps and gowns are budding; the new seniors have arrived to the dignity of their station.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
79
—“Notre Dame night" at the Knights of Columbus bazaar in South Bend attracted a large contingent of local spendthrifts last Wednesday.	_
—“Sunset in the Sophomore Class” is said to be the title of a little epic which “Judge” Buckley proposes to dedicate to the members of that class.
—The Philopatrian Society held their regular weekly meeting last Wednesday evening. The regular program was dispensed with, the constitution of the society being read.
—President Cavanaugh visited classes during o	o
the week, much to the delight of professors and students. This careful and personal supervision of the work done in classes brings the different departments in closer touch under the common head, and helps materially to a better understanding.
—Students who can play any instrument, or who can sing are requested to report to Professor Petersen to fill places in the band, orchestra and glee club. A little honest effort will have a mandolin club at the University as well. It is hard to express the full appreciation felt toward the University musicians, but nevertheless the work is appreciated by the students, and everything should be done to encourage it.
—After speaking of the record made by certain Notre Dame men from the South American countries, the Hiberno-Argentine Review published in Buenos Aires, Argentina, remarks:
“It is indeed gratifying to see young men of Catholic families going to Catholic schools and universities where, besides the best possible courses, they are instructed in their religion. There is no necessity for Catholic parents to send their boys to non-Catholic schools, when they have quite as good a technical dr classical and superior moral training in Catholic colleges. ”
—The Faculty Pedestrian Club has disbanded. Strange to say, the notice of dissolution may bring to many the first news of its formation, but the fact remains that much was done in the short but active life of the society. It might have happened thus, to propose a purely hypothetical case: Suppose A, B and C are members, x, South Bend, y Niles and o the country store; pie square then must be Haney’s. Now let A, B and C start out for y and let C go off into the alfalfa woods and fall asleep. Then let A and B work in circles to find C; C awakes and seeks x in the direction
of y; to find the circumference take pie square— but pie is missing—and so are A and B. Fifteen miles was finally found to be the circumference, and it was found that A B C x y minus pie square equals—Never Again.
Athletic Notes.
VARSITY PULLS DOWN FIRST CONTEST.
If the old saw about making a good beginning has anything to do with it we have much to expect from Coach Longman’s 1910 football aggregation. In the course of our athletic experiences every year we have much to do with Olivet. The appearance of spring is heralded by the first robin, and the opening of an athletic season at Notre Dame, be it baseball or football is usually made auspicious by the presence of an Olivet team. When the Olivet men came on the field last Saturday it was felt that the}’- were destined to make their presence felt in a most pronounced manner, for we have seldom seen so well equipped a representation from that institution of learning. The men were for the most part heavy and showed up well in their signal drill before the game, but once on the field it was evident that there was lacking that co-ordination between the men which goes to make the real football team. Their attempts at the forward pass ended with but one exception in a disastrous manner. The line held well on defense, but failed to work much devastation on the opposition when gains were needed. Upton,’ their quarter-back, deserves special praise for the manner in which he ran his team.
The playing on the part of Notre Dame’s men was at times loose and several costly fumbles resulted, but this can be attributed to the fact that the coach gave nearly every man on the squad an opportunity to show his worth, and also to the fact that the game was more or less of an experiment with the new rules. Billie Ryan, of last year’s championship team, was kept out of the game with his injured knee.	.	.
It was a matter of much pleasure to .the bleacherites to again have the opportunity of seeing Collins, Matthews, Dimmick and O'	7	7
Philbrook working under the good old banner, o	o
The work of these men was conspicuous at all times. It is to their experience and leadership that we must look in the main for a repetition
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
80
of last year’s wonderful record. The manner in which the new men would show up was a matter of much curiosity and it can well be said that they exceeded in a decisive way all expectations regarding their ability.' Coach Longman used eight men in the backfield, and it would be a hard matter, indeed, to give any one man the palm. “Shorty” Bergman, “Paddy” Ryan, Clippenger, Clinnin, McGinnis, Dorias, Rochne, and McGrath, will give the coach much difficulty when it comes to pick the regular back field men. Foie}’- showed well at center as did Crowley at right end.
There was one feature of the afternoon which needs attention and that quickly. Reference is made to the rooting by the students. It was fortunate that some one- started an airship scare, for it served to arouse the bleachers from the lethargy into which the}'' had fallen. We learn to do by doing, and it is unfortunate that the student body let pass an opportunity to get in some real collegiate organized rooting. From all accounts the team is going to have a stiff time of it with Buchtell a week from to-day, so get out the old-time “two bit” megaphones and work up the spirit that a University the size of Notre Dame should display. Don’t let the minims abuse the privilege.
WALSH VS. ST. JOSEPH
The opening game of the Interhall series was played last Sunday afternoon, St. Joseph defeating Walsh by an 8-0 score after an exciting and hard-fought battle. For the first two periods the outcome was constantly in doubt, although Walsh seemed to have a shade the better of the argument, the ball being in St. Joseph’s territory most of the time. After the long rest, however, St. Joseph came back hard, pushing Father Quinlan’s men back on their own goal line. On the next play, Larkin attempting to punt, was caught behind the line, giving. St. Joseph a safety. In the next quarter, Funk got off on a long en»d run, placing the ball on Walsh’s 15-yard line, where he soon carried it over on a line-buck. Maloney kicked goal, making the score 8-0. Larkin was the star for Walsh, his consistent punting undoubtedly saving his team a larger defeat. For St. Joseph, Funk and Maloney .played exceptionally good' offensive games, the former getting off for some sensational end rims, the latter showing much skill in returning punts. On the defense, Howard and Barry of St. Joseph were in the
play every minute, time after time downing men after they had gotten past the line of scrimmage.
o	'
'	SORIN VS. BROWNSON	~
In one of the best games seen around the University in a long time Sorin took Brownson into camp to the tune of 6 to o Thursday afternoon. The teams were- evenly matched, but the exceptional work of Granfield and Fish in dodging through their opponents brought grief to the Brownson camp in the early part of the first half. The forward pass and end runs were the best ground-gainers for both teams, for it seemed impossible for either team to gain consistently the necessary ten yards on line bucks. Sorin secured a second touch-down by bringing the forward pass into play with the aid of the time-honored shoestring play, but the rule requiring the pass to be made at least five yards behind the line of scrimmage caused the referee to say “Nay, nay, Pauline.” Brownson also secured a touchdown which afforded only temporary relief, when Nowers picked up a fumble and ran with it after the referee had blown his whistle. Two other touchdowns made by Fish of Sorin were not allowed by Referee Longman. Barring the possibility of the draft rule being brought into play by coach Longman of the Varsity, the Sorin aggregation stand a fine chance for the interhall honors. With the encouragement of one clean-cut victory, and the experience of one stubbornly fought contest to her credit, Sorin’s chance for the. flag looks good.
CARROLL HALL
Cagney’s Carroll Hall vets are working hard much to the satisfaction of Dimmick. Many trick plays, unheard of before, arebeing taught the team. A game is scheduled with South Bend high school, second team, for Monday. The line-up will be: halves, Sweeney, Harrigan; full, Gooley; quarter back, Cagney; ends, Sexton, Lucas; tackles, Winkleman, O’Donnell; guards, Brophy, Jackomet; center, Railton.	’
Carroll Hall team lined up for their first game, against South Bend, Thursday last. The accurate passing of O’Malley and the head work of Loebs scored two touchdowns for the Carrolls. The Benders were unable to see the five yard line.' "	.	..