The Notre Dame Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY	DECEMBER 2
$3.00 THE YEAR	19 3 2
THE PILGRIM’S FIRST WINTER “Nature in the Raw”—as por-frayed by Herbert Roese, celebrated painter...inspired by the bitter hardships endured by America’s first settlers in their conflict widt raw, wild nature (1620). “Nature in the Haw is SeldomMild”—andrawtobaccos have no place in cigarettes.


2
No raw tobaccos in Luckies
3
that’s why they’re so mild

VlgSS
L\g
w. buy the finest, the very finest tobaccos in all the world—but that does not explain why folks everywhere regard Lucky Strike as the mildest cigarette. The fact is, we never l overlook the truth that k "Nature in the Raw is ■ Seldom Mild”—so these fine tobaccos, after proper
aging and mellowing, are then given the benefit of that Lucky Strike purifying process, described by the words—"Its toasted”. That’s why folks in every city, town and hamlet say that Luckies are such mild cigarettes.
“It’s toasted”
That package of mid Luckies
December 2, 1932
One
HURRY . . .
and get Your Copy of the latest
NOTRE DAME
Now on Sale
at
The Cafeteria and All Newsstands
Twenty-five Cents .... and well worth it!
Two
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Presidents, 1842-1932
Rev. William Corby, C.S.C.
Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C. 1865-66
Rev. Augustus Lemonnicr, C.S.C. 1872-74
Rev. Patrick Colovin, C.S.C. 1874-77
1866-72, 1877-81
Rev. Thomas Wa’sh, C.S.C. 1881-93
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C. 1893-1905
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. 1842-65
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 1905-19
Rev. James Bums, CJS.C. 1919-22
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C. 1922-28
Rev. Charles L. O’DonneV, C.S.C. 1928-
December 2, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	K |	|	|
lished weekly at the Univers- I	I I
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- I AC l^(Otr€ ^ZCHDw OCIlOOStlC
scripts may be addressed to
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations Office, Main Building.
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October S, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan...............
James S. Kearns.................
Editor-in-Chie / Managing Editor
Associate Editors
F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON WILLIAM DREUX	LLOYD TESKE
Netos Staff
MITCH ELL TACKLE Y......News Editor
ROY SCHOLZ......Assistant News Editor MICHAEL WIEDL ROBERT DILLON JOHN McELLIGOTT
Desk Editors PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS............The	Week
ROGER McGOVERN.....College	Parade
ROGER BEIRNE.......Music and Dra—a
RICHARD PREZEBEL......Staff Artist
Sports Staff LESLIE RADDATZ......Sports	Editor
WILLIAM FLYNN JOSEPH KURTH PAUL HOST EDWARD VAN HUISSELING FRED MacBETH GEORGE BELTING JAMES PICK
Features Staff RAY WATERS....................Features	Editor
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY. Graduate Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON J. ALBERT SMITH
Volume LXVI.
DECEMBER 2, 1932
No. 9
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, Dec. 2.—Scholastic staff meetings, Editorial Board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news, sports and features staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222 Main Building; First Friday Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:25 p. m.’; Southern California Pep Rally, Gym, 7:45 'p. m.; Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, Dec. 3.—Movie, “Washington Masquerade,” with Lionel Barrymore and Karen Morley, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, Dec. 4.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Communion Breakfast of K. of C., 9:00 a. m., Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
. MONDAY, Dec. 5.—Concert Band rehearsal, 4:15 p. m., Washington Hall.
TUESDAY, Dec. 6.—Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p. m., Washington Hall.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 7.—Movie, “State’s Attorney,” with John Barrymore, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m.; Wranglers meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Dec. 8.—Feast of Immaculate Conception; no classes; Spectators meeting, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.
-------❖❖--------
SUMMARY
NEWS
Father Nieuwland Again Startles Scientific World with Invention of His Synthetic Drying Oil................... 5
Hilarious “Charley’s Aunt” is Title of Initial Production of University Theater.............................. 5
Father John Ryan, Famous for his Economic Texts, Will Lecture at Notre Dame in February; Attorney James Fitzgerald also Booked........................ 6
Freshman of Department of Music Preparing for Presentation of Light Operetta........................   6
Howard and Dillon Halls to Vie for Interhall Debate Title Next Week in Finals........................... 7
Twenty Colleges Participate in Catholic Alumni Conference Here Last Week..............................12
FEATURES
Cleve Carey, prexy of prexies, interviewed in “Man
About” ..................................-..... 8
“Voice of Campus” receives letters from disappointed readers ......................................... 9
Digging into the past of Notre Dame, many interesting facts are found..................................14
Forgotten Village of Bertrand Was Once the Seat of ’
Activity and Aspiration......................  15
Shades of a Medieval Culture Found on Notre Dame
Campus ............................-.....-..17
Introducing Emmett Murphy............—........20
SPORTS
Notre Dame overwhelms Army, 21 to 0, before 80,000
in .New York.......................................20
Few monogram men back as indoor track season nears..2O
Alumni beats Walsh for right to play Morrissey for interhall football championship....................  22
Kurth at tackle position on five All-Americans.........22
Southern California is last game of the season for
Notre Dame ........................................23
Navy holds Irish to 12-0 score at Cleveland..........24
Splinters from the Press Box.........................25
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
y^^FTER the columns of praise for the Notre Dame football team that have been filling our daily papers, what can we say? Those boys know we are proud of them, but let’s keep the brakes on. If the Army had won there would have been just as much praise in the other direction, and mournful predictions for the future of Notre Dame. It was no upset to those who walked to the Communion rail Saturday morning, neither was it an upset to those unseen and unheard loyal supporters of Notre Dame, the Sisters, who sacrificed the privilege of listening to the game in order to sit in the chapel and finger their beads for the success of “their boys.” Don’t break an arm trying to pat each other on the back; it wasn’t entirely the “failure of the 6-2-2-1 defense,” or the “superb blocking,” or the “fine field generalship” that won the game.
V
E realized with a jolt the other day that Christmas is only three weeks off. We were walking along the street in town when we noticed a flock of ragged, grimy, sniffling children with their noses pressed against a store window watching a Santa Claus demonstrate mechanical toys. A lot of these kids are going to turn cynical after this Christmas. We are not too old to remember that ache around the heart the first time we heard that there was no Santa Claus. There was balm for that ache though; on Christmas morning we found our presents just the same. These children are going to find out the hard way. Talk it over in the halls, or consult with Father O’Hara. There is something you can do to preserve a belief that was important enough for the New York Sun to publish one of America’s most famous editorials,—“There Is A Santa Claus.”
V
J/0 paraphrase an old journalism axiom,— when the Notre Dame student body has a pep meeting and begins to tear up the town, it’s just one of those things, but when the vice-president of the University compliments the student body on their behavior at a pep meeting, that’s news! Father Mulcaire was high in his praise of the students when they assembled for supper in the
dining hall after meeting the team on their return from the Army game. Outside of a few street car fares “on the cuff,” the huge crowd that gathered at the Union Station was satisfied to meet their team, give the townspeople a fleeting glimpse of a great squad as they marched down Michigan street, and then break up into groups to continue the celebration on the campus. It lasted but a few minutes. The Palace doors were never threatened, and a half hour after the train pulled in from New York, Sunday night in South Bend was “as usual.”
V
OW that football is over for the present season, with the exception of that little affair in California next Saturday and the yearly argument for All-American honors, we are anticipating frantic letters to the editor pleading for suggestions for amusement.
There is a library on the campus. It is that gray limestone building near the lake. Freshmen who believe that they will be given a lake party if they get caught walking up the library steps are being deceived. They have their traditions mixed; it is traditional not to use the front steps of the Administration Building. There are many interesting things in the library. There is a fine gallery of valuable paintings, and there are books. If your friends catch you coming down the library steps and you wish to be modest about your intellectual dallying, you can always tell them you went in to look at the national football championship trophies.
V ■
X HAT third floor of Walsh Hall is at it again. This time it is a fife and drum corps. Jack Mc-Elwee is the gifted fifer, or is it fifist. He can tweedle a stirring march, or grow plaintive and chirp Mendelssohn’s Spring Song. Jack is very good-natured and will patiently attempt to teach fingering to any applicants. He has a large class but so far has had little success at passing on his art. During the laboratory period of Fifing la, the third floor of Walsh Hall sounds like a freight yard of the Delaware and Lackawanna Railroad.
December 2, 1.932
Five
NIEUWLAND DISCOVERY IS HIGHLIGHT OF CONFERENCE
SDO Has More Market Value Than Synthetic Rubber.
One of the most important features of the recent meeting here of the Indiana Academy of Science was the announcement by the Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., and G. F. Hennion
Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C.
'	S.D.O.
of the department of chemistry, of the discovery of S.D.O., a new, corrosion-resisting finish.
The name S.D.O. has lately come into usage as an abbreviation for Synthetic Drying Oil—a unique substance which may be advantageously used as a protective finish in Laboratories and technical industries.
Chemically S.D.O. is known as a divinylacetylene derivative. This chemical compound was discovered by Father Nieuwland during the course of his researches on acetylene and the primary compounds used in synthetic rubber synthesis. By controlled heating this divinyl acetylene is “polymerized” yielding a clear, nonvolatile oil known technically as S.D.O. Base. A solution of this oil, S.D.O. base, in some thinner such as coal-tar naptha, constitutes a “lacquer.” When these solutions, are spread on surfaces, and the thinner or solvent permitted to evaporate, the drying oil is left behind. Within a few hours this oil film becomes very hard and dry, forming a finish that is insoluble in all solvents and which is not corroded, removed, or broken by corrosives as drastic, even, as acids. By incorporating certain pigments the “lacquer” becomes a “paint.” These S.D.O. paints, like the
SOUTHERN CAL PEP MEET TO-NIGHT IN GYM; ALL OUT!
At seven forty-five tonight a pep meeting will be held in the gymnasium to begin a send-off for the varsity which will end in another demonstration Monday evening before the team’s actual departure for California.
Following the First Friday benediction devotions the entire student body will march to the gym where they will be greeted by Professor Casa-santa and his band, the entire travelling squad, and an impressive group of speakers.
As “The Scholastic” goes to press arrangements have been completed by the Students Activities Council to have the Reverend Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, on the speakers’ program. Others to address the students are Coach Anderson, Captain Edwards of the ’09 varsity, and present Captain Host.
The Scholastic joins hopes with the S. A. C. that every Notre Dame man outside of the infirmary will be on hand.
Notre Dame-Army Game . Of ’29 Retold On Air
Old time Notre Dame football glory was recalled over the radio last Saturday night when Announcer Quin A. Ryan of Station WGN, Chicago, described the 1929 Notre Dame-Army game in his regular presentation of “Headlines of Other Days.”
Another Notre Dame football scene will be presented over the same program a few days after the Southern California game when the same announcer will describe the final weeks of George Gipp’s career, and his death in December of 1920.
lacquers, are exceptionally corrosionresistant to chemical fumes, brines, acids, lye, etc.
Furthermore, a few coats of S.D.O. renders wood, concrete, or other por-our materials completely waterproof. Completely “polymerized” (thoroughly dry) S.D.O. films easily withstand temperatures as high as 400 degrees F. without change.
The E. I. DuPont de Nemours and Company of Wilmington, Delaware have been responsible for the commercial development of S.D.O., and have undertaken its manufacture. It will soon be available for general use.
UNIVERSITY PLAYERS TO
ENACT“CHARLEY’SAUNT”
Production Will Be Given Soon After Christmas.
The University players are again active. With the selection of “Charley’s Aunt,” the perennial laugh rior, rehearsal has already begun. Most of the leading dramatic talent of the campus, with several new faces in evidence, are appearing at tryouts for parts in the production.
As yet there are no announcements as to whom the leading parts will go. But affairs are progressing rapidly, and it is expected that a definite announcement will be made some time in the near future.
Remember Ruggles?
“Charley’s Aunt” has been a laughriot for more than a decade. Directly after its initial apeparance on the New York stage, success was assured. Following long runs on the legitimate stage it appeared- as a silent movie with Syd Chaplain in the leading role. With the advent of the “talkies,” Charles Ruggles played the aunt, and through his performance the hilarious comedy was once more brought into the limelight.
Kelly In Charge
Professor Frank Kelly, of the Department of Speech, is in charge of production. The University Players have been under the direction of Professor Kelly for the past several years; and all their presentations have been well received. In some cases the plays had to be run over their originally intended schedule, usually because the attendance was larger than the seating capacity.
The date for the performance is still undecided. But according to unofficial announcements, “Charley’s Aunt” will appear on two nights within the two weeks following the Christmas holidays.
Last month wheat dropped to less than forty-two cents, which is the amount of the tariff on that product. The University of Illinois once figured ninety cents a bushel as the average cost of producing wheat in Illinois.
Our problem (economic) is not to vanquish want but to manage plenty. —Bolger.
Six
The Scholastic
Fr. John Ryan, Economist, Noted Author, to Visit N.D.
TO GIVE LECTURE
James Fitzgerald, Outstanding in Catholic Action, Will Also Talk Here Soon.
Arrangements have been made by the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and the Department of Philosophy, for two lecturers of national fame to visit the University during the second semester of the school year. Father John A. Ryan, author, professor and world famous economist, and Mr. James Fitzgerald, attorney and Catholic worker, will speak in Washington Hall.
Author Of Text Books
Dr. Ryan, a member of the faculty of the Catholic University of America, is well known as the author of The Living Wage and Distributive Justice, used in many colleges and universities as text books. He will lecture here during the early part of the semester. His subject will be announced at a later date.
Attorney Fitzgerald, prominent in his close connection with the St. Vincent De Paul Society of Detroit of which he is the executive secretary, will speak later in the semester. Mr. Fitzgerald attended the Catholic Alumni convention at Notre Dame last week and spoke to the members on the subject of social problems.
Plans for both lectures are as yet incomplete. The dates, subjects and further data will be made known by Father Miltner as soon as possible.
Dean McCarthy Talks to Foreign Commerce Club
Dean McCarthy of the College of Commerce addressed the meeting of the Foreign Commerce club Wednesday evening on the topic of “Taxes.” He discussed the evils of taxation and cited instances which illustrated clearly that the present system of assessment is not wholly in keeping with the economic conditions of the day.
James Doyle, president of the club, announced that the next meeting will be held on Dec. 12. Mr. Bott will be the speaker of the evening.
Music Students Will Stage Comic Operetta During Early February
“The Vagabonds,” a one act romantic operetta, will be presented by the Department of Music early in February. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta will direct the play. The cast is to be comprised solely of members of the Freshman class.
Initial tryouts for the musical parts were held last evening in music hall. The cast of the operetta includes twelve characters and a large chorus. Freshmen who did not report for tryouts last evening and are interested are asked to report to Professor Casasanta.
“The Vagabonds” written by Arthur A. Penn is in the form of a comic opera. The players are entirely male and there is little dialogue throughout the play.
The production will be staged in the early part of the second semester in Washington Hall. The venture is the first of its type at Notre Dame and its success or failure will largely determine whether or not further productions of its nature will be attempted.
Coming Events of Utica Club Announced at Meet
At a meeting of the Utica club held last Tuesday evening, the final plans for the Christmas dance were announced by the general chairman, Ed Fisher.
“Sleepy” Hall and his orchestra have been engaged to furnish music for the affair. The evening of Dec. 27, and the Hotel Martin Ballroom, Utica, have been chosen as the time and place.
It was also announced that there would be a smoker for the members of the club, Wednesday evening, Dec. 7, in the Knights of Columbus quarters in Walsh Hall. Prof. Farrell has promised to discuss the Gillette case on which Theodore Dreiser based his “American Tragedy.”
At the time this case came to trial, Prof. Farrell was a member of the bar in Herkimer county.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO PLAY DECEMBER 15
Initial Concert Planned By Director Seidel.
Under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will give a concert Thursday, December 15, at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The program will be opened with the overture to Mozart’s opera “The Magic Flute,” an interesting composition which is intended to put the listener in the proper mood for the opera. “The Symphony in G major,” better known as the “Surprise Symphony,” by Joseph Haydn, is also on the program.
Egyptian Rhythms
After a short introduction, the first movement, adagio can-tabile, vivace assai, a cheerful fastmoving theme is played. Following., this comes- the second movement, the Andante. Near the beginning of this movement, which is slow and sweet, there suddenly arises a crashing chord, the effect of which gives the composition its name, “The Surprise Symphony.” The third movement, the Menuetto, is a lively dance. In the final movement, the allegrodi molto, the principal theme is introduced only to disappear and reoccur at the end as the symphony closes.
The second part of the program opens with two movements, andante rostenuto and the allegro non troppo, from Luigini’s Egyptian suite. Both are written in true Egyptian rhythm.
A contrast in rhythm is the' well-known “Sleeping Beauty Valse” by Peter Tchaikowsky. “The French Military March” from the Suite Alger-enne by C. Saint-Saens concluded the program. This composition was inspired by the French foreign legion in Algiers where the author was convalescing.
Personnel of Concert Band
To Be Announced Next Week
The personnel of the Notre Dame concert band will be announced next week by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director of the organization.
The members of the concert band includes those who took part in the marching band as well as additional members chosen after extensive tryouts. The band will present its first concert of the season at the first home basketball game.
I
I
December 2, 1932
Seven
PROF. FREDERICK TALKS AT BOOKMEN DINNER
Howard And Dillon Reach Finals In Interhall Debate
Early History of “Midland” Traced by the Editor.
Professor John T. Frederick of the English department and editor of The Midland was the principal speaker at a dinner of the Bookmen at the Co-
Professok John Frederick O’Brien’s Recognition Helved.
quillard Golf club last Wednesday, evening.
Introduced by Professor Camille McCole, Mr. Frederick related significant events in the founding and early history of the magazine which he edits. The Midland was established in 1915 by Mr. Frederick and a group of his associates among the undergraduates at the University of Iowa. Publishing a literary magazine in the mid-west was no small undertaking, but Edward J. O’Brien’s recognition of this new periodical in the first year of its existence served as a great stimulus to its growth.
Early Contributions
The speaker mentioned some of the early contributors, and told a few amusing anecdotes concerning the persistence of literary aspirants. He also mentioned that editors develop certain prejudices, such as an aversion to manuscripts written on colored or perfumed paper.
Among recent Midland contributors who have achieved some literary distinction are Howard Mumford Jones, Leonard Cline, and William March. Within a few months Mr. March is to produce a novel composed of one hundred sketches, many of which have appeared in The Midland.
At the conclusion of Mr. Frederick’s talk Samuel Hyde, President of the Bookmen, expressed his appreciation to both Mr. McCole and Mr. Frederick for their interest in the organization.
Thousands Welcome Notre Dame’s Happy Warriors On Return from New York
By Robert Dillon
In the red-flare of torches, amid the strain of the Victory March, and the frenzied cheering of more than 15,.000 supporters, the victorious Notre Dame football squad was royally received last Sunday night at the Union station.
The din and noise having somewhat settled, Coach Anderson approached the platform railing and with Shaun Rhue, the new Irish mascot, in his arms he said: “We’re glad to be back. And here’s the lucky dog!” Captain Paul Host thanked the student body for their whole-hearted support, and Big Ed Krause informed any persons who were in doubt that “the hide of the Army mule is right here on the train.” Several other members of the squad talked, and each was hailed with a lusty “He’s a man!”
Gigantic Parade
Following their departure from the station the squad was put in taxis, which slowly moved to the business district of South Bend. Here thousands of persons were lined along the sidewalks, and traffic was at a standstill. There were many drivers who volunteered to take students back to the campus, and with these offers the cars were overloaded. The fellows sat on the automobiles wherever they could find a seat, and in many cases only the windshields of the cars could be seen.
While parading down Michigan Avenue the students kept up a continuous cheering, interspersed with •Notre Dame’s football songs.. Then with Southern California in mind, two weeks hence, a chant was started featuring the words, “Beat So. Cal.!” and “Lick those Trojans!”
Even with all the noise and evidences of spirit, the reception was characterized by the greatest orderliness. After the parade returned to the campus, and to supper which had been deferred until 6:30, Sunday night .Benediction followed. The' Notre Dame team was back home.
DEBT TOPIC NEXT
Juniors and Freshmen Will Meet for Trophy Soon In
Wrangler Contest.
By Louis Hruby
In two of the most intensively rivaled debates ever held on the campus, the finalists in the Wranglers interhall debating league were determined, during the last week. A well coached Dillon team talked its way to a close decision over Lyons, after the latter had offered many arguments against President Hoover’s move in calling out the Army to evict the Bonus Marchers from the city of Washington, D. C.
Sorin Strong Opponent
Howard, in the Senior division, barely defeated the strong Sorin team, debating the superiority of the Oxonian System over the American system of higher education. Howard debated the affirmative side of the question.
The Sophomore - Freshman league carried its semi - finals before the Knights of Cc-lumbus of South Bend, with over fifty members attending the debate. The judges were prominent attorneys, Edmund Wills, Paul Butler, and Aaron Huguenard, who voted two to one in favor of the Dillon team.
Lyons Hall
Members of the two teams were: George Lawton, Lucian Bloom, and William Burkhart for Lyons, and Justin Hannon, Robert Schmelsle, and Eugene Malloy for Dillon.
Lyons lost its greatest chance, when, after three constructive speeches were built around evidence that President Hoover’s action was not only unjustifiable, but unconstitutional, they failed to discredit the constitutional authority upon which the Dillon team denied the irregularity of the President.
John O’Connor, Gene Blish and John Locher, composed the winning Howard team, while Sorin was represented by Ed Ackerman, Ralph Ehr, and Fred Meyers. Howard scored heavily, when Sorin failed to recog-(Continued on Paste 27)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
By Roy Scholz
Curly black hair, never out of place, shoes shined and pants creased —yes, Cleve Carey is a senior, but a senior extraordinary. He’s president of the Presidents’ Council.
Cleve Carey
He just does it.
Prexy, was the nickname given to him on his appointment to that office. It -was at first against his will, but it stuck, and is now taken as a matter of fact.
From early high school years Prexy enjoyed reading, though he claims that he isn’t a serious student. Books of all types and classes have passed his perusing eyes. Perhaps it is this taste for literature that led to writing, and perhaps it isn’t. School papers in two high schools, Canisius of Buffalo, and Cathedral Latin of Cleveland, printed the results of his efforts. Cleve’s attempts as a scribe improved until, in his last year of preparatory education, he staggered under the pompous title of Assistant Editor-in-Chief of the year book.	’
Why He Chose College
Cleve went to college because every one else did. The glamor of athletics attracted him and Prexy aspired for the track team, but he failed at this physical outlet of emotion. It took him some time to find himself and again he turned to his pen; perhaps the thought that “the pen is mightier than ye old cutlass,” gave him consolation. Soon he obtained publicity from his column “On Down the Line” in The Scholastic. His writing brought his Organization and Campus editorship of the Dome and indirectly, defeat for the position of Editor-in-Chief,
Being pleasant personally, and always seeming to say just the right thing at the right time, made him a good politician. The Cleveland Club elected him treasurer and the next term president. Last fall he was elected president of the Presidents’ Council and received his nickname.
Perhaps no bridge player in the world got off to so poor a beginning as Cleve. He started' this summer, and at present, so his roommate says, he can claim the most booby prizes in the school. His other social enthusiasms are saved for Lakewood, a suburb of Cleveland, Ohio. He is an ardent Eugene O’Neill fan—claims to have read every one of his plays. Bennet and Ludwig are also his favorites.
Science, A.B., Law
The customary line of books adorn his desk, along with an Anatomy and Physiology text, the vestige of a onetime pre-med course. He is now an A.B. man, and has hopes of becoming a lawyer.
At the helm of the Cleveland Club he has inaugurated something else in city club activities besides dances, a general communion for the club followed by a communion breakfast. Always on the lookout for good ideas and not forgetting to originate a few himself, he engineered many of' the details of the recent student trip to Cleveland.
Cleve never talks about what he is going to do; he just does it. •
Tickets on Sale for Chicago Club Christmas Dance
Tickets and invitations for the Chicago club’s Christmas dance may now be obtained in Chairman Tighe. Wood’s room, 325 Walsh.
Members are urged to make reservations as soon as possible because the first three hundred will have their tables placed in the Joseph Urban room.
Tickets on campus are $4.00 but if bought at the door in Chicago will cost $4.40, (the federal amusement tax being included).
To make reservations for -two couples one ticket must be purchased in advance.
TWO HUNDRED ATTEND INDIANA SCIENCE MEET
Dr. Newman Gives Inspiring Talk; Elect Officers.
Dr. H. H. Newman, head of the Zoology Department of the University of Chicago, addressed the public session of the fall meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science a week ago Friday evening in Washington Hall. Over two hundred members were present at the convention.
“Mental and Physical Differences in Identical Twins, Reared Apart” was the subject of Dr. Newman’s talk. The discussion was based on data gathered by experiments conducted upon ten sets of identical twins reared apart from a very early age. The purpose of the investigation was to determine the relative effects of heredity and environment upon the individual.
Lantern slides, showing each of the ten pair of twins who were the subjects of the experiments, were used. The method of the experiments which was employed was a comparison of the twins based on mental “I. Q.” tests, emotional reactions, and physical condition at the time of examination.
The annual dinner for members, guests and friends was held Friday evening in the faculty dining hall. Immediately following the dinner a short business session was held for the election of officers.
Dr. Lyon, New President
Dr. Marcus W. Lyon, Jr., of South Bend was elected to the presidency. Among the other newly elected officers of the Academy are: M. S. Markle, Earlham College, vice-president; Paul Weatherwax, Indiana university, treasurer; Ray C. Friesner, Butler university, secretary; W. P. Morgan, Butler university, assistant secretary; Stanley A. Cain, Indiana university, editor, and Will E. Edington, DePauw university, press secretary, were re-elected to their respective offices.
The next annual fall meeting of the Academy will be held in October of next year at Indiana university.
A lesson which history teaches us is the truly great man is not the extremist.—John Drinkwater.
December 2, 1932
PSYCHOLOGY STUDENTS VISIT STATE ASYLUM
'	Nine
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Class Takes Part in Clinic on Mentally Deficient.
On Monday, November 21, the class in Clinical Psychology, under the supervision of Professor Leo F. Kuntz, journeyed to the Logansport State Hospital at Logansport, Indiana, to participate in a four hour clinical demonstration of feeblemindedness and psychotic conditions.
The trip constituted the regular laboratory part of the course, and its object was to witness the various cases of mental diseases which are studied in class. Accompanying the class and participating in the observations accorded were Father McAllister, Professor William Roemer of the Philosophy Department, Professor Maurice L. Pettit of the Politics and Sociology departments, and Judge Mclnemy of the juvenile court in South Bend.
See Type Cases
The clinic was under the able direction of Dr. 0. R. Lynch, superintendent of the State Hospital, assisted by his staff which presented the type cases.
The clinic produced type cases of both organic and functional psychoses, and brought out their various degrees and aspects. In the organic psychoses were shown paretics, senile dements, encephalitics, and cases of Huntingdon chorea. In the functional group were exhibited dementia praecox and manic-depressive psychoses.
These cases were shown in their different stages. Outstanding, was the four-fold classification of dementia praecox: simple, hebephrenic, paranoid and catatonic. The manic-depressive patients were shown in both the manic and depressive phases.
Dementia Praecox General
The most common type of psychosis found among the patients was dementia praecox which constitutes the largest percentage of admissions and also the largest percentage of inmates, as the disease is practically incurable, though not fatal.
Paresis, which formed the next largest group, is an organic psychosis resulting from syphillitic infection. The disease is generally fatal within three to five years.
All letters must be signed in full with address and mailed to the Editor of
The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall.
THEATRE TALK
Editor of the Scholastic, Dear Sir:
It seems to me to be a shame that bad features are allowed to ruin a perfectly good paper. That is what is happening to the Scholastic. Feature articles are an integral part of a newspaper, and they are in a way just as important as news. Readers look for opinion in feature articles, opinion well thought out and well expressed. But this is not at all true of Scholastic features, with one exception—the Week. That is a good column now, although it used to be pretty terrible.
But what do we get in the other Scholastic features? Theatre Talk! That is without a doubt the worst column that I have ever read. There is not a single idea in it ever, and even if there were any ideas it would be impossible to understand them, because of the great mess of verbiage that the editor of the column affects. If you would only read one of those columns before you print it, you could see what I mean. None of the sentences mean anything, and the result is just a hodge-podge of big words. The conductor of Theatre Talk may be a good actor, but he certainly cannot express himself about the stage.
The other features, Man About the Campus, Introducing, etc., are good things to have, but they are not satisfactorily written. There should be more time spent on writing them, with the idea of reader interest in mind.
But none of them are as bad as Theatre Talk. That should be done away with entirely, to my way of thinking. Why not have instead a readable little column on the Washington Hall and South Bend movies? It wouldn’t matter if we have seen the movies before we get a chance to read about them—we could at least compare our own opinions with those of the fellow who writes the column. But there is no basis for comparing anything in Theatre Talk, as it now stands.
There is one word of commendation that I must say for Scholastic feat-
Initials will be used on request.
ures, however. The editorials are, I think, excellent, well conceived and well written. There is a good deal of thought in every one of them. That is what you ought to have in all your articles. There is no reason why you should allow your other features to suffer miserably by comparison with the fine editorials.
Yours truly,
J. C. M.
$4.40 AND FIGHT
Notre Dame, Indiana
November 30, 1932
Dear Editor:
This letter comes from one of the eighty thousand who watched with open mouths that pleasant return to form at Yankee Stadium last Saturday. While Banaas, Devore et. al. made Army bettors whimper, Notre Dame men sat, marvelled, tasted the fruits of a great victory.
Not until the half recess with nothing to do but watch the gin gurglers did Notre Dame students compare their status in the Yankee Stadium to ■ that of West Point’s Cadets. In this ‘ mood, questions were raised which The Scholastic perhaps can answer:
Since the 1932 game, was a home game for Notre Dame, were not the Notre Dame students entitled to tickets on A. A. Books?
Were the Cadets like New York’s politicians the guests of the Athletic Associations?
The answering of these questions will do much to satisfy the curiosity, not complaints, of Notre Dame’s loyal, rambling student body.
The different status of the two student bodies leads New Yorkers to believe Notre Dame considers it a rare privilege to -be allowed a date on Army’s schedule; that Notre Dame is perhaps the social climber on the athletic ladder.
These questions arose not from behind the goal line, instead from a $4.40 seat on Yankee Stadium’s thirty vard line.
M. J. T.
(Voice continued on Page 18)
Ten
The Scholastic
STAFF MEMBER GIVES DETAILS OF ARMY TRIP
Memoirs of a Recent WeekEnd Trip to New York.
By William Kennedy
ARMY TRIP HANGOVERS: Famous Last Words: “I’m taking the student special for New York.” . . . Searching for the most quiet-looking coach, and settling down with the w. k. air of resignation . . . Martyrs to the merciless god of the weekend. . . . Nite comes on, with the usual improvised beds, and the effort to sleep away a few miles of windowshaking and seat-jouncing. . . . Then, the acute awareness of our next-seat neighbor . . . Five miles west of Elkhart he begins to wai-m up—announces stations, calls out the time, gripes about heat in the car, the weather without, and the turtle-like qualities of the train . . . Asks brakeman, “How many more hours to New York? 18! I ! !” Appeals to the car in general . . . loudly demands an explanation of the railroad officials . . . All in a high, clear, tenor that grew stronger as the hours wore on. . . . And then, with Morpheus hovering near, into the car barges an aiderman from South Bend, who, his travelling companion informs me, is quite a hand at card tricks and other fake magic. Lights go on, and the obliging mid-westerner settles down for another exhibition of his prowess. ... No sleep. . . . Looking out of the window, and silently wondering why all railroad men wave at cars as they flash by ... We passengers must be a lonely-looking lot!
Saturday . . . the Army game has New York all wrought up for the first time this season . . . B’way wakes up to find it has the best game of the year right plop in its lap . . . and with no more tickets to be had for love or cost . . . Despite his tremendous influence, President-elect Roosevelt is unable to lay his hands on four of the eighty-odd thousand pasteboards in circulation. . . .
Eventually, the game. . . . Vidal and his elusive hips on that 35 yd. run certainly brought back memories of Chris Cagle. ... Ted Husing delves into his reserve supply of flaming adjectives to tell armchair sitters the nation over about a guy named Murphy. . . . Theh grandstand coaches proclaim Jaskwich a wonder (Continued on Page 18)
PUBLICITY
Joseph S. Petritz, Director of University Publicity, maker of epidemics and All-Americans, editor of “Football Review,” violinist with the symphony.
O’Malley Gives Talk to
Patricians Club Tuesday
Choosing as his topic “The Hellenic Browning,” Francis O’Malley, instructor in the History department, addressed the members of the Patricians, the Classical Association of the University, at their meeting held Tuesday night in the Classical room of the new Law building.
In the discussion following the talk, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Peter C. Hebert, C.S.C., Mr. Earl F. Langwell and Mr. John P. Turley, faculty members, took an active interest.
On Greek Poetry
The talk, in general, was a consideration of the Greek poems of Robert Browning, of his translations and transmutations of Greek authors. It was a discussion of the classical elements to be found in the poetry of Browning.
“Browning has given us many bits and many pictures^of recessitated Greek life. His preference among Greek dramatists was for Euripides, probably because he recognized in Euripides a kindred spirit, the spirit of the innovator and the liberal, or in other words, the modern.” In the above summary the speaker expressed the spirit of Hellenistic Browning.
Notice Scholastic Staff!
The regular “Scholastic” staff meeting will be held at 6:30 p. m. tonight in Room 222. Main Building.
500 USHERS PRESENT AT SMOKER WEDNESDAY
Boxing Show Main Attraction on Evening’s Program.
At a smoker staged Wednesday evening in the gymnasium for the members of the Stadium Ushers’ Club, five amateur boxing bouts and a battle royal were presented as part of the entertainment. Frank R. Buhl, Manager of Stadium Personnel, presided. Five hundred ushers were present.
In addition to the display of fisticuffs, a group of performers from South Bend sang, danced, gave imitations and even included two skits.
■ “Classy” Match
George Van Der Heyden, one of South Bend’s best amateurs and the Golden Gloves’ 126 lb. champion, fought in the classiest skirmish of the evening. Although he had his opponent, Al DeHaven of the Mishawaka A. C., outpointed, outsmarted, and outboxed from the initial gong, the fans applauded this bout because of his clever exhibition of style, speed, and all the fine points of the ring.
Short Story Contest is
Announced by A. C. Q. C.
A contest sponsored by the American College Quill Club offers a prize of sixty dollars for the best short story by an American college undergraduate submitted to the judges before March 31, 1933, according to information received this week by the Reverend James H. McDonald, C.S.C., head of the Department of English.
Professor John T. Frederick, also of the department of English, heads the group of prominent authors and critics who are to judge the entries.
Detailed information may be obtained from an announcement on the bulletin board near the Athletic office in the Main Building.
Prof. Groom Entertains
Brothers at Dujarie
Professor Willard L. Groom entertained the Brothers of Dujarie Institute on Thanksgiving evening by lecturing on Church music and choir work in general. He decried the abuses which have crept into some holy music and centered his remarks about- the Motu Proprio of Pius X.
December 2, 1932
Eleven
CARY MADE CHAIRMAN OF KNIGHTS FORMAL
Plans Made For Annual Dance At Meeting This Week.
By Michael F. Wiedl
John Cary of Reedsville, Wis., will direct the activities of the Knights of Columbus Formal at the Palaise Boy-ale Ballroom Friday night, Jan. 20. Cary, a senior in the College of Science, and for the past two years warden of the local council, was ap-appointed general chairman of the formal, at the meeting last Monday night, by Grand Knight Cahill.
Last year Cary acted as Chairman of the ticket committee for the Junior Prom. He has also taken an active part in the past Knights of Columbus formats and in the Sophomore Cotillion of ’31. Grand Knight Cahill feels confident that under his chairmanship, the dance will be one of the outstanding campus activities of the year.
Publication Considered
The possibility of publishing a Knights of Columbus monthly magazine under the editorship of Fred Becklenberg was considered by the council. This matter must be referred to the Board of Trustees before definite action can be taken. Should the movement receive approval, a staff will be selected and the work will at once be started.
Grand Knight Cahill indicated that it is only proper that the Notre Dame council have a monthly publication, as many Catholic colleges, although smaller than Notre Dame, are able to issue their monthly magazine. Becklenberg, who was appointed editor of the Santa Maria, spoke in favor of the publication and stated that he would lend assistance if the Trustees consented to the publication of the magazine.
Plan Communion Breakfast
A Communion Breakfast is scheduled for next Sunday, Dec. 4. All members are urged to attend the 8:00 a. m. Mass in the Sacred Heart Church and receive Holy Communion in a body. Immediately after Mass, breakfast will be served in the Lay Faculty dining hall. This tradition which has existed since the organization of the chapter here at the University is one of the many inspir-(Continued on Page 18)
CHAIRMAN
John Cary, of Reedsville, Wisconsin, who was this week appointed chairman of the Knights of Columbus Ball, by Grand Knight Cahill.
Fitzgerald Reads Paper at
Weekly Wrangler Meet
“Is England in the process of National decadence?” asked Hugh Fitzgerald at the Wrangler meeting, last Wednesday, when the society gathered for its regular weekly discussion in the Law building.
He then outlined what he thought to be marked features that the British Empire was not in a state of decadence, placing much of his emphasis upon the fact that the people of England have looked with complaisance upon the figures issued by a commission appointed by the government to study the question in deetail.
Cross-Examination Brings Dispute
At the cross-examination of his speech the point was brought out that England’s peak had been reached during the Victorian Period, and that, like all former world powers, she was experiencing the natural decay that follows that peak. Fitzgerald denied this, claiming that, “when one looks back at the history of the world, the rise and fall of nations is ascertained at a glance, and it is unfair to consider that rule as applicable to England, because the length of time is relatively longer, as we view it in the present tense.”
Predictions that England was merely in a temporary lull, and that within a generation she would again be the creditor nation of the world, were suggested by the members who held Fitzgerald’s view. His opponents said
DECEMBER NUMBER OF ALUMNUS IS OUT TODAY
Detailed Reports of Recent Campus Activity in Issue.
By James Byrne
The Christmas number of the Notre Dame Alumnus will be ready for publication some time today. The issue should be of particular interest to the students as well as the alumni since it contains a resume of the proceeding of two important conventions held on the campus recently, in which Notre Dame men played an important part. The scientific advances of Father Nieuwland, and Professor Rey-niers are briefly discussed in the news section.
Sermon Printed
Reverend Joseph Husslein’s sermon, “The Social Challenge,” with which he opened the National Catholic Alumni Federation Conference at Notre Dame, is printed in its entirety.
The editorial, “Who Succeeds ? Who Fails?” brings to mind most poignantly the biased way in which we are prone to judge a man’s success or failure. Its writer also infers that the benefits derived from a college education can not be measured in dollars and cents. After reading the editorial several times one is at a loss to explain just what comprises success.
Dr. Ruthven Writes
Dr. Alexander G. Ruthven, President of the University of Michigan, in his article, “Three Thoughts On Education,” outlines the three essentials of an efficient educational program. “Proper orientation' for each student, progressive training, and thoroughgoing cooperation between institutions,” says President Ruthven, “are three essentials of an efficient educational program the world over.”
Father O’Hara has included a questionnaire in the Religious section of this month’s Alumnus, and would appreciate the cooperation of the alumni.
that England was not self-sufficient, and that the alarming rapidity with which her colonial concessions were being taken away from her, naturally conclude the fact that her ability to wield her once undeniable power, has diminished.
The concluding vote was seven to six against Fitzgerald’s question.
Twelve
The Scholastic
GILSON LECTURES GIVE CHRISTIAN VIEW OF LIFE
French Philosopher Gives Two Talks Here Last Week.
Talking about philosophy and saying something new is often difficult for the most learned men. Professor Etienne Gilson, of the College de France, Paris, did that very thing last week, however, when he delivered two lectures in Washington hall on the subjects: “The Christian Concept of Nature,” and “The Christian Concept of Man.” Long famed for his . researches in medieval philosophy, Doctor Gilson is an astute student when it comes to the works of the philosophers of the Church, whom he repeatedly quotes in his lectures.
Value Of Revelation
The main thread of thought that is weaved through all the Gilson presentation is that Christian revelation is a valuable complement to philosophic thought, that it provides man with material about which he may reason, and which he might not have discovered were he solely dependent upon his own powers.
In the first lecture the early Greek concept of nature was compared with our own. Doctor Gilson showed that, when the fact of divine concurrence is completely understood, monstrosities as well as miracles become perfectly intelligible, chance and fate have no part in the Christian scheme of things, and that a Christian nature is, in a sense, considerably more determined than that of any of the pre-Christian philosophers.
“Know Thyself”
With the phrase “Know Thyself” as the dominant theme of his second address, Professor Gilson, in speaking of man’s nature, pointed out that it is made in the image and likeness of God, and because of this, man cannot comprehend his nature completely; even so he arrives at some sort of knowledge of his Creator. If for no other reason, then, self contemplation is fruitful.
Professor Gilson concluded his lectures with the observation that people of the present era are not of the same introspective nature as was the medievalist, that the modern man is almost afraid of himself, whereas the Christian of olden times continually pondered the questions: “What am I?” and “What is my nature?”
MANAGER
J. Arthur Haley, completing another season in football’s hardest job, allotting N. D. tickets to hundreds of thousands of fans.
Two Hundred Travel To Army Game on Special
Taking advantage of the special train run by the New York Central to the Army-Notre Dame game in New York, 200 students last Saturday saw the fighting Irish play their best game of the year. The special was jointly sponsored by the Metropolitan, New Jersey, and Connecticut Valley clubs. Ed Kosky, president of the Metropolitan club, acted as chairman with the ticket sale in charge of New Jersey club president Sabby Addonizio and Metropolitan club vice-president Al Ripley.
Through an arrangement with the office of the Prefect of Discipline, the privilege of single cuts was given to all those making the trip. The special arrived in South Bend Monday morning in ample time for eight o’clock classes.
People who live in cities where there are skyscrapers will be reasonably safe from poison gases, it is asserted by Dr. J. Mitchell Fain, because such gases do not rise far above the ground, and to get away from them in the next war people can climb up a few stories in the tall buildings of their cities.
20 COLLEGES TAKE PART IN ECONOMIC MEET HERE
Social Justice is Theme of Convention at Notre Dame.
By James Byrne
The North Central Association of the National Catholic Alumni Federation convened at Notre Dame, Sunday, November 20. The theme selected for this conference by the Federation executives was, “Social Justice In This Economic Crisis.” James Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, acted as general chairman of the conference.
Father Husslein Preaches
At the ten-thirty Mass in the Sacred Heart Church, Reverend Joseph Husslein, S.J., of St. Louis University, opened the conference with a splendid sermon, “The Social Challenge,” which was based upon the two outstanding encyclicals, “Rerum Novarum,” of Pope Leo XIII., and “Quadragesimo Anno,” of Pope Pius XI. Some thousand persons were fortunate enough to hear this exceptional treatise.
The delegation, which was representative of twenty universities, had luncheon at the University Dining Halls at one o’clock. After the meal the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies and an alumnus of St. Mary’s College, Kentucky, as well as Notre Dame, extended the welcome of the University to the visitors.
Father Maguire Presides
Reverend J. W. R. Maguire, C.S.V., president of St. Viator College, presided over the round table conference —which was held in the auditorium of the Law Building at three o’clock— with the brilliance, originality, and wit for which he is so well known.
A. J. Schweitzer, an alumnus of Canisius College and a resident of Chicago, delivered a paper on the recently organized Catholic League for Social Justice. The League plans to deal, in an organized way, with the problems which formed the basis of discussion at this conference.
J. R. Malay, alumni secretary of the University of Detroit, laid the foundation for a keen discussion when he initiated his plan for action by the Catholic Alumni Clubs. A major suggestion arising from the reading of Mr. Malay’s paper was the formation of a general Catholic college alumni group in smaller cities where there (Continued on Page 15)
December 2, 1932
Thirteen
QUARTER’S GRADES SHOW IMPROVEMENT OVER 1931
Only 7.4% of Students Fail in One-Third of Work.
According to the midsemester report from the office of the director of studies, the total number of students reported by the teachers as being deficient is 751. Although 333 were deficient in the college of Arts and Letters, this is but 28.7% of the total enrollment. While there are only 82 deficient in the College of Science, its average is 34.4% of the total enrollment. The Engineering course has the least number of failures in the undergraduate schools, 116; or 28.3% of the total enrollment.
13% Fail Last Year
Last year at the midsemester, 13% of the total enrollment were placed on probation for having failed in more than a third of their work. Because of the change now being made from the quarter system of probation to the semester system, no students are on probation in this second quarter of the schoolyear. But if the student on probation in the first quarter has at the end of the semester failed in a third of his work, he is liable to dismissal at that time. This new arrangement has met with the approval of the faculty and the student body. It eliminates the discomfiture of the old explanation of nervous break-down after the quarter exams.
Thompson Scholarships Are Announced This Week.
The Frank Thompson Scholarships amounting to eight hundred dollars were announced this week. The trust fund provides eight Scholarships of fours years each.
These scholarships are open to sons of living and deceased employees of the Pennsylvania Railroad. This includes all roads operated as a part of the Pennsylvania system.
Any eligible student interested in these prizes should see the Chairman of the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes.
The only real memorial to the World War is permanent peace.—
Rabbi Stephen S. Wise.
DIRECTOR
Professor Frank J. Kelly, director of the University Theater, who has decided to produce “Charley’s Aunt” soon after the holidays.
Capitol District Plans
That Christmas Dance!
“Sleepy” Hall and his orchestra was selected by the Capitol District Club at a meeting held Wednesday evening, November 9, in the Law Building, to furnish the music for their annual formal Christmas dance.
The affair, which will be an open one, will be held December 28 at the Ten Eyck Hotel in Albany, N. Y. Tickets are priced at $3.50 per couple including government tax.
The meeting adjourned with the selection by President Quinn of a committee on decorations as follows: Larry Clark, Bill Cassazza and Sherb Herrick. Plans for a smoker will be discussed at the next meeting.
I would have a public library abundant in translations of the best books in all languages, for, though no work of genius can be adequately translated, yet some acquaintance with ancient and foreign literatures has the liberalizing effect of foreign travel. He who travels by translations travels hastily and superficially, but brings home something that is worth having, nevertheless.—Lowell.
A romance without a quarrel is meaningless.—Pater.
VARSITY DEBATE TEAM TO BE SELECTED SOON
Professor Coyne Is In Charge; Tax Problem is Topic.
Try-outs for the varsity debating team are scheduled for Tuesday, Dec. 13. Any student—wether freshman, sophomore, junior or senior—is eligible for the team. Those desiring to make application for try-outs should see Professor Coyne of the. Speech Department within the coming week so that a date and side may be given to each of the applicants.
The topic for the try-outs is as follows, “Resolved that at least 50% of state and local revenues should be from other sources than from a tax on tangible property.” A six to seven minute speech is requisite along with a rebuttal of two to three minutes.
The final try-outs will be held after the Christmas holidays.
LAW SCHOOL NOTES
The Law Club is making an effort to secure for their next speaker the Honorable Michael Fausler, the recently elected Judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana. The exact date of Supreme Court Judge Pansier’s appearance here has not yet been determined.
The recent elections proved successful to a few Notre Dame graduates of a few years back. Meredith Doyle, class of 1926, was elected Prosecuting Attorney L. Menominee County, Michigan.
Tom McDougall, ’30, was elected Prosecuting Attorney of Langlad County, Wisconsin, by a plurality of 2000 votes. Needless to add, Tom ran on the Democratic ticket.
Dean Konop, who is a member of the committee on education of the Indiana State Bar Association, has been invited to attend a meeting of that committee on Friday, December 16, at the Columbia Club in Indianapolis.
The mid-winter meeting of the State Bar Association will be held at Indianapolis on Saturday, December 17.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Milestones In The Early Life Of The University
WORK ON ’33 “DOME” IS PROGRESSING RAPIDLY
On the 26th of November, 1842, Father Sorin took possession of the mission heretofore known as Ste. Maris des Lacs, changing the name to Notre Dame du Lac. Two small log structures were on the grounds. One of these had served former mismissionaries as a combined dwelling and chapel. In this chapel Father Sorin
Written Assignments Given Out by Editors.
Reproduction from a painting by Gregori
By John Conley .
During the past two weeks the Dome of 1933 has departed from the embryo stage and taken on a very definite shape. It is the direct result of the intensive work in which the editor and his assistants have been engaged.
Written assignments have been given out to the script men by their heads, and these are to be well under way before the Christmas vacation. As such a task is perhaps the most difficult encountered in publishing an annual, its completion will be a burden lifted from the shoulders of those in charge.
said his first mass at Notre Dame on November 30, 1842.
1843-1848
In the month of December, 1842, Fr. Sorin began the construction of a larger and more suitable chapel. It was built of logs, 20 by 46 feet and was blessed on March 19th, 1843. After 1848 it was no longer used and was destroyed by fire in 1856. A replica, the
present log chapel, was built in 1906.
A small brick church, to which two wooden towers were later added, was the next building erected for divine worship. The Foundation Stone was blessed on August 29,1847. The church was dedicated on November 12th, 1848, and c o n s ecrated November 11, 1849.
1848-1871
Photographs Being Panelled
All gloss prints of those pictures taken have been received from the photographers, and several men are grouping and arranging them on panels. No more proofs will be given out; the selection of those not called for will be left to the discretion of the editors. However, the students who still have proofs are requested to return them tomorrow at the latest.
A complete dummy has been compiled and submitted to the engravers for approval, thus providing a distinct outline to guide the undertaking. The policy maintained in former years will be carried out in the same manner by the present directors: namely, to spare no effort to enable the Dome to reach a level heretofore unattained.
Excellent Theme Chosen
A theme without precedent in the history of Notre Dame annuals has been selected, and it is expected to add to the harmony and general air of novelty prevailing in the current issue. To reveal the scheme would of course destroy any surprise in store for the prospective readers, but it portrays clearly the traditions and . customs of the University. .
Concerning the return of the photographer, no definite announcement can be made as yet, but it is doubtful whether he will return until some time prior to the semester. At that time cap and gown pictures will be completed for the senior section.
December 2,1932
Fifteen
20 COLLEGES TAKE PART IN ECONOMIC MEET HERE
(Continued from Page 12)
were not sufficient alumni from any one Catholic college to warrant individual local clubs.
“The Way Out And The Way Beyond,” a solution of present day problems by Reverend Francis Kun-necke, S.M., was briefly' outlined by Reverend B. P. O’Reilly, S.M. In bringing the afternoon session of the conference to a close, Father Maguire expressed his surprise that the discussion had not been more antagonistic.
Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion at Notre Dame, former Dean of the College of Commerce, in an interesting manner, engaged the audience for a half hour with a discussion of the religious lives of Notre Dame students and alumni, and his work in that direction.
Delegates Hold Dinner
The delegates to the conference dined at the University Dining Halls at seven o’clock. Immediately fol-> lowing the banquet Mr. James Fitzgerald, executive secretary of the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul of Detroit, opened the evening session ■with, “The Approach to Catholic Action,” a thesis which interpreted the Encyclicals in the light of Scholastic philosophy and which stressed the need for knowing the social problem by knowing its victims who exemplify it most strongly—the poor.
Dr. E. A. Fitzpatrick, president of Mount Mary College, Milwaukee, and Dean of the graduate school of Marquette University, presented the second paper of the evening. In his discourse, “The Political State and Reconstruction of the Social Order,” Dr. Fitzpatrick pointed out the danger that exists of the rise of an absolutist State unless the principles oi social justice are recognized by employers and the social problems solved without the intervention of the government.
Father Bolger Closes Meet
Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., formerly the head of the department of Economics at Notre Dame, and at present the vice- president of St. Thomas College in St. Paul, brought the conference to a close with one of the finest presentations of the present social conditions, cause, effect and remedy, that has been offered in the national crisis.
Remains of Bertrand Tell Historic Tale of Notre Dame
By Eugene Healy
A hundred years ago the Village of Bertrand was a flourishing community. It promised then to be the Big City in this section—a rival to South Bend and Chicago. It was located at the junction of the stage line (to Chicago) and the Saint Joseph River— over both of which the commerce of this region was to a large extent then carried. The town lay—and its remains still lie—a mile north of the Michigan State line, to the west of the post road (the state road which runs by the golf course), between South Bend and Niles. It had been founded early in the century by a French trader after whom it was named.
Future Bright
It was the home of several hundred individuals: trappers and farmers and their families. The future was bright for them. Conditions suggested that within a few years the City of Bertrand would be a populous reality. Such, however, was not to be the case. The railroad ruined Bertrand. It ruined Bertrand by having nothing to do with Bertrand. When the first lines were laid in northern Indiana and southern Michigan, they established stations on the way to Chicago and Detroit, at South Bend and Niles. The Michigan Central ran through Niles; the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, through South Bend. Bertrand, sandwiched in between the two depots, languished, failed — and today her remains may be seen, squalid, gray, still languishing, still failing. “All the blooming flush of life is fled.”
St. Mary’s At Bertrand
We were interested in Bertrand because it was there that the Sisters of the Holy Cross founded Saint Mary’s College in 1844; there the Sisters brought their organization through its infant stages, put it on its feet, and set it out on the long, successful career it has known,—and there Father Sorin was so familiar, so important a figure.
Father Sorin had wanted to establish the Sisters here at Notre Dame, but the Bishop of Vincennes would not permit him to do so. Bertrand, just six miles from Notre' Dame—but outside the limits of the diocese, then suggested itself as the next best place for the Sisters to be located. He ob
tained permission from the Right Reverend Bishop Lefevre to establish the Sisters there, and so, on July 16, 1844, Sister Mary of the Sacred Heart and four postulants “took up their abode in the dwelling secured for their occupation from Mr. Bertrand, after whom the village was named.”
Lift Was Interesting
Every Wednesday afternoon during the ensuing years of Saint Mary’s existence at Bertrand, Father Sorin rode or walked from our own campus to that of the sister institution. Wednesday evenings he spent in hearing confessions, and counseling the nuns. And, having spent the night at the home of Mr. Bertrand, he arose each Thursday to say Mass in the tiny church on which the village prided itself.
For him and for the Sisters life was not uneventful at Bertrand. The many joys and sorrows they knew made their days full. Despite almost overwhelming poverty, the college flourished. New frame buildings were erected. Enrollment increased. New Sisters came to reinforce the administration. In (ISST) the village church was robbed, the tabernacle broken open and the sacred vessels taken. A year or two later one of the college buildings was burned to the ground. Occasionally jeering, “anti-popish” throngs gathered outside the grounds. Life was full and interesting.
Little Is Left
Interested in its historic significance (from the point of view of a Notre Dame man) and inquisitive (from the point of view of one who lives on this side of the Lake) generally, we hiked up to Bertrand one cold day a week or so ago, to see what was left. Not much, we found. We made many inquiries, but the natives we encountered knew little more than w’e.
We located the old cemetery deep in a grove of yellow and russet maples. Weather-worn grave stones slanted from the ground. Most of them were half-buried in the leaves and underbrush. We had to crouch and scoop away leaves and tangled vines to read the inscriptions. With vicarious pride we read out a long series of emphatically Hibernian (Continued on Page 31)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
DYSPEPTICS
In every college we can find a group that is more or less bound to a particularly false and vicious species of individualism. This group knows nothing, and cares less, about the common good. It is concerned with its own small and selfish aims to the exclusion of all that is congruous with the highest and best aims of education.
Its members are either too arrogant to be able to see any good beyond their own mean sphere of activity, or too spineless to do what they feel to be right. It is the egoists that organize and direct the activities of this group. They are the ones who map out the song and dance of this false individualism.
As soon as the first sneer has disfigured the countenance of one of these “leaders,” a hundred leers appear as if by magic on the weak faces of the “smaller fry.” The signal has been given and they too must scoff and sneer.
It is not necessary for us to continue. The disgusting breed is known and despised by all serious college men. The evil they do, not only to themselves but to their Alma Mater, is apparent. There is only one way to deal with them. Words are futile, so we must by our actions put them in their proper places. We must emphatically make known to them that, if they must perform, our campus will not be their theater, our organizations and activities will not be the object of their false ridicule, our traditions will not suffer at their hands.—Holy Cross Tomahawk.
V '
A DEGREE OF PATIENCE
A student who enrolled at the College of Puget Sound twenty-five years ago was recently awarded his bachelor of arts degree.
V
s. o. s.
A freshman at the University of Alabama is reported to have defined “drowning” in the following terms: “Drowning is the science of taking enough water into the lungs to keep from living.”
A MAN AT ANY COST
The “Female Aid Society” at Washington University rents fraternity pins to unattractive co-eds at a nominal charge.
V
MODESTY’S REWARD!
A bewigged male was crowned as Northwestern’s most unbeautiful queen when attempts to find the homeliest girl on Northwestern’s campus were all in vain. The contest was held in conjunction with Homecoming festivities. There must have been a lot of competition for the doubtful honor, for nearly all of the 3,291 women enrolled in the University were willing to enter the contest.
V
NOTES PLAYABLE
The editorial eye at Columbia has shifted from the professionalism in football to ringers in the band. It has been proven that one member is a student at N. Y. U., while three are still in high school.
V
COLLEGIATE TAXI-DANCERS
Popularity is commercialized for sweet charity’s sake at the “Dime Crawl” dances at the University of Southern California. The fair coeds are the hostesses for the night at a park plan dance, and the popularity of a lady is rated by the number of tickets she takes in.
V
GENTLEMEN PREFER BRUNETTES
At Wittenberg college, three blonde co-eds debated three dark-haired lassies as to the relative intelligence of blondes and brunettes. The judges evidently were not concerned with their reputation as gentlemen, for the brunettes won,
V
PAGE MR, WINCHELL
A dater’s guide, in which will be found the names of all of the popular co-eds and their rating will be a feature of the Rammer-Jammer the University of Alabama’s humor publication.
December 2, 1932
Seventeen
Medieval Traditions Enshrined at Notre Dame
By William Newberry
Notre Dame is rich in things reminiscent of the medieval: there are her Gothic halls with their gargoyles and grotesques; her French
cathedrals, churches and cloisters. They were generally attached to the building, and were approached from its interior, but we find several
Gothic church with ambulatory, apsidal chapels and Lady Chapel; her fleches and battlemented parapets. Even in her celebration of Solemn High Mass she makes use of the Gregorian chant, and the pre-sacri-ficial procession which originated in the monasteries of the Middle Ages.
There is still another feature, though little known, which recalls the medieval — the outdoor pulpits. There are two such pulpits at Notre Dame; one of them is at the front of the west wing of Morrissey Hall, and the other is within the Dilion-Alumni court at the side of the Dillon Chapel.
Their medieval purpose, as may be readily presumed, was for the delivery of sermons at
instances where they
Morrissey Hall Outdoor Pulpit
were separated in themselves. Perhaps the best examples of outdoor pulpits are the ones at Saint Lo in France, and Prato, in Italy. The one at Prato is known for its delicate carvings, the work of Donatello. Saint Lo’s outdoor pulpit is surmounted by a baldachin which develops into a towering fleche. Others of note are found at Saint Die, Genes, Perouse, Sainte Marie and Saint Francois de Viterbo.
The Notre Dame pulpits were not patterned after any one of these, but were especially designed to further the motif of these Gothic buildings. The Dillon pulpit, the work of Messrs. Maginnis and Walsh of Boston, is arched with typical
pilgrimages, or for the recitation of prayers for the dead where the cemetery was adjoining the churchyard. They were also often used for the display and veneration of relics.
Exterior pulpits are to be found all over Europe, but particularly in France and Germany, on
Gothic moldings, and a plaque in the wall surmounts the arch. The plaque depicts a fruit, tree and a banner with the words “Scientia Dei.” On either side of the arch and above it, are two smaller plaques depicting unicorns. There is no particular significance to the ornamentations; it
Eighteen
The Scholastic
is merely an adaptation of various Gothic grotesques.
The Morrissey pulpit is high above the ground. Over the arch is carved the crown of Christ, the King, and an incised inscription, “Laus Deo.” The central motif of the lower part of the pulpit is perhaps suggestive of the altar fall, or drapery, which hangs from the book stand on interior pulpits. The pulpit was the work of Messrs, Kervick and Fagan of the Department of Architecture.
Would it be possible for these pulpits to come into their practical use? Could anything be more harmonious with the spiritual life of Notre Dame than a revival of the medieval use of these pulpits—perhaps for a May devotional sermon, or for the reception of distinguished ecclesiastical guests?
Outdoor Pulpit
In Dillon Hall
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 9)
WE INNOCENTS
Brownson Hall
Editor of The Scholastic:
Dear Sir:
Since your column has been used to voice complaints of every possible nature, I am taking this opportunity of asking your aid in a matter that has become serious to all Brown-sonians.
Since Washington Hall’s showing of “Arsene Lupin,” several weeks ago, a number of so-called “acquisitions” have taken place. Objects varying from a photograph of the “girl friend” to boxes of home-made fudge have disappeared. Each disappearance has been precluded by a note of warning.
Imitating Brownson Hall’s Arsene Lupin are several who sign their names, “The Shadow,” “The Black Hand,” and “The Black Lip.” Can’t something be done to protect we innocent ones?
Distressfully,
J. K. M.
ARMY TRIP DETAILS
Continued from Page 10)
for calling that touchdown pass on the first down on the five yard stripe . . . That’s because the play worked . . . Now s’posin’ it went incomplete over the end zone. . . . Whenever that No. 30 appeared on the board, a young lady somewhere in the stands would gleefully inform everyone within hearing distance that “THAT was MY brother! ! !”
After the game ... in the Vanderbilt lobby . . . Father Ryan accepting congratulations from innumerable people. . . . Alone, or in two’s and three’s, the players descend in the elevator to the lobby, looking fresh, but a trifle weary . . . Their only concern seemed to be “Where do we eat?” And once shown, they went. . . .
Scattering throughout the city . . . meeting Notre Dame men all evening. . . . The synthetic alumni. . . . Sunday morning, and the train back . . . “Went fast, but it took a long time’ ’. . . It’s always further from N. Y. to South Bend than from South Bend to N. Y. . . . It all depends upon what is in N. Y. and what is in South Bend . . . The Army game was in N. Y. . . .And in South Bend? Well, whadda YOU think?
K. C. ACTIVITIES
(Continued from Page 11)
Within the past week, posters requesting “old clothes for the poor” will be mounted on the bulletin boards throughout the campus. In this respect, Grand Knight John Cahill made the following statement: ‘'This appeal is not only directed to the Knights but also to all the students on the campus. Please give old clothes to your hall representatives. We have worked for some time with Father O’Hara in the caring for the needy. During the coming winter the call for clothing and other articles will be more urgent than before and must be carried on in the same charitable manner.”
Don Lusardi is the chairman of the Old Clothes committee and intends to have representatives canvass all the halls before the Christmas vacation.
President’s Council to Meet
There will be a meeting of the Presidents’ Council, 6:30 p. m. Thursday evening, Dec. 8, in the North room of the Library.
All presidents are earnestly requested to be present as business which requires a full attendance is on hand.
December 2a 1932
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
REALIZATION
Far-sighted as the young French priest was who walked into a drab Indiana wilderness in the year 1842 to found a Catholic university he certainly could not have hoped that when Notre Dame celebrated its ninetieth anniversary last Saturday it would be the school that it is. Father Edward Sorin was an optimistic man, but he lived in a distinctly pessimistic surrounding. Just as he thought he was getting somewhere with his little college, a vicious fire razed his very best building one wintry evening and left a scattered pile of hot bricks. As the story goes, Notre Dame’s founder whispered a prayer to Mary and started to work before the stones had cooled.
That sort of thing has characterized Notre Dame’s growth to this very day. From a material point of view there is no reason why she should have prospered. Million dollar endowments nurtured other universities in their childhood ; Notre Dame grew up on a penny economy, ever thinking that the result was in proportion to the effort, always believing that if God took care of her today, He would certainly do so tomorrow.
In ten years will come the centenary. One hundred years is not an old age for any university, but it is a significant one for Notre Dame. It will mean that a century of the most intensive endeavor and the most supreme faith has passed to leave an institution whose , past reads like a romance and whose future can take only one course.
V
TWO OUTLOOKS
The depression seems not only to have depleted men’s purses but to have had an immeasurable effect on their minds. We know several individuals who are soured on their own existence, who live from day to day and who would not be greatly perturbed to find out that there was to be no tomorrow. Their god, the dollar, has walked out on them. If he comes back they will convalesce. In the meantime, having never thought much beyond the latest show in town or the newest gown at Cherie’s, they take up the national pastime of railing politicians and yelling for beer.
But another type of individual seems to stand out in magnificent relief through it all. He is the
man who wondered a little about life during prosperity and thinks a great deal about it today. He seems to be rooted in first principles. He looks upon money as a material means to a material end and is convinced that, as such, it has little in common with his own destination. Certain of the fact that with a bed to lie on and a bowl to drink from he can be just as happy as if he had the controlling interest in United States Steel, he transcends the vicissitudes of economic life and concentrates on something, to him, more fundamental. He is a member of that marvellous caste of society who feel that it is a part of a Christian to live in the face of death, rather than to die where life abounds. And as long as we have people like him, depressions will be simply depressions and not the end of the world.
V
AN OPPORTUNITY
Announcements posted recently about the campus call for candidates for the University debating team. The caliber of Notre Dame’s forensics has always been high, but it can continue to be so only if Professor Coyne receives the desired sort of support from student talent. Debating should have a wide appeal. If a man is overly endowed with school spirit he might look upon his own participation as a boost to University stock. If he has any pretensions toward law, teaching, or politics, now is the time to learn how to work out on his feet. And if he has no pretensions at all — who knows but that some night as he stands on a platform before a packed auditorium he may get a light — among other things.
V
PLEASE, ARSENE
Countless students have recently complained that copies of The Scholastic placed at their doors on Friday afternoons have never reached their own hands. The Scholastic is flattered to know that it is so avidly read, but it cannot but sympathize with the offended gentlemen who have paid their three dollars a year. If our admirers are so badly in need of extra copies and have not the few extra dimes, The Scholastic would much prefer to put the girls on the mailing list than to have half the student body wondering what is to happen next at the University.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Irish Dazzle Cadets; Win 21 to 0
Score on Passes, Fumble, as Merciless Offense Stuns Army Team and 80,000
Melinkovich, Devore, Harris Score Touchdowns; Barely Miss Three More Markers.
By James S. Kearns
Scorning the popular estimate that ranked them as underdogs, a great eleven of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish ran Army’s football machine completely ragged in Yankee Stadium last Saturday for a 21-0 victory with a perfect showing of coordinated team-play.
From Sheeketski’s run back of the opening kick-off to the final passinggesture of the Irish in the fourth quarter, the game was all Notre Dame. They blocked the cadets relentlessly, they ran with all the savagery and speed that has been missing for so long, and they accepted momentary setbacks with an unruffled calm as they drove again and again deep into Army territory.
Vidal Gets Away Once
Army, on the other hand, made but one threatening gesture. Pick Vidal, boomed as the cadet sparkplug, whirled away through his right tackle for 36 yards in the first period but from that point on he played the role of a haunted man with Ed Krause and Ed Kosky as the haunters.
Early in the game, the rip-roaring starting backfield of Murphy, Shee-ketski, Lukats and Banas, crashed through and around the Army line to the 11-yard stripe where the cadets held. A moment later, after an exchange of punts, Vidal made his one advance, and the Army was in Irish territory for the first of its two times during the afternoon.
With Johnny Buckler’s out-ofbounds punt on the Irish 20-yard line, and the entrance of Jaskwhich, Bran-cheau, Koken and Melinkovich into the game, Notre Dame resumed the
offensive early in the second quarter.
Jaskwhich kicked 65 yards to Vidal who was chased back to Army’s ten yard line. Butler kicked back to mid-
Steve Banas
Passes, Runs, Kicks.
field. Melinkovich spun along the sidelines for 25 yards to Army’s 25. On the next play he went to the 17. Touchdown-bound, Mink again crashed through the line but fumbled and Fields recovered for a wavering Army team on the two-yard-line. He kicked out to the 37-yard stripe.
Army Holds
Mike Koken made 11 yards in three tries and then teamed with Melinkovich for a first down on the Army 15. Brancheau went through for eight more. Ed Kosky came around from end for a first down on the three yard line.
Whipped into a frenzy by the manhandling they were getting, Army threw up an unbreakable defense. They hurled back three line plays and a pass to Captain Host on fourth down failed to reach the goal. Again Fields kicked out to the 37-yard line.
(Continued on Page 21)
TRACK PROSPECTS DIM AS SEASON APPROACHES
Few Men Back to Face Tough Indoor Schedule.
“We haven’t much material and we have a tough schedule, so you can see that things don’t look any too good.” It was Coach Nicholson speaking about the prospects for the indoor track season. Notre Dame, with only nine out of twenty-six monogram winners returning, already has five tough meets scheduled, and more will be arranged after the Big Ten schedule is made up in Chicago tonight. Nicholson has arranged tentative meets with several Big Ten schools, but the dates cannot be set until after the conference of the Big Ten coaches-tonight.
Five Meets Scheduled
The meets already slated for the Irish track squad are dual meets with Marquette, Illinois and Iowa and the Central Conference Meet which -will be held in the Notre Dame gymnasium on the eleventh and twelfth of March. A match will undoubtedly be arranged with Michigan State which won a surprise victory over Notre Dame last year by the close score of 64% to 64%. The Michigan star is Tom Ottey, a distance runner.
Returning to lead the 1932-33 squad of Irish trackmen is Captain Fred MacBeth who has run a number of good races in the quarter mile event. Teaming with MacBeth in this event will be Louis Vettel, another veteran Irish track man.
Clyde Roberts and Joe Young, versatile stars, who run both the mile and the half mile events will undoubtedly form the nucleus of the two mile relay team, an event in which Notre Dame teams have always excelled. Another man who is expected to add to Notre Dame’s strength in the mid-
(Continued on Page 30)
December 2, 10.12
Twenty-one
Notre Dame Attack Bewilders Army as Record Crowd of 80,000 Looks on In Yankee Stadium
Continued from Page 20)
Less than a minute of the first half remained. Koken faded back to midfield and fired a long pass to Host who out-ran two defenders to the five yard line. A quick lining-up and Koken shot another throw to Melin-kovich in the end zone. Notre Dame led 7 to 0 as Jaskwhich converted.
from center caused Fields to fumble and in a wild scramble for the ball, Harris recovered for a touchdown.
The rest of the game was merely a continued demonstration of Notre Dame’s superiority. They pushed the cadets around at will, made long advances to scoring position, and failed to score only because of endzone fumbles of touchdown passes. No
were battered throughout the afternoon by terrific smashing, and retired in the second half.
New York’s great crowd sought no individual hero. They gasped at the might of a great team playing as a unit. They saw their predictions of an Army victory go tumbling and liked it.
When the Irish regulars filed down to the dressing room late in the game, there was not a dissenting murmur in the roar of approval that followed them.
Jim Harris
A scoring threat at guard.
Ed Krause
Army jmnters did not like him.
Ed Kosky
Local boy makes good
Coach Anderson sent Murphy and Co. into the Irish backfield at the start of the second half. Taking the kickoff to their 25-yard line, the new backs launched an uninterrupted drive for a score. Banas, Lukats, and Sheeketski were unstoppable till they reached the Army 36-yard line. There Lukats threw a pass to Banas for eleven yards but the Irish were set back five on a penalty and had six yards to go on fourth down.
Devore And Harris Score
Banas went back almost to the 45-yard line to punt. Faking the kick, he maneuvered into the clear just at the sidelines and launched an unbelievably long pass goal-ward. All alone in the end zone, Hughie Devore and Ed Kosky waited for the toss and Devore grabbed it for the second touchdown.
Late in the same period, Banas booted a perfect kick outside on Army’s two yard line. Jim Harris, a great guard all afternoon, collected the dividends a minute later when a flock of Irish linemen and a bad pass
one minded, for the victory was complete and devastating enough.
Fifteen Stars
The most fruitless search of the afternoon would be the search for individual stars. Any of the first fifteen Irish gridders could be the hero of the day -without much exaggeration. Steve Banas was a wonder, kicking, passing, and running the ball as few fullbacks have ever done.
Nick Lukats and Mike Koken were the flashiest pair of Notre Dame left halfbacks to work in the same game for some time. Both of them threw flawless passes. Both of them ran with more speed and power than they have shown for weeks. The savagery that' marked Lukats’ ball-carrying thrusts early in the year was back in all its fullness.
The roll call of heroes might go on and on. Kosky, Host, and Devore were great ends. The tackles and guards, and the pair of centers threw back Army tirelessly. The great Evans and Kilday, who last year made tackles all over the gridiron,
NOTRE DAME	ARMY
Kosky .............LE............ Lawlor
Krause ............LT.....;.......Lincoln
Harris ............LG........ Summerfelt
Robinson ..........C.............. Evans
Greeney ...........RG..........Jablonsky
Kurth .............RT......... Armstrong
Host ..............RE............ Kopsak
Murphy ............QB___■......... Vidal
Lukats ............LH............ Fields
Sheeketski ........RH............. Brown
Banas .............FB............ Kilday
Referee: Joe Madigsohn (Michigan) : Um pire. John Schommer (Chicago) ; Field Judge, J. J. Lipp (Chicago) ; Head Linesman, James Masker (Northwestern).
Store by quarters:
Notre Dame ......0	7	11	0—21
Army ............0	0	0	0— 0
Touchdowns': Melinkovich. Devore. Harris. Points after touchdown: Jaskwhich. Murphy (2). all placements.
Substitutions: Army—Edwards for Lawlor. Winn for Lincoln. Smoller for Kopsak. Mc-William for Vidal. Buckler for Fields. Johnson for Brown, Frentzel for Johnson. Stan-cook for Kilday.
Notre Dame—Vairo for Kosky. Pfefferle for Krause. Schiralli for Harris. Gorman for Robinson. Alexander for Gorman, Pivarnik for Greeney, Roach for Kurth, Devore for Host, Jaskwhich for Murphy. Koken for Lukats. Brancheau for Sheeketski. Melinkovich for Banas.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Alumni To Meet Morrissey In Stadium For Grid Crown
FIVE ALL AMERICA TEAMS PLACE KURTH AT TACKLE
GAME ON SUNDAY
Juniors Whip Walsh 12-0 For Title in Group II; Favored
in Championship Game.
By Edward Van Huisseling Interhall Sports Editor
Alumni vs. Morrissey. This is how' they will line up for the interhall football championship go to it in the stadium on Sunday. Morrissey earned the right to participate in this paramount get together two weeks ago while Alumni put the Grup II. title under its belt Tuesday when it battered an inferior Walsh team into submission.
Walsh Offense Weak
Twelve points was sufficient margin to enable the Juniors to triumph early this week. Walsh had an equal opportunity to push over the same number of points and would have succeeded had they conceived a method by which they could have distracted the attention of thir rivals long enough to run a play. This was the only way the impossible could have been accomplished because the Alumni defense was more than equal to the task of stopping a weak offensive attack shown by Walsh when, by breaks, they found themselves within the champions’ ten yard line twice.
Alumni Scores Quickly
Not only was the Walsh attack a complete failure, but their defensive methods proved totally ineffective as the Gold Coasters passed and ran their way to two scores. The off-tackle slants of the victors were so well engineered that only on a few occasions did losses result from them.
The first Alumni drive, which took form immediately after the opening kickoff, began on the Juniors 30 yard mark. Not until the Walsh three yard line came in contact with the oval was this drive turned back. On a poor kick, the Juniors took possession on the Walsh 40 yard line. Three plays later, Bloesma had chalked up the first six points.
The second touchdown drive started on the Walsh 40 yard stripe. Four
FINAL INTERHALL STANDINGS
Group I.	W	L
Morrissey ............ 4	0
Corby ................. 2	0
St. Edward's .........2	1
Dillon ........„...... 1	2
Badin ................ 1	2
Lyons ................ 0	5
Group II. ■■	W	L
Alumni ............... 5	0
Freshman .............. 3	1
Walsh ................. 2	1
Brownson ............. 1	2
Howard ............... 1	3
Carroll .............. 0	5
T Pts. 1	9
2	6
1	5
1	3
1	3
0	0
T Pts. 0	10
1	7
1	5
®	2
9	2
0	0
rushes planted the pigskin on the seven yard line. Here Walsh held for three downs before Pallman dropped a pass into the waiting hands of McCormack. The net result was another half dozen points.
On two other occasions Alumni ventured within the ten yard line of their opponents but were unable to tally.
Other Games Cancelled
All other teams which were scheduled to lock horns Sunday agreed to call off their games because they had no chance to overtake the league leaders.
When Morrissey and Alumni trot onto the historically famous turf in the stadium Sunday, the latter crew will be top heavy favorites to win at a walk. The accurate blocking which will open up holes for the fleet Alumni backs will be a deciding factor in the fracas. If the Sophomores are successful in overpowering this hard charging interference they have still to cope with a heavy line which will be on the alert to stop the Morrissey offense. In this department the second year men have shown a marked weakness throughout the entire season.
Morrissey Good On Defense
To counteract this noticeable weakness in attack, the Sophs, coached by the genial Ray Morrissey, have probably the most stubborn defensive team in the league. These boys think little of thwarting three or four scoring drives by opponents in a single game.
Morrissey will be on the alert to check the fast moving Alumni back' (Continued on Page 30)
Harris, Melinkovich and Krause Are Also Contenders.
Only a few precincts have been heard from, but already Notre Dame seems to have one unanimous choice
for All-American. Last year Joe
Joe Kurth
He joins Carideo and Schwartz.
Kurth played All-American football for the entire season; he made a majority- of the teams. This year, however, his last at Notre Dame, he seems slated to join Frank Carideo and Marchy Schwartz as a member of every important All-American selection in the country. To date Kurth has been chosen by the New York World-Telegram, the New York Sun, the New York Post, the Chicago American, and the United Press. Before Christmas he will be deluged with the usual gold footballs, certificates, watches and sweaters.
Harris On One
Leading runners-up for All-American honors at Notre Dame seem to be George Melinkovich, Jim Harris and Ed Krause. Harris was put on the Chicago American's first team with Kurth. Krause and Melinkovich have been on a number of second teams. The fact that they still have another year of competition has probably reacted against them; sports writers usually favor the man who is finishing his football career in spite
(Continueed on Page 27)
December 2, 1932
Ttuenty-three
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA NEXT FOR NOTRE DAME
Injuries Again Slow Up Irish; Western Team is Strong.
With the victory over Army safely salted away in the record books, the Notre Dame team faces Southern California at Los Angeles a week
Howard Jones
His team ivill try it again.
from tomorrow. The Army victory, coupled with the fact that Southern California won last year’s game, has helped to brighten Notre Dame’s prospects. The fact that Southern California has gone undefeated since the first game of last season, that the team seems stronger than ever, and that the Southern California plays and offensive formations are the most complicated that the Notre Dame team has ever come up against, have helped greatly in keeping the Irish squad from becoming at all overconfident.
Notre Dame Victories Close
As was the case before the Army game, tradition favors Notre Dame. The two teams have played six games. Notre Dame has won four and lost two. Three of the Notre Dame victories have been by one point: 13 to 12 in 1926, 7 to 6 in 1927 and 13 to 12 in 1929. The fourth victory, 27 to 0, in 1930, saw Bucky O’Connor run rough-shod over an overconfident Southern California team that was favored to win by a large score.
Prospects for a Notre Dame victory dimmed somewhat early this week when George Melinkovich, Jim Harris and Hugh Devore could not
(Continued on Page 27)
Cage Team Set For Opener
With Albion College Friday
ACROSS THE SCRIMMAGE LINE FERRIS AT CENTER
By Joe Kurth
Out East they’re calling it a phenomenal display of latent ability, in the Mid West its labelled a dazzling victory, but locally its just Notre Dame retribution in a good old-fashioned way. West Coast papers claim it a sellout—for Southern Cal.
Good weather smiled on 80,000 rabid fans composed mostly of successful politicians and their third cousins. The field was in the best shape for some years, a fact of no little consequence in determining the style of football exhibited.
New York police came into their own in handling the milling throng around the Yankee stadium, and dispelled the prevalent idea that it takes a saw-buck and not a whistle to make a New York policeman. Their ingenuity was especially taxed by one frantic Notre Dame student who was supposed to work the press-box, only to miss his ticket-bearer in the early scrimmage for the gates. His footwork was far superior, not to say anything about his vocal renditions, and early reports have it that he flashed his West Hall pass and landed on the 50-yard line after proving that he was a functioning part of the “clinic” by displaying a box of Aspirin.
It came about this way. Breaking out of the huddle, Harris turned to Pivarnik and said, “Remember Joe, you brush the end on this play.” Pivarnik grunted. After the play Jim asked Joe if he brushed him. “Brush him? Take a look at that,” said Joe Pivarnik, pointing to the still prostrate Army end. After all, there is a (Continued on Page 26)
Baldwin Back From Infirmary; Keating and Alberts Fight For Forward Post.
Coach George Keogan has announced that wfith another week of practice remaining his boys will be all set for the opener with Albion College a week from tonight. Albion is not a new team on the Notre Dame basketball schedule, but it is reported that they have a fast, scrappy squad. Coach Keogan expects to spend the remaining few days, polishing up the defensive formations that the Fighting Irish will use this season.
Baldwin Sure Bet At Guard
Daily scrimmages have been the order of the day for the past two weeks, and there are plenty of men who have been coming along very nicely. Captain Johnny Baldwin is a sure bet for his old guard position. Baldwin was released from the Infirmary, Thanksgiving Day, where he had been treated for a severe cold and slight throat trouble. Last Monday afternoon he returned to the squad and accordingly Coach Keogan began to smile once again.
Leo Crowe has been doing some great guarding in the practice sessions and will no doubt be the other guard. His shooting has showed remarkable improvement since the first week of scrimmage, and his floor work has been exceptionally deceiving.
Voegele At Forward
Joe Voegle, that tall, crack, potshot artist will in all probability see plenty of action as one of the forwards. Voegle is an experienced man and should prove especially valuable against Northwestern and Purdue, two of the toughest teams on the Blue and Gold schedule. Leo Keating and Eddie. Alberts are having a great time in their battle for the other forward post. One night Alberts seems to have the edge on Keating and the following evening, Keating does some brilliant work, and then appears to (Continued on Page 27)
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Emmett Murphy
70,000 SEE NAVY HOLD IRISH TO 12-0 SCORE
By William Flynn
From prep school hockey rinks in Duluth, Minn., to the green sod of a nation’s football field is a long journey. From riding steel skates in pursuit of an elusive rubber puck to catching passes on the twenty-yard line is something of a change of pace.
But Emmett Francis Murphy, varsity quarterback, black-haired, lean jawed, typical Irishman, travelled the road from hockey rinks to football fields and performed the work necessary to change from a hockey center to a Notre Dame quarterback.
Games Alike
In a few respects the two games are much alike. In both there is a lot of bodily contact. Both contain elements of speed and finesse of execution. And both endeavor to put the object of their attention over a goal line that is defended by the other team. However, the change is a great one.
The best skaters and hockey players are usually members of the Scandinavian races. And citizens of the Emerald Isle are usually thought of as football players.
So there might be something of a paradox in the fact that Notre Dame football was elevated to the higher planes by the Viking of the Gridiron, Knute Rockne, and Emmett Murphy,
LEMONTREES
Optometrists 222% S. Michigan Street	102 W. Washington Street
GLASSES ...
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Irishman, was once a wielder of the crooked stick and follower of the rubber puck.
At Cathedray high school, Duluth, Minn, about four years ago, Murphy was center on the hockey team. During the fall he could be seen perform-(Continued on Page 28)
Sheeketski Scores Twice 5 Middies Hold First String.
By Nick Connor
The Navy Middies were sunk into oblivion by a 12 to 0 score, handed them.by Hunk Anderson and his powerful Notre Dame grid machine. The game was staged in the new Cleveland Memorial Stadium, situated on the lake front. The gridiron was a mass of mud, and puddles of water were seen in several places on the playing field. Notre Dame’s two mighty mites, Joe Sheeketski and Emmett Murphy, gave the 70,000 fans plenty of thrills by executing flashy runs and breath-taking passes that resulted in both of the touchdowns for the Irish.
Statistics Tell Story
Statistics show that the Blue and Gold gridmen made 20 first downs to four of the Navy’s, and the Irish gained 310 yards from scrimmage while the Midshipmen were able to slip and slide for only 92 yards. After the two teams played on near even terms during the first period, a dazzling forward pass from Nick Lu-kats to Emmet Murphy started the fireworks for the Notre Dame aggregation. On the next play Joe Sheeketski slashed off-tackle for a touchdown. Murphy’s hurried try for the extra point was low.
Sheeketski Scores
Immediately after the kick-off the Midshipmen took to the air, but the Navy’s tiny leather blimp was captured by Sheeketski on his own 33 yard line. Lukats then punted to the Navy 3 yard line. And Clark, the stellar Navy back, punted on the first down to his own 43 yard line, where Notre Dame began another march to the Middies goal line. At this stage of the game, Hunk Anderson inserted Jim Leonard into the fray, and his terrific line plunges ripped the Navy line like one of those Chicago machine guns. As the Navy forward was bunched together anticipating another of Leonard’s drives, Lukats shot a short pass to Sheeketski on the five yard line, who outran Clark into the end-zone. Lukats’ try for the extra point bobbled and went wide of the uprights.
(Continued on Page 29)

December 2, 1932
Tzcenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
THAT ARMY GAME
With, a week passed we still can say little but “OH!” and “AH!” It is hardly worth while to unload the superlatives — team play licked the cadets, team play of a nature we haven’t seen for a long, long time.
The wandering halfback—we’re indebted to Mr. Pegler for the description of “a man looking like he was going to see somebody about something”—banged the Army ends so regularly it was almost unnoticed toward the end of the game. When the wingmen crashed straight in they were cut down by vicious sideswiping body blocks. When /the ends chose to try handling the blockers, reverse blocks kept them out of the play every time.
Ed Kosky . . . what an end . . . and Krause, and Harris . . . Robinson, Greeney . . . Kurth . . . and you know the other seventeen who played. Devore and Paul Host . . . passes . . . tackles . . . fumbles . . . always
after the ball . . . smart . . . fast, tough, fighting ... no gains at right end.
No one really minded when Army staved off the first three touchdown jaunts: the ultimate result couldn’t be questioned. The failures were only tributes to the frenzied, hysterical defensive power of the Kaydets, stung by a pushing-around that had been deemed impossible.
Pick Vidal (pronounced heavily on the second syllable) can really handle himself. Only once was he free, but • he scooted along that time with enough speed and shiftiness to justify his reputation. The rest of the time he was helpless. After all, a man can’t run through Ed. Krause.
W. O. McGeehan, Paul Gallico, and the N. Y. boys wore the last few threads of their old “Irish” gags Saturday. We often wondered if they harped on the absence of men from Troy in the Southern California lineup, or
the dearth of Badgers in Wisconsin uniforms. Gallico stayed on the same level in “Through the Binoculars” as he chose a comparison of facial beauty for his subject. Army, so he says, had plenty of it. And then what?
We’d hate to have to pick the biggest thrill of the game. Possibly Koken’s pass to Host was the play for us. Two failures to score in five minutes, and then a 32-yard advance right back to the goal line. Not many around us could voice more than a gurgle.
IT WON’T BE LONG, BUT— .
Just one more game. Even before that game, basketball will be on. Keogan’ll have another fine team. He always manages that. The Football Review will be out again and we’ll all buy our copy, put our feet on the radiators and wonder what next year will bring.
But for eight more days DON’T RELAX. Southern California, toughest of them all, hasn’t paid for that 16-14 game yet. If you want inspiration for more pep, just think back a year to that final five minutes when
(Continued on Page 26)
Every Hour on the Hour
to
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO
Every hour on the hour a fast train leaves the South Shore station, Michigan St., at LaSalle, South Bend, for downtown Chicago, making the trip in a little more than two hours. This is the quick, convenient way to the city. Equally fast trains also leave Chicago every hour on the hour for South Bend.
For complete information on South Shore Line service, see Jimmy McGrath, No. 1, Morrissey Hall.
SOUTH SHORE UNE
O. A. CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 North Michigan Street
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
s Catering to	>
NOTRE DAME MEN
? for over thirty years <
Complete Dinner - - 35c to 50c
For a Real Mans Meal Drop in Any Time.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
SCRIMMAGE LINE
(Continued from Page 23)
Check these points:
Workmanship
Service
Convenience
<IAnd that’s about all you could ask for in your laundry and dry cleaning work.
^At Notre Dame you’ll find superior workmanship. The service is as fast as is consistent with quality. And as for convenience—what could be simpler than the Notre Dame system? Just leave your laundry at'the appointed place in your own hall.
^So, we tell you frankly that you are missing a bet if you fail to patronize the
University of Notre Dame
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING DEPARTMENTS
denotation and a connotation of the word.
Graham McNamee acclaimed Notre Dame’s offense as the most powerful he has seen in his eleven years of watching gridiron activities.
In the rush to leave the dressing room for the playing field, someone forgot to open the door but that custom was dispensed with by the delicate action of bursting through it just as if no door were there. Later when well-wishers tried a little doorcrashing after the game, there were met with stubborn refusal. Least daunted but most futile in his efforts was the newly elected mayor of New York.
Radio announcers as a whole found the game a salvation for football announcing, to quote Ted Husing, who incidentally turned in a mighty fine job, so they tell me. One adverse remark: The broadcasting was too anticipatory; announcers were second-guessing as to plays, that Vidal was soon to go places, etc.
As the end of the season approaches, Southern Cal looms bigger and bigger. No small spaces in that picture of trouble are Smith and Brown, U. S. C.’s giant tackles. The champs of the Pacific Coast have added four formations to their running attack, and now Notre Dame players are making “cribs” on all ten formations just in case. The battlecry:-“Know your ABC’s.
No team met heretofore vaunts such a versatile attack as is accredited to Southern Cal this year. Reports from the coast reveal that sports writers of that locality have exhausted their profuse vocabulary in heaping laurels on the heads of the Trojans, and according to the results their remarks are not unwarranted.
An impressive victory would settle N. D.’s 1931 accounts, but a prediction at this’ time would be out of place.
Congressman Pettengill Addresses Commerce Forum
Congressman Samuel B. Pettengill addresed the members of the Com—~ merce Forum last Tuesday on the subject “The Government in Business.”
In explaining the method of Government competition with private business he stated that the Government is confronted with a huge deficit to-day because of this depression. The people are trying to lower thee costs by stimulating private business in order to facilitate payment of taxes. They want the government to stop competing in order to give private business a clear way.
Approach To Socialism
The intrusion of the government in private enterprise is against the purpose of the foundation of this country. The individual is supreme, said Congressman Pettengill, but the government should not enter in. Its entrance is a form of socialism.
A good example of government intrusion is the Farm Board, the greatest failure of government. It was formed in the face of previous failures of other governments to stabilize prices in certain products. Another example is the Reconstruction Finance Corporation — the government intrusion in banking business. It is another venture . of state socialism, and also a failure.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 25)
Johnny Baker swung his All-. American toe just at Notre
Dame’s 24-yard line. The game an unequalled classic, was a tough one to lose.
Next Saturday the same machines will clash. Again it will be a tough one for someone to lose. Think a bit of that as you gloat over Army. Keep bearing down. Notre Dame wants that game.
Change in Movie Schedule
The Reverend W. H. Molony, C.S.C. this week announced a change in the movie schedule. The revised list follows:
Dec. 7—‘State’s Attorney.”
Dec. 10 — “Symphony of Six Millions.”
Dec. 17—“Bill of Divorcement.”
No nation can rise above the moral and intellectual standards of its women.—Mrs. Patrick J. Hurley.
December 2, 1932
Twenty-seven
First Issue of the Notre Dame “Lawyer” is Out This Week
In the first issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer which makes its initial appearance of the year this week are found some unusually interesting feature contributions by three prominent attorneys and Professor W. D. Rollison of the College of Law.
“States’ Rights under the Federal Prohibition Law” is the title of- the article written by John J. Finerty of Washington, D. C. Finerty is a graduate of the Class of ’06 from Northwestern University’s Law School and ' at present is one of the most outstanding barristers in Washington.
Bankruptcy, Taxes Covered
Max Isaac, former Referee in Bankruptcy in the Southern District of Georgia and the present editor of the American Bankruptcy Review, has written “Should the Federal Government Establish a Bankruptcy Bureau?” Well versed in this field, Isaac states his opinions in a clear, concise, and attractive style.
The third article comes from the pen of Roland Obenchain, School Attorney of South Bend, concerning an important statute of the State of Indiana entitled “The Construction of Indiana’s $1.50 Tax Law. Obenchain is a.graduate of Yale and has already written “The Roman Law of Bank-rupty.”
Lastly, Prof. Rollison’s “Priorities in the Law of Mortgages” is highly commendable and well-worth reading.
In addition to these men, there are numerous other articles by the members of the Lawyer staff.
CAGE TEAM SET
(Continued from Pace 23)
have the advantage over Alberts. Possibly Coach Keogan will be faced with the same problem at the start of the basketball season, that Coach Hunk Anderson faced when the grid warriors opened their scredule,—that of having two men equally good for the same position.
Big Jim Ferris seems to have everything his own way as far as the center position is concerned. However, he. will have to step some if he expects to beat out the 1931-32 AllAmerican pivot man, Ed Krause, when the “Moose” dons his court togs after the Southern California football game.
There are several other football men who may give the varsity aspira.nts
FRESHMEN HALL WINS INTERHALL CROSSCOUNTRY MEET.
Paced by the individual winner Leo McFarlane, who copped individual honors in 12:56.5, Freshman hall won the team prize in the annual interhall cross-country meet held Tuesday, Nov. 22. The frosh scored 27 demerits, Alumni was second with 44, Brownson third with 75, and Dillon fourth with 88.
Wentworth of Brownson followed McFarlane over the finish with Rossi, another Freshman entrant, running third. Kerns of Alumni finished next in line and a third freshman runner, Ganahl, was just back of him in fifth position.
The order of finish for the first ten:
McFarlane (Fr), Wentworth (Br), Rossi (Fr), Kerns (Al), Ganahl (Fr), Lee (Al), Malloy (Al), DuCassa (Fr), Hammer (Dil), Armington (Fr).
INTERHALL DEBATE
(Continued from Page 7)
nize the interpretation of the resolution as offered by the proponents of the affirmative. Debating ethics permit the affirmative to interpret the stated resolution, and rarely did the two teams meet on a common ground of debate.
Father Leo Heiser, C.S.C. awarded the victory to Howard by a score of 253 to 250.
Thus the finals in the Wrangler’s debating season have been reached; it was announced that the finalist resolution will be: Resolved, that all inter-allied debts and reparations be cancelled.
U. S. C. NEXT
(Continued fi-om Page 23)
report for practice because of their much publicized flu. “Even if they are out in time to play the game,” said Coach Anderson, “they will not have time to learn the Southern California plays.”
The freshman team, after practicing the western team’s plays for only a week, seemed able to confuse the varsity during practice sessions early this week.
plenty of trouble when they come out for the team, at the conclusion of the football season. Among these men are Al McGuff, Ray Boland, Charley Jaskwhich, and Al Costello.
KURTH ALL-AMERICAN
(Continued from Page 22)
of the fact that another man has turned in a better performance.
Joe Kurth rose to prominence at Notre Dame when he made the first team in his sophomore year. In the Southern Methodist game of 1930 he was sent in as a substitute and has been a member of the first string ever since. His performance against Army last week, one of the greatest games of his career, assured him a place on the All-American.
Bostonians
Shoes for Men
1 he Trojan $5.00
New Sfyle-New KaZue
Protect your Pocketbook, but keep up your appearance.
MASTER-FITTED Paul O. Kuehn “Footwear of fashion”
120 S. Michigan St.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING MURPHY
(Continued from Page 24)
ing in a football uniform. Then, when the weather got cool, he traded his time between the hardwood court and hockey rink. Basketball saw him perform in the role of a guard.
During the years he was one of Duluth’s outstanding prep school athletes, he also cherished a certain ambition. As he pored over newspaper accounts of Fighting Irish victories, he visioned himself a member of Notre Dame teams. Such a desire was, in itself, nothing unusual for it
“Goodwill to Men”
is said that every prep school athlete experiences that desire at some time or other during his high school days.
But Murphy saw his dream come true. Circumstances permitted him to come to Notre Dame. He enrolled in the College of Commerce. June will see him graduated with a degree in business administration. Besides completing courses required for his commerce degree he has been taking a few subjects in the education department.
When he came to Notre Dame he didn’t leave his skates and hockey
stick behind. During the winter of his freshman year, he and a few others journeyed to Culver Military academy for a game of hockey. Not feeling too much out of place when he stepped out on the ice after a season of freshman football, he led his pick-up team to a 9-0 victory over the embryo soldiers.
But the next year, hockey was no longer a part of the Notre Dame athletic program. Adverse weather conditions forced it from the schedule of winter sports. So Murphy began to concentrate on football.
Carefully keeping his note-book of plays up to date and remembering all instructions received from his coaches on smart quarterback play, he became a member of the traveling squad in 1931. His biggest thrill came in the Navy game of that season. The Middies were playing the type of game for which Service teams are noted—they were fighting. When Murphy went in to relieve Quarterback Jaskwhich, he decided to try the airline route toward the goal line.
He called signals, sifted through the line after the ball was snapped, cut to the left and stopped on the twenty-yard line, turned around and picked one of Schwartz’s passes out of the air for a long gain. He was downed, but his catch had put the ball in scoring position.
He is another small football player of the modem type. Five feet, six inches tall, and weighing 155 pounds, he makes up for lack of weight by headwork. He lives in Walsh, a member of the first floor suite occupied by the firm of Koken, Sheeketski and Murphy. A rather football atmosphere.
Christmas'. Season oflaughterand joy. Gifts and good will to all—and the opportunity to combine both by using Christmas Seals. For Christmas Seals help prevent, find, and cure tuberculosis all year round. Use them generously on all Christmas packages, gifts, cards and letters, and let your business correspondence proclaim,“Good health to all.”
THE NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES
Buy Christmas Seals
Students Welcome at Our Fountain!
Stop in—try our Pork Tenderloin and
Virginia Baked Ham Sandwiches . . .
10c
HARTZER’S
117 W. LaSalle Ave.
Opp. Hoffman Hotel
December 2, 1932
Twenty-nine
N. D. 12; NAVY O,
(Continued from Page 24)
The Irish regulars started the second half as did Gordon Chung-Hoon, the ace backfield star of the Navy. As the Hawaiian lad’s passes were all
For a
crisp bite
at bedtime
Tom Roach
He helped at Cleveland
too long and high for the Navy ends and backs to get under, the Notre Dame secondary had little trouble in blocking his many tosses. Rip Miller’s charges were willing to give ground until their goal line was in danger, and here it was that the many thrills of the game were applied as they held the first Irish eleven after they had driven to within inches of their goal line. The final gun ended one of Mike Koken’s mighty drives toward the' Navy goal, as he was stopped on the 15 yard line after a dash from the Middies thirty yard stripe.
TRY the world’s crispest cereal. Kellogg’s Rice Krispies. Toasted rice bubbles that actually snap, crackle and pop in milk or cream.
Summary:
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Murray ............DE............. Vairo
Brooks ............LT......... Pfefferle
Reedy (C) .........LG......... Schiralli
Harbold ...........C............. Gorman
Burns .............RG.......... Pivarnik
Kane ..............RT............. Roach
Dornin ............RE............ Devore
Becht .............QB............ Murphy
Clark .............LH............ Lukats
Walkup ............RH........ Sheeketski
Erck ..............FB............. Banas
Score by quarters: Navy .............. 0	0	0	0— 0
Notre Dame ........ 0	12	0	0—12
Touchdowns—Sheeketski, 2.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Kosky. Krause, Harris, Robinson, Greeney, Kurth, Host. Jask-which, Koken, Sheeketski, Melinkovich, La-borne, Leonard, Leding.
Navy—Johnston. Campbell, Mini. Chung-Hoon, Slack, Borries, Pray, Bentley.
We should not say “art for art’s sake.” Art is for man’s sake.—Dr. F. W. Croivder.
And the best of it is, Rice Krispies are ideal when you’re hungry late at night. So easy to digest they encourage restful sleep. How much better than heavy, hot foods. Any restaurant has Rice Krispies. Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek.	.
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, PEP Bran Flakes, Corn Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—real coffee that lets you sleep.
Thirty
The Scholastic
TRACK PROSPECTS DIM
(Continued from Page 20)
Alumni Whips Walsh for Right to Meet Morrissey
die distance events is Eddie King who placed third in a qualifying heat for the finals of the fifteen hundred meter event at the Olympics this summer.
The situation in the hurdles remains about the same with Poredon and Fagan returning with a year’s experience to aid them. The same may be said of the broad jump where Ed Gough returns with two year’s experience.
Murphy Good Jumper
Up from last year’s freshman team will come Vince Murphy who threw a bombshell into the National Collegiate Meet in Chicago this summer by jumping six feet, five and one-half inches. Murphy was a rank outsider and was not even considered in the pre-meet selections. For some obscure reason, Murphy was not taken to the final trials at Palo Alto, but his jump at the National Collegiate Meet remains on the books as one inch better than the jump which won the Olympics.
Coming up with Murphy is Freschi who, last year heaved the 16 pound shot no less than 42 feet. Daigle and Nockles will have to try and fill the shoes of McCormick and Egan, last year’s sprinter who were lost by graduation.
WANTED------
4 passengers to accompany me to Los Angeles, Calif., for Southern California-Notre Dame game. Leave either Dec. 3rd or 4th., and return after the game. $75 a round trip. Phone D-8352—ask for K. H. Morgan.
Sam’s Barber
Shop
A First Class Shop
That Solicits Your
Patronage.
On Michigan Street Under Claffey’s Cigar Store
(Continued from Page 22)
field quartet composed of Powell, Pallman, Luckonitch, and Bloesma. The Sophs backfield of Bintz, La Londs, Powers, and Palmisani will all be marked men.
The probable starting lineups:
ALUMNI	MORRISSEY
Dugan ..............LE............. Sheedy
Huisking ...........LT.......... Standish'
Quirk ..............LG.............. Nolan
Hollond ............C............... Blake
Kiley ..............RG........... Molinari
Favertt ............RT............. Aberle
Pogue ..............RE.............. Felts
Powell .............QB.............. Bintz
Pallman ............LH........... La	Londe
Luckonitch .........RH............. Powers
Bloesma ............FB...........Palmisani
Alumni 12; Walsh 0.
By James McKean
A fast charging, clean blocking, Alumni Hall team won the Interhall championship of Divsion Two, and with it the right to meet Morrissey Hall for the Interhall title by defeating Walsh Hall Tuesday afternoon. The final score was 12 to 0. Walsh entered the game with the necessity of winning to gain a tie with Alumni for the league lead but it failed to deliver and Alumni romped to a comparatively easy win.
The score does not indicate the superiority of Alumni over its rivals. Although their play was not up to its usual high standard, Alumni displayed enough power to keep the ball in Walsh territory for the greatei' part of the fray. Only once did Walsh threaten, and that was when it recovered a fumble on the Alumni three yard line. Here it lacked the power to put it across.
Hard Blocking Wins ~
Walsh could not cope with the hard blocking which Alumni has been noted for. Walsh failed to register a first down in the first half, and displayed its only power early in the third period when the Alumni reserves had relieved the first team. It registered two first downs in rapid order after receiving the kickoff, but it failed to keep up the concentrated attack.
Walsh kicked to Alumni to open the game, Alumni taking the ball on its own 30 yard line. In three rushes it registered a first down on its own 42, after which Luckonitch raced in-'
to Walsh territory to register a first down on the 27 yard stripe. After being held for two downs Bloesma ran 23 yards to the three yard line. Here Walsh stiffened, setting Alumni back seven yards in three attempts and then knocking a pass down over the goal line.
Bloesma Scores
Ackerman kicked, the ball going out of bounds on the Walsh 40 yard line. Alumni made a first down on the 30 yard line, and Pallman ran 19 yards to the 11 yard line. On the next play Bloesma went through guard for the score. His attempted dropkick was partially blocked, and fell short of the crossbar.
Alumni advanced to the eight yard line midway in the second period, but two five yard penalties set it back and two passes were incomplete, Walsh taking possession of the ball.
Starting another drive on the Walsh 40 yard line, Bloesma registered a first down on the 30, Luckonitch added four and Pallman made another first down on the 19 yard stripe. Bloesma placed the ball but seven yards from the goal, and after Walsh held for three downs Pallman dropped back and threw a pass to McCormack who leaped high in the air to take it for the score just inside the end zone. An attempted pass for the extra point was grounded.
• Pass Intercepted
Walsh took the opening kickoff of the second half on its own 21 yard line. Two first downs brought the ball to the 45 yard line but the seniors were forced to kick. Pallman fumbled the kick, Walsh .recovering. Dugan, however, averted trouble for the moment when he intercepted a pass on the 17 yard line. But Walsh was not to be repulsed without another attack at the Alumni goal, this time recovering a bad pass from center on the three yard line. Ackerman was held twice, and then two passes went awry and Alumni took the ball on its own 20.
Alumni got as far as the seven yard line in the fourth period, but a penalty set it back, and a pass was grounded over the goal as Walsh took possession of the ball..
George Reese, Bloesma, Luckonitch and Pallman played sterling football for Alumni, while Woods and Ackerman were outstanding for Walsh.
4
December 2, 1932
Thirty-one
Remains Of Village Tell Historic Tale Of N. D.
(Continued from Page 15)
names: O’Briens and Riordans, and Donohues and Dinans. Pioneers.
Before we left the cemetery we enjoyed a sight of unusual beauty. We found that we were on an elevation, and that the Saint Joe River ran by the far end of the cemetery, a hundred and fifty or two hundred feet below us. We looked down a sheer steep at the swirling current. Blue-black in the afternoon light, it supplied a delightful foreground for the scene beyond: a range of low hills covered by fading autumn woods. Two or three miles away a thin wreath of blue smoke curled its flimsy way skyward. We thought we understood why Mr. Bertrand chose to settle in this section.
“No Information Here”
From the cemetery we went to the school house. The school mistress was affable — but no cicerone. Bertrand history was not part of her curriculum. She pointed through a window to a dreary, gray-brown house a few hundred yards distant. “Try there,” she said, “the woman who lives there is the granddaughter of the first Bertrand postmaster.”
Our knock at the grand-daughter’s house was answered by the appearance of a large gray woman—a most formidable person. She stood in the half-open doorway. We watched her tight, straight lips pronounce the question: “Well?” I asked if she could direct me to the original site of Saint Mary’s and the old mission.
“You won’t get no information here,” she said. “You don’t know where Saint Mary’s or the church was?” I asked. “No, I don’t.” The door rattled and closed.
My companion enjoyed my embarrassment.
“What would you do if someone routed you out of bed on a cold afternoon like this — and started asking you questions about the Brooklyn Bridge and the Battle of Long Island?”
Locates Church
“In the first place,” I retorted, “I’d not be in bed in the afternoon. I get up at eleven when I’m home. And in the second, if it were such a day as this, I’d ask him in to have a cup of good, steaming hot coffee.”
We had the coffee and some sandwiches a minute later at a warm refreshment stand on the state road.
Not to be defeated by a cranky old woman, I made further inquiries— back at school. I found that the graveyard was the site of the old church, and the field south of the graveyard, the location of Saint Mary’s first campus. Today there is left standing no vestige of either.
New York City—University professors who repudiate the ideas of God, immortality, free will, and personal responsibility “degrade” the human mind far more than the unlettered, superstitious savage,” Cardinal Hayes said in a letter to the pastors of the Archdiocese of New York.
Enjoy a Real Spaghetti Dinner
NILES Avenue Restaurant 601-603 1-2 N. Niles Ave. Phone 3-0678
FOUR IRISH GR1DDERS ON ALL-STATE ELEVEN
Indianapolis News Has Koken, Jaskwhich, Harris, Kurth.
Four Irish varsity football stars were named on the Indianapolis News all-Indiana college team, announced Thursday. Twelve other members of the Notre Dame squad were placed on the second and third teams and the honorable mention list.
Joe Kurth, Jim Harris, Mike Koken and Charley Jaskwhich were honored with first team berths. Purdue was given five places on the first team and Indiana received the other two.
Three On Second Team
On the second team, Captain Paul Host, Ed Krause ,and George Melin— kovich, were given places. Jack Robinson andNorm Greeney landed third team honors.
Notre Dame’s representation on the honorable mention list included Ed Kosky, Hugh Devore, Tom Gorman, Emmett Murphy, Nick Lukats, Joe Sheeketski, and Steve Banas.
The first team named by the News is as follows:
Ends: Moss (Purdue) and Dickey (Indiana).
Tackles: Kurth (N. D.) and Fehr-ing (Purdue).
Guards: Harris (N. D.) and Kec-kich (Indiana).
Center: Oehler (Purdue).
Quarterback: Jaskwhich (N. D.)
Halfbacks: Koken (N. D.) and Hecker (Purdue).
Fullback: Horstmann (Purdue).
Kohlbrenner Writes in Catholic School Journal
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, instructor in the Department of Education, is the author of an article “Some Aspects of the Measurement of Supervision” appearing in the December 1932 issue of the Catholic School Journal.
The article deals with a survey of the methods that have been employed in the measurement of supervision of instruction in secondary schools. It embodies some of their weakness, and some of the problems that remain to be solved in measuring supervision more accurately.
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
After College WHAT?
Journalism?
Thomas W. Gerber of the executive staff of the United Press says: "Seeking, reporting, interpreting and distributing news is today a complex business, an exciting profession, a responsible career. It is a field only for serious-minded, dear-thinking men and women. The day of romantic, adventurous assignments is largely over.”
THERE’S no more "newspaper game.” Today, it’s a business— still exciting, but calling for all-round resourcefulness. That’s why newspaper men agree with college men in choosing a pipe as their favorite smoke. A pipe helps a man organize his mind for dear thinking.
Why did college men choose Edgeworth as their favorite smoking tobacco?* Because it’s individual! A blend of fine old hurleys that’s different.
But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So drop a line to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and let them send you a free sample of Edgeworth to try before you buy. You’ll like it!
*A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
On Down The Line
Ry Fred MacBeth
RALPH ELSE of the CROSSCOUNTRY TEAM advances the information that the team covered 155.5 miles during the season . . . that figure includes meets and practice runs . . . there is a man on that team who deserves mention at this time . . . for the past three years he has given up the pleasures attached to a NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SEASON to enter one of the toughest of all sports — CROSS-COUNTRY ... he didn’t attract national recognition, yet kept right on plugging with the best of them . . . THE BRONX REDHEAD, JOHN HOYT!
When the NOTRE DAME RESERVES went to TEXAS for their game with TEXAS TECH there were two boys on the squad who have been playing reserve ball for three seasons . . . they are ED. VYZRAL AND VINCE BURKE . . . these boys are proof that there is something else to NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL besides trips and glory . . . they were out ' every day for practice, yet they knew their chances of making the VARSITY were hopeless . . • VYZRAL summed things up when he remarked, “I didn’t make a monogram, in fact I didn’t even play in a varsity game, but I had a lot of fun.” . . . THAT’S REAL NOTRE DAME SPIRIT.
❖
. “LEFTY” O’DOUL, National League BATTING CHAMPION, is COACHING baseball players in the BIG SIX UNIVERSITY LEAGUE of TOKYO . . . LEE ROSENBERG, whose horse, KERRY PATCH, won the BELMONT FUTURITY, is the first owner other than a millionaire to win that racing fixture in 17 YEARS . . . JOHNNY BLOOD, star of the GREEN BAY PACKERS’ BACKFIELD, left NOTRE DAME in 1923 without trying out for football ... a freshman coach insisted he played tackle . . . KEN MEENAN, much-married and separated NORTHWESTERN FOOTBALL STAR, is hoping to enter school again at the semester and be eligible for football next season ... at present he is raking leaves on the school campus.
W. D. LAMDIN, of the Baltimore (Md.) COUNTRY CLUB recently made the 365-yard thirteenth hole in one .. . the hole is downhill from tee to green and a wind favored the
ALUMNI HALL DEFEATS JORDAN COLLEGE 32-9
Use of Two Offensive Systems Fools Michigan Collegians.
On a slippery field at Menominee, Michigan, Thanksgiving Day, Alumni Hall overwhelmed Jordan College by the score of 32 to 9. Coach Norb Christmas started the shock troops, using the Warner system; thus com- . pletely bewildering the opponents who _ were expecting the Notre Dame sys- , tem. When Jordan became accustomed to the tactics of this system, Christman sent in his first team using the Notre Dame style of play. . . j
McFadden and Powell Star ,
McFadden and Powell starred for Alumni, while MacWilliams was the I outstanding man on the field for Jordan. Jordan had previously defeated Ripon Frosh, Stevens Point B team,' Lawrence College Frosh, and tied the strong Marquette Frosh team. Up until meeting Alumni they had yet to have their goal line crosseed. A Tur- . key day crowd of 12,000. enthusiastic fans witnessed the game.
Lineups and Summary:
ALUMNI HALL	JORDAN
Fromn ..............LE........... Snyder
Quirk ..............LT.......... Miresse
Kiley ..............LG............. Zinn
Glennon .............C......-....Payant
Favret .............RG......... Ockstodt
Luckanitch .........RT........... Shaver
Pogue ..............RE........... Rubins
Dugan ..............QB.......'... Hayskar
Powell .............LH.......... Abraham
Bloesma ............RH........... Combes
Pahlman.............FB....... MacWilliams
Touchdowns: Alumni Hall — McFadden, Powell, Layden, Elser, Pilney.
Jordan—MacWilliams.
Points after touchdowns: Alumn:—McFadden. Jordan—MacWilliams.
Safety: Shaver.
Officials: Referee, Erdlitz (Oskosh); Um-, pire, Flanigan, (Escanaba) ; field judge, Davey (Oskosh) ; Head Linesman—Doyle.
drive . . . any player on the MONTREAL CANADIAN HOCKEY TEAM found eating pie is fined $10 by MANAGER LEO DANDURAND . . . EDDIE MORRIS of QUINCY (Mass.) is working his twenty-ninth season as announcer and scoreboard signal man at the Harvard games . . . his voice is so strong he never uses a megaphone ... an eastern newspaperman remarked that, during the present season YALE has been, supplying the BOWL and the opponents the PUNCH.
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p, (Office 4-5661	X-ray
{Residence 3-4041
DR. E. S. LUCAS
Dentist
702 J. ty. S. Building	South Bend,
Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana
Expert Eye Service
Glasses Properly Fitted at Moderate Prices
J. BURKE, Inc.
Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians
Established 1900
228 S. Michigan St.
Office Rhone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343
DR. B. A. KAMM
"	" " Ear, Nose and Throat
Suite 526 Sherland Building Jefferson and Michigan TT (10 to 12 m.
Hours
' /o to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana
DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective Shoes
Residence Phone 4-6354
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street
Office 3-6978	Residence 2-6741
DR. LEO J. QUINLAN
D entist
514 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
(10 to 11:30 a. m.
Hours |2 to 4 p. m.
DR. H. BOYD-SNEE
>	Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
716 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Indiana
. (Office 4-5821 Telephone ., o _A_-I Residence 3-3090
X-Ray
DR. H. W. CARTER
D e n t i s t
315 Union Trust Bldg.	South Bend, Indiana
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D.
University Physician.
Office at
Hours:
University Infirmary . 12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.
that Baby roll
em
*
THEY'RE MILDER
THEY TASTE BETTER
© 1932. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
You would be astonished too, if you could see this machine that turns out 750 Chesterfields a minute ... as near perfect as cigarettes can be made.
But, though rolling and packaging are important, they aren’t nearly as important as the selection, blending and treatment of the tobacco.
That’s why we keep telling you about the fine, mild, pure tobaccos used in Chesterfields. We tell you about ageing and curing these tobaccos ... about blending and cross-blending them ... because those are the
Chesterfields are milder. They taste better. Prove it for yourself!	~