NIL? WOTH-MEN
HHPWMTD-MEN
Mmmu arf Tlafai ■
HHP WANTED-MIN R<k'ai««41Wu -
«iPW«no-Ma
>	IM- •
ESTIMATOR
■ad
echanical engineer
atCELLEt.T OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCEMENT.
BSTANT FOR THE PLANNING DEPT. MANAGER OF A VERY AGGRESSIVE WEST UBURBAN CHICAGO PLANT.
DIE CUTTING PRESSMAN CARDBOARD
ICEHLE CYUNDERS
KOHL INDUSTRIES
4220 W. SCHUBERT AUUVM20O _________
ENGINEERS DESIGNERS DRAFTSMEN
d at once. for a nermanent dobLCo' luatnous, ingenious man vitn acme Alcax ezffineennr and oesigmnt «eacev coin on prxucts production processes Ln tags, wire terming w«a ttlon teaehfeery.
CHEMISTS cm MEMICAL ENGIN • recent graduates no: ove ef ace. fault ee arie to eftvsuai examination, it** 6 hour, d oav week. Start mtn us for men with de mtrcl laboratories. Plant lection of Chicago. JRESS MBJ 303 TRIB
— HFlPWANim-MBt tedUMUi mATmAm
EN3TNEER-Sales Hepresentatlve-are an enthetf or technically t man, particularly one who has t Ing or experience with highway ccnstructun cr paving materials desire to become connected for work with a national firm that t est rating, we suggest you write Ine vour Qualifications, past exp etc. If possible, uso sens reeen shot. Prefer man 25 to 35, cr t Will arrante personal In cation fills requirements. iress MDM at Tribune.
DRAFTSMEN CHECKERS Mechanical Experienced in Piping, Plate Work and Light Steel for Power Stations.
SARGENT & LUNDY ENGRS 222 W. ADA
Structural-Architectuni Experience in Rower Plank or Industri?.! Buildings ADDRESS MBL 285 TRIBUNE
PEEK
INFILCO INC.
CAMERON CAN CC. Ml) N. AbhUAND HAyrcarnei 1.8820
DIE AND TOOL
APPRENTICE. High school grttalP udu» has majored la machine Shop.
CHICAGO DTE
—400! WRFT
RCHI «*TK SIMM. IIECT MYO
GRAND AV. AT

OPENINGS FOR
DESIGN ENGINEERS
DtuHG.'lut-opportur.ity tor young man to gain experience, advancement with company producing permanent point ef aale displays. Knowledge of lettering, rendering, wood construction desirable. Convenient location. Pleasant working' conditions. State age. background Address TEM 66 Tribune
ERS DRAFTSMEN
Structural-Architectural Experience in Power- Plank or Industrial Buildings Address MAG 53 Tribune
DRAFTING INSTRUCTOR Architectural To instruct coLege students. Days Calendar year Goos opportunity
CHICAGO TECHNICAL COLLEGE 2300 $. Mletinr. CAlumet 5-6ZC?
re have several immediate peslaga for design or devel-psett engineers. Mechanical nd electrical eanneers wun oaaiderable experience m oe-Ign of iBStrumtnia or control referred. Excellent opportune ilea wlthleadlna manufacturer 1 automatic ^controls.’ Attrae-ive salary, i/rauon: am*-
DIESEL Chief Engineer to supervise maintenance, operation, sad repair of diesel generating plants using various type engines. Must ba capable to assume full responsibility. Must be capable ad-'mialstrator and Instructor of large group of diesel operators. Work con-ditioas include subsistence and
ENGINEERS
EaceUnt cpportunltlei for (radula. clHBlcd, mechaaleal or uMiliirtletl •sriaten. DmlopnMl of matali, rubtwr eooipoDda, aMada, Ur-eocUlMr BMEsfietoHM r
i
DRAFTSMAN
With soma estimating experience, tor large general contractor's office A good opportunity for yyr< e.-g.reer having college or eq-tvaient training. Apply by letter only, saung qualifier tions.
R. C. W1EBOLDT CO
ENGINEERS insurance company has : for marire or stationary f t operating engineers with i operating experience, t ctors of boilers, engine electrical machinery ust be high sc?ool gr ate age, expcr'encc. her qualifications, ss MEM ?e Tribune
ERING DRAFTS
eiaea steel ana structu Must be able to calculate van csss, head (fasten, baffle and a support. M.E. or C.E. deslnbl *111 consider man with 2 years r.MHnz education.
325.W. 25
ENGINEERING DRAFTS
SOME COLLEGE TRAINED Excellent opportunity for vounc vita some experience to start ’ larre national s*eel firm. J«h i voive worK on me board, detail IrdorcLng steel. Good adnaeemt prospects.
ADDRESS MBX 558 TRD
ENGINE^
D31U
jann.cn
and all of them made possible through profits!
In the last eight years, International Harvester has increased the number of its employes in the United States from 60,000 to 90,000.
This means that 30,000 new jobs have been created—good jobs at good pay for junior executives, engineers, draftsmen, technicians, among many others. And every one of these jobs carries with it plenty of chance for advancement.
This great progress in jobmaking has been made possible by the profits which over the last 20 years the company has plowed back into the business. That is why we like to say PROFITS MEAN PROGRESS for everyone.
For example:
During the eight year’period in which our force was increased from 60,000 to 90,000 employes, the average straight-time hourly earnings of our non-salaried factory employes have increased 92.6 per cent.
Customers have benefited from the fact that our margin of profit on sales today is two-fifths less than in 1941.
And our stockholders have had a fair return on the savings they have invested in our company. Dividends on common stock this year are 4.65% on the book value, as compared with 4% in 1941.
In 1948, the company had profits, after taxes, of 4.7 cents from each dollar of sales.
We know it is our continuing ability to earn a reasonable profit that has made it possible for International Harvester in the past year to serve more people-customers, employes and stockholders—in greater measure than ever before. Profits mean progress for everyone.
We hope to be able to continue to make a reasonable profit with each succeeding year in the future—to keep right on creating more and more jobs at good pay for young men entering industry, just as we have done in the past.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
2
The Scholastic
Letters
One Man's Opinion?
Deal- Editor:
I would like to meet in a dark alley the person with the “brilliant” mind that planned the new dinnertime hours (11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m.). I guess many of the fellows who had to wait as much as I did for that chow would too, and for all I know maybe even you would join the parade and take along your brand-new brass knuckles, the ones you got for Christmas, huh?
Very truly yours,
Ray Edmond Dillon
Wild Animal Show?
Dear Editor:
I have heard many students on the campus gripe about the movies in Washington Hall. I believe, up to this semester, they had a legitimate gripe, but what happens when a good movie is brought to the campus? The mentality of the Notre Dame student isn’t high enough to appreciate it.
I had this same feeling after- the showing of Henry V. However, I didn’t write this letter to the editor then, but the exhibition at the showing of I’ve Always Loved You has set off the fireworks. I grant that there were some parts of the movie that were not too well acted and that the girl who played the part of Myra Hassaman’s daughter was not too good looking, but there was very good music in the picture, and probably unknown to those who raised all the rumpus, the piano playing was actually done by Artur Rubenstein.
Notre Dame is supposed to train gentlemen; I would seriously doubt this if I had to judge from the exhibition at the movie last Saturday. I would say that Notre Dame men had absolutely no respect for other people, that they lacked any semblance of culture, and that they should get down off their high horse and go back to their class C pictures, which they can understand.
If this bunch of wild animals doesn’t like the movie that is being shown in Washington Hall, the least they could do is get up and leave, and let those who do appreciate the movie enjoy it. However, they probably don’t have the mentality to realize that there are people in the world different from themselves.
There are a few suggestions contained in this last paragraph that if taken by those who like class C pictures might help those who are really interested in the good movies, that is, if the so-called
Feb. 25, 1949
STOP PASSING UP GOOD TIMES!
Avte you missing out on being a popular dancing partner? Why put off your dancing fun any longer? You'll be amazed at how quickly you "catch on" . . . how swell you feel with new confidence, new friends, newfound fun and popularity!
Jle&wi to*
FREE
Half-Hour Lesson
Phone for Appointment or Come In!
4-0801
Former Dance Director
ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIOS
Chicago
Open Daily 10 A. M. - 10 P. M.
Saturday 10 A. M. - 6 P. M.
Alice and George Davis
345 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Indiana
Member of Chicago National Association of Dancing Artists
3
Notre Dame intelligentsia can pick them out.
As a corollary to this I might add that someone is needed who knows how to regulate the volume on a motion picture camera, you know, that little knob on the projector which makes the seund louder and softer. The sound for the first reel of Saturday’s picture was fine, but it kept getting softer as the picture went on and finally at the end you had to strain to hear even a full symphony orchestra.
I hope that the class C movie goers will go back to their class C pictures, so that some of us can enjoy the good movies. If this doesn’t happen, then perhaps the University officials should bring back the old corny movies that the students can easily understand and appreciate.
William I. Stryker
329 Cavanaugh
Reader Stryker lays it on a little thick. He should realize that threescore members of the diaper set blowing their tops in the balcony can sound like the whole student body. We believe most Notre Darners are just as tired of the loudmouthed juvenile delinquents as he is. . . . For more on Washington Hall
movies, see “Whistles and Boos” in next iveek's issue.—Editor.
Wrong Tickets, Wrong Picnic
Dear Editor:
I am confused. Somebody seems to be bruiting it about that I wrote, encouraged, or have tickets to the Teddy Bear’s picnic. It’s a dastardly lie. I have, however, some choice tickets to the Wombats’ Orgy, to be held Michaelmas next in Transylvania. As Ogden Nash has said,
“Home is a fine place, and orgies are vile,
But you need an orgy once in a while.” Joe Wilcox
Off-Campus
Band Letters Approved
Dear Editor:
Since I took advantage of this column last week to make public my criticism of the administration for net delivering the band letters, word has been received that the letters have been approved. Thus, I think that it is only proper for me to make public my thanks, and I feel sure I can include the rest of the band members too.
Dave O’Leary
Well said, Bandsman O’Leary.—Editor.
Library Gets Volume
The Notre Dame Foundation, through Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., prominent Dante authority, has announced the acquisition of a beautifully bound and illustrated volume of the Divine Comedy to the Dante Library. The book is illustrated from the drawings of Botticelli and is valued at several hundred dollars. The Dante Collection was originally founded by Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C. In recent years the collection has grown to be one of the great Dante Libraries of the United States.
John E. Moore, Detroit Notre Dame Alumnus and Foundation governor for the state of Michigan, donated this volume. It was presented to Father Brennan and the University’s Dante Library by John Moore, son of the donor and a sophomore at the University.
CORRECTION
SCHOLASTIC misnamed one of Notre Dame's teachers in its new-facuity-member story on page 10 last week. The new part-time instructor in the College of Commerce is Mr. Charles W. Magner — not Wagner, as we reported.
Spire of California hand-needled
GABARDINE SPORT SHIRTS
washable ... color fast ... superbly	A
tailored ... guaranteed for 1 year • V
The full luster of the luxurious rayon gabardine remains after repeated washings. The collar and pocket flaps have handpicked edges. Choose yours from one of the 12 beautiful colors ... in small, medium or large sizes.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: JACK GRIFFIN, CAVANAUGH HALL
4
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
WANT TO [MH $9000 A YEM?
Two Cars in Every Garage?
Every Notre Dame man worth his salt, and even the few unsalted ones, should take a quick tally of their United States currency and get set to invest some of it in this week’s round of Student Relief festivities. Tonight, down at the Palais Royale, the Mardi Gras dance will set the machinery in motion. It should be interesting to see what effect a full-blown New Orleans-like Mardi Gras will have on the Palais piazza. Look around tonight and you’ll probably see a blistered bugle, discarded at Herbie Fields’ recent twisteroo, as well as several garden-grown rutabaga, early-arrived for tomorrow’s Holmesian Society garden show. How the chairmen got rid of that steamy miasma, if they did, left over from the last Golden Gloves fiesta should rate a page in DuPont’s Triumphs of Chemistry.
Next Monday and Tuesday the scene will change to the Navy Drill Hall. Here, for two nights, the celebrating bourgeoisie will get a chance to play the machines manufactured in Las Vegas and Reno. Also, there’ll be several booths on hand to sharpen up the reflexes. Most popular of these will undoubtedly be the baseball affair in which you toss an American league ball at a head protruding through a canvas and thrill to the groans of a squirming prof.
A cold poultice will be applied to this celebrating, Tuesday night, when 4,999 students finally realize that the ticket drawn out of the barrel by the bonded Mishawaka tailor was not theirs.
Beethoven? Who's Ee?
Culture, when it does come to Notre Dame, is passed up like a plate of dining hall chow mein. Last week the talented Albeneri Trio (composed of Erich Itor Kahn, piano; Giorgio Ciompi, violin, and Benar Heifetz, ’cello) came to Washington Hall and presented a superb two-hour program. Fewer than 75 students attended. Funny how a Thursday afternoon performance by the champagne-addicted Lawrence Welk jams the Palace with ND studes, while a free performance by top-flight artists in Washington hall won’t even draw flies. Maybe the University Concert and Lecture Se
Feb. 25, 1949
ries ought to start booking Spike Jones, Nellie Lutcher, and Frankie Laine.
Knee Deep in Tradition
Have you ever stopped to realize how barren life at Notre Dame would be without the coal-black cinder paths that wind through the quadrangle? Without them, the maids would have nothing to clean up in the halls. And they’re indeed an inspiration. Whenever we walk to the Main building, we get the feeling that we are once more stamping through the soggy, steaming jungles of Buckupland in the Lowei- Cameroons, a member of the Fighting 102nd Quartermaster Reserve Corps. Take one thing with another, and there are few places left on the face of the earth where you can walk through oozing mud to attain a nuclear fission class. Of course, the cinder paths at Notre Dame will always remain. Tradition deems that we shall have mud in spring, dust in summer, goo in the fall, and slush in the winter. Gosh, but it tickles our soul whenever we pause at the door at Alumni to kick two pounds of damp deluge off our Hanovers.
Uh-Huh Department
One day last week, idling through the pages of the South Bend Tribune, we noticed this rather remarkable statement by Capt. Lester G. Carpenter, CO of South Bend’s recruiting district: “The so-called caste system no longer exists in the new U. S. army, the largest volunteer army ever raised in the history of America.” Imagine that, no caste system in the army! We knew that the army was trying to write that tune, but we figured it would never be sung. We offer the following on what to expect on your first day as a member, either voluntary or invited, of this New Army.
Second Looie: “Here you are, soldier, ready to launch yourself on a healthy, vigorous, enjoyable career. From here on in, you’re a son to me. . . . I’ll expect you to treat me as a father. . . . We’ll have fun . . . ha . . . ha. . . . Bring me your problems and we’ll discuss them over a coke. . . . Any questions?”
Private: “No.”
Second Looie: “Say that again—and this time make it a “no, SIR!”
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . .. plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more!
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our managerin or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIVE INSURANCE COMPANY af NEW YORK
34 Nmo« Stmt Oy Nn>Ya>k5.lf.Y FIRST IN AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEPT. T
NAME. _	-
annw
HOLIDAY
An
Adventure in Good Smoking
holiday


Entertainment
FEBRUARY 25
PALAIS ROYALE—The annual Mardi Gras Ball, under the auspices of the Sophomore Class this year, will hold forth from 9 until 1 a.m. tonight. Bob Ruehle and his orchestra will be on the podium.
COLFAX (through March 2)—Words and Music. Another of those super super-hyphenated spectacles that Hollywood turns out with regimented regularity. Every celestial orbit on the MGM set has been thrown into this colorful melange of music.
PALACE (through 28) Race Street and Bodyguard. George Raft, William Bendix and Marilyn Maxwell in the former and Lawrence Tierney and Priscilla Lane in the latter help to make this program one that should be missed.
GRANADA (through 26) Lafftime and Shep Conies Home. Stay home.
STATE (through 26) Paleface and Jungle Woman. Bob Hope and Jane Russell in the feature make the bill worthwhile.
FEBRUARY 26
DRILL HALL—Art with a capital A comes to the campus. Charles L. Wagner’s touring opera company and their production of Rossini’s The Barber of Seville is a promising harbinger of what could be brought to the University if it receives the support that it deserves.
WASHINGTON HALL — Northwest Outpost. Nelson Eddy and Ilona Massey in an operatic travesty on the Russians debacle in Alaska.
FEBRUARY 27
GRANADA (through March 2) — Countess of Monte Cristo and Bring ’Em Back Alive. Sonja Henie glides through the first feature while Frank Buck sneaks through the second one, looking for some African trophies.
STATE (through March 1)—Broadway and Flame of New Orleans (re-issues). George Raft and Janet Blair help to make the feature a diverting piece while Marlene Dietrich struggles with the second flicker, but it had been snuffed out before the opening reel.
FEBRUARY 28
DRILL HALL (through March 1) — Student Relief Mar'di Gras Carnival. Noisy barkers, dust, music, and a deafening din will help to make this second annual bazaar a barrel of fun with a charitable cause pinned on its tail to boot.
MARCH 1
PALACE (through March 5)—Shockproof and Slightly French. Cornel Wilde does his best to make his wife’s silver screen debut a success in this killer-diller, but both, like the audience, should have “stood in bed.” Don Ameche and Dorothy Lamour are in the co-feature. Technicolor and free dishes couldn’t make that entertainment.
MARCH 3
COLFAX (through March 9)—Every Girl Should Marry. Cary Grant is mis-cast in this trivial fluff which centers its spotlight on newcomer Betsy Drake. She’s cute, precocious and should enroll in some certified dramatic school.
GRANADA (through March 5)—Decision of Christopher Blake and Loaded Pistols. Moss Hart’s play was a flop on Broadway but leave it to Hollywood to make it even worse. Alexis Smith and little Ted Donaldson try hard but can’t overcome the obstacles of the story. Gene Autry is in the second film, so Texans, grab your levis and git down to thet thar picture show.

Some Advice
Dances have been coming thick and heavy lately. Seems like somebody’s having a brawl practically every night — or at least every week-end. Everyone from the Navy RO’s to the Glee Club has been packing ’em in to wade through yards of crepe paper and stumble about to the music of Gene Hull’s incredibly active band. Hull has played so many dates lately his musicians are starting to strap their horns to their backs just in case an assignment might come up unexpectedly.
With Lent beginning in a few days all this merriment will come to a sudden halt. But after Easter the last six weeks of the school year will be solidly jammed again with club and class dances. Which leads to a small bit of advice to all the chairmen who will be entrusted with the job of masterminding these affairs. Start early to make your plans and make sure your publicity is handled right. You’ll want space in the Scholastic, and we’re glad to give it to you. That’s our job. But give us a legitimate reason to run material on your dance. Don’t expect us to print the same junk five or six weeks in a row; concentrate your details in one or two issues.
A Picture
And give us some pictures. Nothing helps to play up a story better than a good photo. Two attractive young ladies picked as queens for your dance and looking out from the pages of the magazine will drag the reader’s eye to your story faster than the biggest headline we have.
Work with our reporters, don’t expect too much space, and give us pictures— follow those three rules and your dance publicity should come off smoothly and successfully.
An Apology
Two weeks ago the Scholastic ran a cutline under a picture in a story on the student guides. The line referred to Sorin Hall in somewhat irreverent terms and proved offensive to several residents of Sorin. No sucli offense was intended; the line was simply a matter of bad judgment. I wish to offer my sincere apologies to all those who regarded the remark as an insult to Sorin Hall.
—Bob Stock
£
The Scholastic
*Jh» faite 2>a»ne
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 February 25, 1949 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR _____________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT----------Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN Features
HARRY MONAHAN__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT._______Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER---------------Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER---------------Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK_____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL—_________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN___.Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated _ Collegiate Press. Represented for national National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The man about to become the unwilling swimmer is Tom Roney, a Commerce Junior from Detroit. The scene is from last year’s hugely successful Mardi Gras carnival sponsored for student relief. Tom was in and out of the water more times than a five-cent gold fish in a dime store aquarium. The dunking is just part of the fun. Drop over to the Drill Hall Monday and Tuesday night for a look around. It’s a swell way to enjoy yourself without knocking your bankroll out of existence. And it’s a fine way to help some worthy people. Besides, you might drive away in that new convertible.
—Photo by Bruce Harlan
Scholastic Opinion
Figaro and Student Entertainment
Evelyn Waugh’s talk in the Drill Hall Wednesday night emphasized something that has been becoming more and more apparent in the last few months. The University’s Student Entertainment Committee is doing a remarkably good job of bringing superior artists and lecturers to the campus. Father Kehoe and his faculty committee have brought energy and imagination to bear on the problem of student entertainment and have succeeded in getting some of the best people available. Waugh was one; before him came Mortimer Adler, Clare Luce, and the Albeneri Trio.
Student entertainment is always a tough nut to crack at a place like Notre Dame. The budget just won’t stand much. Ambitious ideas always have to be cut down to fit the funds available. Sometimes these financial limitations have sliced the concert and lecture series to a bare and unsatisfactory' minimum. But this year’s committee has not allowed, itself to enervate by its low budget. It has worked hard to bring the best entertainment possible to Notre Dame and has achieved a highly creditable amount of success. And the committee plans to bring more top-notch talent to the campus during the next three monhs.
Tomorrow night the concert and lecture series reaches a sort of crisis. The Barber of Seville will be presented in the Drill Hall, and for the first time, students will be charged an admission fee. The charge, a small one, is essential; the University can’t absorb the cost of staging the opera. If the performance is successful, if a good crowd turns out, more of the same will come in the future. A financial hit will give the Entertainment Committee confidence to bring other such entertainment here. A financial turkey will mean retrenchment as far as student entertainment is concerned. If you have six bits handy, it might be a good idea to see The Barber of Seville.
Remember Mindszenty
For the past three weeks, newspapers, magazines and radio broadcasts have been filled with indignant reports of the arrest, trial and subsequent sentencing of Hungary’s Joseph Cadinal Mindszenty. Yet, dispatches on the case from within the Red satellite have already begun to be crowded from the front page. Like the sudden, blazing anger that swept the world during the Archbishop Stepinac affair, this violent reaction is also starting to die out.
As Catholics, we must not forget. The vicious deeds which President Truman labeled “infamous” must receive atonement. And since the heavy hand of Communist oppression has been laid on the Church in Hungary, that atonement must come from us in the free nations of the world. We must do penance for the deeds of our enemies.
Periodic outbursts splattered across the front pages of our periodicals, only to be forgotten in a few days or weeks, accomplish nothing. Only sincere, concerted efforts at organized prayer can ever bring about the conversion of Russia and the final end of. these cruel, brazen injustices.
When Do We Eat?
We trust the Dining Hall, has made up its mind on the hour for the noon meal. It changed four times last week, causing no end of confusion in the ranks. No doubt the Dining Hall has good reasons for changing the old time, but let’s get one time and stick to it, huh?
Feb. 25, 1949
7
popping
all over
People have been wanting more
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
They’re
.	\	\ I
up
and more
telephone service and we’ve been working hard to provide it. We’ve added nearly 9,000,000 new telephones in the past three years. Still more are needed and are on the way.
But that’s not all that we’ve been doing to increase the usefulness and value of the telephone.
Telephone service has been extended to automobiles, trucks, boats, trains and airplanes... real progress has been made in expanding and improving rural telephone facilities . . . wire and radio relay networks have been developed and enlarged... research has started on new electronic devices which promise to bring even wider horizons of electrical communications within view.
All this means better telephone service for you . . . more people you can reach easily and quickly... more time in your day... a larger world in your grasp.
8
The Scholastic
Motte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 17 FEBRUARY 25,1949
Mardi Gras Festival Opens Monday
'Barber of Seville' Slated for One Night
The “Barber” comes to Notre Dame tomorrow night! Charles L. Wagner’s itinerant opera company from New York brings Rossini’s ever-popular Barber of Seville to the Navy Drill Hall Saturday for what promises to be a memorable one-night stand. With him come some of the most talented young American artists in the business, an allmale chorus, and Paul Breisach’s orchestra of twenty-five New York musicians. Curtain call is 8 p.m.
In the leading feminine role for Saturday’s performance will be Marylin Cotlow, promising young coloratura soprano, who will sing the part of Rosina. Count Almaviva, her lover, is to be rendered by Edward Nyborg, one of the most gifted tenors to appear in opera since the war. The memorable and irrepressible Figaro will be sung by baritone Frank Cappelli, in the title role of the barber. The comic role of Dr. Bartolo will be sung by Emil Renan, a veteran of operatic productions. Don Basilio, the music master, will be done by Vai Patacchi, and Bertha, Rosina’s maid, 4 will be sung by the rising young American mezzo-soprano, Emily Kalter. The entire production will be directed by Desire Defrere, a leading stage director of the Metropolitan Opera.
Wagner’s company is well-equipped with brand new settings and colorful, authentic costumes. The visual extravaganza should add to the delightful musical performance. This production of “The Barber of Seville” has been recorded by RCA Victor (M-898) and has ranked high on best-seller lists since 1941.
Tickets for the opera are on sale in the basement of the Dining Hall between the hours of 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. The student tickets cost 75 cents and general admission ducats are priced at $1.20 (tax included), and can be purchased at the usual distribution centers in South Bend stores.
Take two parts Coney Island; a jigger of Chicago’s Riverview; a few drops of Washington’s Glen Echoe and a generous portion of all honky-tonk country fairs. Mix well and you will come up with Notre Dame’s second annual Mardi Gras Carnival which will be held in the Navy
CARNIVAL BARKER If It's Noise You Want . . .
University Concert Series Brings Juilliard Quartet
Fresh from a highly successful tour of colleges throughout the nation, the Juilliard String Quartet will present a concert next Saturday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
The quartet, made up of four faculty members of the Juilliard School of Music in New York, has received “rave notices” from music reviewers all along the route of their tours since they made their debut in 1947.
The four young artists, all of whom have previously distinguished themselves as outstanding solo performers, are Robert Mann, violin; Robert Koff, violin; Raphael Hillyer, viola; and Arthur Winograd, ’cello.
Drill Hall next Monday and Tuesday nights, from 7:30 until 11:30 each night.
If it’s noise you want, be sure to go. If it’s prizes you want, be sure to go. If it’s local color you want, be sure to go. But above all else, if it’s FUN you want, be sure to go. Many thought that last year’s combination bazaar and carnival could not be topped—f rom all plans and preparations, this year’s repeat fiesta will not only equal its successor but surpass it by several laps.
The all-important automobiles will be awarded to the lucky winners at the climax of the two day carnival, at 10:30 on' Tuesday night. The winners do not necessarily have to be in the crowd .in order to receive the Chrysler sedan or Plymouth convertible.
Campus clubs are reminded that they will have to put up their individual booths by themselves, starting at 1 p. m. this Sunday afternoon. Approximately 30 campus organizations are to participate in the Carnival.
South Bend merchants and business organizations have donated a great amount of merchandise. Some of the articles include free weekends at hotels, with meals included, for visiting guests, theatre passes and sports wear and equipment.
Hard money will be exchanged at Hie door for fake script money in order to facilitate the problem of change. The booths will be set up throughout the Drill Hall, complete with much decoration, with ample room left for a dance floor at the east end. Gene Hull and his orchestra will supply the music while St. Mary’s and Co-Hop girls will serve as dancing partners.
Jack Dempsey is the campus chairman for the Student Relief Drive. John Moorhead is in charge of the Mardi Gras Carnival while Ed Donahue is to handle the car awards. Bud Condron is serving as the campus tub-thumper, and Bob Cannon has solicited the South Bend merchants. Al Allgaier is general business manager.
Among the campus dubs that will participate in the revelry are: the Knights
(Continued on Page 25)	■
Feb. 25, 1949
Pfaff Tells Class to Live Contemplative Life; Warns of Activism in Washington Day Speech
With a point blank charge that today’s graduates are laying themselves plans for mediocre careers, for undistinguished and merely comfortable lives, William W. Pfaff, III, senior English major, further explained to a Washington Hall audience Tuesday that such was “a miserable existence”, and was so “because we do not convey realistically enough what is the life of a man.” Then, tying up the idea of freedom with Washington’s birthday, he said that a man’s real freedom comes from within himself, and that the ideal life is the contemplative life, “the life of God within our souls.” The address was in keeping with a Notre Dame tradition of long standing and was the highlight of the Washington Day exercises for 1949.
Contemplative Life, True Life
Pfaff, an honor student from Columbus, Ga., explained that this contemplative life is the true life for a Christian because through it “man can sense and feel God in all being, . . . and he sees and loves God in all that is.” The main -danger to this necessary contemplative life, Pfaff continued, is the problem of activism in the modern world. “Activism”, he said, “is the perversion of what we can do ... it is action purely for the sake of action, action without the foundation and guidance of contemplation.” It is dangerous, he pointed out, because America believes that by action and organization anything can be done, but actually it all leads to “a hell of a lot of confusion.” This, he explained, exemplifies our need for a courageous and fertile personal life, by which we can do things that have meaning and value.
In choosing a life as laymen, he continued, “we must live with complete integrity in organized society.” We must consider whether our vocation or career has importance, he said, and we must not take the easy way out. “Once we have made up our minds what we should do we should live it to the hilt.”
Fit Ourselves to Be Men
And in conclusion, he emphasized the point that “we must make ourselves fit to.be men . . . we must live for the love of God in our interior life, our career, and our social life. Our happiness, the existence of America, and a world of men depend on where in the infinite cosmos of values we choose to plant our feet. We are free to make it as low or as high as we want.”
In the remainder of the traditional Washington Day exercises, Pat
Costello, senior class president, made the customary presentation of an American flag to the Rev. John J. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, who accepted it in the name of the University. Father Murphy delivered a short address, impressing upon the seniors the importance of the position they hold in the world and the forthcoming responsibilities they will assume as graduates.
The seniors assembled by colleges on the first floor of the Main Building. Then, clad in the lustreless raiment of caps and gowns, they solemnly marched down the traditionally sacred steps of the Main Building and over to Washington Hall for the ceremony.
George R. Schrodt, of the College of Science, and holder of the highest academic average in the graduating class, was chair-man for the ceremonies.
WND Plans to Beam Family Rosary Daily
Recitation of the “Family Rosary” will be led each night at 10:15 over WND, starting March 9, by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame. The new radio feature, aimed at bringing a closer union between the student and faculty members of the "Family of Notre Dame,” is based on the program originated by the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C.
The nightly broadcast will be a continuation of rosary devotions initiated recently in Sorin, Walsh, Howard, Dillon and Alumni Halls. According to Father Cavanaugh, it will form a permanent part of the religious program at Notre Dame.
When Father Cavanaugh is out of town, the rosary will be led by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., ND Vice-Presi-
ATTENTION, SENIORS'
June graduates who did not have their pictures taken for the senior section of the DOME have been requested to turn in their names and home addresses to the Publications Office, 118 Main Building, as soon as possible.
Unless this is done, there will be no record of their names, and these graduates will not receive a copy of the *49 DOME.
AROTC Grounded
Brickson
ND's birdmen left their props and wings at home last Friday night in order to attend their annual formal dance. Tony Papa and his orchestra supplied the music for the dance which was held in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. Tony Ray was chairman of the ball.
dent, or by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the President.
Along with the “Family Rosary,” several other program revisions and additions have been announced by WND. On Tuesdays and Thursdays the “On Stage” show at 7:15 gives way to a female vocalist. The show had been devoted entirely to one band each night. Featured songstresses will include Peggy Lee, Margaret Whiting and Evelyn "Knight.
A shoi-t program of campus news items will be beamed each Tuesday at 7 p. m. Students are requested to send announcements of club meetings and other activities to WND for use on this broadcast.
Also during Lent, there will be daily late Masses at 7:20 a. m. in the Dillon and Cavanaugh Hall chapels and at 8 a. m. in the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church, the hall rectors will announce when The Way of the Cross will be conducted in their halls.
Students whose names were not included in the Adoration lists are requested to leave their name and address along with the thirty minute period they wish, with Father Craddick, Prefect of Religion, 117 Dillon Hall. A card reminding each adorer of his period will be sent out each week.—Jack Ward
The Scholastic
Announce Schedules For Lenten Services
According to the established custom at Notre Dame, Forty Hour Devotions will begin on the Sunday preceding Ash Wednesday, day after tomorrow. Solemn Mass at 8:30 a. m. will be followed by a procession of the Blessed Sacrament around the Church, after which the Blessed Sacrament will remain exposed on the main altar until Benediction in the evening.
The Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., will be the celebrant of the Mass, while the Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., and the Rev. William Botzum, C.S.C., will serve as deacon and sub-deacon, respectively. The sermon will be delivered by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and the Moreau Seminary choir will chant the Mass of the Forty Hours. With the exception of the 9 o’clock Mass, Masses will follow the regular schedule.
The Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary will preach the Sunday and Monday evening services, commencing at 7 o’clock. On Monday and Tuesday, the Exposition will begin at 6 a. m., and on Tuesday evening the ceremonies will be closed by a procession of the Blessed Sacrament and Solemn Benediction. All the three evening services will be at 7 p. m.
The University Department of Religion has set down Love of Christ in the Eucharist and reparation as the chief motives behind the Forty Hours.
On Ash Wednesday, after the blessing of ashes at 6 a. m. in Sacred Heart Church, they will be distributed at that Mass and afterwards; they will also be distributed in every hall chapel at times
FATHER CRADDICK Announces Lent Services
Feb. 25, 1949
Ice Breaks, But Party Beats Thaw
bncsson
Approximately 100 ND-St. Mary's couples scraped the Drill Hall's unpolished concrete last Saturday night at the YCS Ice Breaker. Sultry weather foiled the pros-
pect of skating but the informally couples wouldn't let Mother Nature deter their plans for fun. Dancing to Rill Callen s combo followed a buffet supper.
Big Doin's Scheduled For Mardi Gras Dance
Tonight is the night! At 9:00 sharp the doors of the Palais Royale will swing open; and hundreds of ND men and their favorite belles will whisk through the magic portals from drab, dull, typically mid-western South Bend into the glamorous Old Southern atmosphere of the Mardi Gras.
The welcome mat of real N’Orleans hospitality has been laid out by chairmen Phil Finnegan and Pat Gallagher and their dates, Misses Sylvia Wiersma and Kathleen O’Brien, co-Queens of the Ball. Bob Ruehle and the boys from the levee will be on hand to offer smooth tempos and scintilatin’ rhythm.
The gay spirit of the famous pre-Lenten outdoor festivals, complete with balloons, streamers and everything ex
designated by the rectors. In Dillon and Cavanaugh Hall chapels there will be distribution between 12:30 and 1:15 and again at 7:30 p. m.
Beginning Ash Wednesday, there will be daily adoration, excluding Saturday and Sunday, beginning at 8 a. m. and closing at 5 p. m. with Benediction. Students are encouraged to wear the cassock and surplice during the periods of adoration.
Every Wednesday during Lent at 7 p. m., except Ash Wednesday, there will be a sermon followed by Benediction. On these days the Blessed, Sacrament will remain exposed through the supper hour.
cept mint juleps, will prevail at the Palais, according to decorations chief Bob Moriarty. He declares that the atmosphere will be “symbolic of the New Orleans Mardi Gras at the peak of its epic madness.”
Witching hour for the Notre Dame men will be 2 a. m., while the St. Mary’s curfew has been set at 1:30. Special buses are scheduled to leave St. Mary’s at 8:45 or thereabouts, and will also provide return transportation after the dance.
'Mother With Child' Carving Earns Prize for Kormendi
A wood carving by Eugene Kormendi, artist-in-residence at Notre Dame, has been awarded a prize in the twenty-fifth annual Hoosier Salon art exhibit, currently on display in Indianapolis.
The carving, entitled “Mother With Child,” is in the form of a statuette, and depicts a mother holding her infant child. The work was completed in Holland some ten years ago, and since then Mr. Kormendi has exhibited it in Holland, New York, Palm Beach and other leading cities.
Mr. Kormendi, a native of Budapest, Hungary, has gained wide acclaim throughout Europe for his sculptured works. In 1940 he came to America to tour the art centers. World War II began in Europe before he could return and he joined the Notre Dame staff in 1942.	,
11
The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Football Film
Ohio State vs. Notre Dame in ’35 is the sport film scheduled for the Engineering Auditorium Thursday afternoon at 2:30 and 3:30. The Buckeyes are still muttering into their helmets about that story-book Irish comeback.
Chaplin Comedies
Charlie Chaplin at his pantomiming best is this Thursday’s offering on the Department of Journalism’s great film revival program. Four silent comedies with “the sad little man” start at 7:30 p.m. for the elect who got their ticket bids in on time.
Cavanaugh Concerts
Classical record concerts will be presented in the Cavanaugh Hall Reading Room every day next week except Friday and Saturday from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. The program will include: Monday, Brahms’ Foxirth Symphony, and selections from Verdi’s Aida, and Pagli-acci, by Leoncavello; Tuesday, Tschai-' kowsky’s Symphony No. 5, and Offenbach’s Gaite Parisienne; Wednesday, Rhapsody in Blue, by Gershwin, and Beethoven’s Sonata in F Minor (Appas-sionata); Thursday, Chopin’s Les Sylph-
ides, De Falla’s El Caucasian Sketches tow.
The Audio-Visual
Amor Brujo, and 2 and 4, by Ippili-
Center will discon-
tinue daily film showings in favor of a new policy. In the future they will present longer movies, such as “Ivan the Terrible,” which brought enthusiastic response when it was screened here last week. These irregular showings will be publicized in this column and on the bulletin board outside the Audio-Visual Room in the Main Building.
Also . . .
The Mardi Gras Carnival, presentation of Barber of Seville, new WND pro-.grams, and Lenten services . . . for de
tails of these, see the news pages the Scholastic.
STASSEN TO SPEAK
Students and faculty members are invited to hear Harold E. Stassen speak at South Bend's Brotherhood Week luncheon in the Indiana Club tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. Stassen will be introduced by the Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, <md the ND Glee Club will sing at the luncheon. Tickets, at $1.85, are available at the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of Christians and Jews. 413 Platt Building.
of
This Week
Gene Hull Program
“Live Music” hit WND and the campus steam pipes Thursday night at 7:30. Gene Hull and his music-makers will present half an houi' of tunes in this spot regularly each week from now on. Icecapades
The “Big Thaw” slipped the ice out from under the YCS “Ice-Breaker” Saturday, but the would-be skaters retired gracefully to a dance and indoor social in the Drill Hall. Door prizes of two Notre Dame record albums were awarded.
Waugh Speaks Here
Evelyn Waugh, noted British author, discussed English Catholicism in a lecture at the Drill Hall Wednesday, under the auspices of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Debate Here Tonight
Speakers from Western Michigan University will lock horns with ND debaters tonight at 7:30 in a verbal tiff on Federal World Government slated for the Law Auditorium.
Last Week
'Juggler' Published
The Juggler, ND student literary magazine, made its appearance in the cafeteria book racks. The winter issue will be reviewed in next week’s SCHOLASTIC.	.
Town Meeting
Recent labor legislation was bantered back and forth, neatly dissected from all angles, and analyzed at the Town Meeting sponsored by the YCS Commerce Group. Prof. Alfred Scanlan, of the College of Law, discussed legal aspects; Prof. John H. Sheehan, of the Department of Economics, talked on the economic factors and effects; the Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., presented the moral view of the subject.
Faculty Magazine
The February number of the Cap and Gown, published by the Lay Faculty Club of Notre Dame, was issued under the editorship of Professor Edward Fischer. Joe Scheidler and John Waters, journalism majors, are associate editors of the quarterly.
Opportunity
lobs
Engineer trainee jobs in 10 western and mid-western states, with salaries of §2,498 to §2,724, are' available to men with at least two years of college train-
MwnfrTlr-t

ing who apply before March 8. Positions will be awarded to highest scoring men in a competitive examination. Applications should be sent to the Executive Secretary, Central Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, Bureau of Reclamation, Denver Federal Center, Denver, Colorado.
Scholarship Prizes
This seems to be the season for scholarship announcements. Among the awards for scholastic achievement now being offered are these at:
Columbia — fellowships, scholarships and grants, from §600 to §1500, to students in international affairs. Apply to the Director of the School of International Affairs, Columbia University, 429 West 117th St., New York 27, N. Y.
Michigan — research assistantships, which may be combined with graduate work in any field, paying §3000 to §4000 per annum. For complete details, write the Director of the Survey Research Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
U. of Chicago—fellowship awards for graduate work in general psychology,
varying from §150 tions for these and antships (§1000 to made before March
to §1200. Applica-for research assist-
§1200) should
15 to Dr. James
Miller, Chairman of the Department Psychology, University of Chicago.
be G. of
University of Washington—10 fellowships covering tuition plus §990 yearly; 2 research fellowships in labor economics, worth §990 annually; graduate scholarships in 12 fields of economics, accounting for tuition plus grants up to §577.53 per year. Address applications to the Executive Office of the Department of Economics, University of Washington, Seattle, before March 29.
M. I. T.—12 fellowships in economic analysis, industrial economics or industrial relations. Three are worth §2500 a year, the others §1500. Apply to Prof. Robert L. Bishop, Department of Economics and Social Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, by March 15.
Harvard—Littauer Fellowships in social science, valued at §1200. Applications must be made before April 1 to 118 Littauer Center, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.
12
The Scholastic
Singers To Celebrate With Formal Dance
Celebrating their recent successful concert tour of the South, the Notre Dame Glee Club will hold its first formal dance tomorrow evening from 9 to 1 in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. Over 100 couples will sway to the music of Gene Hull’s campus orchestra.
The theme of the evening’s entertainment is taken from Cole Porter’s song, “In the Still of the Night.” The decorations of stars and candlelight will add to the effect suggested by the theme. The Glee Club members will entertain their guests at intermission time with a half-hour concert of popular favorites. Another highlight of the dance is a special favor-program given to each couple. Along with various poetic excerpts, this elaborate souvenir holds a picture of the couple, taken and developed at the dance.
Guests of honor include Dean and Mrs. Daniel Pedtke and the queen of the dance, Miss Donna Hazelton of Aurora, Ill., guest of Roy O’Neil, president of the Glee Club.
All arrangements for this first of a proposed annual social affair for the Glee Club have been handled by a committee made up of Allan Gaven, Louis LaMair, Joseph Scheidler, Guy Perenich and John Sullivan.—John H. Janoivski
'Journalist1 Appears For Spring Semester
The Journalist, an experimental newspaper produced as a laboratory project of ND’s journalism majors, will begin its annual six weeks of existence next Friday. Mr. Edward Fischer, Assistant Professor of Journalism, will supervise the two-page weekly.
Forty-nine students in News Writing and Editing have been divided into three working crews, each of which will publish two editions of the paper, each three weeks apart. Every member of each crew has been assigned a special task for each issue, such as editor, copy reader, or reporter, so that the experimental sheet will function like any other newspaper.
“This paper is unique,” Mr. Fischer said, “in that no two issues will be put out by the same staff. And we do not always place a man on the paper where we think he is best fitted; a man good in sports writing will benefit himself more by holding down a news-editing job.”
The McClave Printing Co. in South Bend will print 250 copies of each issue. Circulation will be limited to members of the Department of Journalism and heads of other departments, but anyone interested may inspect the issues in the Journalism office.
Ye Saintly Days of Yore
You sports just don't know how to get around. Back in 1892 when our University photographer Wally Kunkle, then 28, took this fine picture, the students didn't need the NIX to get around. They took fearlessly to these high-wheelers. The lads pictured were the Minims of Notre Dame, those sub-college students who lived in what Father Sorin called their "palace." This was creaking St Ed's. The big boys also rode bikes but when this picture was taken the big wheelers were probably parked near a free lunch counter.
Ice-Breaker Goes On Despite Disappearance of Ice
A lack of ice was not enough to stop 150 Notre Dame men and their sweater-and-skirt-clad St. Mary’s dates from breaking the ice last Saturday. For the first time in ND history a winter carnival was held. Undaunted by the cancellation of the afternoon ice-skating, the couples left St. Mary’s at 5:30 and headed for the Drill Hall for an evening of hot dogs, cokes, dancing and singing.
The dance music was furnished by Bill Cullen and his orchestra. During intermission, entertainment was pro
vided by a quartet comprised of Larry Metcalf, Gene Jones, Bill Sahm, and Dick Barmeiker. Later, Miss Marge Russ led the couples in group singing.
Two albums of Notre Dame records were given away as door prizes. Miss Mary Mudd was called upon to draw the names of the two lucky ticket-holders. Herb Johnson and Bob Rutler. ‘
The carnival was held mainly through the efforts of Bill .Sahm, and the proceeds will go to the Chicago office of the Y.C.S.—Paul Leamy
Feb. 25, 1949
13
Fugitives from Esquire
Local Beau Brummels Swap Flannels For Corduroys, Levis and GI Fatigues
by A. J. Scriba
Here comes one now. His Killarney-bred kisser is knifing into the 50-knot gale roaring in over the quadrangle. He’s got a Montgomery beret crouched over one ear, an alpine stock in his hand, a raccoon coat on his back, greasy muk-luks on his feet. He’s towing his books on a travois. He goes to Notre Dame — gathering place of the world’s most appallingly dressed college men.
Look at the lad standing next to you in the chow line. Catch the prize tramping past the post-office. Look at yourself. Did you ever see anything like it any place? Levis, second-john pinks, Chippewa moccasins, Hickey-Freeman specials, Gobi border ear toasters, one-button rolls, John B. Stetson, and abalone stuccoed motorcycle belts, all rolled into one student body.
Traditionally college men are the fashion pace-setters of the young men of the world. Harvard men come out with white buck campus shoes and the Siwash boys all over the country are wearing them next fall. If Princeton were to import a hull full of swaggersticks the young bucks set from Boston to Spokane would all be waving twigs
Harlan
DAPPER IAN LANDRY Potential Lawyer?
inside of a month. But can you imagine copying a Notre Dame bred style — with the possible exception of shoulder pads?
Sam and Friends
Have a look at a few of the local stock types. There are combinations and oddities — and in the warm spring weather, if permitted, there would be indescribables. But these are the standards, the friendly old sneaker variety.
Outstanding protagonist of the good old let-er-droop school of collegiate grooming is Sam Serviceman. Sam was one tough boy in the great war. Sam knew the answers to the questions. And Sam had friends. When Sam left the outfit the supply depot went with him. He’s still trying to wear out the bale of suntans he lifted, he’s got more pairs of moldy combat boots than all the surplus stalls in South Bend, and he’s going to wear out that field jacket if he has to go for a Ph.D. Sam is practical, if not original, but he’s getting to look pretty scrubby with the passing Septembers.
Sam’s sidekick is Charley Skiboy. He looks as if he’d just knocked seven seconds off the record at Tuckerman’s Ravine. All that’s missing is the hickory boards. The Klansman’s parka was a token of friendship from Torger Tokie. The Mongolian fedora came from the curio counter at Timberline Lodge. The bearskin galoshes should have been cured a little longer. Charley should be hung up somewhere too. Scarecrows are hard to come by these days.
Cowboy Joe isn’t any easier to look at. Sam Houston may have sworn in his diary that levis should be sprayed on — but he should have added that a little body and fender work helps a lot. Dodge City hand-stitched brogans go great on a cutting horse, but there hasn’t been a worthy nag around these parts since Chief Crazy Horse left town with the Ninth Cavalry behind him — and it’s a stout quarter mile from biology to the Rock, even for people who can walk. It would help, too, if Joe would save the Sierra Madre belt and the Stetson Mon
tana Peak for next summer’s regatta at the King ranch.
Sights to Behold
Then there are the elite of the freaks.
Tough Tony is a sight to behold. He used to play nine-ball with Studs Loni-gan. The sport coat is a corduroy maroon, the shirt an apricot nylon, the yellow slacks are pegged like a pair of plus fours. All Tony’s suits have built-in shoulder holsters for week-end use. Tony lines his pork pie with scratch sheets. Comes fall and Tony is the boy who is tapping, gently tapping, on your door with the Shur-Shot parlay card sticking out of his sleeve. Tony’s old man used to run a gin mill at 63rd and Thug, see, and the old man and Nitti were just like that, see. Yeah Tony, we see. That phosphorescent tie would look good on a dead squid.
And I. B. Michaels will never write ad copy for Esquire either. His family doctor will swear that he was born wearing a hard collar shirt and a blue serge suit. The scrawny maroon tie looks as if it just got back from a hanging. Mike would toss his adding
Harlan
TEXAN PAT KELLEY
Well, the Horses Like It
14
The Scholastic
machine for grabs before he’d trade in his congress gaiters. Mike’s old overcoat broke wind at Lincoln’s inauguration. It looks it. The masticated Homburg and the pallbearer’s gloves were accidents. Mike heard that Morgan used to wear them to spear carp.
600-Volt Drawers
Then there’s Orchid Orville. This boy has either worked in Hollywood or seen too many matinees as a child. His soundtrack shirts look like slides from Marineland. The hat used to be Crosby’s, and Orville spent sixty dollars winning it in a rafflie. The 660-volt drawers are first stampings of a pair worn by the Sultan in the Song of Scheherazade. Orville had all the girlies on his lap when he wore his geranium sport coat out to Malibu beach last summer. Those lavender suede slippers didn’t look too bad dangling from a bar stool at the Royal Hawaiian. But have you seen Orville dripping through these February mornings in Indiana? You can track him through the slush by the trickling dye. No, Orville, not this year. Better that you had been washed ashore for the Catalina gulls.
Finally there is a horrifying miscellaneous squad.
Worst of this unspeakable rabble is Rah Rah Ray. He has NOTRE DAME painted, plastered, or embedded on everything he owns that will hold nine letters. The jacket he wears is a thing of real horrors. Bright yellow arms, robin’s-egg body, FIGHTING IRISH on one pocket, YEH TEAM on the other, and Neanderthal man in a football suit glued between his shoulder blades. Ray is a real sockdolliger. He’s got the old zip. He goes to Notre Dame — and he’s not quiet about it. Keep an eye on him. He might get down town some day where the public could see him.
Come the first day of spring and you’ll find Tom “Truck” Tee-Shirt out doing his breathing exercises. Right now he’s down at the Rock balancing a safe on his index finger. Before Tom came here he was one right agile kid in athletic circles around Oskaloosa. All-state right-half for three years, all conference basketball center until Des Moines finally got wise, all-city broad jump king, all Thug Association barbell hefter. Tom even went out for football up here — did well until the second day of practice. Then Tom’s only nose got in the way of Jim Martin’s left knee. Never anything like the same since. But Tom will never forget his glorious athletic days of old.
And so it goes. Some wear this, some that, some even dress like people. Occasionally on campus you’ll even find someone dressed like he was used to wearing clothes. But — let’s face it — most of us should have one brisk bonfire and take it up from there.
Feb. 25, 1949
15
Clubs
'Integrity' Urges New Catholic Journalism; Editor Solicits Laity-Controlled Publications
Haley Is Dayton Chief
The new Dayton Club recently held its initial meeting of the semester to complete final arrangements for- the club to operate the penny pitching concession at the Mardi Gras. Members attending the club dinner last week at Rosie’s noticed the addition of several new members. Further plans were postponed until after the Mardi Gras. The officers who will direct the club’s operations for the semester are Lou Haley, president, Bud Condron, vice-president and Frank McBride, secretary-treasurer.
Naugatuck Gourmets Gather
The Naugatuck Valley Club held their annual steak dinner at the Ramble Inn on Feb. 10. Chairmen for the feast were Ray Shimkevich and Neil MacKay.
Architects Plan Procedure
The Architects Club recently elected new officers for the semester. Robert Jones was named president, Elmer Carvalho, secretary, and Smith Funk, treasurer. Louis Scibelli was retained as vice-president. A tentative schedule has been drawn up which includes a seminar, lectures and periodic showings of films of an architectural nature. A dinner- is also planned for the latter part of the semester.
Cinema Project by La Raza
The new administration of the La Raza Club has augmented its “Program of the Good Neighbor.” The project now consists of Spanish films with English subtitles, a radio program of Latin American music over station WND, and a survey of Latin American news to be published weekly in Spanish.
Architects Show Pictorial History of American Homes
The Department of Architecture sponsored a ten-day photographic exhibition, “Houses U.S.A., 1607 to 1946,” from the photographic history of American architecture prepared by Life Magazine, in the architecture building from Feb. 18 to Feb. 28.
The display consisted of 47 panels, collected for the inter-American office of the National Gallery of Art in Washington. The enlarged pictures give a graphic illustration of American architecture from its earliest forms up to the present.
Seven general divisions develop the topic: First houses, colonial, houses of the new republic, Greek revival, Gothic revival, .eclectic and modern.
16
By KEN THOREN
In recent years the world of publications has been marked by a definite increase of new Catholic periodicals. One, in particular, which has received immediate sucess is Integrity, a small, monthly magazine, written in modern, snappy parlance with the purpose of reuniting the reality of religion with the reality of daily life.
Miss Carol Jackson, one of the coeditors of this lay publication, made a whirl-wind visit to the ND campus last week, and generously gave some of her time to the Scholastic.
Miss Jackson is a convert, who entered the Church about eight years ago. A graduate of Wellesley, she and co-editor Willock started Integrity two years ago. Commenting on the present state of the Catholic press, she said, “One of its troubles is that it is predominantly run by the religious. But by its very nature, it should be under the control of the laity. We felt there was a definite need for such a periodical as ours. . . .”
Expect 50.000 Circulation.
In its comparatively short career, the magazine has achieved a subscription list of some 14,000 and is expecting to see its total reach 50,000 in the near future. Its format features one topic a month. Few things in our secularized world have escaped being whipping-boys. Such topics as America, Art and Morals, Leisure and Recreation (in which even Notre Dame received a paternal-like swat), The Family and Politics have been featured in past issues while Ownership is scheduled for next month’s magazine.
There is nothing stodgy or academic about the publication. The slant is rather towards a lightness of literature, backed up by a terrific wallop of truth. An editorial on the month’s topic sees each issue off and is followed by a comparatively short and pithy essay dealing on the subject and its facets. The art work is crisp and entertaining, as are also the meaty, yet humorous jingles which are peppered throughout. For example, the following appeared in the issue devoted to The Family:
“Can we afford a child,” they mused, Deciding that they wouldn’t.
When they had made their pile, anon, They wanted one but couldn’t.
The popularity of Integrity on the campus is attested to by the fact that it is the only magazine in the periodical room that is kept under lock and key
because of the great amount of missing copies that have been recorded. One of Miss Jackson’s reasons for visiting Notre Dame last week was to see if the magazine could not be sold in the Caf.
Avoid Better-Known Writers
Thomas Merton has had several articles published in the magazine. When asked if any other well-known writers contributed, Miss Jackson said, “We do our best to shie away from the better-known authors. The period of great Catholic intellectual thinkers and writers died out long ago. Since that time, their successors have been depending upon Belloc and Chesterton. Their principles, however, don’t apply to oui- present problems, so Integrity is attempting to develop a new school of Catholic writers and thinkers.”
The editorial staff of the periodical have all taken a voluntary vow of poverty. Miss Jackson receives $20 a week and some staff members have even asked to have their salaries reduced since their wages were beyond their living needs. Asked if this fact of low wages didn’t have something to do with the small amount of Catholic college graduates that enter the journalistic fields, Miss Jackson said, “That’s only a half-truth. It is true that the pay on most Catholic publications is small, but hidden behind this rationalisation is the point that far too many feel that the religious should supply them with the publications. The recent increase of lay periodicals proves that the laity is realizing its call, and the necessity of founding the magazines itself.”
The altruistic and seemingly shy Miss Jackson refutes the two-line jingle which appeared in Integrity’s Education issue:
Pagans brightly spread their knowledge,
More than Catholics out of College.
RETURN YOUR DONATION BOOKS
AU students are reminded that they must return all donation books for the Mardi Gras car awards by March 1. Students must return their books whether or not they have been completely sold, partially sold, or completely unsold. They can be returned in the basement of the Dining Hall from 11:30 to 12:30 at the lunch hour or from 5:30 to 6:45 at supper time.
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Canisius, N.Y.U. Await
Seventy Eager Pugilists Swamp Fieldhouse: Training Proceeds For March Bengcd Bouts
BENGAL BOUTERS START CONDITIONING EXERCISES FOR TOURNEY Novice and Veteran Prep to Challenge Title-Holders
With over 70 potential pugilists limbering up under the tutelage of Mr. Dominic Napolitano in the boxing room of the fieldhouse, the 1949 edition of the Bengal bouts looms up as the first-class attraction on the semester sport calendar.
There are many Bengal veterans among them, including many finalists of previous tourneys. Among the latter are Paul Boulous, Russ VanKeuren, and Jack Griffin. Boulous made the finals last year, after victories over Bill Carew and Jim Brennan, but illness forced him to withdraw. Brennan subbed for him and took the 167-pound championship by defeating George Dickson. VanKeuren and Griffin met last year in the 137-pound finals, with Griffin emerging victorious.
The pugnacious men from Morrissey lead the march to mayhem with 11
muscular monsters, while amicable Howard is the only hall that is not represented. The roster also shows that the freshmen have the itchiest fists on campus with 20 fighters.
The 167-pound class looks like the toughest for a prospective champ with 15 men trying to win the title. On the othei* hand, the heavy weight competition offers a short path to glory. There are only four men between the novice and the crown. The catch is that their names are Bill Roemer, winner of three successive championships in different divisions; Gus Cifelli, the footballer, returning from last year, and two other huge guys named J. C. McGroder and Bill Drazenovich. Drazenovich at 230 pounds is the tops in weight, while the most diminutive is Sal Fiorella, a 125-pounder from Farley and New York City.	(Continued on Page 19)
Touring Irish
Eastern Foes Present Strong Competition
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame’s unpredictable eagers are heading East today where they will play before approximately 30,000 people in their annual scuffles with Canisius and N.Y.U. The eastern climate seems to be like a shot of adrenalin to Irish basketball teams, so local rooters are hoping ND will put on its best performances in spacious Buffalo Memorial Auditorium and more spacious Madison Square Garden.
N.Y.U., Canisius and Notre Dame have season records somewhat alike. Playing rugged schedules, they’ve lost occasionally when they shouldn’t have, but all of them have looked great at times. Neither of the eastern squads can afford to underestimate ND. In seven games with the Irish, Canisius has never won, whereas the Violets have won only three of 15 engagements against Notre Dame. Last year Canisius lost, 64-53, and NYU had its unbeaten record spoiled when it dropped a 64-59 thriller.
Griffins Switch Tactics
Coach Joe Niland had his Golden Griffins outrun the foes early this season, but a reserve weakness brought about a
CAPTAIN IOE DOLHON Shyest Violet
Feb. 25, 1949 ■
17
change in the strategy; now the Griffs play a slower game. They started the campaign with a bang, bowling over six straight opponents before running into mighty Western Kentucky. Things have been rougher ever since. Niland’s men have now won 13 of their 21 contests. They still lead the race for the New York upstate title.
Most glittering of the Golden Griffins is Leroy Chollet, captain and top marksman. The olive-skinned Frenchman averages better than 14 points a game and has scored over 1000 markers in three years. However, Canisius is not a one-man outfit; coaches have called playmaker Bob Makinnon “potentially great” and Erie’s Johnny De Luca turned out to be a soph fireball. De Luca —fastest first stringer and the best set shot artist—has been the sparkplug since his recent switch from forward to guard. Center Tom Muller, who whipped in 24 against C.C.N.Y., and forward Masino are the rest of the first five.
Violets Far From Shrinking
Monday night’s Garden fracas with NYU may be a close one like last year’s. The high scoring Violets have won 10 of 14, holding victories over such powerhouses as Yale and Baylor. They also have one of the country’s top coaches in Howard Cann, now in his 26th year as head tutor.
NYU’s most dangerous man is Joel Kaufman, a curly haired forward who looped in 160 points in the first 10 Violet
Kunuey
LEO BARNHORST HOOKS TWO POINTS AGAINST MARQUETTE Sauceda Amazed; O'Shea Catches Up on His Sleep
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 25—FENCING, N'western here.
Feb. 26—BASKETBALL at Canisius. FENCING, N' western here. 28—BASKETBALL at N.Y.U.
Mar. 5—BASKETBALL at N'western. TRACK, Central Collegi-ates at Michigan State.
7—BASKETBALL, St. Louis here.
games. Joel hovers around the left side of the bucket where his deadly southpaw hook shot can be used to best advantage. Captain Joe Dolhon is another high scorer and a crack defensive man. The remaining starters — Bill Jensen, Abe Becker and Dick Kor—are not big, but they are strong on the boards, especially Jensen, a 6’2” blond. Soph Bob Derder-ian plays often and scores often.
DePaul Upset Brightens Irish Record
ND was doing things right when it upset DePaul last Saturday and the chances of equalling last year’s 17-7 record look much better. After the eastern games, only Northwestern and St. Louis remain. Most of the recent improvement can be attributed to Leo Barnhorst’s continued brilliance and the most needed scoring talent displayed by Jim O’Halloran. Barnhorst’s 13-point stints against Marquette and DePaul boosted his 19-game scoring total to 228.
ND Grid Stars Sign; Play For Pay in '49
“My, how the money rolls in!”
An enterprising quintet from the 1948 Irish grid squad, Bill Fischer, Bill Walsh, John Panelli, Frank Tripucka, and Marty Wendell, have signed to play for pay next season. Four showed a pref-
FRANK TRIPUCKA
Eagle$ Sign "SlingShot"
erence to risk playing football for coin of the realm in the older, more stabilized National League.
John “Pep” Panelli was the first to sign a professional contract. He will play for “Bo” McMillin’s Detroit Lions for two years. The contract price involved was not disclosed, but Dan Topping, voluble Midas of the All-American Conference, announced that he would have Panelli for the New York Yankees “at any price.” Either McMillin topped Topping’s price or.Pep saw more security in the older league.
Chicago’s Cardinals secured a hometown boy to bolster their line next fall with the signing of big Bill Fischer to a two year contract. That effervescent rumor mill, the Chicago Tribune, said the Fischer price tag read §24,000 plus a $5,000 bonus. Cardinal sources refused to quote the tariff.
Last year’s center stalwart, Bill Walsh, must have been carried away with his penmanship and had a busy contract closing day of his own. The same day his new bosses, the Pittsburgh Steelers, received his signed contract they also received notice that Bill had married his high school sweetheart, Miss Dorothy Whoit of Phillipsburg, N. J.
(Continued on Page 20)
18
The Scholastic
Bengals
(Continued from Page 17)
The following candidates (arranged in tentative weight classifications) have signed for the fistic tourney:
127-pound class: Frank Price, Sal Fiorella, Doji Ewing and Jack Tracy.
137-pound class: Joe Sterett, John Dunn, Andy Dodey, Russ VanKeuren, Dan Brennan, Joe Archibald, Bill Puetz, Jack Griffin and Lincoln Yamamoto.
142-pound class: Jim Farrell, George Chopp, Mike Conley, Joe Martin, Herb Hoene, Leo Hickey, Michael Sutton, James Smith, Emil Vigilante and A. J. Bowtross.
147-pound class: Dick McGoldrick, Bob Kennelly, Joe Brown, Bill O’Hara, Jim Garvin and Victor Roblez.
157-pound class: Joe Stewart, Joe Harmon, Ed Smith, Dick Hyland, Dan Finn, Tom Kennedy, Charles Lutes, Maynard Cush, and Bob Wagner.
167-pound class: Bill Carew, Charles Reynolds, West Dyson, Dick Windishar, Tom Carroll, Gerald Howell, George Reidy, James Engel, Ed Grochowski, Ralph Holmes, Paul Boulus, Otis Jordan, Cliff Collins, Bud Burke, Tom Adler and Paul Mazza.
Light heavyweight: Frank Tripodi, George Dickson, Don Mahrt, Charles King, Mike Merrigan and Thomas Ko-ledin.
Heavyweight: Bill Roemer, William Drazenovich, J. C. McGroder and Gus Cifelli.—Bill Riley
RAY ESPENAN TAKES OFF IN WINNING LEAP AGAINST BRADLEY Sore Throat Keeps Heintzman on the Sidelines
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Death Knell
The spectre of the inadequate Notre Dame Fieldhouse has cast a gloomy shadow over the Central Collegiate Conference. With the acceptance of Michigan State into the Big Ten, C. C. conference members will soon find themselves without a home for their annual indoor track meet. The Spartans have played gracious host since the erection of then- capacious Jenison fieldhouse. Now the northerners will be too busy in western conference competition to maintain its membership in the Central Collegiates.
Notre Dame and Michigan State have established themselves as the senior members of that circuit, so the responsibility for finding a new spot for the in-door meet is an unwelcome inheritance for the local sports officials. Athletic office personnel groan when recalling the gruelling 20 hours it took to finish the full program the last time Notre Dame played host in the archaic Fieldhouse.
It is a shame that the conference faces
dissolution after furnishing excellent track shows since 1927. We recommend however, that rather than struggle with inadequate facilities, the responsible authorities temporaiily disband the conference, until one of the member schools acquires the necessary plant. Inadequate facilities would be more detrimental to the sport of track than the break-up of the conference.
Peace Treaty
Just for the record, the recent misunderstanding between this department and Frank Crosiar of WHOT has been settled amicably as one Notre Dame man to another. Both of us agree that Notre Dame must be protected from the dangers of misinterpretation. We hope that Frank will continue his competent job of beaming the Irish road games to us. We will continue to defend Notre Dame sportsmanship as far as the Notre Dame students, athletes, coaches and fans will permit—with typical Irish hotheadedness at times, no doubt.
Musings at Halftime
Coach Leahy: Shouldn’t the Williams trophy be placed in the Rockne Memorial instead of collecting dust atop those file cabinets under a pile of empty cardboard boxes in Herb Jones’ office? And all those track trophies on the safe, can’t we get more trophy cases for the “Rock” lobby to accommodate them? . . . From last week’s reports Coach Walter Langford is trying to steal a couple pages out of Coach Leahy’s book with his pessimism over Irish tennis prospects. . . . We hope the ticket office will reward the Student Council’s efforts on the student trip by furnishing the same excellent fifty-yard line tickets they have the last two years.
Doesn’t the choice of New York for the North Carolina game automatically discount the surface excuses for the break with Army? . .. Sports Extra predicts that the Cadets and the Irish will meet again soon and at the same old stand, Yankee Stadium. . . . While you are at the Purdue football clinic, Coach
Feb. 25, 1949
19
Leahy, don’t give the Boilermakers too many pointers. They only needed two more to upset our apple cart in ’48.
Band Notes
To Mr. H. Lee Hope and his bandsmen our thanks for the entertainment at the Marquette game. May we make the same reservations for March 7? As for Morrissey’s Mr. O’Leary, we understand you were a little premature and that with some questioning you would have learned that the battle with the administration is over. You will get your band monograms. We were not ask'ng two questions, but only one. Those letters are awarded on the basis of number of semesters of participation. To us “participation” means more than playing in a band room. Once basketball season is over there will be few opportunities for the band to make campus appearances. If credit is to be given for this semester we thought something should be done to earn it.
Who Is Next?
Adolph Rupp turns out a fair basketball team. But it’s more entertaining to see his antics when a Notre Dame five beats his eagers. Guess we’ll have to drop him from the list of eligibles. Anyhow, he didn’t send in the requisite $20 bill.
Trackmen Resting Up; Eyes on C.C.C. Title
After four weeks of rugged competition, the Notre Dame track team will be idle this week, as final preparations for the last bid for a Central Collegiate Championship are made. Next Saturday will be the last opportunity the trackmen have to gain a valid C.C.C. title, since this is the final appearance of the Michigan State Spartans, who have offered the only substantial opposition to Notre Dame in this affair.
Michigan State wrested the crown . from Notre Dame two years ago, for the first time in 13 years, and Coach “Doc” Handy and the track team will be seeking to regain their honor and the title. After the battle in East Lansing, the cindermen will engage in four top flight relay contests opening with the Illinois Tech affair in Chicago on March 12. Special men will take part in the Knights of Columbus games at Cleveland and the Chicago Relays. The indoor season will be concluded with team participation in the Purdue Relays on March 26.
Handy has indicated that he will devote this week to develop some of the individuals’ specialities, and to efforts to put the whole squad in shape for the remainder of the season.—Jim, Howard
Hapless Bradley Bows To Irish Track Might
A new Notre Dame fieldhouse record went into the books and two all-time ND records were tied as the Irish trackmen showed their power by sweeping every first place to soundly trounce Bradley University, 84-30, last week.
Bill Fleming tied John Smith’s 1947 high and low hurdle times cf 7.3 and
BOB SMITH
Irish Dash Flash
6.9 seconds to feature his triple triumph. Fleming needed to go no higher than six feet to take the high jump. Unfortunately for Bradley, John Heintzman, who has made 6’7” in previous meets this year, couldn’t compete due to illness.
John Helwig let loose a herculean heave of 53’ 3 3/4” to top the old fieldhouse record by more than a foot. Constantly improving, Helwig was little more than an inch behind the all-time school record set by Jim Delaney, second-place man in last summer’s Olympics.
Pat Kenny kept his undefeated season going by uncorking his usual kick to nip Vai Muscato in the 880. His time was 1:58.2. Running true to form Bob Smith took the 60-yard dash and anchored the victorious mile relay squad. Steve Provost, Jim Bollas, and Paul Schwetschenau also worked on the relay squad’s 3:25.2 time.
In addition to his fine leg on the mile relay, Schwetschenau led all the way to take the 440. Sophomore Bob Boyne took third place despite an injured knee.
Captain Bill Leonard was away in New York trying for the National AAU 1000-yard crown, but the Irish milers were not badly handicapped by the loss as Jim Kittell, Tony DaDamio, and Jim Bollas swept the event. Kittell’s time
was 4:24.6. Two-milers Lou Tracy and Jim Murphy were also missing, but Jim. Kelly took their place quite capably and ran away from the field. Ted Prahinski, running his first race for the Irish, took second. In the battle of the Millers, Notre Dame’s Jim topped Bradley’s Bill (no relation) in the pole vault with a leap of 12’6”. Bob Wagner took third for the local lads.
Ray Espenan recovered from his injury sufficiently to win the broad jump. Two Soph Chern majors took time off from their test tubes to take third in the jumping events. Joe Crist finished behind Espenan in the broad and Dick “Swede” Godson came through in the high jump.—Ted Prahinski
KEGLER SCHEDULE FOR FEB. 27
Gold League
A.S.M.E. vs. Chemist; Columbus vs. Off-Campus; Prop & Wing vs. InterAmerican; Cleveland vs. Philadelphia; Pittsburgh vs. Aero; Italian vs. Texas; Fox River Valley vs. Rockford; Architects vs. Syrian-Lebanese; Detroit vs. Met Club.
Blue League
New Jersey vs. Utica; Central New York vs. Rochester; Vetville vs. Buffalo; New England vs. Kansas City; Toleda vs. Minnesota; Indianapolis vs. Generation; Chem. Engr. vs. Youngstown; Metallurgy vs. St. Louis; K. of C. vs. Kentucky.
Pro Gridders
(Continued from Page 18)
Fully recovered from the painful injuries he received in the Southern Cali-fomia-Notre Dame game last fall, Frank Tripucka is ready to try his luck in the pro ranks with the Philadelphia. Eagles, 1948 National league champions. Frank was not anxious to risk spending more time as understudy to George Ratterman and therefore, passed up the pressing bids for his services made by the Buffalo Bills of the A-A circuit.
The scrappy little lineman from Chicago, Marty Wendell, was the only one of the five to take his chances with the All-America league. Marty will play for the Chicago Hornets next year and was the first 1948 college star signed by the reorganized Windy City entrant in the A-A circuit. He will have another prominent ’48 collegiate star for teammate as the Hornet management also signed Frank Aschenbrenner, gamesaving Northwestern halfback. Frank and Marty played together for Great Lakes in 1945.
20
The Scholastic
JlJIelton’ji jDusfceteers
UNDEFEATED CUSH SWORDSMEN
Left to right kneeling: J. Vincent D. Parisi. R. Dixon. M. DiCicco, J. Lubin. L Burns. J. Dobyns; standing: A. Blomer, T. Roney. B. Bosler, I. Eustennan. B. Schlosser, Captain Ralph Witucki, assistant coach Lou Peck. E. Martin, coach Herb
Even Dumas' Four Carousing Swordsmen Would Fall Before Undefeated Irish Blades
By JIM BUTZ
Tonight at 7:30 Notre Dame’s victorious swordsmen will make their last home appearance of the season when they cross blades with the Northwestern Wildcats. Coach Herb Melton’s fencers will be seeking to stretch their current win streak to 11 at the expense of the Evanston crew.
Notre Dame’s successful rise in the fencing world has not been an accident. Most of the credit for the present high standing of the Irish swordsmen must go to Coach Herb Melton, dapper young graduate student who has handled the coaching duties for the past three seasons.
In October, 1946, when Herb issued his initial call for Notre Dame’s first fencing team since the 1942-43 season, he counted less than 20 aspirants. Last October, he was greeted by almost 80 lads, eager to learn the rudiments of the sport.
Green Material Reports
Of the handful of candidates for Melton’s first team, only Al Ortiz and Ventura Gonzalez had previous college experience. They had been monogram win
ners on the 1942-43 Irish squad. Mike DiCicco had fenced in high school in Newark, N. J. The rest were as green as grass.
Coach Melton and his lads labored long and hard through that first season which opened and closed successfully. In their opener they tripped Cincinnati, and they closed out by walloping Culver. The season showed four wins and three losses.
Results Last Year
It was last year, however, that the work began to show real results. The fencers opened with four victories before falling, 15-12, to Chicago. The Windy City boys were in the midst of a second straight unbeaten year, but they had to work all the way to top the Irish.
Following the Chicago loss, Notre Dame bounced back to sweep their final five matches of the season. Top man for the team was DiCicco who captured 29 of his 30 foil bouts. Capt. Lou Burns, Bob Schlosser and Ralph Witucki were other standouts as the Irish won nine and lost one.
Melton. J. Jansen, D. Shipman. I. Nachte-gall, B. O'Connell, T. Leonard. B. West-rick, N. Scalera.
Melton’s boys have topped five straight 1949 foes, and hold promise of delivering an undefeated season. Three of this year’s victims came to Notre Dame unbeaten, but left with their first loss. Illinois Tech, Chicago and Illinois had their records thus blemished and Michigan State and Case Tech also fell before the Irish blades. The Chicago victory was sweet vengeance for the Notre Dame team as it wiped out last year’s only loss and ended a Chicago victory string that stretched through three seasons.
Capt. Witucki, DiCicto, Burm mi Schlosser form the backbone of itK eur-rent squad, although DiCicco has "been lost through graduation since the season started. Bob Schlosser in particular has been keeping the Irish fencers in the win column. The masterful sabre work of the junior from Springfield, Hl., saved the Illinois match and was of crucial im
Feb. 25, 1949
21
portance in the revenge win over Chicago.
Burns continues to lead the foils squad following the graduation of his recordbreaking partner DiCicco. Daniel Parisi and Nicholas Scalera, both sophomores from Newark, N. J., are promising fencers to hold the Irish strength in the foils.
Dixon Bolsters Epee Squad
One of the men who had no previous fencing experience before answering Coach Melton’s call for candidates in 1946 is Ralph Dixon, now the mainstay of the epee group. The Long Beach, Calif., junior is backed by Jerry Dobyns, junior from Jacksonville, Fla., and John Vincent, junior from Amarillo, Tex.
For the past two years, Herb has been aided by Lou Peck, a monogram winner in 1941. Lou was slated to captain the 1942 squad, but duty with the army interfered. He served with the 17th Airborne Division and was injured in March, 1945, in a jump near Wesel, Germany.
With only three dual matches remaining after tonight’s contest -with Northwestern, the Irish fencers are hopeful of pocketing an undefeated season. They will invade Detroit on March 12, Wisconsin on March 19 and Cincinnati on April 2. All preparation will be looking forward to the national intercollegiate blade tourney to be held March 25-26 at West Point and the Notre Dame swordsmen will try to slash their way to top national honors.
CAPTAIN WITUCKL BURNS AND SCHLOSSER Touche in Triplicate
Veterans of Last Year's Nine Dominate Show As Infielders and Batterymen Shake Out Kinks '	By RAY FITZGERALD -
Infield candidates joined then- pitching and catching brothers in the Notre Dame fieldhouse this week. Foi- the next month or so, they’ll be busy shaking the kinks out of winter-rusted arms and legs, in preparation for the season opener.
Coach Kline is luckier than most college mentors when it comes to infield talent. He has every man back from last year’s sharp-fielding, not so sharp-hitting, combine. He also has four good reserves from the ’48 club anxious to break into the starting lineup. Let’s take a look at the eight contenders for the infield posts on this year’s Irish squad.
Petrzelka's Fourth Season
FIRST BASE: Ray Petrzelka has held the job for the past three years, playing in every ball game last season. Ray hit .260, far below his previous marks in ’46 and ’47. However, he got the hits when they counted, being RBI leader of the club as well as topping his teammates in extra base blows. Two of those extra base hits were home runs. It will take a good all-around ball player to snatch the position from Ray, but Dick Giedlin, Trenton, N. J., sophomore, may be the man. A classy fielder and left
handed power-hitter, Giedlin is one of the best baseball prospects to hit the Notre Dame campus in quite a while. Dick is currently playing varsity basketball, and will report late to the Klines-men.
Kozlik Stands Alone
SECOND BASE -.Over at the keystone sack, little Benny Kozlik stands alone. Bob Ciancheti, peppery infield utility man, has graduated, and Benny is the only returning second base candidate. Holler-guy on the ball club, this is his fourth season with the Irish, and should be his best one. Kozlik had a poor season with the bat last year, as did most of his teammates, but played his usual steady game in the field.
SHORT STOP: The other half of a smooth double play duo, Pete Koblosh had the highest average of any regular on last year’s outfit. Pete’s a line-drive type of hitter, and isn’t fooled very often. Pushing Koblosh for the shortstop job will be Emil Garafalo. The catlike infielder replaced Koblosh for a few games last year when the latter injured his leg, and filled in nicely. Especially memorable was the first game of a Purdue doubleheader which Emil broke up with a prodigious home-run to the left center field wall. Shades of Tommy Sheehan, Irish home-run hitter of a few years back.
Trio Tries for Third
THIRD BASE: Three men are chief contenders for the hot corner. Gene Lavery played the spot for most of last year, and with Koblosh, was the team’s batting leader. Gene, a left-handed sticker, possesses the most accurate throwing arm on the Irish squad. He has also seen duty at shortstop and second base in past seasons. Fighting it out with Lavery for third base honors are Tom Martin, and Bob Machado, both seniors. Martin, a line drive pull hitter, split the third base assignment with Lavery last year, until a pulled leg muscle sidelined him. Machado spent most of his playing time in the outfield and batted a respectable .276, but third base is the position he knows best.
The official 1949 schedule has not been announced, but a proposed schedule went before the athletic board this week. The Irish will play some 30 ball games this year, starting during the Easter vacation and winding up with the traditional Graduation .Day games.
22
The Scholastic
Cast Named for One-Act Plays by Director
After three full days of tryouts, William J. Eisen of the Department of Speech and Director of the University Theater has announced the casts of three one-act plays to be presented March 14 and 15. Mr. Francis J. Hanley will direct all three.
Those appearing in The Rising of the Moon, by Lady Gregory are as follows: The Sergeant, Lawrence Mahon; Policeman X, Donald Curran; Policeman B, James Maher; and The Ragged Man, Jack Powell. The story is set in Ireland and thick brogues are employed by all the players.
Kenneth Sawyer Goodman’s Dust of the Road will be presented by the following: Peter, Lawrence Lopina; his wife, Prudence, Jean Richard; Old Man, James Carrig; and The Tramp, Stephen Hauser. A search for family peace is the theme of this work.
Monsignor's Hour, by Emmet Lavery, prominent Catholic playwright now writing in Hollywood, is a play demanding a large group of actors. The cast includes: The Guide, Lou Garippo; The Professor, Pat McAteer; The Student, Thomas McGee; The Labor Leader, George Cashman; The Artist, Helen Hearn; The Dowager, Jean Richard; Monsignor Carey, William Owen; Pag-nani, Vernon Burkhart; Cardinal Perez, Lawrence Lopina; Monsignor Amato, James Beymer; His Eminence, Stephen Hauser; Swiss Guards, Leo Blaber and Richard Fitzgibbons; Monks, Roger Vorce, Francis Malone, and Bob Nicko-dem, and The Lawyer, Maurice Mahon.
Real Irish Organize
The Gaelic segment of Notre Dame students and faculty have gotten their Irish up and are forming a campus club with the purpose of studying and appreciating Irish culture. A planning committee met last Friday night and decided to hold a St. Patrick's Day celebration. It will consist of a dinner in the upper room of the dining hall with a program of entertainment following.
Final details will be completed at a general meeting to be held next Monday night, Feb. 28, at 7:30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial lounge. The only requirement for membership is that the prospective members must have an interest in Irish culture. Both students and faculty members are invited to join the Erin-go-braugh organization.
Names Make News
Last Tuesday DEAN CLARENCE MANION, head of the Notre Dame Law School, was the principal speaker at a luncheon of the Wheeling, W. Va., Bar Association. He was introduced by FRANCIS WALLACE, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. That evening Dean Manion spoke on a broadcast in the Wheeling area in observance of American Brotherhood week.
Speaking before the Lions Club of South Bend, Professor LOUIS RADE-
LET, of the department of sociology at Notre Dame, and executive director of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, illustrated the purposes of American Brotherhood Week
Prof. Radelet with the aid of a half dollar piece. To show his point he emphasized the meaning of the phrases “In God We Trust” and “E Pluribus Unum” which are engraved on the coin. Another guest of the club was Harry C. Niven, former Lions governor of Colorado and the oldest living past district governor of the organization.
Dr. THOMAS KOLUPAILA, professor of water sciences at Notre Dame, recently addressed the 842nd and 267th reserve officers groups in one of a series of lectures on Russia, sponsored by these organizations.
Dr. Kolupaila taught for 21 years at the University of Moscow prior to joining the University staff last fall. A native of Latvia and member of the world power conference of 1936, Dr. Kolupaila is the author of over 200 books and articles on fluid sciences, hydraulics, and hydrology, written in 10 languages.
Mr. THOMAS P. BERGIN, instructor in business administration and marketing at Notre Dame, will represent the College of Commerce at an institute on the future of Business Research to be conducted by the United States Chamber of Commerce today at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago.
TERRY BRENNAN, star left half at ND for the past four years, has decided against playing professional ball for the. Philadelphia Eagles or the Chicago Hornets due to knee injuries. He said that
he will probably enter law school at either Yale or Georgetown. Both universities have offered the much sought after player a position as backfield coach. Herman Hickman of Yale and Frank Margarita of Georgetown have both said that they will offer Terry a salary which would meet his law school expenses.
Past and present stars of Notre Dame, Purdue, and Indiana were honored recently at the second annual football party of the South Bend ‘ Shrine Club. JOHN PANELLI, voted most valuable player in the last East-West game: BILL FISCHER, FRANK TRI-PUCKA, TERRY BRENNAN, MARTY WENDELL were present from ND. Also representing Notre Dame were Rev. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics; DEAN JAMES McCARTHY, of the College of Commerce and secretary of the faculty board; HERB JONES, business manager of athletics; BOB CAHILL, ticket manager; CHARLEY CALLAHAN, sports publicity director; ED KRAUSE, head basketball coach; JOE Mc ARDLE, JOHN DRUZE, BER-
HELP NAMES MAKE NEWS
Under present circumstances, “Names Make News" is only able to cite the names of faculty members, coaches, and well known athletes. The purpose of this column is to give recognition to all present and past students of Notre Dame as well as those mentioned above. Your cooperation is necessary for this. If you have any news concerning the doings of Notre Dame students or alumni, especially in your home town, please mail it to the SCHOLASTIC or leave it at the news office in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall.
NIE CRIMMINS, BILL EARLEY, WALLY ZIEMBA, and BENNIE SHERIDAN of the coaching staff, and HUGH BURNS, trainer. Head Coach Frank Leahy was unable to attend due to a previous speaking engagement.
HERMAN A. COOK, member of the Notre Dame football squad of 1915, died last week in Los Angeles, Calif. He had been football coach at Portland, Ore., University.
23
Feb. 25, 1949 ‘
Debaters Meet;
Win Four First Places
Arms laden with trophies, members of the Notre Dame debating team returned from Eau Claire, Wisconsin, this week after running roughshod over 58 collegiate teams from seven states. The Irish steamroller swept everything in sight, grabbing the top three positions in both debate and discussion, first place in extemporaneous speaking, and the overall Sweepstakes Trophy.
It was the second leg on the Sweepstakes award for the ND speakers, who also made a clean sweep in the same tourney last season. Three wins are required to retire the prize permanently.
The team of Tom Ninneman and Bill Dempsey topped competitors from 29 other colleges in the debate rounds with a record of five wins and no losses. Frank Finn and Bill Carey, the other Irish entry, piled up four victories against a single defeat for the second highest point total in the tourney. Of the 120 speakers participating, Finn, Dempsey and Carey were ranked one-two-three by the judges.
In the discussion session on the same topic of Federal World Government, the Big Three just scrambled the highest positions, with Dempsey, Finn and Carey on top in that order. Frank Finn won the individual award in extemporaneous speech.
In total points at the Eau Claire Tourney, Notre Dame was far out in front, with 13. The second place school finished with only six counters.
Next on the agenda for Finn, Carey, Ninneman and Dempsey is the Azalia Tournament, being held in Mobile, Ala., this week end. The debate competition is sponsored by Spring Hill College in conjunction with Mobile’s annual Flower Festival and Mardi Gras, visited each year by almost 400,000 holiday funseekers. Professor Leonard Sommer, University debate mentor, will join two other coaches at the tournament in a radio forum over a Mobile station.
In the Boston University Invitationals two weeks ago, Finn and Carey finished second, pegged above the pick of the East Coast, including West Point, Navy, Yale, Harvard, and Maine. Before the competition began, the green gabbers copped a radio debate decision from their B.U. hosts. They also participated in a radio discussion on civil liberties with Boston, in which no decision was given. The final round, in which ND tangled with George Washington University, was aired from the B.U. auditorium, before an audience of over 800. Half of this contest was recorded, and will be rebroadcast over WND within the next few weeks.
Vetville Meets Council; Plans Co-op Food Market
At a Vetville mixer held last Saturday night, Feb. 19, Mayor Tom Kirschner introduced the new Council members— Jack Teske, Don Lundergan, Bill Thompson, Harry Williams, Jim McGraw, and Ernie O’Klesen—to the community. The dance was put on especially to acquaint the 19 families which just arrived this semester with their neighbors.
Fathei- Mendez, advisor to Vetville, and the new administration are presently organizing a cooperative food market to be put into operation as soon as possible. Unofficially, plans for bringing a little stability to the baby sitting situation are growing. The idea is to assign six campus halls—Walsh, Farley, Alumni, Dillon, Lyons, and Morrissey— to the six wards of Vetville. The residents of each hall would have opportunities to baby sit in a particular ward.
Dummy Escapes Being Campused
Two members of a vital University department tried to ground a seemingly high-flying Air ROTC dance-goer last Friday night and wound up with a dizzy case of air-sickness.
Among the decorations at the Air RO dance at the Oliver last week was a hot rock pilot, a wax veteran of multi-missions over Germany, Japan, and El Paso, Texas. He was uniformed as a single-engine Colonel and bore the scars of much stateside duty in Max Adler’s show window.
The mannequin Colonel, like a P-38 pilot with two days’ leave in Paris, did a little too much celebrating and had to be carried home — Max Adler’s basement. Sgt. Butterworth, an EM from the regular Notre Dame Air Force detachment, threw him over his shoulder and headed down West Washington.
In front of Adler’s, a black sedan rolled up and stopped short of the curb. Sgt. Butterworth was waved to the window—his friend still lopping over his shoulder.
“What’s this student’s name?” came a voice from the sedan. “What hall does he live in? Is he over 21? Does he . . . ?”
“Let me talk to him,” said the other man. “Turn him around, Sergeant.”
Sgt. Butterworth gave his friend’s head a 180-degree twist. He then struck a match on his Sherman-Williams tinted face. The Colonel’s Corning Glass eyes glistened in the night. “Ever seen him before?” asked Sgt. Butterworth.
No answer. The black sedan swung around and headed north on Michigan. It didn’t even slow down at the Down Towner.
I---------------------------1
I SPAGHETTI CARD |
I	SPECIAL OFFER	|
f	to	=
| NOTRE DAME MEN ]
I	$^-00 worth of	E
I	Italian or American	i
i	food for...
I	$5-00 1
j	Purchase your card at	E
E Papandrea’s Today ... or E E	get one from a campus	=
=	representative:	j
1	Mike DiCicco	i
| Nick Barthalomeo f e	Rocco Romeo	e
e	Papandrea’s	E
I SPAGHETTI HOUSE I
z	(formerly THE CAPITOL)	E
|	415 NORTH MICHIGAN 1
E	Jimmy and Rose Papandrea	=
l"liimiiiiiimiiiiniiniuuimuinuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniff
$2.00 or MORE! Every Hour!!
Sell name plates for front doors
Every order pays you — in cash — immediately!
Free Sample
Write Dept. 158
NATIONAL ENGRAVERS 214 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
24
The Scholastic
Broken Pendulum Spring Clips Time's Wings As Clock Stops Running and Reporter Starts
By WALT COLLINS
The clock in the tower of the main church is broken. I didn’t even notice it until someone pointed out it wasn’t running. The fact startled me. Clocks do stop, I suppose, but the fact that this one had stopped meant something. I immediately jumped to the blinding conclusion that something must be wrong with it to make it stop.
The first person I saw was Father Furstoss. He is in charge of the Maintenance Department and I figured he ought to know the clock had stopped. I told him. He already knew it. I prob-ingly asked why it had stopped but he wasn’t sure. It was the main spring or something. He said he just filled out a requisition for a new part and didn’t know any more about it. He said an electrician by the name of Les would know. I went to see Les.
Les knew it was broken too. He knew what was wrong with it to boot. The pendulum spring was broken. He had ordered a new one and hoped it would arrive within the next week.
I asked him what kind of a clock it was. He said it was a Seth-Thomas clock and had been made in Connecticut. It was too late to stop him. The clock was put in about 15 or 20 years ago— he wasn’t quite sure. The pendulum weighs 90 pounds and is run by a series of weights lifted by motors. It has four faces- (that I knew) all of which are driven by a main drive shaft, with pinion gears connected to each separate face. I am in Arts and Letters.
It strikes every hour and every quarter hour (I knew that already, too). Once the pendulum is adjusted, you don’t have
to set the thing, except that it runs faster in the winter than in the summer because the cold contracts the pendulum arm. Then you have to set it. It has stopped before; a couple of times. But it wasn’t broken. It seems you have to change the grease in the gear box for winter and summer and sometimes the seasons sneak up on a person. Oh, he almost forgot, the clock controls an Angelus Bell.
After I left Les, I turned over all I had learned in my mind. It totaled up to one big point. The clock is broken. It has been broken for a couple of days, but will be fixed as soon as a new part arrives from Connecticut. I also know various sundry features about the workings of the clock which I only vaguely understand. I don’t particularly miss the chimes. I seldom heard them when they rang anyway. I have no sentimental attachment for the clock. It is a clock and I’m satisfied with the bald statement of the fact. I wonder if you can get up in the tower. If you have to climb a ladder, I’ll never try.
If I knew something about clocks, I could probably make an interesting story out of this. I am in Arts and Letters.
Mardi Gras
(Continued from Page 9) of Columbus, which will award a television set; the Vets Wives, who will sell cakes and cokes for the benefit of the Maternity Fund; the Philadelphia Club, with a basketball pitch booth; the Toledo Club, an ice cream concession; the Italian Club, a meat ball stand; and the New Jersey contingent, with a baseball and weight guessing booth.
Others who will chortle their wares are: the Monogram Club, throwing footballs through tires; the Rockland Club, a rat race; the St. Louis Club, awarding 65 hams; the Tri-City Club, awarding autographed footballs; the Metropolitan Club, dart poker; Detroit Club, back with last year’s popular Dunk-Em booth; Commerce group with an over and under dice game; and the Dayton Club, a penny pitch.
The La Raza Club will operate a booth in which hoops will be thrown over sombreros. The Blue Circle will handle the money changing at the door while the Chicago Club will undertake the South Bend merchants booth. Many other organizations had notified the committee of their willingness to operate booths.
Bill Slater To 'EMCEE* Relief Show on MBS
With sportscaster Bill Slater as master of ceremonies, the Student Relief Campaign of the NFCCS will ride the airwaves Tuesday night in a nationwide hook-up, Miss Ethel Dignan, executive director of the campaign, announced last week. Through the cooperation of the Mutual Broadcasting System, the fifteen-minute program will be broadcast from New York, and can be picked up over Chicago’s station WGN at 10:30 p.m., March 1.
Miss Dignan said in her announcement that the program will feature actual personal interviews between students of Rome, Paris, and the United States in a radio presentation of the need of foreign students. The Student Relief Campaign, of which Notre Dame’s Lou Burns is national chairman, in addition to rendering material assistance to destitute students (the goal this year is §500,000) plans also to emphasize the bond that exists between all students throughout the world. Tuesday night’s program is one of the many activities by the Student Relief Campaign to provide both physical and spiritual relief to student-age persons in Europe.
The program, which will originate in the New York studios of MBS about the same time Notre Dame’s Student Relief Mardi Gras reaches a crescendo Tuesday night, will allow students around the world to talk about this NFCCS campaign for 1949.
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
For the One and Only Flowers by Williams ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS Specializing in Corsages 58
Williams, The Florist 219 West Washington “Just West of the Oliver"
Feb. 25, 1949
25
Rad
By BO CONNOR
Two things every college m&n should know!
J»a This is a Pre-Med. Still in alimentary school. Makes no bones about skeleton in closet. Actually encouraged to take cuts. Likes to flex his forceps
in a "Manhattan” sportshirt.
This is a "Manhattan” sportshirt.
Covers anatomy ivith ease.
Lightweight rayon gabardine.
As smart as it is comfortable.
Your choice of many handsome colors.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949, The Manhatton Shirt Co.
I Can Hear It Now, the brilliant album of records that re-create in voices the sounds of the fateful years between 1933 and 1945, gives us a kind of oral record of the feeling we had for an era. It isn’t a history in the strict sense (there are only brief excerpts from each talk), but it may serve as a permanent memory for those of us who were not old enough to grasp the significance of those early years, or who simply forget easily.
In case you aren’t familiar with this album, it is the result of the efforts of Edward R. Murrow (the CBS news analyst) and Fred W. Friendly, who spent nearly two years listening to 500 hours of old broadcasts. Out of all this earbending they compiled 45 minutes of what they considered the most memorable sounds of that period.
Will Rogers Featured
The first voice is Will Rogers and the record spins on through Herb Morrison’s dramatic coverage of the Hindenburg disaster (it caught him unaware, and he kept yelling, “Oh, oh it’s terrible!”), Lou Gehrig’s words on his retirement at Yankee Stadium, the speeches of Willkie, Hitler, Churchill, Roosevelt and many more — all held together by the pointed narrating of Mr. Murrow.
Even now those early fireside chats of Roosevelt and the slow drawls of Will Rogers and Huey Long (each quite different, though) seem hazy. Listening to these records brings back, for an instant, the familiar scenes and sensations of 15 years ago, much as a fleeting smell or sound does when it hits us unaware.
War Talks Included
As the records continue toward the war, though, the events and voices become more real: the fanatic shouts that accompany Hitler’s chant-like voice, the lattei- talks of Roosevelt and Churchill, and the rich voice of Bob Trout announcing that the Japs had surrendered. Still, even these recent events have a way of slipping by. The menace of Hitler and Mussolini are fast becoming just a bad dream, and even today they are referring to the Duce as a clown.
These records, then, are the surest means of storing the excitement and tragedy of those years. As Mr. Murrow says in the cover of the album, “The events of this period from 1933 to 1945 will probably be bettei- remembered by ear than by any other dimension.”
26
The Scholastic
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
Want all night lights? May we humbly refer you to last week’s column.
Contemplation
Wednesday begins Lent which means that activities, such as they are around here, will cease and desist in preference to something far more important. It might be well during this period for those who are in charge of these activities (Student Council, Campus Clubs, etc.) to take inventory; review what has been done; plan what can be done. .
We have said only too often, in this space allotted us, that not enough is being done by these organizations. We refer you once again to past columns for more specific statements. We suggest now that in moments of reflection on activities, these leaders resolve to look to broader horizons in the future, plan to do more constructive work and see how they can organize with othei- groups for bigger- and better affairs, lectures, etc. A moment of thought may lead to an evening of worthwhile entertainment for the whole student body.
Comment
So far we have heard naught but favorable comment on the idea expressed last week here concerning a student-administration committee. Some of that comment has come from people who count. If enough of them feel that way, who can tell?
Here and There
We can only enlarge on a declaration made last week that the University Concert and Lecture series is doing the best job since the war in that department. Messrs. Maritain and Waugh are formidable personalities and should sparkle in the Drill Hall.
And while we are in agreement with the world, might we back up the comments of the Scholastic editor who, editorially, backed the University Theatre and tore apart its recent selection of
Command Decision as a student performance.
As to Mr. Wilcox, of Lawyer fame, we refuse to commit ourselves on an issue we are not equipped to handle—Federal Aid to Education. Rather we reiterate all that we said in the column he refers to—and we said no more, namely: Notre Dame may be squeezed out of the educational picture by the proposed Federal Aid to Education Measure.
NOTRE DAME REVERSIBLE JACKETS $12’5
LIGHTWEIGHT
NOTRE DAME JACKETS
BOYS' SIZES
Items Enfant
From all reports the 1949 Dome should turn out to be one of the best yet. . . . Dick Cullen and staff laboring nightly, are ahead of last year’s schedule so far, which means we might get a year book before the summer vacation . . . we might that is! ... It is encouraging to see steps taken to relieve chow hall congestion . . . whether those steps are for better or worse is not for us to say at the time . . . but they are steps. .... Mardi Gras coming up in Drill Hall may make or break Student Relief campaign this year . . . but it should also be bigger and better. ... Is station WND falling down on the job? ... a solid musical program, while pleasing, is poor fare for a college radio station . .. there are too many programs overlapping; too. many opportunities for really good show ideas being passed up. . . . We can go along with brother columnist Robert Vierhile when he says there should be more informal, cheap social get-togethers around here . . . but we take violent opposition when he wants to take away a couple of affairs now in operation. We can’t see any good reason why there can’t be both. . . . Did you read the Student Council meeting report in the Scholastic last week? . . . It’s the perfect example of why the council gets nowhere . . . too many petty problems and always the wrong approach. . . . Will the baseball team get a decent break on equipment, playing conditions and schedule this season? ... if so, it’s about time . . . which reminds us it’s about time to wind this up.
SONNEBORN'S
SPORTS SHOP
121 West Colfax Phone 3-3702
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral 114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS. JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind. .
Feb. 25, 1949
27
HESTERFIELD
Always milder Better tasting Cooler smoking
CO-STARRING WITH JAMES STEWART IN "YOU GOTTA STAY HAPPY" A WILLIAM DOZIER PRESENTATION A RAMPART PRODUCTION
A UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL RELEASE
guests always insist on Chesterfields because they're so MILD
MAKE YOURS
THE M I LDE R CIGARETTE
FARMER . RUFFIN, N.C. (from a series of statements by prominent tobacco farmers)
Copyright 1949. Ijccrt * Mnu Tomcco Co.
Chesterfield buys the best sweet, MILD cigarette tobacco. I have been a steady Chesterfield smoker