' The Notre Dame Scholastic
r Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! Lat special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
November 23, 1934
No. 9
STATION WSM HONORS NOTRE DAME TONIGHT
ETIENNE GILSON CONCLUDES SERIES OF THREE LECTURES HERE TONIGHT
Radio station, WSM, Nashville, Tennessee, educational medium of the National Life and Accident Insurance Company, will broadcast a complete Notre Dame program at 8 o’clock tonight.
Material for the program was written on the campus and will.be supplemented by Notre Dame music. The studio cast of WSM will produce the program.
The general theme of the broadcast is the continuation of the principles of Notre Dame in the life of Notre Dame graduates. This is achieved through a series of sketches written about the campus figures of the past.
Sketches, submitted by a group of campus authors, based on the activities of such outstanding men as the late Knute Rockne, with all that his great career stood for; Frank Ward O’Malley, late star of the journalistic firmament; Louis C. M. Reed, whose twelve trips around the world as importer and exporter have made him the present editor of the “Log” of the Circumnavigators’ Club in New York City; Angus D. McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific Railroad.
Other sketches recounted the deeds of Doctor Albert Zahm, whose pioneering in aeronauical science aided the succeess of the Wright brothers, and who is now occupying the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Congressional Library; the Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., famous priest traveler, whose expedition to South America with Theodore Roosevelt is history; Frank C. Walker, Lay Trustee of the University, honorary president of the Alumni Association, and one of the great figures of the New Deal; George Gipp, Notre Dame’s football immortal; Slip Madigan, present famous coach of St. Mary’s; Dutch Bergman, now coaching at Catholic University; the famous conferring of a degree by the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., on Dan McGlynn in a trench in France, and many other outstanding graduates.
The staff of WSM selected the material which was thought to be most suitable for the broadcast, and wove the different parts into a united program. Preparations for the program were begun as early as last August.
Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C. Responsible for excellent lectures.
Father O’Hara Addresses Rotary on Student Failures
Problems of family life, as gleaned from a study of student failures at the University, were discussed November 14, before members of the Rotary Club in the Oliver Hotel, by the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
. Father O’Hara was honored following the club luncheon by being received officially into Rotary membership by George W. Blair, president of the local club.
In addressing the gathering, Father O’Hara classified student failures as due to the following causes:
1.	Bluffing on the part of the student which managed to get him through high school with a minimum of work on his part.
2.	Too much money lavished on the student by fond parents in an effort to “keep up with the Joneses.”
3.	Worry over domestic difficulties.
4.	Divorce in the family. The younger members of the family often adopt a devil-may-care attitude and work only when they feel like it.
5.	Movies: too many and not of the right kind.
6.	Reading of low class magazines and literature.
7.	Inability of the individual to fit in with his classmates, the result of lack of parental training in selfcontrol.
In concluding his address, Father O’Hara declared that the protection of family life should be the aim of every honest citizen.
ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCES
Climaxing a series of three brilliant lectures delivered this week, Professor Etienne Gilson, of Sorbonne University, Paris, will speak on “Scholasticism in Modem Times” from the stage of Washington Hall at 8 o’clock tonight.
Dividing his general theme, ‘‘Scholasticism and Western Civilization,” into three phases Prof. Gilson addressed enthusiastic and interested audiences on Wednesday evening and Thursday afternoon.
Wednesday’s lecture was devoted to “Scholasticism in the Middle Ages.” Professor Gilson traced the influx of Arabian philosophy and theology through the invasion of the Mohammedan military forces.
“The great battle of the Mohammedan invasion was fought in the minds of men rather than on the battle fields of war,” Mr. Gilson said. “St. Thomas Aquinas was the general who led Scholasticism and Christian philosophy to its ultimate victory over the oriental ideas.”
The lecturer went on to show that it was after the French had defeated the military forces of Mohammed that the greatest struggle had to be faced. “The subtle influx of the Arabian idea of universal pre-destination and their concept of man’s lack of personal authorship of his own thoughts, were more insidiously powerful than the vast armed hordes that poured over Europe.”
Proceeding from the crisis that was faced in the Arabian influence, Professor Gilson traced the history of Scholasticism through its second serious encounter with other schools of thought in his second lecture, delivered Thursday afternoon at 1:15 in Waashington Hall. Here again he showed the forces of Christian philosophy being opposed during the Renaissance.
During his stay on the campus Mr. Gilson also addressed the Notre Dame Institute of Medieval Studies at 4 o’clock on each afternoon he was here. Prof. Gilson is an honorary director of the Institute.
November 23, 1934
One
Wm. C. Potter and Peter C. Reilly Elected to Board of Lay Trustees
NOTED IRISH AUTHOR
CONES HERE DEC. 3
PROMINENT LAY FIGURES
By Clifford F. Brown
Two nationally prominent figures in finance and manufacturing were elected to the board of lay trustees of the University at the semi-annual meeting held in the library of the Engineering building, November 16.
Byron V. Kanaley
Chairman of Lay Trustees.
The new members are William C. Potter, chairman of the Guaranty Trust of New York, and Peter C. Reilly, president of the Republic Cre-osoting company of Indianapolis. They succeed the late Edward N. Hurley of Chicago and the late Albert R. Erskine, former president of the Studebaker corporation, both of whom have died during the last two years.
At the meeting the board also considered the investments and administration of the endowment funds of the University.
Mr. Potter, who secured his high post with the Guaranty Trust company early this year, possesses an interesting careel' as mining engineer and banker. He was born in Chicago in 1874 and later was graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Following graduation he became general manager of the Guggenheim Exploration company. During the war, he was chief of the Equipment Division of the U. S. Army Signal Corps, receiving for this {Continued on Page 5)
Two
Globe Theatre Players Present “As You Like It” To Capacity Audiences
The Globe Players presented an abridged version of Shakespeare’s “As You Like It” to two capacity crowds in Washington Hall last Monday night at 8 and 9 o’clock The presentation was enthusiastically received by both audiences.
The company, which proved very popular at the Century of Progress Exposition, has many of Shakespeare’s plays in its repertoire, and is able to present all of them with equal ability. The plays are presented in a shortened form which omits long discourses and moves rapidly on with the plot. This method, adopted by Thomas Wood Stevens, has been appropriately termed “streamlined” by Christopher Morley.
Ordinarily requiring over three hours, the play was presented in 45 minutes. A simple stage is used, rendering unnecessary lengthy intermissions, and omitting intricate forest and castle scenes. The entire play is enacted in a simple setting.
The company is made up of young people who were organized for the purpose of reviving interest in Shakespearian drama.
“Der Deutsche Verein” Holds Regular Meet in Carroll Rec
“Der Deutsche Verein” held its regular meeting in Carroll Recreation Hall, Tuesday night, November 20. Mr. Wack, associate professor of German, talked on the problem of the plebiscite which will be held on January 13, 1935 in the Saar region in Europe.
The speaker outlined briefly the historical background of this territory which was placed under the directorship of a committee appointed by the League of Nations in 1920. The district was to be under this management until 1935 when the plebiscite is to be held.
The people of the Saar region are primarily Catholic, some leaders fearing the idea of joining the Hitler regime, because of its persecution of minority groups during the Chancellor’s rise to power in Germany. The people of the Saar are mostly German, although the.French have sent thousands of workmen into the region to operate the coal and iron mines which are French owned and extremely valuable.
“Seumas MacManus’ lecture was a gem—both in matter and in the manner of delivery. For two hours he held an audience of students literally entranced by his stories.”
Thus, Mr. J. E. Stubbs, president of the University of Nevada, spoke of Seumas MacManus, well-known Irish author, playwright, and story-teller, who will lecture here at 8:00 o’clock, Dec. 3, in Washington Hall.
Mr. McManus’ lectures have been delivered before the leading Universities, Colleges and Clubs, throughout America, and have merited sparkling comments from celebrities of the theatre and literature, among them David Belasco, John Erskine, and William Allen White.
In 1898, Mr. MacManus made a nation-wide tour of the United States, and achieved national success with his books and lectures. On this present tour, he will read from his latest books and talk on the events occurring in Ireland in the last decade.
After a boyhood spent on a farm in County Donegal, he became schoolmaster in the mountain village of his birth. Next he contributed to the Dublin and London newspapers and magazines under the signature “Mac.” His works include: The Story of the Irish Race; Himself and the Neighbors; Ireland’s Case and The Bend of the Road.
Irish Club Plans to Honor Seamus MacManus at Dinner
During a brief informal session held last Tuesday evening in the Law building the Irish Club of Notre Dame was entertained by Mr. Dick. The speakei- briefly discussed the troubled times in Ireland from 1916 to 1921 and gave many interesting sidelights concerning famous Irish patriots who were “on the run” during this turbulent period. Considerable pleasure was derived from Mr. Dick’s injections of humorous anecdotes relating to this stage in recent Irish history.
Plans for a dinner to be tendered in honor of Seumus MacManus, noted Irish lecturer, when he visits the campus in early December were discussed. William McNally was appointed chairman of the committee handling the arrangements for the affair. Final preparations will be announced at the next meeting of the organization.
President James McDevitt also selected the following members to serve as chairmen -on five special committees: Frank Shay,. Speakers; Joseph Dorgan, Sports; Robert: Cronin,, Entertainment; Jeff Garry, Membership; and Anthony O’Boyle, Publicity.
The Scholastic
ORESTES A. BROWNSON PHILOSOPHICAL LEADER
College of Arts and Letters Adds Four New Courses to Curriculum
i
»
Notre Dame, although not a Westminster Abbey possessing the remains of many distinguished, boasts of the burial here of perhaps the greatest Scholastic philosopher ever produced in American—Orestes A. Brownson.
His tomb, which might remain unnoticed by an unobservant person, occupies the crypt beneath the chapel floor. This chapel, shortly before his removal here formed a part of the new extension to Sacred Heart Church. On account of his burial there the chapel became known as the Brownson Memorial Chapel. More than this Brownson hall was later named after him so that students in succeeding generations would be less apt to forget the significance of this Christian hero.
Although the tomb is not elaborately adorned to attract the attention of anyone, the stone slab that hides his body beneath the chapel contains in Latin the praises of the great seeker for faith and truth, his prominence in his field and his general accomplishment.
Brownson’s life was one of hardship. Born in Stockbridge, Vermont, on Sept. 16, 1803, of New England Puritans and Congregationalists, he had to educate himself because of his father’s death early in his life. He became a great scholar early in his youth; was ordained a minister in 1826; and began editing several philosophical reviews shortly after. According to Sidney Raemers, Ph.D., his conversion to the Catholic Church in, 1844 was an epoch in the history of the Catholic Church in this country, just as that of Newman’s was a milestone in the history of English Catholicism.
After his conversion he remained a prolific writer and turned many works to the defense and explanation of Catholic teachings. Because of his keen, thorough methods he obtained the distinction of being classified with Newman and Carlyle as the greatest thinkers of his age. Furthermore, he became noted as the foremost philosopher in America, prominent as a lecturer, theologian, essayist, reviewer, historian and controvertialist beyond compare.
His connections with Notre Dame began in 1867. At the request of Rev. P. P. Cooney, C.S.C., of this University, Doctor Brownson began writing a series of lengthy articles for the Ave Maria on such topics as the moral and social influence of the devotion to Mary, Mother of God. It was he who instilled much of the love for the Blessed Virgin which remains to this day an integral-part-of life at Notre Dame.
(Continued on Page 5)
Alumni Houses Mysterious Persons in Southeast Tower;
Investigation Proves Nothing
Beneath the long-necked gargoyles on the southeast tower of Alumni Hall, King of the Platinum Coast, there lives a strange person, a mystery man who spends his days roaming about the campus and his nights as a resident of the tower rafters. What will go down in Alumni history as an unfathomable mystery came to light this week in a series of incredible happenings.
Bed Is Found
It all took place Monday night when students living on the east side of the hall were disturbed by strange noises seemingly coming from the tower. On this night a group of half-curious, half fearful students threw down their books and under the direction of Sleuths Joe Plotz Waldron and Jawn Maloney, braved the horrors of darkened rafters to investigate the cause of the perturbation.
High in the tower, in a far away corner, they found a bed, not unlike their own little beds, far below on the second con’idor. There was a sheet, a pillow, and a blanket; even the indentation which was deduced to be the impression of a body. More than this there were no clues.
Washington Hall, with her mythical ghost, has nothing on Alumni, who houses a real person, clever enough to escape the watchful eye of the Rector, the Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C. This unique individual skives in and out at his will, never checked or molested by the prefects, and he alone, of all the Alumni residents, is quite oblivious and entirely “above” the detestable bell ringing of dreamy Jim Burke.
University Library Gets Notable Book Collection
It will be of particular interest to the faculty and the student body to know that the University has recently acquired a notable collection of books which will be source material for study in the fields of medieval literature, history, and philosophy.
These works, known as the Rolls Collection, are chronicles and memorials of Great Britain and Ireland during the Middle Ages. They are practically a complete collection as they contain 245 out of 253 volumes.
SHANE LESLIE TO TEACH
Outstanding among the new courses which will be offered by the College of Arts and Letters during the second semester are courses on Jonathan Swift and Hamlet which
Doctor John M. Cooney His course should be popular.
will be taught by Mr. Shane Leslie, noted Irish lecturer, teacher and author, a course entitled An Introduction to the Scriptures which will be taught by the Reverend George Marr, C.S.C., and An Introduction to Journalism taught by Doctor John M. Cooney, head of the School of Journalism.
Students who will be admitted into Mr. Leslie’s courses: 1) Graduate students on application; 2) Two advanced undergraduates on recommendation by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., head of the department of English; 3) Other advanced undergraduates in order of highest academic averages from the beginning of the college course to date, taken in the manner of the average for honors in graduation. These courses are not open to any freshmen or sophomores.
A student may register for only one of these courses—unless the number of applicants for the two courses is below7 eighty, in which case the applicants for both courses will be registered in order of averages, till the quota of forty students for each course is reached.
Any junior, senior, or graduate student who wishes to register for these courses by Mr. Leslie must make application at the office of the
(Continued on Page 8)
November 23, 1934
Three
PATRICIANS DISCUSS GREEK ART, ECONOMICS
FOREIGN COMMERCE CLUB REORGANIZES FOR ACTIVE YEAR
MR. DICK COMPARES N.D. WITH ENGLISH COLLEGE
The regular meeting of the Patricians, postponed to Thursday evening of this week, heard John Gainer, Arts and Letters senior deliver a paper entitled ‘‘The Influence of Greek Art.” He mentioned the important characteristics of Greek art, illustrating them with references to concrete examples, and tracing their influences down through the ages to the present day.
In introducing his subject, Mr. Gainer said: “No one has attempted to discount the debt of western art to the art of Greece. The classical tradition in art begins in Greece; and it is this tradition in art which we .immediately feel is our own, for Greek art is .intimately connected with man.” With this he proceeded to list the stages in the development of Grecian art forms, from their infancy to the paragon of skill which was finally attained by the Grecian sculptors.	' .
He then, after tracing the heritage of Greek art in modern art, criticized those modern artists who deviate from the long-established style and form. “When western art, that is, art which is not of the Greek-Roman period, departs from the Greek tradition it is not understandable to us. When, for example, a modernist such as Picasso paints what looks like a group of packing boxes, and calls it “A Portrait of My Father,” we not only do not recognize it as art, but we are inclined to think the painter a lunatic.”
Discussion following the reading of this informative paper acknowledged Gainer’s fine grasp of his subject and interesting method of presentation. It was announced that at the regular meeting of the Patricians next week, the speaker would be Matthew J. Bruccoli.
On the evening of Nov. 7, Franklyn C. Hochreiter, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, completed the series of papers delivered before the •Patricians on Grecian Economics, by covering the Platonic system of Economics. He particularly stressed the communistic theories of Plato, as advocated in his imaginary state or Utopia. After outlining the general tenets of the philosopher-economist, Hochreiter selected for more careful scrutiny certain specific theories for critical treatment.
Besides his meticulous handling of the subject, the speaker augmented ■ his discussion with references from various text-books to further define the Platonic system. This consideration was particularly helpful as was evinced by the vigorous discussion of members. following the paper.
Four
The Foreign Commerce Club is rejoining the group of active campus clubs at Notre Dame.
With Bill Murray, Commerce Senior, supervising the reorganization, this relatively new campus society that was founded in 1930 and allowed to die a natural death from in-
Bill Murray He organized a club.
activity in 1933 is coming to real life again.	.
Definite plans for reorganization were discussed during the club’s first meeting held a week ago last Monday in the Commerce building. At that time, Jack Edwards was elected to the Presidency, and Mike Scafatti to the Secretary - Treasurership of the revived organization.
This week, on Monday, a second meeting of the foreign commerce men was held, at which time the reorganization process was completed, and more definite plans laid for future activities. A committee of three members has been appointed to draw up a new constitution to replace the old charter lost when the club disbanded in 1933. •
As to general purpose, the Club is seeking “to give student members a more practical knowledge of current foreign commerce” and to provide a social group where foreign commerce men may gather on a personal basis. It is estimated that about 30 commerce students will seek membership in the club.
Concerning ..future activities, club leaders intend to have a speaker at every meeting, either a prominent figure in the field of commerce or a student member who will deliver a paper. In addition, open discussion of current topics that affect the commercial markets of the world will he fostered at these gatherings.
Kirk Patrick Lecture
Mr. Kirk Patrick, public relations director of the Northern Pacific railroad, will speak Monday night in Washington Hall on “Our National Parks.”
His talk will be illustrated by motion pictures and slides.
Someone likes us.	.
Mr. Walter J. Dick, who has been teaching and studying at Notre Dame for the past year, replied to a friend in his home in England, that “I cannot judge of all America, but I can judge of one place, Notre Dame, •and there I have certainly found gentlemen.”
The letter he received was from an English teacher, and read, “If all American boys are like those who come over here, then God help you!”
Mr. Dick, a native of Ireland, is a Rosminian seminarian visiting Notre Dame for two years. Previous to his arrival here in the fall of 1933 he studied at London University. He is now studying philosophy and teaching religion, the only student Rosminian in the North American continent.
A quiet, slight young man with curly black hair and blue eyes, Mr. Dick speaks with a marked Irish accent. Garbed in the black robes of his order and usually wearing his biretta, he is familiar to many on the campus this year, particularly to members of the Irish club, in which he has an interest, and to those freshmen to whom he teaches religion.
His comment on the “gentlemen of Notre Dame” is sincere, he says, but he confesses that in the year’s experiences which have prompted this opinion, he has found much that is curious to him.
“The American collegian is blunt,” said Mr. Dick. “He doesn’t hesitate to hurt another’s feelings. However, there is a frankness and openness to his blunt manner that makes him admirable. He expresses himself fully and sincerely at all times.” He found a general lack of class distinction here which surprised him. “If a boy hasn’t any money, it doesn’t seem to make much difference to the moneyed boys. In Oxford a boy would never admit he had little or no money; his standing in the eyes of his society would drop decidedly.”
The rush with which Americans do everything confused him when he first came here. He had a fleeting glimpse of bustling New York and his only impression was “one of awe.”
Having spent the last six years in English centers of higher learning, he is well qualified to compare the campus life of the American and English university. Afternoon tea, a typical English custom, is conventional in the day of the English student. “Usually a boy has his tea table set . up. in his room at four o’clock and invites a few of his hall-mates in to tea. There is an attendant in the
(Continued on Page 16)
The Scholastic
. KNIGHTS DECORATE WALSH HALL ROOMS
LIVELY PEP-SESSION SENDS TEAM OFF TO NEW YORK
DEBATING CANDIDATES TRY OUT NEXT WEEK
The Knights of Columbus will hold their first initiation of the year next Monday night. A group of - over forty candidates will receive the first degree. The candidates are requested to be present in the council chamber in Walsh basement at 7 o’clock Monday evening. They will be initiated into the higher degrees early in DeI cember.
For the council recreation room, lounges and chairs have been purchased. A radio, several tables, and curtains will complete the accouterment. A free telephone is provided for the use of the members, and all are invited to make use of the accommodations which have been provided at considerable expense to the council.
TRUSTEES
(Continued from Page 2)
decorations from the American and Italian governments.
Mr. Reilly also has attained many accomplishments. He is active in both business and finance. He was a pioneer in the coal tar products field and now operates fourteen plants throughout this country in addition to serving as director of several banks and large corporations. National prominence came to him first when he perfected a- coal tar still which made possible the complete distillation of coal tar to a carbon residue.
His life began in Providence, Rhode Island, in 1869. He began" business life in 1900 in New York.
I Today he holds the presidency of the Reilly Research Laboratories of Indianapolis, Reilly Tar and Chemical corporations, Republic Creosoting company, and the Char Products company.
There are still two vacancies on the board resulting from the recent i deaths of James J. Phelan, Boston banker, and Warren A. Cartier, of Ludington, Michigan. They will not be filled until the May meeting.
Those present at the meeting, in addition to the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and the Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross , exofficio members of the Board, were Fred J. Fisher of Detroit; Miles W. O’Brien, South Bend; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.; Matthew J. Carney, New York; Frank E. Hering, South Bend; John F. Cushing, Chicago; Frank C. Walker, New York City, former director of the NEC; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis.; Angus D. McDonald, San Francisco; and Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, Chairman.
November 23, 1934
What proved to be one of the most spirited pep-meetings of the season was held Wednesday night, Nov. 21, before an exuberant crowd of students roaring their hope of victory Saturday over the powerful Army eleven.
Receiving the greatest ovation of the evening, Coach Elmer Layden appeared to address the student body. Citing the power and experience of the Cadet eleven, his words nevertheless did not undermine the spirit of confidence that electrified the cheering mob.
Speeches were also given by Tom Conley, Joe Boland, Senator Robert Proctor of Elkhart, and Capt. Dom Vairo, who thanked the student body for the fine support given the team in its victories and defeats.
Jerry Foley, head cheerleader, acted as master of ceremonies.
As in past assemblies, “Genial Joe” Casasanta and his splendid band,did much toward making the pep-meeting an exciting and memorable one.
ORESTES BROWNSON
(Continued from Page 3)
His communications with the late Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., then editor of the Ave Maria show his devotional interest toward every phase of Christianity.
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University and president at that time, alluded to his long and intimate friendships with Brownson occasioned only by faithful correspondence, as the great philosopher during his life often expressed his desire to end his days at Notre Dame. Many attempts were made by the University to obtain Brownson to teach here about the time of the Civil War, but all ended in failure because of the financial requirements of an indebted man.	.
Brownson died April 23, 1876 in Detroit at the home of his son. It was not until ten years later on June 17, 1886, that his body was transferred to Notre Dame amid impressive ceremonies. A Solemn Requiem Mass wes held in the Church, after which the Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C.S.C., then dean of Philosophy in the University, preached an eloquent sermon on Brownson’s life and character.	.
Since his presence here in the peaceful shades of Notre Dame some consideration has been given to the erection of a monument in his name. Nothing actual has ever been done or realized.
The arbitrary teams for Varsity Debate tryouts were posted by the coach, William Coyne, during the past week. The men will debate in the following order and at the specified time:
Nonday, November 25 at 4 p.-m.
Affirmative: James Hamilton, John Mar-bach, Thomas Proctor, Gene Malloy.
Negative: James Hurney, Harry Wilson, John Locher. Joseph Becek.
Monday, November 26 at 7 p.m.
Affirmative: Edward Boyle, Thomas Thomson, Robert Schmelzle, Richard Meier.
Negative: Patrick Conlon, John Kavanagh, Pierre de la Vergne. John Heywood. James Boyle.
Tuesday, November 27 at !, p.m.
Affirmative: Charles Boyle, E. K. Scalliol, Franklyn Hochreiter, William Miller.
Negative: Edward Brown, John Weppner, James Burke, George Krug.
Anyone whose name has been omitted from the above list should contact Mr. Coyne immediately so that he may be placed.
The constructed speeches are to be six minutes and the rebuttals are to be three minutes.
Five or six men will be chosen from each section. The speakers will change sides for the finals which will be held before the Christmas holiday. There will be a complete squad of 12 men selected from the last contest. The group of 12 will represent the University in varsity debating this year.	•
Otis Lucas Gives Talk At Meeting of Commerce Forum
Mr. Otis Lucas, sales promotion representative of Studebaker’s, will address the members of the Commerce Forum next Wednesday, Nov. 21, at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Mr. Lucas will speak on sales promotion.
Frank Shay, president of the Forum, has named Walter O’Brien, chairman, and John Clark and Jack Flanagan as a committee to arrange for a smoker to be held early next month.	.
An advertising questionnaire will be started during the week of Nov. 18. The object of this questionnaire will be to ascertain the trend of student buying power as influenced by advertisements.
Approximately 500 students will be selected at random from the student directory. Each student will be visited individually and questioned as to what popular products he purchases. In this way the Forum will be able to judge just how, and why, a student is influenced by certain advertisements.
According to President Shay, the results of this questionnaire will not be published until just before the Christmas holidays.
Five
EDWIN HOLMAN SPEAKER AT WRANGLERS MEET
The Wranglers, at their regular meeting last Tuesday evening, heard Edwin Holman endeavor to prove that “Advertising should be Purged of its Wasted Efforts” and thus bring about a cheaper product to the consumer.
Holman pointed out that much money was thrown away on the advertising of a product that had no competition. As a demonstration he exhibited the advertisement of a well known candy concern that carried a full page in a popular periodical. There was but one other candy ad in the magazine and this of a five cent bar. The two candies were of different types and thus did not run in competition to each other.
The speaker, after listening to some discussion, admitted that his thesis was false and that it was given to draw out criticism. It was admitted, however, that there is much error in present day advertising.
Robert Schmelzle submitted the following results in the Interhall debate contests:
Morrissey affirmative over St. Ed's negative. Alumni negative over Howard affirmative. Dillon negative over Lyons affirmative. Walsh negative over Corby affirmative. Dillon negative over Morrissey affirmative. St. Edward’s negative over Sorin affirmative.
It is expected that the preliminaries will be concluded by the end of next week so that the final debate may be held at Saint Mary’s College the week of Dec. 9.
The speaker for the Wranglers next week will be Franklyn C. Hochreiter.
Twenty Six Percent Of Students Deficient at Quarter.
The following bulletin has been issued from the Office of the Director of Studies concerning the scholastic deficiencies for the opening quarter of the present semester.
Of the University’s total enrollment of 2,637 students 26.5% are deficient. Hall deficiencies are as follows: 51 in Alumni, 27 in Badin, 49 in Brownson, 81 in Lyons, 49 in Carroll, 25 in Corby, 90 in Dillon, 63 in Freshman, 39 in Howard, 69 in Morrissey, 50 in St. Edward’s, 11 in Sorin, 18 in Walsh, 2 in Dujarie Institute, 2 in Holy Cross Seminary, 1 in Moreau Seminary, 1 in the Mission House, 3 in St. Mary’s, and 1 in the Presbytery.
In the Freshman Class there are 301 deficiencies, in the Sophomore Class 206, in the Junior Class 120, in the Senior Class 68. In addition to this there are 3 Special Students deficient and 1 Postgraduate.
S ix
One day back in 1927 a group of fastidiously attired youngsters was gathered in a Chicago drawing room; Great, rich chocolates were being passed about, the happy kiddies sur-

reptitiously pocketing those they couldn’t eat, when the door opened and in burst a charming and elderly lady; she rapidly strode across the room and approached one of the lads, exclaiming, “Oh, my great, big Buster!” The boy, already six feet tall and weighing a sturdy 200 pounds, blushed profusely. Nicknames come and nicknames go, but Buster Breen’s has stuck for seven years now and bids fair to last many years more.
Christened John, Bus Breen was born in Chicago in 1913. From Chicago to Sorin Hall is a long, long, trail, but for Buster it was a series of triumphs. We could list them: Captain of Mount Carmel High school team in his junior year, All-Chicago tackle as a junior, and All-Chicago end in his senior year, numerous high school class offices, etc. Bus came to Notre Dame among that unfortunate group who had to live off campus until the completion of Dillon Hall. Those among the present seniors who lived on the campus didn’t have opportunity to really know him until late in the Freshman year. But his aptitude for making friends soon won him the esteem of the entire class. It was small surprise to most, then, when his candidacy for Sophomore class president was announced by his friends. Backed by the Chicago contingent, Bus was elected.
He is an avid reader of worthy literature and an excellent student. His major is economics, but at present, he leans toward journalism. It is a source of much wondei- to many
SYMPHONY TO GIVE FIRST CONCERT IN DECEMBER
Under the baton of Professor • Richard Seidel, the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will present its first concert of the season in Washington hall, Thursday, December 13.
The orchestra, consisting of 30 members, has been rehearsing since the beginning of school, and this season, as in the past, the program will consist of the best in classical music.
The well known “Light Cavalry Overture” by F. von Suppe will open the program, to be followed by Joseph Hayden’s “Symphony No. 12.” This is to be the first time this composition will be played on the campus.
After the intermission the second part of the program will contain, “From Foreign Lands” by Moszkow-ski and then the popular “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” by Tschaikowsky. The “March from Carmen” will conclude the program.
Light Cavalry Overture.___F. von Suppe Symphony No. 12 in G sharp major_Hayden
Intermission
From Foreign Lands—Germany___Moskowski Sleeping Beauty Waltz........P. Tschaikowsky Carmen March.................._ George	Bizet
just how Bus maintains his social activities and his magna cum laude average.
This fall Bus cavorted at left tackle for Sorin. His excellent play earned him a reputation much respected by the players of other halls.
He went to Mexico this summer with several of his friends. While there he performed on a diving board, 20 feet above the water, for the benefit of a small, but extremely pleased audience. He has initiative as is proved by his aiding the organizers of the Sorin Hunt Club to such an extent that they made him Leader of the Hares in their first annual chase.
He loathes bridge, plays a fair game .of golf, would rather read a good book than go to the cinema, never has worn corduroys, enjoys cigars, shaves with amazing regularity, has eaten three .complete dinners to win a dollar bet, always stops for a snack when he passes a restaurant, doesn’t worry about his elective in accounting, can tie a bow tie neatly, has trouble with his teeth, sits at table 42, wears garters, dislikes walking, can tell a story very interestingly, has no disciplinary record, and is a reactionary against the New Deal. His favorite greeting is, ‘‘Yo, Snatch!” His most memorable words are, “Here I am men, unfettered!”
And what’s his middle name? Aloysius.
The Scholastic
NOTRE DAME LAWYER APPEARS THIS WEEK
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
SENIORS ASK FOR IDEAS ON SMOKER PROGRAM
Joseph A. McCabe and John A. Berry, co-editors of the Notre Dame Lawyer, hope to have the fall issue of the 1934-’35 Lawyer on the campus by today or tomorrow. An article by the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.,
Joseph A. McCabe Perennial editor.
Dean of the School of Philosophy, on “Law and Morals,” will be one of the outstanding features of the issue.
There is also a complete and comprehensive discussion by Judge Walter B. Jones, of Montgomery, Alabama, on the various phases of the divorce problem. This article is considered particularly valuable to law students because divorce is, at present, one of the most complicated and least stabilized branches of law. The author brings out the conflicting points of view in the different states on the question.
Important, too, is an article by Professor Vernon Vrooman, of Drake University, on the legal concept of general welfare.
The largest part of the 128-page book will be devoted to notes and comments on recent cases by the students themselves. Following is a list of the comments and commentators:
F. Louis Fautsch, “Sentimental Value in the Law of Damages.”
Joseph A. McCabe, “Divorce in Conflict of Laws.”
Hugh E. Wall, Jr., “Discussion of the Capitol Stock and Excess Profits Tax Law.”
John A. Berry, “Jurisdiction of (Continued on Page 8)	- .
Professorial Queerities
Some ambitious pedagogue at Yale comes up with the discovery that the Gulf Stream, according to his researches, should be called “Caribbean Current” since little or no Gulf of Mexico water could be traced in it. . . . “I believe in youth. I believe that youth over the last ten years hasn’t had a real chance.” None other than the president of Penn. State College uttered those significant words! A Wisconsin prof, purchased a ticket to attend his own recital, saying, “There’s no reason why I should be admitted free.” When a member of the zoology department at U. of Cal. was forced by illness to remain away from classes, his wife, true help-mate that she was, substituted for him!
Healthy Advice!
“Women have entered every profession in this country, even that of kidnapping and bootlegging. Preserve the freedom of action which you enjoy,” said the commencement speaker in delivering his address before the graduating class of Vassar, last June.
Reasons Why
Sixty-seven pure-bred Holstein cows, selected from 27 herds in nine different counties of Wisconsin’s dairy country, were sent to provide the cream for midshipmen at the U. S. Naval Academy ... A few minutes after faculty members had voted the suspension of twenty-one students and severe disciplinary action for sixteen others, the former- dean of the School of Liberal Arts and Sciences of the college, died of a heart attack! . . . “Camels are not the only cigarettes that give you a lift,” states a Miami professor. “Rapid smoking will result in the smoker inhaling 80 per cent of the nicotine, while leisurely smoking will result in only 25 per cent of the nicotine being inhaled. Smoking rapidly and excessively is the sign of old age.”
From Other Papers
“Syracuse students are spending more money for amusement purposes this year than at any time in the past four years.”—Syracuse Daily Orange
“Krause (Phil) matriculated at Notre Dame . . . The following year, however, Phil decided to enroll in an up and coming school, coming to De Paul.”—The DePaulia
“A chatter columnist is a person who finds out things that people don’t want known and tells it to people to whom it doesn’t make any difference.” Augustant Observer
It was announced this week by Franklyn C. Hochreiter, chairman of the combined Senior Class Meeting and Smoker, that the affair would be held in the Law Auditorium on the evening of Wednesday, December 12 —one week before the Christmas vacation.
Chairs will be added to the present seats in the auditorium so that a capacity crowd may be accommodated.
Franklin C. Hochreiter He zvears five keys.
There will be a buffet lunch served after the program.
The Committee in charge desires aid in arranging its business program. To facilitate discussion on topics in which the men in the class are interested the committee requests that suggestions be sent to the chairman immediately. These recommendations may either be personally delivered, or mailed to 227 Sorin Hall. In order that an intelligent discussion be carried on these suggestions should concern pertinent matters. The full cooperation of the senior class is solicited to make its class meeting a success.
Officials of the University are in hearty approval of the attempted project of the senior class, and the president, Thomas Proctor, has received many compliments on his new scheme of class contact.
Minnesota Club
The Minnesota Club gave advance notice of its own “New Deal” on Wednesday, evening, when the thirtyodd members of the organization met in a “smoker” held in Brownson Rec Hall.
Sandwiches and coffee disappeared at an alarming rate while Dick Sham-la, Minnesota’s contribution to the Irish of ’34, talked briefly on the football situation here at Notre Dame and at Minnesota, where. the “Swedes” are doing quite a good job in cleaning up the Big Ten competition. Kehoe, club musician, succeeded in making Brownson’s “upright” sound almost like a piano, a unique accomplishment.
November 2 3, 193 4
Seven
THIRD NUMBER OF NOTRE DAME NEWS IS ISSUED
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
BAND DRILLS FOR HONE BASKETBALL SEASON
By Irwin L. Goldman
The third issue of News of Notre Dame came out this last week bearing the headline, “Freshman Enrollment Shows 15.3 percent Increase.” This periodical is published by the Alumni Association once every month of the school year.
News of Notre Davie is distributed each month to prospective students of the University and during the summer to regular students and the alumni. It endeavors to give briefly but concisely the outstanding news on the campus each month.
The first page of this issue contains news concerning the campus broadcasting studio, the University Theatre vaudeville show, a short review of the first issue of Scrip, the campus literary ruarterly, and a feature article on the geographical distribution of Notre Dame students.
The object of this monthly news publication is to inform prospective Notre Dame students of the different events that take place on the campus. Much of this issue deals with requirements for entrance. A large section is devoted to suggested programs for prospective students and a list and explanation of the required subjects needed to gain entrance as a student.
This issue contains pictures of the new post office, the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, interior of Washington Hall, student swimming pier, Kev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University and Professor Emil Jacques who has selected 50 art pieces by Notre Dame students to constitute a collection to be on display in’several of the larger eastern cities during the next few months.
NEW COURSES
(Continued from Page 3)
director of studies between 3:30 and 4:30 p. m., on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday of November 26 to 30.
There will be a lecture by Mr. Leslie in Washington Hall every Tuesday evening at eight o’clock for all who may wish to attend.
A course entitled An Introduction to the Scriptures will be taught by the Reverend George Marr, C.S.C. Readings will be selected from the New Testament for special study.
The general aim of this course is to study the Bible as the primary source of all revealed truth and Catholic theology. An attempt will be made to point out the dogmatic, moral, devotional, liturgical, apologetic, historical, and literary values of the Scriptures.
Eight
If this S.A.C. chairman, Tom ‘KING’ La Londe, should ever ask you to come up and see him some weekend, you’re in for a great time, but hesitate before accepting, brother, hesitate. The fellows who have the advantages of these wholesale railroad passes that seem to be the byproduct of transportation-minded relatives of the family are excluded from the above advice. They need not fear. But again we say to the others, hesitate.
Our premise is that one never knows just where the La Londe family is living at the moment of invitation. By way of illustration, we’ll trace the itinerary of the King during his three year stay at Notre Dame.
He was living in Dillon when we first came to his attention. “We’re from Alpena, Michigan,” he told us. We had no idea where that hamlet was situated, (never having been west of the Hudson), but we looked it up and found Alpena to be “in the heart of the resort country of northern Michigan.”
“You must come up and see us some time,” he told us, and we had visions of a great vacation some time in the near future. But, when we reminded him of the offer, a year later, he smiled his smile and said: “Oh, we live in Rochester now, do drop in some time.”
Now Rochester is right down our alley—we have to pass through there on the way to the Bronx,—so, when the next vacation rolled around, we said, casually, “We’ll try to drop in on the home, King.”
He smiled again, and said: “Oh, I forgot to tell you, we live in Cleveland now. The folks are expecting you.”
Well, we had occasion to visit that city a bit later, but, when inquiries were made, it was discovered that our quest was summering in Boston. “Could we pick him up on the way back in September?” we asked. “No,” came the answer, “the La Londes have moved to Evanston.”
To bring this odyssey to a close, we finally tracked him down in that staid suburb last weekend. Our efforts were well worth the search, of course, but if you want to see America first, start weekending with the King.
No Score—
“You’re just the man we’re looking for,” panted one of the office force recently, upon spying ‘Gunner’ McGrath. “There’s a dog with a broken leg in front of the church. He’s suffering terribly. Go out and shoot him.”
After an impressive showing be-before the crowd at the Northwestern game at Dyche Stadium at Evanston last Saturday, the University bandmen now suspend their daily practicing of marching formations and college airs, to prepare for the coming basketball season. Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta announced, last week, that the band will provide both musical and vocal entertainment during each basketball game on the home schedule.
This arrangement, established last year through the cooperation of Coach George Keogan and Prof. Casasanta, met with immediate acclamation, both from the student body and visiting spectators. So enjoyable did this varied entertainment become, that Prof. Casasanta decided to augment the concert repertoire of the band with occasional bits in the modern vein.
Prof. Casasanta told a Scholastic reporter this week that he has already planned his programs for this coming season. Practice has started, so that within two weeks, spectators will be provided with the kind of entertainment they found so pleasant last year.
LAWYER
(Continued from Page 7)
State Courts over Violations of the N.R.A. Codes.”
John J. Locher, Jr., “Omissions as Constituting Torts.”
Richard A. Molique, “Constitutionality of Special Legislation.”
Robert Devine, “Validity of State Gasolene Taxes Imposed on Counties and Municipalities.”
Stephen P. Banas, “Suretyship in Mortgage Transactions.”
S. J. Montedonico, “Contribution in Settlement of Estates.”
William J. Kennedy, “Suicide as Affecting Liability on Insurance Policies.”
Maurice W. Lee, ‘‘Recent Cases in Conversion.
Professors Whitman and Lee, “Book Reviews.”
It was only a moment before the marksman had arrived on the scene, armed for the occasion. He took caireful aim, and the small crowd poised themselves for the shock as the Gunner closed in for the kill. But the dog ‘with the broken leg,’ arose at that moment, and scampered quickly down jthe Corby walk, with the agent of ihercy in close pursuit. Yet the animal must have been unusually fast, for he was well around the lake when, McGrath gave up the chase. 7
The Scholastic
Voice of the Campus
Editor, The Scholastic:
One reason why so few Notre Dame men become writers is, that they do not consider nor learn what editors need. Certainly many on the campus have at least the writer’s dream. Certainly many have the native gift, the educational background and also exceptional training, through their English studies, in the art of expression. They remain mute, inglorious only because they cannot ‘break into print,’ for the press is virtually the only medium through which the reading public may be reached.
Notre Dame men who have this dream should ‘hook up’ at every opportunity with some campus publication, and should elect at least one course in journalism. A new course called An Introduction To Journalism starts next semester. It is open to all Arts and Letters men except freshmen; and many should take it. A course in journalism may not make a writer, but it will prove a valuable guide to one who is ‘on his way.’
If this is not so, why is it that a large majority of known writers in this country either have or have had connection with the press?
—A. B. C.
Calendar
I
Friday, Nov. 23
The Scholastic meeting, editorial rooms, editorial board, 6:30 p.m., general staff, 7:00 p.m. Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, Nov. 2k
Football, Varsity vs. Army, Yankee Stadium, New York City, 12:30 p.m. Football, “B” team vs. Detroit “B,” Shelby, Ohio, 2:00 p.m. Movie, “You Can’t Buy Everything,” with May Robson and Jean Parker, Washington Hall, 6:45 p.m. and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, Nov. 25
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, Nov. 26
Varsity returns from New York. Bookmen meeting, Library, 7:30 p.m. Lecture, Kirk Patrick, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Nov. 27
Symphony orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p.m. Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Nov. 28
Movie, “This Side of Heaven,” with Lionel Barrymore, Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m.
Thursday, Nov. 29 Thanksgiving Day. No classes.
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Corby-by-the-Sea
Corby Hall has a complaint. So, we imagine, has Alumni, Badin, Brownson, Carroll, Dillon, Freshman, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, and St. Eds, in order of the alphabet. And, after a fashion, Walsh.
It seems that Sorin is getting all our best notices. Not that our notices at best are worth many farthings, but nevertheless Corby resents being ignored. A fellow from there told us so. In a way, this news is most welcome, because it sort of confirms our suspicions that we have a reader in that hall.
Corby-by-the-sea is a place you will come to, as Harry Sylvester, ’30 says in December’s Story, by walking between the Gothic Chapel and Sorin, in the right direction.
It rests somewhat tenaciously near the top of a clumsy hill; sometimes it seems to be in imminent danger of slipping backwards to smash itself amongst the trees by the Grotto; at other times, it appears to be engaged in a mighty struggle to pull its rear up onto flat territory, around the statue. They’re proud of that statue. We have seldom ventured above the first floor, but we’re very well acquainted with the sub. Shall we put it mildly? It is inhabited by more students.
One of the boys down there recently decided that it was time he turned on the steam heat, but couldn’t find the whoosis to turn. He discovered that the nearest regulator was next door, and the janitor was notified. “It’s funny,” he said, “nobody ever stays in this room in the winter. I wonder why it is?”
And that’s one view of Corby sub. At present, strange men in workshirts are digging under the building, coming in through the windows or up through the floor, laying pipes along the corridor, and in general, making life rather an adventure for the guests.
And there, we fear, goes our one Corby reader. Au revoir—
Dedication
During the dedicatory exercises concomitant with the threatened opening of the new post office last week, Mr. Ambrose O’Connell rattled off, in good postally fashion, a fine list of figures, both financial and censual.
The local receipts annually run around $37,000; there are 35,000 other post offices in the country, with several hundred thousand employees presumably working in them; and the total national receipts are well over the hundred million dollar mark.
Immeasurably more vital to us,
however, is that before June 1, the mailman in Lyons Hall will have saved 70 miles, 417 yards. Taking into consideration the holidays, one mail on Sundays, and generously allowing for sleeping in once a month.
We suppose that by now you all must have noticed the slight discrepancy in the building. It seems that the engineers concentrated so much on the Gothic-Tudor idea that they forgot to put in a night slot for mail. Now they must either pull out some bricks, cut a hole in their nice new door, or hang a box on the outside somewhere. We hope they don’t forget to make it a Gothic-Tudor box.
•
Recent Irregularities
McGrath’s coming home to discover a dead duck in his bed, which he probably put there himself in order to have something about which to look discomfited. Remaining perfectly objective and impersonal in our viewpoint, we think that McGrath’s bed is rather the logical place for a dead duck. We know that, offhand, it would be our selection.
Whereupon two youthful Dillongers carried off a goose from a downtown bazaar and failed miserably to housebreak it in one night. It fluttered too much. The next day, therefore, it went without reservation to the janitor, who found a warm, although somewhat cramped, home for it in a roasting pot.
•
Country Club
Quite the brightest and most consoling story for you who expect to leave school in the near future, whether by graduation or otherwise, is that of .the student who dropped out last year, returned home, missed out on a couple of jobs, and then, on a promise of a position in South Bend, made his way westward once again.
He arrived in the early part of October, and promptly came out to Notre Dame—but not as a student. The great midwestern heart opened wide and he was immediately made to feel at home. While he negotiated for the downtown position, he lived on the campus, ate in the dining hall, played golf, tennis, basketball and handball watched the games in the stadium, and all in all had himself a pretty good six weeks of it. No one questioned the validity of his residence.
The position downtown fell through however, and so he’s going East. In fact, he left yesterday with some of the Met Club vagabonds. Can’t miss the Army game, you know.
November 23, 1934
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine__________________________Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseung_______________Managing-Editor
-	Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI________________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________CoUege Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II______________-.....—....Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY.____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN_________________________________News Editor
CUFFORD F. BROWN______________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL____________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN______________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER------------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS___________i______________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY----------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI---------------------------------FREDERICK	SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH----------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST______________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER..............----^Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER------------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN I. FLANAGAN------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY—.—  ..................Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated ^bUegiate Dress evOUSHCRS Of -	-	~	_
*5'934 (EoUeguifcSbnr&f 1935-•“OISOH	vnsCOKSH
November 23, 1934
IN APPRECIATION
Thus far this season, Notre Danie’s football team has played four games away from home. Through the efforts of four South Bend business firms, each of these games has been broadcast through the facilities of WSBT. These four firms—Max Adler’s, City Dairy, Holycross-Nye and City National Bank—who call themselves the South Bend Business Backfield have performed an invaluable service to Notre Dame students and alumni. In behalf of the student body, The Scholastic offers these firms its sincere thanks.
The Business Backfield is planning to broadcast a play by play account of the Army and Southern California games. Many students will, no doubt, listen to these broadcasts. The Scholastic hopes that at least a
T en
few of these listeneres will take enough time out from their bridge game to drop a note of appreciation to the sponsors.
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
This week The Scholastic prints the second letter of the year in Voice of the Campus. It is peculiar that only two letters have been received this year. Certainly some students have intelligent opinions on matters of general interest to the student body. The Voice of The Campus is the place to air such views.
The writing of letters for this column will, then, not only restore The Voice to its proper prominence, but will also serve as an invaluable aid to the writers in the coherent expression of thought. The only requirement for the letters is that they be signed. A pseudonym will be used in print if desired. These letters may concern almost everything, although obviously petty gripes will be barred. Letters may be addressed to the Editor, Publications Office, Main Building.
SENIOR PICTURES
John Walker, editor of the Dome, is, at the present time, encountering the same difficulties which have har-rassed each of his predecessors. A considerable number of seniors have, as yet, failed to show enough interest to spend a few moments having their pictures taken for the senior section of the annual.
The obvious conclusion to draw from such neglect is that these men simply are not interested.’ As logical as this conclusion may be, it is, nevertheless, a false one. Every spring when the Dome makes its appearance a loud burst of protest comes from those seniors whose pictures have been omitted.
The failure of these seniors to appear in the Walsh basement is, then, not because of indifference but because of carelessness and thoughtlessness. These same students who are so thoughtless now, however, will be the first and the loudest protesters if their pictures are not included in the Dome. If they care to have their pictures in the book, now is the time for them to be photographed.
A FITTING PLACE
The Scholastic suggests that the small but vociferous group of adolescents who have been exercising not their minds, but their voices at every production staged in Washington Hall this year take their exercise on the road bordering the golf course. They will be a nuisance here —as they would be anywhere—but at least they will not disturb and annoy those who have gone to Washington Hall for an evening’s entertainment.
The Scholastic
1?
SPCKTS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
SIGNALS
The perfect play. You’ve known what it means since you first gave Notre Dame football a thought. It’s what everyone waits for when an Irish eleven is in action. There’s nothing quite as brilliant to see as eleven opponents lying prostrate while a Notre Dame back romps off tackle and onward to the end zone. That’s the famous Notre Dame perfect play for which Blue and Gold elevens have long been renowned.
At Evanston, Saturday, we saw another perfect play. This one, however, is not exclusively Notre Dame’s. It has been worked with success since the first pig was slaughtered for the manufacture of footballs. The stage for this faultless exhibition was set in the fourth quarter with Notre Dame in possession of the ball on the Wildcat 13 yard line.
The play itself is well known, not only to those who saw it, but to everyone who had an aunt or uncle at the game. Some phases of it are not so universally known, however. The thing wasn’t done on the spur of the moment. It had its beginning last week behind the dull green walls of Cartier Field. Elmer Layden saw in the future a chance to capitalize on the by-gone mixups in signals in the Notre Dame backfield. He coached his backs to act stupidly on this play of the century, to check the signals, and to do a few other things of an equally technical nature.
What we’re driving at is what actually took place during the few seconds which elapsed before Andy Pilney was across the Purple goal with the winning touchdown. Rey Bonar began calling signals. Steve Miller, cast in the role of stupid fellow, checked the signals. Bonar turned and started toward his mates behind the line, crying as he went, “What’s the matter, can’t you guys hear the SIGNALS?” At the sound of the word “signals” Hank Pojman snapped the ball and the relaxed, slumbering Wildcats were astonished to see Pilney dash diagonally across the field for 13 ' yards and a touchdown.
CADETS RELOAD GUNS AS IRISH
ADVANCE FOR TRADITIONAL SCRAP
Wayne Millner
He blocked an Army punt.
DE LANDERO TO CONDUCT ROUND ROBIN TOURNEY FOR FENCING SQUAD
The uncertainty enveloping Notre Dame fencing has risen, and Coach Pedro de Landero frankly admits that his present turnout of fencers is the most versatile in years.
Coach de Landero will use a unique plan this year, by which members of the Varsity fencing team will be chosen. A round robin tournament will be staged to rate the competitors in foil, saber, and duelling swords.
Ohio State has been added to the toughest schedule in Notre Dame fencing history. The Irish will engage the Buckeyes at Columbus on Feb. 15.
The advanced fencers will meet every Wednesday evening under the direction of Mr. Delmar G. Roos. All faculty men interested in fencing are invited to attend the Wednesday night sessions to aid in the development of a winning team.
The success of the maneuver depended on the complete relaxation of “Swinging Fists” Kawai and mates. Signals had been checked twice previous in the game as a build-up to (Continued on Page 15)
MEET IN YANKEE STADIUM
By James A. Waldron
High on the stately Palisades ’mid rolling caissons and tramping feet, the powerful Army team of 1913 roared on the field like a band, of Spartan gladiators to subdue a crew of upstarts from a little western university called Notre Dame. As the white stone facades of the silhouetted buildings gleamed in the setting sun, a bewildered and befuddled group of soldiers tried to rid themselves of the green nightmare which had come out of the West.
With a dark-haired back called Dorais filling the air with passes fired with all the precision and accuracy of the cannons on West Point’s battlements, a fast shifty end was making amazing catches as the score mounted to 35-13. The end, Capt. Knute Rockne, inspired his men with confidence, giving example as only a born leader could.
Stancook Leads Cadets
Knute Rockne became Notre Dame’s head coach and more than held his own with Army. In his worst season, 1928, this canny Norwegian provided the spark which inspired his men to heights in downing one of Army’s best teams. After the death of this great coach, it was inevitable that there should be a decline. In number of defeats, last year’s team was the worst in the history of Irish football.
Trailing an undefeated Army team 12-0 at half-time, the Notre Dame attack had died to a flicker. As the Irish returned to the field, the spark of that indefinable something called spirit was aroused by the memory of a dynamic personality. The next 15 minutes made football history.
This year’s olive-drab coated corps are chanting their “On Brave Old Army Team” to a team of stalwarts that has been outmaneuvered only by Illinois 7-0. Army’s powerful fullback, Capt. Joe Stancook once a Freshman at Notre Dame, is the real threat in the Army backfield. Joe is one of the finest blocking and tackling backs ever seen at West Point. Quietly without notice he makes the
(Continued on Page 12)
November 23, 1934
Eleven
Kansas and Ohio State Replace Texas and Purdue on 1935 Card
RESERVES TO ENGAGE DETROIT “B” ELEVEN
PLAY FOUR HOME GAMES
1935 GRID SCHEDULE
Sept. 28 Kansas here Oct. 5 Carnegie at Pittsburgh Oct. 12 Wisconsin at Madison Oct. 19 Pittsburgh here Oct. 26 Navy at Baltimore Nov. 2 Ohio State at Columbus Nov. 9 Northwestern here Nov. 16 Army at New York Nov. 23 Southern California here
In 1935 the Notre Dame gridders will invade foreign soil five times and will play host to four opponents. No breathers are listed in the arrangement, and to finish the season undefeated, the Irish must overcome a major opponent every week. Kansas and Ohio State are the newcomers, replacing Texas and Purdue.
Kansas returns to the schedule after an absence of a year. She opened the 1933 Notre Dame season by holding the Irish at bay and gaining a scoreless tie. Notre Dame will seek revenge when the Jayhawkers invade the local stadium in the first clash of the 1935 season.
The Irish will cope with Dick Heekin and the Scarlet and Gray Buckeyes of Ohio State at Columbus on Nov. 2. Many critics rate the Buckeyes of this year on a par with the Minnesota powerhouse, and in 1935 Ohio State, unhampered by numerous graduation losses, will strive to gain victory over a veteran Irish eleven.
ARMY GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
attack go and hold the bridgehead on. defense.
Next in line as a key-man is Bob Stillman, the chief cog of the rushing attack. Rocketing out of the line he splits open the opponent’s defense, as Buckler follows the trail Bob blazes. Texas Jack Buckler, the all-American of last year, suggests light artillery, air raids, surprise attacks behind Stancook and .Stillman, the “tanks, big berthas and bombs.” Buckler’s football intuition, knack of improvising plays, raise him above the level of great mechanical ball carriers.
Filling the shoes of former great Army flankmen, Norm “Curley” Edwards, best blocking end on the squad, and Bill Shuler are two rugged 180-pounders that halt any attempts to run the ends. Beal and Miller are towers of strength in the tackle positions. Brearley helps Bob Stillman plug up the middle of the line with Clifford, Army center. Cadets King (Continued on Page 15)
Twelve
Writers Dwell On Great Irish Victory At Expense Of Northwestern ’Cats
“Northwestern gave Notre Dame a beating for two periods today, but couldn’t make it stick, and the Ramblers paraded through to a 20-7 triumph before 45,000 spectators. . .The last two periods found the Ramblers marching along to 144 yards on the ground, while Northwestern was able to achieve but 12. The Irish passing attack, notably lacking in the opening frames, came to life later and played a big part in the victory. . .” William Weeks, Associated Press.
“Notre Dame’s traditional jinx over Northwestern prevailed once again today. The Fighting Irish came from behind in the fourth quarter to score a 20-7 victory over the gallant and courageous Wildcats before 43,000 fans — the largest football crowd of the year in Chicago. . . . The Irish reached into the bag of long discarded football tricks for an ancient bit of hocus pocus to win the contest.” —Jim Gallagher, Chicago American.
“Notre Dame’s Ramblers, once toasted universally as the “Fighting Irish,” came into their own again today by reincarnating the spirit made immortal by the late Knue Rockne, to smash the way through Northwestern Wildcats to a 20-7 victory before .45,000 spectators at Dyche Stadium . . . Beaten back by Dick Hanley’s courageous athletes in the first half during which time the Purple staged an unbroken march of 65 yards to take the lead, the Irish bounced back and with the use of their brains, feet, and penalties punched their way to victory in thet final quarter by pushing over two touchdowns. . .” Wayne K. Otto, Herald and Examiner
“Notre Dame, outscored and out played by Northwestern in the first half, turned on a flood of power, speed and deception in the second half before a crowd of 45,000 at Dyche Stadium yesterday to triumph 20-7. It was Notre Dame’s fourth victory of the season and its eleventh in the 14 games of its series with the Wildcats. . . Thus were the scores made in one of the finest games of a great series between two famed rivals, a game which lived up to the Notre Dame-Northwestern tradition, though it was perhaps a little more cleanly
Bringing to a close their football activities for the year, the Notre Dame “B” team will play the “B” team of Detroit University tomorrow at Shelby, Ohio. Extensive drilling on fundamentals has produced results and Coach Bill Cerney, of the Irish, expects to see his men triumph. The travelling squad to the game will comprise twenty-five men. Coach Cerney has released a tentative line-up which may be changed before game time.
Carey will start at left end with either Straiter or Krause on the other flank helping him to keep plays inside. Connors and Shilling have the call at tackle while Smith, Hart or Kelley will divide guard honors. At center, the key-position of the line, Weinsour is the outstanding player. The veteran Johnny Hoban or All-worth will be the field-generals of this well-drilled eleven. Supporting them in the backfield will be O’Brien at left half, Happel or Rohr at right half and either Heinle or McKernan at fullback.
This reserve team has the speed, power and fight to bring their 1934 season to a successful close with a well-deserved victory.
Minarich Takes Honors In Rifle Club Meet
Notre Dame Rifle team defeated Co. E, 113th Engineers, 812 to 762, in a shooting match held in the South Bend Armory, Nov. 15. Minarich, Leiser, English, Landmesser and Captain McGrath were the high point five who formed the squad. Joe Minarich took individiual honors with his 174 out of 200 score.
Lack of practice on Notre Dame’s part accounted for the squad’s poor showing. Practice was held up because the rifle range was under repair, but now repair work has been completed and regular practice will be held.
fought than some of the encounters of the past. . .”
—Edward Burns, Chicago Tribune
“Loosing all the pent up fury that has been hidden away since the first game of the season, Ehner Layden’s Notre Dame team this afternoon came back in the second half after being completely outplayed in the first half and battled its way from behind to achieve a brilliant 20-7 victory over Northwestern. . . It was a victory that was a typical Fighting Irish victory of old. . .”
—Jim Costin, So. Bend News-Times
The Scholastic
KEOGAN DRILLS CAGERS AS SEASON APPROACHES
Northwestern Sleeps Soundly as Irish Score Decisive Touchdown
a
a
“A good team, but not world beaters.” This was the way George Keogan described his 1934-1935 basketball team recently. The team this year is unusually light and small for an Irish quintet and the schedule for the coming season is the usual Notre Dame back-breaker. That is the reason that this year’s squad will have a tough time equalling the records made in recent years.
Looking at it from the standpoint of score, Coach Keogan, if he is to equal the feats of the last three years, must find three men who can run up a score of 516 points. For three years Ed Krause, playing at center, averaged 230 points pel* season; Voe-gele at forward averaged 196 points each year; and Leo Crowe, a wizard on defense, dropped enough baskets from his guard position to roll up a yearly average of 90 points.
From the angle of physical size, the problem is this: Ed Krause weighed 220 pounds and stood 6 feet 3 inches; Voegele weighed 180 pounds and was 6 feet 1 % inches tall, Peters, who will not be in the game until after Dec. 12, weighs 196 pounds and is 6 feet, 2% inches. To replace these men Keogan has O’Kane and Ford weighing 170 and 163 pounds respectively, and both 5 feet, 9 inches in height; and Hopkins and Mettler weighing 150 and 148 pounds and both standing 5 feet, 7 inches high. The other members of the team are likewise smaller than previously.
It is true, of course, that basketball games are not won or lost on size alone. But one of the chief advantages that last year’s squad had was its superior height and weight. Nothing is more effective on defense than a good sized combination of guards and center. This is the reason that the loss of Don Allen is such a blow to the team.
Don was the only experienced man of great size on the squad and his absence leaves the Keoganites with the following lineup: Ford, O’Kane, Hopkins, and Mettler at forward; Peters at center; Jordan, Ireland, and Wade at guards.
Of the teams that Notre Dame will meet on the court this season, Pittsburgh and Northwestern loom up as the most formidable. The greater part of the last year’s Pitt squad is eligible to play again this year, and they are looking for a repetition of last season’s victories over the Irish.
Northwestern, besides having several experienced men on the team, has three men who won all-state honors on the Indiana courts two years ago. All of these will make their collegiate debut this winter.
Cadet Series One Of The
Oldest And Most Colorful In American Grid History
Ever since a small, unheralded group of 19 men traveled from South Bend to West Point to- engage the powerful Army football team, 21 years ago, the Army-Notre Dame series has held the national football spotlight without once relinquishing it to any other team.
Football history was made that day on the cold, wind-swept field that overlooked the Hudson river. Little Dorais the potential All-American quarterback of Notre Dame received the ball from center and ran backward. To the surprise of the big Army linesmen, suddenly he turned, raised his arm, and let the football fly from his hand to the outstretched arms of a waiting end, whose name was Rockne.
For the remainder of that afternoon conservative Easterners, who thought that football would never be changed from the then accepted form, watched a swift Notre Dame team pass its way* to victory over Army. .Eastern newspaper scribes were lavish in their praise of the team that was captained by Knute Rockne, and predicted the revolutionary aspects of the new phase of the game, the forward pass.
The spine chilling game of 1930 played during a pouring rain storm at Soldiers field in Chicago, before 100,000 people, was one of the most thrilling games of modem football. For 56 minutes the two teams slid and wallowed in the sea of mud unable to score. With four minutes left to play “Marchy” Schwartz tore loose and ran 55 yards for a touchdown. Carideo converted the extra point. Exactly six plays later a desperate Army team-pushed over a touchdown. A dead silence fell over the crowd as Broshus the ace Army drop-kicker measured the distance for the kick. Then he called for the ball, and almost instantly he was swamped by five “Fighting Irish” who threw him to the ground and won the game.
Last years game will never be forgotten by Notre Dame men. A heavily favored Army team ran up a score of 12-0, during the first half, and then . saw it overcome by a fighting team that could not be stopped. The Irish triumphed 13-12, a bright spot in an otherwise dark season.
Tomorrow will see the two teams in New York, playing before capacity crowds, carrying on the tradition that was originated by the team of 1913, captained by Knute Rockne.
PETERS KICKS TWO GOALS
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Eleven Northwestern Wildcats slept soundly while an equal number of alert Irishmen knocked off 13 yards and rang up what proved to be the winning tallies as Notre Dame downed Northwestern 20 to 7.
Rey Bonar	,
He walked back.
Captain Al Kawai and mates yielded to Morpheus early in the fourth quarter as they protected a slim 7 to 6 margin. The sandman infected the Wildcats as the Irish pounded toward the south goal and reached the 13 yard line. At this stage, quarterback Rey Bonar injected the sleeping potion.
The Irish lined up in the usual “T” formation. Bonar began to call signals. Before the regular backfield shift could be effected the signals were checked. Bonar turned around and vralked toward the seemingly puzzled Irish backs. The Wildcats slept peacefully. Then without the slightest pretense Henry Pojman snapped the ball to Andy Pilney who was away and over the goal almost before the shouts of 45,000 customers roused Kawai and Co. from their siesta. Marty Peters kicked the first of his two extra points and the outsmarted Wildcats were trailing, 13 to 7.	'
Hanley’s troupe was not without consolation, however. During the first half they played a hap-hazard Notre Dame team off its feet and went away at intermission with a 7 to 0 advantage. Duvall and Wally Cruice led an effective attack that split the Irish line and kept the Green on the defense for the greater part of the first half. When in possession of the ball Layden’s men could accomplish little.
The stage was set for the Wildcat touchdown in the second quarter when Cruice and Duvall lugged the (Continued on Page 15)
November 23, 1934
Thirteen
INTRODUC ING
By Joe Prendergast
INDIANA X-COUNTRY
SQUAD BEATS IRISH
“Lucky Tom also ran”—so ran a notice in the morning edition of all city newspapers following the 1932 Kentucky Derby in ‘ole’ Louisville. Many were the hearts that grieved on the Notre Dame campus when this report spread about. The pony in question was owned by Jack Robinson, Notre Dame sophomore and football devotee. Before leaving for the
Derby, Jack had informed his friends about his nag’s possibilities and they had eagerly accepted his reports.
Lucky Tom ran about 12th. Robbie on returning to the campus was met by his followers.
“Well?“ they queried.
“Well,” said Jack, “it was a very nice experience for Lucky Tom— socially, I mean. He met some very good horses.”
There you have him, John Joseph Robinson, age 21, weight 193 pounds, and a resident of Huntington, Long Island. Jack scholed at Georgetown Prep for four years before entering Notre Dame in 1931. It is the author’s belief that from September 1927 until June 1930, Jack Robinson was Georgetown Prep. There follows a resume of his activities and honors
won while at the eastern school.
A member of the varsity football, basketball, baseball, and track teams for four years. He was a center on the football eleven, being chosen captain both in his junior and senior years, and receiving the Robert Roth-ert trophy in his senior year, which is awarded annually to the most valuable member of the football squad. He played a backcourt position on
By Cy Stroker
The defeat of the Notre Dame cross-country team last Saturday by Indiana at Bloomington was not unexpected by Coach Nicholson. Indiana has probably the best cross-country team in the country at the present time, while the Irish harriers who saw action in the meet were, for the most part, inexperienced runners.
Nick is just a little pessimistic about Notre Dame’s prospects in the Central Intercollegiate Conference meet next Saturday in East Lansing for he sees little hope for the tremendous improvement that is necessary if the Irish are to make a good showing. At that meet will be such outstanding runners as Ottey and Sears, the entire teams of Indiana and Michigan Normal, which completely outclass the local harriers.
As far as the winter track season is concerned, however, Nick thinks that things are beginning to look up. Captain Vince Murphy will of course bring down many points with his high jumping. In the two mile, Notre Dame has Gott, Kenyon, and McFarland, men of wide experience and men who have shown great ability in cross country. Nick has two milers who are also excellent long distance men. In the half mile are DuCassa, McGrath, Shields, and Cavanaugh. Although Nick has not lined up his short distance men yet, he predicts some good sprinters. George Moore, a sophomore, coming along well in the 60 and 100 yard dashes in spite of a two-year absence from the track.
The schedule for the winter track season has not been made up as yet, but it will include such strong teams as Illinois, Marquette, and Ohio State. With a little more luck than the team had last year, the coming group of thinlies should be in there with the rest of them. An excellent team last year was handicapped by a prevalence of bad arches with several men on the team, but Nick hopes that he will not have a repetition of this injury.
the basketball quintet for four years, captaining this outfit in his senior year also. In baseball he patrolled center field, and was elected captain of this sport in his final year to make it three captaincies out of four sports as a senior. His running mate in all of these activities was Dick Heekin, now of Ohio State backfield fame and who Robbie will oppose according to next year’s schedule.
The reason Robbie wasn’t number one quarter-miler was because Dick Heekin was. Jack could put the shot
(Continued on Page 15)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
4
NORTHWESTERN GAME
(Continued from Page 13)
4
4
4
4
ball from their 33 yard stripe to the Irish 14 yard mark. Swisher mopped up 13 yards before being haled one yard from the goal. Notre Dame put up a stubborn defense for two downs but Cruice cut back through tackle on the third try and crossed the line. Duvall added the extra point.
In a last desperate attempt to score in the second quarter the Green inaugurated an aerial attack. One of the heaves nestled into the arms of Wayne Millner on the Cats’ 6 yard line. Wayne was surrounded by felines and was smacked down on the two yard mark as the half ended. It was the only serious Irish threat in the first 30 minutes of play.
Early in the third period Notre Dame gained possession of the ball on the Northwestern 42 yard line. Shakespeare passed to Elser on the first play and the Gary Tot raced down the sidelines before being thumped on the 18 yard strip. Melin-kovich continued the onslaught with a 16 yard gain over right tackle. Here the Wildcat defense tightened and Elser gained only a yard in two attempts before Melinkovich drove through for the score. Shakespeare’s kick narrowly missed the cross bar and the Evanston lads led 7 to 6.
With the Wildcats trailing after their dosing spell which enabled Pil-ney to romp for the second score, the Irish inaugurated another touchdown jaunt. Shakespeare’s punt was called back and Northwestern penalized for roughing. Shakespeare galloped to the Cats’ 44 for a first down. Melinkovich executed a brilliant run on the next play, travelling 40 yards before Swisher nailed him on the four yard line. Shakespeare hit the line four times, going over on the final try. Marty Peters completed his field day as a place kicker by adding the extra point.
Outstanding for the Purple were Duvall, Cruice, Kawai, and Henderson. In the Notre Dame forward wall, Robinson and Schiralli were the bright spots. Rocky played one of his best games at guard, making tackles up and down the field and in general making Northwestern extremely ununcomfortable. Melinkovich, Shakespeare, Pilney and Elser couldn’t be improved upon.
ARMY GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
and Grove are at quarterback and right half, respectively.
With the Northwestern Wildcat added to his trophies, Coach Elmer Layden will lead his band of Fighting Irish in an advance against a well drilled Army team. Back in 1924, Layden scored one of the two touchdowns that defeated Army.
November 23, 1934
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
this play. The first time the Irish feigned ignorance of a play the Northwestern line remained tense. It would have been sure destruction to let the rabbit out of the box at this time so the play was delayed. On the second attempt the Purple began to have faith in the fact that the Notre Dame eleven was confused. They relaxed. Then came the third attempt. The Wildcats settled back on their haunches. The Irish line added to the deception by also remaining at ease. The Purple awaited the backfield shift. There was no shift. But what there was, there was plenty of —action.
•
WE PICK
Last week’s guesses were our worst—20 wins, 9 defeats, and one tie. The gloom is lifted somewhat by the fact that the Princeton Tigers played their only major game and lost. The season totals read: 165 victories, 42 losses, and 11 deadlocks. Percentages—.802 discounting ties, and .761 figuring them as losses. This week we pick Saturday’s games and also those being played next Thursday, Thanksgiving Day. In all they total to 38. WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME over ARMY Bucknell over Penn State Colgate over Rutgers Columbia over Syracuse Princeton over Dax'tmouth Yale over Harvard Illinois over Chicago Purdue over Indiana Ohio State over Iowa Iowa State over Kansas State Michigan State over Kansas Northwestern over Michigan Minnesota over Wisconsin Nebraska over Missouri Georgia over Auburn Southern Methodist over Baylor Florida over Georgia Tech Rice ovex- Texas Christian Tulane over Sewanee Stanford over California Oklahoma over Oklahoma Aggies Oregon State over U. C. L. A. Washington over Washington State.
Thanksgiving Day Games
Colgate over Brown
Pittsburgh over Carnegie Tech Pennsylvania over Cornell Fordham over New York University Oklahoma over George Washington Kansas over Missouri
Nebraska over Kansas State Alabama over Vanderbilt Duke over North Carolina State Maryland over John Hopkins Tennessee over Kentucky North Carolina over Virginia Texas- over - Texas■-Aggies St. Mary’s over Oregon State California over Loyola (L.A.)
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
with the best of them during those days, also. You name it and he did iL that’s the rule to go by when questioning Jack about his Prep school activities. He was president of the student- body and—(we’ll call it quits here.) .
When Jack announced his intention of enrolling at Notre Dame the Washington Post carried a large headline reading — “Notre Damp’s Gain, Georgetown’s Loss” under which were four pictures of our subject, each of which was taken in one of the four sports in which he engaged.
John Joseph after playing number one center during his freshman year in 1931 at Notre Dame advanced to varsity competition. Kitty Gorman and Ben Alexander were sitting pretty firmly in the center picture in the fall of 1932 when Jack started his campaign to the top. After an impressive one period debut in the Haskell rout, injuries came upon him in abundance. He failed to get into the following three ball games but Hunk knew he had the makings of a fine ball player so started him in the Northwestern fray of that year. This game made Robbie. There was no question as to his outstanding ability henceforward.
He played in every other game that season and climaxed his performance by giving a sterling exhibition of center play in the Army upset of that year, 21 to 0. Jack failed to return to Notre Dame in the fall of 1933 because of a serious eye infection. He is still sporting a patch of plaster over his left eyebrow. Last September a week prior to the opening grid contest Robbie returned to school. He immediately reported for football and seven days after his return he saw action in the Texas game. The big reason for the unexpected fine line play that has characterized the Irish club’s games this year can be accounted for by Robbie’s return to his center berth.
His playing in the games thus far this season has groomed him for AllAmerican timber. Christy Walsh, Arch Ward, Bill Cunningham and numerous other celebrated sport writers have called attention to this fact. Coach George Keogan, one of the leading scouts in the game, says: “Coaches and scouts agree that the two best centers in the country, with the All American post wavering between them, are Jack Robinson of Notre Dame and Wes Miller of Stanford.”
He rooms in 315 Sorin hall with Jack McGrath. Jack thinks Warburton is the best backfield man he has faced and Harbolld of the Navy team of 1932 is the best linesman.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
Nonchalance is a great thing. They tell this story on game little TOMMY GIBBONS who once gave Dempsey such a great battle. He was telling his son Jack goodbye when: “Where you going, Daddy?” “Oh, I’m just going to run over there and fight DEMPSEY. I’ll be right back,” replied his fighting father . . . Remarks like that are priceless, but we find caddies at Nanking, China aren’t. . . . You can hire one there for three cents a round or ten cents a day . . . Wake Forest has a football team that averages 207 pounds on the line and 199 in the backfield . . . There are no 200 pounders on Princeton’s eleven, and only six men on the entire squad that weigh as much as 190. . . . The United States Lawn Tennis Association allows $12 a day for expenses to each player represented on Daws Cup teams ... A complete football outfit costs about $70 per player . . . And while we are in the dough . . . Columbia uses 100 footballs during a season at $12 an oval. . . . EDITH STENSETH is the only woman allowed in the press box at Big Ten Conference games . . . Edith is a telegraph operator*. . . That Eton and Harrow cricket match is the big time when it comes to sport in jolly old England. . . .
Referee: Congressman J. P. BACON. That’s how the score cards will read at the Xavier-Washington Jefferson game. ... He hails from West Virginia and was newly elected last Nov. 6. . . . One up on ya, Huey! . . . The average football game consists of about 100 plays . . . Ohio State and Illinois recently went through 145 .. . JOE MEDWICK used a broken bat throughout the world series . . . Better break your bats, fellas, he hit .379 ... BEAT-TIE FEATHERS, great pro pigskin sensation, turned down an offer for cigarette endorsement ... because he doesn’t smoke! . . . NATHALIE COL-VOCAVESSES, age 19, has won a position on the Cornell varsity polo ■ team after several weeks of competition with the men of old Cornell ... She’s a woman---for Nathalie . . . MICHELE FANELLI recently broke the world’s record for the 25 mile run in the military games in Rome when he covered the distance in 2 hours, 26 minutes, and 10 4/5 seconds . . . DALE ALEXANDER, giant first baseman of the Newark Bears, drove a ball 410 feet, but only got a triple ... For three straight years Cornell beat the University of Richmond by the same score, 27-0 . . . The greatest bull fighter of our times is dead . . . IGNACIO MAJIAS, of Spain, has his thigh torn completely open by a maddened bull . . . then
Sixteen
had the courage to wrench the horns of the beast from his leg. . . .
O
ALABAMA PITTS, that great back of Sing Sing’s renown eleven, is to graduate! . . . He’ll be out in a few months; every cop in the country is going to have to scout hard to replace his loss . . . Notre Dame made 45 substitutions in the 1930 game against Navy . . . BILL URBANSKI, Boston infielder, is a barber and plays in a band during the off season . . . SCHOOLBOY ROWE is an expert bowler and keeps in shape during the winter by exercise on the alleys . . . Both the Dean boys are pool sharks, as is Captain LEO DOROCHER of the Cardinals . . . CHRIS CHRIST-OFFERSON, Washington State halfback, took a course in tumbling at an acrobatic school to learn how to fall without getting hurt . . . YOUNG BOOZER, Alabama half, doesn’t touch a drop . . . ED WHALEN, Northwestern guard, claims the title of the best dressed player in the Big Ten . . . Experts say: JULES ALPHONSE, Minnesota halfback, has the best stiff arm in the conference; STEVE TOTH, Noi*thwestern, is the best kicker* for distance; and for accuracy, pass the plate to Les Lindberg of the Illini . . . BUZZ HARVEY, football veteran of Holy Cross, was recently severely injured while playing a game of touchball . . . that’s the irony of something or other . . . When it comes to the stall walkers, the world’s longest shot was COOLE, which paid 3400 to 1 at Haydack Park, England in 1929 . . . Speaking of betting—PETER BARBER and WALDEMAR BRACKEL raced from Africa to New York in a 35 foot boat, against AHTO WALTER and TOM OLSEN in a yet smaller boat, all to settle a dinner check. . . .
•
Chicago’s Kingfish KING LEVINSKY, recently wired Huey Long, Kingfish de luxe of Louisiana, to ask him if he would serve as his second in the King’s bout with Lasky, Nov. 23 . . . Huey wasn’t game . . . PUG LUND, iron legged ace of the Galloping Gophers, has had the little finger of his left hand amputated; broke the thumb on his right hand; lost five upper teeth; acquired a severely bruised hip; and lacerated one knee ... yet last year Pug played 460 out of 480 possible minutes! . . . Referee MIKE NAZARIAN, while working the JOE DUSEK-COX wrestling match was slugged by Cox, thrown out of the ring by Dusek, then tossed out again by the obliging Cox ... Two of the greatest stars in baseball’s history, GEORGE SISLER and LARRY LAJOIE, never played in a world series . . . AL BARABAS is the only member of Columbia’s eleven who will be back for next year’s
campaign . . . For exercise, MADAME FRANCOIS, who is only 78 years old, rides her bicycle 12 miles every day, rain or shine . . . Loyola high school officials cancelled a football game this year so their gridders wouldn’t get their brand new suits dirty on the rain soaked field ... Brooklyn’s ex-manager, MAX CAREY, has a real “monicker” that hurts . . . it’s Maximilian Carnarius . . . That old Rambler, GIL BOBIE, has coached teams at Minnesota, North Dakota, University of Washington, Navy, and Cornell. . . .
DICK INTERVIEW
(Continued from Page 4)
corridor to serve tea in the afternoon.”
The English college menu usually includes more puddings than the American, with fewer pastries and cakes. When he first came to Notre Dame he was much amused at the use of ice cream for dessert. “Ice cream is considered solely a child’s dessert in England.” It seemed to him as ridiculous as though lollipops or peppermint sticks were served the young men. He was also surprised at the quantity of food which the American eats, and at his weakness for meats.
English sports are not as specialized as the Americans. In the English schools everyone participates in cricket or rugby; the games are played more for the fun of playing than for the benefit of huge stadiums of spectators, were there such a number of fans in England. “There are no ‘pep rallies,’ bands, or cheer leaders, and at intercollegiate games the students applaud a score on one team as much as on the other.” He exclaimed enthusiastically, though, that he thought football as played in America was a fascinating sport, and one which he enjoyed immensely.
Speaking of the amusements of the college student, he said that the legitimate stage was far more popular in England than the movies. However, he added that the English student took greater pleasure in walking or in playing games than in professional entertainment. The radio is not the popular thing it is here among students. Although the student may have access to a radio he does not listen to regular programs, nor does he listen to it nearly as much as does the American student. We might suppose that the Englishman at school is a great believer in the “bull session” as a means of entertainment, for Mr. Dick observed that the college men find great recreation in talking among themselves.
The Rosminian order is found al-, most exclusively in England and in Italy. Founded in 1830 by Antonio Rosmini-Serbati, its members are dedicated to the contemplative life.
The Scholastic
J