I
i
lotre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victuu’xis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 19, 1881.	Number 11.
Our Staff.
W. B. McGorrisk.	J. P. O’Neill.
G. E Clarke.	R. E. Fleming.
W. H. Arnold.	E. C. Orrick.
T. F. Clarke.	M. F. Healy.
The Heaviest Cross of All.
BY KATHERINE E. CONWAY.
I’ve borne lull many a sorrow, I’ve suffered many a loss—
But now with a strange, new anguish, I carry this last dread cross;
For of this be sure, my dearest, whatever thy life befall, The cross that our own hands fashion is the heaviest cross of all.
Heavy and hard I made it in the days of my fair strong youth Veiling mine eyes from the blessed light, and closing my heart to truth.
Pity me, Lord, whose mercy passeth my wildest thought.
For I never dreamed of the bitter end of the work my hands had _ wrought!
In the sweet morn’s flash and fragrance I wandered o’er dewy meadows,
And I hid from the fervid noontide glow in the cool, green woodland shadows;
And I never wrecked as I sang aloud in my weird and wilful glee,
Of the mighty woe that was drawing near to darken the world for me.
But it came at last my dearest—what need to tell thee how!
May’st never know of the wild, wild woe that my heart is bearing now!
Over my summer’s glory crept a damp and chilling shade, And I staggered under the heavy cross that my sinful hands had made.
I go where the shadows deepen and the end seems far off yet— God keep thee safe from the sharing of this woful last regret! For of this be sure, ray dearest, whatever thy life befall, The crosses we make for ourselves, alas! are the heaviest ones of all.
It was a Boston girl who asked: “ Why is it that two sbuls, united in the impenetrable mystery of th< ir nativity, float by each other on the ocean currents of existence without being instinctively drawn together, blended and beautified in the assimilated alembic of eternal love?” That is an easy one. It is because butter is 45 cents a pound, and a good sealskin sacque costs as high as $500. The necessaries of life must experience a fall in price before two souls will readily blend in the assimilated alembic, and so forth.—Norristown Herald.
Crystallography.
BY J. M. G.
It is said that the tendency of modern education is towards practicability; that the merely ornamental is overlooked in the search for the useful; that the abstract theory is cast aside for the practical reality and man’s energies are bent less towards the refined and elegant studies that characterized the ancient schools, than towards the less enticing and more beneficial aims of modern invention. That this theory, or rather distinction, between ancient and modern education, is correct, need scarcely be proved. A passing glance at the classic pursuits of antiquity, and a hasty review of the course of the studies which characterize modern universities, would establish it as an incontrovertible fact. The flighty, complicated, and scarcely intelligible philosophy of the old schools, has been discarded for the defl-ite, instructive, and eminently practical mental science of the present day. The scholastic disputes and endless broils, arising from the old system, have disappeared in the march of modern science. The unfounded and superstitious astrology, which at one time spread with amazing rapidity over the Old World, has given place to a glorious field of thought, rich in its varied treasures, practical from its mathematical accuracy, and fascinating in the sublime and • beautiful prospect which the contemplation of the starry heavens presents to the modern astronomer. Alchemy has been succeeded by chemistry, and even the romance and poesy of the present differs materially from that of the past.
But that which marks more definitely the aim and tendency of our system of instructi&n of the present day, is the attention paid to the natural sciences. The intelligent contemplation and delineation of nature, whether by poetry, philosophy, or otherwise, is in itself entirely modern, as is also the formation of a distinct science for each of the kingdoms of nature. That the natural sciences are practical, that they are of the utmost utility in the every-day occupations of life needs no demonstration—the fact is patent to all, and experience adds daily confirmation to their importance. Of the natural sciences, mineralogy, if not the most attractive, is certainly the most practical. It treats of all bodies in nature “ not possessing vitality, and characterized by a homogeneous structure.”
In all ages, gems, brilliants, and precious stones have been admired fortheir beauty and prized for their costliness, but beyond the examination and specification of these, mankind seemed to make no progress. Ancient writers do, indeed, describe numerous stones and minerals, but only in a vague and obscure mannner, oftentimes scarcely intelligible
152
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to moderns, and always without the slightest pretence to any definite system. Many things were needed to perfect a system of mineralogy. These could come only in time and through the progress of enlightenment. Botany could be brought to comparative perfection by a not laborious or protracted observation of manifest peculiarities. Zoology, also, depending mostly on physical conformation and external resemblance, could attain a degree of advancement necessarily denied to mineralogy. Indeed, it was not till chemistry came to its aid, and the wonderful perfections of ciystallization were discovered, that this science could lay claim to even comparative perfection. Crystallization is, in fact, the groundwork of our present system of mineralogy, and it appears, in many instances, to be a wise provision of the Creator to direct man in his search into some of the mysteries by which he is surrounded.
Why, for instance, does one mineral crystallize in prisms, and another in rhombohedrons? And why does each . persistently display the same angles in all cases ? Is there any more reason why the diamond should crystallize in octohedrons, and the sapphire and emerald in hexagonal prisms, than that these forms should be reversed ? We can no more tell why these things are so than we can discover why a rose should possess its fragrant odor or a tree of the forest tower high above the flowers it shades. In both cases we discern the marks of a preordained sys-stem, to study and understand which is a duty, no less pleasurable than it is, by the law of nature, absolutely incumbent on us to perform. We find, imbedded in the earth, beautiful crystals which charm us by their brilliancy and wonderfully perfect execution. Are we to admire them simply as mystical curiosities, as the results of chance, as systemless productions of a still more systemless creation? Or shall we study them as links in that most perfect chain which, beginning with the smallest particle of inanimate matter, ends the last with man—the golden link which binds the material with the immaterial—the mortal with the immortal—nature with its God ? The conclusion is plain—the answer evident.
When those forms were shaped by the hand of the Divine Architect, when those angles and curves were drawn, with an accuracy that man can never equal and an attraction that he can never fail to admire, it was so done for his instruction, and that he might by the aid of his reason unfold, piece by piece, the grand programme of creation.
It is, then, man’s duty to study and examine this science of mineralogy—to look into the mineral kingdom and see there, too, the impress of Divine perfection as he sees in the animate world around him the proofs of an infinite, allwise and incomprehensible God.	'
Nor is this science complicated or difficult to understand. Its main characteristic is simplicity, and its whole aim and tendency is towards conciseness. If we take up a handful of crystals—quartz, alumina, spinnel, analcime, etc., and examine separately the form of each, it would seem as though there were an infinite number of designs, and that anything like a concise system and definite classification of them all would be an absurdity. Here we find in a few specimens all the figures and angles of geometry and all the varying and irregular curves of the calculus. Is it possible to grasp and arrange these varied and unconnected shapes under a few unmistakable and well-defined heads? Have we here, too, the elements of a universal system which shall raise mineralogy to the same level as botany
and zoology ? Crystallography will answer the question in the affirmative, and show us a science which, taking into consideration the difficulties to be surmounted in perfecting it, is still more admirable than those just mentioned. The most accurate researches of mineralogists have developed the fact that in the apparently innumerable multitude of shapes in which we find crystallized minerals, there are in reality but thirteen- primary or fundamental forms. Here we have the first grand step towards a system of mineralogy based on crystallization. All minerals, then, by a simple examination of some of their peculiarities, may be at once ranged under thirteen heads. Have these heads themselves any relation to each other by means of which they could be ranged under definite groups ? A little observation and a proper discrimination of form and outline will answer this question and give us the means of classifying our thirteen primary forms under six well and easily-recognized systems. This is the groundwork of Crystallography.
A small foundation, one would say, for so difficult a science; yet it is sufficiently extensive for the most perfect classification. The primary forms are all geometrical figures, and are comprised under the three divisions of dodecahedrons, octahedrons, and prisms. With regard to the systems:
The first is called Monometric. The forms under this system are characterized by having their axis equal and at right angles to one another, as is easily seen in the cube, regular octahedron, and rhombic dodecahedron. The second or Dimetric system, including the right square prism and square octahedron is distinguished by having two axes—the lateral, equal, and the other, the vertical, unequal to the other two but at right angles to them. The The third system—the Trimetric, as it is called, includes the rectangular prism, rhombic prism, and rhombic octahedron. These figures are similar in the fact of their having their three axes at right angles to each other and unequal. The fourth system includes the right rhomboi-dal prism and the oblique rhombic prism. The system is called Monoclinic, from the fact of one of the axes being inclined to the other two. The characteristic of the system is two axes at right angles and the other one inclined to those two. The fifth system includes but one form, the oblique rhoboidal prism. In this figure the three axes are unequal, and all three are inclined to one another. The sixth system is known as the Hexagonal System, and includes the rhombohedron and hexagonal prism. These figures differ from those in the other systems in having “three equal lateral axes, and a vertical axis at right-angles to the three.”
This completes the six systems, and we have the whole theory of Crystallography. Take any crystal, in any part of the world, clip off a small piece, and examine it carefully: at first it may present irregularities, it may show no distinct mathematical figures, but cut it down regularly, and soon it will assume a well-defined outline, corresponding to one of the thirteen primary forms. Examine its axes then. Are they equal or not? Are they inclined, or at right-angles to each other? By answering these questions you will name the system to which the mineral belongs, when the form will at once be manifest. You have then only to measure the angles which the sides make with one another, refer to a table of minerals, seek the characteristics which you have found, and you will find the name of the mineral opposite. Nor are crystal

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
153
line forms ever unreliable. No matter in what part of the world a mineral is found, if it is compared with another specimen of the same species, picked up in another quarter of the globe, it will be found to correspond with this latter in every particular. This is a strange and interesting phenomenon on which even chemistry has not yet cast any light. Hornblende crystallizes in oblique rhombic prisms, so also does laumonite; but here the points of similarity end, for we find that in hornblende, M: M=124°-30', while in laumonite, M: M=86°. There is a great difference between them, for though each has the same forms, the angles differ by 38°-30'. And those angles never vary.
We have said that mineralogy is practical; may we not also say it is instructive and attractive ? You may say there is little beauty in a piece of stone, it is a dead thing, and what can the study of its form teach us ? That it is dead in the sense of lacking vitality, we grant; but does it not possess a higher vitality, a living concordance with the grand works of creation, a relative connection with the active, breathing world around us? Does it not speak, in a language of its own it is true, yet eloquent and fascinating in the extreme for those who would profit by it, of a First Cause, of a Creator whose work it is and whose honor it proclaims and makes manifest by its wonderfully perfect con. struction? And is this not instructive? do we learn nothing from this mute language of God’s inanimate creation ? You think it does not speak because it does not act. But there is a language that goes to the heart, that touches the soul, and sets the chords of feeling and imagination in vibration, a language that arouses the dormant enthusiasm of our nature and breathes into it a new energy, that opens up a new world of inspiration, wrapped in brilliant and priceless gems for thought and admiration. It is in this language the mineral world addresses man, the archon of creation. Who will say that it is not instructive! Who will say he would not hear it if he could ? The animal and vegetable worlds are fascinating, it is true, but their beauties are more easily seen, their attractions more easily felt, and we stop enchanted at the charming prospect which a part of the creation presents to us, almost forgetting, for the time, that an is the work of the same Ceator from whose hands noth, ing ever came imperfect. Would we not wish to study the impress of Divine Wisdom in the world around us ? We feei it in ourselves, it is manifest in the energetic world in which we live. Would we trace it farther, and read it in the chiselled and polished sides of the mineral also ? If so we must study mineralogy; but never, in our unbounded admiration for the creation, let us forget or lose sight of Him who formed it all out of nothing and clothed it with its beauty only to teach us the path which we are to follow in this world, and give us a glimpse of the beauty and perfection of that other and better world which He has prepared for us.
College Gossip.
—The Campus .tells us that Beloit has four colored students.
—Texas has appropriated $150,000 for the purpose of erecting buidings for the State University at Austin.
—The salutatorian at Yale last year was a German, the valedictorian, a Hebrew, the prize declaimer, a Chinaman.
• But when it came to real classical culture our native land came to the front. The pitcher of the Yale-Base ball Club was an American.—Ex.
—The percentage of those who prepared for or entered the Protestant ministry has fallen in .Harvard’s graduates
from 53.3 per cent, to 6.7 per cent. Yale, from 75.7 per cent, to 15 per cent.; Princeton, from 50 per cent, to 21.12 per cent.; Brown, from 35 per cent, to 22.4 per cent.; Oberlin, from 66 per cent, to 31.3 per cent.; Columbia, from 18 per . cent, to 5. 8 per cent.
—On the 23d inst., the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels, Suspension Bridge, N. Y., will celebrate its Silver Jubilee, or the 25th anniversary of its foundation. There will be a solemn Pontifical Mass at 10 30, at which Most Kev. Archbishop Lynch, of Toronto, the founder of the College, will preach. Right Rev. S. V. Ryan, D. D., Bishop of Buffalo, will deliver an address in the after-noon-
—Seventeen Sophomores have been recently suspended for two months from the California State University for hazing. It seems that the Sophs, secured a Freshman, shaved his head, tossed him about in a blanket, gave him a cold shower-bath, etc. The Faculty have forbidden the hazers to come on the grounds of the University under penalty of expulsion. Cane rushes are also of frequent occurrence.—iCampus. And these are the “time-honored” customs that some college men contend for! O temporal O mores /
—It is rather interesting to a Harvard man, who has never seen what is termed hazing, to read in the various college papers articles which lead him to suppose that at most colleges a Freshman’s life is misery itself. The times have gone when all Harvard Freshmen expected to have their windows broken in, their heads cooled by a judicious application from the nozzle of a pump, and all their actions treated with ridicule and contempt The time has come when a Freshman may be assumed to be a gentleman, and may justly claim rights equal to those of' others. The man who hazes disgraces himself and his college, and should be suppressed.—Harvard Advocate.
—The tuition fees and average expenses at some of the American Colleges are as follows: At Yale, the tuition fee is $150, the average expense being put at $800; at Columbia, ditto; at Harvard, ditto; at Amherst the tuition fee is $300, average expenses, from $500 to $600; at Brown the tuition fee is $85; average expenses, as tabu-uopini aqi ‘sumin AA IB ! 00£$ ‘ofiunqoxo ub ut zfee is $90, the average expenses, about 500; at Dartmouth "the tuition fee is $80—average expense, from $500 to $600; at Johns Hopkins, $80, average expense about $600; at’ Cornell, Bowdoin, and Union, $75, average expenses about $500; at Notre Dame, tuition fee, $80, average expensest $325.
Exchanges.
—The Dial—A Monthly Index of Current Literature, published by Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago, has hitherto been favorably noticed by us. We are pleased to receive it regularly. The titles of the series of short papers in the November number are: “ The Slavery Conflict in Hiinois,” by Isaac N. Arnold; “A Norse Prose Idyl,” Kristofer Janson; “Gottschalk’s Diary,” S. Holt; “The First Explorer of the Northwest,” E. G. Mason; “Scandinavian Travels,” Rasmus B. Anderson; “An Old Greek in Modern Dress,” Louis Dyer. The “Briefs on New Books" and “ Literary Notes ” are, however, to us the most pleasing features of The Dial.
—The November number of Brainard's Musical World is an attractive and valuable one, and will interest every lover of the “divine art.” Besides interesting stories, sketches and biographies of prominent musicians, instructive editorials, hints to teachers and scholars, answers to correspondents, musical gossip, and news from all parts of the world, the following choice new music is given in this number: “As Sweet Little Mary was Haymaking,” Song by Michael Watson; “Little Darling, Sleep Again,” Cradle Song by Arthur S. Sullivan; “Garfield’s Memorial March,” by Karl Merz; “Angels’ Serenade,” four hands, by Chas. Kinkel; “Upraised from Sleep,” by J. Barnby; “ Jesus, the Very Thought isSweet,” by Schumann; “Come Gracious Spirit,” by Harrison. The music alone in each number of the World ’3 worth over $2.00. For $1.50 the
154
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
publishers offer to send the World from Nov., 1881, to Jan., 1883, to all new subscribers sent in this month. Single copies will be mailed to any address on receipt of 15 cents, by the publishers, S. Brainard’s Sons, Cleveland, O., who will also mail their large catalogue of 20,000 musical publications free to those desiring it.
—The American Catholic Quarterly Review has the following table of contents: I, Freemasonry, by Rev. Aug. J. The-baud, S. J.; II, Some of the Aspects of the Work of English Converts, by Arthur F. Marshall, B. A., Oxon ; III, The Spirit World, by Rev. J. F. X. Hceffer, S. J.; IV, Catholicity in Kentucky—Grace Newton Simpson, B. J. Webb; V, The Existence of God Demonstrated—Third Article, Rev. J. Ming, S. J.; VI, The Revival of Manufactures in Ireland, M. F. Sullivan; VII, The Lesson of President Garfield’s Assassination, John G. Shea, LL. D.; VIII, An American Catholic Dramatist, Eugene L. Didier; IX, Tne Impossibilities of Unbelief, A. De G.; X, Right and Wrong: Their Relation to Man’s Ultimate End, James A. Cain; XI, Gladstone’s Latest Blunder, Geo. D. Wolff; XII, Book Notices: The Theory of Preaching: Lectures on Homiletics—The Bible and Science—The Life of Mother Francis Mary Teresa Ball—Philosophia Lacensis, sive Series Institu-tionum Philosophise Scholastic®—Institutiones Philosophise Naturalis Secundum Principia—Carlyle’s Essays— The Church of the Parables and the Spouse of the Suffering Saviour—The Origin of Primitive Superstitions—The Graded Catholic Educational Series—Maidens of Hallowed Names—Rituale Romanum Pauli V, Pontificus Maximi— Christ in His Church—The Illustrated Catholic Family Annual, 1882.
—The Paper World, published monthly by Mr. Clark W. Bryan, and now entering upon its third j ear, is becoming a mammoth affair, and we believe that its publisher would have but little if any trouble in substantiating the claim that its circulation is larger than that of all other papers going to the trade, combined. The Octcbir and November numbers of this superb trade magazine average 69 quarto pages. The Paper World is a handsome spi cimen of typography, and is printed on supersized and calendered paper. Mr. Bryan, its founder, and present managing editor, was, we learn from The Rial, associated with the late Samuel Bowles and Dr. J. G. Holland, in the management of Tice Springfield Republican, and it is said-that the remarkable success attained by that journal was partly due to Mr. Bryan’s fine business management. It is no wonder, then, that The Paper World has in the short space of two years distanced all competitors and made for itself a name and fame. The October number published, among others, a fine sketch of the house of Jansen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago, with illustrations, and an interesting article by Chas. Dudley Warner entitled “The American Newspaper—Reviewed by one of its own Conductors.” The November number opens with “ The Story of an Inventor’s Life of Vicissitude ”—namely that of John Ames, paper-maker, of Springfield, Mass., giving as usual, a portrait of the subject of the sketch. The price of subscription to The Paper World is only §2 a year.
Scientific Notes.
—The poison of a sting from bee, wasp, or hornet, may be almost instantly neutralized by the application of a little liquid ammonia.
—M. Theophile Cailleux, described by Galignani as “ a Belgian savant,” has written a book to prove that Homer was born in Belgium at a time when Greek was spoken on the shores of the Atlantic, where, as he thinks, the language had its origin. He locates Troy near Cambridge, England; Ithaca, the birthplace of Ulysses, was Cadiz, Spain; and the tumuli, found in the Belgium Pass, in his fertile imagination, form the graves of the heroes of Homer.
—It may not, perhaps, be known that a man wearing dark clothes is more liable to infection from contagious disease than he who wears light-colored garments, because particles which emanate from diseased or decaying bodies are much more readily absorbed by dark than by light
fabrics. This is easy of proof. Expose a light and dark coat to the fumes of tobacco for five minutes and it will be found that the dark one smells stronger than the other of tobacco smoke, and it will retain the odor longer.
—Viscose, the gummy substance of viscous fermentation, is thus described by M. A. Bechamp: It is white, easily powdered, and not at all like gum, but when it is dissolved in cold water it appears glutinous. It does not reduce the cupro-potassic re-agent. Alcohol precipitates it entirely from its solution in a mass which can be drawn into threads. Solutions of viscose are not colored blue or violet by iodine. Sulphuric acid acts on viscose as a starch, forming dextrine and a glucose, and the dextrines do not ferment when beer yeast is added to them.
—A mixture of finely-divided sulphur and a solution of lead sulphate, when boiled, sets free Uie sulphuric acid, and deposits lead sulphide, which might have been anticipated, MM. E. Filhol and Senderens maintain, on the principles first formulated by M. Berthelot. Pursuing their researches, these chemists find that silver carbonate, oxalate, nitrate and ascetate may also be similarly decomposed, but leads ulphate is only decomposed very slowly, leaving the overlying liquid not perceptibly acid. Silver chloride and copper sulphate, nitrate, and chloride have not as yet been thus decomposed.
—In parts of Norway and Sweden, where during the summer there is almost continuous daylight, crops of barley are grown with only from six to eight weeks intervening from seed-time to harvest. After acclimatization many garden flowers increase in size and depth of color; there is a prevailing tinge of red in the plants of the fields; the aroma of fruits is increased and their color well developed, but they are deficient in sweetness. The development of essential oils in certain plants is greater than in the same plants grown in other latitudes. It is an established fact that light bears the same relation to aroma as heat does to sweetness.
—In Leipsic, lately, some experiments were made with a cuirass made of a newly-invented preparation of steel, which seems to present great resistance to missiles. The metal was only three-fiftieths of an inch in thickness, and the inside of the cuirass was lined with a thin layer of wool. The entire weight of the piece of armor, which was intended to protect only the heart and lungs, was two pounds and a half; but of eleven rounds of ball cartridge fired at the cuirass at a distance of 175 yards, although eight of the bullets struck it, only two penetrated the metal, and these were found to be flattened and retained in the woolen lining.
—The survey of Palestine east of the Jordon is proceeding rapidly under the superintendence of Lieut. Condor. When he last wrote, several hundreds of miies had been measured with accuracy, and a number of places having more or less modern names were identified as those mentioned under different titles in ancient history. He discovered a great many cromlechs, or flat stones, supported like a table by others set on end. Not less than fifty of these monuments were sketched in three days. Some of them had small chambers near them from three to five feet long and three feet high, excavated in detached cubes of rock, ten to fifteen feet on each side. The interest in the work is increasing, and the results cannot fail to be of great archaeological importance.
—A. volume of nearly six hundred pages, entitled “Primitive Industry; or, Illustrations of the Handiwork in Stone, Bone and Clay of the Native Races of the Northern Atlantic Seaboard of North America,” prepared by Charles C. Abbot M. D., has been published by George A. Bates, Salem. The scope of the work is fully set forth in the title. The author takes strong exceptions to the assertion of Prof. J. D. Whitney, of Cambridge, that “ there has been no unfolding of the intellectual faculties of the human race on this Continent which can be parallelized with that which has taken place in central Europe. We can recognize no palaeolithic, neolithic, bronze, or iron ages.” He insists that careful and systematic examination of the sur- ' face geology of New Jersey alone shows as abundant and unmistakable evidence of the transition from a palaeolithic to a neolithic condition as is exhibited in the traces of human handiwork found in the valley of any European fiver.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—According to M. Delaunay’s researches, communicated to the French Academy of Medicine, the primitive inhabitants of Europe were all tenors in respect to voice, their descendants at the present day are baritones, and their grandsons will have semi-bass voices. Looking at different races he calls attention to the fact that the inferior, such as the negro, etc., have higher voices than white men. Then, too, the voice has a tendency to deepen with age— the tenor of sixteen becomes the baritone of twenty-five, and bass at thirty-five. Again, fair-complexioned people have higher voices than the dark-skinned, the former being usually sopranos or tenors, the latter contraltos or basses. The tones of the voices are perceptibly higher, he points out, before than after a meal, which is the reason why tenors dine early, in order that the voice may not suffer. The South, he says, furnishes the tenors, the north the basses—at least in France, the majority of tenors in vogue come from the South, while the basses belong to the northern departments.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—“ Uncle Remus ” has written for the Century a story of Southern life, which will appear this fall.
—In art, there is a point of perfection, as of goodness or maturity in nature; he who is able to perceive it, and who loves it, has perfect taste; he who does not feel it, or loves on this side or that, has an imperfect taste.
—Prof. Edward A. Freeman, who is now visiting this country, has a new historical work being brought out by the Clarendon Press which describes “The Life and Reign of William Rufus and the Accession of Henry I,” in two volumes.
—Heinrich Botel, is the name of a new tenor who has just appeared in Hamburg, and the lethargic opera-goers of that sleepy town show symptoms of enthusiasm about him. Like Wachtel, he was a hack-driver, when the directors of the opera in Hamburg discovered and had him educated musically.
—The latest edition of the “ Illustrated Birthday Book of American Poets ” is handsomely bound, and contains, in addition to the contents of the former volumes, a number of portraits of well-known poets and authors. This, together with an index at the close of the volume, is an improvement upon the first edition issued.
—“Cape Cod Folks” all want to come into court at once, just to prove they are no such kind of folks as represented. Their examination as witnesses will make racier reading, if they so choose, than the book to which they take such sharp exception. But, then, it’s no way to call persons by their real names, who are hit off in story writing.
—It is said that Judge Tourgee was strongly opposed to the publication of his Bricks Without Straw, believing that it would interfere with the sale of A Fool’s Errand. He was, however, persuaded by his wife to publish it and he presented the copyright to her. Very much to his surprise her dividend during the first four months amounted to $18,000, with which she purchased a residence on Lake Chatauqua, where the Judge says she kindly allows him to board during the summer.
—A translation of Science Without God, by the eminent French Dominican, Pdre Didon, is in press by Thos. Whittaker, the well-known New York publisher. The celebrated “ Letters of Certain Jews in Answer to Voltaire,” the work of the Abbe Guenee, and one of the best works ever written in defense of the Holy Scriptures, is out of print in this country. Two editions have been given of the latter work, one by a Philadelphia publisher, the other in Louisville, Ky., and both from Protestant houses.
—It is doubtful if the manuscript memoirs of Prince Lucien Bonaparte, recently discovered in the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by,Col. Yung, will prove to be very different in substance from the memoirs published by the prince about forty-five years ago. The Journal des
Debate has shown that the published memoirs enter very fully into the details of the coup d’etat of the 18th Bru-maire, and other matters relating to Napoleon, the topics which Colonel Yung says are interestingly treated in the , manuscripts. .
j —Mr. Charles Dudley Warner’s forthcoming life of 1 “ Captain John Smith,” announced a few days ago, is the first cf a series of “Lives of American Worthies,” which Henry Holt & Co., have been developing for two years or more. Other worthies who have secured numerous biographers and will in time adorn the series are “Christopher Columbus,” by W. L. Alden; “William Penn,” by Robert J. Burdette; “ George Washington,” by John Hah-berton; and “Andrew Jackson,” by George T. Langan. Niches in this temple of fame have been reserved for Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, but the authors who will glorify them cannot now be announced.
—While it is true, as Lamb says, that “a laugh is worth a hundred groans in any market,” it is also true that men show what they are by the things they laugh at more than in any other way. The high-toned man only enjoys pure wit—the repartee, the sharp retort—while others laugh immoderately at the double entendre, one side of which is bright, while the other is smutched. Enjoyment of wit gives the measure of the man. If he is clearheaded enough to appreciate the needle-point you may invite him home to dinner with impunity; but if he can laugh only at wit that is called “broad,” you are excusable if you conclude to pass by on the other side.
—The original of Shakspeare’s Shylock was Sampson Coneda, a Hebrew usurer. Paul Secchi, a merchant of the city of Venice, heard by a private letter that Sir Francis Drake had captured and pillaged San Domingo, and so informed Coneda. The latter discredited the report, and bet a pound of flesh that it was false. Secchi wagered 1,000 crowns that it was true. The report was confirmed, and Secchi claimed that which he had won. The Pope, Sixtus V, told him he could have it, but that he must take neither more nor less than a pound, on pain of being hanged. So says Gregory Lati, in his “ Life of Sixtus V.” Shakspeare, however, reverses the order, and makes the usurer demand the pound of flesh from the merchant.
—The foreman of a Montreal paper is in trouble. In making up his forms he mixed an article, Catholic advances in Africa, with a receipt for making tomato catsup, and has been dodging the editorial shotgun ever since. As published, the article reads: “The Roman Catholics claim to be making material advances in Africa, particularly in Algeria, where they have 185,000 adherents, and a missionary society for Central Africa. During the past three years they have obtained a firm footing in the interior of the Continent, and have sent forth several missionaries into the equatorial regions. They are accustomed to begin their work by buying heathen children and educating them. The easiest and best way to prepare them is to first wipe them with a clean towel; then place them in dripping-pans and bake them till they are tender. Then you will have no difficulty in rubbing them through a sieve, and will save them by not being obliged to cut them in slices and cook for several hours.”
—Mr Justin McCarthy, M. P., is thus spoken of by a writer in the October number of Harper’s Magazine: “ Mr. Justin McCarthy, one of the most industrious of the hard-worked class of journalists and authors, and a writer of great and varied gifts, is still properly credited with a good deal of the incisive editorial matter in the Daily News. Novelist, journalist, historian, lecturer, Member of Parliament, Mr. McCarthy is a representative man in all the branches of literature and politics, which he has essayed with courage and success. Some of his friends lament that he has been drawn into the whirlpool of Irish agitation; but, despite his thirty years’ residence in England, he is Irish, ‘ native and to the manner born,’ and, maater of his own destiny, it is not for friends or admirers to limit or select the field of his labors, or the political and personal objects of his sympathies. Journalistic London has reason to be proud of counting among its ranks men whose talents command alike the respect of friends anti foes,”	‘	'
156
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC’.

Notre T>ame, November 19, 18S1.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and. others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it;-and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 per -A-nnnm, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—For some months past we havehad residing amongst us one of the noblest types of manhood one would wish to meet. We refer to Col. Elmer A. Otis, of the U. S. Army. For months he has dwelt with us, and had almost become one of us; indeed we felt that, to a certain extent, we had a claim upon ,him. No exercise, no debate, no society, meeting, in fact nothing seemed complete without his kindly and inspiring presence. The early morning found him in the chapel at prayer and Mass, and oftentimes he would serve two Masses before breakfast. At noon and evening he made his daily examen, and the visit to the Most Holy Sacrament with the same unfailing regularity and exactitude as the good Fathers and Brothers of the Congregation make theirs.
His three sons have been placed in the College, the oldest in the Senior department and the other two with the Minims. His daughters have been placed in charge of the good Sisters at St. Mary’s Academy, where Mrs. Otis will spend the winter. In his family relations the Colonel is most pleasing and happy; he was invariably to be found in their midst, amusing, encouraging, or instructing them, and his affectionate attendance and watchful care of his family was remarked by all.
To the regret of all, our esteemed friend left us last Sunday afternoon, his leave of absence having expired, and he now returns to his post on the frontier. He will be greatly missed by all, but by none more than the cadets, with whom he took special pains and in whom he felt a great interest—his last charge to the drill-master being, “Don’t you let that military company go down.”
The South Bend dailies have paid the Colonel a parting compliment. We find the following in the Tribune of Monday the 14th:
Col. Elmeb Otis.
This gallant officer of the famous 7th U. S. Cavalry, who spent his six months’ leave .of absence at Notre Dame, left yesterday to join his command at post Abraham, Lincoln, in Dakota. During his stay here he not only greatly endeared himself to the Faculty and students at Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy, at both of which places his children are attending class, but to those of our citizens who were so fortunate as to form his acqaintance. The seni r students of Notre Dame showed their appreciation of his friendship by presenting him yesterday with a costly gold-headed cane. The presentation was made by Mr. Geo. E. Clarke, one of the editors of the college paper. Colonel Otis responded in the most feeling manner, showing that he was greatly affected at this mark of friendship and esteem on the part of the students. Colonel Otis's family, consisting of his wife and seven sons and daughters, will continue to reside at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s until the education of the children is completed. The Colonel was so charmed with the surroundings of these institutions that, as has already been stated, he passed his entire leave of absence there in preference to the sea-side resorts and watering places.
Colonel Otis now occupies the same position in the 7th Cavalry that the gallant Custer did when he was killed in the fight with Sitting Bull. He looks, too, every inch of the soldier that he is. He is considerably over six feet in height, and proportioned accordingly, and his courtesy and cordiality are as marked as is his personal appearance. Although by no means an old man, he has seen over thirty years of active service in the regular Army. He will, in a short time, be entitled to retire, and we but echo the wish of his many friends here and at Notre Dame that he may conclude to become a resident in this vicinity.
The Register of the same date says:
A pleasant episode occurred at Notre Dame, yesterday afternoon, in which Col. E. A. Otis, of the 7th Cavalry, United States Army, was the central figure. The Colonel, who has been spending a six months’ leave of absence at Notre Dame, leaves next week to take command of his post at Fort Abraham Lincoln, Dakota, and for the purpose of giving him a memento of his pleasant stay among them the students took advantage of the dinner hour, when all were assembled, to present him an elegant gold-headed cane, purchased by them at Buysse’s jewelry store. The presentation was made by George E. Clarke, of Cairo, DI., in an'eloquent little speech. The Colonel was so completely surprised, outflanked and overpowered by the unexpected assault upon his feelings, that, old soldier as he is, it took him some tame to rally. When he did, however, he replied with vigor and interest, handsomely saving himself from rout. He was then serenaded by the University Band, and the military companies passed in review before him. Colonel Otis leaves Notre Dame with many pleasant memories of his association with officers, Faculty and students, and leaves behind him the memory of a large-hearted, brave and cultured gentleman.
We append a synopsis of Mr. Geo. E. Clarke’s remarks on presenting Col. Otis with the cane:
Reverend President :
The young Athenians at the age of eighteen inscribed their names in a public register, thereby swearing to defend their country to the best of their power. We, too, have a system analogous to this in our land; young men do not only swear to defend their country but are expressly chosen and educated for that purpose. West Point has graduated men who are an honor to their profession, men who have proved themselves giants in the gloomy days

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	157
that have already passed over us. Sherman before the cannon’s fire, Hancock at Gettysburg, and the dashing Sheridan at Winchester, are fitting themes for the sublimest eulogies. But, sir, to-day, thanks to our soldiers, thanks to their valor, the sunshine of prosperity and happiness beams brightly upon us, and the white Angel of Peace holds sway from North to South, from East to West. What better time, then, could be given the soldier to recreate, to regain that strength so requisite for his duties, than the time of peace. Notfe Dame, proverbial for her beauty, has attracted to her precincts a soldier grown gray in the service of his country, and, with your permission, Rev. President, the Senior department have chosen this occasion to publicly express their gratitude to him.
Col. Otis :—Understanding that you are about to leave this peaceful abode, and, at the command of duty proceed to active service on the frontier, in the name of this department I tender you our sincere thanks for your many acts of kindness. Your presence among us has been most edifying and instructive. Not only have you co-operated with us in our debates, our literary exercises, our sports at recreation, but you have been present during the time of solemn prayer. You have identified yourself with us on every occasion, and never failed to impress us with the necessity of physical development, that we may be able to apply our moral and mental training; Kind sir, we feel deeply indebted to you. We regret that we are impotent to present you with anything commensurate with your zeal *br our welfare. However, wishing your remembrance when miles of territory separate us, we beg to offer you this cane as a slight token of the great esteem in which we hold you. We hope always to admire you as one of the staunchest friends of this institution.' Accept this souvenir, kind sir, and may God speed you on your journey! May you ever remain in the nation’s con tests ftdus et audax, and in the walks of private life Jidus et Immilis /
Personal.
—Frank Kinsella, ’78, has returned.
—Austin Thornton is clerking for his father at Sharon, Penn.
—Warren Fishburn, is in Joliet, III. He will return in February.
—M. J. Mclnery (Law), ’81, is in the stock business at
Osborn, Ill.	j
—F. A. Kleine, ’81, is in business\wilh his father at Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Albert Hintz, (Com.), ’81, is clerking for J. D. Scott, Milwaukee, Wis.
—J. G. and C. Buonkamp are in the brick business at Milwaukee, Wis.
—J. McNamara, (Com.), ’81, is clerking for his father in Milwaukee, Wis.-
—Geo. Donnelly, (Com.), ’81, is clerking in a wholesale grocery store in Chicago, Ill.
—Charles F. Mullis, (Com.) ’81, is in the real estate business with his father in Milwaukee.
—Mrs. Sells was here last Monday, visiting her son, Harry Sells, of the Junior department.
—Jno. H. Cooney, ’76, is holding a responsible position in the U. S. Pension office, Washington, D. C.
—Philip Vogel, ’79, is doing well in the dry-goods’ business, in Columbus, Ohio; firm of Lind & Vogel.
—Mrs. Gall, of Indianapolis, was here visiting her sons, Edwa;d and Albert Gall, of the Junior department.
—W. E. Hoffman, (Com.) ’81, is shipping-clerk for his father’s firm, J. G. Hoffman & Son, in Wheeling, W. Va.
—We were pleased to meet Mr. Edward Buysse who paid a visit to the University last Sunday, p. m. He was the guest of Rev. Father Maher.
—P. J. Dougherty, Commercial, and Law graduate of ’78, is doing quite an extensive legal business with Messrs. Miller and Cligget, at Mason City, Iowa.
—Our old friend Geo. F. Suge, ’81, is studying law with Messrs. Avery and Comstock, 38-40 Metropolitan Block, Chicago, Ill. Glad to hear from you, George.
—Rev. Fathers Corby and Kelly, are giving a two-weeks’ mission at St. Patrick’s Church, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. They have had so many calls for missions, lately, that it will take them several months to fulfil their engagements.
—The Hon. Thomas Ryan, member of Congress from Topeka, Kansas, arrived here last Thursday evening, and is the guest of Notre Dame University, where his son is a student. He is on his way to Washington City.—South-Bend Tribune.
—Col. Elmer Otis and wife, of the 7th United States Cavalry, were among the guests at the Leland House, Chicago, last week. A special despatch from Leavenworth, Kan., says that a band and two companies of the 20th Infantry, commanded by Capt. McNaugh, arrived at Fort Leavenworth, this afternoon. Col. Otis will take command of the fort.
Local Items.
—“Frenchy” !
—“ See my arm! ”
—“ Dear Montague! ”
—“ Oh! it hurts, Doc.! ”
—Cairo is loose, look out I
—“ I’ll kill that kid yet! ”
—“ He put it in my eye! ”
—J. McDermott is back again.
—Tobacco begging is still a mania.
—“Runt” built his house in a day.
—“ Did you see the Old Reliable ? ”
—The “ bay-window man ” is too fat.
—We have a punny man at our table.
—B. M. for the logicians is played out.
—“ Well, Ed did you get your teeth ? ”
—“ Mongey’s ” short-hand is “ immense.”
—Snow-storms are becoming fashionable.
—Jerry and his gang have lost their chief.
—“ Arthur ” says it was some one “ Ellis.”
—“ Who saw that would-be funny Senior? ”
—Van, we can never be what we once were.
—“ Harlie ” is a little afraid of the coal-yard.
—“ I can go to the Infirmary now. Eh, Bert?”
—Elgin was heard from in last Sunday’s debate.
—The “ D. D.” sticks up for aurora. Where is it ?
—Alas! poor “prorkies” ! we know your scheme.
—Prof. J. F. Edwards, is training “The New Arts.”
—“ George ” doesn’t like to have his name abbreviated.
—Thursday, the 24th inst., will be Thanksgiving day.
—The Junior study-hall is receiving new flowers every day.
—“ George ” and “ Casty ” are the sweet singers of the Juniors.
—In the smoke-stack of your memory, etc. is too dry, “Casty.”
—“Jack” and .“Arthur” had a picnic last Monday morning.
—“ I don’t remember their names? but I know them by eye-sight,”

158
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Cadets turned out in. good numbers to bid Col. Otis good-bye.
—“ Oliver W. Holmes” appears to advantage in his late poetic effusion.
— The Juniors begin to doubt the saying “ Nine Taylors make a man.”
—The “ Baby ” is falling back into his old tricks; can’t he get a bottle too ?
—The new porch at the rear of the College will prove a veritable blessing.
—A. thorough renovation of the south-west end of the study-hall is needed.
—The discussions in the “ first course ” are now becoming very interesting.
—The Seniors have another among them who, in all things, will B. Noble.
—“ Stonewall’’says “ he will set em up for any one who calls on him after the store closes.’’
—Tim asked F----------y how far he was in arithmetic. F----------------------y answered, as far as syntax.
—Erasing names from albums and inserting one’s own isn’t a very gentlemanly thing to do.
—“Mr. President, give that gentleman from W------------ time to recite Roberts’ Rules of Order.”
—The Juniors have a boy who can discount a certain Senior in the art of raising a moustache.
—To-morrow, Missa Parmlarum will be sung. Yes pers, of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin.
—Mr. and Mrs. Coad, of Chyenne, Wyoming Ty., are visiting their son Frank, ot the Minim department.
—The Junior study-hall is in splendid condition. Never before was it in such a thoroughly enjoyable state.
—The water-motor for pumping the organ was tested to its fullest capacity yesterday. It is a perfect success.
—Our friend Arthur denies all connection with the late “ strawberry festival ” ; he says “ it was the bay-window man.”
—The Junior who has the best record up to the Christ mas holidays is to have his portrait drawn in crayon by Bro. Albert, C. S. C.
—“Will, bear in mind ‘ that he who calleth his brother a fool, is in danger of hell fire,’ likewise of getting his optics in mourning.”
—The Juniors are to have a new football, of the best possible make; it will be made expressly for them by a New York rubber company.
—A gentleman in the Thespians can get a pamphlet printed for one dollar a year, and have his name in print. What do you think of that ?
—We are pleased to announce to our readers that our old friend Prof. A. J. Stace will soon return to Notre Dame and resume his old position.
—“Stuffy” is out of date; he is the only one of the “ walking three ” who wears an overcoat, but it cost fifty dollars, so we’ll excuse him this time.
—Rev. Father Kaul, pastor of St. Anthony’s Church, Lancaster, Pa., sang the High Mass last Sunday in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—The Band serenaded the Colonel, previous to h is departure, on Sunday last. They put more life into it and played much better th in at any other time this year.
—The gentleman from Washington says: “The flowers are now in bloom, and the trees are budding.” ’Twould have been a good argument in the debate, if no one objected.
—Master W. M. Massi, nephew of Col. Dallas, U. S. A, makes the 62d Minim, but there are 13 more needed to complete the number to which Very Rev. Father General’s Parisian dinner is promised.
—On Sunday last, Col. E. A. Otis was presented by the members of the Senior Classes with a handsome goldheaded cane. He left the College at 4 p. m, en route for his command in the far West.
p-^yo. Michael will open the Lemonnier Library every
day, Sunday excepted, from 9 to 11, a. m., and from 1J^ to 3J£, for the members of the Community. On Sunday, the library will be open from 3 to 4 p. m.
—Anyone having the manuscript copy of “Waiting for the Verdict” will confer a favor by returning the same to Prof. J. A. Lyons. He will also be grateful to the holder of the first volume’of Moliere’s works for a return of he same.
—The organ is terribly out of tune. Now that the water-motor is in place, and does its work so admirably, it would be quite a relief to sensitive ears if the discord was removed. The organ is an excellent one, and it is a pity to allow it to remain in its present discordant condition.
—“Say, Mr. ------, are they all Seniors?” “Yes, sir.”
“ Haha-ha! crackey 11 thought the little fellows were Minims!” “Now, young men, you can judge for yourselves; your conduct has been childish in the extreme, and as a consequence you see what a high opinion is entertained of your manliness.”
—Some folks spend so much time looking after their neighbors’ affairs that they can’t find time to attend to their own. The feelings and opinions entertained with regard to such persons are such as would hardly be desired by anyone possessed of a kindly disposition or a good heart, and are far from being of a Scriptural order.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Sunday, Nov. 6th. Declamations were delivered by Masters F. Whitney and P. Campau. Essays were read by Masters Rene Panin, Ryan Devereux, and Prindiville. The question, “ Was Washington a Greater Man than Napoleon Bonaparte ?” was assigned as a debate for the next meeting.
—The drill-master is very well pleased with the attention and progress of the first half or platoon of the Senior Cadets, likewise of the Juniors, but is sorry he cannot say the same of the other portion. Hereafter he may decide to give extra drills, and publish the names of delinquents. The Cadets stand on the same fooling as any other class in the College, and in future all absences and misdemeanors will be promptly met and checked. A word to the wise should suffice.
—The 8th and 9th regular meetings of the Columbian and Debating Association were held on Tuesday, Nov. 3d and 10th, respectively. Subject: “The Advantages to be Derived from Public Education,” was debated by Messrs. Marlett and Kindle, in favor of the affirmative; Messrs. Dever and Kinsella, on the negative side. Decision was rendered in favor of the former. J. Farrell, C. Tinley, F. Baker, upheld the affirmative side in the question, “Shall Corporations, the Creatures of the State, be Governed by the State” ? J. Falvey. B. Zettler, and E. Yrisarri, in favor of the negative. Mr. E. Smith read an essay on the Life of Washington.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Thespian Society was held Nov. 13th. W. McEniry was unanimously elected to membership. The exercises of the evening consisted of speeches, declamations, readings, and a debate. The principal speakers wercjG. Ciarke, W. McGorrisk, E. Orrick, D. Danahey, M. Healy, J. P. O’Neill, W. Bailey, W. McCarthy, W. Cleary, W. Arnold, M. Burns, W. Thompson, G. Tracey, A. F. Zahm. The principal speakers in the discussion on State’s Rights were G. E. Clarke, W. B. McGor-risk, M. Htaly, D. Danahey and M. Burns. The most impassioned speech on this subject was made by M. T. Burns. We regret that want of space will not allow us to give the speech entire.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society took place Nov. 15th. Master J. Gallagher presented himself for membership, and was unanimously elected. Masters J. Devine, G. Dtchamp, G. Tourtillotte, H. Snce and L. Gibert, delighted the members very much by their singing. Readings were given by D. C. Smith, A. C. Brewster, H. Graham, M. Murphy and W. Mulcahy. Declamations were delivered by F. Fishel, P. Archer, E. Fenlon, E. Howard, J. Flynn, J. Powell, H. Devitt, A. Richmond, A. Campau, J. Friedman, H. Foote, H. Kitz, J. Livingston, G. Dechamp, and H. Metz. P. Yrisarri closed the exercises by giving, in good style, a declamation in Spanish, ...........................’' ~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
159
—Among the names registered at the University this week we note the following: Hon. Matthew Ryan, M. C. Leavenworth, Kan.; Mr. Matthew Ryan, Leavenworth, Kan.; Jacob Vernier, Archibald, O.; Miss Nellie McGor-don, Muskegon, Mich.; AugustFabour, South Bend, Ind.; John B. Faber, Kankakee, Ill.; Mrs. Genevieve Wells, Minneapolis, Minn.; A.' R. W. Schaefer, M. D., South Bend Ind.; Miss Grace E. Price, South Bend, Ind.; Miss Harriet L. Buck, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Adella M. Gordon, St. Mary’s Academy. Mrs. J. P. Reynolds, Chicago, Ill.; J. E. Enoch, Leadville, Col.; G. Wolff, Topeka, Kan.; H-B. Brown, W. H. Banta, Theo. M. McClelland, W. C. Leatherman, J. M. McGill, and J. A. Ryan, M. D., of Val-raiso, Ind.
—Efforts are being made to move into the new printing-office next week. When we get settled, we hope no offence will be taken by those who attempt to enter our sanctum, to waste our time, if they find themselves hitched to a pulley, raised up in mid-air, bumped against the wall three or four times, and then dropped out of the second-story window. It will simply be a striking proofofour desire to elevate them in the opinion of the press. Or, perhaps, we may take the notion to have a patent trap chair made, so that, if we are particularly busy, when they get comfortably seated, we can gently drop them down to the soft side of the cellar floor, thus assuring them of our earnest wish that they “ should take a tumble,” also to remind them that all men are liable to fall.
—The 12th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held Nov. 14th. A. Coghlin read a well-written criticism on the previous meetng. Ed. Fishel presented a fine essay on “ Friendship.” J. Guthrie, J. Ruppe, G. Castanedo, and C. Rose, read compositions. Selections were given by G. J. Rhodius, W. Johnston, W. Mahon, and J. Fendrick. N. Nelson, C. Porter, T. Hurly, G Schaefer, J. Heffernan, 0. Kolars, C. C.Echlin, J. Kelly, W. Keenan, W. Coghlin, and C Rose, showed marked improvement in declamation. Ed. Fishel closed the exercise with a very fine recitation on “Patriotism.” Public readers for the coming week are as follows: G. Schaefer, E. Fishel, W. Keenan, A. Coghlin, W. P. Mahon, N. Nelson, H. Sells, G. J. Rhodius, J. Kelly, T. Hurley.
—We believe the Chicago Scale Co.,—149 & 151 South Jeffjrsou St., Chicago, Ill., beat the world on scales. They have scales large and small of every imaginable variety, and adapted to weigh accurately anything from a letter to a full fed ox.—from the testing of a gold coin to the weight of a load of hay. If you do not believe this, send for their illustrated catalogue, a copy of which we have before us as we write. But do not imagine we write on account of the catalogue aloue: we have here one of the Chicago Scale Co.’s Little Detective scales which costs only $3 and which will weigh from a quarter of an ounce up to 25 lbs. Although claiming superiority as a housekeeper’s scale, it is just the thing for mail matters. We may add that the Scale Co. know nothing of our writing this notice, and will not until they see the Scholastic.
—The fifth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception was held Sunday evening, Nov. 13th. Tue following-named gentlemen were present : Very Rev. Father Granger; Rev. Fathers Kaul, Toohey and Stoffel; Bros. Marcellinus, Albert, Leander, Philip, Francis and Basil. Bro. Basil kindly acted as organist. The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. Father Toohey. C. Porter read an essay on Prayer, and W. Mahon read a sketch of the Life of St. Stanislaus. A synopsis of each was given by Masters, C. C- Echlin, and H. Porter. At the next regular meeting questions will be answered by Master James Courtney, J. Heffernan, and J. W. Keenan. J. Courtney will explain the Angelus. J. Heffernan will speak about Advent, and W. Keenan the Jubilee. A few remarks were made by Rev. Father Kaul, after which the meeting adjourned.
—The following is a fair specimen of a letter sent by a fair Senior to a fair lady who was an attend mt at a fair in a neighboring fair city:
Fairest or the Fair:—When such fair beings as you have the fairness to honor our fair with your fair presence, it is per-fpctly fair that you should receive a good fare from the fair conductors of this fair j and indeed it would be very unfair if you
did not fare well, since it is the special endeavor of all whose welfare depends upon this fair, to treat all those fairly who come, but with a special fairness those who are as fair as yourself. We are all here in a holy cause, and in a sacred warfare, not, indeed, against the fair sex, but against the pockets of their beaux. We therefore hope, gentle reader, still fondest fair, where all is fair, that you will use your fair aid in this praiseworthy affair which we have fairly undertaken, and, if you do so, we will never treat you unfairly, and when yon withdraw the light of your fair countenance from our fair, we will bid you a kind farewell.
Sincerely yours,
—The excellent general health enjoyed by students at Notre Dame for the past two years is a meet subject for congratulation, and we hope the Dispenser of all good gifts will grant us a continuance of this great blessing. So threatening were the inroads of small-pox last year, that the students in most of the large colleges throughout the country were vaccinated, and owing to scarlet fever and small-pox several prominent educati mal institutions had to dismiss the studentsand close their doors. Here, thank God, we escaped without a single case of small-pox, although we believe there were no vaccinations. This year, again, the papers bring news from many quarters that small-pox has again commenced its ravages, and, as the representative of the students, we ask if we should again run the risk without vaccination—or, rather, should not every student take the precaution of being vaccinated? We know that many of the students have taken the precaution to be vaccinated lately, but should not aU do so ? If a few do not feel inclined to submit to the trifling inconvenience, they should at least do so to satisfy the desire of the great majority to ensure, as far as possible, a feeling of security. If the few who decline vaccination saw the accounts of the ravages of small-pox that come in the papers with nearly every mail, they would no longer hesitate. The matter of health is one in which all are interested, and in which the authorities here have taken an interest and exercised the greatest care. This is as it should be, and we hope that in the present juncture it will be exercised as effectually as possible. With due precaution there is no reason why the remainder of the year should not be passed' in as pleasant and healthful a manner as it has been up to the present time.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabet* ical order.] ~
senior department.
R. Anderson, W. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, F. W. Barron, W. H. Bailey. E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, F. Baker, J. M. Boose, F. M. Beil, R. Becerra, T. E. Bourbonia, D. Corry. S. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, C. Coughanowr, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, N. Commerford, A. D. Dorsey, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney, D. Danahy, B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell, T. F. Flynn, J. Falvey,- M. Falvey, C. L. Fishburn, W. E. Grout, H. A. Grambling, A J. Gulonski, F. Grever, N. Halthuzen, T. D. Healey, M. F. Healey, A T. Jackson, F. E. Kuhn, J. Kendel, A Kuntsman, M. Livingston, H. Letterhos *H. M. Lannon, J. C. Larkin, J. R. Marlett, G. E. McErlain, F. X. Murphy, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott. H. \V. Morse, W. B. McGorrisk, J. Nash, EL Noble, J. B. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A Otis, C. L. Pierson, L. Proctor, F. Quinn, W. E Ruger, A P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, J. Solon, A. C. Schiml, W. McEniry, J. A McIntyre, H. Steis, E. J. Taggart, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, S. B. Terry, C. B. Van Duzen, W. H. Vander Hayden, F. Ward, J. A Weber, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. W. Ayers, A. A. Browne, W. S. Bacon, W. H. Barron, G. B. Buchanan, A S. Brewster, G. L. Castenado, F. X. Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, A M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, J. A Devine, M. Dolan, C. Devoto, J. E. Drendel, G. L. Deschamp, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, W. A Ellis, E. F. Fenlon, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, W. E. Freyermuth, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, F. C. Felix, J. Friedman, J. M. Flynn, L. F. Florman, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, W- M, Graham, M. S. Gooley, J. G, Greayer, E- B. Gerlach, W,
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E, Jeannot, J. P. Jones, W. H. Johnston, J. M. Kelly, C. C. Kolars. O. Kempf, J. F. Kahman, W. D. Keenan, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, S. Lipman, F. C. Lund, J. Livingston, O. L. Ludlow, J. T. .MeGordon, H. M. Metz, W. G. Muhlke, J. S. McGrath, T. E. McGrath, F. X. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock. C. J. Messenger, M. E. Murphy, J. T. Neeson, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, W. O. Pinkstaff, J. M. Powell, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, T. C. Ryan, S. Rosenheim, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, G. J. Rhodius, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, V. L. Rivaud, L. F. Rivaud, C. D. Saviers, G. H. Schaeffer, H. G. Sells, E. J. Schmitt, E. G. Tappin, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourrillotte, A. T. Taggart, D. Thomas, A. J. Vernier, T. Williams, J. E. Warner, A. J. Wendell, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, J. E. Zaehnle, G. Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. McGrath, G. H. MeGordon, W. P. Devine, M. E. Devitt, P. P. Johnson, O. P. Dillon. C. Metz, W. J. Miller, D. A. O’Connor, D. L. McCawley, E. P. Nash, D. A. Piatt, W. T. Berthelet, J. H. Dwenger, J. F. Nester, F. P. Nester, R. V. Papin, W. Welch, W. Walsh, F. I. Otis, C. D. Brandom, B. B. Powell, P. S. Gibson, J. A. Frain, J. A. Kelly, A. P. Roberts, D. Prindiville, T. E. Curran, A. J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, L. P. Graham, A. J. Otis, E. A. Thomas, F. J. Coad, W. M. Masi, J. S. Chaves, V. A. Rebori, Ryan Devereux, H. 0. Dirksmeyer, AL T. Byrne, J. Tong, C. Young, T. Norfolk, F. S. Whitney, H. J. Ackerman, J. L. Rose, F. S. Scott, P. Campau, C. Campau, H. Hynes, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, E. Chirhart, C. Quinlan, G. Price.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
collegiate course.
J. Browne, E. Otis, E. Orrick, W. Arnold, F. A. Quinn, J. Osher, W. Gray, J. Solon, A. Zahm, W. Schofield, F. A. Kuhn, E. McGorrisk, W. McGorrisk, M. Healy, T. Healy, E. Taggart, C. Van Dusen. R. Fleming, J. A. McIntyre, W. J. McCarthy, T. F. Clarke, W. Gallagher, W. J. O’Connor, W. H. Bailey, J. E. Walsh, T. Flynn, J. M. Falvey, J. Farrell, L. Proctor, F. Bell, W. Cleary, R. Anderson, S. B. Terry, G. E. Clarke, N. Ewing, J. W. Guthrie.
Sharifs
One Mile West of Notre Name University.
—Dancing lessons will begin next week.
—The Gregorian and St. Cecilian Societies are diligently endeavoring to make sacred music appreciated among the pupils at St. Mary’s.
—On Tuesday evening the young ladies of the different classes have social receptions in one of the Academy parlors. These receptions are both pleasing and improving.
—On the 12th inst., a Requiem Mass was sung in the Convent Chapel, for the repose of the soul of Rev. N. H. Gillespie, C. S. C., former chaplain at St. Mary’s, it being the 7th anniversary of his death.
—At the Monday evening reunion of the Junior and Minim departments, Elizabeth Consedine and Mary Dillon read the English selections, Ada Eager the German, and Felicia Castanedo the French.
—Miss Harriet Buck, of Chicago, graduate of ’81, is spending a few days, with her friends here, and Miss Mc-Gordon, of Muskegon, Mich., is visiting her sisters Anastasia and Nora, pupils at the Academy.
—The French and German classes meet twice a week, under the direction of their teachers, to converse in these languages. The same classes also sit in the refectory at tables presided by their teachers, and are required to converse only in their respective languages.
—During the past week Rev. Anthony Kaul, of Lancaster, Penn.; Mr. D. J. Moriarty, of Muskegon, Mich.; Mr. A. Beal and Mr. B. Brown, of Laporte, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Brown, of Council Bluffs, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Eager, of Muscean, Ohio; and Mr. Matthew Ryan, of Leavenworth, Kansas, visited the Academy.
—At the Sunday evening reunion of the Senior department the reading was as follows: “ San Sisto ” (by G. H. Miles), read by Miss M. Greble; a French selection, “ La Verite Obtient I’Estime et gagne le confiance ” by Eugene Lacroix, read by Miss C. Biand; German Selection (from Goethe), by Miss J. Butts; “ Have Pity on me Now ” (orig inal), by Miss Catharine Claffey.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Dibectob of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Latin—N. Ewing, AL Healy; Greek—A. Zahm, N. Ewing; Philosophy----["English Composition------; Rhetoric-; English Literature—R. Fleming, N. Ewing; English Criticism— F. Quinn; Algebra—F. Dever; Geometry—W. Bailey, W. Mc-Eniry, J. Solon; Trigonometry—N. Ewing, J. McIntyre, F. Bell, R. Fleming, F. Kuhn, E. McGorrisk, J. Falvey; Calculus —T. Healy, J. Osher; Physiology——; Botany—A. Zahm, T. Flynn, W. Cleary, W. AIcEniry, J. Solon; Mineralogy-; Zoology--------------------------------------------; Physics-; Chemistry-; History—R. Anderson, C. Tinley, H. Morse, T. Flynn, J. Browne, M. Healy, J. O’Reilly, F. Weber, R. Fleming, F. Ewing, W. AfcGorrisk, J. McIntyre, J. Larkin, E. Otis: Competition in 2d Latin—A. Zahm, W.O’Connor, W. Bailey, F. A. Quinn.
—Virgil informs us, 2Eneid II, 275, that tineas called on Dido one summer night, and inquired:—“ Ibisneid festi-vitatum hoc vespertino? "
“Non hoc vespertine.'" “Forsitan in alio vespertine?" “ Bonum vespertinum! ” And he lit out.—Ex.
—It is said that kerosene will remove stains from furniture. It has also been known to remove the furniture, stains and all, with the stove and a servant girl thrown in, pf-times.	“
(Selections from “ Rosa Mystica,” and “ St. Mary’s Chimes,” Monthly Papers, EJited by the Young Ladies of the Senior Department.)
“ Have Pity on me, at Least you, my Friends.”
THE CRY OF THE DEAR SOULS IN PURGATORY.
At the hour of silent prayer Came sad cries—not of despair, But of earnest, piteous pleading, As of souls our succor needing.
And this cry of keenest pain	i
Had this touching sad refrain,
“Have pity on me, now.”
“ You, my friends, whose love I cherished, Has that tender love now perished ?
In your praise I so delighted, That God’s will I often slighted.
“ Have pity on me now.”	•	,
Then the cries of fathers moaning,
“ O my children, hear my groaning, Whom I’ve toiled for, and protected, And my own poor soul neglected, Have pity on me now.”
-	Then in anguish ’bove all others
Came the cry of suffering mothers,
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
161
“You, my children, whom I bore, Do you love me now no more? Through my love of you intense, To my God I gave offence.
Have pity on me now.”
While these cries my heart were paining, I heard a sad complaining, Sufferers calling to their mothers, To their fathers, sisters, brothers, “ At my death you did bewail me, Oh! let not your love e’er fail me. Not in sadness, nor in weeping, But In prayerful vigils keeping,
Have pity on me now.”
Then the cries of souls all friendless, Whose keen pangs seemed almost endless, Waiting for that pure Oblation, Which would shorten their probation.
“ Mother Church, oh hear our cries, Offer God thy Sacrifice, Cleanse our souls in sacred flood Of Redeemer’s Precious Blood, By all the world forgotten we, But not, dear Mother Church, by thee: Have pity on us now.”
Who, unmoved, could hear these groanings? Who refuse their suppliant moanings ? We owe them duty, gratitude, For though their human actions, viewed In heaven’s light, may faulty seem, Purgatorial pains they deem A welcome penance justly sent: Yet in their painful banishment They call on us with suppliant cries, For prayers and Holy Sacrifice:
“Have pity on us now.”
Yes, dear souls, our hearts replying To your patient suffering sighing, Join with Mary interceding, And the saints and angels pleading, In a heartfelt supplication For a speedy mitigation, Of your pains and exile weary, And the sad refrain so dreary, “ Have pity on me now.”
Music.
[Under This head will appear, occasionally, extracts from lectures to the St Cecilian and Gregorian Societies, at St. Mary’s Academy. The material for these lectures, culled from every reliable source, have during the last four years become a prominent feature of the musical instruction of the Academy.]
Like every other branch of education, music must be learned thoroughly, if you wish to know and interpret her language. To acquire a foreign tongue, the first step is to learn the letters and their various combinations before you can read it; the same path must be followed for every language you may wish to acquire. Not so for music; her language is universal, her letters (or notes), her mystic signs, can be read by all nationalities, although not able to converse with one another. The Tone Poems of the great masters are understood and interpreted alike by the German, the French, the Italian, the Russian, the Hungarian,'and others. Music is a link in the great family of arts. Her origin and functions are the same; and, as
an eminent author has remarked, “ Art in general is that magic instrumentality by which man’s mind reveals to man’s senses that great mystery—The Beautiful.” The eye sees it, the ear hears it, the mind conceives it; our whole being feels the Breath of God. The sense of the beautiful, and the gift of music, is that Godlike spark which the great Creator has placed in the soul of man— and the necessity of giving it reality is that irresistible power which makes man an artist. ....
It is time that we here in America should know music as an art Many persons of liberal education consider it merely an accomplishment, and would gladly banish it as a branch of study, if the prevailing superficial fashion of knowing how to play, or how to sing a little, was not too strong to be resisted. We often hear persons who scarcely recognize one air from another, absolutely condemning fine musical works—and even writing criticisms on composers; others saying, “I know nothing about music but I know the kind I like, and understand what is good.’, Music, or rather sounds, may have tickled their nerves’ but have left their moral nature untouched. That you may never be classed among such ignorant judges, allow me to point out a course of study requisite to form a good musician. 1st, Notation. 2d, Singing and reading by note, with all theoretical knowledge received here in classes. 3d, Execution and Technics. 4th, Geography, history, arithmetic and elocution. You may find it strange that such branches as the latter are subservient to music, but when we shall analyze skilful works, in every style and form of composition, you will find, that not alone these, but other branches will be required to'learn the inner meaning and discover the beauties contained in descriptive and poetical illustrations. 5th, Expression, and appreciation. 6tb, Solfeggios and songs. 7th, Thorough-Bass. Sth, Transposition, accompaniment, modulation. All these pertain to form a good pianist or organist. 9th, To all of these, in order to feel and to execute music of a higher order, must be added Score-Reading. The capabilities and registers of different voices, a general knowledge of the extent of scale, and quality of tone produced by all hands and orchestral instruments, these studies are necessary to'true artists, and directors of large musical societies. 10th, A thorough knowledge of harmony in all its bearings—a profound study of composition, combined with well-directed talent and the divine gift of genius, form the composer.
The study of music takes time and perseverance. No art is more closely connected with the inner life of man than music, whose magic power steps in precisely at the point where the positive expression of language fails.
Music is worth your patient study and practice, either to make your home-life agreeable or fit yourselves for the higher aim of glorifying God by teaching others to value and cultivate the art which we believe shall occupy us for eternity. Music is the language of heaven.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par excellence—Misses A Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, 8. Hanbury, L. Pool, 8. Walsh, M. Clark, A. Dillon, L. Fox, M. Feehan, M. Wiley, M. Beal, E. Call, Chrischellis, R. Fishburne, L. Fendriek, A Glennon, J. Heneberry, L. Lancaster, 3. McKenna, A Nash, A. Price, A. Rasche, M. Simms, E. Slattery, E. Shickey, M. Tanner, E. Vander Hayden, H. Van Patten, L.
162
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Black, J. Barlow, L. Coryell, M. Call, E. Call, M.Fishburne B. Legnard, N. McGordon, 8. McGordon, E. McCoy, A. Mowry J. Owens, Mary Price, Margaret Price. C. Rosing, A. Rulison, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, V. Reilly, G. Taylor, E. Thompson, 1. Wolfe, M. Wolfe, A. Waters, E. Wright, L. English, H. Davenport, C.Fenlon, M. Flemming, C.Gitchel, A. Mulligan, M. Metzger, M. Newton, M. Reutlinger, M. H. Ryan, L. Williams, L. Wagner, M. Behler, B. English, A. Gavan, M. Ives, M. Mulvey, I. Smith. 2d Tablet—Misses C. Biand, C. Campbell. C. Donnelly, L. French, E. Nash, M. A. Ryan, K. Wall, J. Butts, M. Casey, E. Hackett, N. Keenan, A. Leydon, C. Pease, J. Reilly, E. Todd, A. Castanado, M.‘ G.eble, M. Garrity, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, J. Pampell, A. Watson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMtXT.
Tar excellence—Misaea C. Giuz, C. Lancaster, fl. Ram=ey, 8. Semmes, J. Spangler, A. Clark, M. Chirhart, M. Coogan, M. Dillon, L. Heneberry, G. O’Neil, M. Poquette, F. Robertson, M. Rogers, A. Watrous, J. Krick, M. Chaves, C. Richmond, L.Robertson, M. Smith, D.Best, V. Lewis, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—E. Con-idine, M. Ducey, A. Eager, P. Ewing, B. Hackett, M. Morgan, A. Martin, E. Papin, M. Florman, A. Wright, A. Welch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Brown, E. Burtis, M. Barry, S. Campau, T. Haney» S. King, J. McGrath, J. McKennon, M. Otis, M. Paul, E. Rigney, A. Sawyer, H. Buck.
THE SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING, AND SCULPTUR E
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Second Class—Misses L. Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster, 8. Papin, L. French.
Second Dry.—Misses A. Rasche, B. Legnard, C. Wall, A. Waters, M. Casey, L. Fendrick, C. Campbell.
Third Class—Misses M. Garrity, P. Ewing, M. Wilkins, M. Price, M. Richardson, J. Owens.
2d Div.—Misses Van Patten. C. Donnelly, S. McKenna, G. O’Neill, M. Wiley, A. Clark, M. Casey, A. Pr'ce, Margaret Price, Mary Ryan, A. Watson, M. Call, A. Rulison, E. Hackett, A. Nash, H. Nash, A. Martin, H. Hicks, V. Reilly, J. Krick, L. English, B. English, A. Mulligan, C. Pease, M. Ryan.
PAINTING IN WATER-colors.
3d Class— Misses Vander Hayden, J. Owens, V. Reilly, J. Spangler, P. Ewing, M. Wilkins, M. Price, N. McGordon, M. Garrity.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L. Fox, L. Lancaster, C. Lancaster, 8. Papin.
2d Div.—Misses A. Rasche, N. Thompson, C. Wall, M. Casey, L. Fendrick.
GENERAL DRAWING.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
ATisRps’ M. Simms, E. Call, E. Chrische'lis, L. Shickey, Etta Call, M. Wolfe, L Wolfe, M. Richardson, B. Smith, A. Glennon, M. Newton, M. Flemming, A. Maury, J. Pampell, R. Fishburne, M. Metzger, E. Slattery, M. Mulvey, L. Williams.
junior Department.
Misses M. Morgan, M. Otis, M. Otero, M. Coyne, M. Ducey, F. Castanado, A. Wright, M. Chaves, F. Hibben, C. Richmond, M. Chirhart, C. Ducey, M. Coogan, B. Hackett, M. Rodgers, A. Welch, L. Brown, E. Considine, M. Poquette, A. Watrous, M. Fisk, J. McGrath, C. Patterson, H. Ramsey, A. Eager, M. Schmidt, M. Mosher.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
Misses L. Fendrick, E. Vander-Hayden, M. Tanner, A. Rulison, N. McGordon, 8. McGordon, J. Heneberry, L. French, H. Van Patten, C. Slattery, M. Price, E. Call, 8. Hanbury, R. Fishburne, E. Chrischellis, M. Ryan, A. Nash, E. Nash, M. Beal, C. Donnelly, C. Bland, I. Wolfe, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, M. Price, M. Call, J. Pampell, J. Smith, L. Heneberry, M. Wilkins, J. Barlow, M. Ryan, M. Fishburne, C. Davenport, L. Williams, K. Ducey, M. Ducey, L. Coryell. A. Eager, A. Mulligan, M. Coogan, F. Hibben, M. Otero, V. Lewis, J. McGrath.
PLAIN SEWING AND DRESS-MAKING
Misses M. Newton, A. Waters, J. Barlow, M. Keenan, E. Todd, L. Fendrick, L. Coryell, L. Fox, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, K. Fenlon, M. Green, C. Bland, E. Chrischellis.
EDWARD BUYSSE
'	DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks, -A-JSTID JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
^be Jim.
NEW YORK, 1882.
The Sun for 1682 will make its fifteenth annual revolution under the present management, shining, as always, for all, big and little, mean and gracious, contented and unhappy, Republican and Democratic, depraved and virtuous, intelligent and obtuse. The Sun’s light is for mankind and womankind of every sort; but its genial warmth is for the good, while it pours hot discomfort on the blistering backs of the presistently wicked.
The SUN of 1868 was a newspaper of anew kind, it-discarded many of the forms, and a multitude of the sunerfiuous words and phrases of ancient journalism. It undertook to report in a fresh, succinct, unconventional way all the news of the world, omitting no event of human interest, and commenting upon affairs with the fearlessness of absolute independence. The success of this experiment was the success of The Sun. It effected a permanent change in the style of American newspapers. Every important journal established in this country in the dozen years past has been modelled after The Sun. Every important journal already existing has been modified and bettered by the force of The Sun’s example.
The Sun of 1882 will be the same outspoken, truthtelling, and interesting newspaper.
By a liberal use of the means which an abundant prosperity affords, we shall make it better than ever before.
We shall print all the news, putting it into readable shape, and measuring its importance, not by the traditional yardstick, but by its real interest to the people. Distance from Printing House Squaie is not the first consideration with The Sun. When ever anything happens worth reporting we get the particulars, whether it happens in Brooklyn or in Bokhara.
In politics we have decided opinions; and are accustomed to express them in language that can be understood. We say what we tnink about men and events. That habit is the only secret of The Sun’s polictical coarse.
The Weekly Sun gathers into eight pages the best matter of the seven, daily issues. An Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, full market reports, and a liberal proportion of literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence nnmplpfG The Weekly Sun, and make it the best newpapesr for the farmer’s household that was ever printed.
Who does not know and read and like The Sunday Sun, each number of which is a Golconda cf interesting literature, with the best poetry of the day, prose every line worth reading, news,-humor—matter enough to fill a good-sized book, and infinitely more varied and entertaining than any book, big or little ?
If our idea of what a newspaper should be pleases you, send for The Sun.
Our terms are as follows:
J?or the daily Sun, a four-page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, postpaid, is 55 cents a month, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents per month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished seperately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year, postage paid. Bor clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free.
Address I. W. ENGLAND, nov!9-6t	Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
W. W. Kimball, MANUFACTURER OF Pianos and Organs.
OFFICE AND WAREROOMS: Cor. State and Adams Streets, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Agent, S. D. ROBERSON, Old. L*ost-Oj(Iice Building, nov5’81-ly	South Bend, Indiana.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing. Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.