Attention:
Student Clubs and Organizations
Scholastic is again sending out a special summer issue to all the new, incoming freshmen
If you are interested in advertising in this issue please contact Karen Riley at 239-7569 or stop by the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune. Office hours are 2:00 - 5:00 p.m., Monday - Friday.
Let those freshmen know you are out there — advertise in Scholastic!
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
5
Out of Bounds Basic Instinct What’s In a NAZZ? WSND
T3
NEWS
7 Inquiry, Community and Belief CAMPUS LIFE
9 Try EMT
11 A South African Perspective SPORTS
14
18
19
16
21
22
23
24
27
A Rocky Road to the NCAA Tourney On The Brink Ready to Row
DEPARTMENTS
2
Editor’s Notes CampusWatch Coming Distractions On Other Campuses SPY Extra Week In Distortion Glancing Back Final Words
Cover photo by Mari Okuda.
MARCH 26, 1992
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Pamela
: MANA^ ;;	; /' ’B* *
}1-M^
Dawd	V :• ■;:
st® B	Bi;
: Editor: Mollie Mudd ' ' <	■
SenteO
Editor
?:: . Editor: Michael Owen • •• <.:	;
::. A	L Col in' Clary '' ■ “:' I. ■■✓.z<" :'
^•fEditorSNfck^
< Jenny.	:	? 7.:
:Udke: Frost	r'?"’J ■":z:'

EDITOR'S NOTES
New Faces
If you look to the staff list at the left, you will notice an abundance of new names. This issue is the first Scholastic produced by the 1992-‘93 Scholastic staff.
As we incorparate the ideas and suggestions of the new staff members, we’ d like to hear your input too. With the unfortunate passing of Mr. Manners, we are now printing clips from Spy magazine dispatch. Also, in Entertainment, we are printing a new preview column of events in the South Bend/ Chicago area.
Let us know what you think. Call us at 239-7569 an tell us your comments, complaints or compliments. Also, if you are interested in writing, we love to hear from you.
Next week, look for our annual April Fool’s issue, Sarcastic. Former Editor in Chief Ian Mitchell will entertain us with one last issue. The next regular issue of Scholastic will be April 9.
Calling All Photographers
Do you like to snap pictures or work in the darkroom? If so, Scholastic will be holding an interest meeting for all current photographers as well as new photograpers. The meeting will be Wednesday, April 1 at 7 p.m. in the Scholastic office, 303 LaFortune. If you are unable to attend the meeting, please call Nick Spangler at 239-7569.
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription raleis$25.00/yearandbackissuesare available at $125 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty ar students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduc-tian in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
In This Issue
This week Managing Editor Margaret Kenny tells us about the first Notre Dame Award which was presented to former President Jimmy Carterand his wife Rosalynn. In Entertainment, editor Brad Keck introduces his new column “Out of Bounds,” which takes a look at the local entertainment scene. Colin Fleming reviews the movie Basic Instinct. Former Entertainment Editor Liz Graner looks at the NAZZ music competition which took place last weekend and Copy Editor Chris Blanford fills us in on WSND after their first “Fine Arts Fund” concert.	-
In Campus Life, Heidi Toboni reports on the new Emergency Medical Technian course offered this semester at the Rockne Memorial. Also, Audrey Rutherford speaks with Professor Walshe about the current situation in South Africa.
In Sports, Senior Staff Writer Amanda Clinton takes a look at the women’s basketball season. Writer E. Rommel Nash reports on the Rugby team as it heads into its spring season and Dave Reeder tells us about the spring Crew season.
The regular Departments columns appear, including “On Other Campuses,” “Week In Distortion” and “Coming Distractions.” Also, thenew SPY dispatch column appears.
You will notice that this week there are two “Final Word” columns. In the first one, student body president and vice president Greg Butrus and Molly O’Neill share their plans for the upcoming year, and, following that, their predeccesors look back on their year in office.
Patricia Doyle Editor in Chief
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writ er's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholast ic reserves the rigid to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitling, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY
CampusWafc/i
B BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
March Is Here
Well CampusWatchers, spring is here—or is it? The Gipper is somewhat concerned that Friday, March 20, was the first day of spring and Notre Dame received four inches of snow. But, Rollerbladers, have no fear— the sidewalks shouldbeclear enough for you to skate and as soon as the temperature breaks freezing everyone can dig their shorts out. In the meantime, the Gipper and his fellow CampusWatchers have been hard at work over break.
Lacking In Confidence?
If you read that other publication’s account of the last faculty senate meeting, you don’t know everything that happened. So now, courtesy of one informed CampusWatcher, here’s ... the rest of the story. It seems the faculty senate is less than pleased with our own beloved university president Edward Aloysius “Hocker Head” Malloy. In fact, they’re upset to the point that they’ve proposed a vote of no confidence in the prez. The faculty has tabled the resolution until its next meeting, and the resolution’s passage would have no practical effect, but its approval would be a clear-sign that the professors at Notre Dame are upset with the way Monk is running the university. Faculty members have complained about tenure decisions and bureaucratic appointments and generally want more input in what they feel is an overly-imperial administration. The Gipper promises to keep you informed, even if no one else does.
Stay, Dogbook, Stay
Some controversy has arisen lately over the need for a Freshman Register—more com
MARCH 26,1992
monly known as the “dogbook.” Apparently, members of the Saint Mary’s community feel this is not a necessary publication because it does not promote a positive image. The Gipper feels that the dogbook plays a significant role at both campuses. Here are just some of the many alternative uses for the dogbook:
1.	The dogbook comes in handy when you are furiously rummaging through it to find that smart person in your government class that takes great notes.
2.	You can always take pictures of the hot people in the dogbook and blow them up to poster size to decorate your dorm room.
3.	After cutting them out and placing the photos in your wallet, you can show your friends at home your “significant other” at Notre Dame.
4.	Security should consider using the dogbook mugshots to identify the infamous blue jogger.
5.	By senior year, these photos from freshman year make great blackmail material. Like, “If you don’t write this paper for me, I’m going to show that babe/stud that you like this picture of you.”
The Gipp likes the dogbook. Sometimes when the Gipper is looking for an SYR date, you can even flip through and look for someone with the same interests and hobbies as yourself like Velcro-wall jumping or watching Blossom. So please dogbook, stay!
The Gipper Is Still Missing
Apparently, with spring break and no issue of Scholastic last week, CampusWatchers have forgotten that the Gipper is still soul-searching. If you think you may be the next Gipper, let us know! Submit three sample CampusWatch items to Scholastic. The items must be true, and all submissions become the property of Scholastic. However, remember not to tell your friends — the identity of the Gipper must be a secret. Drop your submissions by the Scholastic office in a sealed envelope marked as letters to the editor on the outside. If chosen, you will be the Gipper for the next year. However, losing candidates will not be notified.
CampusWatchers
The Gipper likes to get mail! Rumors always make good mail and the Gipper likes to check them out. If you have any the inside scoop or a hot news tip or just want the Gipper to do some investigating, write CampusWatch at 303 LaFortune, drop it off in the office on the third floor of LaFortune or call 239-7568.
3
REVIEW &PREVIEW

By J. Bradley Keck
In the land of Siberian-like isolation (read “Notre Dame”), I find myself wondering
what is going on in the world west of St. Mary’s and east of Juniper road. I know that somewhere close by is a 7-11 and, hold on, a McDonalds. On days when the wind has died and the odor of ethanol is not too heavy,
I get the sensation that there may even be a
movie theater not far away. Other than the occasional well-publicized and scheduled
S .U.B. concert (O.K., so mid-term week was not the best choice to pencil in a laugh with Howie Mandel.), I forget that there are things to do in this world.
Well, now that I’m the new entertainment editor here at Scholastic, I hope to use this space every week in order to compel myself to poke my head out from under my rock. Then, after I get a clue, I’m going to let all my readers in on a little secret which I like to call “the world out there.” It may not hold a candle to MTV’s The Week in Rock or “Fat and Smug” (“Siskel and Ebert”) but I’ll try.
For starters, Steve Miller is coming to the J.A.C.C. on April 16. Yes, that is Holy Thursday, and yes, I’m sure that everyone is going to bag Easter and flock to the “Thunderdome,” shaking it to its foundation as we all did for The Cult.
This Saturday is a big day for guitar and blues fans. B.B. King will be in concert at the Star Plaza in Chicago on April 17-18. Tickets go on sale at 10 a.m.for that show and for Eric Clapton’s May 13 show at the Rosemont Horizon.
Patti LaBelle is also in concert tomorrow night at the Star Plaza.
At the movies this Friday and Saturday, Jungle Fever is playing at Cushing Auditorium and Cape Fear is at Annenberg Auditorium. Spike Lee’s hand and Stevie Wonder’s soundtrack do a great job in telling the tale of inter-racial relationships and love in Jungle Fever. For those that don’t like any thing that nice, they should head over to the Suite for an evening with Robert DeNiro. He will make you squirm as he
renews your faith in human evil.
At the “real” movies 7?uby, another J.F.K. epic, starring Danny Aiello opens tomorrow. Also of interest might be My Cousin Vinny with Joe Pesci and Basic Instinct (see review below). I don* * * * 51 recommend that one for a first date unless she doesn’t approve of underwear.
Any one who lives around New York or
by Colin Fleming
Tntense sex, bondage, an ice pick, a B mirrored ceiling and a bloody murder open the film Basic Instinct. Directed by Paul Verhoeven, Basic Instinct is a completely modern murder-mystery-romance, drawing on perversion and sexual tensions to create an instinctual sense of intrigue.
Catherine Trammel (Sharon Stone),the film’s most interesting element, is a diabolically seductive character. As the prime suspect in the film’s first murder, Catherine uses her ingenious charms and powers of seduction to embarrass her interrogators, at the same time challenging them to refuse her advances. A scene in which Catherine combines a short skirt, her long legs and not much else is the film’s most powerful one, demonstrating Catherine’s ability to manipulate instincts. Instincts which can be both seductive and repulsive simultaneously.
Nick Curran (Michael Douglas), a recently reformed detective, is drawn to Catherine by what she calls the “suspension of disbelief.” He can not believe her sexuality - her intensity. The relationship between Nick and Catherine boldly describes the eroticism that can be derived from sexual hostility, as well as the frus
plans to visit there soon might want to keep in mind the new production of Tennessee Williams’ “A Streetcar Named Desire” starring Alec Baldwin and Jessica Lange that opens on April 12 at the Barrymore Theater. At least it should interesting to see these two big name actors live and on stage. Advance reviews have also been positive.
tration that occurs from the suppression of malicious instincts. The relationship is a bizarre one, incorporating elements of bisexuality and sexual violence. Both of which seem confusing and destructive towards establishing positive male/female relations, yet are reflective of modem sexual hysteria.
Basic Instinct has been criticized by gay and lesbian activists for its portrayal of homosexuals. The criticism’s has some validity. Roxy (Leilani Savelie), Beth Garner (Jeanne Trippiehorn) and Catherine are all either bisexual or homosexual, and all of them are portrayed as vindictive and potentially homicidal. This treatment underscores further male/female tensions as well as the public hostility towards homosexual culture. Whether Verhoeven intends this message to reflect contemporary attitudes or simply to magnify the perverse nature of the film is unclear, but it does keep the audience’s attention.
Basic Instinct is more a film for entertainment than for any kind of message or conclusion. The movie will affect every member of the audience either instilling intrigue, disgust or a confusing combination. Although the plot is insensible, full of outlandish coincidences and excessive violence, it does entertain and disturb. Catherine’s dark lure andNick’s very real struggle provide enough interest for bne movie. There are no answers, and few questions to be asked about Blind Instinct, but if you enjoy perverse behavior and twisted thrills, your instincts will be satisfied.	□
4
SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
What's In a
by Elizabeth Graner
his past Saturday night, the University A of Notre Dame’sNAZZ *92 graced the ugliness of Stepan Center with 24 bands of various genre and abilities and attracted the largest and most enthusiastic crowd ever... well, at least in Notre Dame’s musical history. It was definitely the best turnout for any NAZZ, as noted by SUB officials and veteran NAZZ-goers. The crowd’s efforts to brave the beautiful Midwestern spring weather on this particular evening were also
not in vain. The bands were (sometimes) diverse and (relatively) talented, depending, of course, on the degree of your spring semester Domer grouchiness, but, overall, it would be safe to say that a good time was had by all.
In the musicianship category, a resounding “hats off” goes to DissFunktion, SMEAR, The Prufrocks, Tony Graffeo and the Metha-tones.
Nick Spangter
DissFunktion, winner of this years Nazz, brlngsthe croud to their feet.
DissFunktion, the evening’s winners, who not only showed that it wasn ’ t mandatory to cover U2 this year, but also boasted a broad lineup of amazing musicians, including Jeremy Manier on a mean bass and Irwin Fletcher and Chris Penn on vocals. Club 23-playing regulars, SMEAR, along with guitarist Joe Cannon sounded the best they ever have: clangy, noisy and aggressive. Joe even showed us his love of The Generics.
The Prufrocks (cough, cough, nice tooting of one’s literary horn here), formerly known as the Dominic Campanella Band, played some Campanella-Norberg originals as well as the greatest protest song (at least from Spinal Tap’s 60’s) ever, “(Listen to the) Flower People.” Tony Graffeo is a fine guitarist, musician and, apparently, gym-
NAZZ?
nast who gave us a taste of his humor with his performance. Finally, the Metha-tones, featuring graduate student John-Paul Checked and 1991 Notre Dame graduate Brad Bamhorst (wearing the best guitar strap of the night which resembled a coat of mail) roused the dancing Domers with The Velvet Underground’s “Heroin” and “Foggy No
tion.”
In the originality category, we salute DissFunktion; Brian, Colin and Vince; Ruben Kinkaid; Nine Country Fried Chickens (The Bucket-Kickers?) and Oatmeal. DissFunktion showed off some snazzy clothes, covered Prince’s “Housequake” and had agood time, breaking with the trite norm which some otherwise good musicians unfortunately fall. I often wish that Notre Dame bands could get more adventurous and shed the phony obsession with emulating Jerry Garcia or the Indigo Girls.
Brian, Colin and Vince are an acoustic act consisting of the Peter Tork-esque Brian Muller’s goofy but entertaining originals, such as “Honeybunch: I really really really like you/But my friends hate your guts.”
Absolute genius, that Muller kid. Ruben Kinkaid, whose namesake is none other than the “Partridge Family” manager, featured Pete McGillicuddy and Matt Taylor rapping, dancing like Milli Vanilli and wearing polyester. Nine Country Fried Chickens came out dressed in the latest in West Virginia fashion and greeted the audience with their overall strangeness. Oatmeal is seniors Jim Doppke and Jeff Jotz, who brought the minimalist, jangly “Love Rock” revolution
to Notre Dame; they even covered ELO’s “Do Ya” — come on, we all had babysitters who loved that song, admit it.
Other honorable mentions go to New Art Riot, Marracas Confusus and KATHARSIS KATHARSIS. New Art Ript, who only recently started playing together, did a great job Saturday night. Donned in the glamrock makeup and dresses, they covered David Bowie’s “Queen Bitch” and the The New York Dolls’ “Some
thing Else.” Marracas Confusus are a country-ish ensemble with a (wow) real bass, a violin and guitar. KATHARSIS KATHARSIS are the authors of those questionable “Whoa, yeah, Heavy Metal” personals in The Observer last week but were good musicians overall. The Generics and Access Denied win approval for covering Rush, as do XYZ Affair for covering Cheap Trick and Victoria’s Real Secret also deserves a mention for their first song, which was just great
NAZZ ’92 turned out to be a big success. The band that churned out the most support turned out to be, deservingly, DissFunktion, who will be playing sometime during An Tostal later on this semester.	□
MARCH 26, 1992
5
a
ENTERTAINMEN
\l /
Notre Dame’s Public Radio
By Chris Blanford
T overs of classical music found songs ■ j from Bach to Barber represented at a concert sponsored by WSND last Sunday evening in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The performers consisted of both graduate and undergraduate student musicians from Notre Dame.
“The concert is called our first ‘Fine Arts Fund’ concert,” said the WSND station manager, Catherine Warrick. “We’re hoping to use it as a fund-raiser for the radio station.”
According to Warrick, the University supplies most of the operating budget of WSND, but they do not fund staff costs during non-academic sessions. The station must raise money to pay people during academic breaks such as the summertime or Christmas. During the rest of the year, the staff is comprised of non-paid volunteers.
“We try to run the same programs year-round to give us a lot of continuity and make us sound a little more professional,” said Warrick. “We try to keep as much of our regular programming on the air as we can.”
During the daytime hours, WSND broadcasts only classical music. Most of music programs are composed by the student staff. According to Warrick, students are given certain guidelines then they are free to choose whatever they like. On Saturday evenings and Sunday afternoons, listeners may call in to request music.
According to Warrick, there is a large collection of records that has been built up over about thirty years. Although some of their music is on compact disc, budget constraints make it impossible to replace all' their records.
The programming on WSND is not completely classical, however. In the evening there are variety shows such as Blues, Jazz, and Celtic. And after midnight, WSND
plays “alternative” music.
Some of the programs on WSND, like the Chicago Symphony and the MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour, are received from satellite networks, recorded, then re-broadcast.
One of the growing concerns of the station is their transmitter, located on the comer of Kem and Ironwood. It is accessed remotely from the studio.
“We are having problems with faulty equipment that causes us to go off the air during bad weather,” said Warrick. “It is hard for listeners to rely on a station that goes
off the air every time there is an ice storm,”	According to Warrick, announcers spends
she said.	two to three hours on
“If we get a new transmitter, the University will be paying the cost ofaperiodof a few years. It is not certain that w will be get
ting a trans- Jason Catania and Laura Williams perform perience of Kavita mitter yet, al-	"Pieta Signore" by Stradella.	Pullapilly, a Sopho-
though we do need one desperately,” said Warrick. The new transmitter would be much more reliable than the current one.
According to Warrick, the estimated listenership for WSND is 5000 people at any given time. The station broadcasts within a radius of thirty miles. Most of these listeners live in South Bend or nearby communities. “We don’t have a large listenership in the student population,” said Warrick. “But we are trying to increase that”
WSND, located at 88.9 MHz on the FM dial, broadcasts with a strength of 3420 watts. “We’re not as powerful as something like U93,” said Warrick. “There are certain kinds of licences, and we are licensed to be a rather small FM station.”
WSND often finds itself competing with WAUS, another fine arts station, broadcasting from Andrews University. While WSND is staffed by students, WAUS is run by professional broadcasters.
WSND has a “large and committed” staff. “But,” adds Warrick, “we’d like a larger staff. We can always use more volunteers.”
Volunteers need no experience with broadcast or journalism. To be interviewed to work at WSND, all one needs to do is
contact someone who works at the station.
Also, staff is recruited at the annual activities night.
“While we have a lot of student involvement at the station,” said Warrick, “we also have a lot of community volunteers. . . It brings students and community members together at the same level and everyone works together.... Wehaveastudentexecu-tive staff thatruns the station and then all our
volunteers are on-air [staff],” said Warrick. There are seven people on the student executive staff, and forty to fifty other students who volunteer.
the air plus an hour of preparation time. “It’s a low time commitment, but it’s a big responsibility,” said Warrick. All announcers are required to have an FCC license.
Working at WSND was the first radio ex
more business major. “At first I thought it would be really hard,” she said, “but it’s a lot of fun actually.” She said her job as an announcer has given her experience with public speaking and thinking on the spot.
. When Pullapilly auditioned for her spot on WSND, she had to read off the names of composers correctly and tell what she knew about them. After that, they wanted to hear her “radio voice.”
Warrick’s advice is to “get involved.” “If you’re interested in public speaking or broadcast or journalism or music, or anything like that,” she said, “we certainly have room for you here.”	□
SCHOLASTIC
. J
NEWS	>
Inquiry, Community and Belief
Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, receive the Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian servive
by Margaret Kenny
veryone knows that James Earl Carter; H/ Jr. was the thirty-ninth president of the United States. Everyone also knows that Jimmy Carter is the “Peanut King.” Yet it is for his other humanitarian efforts that he and his wife, Rosalynn, were awarded the first Notre Dame Award; not the actions that made him famous as a president, but the more unspoken, unpublicized services, for instance, of the Carter Center.
The Notre Dame Award was. developed in October, 1991 as a complement to the Laetare Medal, which has been awarded annually to an American Catholic that is distinguished in his or her profession since 1883. The Laetare Medal has accumulated an esteemed list of recipients over the last 108 years, including John F. Kennedy, Dorothy Day, Tip O’Neill and Al Smith. The Notre Dame Award, as opposed to the Laetare Medal, is interfaith in scope and international in na-lure.
The criteria for the award is in keeping with the university’s Sesquicentennial themes of inquiry, belief and community — Rev. Edward A. Malloy said that the award is designed for a recipient ‘Tor whom learning has
been a wellspring of action, one for whom religious faith has nurtured deed and one for whom inquiry and belief have inspired service to the world community.”
Malloy also said that the award will be announced on Founder’s Day (October 13) each year, and the recipient will receive an honorarium and an engraved crystal statue symbolizing the award.
the efforts of the many people at the Carter Center whose accomplishments caused him and his wife to receive the Notre Dame Award.
The Notre Dame Award is designed to reflect the increase in the global dimension of Notre Dame and the international character of the Catholic church. Rather than the professional distinction of the Laetare Medal, the Notre Dame Award emphasizes international humanitarian endeavors, and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter were unanimously chosen as its inaugural recipients.
The Carters have an impressive history at the University of Notre Dame; both hold honorary degrees, and President Carter spoke on foreign policy at the 1977 commencement exercises. Mrs. Carter’s association to the university dates back to 1979, when she joined Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh on the National Cambodia Crisis Committee, which battled mass starvation and assisted Cambodian refugees. The committee succeeded in compiling an emergency pack of private and public aid that was worth over a million dollars in a matter of weeks, as Malloy noted in his introduction at the presentation of the award on March 23.
Mrs. Carter currently serves on the advisory council of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and spoke at the dedication of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies last fall. Upon receiving the Notre Dame Award,
MARCH 26, 1992
7
Rosalynn Carter, pictured with Rev. Edward Malloy, is a member of the Kellogg Center
advisory council
Mrs. Carter said that it is important to know and love the people of the world, and that the Hesburgh Center, as well as the students of the university , has the potential to be a “great force for international understanding.”
Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter have remained active in international affairs since leaving the White House, through programs coordinated by the Carter Center. One of the
most well-publicized efforts of the Carter Center is the Habitat for Humanity, a program that builds homes for the poor on a world-wide scope. He said that the program encompasses over 700 communities, has bases on over 200 college and university campuses and includes 33 foreign countries. Mr. Carter stressed in his acceptance speech that he and his wife spend five days each year as carpenters with the other volunteers, and like the other carpenters, “we are told what to do by the boss on our house.” In the award’s citation, the Carters are applauded as, “Kind hosts and fair stewards, builders and menders of homes and homelands, you are among our foremost householders.”
The bulk of President Carter’s speech stressed the importance of those who are often overlooked. He said, “Quite often a former president is honored beyond what he deserves.” He also said that a key factor in the Uni led States is searching for new ideas,
upon which the Carter Center centers its research. Carter said that he and his wife got their reputation for being worthy of the Notre Dame Award from the achievements of all of the people at the Carter Center that are “not famous but deserve to be famous.”
For example, he credited Don Hopkins for the center’s task forceon diseaseeradication, who studied and developed a cure for guinea worm disease and is now working to eradicate the disease completely. Carter also said that the center has also targeted polio for eradication. The former president said this accomplishment “is not because of Jimmy Carter; it is because of Don Hopkins.”
Carter said that the greatest discrimination in the world is “by
the rich of the poor.” He cited every member of the audience as “rich” because “we have a home; we have food to eat; we have health care; we have a molecule
In 1977, President Carter made one of his more important foreign policy speeches at the university's commencement exercises. His speech discussed the diminishing threat of the Soviet Union and the nuclear arms race. At the time, he was widely criticized, yet as Rev. Edward Malloy said, his thoughts were "fully vindicated by recent world events."	□
Public Relations
of education; our children look forward to a fruitful life; we have some form of gainful employment ...” President Carter pointed out that many people do not have any of these things, and that the rich have a “tendency to wipe them out of our minds or to address them mentally in a superficial way.”
President Carter also noted such accomplishments of the Carter Center as an increase in food production around the world and the International Negotiation Network. He said this network was designed to monitor every conflict that happens in the world, since many conflicts are civil, not international, disallowing United Nations intervention. He pointed out that this was accomplished by a lawyer that works through the Carter Center, “not by Jimmy Carter or Rosalynn Carter.”
Carter closed his speech by naming the true heroes of the United States: the unnamed. Those men and women who work in the schools, in the streets, in the clinics.. He urged students to look deeply at the nation
and at themselves, for it is the elements that one cannot see or count — like justice, peace, service, unselfishness, compassion and inquiry — that make a hero.
j
I !
!
|
I
|
• 8
SCHOLASTIC
______CAMPUS LIFE_____
Pre-Med? Summer Job Hunting? Service Volunteer?
Try EMT
By Heidi Laura Toboni
Tt’s 10:00 on Wednesday evening. A -*• group of students listen to an instructor explain how to interpret several EKG readings that appear on the classroom overhead. Is this a late night biology class? A physiology review session? No, it’s part of the new EMT program which has come to Notre Dame.
The Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) class is a new course offered at the Rockne Memorial this semester. Interested students are taught the practical skills and medical knowledge necessary to earn EMT certification enabling one to ride with an ambulance and to administer medical aid.
“It’s really a good class I think, especially for pre-meds,” said Rick Bourdon, a South Bend Fire Department paramedic and a slate- certified Primary Instructor. “A lot of the limes you get new residents at the hospitals, and they don’t really understand what’s going on in the back of an ambulance. They look at us [EMT’s and paramedics] and say, ‘What are you talking about? Why did you do that?’”
In addition to class time, the course requires students to participate in at least five hours of clinical work during which they ride with a South Bend Fire Departmentor a community ambulance. Since gaining as much practical medical experience as pos
MARCH 26, 1992
sible is a course objective, students are encouraged to volunteer for additional hours.
“I’ve already done six, and just signed up for another twenty, said freshman Dave Hazelton.
“We help,” Hazelton said of his time in the field. “I mean, [the paramedics] want to give you as much experience as possible. When you’re out there, they’ll talk to you, explaining what they’re doing, like loading the patients and stuff. You’re right there.”
Most students in the class agree that the practical experience EMT offers is the primary incentive for taking the course they said. It provides the hands-on, practical learning that one does not receive in regular Notre Dame classes. And second semester pre-meds recommend the class as preparation for medical school.
One EMT student, Cindy Chan said she is taking the class for the “practical experience which is good for med school. It’s a good way to find out of you can handle the pressures of the emergency room (ER), of being in the operating room or in an emergency situation. Or if you might want to consider other options, like family practice.”
However, the EMT class is not just for pre-meds. There are many different majors represented by the undergraduates in the class. Students also include Notre Dame graduates as well as non-domers. The class is open to anyone who shows an interest and
pays $200.00 to cover course costs, book fees and the Indiana S tate EMT Certification Test charge.
Some students aren’t planning a future in medicine at all. Many are just looking for an interesting summer job. A student with EMT certification can be hired for ambulance work by their local fire department, hospital or medical center. An average EMT starts out making somewhere between 20,000 and 25,000 dollars a year, although this amount varies from area to area. The training can also help students who want to obtain a paid or volunteer position at a local hospital. Sophomore Amy Rohs said she hopes to work this summer as a hospital volunteer.
Others stress the benefits of the knowledge itself. Freshman Julie Mayglothing said, “It’s kind of comfortable to know if an emergency came up you would know what to do.” She added that the skills she is learning could be especially helpful in the dorms. EMT students would be a great asset in a dorm-related emergency.
Hazleton said his work at a fire department led to his interest in EMT. “I went to a car accident where we had to help an old lady out of her car. When we got there, the lady was sitting in the car, but by the time we got her out, she was already dead. It was so frustrating to be there and not really know what was going on.”
9
After volunteering several years for his local fire department the freshman said he would like to try something else, “something medical.” Hazelton plans to use his EMT skills this summer as an ambulance volunteer, but he does not think he will go into medicine after he graduates.
All the students now taking the EMT course seem to agree on one thing: the course is very enjoyable. Although it involves a lot of classroom time, reading and studying, there is also a definite social element to the training, students say. The class atmosphere is relaxed, and students become good friends. They swap field stories before
and after class, or during one of the many class time breaks.
Another social option is the “weekly study sessions” at the Commons, said Shane Weis, a Notre Dame graduate with a Biology degree.
“It’s really fun and laid back,” said both Rohs and classmate Mary Jo McGuire. Both EMT Instructors, Bourdon and the. course coordinator, Larry Dygulski, bring all types of medical apparatus to class for students to practice on and play around with.
Students usually have class three times a week, on Monday and Wednesday nights from 6:00 to 10:00 p.m. and Saturday mornings from 9:30 to 1:30 p.m. “It’s a big time commitment, but its worth it,” said Rohs. “Monday and Wednesday are doable, but Saturday mornings?!”
Most students agree that the required time commitment is one of the course’s drawbacks. “They do have to attend a certain number of classes set by state guidelines if they are to be certified,” instructor Bourdon
said. “We’ve had pretty good attendance up until mid-terms. Mid-term week we’ve had some students with tight schedules and the classes kind of thinned. But we knew that this was going to happen. We’re sympathetic to it. We’re understandable to problems. But attendance has been very good overall.”
However several students complained about the lack of university credit for their work. “People who do other things are acknowledged with credit by the university,” said Hazelton. “We spend eight to twelve hours a week in class in addition to our full course loads. I take 18 1/2 credit
hours plus this, which is worth about six. And the university is not acknowledging it at all.”
Bourdon said that students are tested on what they’ve learned on a regular basis and must maintain at least 80 percent grade average to be eligible for the state test. “This class is just as tough as any university course that I could be taking now.,” Hazelton said.
Other students disagree with requests for EMT credit. They said that they believe that offering credit for the course would destroy
the present atmosphere of the class. They claim the class would not only become crowded but filled with students interested more in taking an extra credit than the actual learning. Several pre-meds argued that this type of work requires a student who is dedicated to what he or she learns and does, not what recognition he or she receives for it. The students in EMT now, are there for the right reasons.
“This is a fun class,” Bourdon said. “This is one of the best classes I’ve had because everybody is here because they want to be here. A lot of times when I teach somewhere else, people are there because of a job re
quirement for a company. So they’re there, but they mumble, and grumble and sit there like bumps on a log and don’t do a thing. But everybody that’s here wants to be here. That makes the class a lot better. Definitely more fun.”
“The neatest thing about [EMT class] is that it teaches you that life is serious, but it shows you that you can’t take it that seriously,’’Rohs said. “Because life is a very precious and important thing for everybody. But if you take yourself too seriously you lose a lot of the joy
you can have. I mean, the way they do stuff, the class itself is laid back and it’s fun. We joke and stuff, but we still learn. If you take this work too seriously you will bum out, and your just not going to like yourself.”
“The job is just too high stress for that,” said McGuire. “If you see people dying everyday, I mean, if you were a complete emotional basket case, you’d bum out in a year. You learn to take yourself lightly because you can’t deal with it any other way. You can care, but have fun doing it.” □
10
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
A SOUTH AFRICAN PERSPECTIVE
A Different View of Notre Dame
By Audrey Rutherford
6 11 o be a Christian is to be deeply JL concerned with the poor and issues of justice.” Professor Peter Walshe has lived up to his definition of a Christian in many areas of his life in South Africa and Notre Dame. Through organizing missions in Africa, speaking out for the rights of minorities and on the evils of racism, and raising serious questions aboutstudents and faculty and how their money is treated at Notre Dame, Peter Walshe has lived up to his ideal through his genuine concern of these issues.
Peter Walshe was bom in Johannesburg, South Africa of a white Roman Catholic family. He attended high school in Zimbabwe. Growing up in a Roman Catholic family, like a vast majority of the white South-Africans, he did not think to question the racist system in which he lived. After graduating from high school, Walshe went to Oxford University where he began to ask questions about the racist society in which he was living. During this time he began to make friends across the color lines. While at Oxford, Walshe studied politics and economics, concentrating especially on third-world development problems. Walshe says this focus led him to be “drawn into the shoes of justice.”
After finishing at Oxford, Walshe left to teach at a small university in Lesotho in southern Africa. There, as a lecturer, Walshe claimed, “I was taught by my Afri
can students.” At least a quarter of these students were young exiles from South Africa that were protesting the apartheid movement. He learned from them “what is was like to be black in a racist society.” This, he said, turned his life around.
From then on, in his academic work and in his research, Walshe was interested in the black protest movements in southern Africa. Returning to Oxford to complete his doctorate work, Walshe focused on the antiapartheid movement, particularly on the Black National Congress. This organization had opposed the racism in South Africa for over half a century, and consequently, was banned by the
Nick Spangler
“I am very much a socialist and a Christian and I believe you can’t solve many of the crucial issues of human needs by the marketplace.”
South African govemmentin 1960. Walshe wrote the first academic study of the congress entitled, The Rise ofAfricanNational-ism in South Africa. This controversial book was banned. In the early 1960’s, the university where Walshe was teaching was closed. Walshe then came to Notre Dame for the 1962-1963 academic year. He returned to Notre Dame in 1967, and he has been teaching African Studies to ND students ever since.
“I came to Notre Dame because I wanted to continue working in a Christian and a Catholic environ-
- Peter Walshe
SB

MARCH 26,1992
I*
Budgeteer tunotorinn.
♦LAUNDRY
$ PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS
s2595
SINGLE
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 272-9000
♦FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
♦FREE LOCAL CALLS
Share in their growth to fail manhood
ment, says Walshe. In addition to his work in the African Studies department, he has taught a course called, “The Socialist Tradition.” Walshe said, “I am very much a socialist and a Christian, and I believe that you can’t solve many of the crucial issues of human needs by the mar-ketplace.” Walshe feels political decisions need to be made in order to insure that everyone receives their basic medical and educational needs.
Outside of
S.M.A. FATHERS
Society of -----
African	__I
Missions — -
If you would like	i—
to know about us, contact:
Fr. Thomas Conlon, SMA
SMA Fathers, Dept. NDS
23 Bliss Ave., Tenafly, NJ 07670 201-567-0450
Notre Dame, Walshe has run a African institute every summer for the past twenty years.' This program prepares individuals who are planning to work with the Christian churches in Africa. There are now over 500 Notre Dame alumni working in various churches.
Reflecting on Notre Dame, Walshe said, “My one relationship with Notre Dame has been somewhat tense." Sadly, Walshe has come to understand that it is difficult for an institution like Notre Dame to be "prophetic." Walshe says, "It claims to be Christian but cannot really live up to its pretensions." Walshe feels that Notre Dame as an intitution is concerned with its image and security, thus keeping a close relationship with affiliated corporations. Walsh used the Notre Dame board of trustees, which is comprised of accountants, financiers, and bank-'ers, as an example of this relationship. Walshe said that one will not find people who have worked with the poor and trade union leaders on this board. “Notre Dame should be serving the poor, but to a very large extent, it serves the rich, I’m afraid,”
said Walshe.
Over the many years Walshe has been at Notre Dame, tensions have risen between him and the university on several occasions. One tension occurred during the 1970’s, when the university squelched the trade union movement on campus. Another source of tension is Notre Dame’s continued investment in South Africa. A third example of tension is the fact that Notre Dame is run fashioned after a corporate model. Walshe said, “A material Christian community should be a self-governing Christian community.”
Walshe has several gripes as well as suggestions for improvements at Notre Dame. He says the university treats “the students like children and the faculty like hired hands.” He argues that there should be faculty and students on the board of trustees. In addition, the faculty senate should have a major voice in the government of the university. They should have authority in confirming the appointment of university officers. As far as students are concerned, he blames the source of the problem on the largely residential campus. Walshe suggests that students need to actively participate and take a stand on issues they strongly believe in, instead of being passive.
Instead of the representative student body and faculty being white, upper-class, Roman Catholics, the university should attempt to include other Christian denominations, as well as Judaism and members of the Islamic community, Walshe suggests. Another problem Walshe has with the university is that Notre Dame does not have a year abroad in Africa, which he thinks would assist and build bonds with a third-world country. As for the gay and lesbian organization on campus, Walshe thinks recognition of the group will only happen “under a different leadership of the university.”
Peter Walshe has stepped out of line to fight for injustice against the people of his homecountry andfor the peopleoftheNotre Dame community and surrounding areas. As a member of the faculty, he could be concerned with bettering life academically. Walshe is genuinely concerned with making Notre Dame and the world a better place, and his efforts persist toward this goal. □
12
SCHOLASTIC
dinher oh Mar. 26-27.

J-/- PORTRAIT SITTING TIMES:	.
'Mon, Mar. 30-Wed. Apr 1	Thursday Apr, 2	Friday Apr. 2
H a,m.-3 p.m,	ll.a.m.-l.p.m.	ll.a.m.-l.p.m.
If you want your protrait taken	3 p.m.-5 p.m.	3 p,m,-5 p.m,
. oii tlicise days, sign up at the In-	If you want your portrait taken	If you want your portrait taken
formation desk in LaForlune	on this day, sign up at North	on this day, sign up at South
Diniiig Hall during lunch or	Dining Hall during lunch or
dinner oh Mair; 26-27
during the week Mar. 23-27.


a
A Rocky Road to
the NCAA Tourney
After a disappointing regular season, the Fighting Irish women's basketball team swept through the MCC tournament en route to a NCAA tournament bid
By Amanda Clinton
At the beginning of the season, Sports Information asked members of the Notre Dame women’s basketball team what teams they thought might make it to the NCAA Final Four. Eleven thought that the Fighting Irish might be one of the four. The team did not advance to the second round of the NCAA tournament, but at least it made an appearance - an appearance that last year’s highly heralded team was controversially denied.
The 1990-1991 women’s basketball season ended on a disappointing note. Boasting a 23-9 record and a national Top 25 ranking, the Irish were snubbed by the NCAA Selection Committee of an invitation to the NCAA tournament. However, the successes of the 1990-1991 team did not go completely unnoticed. They brought attention to the Notre Dame program, along with three outstanding freshmen recruits for the 1991-1992 season. Considering this influx of talent, expectations were high for this year but the Irish fell prey to the pressure. Rather than having a season that included
Sports Information
Head Coach Muffet McGraw had high hopes for this season's squad. After facing adversity, her players fought for a NCAA tournament bid that disporoved all those that doubted the strength of the squad.
a winning record and a shot at the NCAA title, the Fighting Irish found themselves traveling a rocky road to the NCAA tournament.
Despite an 11-16 record . this year, the Irish did earn a bid to the NCAA tournament by winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship. Head Coach Muffet McGraw knew that the regular season schedule, would not be easy and that therefore a bid to the NCAA tournament might come down to the MCC tournament.
She said to Sports Information in thebeginning of the season, “Many coaches will say that their team has to rise to the occasion. That’s just not going to be good enough for us. We have to play our best game everyday - our schedule demands it and, not only that, we shouldn’t settle for anything less.”
The season started off slowly with two tough losses to Penn State and Stanford. The Irish then bounced back with a win over Marquette before plunging into a three game losing streak against
14
SCHOLASTIC
Purdue, Georgia, and Michigan. The season continued in an unpredictable fashion until mid-February when the Irish won five of their seven remaining regular season games.
Explained junior guard Coquese Washington, “This season we put unnecessary pressure on ourselves to do well. We were uptight and did not perform well when we forced things. The freshmen putpressure on themselves to cany the team. It was not until the last month of the season that we began to take the pressure off ourselves and began to have fun.”
The team then swept through the MCC tournament like it had hoped to sweep through the regular season and beat Xavier in the championship game.
Although the Notre Dame women’s basketball team drew the dominant UCLA Bruins for the first round of the NCAA tournament, team spirits were high.
“There was no pressure on us in the NCAA’s,” said senior captain Margaret Nowlin. “We had nothing to lose. We were clearly the underdog.”
The Irish have returned to South Bend
defeated each and every time that they have played UCLA in Los Angeles. This game saw a similar fate. The Irish suffered a 20 point loss to the Bruins. Although freshman Michelle Marciniak lead the team with 21 points, overall the Irish only shot 34 percent from the floor.
“We were a little nervous at the beginning of the game, and we never settled down,” explained Nowlin.
Despite the overall disappointments of this season, the team is focusing on the positive sides of their experiences.
“As an athlete, this season was a learning experience,” said Washington. “It was not about wins and losses, but instead about dealing with people. Weleamedtogetalong in the good and the bad. This season we learned to enjoy the game for what it is.”
Now that the season is over, all are awaiting Audrey Gomez's decision about next year, a decision which might not be manifested by a change in play but by a change in residence. Gomez is considering transferring to another college, and other colleges are drooling at the possibility. Gomez, the
one-time New Jersey high school player of the year, is an explosive talent, but her recovery from recen knee surgery makes her a risky gamble. Teammate Michelle Marciniak, the one-time national high school player of the year, has already announced her intentions of transferring.
Explained Marciniak, “Before the basketball season started I told Coach McGraw that I would give it a year and look back after the season was over and make my decision. There were lots of ups and downs.”
Despite the loss of one player and the prospect of the loss of another, the other players remain supportive of Gomez or Marciniak.
“We want Audrey and Michelle to do what is best for them,” said Washington. “Their thoughts did not affect our play.”
Whether or not Gomez or Marciniak return next year, the Irish will capitalize on their new NCAA tournament experience. The Irish will take this year’s experience and convert it into consistency and confidence in the 1992-1993 season in their search for NCAA tournament success. □
The 1991-1992 Notre Dame Women's Basketball Team
Sports Information
MARCH 26,1992
15
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Colin Clary at 239-7569.
Thursday 26
Movie: "Sleeping With The Enemy," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Lecture: "The Formation of Party Systems and the Consolidation of Democracy in East Central Europe," Herbert Kitschelt, Duke University. Hesburgh Center for International Studies, 7 XX) p.m.
Panel Discussion: "Safety on Campus: Policies and Procedures Concerning Rape and Harassment," Haggar Parlor, SMC, 7:30 p.m.
Fine ArtrOpening Reception with slides and lecture, "Paintings — Robert Mahomey," Riley Hall, 7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: "What Can Students Do for Peace and Justice at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's?" Center for Social Concerns, 8:00p.m.
Friday 27
Movie: "Jungle Fever," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Cape Fear," 7:15 & 9:45p.m., Snite, $2.
Musical: "Nunsense," O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC, 8:00 p.m. Lecture: "The India-Pakistan Conflict," M. Suresh Babu. Hesburgh Center for International Studies, 12:30 p.m.
Panel Discussion: "The Impact of the Press on the Gulf War," Library Auditorium, 4:00 p.m;
Sesquicentennial Nieuland Physics Lecture: "From Quarks to Cosmology," Leon M. Lederman, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Library Auditorium, 8:00p.m.
Saturday 28
Movie: "Jungle Fever," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Cape Fear," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Performance: "Pomerium Musices -Early Music Ensemble," A special presentation for Sesquicentennial Year at Notre Dame. Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8:00p.m.
Performance: Spring Concert, Chamber Singers. Little Theatre, SMC, 8:00p.m. Tennis: Notre Dame Women vs.
Wisconsin, Eck Pavilion, 3:00p.m. Lacrosse: Notre Dame vs. Hofstra. Krause/Loftus, 2:00p.m.
Pe Cr Or 8:( Te
Be a.r Pe Sn

Fili Fili 9X)
BiriOoliTnMM
£77
LaFortunelnformatiomDesk:; 239-8128 ;Oli-’ Senior 'Class:-239-M^te^i-s®
Student Union
'Junior Class: 239-5117
Snite Film Series Hot Line:;: 239-73617
Sophomore Glass: 239-5225 : : :
NDNewsLme:239-5110 JACCTicketlnformation::	<■ ■
;NolreDameMenuLme:28
Weekend Wheels Schedule:
f \ i f 7-.	: ■■■ ,
touch Four
Dial 239-2500, then press x 2101for movie info.
x 2114 for the music line x 2112 for concert info.
x 2117 for theatre info? ? : x 2525 for college events
x 1600 for local weather
x 1603 for national weather ? ■? ?
x 1903 for movie reviews '
x 13(M for local spprts in^^
x 13di for TV sports eyents
x 1303fornational sports report xi213forworldnews
Sunday
rformance: Faculty Organ Recital, aig Cramer, professor, University ganist. Basilica of the Sacred Heart, X)p.m.
nnis: Notre Dame Women vs.
•ston College. Eek Pavilion, 11:00 n.
rformance: "20th Century Music," ite, 2:00 p.m.
londay
30
Tuesday
31
Film: "L'eclisse," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "The Bandwagon," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
Noon talk: "The Mappa Mundi: Maps and the Columbian Encounter 13th-17th Centuries," O'Shaughnessy East, 12:10 p.m.
Wednesday 1
Film: "Hamlet," Cushing, 7:00 p.m.
TOUCH FOUR
COMING SOON
Sophomore Siblings
Weekend!!
April 3 & 4
Movie Theatres:
1 ) r ?
m: "The Conformist," Snite, 7:00 p.m. m: Avant Garde Films at the Snite, 0p.m.
Scottsdale Theatre:
291-4583
20th Century Foi
Mitchell Whitfield, Ralph Macchio and Joe Pesci star in My Cousin Vinny open now in theaters all over Mishawaka.
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
100 Center Cinema I&H:
259-0414
Town &Country Theatre:
259-9090
University Park Cinema East: -	277-7336.
Forum I & II Cinema: ?	277-1522
ON THE BRINK
After defeating Big Ten Champions Purdue, the Notre Dame Rugby Team eyes the Midwest Tournament Championship
by E. Rommel Nash
When all was said and done last fall, the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club ended its season with an impressive 73 record, including a perfect 7-0 record against other collegiate teams. The rugby team also claimed the Chicago Area Rugby Football Union (CARFU) Tournament championship, a championship that grants the team an automatic bid to the Midwest Championships later this spring. The rugby team bteezed through the CARFU Tournament by amassing a 96-6 combined score total against three different teams.
This spring, the rugby team has already defeated Westminster College of the Pittsburgh area by a score of 52-0. This past weekend, the team defeated Big Ten champions Purdue University by a score of 18-15. This hard fought game was tied 15-15 as time expired, but fortunately an offsides penalty was handed to Purdue. Notre Dame then completed a 30-meter penalty kick for the victory. This game showed the rugby team a littlebit of what itcan expect throughout the spring season, and especially throughout the upcoming Midwest Tournament: every team is tough! Purdue is one of the sixteen teams invited to the Midwest Tournament.
This weekend, the rugby team plays perennial powerhouse South Side Irish, a team from Chicago. The three games will be played on Notre Dame's home field, the Colonel John Stephen's pitch behind Stepan \ Center. Grudge matches between.the two .teams of Fighting Irishmen promise to be spectacular. The following weekend, the rugby team travels to play Day ton University as a prelude to the Midwest Touma-
18
ment.
Then, on April 11, Notre Dame will be one of the four regional sites for the first round of the Midwest Tournament. Notre Dame will take on the University of Wisconsin at Whitewater. In the other match, Southern Illinois University will battle Miami of Ohio. The winners of these two games will clash for a chance to advance in the tournament. The victor will go on to the Midwest Final Four at Bowling Green State University. Four teams will play there for one coveted invitation to advance to the National Championships in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in the first weekend in
The Notre Dame rugby team claimed the CARFU Tournament championship last fall, therby gaining an automatic bld to the Midwest Championships this spring.
photo by J.G. Lyman
May. The rugby team's final game will be played over An Tostal weekend at home against Northwestern University.
The Notre Dame rugby team is on the brink of great success. Fan support is greatly appreciated. Again, the Notre Dame rugby field, the Colonel John Stephen's pitch, is located behind Stepan Center. Games generally start at noon, but consult the newspapers from week to week to check the exact starting times of the games. Come support one of Notre Dame's great athletic teams!
E. Rommel Nash is the Notre Dame rugby team's media correspondent. □
SCHOLASTIC
Ready to Row
The Notre Dame Crew Team anticipates a strong showing at this spring's
Midwest Sprints
by Dave Reeder
Fresh from the grueling sun of two-a-days in Tampa, Florida, over spring break, the Notre Dame rowing team has returned to South Bend and the lovely shores of the St. Joe River with a renewed feeling of hunger for victory. With the loss of many veteran rowers from both varsity teams last year, the younger members of the team have had to step up to new positions. However, their growth has been tremendous over the fall and winter, and it looks as if the Irish
rowers are primed for another great spring season.
The men's varsity is led by a lightweight crew comprised of Heidi Weber, Mike Bertin, Jamie Stathas, Christian Dunbar, and Tim Sosnowski. Bertin and Stathas, both of whom have over four years of rowing experience, hope to lead their crew to an undefeated season that began with a win at The President's Day Regatta in Tampa, Florida.
Commentes, Bertin, "We've been working hard all year for the spring sprint season to start. Now that its fi
nally here, we want to
show everyone what we've got. We refuse to lose."
While the other boats on the men's varsity team hold less experience, they too know what they must do to win, and they are making the adj ustments necessary to prepare themselves for the Midwest Sprints.
MARCH 26, 1992
Men's coach Matt Keating says, "The younger guys on the team are learning fast. We will be ready come Midwest Sprints in April."
Adds captain Joe Werner, "Anyone who has counted us out this year will be in for a big surprise come Midwest Sprints."
This seems like sound advice from Werner considering the power and the expertise that he and teammate Kurt Lindgren bring to their heavyweight crew. Teamed with young upstarts Steve Kremenacker and Steve Crowley, this crew cetainly will be
photo by Heidi Weber
The Notre Dame crew team, pictured here on Boston's St. Charles River, will combine experience with enthusiasm — the best in the Midwest.
one to be reckoned with later this season.
The women’s varsity is poised for a strong season as well. The women’s light crew is comprised of Tricia Starr, Tara Duffy, Terry Squyres, Jen Retterer, and Shanon Guiltinan. This crew features three returning rowers and is gunning for first place in
the Midwest
"We’ve got the experience we need to win," says Duffy. "We all know what that winning feeling is like, and we are ready to feel it again."
The women's heavy crew stands just as formidable with Christina Soletti, Maureen Haggard, Amy Hallenback, Claire Robinson, and Brooke Bickerton.
Coxswain Soletti says, "Although we had a disappointing first race, we have used the loss to help to inspire us to work harder. We're really looking forward to redeeming
ourselves."
Furthermore, both novice teams are doing well. After the exciting President’s Day Regatta, the novice teams are anxious to race again and see how they can do against local Midwest competition.
"The novice are progressing well," says coach Pete "Slammer" Slamakowski. "They've got what it takes to win. They’ve just got to go out and prove it to everyone else."
The rowing team will be racing this Sunday, March 29, at Margaret Prichet Park in Mishawaka. Races
start at 10 a.m. and end at 3 p.m.
□
Dave Reeder is the Notre Dame crew . team's media correspondent.
19
SPORTS
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
LaPhonso Ellis: Ellis, a senior forward for the men's basketball team from East St. Louis, IL, was a dominating force at both ends of the floor in Notre Dame's 64-47 drubbing of the Kansas State Wildcats in the second round of the NIT Basketball Tournament played at the JACC. Ellis tallied 15 points on offense an 15 rebounds on defense. Most impressive, however, were Ellis' eight blocked shots, a number that is now in the Notre Dame record books. "Their shots seemed to be in slow motion," said Ellis.
Tanya Williams: Williams, a junior on the women's swim team from Boca Raton, FL, went to the NCAA swimming championships in Austin, TX, last weekend where she faired very well. Williams finished 18th in the 200-meter individual medlay, tied for 17th in the 100-meter backstroke, and finished 10th in the 200-meter backstroke. Williams' times of 2:03.06 in the individual medlay and 56.07 in the 100-meter backstroke were personal bests. In these events, Williams missed the consulation rounds by two and one spots respectively.
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
an
20
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Doadl IBsidL

Badger on the rocks
The rowdiness associated with our esteemed student section at athletic events pales in comparison to the depth and originality displayed at the University of North Dakota. According to U. The National College Newspaper, aUND student was recently fined $75 for throwing a dead badger on the ice rink prior to a game between North Dakota and the University of Wisconsin Badgers. Apparently, it’s a tradition at the school to throw a a dead version of the opponents mascot onto the ice prior to the start of the game. Security attempts to keep this practice at a minimum by searching the students before they enter. Hopefully the tradition can be ended before North Dakota ends up utilizing potential rink-destroying mascots from UNLV (Sharks), Pittsburgh (Panthers), or even a dreaded Indiana Hoosier..
Anything for extra credit
S ome s tuden ts in Professor Bruce Smackey ’ s marketing class will do anything for extra credit - even suffer through a date with another member of the class, according to Ut The National College Newspaper. The Lehigh University professor believes that male-female relationships on college campuses have become deplorable. Students who agree to go out with another member of the class receive additional credit. “Dating is an enjoyable experience. I wish more students would forget the fears of rejection and get motivated to meet other people,” Mackey said. However, the dating disaster is < “not just at Lehigh, but in society as a whole.” Take heartND, you’re notalone. '	.
She’s talking to rodents
Squirrels have become more than disease carrying, rat-like rodents to many Stanford University students, reports the Stanford Daily. Much like the spoiled, overfed breed prevalent in these parts of the woods, S tanford’s black squirrels have a tendency to become attached to the passing campus residents. In fact, one squirrel known as “Dizzy” collects its peanuts from a bowl on one employees desk rather than hunt for food on its own. Dizzy apparently has few morals. As her guardian states, “She’s probably responsible for the squirrel population around here.” Yetis appears some may betaking this human/rodent contact a little too far. One optimistic employee states, “She’s real smart. I’m kind of waiting for her to reach up and open the door or call me on the phone.” Keep waiting.
Dance Riot at Berkeley
University of California at Berkeley students decided to go on an extended looting rampage after they were turned away from a popular Fraternity dance, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. The violence took place on a stretch of Telegraph Avenue, a main thoroughfare, and included guns being fired and the breaking of store windoms. Over $15,000 worth of damage occurred after the students were excluded from the dance in the S tudent Union. Hopeful dancers were apparently outraged when they heard strains of "Hoochie Coochie La La La" but were unable to participate.
I’m Good Enough, I’m Smart Enough ...
In the age of the 12-step therapy group and self-esteem counseling, one can now easily judge one's maturity level with just a few facts according to the Stanford Student Body supplement. A ‘grown-up’ is characterized as having “a capacity to be alone and be comfortably reflective or active; the capacity to structure 'down time,' to see it as an opportunity instead of a dreaded stretch of lonely hours” and has “an essential optimism about himself and others.” For those of you considered to be ‘child-like’ you must have “a capacity to attend to other people’s needs, deal with the realities of the workplace and social world while maintaining a sense of humor, perspective and caring.” Sound painfully dull, don’t they? Last but not least, everyone’s favorite and most prevalent personality — the childish person “bears an inordinate sense of entitlement that is striking in its pervasiveness and unsettling when encountered repeatedly.” That's more like it. □
Edited by Mike Owen
MARCH 26, 1992
21
And Now A Word From SPY
I
'L
Here’s something a little different in the wake of Monsieur Manners’ untimely death which will hopefully match his sarcastic bite. The excerpts below are dispatches from the pages of SPY magazine. In case you’re not familiar with it, SPY is the outrageous and often shocking magazine from the nation’s most outrageous and shocking city (New York, if there was a doubt). Most importantly, SPY is downright funny. The magazine satirizes everything in public life and trends from George Bush to the 100 mostannoying people, places, and events of the year. Enjoy.
Is Ann B. Davis Rose Mary Woods?
We knew it was much more than a hunch — the similarities between our favorite television family and the life and times of our 37th president were too uncanny to be coincidence, despite the fact that there was never an episode in which Greg and Marcia drunkenly engaged Henry Kissinger in prayer.
Richard Milhous Nixon
Nixon has five letters
Presidency began in 1969
Presidency ended in August 1974
Native southern Californian
Returned to TV in 1974 (with David Frost)
Staged early-1980’s comeback (with The Real War)
Six Crises
Was lawyer in previous job
Big football fan
Secretly taped conversations in White House, 1971
Pat Nixon referred to as “Lonely Lady” of San Clemente
First secretary of Defense gruff but tolerable Melvin Laird Had a beloved dog, Checkers
Meet the Nobelists!
THIS MONTH’S QUESTION: What is the best way
to eat an Oreo cookie?
Dr. Daniel Nathans, 1978 Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine: “I haven't eaten Oreos for a while... I eat animal cookies with my granddaughter. I generally bite off the head first, then proceed in a bit more random way to eat the rest... Maybe that sort of, let's say, dehumanizes them ... But this is sort of ruminating without any conviction that I’ve got my finger on anything.”
Dr. Hamilton O. Smith, 1978 Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine: “I love to take them apart; I don't know why. [Not] completely apart: I like to take one piece off and then the other, with the white filling still on it, [and] I eat that ... then ! eat the single side, separately.”
Dr. J. Michael Bishop, 1989 Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine: “Dunk it in lea. Dunking cookies is part of my heritage-central Pennsylvania. I think it's a way to revive stale baked goods. Oreos may not be stale, but they're certainly crunchy. You dunk them, and then they're nice and soft. I don't eat Oreos now, anyway. It's been
22
The Brady Bunch
Brady has five letters
Series began in 1969
Series ended in August 1974
Native southern Californians
Returned to TV in 1977 (with Brady Bunch Hour)
Staged early-1980’s comeback (with The Brady Brides)
Six children
Mike Brady was lawyer in previous job (on The Defenders)
Greg star of Westdale High grid team
Peter secretly taped conversations in house, 1971
Carol Brady referred to as “lovely lady” in theme song Gruff but lovable Sam the butcher played by Allan Melvin Had a beloved dog, Tiger
years... much to my regret. You dunk itabouthalfwayinandeathalf the cookie, then dunk it a quarter, and so forth... I hope none of my friends see this.”
Dr. Baruj Benacerraf, 1980 Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine: “I have eaten an Oreo; apparently it is something which happens to one in one’s life. My grandchildren love it, and it is put out by Nabisco, right? It is pleasant, but it certainly does not compare with better forms of food. I eat it with two fingers of one hand. Every time I eat a cookie like that, I take it out of the package and eat it, usually in a couple of swallows. I was very careful not to eat any more than that, because I tend to be chubby.”
Dr. Gertrude B. Elion, 1988 Nobel Prize in Physiology/Medicine: “Oh, for heaven’s sake, whatkind of a question is that?... I eat them straight out of the package.”	□
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Living on your own = It ain't chic
Liz Graner explains living alone means more than shoplifting Neutrogena
By Liz Graner
A n overly-defensive friend of mine zV-claims that since i’s so “fashionable” to get out into the world and live on your own, he’s decided to stay with his parents for the next decade or so. “Yes, my friend,” I replied, “worrying about whether or not I have enough money to buy the less coarse bathroom tissue is indeed fashionable. I can’t imagine why Cosmo hasn’t trekked to Lasalle Street to do a cover story on my unfurnished apartment and unintentional weight-loss program.”
Life in the fast lane (gang territory) is not only invigorating (as a result of the exercize I get running from the bus stop before twilight hits), but it is also a good life lesson such as don’t go in to the friendly neighborhood grocer and squeal, “But where do you keep the Ben and Jerry’s?. I have, in the process of assimilating into my new environment, learned much about myself. I regret being a liberal arts major, I know why my mother yelled, “Spoiled heathen!” into the phone all of the time, and I wouldn’t mind being the proud owner of a Doberman right about now. Living
on my own has taught me that I only have
one person upon whom I could rely (DADDY).
I suppose I really couldn’t say that I don’t feel safe in my apartment (with the exception of when I’m home), because my neighbors have been nothing but nice (they laugh at me). I have considered modifying some of my idiosyncrasies to fit into the community (trading in my pearls for a Raiders jacket); I’ve even shown a family-oriented side to the folks (caucasoid refuse) across the street. I pretended to have a daughter and yelled,
“TWILA, G’WAN DOWN TO THE
UNOCAL AND PICK ME UP SOME RED
MAN!”. I guess it didn’t work because
when I was returning a ball to one of the (seventeen or so) children, his parent (trailer park Mama) did not seem too interested in befriending me. She hollered, “Brandon, git yer butt over here, and if you git ran over by a car and die, I’ll kill you!”.
Entertainment is not a problem when your life is so interesting (911 operators know me by name now). I don’t have a television, but real life is the best drama in itself. One night last summer, I got to listen to the trailer park Mama and her husband beat the stuffing out of one another, and then both of them beat up the cop. Occasionally, the collegiate urge to
Leisurely Liz at South Carolina's Lizards Thicket Country Cookin'
go out (drink heavily) with my comrades arises, so I just call up and see what’s on for the evening (“DEBBIE, GET ME THE HELL OUT OF HERE!”). But, as most of us know by now, it is better to make one’s own fun, especially when you live by yourself. Talk radio at night usually takes my mind off my fear.
Finally, it is necessary to know how to budget when you plan on making those extra few cents (actually/ew extra cents) go a little further. Sometimes, it may seem a little hard
(when you get caught shoplifting Neutrogena™), some patience (starvation) and perserverence (knowing how not to get caught shoplifting Neutrogena™ or your finer needs) can make those pennies (literally — pennies) go a little further. So use some frugality (Suave™ products suck) and I’m sure you can get by (I prefer to call up i good old Daddy).
Yes, for those of you considering leaving the security of your Glen views, your Edinas,. or your downtown Newark, New Jerseys, I fully suggest living on your own to get a feel for what it will be like for the rest of your lives (as long as Daddy can afford it and doesn ’ t demand for me to move back home). It’s a good opportunity to see how you can live (what you can live without), and proves that Mom might have been right when she gave you all of those “Beer budget/cham-pagne taste” lectures (or start dealing crack).
When you think about it, it does boggle the mind, the never-ending battle to make the decision of what to do beyond the graduation date; the decision of whether to save money to for the $60 million dollars or so that financial aid offices claim you owe them and stay at home, orbrave the forces of not having a security system and/or armed guard and live on your own somewhere, say, for instance, downtown South Bend? I have chosen to do the latter for a while, and have discovered that I am as dumb as I look. However, the way-off-campus lifestyle has ; taught me a valuable lesson—I’m going to start dating M.B.A.’s.	Q
Liz "Lizzie" Graner is the former Entertainment Editor o/Scholastic. Her hobbies and interests include cocktail waitressing, hopscotch and Tuesday nights with the bowling league.
MARCH 26, 1992
23
ssssbs
S E S Q U 1 C E N T E N N IA L ANNIVERSARY
J: ;T E
E
Glancing Back
The Committee on the History of the University collectsed and preserved Notre Dame's history
V Compiled by Kristin Greeley
i	£ £ Trusty but fascinating.” These are the
;j _ U words with which junior Barb Frey j • describes part of her involvement with the Committee on the History of the university.
i: The committee, set up by university provost j Fr. James T. Burtchaell in 1973, has as one i|- of its objectives the collection and preserva-■r: tion of materials pertinent to a study of ! Notre Dame’s history. For Barb Frey, that r; . sometimes means rummaging through
;	documents over a hundred years old. She is
i L . the student representative on the committee, 11 working with Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, chair-I i : man, and Thomas Schlereth, secretary.
I This committee also has, in the words of ! 5i Fr. Blantz, two other goals in mind: “to encourage further interest and research into if ’ Notre Dame’s history,” and “to support, j	perhaps sponsor, a definite history of the
ft : University at least by the sesquicentennial ;	year, 1992.”
[; The committee has met on an average of । three times a year since its inception and is ; collecting materials from a variety of sources. Naturally,oneofthemostvaluable i ’i storehouses of historical data on the uni-i n	versity is to be found in the personal collec-
i tions of alumni. Fr. Blantz has made it a ?	point to notify the alumni of this committee,
:	asking them if they have any material at all
: j which would be of value to this committee i ji or to future historians. In particular, alumni I J; are being asked to contribute photographs, | rj	personal correspondence and copies of stu-
! ‘; dent publications — specifically small hall i : papers or newsletters which may have only
• survived for a year or two.
i During the last four years, the university < 24
has obtained, through the work of the committee, copies of important materials housed in other depositories of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Tom Schlereth noted that in the spring of 1975, “The university acquired from the Archives of the Indiana province of the priests of Holy Cross 49 rolls of microfilm of records pertinent to the work of the congregation in the United States from 1842 through 1909.” In addition, the university also received a xeroxed copy of “Brother Aidan’s Extracts,” a manuscript documenting the work of the Holy Cross Brothers at Notre Dame and throughout the Midwest.
Also, with the encouragement from the committee, the University Archives has continued its project of conducting oral history interviews with persons particularly knowledgeable about University life and history. “Approximately 12 retired members of the faculty have been interviewed concerning academic and student life here at Notre Dame since World War I,” Schlereth noted.
Through its research into the. annals of the early years of Notre Dame, the committee has discovered a few student organizations and publications which had been forgotten for decades. In addition, it recently acquired the lecture notes of a student who was present at a series of lectures given by the prominent Catholic author, G. K. Chesterton, in Washington Hall in 1930. The Chesterton Review, a Canadian journal, is in the process now of recapturing as much of the series as possible from this student’s notes. Interesting photographs surface periodically, as do short-lived hall newspapers. Blantz commented that there is an adequate amount of information from the office of the
president and other official matters. “We really don’t have,” he continued, “that much information from a student’s point of view. So that is why we are making an added effort these days to collect student records.”
The committee’s efforts to eventually produce a history, perhaps multi-volumed, of the university is no revolutionary endeavor. Many schools have prepared histories of their particular institutions. Yet, this history will document not only the happenings on a few thousand acres in northern Indiana over a span of 150 years. The history ultimately becomes, in the words on Tom Schlereth, “a cosmopolitan story,” due to the university’s broad and extensive influence.
The committee’s research can also serve the present community of Notre Dame by giving us a sense of present identity, a sense of who and what is responsible for Notre Dame being what it is. today. Schlereth commented that most people think only about the future or long-range goal of a committee such as this — the collection of materials so that someone in the future can understand what went on years ago. Yet this data is also of immediate significance. Schlereth stated that a “marvelous example was the Student Life Commission’s examination of past disciplinary regulations and other questions considered in the late .‘60’s, because they seemed to be surfacing again in their meetings now in the mid ‘70’s. They found, after some digging, some material which was useful to them here and now.” Blantz supported this idea by saying that one of the purposes of the Committee is to enable us to know and to grasp better our own history and our own contributions, and in
SCHOLASTIC
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
particular, “to know exactly how we got here, the decisions that were made on the hiring of faculty, the financial priorities we have had over the years, why certain departments were set up, why we do not have a medical school, why we do not have various other things that we could have; in short, how all this developed.”
In gathering historical materials, systematically organizing them, and then making them accessible, the committee is attempting to raise the consciousness of the university community about its past. Schlereth sees a resurgent interest into Notre Dame’s past, and he hopes that this will continue. He stated that “many members of theUniversity faculty, staff, administration and student body on their own initiative have offered suggestions or collected and forwarded pertinent materials, and for all of this we are grateful.” Yet there is still a need to encourage more student involvement in the committee’s project. “One thing we’d definitely like to receive a great deal more of is studonf ^nrresnondence,” Schlereth com
mented. This correspondence could be letters home or to friends, diaries or journals, or anything at all that would serve to recreate undergraduate life here. Schlereth continued by saying that “we’d be most happy to receive” anything the students deem of historical influence.
Although Fr. Blantz remains extremely active on the committee, his retirement as niversity archivist and committee chairman will be realized before too long. As an associate professor of history, he feels he is not able to devote enough of his time to the committee causes as he would like to: “I think it would be valuable for the operation here in the archives to have a full-time person.” Both he andFr. Burtchaell agreed that, because the committee was demanding more and more time, a full-time archivist was needed. There has been no specific date set for his retirement. “It could conceivably be tomorrow, or in a year or year and a half,” Blantz stated.
While talking with Fr. Blantz and Tom Schlereth, one comes to appreciate a com
pletely new dimension of history. The committee’s scholarly approach does not obliterate the personableness which can be a sincere part of history. The committee is interested in official records and published sources. Yet perhaps a more important tributary of the historic method is the personal, in a sense, humble, approach. The university as seen by the students is just as important, and perhaps more so, than the university seen by the board of trustees. Every student is an intricate and essential component of the university. And Fr. Blantz, Tom Schlereth and the rest of the committee see and encourage this notion.
In not too many years, we will be able to touch Notre Dame only in our memories. We will look back on these years with some degree of fondness. A bit of history will be in us, to complement the history which has been recorded.	□
This article originally appeared in the May 2, 1977 issue of Scholastic and was written by staff member T. Peter O’Brien.
• You deserve / •
FR I DR V tUNCH

12:00-2:00 pm
m ALUMNI
Mrai SENIOR
ECLUB
Subsu Burjgers Pizza
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Rlumni-Senior Club is open euery Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday night from 9:00 pm until 2:00 am
LD. Required
MARCH 26, 1992
25
WHAT'S NEW AT PARISI’S?

1412 South Bend Ave., South Bend, Indiana
NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH!
MON-FRI, 11AM-2PM
GARLIC CHEESE BREAD	FRENCH ONION SOUP...................$2.95
ItalianBmJ, Fresh Gertie, Butter with M«>Ur.ib arm.----------------$1.95 SOUP DU JOUR........................$2^5
BBQ RIB TEASERS
Four 4umhI Wiiuifaj
fa < 4 wont Sauce—..,,    ___________ . $435
POTATO SKINS VENICE
Topped with Bacon, Mozzarella Cheese
Seallions, & Served with «
Side o/ Sour Cream—_____ .. .   ,: $ j 95
BAKED BRIE A Wheel of Soft French Ouese, Baked with Sweet Butter, Topped with Toasted Almonds & Served with Toast	$535
TOSSED SALAD
IMilM Gmiu.T«m.tot. & m.lOH»^^^.$235
CHICKEN SALAD
Frish Bed of Lettuce with Chicken,
Sliced Tomato, &Fndt Garuiah-—7	$3.95
JULIENNE SALAD
Fresh Greens with Julienne of Turkey,
Ham, & Imported Cheeses
Topped with Croutons_______—-	$4 95
ANTIPASTO PLATE
Italian Marinated Meats, Imported Cheeses,
Black Olivn, Pepperoncini, & Tomatoes on a Bed oft^thier...-..	... r . , , , $4 Qg
CHOICE of DRESSINGS House Italian, Weatnn, Ranch
Vinegar & Oil, OumJty Blue Cheese
CHICKEN ITALIANO
Marinated Chicken Breast in Fresh Baril, Rosemary, Oregano,in Tomato Sauce & Served with P«M——.—.»■■■■ ■ ,5550
BEEF TENDER'S BORDELAISE
Tendon of Beef Braised fa a Bordelaise Sana, Scallions, Mushrooms, & Served over Rice Pilaf———-$635
ORANGE ROUGHY PARMESAN
Broiled Rou^ry with Lemon Garlic Butter, Fresh Parsley, Parmesan, Sr Served over Rice Pilaf-——^$635
CHICKEN FETTUCCINE
Fresh Sauteed Chicken over Fettuccine with Mushrooms, Tomatoes, & OMom, Served fa a light Cream Sauce--4545
HADDOCK ITALIANO
Haddock Baked fa Gertie, Panely, Oregano, Green Peppers, Sr Tomato Sauce, Topped with Mozzarella Sr Seasoned Bread Crumbs- ■ ....l..™....,..	$735
Specialties include Salad
or
Cup of Soup
CHICKEN CROISSANT		ITALIAN BEEF Ro.il Bnf, Roailtd Gnn P^pm,A.)M served on French	_ _.. _ ... .^. _.	<c ac
Chicken Breast Sauteed in Herbs, fir Garlic on a Fresh CroluanL—.^—.		$05		
ITALIAN SAUSAGE Sausage Cooked fa Grew Peppen, Gnlons, & Tomato Sauce, Served on French Bread, with Oieeae Add 11.00			$430	ITALIANHAM Mounds of Thin Shaved Ham, Cream Cheese, Lettuce, & Tomato, Served oh French	—$435
OPEN FACE STEAK 5 os. Prime Rfa Grilled to Perfection served with Onions and Mushrooms on Toasted Uy*		- .. . .^ . 	,		$635	REAL REUBEN Tender Combeef, Sauerkraut, Swiss Cheese,1hcnmand Island, fir Dnsalng on Grilled Ry*:	—$535
All Sandwiches Include Cup of Soup or Salad Fried Potatoes & Garnish
mrjws
BEEF STIR FRY
Tender Strips of Beef Tossed
with Fresh Vegetables
Served over Rice . u.. ......	$535
CHICKEN STIR FRY
Fresh Chicken Strips in Olive OH
Tossed with Mixed Vegetables
Served over Rice.........................—	. ......... .,.. ^$435
SHRIMP STIR FRY
Shrimp Sauteed in Gertie, Olive OH,
Sr tossed with Mixed Vegetables,
Served over Rice , ,	. - ... ...... -	$635
wvaw
GRILLED CHEESE wMH—auhm—$235
CHICKEN SALAD CROISSANT
Chicken Salad with Lettuce
on a Fresh Croissant-. ■ ...... ■■.,	.$335
TURKEY SWISS MELT
nta SUetW Tmfay wft* S«4t< Owm m Toasted Whole Wheat Bread-------$335
PASTA SALAD
Served Cold,Mixed with Three
Colon of Pasta.-------------------S3.95
4boor Items Come with Gambh fir Fruit
sms

SPAGHETTI • UNGUINI • MOSTACCIOU with Choices of Sauces
I POTI PON lM”f ^30 MeatbeUs $5.50
■	-Xl/wfatt-W Tomato MM
I	I	AftuAnwM f430
I $1.00 OFF I
[any luncheonJ
» FETTUCCINE
Phone #: (219) 232 - 4244
Mid - Day Break Order By Fax 4 232- 42^7
S^t DMu, MIO, Glffrr, O Tt.-----------------------» «5
Sperklbig Natural Mineral Water --------
Espresso - Rich Classic ItallanHavar.,,..,,, .... .3X00 Cappuccino « Espresso Steamed
with Cream Sr Topped with Whipping Cream^.4Z75
We Offer Your Favorite Beer, Cocktails, & Wine
F
FINAL WORD
Looking Forward...
by Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill are the 1992-93 student body president and vice-president.
Believe it or not, student government has the ability to effect change in every aspect of life at Notre Dame. The possibilities are limited only by the ideas and enthusiasm of those involved. Concentrating on both short and long-term goals, student government acts as the direct voice of student concerns to the administration.
An issue of major concern this year is date rape. As we speak, student government is working in conjunction with the office of student affairs to improve the presentation of cunentpolicy, which is clearly inadequate. This change will result in a more compassionate of accusers while respecting the rights of the accused.
Student government is also negotiating with the academic council bn the issue of increasing the number of study days. The issue is already on the agenda for the April meeting, and it could resolved within the next few months. The official university calendar could easily have two additional study days (and two fewer class days) next semester.	.
A large amount of what student government accomplishes is without great publicity. For three weeks, student government has been working against a new policy that will severely restrict food and drinks in the library. This policy contains many basic flaws: the inconsistency that only the undergraduates will be restricted, not faculty, staff or graduate students; the lack of evidence that a problem exists; and the failure to consult students during the creation of the policy.
Next year’s student government will continue a strong emphasis on short-range planning. Some of these goals include improving the safety of students both on and off campus and increasing the amount of 24-hour space for students.
Creative ideas and good people working hard to achieve their goals are what it takes for student government to be effective. Many of these goals deal with the long-term objectives of the university and how they effect the student body. Student government helps shape the direction of the university by demonstrating valid concerns and presenting viable solutions to the administration. Making reports to the board of trustees is one of the ways this is accomplished.
Every year student government presents reports to the board of trustees to the board on issues which students consider vital to the university. The topic of this year’s first report was the quality of undergraduate education. This is an issue which directly affects every student at the university. By presenting “Back to Basics,” student government made the board painfully aware of how the undergraduate students feel about the transition toward becoming a national research institute and what effect the move will have on the quality of undergraduate education.
The second report, which will be presented to the board during the May meeting, will deal with financial aid. Student government will present the board with a clear picture of the problems perceived and a list of recommendations for change.
Next year’s student government has many long-range goals that will better the campus life in the years to come. The Card system is one of these goals. This system, operating on a declining balance system (like a checking account) will allow students to pay for anything on campus, just as they do in the bookstore. Another long-term goal is the. remodeling and expansion of LaFortune to create a true student center.
We must recognize that much of what is good about Notre Dame today comes to us by the efforts of students past. With this in mind, we approach longterm objectives with an eye to improving the lives of students future.
By pursuing both short-term and long-term goals, student government can improve the quality of student life at Notre Dame. With the input of a concerned student body and the efforts of a student government committed to change, this will be a year of progress for Notre Dame.
Molly and I are very honored to have been elected to serve as president and vice-president of the student body. With your help, we will make next year one to remember!	□
The opinions expressed in this column do not necessarily reflect those of Scholastic.
MARCH 26, 1992
27
FIN AL WORD
... Looking Back
by Joseph Blanco and David Florenzo
Joeseph Blanco and David Florenzo are the 1991-92 student body president and vice-president.
Celebrations provide opportunities to reflect on the past. No doubt, our current Sesquicen-tennial celebration provides all members of our community a reasonable opportunity to examine Notre Dame’s past, its strengths, weaknesses, mistakes and accomplishments. Such a reflection is more than appropriate, particularly at this time, considering Fr. Malloy’s recent initiation of the Colloquy for the 2000—a committee encompassing persons from all facets of the university, whose purpose is not so much to reflect, but to forge ahead as visionaries. And it is in the midst of this scenario of contrast that Notre Dame is moving to become a “National Catholic Research University.”
It is our contention that this recent move by the university focuses too much on the future with too little attention on the past, and the danger exists that such a neglect of the past will ultimately the very aspects of Notre Dame of which we are proud — a strong Catholic undergraduate education. It is this specific danger that gave us the impetus to serve the Notre Dame community as the student body president and vice-president. We admit that we had our doubts about whether the undergraduates in general shared our views, but those doubts were destroyed during the campaign a little over a year ago when student after student voiced concern about the increasing size of undergraduate classes, decreasing class availability and the constant university rhetoric about research. And when we won, we knew we had the backing of the students to legitimately force the university at large to address these campus-wide undergraduate concerns.
The response by the university community, while inadequate, has exceeded all of our expectations. There can be no doubt that this move to become a “National Catholic Research University” and its effects on undergraduate education has, in the last year, become the primary subject of discussion oh this
campus. The topic, discussed at great length in student government’s recent “Back to Basics” report, has been addressed by no less than two meetings of the board of trustees, numerous articles and letters tp the editor in both Scholastic and The Observer, one Student Union Board program, certain departments all across campus, faculty, administrators and even one strip from “Spelunker.” Most impressively, this topic has inevitably been discussed by students in nearly every hall council meeting we attended this year, and we attended at least one in every undergraduate residence hall. Unlike so many other student issues, we actually forced the university to examine what is happening to us.
Now the university as an institution must examine the issue, and there is no better format for such an examination then the Colloquy. Members of the Colloquy and individuals across campus should understand that our vision for the future must be framed with an understanding of our past, and a recognition of the present problems facing undergraduates. If our vision is not framed in such a manner, then the question is begged, “Is a strong Catholic undergraduate education even a part of Notre Dame’s vision for the future?”
We cannot presently give ample writing to each issue facing students. On behalf of all members of student government, we have done our best over the past year to address other issues including off-campus crime, sexual assault, student input to the DuLac revisions and other issues. After one year of service to the community, we are still honored that the students of Notre Dame chose us to lead, and we thank all students for their support throughout the past year. With no regrets, we wish Greg Butrus and Molly O’Neill the best of luck over the coming year. For our fellow seniors, we also wish them the best of luck in facing the difficult challenges that lie ahead. And to all members of the community, we say, “Thank you. It has been an honor!”	□
The opinions expressed in this column do not necessarily reflect those of Scholastic.
28
SCHOLASTIC
Fbfccep blOTRE- PAE\&’S FooV TFAfA iNto Ap-Tiohl.
AfeoSH,
Jack HMczxjmteks OHCc7FTh£ Pucks *Wn£ lake..-.
PeY, little 6UV WHY AREN’T You DoujM SY M£Of the lakes f
Ute^tuat day, Jack sses Tks LETROHAuM.. ,
Up^eqmu^)
Wh Ar ATeYdU tx>i%
Pk Ah0THeR DAlU^XATi^
OuSEb UY YOAR ^EnE5S£b5Ex-pR‘VE.
WHAt THE W!«- ! "Ducks can't talrI,
M WUXIO*UTiN<Z
They can ip
“TMEY'Rg
M ALLUCJMATidh/S,
Thj/Jk fax A Se<^DYail ^>3^ MeRoN J U> me R £ jA^E - Kstre Pame. Ex6^ Tour. lUv<5uihfTAK.)LY 5ufpresseD SEX PRiVE
Is CAUS1H6 HALUlCiNAwXS ,
ThaAK 6ot>I S?J2 a Seco^o
I USAS AFRA1O I WA5 MAV/4& Some Rjkdoc Yicious Flash sack Fk?*a Uell^ . .. ANVuMY vJMY-DO YdLt
U»K$o Sthpio?
A^I^I€3 ■’’o »JAVNt| 6AK-Ht.
Her At4othex^ne[
TellsAE AE0UT IT.
More MAtLUCiNAn^AH^ Y^q
^HAuFy AS the tbsrtieST 6uY
Campus
&GEPT fytz7JI£
MeY} Yad MuStHMAj a lzt pF vJoxeU - You QjN HELP Me out.
'-SKjH? | 6UX.SS
Y*>u’k£ R16HT. 'SUf whY Do You Ke^P SmANp|K& UKe.THAr'’
^<1 ke a lly are riALuiaxanx^/ "They ^kRotSallTUYev. Tt> Youi^MK You CAM WKPerE with " the &£th Couper, TM6ub«.uo'1
)Ys VAKToP the
Contract with
WHV THE CULT AND LENNV KRAVITZ?
In a survey conducted by SUB's marketing department last semester in which a random sampling of Notre Dame students were asked which bands SUB might bring to campus, the following results were reported:
Response Rate: 21.6%
How did The Cult and Lenny Kravitz place? Tied for second out of 12 choices given.
How were The Cult and Lenny Kravitz selected? 1) Financial constraints or 2) unaccepted bids of other bands.
WHV HOWIE MANDEL?
In a similar survey conducted for comedians, the following results were reported:
Response rate:	25%
How did Howie Mandel do? One of top 2 choices out of 6 provided.
More information to support Howie: Howie Mandel Sold out (3300
tickets) at the Star Plaza February 21, 1992 at $20 per ticket.
The Student Union Board decided to publish this page in response to the criticisms the Board has been subject to in recent weeks. SUB does not plan any event without carefully considering whether or not the student body will support it. In the Board's defense, a few other things to note are:
1)	Regardless of the event, SUB always goes for a breakeven/loss In order to provide the lowest possible ticket price for the student body.
2)	In the past, SUB has been criticized by the student body for not bringing in any big name entertainers. We tried to change that this year, based upon input we gathered from the students.
3)	SUB is at the will of the entertainer as far as dates are concerned. Furthermore, just because SUB wants an entertainer does not mean that they are l)available, and 2)interested in coming to Notre Dame.
In closing, we regret that The Cult and Lenny Kravitz did not go over the way we had planned. However, we would like you to consider other events SUB has done/will do this year, including:
SUB movies
Collegiate Jazz Festival
Sophomore Literary Festival
Casino Night
Michigan City Trip
Sleeping Beauty Ballet	The BoDeans	
Material Issue	Joe Clark	$ 9 os nj TJ o
Panama City Trip	AnTostal	W oa OS* AIC Darr It Nc
Michigan Football ticket raffle	Fall Mall	
Bookstore Basketball	Danny Glover	2 Q) £ m o □
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Beth Wittman, Director of Programming
a