


PAGE
COVER DESIGN AND ILLUSTRATION 
Loyal fans watch the varsity hockey team practice in the JACC. V 22ERIC DOVERSBERGER 
» Bonding with Students by NickKolman-Mandle 
10 

» Skating on a Deeper Pool byJimmy Atkinson 
22 

» Invasion of the Movie-Watchers by Matt Killen 29 
From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 28 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Campus Watch· 18 Calendar 31 Splinters 20 Final Word 32 
. . 
. . . <> < . · 
· COVEH: On a carnpus. paqked with 
·. pedectfonists; it'sJio,surpris~.thaJ _eat.ing ·. disorders and co.mpulsiy~ exercising.are 
'majo(problems. Cc1.nJh~ _administrat_iqn 
•help b~~ak the body0c_onscio~s cycle?
.-·,' ·.· ••; .•-· -·. ,· .-.-,. .' _.,_,_. 

·Ra~eforthe},Cup.··.. 
I 
bjGerard'Meskili <• ..·.···•.· <..•·.·••.··•.,.,_.· ....·• .·, ­Scholastic exctfnines how the Sears . Directors' 6up is awarded arid . .-. evaluatesNotreparne's.• chan9es ol··• winning the trophy tj,isyear<i .. 
. ,,", ' . -•, ... ;.-,"-·:·:· _". ·-::··· ..· 
No Amore for Amato·.-· · ·. -26 by Carolyn Sweeney. ' . . C •• 

Zahm Hairs ow_n Pat Amato takes to the small screen~n tlie Elimidate·reality show. . , . ., , 


;-1 
-· .. ----___J L___ .. ­
,, .....~~-.........\\ ;__; r~-J.,,,.,.·:~:,,,..-·:·•< ..\ //~~.. ,.,.---~.. \ 
/' \ i I ! r. ,' • J , ~, ~ r 
[ I ! '., ·~~ .!)/ (tC/:{':=_)) 

When Too Much Isn't Enough 
There is no easy way to tell a friend who has an eating disorder that they have 
an eating disorder. There are a lot of hard ways. 
One ofthese ways begins with guiltily talking about your friend (a girl, this time) with other friends (who aren't in denial). You wonder why she has always "just eaten'' a.huge dinner. You compare notes on.when she last ate·soniething besides a cherry Skittle. (Nobody can remember.) You try to come up with solutions; and in~ stead you spend nights sleepless and helpless. 
"This is not anything you can fight yourself." The knowledge comes in one lucid moment, when you catch a glimpse ofthe skin stretched over blue veins in a skeleton hand. You clutch that cold hand and pull it closer. The tighter your grasp, the more quickly it -and your friend -slip from your own warm fingers, her personality warped until. her words are as sharp as her bones, which poke through layers of sweaters. You arid your friends ·wonder whether it possibly could be worth the agony to try -but only fleetingly. Because then you remember her life before this thing and you promise to fight to win her back unpossessed, laughing and warm like she is in the pictures pasted on your purple bedroom walls. 
It takes too many months to get to the beginning of the end. You finally form a . 
counseling group at school and make a weak excuse to drag her there. She sits silent 
and seething beside you. You think: Maybe I am Judas. 
The fight starts accidentally, five minutes before the meeting's end. She snaps at 
you, and you blurt out something in desperation. There is shouting and tears. And a · 
promise to help, and to try. Healing begins then. 
That is one way, one story. 
There are countless others on this campus alone. Men and women wrestle with 
eating disorders daily, even ifthey don't show outward signs ofthe disease. And no, 
their problem can't be fixed by handing them a cheeseburger, because it's not about 
the food. It is about control. 
At this university, with one of the heaviest workloads in the country and perhaps 
one ofthe most driven student bodies, keeping a steady hand on the wheel often can 
be a trying challenge. The easiest option might be to let go, but we weren't pro­
grammed that way. That's why we're here: We were trained to do more, faster and 
better. Unfortunately for so many, too much is never enough. 
On page 12, Scholastic's Annie Robinson examines why eating disorders are so 
common here and discusses the ways the university has chosen to combat the dis­
eases. 
We're Outta Here 
This is our last issue ofthe semester. On behalf of the staff, I wish you all the best ofluck with final exams and a happy, restful holiday. We'll see you in January, when we release our 2002 football rev.iew. 

c!Jv{~
Sarah Childress, Editor 
Vol. 144, No. 07 • 05 DEC 2002 

SCHOLaSTIC 
·. · ·. 
Editor In Chief Sarah Childress 
Managing Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor 
Cristin E. Fenzel 
Assistant Managing Editor Annie Robinson 
News 
. Mike Borgia 
· · . 
· · 
Christopher Kelly Jim Ryan 
Campus Life Sean Dudley, editor Nick Kolman-Mandie, assistant Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Mesklll, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant 
Entertainment Carrie E. Sweeney, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
, Departments · .; 
Jennifer Osterhage, editor Meghan Gowan, assistant 
Design 
· Ryan Greenberg, manager Eric Doversberger, creative director Brendan Condon 
· 
David Redenbaugh .·, Tekla Sauter 
Photography 
: Mike McNary, editor Llesl Marx, assistant 
Graphic Design Maryn Necel, editor 
. Copy ·. , Cecilia Hadley, chief ,:: Kelly M. Faehnle, assistant 
Jen Belliveau Mo Ertel Claire Hadley John Hadley 
:,_. Kim Thompson 
Distribution 
:, Mike McNary, manager 
Business 
Mary Ursu, manager 
•.·Online . · Jamie L. Moran, manager "-: Chad Sharon, manager 
· Advisor Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Morit11r11s 
Published biweekly at:the University of Notre Dame ..: and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, _;, 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is : · Copyright © 2002. Al! rights reserved. No contents of :-,, this magazine, either In whole or in part, may be 
· reproduced in any manner'without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume · liability for unsciiicited manuscripts or material. All 

correspondence should be sent to Scholastic / magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN>46556. To be published in the next Issue, letters must 
· be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the Issue. You ea. don't have to be cr!IZy to work here, bui It sure helps. :.,. All-letters must include the writer's name, address and 
phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will 

·· · be withheld upon request In certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after 
_·_: publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate : :· is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per · copy; please.specify volume and number, or date. 
·:_, Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed In Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. ·· 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 

05 DECEMBER 2002 


Our team at Old College 

. 
J::_; ..: :/.-~-:-t _: ·-.. ·­. 

Michael Anderson Robby ·Davidson Paul Dockery Dave Halm 



'+ • ~'. -,:~~ .. 

,.. .. ' 

Tom Hormann Corylnvln Aaron Mlehka Kirk Mueller 

THE ~ I n~~~t1ti[A~>"~~~~~-~,,.,.,,,"~ ~ ~, cyfJ 
~~~~;;;-­
. ~• . • :, "'' ••·• . ,._',·.~••·' '; •'.,' •-'<' ', •' " ' ,.-, ,-,' ; '• ,. , c • ;,-· •-• •.';> ~•, -'1V ."f• • ""· •:• ' . · . ""• •• ., ~-' ••'-·•' •' t, •· •,. ", • • ,:".•< '-'·•, ' ''•' <•••,a> •'" •• •" ,., '.. "•;• • ' • •· "• .'o '.•.-• " • •' ' ' • ~• '"' '.-' " '°(("• ' ."••• . ' ~ •,,, 
ICafeteria Curve I 

The Wall Street Journal gets a taste of South Dining Hall 
EILEENVARGA

AWall Street Journal reporter traveled the country recently, checking out 20 dining halls nationwide, from Harvard to the University of Southern California, looking for collegiate culinary nirvana-thebest place for college students to drop their backpacks and chow down. The Journal managed to stop long enough in Indiana to investigate South Dining Hall's food and atmosphere. Although most students might think South Dining Hall would score relatively high, it earned only two-and-a-half stars out of a possible four, beating out Duke's "mediocre" offerings, but falling well short oftop-rated Yale's leather-furnished cafeteria and Berkeley's chandelier-lined dining room. The article, which appeared in the November 8 issue ofthe Journal, praised South's wealth offrozen treats and selection ofsports drinks, but docked points for its dry barbecue chicken and lack of made-to-order pasta. "The Journal's rating system wasn't so accurate," says Marc Poklinkowski, South Dining Hall manager. "They were looking for fluff. We may have lost points because we didn't have sushi on thatparticularnight." 
Student manager Lucy Marinangeli agrees. "I'm surprised at the rating. Most dining halls don't have our variety," she says. 
Actual research for the evaluation involved perusing the dining hall 


for a half-hour, trying out some of the foods with the commentary ofa local chef, and collecting a few student opinions to add an experienced perspective. Domers raved to the interviewer about the key lime pie frozen yogurt, accounting for its rank as the "best feature" of the dining hall. 
The Journal neglected to check out the offerings across campus at North Dining Hall, which, according to North Dining Hall operations manager Julia Sickler, isn't surprising. "South Dining Hall is a newly renovated building. Most publicity events are held there," says Sickler. 
The Journal's judgments aside, students appreciate the consistent, if not gourmet, selection from South. "We have stir-fry every day!" says Lyons Hall junior Jennifer Jones. "And have you tried the chicken parmesan? What more could you want?" Indeed. 0 

Ten Questions 
with the smiling dining-hall monitor ... 


When you 're waiting in the South Dining Hall line with an empty stomach, it can be hard to take your eye off the corner of the stir-fly station ahead ofyou. At such times, handing over your ID card to be swiped is nothing more than an irksome, time-consuming obstacle between you and your favorite fro­yo. One lady, howeve,~ has swpassed the status ofinvisibility, causing more than one Domer to stop and say hello. Is it her constant smile? Her friendly attitude? Scholastic came to discover that the key to her popularity is a really cool name. 
How long have you been working at the Notre Dame dining halls? 
It's going on 18 years...only in South Dining Hall. When I first got started, they called me a "checker." Then they changed "checker" to "monitor," whatthey call me now. I always sit on the same side. The right side is my side. 
Which dining half is better? Do you have loyalties to either? 
I like the South. This is where I got started, and once I got to going I never even wanted to go to North. · 
Have you been a local ND fan all your life? . 
I came here to Indiana about 40-some years ago, so I've been here fora while. I was always a Notre Dame fan . . . oh yes. I followed football even before I came here! 
What's the best and worst part of being a "monitor"? 
I like my job! Ifl didn't like it, I wouldn't stay 
05 DECEMBER 2002 


"He's about 55 elements short of a periodic table." · · · , -overheard student describing a chemistry professor 
"Normally I'd lefyou sleep in class, but today we're talking 
about plants. Plants are important because they give us 
> beer." 

-biology professor, iristructing student to wake up 
127 Years Ago Study in the Stacks 
Students studying at Hesburgh Library could procrastinate and relieve frustra­tion with the administration through dialogue in the very nifty "library complaint book," which was featured in the December 5, 1975 issue of Scholastic. Here's a sampling of a few ofthe entries: 

"If you're living on Grab 'n Go and sleeping one hour a night, cocaine's a great thing!" > -,-psychology professor 
· "Not only can'they not get their pants off, but once they do, they're shooting bl,anks!" 
) ~ government TA, on how the tight pants worn by m~n in Italy are responsible for the country's nonexistent population growth rate 
"But yet he's not schizophrenic, either.", .,....: theology TA, on the duality of > Jesus' human and divine natures 
here this long. 

If you could select one dining-hall item to eat, which would you choose? 
Well, right now? Hinmm ... We didn't have stir-fiy when I came here, so I would say now that's what I like. 
How was the food when you started working here? 
Well, I didn't really eat it a lot ... It was just like everywhere else you go, you lrnow? Hamburgers, spaghetti ... 
Have you come to recognize the same students that come in every day? 
Yes, I do, and they lrnow me ... I don't have to look at their ID, I lrnow them, especially when they come up and say something to you . .. But ifyou have a whole lot ofstudents and you're just so busy, you don't have time to lookup! 
Do the students typically talk to you? 
Whole bunch ofthem ... they always pick on me 'cause I'm always smiling all the time. I wish you could stand there when it's really busy and see what I'm talking about. 
How did the nickname "Foxy" come about? 
I lost my first name card so I went upstairs to get a new one and the lady said, "Oh, I made you two this time" ... I looked at them and one ofthem said "Foxy Roxy" ... I thinkitwasjust a joke but maybe somebody said something to her. After that, over a month or so, that's what they called me ... Now she's got everybody 
Q. True or False: How many rooms does the library have? Ifso, why not? 
A. Manifestation ofmidterm malaise seems to be swfacing. We sympathize. 
Q. Can you tell me ifConnie Stevens was 
strangled? A.No. 
Q. You never answered my question about the libra,y s "no kegs" policy. This was not to be taken in jest. IfI throw a party upon the 6th floor, keep it in between bookcases and have a guest list (no hard drugs or priests allowed), what then is the problem? Is this so unreasonable? As I have previously said, you too are invited. 
A, I know what a disappointment this will be to you, but I'm aji-aid you have mixed us up with another "Library." 
-Meghan Gowan 
saying it. It's gone all the way around so even . the managers are calling me that! (Laughs) It doesn't bother me. 
Do you tolerate those kids that try to sneak in without their IDs? 
I've been here all these years, so I lrnow exactly what they're trying to do. They say, "Ohplease! I'myour friend!" Once inawhile, when it's cold and snowy or whatever, sometimes I go ahead and let them go through, but not ifthey continue to do that. 
How much longer do you see yourself working here? Are there others who have been here as long as you have? 
Well, I think I can be here another 10 years. No, I'm the oldest one -seniority! -Tracy Evans 


05 DECEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5 

IJudgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
SCREECHING IN AN EMPTY STADIUM 
Bats, birds or very vocal squir­rels? That's what the administra­tion wants you to think. But what you're really hearing is the screams of those students locked up and tortured by Reslife for tailgating violations. 
COACHES' POLL 
NCAA Division-I coaches rate us No. 13, behind three teams with three losses, including Michigan. Ouch! We might have gotten our bottoms handed to us by USC, but didn't we beat the Wolverines in September? 
t 
"SOUTH IS BETTER'' T­
SHIRTS 
The latest in Grab 'n' Go lady fashion proclaims what every Domer knows to be true. 
"I LOVE NDH" T-SHIRTS 
North Dining Hall employees' response to the South shirts. Pretty weak for a dining hall with only pasta stir-fry and National Rice Month displays going for it. 
-++ KEY LIME PIE ICE CREAM According to The Wall Street Journal, it's South Dining Hall's best feature. What, they didn't sample the spicy sea nuggets? 

IDomeLights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 

NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 

t' Tears·.ofJo~. __ ., :· .· .·. .--::.~. -.· .-·:j The Onion adds a new book of old stuff to JJ 
its growing library 
IMATTKILLEN 
There probably isn't a college student in America who hasn't heard of The Onion. This satirical newspaper -pub­lished online and in print weekly -con­tinues to be the No. 1 source of gleefully offensive satire for anyone with a funny bone. The paper has ventured into book publishing again with its latest installment, Ad Nauseam. The Onion's first book, Our Dumb Cen­twy, was an original collection of front-page headlines from 

the last century. From Ad Nauseam is again a such dispatches as The articles may not be true showcase of The "Infectious Diseases n e w' bLI t Ad Nausea m Onion's continuous ge­
Celebrate Opening of nius. It would seem that Panama Canal" to the does surpass its predeces-after several years ofpub­book's darkly humor-sors in completeness. lishing weekly content, ous take on both ---'----------thenewspaperwouldlose . 

mixed bag. It_isn't as_i~n_ovative as the Cen­twy book -m fact, 1t s Just another collec­tion. The difference this time, however, is that AdNauseam is a complete compilation. 
The book, which promises to be the first in a new series, is a collection of every Onion issue published between October 2000 and Oc­tober 2001. The articles might not be new, but AdNauseam does surpass its predecessors in. completeness. The issues are bound together in a single massive volume and formatted like 
their original printings. 
world wars, Centwy launched The Onion to a whole new level of fame. 
Its next two works, however, were dis­appointing. Dispatches From the Tenth Circle and The Onions Finest News Report­ing were both merely collections ofarticles which could be found in The Onion's pre­vious weekly editions. 

Although articles like "Saddam Hussein Steps Down Following Sex Scandal" and "Columbine Jocks Safely Resume Bully­ing" were great pieces to read and re-read, there was no new content. The editors sim­ply compiled some of the best articles of the last few years and formed them into books. Considering that most of the con­tent still was available in their online ar­chives, the collections seemed pointless. 
Ad Nauseam, their newest book, is a 
its wit. Somehow, though, the writers at the paper push the en­velope every week, and the content remains as funny as ever. · 
. The key to The Onion seems to be its strict adherence to its writing format. The articles read like true newspaper stories, giving ab­surd premises a distinct sense of realism. Articles like theirpost-9/11 piece "GodAn­grily Clarifies 'Don't Kill' Rule" are writ­ten with a detail and sense ofprofessional­ism comparable to that ofreal newspapers. 
The Onion remains an excellent source of witty satire of current events. Even though Ad Nauseamputs it together neatly in one place for the casual reader, veteran worshippers of The Onion will be left wanting something more -something similar to the biting originality that spanned the Centidy. . 

Source: Katie Christman, Help Desk Manager 
The Office ofinformation Technologies (OIT) Help Desk provides computer assistance to all members of the Notre Dame community. Ever wonder how many problems the consultants fix? More importantly, how do they keep their sanity answering the technology questions ofan entire college community? Here are some statistics on the desk with the answers: 
Average number of calls. received: 4,500 per month.  85 percent of problems are solved on the first call. (Problems not solved on the first  
Most popular questions: AFS and e-mail.  call are solved in less than two days.)  
Average length of a call: six minutes.  Strangest call: Someone who said his cat changed his password.  

6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 05 DECEMBER 2002 


It's hard to put a price on good taste. How does $2.99 sound? The Bacon Cheeseburger Value Meal. 

. I 
r 
Got the urge?TM The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 


BY SARAHSHAHEEN IPHOTOS BY LIESLMARX 
The seven-bedroom house on 1022 East Madison Street has an appropriate nickname: the Madison Mansion. Painted an inviting Christmas green, it appears deceptively aver­age in size from the outside. Inside, however, it boasts an impres­sive 13 rooms. Seniors Tarun Talwar, Scott Hart, Ryan Sullivan, Dan O'Keefe, Christian White, Mike Sweiker and Micheal Osofsky-all former Alumni Dawgs and a very "colorful bunch ofguys," according to Talwar -call the Mansion home. They drew names out ofa hat to assign the bedrooms, which range in size from really big to huge. Each reflects the individuality of its occupant. As Talwar says, "Every room in this house has a different vibe." Sullivan, for example, lives in what Sweiker calls a "Phantom ofthe Opem-style" bedroom on the bottom floor, housing little more than a mattress and a piano; he can be heard banging out tunes at various times throughout the day. "It's a little freaky," Sweiker says. Another unique bedroom is both a blessing and a burden to its occupant. The triangular ceiling ofthe room is adorned with sev­eral skylights, and White, who lives in the room, can see the stars at night. "I like the skylights a lot, btit i is pretty annoying in the morning," he says. 
The smallest room in the house, counte as only half a room, is a converted furnace room. The seven men formed this unused, dirty space into a game room. "When we saw the r om, we were like, 'Wow, we could definitely use this for something,' ' Talwar says. They were able to fit a Ping-Pong table into the brick-~ led room perfectly. 
The "bar room," as one might guess, sports colossal, beautifully­painted wetbar. The bar spans almost the entir width of the room, and a painting ofthe silhouette ofthe Notre Dam, campus covers its facade. "Every time we have people over, it's one ci e coolest things to open up," Talwar says. 
The house has only two bathrooms, but Sweiker xplains, "It hasn't been a problem, because we all have differen chedules. Like one guy [Talwar] pretty much only·comes out at m ht, so it works out." 
Right next to the house is a 7-11, which the men ofMadison sion consider to be part oftheir home, too. ''Allthe guys at 7-11 kno our names, and we know theirs," says O'Keefe. 
8 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
05 DECEMBER 2002 

As fA 
Mansion 
We en't Enou 

These seniors e en call the 7-11 next do r home 
~ Mansion men (from left) Ryan 
Sullivan, Tarun Talwar and Michael 
Osofsky relax in their spacious living 
room. 
» While all of the house's 
bedrooms are fairly large, some, like 
this one, are really big. Residents 
drew names out of a hat to assign · them. 
« This former furnace room seemed unusable until the guys realized their Ping-Pong table fit it perfectly. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 


Bonding With Students 
National award recognizes contributions of chemistry professor 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE

Chemistry professor Dennis Jacobs's office is easy to find -a sign proclaiming "Congratulations!" 
adorns the door. However, the man typing away on his computer inside is a bit more unassuming. Soft-spoken, Jacobs greets his visitor warmly as he relaxes in his chair. 
Jacobs is one offour college and university professors selected for the 2002 U.S. Professor ofthe Year Award, which credits the work of educators who impact and involve themselves with undergraduate students, take a scholarly approach to teaching and learning and contribute to undergraduate learning in their respective institutions and communities. The award is directed by the Carnegie Foundation and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education which formed the program in 1981. Jacobs and the other winners were selected from over 400 nominations. 
"Iwas shocked and speechless at learning that I had won," Jacobs says. "I got a call from Lee Schulman, the president of the 
· Carnegie Foundation and a friend of mine, and he asked me what I was doing on the 21st [of November]. Whenisaid 'nothing,' he said 'Good. I'd like you to meet me at the National Press Club [in Washington, D.C.] for lunch so we can give you this award.' " 

Jacobs told his wife, Thea, about the award, but he did not tell his children-Dan, Katrina and Gabe, -whosmile from inside picture frames lining his office windowsill. He was afraid the younger ones might tell their friends the news beforetheawardsceremony.Beforetheymade the trip, Jacobs gave his children a refresher course in table manners, although at the time, they had no idea why. 
Jacobs came to Notre Dame from Stanford University's graduate school in 1988, where his teaching assistant positions sparked his interest in becoming an educator. At first, Jacobs' s main pedagogical style was based on traditional lectures. It wasn't until he taught his first section offreshman chemistry that he realized his style needed revising. Unlike the major and graduate courses he taught previously, the freshman class was made up of a broad array of students. Chemistry is a required course for many fields ofstudy, and Jacobs learned that it doesn't come as naturally to every freshman as it might to a graduate student who has chosen to focus on the subject. "A common interest level doesn't exist. I was blind to how students were learning in that environment," he says. After a freshman broke down in tears in his office out of frustration with the course, he decided it was time for a change. 
The change came about in 1997, when Jacobs introduced a pilot Chemistry 113/114 course to run alongside the regular Chemistry 117 /118 intro course. The idea, he says, is to give structure to experiencing chemistry so 


that students can generate original solutions instead of regurgitating lecture notes. "This course," he says, "is really designed to be an active learning course. Memorization is not enough." 
The new course produced a 55 percent improvement inthe introductory course's year­long retention rate and a 50 percent increase in the number ofstudents who go on to complete a second year of chemistry. Jacobs's intense involvement with peer-led, cooperative curricula earned him the title of Carnegie Scholar in 1999 and the Notre Dame Presidential Award for dedication to the university. 
This semester, Jacobs is using his teaching skills to contribute to the surrounding community. Students in his new course, Chemistry 331: Chemistry in Service of the Community, work in Michiana-area homes testing paint, dust and soil samples to determine whether a risk of lead poisoning exists. Chemistry 331 is the first community-based learning course that counts for a science credit. 
"Dr. Jacobs put a lot oftime and effort into Chem 331 because he knew what a great opportunity it would be for both students and the community," says senior Erin Carmichael, who helped create the course. "Iti~ only one example that attests to his character as a professor and a person." 
In addition to teaching and researching, 
Jacobs enjoys playing the piano and painting. "In fact," he says, "when I was struggling with my profession in science, I was considering a career in studio art." He points to a painting of a black-and-white chess board with some of its pieces melting into colored pools that hangs on his office wall. "That's one that I painted when I was practicing with surrealism." Jacobs does not hide the fulfillment he finds in expressing himselfartistically, something he once thought would never be applicable to his science-centered career. Now, however, he says, "I've come to realize that art and expression can indeed be found in what I do here." 
Jacobs credits Notre Dame for molding him into the professor he is today. He sees the award not only as,' an affirmation of innovative teaching, but as a reflection ofthe university's quality. "It opens doors," he says. "I think the fruit of all this will be greater investment·· in innovation and the study of student learning." 
ButtoJacobs's students, the award simply is the product of his personal dedication to teaching. Senior chemistry major Todd Engstrom, who introduced Jacobs at his awards ceremony, says: "He has shown me what exceptional teaching is, and if that is where I end up, he will be the standard of excellence to which I compare myself." 0 

10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 05 DECEMBER 2002 

,_ ."'-.,\ ... . 

~-• I 
,. ) ,/ ' \ -.,,:_ . 
.,. 
, ' 

RISH
advertise in Scholastic's 
January 30 Football Reuiew 




exe 
Abnormal Norms 
Guys need to bulk up. Girls need to slim down. Campus culture even makes eating and exercising a competition. How some aim to change the rules. 
ANNIEROBINSON 
Caitlin Grady doesn't hesitate for a second. The Notre Dame junior spells it out: "It's such an uncomfort­able topic on this campus, and there's very little open discussion, not even in girls' dorms. It's not talked about enough." But Grady is talking about what many students believe to be the most significant problem facing Notre Dame females today: Eating disorders. The story doesn't begin or end with female college students. While national statistics consistently show female eating disorders to be more widespread, the rate of male eating disorders is believed to be on the rise. And Notre Dame isn't immune to this change. Both sexes are motivated by pressures to achieve the ''perfect Notre Dame body" -the compulsion often merely manifests itself differently in the two genders. Despite the dangers they also face, many male students are still unaware of the disorders' prevalence. Most men interviewed for this article asked to remain anonymous, which perhaps underscores the stigma of shame attached to concerns -and diseases -related to negative body image, especially for men. But no matter who the disorders affect, students and faculty alike agree that the problems may not be receiving the consideration they deserve. Five percent of the U.S. population is affected by eating disorders -and three to four percent are female college stu­dents, who most commonly' suffer from bulimia nervosa, anore_xia nervosa or a binge-eating disorder. Statistically speaking, the percentage of Notre Dame's undergraduate population affected by eating disorders does not diverge much from national figures. The university, some students and faculty claim, has long overlooked the problem, and must make major improvements to combat disorders -especially from the side of prevention. 
05 DECEMBER 2002 

:iseweightperfectionimagediet 
"Without a doubt, it is the number one problem with women on campus," says Allie Swiacki, a senior and co-leader of Notre Dame's woman's spiritual group A Life Uncommon, which was started in response to the high number of eating disorders on campus. Some students attest that it tops much-talked of alcohol and drug abuse as the most pressing student issue. 
Notre Dame's University Counseling Center (UCC) conducted a study in 2000 to examine the prevalence of eating disorders among ND undergraduates. Valerie Staples, UCC staff counselor and eating disorder specialist, warns against using its results to make generalizations about the Notre Dame undergraduate population as a whole. De­spite a "decent response," Staples says, the results relied on student initiative to com­plete and return the surveys. The UCC also can only base its analysis on the type of af­flicted student that comes in, which can pro­vide an inflation or underrepresentation of disord~rs. There remains no single means of accurately gauging the problem's fre­quency. 
Nevertheless, the UCC survey provides the only gauge for eating disorders on cam­pus. The survey reported that around seven percent ofthe sample was bulimic, and 0.6 percent was anorexic. Twenty percent ofthe sample had serious eating problems or a full­blown eating disorder. The study also found that the majority offemale respondents ex­hibited problematic symptoms ofdisordered eating and body image prior to coming to Notre Dame. 
Grady's past problems fit this pattern, as her disordered eating started long be­fore she set foot on campus. "Startingjun­ior year [of high school], I wo·uld just drink coffee instead of eating, snack on candy all the time and run a lot. I would feel like I had to go run off the two pieces of gum I ate that d~y." Grady quickly dropped to a size two, which she says is not appropriate for her body type. After passing out while at work one day, Grady realized her health demanded immediate treatment for her disorder. But change and recovery aren't easy. "You know some­thing is wrong, but you can't stop your­self. I don't want to compare it with alco­holism, but it's similar because you first need to admit to the problem." · 
The UCC survey also reported that more serious symptoms (such as self-induced vomiting and laxative abuse) seem to de­velop during college. What starts off as strict dieting and calorie restriction can culminate in a variety of symptoms -from compul­sive exercise to binging and purging. 
The survey also showed that cases ofbu­limia are "slightly" higher than at other "pri­vate, selective colleges and universities." 
Staples says that she generally consults more bulimics than anorexics, but that this semester, more anorexics sought help. Because turn­out varies, one disor­der can't be classi­fied as more preva­lent based only on attendance at the UCC. "We see cli­ents with more bulimic symptoms, because those girls are more likely to 
seek treatment," says Staples. She explains that bulimia tends to interfere more with a student's life, since the symptoms demand a conscious decision to perpetuate the dis~ order. Anorexic students exhibit more con­trolling personalities and are less likely to seek treatment, or begin benefiting imme­diately from the help. Bulimic students re­act better to treatment because they aren't as competitive as anorexic patients. "It's more difficult for [anorexic patients] to be in a [support] group ... they are nutrition­ally starved and can't mentally engage as easily." What is it about Notre Dame that exacerbates existing problems for some stu­dents and creates them for others? Virtually all those interviewed for this article came to a consensus on one issue: The type of stu­

dent attracted to Notre Dame is at a high risk for developing an eating disorder or ag­gravating an already existing condition. "The norms you compare yourself to here are skewed," says Staples. "In most ways, Notre Dame is no different than other campuses. But the area we are different is that we have a lot ofstudents who have been number one at something." Add to the mix a stressful lifestyle, and the re­sult is a high per­
Most fashion models are thinner than 98% of American 
women. 
centage of ex­tremely talent­driven students in a condensed environ­ment. "People here are perfectionists," echoes Jocie Antonelli, the university's nutri­tion and safety man­ager. 
While the com­pulsion to realize 
this "Notre Dame 

perfectionist" image might manifest itself differently in males and females, body image issues aren't limited to either sex. "Male body image plays a much bigger role here than most guys real­ize," says one Zahm resident, who asked to remain anonymous. A recent report in the Journal ofAmerican College Health suggest that eating problems might be increasing among college-age males, and between 10 and 15 percent of diagnosed bulimics are men. 
Pressure to get the perfect body often pushes students to extremes in hopes ofliv­ing up to unrealistic standards of physical fitness and beauty. For many Notre Dame students, including men, compulsive exer­cise is the answer. Obsession with exercise often accompanies -and magnifies -cer­
.. Anorexia Nervosa: Anorexics intentionally starye thems~lyes, resulting in · extreme weight loss (typically at least 15 percent below a.young woman's: . no'rmal body weight). Anorexiq sufferfrom a vari~ty of physital symptoms, .rangingfrom anemia to thinning hair. They often maintain stricteating rituals: exercise frene~ic::ally and undergo severe mpod s.wings: . ; ·. . 
Bulimia N~rvosa BuHmics consum~ ia.~ge·arnounts of f~od(binging) and then rid their bodies oLthe excess calories (purging). Non-purging bulimics . suffer similar symptoms but engage in' excessive exercise and/or fasting in . place of self-induced vomiting or laxative an.d diuretic abuse. · 
For .more information on eating disorder causes, war~ing signs and resources, see the UCCWeb site http://www.ncl.edu/.:...ucc. ··· ! 
05 DECEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 13 

iribeautyexeri:iSeweightpe 
The Need For Speed An athletic environment and the pressure to attain physical perfection leads many Notre Dame students to engage in 
compulsive exercise. 

tain eating disorders, particularly anorexia nervosa and non-purging bulimia. 
But how could there be such a thing as too much exercise? Excessive workouts be­come another form of"purging," used as an extreme way to control weight, says the Nemours Foundation, an organization fo­cused on preventing destructive exercise habits in children and young teens. 
Exercise disorders, referred to by terms like "exorexia," "anorexia athletica," "obligatory exercise" and "hypergymnasia;' affect both males and females. Anorexia Nervosa and Related Eating Disorders, fac. (ANRED) defines compulsive exercise as burning more than 3,500 calories a week, which is the point at which the health ben­efits ofexercise decrease and the risk ofin­jury increases. Working out more than once a day is often a warning sign of the disor­der. 
While the t~rm "exorexia" was not famil­iar to ND's counselors or dieticians, none ofthem disagreed with the described symp­toms. And none denied their applicability 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

to Notre Dame. "People exercise more on students usually revolve around exercise this campus than I've ever seen," Staples addiction and the abuse of body-building says. Antonelli says she often observes in­products. The UCC's survey asked its re­dividual students working out at Rolfs Sports spondents to quantify their use of creatine Recreation Center for more than three hours and other nonsteroid weight increasing prod-at a time. "That is not healthy," she says. 
···Males accou·ntfor s:to. · 
"At times, I have to laugh at some of my friends who get 

Io%·'·of bultmia and·.· .
scared to work out at Rolfs," 

' ·. . . .. . .·
says Siegfried RA Neal Boyle. 

anorexia case·s.
"They feel intimidated be­
cause, at times, they think that everyone over there is so close to perfect already. I think part of it has to reflect the competitive nature here at this university." Throw in Notre Dame's emphasis on ath­letics and the high number offormer high­school varsity athletes, and many students see a combination leading directly to com­pulsive exercise disorders. 
Many students say that male body image problems exhibit themselves more visibly in the aforementioned compulsive exercise dis­orders. Antonelli's consultations with male ucts. Of the sample, 19 percent used such products, with about eight percent of the male respondents using them at least once a week or more. Boyle says being an RA has opened his eyes to this side ofthe problem. "There's a lot of Ripped Fuel [a metabolic enhancer] out there, a lot of whey protein," says Boyle. "Sometimes, these guys don't know what they're getting into." "This is an extremely athletic campus," says the second Zahm resident. "People come here with sports being such an essential part of their 
05 DECEMBER 2002 

tionim gediethungersexappea 
high-school experience and then all of sud­den they aren't the athletic stars that they used to be. So I think, to make up for it, guys overload themselves with working out and Interhall and RecSports. Most guys don't yet another potential contributing factor to 

.~'The nor.ms you compare Yourself to here are skewed:'_ 
· · · · -· .· .-. -Valerie Staples, UCC staff do.unselor 
take it to an extreme, but some definitely do." 
Aware of mounting national attention to­wards male disordered eating, A Life Un­common responded in early November. "Men's Education Night" was held for the second year in a row for both women and men inquiring about or suffering from eat­ing .disorders. Two women gave personal testimonies, and representatives provided information about male eating disorders. Many considered the event a successful step forward. "It's fantastic they try to work with men, that's tough. Better sponsorship of [such programs] means there's more aware­ness out there," says Grady. 
With female students, Antonelli says she usually deals with initial diets that grow into serious eating disorders. The infamous "no­carb diet" is a frequent topic. The contro­versial diet outlaws virtually all simple car­bohydrates like bread, pasta and cereal, which then results in rapid weight loss. But, Antonelli insists, far too many students diet with misconceptions guiding their self-im­posed calorie restrictions and are unaware of the physical dangers of these diets. "Just about every eating disorder results from a period ofrestrictive dieting [that then mor­phs] into a full-blown eating di'sorder." Grady also notices a' widespread preoccu­pation with food in general. "Everyone talks about the 'Freshman 15,' "making even a trip to the dining hall a stressful endeavor. 
In addition to the emphasis on athletics and widespread dieting, many suggest that single-sex dorms -one ofthe most glaring differences between Notre Dame and other colleges -intensifies the problem. They say single-sex dorms are mentally unhealthy environments for some. Grady says the dorms can even promote eating disorders. "You're always watching your roommates eat, watching girls go to work out, or seeing your friend who just has a salad at dinner. I hear girls say 'I only want to eat 1,000 calo­ries or less today,' or 'I want to lose three pounds by Friday."' Staples agrees that single-sex dorms might intensify inter-fe­male competition: "People don't dress or diet for guys, it's to compare with other like I need to work out -and when I don't, I'm not fitting the image of the slim, mus­cular, athletic guy." 

Also, the historical social and academic 

competition between women at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, whether spoken or unspoken, is 
the problem, says Chandra Johnson, assis­tant to the president and women." assistant director of cross-cultural Campus 
Even the postil).g of nutritional informa­Ministry. Many females feel the long-stand­tion on the Food Services Web site and on ing campus joke that Notre Dame girls are the South Dining Hall's walls is a contro­"ugly" only aggravates widespread body versial topic. "To a certain extent, telling us image problems. what's in the food is good, but it's bad too," Johnson also believes that the pervasive says Grady, who thinks this may inadvert­influences of American society and media ently contribute to the already heightened also are to blame. "[Eating disorders are] 
food obsessions of many students. Although Antonelli protested the posting ofnutrition facts in close proximity to food in the dining hall, she says it was the dining hall man­gers' decision to display the information. "I want [stu­dents] to get away from numbers," says Antonelli. When asked about rumors that dining hall lettuce is starched to combat the ex­tremely small portions of many female students, Antonelli says that ND Food Services does not al­ter any food or products in response to eating disor­ders. 
Other aspects ofcampus culture don't help matters, male and female students say. "Before I came here, I heard about this ridiculous poll that said that ND has the best-looking guys. When I'm walking to class, I see very few overweight guys," says the first Zahm Hall resident. While ac­knowledging the problem is more common among Notre Dame female stu­dents, he still feels the need to fit an ideal. "I always feel 

.. -~ ·. . 
Campus Respurces 
University Counseling_Center (UCC) 
631-7336 

University Health Services 
631.,.7497 

Food Services ­
/ 631-0 I 06 

Campus Ministry/A Life U"-common 
Chandrajohnson 631-3748 _ 

Women's. Resource Center 
-631-9028 

Residence Hall. Staffs· 
In addition, the Sout:h Bend community offers a variety of counseling and · ·· 
-treatment options. Contact the UCC or visit Web site (http://www.nd.edu/-:--ucc) for more information. 
05 DECEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 15 
·1 
particularly the problem ofAnglo-Caucasian women, which is fed by the magazines that we buy," says Johnson. Staples agrees, say­ing that Notre Dame's culture reflects this societal bias. "You can't find a lot ofreally big people here on campus, and it's not a 

culture or environment that promotes accep­tance ofdiverse body types." 
There's no question that eating disor­ders are a problem at Notre Dame, and the university has taken steps to address the issue. The UCC offers a wide range ofservices, including group sessions, one­on-one counseling and dietician consul­tations. "I don't think that what we do here 
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 

exappealthinbeautyexercisewei 
at Notre Dame is very different than what other counseling centers do who enroll the same kind of bright visionary students," says Johnson. "At Harvard, Vanderbilt, Stanford you would find the same issues. It's all part of the competitive nature of 
institutions of higher learning." 
But is the number of counselors adequate? Citing higher numbers at fellow universities, Swiacki asks, "Why are there not three of [Staples]?" According to many women, the line to get a consultation with the UCC is long. "Some girls get over­looked" because oftime constraints, Swiacki says. A woman seeking assistance is "making a huge personal decision, and she has to wait three weeks because there are not enough people [to offer counseling]." Wodoslawsky agrees, pointing out that, because of the nature of the dis­order, "People with eat­ing disorders need to be seen every week, not ev­ery other two weeks." 
Johnson agrees: "Yes, we need more counse­lors to address young adult issues. Many [stu­dents] are coming in with preexisting pa­thologies, from anxiety to depression to eating disorders." Unfortu­nately, budgetary and hiring limitations are unavoidable realities, and Johnson says the an­
swer isn't so simple. "It's a very, very com­plicated issue, and ifcounseling was the only thing lacking, girls who have come forward would not have." Peer acceptance, she says, is an essential component of recovery and treatment. ·"We need to stop basing our in­terest and engagement on what we see on the outside." 
A Life Uncommon attempts to tackle 
many of these problems at once. "It's em­powering, and it's not your normal support group," says Swiacki, a cofounder and co­leader. Started in Spring 2001 by four fe­male undergraduates, A Life Uncommon was first cosponsored by the UCC and now falls under Campus Ministry, with Johnson serving as the club's advisor. Leaders ofthe club, which meets every Wednesday night at 10 p.m. in Pangborn Hall, say spirituality is its most unique aspect. "We took a differ­ent twist to it," says Sarah Shacklett, one of the original founders. Johnson believes the spiritual aspect ofthe group practically en­sures that it will last. "This is not a show we're putting on," says Swiacki. "It's an environment where women can be friends." In two years, the group has taken a once­taboo topic and brought it to the campus forefront. "A Life Uncommon has helped to promote the reality of the problem, and the group has literally changed the way I ad­ministrate," says Johnson, who admits her familiarity with eating disorders was ex­
tremely limited be­
fore arriving at Notre Dame. The club hopes a spring 
Abou"t" 
retreat and a publi­
-•r,ooo
cation of personal testimonies will in-
women 
crease campus awareness. 
die 
But not all ofthe university's actions 
·each have been lauded. Junior Leslie ­
_year: 
Pechkurow's story 
from
is fodder for those 
:··::
who say the 
anorexta.
university's actions overlook the vic­
tims of eating dis-. · orders. "When I was a freshman, I was pretty sick ... and [my old rector] was adamant about sending m~. home,'' says Pechkurow, who was seeking help from the UCC at the time. "She would call my parents and tell them to make me. take a semester off." Pechkurow recognizes that her rector did have success with sending a similarly situ­ated female resident home the previous year, and assumes the rector thought the same re­sults would occur if she was sent home for treatment as well. Pechkurow agrees that for some ailing students, leaving is the better option. However, ~he insists that in her· case 
05 DECEMBER 2002 

ightperfectionimagecliethunge1 
her home environment was part ofher prob­lem to begin with. Some victims, like Wodoslawsky, said professional help spurred her recovery. In the end, Pechkurow was able to remain at Notre Dame, and now is an ALU me~ber. 
Staples says that individual case decisions knew eight girls in my section who had eat­ing disorders, those are just the ones I knew about. I don't know eight alcoholics in my section."The information available to fresh­man needs to be increased, she says, par­ticularly in the mandatory physical educa­tion classes. Wodoslawsky spent much ofthe 

I 
tify the problem if they don't know what they're looking for." 
As far as the issues affecting male stu­I dents, Staples believes more can be done. "We don't have the same red flags for men ... [ male eating disorders] are not as iden­tified, and we need to make it easier for 
'~Without a do~,bt, it is the ,tfumber :o·n:e·problem with women on _campus.''_·_ -, _ . .-•·-·_ .__ .·. 
_, -Allie SY/iacki, A Life. Unco:rftmon leader . 
.. . ,.:.· :·. .. -. . . .. . . -.. . . -·· , . 
are not clear-cut and university counseling is done on a ''very case-by-case basis." The course ofaction on inaction depends whether it was the ailing student or a concerned col­league who first approached the UCC for help. If a referral from a rector spurred the initial counseling, Staples says she might ask the student to sign a "release ofinformation," which allows University Health Services and UCC staff to notify the student's hall staff and/or family. (Unless the student exhibits potential suicidal tendencies, in which case immediate action is necessary.) At Food Ser­vices, Antonelli often faces the same dilem­mas: "Sometimes people totally seek me out on their own, sometimes friends come to us." 
Concerning students with exercise disor­ders, Antonelli says that ifthere is sufficient cause _for concern, Rolfs staff might try to find out the student's identity and then speak to the respecttve rector. "Sometimes [hall staff] knows there's a problem, and they al­ready are doing something about it. We're just all trying to help somebody, but it's hard to work with someone who doesn't come forward." 
Educating fellow _students only is one of several necessary steps. "Yes, we have administrators and rectors who really don't know what to do with [the eating disorder problem]," says Johnson. But she says that steps are being taken to increase awareness. She points out the issue was directly addressed at RA training this past summer, with an emphasis on detecting warning signs of potential disorders. 
To the ALU leaders, time is ofthe essence. "We need to get this on the same plane [as alcohol and drugs]," says Wodoslawsky. "I 
05 DECEM~ER 20~2 
past year working to increase awareness of the problem, especially among rectors. She wrote a letter to each ofthem, encouraging them to promote ALU presentations in their respective halls. The degree of responsive­ness varies greatly from dorm to dorm, ac­cording to Wodoslawsky, with a handful of rectors choosing to hold meetings at the be­ginning of the school year. Many chose to make the meetings mandatory not only for incoming freshman, but also for hall staff. Others were considerably less responsive. 
But a so-called "solution" is not as simple as required attendance, some say. "I don't think mandatory meetings are necessarily the way to help students understand what them to acknowledge it. We need to mini­mize the stigma," she says. But, Staples points out, it is difficult to effectively treat the problem when she has not had a single eating disorder consultation with a Notre Dame man. 

Swiacki specifically believes that the fe­male stigma of eating disorders remains a common misconception, despite the rising rate ofincidences-among male college stu­dents. "We feel different concerns would be shown ifit was affecting men [to the same degree]," says Swiacki. "This is not to in­sinuate blame on [rectors or the administra­tion], but many people in authority need to take it more seriously. Both women and men 
95% e>fi~,c:,,se. who::::have\.¢~ting __ disorciers~·:ate._· betW~~n:'1:he.:·iges 
of 12 a.nd. 25. 
they need,'' says Johnson. "Part ofthe chal­lenge is that everyone comes forward in their own time, and some girls get so depleted someone else has to step up. Concealing is part ofthe disorder." 
In the near future, Staples plans to work more closely with the athletic department by educating coaches and trainers, as well as introducing eating disorders to those pos­sibly unfamiliar with the symptoms and causes. "You can't expect coaches to iden­
-.i 

in authority at this school need to understand it better." 
In an environment ripe for eating and exercise disorders, the need for change may be more urgent than ever. D 
-With reporting by Mike Borgia and Cristin Fenzel 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 


Happy Holidays, Gipplings. The Dame's most hallowed halls found a Gipper hopes you 're staying mysterious stocking-stuffer in his sink a warm and cheery in the face of week or two ago. Apparently, the boy had these frosty finals and football failures. had a bit too much buttered rum (Natty To fortify you, here's a tip or two. Light) and was sleeping in heavenly peace (passed out), when his Secret Santa came A Beautiful Sight, We're . down the chimney (heating pipe) and left him a Yule-tide treasure (turd) with a big 
Happy Tonight! 

shiny bow (the frosh's toothbrush) on top. 
A pair ofyoung ladies were lounging in 
Pretty nasty, and probably not worth
their room not too long ago when a 
printing, except that, through the miracle of
commotion outside drew one of them to 
artificial drunken-memory implantation, the 
the window. Seeing a scandal brewing 
young man's section has convinced him
outside, like a diligent Catholic 
that he did it himself. 

collegienne, our friend immediately 
Strangely enough, we're told that this 
sounded that primordial female alarm, 
guy is one ofthe popular freshmen in his 
shouting "Penis!" for all to hear. The 
section.

dorm erupted into a frenzy as all the residents scrambled to protect their 
A Tribute to Ty

chastity and hide in the closets. All, that 
is, except for our brave tipster's roommate, The Gipper would like to salute our who stepped boldly to the window to favorite new coach, who, despite a couple ofdisappointing games, has brought back 
observe what was going on. Sure enough, the respectability of our beloved football 
a gang of young men had left, in brontosaurus-like proportions, a holiday team. In particular, the Gipp would like to "package" crafted from the freshly fallen thank coach Willingham for: snow. Wishing to return the gift, our friend proposed to the gents t outside (who had returned to marvel at their creation) that if they could hit her window with a snowball, she would give them a glimpse ofher two turtledoves (although, apparently, not the partridge). The fellows put up a furious effort, finally pegging the screen, and they were rewarded as promised. Unfortunately, a rectress appeared on-scene and, as often happens in such situations, the offending phallus shrank away under her mighty glare. 


Too Much Eggnog and a Nasty Yule Log ­
Speaking ofgifts, a freshman on the top floor ofone ofNotre 
a) 
Winning against tough teams. 

b) 
Forming coherent sentences. 


We look forward to many great seasons under your leadership, Ty. In recognition of your achievements, the Gipp has composed a song for you. (Set to the melody of "Hark! The Herald Angels Sing.") 
Hark, the green-clad students cheer, 'spite no tailgates and no beer, The student section's going wild, Team and fans are reconciled. Deja Vu ads in the skies No longer attract our eyes. Finally we 're playing well! So long Bob, and go to hell. Hark! Angelic hosts proclaim, "Football's back at Notre Dame!" 
Well, ladies and gents, the Gipp is spent. Have a merry Christmas, and be sure to bring back a little slice of holiday mirth for the Gipper. . 
e 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 
05 DECEMBER 2002 


...........-.--.--.-········ ................-. .--..-.---. --.........
• -I
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, ~ ~I 
..

:• Bisexual.Students I
:•• 
~~~1£;;;1 
., 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
• 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, I-S550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students · and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co~Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 
[ 
University Counseling Center ~ 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Avoid oblivion by reaching outto 7,500 students, 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/
staff, and alumni by advertising in Scholastic. 
.,
Contact Mary Ursu at mursu@nd.edu or call 1-0594. 
------------------------~ ~ .............................................: 

'Tisthe season for foolish and lavish 
monetary decisions. As Christmas 
shoppers flood the malls and flush 
their wallets, the end of college football's 
regular season means pink-slip time, at least 
for those coaches who haven't been good 
boys when it comes to making money for 
hopeful athletic departments. This season is 
no different, as nine Division I-A coaches 
have been canned already, with more surely 
on the way. 

For some programs, these moves are justi­
fied and pragmatic. Then, there's TexasA&M, 
who fired legendary coach R.C. Slocum after 
14 seasons at the Aggies' helm. This has to 
rank as the least intelligent move in college 
football this year. A&M president Robert 
Gates made the decision on Monday, three 
days after the Texas Longhorns thumped the 
Aggies, 50-20 in Austin. In addition to this 
disappointing defeat at the hands ofA&M's 
archrival, Slocum was dismissed due to the 
Aggies' recent decline in Big 12 competition; 
the team hasn't won the Big 12 South division 
or conference title since 1998, and has posted 
a 1-4 record against Texas in its last five 
seasons. 

But, in truth, that decline is very recent. 
A&M's 3-5 Big 12 mark placed the Aggies 
fifth in the South division. Prior to 2002, the 
Aggies never had finished worse than third in 
the division, and Slocum has been head coach 
for every Big 12 conference game the Aggies 
have ever played. The results were three third­
place finishes, one second-place finish and 
two first-place finishes in the Big 12 South. 

Slocum posted a 123-47-2 record at Texas 
A&M, standing 51 victories taller than the 
IT··he Rant Texas A&M needs a reality check after firing legendary football coach R.C. Slocum 
by Gerard Meskill -respond to the king of sports at gmeskill@nd.edu 
second-winningest coach in Aggies' history, Homer Norton. Like Slocum, Norton coached A&M for 14 seasons, but his mark hardly compares to Slocum's .715 career winning percentage, the second highest in Texas A&M history. In Slocum's 14 seasons, he never posted a losing record, finishing 6-6 twice during his tenure. His team posted only one 

Slocum has been ruthlessly evicted from the place he ( 1
J.,"'i;\ 'J cherished, simply because he failed this season to meet : • (~ a standard that he himself set by elevating the level of '' . 
Aggies' football. 
losing conference record during that span ­this season. Since 1990, only Florida State's Bobby Bowden and Penn State's Joe Paterno have won more Division I-A football games than Slocum, who posted a 94-28-2 record in the 1990s. So where's the decline? 
Gates's decision to dismiss Slocum is an injustice. Slocum dedicated 30 years ofhis life to Texas A&M football, turning down other positions to remain in College Station. Omit­ting the Texas game, A&M' s five losses were by a total margin of 29 points, less than a touchdown per game. In addition, Slocum's Aggies upset then-No. I Oklahoma 30-26 in College Station, proving Texas A&M's po­tential to play elite football in the near future. Furthermore, the Aggies are expecting an­other stellar recruiting class, handpicked by Slocum, ofcourse. As for A&M's embarrass­ing loss to the Longhorns, it's impossible to ignore the emotional impact that freshman defensive lineman Brandon Fails' s death just four days before game time might have had on the Aggies. 
Despite Slocum's loyalty and record, Texas A&M's alumni, students and boost­ers were eager to clear the road in their pursuit of Alabama's Dennis Franchione. But it is rumored thatFranchione has agreed to a I 0-year, $15 million contract extension. Before Alabama's season finale at Hawaii, 
he told the media, "It's been my full inten­tion [to return next season]." If I were an Aggie, I wouldn't count on Franchione waltzing along the Kyle Field sidelines next season. 
Slocum and Texas A&Mboth lost on Mon­

. day. The Aggies lost the best coach they have ever had, and Slocum has been ruthlessly evicted from the place he cherished, simply because he failed this season to meet a stan­dard that he himself set by elevating the level ofAggies' football.· 
N ebraskahas exercised betterpatience with · Frank Solich, a coach with a similar record at a school whose football history, standards and current roster far exceed what Slocum had at Texas A&M. Solich deserves a pink slip far more than Slocum. 
What A&M is doing to R.C. Slocum makes me sick. Keep your head high, R.C. Take your 123 victories and four confer­ence titles, and go find a better job. You're too good for College Station, anyway. 


MEN'S BASKETBALL: It must be basketball season! Sophomore point guard Chris Thomas dominated the floor Monday night, scoring a career-high 32 points and going l 2-of-18 from the field as the Irish pounded Marquette 92-71. The trouncing over the 10th-ranked Golden Eagles was Notre Dame's largest margin of victory over a ranked opponent since March 3, 1990, when the Irish knocked off Missouri 98-67. This weekend, fifth-year senior Dan Miller will look to light' up his former team as Notre Dame takes on eighth-ranked Maryland. WOMEN'S BASKETBALL: Notre Dame defeated USC in a 69-57 come-from-behind effort last weekend at the L.A. Sports Arena. Sophomore forwardJacqueline Batteast had a double-double, scoring 14pointsandgrabbing 11 rebounds. Senior guard Alicia Ratay was the scoring leader for the I 0th-ranked Irish; finishing with 17 points. 

05 DECEMBER 2002 


"':, ~· ' . 
{Ju11ibr 'captain Kristen -Kihd~tYdidh't/
.:ic:-~r~,~:[t~t~rHlf~Jtff!Yi,i~l~fa7ntt 
'.F\~?rit¢cffo'go)cr$taJiford/LW:ckHy. for th'e 

:r)G-rq"1µlg Up{I~lways wanted to go tp Stru:tf9ta;J>9Htd1c:w.rt~9r~_C),J:lF!fl;:h~s_1§Ji)c.~i;:;;.,: 
t!lfit;i!lffl.~!t:!!{11
• -.ofa.JI9.1·t!h~~:co~)~ader. GeneralJy.\ I'w lqu,_4 and emot~e>na:tp11the 9<>tirt4 yv~_kf: •·:
tit~i,r~t~~,~,i,,~h:~:~::~~{~;}lrt~1~t;~:f;t;}J~I~~~:;,:1:~rt}
:';ir~lfef;bf,the~ressiµ-e. I think going in at ahigh~r,seed aiig~!J~ip,g:a,'l)l~}to:•play at,('}
,.,. ._,,,_.... -·· ·.-• '··'--·l . i.-... ·• ,, ... ·, ·.-_.. , .... , ....... _.... -.· . . . . .. • . . .. . 
<:•hqnie:takes :ai lot pf:P,ressure ofplaying on the-toad ~way, e~p~gi~Uy,t,h,is ye~tJ~ 
FOOTBALL: Linebacker Carlos Pierre­
05 DECEMBER 2002 
thrown 126 straight, a streak dating back to 
Our Calls 
Volleyball 
OPPONENT: COL. OF CHARLESTON WHERE: NOTRE DAME, IND. WHEN: SAT, DECEMBER 7, 6:00 PM 
The College of Charleston has had 
a long, memorable season that 

> 
has culminated in a trip to the 
NCAA tournament. The trip home 
won't be long or memorable. Notre 
Dame dominates once more in the JACC, 30-21, 30-12, 30-18. 
GERARDMESKILL 
SPORTS EDITOR 

The Irish come into their first-round matchup against Charleston having >won eight of their last 10 matches. After suffering two straight defeats to close the regular season before winning the Big East Tournament, the Irish are refocused and ready to make a run. ND wins in three games. DAVIDMURRAY ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
College of Charleston? Please! 
What kind of a pick is this, anyway? 

> 
What next? Notre Dame football vs. 
Rutgers? Emily Loomis and the 
Kinder twins are too hot to handle 
for the Cougs. Notre Dame wins in 
three games, 30-13, 30-17, 47-45. 
JIMMYATKINSON 
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
OUR CALLS RECORDS 
DAVIDMURRAY: 3-2

> JIMMYATKINSON: 3-2 GERARDMESKILL: 3-2
-------------------i-j; 
-------------------------------------------·i-Ji 
VOLLEYBALL: After defeating Miami to Antoine's touchdown against USC was the the Pittsburgh game.  
earn its seventh Big East title, the Notre first blocked punt returned for a touchdown HOCKEY: The Irish fell to 5-6-2 overall  
Dame volleyball team has been selected to for the Irish since Joey Goodspeed returned and 4-6-0 in league play after being swept at  
host first and second round games of the a blocked punt 33 yards against Rutgers in Alaska-Fairbanks  over the Thanksgiving  
NCAA Tournament, st_arting Saturday at 1996. Quarterback Carlyle Holiday broke weekend, 4-3 and 5-4. Junior right wing 6:00 p.m. against College of Charleston. Steve Beuerlein's school record for Rob Globke scored two goals and added  1:I·  
The winner of that match will face the consecutive passes without an interception. one assist in Saturday's 5-4 loss, but it was  f,1  
Michigan State-George Mason winner .Before being intercepted in the second not enough, as the Na.nooks mustered four  t  
Sunday at 4:00 p.m. quarter o{ the USC game, Holiday had power play goals in six attempts.  (1  

-Jimmy Atkinson 

I 't 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 



Skating Notre Dame 
ona hockey looks to compete at the highest 
p l.evel
L 

JIMMYATKINSON to a winning season only once, in 1998­99 (19-14-5). But a deeper bench, re­
Notre Dame used to be considered 
newed confidence, and an improved sense 
. a second-rate program by the col-
ofpurpose have the Irish offto a fast start 
legiate hockey scene. But after in the 2002-03 campaign. 
forcing a tie with No. 3 Boston College 
"A lot of [overcoming adversity] was 
and upending two other top teams, the 
just growing pains," says junior right
Irish hockey team is beginning to garner 
wing Rob Globke, the team's leading
attention. In only its fourth season offull 
scorer with 12 goals. "We were growing

funding from the university, the team fi­l 
up as a team, maturing, and learning how 
nally is starting to compete with the 
to win, [but now] it seems like we're fi­
country's elite programs. 
nally starting to turn the corner." 
In past seasons, Notre Dame has 
The turnaround started last February in 
struggled on the ice. In seven years, Irish 
a regular-season game at Michigan State, 
head coach Dave Poulin has led his team 
when the Irish upset the third-ranked 
Spartans 3-2, snapping Michigan State's 
LIGHTING THE LAMP Junior right wing Rob 
33-game unbeaten streak at home (30-0­
Globke leads .the Irish in scoring this s~ason. 
3). In tl].at-victory, the Irish found the con­fidence they needed to go on a late-sea­son surge, during which they posted a 7­2 record and up~et Nebraska-Omaha in the first round of the CCHA tournament. With that three-game series win over Ne­braska-Omaha, Notre Dame earned a trip to the CCHA's Super Six at the Joe Louis 

· h, _____ArenaJn-Detroi t..for .the.second.,timdn.... to 2~2.and eventuall y,..tookaJ~ 2-1ead.with------­three years. · · under four minufes left in regulation. Notre Dame's early suc~e.ss this se.ason Notre Da~e's luck:;seemed to have run-can be attributed to. its carrying over last out, but wfth an-extra attacker on the ice , 
--year-'s-momentum,--as--well-as--the--return-----and-anempty.rtetbehindthem,.junior--cen~:-·.--­of 12 oftheir 13 top scorers from last-sea-ter Aaron Gill took a pass from Globke son. The success started with early sea-on the left wing boards and fired it into ·son· wins over Minnesota-Duluth and the net with 42 seconds left in the third Western Michigan, but didn't truly show period. That score forced the game into until the Eagles came to town. overtime, during which neither team was 
A tie against third-ranked Boston Col-able to score. lege in front of a sellout crowd at the Although unable to hold onto a lead and JACC caught the nation's attention in the earn a victory,,.the Irish were able to skate first week ofNovember. The Irish led for to a draw against one of the nation's best most of the contest, holding a 2-0 lead teams. They .gained renewed confidence midway through the second period. Early and respect around the nation as a seri­
~:J in the third, the Eagles evened the· score ous competitor by giving Boston 
05 DECEMBER 2002 

22 SpHOLASTICSPORTS 


College's record its first blemish. 
The following weekend, the Irish fin­ished a five-game home stand by hosting I 3th-ranked Miami. A night after falling 3-1 to the RedHawks, Notre Dame won a tightly contested 2-1 game. Sophomore goaltender Morgan Cey finished with a career-high 44 saves as sophomore center Cory McLean and Globke each scored a goal. 
A trip to Ann Arbor to face Michigan's perennial power further boosted the team's confidence. Following a 4-2 loss to the fifth-ranked Wol­verines in the Friday night game, the Irish rebounded Saturday to upset Michigan with a third period comeback win, 4-3. Junior defenseman Tom Galvin, Globke and McLean each tallied goals in the final period. The victory was the first for Notre Dame at Yost Arena since 1982. 
"It's a big win," says se­nior defenseman and team captain Evan Nielsen. "More than anything for confidence for the team. To go in there and take the game in their barn is huge. I don't know if there's anywhere better to win in our conference. To take one game and probably play well enough to win both is obviously a big confidence boost." 
With that win, the Irish hockey team· brought its overall record to 5-4-2 and 4­4-0 in the CCHA;including 

. ---.a 2s2a.Lrecordin.theJastfive___ l games, all against '.top-I 0 teams. That the Irish were able to post such a record 
---~against. a--strong,.schedule.,-. 
speaks volumes about the CAPTAIN CRUNCH-TIME Captian Evan Nielsen is part of a core group of team 
team's confidence and im-leaders who make it happen on the ice. 
provement from last season. 
Success and improvement also have been the result ofincreased ros­ter depth. Prior to the 1999-2000 season, the Notre Dame ice hockey program was not fully funded by the university. While the NCAA allowed a maximum of 18 scholarships to be awarded to ice hockey players, Notre Dame was operating with only 14 until four years ago. 
05 DECEMBER 2002 
arships available. For Poulin, this is the deepest team that he has had in his eight seasons as the Irish head coach. 
"This season, we have more depth," says Globke. "We have more skill all the way through instead of being so top-heavy." 
In addition, a core group of leaders has 
"That's a big, big, big difference," says Poulin. "Now that we're fully funded af­ter four years, I think the depth is starting to show." 
This is the end ofthe first cycle ofplay­ers, meaning that this year's senior class was the first to be recruited with 18 schol­

...... -··~·· 
critical. 
"We really need to do well and get some momentum into Christmas," says Nielsen. "That's our goal for right now." If the Irish are able to get back on track heading into Janu­ary, another Super Six appearance and even an NCM Tournament appearance certainly aren't out of reach. D 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

emerged to aid the team. Poulin lists 
Nielsen and Gill along with senior center 
Connor Dunlop, junior defenseman Neil 

Komadoski and junior left wing John 
Wroblewski as leaders who have stepped 
up for Notre Dame this season. But now, 
"the next level of support behind themis starting to increase, and that's guys like [junior defenseman] Brett Ledba and McLean," says Poulin. Clearly, the Irish are play­ing well, and it is showing; But no one on the team is sat­isfied with merely playing 

f
well. "You have to_ win," Poulin says, "[and] I think r we're very close to that tip­ping point right now." The team's plans to get to that point were hindered last weekend when the Irish were swept by Alaska-Fairbanks, 4-3 and 5-4. Most disap­pointing for the Irish was their special teams play, which had been strong up un­til then. The Irish went 1-for­6 on power plays over the weekend, while the Nanooks scored four power play goals in the second game. 
While Poulin claims, "The special teams are improving dramatically," he still isn't getting the consistent results he would like. The Irish cur­rently rank I 0th out ofthe 12 teams in the CCHA in power -play percentage, converting only IO of 70 chances for 
14.3 percent, while giving up 

four shorthanded goals. _ __::Attittide~wise and mentality.___' 
wise and commitment wise, yes, we're quite far ahead of where we were last year," says .. Poulin. Buttheresultsare strug-. gling to catch up. After being swept by Fairbanks last week­end, this weekend's game against Bowling Green will be 


Race For the Cup 
GERARDMESKILL

When the Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. hired Kevin White to replace Mike Wadsworth as Notre Dame's athletic director in the spring of2000, he knew White had a repu­tation for transforming athletic programs into national powerhouses. White's fo~­year tenure at Arizona State University saw the Sun Devils rise from 23rd to 12th in the Sears Directors' Cup standings ­a system that ranks universities based on overall performance in varsity athletics. 
24 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 

When White arrived at Notre Dame, he said that one of his top priorities was to take Notre Dame's varsity athletics pro­gram into the Sears Directors' Cup top­10 standings within the next few years. 
"Fully scholarshipping all our programs will help us realize our goals over the next five or six years ofpushing Notre Dame's athletic program toward a top finish in the annual Sears Directors' Cup standings," White said at the time. 
Now, with this year's first edition ofthe Sears Directors' Cup standings to be re­leased today, Notre Dame appears poised to challenge for its first top-10 finish since the competition'sinception in 1994. In the past, Notre Dame has amassed three 11th­place finishes and placed 13th in last year's competition. 
But even as Notre Dame moves closer to its goal ofwinningthe Sears Directors' Cup, most individuals affiliated with the university pay little attention to the com­petition. In fact, due to the complexity of the system and its lack of publicity throughout the year, it's likely that few people understand the method employed to choose the annual champion. 
The Sears Directors' Cup for Division­I athletics is an annual award presented by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA) to the university whose overall performance in 

05 DECEMBER 2002 

··-,-..,,..., 

varsity athletics is paramount in the  places for teams, rather than classifying  eted event, points allotted to all places  
NCAA. To make this competition fair to  them by the round in which they were  that are tied are pooled and divided evenly  
schools that do not offer all NCAA var- defeated. In this system, last-place finish- among the deadlocked institutions. For  
sity sports, the NACDA uses the top 20  ers receive 10 points and national cham­ example, in the 32-team model, 30th  
team performances -10 men's teams and  pions receive 100. Teams that fall in be- place receives 14 points, 31st 12 and 32nd  
10 women's teams -to determine a com- tween receive a denomination between 10  10; ifthe teams occupying these three po­ 
posite score.  Scoring is based on an  and 100, depending upon their final place  sitions were to finish in a three-way tie,  
institution's finish in the NCAA champi­ and the scoring model used, which is again  each would receive 12 points  -the sum  
onships, with the exception of Division  based on the number of teams involved.  ofthe three scores divided three ways. Fi- 
l-A football, which is determined by a  In· championships hosting more than 64  nally, in the unlikely event ofa tie for first  
school's final position in the ESPN/USA  participants, each team finishing below  place in the final standings, the Sears Di- 
Today Coaches' Poll. All varsity sports are .. Ji.>\i4<.4 )\l9~¥1''""f'~ .•.. b.QlQ<;ef  64th place receives five points. With a 12­.•  rectors' Cup would be awarded to the in­~titl\tiQPJO/hjh;'"';.µ';:aJ.,t;;P }/i  , I  
,,.<_!  
:-;"}(·\·t·;·-.:2/·':-·1  

'\g,ishiJi ei/en~• TlifIiJ,h)>'•e9~ 3,d(85.•·•· ;Jli;I 
;tiointsY:i'n}'wprriefr's'~crqs~.~6()'t-i:n{(i....andi: >i.'.ir• ·.:/2?Ii~l(}9'points )iµineg's/'(Ft~ld.•Iioc~ey '.?i1>,no.ta. yarsity:;:,port.atrotr¥, pame.) 
l~lf!1t1i~~fJi~Jif...:~;-·~~,­five models: 64-team, 48-team, 32-team, NACDA standings. But when they are, 16-team or 12-team tournaments. (Events TY'S GUYS Football is certain to score points in Notre Dame is.guaranteed 64 points for a with fewer than 12 te~ms do not count in the Sears Director's Cup standings wilh a top 25 third-round finish in women's soccer, 50 the standings.) For example, with the 16-team model, for example, the following points for a second-round finish in men's team model, all teams eliminated in the places would receive these respective soccer and at least 25 points for the No. first-round of the bracket receive 25 scores: 12th -10, 11th -19, 10th -28, 16 Irish volleyball team, which opens up points. Defeated q],!arterfinalists receive 9th -37, 8th -46, 7th -55, 6th -64, 5th NCAA competition against the College of 60, defeated semifinalists 83, the runner--73, 4th-80, 3rd-85, 2nd-90 and 1st Charleston on December 7. It is uncer­up 90 and the national champion 100 -100 points. tain how many points the football team points. There are four minor addendums to the will earn, but with a major bowl bid lurk-
Non-bracketed events include women's Sears Directors' Cup scoring. First, fenc-ing, Tyrone Willingham's team will add and men's cross-country, Division I-A ing and skiing are the only two sports something to Notre Dame's point total. football, women's and men's swimming, whose titles are not separated by gender. When these sports are tallied and the women's and men's indoor and outdoor Since both sports have only one coed final fall Sears Directors' Cup standings track and field, men's wrestling, women's championship, they can be scored as ei-are published on January 9, Notre Dame and men's golf, women's rowing, fenc-ther a men's event or women's event, de-should be in or close to the top 10. Should ing, women's and men's gymnastics and pending on which classification affords this hold true, it would be an excellent skiing. the institution in question the greatest ad-start toward White's goal of finishing in 
For sports that do not have a bracket, vantage. Second, there are two seasons of the top 10 come June 26. 0 each team receives a certain number of track and field: indoor and outdoor. Be­points based on its performance in cham­ginning with this academic year, the The NACDA Sears Directors' Cup pionship event. Because these sports cul­NACDA only will count the better finish standings for Division I athletics will be minate in one all-inclusive championship of these two seasons for each gender. updated periodically on www.nacda.com final, it is possible to determine specific Third, in the event ofa tie in a non-brack­
05 DECEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25 
ON THE COUCH 
. ' .. Though .PatAmato ·• wasn't the chosen suitor on Elimidate, he still· finds himself surrounded . by girls at Notre Dame. (Froin left to right: Meghan Winger, Gretchen Byars and· .ChristYTabit.) . 

When a random girl stopped ND senior Pat Amato as he jogged down a Los Angeles beach dur­ing July 2001, he wasn't totally surprised, Accustomed to being something of a suc­cess with the ladies,Amato's only complaint was that this particular one had a rather un­orthodox approach. "This chick came up to me and asked if she could do a mini-inter­view, and she had a camera, so I was a little. weirded-out," Amato explains. 
J 
The younglady was, in fact, attempting to convince him to audition for the WB show Elimidate. After a few minutes ofi:onversa­tion, he was convinced, and thus began what Amato's father now refers to as "the sleazy adventure," which culminated in the airing of the show this_past summer, a year after it originally was taped. 
Thoughhe hails from Toledo, Ohio,Amato . was in Los Angeles for the summer interning at a law firm. At the same time; Elimidate executives in the area were hard at work film-. ing episodes for the new series,-whichfea:~ tures "four suitors pitted against one another for the hand of one lucky single On a group date." After the fateful encounter on th~ beach, 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
Though Amato was excited to appear on the 
show, some roadblocks still existed between 
him and celebrity. "The parents were not so 
sure this all was a good idea due to some pre­
vious ResLife incidents and ND's spick-n­
span image and all;' Amato says with a sigh. 
"I think they were worried that ND might kick 
me out, which would, ofcourse, be classic." 
Alas, duLac outlaws many activities, but .• ma:king a fool ofoneself on national TV is not 
one of them. With his fears of expulsion 
calmed, Amato embraced the chance to 
gamble away his heart. 
Amato's da.te J;,egiµs in a H,:oJiywood c:9ffee 

shop. His potential soul mate arrivJs first Her · 
name is Erica, a legal secretary with long blond 
hair and a.penchant for tossing it over her 
shoulder ~hile saying "You know?" Amato's 
rivals appear soon after, including Ralph, a 
gym-membership salesman; Ben, a comedian/ 
Il}Otivational speaker; and Beau, a construc­
tion worker who voluntarily admits that his 
considerable side bums have earned him the 
nickname Elvis. Amato is introduced as a jun­
ior accounting major at Notre Dame who 
"loves kids." "Come on/' he says in retrospect. 
"Why didn't they just come out and say pedo­
•. 
i'ltii 
"j~ :· 
·.··I··•.~...
j
:.-: 
After voice~overs introduce the guys, shady interests and all, they sit down to discuss their occupations. Amato explains that though he studied accounting, he doesn't like numbers all that much and so the logical next step might be to work for 'the FBI. "Being undercover would be kind fun;' he says thoughtfully. Im­mediately, the show cut to clips of the other guys subtly hinting that they think Amato is the least promising ofthe challengers, saying things such as, "Patrick has no game." 
Beau then begins to discuss himself, or, more specifically, his tattoos. Apparently the snake on his arm is proof of his passion for body art, Q~.c~us.eJe pi.-qcee9s. tg ta.ke.offl.lis. shirt to reve~l:the ~design coveii.~g'.the majbr-, ity ofhis chest. Notto be outdone, Ralph ta:kes center stage and asks Erica if she can "apply lipstick with her toes." She replies that she cannot, and that avenue ofconversation seems all but exhausted. Ben saves the day, and the conversation, with a Bill Clinton imperson­ation, repeatedly saying in a southern accent, "I did not have sexual relations with that girl." A confused Beau thinks that Ben is just hit­ting on Erica. "Why did he have to keep ask­ing her for sex.?" he wonders during his next scene. "That was not smooth." 
05 DECEMBER 2002 



With competition like this, Amato imme-To lighten the mood, the con­diately realizes that he needs to pick up the testants proceed to a comedy pace if he wants to survive. He seizes his club down the street. chance when Erica explains that she works at "Some producer told Erica to a sports bar specializing in Mexican food. pick a theme," Amato -says, After a moment of quiet reflection, Amato "and so she picked 'Space wonders aloud if it could possibly be "any-Aliens from Iowa.' Beau and I thing like a Mexican Hooters?" had to act it out as the other 
Opinions vary about the Hooters line,.which . · guys made up a story about the is regarded either as Pat's shining moment or phrase." his worst faux pas. "My parents liked my The drama heightens when 
. Mexican Hooters line," Amato says, though Ralph, who is narrating, throws they could not be reached to confirm their in an unexpected plot tum. POOLSIDE A typical scene:fr~m the show featuring four women approval. "The aliens are actually ... gay surrounding one very lucky fellow. 
"It was my favorite moment," says Amato 's aliens," he cries. Beau, who is friend and fellow ex~Zahm resident Dan playing the alien, promptly hugs Amato, fin-he described p.imself as cocky. 
0

Burke, "mostly bec~u~e he was immediately ishing off the embrace with a firm butt "Yeah," says'. Burke sadly. "The cocky met with scorn by the other contestants and squeeze. The show cuts to a stricken Amato quote reallylpunched Pat's ticket off the the girl. It was a pretty lame and classless at-telling the camera that the entire sequence of show." C1 tempt to make conversation. Exactly what I events "was really, really unfortunate." But Amato--wasn't heartbroken over his would expect ofPat." The role play, andAmato's discomfort, end early exit. "A::-plus about getting kicked off 
Back on the show, the comment is met with when each ofthe competitors is asked to guess early is that I didn't have to put my dancing a long silence, which Erica breaks with a pierc-who they think Erica will eliminate first. Beau, on display; tbit's being saved for future Boat inghyena-laugh. "Ican'tbelievehesaidthat!" Ralph and Ben each name Amato. Then, Club performances," he says. ''Actually, it's she shrieks. The show next cuts to individual Amato names ... himself. Tension again builds unfortunate that the Boat wasn't one of the commentary by the guys. Beau tells the audi-as Erica demonstrates the impeccable logic she stops on our ~c1te. But, yeah, I think the lack ence, in painstaking detail, aboutAmato's ten-will use to narrow down the field. "Since the of dancing saved some..of my integrity, dency to stare, which alternately is described show is called Elimidate, I have to Elimidate maybe." as "glaring" and "stalker-ish." From this point someone!" she says, not one to miss the subtle-"Also," he says, "it was fun to see how the on, "stalker" captions periodically flash across ties ofthe game. "The chick was a real ditz," show worked~and how long it takes. We the screen whenever Amato appears particu-Amato says. "She completely tripped over started at 6 a,m., which was an adventure. larly intense. many ofher lines. We think she was going for [I'm] not reaily; a morning person. It was 8 
the word 'eliminate' in the second part ofthat p.m. by the time I got booted, and they still l'M COOL Amato shows off the ultracool outfit sentence." had a third of.the show to film." he wore for the show. She opts to boot Ralph, explaining that "I'm While Amato is content to admit that he 
reaching for the stars, but he's just staying right just wasn't high enough in the social strato­where he is." Though her deeply metaphori-sphere to i~j:iress Erica, his friend Phil cal explanation can be interpreted in a num-Brennan offe~s alternative theories why Beau ber of ways, most viewers suspect that she was her finar-choice. "I think Beau was just
I ;

truly just objects to the fact that Ralph is a much, much cooler and more normal than my lowly gym-membership salesman. good friend fa}," he says. "Or, actually, it 
For the second round, the contestants pro-could have \Jeyn that Pat's been hanging ceed to Aardvark's, a thrift shop. Erica instructs around us Zahm guys for too long, and it the guys to pick out clothes· that show their shows. Or, m~y~e he got nervous because he personality. Pat emerges in a bright orange was sobi:r."-. John Elway jersey, a puffy blue vest and some /;,In the end, Pat walked aw~y"with some 
·-s_ylf:qe~criqed '\v~i,rd'.' p?Ut!l, y1)1.i.9hals9 l_lap~, new clothes from the dress-up party, ~grec1ter 
l.pen t6 be orange. ;He also sports a,red}mit ski . _ability_Jo__111ake coriv~_r:s_c1ti,Qn_with stupid --, cap and winged sunglasses, and points ot1t that people while-·sobet and a tape that lie shows . the ensemble highlights his "cocky and hold" off every c:_hance he gets,''-Bmke says. personality. The outfit is 'just a flash of rily "I'm just gfaffI·clidn't embarrass my·par­brilliance," he explains to his fellow show ' ~ntstoo much,'' Amato concludes . . / . members. "It's a sign ofhis lukewarm intelli-•,Elimidate airs in South Bend~n channel gence," Beau explains to audience members. 69 at 5:30p,m and Up:m: ''it's ve,ypossible 
After the fashion show, Erica must elimi-that Pat's episode will be re-played," says nate another suitor. This time she gets her Elimidate publicist Kim Kattie,: "We 're go­words right: "Since this show is called ing into re-runs soon. And there's always the Elimidate, I have to eliminate one of you!," chance that we'll do a blooper-themed show. she says. Aftera pause and lots ofgiggles, she So he could be 01i that. " Check out informs Amato that he's out, mostly because www.elimidate.com for futw:e schedules. 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27





,j ; 
1,1 
,• 
I Elimidate ... Decency 
The dregs of society aren't just on Jerry Springer anymore 
First of all, I know what you 're going to say. This is my ing out with two women in one night is a big deal. Hell, I'd be third column in a row that deals with a game show, and happy to make out with two women, period. The only way girls for this I should owe the discerning public an apology. like this will ever fight over you again is if you wake up one But lest I be accused ofskipping to the well one too many times, morning as a chocolate-covered billionaire. I would like to point out that I am not responsible for the de-I could fill pages talking about the humorous quirks ofvari­pressing glut of game shows currently saturating the airwaves. ous female hopefuls ( and have, in fact-look for my new book, As a respected member ofthe press, (respected in that I have only I Weep for the Future, to hit stores in mid-February), but I think been thrown down a flight ofstairs twice·by people who hate my I'll have to limit today's little Algonquin Round Table to the column) it is my job merely to hold the mirror up to nature, as it standouts ofmy Elimidate history. First off, it needs to be pointed were. In this case, nature appears to adore easy New Jersey girls out that these contestants aren't typically Mensa material. I think wearing corpse-blue eyeshadow that was probably more flattering the high point of one show came from the girl who firmly be­on the rabbits I.;Oreal swabbed it on in the first place. lieved "devious" was a synonym for "daring," and used it liber-But enough of my vitriol. After all, if you wanted scathing ally, with hilarious consequence (e.g. "Since you're rich; you're commentary on why society is terrible, you'd be reading Charles probably looking for a girl like me who's really devious-want to Rice's column right now. The people want to read about the come skydiving?"). Then again, we can't discount the girl who, magic ofElimidate, and I shall not dis-after describing her competition as "cup­appoint them. As always, I will begin cakes," posed the question" ... but why with a synopsis of the show for those have cupcakes when you can have unfortunate few who remain in the dark ll'Ai~~ creme brulee?" A cleverly executed little about this masterpiece. Essentially a ,._....'°__.,..,,_.ai•.'I.IM'.....,., _,..:::...--.w~-=-'111, dig, if we ignore the fact that she pro-blend of The Dating Game and what I t!~~~~~~ nounced "creme" as "cream" and was assume Survivor: The East Village "._,,,..... -"C!ic.:.,JLD nearly laughed off the cruise ship and would look like, Elimidate stars one relegated to dating Carrot Top for the happy-go-lucky bachelor ( or, occasion-rest ofthe evening. ally, bachelorette) who dates four ~~:rLi~ However, as all men know, women simultaneously, leaving them nothing's more frustrating than a girl behind like crippled gazelles through--who pretends to be into having a three-out the course of the evening until he some in order to get you into bed. Such has finally arrived at the woman he be-was the case with one unfortunate lad lieves to be Ms. Right ( or at least Ms. who kept on a bisexual and the girl Wake-up-and-buy-me-an-awkward-she was flirting with, only to have one breakfast-at-Denny's). Granted, the in-ofthe two Elimidate herself when she dividuals involved do occasionally realized her partner-in-crime was seem to have real chemistry, but 90 percent ofthe time the audi-more interesting than the male contestant. ence gets to witness four competitive, whiny girls hang around Does anyone honestly believe there is potential for long-term a guy who by all accounts seems to have won the frat-boy sweep-commitment and happiness from any ofthese random matches? I stakes. Then again, that last line assumes that you view the man .certainly hope not. Besides, in the unlikely ev:ent that the contes­who has to hang around most of these girls as a "winner." I've tants do end up getting hitched and having children, how will they looked at the majority of the contestants, and frankly I haven't tell tlie kids the darling story oftheir first meeting? "Well, son, I seen so many zeroes since the last time a guy won on Million-. was going to Elimidate your mother and go with Kitsie, but then aire. By the time only two girls remain, the imbecile boy always . this special lady lifted up her Abercrombie tube top, and she had drags his companions off one at a time for a private make-out the sweetest rack on her ..."The deeper into the evening the con­session, which he proceeds to characterize as "Eh, no big deal." testants go, the more their shame falls by the wayside. I still don't I've got news for you, Don Juan de Elkhart: When you're fresh know whether Elimidate has a "grand prize," but if it does, I'm out ofBowling Green and "working on your screenplay," mak-. sure it's not dignity, self-respect or credibility. D 
05 DECEMBER 2002 


J 
I 

of it sooner?"' Matteson and Proulx ranging from 1950s sci-fi all the way to MATTKILLEN brought only one sign-up sheet to the early 1990s low-budget fantasy films. event with slots for 40 names. They left Like the films they feature, the show
Take some bad movies, a few robots, with more than 150 names on the list. proudly has maintained a low-budget look an orbiting space station with an The show's premise is simple: Mad sci-since its inception over a decade ago. in-house theater and a group ofde-entists have imprisoned their innocent and Even after switching to network televi-, 
voted ND students, and what do you get? helpless intern with two off-the-wall ro-sion, the cast stayed in Minnesota, not } A defunct television show with its very bots on a space station called the Satel-wanting to betray the "outsider" feel that 
;1· 
own club on campus. The Mystery Sci-lite of Love. Their torture? The captors made them famous in the first place. Since l.: ence Theater 3000 Club is a group of stu-force them to watch bad movies. Really, its cancellation three years ago, reruns . dents whose sole purpose is to watch really bad movies. Viewers see the robots have aired on the Sci-Fi Channel, and the people watching bad movies. and the intern sitting in the theater watch-show's fan base continues to expand. I 
"It's like a cult. It's kind of under-ing films, cracking jokes about some of ND's club watches tapes every Sunday ground, since no one really saw the show Hollywood's historically terrible offer-at 7 p.m. and Tuesday at 8 p.m. in O'Neill when it was on," says sophomore Geoff ings. Hall. Those tapes come courtesy of club Matteson, the club's president. Twice a "It's a really intelligent show," Proulx member Eric Houston, whose complete week, Matteson and other devoted fans of says. "They do some broad jokes some-collection ofall 150 episodes spans more the show huddle quietly in O'Neill Hall's times, but much of it is very obscure." than 60 videocassette tapes. Houston, who darkened 24-hour space. The couches get Proulx thinks the show is hilarious, but initially had 45 episodes in his collection, re-arranged around the television altar, the movies are sometimes too horrible completed the set over a single summer and everyone silently a;,Vaits the appear-even to watch. "Some of the movies are by tape-trading with other fans over the ance of a certain pasty Midwesterner and so bad, it's hard to watch them even with Internet. his two lovable-robots. the commentary." "I'm a crappy-movie junkie," admits 
Matteson jokingly embraces the stereo-Many fans appreciate the show as a Houston, whose favorite episode is Viking typed image of the __show's fans not ex-light-hearted and hilarious look back at Woman v. The Sea Serpent. "I just think actly fitting into a popular mold. "I al-some of pop culture's most disastrous the show's hysterical. And as a film stu­ways thought ofmyself as a geek,. and ifl mistakes. Aside from the movie screen-dent, it's also very educational." like it, it must be a geeky thing," he says. ing, the show is filled with small segments But don't expect to learn anything from 
Matteson and club vice-president Andy tied to the featured film, such as Elvis im-the club. Matteson says they're just in-Proulx, a sophomore, met during fresh-personation8(~ilU elementary-school bake terested in sharing an appreciation for man orientation last year and quickly dis-sales. '-.·-·•: \ great comedy about not-so-great movies. covered that they shared a love for the Matteson as1er\s that the show's flex-Aside from their regular meetings, mem­show. The club began later that year as ible premise gitesi~ unique;:variety that bers pl~,irtt assemble for an all-day mara­an unofficial gathering where several stu-can't b~ faynd \anyw~ ere el~e. "W~ dif-thon tli1s Sunday. dents would meet and watch tapes of the ferent every wee}<:-It's,not like a sitcom," Myitili!j,si1nce Theater 3000 might 
r:c-,__ epi~o_des. ~:~ sprin_g'. Matteson filed for Mattl'dn sh.)(s. "T!ese riiovles are s~, ~ad, h~ift~,ii,~ts last days on television, but f ,~t offiS1al-clti~.{eJ?~~t10n. /'~-,~ _ ~o~>~fllys(~er ~h~tt~eY'"-:ff~}li1~k-tli~'.Jhp;w~ves on tha~k~ t?__the effort of ;
Ii !\i\'hfPc?P'J!,mty. 'llil/ei~,,k1r.·:t,i?'P:'\ mg. p,er,>ry !~st-beggi~~Jq Ae m~de_ J\1J\ /}X~rI1ke_J~e~ ''T~Ji:w1ust-•,!l;~, :•-..<; 'Ji 
't~iI~;, ·.>~ .r.x ;::•if~~ib~~1,~t·~;/"'. ,sm 


Philanthropy in a Tub of Vodka 
The road to Appalachia is paved with half-hearted intentions -and some coal 
MEGHANGOWAN

Iam aware that the following Week in Distortion will not be "popular." I am also aware that a handful ofpeople who formerly mildly disliked me will now hate me. I accept this "punishment," as one who cared wouJd.call it, and choose, instead, to educate this campus's youth ( and elders) on what happens when an unchaperoned trip to an impoverished Appalachian region goes terribly awry. Disclaimer: This is not an attack on community service-no,no it is not. Rather, it is an attack from a tree-hugging liberal on the money-grubbing, self-aggrandizing conservatives that composed the majority ofmy group-who chose to search for bars in the Appalachian night instead ofbuilding bonfires, and who giggled, change jingling in their Ralph Lauren pockets, about migrant 

labor oppression while stuffing their faces . . .. -. . . ...·..·.. ·· ... _ ...·..... .... . .,; . . 
wi~::;c::~eb~~!t~::~:i~;c~x~:;J~nces ~--dl?e~!~~"'•·: 
on similar excursions. My friend -we'll 
call her Mary Sue -pessimistically anticipated a grueling trip. "They're all ardent non-drinkers," she said, grimacing while she filled her flask. Forty-eight pictures 
later, she returned, her flask still full (no need to waste in sorrow, as there was only joy), and with a crush across the quad. Mary Sue's experience is what would be called the "norm" for Appalachia excursions: People serve and learn and bond, and are drawn from apathy to action. On my trip, this did not happen. 
I started the trip excited. Really excited. I even baked cookies, and I am not a cookie­baker. In retrospect, I cannot place the reason for my hopefulness -maybe it was the promise offresh mountain air, the prospect of swapping manual labor for Aristotle, or the anticipation of road-tripping to the sounds ofthe Beatles Anthology I secretly stole from my roommate. 
I returned with briefmemories ofa trip to Hooters and a hatred of coal. I really hate coal. All forms. I saw a piece ofcharcoal the other day, lying lazily on the ground, a remnant from a past barbecue, and I kicked it as a form of misplaced protest. 
I shouldhave known, I whispered to myself quietly when people were and were not looking. We were supposed to leave the parking· lot behind the infirmary at approximately 7:30 a.m. At 8:30 we were 
~ 
~o 
0 


.• 
· ;;._-----------~-.-:::;;:--,,;:;,6Ls--­
parked behind a women's dormitory waiting for one member of the group to gather her things. She had fallen into a death-like slumber, ignoring her 6 a.m. alarm. In her absent-minded packing process, she forgot any form ofmodem currency and pants. She spent the rest of the week clad in our site leader's size-28 overalls (she is about a size two), scrounging for food in Appalachian cupboards. 
At 8:45, we drove away from the Notre Dame campus and stopped five minutes later for an hour-long breakfast at the Burger King next to Martin's. It was at this point that our group leader explained in broken English that we had only $180 to feed 13 people for five days, and that we had to pay for both gas and tolls. It was also at this point, in hindsight, thatl should have quietly abandoned notions ofa spiritually fulfilling trip, walked back to campus and resigned myself to a week alone in my dorm room, eating tuna with my fingers. 
At about 6 p.m. that evening we arrived in West Virginia. There was nothing noteworthy about the drive south except for the fact that really bad music was played incessantly from onlyJhe speakers on the right side of the van. Also, there was an hour-long conversation about how we should use our day off to buy vodka, then pour it into a tub and stand in it. Together. Because someone had once heard somewhere, though they really couldn't remember"".here, that it gets into your bloodstream a lot faster this way. 
Each ofthe five days oflabor began with a morning prayer -an undertaking that should be simple, but was not, as 3 9 percent of the group stuttered heavily when asked for an intention. Except for the beloved group leader who would, each day, pray for "hard work and efficiency." This same group leader would then spend the following eight hours drinking water out of multiple paper cups in various stages of repose, playing 
.with a drill in the comer farthest away from any real work. 

I cannot pinpoint the problem exactly. From an outside perspective, much was accomplished. The sacrifice of our missionary site leader was inspiring, and our work made a tangible difference in a few people's lives, but the expected unification ofgroup towards one important cause never occurred. The most unification we had was a rebellion against our site leader: We all escaped to gamble and imbibe at a dog track an hour and a half away in Charleston. The CSC apologized to the site coordinator for a group that came to help those in poverty; but instead supported an institution that he1ps perpetuate the cycle. A small joke was made at the closing meeting about the suffocating indolence ofour group. No one laughed, arid there is no real reason to wonderwhy. 
I think that is all I have to say. Except that the only thing' that I hate more than my group is coal. 0 



. -: . 
1' ,: • 
As you get ready to trade in your current batch ofclasses for a brand new set; take your mind off exams and get into the holiday spirit! Don't forget to submit your spring semester events to scholast@nd.edu. (All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.)
ri . . 
r
L-~-·------·---·----·-··--····-·---···-·-----·------·--------------·-----------· 
What: Toy Drive When: December 9-11, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Where: Outside DeBartolo Hall How much: Cost ofthe toy you donate Why: You know you're going to enter that massive classroom building sometime during the glorious mornings of the last three class days. Why not brighten the holidays for some underprivileged kids as you trudge through? Anadded incen­tive: hot chocolate. Yum. 


a 


What: A Carroll Christmas When: December 6, 6:15 p.m. Where: Carroll Hall's front lawn How m_uch: Free; donation of a book or toy for Toys for Tots welcome Why: Cure any study-induced blues by watching a very large Christmas tree become resplendent with sparkling lights, accompanied by the vocal stylings of the Glee Club. If that doesn't stifle the Grinch in your eggnog-less soul, nothing will. 
What: Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers with Jack­
son Browne 
When: December 11, 7:30 p.m. 
Where: United Center, Chicago, Ill. 
How much: $35-$57 .50; to 
charge by phone, call (312) 
559-1212 Why: It's on the first night be­fore study days, when you know it will be physically im­possible for you to do work. You might as well put your procrastination time to good use. Travel to Chicago, look at the pretty lights, listen to Tom croon and then return home to hit the books. 

What: Trip to Meijer When: Whenever Where: Well, Meijer. And your car. How much: Depends on what you buy Why: South Bend can sometimes be a bleak, lonely place. But even the coldest, cloudiest day seems a bit brighter when your dorm room is full of snacks. So make the trip and stock up in advance. You're out ofFlex points anyway, right? 


What: "Joy to the World": Voices of Faith Winter Concert When: December 7, 8:00 p.in. Where: Washington Hall How much: $3 for students; $5 general admission Why: The sounds of Notre Dame's own gospel choir will bring you instant Christmas cheer! At­tend, and then hum the hymns from the concert while you're studying for that chemistry exam you can't wait to conquer -a little divine intervention on test day can't hurt. 

05 DECEMBER 2002 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 31 

by Christine Becker

''Real'' Misery 
On October 25, 2001, Leanne Potts ofthe Al­buquerque Journal pronounced reality TV dead. She reported in her "autopsy" that the 
"cause of death, say network executives, was poor ratings apparently caused by the excess of genuine reality that viewers have been subjected to since Sept. 11." One ofthose executives, ABC Entertainment Tele­vision co-chairman Lloyd Braun, predicted in late Sep­tember 2001, "I'm not so sure the country will be as accepting ofthese shows as they've been in the past." 
Fast-forward one year. Survivor: Thailand currently sits in the top 10 ofthe Nielsen ratings for broadcast shows, the Real World XII (yes, 12) rests at No. 3 in the ratings for cable shows, and the season finale of The Bachelor drew an average of26 million viewers to ABC, a number that surely sends a shiver of ex­citement up Braun's spine. 
Now, one has to wonder why the reality show genre has remained so prominent. Why do networks sched­ule such heavy rosters of reality shows, and why do viewers enjoy watching them? Why are people so will­ing to appear in them? 
The first answer is a no­
brainer. Relative to the 
typical drama or sitcom,

Maybe they had to eat a bucket 
reality shows are cheap to 

of worms, but 16 million people produce. There are no stars or writers to pay, and even 
tuned in to watch them eat 
large cash prizes are small 

those worms. How many of us potatoes in an industry 
where each Friends star 

can say we've had that kind of 
gets about $1 million per 
attention? 
Christine Becker is 
an assistant professor in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. She never has seen an episode ofThe 
Bachelor, butfi·e­quently gets hooked on Real World marathons. 


episode. Further, reality 
shows are a good way to 
brand a network in an age 

ofchannel clutter: E! is the Anna Nicole network, TLC 
is the Trading Spaces network and CBS is the Survi­
vor network. Finally, and most essentially, reality 
shows are all over the TV grid because most of them 
do well in the ratings. That raises the second question: Why do people watch reality shows? These shows hinge on the most basic of spectatorial desires: We want to know what happens next. Who will get voted off? Which room­mate will be the most dysfunctional? What zany thing will Ozzy do tonight? While cloaked in the rhetoric ofreality, these shows' situations obviously are con­trived to draw out the most provocative narratives possible; No matter the genre, television viewers are attracted to clear, compelling stories. Reality shows are the prototypical TV pap: They can be fun to watch, 
and they don't require much thinking to follow. 
Because of the "real" people depicted, this genre also has a special voyeuristic appeal not found in scripted genres. There is a definite guilty pleasure in judging others and watching them get judged (Ameri­can Idol), observing how a family deals with anach­ronistic living conditions (Frontier House) or revel­ing in the horrors ofothers' bad dates (Elimidate). In a sense, reality shows are mentally participatory; we imagine what we would do in these situations and then criticize their actions from the comfort ofour couches and at the proverbial water cooler the next day. 
An intriguing factor here is that so many reality shows depict people in situations of utter misery, whether performing grotesque stunts, associating with others, or being Anna Nicole Smith. Viewers appar­ently get a perverse thrill from watching the suffering ofothers, perhaps to reinforce a sense ofcontentment or superiority in their own lives. 
This leads to the most perplexing question of all: Why are people willing to appear on reality shows and have their anguish televised? The answer would seem to be an obsession with celebrity. While few will win an actual prize for being in these shows ( only one gets the million dollars, only one gets to marry the bachelor), they are at least televised. While some hope to use this as a springboard to other entertainment ca­reers, others are content with the phantom thrills of fame. Maybe they had to eat a bucket ofworms, but 16 million people tuned in to watch them eat those worms. How many ofus can say we've had that kind of attention? Of course, many of us would scream, ''Not me, and thank God for it!" But others enjoy those 15 minutes of fame, no matter what it takes to get them. 
While we tend to think ofthe reality genre and its aesthetic ofmisery as a new phenomenon, we can look back to '50s television and see Queenfor a Day, where despondent housewives told true tales ofextreme woe -"I just lost my husband ancl my boy is in an iron lung, and all I want in the world is a new dishwasher" -and whomever the audience deemed to have the most pathetic story, as measured by an applause meter, would receive their wish plus a whole raft of other consumer goods. One ofthe cruelest shows in televi­sion history, Queen for a Day ran for eight seasons. 
So, to cite what has now become a cliche, we really haven't changed much since 9/11, or even since the '50s. We still enjoy watching the structured parade of misery and conflict, and people still are willing to be the object of that gaze, so television executives will keep directing the procession through our living rooms. D 
05 DECEMBER 2002 
--:::·:_ 
.-;,·,./··~·: 

""7I!~flit 
.. ,.,~..·.,:ts~{~1~i 
.;.•~ ,.....,,:;­
J~~;;:~-7 
,/.;:~¥i~~~~r 










