The Notre Dame Scholastic
67
a
COMMENT
With the school year yet in its infancy, we have noticed that almost every tradition of Notre Dame has been broken. Democracy—that “good old state,” has become oligarchy; students thing nothing of lighting a cig-.arette on leaving the Main building;
“Hello” has been dropped from everyone’s vocabulary; and the freshman still looks suspiciously at a senior who tries to be friendly.
Editor Editor Editor Editor
In naming the traditions which now mean little or nothing at all to most of us, that of smoking on street cars while ladies are present, was purposely omitted so that emphasis might be placed upon it more fully here. So far as we know, it has always been an act of courtesy, a sign of a well-bred gentleman, for a man to refrain from clouding a street car with nauseating smoke when ladies are present. Notre Dame students should be gentlemen, but when we see some who are utterly incapable of understanding what the word courtesy means, we begin to wonder.
Ramon G. Frank E. W. Leslie
It takes but fifteen minutes to reach the school on the street car from town. Is it impossible for a Notre Dame man to hold his cigarette that long? The street car companies have kindly asked students and others not to smoke; official bulletins have laid the law down more emphatically; still we have the boors.
(■j'tiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiimtimmiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimiiittiiimiiiimiiimimiiiiimitimiiiimiiimiiiiimmmimiiiQ | The Notre Dame Scholastic I | Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi CrasMoriturus |
:	Fottnded in 1872	1
=	EMIL L. TELFEL...............................................Editor-in-Chief	=
z	HARLEY L. McDEVITT.......................................Graduate	Manager	=
EDITORIAL STAFF
:	John E. Bergan.........................Managing
:	James J. Kearney............'.Assistant Managing
:	Edward E. Brennan...........Assistant Managing
z	Walter V. Beesley........................Makeup
E	Alfred E. Gall...................................Makeup.	Editor
E	James K. Collins........................Features Editor
=	Austin Boyle......................................Script	Editor
=	Paul J. Hallinan...............................Associate	Editor
j	Richard J. O’Donnell.................................The	Week
Smith.....................The	College Parade
Seward....................Music and Drama
Raddatz.........................Campus	Clubs
NEWS STAFF Neil C. Hurley.........;....................News	Editor
William C. Karl................Assistant
Edward R. Brennan	Myron Crawford
James Carmody	Anthony R. Schreiner
William Fitzgerald	William Corr
SPORTS STAFF John A. Kiener............................Sports	Editor
Cleve Carey	James E. McFeely, Jr. Henry B. Asman
Robert Balfe ■ William J. Macarrall
BUSINESS STAFF James H. Rorke...............Local	Advertising Manager
James L. Rizer...........Foreign Advertising Manager
John R. Blanda...............Local	Circulation Manager
Andrew McGuan............Foreign Circulation Manager
Frederick Bauer Merle Baldwin Raymond J. Naber ’ John P. Hess
News Editor John Pick Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Williams
5 Vol. LXIV	OCTOBER 10, 1930	No. 3 i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The new men on the campus probably don’t know any better—and it is a certainty that those who do haven’t taken the trouble to enlighten them. Sophomoritis, junior carelessness, and senior sophistication are not any more elevating than freshman dumbness. When it comes right down to it, we are all in the same boat. Why not act as gentlemen should?
I i	The abuse of smoking on street
cars has been overdone. We have by *	our actions given rise to much un-
favorable criticism from those. outside. If we are to command the res- -pect of others, we must first cultivate
I	self-respect. Let us try to be gentle-
men as well as “he-men.”
.	W. V. B.
J*
E Stadium Dedication Ceremonies Begin Tonight—Neil C. Hurley- 68 =
=	The Week—R. J. O’Donnell and E. R. Brennan----------------- 70	|
i	Law Building Dedicated—Alfred E. Gall---------------------- 71	3
I	Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward---------------------------- 72	3
|	A Man You Know—Edward E. Brennan--------------------------- 73	=
= First of Chesterton’s Lectures Well Received_______________ 74 |
3	Dailey Announces Committee for Sophomore Cotillion-------- 7-5	3
3	Breaking Down the Lines—James K. Collins-_:---------------- 76	3
: Editor’s Page______________________'----------------------- 79 z
5	The Wink___________________________________________________ 80	|
=	College Parade—Ramon G. Smith------------------------------ 81	5
=	Middies Prepped to Stop Notre Dame Attack—John A. Kiener--- 82	|
| Interhall Sports--------------------------„---------------- 85 |
3	Splinters From the Press Box------------------------------- 91	3
=	On Down the Line 96	3
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-	=
scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.	£
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing a special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 191S.
3 The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	3
z	All Notre Dame Men.	•	-	:
Q iu<„„i„i„imiu,iii„uii„i,i,i,i„,iiiiiiii<a,imaiiaaiainaaaaiaamaai„iaaaaaaiia,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa,aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa,aaaaaaaaa,aaaa|a|
68
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. President of the University
Stadium Dedication Ceremonies Begin To-Night
Frank E. Hering to Deliver Address To-Morrow
By NEILC. HURLEY
Prof. Clarence Manion
The student body will parade the campus tonight.
Reminiscent of the days when Notre Dame played host to the alumni and the football crowds with a Homecoming celebration, the students will march across a torch-lit path to the stadium. Led by the band and cheer leaders, the program will be spark-lingly interspersed with songs and fireworks.
The occasion for this celebration will be the greater part of the dedication program, which will be staged this evening. Over 100 air bombs will boom forth the tidings, as a general assembly of the student body and thousands of football fans gather in the north end of the new field to attend the program.
Saturday; fifteen minutes before the Irish grid warriors open the clash with Annapolis, Frank E. Hering, the first football coach at Notre Dame, will officially dedicate the new stadium. “The Star Spangled Banner” will be played; the new flag hoisted; and a new football era here will have started.
Tonight an elaborate demonstration is to be staged. Beginning at 7:15 the band will march to Lyons hall, thence to the other halls about the campus, as the student body swings into line, torches blazing from the hands of Blue Circle men. The destination of this parade will be the stadium, where Knute Rockne, Admiral S. S. Robinson, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Prof. Clarence Manion will be ready to commence the dedication ceremonies.
In each hall, men have been ap
pointed to see that the organization, enthusiasm, and pep reaches its zenith. Off-Campus students, assembling at the fire station on Notre Dame avenue, will march in a body to the postoffice, where the remainder
Frank E. Hering
of the school will be waiting to" meet them. Here cheers will be given, and the “Hike” song will re-echo throughout the campus.
When each hall has been added to the procession, the parade will turn and head for the north end of the stadium. Seats will be reserved for students directly in front of the speakers’ stand. Twenty air bombs
will explode as soon as the students entre the stands. When the last bomb has boomed the band will blaze out the tune of the “Victory March,” as three thousand Notre Dame men bare their heads.
It will be an occasion for cheers. These will be given. Then as the band plays “The Star Spangled Banner,” a huge fireworks set piece in the south end will be lit. The American flag will unfurl from the set piece in a blazing fire. To eliminate any possible casualty, these proceedings will be conducted at the opposite end of the field, a safe distance from the students who are to sit in front of the speakers’ platform, situated directly behind the north goal post and from the townspeople who will occupy the north curves.
A public address system has been installed, thereby making it possible for people in all parts of the new stadium to hear plainly what is being said. Pathe News men have already arrived on the grounds and are to make pictures of the colorful proceedings, both along the line of march and at the field. Newspaper men from different parts of the country, who are here for tomorrow’s game, will file stories of the dedication to the nation’s press.
A galaxy of excellent speakers has been prepared. Prof. Clarence Manion, well-known about the country, will act as master of ceremonies. He will introduce Knute K. Rockne, the spirit behind the new stadium.
As the tune “Anchor’s Aweigh” is struck up, a new set piece bearing the
The Notre Dame Scholastic
69
inscription “Welcome Navy” will blaze from the end of the field. Admiral S. S. Robison of the United States Naval Academy will then be called upon for a few words by the master of ceremonies.
The concluding speaker on the program will be the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who will close the oratory until the next afternoon.
As a fitting conclusion for such a program, 100 air bombs will be set off when the students file from the new edifice, after singing “The Victory March,” as the third set-piece “Notre Dame” appears.
On Saturday afternoon, a shorter, less glamorous, yet inspiring program has been arranged. Mr. Frank E. Hering, standing on the speakers’ platform, will officially perform the dedication ceremonies. Notre Dame Stadium, it will be called.
The choice of Mr. Hering, national president of the Notre Dame Alumni association, is particularly fitting. It was he who coached the first varsity eleven here in 1896. He, more than any other person, has watched the athletic history here grow to great proportions.
As the dedicatory speech is finished,
BLUE CIRCLE MAKES PLEA TO STUDENTS
The Blue Circle, early this week, requested that students refrain from “crashing” -theatres in the down town district after the winning of a football game.
t
“The managers of the different moving picture houses have been very kind to Notre Dame,” said Chairman Ed Madden, “and have given free shows on many occasions. It is not fitting that the students should disregard the rights of the theatres, by causing a disturbance on Saturday night, the largest and most profitable evening for the theatre owners.
NOTRE DAME HONORED
BY STATE CONFERENCE
The senior class in probation work, accompanied by Maurice L. Pettit, assistant professor in charge of that department, attended the Indiana State Conference on Social Work at Gary, Indiana, on Monday, October 6.
the American Legion post of South Bend will raise the new American flag, as the band plays the national anthem.
And a few moments later the game will start—a new era begun.
S. S. Robison
Admiral, United States Navy
The program offered a pleasant surprise to the Notre Dame delegation when Harry H. Hill devoted a considerable part of his talk to the conference to a commendation of the “Notre Dame plan” of training probation and parole officers. Mr. Hill is chief probation officer of the Chicago juvenile court and is nationally known in social work.
PRESS CLUB HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The initial meeting of the Press Club was held on Tuesday evening in the Journalism room in the north basement of the library. President Robert Balfe addressed the members, both new. and old, and plans for the coming year were discussed.
In accordance with last year’s system, meetings will be held every other Tuesday evening, together with a series of smokers and a banquet towards the end of the school year.
This year’s secretary-treasurer is Mr. Walter Beesley.
“FRESHMAN NUMBER” OF ‘JUGGLER’ APPEARED ON CAMPUS LAST NIGHT
Dempsey’s First Issue Excellent
John E. Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler, with a pardonable gesture of pride, released to the campus last night the first number of the 1930-31 edition of the Notre Dame’s humorous magazine. As usual, the first issue is called the “Freshman Number.”
By this time freshmen will have studied the cover of the number dedicated to them, long enough to be induced to buy more copies than their allowances call for. Sister must, cf course, get a copy to show her high school mates, and the “Girl Friend” must become acquainted with the funniest “Funny Fellow” in these United States. Sophomores are borrowing it, reading it, commenting on it, and even buying it.
Junioi- are giving their emphatic approval to the excellent drawings by Lopker, O’Brien, and a talented new man, Arthur Becvar. Even unper-turbable seniors are glancing at the Juggler with more than usual intentness. Some have even forgotten themselves to the extent of buying three or four copies, after they saw two new columns: “Campus Chatter” and “Idle Patter,” which deal in a very iconoclastic manner with some of the so-called “traditions” so dear to the hearts of the S. A. C. and Blue Circle members. Without a doubt the senior will also read and follow Frank Seward’s advice about a trip to Chicago to see “Sons o’ Guns” and “Green Pastures.”
From cover to cover Dempsy’s first Juggler is well worth everyone’s time to read it.
NOTICE-ENGINEERS
No one will be admitted to the initiation next Wednesday evening who has not a membership card in his possession. This applies to upperclassmen as well as freshmen.
70
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
T is unfortunate that the important events of this week could not have been distributed over a longer period of time. The saying, “When it rains it pours” is true here at Notre Dame in more ways than one. The happenings of the second week of October in the year of Our Lord, 1930, stand out among the momentous occasions in the history of the University. The arrival of Mr. Chesterton on the campus has sent a thrill of pleasure through all those who recognize in his coming the opportunity to come in contact with one of the most brilliant men in English literature today. The visit of Cardinal Hayes was impressive almost to the point of the dramatic. The clamor of the church bells, the blare of stirring music, the striking robes of the statesmen of the Church, the crowd standing silent in the drizzling rain, all made the appearance of His Eminence an event which will stand out for many a day in the memory of all who were privileged to be present. The dedication of the stadium tomorrow will start another flow of more or less famous personages onto the campus. The majority will probably be figures prominent in the world of sports and it will be a great day for the freshman collector of autographs. The main attraction of the day will, of course, be the game. But there will be side-shows with entertainment varied enough to provide amusement for all. The silent cheering, which was surprisingly successful last week, will come forth again with added novelties to evoke pleased “Ohs” and “Ahs” from the opposite stands. The band which, by the way, deserves all the congratulations it has received, will play its part in the pageant, and returning grads will again thrill to “The Victory March” and get sentimental over their student days.
NUMBER of students have been wondering if Southern Methodist university sent its band up here for a music contest, and had the football team accompany them, or if the purpose of the trip was a football game and the band was merely an added attraction. We are not attempting to depreciate the merits of the Mustang menace. They were the wildest outfit that has been seen in these parts since Carnegie Tech last let loose its bunch of bloodthirsty Scotchmen on Cartier field. But at certain periods of the game last Saturday that group of pseudo-musicians on the opposite side of the field almost stole the show from their valiant athletes. There was one inspired saxophone blower, in particular, whose sobbings almost had everyone in tears. It has been suggested that he was a pied piper, and if this be true there is an excuse for the agonizing notes that he blew forth into the poor suffering air. It has also been suggested that the incessant wailing was an idea of the S. M. U. board of strategy, the plan having been devised to detract the minds of the Fighting Irish from the business at hand. But their repertoire should have contained a symphony or two designed to soothe the savage breast. Their efforts seem to have had the opposite effect. A jazz band is all right between the halves of a game, but a fox-trot in the midst of an end run is as out of place as a pair of cleats at a formal dance.	-
OST of the student body has by this time had the pleasure of seeing and hearing the famous G. K. Chesterton. The verdict of approval may be said to be unanimous. His first lectures were awaited with wonder diluted with what might be termed awe at his greatness. His initial appearance on the stage in Washington hall was a delightful,pref ace to what should prove an enlightening and interesting' series of spoken essays. He is as droll as we have always pictured the typical Englishman. His humor, sometimes at his own expense, was not so subtle as had been expected, but was usually pointed so as to set a wave of contagious laughter rolling over the audience. Mr. Chesterton will undoubtedly work his way into the hearts of the students. He is human, and natural, and unaffected. He seemed to be enjoying his introduction to the audience as much as did his listeners. The manner in which the words flowed from his lips was entrancing. His fluency of speech, his ready command of language, his extensive vocabulary, permit him to analyze and synthesize a subject minutely and exactly. We had anticipated a little difficulty in adapting ourselves to the English accent, but it is not such an impediment as we had expected. Perhaps he spent some time in studying the American language before he sailed for this remote outpost of civilization. It has been remarked that many New Yorkers believe that Indians still roam the plains in the country west of Pittsburgh. That idea of a wild West is probably even more prevalent in London. Let us hope that Mr. Chesterton has not been disappointed in not having a crowd of whooping cowboys to greet him at the station, or at having to ride out to the University in a limousine instead of a stage coach.
^HE Blue Circle has scored again. Through the agency of its police force, the vigilance committee, this august body has again upheld the sacredness of the Notre Dame esprit de corps. Two freshmen were summoned by our good, though stern, friends to explain theii" absence from the Southern Methodist “pep” meeting.
Now, it may be that the long-vaunted spirit of Notre Dame has so dwindled that the employment of compulsory methods is necessary, but we recall a tradition that one of the characteristic manifestations of that spirit was a prevailing democracy on the campus, a comparative freedom of the individual; that cliques, fraternities, hazing, class distinctions, etc., were taboo. Yet in this instance we see the official organ of the campus elders directly suppressing the individual’s right to do as he pleases.
If a man’s interest in and loyalty to the football team are not enough to bring him to the pep meetings, or if other engagements require his attention, that is his business, and there is no necessity for the adoption of highhanded methods of a bunch of sophomores brandishing paddles, to compel support or to force allegiance. The vigilance committee has acted confusedly, and more than a little clumsily.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
71
LAW BUILDING DEDICATED
Cardinal Hayes Praises Scholastic Work of University
By ALFRED E. GALL
f
His Eminence, Patrick Cardinal Hayes, archbishop of New York, took part in the formal dedication of the new §500,000 Law school last Tuesday afternoon. Through the intervention of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, His Eminence was prevailed upon to stop over on his way to Chicago to assist in the dedication.
Praises Work of Catholic Schools
Cardinal Hayes arrived in South ■ Bend last Tuesday noon in a special car owned by George MacDonald, New York financier and papal marquis. He was met at the station by the Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; the Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C., assistant ’ superior- general; the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; and Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation and chairman of the board of lay trustees of the University. Accompanied by a police escort, the party drove to the campus where the student body and the band were assembled to meet them. The cardinal, after a short visit to Sacred Heart church, proceeded to the portico of the Administration building where, after an introduction by Father O’Donnell, he addressed the students. The cardinal lauded the work of Catholic education, declaring that since God was the source of all knowledge, he should not be omitted from the training of the youth of today.
“This is an age of machinery,” the prelate said, “and if the banner of Christianity is not held high, machinery will triumph over man. Christ should come first in the class room.”
“Divine Laiu Is True Code"
During the dedication of the new Law building the Cardinal discoursed on pertinent things, some of which
were recorded. He said, “Law in its true mission of polar star of mankind is such a thing that it must proceed from God, and if it does not it is opposed to His will.
“Man makes law only in the sense of penal codes and traffic regulations. The source of fundamental law is Sinai and the Beatitudes. That is the law that persuades the will. Man made law was to force the will, and it has to do it at the cost of jails and prisons.
University Students Must Be True to Ideals
“A university student is a privileged student. He has received a talent and we have the right to expect that he is going to use it. The most essential thing in America today is a sound public opinion, and the university bred man has failed in his mission and betrayed his training if he does not contribute to the creation of a sound public opinion.
“He must be true to a lofty ideal. An ideal is not always arrived at, because you are going to run into the human average all the time. But without an ideal to shoot at we wouldn’t get anywhere.
Loyalty Obedience to Law
“If we have the right conception of law, it means self-control. For law, after all, is only a light to guide us. Penalties are an excrescence of the law. Loyalty viewed, truly under- ■ stood, is the light. It is what the polar- star is to the mariner—the light to guide him. He is free to ignore the light. He is free to run on the rocks. But what is freedom? We are living at a time when some appear to take that view and call that freedom. But we call it insanity. By obeying the law that is the light, man is conserving his living.
“He is living by obeying. We don’t build the law when we simply make
laws. Christ said, not only be just to every man but love him. That is charity. That is the greatest fundamental of the law.”
Professor Hoynes Not Present
The only incident that marred the day’s activities, outside of the rain, was that Professor Hoynes, the “Colonel,” founder of the law school and now its dean emeritus, was prevented by the infirmities of age from attending the dedication.
In honor of the prelate’s visit, all classes were dismissed for the afternoon. Amid tumultous cheering, it was announced that the Friday after Thanksgiving would also be made a holiday in remembrance of the visit. In the evening the Cardinal departed for Chicago, resting there a few hours, and then continuing on his journey to San Francisco, where he will be present at the diamond jubilee of St. Ignatius college.
His Eminence Has Brilliant Past
Cardinal Hayes was born in New York in 1867, son of Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Hayes. In 1888 he received a bachelor’s degree from Manhattan college; in 1894 his master’s degree from the same institution; a degree of S. T. L. from the Catholic university in Washington, D. C., in the same year, and his doctorate of' divinity in Rome eight years later.
He was ordained to the priesthood in 1892 and was appointed chancellor of New York in 1903. Then followed a period of 11 years in the president’s chair of Cathedral college. He was made domestic prelate to the Pope in 1907, and in 1914 was consecrated auxiliary bishop of the New York diocese. During the war he was Catholic chaplain bishop for the army and navy. He was created archbishop of New York in 1919 and elevated to the rank of cardinal March 24, 1924.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
'DOME’ STAFF APPOINTMENTS ANNOUNCED BY
PAUL J. HALLINAN
« Music And Drama »
Crawford, Collins, and Hurley Named Heads.
Senior Photos Will Be Taken October 27.
Appointment of 16 men to the staff of the Dome, was made this week by Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief. The work is divided ■ i nto four departments, with an editor at the head of each.
Myron Crawford, of Cleveland, Ohio, a junior in the College of Science, will be in charge of the University department, which will include faculty, administration, graduate and underclass sections. Mr. Crawford has been a member of the Scholastic staff for two years.
James Collins, of Great Falls, Montana, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is campus activities editor. Mr. Collins did considerable work on the 1930 Dome in addition to his duties on the Scholastic staff for the past two years.
Athletics will be handled under the direction of Neil Hurley, of River Forest, Illinois, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. Mr. Hurley who was a member of the Dome staff of 1930, is news editor of the Scholastic this year. Track and baseball will be taken care of by Henry Asman, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. William Gorman and San-guinet Williams comprise the remainder of the sports staff.
Assisting Mr. Collins will be Cleve Carey, who will handle theater, music and debate. Les Raddatz, campus club editor of the Scholastic, will be in charge of organizations.
The appointment of a features editor has not yet been announced, but satire, an important part of the features’ section, will be under the direction of Austin Boyle, steady contributor in a humorous vein to all three publications.
Other staff members are Robert Gorman, Don Sullivan, Joseph Lop-ker, Joseph Dempsey, and James Dubbs. Art Sandusky and George Belting are freshman members.
“Hotel Universe” by Philip Barry is to be the second production of the Goodman theater this season. Those of you who saw “Holiday” this summer know the quality of Mr. Barry’s dramatic skill. “Hotel Universe” has not the usual division into acts but is played straight through without interruption. This scheme, although aiding the unified effect of the play a great deal, is rather wearing on the audience. Nor is this strain lessened by the deeply psychological background of the play.
“Scarlet Sister Mary,” with Ethel Barrymore and her daughter, played last week in Cleveland, having had its premiere in Columbus the week before. Miss Barrymore was of course fine, too fine for the material she had to work with. The play, though good reading, is not good theater. Miss Peterkin’s novel does not seem to be congruous with the glow and life of the footlights. Ethel Barrymore Colt, the daughter, possesses a great advantage and a great handicap for her entrance onto the stage. Everybody gives her his best wishes on account of her name, but he also expects just that much more from her for the same reason. We have always been sorry that the first lady of the American stage should turn from the romantic and beautiful “Kingdom of God” to the realistic and perhaps not so beautiful Scarlet Sister Mary, which received the Pulitzer prize only in order to spite the indiscreet judge who had too early revealed the fact that Oliver’s Victim and Victor was the prize winner.
Regarding any possible conflict between the talkies and the legitimate stage, Miss Barrymore has said, “Really the talkies have aided the
PRE-DEDICATION DANCE
TO BE HELD TONIGHT
The Pre-Dedication dance sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley will be held this evening in the Knights of Columbus ballroom. Dancing will begin at 9:00
theater greatly by draining audiences of the people whom the theater doesn’t want .... The gallery audiences, compared with those of a few years ago, are far superior. The worst part has been taken over by the movie houses. People have become discouraged with bad plays and poor actors. They stay from the theater on that account, but that does not mean that the talkies have won them away from the stage.”
This season the Chicago Civic Opera is to present Camille, an opera by Hamilton Forrest, young Chicago composer. This will be the first performance of it. As you know, Verdi’s La Traviata is also based upon the La Dame aux Camellias of Alexander Dumas, fils. The Italian’s opera has always been a favorite, as evidenced by the fact that when the Metropolitan Opera gave it in Cleveland four years ago, it attracted an audience of over 10,000, breaking the record for attendance at indoor opera. This record, however, was broken the same week at the same company’s presentation of II Trovatore. We wish the Chicago man’s work all the fame and popularity enjoyed by its predecessor. •

Two plays which the theatrical .world is looking forward to are those of Philip Barry and Eugene O’Neill. Mr. Barry has completed only the first act of his, the contents of which are a deep secret. Arthur Hopkins is angling for Katherine Cornell, now in Chicago in “Dishonored Lady,” to act it instead of “The Barretts of Wimpole Street,” the vehicle next scheduled for her. Mr. O’Neill, who has been spending the summer in southern France, has finished his play but will lay it aside for several months before attempting to revise it.
p. m. Special arrangements have been made permitting the St. Mary’s girls to attend. Michael Donahue of South Bend is chairman of the affair.
Tickets may be obtained from the hall rectors or from Norman Hartzer in the law building. The price of admission has been set at $2.00 a couple.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
73
4 A Man You Know £
There are many members of the administration whose work is decidedly arduous, but the assertion that J. Arthur Haley, the business manager of athletics, has the most difficult task of all at this time of the year is undisputed. At least half of the football tickets to any game, whether at home or away, are sold through the Athletic office. On account of the opening of the new stadium this year the work is more abundant than it has ever been before.
J. Arthur Haley, who has been business manager of athletics for four-years, was born in Chillicothe, Ohio, in 1898. He attended St. Mary’s high school in Chillicothe, and after his graduation he matriculated at Notre Dame, in 1918. In 1919, upon the completion of his first year of study, he left Notre Dame for a while and worked for the Norfolk and Western railroad as a cashier and claim agent. • Returning to school in 1923, he was graduated in 1926, with the degree of Bachelor of Commerce. He specialized in finance and accounts during his course. He was appointed business manager of athletics in the same year, and since then he has held the same position.
During his student days at Notre Dame, Mr. Haley was the business manager of the glee club, and he was a member of the varsity quartette for three years.
His hobby is golf. Probably watching- a football game reminds him too much of his work to become his avocation. His dream of Utopia is the same as that of other harassed business managers of athletics: selling tickets for a game in a stadium which has an unlimited number of seats between the forty-yard lines.
Few students realize how many spectators of Notre Dame games there
INTER-HALL DEBATE
COACHES NAMED
The appointment of the different coaches for the freshman halls in the oncoming series of inter-hall debates, sponsored annually by the Wranglers club, constituted the major portion of the activities for the week. General Chairman Frank Noll, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, announced the following appointments: Howard hall, Tim Benitz, Neil Hur
are. Last year more than half a million football fans saw the “stadiumless” champs in some game. Therefore at least two hundred and fifty thousand tickets were sold by the Athletic office. Besides the work cf
J. Arthur Haley
the football season there is also the work of selling tickets and securing equipment for the other athletic teams, so Mr. Haley never is in want of work.
The half hour of the Scholastic interview was a comparatively quiet one. There were only forty-odd telegrams, sixty special delivery letters, six long-distance calls, and four-visitors.
(Editor’s note: Since the first drafting of this biography there has appeared on the secene a very young Mr. Haley; he is not “a man you know,” but his lusty yells will soon focus attention on him.)
ley, and Jack Driscoll; Freshman hall, Bill Kirby, William O’Malley, and Ed Dailey; Brownson hall, Ed Phelan, Charles Hanna, and James O’Shaughnessy; Carroll hall, John Wilson, Jim Keating, and Frank Cawley.
John Wilson appointed Jack Driscoll and James O’Shaughnessy to the membership committee. President Edward Phelan and Secretary Neil Hurley are members ex officio of all committees.
DOME SUBSCRIPTION BEGINS MONDAY
The annual drive for- subscriptions to the Dome will commence on Monday with the canvass of the various residence halls. Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager- of publications, has announced the appointment of Joseph A. Wilk, of the A.B. college, as circulation manager for the 1931 Dome. Because of the fact that the Dome will observe its twenty-fifth anniversary this year, it is expected that the number of subscriptions will exceed even the large amount secured for the 1930 Dome.
Despite the fact that many Universities publishing yearbooks of similar size are charging higher prices for their books, the Notre Dame publication will again be sold to the student body at the five dollar rate.
It will be possible to have the charge for the book placed on the student’s account at the Secretary’s office, in order that the bill may be sent home. However, students wishing to pay cash may do so at the time the Dome representative calls on them.
A. I. E. E. HOLDS INITIAL MEETING
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meeting last Monday evening, October 6. Dr. Jose A. Caparo, counselor of the branch, and Mr. Edward Conroy, ’30, gave the principal speeches of the evening. During the course of the meeting the following committees were appointed for the year:
Progressive committee: Edward Coombes, chairman; T. Laughlin Brennan, William McCarthy, John Scanlan, and Edward Heverin.
Refreshment committee: Vincent Eichenlaub, chairman; Francis Loney, Alex Petrauskus, and Robert Tischler.
Finance committee: John O’Brien, treasurer and chairman; Richard Walsh, Hugh Ball, and Patrick Mc-Caffary.
National membership committee: Edward Flynn, chairman; Charles Schmied, James Trotter, and Frank Consolati.
Entertainment committee: Patrick Murray, chairman; Robert Baskerville, John Lambert, and Gerald Andres.
74
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FIRST OF CHESTERTON’S LECTURES
WELL RECEIVED BY STUDENT BODY
Father O’Donnell Gives Introductory Talk
Gilbert Keith Chesterton gave the first of a series of thirty-six lectures last Monday night in Washington hall. His subject was the “Victorian Age in Literature.”
The eminent lecturer was introduced by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Father O’Donnell extolled Mr. Chesterton as the greatest of the many famous speakers who have been heard from the stage of Washington hall in past years. The president went on to say that these lectures were being given not as an academic gesture or a publicity stunt, but rather to give the student body a chance to live with a great mind.
As an introduction to the lecture Mr. Chesterton insisted upon asking one question: “Was there a Victorian period?” He proceeded to answer this with the wittiness for which he is world-famed. “If there is no such period,” he said, “then to my considerable and your enormous relief we may betake ourselves to lighter pleasures and let there be a vast yawning chasm where I now stand.”
He summed up the philosophy of the Victorian age by saying that there were two unshakable beliefs in the mind of every Victorian: that Queen Anne was dead, and that Queen Victoria would live forever. He expressed the Victorian belief that the social order of the time would last forever, unchangeably, in spite of the bombshells hurled at it from those
ROCKNE ADDRESSES VIL-
' LAGERS CLUB
Knute K. Rockne was the principal speaker at the meeting of the Villagers’ club held last Monday eveningin the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle. Mr. Rockne congratulated the members on their fine attitude in welcoming the Southern Methodist team to South Bend and encouraged them to continue this work.	.
Norman Hartzer, president of the club, outlined a plan whereby merchants of the town will be asked to decorate their windows for the Navy game.
Through the courtesy of Mr. Rockne and the members of the football team
very same men who expressed faith in its permanence. .
In spite of the many men who violently attacked the institutions of this age, he explained, the age was marked by a common spirit. The Victorians thought that respectability would outlast religion and that nothing would ever disturb the existing social order of the time. The framework of society was so strong, so it seemed to Victorians, that nothing could ever change it.
Chesterton went on to say that the Victorians assumed their own repec-tability and were continually discussing their reasons for being so good. To the concept of goodness they were morally indifferent but were intellectually interested as a process of the mind.	.
He pointed out that the typical men of the age would discuss paganism in the abstract but would run if they were confronted by anything resembling the paganism of the modern world. The eminent lecturer mentioned the lack of celerity with which* ideas penetrate England. The English fought the Americans because they were democrats. Next they fought the French because they were democrats. A few decades later they were telling the world that everybody should be democratic. He concluded his lecture by saying that the writers of the period helped to weaken Protestantism, leaving the Catholic Church in a much stronger position.
an autographed football will be given to the store voted as having the most attractive window this Saturday. A committee composed of Prof. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism; Robert Riordan, registrar of the University; and Donald Eldridge, of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce, have been appointed as a committee to attend to the judging of the contest.
The Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and the Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., director of off-campus students, also spoke to the club. The banquet was well attended and the Villagers bid fair to become a truly active campus organization.
These dates subject to change zvithout notice. •
FRIDAY, Oct. 10—Stadium dedication, 7:15 p. m.—Pre-dedication dance, K. of C. ballroom, 9:00 p. m. —Scholastic staff meeting, 6:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, Oct. 11—Formal dedication of stadium, 1:15 p. m.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Navy, 2:00 p. m.—Dedication dance, K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 p. m.—Last day for handing in Wranglers’ applications. —Movie, “The Cocoanuts,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Oct. 12—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—S. A. C. meeting, Journalism room of Library, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Oct. 13—Seniors’ Carnegie Tech game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30-5:30 p. m.—Founders’ day, no classes.—Meeting of Educational Confraternity, 7 p. m.
TUESDAY, Oct. 14—Juniors’ Carnegie Tech game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30-5:30 p. m.—Wranglers club meeting, Journalism room of Library, 6:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Oct. 15—Sophomores’ Ca-rnegie Tech game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30-5:30 p. m.— Last day for freshman applications to Engineers’ club. — Engineers’ club initiation, gymnasium, 6:45 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec” room.
THURSDAY, Oct. 16 — Freshmen Carnegie Tech game tickets, main gate of stadium, 3:30-5:30 p. m.-- Reorganization of Italian club, 8:00 p. m., Room 2, Walsh hall.
GARDINER TO REFEREE
NAVY GAME TOMORROW
The officials who will be in charge of the Notre Dame-Navy game tomorrow afternoon are as follows: Gardiner (Cornell), referee; Schommer (Chicago),'umpire; Coffin (Cornell),' field judge; and Hackett (West Point), head linesman.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
75
DAILEY ANNOUNCES COMMITTEES
FOR SOPHOMORE COTILLION
The Sophomore Cotillion committee chairmen and their assistants have been announced by Edward W. Dailey, president of the class.
Ten committees have been appointed to serve with James B. Clark, general chairman of the dance, in his planning and executing of the 1930 edition of the Sophomore Cotillion.
Clark has announced that certain of the committees will begin work immediately while others will begin work in the very near future.
Tickets are to be distributed next week with the sale opening on Tuesday. Each sophomore hall will be canvassed by members of the ticket committee. The sale will continue until a week before the dance which is to be presented on Nov. 14, in the Palais Royale ballroom.
Negotiations are in progress with several prominent bands and it is expected that an early agreement will be reached. It is probable that the selection of the Cotillion band will be announced in the Scholastic to be issued one week from today. (Oct. 17)
TICKETS—Donald Lusardi, chairman : Donald Martin, George Myers, Willard Higgins, William Kenefick, William MacCarthy, James Galligan, Edward Moriarity, George Reilly, Jack Kiley. Philip Ott, William Hanifin, William Hawkes, Seton Staley, Clem Kolonczyk, Julius Kiraly.
GALL AND BEESLEY APPOINTED MAKE-UP
EDITORS
The editorial board of the Scholastic in this issue announces the appointment of Alfred E. Gall and Walter V. Beesley to the position of makeup editors, a new department organized this year. Mr. Gall, a student in the College of Civil Engineering, has formerly served capably in his post as script editor. He was responsible for many of last year’s excellent feature stories, which were well received by Scholastic readers. Mr. Beesley, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been very active with the Notre Dame Press club and is majoring in the department of journalism.
The editorial board further states that due to the large number of men applying for positions on the news and sports staffs, a few of the candidates will be eligible at the end of the
PUBLICITY—Cleve Carey, chairman ; Joseph Dempsey, John Pick, Edward Ryan, Frederick MacBeth, William Augsburger, Robert Monahan, James Uprichard, Raymond Walsh, Leslie Raddatz, Arthur Becvar, James Garrigan.
DECORATIONS—James Kirby, chairman; George Lennartz, Jack McCarthy, James Drongoole, Dan Rolfs, Walter Kilgalon, Maurice Scanlon.
PROGRAM—Dick Parrish, chairman; William Scully. William Clune. Leonard Regan, Sanguinet Williams, James Donnelly. William Carrol.
RECEPTION — Frank Cawley, chairman: John Hoyte, John Donnelly, Thomas Skeehan, Robert Noll. Edward Eckert. James O’Donnell.
ARRANGEMENTS—Roger Brennen. chairman : Edward Sargus, John Lynch, William Slater, Carroll Staley. Thomas O’Meara, John Poynton.
INVITATIONS—Frank Hurley, chairman : Thomas Walsh. Frank Lennartz. Raymond Nabor. Thomas Downs, James Bourk, James Engels.
MUSIC — Jack O’Shaughnessy and Jack Duffy, co-chairmen; William Burke, Fred Breit, Francis Crowe. Leonard Kenkel, Walter Roney, Donald Garrity.
FLOOR—Edward Kennedy, chainnan ; Joseph Davy, Bernard De Lay. Edward Cogley, John Newbauer, John Travers, John Leonard.
ENTERTAINMENT—Fred Curran, chairman ; Norman Duke, Charles Quinn, Michael Lahey, Arthur Wiele, Michael O’Hara, Paul George.
first quarter’ instead of at the semester, as custom has hitherto dictated.
ARMY GAME TO BE STUDENT TRIP
The student trip this year will be held on November 29 to Chicago, when Notre Dame will meet the Army at Soldier’s field, according to Tim Benitz, chairman of the S.A.C. As the affair will take place over the Thanksgiving holidays, the S.A.C. has arranged with the railroad companies to supply special rates for the entire trip, in order that the trip may be made at little expense to the students.
The student athletic books will -not be good for this game, but the regular charge of §4.00 plus a band tax will be announced in time for all students to procure these tickets, as a special section has been reserved for them in the stadium.
DEDICATION DANCE TOMORROW NIGHT
The Knights of Columbus hall tomorrow night at 8:30 p. m. will be the scene of the dedication dance, sponsored by the Student Activities Council. In order to make possible the utmost comfort of the guests and their escorts, both the ballroom and the gym have been secured.
The Indianians, who have lately been so popular in this section of the country, will furnish the music. This is but another reason for attending what will probably be the biggest dance after our greatest football game. The dance is to be the most outstanding informal party this year. Students, including freshmen, may secure permissions, permitting them to return to their places of residence by 12:30 a. m.
Tickets, at $1.50 a couple, are being sold by all members of the Blue Circle. Incidentally it is the largest ticket committee Notre Dame has ever had for any social function. It is hoped to make this dance an overwhelming success. Don’t forget the dance will be Saturday night at the Knights of Columbus ballroom and that the tickets are on sale by all Blue Circle men.
ITALIAN CLUB TO BE RE-ORGANIZED
There will be a reorganization meeting of the Italian club on Thursday evening, October 16th, at eight o’clock in Room 2 of Walsh hall. All those interested in Italian may attend along with those wTho are taking, and all those who have taken, Italian. Meetings will be held weekly throughout the coming year and one semester credit hour will be given for active participation and attendance. The meetings will be under the supervision of Professor Pirchio.
NOTICE!
Students who wish to apply for membership in the Classical Association are invited to send their applications to Frank O’Malley, chairman of the committee on membership, at 230 Morrissey hall. Sophomores in Latin 6, and others who are interested in the classics, are eligible for membership.
Names must be turned in to Frank O’Malley before Saturday, October 25.
76
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Breaking Down The Lines....
Registration---ln The "Good Old Days And The Present.
BY James K. Collins
Anyone wishing for the return of the “good old days” should take many things into consideration before voicing that wish. History teachers may tell of the glamour of the Victorian period. English professors may relate tales of the Gay Nineties, while teachers of philosophy go back two thousand years before that, but for a good account of post-war days at Notre Dame, as far as the secretary’s office is concerned, let Mrs. Mary M. Beyer, the present secretary of the University, tell it.
In those mellow times, a student about to return to the University did not receive any correspondence stating that he pay the exact amount by check or draft; that is something
Mrs. Mary M. Beyer
Secretary of the University
comparatively new. Neither did he receive class cards, dining hall certificates or room slips during the summer; that, also, is new. The student of ten years ago, and farther back, simply came back on the registration days, stood in lines until he reached the proper window where his account was figured out before him, and then he paid it. Simple ? Read on.
When Mrs. Beyer took over the work of her office, something had to be done at once to relieve the congestion of those hectic registration days. It is said that it was not an uncom
mon thing then for students to get up at three a. m., to get a good place in line. Some of. the students even said, jokingly, that they were obliged to bring their lunch and sleep on the campus in order to be registered at all. Then, the lines stretched from the office to Walsh hall, which means that most of those patient standers did not have anything to lean against.
We could go on to relate the situation from many angles but that would be unnecessary. Those facts should be enough. No longer do the students swarm around the secretary’s desk with their checks in their hands, all trying to register at once — although they might if it were not for sturdy policemen. Yes, conditions are much
The Secretary and Her Staff

r
The Notre Dame Scholastic
better now; the registration procedure has been simplified and speeded up, much to the relief of the administration and the students.
Under the supervision of Mrs. Beyer are the four clerks whom she engaged when she took over the work in August, 1926. These four have been valuable assistants to her and have literally grown up with the new system which she inaugurated. Although the University dining halls, and Howard, Morrissey and Lyons were built, and the renovation of St. Edward’s hall took place since that time, her staff has not been changed although the volume of work has been almost doubled.
The mass of detail work which must be done by the secretary’s department is appreciated only when one looks over a list of the things which are handled. Mrs. Beyer said that it is much easier -to handle the accounts of off-campus students than of those on campus as the four weeks subsequent to registration is taken up chiefly by handing- room changes from one hall to another, or from off-campus to residence halls on the campus, requests for laundry and handling the accounts of students leaving school, making duplicate certificates, and other details too numerous to mention.
The method of compiling accounts during the summer has greatly relieved the situation during the registration, both for the students and for the office staff. This is due to the fact that all data is compiled ahead of time and each account must be checked and re-checked at least a dozen times before it is ready. When one considers that such a mass of material must be handled by members of the staff, who must keep also a separate track of each freshman, one has a fair idea of the work if he multiplies it by 3000 students.
Next to registration, Commencement is the time when the most work goes through the office. Then there is the balancing of accounts for the last time (thank goodness!), and seeing that all the details of the past four years of each senior are in order. One might call the work done at these periods “Administrative Engineering” as it requires at all times an alert mind, patience (spelled with capital letters), diplomacy, tact and what not, to say nothing of permitting such a small matter as frayed nerves or physical fatigue to enter the niatter.
The problems of the students relative to the office are diversified and, at times, intricate as well as numerous. Practically every problem, regardless of origin, eventually affects
77
the secretary’s office and must be ironed out there. And always there are questions to answer—thousands of them.
Mrs. Beyer’s success in her work may be traced to the many years of business experience she had before coming to the University, but much of it must be credited to her initiative, patience and the motherly attitude she takes toward each student. As she describes her position in her own words:
“I am fond of the average student, and always try to do all I can to keep him contented, and to cheer him when he comes to 'me depressed about things. It is rather surprising how many students have seeming or real troubles to relate. I find the students very appreciative of every little courtesy, and feel that I have some real friends among them. I have no time to indulge in hobbies, but I like books, tennis, and hiking to the extent that I would like to be outdoors most of the time. In addition to my work, I take care of a sizeable home and an invalid mother (whom I adore).”
And best of all, she finishes off the interview by saying that she enjoys reading “such a worthwhile magazine as the Scholastic.” (Juggler staff members please take notice!)
Castellini Addresses Juniors in Journalism

Mr. William A. A. Castellini, of the Archer- Advertising Agency in Cincinnati, addressed the junior class in journalism, Saturday, October 4, on the subject of the nature of modern publicity as a vital factor in civic enterprise. He explained that publicity today is the most powerful force for forming mass public opinion, which is frequently necessary to the accomplishment of valuable civic improvements—for such things as airports, canals, road and waterway projects depend on the people for support.
All through his talk Mr. Castellini emphasized the fact that the journalist in publicity can and must, with his experience in newspapers, cooperate thoroughly with the newspaper, on which the public depends entirely for its knowledge of what must be done and why. The newspaper situation, he said, may be illustrated by a three-legged stool, the legs of which are editorial, advertising, and circu
lation. All these three legs must be of good strength because without one of them the paper cannot perform its vital function of informing the public, a necessary and difficult task.
Mr. Castellini was graduated from Notre Dame in 1922, receiving at that time the Sinnot-Meyers award foi-excellence in journalism. While in South Bend he was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. John M. Cooney.
LAW CLUB INSTALLS NEW OFFICERS
At a recent meeting the Law club installed its new officers. Lawyer Joseph Yoch was installed as president for the present year-. The other officers are Joseph Robinson, vicepresident; Malcolm Trombley, secretary; Harry Busscher, treasurer. There was no investigation at the polls following the election. President Yoch announces a smoker for Tuesday.
AUTOGRAPHED POEM BY MARKHAM IN LIBRARY
A copy of “The Man With the Hoe,” a poem by Edwin Markham, autographed by the author with the legend, “To the English Department of the University of Notre Dame with the friendly greetings of the author in his seventy-eighth year,” is the latest contribution to the splendid collection of autographs of the University library.
Markham is the author of several other poems, including “Lincoln, the Man of the People,” which was selected to be read at the dedication of the Lincoln memorial in Washington, D. C.
The poem which bears the autograph was written aftei- Mr. Markham had seen the world-famous painting by Millet of “a brutalized toilei-in the deep abyss of labor.” “The Man With the Hoe” has been called “the supreme poem of the century” and “the battle-ci-y of the next thousand years.”
Mr. Camille McCole of the University’s English department, presented the autographed copy to the library.
78
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PERSONNEL OF UNIVERSITY BAND
ANNOUNCED BY CASASANTA
Concert Orchestra to Be Picked After Football Season
Memories of the (band’s New York trip, the Jugglers’ (numerous engagements, and the Easter tour of the Glee club have insured a gratifying collection of aspirants for the 1930-’31 editions of these varsity musical organizations. Professor Casasanta (a la Rockne) smiles serenely and says that prospects are fair—and the performance of that snappy, well-drilled group of musicians, organized in less than two weeks, which made its introductory bow last Saturday would seem to bear out the professor’s assertion.
The men who survived the first cut and thus won a position in the band are:
Trumpets—J. F. Burns, A. J. Brasseur, J. P. Keener, D. J. Dolzol, J. A. Freeman, J. W. Bean, P. C. Rosevear, C. C. White, J. F. Gill, C. K. Wright, B. C. Pollard, J. Gilding, A. W. Dam-mermuth, M. C. Moran, C. D. Hoyt, J. 0. Weibler, C. R. Hill, C. J. Hess, W. C. Karl, H. F. McNarney.
Trom bones—V. Printy, T. E. Austin, C. Rapier, T. Halpin, V. A. Phillips, C. Lazio, F. L. Weniger, J. W. Jauch, C. Dolezal, W. J. O’Don. nell, V. W. McCleary, H. Uhl, A.
Stewart, C. Fisher, T. Carville.
Saxophones—(C melody) : K. L. Bo-gelheim, C. W. Crockett; E flat: A. Scharbach, J. L. Kenkel, L. J. Fischer, R. B. Filson.
STATE BAR ASSOCIATION
TO BE ENTERTAINED
HERE
Members of the Indiana State Bar Association will be entertained by members of the faculty of the College of Law of the University, at an banquet to be held Oct. 17 in the faculty dining hall at 7 p. m.
On the following morning the members of the Bar Association will hold a meeting in the new law building. In the afternoon they will be the guests of E. F. Seebert of the firm of Seebert, Ore, Omacht, and Deahl, one of the managers of the State Bar Association representing this congres-
Picolos—E. M. Levin, J. Hemming.
Oboes—W. C. Railly, A. Feeney.
Baritones—C. L. Rossiter, J. Fetzer.
E flat Alto Horns—J. Voss, F. J. Maas, N. F. Harbaugh, W. F. Philipp, A. Ripley.
B flat Soiisaphone—E. P. Laven-berg, W. F. Sloan, G. W. Bryan, E. Leuchtenberg, R. Renland, L. Wisda.
Saxophones—(B flat tenor) : B. Waterson, F. Treiweiler, J. H. Churchman, M. DeWald, R. J. Demer;
Bass and Snare Drums—Bass: J. Novak, W. D. Waltz; Snare: F. Boyce, C. L. Tare, F. McLaughlin, F. A. Barry, W. T. Hall, H. Buescher.
Clarinets—J. E. McFeely, G. F. Stenger, S. E. Locher, H. V. Pohl-meyer, R. L. Giordan, A. Ferlini, J. B. McGlymn.
Drum Major—H. Tholan.
Director—Professor Casasanta.
From this number the members of the smaller concert band will be picked shortly after the football season.	’
As yet the personnel of the Glee club and of the Jugglers has not been definitely decided. It will, however, be announced at a later date.
sional district, at the Carnegie Tech game.
Speakers for the banquet to be held Oct. 17 will be announced later.
EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY MEETING
There will be a meeting of the Educational Confraternity next Monday night at 7:00 p. m. The place has not been decided upon as yet, but bulletins to that effect will be posted on the campus before Monday night. All students who have taken or are taking at least one course in education are invited to be present.
MOVING OF LAW BOOKS DEFERRED
Due to the fact that the reading room in the new Law building has not yet received its final coat of paint, the books of the University law library will not be moved till the latter part of next week, John Whitman, librarian of the law school, said today.
The stack rooms are completed, however, and the law library only awaits the finishing touches on the new reading room to occupy its new quarters.
SCRIBBLERS HOLD FIRST MEETING
Last Tuesday the Scribblers had their initial meeting in the Howard “rec” room.
President Emil L. Telfel addressed the members present, outlining the plans for the coming year. The club decided to elect new members soon. Frank Seward, Louis Brennan, and Philip de Roulet were appointed by President Telfel to the membership committee.
All those desiring entrance into the Scribblers should send their application to Louis Brennan, 245 Corby hall, along with two manuscripts as evidence of their literary ability. Poems, short stories, plays, and essays may be submitted.
Hereafter meetings will be held on Wednesdays instead of Tuesdays and at 6:30 instead of 7:45.
The next meeting will be held on Oct. 15.
A. S. M. E. HOLDS FIRST MEETING
The first meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was held last Tuesday evening in Badin hall basement. Plans for the coming year were discussed, with particular emphasis on student papers. Applications for membership should be handed in at 202 Sorin hall. As in previous years freshmen are barred from the organization.
----------------:-----------<«
NOTICE!
On account of Mr. Chesterton’s lecture, the Spanish club will meet at 6:45 p. m. instead of 7:45. The next meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 14, in room 219 of the Main building. ' ❖-----------------------------A
Notre Dame Scholastic
79

I1II4 I’/ PACE
WELCOME NAW!
It is with the utmost pleasure that the Scholastic, on behalf of the faculty and students of the University, welcomes the team of the United States Naval Academy, opponents of Notre Dame in the dedication of the new football stadium to-morrow. As the honored delegates of one of the finest institutions of learn-t ing in the country,- the Navy football team is welcome, primarily because the contest to-morrow will mark the fourth meeting between Notre Dame and the Navy, and because the Midshipmen’s reputation for clean playing and hard fighting has preceded them here.
*	No greater team from any institution is more
welcome to our Dedication game’than is Captain Bill Ingram’s Navy team. The Navy comes West this year for the second time, having lost a close game to Notre Dame on Soldier Field, Chicago, in 1928. To-morrow they will come * with a grim tenacity of purpose and attempt to erase three previous defeats of their teams by Notre Dame. Win or lose, however, the Navy will show the clean sportsmanship which characterizes all Navy teams on the athletic field.
» ;	We also wish to welcome the great number
of prominent business leaders, clergymen, edu-■ ’ cators, and professional men who will attend i-	the game to-morrow. For a nurhber of years
b	Notre Dame has awaited the event of her
having her own stadium. To-morrow will see » the fulfillment of a tenacious hope held by Uni-; versity officials of the past and of the present.
Also to Rockne and to the team of 1930, the ; stadium is the realization of a dream that had |	’ been only that for a great many years.
The eyes of the entire sporting world will be focused on the game to-morrow; every seat of the 55,000 capacity stadium will be-occupied for the contest. Followers of football will closely watch Notre Dame to see if they, like the 1929 team, are of championship calibre, and to see if the Navy, laboring under a three-year “jinx,” can overcome our team.
So again we say: “Welcome, Navy! Alumni! and Guests! Welcome to the dedication of one of the finest stadia in America.”
—J. E. B.
TO "HOMECOMING" ALUMMI
The love of the Notre Dame alumnus for his university is manifested upon such occasions as this, the dedication of our new stadium. At such times the graduates flock back to the campus, meet their classmates, hold reunions, and live over their student days. With the conclusion of the festivities the alumni have disappeared to go into silent seclusion again until the homecoming celebrations of next year.
Some of our alumni organization exist only in name. Their activities are limited to an annual banquet on universal Notre Dame night. They may be strong in number, but they are certainly weak in their accomplishments. The individual alumnus in most cases has a sincere loyalty towards his university which he will carry with him to the grave. It is unfortunate, however, that this allegiance to Notre Dame cannot be expressed through the alumni club to which he belongs. The graduate group as a whole is becoming more progressive each year, but some of the units into which it is divided remain listless and inert.
There is no reason why the spirit which prevails among the students should not be carried on after they have been graduated. The possibilities of an alumni organization in a large city are unlimited. It should be a real power in the community. By working hand in hand with the city or state undergraduate club on the campus, it many maintain its vitality and both organizations will benefit. There have been cases in the past where petty arguments between alumni and undergraduates in various parts of the country have caused a rift between the two groups which prevented either of them from ever accomplishing anything. It is not presumed, of course, that the alumni were at fault, but, being men of greater experience and more matured minds, they should have taken the responsibility of settling the differences.
A man who has spent four years at Notre Dame has an ideal to live up to. He has a reputation to maintain. If when he leaves here he loses all interest in the school, in the men of his class and the men who have preceded him and are to follow him, he is not in the true sense of the word a Notre Dame man.
—R. J. O'D

80
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE
YODEL OF A YOKEL
;	It’s a racket, it’s a gift,
It’s a phoney, it’s a fake. Don’t hail the guy who greets you. He’s A politician on the make.
—o—
QUICK WINKS
The east dining hall’s “Amen Corner” . . . The freshmen chant it three times before and after each meal . . . The gents in 225 Walsh repainting their bawth . . . The L	, slim crowd at the good show in Washington hall . . .
Football Flashes . . . Rain for the pep meeting . . . It hasn’t failed for three years . . . Joe Cas should have scouted the S. M. U. band . . . We excelled in the bass drum department, but couldn’t match their flashy trum-i,	" pets, snaky-hipped conductor, or deceptive clarinet attack
. . . Good old “Oppo” in the aisles still qualifying as ;	• all-American dime-snatcher . . . The Boy Scout cheer-
leader . . . 139 undergraduates resolving to get into the press box for the Navy game . . . Awnings on the hot-dog stands . . . Just a touch of old Los Angeles . . . The Studebaker band swinging into the Maine “'Stein Song” ... This column guessing the score at (name of well-’•	known South Bsnd clothing store) . . . Well, that’s §3.13
,	on a new overcoat.
?	—o—
ASPIRATION
“Oh, stay,” the maiden said, “and rest Thy weary head upon this breast!” A tear stood in his bright blue eye, But still he answered with a sigh, - “Excelsior!”
(So wrote Longfellow.)
Noiv in those days of olden dress, All girls had padding on their chests, And every lady tvore a gown Which rustled from her tonsils doivn; Still when the maiden bode him stay— His head upon her breast to lay, It teas not nice of him to say, “Excelsior!”
—P. G. C.
The Juggler is out. And from bitter experience we know what the staff members selling copies in the halls
5	will run up against. They will surely meet the boy who
takes five minutes to look the issue over and remarks that his room-mate will get one later. They can’t escape the ambitious youth who wants to know how you get to sell them, and there is always the lad who wants you to throw in an envelope free.
—o—
Further statistics on the new stadium:
If all the people who jumped up and down and waved their arms last Saturday whenever anybody made two yards through the line were laid end to end they would be much better off.
If all the red-hots sold at the game were piled on top of each other in a ten-foot square they would still need more mustard.
There is enough steel in the stadium to make 6,400,000 bullets, which would probably be enough to shoot all the people who would rather look at Jack Oakie than watch a football game. If laid end to end, they would stretch their necks from Sophomore hall to Mishawaka.-
—o—
FRUSTRATE POET
So much he felt the thrill in him of siveet, Sad song; but never cozdd he find the key To turn his lock and set the music free, Or seal his tvelling thoughts inverses neat. His melodies were shattered when the sheet Imposed its blankness on his ecstasy.
So he was mute; great chords in agony Writhed vain within his breast, in harsh defeat. But yet he’ll never cease to dream, so much The poet was he made. Now to define The ivheel of sea-gull’s flight he makes his task. A nobler one, some think, than that of such Who fret to find a secret turn of line To give their fierce, wild thoughts a timid mask.
Dear ?????
Call yourself “The Birdie” for tradition’s sake. First it was “Hobnails” and they were banned—now the wink is no longer an institution in our halls. But the birdie_ ah—ah .... ’twill last forever.
Ali Booboo.
We are sorry the matter was; ever brought up. The suggestion smacks of the vulgar and will therefore receive no consideration from this apostle of culture, sweetness, and light. May this be a warning to future intruders into these cloud-like domains.
?????
The Notre Dame Scholastic
81
K' __________________
COLLEGE PARADE

Lenders of athletic books at Tulane university face expulsion. Possibly they have a few photograph racketeers down there also. At Washington each student is required to sign his name when entering the stadium. One of four bank tellers will compare the signature with the one in the student’s A. A. book.
even sweaters are conspicuous by their absence. Wish we could bring the lads to Indiana some time and show them what a real old-fashioned sleety-rain looks like.
—o—
—o—
Stanford students are supposed to wear very plain clothes. Dress for freshmen and sophomores consist of blue denim overall pants and a blue shirt. Upperclassmen wear corduroys and either a plain white or a plain blue shirt. Freshmen here tried out blue denim some time ago, but the breeches were discarded, I suspect, because notation in blue ink on their surface could not be read.
—o—
Not until a recent burglary at Kansas did women have keys to their dormitory rooms. Locking the barn door after the horse is stolen is still the great American pastime, it seems.	•
—o—
The ore-diggers at the Colorado School of Mines have a new idea for welcoming freshmen. They took over a theatrq for an evening. The frosh took over the stage and furnished the entertainment. As the upperclassmen rocked with laughter, the frosh gave their “interpretations of ballet dancing, singing, stunts and real old-fashioned ‘meller-drama’.”
—o—
The Daily Orange of Syracuse tells us that Coach Elmer Layden of Duquesne, upon hearing that West Virginia, his first opponent, could not start football practice until two weeks after he could, held back his practice so that there would not be any advantage for his team. (Noblesse oblige!!!). The coach’s picture, lads, may be seen in various poses in the gymnasium, hours 8-12 a. m. and 1-5 p. m.
It is rumored that any freshman who applied to Stanford for admission this year, and who had a shade of an athletic reputation, was politely, but firmly refused. This year- only 250 freshmen were admitted. Next year only 125 will be admitted, and in 1932, none may enter. The Daily Trojan of Southern California laments that athletics at Stanford will soon be a thing of the past.
—o—
A measurements of noted minds at Cornell shows us that women are the mental equal of men. Now lemme see, who was it that said a woman could make a fool out of a man any time? (And does it most of the time?)
The Syracuse Daily Orange offers us a hard one to beat. A professor- at the university has announced that he offers no objections to a student’s sleeping in class unless the snores become so loud that the class routine, “if any,” is disturbed. In such a case, the student loses his right to snooze. It is rumored—aye, even expected— that the next session of the class will be held in “larger, newer, and possibly more comfortable quarters.”
J	---o--
C
i	Prospective members for the staff of the Daily Trojan
I	of Southern California are announced at a breakfast
I	given for them. If they are accepted at the conclusion of
| try-outs, they are invited to another breakfast. (Won’t I someone please show this to Harley McDevitt ?)
Speaking of women—the women at Washington always manage somehow or other to become presidents of the sophomore class. This is the third year that the gentleman elected to that position has not returned, and the woman vice-president has taken over his tasks. • Out there they call the occurrence “The Suph Hoodoo”— 'nuff sed.’
I see that at Washington, Stanford and Southern California, mention is made of shirt-sleeves. For instance, at Southern California, plain white shirts are to be worn in the cheering section. Slickers, sheepskin, topcoats, and
Charles “Buddy” Rogers, co-ed movie idol, on a recent visit to Providence, Rhode Island, made a bad break, but he showed himself a real Kansas man by getting gracefully out of it. He asked if Brown wasn’t a co-ed school. The indignant Brown men quietly (yes, Brown men can be both indignant and quiet at the same time) informed him that it was not. Mr. Rogers, after a ghost of a blush, remarked that he had never seen so many good-looking women wandering about, and naturally supposed they were disciples of higher learning at Brown. I hardly believe that Jack Oakie made any such break, trying to figure out a way to get back to Hollywood without going to Toledo.
"k
82
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Middies Prepped to Stop Notre Dame Attack
Ingram Coaching Navy With Stress Laid On Defense
set down 19 to 6. All three of the Navy touchdowns in that game were scored by Kirn, first string right halfback.
Though lacking in experience, the backfield has more natural ability than any foursome in recent years, if
word from Navy supporters is any criterion. Kirn, Denny, quarterback, Tschirgi, left half, and Hagberg, full, were the greatest ground gainers in the William and Mary contest. Denny is said to be very adept at running back punts and kickoffs.
THE Notre Dame game tomorrow has been implanted in the minds of the Middies so well that all of '	their thoughts have been of the same
■ <	mind. “Beat Notre Dame” was
stressed in spring practice this year i'	and throughout the fall sessions. The
j,	squad was brought back earlier than
usual, we hear from eastern coast re-f'	ports, and the team is well advanced
U;	in ability to deliver some good foot-
ball.
Coach Bill Ingram’s hopes tomor-row depend upon a strong defense. |	The running attack has developed
i;	very nicely. Though Navy’s passing
p,'	game has not been as accurate as
might well be expected, a certain p	amount of perfection in that depart-
i ’	ment will be shown tomorrow against
the Fighting Irish.
I,.
Two Tackles Strong
The Middies will present a strong 1	and experienced line, relying to a
!	great part on its two powerful and
['■	aggressive tackles, Bowstrom and
K	Bryan. Byng is a veteran end and
[>’	the other wing job is a toss-up be-
tween Miller, Steffanides and Smith.
•I	The guards and center will be much
H	heavier than last year, and although
“green” yet, have a fair amount of experience. Gray has been moved to i	guard from a tackle position and is
j	doing excellent work. Underwood, a
r	big guard who was also a substitute
I	last year, is at the other- post. Also
,	doing well is Black, who just now is
‘	leading Tuttle for the pivot job with
Pray as third call.
J!
£	Kim Showing Well
I	In the game last Saturday in which
£	Navy’s second stringers played the
first quarter, William and Mary was
Southern Methodist
A SHIVER, a shake, and a cold chill right up the old spine. That’s all we got out of those last four minutes of play Saturday. Certainly a tough way to break us in so early in the season.
“I’m well pleased over our 20-14 triumph,” Rockne said after the battle which featured the hard-to-ride Mustangs, from Dallas, Texas and his own Fighting Irish.
Four minutes to play, the score 14-14, and then the mighty roar of the west stands grew louder as they implored their team to push over a final and deciding touchdown.
S. M. U. Band Tries Hard
The snappy Mustang band kept up its fast music to give time to its gridiron representatives as they tried desperately to repel the fevered Notre Dame attack.
Twice before, the Fighting Irish were turned back, furnishing more and more a strong dislike for their grid enemies, only this time they took the ball on downs, the line holding stubbornly.
Marchy Schwartz, cool and reliable Marchy, dropped back, hesitated momentarily and finally passed to Ed Kosky who was tackled on the Southern Methodist 27-yard line. Another swerve backward and another pass, this time to Captain Conley. Tom leaped high into the air with a clear path to the goal. Hamiter, Mason’s substitute, interfered with the receiver and the pass was declared good on the four-yard line.
Downed, 20 to 14
Schwartz again, with one arm around the ball and the other prodding his interference around right end, covered the distance over the goal line, plunging the last yard to make the necessary points.
Everyone Helped
It was not only Schwartz, however, far be it from us to rob the southerner of any due credit, but also the generalship of Frank Carideo for his sterling work in keeping his “green” team running as smoothly as possible.
Gallopin’ Joe Savoldi’s 90-yard maneuver through the entire S. M. U. outfit was a corker; Tommy Yarr’s work was excellent on pass defense; the great initial appearance of Pierce and Kurth was a real baptism of fire, with the two boys showing a lot of smoke.
Together they won, without a single one of the squad that played last week the final score would have been much different.
Visitors Have Vast Store
Starting right out on the first four plays of the game Southern Methodist opened up its bag of aerial tricks to score a touchdown. And when we think it over now, what a big bag it turned out to be.
On the kickoff, as you remember, Gallopin’ Joe brought the ball 49 yards to the S. M. U. 46-yard line. Line plunges failed and a pass was intercepted by Long. Weldon “Speedy”
T
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Mason, the young gentleman who was heard from so much that afternoon, tossed a liner to Kattman, that gained 48 yards and put the ball two yards from Notre Dame’s goal. Six points were put up after Hopper’s short drive across the scrimmage line. Long placekicked.
Gallopin’ Joe Gallops
Then came Gallopin’ Joe with his exhibition of what a real back can do. Fumbling the kickoff on his own one-yard line Joe regained his equilibrium and with perfect interference riding down the Mustangs, he tore down the center of the field for the touchdown. Jaskwich calmly kicked goal for the extra point.
A touchdown apiece in the second quarter made it 14-14; a third quarter scoreless and finally the almost heartbreaking moments, which we hope we’ll not have to undergo again this season.
Notre Dame, 20	. South. Meth., 14
Host .'.............LE............ Koontz
Hoffman ............LT.............. Tate
Harris .............LG............ Neeley
Butler ..............C............ Powell
Terlaak ............KG............ Reilly
McManmon............RT.......... Skeeters
Vik ................RE.............. Long
Jaskwich ...........QB............Kattman
Koken ..............LH............. Mason
O’Connor ...........RH............ Hopper
Savoldi ............FB........... Sprague
Score by quarters: Notre Dame .................7 7 0 6—20
Southern Methodist .........7 7 0 0—14
Touchdowns—Savoldi, Schwartz (2), Hopper, Koontz.
Points after touchdown—Long (2), Jaskwich, Carideo (all place kicks).
>
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Culver for Hoffman, Kosky for Host, Kassis for Harris, Yarr for Butler, Metzger for Terlaak, Donoghue for McManmon, Conley for Vik, Carideo for Jaskwich, Schwartz for Koken, Mullins fo rSavoldi, Brill for O’Connor, Pierce for Kassis, Kurth for Donoghue, Bailie for Kosky, Kaplan for Brill, Howard for Mullins, Mahoney for Conley, Kersjes for Metzger, J. O’Brien for Host, McManmon for Kurth, Terlaak for Metzger.
Southern Methodist: Delcambre for Powell, Tarrance for Reilly, Butler for Tate, Johnson for Mason, Halla for Neeley, Hamiter for Mason, Lanham for Long, Adkison for Koontz, Gilbert for Johnson.
Referee—Quigley ' (St. Mary’s). Umpire— Schommer (Chicago). Head linesman—Wyatt (Missouri). Field judge—Garrity (Texas).
Jack Oakie Says: "Stadium Swell;” Expects to See N. D.-U. S. C Game
By John A. Kiener
SMILING Jack Oakie, the Hollywood wise-cracking talkie star, pulled his elbows out of a pressbox window through which he had been making his familial- facial movements for the benefit of the crowd at the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game last Saturday long enough to answer a few questions.
“A swell stadium and a peach of a crowd,” was the affable screen star’s description of the immediate attraction.
His face, bronzed heavily from frequent application of the Hollywood sunshine, lit with the usual Oakie smile when he said that Rockne has a wonderful team again this year, but so has Southern Methodist.
“What about the Southern California game this year, Jack?” we next queried.
Then the whole Oakie personality broke out with a warmth that fairly broke through the chilled air. With
STATISTICS OF THE
GAME
First Downs:
Notre Dame, 14.
Southern Methodist, 13.
Yds. Gained from Scrimmage: Notre Dame, 240 yards.
Southern Methodist, 43 yards.
Forward Passes:
Notre Dame, 5 completed of 16 tried for 62 yards.
Southern Methodist, 16 completed of 26 tried for 224 yards.
Average Punts:
Notre Dame, 41 yards.
Southern Methodist, 36 yards.
Penalties:
Notre Dame, 75 yards.
Southern Methodist, 65 yards.
•>
a shake of his head and the almost suppressed boyish laugh which has won for himself so many friends on the talking screen, he finished our brief conversation by telling us that he would be there at the Southern Cal game on December 6, “If I have to sit on someone’s lap.”
A wave of a handkerchief from one of his feminine admirers down in the second row caught his eye as he bade goodbye with the warning that he was going to Hollywood right after the game to make another picture. “It’s going to be a swell one, watch for it,” he reminded us.
There he remained throughout the balance of the game, leaning as far out of the window as safety would permit, his brown hat cocked back on his head, and his beaming countenance radiating the “devil may care” attitude which we now know is really his very ow-n and not a product of some director’s ingenuity.
PROBABLE LINEUP
TO-MORROW
NOTRE DAME	NAVY	
Kosky	LE	Miller
Culver	LT	Bowstrom
Kassis	LG	Underwood
Yarr	C	Black
Metzger	RG	Gray
Kurth	RT	Bryan
Conley	RE	Byng
Carideo	QB	Denny
Schwartz	LH	Gannon
Brill	RH	Kirn
Savoldi	FB	Hagberg
Notre Dame Shock Troops
Host, left end; Hoffman, left tackle; Pierce, left guard; Rogers, center; McManmon, right tackle; Terlaak, right guard; Vik, right end; Jaskwich, quarterback; Koken, left half; Kaplan, right half; Howard, fullback.
84	The Notre
Youll Want Her
to Wear a
Chrysanthemum
to the Game
Dame Scholastic
<£n   aa aa aa an aa—aa aa aa aa   m—aa—a. aa   no aa aa-aja
]	HELLO MEN!	I
j SMITH’S CAFETERIA )
I 111 East Jefferson Boulevard |
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
WILLIAMS
The Florist
219 West Washington Avenue Telephone 3-5149
The Home of Quality
Flowers Telegraphed, Anywhere on Short Notice. ■
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame
At Least Two
You’ll want to see Notre Dame in at least two out-of-town games this year . . . Northwestern at Evanston, November 22 . .. Army at Soldier Field, November 29. On these occasions, as on all trips to Chicago, you’ll want to ride America’s fastest electric railway.

€
E
1	Trains every hour on-the-hour to
»	downtown Chicago
1 I
£ -
I
The South Bend Clearing House Banks Invite Your Patronage
I	CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS
!	BANK
j	|	FIRST NATIONAL BANK
j	I	INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
I | ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS
1 ।	BANK
i I ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST
f I	COMPANY
s	I
I	|	UNION TRUST COMPANY
|	!	AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
I	।	CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
! 1 •


The Notre Dame Scholastic
85
4 INTERHALL SPORTS
Misfortune befell a St. Edward’s player in the contest against the Lyons hall outfit on the Minims field last Sunday, when English of the former squad suffered the loss of two of his front teeth. Stiff opposition was met in the form of a pair of flying heels in the midst of a heap of squirming linesmen.
Although the loss was less, physically speaking, than the one mentioned
above, Kaplan, acting as referee in
the Walsh-Freshman contest on Cartier field, finished his task of pulling apart the opposing gridsters only to find that during the course of the game his glasses had disappeared. Not that they had taken legs to themselves and hiked away—Kaplan’s glasses had never done that before. Kaplan averred that his friend had seemed too glad to hold the spectacles for him.
Medical attention required for injuries sustained in football is always taken care of by the athletic association with one exception. Compensation for lost teeth is very rarely obtained by the man who has the ill luck to find his mouth open at the wrong time.
Interhall Standings
Group I
	W	L	PCT.
Sophomore _		1	0	1.000
Corby 			1	0	1.000
St. Edwards		0	0	.000
Lyons 			0	0	.000
Morrissey —		0	1	.000
Badin 			0	1	.000
	Group 2		
	W	L	PCT.
Walsh			1	0	1.000
Off-Campus _		1	0	1.C00
Howard 			1	0	1.000
Brownson			0	1	.000
Carroll 			0	1	.000
Freshman			0	1	.000
Last Sunday’s Results
St. Edward’s 0, Lyons 0.
Sophomore 1, Badin 0 (forfeit).
Corby 6, Morrissey 0.
Walsh 12, Freshman 0.
Off-Campus 6, Brownson 0.
Howard 13, Carroll 6.
Sunday’s Games
Lyons-Badin, Brownson field, 9:00.
Morrissey-St. Edward’s, Cartier field No. 2, 9:00.
Sophomore-Corby, Minims’ field, 9:00.
Freshman-Brownson, Cartier field No. 1, 9:00.
Howard-Walsh, Cartier field No. 2, 2:30.	'
Off-Campus-Carroll, Cartier field No. 1, -2:30.
W Conklin
Will PEN £ PENCIL SET
TOLEDO. OHIO io San Francisco
y prodigal son can wnte home
set. It was designed for the ones who “bought too many other things first. Made with the utmost care of highest quality, beautiful, non-breakable materials in two colors. Glossy Black and Green and Gold with gold mountings. The non— leakable pen has generous ink capacity. The pen mb is 14-kt.
automatic pencil includes all the exclusive features that provide smooth, easy action. It is complete with lead magazine and eraser. Both pen and pencil handsomely hoxed for only
$5.00. . . Leading college stores will have plenty.
Howard 13, Carroll 6
Led by the fleet Nort Schonfeld, who scored twice during the first half, Howard Hall took the measure of the Carroll hall eleven, 13-6, last Sun
day afternoon on Cartier field. The Howard linemen out-charged and outfought the Carrollites throughout the game and were mainly responsible for the victory.
The first touchdown came after six minutes of play, when Robinson, center for Howard, intercepted Nubold’s pass and raced fifteen yards to the Carroll six. Schonfeld carried it over in two smashes through right tackle.
86
Notre Dame Scholastic


For Quick
? Reference
on all facts concerning words, persons, places, you are continually in need of
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
S'
The Best Abridged Dictionary because it is based upon WEBSTER’S New INTERNATIONAL—The “Supreme Authority.” Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every time you consult it for the wealth of ready information that is instantly yours. 106,000 words and phrases with definitions, etymologies, pronunciations, and use in its 1,256 pages. 1,700 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and other	■
special features.
See It at Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the PubUshers. Free specimen pages .j-s5’ if you name this paper.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO. Springfield, Mass.
‘ip


The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee —the coffee that lets you sleep.



A bowl of Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes with milk or cream makes you “sit up and take notice.”
They are so much crisper. And what a flavor! It’s the famous flavor of PEP. As you eat each spoonful remember that you are getting the nourishment from the wheat. Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity or campus restaurant.
BRAN FLAKES
Robinson’s kick for the extra point was wide.
Howard was not long in scoring its second touchdown, tallying early in the second quarter after a short Carroll punt gave them the ball in midfield. Grundeman passed thirty yards to Schonfeld, who on the next play cut through right tackle for twenty yards and the score. Robinson circled right end from kick formation for the extra point.
The Howard second team played the entire third quarter, battling fairly even until the closing minutes, when a fumble gave Carroll the ball on the Howard fifteen yard line. The Howard varsity then took the field and succeeded in regaining the ball on downs, but their efforts were futile as Robinson’s punt was blocked and McKiernan, Carroll right end, recovered and stepped over the goal line. Morrow’s placement went wide.
Late in the fourth quarter, Howard launched a smashing drive which carried them sixty yards to the Carroll two-yard stripe, when the game ended.
Corby 6, Morrissey 0
Corby, much the stronger of the two teams, failed to beat Morrissey until the last two minutes of play, when they shoved over the winning touchdown on a brilliant run around right end by Ray Snyder, right halfback for the Corbyites. Rahaim’s place kick for the extra point just nicked the post and went off to the side.
Rahaim at quarter, and Connelley at left half were the stars in the Corby offensive. Time and time again Corby threatened to score early in the game but the Morrissey gold coasters staved off the tallying drive with a strong defense.
Jack Duffy led the Morrisseyites in their second half attempt to draw first blood in the battle. For a time it looked like a sure victory for Morrissey but Corby’s line held and regained the ball on downs.
Raggedness on the part of both teams in the operation of plays, a condition which might well be expected so early in the season, was apparently the chief reason for neither team’s scoring abilities being realized earlier in the game.
Off-Campus 6, Brownson 0
In a hotly contested interhall football game played on Brownson field Sunday afternoon, the Off-Campus team defeated the Brownson eleven, 6-0.	‘
9
The Notre Dame Scholastic
87
Just when it looked as though the contest would end in a scoreless tie, with but a few minutes more to play, “Red” O’Connell, the Off-Campus fullback, tore around the right wing for 38 yards, bringing the ball to the Brownsonites one-foot line. Here O’Connell was stopped dead, when Conlon the dormmen’s right end
and Desk Pen
Offers This Combination
Only Parker Duofold
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE
SAVES PRICE OF A SECOND PEN
namniniTt
3MMVd
★ Point-.smiths Paid a Bonus Eleven merciless inspections are given each Parker Duofold point. Then we pay a bonus to our pointsmith who made it. Points are rejected if they fail even one inspec-tien, and the point-smith pays us a forfeit. Yet, 7 out of 8 points earn a bonus, because we limit each man to a given number a day.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, Janesville, Wis. Offices and subsidiaries: New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, San Francisco, Dallas, Toronto, Canada; London, Eng.; Berlin, Germany.
As a Pocket Pen
Getting the Parker Duofold is now like getting two Pens at the price of one. Attaching a tapered end converts it into a Desk Set Pen. Removing the taper restores it to a pocket Pen.
Either way, you save the price of a second pen. You have only one Pen to fill instead of two. And whether you write at your desk or on the go, you always have your favorite point.
You have a non-breakable Permanite barrel that holds 17.4% more ink than average, size for size—that is jewel-like in lustre, color, and beauty. And most of all—the famous Duofold *bonus point that writes with Geo. S. Parker’s 47th improvement—Pressureless Touch.
Same Pen Converted
Even at higher prices, other makers have been unable to match this classic. Now that it takes the place of a special pen for the pocket and another for the desk, its sales are soaring beyond all previous heights.
Go and ask the nearest dealer to show how the Duofold is changed back and forth from a Pocket to a Desk Set Pen. If you own a Parker, take it with you. If not, go anyway and see this revolutionary invention.
"Huofold
PFixr t
PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE
*5 *7 MO
brought him down with, a diving tackle.
Brownson was able to withstand the terrific onslaughts of the opponents smashing backfield for only two downs. On the next play O’Connell plowed through center for the winning marker, the ball being snapped just as the whistle blew, ending the game.
Wai.sh 12, Freshmax 0
After battling through three scoreless periods with the Freshman hall squad on the varsity practice field last Sunday, Walsh hall gridsters finally turned the trick, scoring twice in the last period—once on an intercepted pass and again on an end run —to win by a score of 12-0.
88
The Notre Dame Scholastic
McCarthy, all-campus center last year with Sophomore hall, has been converted into a fullback with Walsh this season, and he scored both of his team’s touchdowns. The first came when the flashy back snared one of the Freshman passes and ran 30 yards to score. The second scoring play came a few minutes later when McCarthy swept around left end to squirm his way through a broken field for 40 yards to cross the goal line.
The officials for the contest were: Kaplan, referee; E. O’Brien, umpire; and Magner, head linesman.
CROSS-COUNTRY MEN
TRAIN FOR OPENER
Coach John P. Nicholson sent his cross-country candidates through stiff drills this week and intends to select next week the squad which will participate in the initial meet with Butler.
The dual contest which will be run at Indianapolis will take place October 18. Butler has an experienced team headed by Sivak, Kistler, Ur-bain, and Jones, and will give the Blue and Gold outfit a tough race.
RESERVES WIN, 53-0,
AGAINST DETROIT
In a game which resembled a track meet more than a football contest, the Notre Dame “B” team walked all over the City College of Detroit eleven, 53 to 0, last Saturday in Roosevelt Stadium at Detroit.
The Upstaters’ offensive was poor and their defense was unable to cope with the varied attack of the visitors. They found trouble with the Notre Dame deceptive shift and the hard running attack proved to be too strong.
Notre Dame received the kickoff and within two plays had scored a touchdown. The play was called back, however, and Notre Dame penalized for holding. Two more plays and the reserves again carried the ball across, this time being credited with it.
Then the parade started with Hanley, huge fullback, Staab, halfback, and LaBourne, quarterback, scoring touchdowns that were the result of long runs. Toward the end of the contest Notre Dame ran in an entirely new outfit and it too scored at will.
Hanley carried the ball across the goal line three times during the course of the afternoon, Staab mak
ing two touchdowns, and Dilling, Banas, and Bice, one apiece.
Score by quarters:
Notre Dame “B” ... 7 13 12 21....53
Detroit College ... 0 0 0 0...........0
NAVY, 40 STRONG, ARRIVES TODAY
The Navy football squad, consisting of 40 players, under the supervision of Coach Bill Ingram, rode into South Bend this morning.
After a short workout on Cartier field this afternoon the Middies will go to their quarters at the South Bend Country club, where they will remain until a few hours before the game tomorrow.
FRESHMEN REPORT
FOR BASKETBALL
A large number of candidates for the freshman basketball squad reported to Coach George E. Keogan last Wednesday afternoon in the gymnasium. “Ooney” Donovan, who will direct the frosh in their practices this year and their scrimmages with the varsity outfit, was also present.
j	Play—and the tvorld plays with you.
|	Mope—and you mope alone.
i	At
i	-IKC*
| You will find complete equipment
j	for the
I	ATHLETE—HUNTER
1	FISHERMAN—GOLFER
I
।	Sweaters, Jackets, Leather Coats,
|	Pocket Knives, etc., at prices
।	that are right.
I
£
I
E
i Recreation Equipment Co.
] THE “RECO” STORE.
I	Leaders in Sporting Goods
I	113 N. Main Street	।
1	I
j	“It Pays to Play”	|
f	!
w	I
1	’
 SUNDAY
thru Tuesday Oct. 12-11
Constance Bennett Lew Ayres Tully Marshall Matty Kemp Beryl Mercer
BEST	ALWAYS I
Beauty molded by destiny— undaunted by the selfish desires of men and the harsh injustice of law—a girl battles with flaming devotion to final victory.
“COMMON CLAY”
A Fox Movietone drama with vivid action and swift emotional climax.
The Greatest Screen Drama of All Times!
WEDN’SDAY Thursday Oct. 15-16
JOURNEY’S END
GREAT!
So natural, so simple, so moving, so real, that you cannot —would not—forget it.
A grim, tender, devilish picture of war.
co1oon “ANIMAL CRACKERS
STRAND
307 SO. MICHIGAN ST.
Continuous 10 a. m. to 11 p. m.
MAIN or„ BALCONY 15c
FLOOR CHILDREN 10c
g
s
g
g
The Notre Dame Scholastic
89
SILENT CHEERING BIG
SUCCESS, SAY VISITORS
Visitors to last Saturday’s football game witnessed the first attempt at silent chering that has ever been made in the new stadium. About SOO members of the student body took part in the initial trial of the novelty, and according to some of the rooters from the opposite stand, the stunt was a complete success. The letters stood out well from the background, were well formed, and were executed in remarkable unison. An ardent S. M. U. fan that we interviewed, one who has seen the famed west coast silent cheering, declared that Notre Dame’s exhibition was easily equal in perfection to any he had ever before viewed.
All of the credit for the success of silent cheering at Notre Dame should go to the Blue Circle, the organization which conceived the idea of putting the stunt into operation here, and which sponsors it, and to Ed Madden, who is in charge. Madden has worked hard on the proposition, and through his efforts the stunt has become a reality instead of a mere scheme; the actual leading of the movements is done by Edward Massa, new head cheer leader, but Madden is the man
ADDED
Paramount
Sound News
behind the scenes. He arranges the plans for the figures to be formed, supervises the row-captains, and he will get the blame if anything should go amiss.
The movements executed at last Saturday’s game were of the simplest kind. The words “Notre Dame” and “Hello, S. M. U.” were spelled out by the blue and gold cards and the stunt was over. However, the exhibition tomorrow will be longer and more intricate. It is planned to have the Notre Dame football monogram formed, as well as the initials “N.D.,” and the spelling out of “Notre Dame.” The word “Navy” will be spelled out, and the Navy symbol, an anchor, will be formed. It is sincerely hoped that tomorrow’s performance, and all those that follow, will be as successful as was the demonstration at the last game. If the stunt is a success this year silent cheering bids fail* to become permanent at Notre Dame.
NAVY GAME FOOTBALL PROGRAM TO HAVE NEW FEATURE
The program for the Navy game tomorrow will contain many features not in that of last week. The frontis-
Starts Saturday — Thru Tuesday
The “IT” girl in another hit on the talking screen.—This time as a philandering screen actress, abroad for a good time.
CLARA BOW
in a Paramount farce comedy riot
“Her Wedding Night”
With
“SKEETS” GALLAGHER - CHARLES RUGGLES RALPH FORBES - ROSITA MORENO ---- NATALIE KINGSTONE ----------
PUBLIX THEATRE
piece will be a picture of the new stadium done in four colors with the head of Coach Rockne beaming above it and a great crowd surging below. In addition there will be pictures of all the Navy players, a history of the Naval Academy, and a photograph of the head of the Academy.
John Bergan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, who edited the program this year, has received many compliments on his work. Many call it the finest book ever presented at a Mid-West football game.
TIM MOYNIHAN MAKES MOVIE DEBUT AT
PALACE
Maybe somebody else is the star, but the only reason that any Notre Dame man went to the Palace this week was to see big Tim Moynihan, last year’s star center here, make his movie debut. “Buddy” Rogers, Wheeler and Woosley, and the other stars in town during the week faded into insignificance before the booming voice of Moynihan. He and ten other stellar football players are the outstanding feature of the picture which, strangely enough, is called “Maybe It’s Love.”
ADDED
Vitaphone
Sound Vodvil
90
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PAT O SHEA---------FAN By F. J. McKeever
(Fi-om the Notre Dame Alumnus)
There are fans and there are fans. Notre Dame has an assortment of these all over the United States. Most of them have never seen the school they shout for as they sit in a large stadium, tune in on their radio, or read the Sunday papers. The sub-• ject of this article is not one of these, since he lives here on the campus. Meeting this true fan was very easy. It happened at the opening ball game at Cartier Field, when ‘Lefty’ Moran came to the plate for the first time. During the loud pleadings of the Notre Dame baseball public to its idol for a base hit, we heard from our left that, “This kid Moran can pole them out.” Being true born reporters and having our pencil back of our ear and paper in every pocket in the approved style we turned to see what could be gleaned for the press. There beside us was a man well over six feet in height stretched out on one of the inadequate seats of the bleachers. The six feet of man was covered with blue overalls from his neck to his shoes. The face was rather weather beaten and covered with very white whiskers, matching perfectly a very white head. The eyes were different, being large and shining. They pierced us, not
making us feel uncomfortable but rather at ease; they were kind and befriending. We got on pretty good terms and he introduced himself as “Pat O’Shea — just another Dutchman.” It wasn’t long until Pat had told us plenty interesting tales of Notre Dame baseball.
“You must be quite a Notre Dame fan, Pat.”
“Well, I haven’t missed a baseball, football, basketball game or track meet since I came here and that was 1902. I was here for a little while in 1900 but I left. Before I came here, I fired on the Southern R. R. from Washington to Delfield, Va., and I’m still firing,” said he as he lit a bowl full of Five Brothers, in a large pipe held together by a stout piece of wire expertly twisted around some weak points. “After that,” continued Pat, “I joined the Navy and fired for a change. I was down on the Marblehead, a flagship for Dewey when we knocked down the gates of San Juan-Hill with our 13" guns. When I came here I fired some more down at the heating plant, but 13 years ago they put me over to the Community House to putter there.”
“You must be getting right up in there, eh, Pat?” we asked.
“Well, I’m 86 and still pretty stout and hearty yet.”
Pat remembered all the players since he came, it seemed. He said Moran compared favorably with Ken Williams -while he was busting fences around here and Schrall the shortstop of two years ago looked like he might be a big timer some day. He knew the names of all the players on last year’s squad and liked Sullivan the best of the new men.
“What is your favorite sport?” asked the inquiring reporter.
“Football is now; it’s lots better to watch than the other games. I like baseball, too; used to play it quite a bit when I was your age, but football is lots more interesting. We always used to lose to Illinois in track, maybe that’s why I don’t care for that much.”
Pat is unlike most old timers in that he likes the modern open play better than the old massed formations and he thinks the players are just as tough now as they ever were, but the rules don’t give them a chance' to show it. Pat O’Shea left with a smile and we sat and wondered if we, when 86 was reached, would be real fans like Pat.

>Bn>
•BB-
»BB—M — mi«
§
Arrow Shirts
Ellsworth s exclusively stock a complete line oF ARROW
Arrow Dress Shirts.—. Arrow Trump, white. Arrow Trump, colors. Paddock, white —______ Mayfair, cream____ Baronette, white__
$3.50 $1.95 $2.15 $2.50
$3.00 $4.50
Patterns in Arrow Shirts, upward $1.95
The Men’s Shop Main Floor, Rear
ELLSWORTH'S
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
Block & Kuhl Co
MICHIGAN at COLFAX School Representative: JIM Baker, 146 St. Edward’s Hall
§



The Notre Dame Scholastic
91
a
e
6
Splinters From the Press Box
TESTS.
Although Carnegie Tech has garnered 127 points in its first two games, the one with Georgie Tech tomorrow looks like the Tartan’s real test. Georgia Tech plowed through South Carolina, 45-0, last week and will give' the Pittsburghers a real battle.
North western’s real strength will undergo an examination with Ohio State’s up-and-coming sophomore outfit. Looks like a shade for the the Wildcats though, with Ohio liable to pull another fast one which they did ' against Indiana, scoring three touchdowns in the last ten minutes of play.
DEDICATION.
With a great amount of pomp and solemnity the Middies will dedicate the new stadium to-morrow wearing Notre Dame’s traditional blue. The Fighting Irish will assume the color so often attached to their nickname— green.
Prepared for a strong Notre Dame offense, Bill Ingram has been drilling his Middies in the fine art of an impregnable defense. Rockne at the same time has been puttying up the weak spots ■with reserve material and
The Book Shop
119 N. Michigan Street
Headquarters Unexcelled For
Books, Periodicals and Class
Room Requisites
Pay Us a Visit We have the Book you want.
THE BOOK SHOP
119 North Michigan Street
na——mi—na—us—nt—na—na—m— as —uu—im—m— mi	a—.o
will put a more confident team on the field to-morrow.
VANDERBILT.
Danny McGugin, wily Vanderbilt mentor, saw his team upset all the dope buckets, with the exception of Knute Rockne’s prediction of a surprise, by a 33’ to 7 triumph over Minnesota last week.
WAKE.
Harvey T. Woodfuff, conductor of “In the Wake of the News” in the Chicago Tribune paid Notre Dame a fine tribute in the following article which we are taking the liberty of reprinting:
“When Coach Rockne of Notre Dame submitted to Army athletic authorities a list of officials who would be satisfactory to him for the Army-Notre Dame game at Soldiers’ field Nov. 29, it contained the name of Col. H. B. Hackett, Big Ten official. Army replied the choice would be agreeable if Hackett cared to accept. Now the point is that Hackett played four years of football at West Point. Notre Dame’s act was a fine gesture of sportsmanship. Hackett thanked Notre Dame for the high compliment, but declined the honor.”
JUST A GUESS!
Notre Dame 14, Navy 0.
Wisconsin 14, Chicago 6.
Army 34, Swarthmore 0.
Carnegie Tech 26, Georgia Tech 13.
Purdue 14, Michigan 0.
Stanford 26, Minnesota 6.
Northwestern 7, Ohio State 6.
Yale 14, Georgia 6.
BEEF.
Jimmy Maloney’s surprise victory over Primo Camera the other night before the winner’s home town folks in Boston was worthy of some mention.
Maloney won his battle, not with the use of his mitts and brains as one should imagine, but by careful footwork. So we assume from the reports of the fight. Camera’s 95-pound advantage over the Boston Belter was to his own disadvantage for all Maloney had to do was jab and then step away from the huge hulk.
We still believe, however, that Primo Camera has acquired enough experience in the ring by bringing himself up the ladder slowly to take on Max Schmeling, so-called present heavy champion, and give him a stiff battle.
And when they get through, lioung Stribling can step in and don the diadem himself.
GOLF TOURNAMENT ANNOUNCED
Golf has become such a popular form of recreation for the students within the past few years, that a medal play tournament of 72 holes will be played on Sunday and Monday. The William J. Burke memorial trophy donated by Mrs. Burke, will be awarded the winner. The prize will remain in the club house. Each year the winner of the tournament will have his name and score engraved on the trophy.
Mr. Arthur West, the professional at the club house, will receive the entries for this tournament.
92	Th
e Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMPUS CLUBS i
The PHARMACY club held its first regular meeting of the year Tuesday night in Chemistry hall. President K. W. Scherer welcomed the incoming freshmen and introduced them to the old members. After a short talk, outlining the purpose of the club, the president turned to the principal business of the meeting. This was the election of a vice-presi
dent to fill the position left vacant when the man elected last spring failed to return. Joseph Gonciarz won the election. Other officers are Stanley Czapalski, secretary, and James Coram, treasurer.
In addition to the election of a vicepresident the club took up the matter of stationery, and a banquet to be held soon. John Hooley was appointed chairman of the stationary committee and James Coram chairman of the banquet committee. After the assignment of papers for the next meeting, the session adjourned.
At its first meeting last week, the CLEVELAND club announced a banquet to welcome the new members. The affair was held Thursday at the Hotel LaSalle. On. account of illness, the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was unable to open the club’s activities as he has in the past. Professor Clarence Manion spoke in his stead. The turnout for the banquet was the best in the history of the club.
The first meeting of the WEST VIRGINIA club was held last Tuesday in the basement of the library.
Sheaffer’s College Leadership*
Guarantees
Writing
No. LTSC, $3.25
AMONG the one hundred JLX leading American colleges, each registering 1,700 or more students, the majority prefer Sheaffer’s. Sheaffer’s college leadership means that these pens will delight you, too.
Think! Here are pens with points made for your hand alone—instruments that Balance0 comfortably in your hand—graceful things of beauty. And here is a Lifetime0 guarantee that your Lifetime0 pen will serve you satisfactorily while you remain on
earth. The longer you and your Balance°Lifetime°live and work together, the better you’ll ^et along,. Starttoday, whysJon’ tyou?
The ONLY genuine Lifetime0 pen is Sheaffer’s; do not be deceived! All fountain pens are guaranteed against defects, but Sheaffer's Lifetime0 is guaranteed unconditionally for your life, and other Sheaffer products are forever guaranteed against defect in materials and workmanship. Green or Black Lifetime0 pens, $8.75; Ladies’, $8.25. Black-and-Pearl DeLuxe and Marine Green Lifetime0 pens, $10; Ladies’, $9.50. Petite Lifetime0 pens, $7 up. Golf or Handbag Pencil, $3. Others lower.
*A recent survey made by a disinterested organization showed Sheaffer’s first in fountain pen sales among the 100 leading American colleges having registration of 1,700 or more students. Documents covering this survey are available to anyone.
No. K74TC. $9.50
EVERYWHERE
AT BETTER STORES
SAFETY SKRIP, SUCCESSOR TO INK, SKRIP-FILLED.50ctoU0. . Leak-proof, practically unbreakable. Carry it tc classes!
SHEAFFER’S
V-X PENS-PENCILS-DESK SETS SKRIP
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON, IOWA, U. S. A.
This white
dot identifies
Sheaffcr's.the
ataienmn
EifetinuPnen.
°Bcc.D.a.rM.oe.
© w. a. s. r. co., mw
The Notre Dame Scholastic
93
Principal business was the election of a new vice-president. In a close vote Leo Kletzly was elected to take the place of Eay Jordan, who did not return this fall. With President John Emmert, Secretary Edmund Sargus, and Treasurer- William Ackerman, the new vice-president united in welcoming the new members. Twelve freshmen were admitted.
Under the auspices of the S. A. C.,
the PRESIDENTS club held its first meeting of the year. The purpose of the club was outlined and Joseph Deeb, president of the GRAND RAPIDS club, was elected to head it.
The purpose behind the PRESIDENTS club is that of forming some bond between the various campus clubs so that they may work together with the S. A. C. instead of as separate units as has been the case in past years.
Jerome Roach, secretary of the GRAND RAPIDS club, wishes all men from Grand Rapids, Kalamazoo, Muskegon, or Lansing to send him their campus address. Anyone from these cities or their vicinity is welcome to join the club and discuss plans for the Christmas dance. The announcement of the next meeting will be posted some time in the near future.
Blow
the Whistle
Delicious and Refreshing

fort1w Pause
that refreshes
When you suffer from large and undiluted doses of your fellows. When the milk of human kindness seems to sour. Blow the whistle for a minute’s "time out” on your
Grantland Rice—*-*-Famons Sports Champions —Coca-Cola Orchestra-*-Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 p. m. E. S. T.-«—■*-Coast to Coast NBC Network
9 Million A Day - it
In other words, go into a huddle with a glass or hottie of refreshing, delicious Coca-Cola. It will make you captain of your soul again, ready to live—or die— for the dear old alma mater.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-7
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
94
The Notre Dame Scholastic
!	Learbury Designers
।	Never Experiment
।	.... They Find Out First
I
[	Don’t look for the bizzare, the freakish style in
|	a Learbury model ... it is never to be found. The
।	personal whims or ideas of designers are com?	pletely absent. Instead, Learbury goes right to the
s	leading campuses of the country and assures cor-
=	rectness for its style by consulting college leaders
j	and adopting their style preferences.
j	The success of this plan is proved by the fact that
s	. authentic college clothes mean “Learbury” wherever
I	you go.
i	All suits with extra trousers
I
I	M. GILBERT & SON
I
Under the direction of the Reverend Conrad Hoffman the FRENCH club has been organized. The first meeting and election of officers was held on Wednesday. Hereafter the meetings will be at 4:45 on Mondays.
Father Hoffman, professor of advanced French, has organized the club in order to increase the speaking knowledge of French. Anyone who is interested may join and receive the two hours credit for his work. Each week a topic for discussion will be assigned. At the following meeting one of the members ■will write a paper in French on the chosen topic. After the reading the topic will be open to discussion by the members. All conversation will be in French. There will be no dues.
-o-
The ROCKY MOUNTAIN club held its initial meeting last Tuesday evening. Approximately 15 members attended. There are possibly 30 men eligible from the five states of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming and Utah. Men from these states who have not as yet joined the club should communicate with the club secretary, Nick Kalmes, Walsh hall, or with Ray Smith, 215 Sorin.
CLUB SECRETARIES—
ATTENTION!
Announcements of meetings, banquets and all other club news should be sent to the campus clubs editor, 450 Morrissey hall, or left for him at the Publications office, second floor, Main building-. Material must be in by Tuesday noon in order to appear in the Scholastic on Friday.
PITTSBURGH CLUB HAS MEETING
The Pittsburgh club held its initial meeting of the year Tuesday night in the Journalism room of the library. An unusually large number attended, the ranks of the club having been swelled by the admittance of many freshmen. These were welcomed into the organization by Richard O’Donnell, president, and the plans for the coming year were then announced. The annual Christmas dance, tentative arrangements for a banquet, and the Pittsburgh and Carnegie games were subjects of discussion.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
95
ELEVEN STUDENTS IN BOY
GUIDANCE COURSE
All sections of the country are again represented in the new class taking the course in Boy Guidance. There are eleven holders of scholarships awarded by the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus and one on a scholarship provided by the State Council of New York.
The incoming class, together with their home city follows:
Matthew I. Barron, Portland, Me.; John C. Burke, Casco, Wis.; Thomas P. Fay, Dorchester, Mass.; Edward Gentgen, Dubuque, la.; John H. Good, Butte, Mont.; Joseph L. Mendelis, Plains, Pa.; Eugene J. Moreau, Pawtucket, R. I.; Hugh P. O’Brien, Burlington, Vt.; Louis L. Orgera, New York City; Raymond J. Pellman, Cincinnati, 0.; Edmund J. Radzuk, Avon, Mass.; Aubrey J. Strosnider, Sidney, Ohio.
An unusually large number of seniors, majoring in sociology and physical education, are also registered in several of the Boy Guidance courses.
Otrong muscles and nerves of iron don’t come from just
“Best All ’Round Athlete’
ENGINEERING CLUB TO HOLD INITIATION
The annual initiation of the Engineer’s club will be held next Wednesday night in the University gymnasium. Approximately 150 freshmen engineers will be inducted at the meeting. Frank Loney, chairman of the initiation committee, has promised several novel features, which should provide an interesting evening. An in previous years, the affair will be closed to non-members.
will power and exercise. “The best all ’round athlete” of the senior class will be the man who keeps a close watch on his vitamins.
Shredded Wheat saves those who are out for athletic honors, a heap of time and worry. Shredded Wheat con
tains in a most easily digestible form all the vitamins, proteins, mineral salts and carbohydrates necessary. In training and out, eat a bowl of Shredded Wheat every morning with plenty of whole milk as thousands of other successful athletes do.
All freshmen Engineers desiring to join the organization should hand in their applications for membership to William Karl, 202 Walsh hall before next Wednesday night. All first year men must have their membership cards stamped by the initiation committee after the ceremony.
PHILADELPHIA CLUB TO HOLD MEETING ON TUESDAY
Officers of the Philadelphia club have announced that the first meeting of the year- will be held on October 15 in the North room of the library. According to the constitution of the club all students residing within sixty miles of the city are eligible to attend.
Since it is the initial meeting, plans for the coming year will be discussed and an organization program decided upon.
^iniinim..............iiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiuHtiuiiiiiiuiniiiiiniituuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiuiiiii»iimHiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiii[»|
i Please Patronize Scholastic Advertisers
HtHltllttilltt
96
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
. . . Now the truth is out . . . GLENNA COLLETT, woman golf star, is superstitious . . . she has her caddy carry a horse shoe around with her clubs whenever she engages in an important tournament . . . EDDIE BENNETT, mascot of the Yankees, has just finished serving his twelfth year as a human horseshoe for baseball teams . . . BERNIE WEFERS won the 100- and 200-yard running championship of the United States during three successive years. . . .
. . . Maryland’s football schedule this season totals twelve games . . . The average polo player makes an investment of $50,000 in ponies . . . spends about $10,000 during a season . . . ALBIE BOOTH, star quarterback of the 1929 Yale team, is said to have put on 25 pounds over the summer months . . . JACK BRITTON, former welterweight champion, has finally retired from the ring after a career which lasted* 26 years and included more than 400 contests. . . .
. . . “BIG BILL” THOMPSON, Macon featherweight boxer, was fighting “YOUNG” SIMPSON down in Macon, Ga. a while ago . . . THOMPSON turned his head and yelled: “Hi, Jack” . . . SIMPSON took advantage of the opportunity and landed a knockout blow . . . sending THOMPSON into DEMPSEY’S lap . . . Only one American, FRANK KRAMER, has won the world’s bicycle sprinting championship, which has been held annually since 1895, when the high-wheel bikes passed out. . . .
... It costs $20,000 to properly equip a ball park for night baseball and the nightly cost of current runs about $25. . . . Only eight female golfers competed in the first championship tournament held for women in the United States at Morris county, N. J. in 1896 ... Ten years later there were 75 competitors . . . Naval academy officials are naming a captain before each game this season . . . before this year a captain had been named before the campaign . . . one will be formally elected at the conclusion of the schedule....
1 855	• SEVENTY - FIFTH ANNIVERSARY •	1930
123,000 tests a year
In the Crane testing laboratories, the weight arm of a specially designed machine measures the steadily increasing load suspended from a small cylinder of metal. Watching it intently is a man who has at his command instruments that measure to .00005 of an inch. The cylinder begins to yield; he notes the weight. It snaps; he notes the weight. Disengaging it, he measures the stretch and diameter at the breaking point. These tests form a part of the 123,000 determinations Crane Co. makes on its own materials every year.
63,000 of the tests are chemical; not one component from pig iron to limestone flux is charged in a Crane melting furnace whose suitability has not been determined by analysis. 60,000 are physical; not one hour’s melt is drawn off in a Crane foundry whose physical properties—tensile, transverse, and torsional strengths, yield point, breaking point, elongation, and reduction of area are not known.
By such exhaustive tests and by researches of scientists in Crane laboratories, a vast body of authoritative data on metals and their properties has been collected.
It is embodied in a book, “Pioneering in Science,” which is an invaluable reference book for students. On request, we will send it to you.
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM. LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 WEST 44TH STREET
Branchci and Sala Offica in One Hundred and Ninety-four Cities