. Stu·de•nt. Gove·rnm... e.·nt'.s.•······ 
SYRi\·.r~J:>..0(1........ 
FOOTBY-\Lt_: New · · Defensive:(}bach. Darnell 
. . . 
Gilrnan...:Stteet:·.Musical Jnnovators · 






Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to 
Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _____________________ 
City ___________State ___Zip _____ 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic f\-1agazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.00x __ years=$ 
SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE APRIL 19, 1990 
NEWS 
7 
SYRs: Then and Now 

Student government submits a report on all-hall semi­
fonnals to student affairs Ian Mitchell 
9 
Excerpts from "A Report to the Office of Student Affairs: from the Student Government Committee on 
All-Hall Semi-Formals" 


COVER 
Earth Day 1990 

Environmental Action Club participates in nationwide movement to save environment Frank Barletta 
10 

SPORTS 
For the Defense 

Gary Darnell is Lou Holtz' man to pick up where Bany Alvarez left off Kevin T. Kerns 
14 

18 
~"' ' 
;ori·p~riods at tl)e lJ~H~rstty .Jr.N 
.. back issues are a':'ail.ablc at Sl. tire editorial board ofScholasti 
i.;•,, ::'• . ••,•: 'V. ;;;,•... _'.,"<•;">•;:i.•:•:_::::•:~••.•••.•.>\ 
APRIL 5, 1990 

LETTERS 
''An Tostal Chance to Smile and Laugh'' Student Responds to Editorial 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the bitingly sarcastic April 5 Scholastic Editorial. This work exemplifies the apathy of those individuals at Notre Dame who choose to put themselves above the rest. Some call it the "Holier Than Thou Attitude" and unfortunately is prevalent in our otherwise vibrant and enthusiastic community. 
The editorial put undeserved black paint all over our Spring AnTo­stal Festival. How familiar are these AnTostal critics with where this festival comes from? Not too, I'm sure. AnTostal, Gaelic for "Fes­tival", is annually provided to the entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College student body and faculty by their fellow classmates. 
The sarcastic Scholastics obviously do not appreciate the fact that many of their closest friends have volunteered their time in order to give everyone the chance to come together again after the drudgery of another South Bend winter. Sure, AnTostal does not cause the hoards to go out of their mind in "anticipation" and it is not supposed to. The editorial states that the week of April 22 is the perfect "time for a road trip." Is the Little 500/Spring Fling/Greek Fest really worth driving at least two hours to go witness? Maybe for some, but the purpose of AnTostal is not to grab the best ringside seats and let ourselves be entertained by others. Nonetheless, the Mud Pits, Bookstore Basketball Finals, Recess & Concerts on the Quad are a treat whether or not you personally participate. 
It is not the case that Notre Dame is the place where "you have to make your own fun" as the editorial states. Life in general is this "place!" Wherever one goes and what ever one does with his/her time suggests how willing they are make life worthwhile. AnTostal is the time to bring our Notre Dame community together with the opportunity to make our own fun. Who wants ringside seats at the . Jello-Pits when you can actually frolic in them with your friends; That's what AnTostal is here for. It is not for those who choose to 
carry an air about themselves. 
Scholastic apparently categorizes AnTostal with "church socials" and other sorts of"energetic tomfoolery." What's wrong with either ofthese? Their attitude! We atAnTostal like being part ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's family and feel that we represent the majority of the student body. Otherwise, there would be no world record setting Bookstore Basketball Tournament or Charity Carnival that attract thousands! 
We have learned to enjoy the company of those with whom we live and go to class for fouror more years. We all come to getherin revelry for Notre Dame Football as it is something we all have in common. We smile and laugh with those we barely know after a convincing victory. AnTostal is another chance to smile and laugh with our friends during our fleeting years here. 
Brennan Harvath College of Business, '91 AnTostal '90 Executive Committee 
1-80 at Exit 77 52825 US 33 N. South Bend, IN 
272-9000 

*FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST *PRNATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS *FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN *IN ROOM MOVIESNCR (over 50 titles) *FREE LOCAL CALLS 
*IqI'CHENETTES 
*LAUNDRY 

0 
ii 
PRIVATE IN ROOM SPAS 
$2595 
SINGLE 
SCHOLASTIC 


ON OTHER CAMPUSES .. 
The Condom Queen of Brown University 
\ j 

Plus, more nerds, geeks, tear gas and marijuana predicted for the rest of the semester 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Good old Toby 'Condom Queen' Simon and her crew at the Health Education Office of Brown University were at it again this year, handing out Spring Break Kits prior to the annual midsemester vacation, The Brown Daily Herald relayed in a campus news brief. For anyone who has not been fortunate enough to experience one of these fine examples ofpreventitive living, in the past kits haveincludedcondoms, aspirin, lubricant, suntan lotion, and weight-alcohol charts. Rumor has it that this year's packet includes much of the same as well as throat lozenges. In addition, a limited supply of day-glo hats bearing the logo "HARMLESS PARTY ANIMAL" were distributed, with an assurance ofmeeting many new friends amongst the stylish Ft. Lauderdale crowd. 
The Society of Nerds and Geeks is spreading, according to a report in the National On-Campus Report. The first chapter of SONG was founded in October at Harvard, primarily to encourage the library to remain open twenty-four hours. Now Dartmouth has a chapter "to make people more receptive to the shy person," as well as to push for "a 24-hour cafe where students can eat and study late at night... away from the constant partying." There's also interest in forming SONG chapters at Cornell, Amherst and Claremont College. 
A new computer virus called 'Stoned'-which zaps files and replaces them with the message 'Your computer has been stoned. Legalize marijuana' -circulatedthrough an estimated thirty comput­ers at North Carolina State University in late March, the College Press Service reports. "It has been nightmarish," complained Tracy Carver of the Humanities Computer Lab, which had to shutdown for a day and a half to restore its machines to working order. 
While it is common for professors, and sometimes even students, to take a year's absence from college, a five-year sabbatical is somewhat unheard of these days. Friends of Penn State professor Boris . · Weisfeiler remember him as an adventurer-a loner who ,often preferred his own thoughts to human companionship and at times considered people bothersome. The Weekly Collegian reports that five years after the 43-year-old math professor went off on a solo hiking vacation during the school's Christmas Break and disappeared in Chile, his colleagues remain unsure of his fate. An investigation launched by the State Department in 1985 was supplemented by a 
search on behalf of colleagues in the Chilean Math Society. Chile's government also assisted, but only for a short time. 

Brown made sure students were 'prepared' for Spring Break. ' 
,:J 
If you thought security at your college was tough, try bending the rules at the University of Oregon or Lane Community College. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reported recently that police tactics• : aimed at breaking up two block parties attended by several hundred. , 
students included officers dressed in riot gear who fired about ten canisters of tear gas into the crowds. Police officials said later the · : 
action had been taken because some partygoers were pelting the 
police with bottles, and because the students were engaging in 
unlawful assembly. O 

MUSIC/ JEFF JOTZ 
At Gilman Street 
A look into one of the most innovative rock clubs around 
fseems like it was only yesterday Nothing to do and nowhere to play But then we could go down To Gilman Street/ And see Op IV every week; No violence, drugs, or alcohol Just maximum rock and roll ... 
-The Mr. T. Experience, "At Gil­man Street" 

Okay, you Darners, think back. Think back to the last 'rock concert' that you at­tended. Remember? Now try to find your ticket stub that you kept from that show. It should be. up on your bulletin board, right next to the Orange Bowl ticket. Got it? Alright, look at the price. $26.50 for nose­bleed seats, huh? All that and they didn't even include oxygen packs! Was big Jerry a little blip, even without the help of drugs? Was Kip Winger about as big as the period at the end of this sentence? (with hair, the ques­tion mark is more appropriate) 
You're probably wondering why I'm doing this, but don't flip to our generous sports pages yet (if you haven't read them already). In my travels-which, by the way, are far and wide-I have found a place that puts music before money! 
"Heresy!" you say? Yes, in that conform­

ist tradition that has made Notre Dame such 
a unique place, it sure is a difficult thing to 
swallow. The place is called the Gilman St. 
Project, and it is found deep in the heart of N.D.'s social antithesis: Berkeley, CA. such as racism or sexism. Promotion was to 
Born out of a general frustration over the be done only by a local alternative fanzine, rapidly decaying counterculture in the Bay Maximum Rock and Roll. Area, several fans of alternative music Lawrence Livermore, one of the earliest banded together and decided to form a club members of the Gilman organizing commit­based on principles of cooperation instead of tee, offered this insight about the need for a competition, community instead of disunity. Gilman St. Project: "The warehouse is not After many months of cutting down red tape, Berkeley's city council approved Gilman and the group got underway in its re­furbishing ofan old warehouse. For the cost of $26,000 and plentyoflegal drivel, the Gilman St. Project was born on Dec. 31, 1986. 
The goals of Gilman were simple: to provide a place that was non-commercial and hon­estly run. Gilman's founders wanted to pay bands a decent fee (between $20 and $5d for each member) and run the place with­out any violence, drugs, or alco­hol. For a small fee of two dol­lars, you received a lifetime 'membership' in the club, get­ting cheap access, usually $5 or $6, to whatever was going on that evening. Any band, artist, poet, or Joe Regular who wished to perform was welcome, pro­vided that he/she/they didn't 
Lawrence Livermore, one of the founders of Gilman,
promote negative overtones 
plays onstage with his band The Lookouts. 

4  SCHOLASTIC  
'  
-., -­ --~ - - - __ ,-_-.­ .:... -.  -:·  ~~  '  ·. ,-..· :: ,/. =·:  :-_·:.·, ·_:.' '.: .. ·~­,.,  --­ ... -~---:--L: :_::.,.:-:,c'.£_•  •.-r·... :· :': :·, ·: .,.,, ;-:.;:-.-:•,c,\"'.''·'l'-''{;  

just for music; we intend to provide a forum 
for all kinds of creative efforts. These could 
include, but are by no means limited to: 
theater, poetry, dance, film and video, paint­
ing, and whatever else you can imagine. The 
key word here is alternative. We're not out 
to operate just another night club or gallery, 
and so preference will be given to artists 
working outside 'normal' channels, i.e., 
those who don't have the backing of major 
record labels or academic or foundation 
founding." 
Gilman started out as a bright spark of 

creativity and community action. Bands and 
artists who at one time had no outlet in which 
they could display their work were now per­
forming by the score at Gilman. Co-founder 
Tim Yohannan spoke on that first year at 
Gilman: "Gilman served a real function the 
first year, helping to galvanize a community, 
to demonstrate that alternative principles can 
work. There was a period of magic at Gil­
man, that undefinable time when a scene is 
born out of rubble, where creativity and 
friendship flourish. We brought out a new 
spirit...that emphasized creativity as well as 
having fun." 
A throng offans dedicated to this alterna­

tive movementthat the Bay Area has not seen 
since the days of Allen Ginsberg and Haight­
Ashbury emerged and flowered into a spec­
tacular community. 
"A zillion new bands formed," said 

Yohannan in a recent interview, "And that 
year, we broke even," 
The next year, Gilman even reported a 

profit. Not bad for a group of folks who 
shunned commercialism. 
Unfortunately, this musical paradise . began to die. The original founders of Gil­
man expected direct involvement from those 
who performed at the club, and the club was 
lo be run by the performers as well as the fans. 
However, many people were unwilling to 
dedicate themselves so that Gilman could 
keep on running as it did in the past. Ugly 
incidents of racially-motivated violence 
broke out, and people started to exploit Gil­
man for their own good. On top of all this, 
Gilman ran into a financial fiasco as some 
money-hungry jock broke his little arm at a 
Gilman show. 
After the closing of the first Gilman, Tim 

Yo wrote: "Energy and creativity can't be 
forced, even if the right topsoil and fertilizer are applied. There is a sense of sadness and disappointment, but not defeat... Gilman accom­plished only about 20% of its potential, but it was a fun and challenging 20% for most of its history. Most importantly, it provided a con­trast for what can be done in the future. Onward." 
And onward they went. After the demise of the first Gilman, concerned fans began to restruc­ture Gilman into a 'new and im­proved'· club. They found themselves some new blood to take over the administrative requirements that keep Gilman running, forming a new outreach to attract anyone who might want to get involved in the new Gilman. Learning from past mistakes, they re-organized many aspects of the club: add­ing a security team comprised of fans and not outsiders, changing the membership proce­dure, and adhering more stringently to the local laws governing such venues. At one time, Gilman II tried to get official recogni­tion as a 'non-profit' organization, but due to the wonders of bureaucracy, this venture fell through. 
For over a year, Gilman II was on shaky ground, flirting with bankruptcy and other problems that haunted the original Gilman. However, since December of 1989; the club has gotten firmly back on its feet and some of the 'magic' of the original Gilman has been brought back. 
Today, Gilman thrives once more. New, innovative forms of music andentertaimnent 

M US IC 

are being created weekly, and the alternative scene in the Bay Area is showing signs of a comeback. For most Domers who actually shudder at the thought of a new countercul­ture re-invading our intellecually pristine shores of God-fearing, flag-waving Amer­ica, I find it to be a boon not only for the arts, but for the adventurous and innovative spirit that dwells within every one of us. In the words of those Gilman regulars, the Mr. T. Experience: 
It's a democracy, it's just one big family It's a bunch ofgeeks, it's a lot offreaks It's a club, it's a place, it's a thing It's Gilman Street 

The author of this sappy article gives a gar­gantuan amount of thanks to Paula Rines, Tim Yo, Mike Kirsch, and all those folks out West who have been positively involved in Gilman, be it then or be it now. They truly can answer the question: "What is punk?" . 
APRIL 19, 1990 
r' :"-',:t:w•,~,~•,~~•....._::J•_,:~~:.~•_•;_.,--•,,~,"~-i-!.•• '° ~-..---~~~ -~----, , -:._• ~ •~•J, --.-~•~=_--=---~~,---~----~-~----._~ ---:-• -••----~----•-• --~ ,' -:~~
• -,_~ 
' • ' ' 1\ ) 


. ! 
WEEK IN DISTORTION/TIM ROGERS 
Repercussions of An AH-Fop· Cistercian Education 

Humans are basically an evil lot. At least men are. Pay no heed to all that theological bickering about 
whether man is inherently good or evil He's bad, rotten, cruel, nasty, baleful, onerous, base, depraved, sinful, wicked, iniquitous (whatever that means), hellish and downright naughty. Man is essentially a basketball­playing, cap-wearing, vulgarity-slinging, good-for-nothing fop. He's insensitive, too. 
I speak from experience because I went to an all-fop high school. The Hungarian priests who founded my school called them­selves 'Cistercians' because they spoke Hungarian and had no clue how silly 'Cistercian' sounded in English. However, they did wear dresses, so they had that going for them. These Hungarian Cistercians in drag got together and said, "Hey, let's found a school," (only they said it in Hungarian.) Everyone agreed and immediately fled Hun­gary because at the time, Hungary was experiencing death in the form of Russians who had yet to invent Perestroika The Cistercians wound up in Irving, Texas, where one of them shouted out with glee, "Hey fellas, over here! I found a school!" (only he said it in Hungarian so the rest could understand.) So they all became founders. 
Eventually, after much debate in 
1 
, 
Hungarian, they decided that "a community 11.. ofyoung men .united in a common search for 
knowledge and enlightenment in the , Catholic tradition" sounded better than "aIbunch ofbrats who can afford private school 1 and want to get into big-name colleges." 
f 
They also decided that no girls would be j allowed. They promptly designed an 
academic-looking crest and had some letter­
heads printed in Latin: "Virliter in Christo 
Jesu et Nullae Puellae." Without italics this 
means, "ActManfullyinJesus Christ and No 
Broads Allowed." 
Having mastered English well enough to 
sound merely ridiculous, the Cistercians 
lacked only students. Thankfully, my 
parents jumped at the opportunity to snatch 
me out of the public school system and stick 
me in a place where all the teachers wore 
black dresses and occasionally broke out in 
Gregorian chant when the spirit moved them. 
Attending a Catholic school also afforded me 
the added bonus of having a crucifix in each 
classroom. As an unsupervised youth on his 
lunch break, I took great pleasure in throwing 
chalk at our Savior with the rest ofmy fellow 
know ledge-seekers. 
Now don't get me wrong. High school . 
wasn'tallfunandgames. No.sir. There was a time for hitting Christ with chalk and there was a time for more serious matters. Like seeing who could provide the hardest blow to his neighbor's testicles. Whenever class started to drag and get tiresome, all you had · to do was dash your pal in the crotch and hilarity was sure to ensue. I can't tell you how many times we would express our camaraderie by thwacking each other's privates. This display ofbrotherly love could never take place in a co-educational environment because your neighbor might tum out to be a girl, and they don't seem to take kindly to such displays ofbrotherly love. At least/' ve never gotten a positive response. 
I'm sure some ofmy readers who weren't 
fortunate enough to attend male schools are saying to themselves, «That Rogers kid is an immature, anal-retentive jerk." While this may or may not be true, if you don't think hitting guys in the crotch can be entertaining, just ·watch one episode of "America's Funniest Home Videos." The producers of this gala fully understand the comic value of a man doubled over in pain.. The concept behind this show is to have every American buy a video recorder and then invent creative and unique ways of getting 'racked' (an apt billiards reference). Fathers spend long, exhausting hours practicing with their children until their kids can consistently hit a whiffle ball right 'where it counts.' One ambitious man even went so far as to tape himself hitting a golf ball in his back yard until he managed to get a shot to carom off a tree and strike him flush in the old family jewels. 
The producers wade through the many entries, weed out all the mundane genitalia injuries, then offer up three finalists for the live, studio audience to choose from. Then, at the end of each show, the audience picks the week's most imaginative entry and awards that man $10,000 for his efforts. 
Face it. We live in a world where a man can make a decent living by coming up with novel ways to get smacked between his legs. So don't feed me any of that stuff about God making man in his own image. God doesn't have testicles. Otherwise, he would win the $10,000 every time. . 
Tim Rogers is studying to be an Onanist and resides in Fisher Hall, the dorm 'on the campus.' 

SCHOLASTIC 
NEWS 


Then an 
Student government submits a report on all-hall semi-formals to Student Affairs 

A 
BY IAN MITCHELL 
fter sending out hundreds of sur­
veys, the results have been tabu­
lated and the recommendations for 

changes have been made. Student gov­
crnment has released its report on the 
all-hall semi-formal policy which was adopted by the university at the start of the 1988-'89 school year. The changes in policies concerning the all-hall semi-formals (better known to most students as SYRs) were prompted by the recom­mendations of the University Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol. Some students felt that these changes hurt the social atmos­phere of Notre Dame. According to the report, members of the student govern­ment cabinet met with Dr. John Gold-rick, associate vice president for resi­dence life, who suggested an official report as the proper forum for student 
concerns. 
"The report was necessary because there was a dichotomy between the student's opinions on all-hall semi-for­
mals and the administration's," said Mike Carrigan, chair of the student government committee. The committee was made up of student government cabinet members, a stu-administration. The report listed these dent senator and members of the Hall Presi-changes: dents Council. Tlµs student group reviewed "(I) Halls were allowed only one all hall the changes advocated by the task force, then semi-fonnal a semester. turned to the student body for suggestions (2) Hall govern~ent would have to prove that 
•·····" .... ·<•: 70% oftheresidentsofthehall wereat­
··,.,<::.:c·c,,,•, tending the semi-fonnal before the Office of Student Affairs would allow the function to occur. 
(3) 
The Hall would not longer (sic) provide alcohol. 

(4) 
Students would no longer be per­mitted to bring alcoholic beverages from their rooms into halls or other common areas." These changes have had a marked ef­feet on student life at Notre Dame, an effect which was investigated by the student government committee through two sets of surveys. 



• ., ...,...., Student government randomly dis­tributed 1,500 surveys to the student body, and approximately 400 surveys were returned. According to Carrigan, ===--slightly over half of the respondants Ian Mitchell were female. A second survey was Senior Mike Carrigan led the SYR committee. sent to the 26 rectors, and fourteen 
and comments. were completed and returned. After their deliberations, a number of The results·ofthe surveys distributed to the changes in SYR policies were made by the students indicated general dissatisfaction 
APRIL 19, 1990 

NEWS 
Students asked to rate the qua_lity of male-female interaction at Notre Dame 

-Very Good 
"(­

1% 
Upperclassmen asked about the level of male-female interaction under the new SYR policy 

Upperclassmen asked about the amount of drinking at SYRs under the new policy 
2% ass Drinking 

All graphs based on data from the student government report. Fiaures are rounded. 
,____________________________________J 
with the current state of affairs. (The student response to selected questions is shown in detail in the graphs on page 8.) The survey data showed that stu­dents were unhappy with the quality of male-female interaction at Notre Dame, andjuniors and seniors, who had experienced SYRs under both the old and the new policies, felt that the level of interaction had decreased since the new guidelines were instituted. Sur­prisingly, a majority of upperclassmen also felnhat drinking at SYRs had ei­ther remained the same or increased under the new rules. 
In response to the survey results, the report made five recommendations. Its primary recommendation was that the university reexamine the Whole Health Task Force recommendations and im­plement more of them. "A lot of these fundamental things and really impor­tant changes have not been made," said Carrigan. Dr. Patrick Utz, chairman of the task force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol, was un­available for comment. 
The report listed a few suggestions made by the Task Force which the stu­dent committee felt had not been acted upon, such as extended hours for social and athletic space. The report con­cluded that not only had the changes not been made, but that "If anything, the University has moved away from these suggestions." No member of the office of student affairs could be reached for comment on the report before this issue went to press. 
The student government document also found fault with the progress made by other suggestions of the TaskForce: "Despite repeated suggests (sic) from Student Government reports to the Board of Trustees and the Task Force, the University has announced no plans for commercial development of an area near campus. It has also made no in­vestment to develop a social club other than the present clubs in La Fortune, which have had limited success at best." 
Carrigan singled out this recommen­dation as one especially worthy of the 
attention of the university. He sug-
SCHOLASTIC 
.. 
NEWS 

gested theaters showing current films, res­taurants and abowling alley as possible on­campus business which could have a positive impact on Notre Dame's social life. (See the excerpt from the committee's report on page 9.) 
The committee made four other recom­mendations. It supported a non-alcoholic semi-formal for freshmen to be held within a month of the beginning of the fall semester. It also advocated allowing halls to hold two SYRs in the spring semester and new rules permitting drinks in the halls during semi­formals as well as new ways to address cases of severe alcohol abuse. 
The student government document has been ratified by the HPC and the student senate. If the report is ratified by the Campus Life Council, Father David Tyson, vice president of student affairs, must either ac­cept or veto the report. Carrigan expressed the conviction that, even if the report is not ratified by the CLC, it would be presented to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Carrigan said that "The recommendations of the report are to take advantage of the hall semi-formal as a positive social opportu­nity." The future of SYRs at Notre Dame may soon be decided. 0 

if;"{L~ij~~~R~itf~~~\tti~

···'t§!bl.~egti~1.IMII1,m,~11f 
·tijf.l~it·1J~tf~Mffl$ 
fri ~g ititi~i~~f9(iJ1is(r~pq~. pr. ·E~tri~~ Ot{ [)ir~ctbr 9t 
lJ.nivE3ro/ity gpqnsE3ling.sgryi9E3s, .. gnctphairrn.c1n .oftry.e 1a.sk 
/F9rpe pn ."rho.I~ ~E3glt.h ic1n9thE3.lJse ancJ. /\qus7c:>f· flpohol, 
···o/hare9··.. hisdi5app9intment.·••ab9utt~E3fapt thar.soJew... ot.the··· 
constructiverec9mmendc3.UonsoftheTa.skForce··•haveqeE3n · 
.c1dppt@d,x.Pr.LJtzsai9.•. tt,atJhere\iSa,.. (;majorJack·of...·sociaJ..··i> ..···.•.·• gctiyiti@s11 atthe.JJ9.iv7xsity9ff\J9tr@qc1111e.JAlcohpl.·••abuse··.is· · .c1n •.gpvirpn.rn.e11tgl<i~SYriiin>i[>f.\Wtz's.... 0Pinipn, ... ·.. ·and/.•·.r--J.otre 
parne1se11vim9m~ntcontinpesto.breecjsuphabuse....f3i.n9e 
5tti9en.ts...h.c1vei\.f.ef. io/9P.i..al. outletSril~nsiqp....·.···~.mw.s/ cH110 pg .·• ·. 
rnE3rnq~rs.9fJh@..stucte;nt.s,qq9y,pa1iGu1gflypet\JV9E3n.. rn@n..an.d . ..••...•.i.. W.9.T•rn•it11.Qfth~5rfc3.ftPrs,pr,ut~.•F()n.p1.~.9.estP~?m.9t.e5t.hr·· 
i.,c3.99$7ptal.ppppl,E3S,H~6iF11YiPYrJJJ.nprs.. Y•it/ i> <.. i...• < ·•·<ii 
.i·•\·••··•·•(3()ns.irl8 rn·•..•Vjit9\t.he.fTa$.K(.F()rC2,•·•~f::wt.~it.ti.9·~.~.hti•lhat•.·.thr•••.I\ ..•··.•·{
/><''sel.eqtiyfJeQf()rpe.rn~nt'' f-1199h9IJFf~.c1119 pp1iciH$iS .self-de-/ .. >.. ?.••• fe§ti.n~;:.if 'Fsting.soi~tiqn.•·t~ ttle.•. c11c9h91·p.roble.rno/c1t•··~Otf:7. i 
<PcJ.m@fnYrt.9orn@tQ.rougQprom.otipg altE3m.a.tives to9ri11~i ng; /i ) .•·•.l\f1P9 ipJh()S,7i7itugti9n~wner~ cicinK.ingi~i8re~eQt, q,01ejftion I( J<(5.b9.H.1.9i9~sE3np99rc1gec:lrclP9..8.P{()f9§.cl...•.....• i<ii/t. ·•·if•..•>· i)/·•·•··/ •.··· •.·.. •·•i i•·••ic•·.• ·•.··...·..r·.•··.·•.. •·· ii·. .;;........•Jhg:c1LJ.thOf:r••··.0tJQiSirr8Prt<s.nc1r~/th•§i..frLJ5trc1tipn}9f/[)r,y1~.·•···i;>>•···•r·••·•i;ShFtJ.bE3 lJf1iYrrsJty.p§$.P9JleK0.Qtp.e.·.•.$i9n.iJiqc19tp9ijitiyest~R.s.····•·Xii•.·•I \ .......9r8.9r9it.9 88·.~c1.u./alp9h9t F~H$.@\••et/tge.·••Hniye.•rs.itY••..Pf·•··· ..~•()1re..·•··.•.•·; •···•·.\ ?·~·c3..111.. e.; X'{e.tipc1J1pn.t9nyh~tr mc1fihE3.s19rnJni.E>trFtiqnc:1pE3$•·n9t•···•t:.·•·••i·•..i! rttihay~>th.8/r.a~.3.8§$~j()nit()vra.r~s•...}he.se•••poiitiyE3 .•.str8$···t9~tiit.••..• :i•.•··\Jtcd0e§.iP irn.p1e.rn¢.nti.ng;th·~il1@',\IJirn.itation7\SUQQeSte9..·by·•·th9. Ji</ii -ra5k>t'9f:CE3:.;·X'{hi1E:ttp7Jc1s.K•.·s9rceipriti.ci7.ecj.the..····sr1ec}iVS. . / •• it )>@nfor9et119.Dfl':9Jc1lq9ti9I ppligies and.law5, w,efind faqlt.i.n•·•th.ei >> i/ ·r tts,~l9.9tiyg;.F8.B8ti9pp/Ptth§••••ed.rniqistrsrtI9n ot;p11!ytheJe!:>trip-i});····•·i(
••.•i•·.tiy7;r'3.p9mmE3pci.ati.PflS..•.••()Tthetc:t,SK\f().r9~.xB.ulephc1ng.es..•rnay+•\••·X· 
...... ·)c1d9r7ss··•···•~.o..Q'1E3 ... 5ym.pt~m~9rc11ccJQRIic1bus.@.an\p~rn8ll5Jt>ut , ...• )./
•·.. ···Pn1Ytp@!Hncfc1rnr8t.?1.. phenggs/$ll8h c1s.those sugg~.5te2..•.. bY) ). 
lQ7;Je7K.;~.9,rQ7, c1q.9...•.• iQd0.reg.1:>yi!t1@.• LJn..iv.~.r§itY,}f!n.•..c1cfqr@i.s..•..•...·•,·
the disease itself. > . . ... .. . .. ... . . . ... 
·i• i)i·.·.i e,fl)Ill~Ilt90Il1111itt.ee•§rr,A.ll~I-Iall $emi-F'6w#ls,''·/jfage6)·:·>··•.·····••· 

Y.FEATURES 


RTHD 



1990 
Environmental Action Club participates in nationwide movement to save the endangered environment 
BY FRANK BARLETT A 
April 22, 1970, environmental 
activists all over the world noted the 

first observance of Earth Day, a new unofficial holiday devoted to raising the public's con_sciousness about serious envi­ronmental issues. Although the first Earth Day did succeed in drawing attention to the environment, its lessons were soon forgot­ten, and little changed in the relationship between man and environment. 
Now, twenty years later, environmental is­sues dominate much of the news. Scientists have uncovered unprecedented signs of the damage done to the environment, including global warming and holes in the ozone layer. Interest in environmental topics is at an all­time high. Under these circumstances, or­ganizers are planning to celebrate Earth Day 1990 as the biggest event in the history ofthe environmental movement. 
Earth Day events at Notre Dame are being coordinated by a coalition that includes the Environmental Action Club (EAC), Student Pugwash, Recyclin' Irish, the Coalition for Human Rights, and several other campus groups. The campus Earth Day committee has communicated with a national Earth Day committee, based at Stanford University, 
0 n 
that includes several prominent activists, including consumer advocate Ralph Nader and former Senator Gaylord Nelson, who helped organize the first Earth Day. Father Theodore Hes burgh has also worked with the national committee. The national Earth Day committee in tum works with an interna­tional Earth Day committee that includes several prominent United Nations officials but is not officially connected with the U.N. 

James Dailey, a founding member and cur­rent president of the EAC, has taken on the task ofcoordinating the environment-related activities in the days leading up to Earth Day. "Our main thrust is to educate people on the actions they can take on environmental choices," said Dailey oftheEAC's purpose. Dailey sees environmental issues as the greatest problem facing the world today. "The problems we face now as a world threaten the existence of life on the planet. We're seeing the most extinction in a short time ever. There are a lot of dangerous changes in the climate, but we disregard the warning signs nature gives us. Ifwe don't do something within this generation, there will be radical changes, and it's likely there will not be a world for ourdescendants to live on. Scientists agree that if we don't change the trends of the past40 years within the next ten years, they will not be reversible." 
Dailey and a group of other students formed the EAC to change what they saw as environmentally dangerous practices. The EAC has attempted to change University policies that were not in the best interests of 
SCHOLASTIC 


FEATURES 

the environment. For example, they have protested the use ofstyrofoam and pesticides on campus, initiated a recycling program, and campaigned for a switch from coal to natural gas as the main fuel at the power plant. 
According to Dailey, one of the most dan­gerous environmental problems is global warming caused by the greenhouse effect. Gases released into the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels rise to the top of the atmosphere and are trapped there. These gases allow heat to enter the earth's atmos­phere from the sun, but prevent reflected heat from leaving the atmosphere. The result is that the atmosphere gradually heats up. "Scientists agree that the greenhouse effect happens, but the don't know at what rate," 
the depletion of the protective ozone layer in the stratosphere. The ozone layer acts to reduce the amount of ultraviolet light that reaches the Earth's surface. However, chlo­rofluorocarbons (CFC's) and halons, two chemicals used in manufacturing, can escape into the ozone layer, where a chemical reac­tion converts the ozone into oxygen, which does not provide protection from ultraviolet · rays. As the amount of ultraviolet light reaching the Earth's surface increases, so does the rate ofskin cancer and eye cataracts, which are caused by overexposure to ultra­
violet rays. 
Last semester the EAC circulated a petition 
to stop the use of styrofoam on campus, 
because of the CFC's used in the manufac­
ture of styrofoam. The debate over styro­styrofoam remains in use. "We haven't found any appropriate alternatives [to styro­foam]. The paper products we have looked at have coatings that may not be biodegradable, and we're also concerned about the use of trees in their manufacture." Koehler also claimed that no CFC's are used in the styro­foam products used by University Food Services. 
Dailey also pointed out that current sources ofenergy cause environmental damage. The gases given off by the burning of fossil fuels contribute to the greenhouse effect, and combine with moisture to form acid rain. In addition, mining and drilling for these fuels damages the land in areas where they are found. In addition, the world's supplies of fossil fuels are expected to run out in the next 

said Dailey. "In the next 50 years, global temperatures could go up by three to nine degrees Fahrenheit." The effects of this warming may be to raise the level of the oceans, flooding low-lying areas, and to re­duce the amount of precipitation in other areas, causing drought and desert conditions. 
Another environmental crisis that has be­come apparent over the past several years is foam is still continuing. "We're in the proc­ess of dealing with the appropriate adminis­trative areas for this," said Dailey. "There's a reluctance to switch because the alterna­tives are more costly than Styrofoam. We say, look at more than economics, for the long-term benefits." According to F. Dennis Koehler of University Food Services, how­ever, economics are not the main reason that sixty years. The EAC and other environ­mental groups also oppose the development of nuclear power, because of the risks in­volved in using and disposing of radioactive substances. Instead, most environmentalists favor the development of solar energy. "The potential of solar energy is becoming greater." said Dailey. "In the meantime, the best way to get more energy is to be more 
APRIL 19, 1990 

FEATURES 

efficient in how we use it." However, re­searchers have not yet discovered a practical, inexpensive way to use solar energy. 
The EAC also views overpopulation as a serious problem, because as population in­creases, the amount of resources available per person declines. However, Dailey pointed out that overpopulation is not aprob­lem only in the undeveloped parts of the world, saying, "There is overpopt1lation in the U.S. Each person in the U.S. uses forty times as much energy as a person in West Germany, an equally industrialized coun­try." 
Recently, theEAC has pushed for the coal­burning plant on campus to switch to natural gas, which is more plentiful and does not contribute as much to the greenhouse effect or to acid rain production. However, the University has refused to switch, citing eco­nomic reasons. 
More recently, the EAC has tried to arrange for the University to audit its environmental practices. However, such an audit has not been possible so far, due to budget considera­tions. However, an environmental audit may be performed next year. In addition, theEAC plans to ask the University to sign the Valdez Principles, a set of guidelines for corpora­tions to follow safe environmental practices. 
The EAC also created the Recyclin' Irish. This club represents a collaboration between students and the administration to recycle aluminum, paper, and glass. Every week, volunteers pick up recyclable garbage from each dorm, and take it to Recycle America, a recycling center in South Bend. The materi­als are processed at Recycle America, and shipped to manufacturers to be reused. The Recyclin' Irish currently includes about 15 volunteers for pickups and about 45 dorm representatives 
TheEAC has also asked students to sign the Green Pledge, a pledge to follow only envi­ronmentally sound practices. Students are asked to give a small donation with their pledge. "All the money goes to Catholic Relief Services for their agricultural projects -tree planting, clean water projects, and so on," said Dailey. The EAC has set a goal of 2000 pledges; they now have over 650. Students wishing to sign the Green Pledge may pick up the form at the CSC. 
Interest in environmental topics has in­creased to a point to allow the University to offer fields ofstudy pertaining to the environ­ment. According to Professor Lloyd Ketchum of the Civil Engineering Depart­ment, undergraduate students in that depart­ment may choose a concentration in Environ­mental Engineering, which emphasizes the control of pollution. At the graduate level, students can study Environmental Engineer­ing, with an emphasis on groundwater and surface pollution, or Bioengineering and Pollution Control, which studies biological means of removing pollutants from soil and groundwater. 
The Institute for International Peace Stud­ies soon will also offer courses pertaining to the environment. "We'rebeginning an effort to get courses developed in the departments of science, engineering, and earth science," said Professor John Gilligan. "We've been emphasizing a concern for the global envi­ronment." The TIPS also recently offered a series a speakers on the environment, includ­ing Father Michael Himes of the Theology department; Patricia Mischey, co-director of the Global Education Association; and Dr. Daniel Lucke, director of the Rocky Moun­tain Office of the Environmental Defense Fund. 
In 1988, Father Edward Malloy, in con­junction with the Departments of Science and Engineering, set up the Center for Bioen­gineering and Pollution Control. The center is designed to coordinate research and action in the control of pollution. Currently, the Center is working on several projects around the country. 
Several courses not normally related to en­vironmental issues will also devote class time to the environment during Earth Week. TheEAC distributed a memo to professors in all departments asking them to use 10-15 minutes of class time to an environmental topic relating to the class's studies. Accord­i~g to the EAC, several professors in each college have responded favorably to the memo. 
Among the classes devoting time to the en­vironment will be several Freshman Seminar sections. Grant Smith, director of the Toxic Actiori Project in Indiana, has agreed to speak to these groups, at the urging of Dr. CarlaJohnson oftheFreshman YearofStud­ies Program. Mr. Smith's lecture, at 1: 15·pm on Thursday in the Cushing Auditorium, will be open to the public, as will a hospitality lunch at noon. 
Recently the Student Union Board, in con­junction with the Earth Day committee, sponsored a series oflectures on the environ­ment. Featured were lectures by Karl Gross­man, of the Environmental Protection Asso­ciation; David Foreman, organizer of the radical environmental group Earth First!; and Phil Micklin, a geologist from Western Michigan University. "The response to the lectures was excellent," said Dailey, "Espe­cially for Mr. Foreman. He came across as a reassuring and gentle person with a deep concern for the environmental issues facing us, whereas he has been presented by the media as an ecoterrorist." Foreman and Earth First! have· become notorious in the public's eye for sabotaging, or "monkey wrenching," the efforts ofindustries that they see as damaging the environment. Although Earth First! does not officially condone the practice of monkey wrenching, according to literature distributed by Foreman,neither does the group attempt to condemn the prac­tice. 
The week leading up to Earth Day will be marked by a series of events related to the environment. A series of movies with envi­ronmental themes (includif}g "The Gods Must Be Crazy," "Star Trek IV," and "The Emerald Forest") will be shown in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune over the course of the week. A series of brown bag discussion lunches will take place in the CSC. OnTuesday at 7:30, a panel ofenviron­mental experts will hold a discussion at Theodore's.on environmental matters affect­ing the campus. The week's events will be capped by a discussion with Father Hesburgh at 8:00 on Thursday night. 
The environmental events will culminate on Sunday with the celebration ofEarth Day. A "Run for the Environment" will begin at 
9:00 am. At 11:30 am, Father Edward Mal­loy will celebrate Mass at the Grotto, with Father Michael Himes delivering a homily on the need to protect the environment. The environmental events_ will culminate on Sunday with the cele°Qration of Earth Day. Then, beginning at noon, the EAC will hold the Earth Day Fair on the Fieldhouse Mall. Events at the Earth Day Fair will include Iive music sponsored by WVFI and SUB, booths for various campus groups, and an obstacle course. 

SCHOLASTIC 

:a --. ----... ~------·'--·:.C---·-'--' ~----'"'~ ·::..:,.....',-;. ~:..-;__ . ·.'.·:·---: -'~-__ .. ·":-•.,.:-,-: ,~---, · •.. -c,'.·'. :;:~-,,..-·.1.c.""CL"-7-·--' ·,_ ":;-:·\<·1.:,,_: •,'!'.' ._.,,:t:>~-":·.:,i,::.. ,·,.: ··: -,"' . . ' ' 

FEATURES 

Also on Sunday, St. Edward's Hall will hold its annual charity carnival. This year, all the money raised by the carnival will go to various environmentally-related charities. "We had planned on reserving the Field­house Mall for that Sunday, but we found out that the EAC was using it," said charity carnival organizer Jim Milligan. "With our events so close together, we thought it was a good idea to encourage the dorms to give the profits from their booths to environmentally related groups." 
The overall message being promoted by Earth Day is one of hope in the face of enormous global problems. Earth Day or­ganizers have spread the word that the dam­age done to the environment can be undone if enough individuals work to bring about changes. "The problems we're facing glob­ally... are the sum ofmanyindividualactions. If we can change those actions, we can change the world," said Dailey. The attitude is best summed up by the slogan of Earth Day: "Who says you can't change the world ... and have fun doing it?" 0 


The Flanner-Siegfried Hall Players Present 

13

APRIL 19, 1990 


For the Defense 
Gary Darnell is Lou Holtz' · man to pick up where Barry Alvarez left off 
"His bottom line expectations are very clear and very demanding," Darnell says of his new boss. 
BY KEVIN T. KERNS 
A s the Notre Drune football terun scrimmages, defensive coordi­nator Gary Darnell scrutinizes the action from themiddleofthefieldon the defensive side of the ball. At each snap, the powerfully built former All-Big 8 line­backer from Oklahoma State runs toward the action with the apparent intent to get in on the play. "Ball! Ball! Ball!," he yells as an offen­sive player coughs up the football. If one of his defensive charges hadn't gotten there first, Gary Darnell probably would have made the recovery himself. 

"It's the way you learn to live," says the 40 year old Oklahoma native. "You just learn to live at a little faster speed." 
Gary Darnell has always yearned for a faster speed. In fact, he had no intentions of coaching football when he left Oklahoma State in 1970 with a degree in personell management. "All I wanted to do was fly jet airplanes," he recalls. "Ihadneverplanned to coach." 
A medical difficulty delayed Darnell's commission into the United States Air Force. After earning his pilot's license, he was faced with the prospect of holding out 2 years before getting the chance of realizing his drerun to fly. 
Darnell took a graduate assistant job at his alma mater and in 1971 decided to stay on as linebackers coach and pursue a career in coaching. "Here I am 21 years later with my 21st one-year contract," he laughs. 
After a three year stint at OSU, he went on to serve on the coaching staffs ofSMU,North Carolina, and Kansas State. He served as head coach at Tennessee Tech from 1983­1985. After a year at Wake Forest as an assistant, he moved to Florida where he was defensive coordinator for the last two years. In 1989 he served as head coach·on an interim 
SCHOLASTIC 
SPORTS 

basis for the last seven games, posting a3-4 record, including a 34-7 Freedom Bowl loss to the Washington Huskies. 
Darnell has an impressive history ofpro­ducing defensive units that rank with the best in the country. In his two years at Florida the Gators led the Southeastern Conference in total defense and ranked third nationally in that category both seasons. 
"I think it's overstated because I've had my average day along the way, too," he says, reflecting on his success. "I've been ex­posed to some great coaches and some unbe­lievably fine defensive situations." 
When Barry Alvarez accepted the head coaching position at Wisconsin, a pretty at­tractive defensive situation opened up at Notre Dame. Head coach Lou Holtz was undcstandably impressed with Darnell's accomplishments. 
"I think we lost a very fine Coach in Barry Alvarez, says Holtz. "You look at different options you have. I had heard a lot ofquality things about Gary Darnell from people that I respect. I gave him a call and there just seemed to be a chemistry there." They first met shortly after Notre Dame's 21-6 victory over Colorado in the Orange Bowl and hit it off both philosophically and personally. On January 18, Darnell accepted the position of defensive coordinator and coach of the in­side linebackers. 
"He has a tremendous influence on the defense in terms of fundamentals," Darnell says of his boss. "His bottom line expecta­tions are very clear and very demanding." 
The role of the defensive coordinator, in Darnell's eyes, is to oversee the defensive coaching staff. His staff includes Jay Hayes (outside linebackers), Chuck Heater (secon­dary), and new arrival Dick Bumpas (defen­sive line). 
"You do what you get hired for. You don'tcoach the coaches," surmises Darnell. "All of these coaches are highly successful professionals. I don't bother with them un­less its getting out ofthe parameters ofwhat we do." 
Darnell favors an intensely aggressive, but not gambling defensive scheme. His defenses have characteristically been ranked highly in plays for minus yardage and sacks, doing so while rarely employing the blitz. "We'll probably blitz less than anyone in the nation and have more plays for negative yardage than almost anybody," predicts Darnell. He attributes this to the fact that his players read as they work upfield, rather than waiting and then react­ing. 
The Irish players have taken to their new mentor in Spring practice. "He's a tremen­dous motivator. Every time I talk to him it 
Darnell, who captain Chris Zorich calls "a tremendous motivator," preaches agressiveness to his forces. 
Paul Webb 


APRIL 19, 1990 
SPORTS 

gets me fired up," to be the best, pure and praises captain and de­simple," states Dar­fensive tackle Chris Zor­
nell. "There are ich. "We're going to be eleven teams out there alot more aggressive." who are sitting down I The aggressiveness and trying to figure out 
I 
will come in a "less i .· complicated overall Dame next year." package," adds defen-Despite this, he re­. sive lineman Junior 
i how to beat Notre 
mains confident in his Bryant. ability· to produce a 
Darnell is pleased stingy defense this with the reception he has season and in years to gotten from the players. come. "I learned a "I feel our players have standard a long time been extremely open and ago-once you reach fair with the two new 
that standard it's not a kids on the block-myself matter of whether 
and Coach Bumpas," you 're right or wrong. says Darnell. It's just a matter of The number one pri­how fast you reach 
ority for the Irish defense that level," he says. 
will be to stop the run. "He may want to "You stop what they do. But you've gotta fensive unit. go back and fly airplanes before this year is shut down the run and make them throw the Gary Darnell views his opportunity at over," the ever-pessimistic Holtz jokingly 
football. If we do that we'll be o.k.," muses Notre Dame as an honor and a challenge. "I warns, Darnell, grinning at the thought of50 pass at­came to Notre Dame for the same reason the Come fall, Notre Dame opponents may tempts by a frustrated Michigan or Miami of-players come to Notre Dame. Because I want wish he had, too. 0 


16 
SCHOLASTIC 


COMING DISTRACTIONS 
···•··•r·•··11g't[fi{stb'A1&, ,··.·· 
LECTURES 

"Non-Linear evolution equations in Mathematical economics," Prof. Gennadi M. Henkin, Moscow. 3:30 
p.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Auditorium. 
"A History of Brazilian National Identity," Thomas E. Skidmore, Dept. of History, Brown University. 4:00 
p.m. at Snite Museum of Art. 
"ESR Imaging and in vivo Spectros­copy," Prof. Harold M. Swartz, University of Illinois. 4:00 p.m. in Conference Theatre, Radiation lab. 
SPECIAL 

"A Man's Woman," video presentation by Lara Kipinis. 7:00 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Loft. 
Club Cup Nite at Senior-Alumni Club. 
LECTURES 

Humanities Colloquium, "What is an Introduction to Humanities," Stephen Fredman, English & David O'Connor, Philosophy. 12:00 P.M., rm. 131 Decio. 
"Nicaragua After the Elections: A Sandinistas Point of View," Alejandro ' 
Bendana, Secretary General of the Nicaraguan Foreign Ministry. 4:00 P.M., Center for Social Concerns. 
ENTERTAINMENT 

FILM: "Do the Right Thing," 7:30 & 
9:45 P.M., Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 

·:: .... ••.:.. 
Chicago City Limits. Improvisational Theatre Ensemble. 8:00 P.M., O'Laughlin Auditorium. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series. 
PLAY: "The Mousetrap," by Agatha Christie. 8:00P.M., Hesburgh Library 
SPECIAL 
Spring Luncheon/Fashion Show. 11:30, JACC. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. 
Faculty Cello Recital, Karen Buraskas. 
2:00 P.M., Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by Dept. of Music. 
ENTERTAINMENT 
FILM: "Do the Right Thing," 7:30 & 9:45P.M., Annenberg Auditorium. Spon­sored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
Notre Dame Chorale and Orchestra, "Elijah," conducted by Carl Stam. 8:00P.M., Washington Hall. 
PLAY: "The Mousetrap," by Agatha Christie. 8:00 P.M., Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Donations accepted at the door. 
SPECIAL 
Auto Parts Swap Meet, 8:00A.M. ­4:00P.M. JACC Arena, Fieldhouse, Concourse. 
Opening Reception for 1990 MFA Thesis ExhiJ)ition. 2:00P.M., Snite. 
'J~qNP~it1~J?:R~·:~a.}X>.
·,.: ~<<; 
FILMS 

Tout va Bien, 7:00p.m., Snite. Repulsion, 9:00 p.m., Snite. 
20th century art from the Baer Collection, 12p.m., Snite Museum of Art. 
FILMS 

Adnyata, Hollywood Killed Me, 6:30, Snite Museum of Art. 
Death of a Bureaucrat, 7:30 p.m., Snite Museum of Art. 
Down by Law, 9:15 p.m., Snite Museum o Art. 

SPECIAL 

Cross the Border, 9:00 -2:00 a.m., Alumni Senior Club. 


17

~--­


Taking the Pledge 
Save the whales. Don't use styrofoam. Recycle paper. It can be so easy to ignore these pleas when we hear and read them day after day, but if one stops to think about it, maybe all the "bleeding hearts" are right. True, things change slowly in the world, but this, by no means, means the problem should be ignored. TakeF. Dennis Koehler from University Food Services. He claims that there may be environmental dangers in using some of the paper products the dining hall could use as an alternative to styrofoam. But doesn't this mean that Koehler should look into other, less harmful, paper alterna­tives? Another unfortunate factor is that the incentives to conserve and recycle are confused. From a strictly cost-benefit analysis, there is no reason a rational person would recycle paper. At only a few cents a pound, most people would rather throw paper away than expend the extra effort to take it to a recycling center. With aluminum, what's to be gained personally by taking the empties and the bricks down to the bathroom to the recycling box? Nothing... at first glance. Students must learn to look more in the long term. Granted, there is nothing to be gained financially, and the benefits may not accrue in our lifetimes, nor maybe for centuries; but someday they might. It's a chance we have to take. Ifin the end there turns out to be plenty of resources that we have not yet discovered, what have we lost? Maybe a little extra effort and a loss of convenience. If there aren't enough...? We encourage all students to seriously consider taking the Green Pledge. Or at least, give it a try. Take a chance. What do you have to lose? 
-Scholastic 
I,.· 
18 

SCHOLASTIC 


FINAL WORD 
II!

Clo 
n1ng Around 
St. Edward's Hall takes you back to the days of youth.. for a good cause 
BY MIKE WIEBER AND TONY PORCELLI 
9Come one, come all. Test your 
skill. Try your luck. Win your 
honey a prize ... if you can!" 

We all remember these words-whether we heard them for the first time at the state fairor the local church carnival. We recall the clowns with their painted faces and red rubber noses. Ifyou try, you can still smell the scent of hot, buttered popcorn floating through the air. You can taste bubblegum­flavored cotton candy, see the red sticky circle it left around your mouth when you gobbled it up and feel your fingers stick together like you'd been playing with a bottle of crazy glue. 
Saint Edward's Hall would like to give you the chance to relive these memories this Sunday. Let the carnival return you to that age ofinnocence-and for some of us, that's a pretty long way. The only thing that will be missing is your mother yelling at you for wandering off without her per­mission. 
Who could forget the ring toss? All you have to do is throw the ring around the bear and it's yours. Simple, huh? Well, not exactly. 
We're not in the business ofgiving prizes away. But unlike the carnivals you re­member as a little kid, you can win. The rings really do fit all the way around the bears and the hoops are bigger than the basketballs. 
Speaking of hoops, how about the bas­ketball shoot? Toss the ball through the hoop-win a prize. C'mon, even Digger's boys can hit a free throw or two. Well, okay, at least you probably can. 
The highlight this year will again be the celebrity dunk tank. All the dorms have been invited to send a well-known figure to sit in the hot seat. From rectors to athletes to ex­girlfriends and ex-boyfriends, someone you'd love to see soaking wet will be in the tank at one point or another during the day. (Maybe we should have included current boyfriends and girlfriends, too.) 
Besides the games, there will be live enter­tainment throughout the day featuring The Groove and several other student bands. Clowns and jugglers will be wandering around the grounds blowing up balloons and juggling just about anything they can get their hands on. Ahem. 
A caricature artist will be on hand to draw sketches of you and your roommates. What are you going to do with a picture like this, you ask? Give it to Mom for Mother's Day. Moms love these kind of things. And, it's cheap, like all the games and activities at the carnival. 
In addition to the cotton candy and pop­corn we all remember from carnivals, this year the fest will feature multi-cultural foods from around the world sponsored in part by the Multi-Cultural Executive Council. And, no, we don't just mean nachos and pizza. 
If we haven't yet convinced you that this would be a great way to spend an ordinarily dreary Sunday afternoon, here's one more fact. All the money goes to charity. That's right. The halls that are participating are not getting anything for themselves-not one red cent. · 
Think ofit this way. It's like throwing an extra five dollars on the collection plate at church, but a lot more fun. At the risk of being cliche, even if you lose somebody else wins. Some of the receipts will go to Earth Day, who will be sponsoring aware­ness activities throughout the.day. The other part of the money goes to the chari­ties around South Bend that you always read about on your bulletin boards includ­ing Logan Center, homeless shelters, and tutoring programs. So, some of the money stays at home, too. How can you come out behind at the end of the day? 
Bring a friend. Bring a date. Bring (God forbid) your mate. But whatever you do, come to the carnival. We'll have a box of popcorn and a bag ofcotton candy waiting for you. 0 
The Saint Edward's Hall Charity Car­nival runs from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday, April 22 on the Fieldhouse Mall. Talk to your dorm representative for more information. 
Mike Wieber andTony Porcelli arejuniors. in Saint Edward's Hall. They are working with publicity and organization for the carnival. 
19


Scholastic desperately seeks: 

20 
SCHOLASTIC 



.., 
Lt FE{~ 

~\-\~E.~l..-~~~~~~~~~:;;;~~~~~~~~:::~1j 
. HOW TO FORM DRAMATIC FLECKS OF SPITTLE IN THE CORNERS OF YOUR MOUll-1
VOL.'3 

N0.3 ANNOYING ·11~~.
PERFORMANCE 
ARTIST 
CREAMY OR 

CHUNk-STYLE.: THE AESTHETICS OF FLINGlt-JG GLOB OF PEANUT-BUTTE.R Of'J AN UNSUSPECTlivG 
AUDlE.NC.E 
CouNTIN G OUT LOUD TO 3 BILLlON: , 

1-\0W W lSE-A CARl:5..R.. 
Move. Is IT? ,.,.,.,.. LEl'rove~vA,. Re«PES 

WHAT's SO BAD ABOUT BATHING IN 
TAR.TAR SAUCE.? t,t.,~\.,~
How TO PE.~ FOR 1\1\ FoR TH£. SAME. 4-7 

NOTTO SE 
C.O,JF.,si;:c, 
1111TH 
A.:l>lO~•"G 
s-r~ L~NAT\C MAG.tl~1.JE 
HELP! I'M Co\/£e1r-lG 
M~Sl=LF Si' trJG111J G RE.o Al\l15 ! ! 
WHAT TO Do WHEN
VEN YOUR TuERAPI ST ALKS ovr 0"1 YOUR -----ERFORMMCE l~J Dl~GlJST WHERE TO FIND Ht. JVIOST UtJCOMi:-y OLDING CI-IAIRS l=OR 
YOUR. AUDIENCE . " HE 6E.NTLE ARI F SCAB-PULLING 

IS IT 01=::: To ~E.LL
PE.oPt.e. YE.AQ. At=TER 

"I'M ON FlRE"
v,~ t:.Ae. A FTEQ. YE.A r2 ,;. 

IN F\ C..R.OWDED 
THE.ATE.I<..? HO\N To 0E1 BACK AT Yoe.JR. PARE:NTS FOR THE Re.s, OF Youec. Lt F6 
J:> 
(\ 
:? 
en -n 
in 
~ 
C 
~ 
"' 
z:. 
<J 
,.. ,..!l 0 
:ii 
D 
0 
ti) 
.;: 
? 1> 
=I 
(;\:
.. 
t i 




fluni Games! flresh PorlC Sausage! 
Sunoay, Ap~tf 22 "FteCoftouse MaCC 11 :00 am. -7:00 pm. 
Sponsored by the classes of 1992 and 1993 



