

Eric Schmitt / Chad Tiedemann . 249 Dillon Hall 283-1738 · 
call anytime 
A Service -To Students .. 
Flanner .Records.•.· . 
. ·809 Flanner' Hall 
Why Pay More! .· 
. . : 
$6.98 List Albums, _Only $4.65 _· · 
Plus: Car Decks ": Speakers . 
•Accessories · 
Stop by or Call 1492 · . for Economical ·and Convenient Shopping 
.UtJiversityof. · 

qetredan,e ... ·· .. 

:. Wednesday, O~tober_28, .1976 · · 
. . Washington: Hall · . 
. . 

Admission Free . .8:15 P.M. E·arly SE:ating Advised · 
. . . 
. " .· 



.:-·~-· 
~ 
.RUGBY JERSEY! 

The New "In" Shirt 
S" stripes ¾ length sleeves 
. . . . •'
. 
100% acrylic yam (no shrinkage) ,.. ,· . 
' . .
. 
· . can be personalized
•

color.;: . . ' red/white. red/navy gr~n/white . · light blue/white :red/gray maroon/gold· red/navy: gold/green navy/gold black/orange,. navy/white . blaclc/red blaclc/gold . 
call: . 


,. . . 
.2s9~594·1 
the gre~tmidwest T~omp~y· . 
..l 


Cover: by_Tom Everman 
. . . 
Photographs:: Sheila. Kearns; 11 / William Reifsteck· 22, 23 / SCHOLASTIC archives 9r24, 25, 27, 30 / all other photographs 
by Tom Everman: . . . . .. 
. ' <.. . • ~ . . • t : ·, , . . . , 
Art :Work: Norman· Burkhart 

EcJitrir . John' PhEilan . ·· 
Managing Editor 
Annemarie Sullivan 
Design Editor 
Bernie Valenti .• 
Produ'ction. Manager 
Charles Sweeney 
Copy Editor .. :· 
Karen :_Caruso .. 
Cultural Editor 
Gilda M. Montalvo · Sports Editor · ' Toni Kruczek ' 
News Editor,.... ;,,:<·,,,:_ 
Kathleen -McElroy' : 
Photography Editor. 
Tom Everman · 
Advertising· Manage~ 
Kay Andrews; · Business Manager . , .. Joanne ,Toeniskoetter . · Advisory Board . :. . . , . 
Ron_ald Weber,.-Carl· Magel · · · Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C.,. '. : James Cook, Richard· Conklin 





Scholastic 
Volume 118, No. 3, October 8, 1976 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 4 Universities Make Good Neighbors Mary Beth Hines 
6 Notre Dame Comes to Town Julie Runkle and Peggy McGuire 
8 A.C.C.: Cross Your Heart Tom Browne 
16 The Mo.d. Collegiate Classic Look. Jim Romanelli 
18 Poetry at the Table: Richard Landry and ·Booklist for Gourmets John Santos 
20 · . The' Last Stop Susan Grace 
22 .·. Faculty· Handbook: Prof. Ferdinand N. Dutile and A, Modest Proposal Prof. Thomas .L. Shaffer 
24 • Pardon· Me, ·sir, Is This the . Freshman: English Express? . . · Teaching Assistants at· Notre Dame · Greg Marshall 
27 Beneath the Pained Exterior Marc Novak 
28 Let's Make a Deal Tom Kruczek 
REGULARS 
10 Perspective Sheila Kearns 
12 Gallery William Reifsteck 
14 Jottings Michael Feord 
21 Gym Shorts John Dela~ey 
Staff 
Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno, John. Kenward, Leo J.. Mulcahey, Mike 
.Feord, Mike Moses, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, ·Barb Frey, Gary Harden, Julie Runkle, Jim Ryan, Sue Hart, John Bartone, Andrew Gotr..iaco, Randy Cashiola, Mary Ann Chambers, Jim Romanelli, Maureen Reynolds, Sherry Simon, Mark J. Ondash, Cary Gerber, Jay Tidmarsh, Tom Browne, Jim Jordan, Ed Rodgers, Norman Burkhart, Keith Connor, Maria Maggi, Maureen Kelly, Mary De Roche, Karen Mahakian, Betsy Birch, Jennifer Ryder, Christie A. Herlihy, Clare Leary, Maribeth Horne, Deborah Childs, Jill Justice, Andy McKenna, Carol Smith, Hector Cecilo Ham, Don Orban, Theresa.Rebeck, Mike Doherty, Howard Rand; Lisa Fulks. · · · 
. .-. 

Hall Representatives: ·K.im Gumz, Mary Miller, Tom Westphal,• John Mclutchon, Russ 
Angelo, Greg S~ranznas, Sheila Gavan,. Mary Reppa,· Wendy Fencl, Kevin Paulson, Joe· 
Lauck, Norman Burkhart, David Perry, Ed Rodgers, Kevin Gorman, Don Osborn, John 
Delaney, Jeff Scholemer, Kathy Connely, Jessie Reed, Jim ·Jordan,· Burt Brunner, Dan 
Lombardi, Russ· O'Brien, Tom Browne, Terry' Molony, Ruth Hohl, Julie Runkle, Clare 
Leary, Barb Frey, Jay Tidmarsh, John Muldoon, Mau Branyansky, Joe Caverly. . 
The opinions expr~ssed in Sch~lastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic 
and do not necessarily represent :the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its 
administration; fa~ulty or the stude_nt body•. · · · 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 4655.6. The m~gazine is represented 
for· national advertising by National Educational Advertising . Services, 360 Lexington 
Avenue, New. York, N. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except 
during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic. is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre · 
Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available 
from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
All unsoli~ited .·· material becomes th~ property· ofScholastic•.· 
copyright© 1976 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none ofthe contents may be repro: ' duced without permission. · · · · .·· ·. · · 
.Universities 
. . 



Make 

. Good. ·.Neighbors. 
When 10,000 young adults enter Whether as a participant or ob-the· South Bend region every year,. server, the corisensus' is that most what kind of reception do they get? people of South. Bend are, to some ('We know when . they're back!" degree, affected by Notre Dame. quipped Captain James Sweitzer There are direct ·effects felt in po­of the South Bend Police, traffic litical, economic and social spheres division. He is quick to point out, as well as psychological effects. however,' that· South Bend loves the Steve McTigue, eiecutive vice presi­University and is very proud of it. dent of the Chamber: of Commerce, He believes that a person could notes, : "Up untilthe_ loss. of Stude­hardly live in South Bend without baker, 'South Bend was 'known for being affected by the University. two things; Studebaker an<l 'Notre 
-,·-·'·" --'. ~~ ..-~ ::. --.... -·.,_,.,. -"'",--., .... ,. 

· · by Mary Beth -Hines 
Dam~." ·He. also 'clai~s that Notre Dame contributes to the "livability factor" "needed· to attract.industry;: thaL is,.· the quality-of life an area 

· offers. , 
•''Notre Dame putSouth Bend on the map," said Michael Carrington,' Administrative Assistant to Mayor'. Peter N einethi "The prominence of' the University is.amajor. plus.'' He added that while people rriay not know of .South ·Bend, Indiana,·they do know of Notre Dame University;·: 
Michael Vance, the city auditor,'. explained that when visitors do·come, to this area, it is :for· Notre Dame. primarily, and the South Bend sights secondarily. He· agrees ·that Notre Dame is a; drawing attraction. :-,';_)c·, 

That Notre Darrie is a : drawing attraction is somewhat" of an under.:. statement.. The flow of traffic on'any' home football Saturday.is continuous· from 10 :30 a.rri. to dark. South• Bend _converts major thoroughfares to 'the University irito one-ways Io handle the increased traffic. Seventy-' five to. 80 policemen monitor 'this·'. flow, while 50 more keep the stadium . under control. Overtime pay· for .· traffic control on home games totals $5,000. ·.. Captain · Sweitzer a_dded that_ the force is volunteer. ~•They'.re 
. N.D. fans -that's .the main reason they're there, whether they admit it or not." · ·· 
The University also attracts guests of other interests. Noted speakers; educators and entertainers come to Notre Dame frequently. Many ofthe community's citizens take a.civarifage· of this opportunity, _several-; city officials. said. Vance clairrieci >Jliat 

· speakers come to the·. area for. both, the Notre Dame audience· and 'the' town audience. He conceded; how-. ever, that distinguished· guests __ -ap~' pear af the ,University rather than: other places in town. "I'm sure Mon-' dale would rather talk .to the stu~ dents of Notre Dame than. to the 
.,
._· SCHOLASTIC 


citizens of South Bend," the auditor stated.· ·· ·. · · Although the University is recog-' nized a's having major impact on the city, officials are quick to defend the city's ·own.identity. «The city is very 
much aware of° the importance of th~ University in the community," Car­rington declared,' "but by rio means 
is ·Nofre· tiarrie:ruri.ning· the city· of 
South Bend; nor is it subservient to· the community;" ·Carrington went on to ·describe the relationship as "good· neighbors," both willing to help a11d · cooperate. During the last administration; · Carrington said, an· accusation was made that . Notre Dame was running the city·. He said,' "The city is sensitive to this." 
Vance also.attributed a large part of South· Bend's notoriety to Notre Dame. He claimed that South Bend, would·.: still be known without the 
. school,· possibly for its industryJ,:··: 
· City officials do not view Notre Dame. as a one-sided donor. to the city. The, relationship between city and . University 'is. a symbiotic. ·one,. with 'mutual give-and-take: . . . . 
McTigue cited.one instance.of this occurring; noting.that the new ''Cen­
tury_ Center" performing arts center 
is physical· prooiof this relationship. Notre Dame, beinga schoof of inter-: national 'and . iiational.-representa~ 
tives,-naturally·makes a ·culturaiim­
pression on the town. The wide geo­graplii_c fange i~plies awid~r range: of . interests. tllari:_ .would·•·.typify .~'. riomfoiversity: town. Thus; the arts'. are elripha.sized mo're here'. ''The area' 
schools enhance th~ appetite.for the· 
ar~s;'' Mc:Tigue points out, "making . : . for. a high interest in tlie town for· . cultural events arid the ne~ build­ing." . ..· 
Nuances ·o( this :·cultural ,·effect 

even extend. into ·voter tendencies. 
"Citizens of South Bend are less ·con­
-. servative about getting certain. types of legislation -passed because of the better exposure to the ·rest .. of the . · · world,'" McTigue contends. ::.-. •· · : , · 
City· officials·. cited ·many .resources 

that are available to-the city·b~cause 
OCTOBER 8; ·.1976 
of Notre Dame:, _the physical prop­erty -itself, the· lectures ·and · enter­tainment, as well as a wealth o!'re~' search_. ~hat directly benefits South. Bend. Of. the· 1atter, several profes­sors and their studerits··have par­ticipated in business, government, architectural;· and social projects and studies. This saves the city money, the city. auditor indicated, and . gets its problems solved. The collaboradcin between city_ and school represents "an: exposure ._· and .· exchange of ideas," Vance· said, that are beneficial 
to the University also; "The Uni-· versity has a chance to step ou(_of its academic role and see how .tjie realistic worlci ·operates." 
In·.. pure. economic_ terms, Notre Dame's: impact cannot· be refute·d.' Besides being -· the second ·largest employer in the ·community, the Un_i~ · versity is responsible for million~ of, dollars flowing in a·nd out of the school. Thus, besides providing jobs, Notre Dame relies on local mer­chants to purvey both the school and the Morris Inn. Furthermore, specia_l events and conferences that bring people to. town are profitable for town-businesses. _'. .. . . 
;,The. _city o~ South :Bend, on .the 
5· 

other . h~nd, patronizes the ·. Uni­versity by.·, making . its resource~ readily available.. The 'city provides a ·commercial center; a busiriesi dis­
trict, public ''.iransportation/secon.; dary police. and fire. protection and 
traffic control when' rieeded. South Bend's prime ·quality;· city·'officials agree, is willingness· ·to help ··and 
cooperate. :;, : •.· ..·. . ·.. ;. _·: : ' The willingness to help · and . co­operate should 'not ;·be taken :for granted, Walter .Lantz;. the •. deputy controller warned. "You don't neces­sarily have''working relations 'be::' 
tween a municipality· and a tiniver­sity . just·/ because '· th·ey're ·located together."· The "good neighbor"· sit-' uation has to ·be. developed, not as­
stuned. ·.. ,:;: : . Although.the rapport· between city 
and school is .amiable now,' it was not always so/: Ten to 12 years -ago, 
"The fences::; were. a:· :lot higher," 
McTigue explains .. When annexation of Notre Dame was discussed·several 
years ago, the ."fences". reappeared, he, added;··.:Since that· time: the :ani­
mosity has:. died down. , "Today," McTigue said, ·"the academic world, 
the business :world ·and city govern., ment,blend well;exceedingly.well.".: 
Notre Dame Comes to Town 
The city of South Bend began as a few log cabins situated on the banks of the St. Joseph River. Pioneers set­tled there to reap the benefits of the location: a means of power, a source of water, a transportation· system. · 
The University .of Notre Dame's origin is rooted in the Holy Cross missionary Father Sorin's dream to establish a school. Free land donated as a gift by Father Badin d~termined the site in northern Indiana. 
South Bend, with its pi:oximity to Chicago and itsrailway connections,: sprang up as -an':' industrial· .town supported by the James Oli_ver Plow Works, the -Singer Sewing _Machine Company, Studebaker and the tim­ber mills. Rich in possibilities, _it became a "depot for immigrants,"­according to American Studies Pro­fessor ,Thomas Schlereth. 
Notre Dame, too, expanded with ever-increasing influence, and also with a spirit of autonomy. As Martin: Sullivan reported in an essay in 1970, "Father Sorin was intent upon. pre­serving the independence of the Uni­versity from external ·secular influ­ences." He went so far as to seekthe intercession of Henry Clay to ensure that Notre.Dame would have its own post office: For a long time, the Uni­versity perceived itself_ as a city within itself. _ _ . _. _. _ _ 
.Father Sorin also went to lengths to keep the students from frequent­ing South Bend · establishments, _ namely, the. taverns. Residents of South Bend.were asked to·cooperate by refusing service. to _the 'students; 
At the_same time, however, Sorin was fostering a working relationship between Notre Dame -and: ,South Bend. "Sorin was .eager,11 said Sulli­van, <Ito establish friendly ties with the social and political elite of the city." He maintained a constant stream of correspondence and hos­pit11~ty. 


these ·same people·.· (the priests _of Notre-Dame) did more· to foster its ·growth thari any and all other insti­tutions i11 the city, because they were among the first of any note among us, and ·during the long years they have been with us,iihas always been their intention to do all: in ·their 
[SOUTH] 
I'll 
by Julie Runkle and Peggy McGuire 

power for the benefit of our city and_ 
its inhabitants, as every merchant, 
mechanic, clothing house, boat and 
shoe store, drygoods store; grocery, 
lumberman and miller can testify." _· 
Not much has changed in a ceri-' 

tury. South. Bend stillflourishes on 
its industries. _Dean Roemer would 
prefer his students to stay out of the 
bars, and yet, .a _mutual interaction 
is still cultivated.· 
One predominant factor uniting 

town and .school is the amount of 
tourist business that the community 
of Notre Dame brings to the com-_ 
munity_ of South Bend, which can be 
measured principally by the business 
levels of hotels, motels and restau-· 
rants in the area. 
Since · the 1920's when Knute· Rockne formed the legend of Notre Dame athletics, football has estab­.lished,itself as a sort of major.local industry, attracting· thousands tof visitors who in turn sperid thousands 
of dollars on food and lodging. 
··Years ago it was estimated that 

each football weekend contributed 
over one million dollars to the city's 
economy. Even in the days before 
the neon "No Vacancy" signs on U.S. 

31 were ·imaginable, when South 
Bend was served only by-the Oliver,· 

LaSalle and Hoffnian Hotels down­
town, ·visitors brought great profit 

to the community. Extra chartered 
trains provided _transportation for: 
droves of fans from adjoining states. 

Oftentimes, people·from South Bend 
would t~kein perfect ·strangers ·as 
guests.-'. ·~ for .•. the weekends; . . other . times, 
. ·-. '. . -' ·-. . ' 
SCHOLASTIC 

j 

people along the roads would adver­tise their rooms for rent, which later expanded into present-day motels. 
Today, Notre Dame attracts thou­sands each year not only for football games, but for conferences and con­ventions since the construction of both the ACC and the CCE, making . the traffic of visitors to the campus a year-round phenomenon. 
While many more motels, : hotels and restaurants have been construct­ed with relative proximity to cam­pus in the last 20 years, itoften seems to the Notre Dame community that there is a manifest shortage of space for the frequent inflow of people into South Bend; A commonly held opin­ion is that the industry capitalizes on the demand resulting from · in­terest in Notre Dame. 
From the other side of the Dome, views are notquite the same. When asked of the 'relationship between theillseives ·arid the · University, the general consensus ofhotel and motel managers was "six weekends do not a year-round business make," or as Jack Bovard of the Royal Inn put it, "I could just kiss Notre Dame on;the cheek every time a football weekend rolls around, same as the beverage and ·food industry," but the Universi­ty acccmnts for only asmall percent­age of annual business. . . 
They also acknowl~ge the busi­ness that. Notre Danie. brings in through . conventions ·· and confer~ ences; buf again claim. that this is not the majority of their business'. Rather, it is the industry of South Bend that attracts businessmen arid salesmen ona year-round basis. 

Motels on U.S. 31, such· as .the Blue and GoidandHowardJohnson's, say that Notre Damewas, an influ­ence. in. establishing. their location, but more importantly,.the.cons.truc­tion _of the toll road played_ the major role. South Bend is.a con­venient. stopping-:_off point for trav­elers in general. "People pull in·for the night and they ask me, /'What's that gold thing over there?'" stated one of the motelmanagers.. · 
in· general, the motels and hotels tend to operate at a fairly consistent 60% capacity. It'is only on Notre Dame's special weekends· and.· for very large conventions ·that they expect to be filled. The· downtown hotels and the Holiday Inn do not, perhaps contrary to popular belief, 


· raise their rates in the fall, nor are the economy establishments on U.S. 31 allowed to by law. Most of the others do raise rates, but. only by a couple of dollars in accordance with guidelines set by the industry. 
. A common practice, however, is double-night booking. Some motels feel they are entitled to this privi~ lege, while: others rationalize it by saying that the added· condition helps hold down demand ... 
.: None of them go out of their way to ·cater to Notre Dame ---:-the mar­ket does not have to be captured; rather, it is there. They do accept room reservations from six months to a year in advance; however..''Wetry to maintain a friendly receptive at~ mosphere, which· seems . to radiate back and forth. This.is·acommunity interest." . . Conditions are similar in· the res­taurant sector. Football games and parents' weekends are welcome boosts to business, but are not of necessity to sustain operations. Res­taurants do recognize the fact that they are largely patronized all year by students, and a substantial por­tion of their advertising is geared toward them. 
While most of the newer establish­ments attribute 10%-15% of their business to the Notre Dame crowd, some of the older restaurants, like the !family-run Sunny Italy, have long whetted hungry Domers' appe­tites: One of the managers of Sunny .Italy, which is. in its 50th year of busi~ess, claims that N.D. brings in 40% of their customers.. Visiting alumni often frequent the restaurant during the summer. The N.D. clien­tele receives a. warm welcome.from the· Italian food. specialists. "You have such nice boys out there. We've never had any problems with your 
boys." 
Reputations such · as these have 

been built.through the years. South 
Bend welcomes· the business that 
Notre Dame brings with open arms, 
and generally acknowledges the siz­
able impact the University has on 
its community's economic situation. 
But, just as Notre Dame does not 

rely· on South Bend,· neither can 
South _Bend revolve around Notre 
Dame. As M. F. Swango of the 'Al­
bert Pick Motor Inn commented; 
"Notre Dame is the frosting on our 
cake." 
'Tis a; thick layer. 


OCTOBER 8, 1976 




TheACC: 

Cfoss Your ~Heart 
This is evidenced by ·the. commen£ "It sure beats the Rock," made by countless· students : over ·the · years 
.since the ACC has beer(built. The quality of the relationship 'also. shows up. in :references to the complex as the University's "Center of Impact." 
ThU:s, despite the extensive use of 

. the Center for activities which gen­·erate I'evenues for the University and · the surroUnding communities through. rentals, Plouff · thinks the · ACC is still hi existence principally to_serve the needs of ·Notre Dame. During the evenings.· and on week­ends certain facilities are inaccessi­ble to students, but the arrangements· which have been working out for the students' use 'of. the ACC ·"are satis­factory. for the .needs of. most stu, dents,''. commented Plouff.; 
· The Center-has and can be put to 
A dream which took two and one­half years to realize at a total cost approaching nine million dollars ­the Athletic · and Convocation Cen­ter plays a vital· role in drawing tlie University closer to the surrounding communities·. The "ACC is ~wholly owned by the University despite rumors that it :is jointly owned by Notre Dame arid South Bend~ • 
There are .advantages to···both Notre 0 Dame and South Bend to.be derived from the ACC. ·South· Bend benefits economically,·· socially'• and culturally, while Notre Dame's bene­fits· are in revenues obtained to off­set upkeep of the building. The most important aspect of the ACC asi far as the . community.· is concerned is that -it is a ~eans of employment and Uvelihood to many area resi­dents who are . directly employed . by _the · Center. The . total· of both full­and part-time _employees by the Cen­ter is close to 250 and that. does not include the number that are em­ployed by the athletic 'offices in the ACC. 

· Just after the second· world· war, South Bend felt that a convention and sports arena was needed; partly to accommodate the University and to accommodate the convention busi­ness in the area, which wru,· picking up. It was to have been· located about three miles away from where the Center is located today. However, the city: was· unable· to raise· the . needed revenues for. the project and so it was abandoned; until Notre Dame built the Convocation Center ... The Center is.. having a large socio-economic impact on the , local 
· community. The South Bend-Misha­waka Chamber of. Commerce esti-. mated income of over: eight and one­half million dollars .for the local community .· from _convention traffic in 1970 and expected to attract more · than 100,000 visitors to conventions at the ACC. Each year since then the estimates have risen even higher. · 
• Its economic benefits are, readily apparent for these ..communities when one realizes just how much 

by Torn Browne 
Interestingly enough, • however, ac­
cording to. Melvin Swango, manager 
of the Albert Pick Motel, the ACC 
helps the community by increasing 
travel to it, but the community could 
live without it. . · 
Socially the Center has assisted.the 
communities with the _availability of 
skating facilities which it provides 
throughout a g()_od part,of the year, 
with its sponsored exhibitions . by 
such favorites asthe Harlem-Globe­
trotters and the athletic events of the 
. . ' 
Notre Darpe community.,., 
· However, according, to John F. 
Piouff, ·. managing . director.•. of. __ the 
complex, the Center primarily exists 

for the benefit of all of.. the Notre . 
Dame community and in particular for tlie student body.· Some. students may question the truth.of this· state~ ment when they walk over to the ACC only to discover that the facility . is closed because._a show or group' is using the Cent~r. However,· Plouff feels the : relationship_ between the student body and the ACC is a good
. . . ; . -. . 

. one. 
-i SCHOLASTIC 

f'• 

numerous use~ by the Notre Drune student body. During the week the ACC accommodates several of the freshman. gym , classes. The fericing class can be found· here as can .the ice-skating. classes and: a newly in­stituted class, Introduction. to Track and Field: These industrious-students can be fou~d running the :track in gym shorts, on: near-freezing. morn­ings, long jumping or attempting to hurl the discus. Later in the after-: noon, · · the · hockey , and: . basketball teams can be observed·working out. 
· On the weekends the facility_ ac­commodates future Peggy Flemings. now in their college years skating or the small fry of the:community.;One small skater, was heard to remark, "We call it the turtle, cuz it looks like it could: almost crawl." ­
As f"!-r as the.student lifeis con-_ cerned;· the most important· aspect _of-the ACC has to be the spectator sports-. which it· houses: basketball and hockey. It :is,not unusual for. many.• Americans who .watch tele­vision .during the · weekends of De­cember.through . March to . see.· the Irish on the tube via the .Irish Bas­ketball Network. Hockey traditional­ly does not .draw the same large crowds which basketball . does and the television coverage it.receives ,is limited to the, local newscasts. , , 
The Athletic and Convocation Cen-_ ter can be, seen_-as, a two-faceted facilityin that it is_used by two dif­ferent groups of people for purposes which , are, in. a number-·of cases, vastly · different; It, is more 'clearly. seen, ·however,.· as ·a: '.'melting pot" drawing. the surrounding• communi­
OcT0BER, 8, .1976. 
ti~s and the University of Not~e ,· 
Dame closer through their.extensive . cooperation-regarding the·facility., 
The joint.·. cooperations. has been 

clearly evident: since fund . raising, 
began to raise the, Center. · Alumni 
and;friends of·.. the University made 
the dream a reality .with.the ·"Chai~ 
lenge: II" capital: funds :drive..The 
members of •the surrounding .com-,. 
munities, · through the funds. raised 
in the!'Valley of. Vision'\ campaign; 
assisted the development to the.tune 
of almost two million.dollars. 
An investment of two million· dol­

lars on the.part of these communities 
may seem substantial by.itself,-but 
when ;Weighed:.against the'.social, cultural and.economic gains the ACC has Diade possible for,these coinmu~· nities;the-substantiality ofit rapid­ly diminishes.;:_ ·· 
, The : community needs the : ACC socially, culturally and economically. The:University needs· the community in, the ACC. if'it hopes to· keep. the immense facility in peak condition -· the condition-required to .best serve the needs of the students. Cooper­tioiJ.,between'.the.two is vitalarid·is in the.bestinterests of both iLthe full:potential of. the,complex as an · athletic and convocation. center is to be·· realized. : 


Perspecti'7e _ 

The Mo·st_ Important Thing· is-to Finish 
. . ' . . . -. . -. 
. . . . . . . 
Through some act of God, touch of fate or whim of the· stars,· some 20 · or so students were chosen to ·take part in a course entitled.English · 
304: Film Writing:What the course is intended to teach themis precise­ly what the title indicates. They are· to learn about writing screenplays · and in the course of the semester.• -· they are to write their own original . film scripts. 
·As the matter comes down to a ·· 
. . 
more.•functional level, ·the ·selection • : of the students was not in .the stars but in the hands ofProfessor .. : • Donald Costello of the English De-: partment. 'Asit stands also, the·they of the chosen is really we, as I am a student fo English 304, We were chosen for the course on the basis: of our applications; yes, there were' applications, which were to give . , 

_-ten._SinceTony Bill is agraduate of 
· Notre Dame and a close friend of _ Dr. Costello's, we're batting.a: thou-­sand. So with him and Dr. Costello, wehave·a couple of teachers and an assignment and ,that seems like a a pretty good-place to.start. We started with what Tony Bill had to teach us, and the very first .. :: . thing that,he had to tell us was. that .'_'Writing· a screenplay is not an academic exercise; ,u is a serious business. The only reason to write a< screenplay is to have it made into a movie and if that is not what· you intended,. then· there is no:use in writing it;" Thus the Hollywood pro­ducer and .millionaire speaks, or maybe -just the;voice· of ·common sense makes itself heard. .The:whole point of the existence· of any script is that it be made into 
some evidence of our interest in · . a movie that people will go to a the-
writing. The evidence came in what­ever form we could muster it, our written work, essays, fiction,_ poetry or the act of throwing ourselves at Dr. Costello's feet and begging and groveling. In any event, weall ended up in the course as a result of our wanting to be there and. being able to give some convincing' rea­
sons why we should _be. 
So, if we are going to learn how to write a screenplay, it seems only logical that there should be someone teaching the course _who has some involvement in evaluating screen-· plays as written works that may possibly be niade into films. This is where Tony Bill comes in. It seems that in the process of producing 
Hearts of the West, The Sting, Taxi Driver and Harry and 'Walter Go to 

· New York, he has probably picked 
up some knowledge of what goes into 
a good film script and how it is writ­

-ater to see. If you are·a script writer, work hard at .what.you do and do it well, you succeed only when you 
.· have managed .to get someone to buy your script/or at least put up the money to make it into a film. The only place for the satisfaction -­
-of the finished work is in the film, · not in the script itself. 
Tony _Bill is one of the people who reads scripts to decide if they will be 
made into movies or not. He esti­mates that a screenplay is a reading experience for approximately 100 people. These are producers and directors and whoever else might be involved in trying to__make it into a movie. Even if it is made into a successful film, probably no more ­people than this will ever read it. If it is not made into a film, pr!)b· ably even fewer than that will ever see the words on a page that were never made into a movie. 
.by Sheila Kearns 
. . . 
. -. ' 

Being the students at·Notre Dame that we.are, we know that we are . supposed to do what we do well. That is what Tony Bill is telling us also. There is no·point in writing a script if we do not intend to do it · well. If we do it well, then it will be something to be sold; something · we want to see made into a film. He also tells us that, to begin with,. the most important thing is to finish. ' 
Now with all of this in mind, Dr. Costello is left to hold up the aca-·· demic end of the bargain. ·After all, this is a university and we are sup­posed to be engaged in some sort of -· academic activity. At least those are the rules. of the game that I was taught:' 
In Dr.·Costello's eyes, we are· : serious students of film as a'form of expression,:or art, as you will. Our particular focus is film in its written aspects, the script from which a · film is made. We study what others' ­have written, see howit has or has not been ·made into a film,· and why it does or does not work. All' of this ­is supposed to help us in our own ­writing. Dr. Costello maintains that what we do as students is impor~: tarit in-and of itself. The academic · exercise should have value and does. 
What all of-this 'adds up to. is one course with two teachers, each ­coming at the same subject from dif­ferent perspectives;· They -definitely­come into the·classroom from oppo­site directions. They may or may not' be in opposition. ­
The one point that both of these teachers definitely have in common is that our main job is to finish the script. Tony Bill knows that, in his · terms, a script is notfinished ifit really does not exist. You don't make movies from unfinished scripts. As · · 
SCHOLASTIC 


.0.,,.·.··•...·..·· /'z.!,\ff~1· 
·· -~ -· There is no antagonism or conflict 1 when Tony Bill talks about Fellini,1 Bergman and Antonioni as "Costel­,I Io's men." The conception of film as
·i

j an art form does not exclude the , conception of it as a commercial 
l

1 venture, or vice versa. Tony Bill is . coming back to Notre Dame be­. cause he is helping teach a· course, l,. . because he wants to spend some time 
with friends here and because there -is something iri the academic at.: .:. . niosphere that he is attracted to: So 
.in all of this, what we have is a.· .. '. course in film writing with the per­
. . spectives.of two different teachers . -~;.:...J . that work toward complementing.)};ii!!!'; _each other and enhan.cing what each 
;al$ · · --•-• ·of them has to offer.
'•· .·.J . .-. ­
.-i:aaa.-J. _ Whatever the logistics of what is·. ": .. writing and screenplay is not an academic exerc~se." · -·;:being taught and how:it·is being · 
taught, the best statement of what far as Dr. ·costello is concerned, the . -ura:l one: At the same time, though, is going on comes from taking a look script that.we write is the one I can see that the case is not one of at the students. I think that I would measurable requirement of the _-conflict but of complementarity. be safe in saying that there is not course: If we finish it, we pass; if Each of these men has more to say one student in the class who is not we don't; we fail. So, all in all, the or to offer than his own particular.·-excited about the prospects of what value of getting done has definitely · · perspective,-while they each-allow he or. she is doing. By this, I mean 
, been impressed upon us. · / the other to articulate the one which that it is pretty exciting to•think that 
·Until we have written a script, he knows best; Dr. Costello oper-. .when the semester is :over,, each; -..· none of us is in the position to call . ates within an academic framework . of.us wm have a film script that we· himself a screenwriter, and unless and that.is what he has to offer his have written, a work somewherein there is someone who is-a.lot further students: Tony Bill is in the busi-the vicinity of 100 pages inJength. ahead of the game thaii lam, none ness of making films and his ex-_ The prospect of having:it made into of the people in: the· class have to perience at it is what he brings to .•-a movie is just added fuel for. the worry about that quite yet. What we his students. -· · ._ . fire; have; though, is·a man telling us I think that the idea of coniple..: ;, At.this point, there may even be . that there is no reason, if we have mentary roles in the classroom has a few of the students who are1n the· the tale~t, that we can't be just that. -its best illustration in the fact that. · position to get excited about tan-
Tony\Bill is telling us that we :. Tony Bill is·here as a teacher. His.. gible accomplishments. There has havejust as.much chance, and prob-. position as a film producer qualifies · been rumor that there could ·possibly ably more, as anyone else to have a : _him to teach about the writing of · be one or two of them·who have . , script made into a film. Our skills film scripts, but this position does not ... even begun to_ write their scripts ­and talents, if we have them, are nullify the fact that he is operating .. at least to the point of "fade-:in." ­marketable and we. should consider ·· in an academic milieu. He has . . As fen· myself, I at least know that them as such. We also have another.• _ taken on the role of teacher. I definitely intend. to finish.· man telling us that we are students . . and our main concern should be 
·,______.,....­
our involvement in a learning ex~· perience.· This raises· the question, though; of whether or. not that is alL. that each of them is telling us. If ··~· that is all that there·is to it, then 
~ 

they are in definite conflict, ·and although they may not be working at cross-purposes, they are definitely not tryirig:to teach·us the same things. . . .-.. , 
I guess· that I raise this question because it seems to rile tci be a nat-· 
OCTOBER 8, 1976 

.· ·.,_..Fa_culty_ Handbook:· _ 
•·. . A Mod:est Proposal 
by Prof. Ferdinand N. Dutile and Prof~ Thomas L. Shaffer 
. . 
A highly pla~ed sou~ce • revealed today that a new . be vested in the Board of Trustees, which shall answer edition of the popular Notre Dame Faculty Handbook .. only. to the Provost, and shall base its deliberations on wil( bejmblished thisyear. The source said that .the the President's Newsletter. In order to prevent im~ editors ·of . the Handbook· have . decided to bind the · · ·pacting of. the Board,' no more than two-thirds of the publication, in hardcover, so that it can no longer be members shall be given chairs. . folded .in the middle and used .as a doorstop'. This · The · Board of Trustees shall meet annually on the source;_-wh·o mus( be known only as "Deep Tassel," Friday preceding the Southern Cal game. The Secretary said he . f~ars :retaliation .if . his identity is disclosed; of the Boa.rd shall keep a record of all votes and minutes he mentioned,. as' a· possible form of retaliation, the of the proceedings of the Board and sign for the bar bill. 
-·. . . . . . -.. -.-.. ·' :·-. -._._ . ~ 
assignment of. eight o'clock . classes. However, the in­': •. c._ Officers of the University :,formation which 'follows has . been confirmed by a 
.'. All. Officers of the University shall be appointed bysecond source (''Black' Tasselll) who is placed so .low 
,•. the Board of . Trustees. To promote the principle of that he probablyknows what is going on. While some 
··.' checks .and balances, the Board of Trustees ·shall be of you may prefer to see the rriovie, here are the most . appointed by the Officers of the University. (It is not significant_'parts of the·Handbook:i . 
clear who goes first.) The Officers are the following:·,; , · · l .. The President shall be a non~J esuit priest.. He 
I. ·. UNIVERSITY GOVERNANCE shall preside: over the President's Dinner. Ordinarily 
a. Introduction he is guided in his policies and decisions by consultation 
The University is situated adjacent to South Bend, ,with the other officers, by 'the·· deliberations of the Indiana,· whose. ,mean' annual temperature· is mean· Academic Council and by gut.reaction.-In the absence indeed ... This institution of Catholic higher ]earning .ofthe President, other officers·serve as Acting President was founded in late -November, on the feast of. st: .in ,.the following order: The Provost, .the. Executive 
· t b t 5 15 ·· · · t b f th · NBC · Vic_e_-President,. the A_ssoc_iate .Provo.st, the._.. _Chi_ef_ ,__of
Andrew; a · a ou : ·p.m.,.JUS e ore: e·. . _ Nightly .News. The Found~rs were intent·on founding : Security andthe Fencing Coach. , ,· the University on'that particular day, and, therefore,· , • 2. ·, The Vice-Presidents serve at.the pleasure.of the lest they.arrive.in South Bend too early, spent four ,_ President. Their number ~ayvary'.from timeto·time, days in Akrori. They called their creation the University ·, . but In no event shall.fall, below ·that of the·entering of Notre Dame, which has come :down to us as Uni-Freshman class. · · · · · · --· 
versite de Notre Dame du Lac.. (The "k"-was dropped.·. 3.-Th~ Provost shall have responsib!lity for. the from the end of. the word "Lac" by an early president . · calendar. · · of-the University, who needed a word which would d: Committees of the:University rhyme with "Rock'(_ after· the :University instituted ,:1;· The Academic Council,.­indoor sports; .regrettably, the word, "jock" did not-: The Academic Council is composed 'of the President, appear in public. usage until the middle 1960's;) ··the ·. Provost; the Executive :vice-President, ·all other 
Vice-Presidents; the Associate' Provost, the· Assistant
1 The ·General Counsel for th~ University isreminded · 
Provost, the Deans, the Directors of University. Iristi­thatthe authors'of t~is article are tenured. . 
. tutes and all other Directors. Members. of the faculty. The· first cen:tur~_of.Notre Dame's history has been. 
·are eligible, but in no event shall constitute more than 
amply recorded in Notre Dame: A Hundred Years 
49 percent of the Council, and may speak.when spokenWithout Ara (St.,Mary:s Press, _1948). The second to, provided they are believing articulators.;: , century began almost immediately after the first, in· 2. The Faculty Senate :·. · · order to avoid a ·deficit _in .operating costs and a con:. 
The Faculty Senate shall have total power: , :: '. 
sequent diminution· _ir1the University's e~dowment. On a. to suggest agenda items for the Academic the issue of bu_dget,' bet\yeen the years ·1945-1976, :the Council. 
operating· budget grew from'.four to 65 millionsof­.. b. to "explore the possibility11.of .collective bar-dollars, which reflects a total grbwth'..of over 1600 gaining. _ percent or, allowing for inflation, three percent; 3. The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics shall 
b. Byiaws of the Bo~rd ofTrustee~., not bite the hands that feed it:. ; ·. , All. powers for governance of the University shall 4. University Committee .on ,· Interdisciplinary · 


SCHOLASTIC
12 


,Stt1~ies , -. . ; . , _: , ., (This Committee has been unable to meet due to disagreement amcmg the various departments as· to-the:tirri'e arid "place for meetings.). . , . 
5.. The'Financial Affairs Committee shall consist of not less_tha:ri five· (5) members, one of whom shall be the Executive. :Vice-President; one: oL whom shall b·e-. 
, for childbearing purposes. To conform to HEW policy 
.. 2-1068, the same leave of absence is granted to male members of the faculty at those times when they would have borne a child had they been female (requires Form .603). ,,.· 
. IV. ~PPEALS TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES . Any · dispute or grievance involving University 
the· Vic~Presidenf for. Business -'.Affairs .and none of . ·: policy. may, if ,the matter is of serious importance and 
whom _shall· be .poor. -It shall meet annually to raise tuitio~;: <_'., ·'· ·-· _, · ·· · · 
II.. _FACULTY 
, _, . a. ··c~tegori°es,,, , . . _. . 

·_ i. .. Teaclii~g-and-Re-search·; faculty members . have the ra,nks o( Pr~fessor,. Associate Professor;' Assistant. Professor, ,and .Instructor. . . 
2. _, SpeciaI:.jiesearch . Fa'culty ·_ do not. , , ·. :: 3.. ·Nonreguiar Faculty should not be ,teased about
·-.. -,_... .,, . --. -.. .·. -. it. b.. -_ Ranks·.­The. Professor should possess the Doctor's degree; demonstrated teaching ability. and a windowed office; In· .the event: a professor is assigned a basement office; he may draw a-window. on the basement wall and buy a television set. The Associate Professor should possess the Doctor's degree and notable achievement -in scholarship,· or,·_ 
does not involve indirect costs, be referred, in the dis­cretion of the Board of Trustees, to the President for final determination: The. President may hear such matter. either· en bane or through an a.d hoc com­. :. mittee made up of himself, the Provost and the editor -of the President's Newsletter. 
V. REGISTRATION AND .RELATED ACTIVITIES . · .All students must registe~ during the times an­
. nounced' by the Registrar. Coritrary to papular theory, it is ·from the Registration procedure· that the famed "Spirit of Notre Dame" originates.',Registration should be viewed by the student" as an.' exhilarating and chal­. -lenging event (cf. "They Shoot Horses, 'Don't They?"). It should be-borne in mind that in 1975-76'alone, some 22 students were ableJo·~nroli' in__ the co~rses ortheir choice. _; .· . ·•-· ,. . , ; _ . 
Classes for the Academic Year commence ori · the 
where appropria1e, by meaningful contribution to , ->date announced in the Universi(y ·calendar, ncirmally public service,, to the catering staff of Young America , around the end of July. -Students· are expected to at-on Parade~ or to the Alumni Fund. , -tend class regularly or punctu'ally, at ·their option.... 
.. The 'Assistant Professor should possess a confiden­
tial source on the A. and P. committee... . 
, The Instructor. should. possess an independent in­come. . ' ,. . c. -Tenure. . . 
. ·Tenure:is permanence of appointment Its purposes are .to protect academic freedom and _to enable the professor to remain calm even· while his students fill out course evaluation forms. ­
III.-. FACULTY SALARIES AND BENEFITS . 
The services of members of the •faculty are usually . engaged for •the school year.· In some cases,. services. 
of the' facuity may be performed in the summer and;. 
iii. aitern8.te·bicerite·nni3.l years/ be perforriled fo:r··addi­
· tional 'compensation: . . . 
Faculty benefits include the following: (a). Blue-' 
Cross-Blue Shield;• (b)' Major Medical; (c) pensiori. contribution; or (d) free.parking.. Each faculty mem~ 
ber is to elect each September·.·that one (1) of the 
above benefits .which he desires for the . current aca­
demic_year.: 

A member of the faculty ordinarily retires and be­comes emeritusif and when the Payroll Office ,finds out about his 65thbirthday. A member may retire at an earlier. age,. at his -option, or by -teaching seminars: Retired·emeriti are permitted to attend all of the Presi~ dent's addresses· to _the faculty, to pray in the Grotto, and to use pay telephones. 
Female :faculty are _entitled to a leave of absence 
At the beginning of _the Semester,' the instructor -shall announce .to the class the penalties.to be imposed .for excessive absences. ·An instnictor-may giv~ a fail­
ing grade to a student for excessive absences 'i1nless, ·of course, th.at studentwas ab~ent when the instructor announced the. policy.', ...-... . _·_ 
Students may presu'nie .that a class has been can­-celled if the instructor does not appear within 15 ~fo­. utes.. Conversely, the'. instructor #iay presume the 
class has been cancelled if the studentsdo not appear
within 15 minutes. ' · · · Gradingis as follows: .· , _ . . A = Bluebook coincide;· perfectly with. instructor's 
· · · -. -, , ·--: -views . · . ·,. ·, -, :~ >-· f • r
•• ,

B = Good work, but blueboolt' shows' some· sign of 
independent. thought. · · · · · C = Dullsville -· 
. D ·= Higher education is not:for·everyo~e. _F = Bluebook too 'difficult' to·-read ·· -: ' I = Incomplete ("Who is thi~ kid?") · ,., 
· • · • ·-·-·. .• ; 
VI. PROCEDURES FOR::REVIEWJ;NG AND AMENDING THE ACADEMIC MANUAL 
The Academic Manual is -~eviewed ·periodically to make certain that the paper on which it is• printed is used on both sides and is of a rough, heavy, nonflam­mable texture..Amendments may be proposed at any time but will he considered by the Board· of· Trustees only during the second half ·of' a: home football· game, 
·and then_ only if the ·score is lopsided. 

()cTO~~R__ 8, 1976 

of light followed by another. and circled the structure only to · Shadows constantly sweeping back find that its door was buried. On the

Jo_ttings 

and forth across the light described top, I discovered a metal trap door, 
the movement of leaves and branches but it was fused shut. There was 
in the wind. Behind me a wake of no· way around .it'~ !couldn't get 
. disturbed leaves weaved from one in..After my younger brothers and 
-· side of the sidewalk to the other, sisters had got;ten . there~. they began 
A 
but I-forced my feet on in as straight climbing on it and were shooting a path as possible. ,My neck was each other with imaginary machine 
··tired, and l couldn't find the energy guns, making high pitched, staccat_o to hold my head up without lean­-' noises with their throats'.· My ·. ing it all the way back; my chin · parents looked on to make sure that jutting up high and my eyes fixed none of the combatants were·iuirt: 
-N_·. • I •ght ·on the traffic light at the end of I stood off a w~ys and ·heard . 
. the road. When I tired of holding 
church bells ring-they rang-loud my head so, it fell limply forward, 
and frantic ail over the country'. I_ my eyes looking at my feet kick · . 
looked back; my :family was· no . through the leaves and stones. longer there, and the pillbox. had .. The goal of my walking was no righted itself in the stones. Between


Walk 

longer a small spot of light, but me and the water's' edge were long was now a well-defined traffic inter-rolls of barbed wire on wooden . section. -Beyond it was a locked stakes. Through the aperture of gate and a road leadinginto dark-the fortress, two worry-taut fac·es
by Mich·ael Feord 

ness. When I reached the inter-peered out from under flat; British section the light was green, and helmets. They stared out towards· 
· _I stood on the ·steps of Holy Cross . I crossed U.S. Highway 31, feet-· the'sea's horizon where a fleet of Hall at s·aint Mary's and looked • . plodding, head'spinning, hands in warships traced white paths ·on the down the road to Notre Dame. Spots pockets and skin cold. The fronts,· . surface and left a trail of black of lamplight filtered through the ,of my thighs were numb where,,. smoke against the grey sky. long·line of oak trees which my jeans rubbed with every.step. Bobbing on waves between the fleet bordered the road. Above the trees Below, my feet were _hot and were countless amphibious landing, was a. sky covered with clouds . sweaty. I wiggled my toes; they craft. Then there was noise. Air~ glowing from the· light of the moon .. were slippery and felt sore. craft whirled, screamed and shot at which they hid. Beneath the sky each other overhead~,-th.e ships , · 
· · · The road on the Notre Dame side
and on either side of the road, belched-sudden puffs of smo_ke,· and 
· · · of the intersection was covered with
everything was dark. . · . . shells came whistling down and· 
· · sand and· gravel. I kicked into it
I looked at my watch in the dim • exploded, throwing w_.ater, gravel,
· · · · · with the toe of my shoe and watched
light which came through the door · concrete .and men in all directions.
pebbles and dirt fly -off and hit

behind me. ·n was a quarter till . -_My foot ca.ught in_ a _po_th_ole·, _I
· · other· pebbles and particles of dirt, ­
four in the morning. Then, focusing stumbled; it_-was cold and dark.." 
my attention on the dot of red light forming, as they went, intricate-: at the end of the road, a ·dot which patterns of chain reactions. My Temporarily disturbed by the near seemed so far away, I put my hands · thoughts shifted to the past, to a fall, r re-established the rhythm in my pockets, hunched my · time six years earlier, and the . . -of my walk, feet plodding; hands in shoulders forward and started on skittering gravel became, · in my· pockets, shoulders forward, head , my way. It was damp and . . mind's eye, a beach of small, . down, skin cold. -. To my right the 
smooth stones; not sand, but stones.. Hghts from Fatima Retreat House's 
cold out, and a stiff_wind blew Unde·r·a pale· blue sky, the break1"ng ki 1 · h th h th
through my jacket. par ng ot s one_ . roug e ,__ , 
My_legs felt heavy and mechanical, waves continually pulled the stones . hedges which _bordered the·road. and my mind whirled in rhythm _ into the dark blue sea and then I preferred being)n England and_ with my steps. My teeth chattered _ tossed them back onto the shore turned my thoughts backto our_ when I didn't .consciously' grit · with.. a pulsating, crunching sound. . stay. them, and the muscles _around the There was a warm sea· breeze and, · ·-The stony beach 'and blue·sky were back of my neck and shoulders -· -in.the middle of the beach, aWorld· gone. Instead, I stood in a field oF periodically contracted· in a shiver. WarII pillbox whose narrow ·. damp, thick; bright green grass A long day and a longer night -· , opening stared unmovingly up at · under a grey, -misfy sky. In the ­were coming to a close. The only· the sky,_ its cement base having middle of the 'field, black sandstone thing left now was to make it to shifted during 25 years of disuse. ·and granite'.walls with long sweep-· 

that red, and-sometimes green, On a vacation trip"to that Devon--ing holes, \vhere majestic; stained-: light at the end of the road and shire beach with my family, I ran glass windows had been; formed~the then beyond it to the Holy Cross at ahead when I saw the relic of the ruins of the church of Glastonbury Notre Dame. war.; Reaching the small, tilted Abbey. The cloister had been razed 
As I walked down the sidewalk, shelter, I stood on its base and and only its square foundation what had been a distant string of peered inside. Itwas black and adjoined the church. My father told lights now became one isolated pool nothing could be seen. I jumped off me that when Henry VIII took over 
i, 
14 . SCHOLASTIC 
H 

· · the Church,· he drove the monastic communities out of the country and stripped the windows and roofs of their buildings of lead, leaving them exp_osed to the elements. Lead was very valuable, he said. The explanation irked me; it didn't recreate the splendid interiors fighting against rain and snow. It didn't r,ecreate timbers and tapes­tries struggling tci survive storms and scavengers. I stood there trying to rebuild and recover what had been stolen, until I was called away to join in climbing the tall, .. steep hill nearby which was the . legendary· site of.druids' worship. .· I made iny way up the sheer , sides; my· legs straining with the efforf of pus_h_h1g: me ,from one foot­
hold to the next. Around me a group of men with long hair a_nd uncut beards trudged up the hill, their robes, a bright moonlit white in the dark night, flapping in the · wind. The wind, itself, blew. strong, grabbed the fire of their torches, tore off sparks and ,flames and flung them into the dark. They. carried animals and food for sacrifice and canted solemn hymns in a lost tongue. 
Then I was surrounded by my brothers and sisters scrambling • up the hill in the middle of a grey, · misty day, my parents bringing up the rear. I got to the top, and all .· that I found was the top of a grassy hill covered with tourists. 
The circles of light that splashed 

OCTOBER: 8,• 1976 
onto the road on the Notre Dame side of the highway were fewer and less intense than those on the Saint Mary's side. I was past Fatima, almost done for the day. On my left, a flat, dark field ran out to a line of trees, silhouetted against the moonlit clouds. My nose was cold, my hands cramped from. holding them finger-to-palm in my pockets; my mind still foggy and my feet tired and plodding. Then I could no longer see my feet, and the field was not bordered by trees. 
I stood on the moors, miles of un­touched, rolling landscape. Knee­deep in heather, a strong, moist 'Yind made it impossible to hear and difficult even to walk. I stood on .the moors. A skinny kid wearing his school blazer with the collar turned up to the wind, I surveyed the scene-heather, drab green with spots of grey and yellow, waving wildly back and forth under; the steel grey sky, the sun a dull · white spot in the clouds. 
The feeling was one of pure exhil-' aration. The wind smashed into my face and my skin tingled with excitement; every inch of my skin responded to the call. My mind flew on the wind, whipped along with it, 
. dove into the heather arid bracken, jumped out again, and back into the . wind. On it raced, faster and faster, 
· · over the churning, green waves of the moors, out over cliffs and boulders, over crashing, white waves of the sea, over vast blue 
. expanses of an endless ocean, and then slowed down and lowered me .· gently onto the road between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
I was finally up to. the cemetery. Ahead was the path through the trees which led to Holy Cross, to warmth and a soft bed. I stopped and looked into the cemetery; the black wrought iron gate seemed to dance and twist as a tree whipped its branches back and forth across the street lamp at that section of 
.. road. Behind me was only darkness, except for the spots of light which mark,ed the road. Around me was the cold wind and, except for the wind; everything was quiet. 
I continued on my way. I went into the path through ·the trees 
·•. which led to the hall. An electric light at the entrance shone at the end of thepath, and I headed for it._ 
Tl 



Moo·co 
CLASSIC 

Fashion critick ''here wilLnotice' that·· denim,· pafrit~r•s·'pants,lind '!'­shirts have· become the N;D. "Clas­sics." ,Derii~, of' itself,: 'is : n·ot 'iiew, but its proliferation· in· every' avenue of fashion ~ :skirts)jeans, shirts/ jackets and;jwnpsuits,r, 'ii, an inter~ esting phenomenon. What was once the trademar:k of, the. counterculture rriay nowbe seeri": i~ leisure suits worn by business ·majors. , . 
. ·Thankfully, ··most··business :majors don't. wear leisure suits/ because only:a very big niancan wear them .without looking Hke:. a· model for Sears' Men's SJo.r~: Another popular item is painter's pants: Their baggy, rumpled. look· seemsi·to-represent a vacuum '. of' fashion; .' people will, 

. however, argue comfort., Bib-overalls: hav:e ·• gained a. mea~· . sure of popularity af du Lac. It used to be the:case, five years ago, .that ·. · oniy farm. boys w~uld wear them, but '.now both..girls and farm boys 
wear them. I like them on girls . .All · abuse aside, however, I am told that they are comfortal>le . . . by the farm boys. No,'Ttake that back.-:­. I know of too :many big · guys who 
wear bib-overalls:. . .. . . . . Hats· deserve,a·measure of com~ . '·ment. Why . 'doesn't . anybody .wear , hats· anymore? (ROTC exclµded, of course.. Their forni of dress Is very stylized , and . a bit', too ·cliquish for 
·rriy taste.) Back ·.fo hats: On 'oc­. casional Saturdays ·• some>. people : wear: knit caps thatsay_ ''IrishII or some other . such bosh: :.But except . for~tliat/r only. know of.one person on'campus who wears hats _::_,and . . . he .wears ·a hard ·hat.· t~ b,is. Milt<>n 
Cla,ss:.: ·' · 
·. One extremely ·bizarre,· yet ,com~ monplace 'form'.of 'dress here merits scmtiny.. People: have been known 

' to complain thai the_ image ·of 'du Lac is that · of -· a football school. Understandably, students ·and: schol~ 
< ars (ant'.I redundant?)-.'.resent~ that 
• --·~ > <' , . ,, ·_· ·<·-~~ -' 

16 ' ·' '.J SCHOLASTIC ' 
. ~ ·-.-_;_~,~-= --· ---~·.-. ---•...,,= ...-.---•~---------~-~-----....~ --~-· ~~-------,,,,. ~-., -:·-: -,· 
-. • -r=~ ---·---~----·-., . -• 
' ' 
. 

... . . . -. ­

-IE 

~lLEGIAIE 
... 

tOC)K-C 
by Jim Romanelli 

the rigor of thei:t:_ academic pursuits I is · ofttimes pooh-poohed by the out­
' 
side world. -After all, the mania of '.football lasts orilyhalf tlie year; But consider:: at what other university do meiiand' women consistently· ar­rive at ,the :dining _Jiau ·dressed., in well~exercised· sweats·? Answer:· no­where else. · ·" · · ·. · 
A small minority of people here dress in" a:) style';which · mighCbe termed >"remna.rits.· of;'.'a-;moderate strain-of,:countercultiire.,i.'Tiiis is 

-where ,:'you} ·wear' '·vests ·without . ja.cketsi'Hshoes<without· socks and . dresses 'without": support.·•-Usually, 
'these:,:people·':are=>art/-•English:' or brillia.nt1·physics<majors: The first two ,groups receive' a great ·deal of , 'abuse :·fof 'their''dress because; uni­

'ciormity''t·reigns·: ;at '·Notre" :!name. ,_ . Brillianf':'physics·' ina.jorii·' ta.ke no _,..abuse;•· nowever Jtiecaiise;·they·. are
' , . -.
brilliant physics "fuiijors~'' A'more· in-depth· :a:iialysis·'of' this' circumstance ·.reveals ·thata'.busiriess '.'majors:' (wlio are· ili"tlle "majority and'\vho--; typify conventional!ty there) •fcan''ridicule -the : art .ancF' English. majors _who . won't gef0 jobs -after they :graduate. But:brilllanf physics majors· will get 

-. better'jobs·than the business majors 
and' tiusiriess • ..•_ majors ,. can't. argue 'with'moriey. ':''' . ,.. . . . . ;!'. Theifina.Ftrend ,to' be : considered is '·tllat of -,the· fasliion~minded ·stu-­dent:~ Each fall :she arrives with an . 
-'arraf·of..the latest:early~fall;thirigs. {did'you expect'·me· to 'sayhe 'ar~ _rives witfr a full duffef:ba.g ·oi·\lie _-_.. ·la.test;~: summer·,. gyrnshorts?).i '_The 

•·biggest' fashioii :~vent/ however;:.°fs . when she·· returns from . October :or March':· ·bteak' \vearirig·cthe , cutest · sweater 'or' the':most~·iisque blouse . 
.. ---Criticisms~ aside,: ;however,·: this girl . does':a~d'.} soirie Jophl~Ucation· :arid . class to this'!wasteland'of fashion by 
. · :wearing' ski~ts 'or 'siniply-by-dressing ·witliknow1some:care'.'r0h'·bufaoesn't·she itf0l.~;-. -.:-;;/"t,: ~,__
:: " -, -~'" ;_-·:;·:,·1.{: .}:i·:-_[}";:.... .c.:-ft t-;·...-~-;-~_--:,•:-·~-:~ :.-:~·".'. . .::. 
. ,--­

..,.._­
•OCTOBER· 8, 1976 17 
-~----~-~----,-"--·----...,....,---~ ---,.---~--------------~ ~----~ ­
~~~ • 
-,, . . . ' 
Poetrv nttlte 7:ab!C: Nool<listfor Vou,rmets 
. by. Ri_chard La!'Jdry a~dJohn Sa~tos 

We have all, at times, done any-.. to overcome the ennui of politics and is .more !l}.emora_ble: it contains. thing but eat at the table .. It is peas? How to innervate every meal enough fo,rrnal richness that it is . such a pleasant partof the house, so that it may become the creative ableto_draw the reader back to:it .. the table. The swift wooden counter process it deserves to be? How do we again and again; . .,. .•. of it turning around to meet itself, finally reveal all the ancient melo-How _then is reading poetry secured mid-air by four posts, four· dies.and lyrics of eating? somewhat akin to. eating rice with legs, three ifyou are the owner of Theanswer can be as simple as a fork? We need only to.consult, a confident or dilapidated table. it is tasty: Make the meal itself a our daily experience,. We are: a Why should the table with all 'its literary process. The Spanish poet generation bombarded, like_ noother, wholeness and simplicity not act · · ._· and eater of some· renown, Antonio with written and spoken ..words. -: as a rialto for all the most common Machado, provides us with a quick We are subjected to such a flood . 
. endeavors of the.household? insight. in his short poem, "The Art of communication. that we no-longer It is a well-known fact that the of Eating".: have th~ sympathy with whkh·_a-,1, breath of song is taboo in the child,· for instance, deligh~_ in _an. 
; company of diners and the dinette. . The Art of_ Eating· individual word. We .are numb, and set. Nevertheless, we have all, at left without an a~them/ Like.people times, done anything but stay.silent Lesson one. Don't pic!kup •· accustomed to monotono~s diets, . and contrite at the table. We whistle,· your spoon with the fork.: . we are unfavorably .disposed toward we sing, the best of us with the . -. · · ' · · "-' trying ~omethfag new; .. ·· ·_ •· .,.. worst. Beethoven's Fifth Symphony_. The message here is obvi~~s itnd . .Our conventionaleducations have has been known to conjure the clear. Do_ not complicate the·· -· .not helped matters either.· Weha~e -images of eggplants or green' bell processes by which. you live. Eating been Jed, by teachers ,who ·themseives peppers with their solemn colours is as simple as its simple tools. . . have· misunderstood poetry, to : . and waxed figures. Perhaps _the The quick decisions of the knife.The _deal with it as.we would a legal .. German master was inspired by some slow embrace of the spoon. The argument:_.to dissect, interpret auspicious vegetable to break out precise measure and pierce of the . and wrench the meaning out of , 
; into whistling strains of powerful fork. ·_ . . . . poems u·n-til ,there is nothing ·left but sadness and joy, all at the table. · The same state ofaffairs may be a. structure of bones, colorless and 
More importantly (and with said to apply to poetry. (The editor without marrow. Likewise,:we have deference to the article's title), the · . reminds ~us that, after an,· this 'is all at some pointlearneci an ii-nposing age-old practice of reading at the an article about poetry.) The . . array of rules, each designed to tie. 
:table must be discussed, even tasted shapes of poetry are :distinct and us into· tighter knots of confusion . 
. in some depth. This habit also is purposeful like. the design of the_ But poetry.is mucfi" inoresimple than condemned by a hand that reaches . fork. Poetry picks aLunderstand-our teachers would.expect, ·aridthe· from behind the centuries to pull ing. It spears the ·sentiments and guidelines needed. in order to . ' .. the books away from us, replacing. brings th!:!m,to the mouth. We are, navigate in:.the sphere of.poetry are, them with the treacherously lean most of us, able to speak in one or Hke the rules for·.using ·forks, . . knife and the piercing, four-eyed -. many languages; some of us can· · remarkably few and.,simple: . figure, the fork. We must, however, dash off sentences, pa:r:agraphs and ., 1..Poetry is mean{to be read ­insist that like singing, reading at • doctoral theses if conditions are· · aloud. This fa> perhaps· the most .· the table suffers unjustly from its·, right, and a· few can even read fundamental ofrules, and uri-. . . prohibition. Yet we all know that them. We are all relatively com< :fortunately it is the fast one which we have, at times, been thoroughly fortable with words, to the point most of us learn..The poetic form.· 
-uninterested in the lean diet pro-. that we have (wrongly) taken our . is so. clpsely allied to songthat, like vided by speaking mouths around · literacy for granted. Poetry° exists song, poetry· deman.ds' tliaLwe loosen the dinner table and have longed for .. · in the medium of words. And poetry our bashful tongues arid let it' flow. 

more substantial fare. How then diffez:s_fro_~ prose 0_11ly _in that poetry .. _A, great meas_\!':'e _of _the_acl_ual__b~a~ty __ . . 18 SCHOLASTIC 
r 

of poetry lies in,its pleasant, natural 'rhythm. . _2. Poets mean what they say. Too 
often we. read anxiously, looking under the dress of every word and . metaphor; hoping to spot there a . softly-rounded .. symbolism, pleasing and universal. English literature. 
. relies heavily on such symbols, but . this knowledge should not keep us froin reading and appreciating the words on the printed page:/or 
.themselves.)£ the poethad meant something. else, he would have written: something' else. , 
-3. PoetriJ is, meant to be reread. A goodpc>em will mature.with each, successive reading~ Indeed, -it is c, 
-necessary to reread many poems in order to begirtto sympathize ,' with 'them: This is not the fault of , the reader;.it is in. the nature of poems to be rich and complex..We. -can easily be dmfused on tlie first time out. Some poenis do require · a knowledge· of special facts; but, these are not the first sorts of poems to. read. In fact,' one could make a:: list of books of·poems; none of · , which require a special knowledge,-· and all of which could excite for many years or" lifetimes. All lovers of poetry, like true gourmets, develop 
such lists of their weaknesses after 
a while; we share ours here not 
because we think it the best or most virtuous of lists, but because it contains poems which have made us, and continue to make us, full and happy and content. 
Walt ,Whitman, Leaves of Grass: Of ali the collections of poems mentioned,. Whitman's work suffers most · acutely from our habit. of . reading poetry silently. The beauty · and rhythm of song which is such an integral part of Leaves of Grass disappears within the prison~house of silence, leaving a lifeless, redun­dant structure. But Whitman freed by sound is both charming and expansive, a delight· and continual pleasure.' · 
Petrarch, The Sonnets: Here is the poet's.poet. :A, man in love, forlorn, writes all his life of the glorious creature, Laura. These ornately beautiful poems are a lyric of the ... heart. Like no otlier poet, Petrarch writes' with a pen filled of mind, -. soul and body. But he is sad. And these sonnets which span a lifetime focus quickly on the most· delicate .. images of sad hours. You rr1ay cry, · but you.\Vill enjoy. · 

--.:::::-: 
~ 
-;=,-;s..~=-..-~..!E::.--::..... 
_,,..,
·­

Ezra Pound, Cathay: Regardless of the controversy surrounding their. accuracy as translations, these poems taken from the Chinese . represent, in their simple intensity, · Pound's best and most lasting work. The unique clarity of perception for which the Chinese poets are noted is masterfully captured here; Cathay is as immediately attrac­tive. as it is. unusual. 
John Keats, Collected Works: This poet died very young. His brief offering of poems and letters, though, is a grave and monu­mental series in the history of liter­ature. Almost flawless in their lyrical form, the poems are some­times brilliantly joyous and piercing­ly haunting. After Keats learned that he would die of tuberculosis, his friends saw to it that he would be accomp~nied to a place where . the climate would serve to ease his last days. John Keats rode on a train to Italy with a man he did not know, realizing that he would die there. The poems sometimes seem to' contain a premonition of death and in many ways they are like journals from a death voyage to a warm country where everyone speaks a different language. 
'•i.. , 

•· :' OCTOBER· 8, i976 19 _ 


west, as the train passes through South Bend, past Bendix, through farmland and suburbs, by Gary, . along Lake· Michigan ·and: into ~i-. 
cago. ..,;,_! -· There are countless other fringe benefits: on the South Shore? by"-vir.:. tue of 'the ·mix .'of people th.at ride 
..the train; A student might be offered a beer and a valuable lesson' in life by a lady truck driver sharing the next seat/or'ruri. info a· group of nos­talgic Notre Dame alumnfriding the train. to'.'Chicago and back "just'for
old times''sake.i• -' . . .... The~e· i~ hot ~lich· 0that tiie_-N~tie Dame student body can do 'to save the beloved _':Vomit_ Co~11et''.','ir~m dying its natural death other_ than to vigorously encourage: St.. Joseph's County and.Porter County to,estab;< lish a Fund Transportation Council' (as have Lake arid La POrtei coun­ties)' which would deal' with the "Laaaststop! ... .'En.rind of'the '·The ~nd of 'the' South Shore pas-problem. No source of funds has been !Hine! ... We don't go aaany fuuurr:: senger service to -Chicago would developed by any of these four 'c:oun~ therrr, '. .. watch your step; don't represent ·a co~siderable loss to the ties that tlie train serves.-~ ._ _ , ­trip ....Laaast stop, '.... ~nnd of_ the Notre Dame community, not just in The -S.outh Bend Public__Transpor-. line!'_'. ''.. . ... . . ··.· •.· .· terms of 'a transportation .alterna.-·
-• • · · · · · · tation.Corp. has made it particularly
_Anyone who has ever ridden the tive, but also in_ terms of a cultural difficult for the South Shore Line to South. Shore Line to Chicago may learning 'experience. A ride on what reco~ize· -these lirt"es chanted daily is aff~ctioriately called the "Vomit get aid in this area. The sentiment is by a tall, white-haired conductor as Comet'.' is i'ike ii trip throhgh the that the train,· which is . a private the train.pulls into Chicago eri route past.' For_instance; one of the con-. business, should• not receive' funds
• before ·the public busing project;
from South Bend. These days his me-ductors is a perfect example of the !odious warnings .bear an. ironic Petticoat Junction stereotype train-which : is extensively used -by· 'the 
• -people of the city.. Meanwhile, the
significance. It seems that Decem-men of years ago. Tall, heavy-set,
· · · South Shore, by operating its ,pas­
ber may bring the last stop,.the end slow, he lazily bellows out the names senger service at a loss, has , pre­of the line, for not just one trip on of stations as the train · approaches 
-· · --vented itself from being competitive the South Shore Line, but for all them. He saunters· up arid down the_ in freight transportation by using
trips to follow. The effects of time_ aisles, chomps on a sandwich; . cau-· ­freight ·revenue -to subsidize passen­and financial problems are finally tions to a group of men who ·are _· , -. • ger service. There is · · no simplecatch.ing up with the passe.n__ ger ser-hurrying to get off the train: ."Slow 
· · · solution.
vice that has served South Bend and down, boys. You'll burn a _hole in the Notre Dame community for over bottom of my pants.''. · ·. If no funding from tlie public fifty years. . The South Shore rail.car·s are also sector ,comes through _befor_e Decem-
The South Shore Line is aremnant . remnants of better. days. Most of · . her 1, the South Shore Line will file of another era when public trans-them are at ·1east~ _50 years old, -with the Interstate Commerce· Coin­portation was the backbone of mo-though they had .-predicted life ex-mission to stop services. Hearings and bility in the United States. Its prob-pectancies of only .30 to 35 years. -studies ~ould prolong service· for an­lems are typical of those faced by They are tired and rickety, they other· year or so until the ·decisicm all sectors of public transportation squeak and rattle, their-paint is is made, and either the service.Is today, whose funding was gradual• chipped a_nd peeling, and the. cups to. terminated or a practical plan is pro­ly diminished to make way for the_ the water .coolers collapse before. vided. for its continuation. rise of the American Dream Ma~hine, ' they're full. But new cars \cost: Autho~itie~ e~press little hope· for the· auto. Unless the .public sector $80,000 apiece, and a new fleet the survival of the trains. The Notre comes to· the South-Shore's rescue would represent a $35~milliori proj-Dame community should prepare to soon with new tax dollars to keep . ect. Renovations are almost as costly, · fight an upward battle. Otherwise, it the trains running, the railway will and would result in new cars of the will have to. bid a_fond farewell to reach the point of· no return. The same 50-year-old design .. the most economical.and adventur­South Shore Line has -been operat-Other -benefits of the ride on· the ous way to get-to_,Chicago via public ing at a-deficit of expenses over. rev-; South Shore are not to be over­transportation, short of hiding in the 
approaching $3 million per looked. A day trip provides the pas­luggage, compartment. of a: Grey­sengers with m1 overview of the Mid-hound bus. 

TENNIS COURT REGULATIONS 
I. THESE COURTS HAVE ATHIN SURFACE&NO POINTED OBJECTS ARE PERMITTED PLAYERS MUST WEAR TENNIS SHOES.--­
2.PLAYERS MUST/REGIST.ER & SROW I.D. 
3.PERSONS ENTERING COURTS WHEN CLOSED MAY BE PROSECUTED.============== 
by John Delaney 

Beware!. All spike-wearing tennis unusual title. It's called, "Drop Kick his office keys, the two hurried _out players, spearchuckers and people . ·Me Jesus (Through the Goalposts of of the arena headed in the direction, with sharp teeth: the tennis courts Life)". Now if Notre Dame ever ·. one player speculated, orthe hockey next to Cartier Field are off limits. . nee~s a new fight song, the place to . rink. "These courts have a thin surface. go is obviously Bobby Bare.. No pointedobjects are permitted ..." .. ·~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~-~-~Q~~~~~~~~~~~Q~~ Richie Ashburn, formerly a major 

, league baseball player and currently a broadcaster, recently related a true refutation of the maxim, "Lightning never strikes twice." Once during a game, he fouled off a pitch which flew into .the stands and struck a woman spectator on the head. While she was being escorted from her seat to a first-aid room, Ashburn hit an­
fence, Tini put his 0 head down and 
other foul which, you guessed it,took off in a spirited home-rim trot. 
hit the same lady on the head. For­Garry Maddox, the runner at first tunately for her, he missed the next and one of the faster Phils on the pitch. 



Gallery 

by William Reifsteck 



22 
SCHOLASTIC 



OCTOBER 8, 1976 
Pardon Me, Sir, Is this the Freshman English Express?_ 
Teaching 


Assistants at 

Notre Dame 

by Greg Marshall recently repeatedJn .these pages .. strategy: of . absence, whether·_ b~ · (Annemarie Sullivan·,_ "Freshman cause of the overcrowding or because Year: Protection or Restriction?" . of the wet gym clothes draped, 
Gregory Marshall is a native Scholastic, September 10, 1976, pp. by our resident long-distance · Kansan, a Vietnam veteran, and has 8-9.) Since TA's teach 32 out of runner, over chairs, desks and par-taught Comp and Lit at Notre Dame this fall's 40 sections of Comp and titions to dry to their fullest per~ from 1913 to 1916. He holds a BA in Lit, compared· to only a few sections fume. A panel of distinguished Government from Central Missouri of Freshman Seminar, since t have professors from other universities, State University, an MA in English neither the knowledge of nor an . who last spring reviewed our grad-from Emporia, Kansas, . State Col­interest in defendirig those who only· uate-program in English, found .· lege, and is currently a Dissertation . grade assignments or -lead once:.a-these facilities, track meet or no, ·Year Fellow in the' Department of week discussions and, above all; . shocking and ridiculous: Things · English. He writes poetry, is an since my own experience of teaching _are better now, just in' time for me aficionado of low-speed, short-dis~ Comp and Lit at Notre Dame for 'to riot get the advantage of them tance running, and effects a skill at three years so qualifies me, my re-. . (I have retired into full~time . amateur sleight-of-hand. Please check marks can claim direct relevance . _scholarship)~ English TA,'s are .. your pockets after reading his essay. · only. to teachers: and students of three to an 8' x 10' in the old 
Comp and·Lit. . . music· practice rooms· on _the second 
Freshman year and graduate Being a-TA is not all fun.: Our floor of O'Shaugh:nessy,·and, of. school are similar rites of passage, facilities, for one thing, fail to recent note, have at last been and once in a while these parallel wholly disspirit us only because awarcled locks for the doors ang one courses; like the lines imaginative they are so totally comical. Before ' c phone to use. geometers suppose to meet at infinity, ·_ I came to Notre Dame, I taught at" ·· · Beginnings are the most frighten; meet in a classroom, usually. one Emporia State of Kansas; where ten ing, and in retrospect, the mosf · . designated for English 109, Compo-of us shared four small desks in two interesting parts of rites of passage. sition and Literature. Stich a -class-tiny rooms. When all of us showed Rob Tully, president ·of the Class room is at a muchniore definite-up at once, like at7:30 a.m; since we . of 1977, has been characterized for location than is infinity, hut what always_• got the prime hours, we ·--•' me by his parents as the -world's happens there, _or whatis·supposed would ·develop overcrowded-rat~cage·-. greatest. bullshitter. Bqt when it·. to happen there, often is just as · ·symptoms, squealing andbaring our. : came, in the fall of 1973, fo putting vaguely, or as creatively, defined.. teeth at one another. I took, there--:~· all that stuff down on paper, I found . The proposition that courses · .. fore, to absenting myself whenever ·.: him distinctly uridertrained. infact, taught by graduate students, or . possible.· When Tgot to Notre·Dame, ·•·· Rob,and Ij>robably saw eac_h other Teaching Assistants (TA's), are a· .I found an'. even worse situation: at our respective worst, during our liability; a "problem" for the : 31 TA's sharing six desks in one firstseinesters at_Notre Dame.-J:Ie University to overcome, is .a cliche room. _Fortunately, at least half of recalls being both apprehensive and of acadeinicdiscourse, and one them had already adopted my excited about seeing his first N.D. 
-. '. SCHOLASTIC 

):: 

prof at the 8 o'clock hour that. beginning Wednesday. Then I walked in, sucking coffee through my beard, long hair flowing, dark sunglasses glaring blankly; If"it hadn't been. ·so funny, he . would've• cried and ·. gone home: I• didn't wear regular clear spectacles for. some tiine, ' having lost mine, .and when I finally put on my-long-awaited new ones, the whole · class booed in unison .· and told me to go back to the shades. Rob has found TA's, whatever their eyesight, hard to deal with. "I think grad students teaching for the first time come off arrogantly," he says, "like they have .all the answers. : Sometimes kids .just feel more com­fortable with a' regular prof." He · thinks, . too,· that, since. peers. tend to be more severe toward their fellows,;TA's demand more of stu­dents in,respon~ to the demands made on. them ill grad school. For Rob; obviously, ,the comradeship inherent in the . parallelism between freshman year and. graduate .school failed to materialize. · · 
.. The problem of arrogance, or con­versely of timidity, the problem ·· of how aggressive•to be. and what image of what kind of authority to 

. , project is a central one for novice teachers. ·•Chad· Tiedemann, . now. a junior prominent in N.D. Young. , 
· Republicans, was ,straightforward • enough to let me know, about •half­way(through our Comp and. Lit course of spring 1975, that he . ,·. thought I should be more.aggressive in directing the:flow of class dis­cussion.:! could, still can, see his point. As it happens, though; •Walter 
l. '. . .·. 

·OCTOBER' 8, 1976 
Davis, my advisor and, teaching 
mentor, visited sessions of that same 
class, and noticed that I was some-· 
times too aggressive in pursuing a 
point, often to .the extent of missing 
out on topics the students we.re ap­
parently ready to talk about, in . 
favor• of the one I was·determined 
to have them talk about. A. J. 
Ouellette, who unlike Rob saw me 
at close to my best during spring 
semester 1976, finds: that the TA's 
she has encountered have these con­
flicting demands· in. reasonable bal­
ance, enough so, atleast, to be quite 
approachable and accessible. ''You 
don't feel so stupid," she tells me, · 
"going up to someone who's a 
student the same as you are and 

saying you don't understand some­. thing." Sheis especially appreciative of the amount of time TA's have to give and the willingness with · which they give it. 
. None of this is anything new to 
Donald .Sniegowski,· ·a fisherman · . 
and Rhodes scholar;who is in his 
fourth year. as Director of Under­
graduate English and boss of 
English TA's. The TA's like him well 
enough to call him "Sniegs," and · 
he likes them well enough to put 
up with it, and with their complex 
and obscure Polish · jokes. The 
distinguished outside reviewers 

were impressed.with the TA program 
in the English department, and 
the director0is-:not too·modest to 

agree. "I'm _very happy with the performance of. the TA's in the · course," S11iegowski affirms. "I've 
said that publicly a number of 
times," He is.probably_more con~ 
.-. . . ,-_, -. . . ,. , . 
scious than anyone of the problems of the first-time teacher, since.part of his job is to help solve them, but he is quick to point out that those problems are not peculiar to TA's: of five regular English faculty teaching Comp and Lit this semester, two are first-time teachers and a third has never taught this or any other freshman course before. Furthermore, -Sniegowski adds; many beginning TA's have had prior experience in teaching, ·some in high schools, some, as I did, at other colleges, and can bring to Notre Dame and share with their fellows 

. added perspectives on teaching. Thus, he concludes, "Whatever di­rection I offer TA's is offered as 
. from one professional to another." 
The main teaching strengths Sniegowski sees in his TA's are the energy,. enthusiasm and encourage­ment of students A. J. sensed and Rob found wanting; TA's have a 
· special opportunity to develop such qualities . because, their teaching, 
·load. is. one . section· _only;· Teaching but 20 students at.a,time allows one not only thoroughness of class preparation and, commentary. on .. assignments, but permits as well 
.concentration of psychic energy on the task of getting to know students. Writing,,even• on the most imper­sonal of, topics, is a very basic 
•expression of selfhood ... Through contact with the basic selves of ·, students;,contact not possible for a faculty member.with 40-60 other . students to.worry about, a TA can connect with writing problems and. virtues at a• deep and 'essential 
·level. Personal , consultation is ,"• : invited; in many, cases required, and is facilitated by the six hours of, , office.time TA's. are required to .-' !teep: each .week. Such .focus on:. individual persons and their_indi-· vidual problems pays off, Sniegowski thinks,,and he cites as particular instances· that.pleasure him• the.·,. number of outstanding· students guided into the Committee·on·:Aca­
·demic Progress by TA's and the posite memories of Comp and Lit he encounters. <'I'm encouraged by, the, number of . sophomores ·and• 
·juniors who talkto me about the good experiences. they've.· had· in,.· English -109,". he relates.. "In fact,: quite a few.of,them ask me if a .: particular TA is still around, so they can ask for letters of recommenda­tion.'' ,'. 

Although he hasn't asked for any 
recommendations (yet), R.ob arid I 
are still friends. · · The possibility of 
such friendship and respect I at-. 
tribute to the coxswain· being in the 
same boat as the rowers, the TA 
being in a situation similar to that 
of the freshman.· 1 usually blush 
before military. metaphor, but there 
is something to be· said for the old ­

ideal of the officer or non-com who · don't ask ,nothing of the inen he 
can't. do his own self. What this ­
amounts to in Comp and Lit is' read­
ing and.writing:' the TA views',· 
others' difficulties· with these skills ' 
through the humanizing lens. of his 
own current problems. The TA can 
also rejoice in the 'job; if not well 
done,· at least done on time. 
Any other. situation, I. think,-is 
corrupt. Teachers. must'.not be those 
who cannot do, but must do along 
with their. students. · In· the back­
ground of the cliche we started with 
is the idea that some professors .· 
aretoo busy with their own research 
to teach.,: At Notre Dame,· with its 
admirable· emphasis on the quality 
of ·undergraduate:. teaching,. this 
idea sometimes· gets: turned: around: 
to teach well, the professor must 
de-emphasize research;:he-or she 
must not.·go along with his.or.her· 
students. Well, rot and nonsense, 
I say. In my experience, those who 
are busiest .with their own scholar­
ship and' publication are the best . 
teachers, 8.J!d the most available· and 
helpful to students. The problem is 
not that some professors are too , 
b_usy·with research;-it's that too · 
many of them aren't·busyrwith 
anything at all. These we are·all 
burdened by, but we are blessed· 
with, the • presence of . those ·others : 
who prove that the ideal of the 
scholar/teacher is· a living ideal.: 
I·have found that TA1s·are in•a i 
position-to emulate this ideal, if·•· _, 
very . • imperfectly ·and only for a :: · 
short time. My colleague Steve ·. ·, 
Smith; a TA for three years· and ,.. · 
currently Senior Teaching Fellow,< 

thinks TA's are closer to the subject · matter · of Comp andLit, the basics of reading and writing, than some faculty are. My writing arid drinking (not necessarily in that order). buddy, Nich Talarico, long-time TA (Sniegowskiis getting tired of seeing his face at those meetings), active,. and published poet and musician · 
. e:r:trcwrdinaire, uses his background 
in the creative and performing arts : as a basis for innovative. treatments of literature and expression. Other TA's follow suit, capitalizing on their 
, own unique capabilities to create the classrooms they 'think most ·en­joyable and useful. The effectiveness of these ploys varies, no doubt, but my _Teacher­Course Evaluations (TCE's) and ' those my friends have shown me . suggest that· students thirik TA's about as competent as faculty,· burden· or blessing. 
· : I thinkit would be enjoyable and profitable for regular faculty to have to share the burden and blessing of Coinp and Lit now and again;. and I have said so• often enough that whenever I· raise my hand in a ­departmental meeting nowadays I hear groans and muted, desperate cries: -"Oh, no· -here we go· · again." I think, for one thing, that· faculty should meet their. public, the Notre Dame students whose tuition and future contributions to the University go toward salaries. I-. think, for another, that regular· faculty· could well .get acquainted : again with the basics of. their :. ·: ­discipline(s) ·and maybe meet up with some new teaching ideas, too.. 
AU of this comes around to another cliche of academic discourse, one related to, and perhaps at the root of, the one we began with: 
.that teaching.freshmen is not: '.'significant" work,. that it is not sufficiently. "interesting". to those of sophisticated training. I usually stay further away from morals than from metaphor or anything else, but this position is offensive to me.·· Au contraire: it is not less "sig-. 
· niflcant" to teach freshmen basic 
•skills than· it is to· teach sophomores and juniors something h'ke literature and the American Indian Hoo-Hah, nor is ·it less "interesting" to teach freshmen what poetry is like than· to teach graduate students Olde Icelandic Arcana. However, despite what I imagine as the stunning im­pact of my openly·. scornful. but··· · · self-evidently true moralization, · one of the privileges accorded senior faculty is relief from· such drudgery as Comp and Lit portends. This prejudice, moreover, is· institu­tionally reinforced, as· senior faculty also get higher pay and better work­ing conditions·. tharianyone, junior facu1ty·or TA, who teaches freshmen. The problem of· students who can't write,: and this is the one problem. most ·everyoneJs beginning to agree on, can be solved just-like . any other problem-"is solved:: find i the people who can do the-job, make it possible for them to·do thejob;· pay them decently·and stand back. 
. Energy, enthusiasm,. prejudice, .. imagination,. creativity, infinity ­I've.thrown-around a lot of words, or.as'Rob might say, a lot of bullshit.. But people need to·find words for whatever is valuable to·. them; · Eskimo· languages, for. ·· 
.·. obvious reasons, have up.to 1a words ,for snow; Cantonese, because of the importance· attached in China to .· kinship ·structures, has three,; words for_ uncle.. My experience as· a TA atNotre Daine is valuable _to ... 
<me, and:soI have found these· . . ·,·words for it. Freshmen come to. · -. Notre Dame 'with plenty of ·words · for· sex, booze, sports arid rock,' · : music. Most of thein want to find 
. other· words· for other things, too. TA's,· having been .tliere not long. .. · before and in some sense still there , now, try to guide freshmen in their .'. search, show them the words others 
have found, and help them ·figure· _ ·, out what to do with· the words they finally find for themselves • 
SCHOLASTIC 

BENEATH THE· PAINED 
-,Why· would a person suffer the pain and exhaustion. brought on by running . 80-90 miles a week? ·For glamour and fame? Hardly. Some people at Notre Dame are probably unaware that the University has a cross-country team; Senior Jim Rein­hart, this year's captain,· explains: "We 'run "i2 months a year; put in lots ·of work, all ·for little or no glory. We have an avid core of 20 to 
30 .fans; but, the rest of the campus isn't that interested." -· 
Cross-country may be an esoteric sport, but that doesn't bother most of the teams The runners agree that the· major revenue sports probably deserve. the greater recognition that they get. As one N.D. runner said, ''Of course it would· be nice if we had more·fans, .but·cross-country is more of a personal sport anyway." · 
· The thousands ·of miles a distance 


EXTERIOR 
-by Marc Novak 

Compare this to the average adult rate of 70 to 80 a minute and this will give a good indication of the superior cardiovascular capacity and efficiency of a runner. Also (weight watchers take note) a distance run­ner weighs 10 to 15 pounds less than an average adult of his height. The fewer pounds a runner has to carry over a five-mile race distance, the faster he can travel. 
As to the reason why other ath­letes are out for this sport, one runner remarked: "I don't see why these questions arise. Do people ask football players why they play foot­ball? I run because I like it." 
After many miles of hard training, cross-country meets may seem anti­climactic. Jogging five miles is dif­ficult for some people, . but·. a good cross-country runner can cover the distance in about 25 minutes. 
runner · strides. yea~ly _ do tend to , -The moments before a race, as. be­
add adash of self-sufficiency to his personality. The individual satisfac­tion that a runner receives is some­times tli~ most important factor in going out for the sport. Reinhart ex­· pressed this opinion: ··''My· goal is to do the best I can for myself," he said. 
_Some athletes see. the cross-coun-: 

try season mainly as a preparation 
for track. Dennis Vanderkraats, the 
number-two runner on the team ancl 
a participant in the Canadian Olym­
pie Trials; uses the fall sport fo get 
in shape for track. "It's important to 
get a good mileage base in the fall," 
he said. "Cross-country gets you in. 
great shape." 
Running is used to tone up ath­

letes in almost all sports, and distance 
running is the ultimate sport for 
conditioning. Exactly "how great" 
a conditioner itis is revealed by pulse 
rate and body weight. The average 
pulse rate of a distance runner is be­
tween 40 and 60 beats a minute.. 
fore most athletic events, are often tense. Each runner raises questions about his ability not just to ruri fast, but to finish the entire distance. · "What happens if everyone blasts the · first two miles? Should I let thein go and hope they die, or should I stick with them? Should -I risk going_ at 
·the three-mile mark?" 
As soon as ·the starter shoots his pistol, all anxiety disappears, and all thoughts turn to the task of putting one foot in front of. the other -as quickly as possible. 
· Each person has his own strategy 
•for the race. The lead runners bear the burden of the run. They break the wind for the ones behind who are watching the leaders' every move. The front runners control the pace, but the runners immediately behind "draft" or "sit on" the leaders. If the front runners pickit up, the fol­lowers will also speed up the pace. Once a runner tries to make a break from the pack he must obtain a sub­stantial lead. If he falters he will be overtaken ·immediately'. 

There is not a great deal of psych­ing out opponents in. cross-country. Vanderkraats "jtist tries to run an even pace and get a fast time." Again, the personal goals.~ improv­ing one's: time or simply doing as well as possible -are the main goals of runners. · 
Top man Reinhart just tries -to stay with the competition. "Some­times I sing;a song in_myhead arid run to it to, keep a good rhythm, or to keep up.''. · 
If a runner doesn't •~keep up" or doesn't. do well, there is no loss of scholarships, . since there areri't any cross-country -. scholarships to. lose. There is no terrible trauma or emo­tion over not doirig .as well as . ex­pected. Most runners forget their bad races and savor their good ones. The simple thrill of being able to run is sufficient gratification. It's not some­
. thing that everyone can do. To para­phrase an old saying: I was disap­pointed that I didn't run well, until I saw a man with no legs. 
· · The human body is a magnificent machine.. When it runs as it should, the movement is exquisite. This rapid movement by foot· is the basis of all sports, which makes cross-country the purest form of athletics -or is it an art? 
OCTOBER 8, · 1976 


··.Let's Make a Deal 
:when a college'.recruiter comes to the. house _of a prospective athlete, he will try to impress on that athlete the finer attributes of the schoolthat he represents. While the recruiter speaks; the athlete listens and listens and listens.. Vecy little of what the recruiter is saying will be new·. to the .athlete;.· the-only. difference ~­tween what this recruiter is saying, and what the last one said is the dif-. ferent naine; ' .· . . '. . . . . • . 
"Well, usually. it starts out with a school contacting you by niall. and .then they\vait to see if--there is any sign of ·interest .by the. recruit,".ac­cording to Rich.Branning. Branning is -from Huntington, California,. and last;year. at-this time he was going through ::the, recruiting ;game. All total,. he. was·contacted by over -100 schools'.-> \ .. 
Following ,the. initial contact,with· the school by mail, the coaches will th~n: find. out if the athlete will be . academically eligible for Notre Dame. Frank McLaughlin;' assistant basket­ball coach and . recruiting coordina­tor for .the team,, poirite,d ·out that . last, year. out of the top 75 high school basketball prospects; 43 :did not· qualify/for the University aca­demically.: This -cuts the , available pool down further for the.recruiters. 
· The:. recruiting·. policies· followed by different'schools \racy~ Some come on. with the hard ·se~ some soft-sell it; while others might use a:combina­tion· .oLthe two/· letting the area alumni sell the schoolhard while the coaches will ~-the softer approach;· 
-,1Ty .Dickerson; freshman wide: re,; ceiver_for the football team, felt·that_ Notre Dame tries. to_ use the soft~sell approach. "Coach Brian Boulac. (line coach:. and· recruiting , coordinator).' came on·'in sort of a mild_.mannered way and brought out the fact that·I could. play early, that-I would be get­ting the· best education and that my. future · would be good. at · Notre Dame.",·· 
The recruiters are usually assis­tant' coaches of the various sports. Once they know who will qualify for the University academically,-they can go into· action. For football,. the coaches cari · begin contacting the athletes in August, but once the sea­son for high schools begins, this con­tact has to· be limited to. the week­ends. The basketball:coaches have to wait until the first. day. of the· ath­lete's senior year to contact him. ,.• 
·, According to a recent NCAA rul­ing, the athlete can only have·three official • visits from · someone repre­senting the university, which· means that the coach can ·visiLthe athlete and wine and dine.him at the maxi­mum of· three times .. · Boulac pointed out that when he:was:' recruiting Steve ·Niehaus'. for Notre Dame; which was prior to the NCAA's .· new . and ·: tighter . regula­tio~s, Niehaus admitted'that'one ~ay 
by Tom Kruczek 

he went out.to eat three times with three · different recruiters. · During Niehaus's senior· year,· Boulac him­self was:in Cincinnati·36 times, and each time Niehaus . received a visit from Boulac.. 
-.. Following ..the visits from :the coaches,, and sometimes more than 50 schools actively pursuing the ath­lete, he .has to.-pick, out· six -schools which he would like to-visit;·In past years, the senior could,visit any num;.; ber of schools that he wanted .to and Boulac. pointed · out that he knew athletes who spenfo nearly · every weekend of the year on· the road and some weekdays as well. · · · . ··. During the 48 hours that the ath­lete is on campus, the coaches: like to have ·him, spend time with. other athletes from the team and·. to get a feel for· the,university. In the last two years, :six basketball , recruits have visited the University on an of­

;·-::,: SCHOLASTIC 

flcial weekend, while for football · tions also. help to keep the recruiting Rule." around 80 athletes came. In the end budgets down in schools, and that Other things can be done which last year .basketball gave out two can be the other motivating factor are not so legal, and the fact that 22 scholarships, while the football team behind the imposing of the limita­schools are now on probation, most­gave out its maximum of 30. tions. Also another additional bonus ly_ through recruiting violations, 
But the fact remains that no mat-. · sprang from the limits, as Boulac points out ·that some coaches are ter how. low-key a school's recruiting pointed out. . · . .-_ . . _-... riot beneath breaking the rules on policy may be,if 50 schoois follow "Look at the football seasons in the occasion.· . the athlete· around, he still is facing .. past couple of years orJook a(what McLaughlin·· speculates that the a very demanding· schedule. "Re-has _happened already this year in. reason a school might offer sonie­cruiting was coaches calling .my . college footbali. There have been· a . thing· extra to· a player would· be be­home, letters from all the interested lot of upsets, and what is happeriirig cause it can't• compete on an equal schools and a lot of bothering," fresh-' 
basis >with other schools unless it ·man quarterback Kevin Muno re­adds something to entice the athlete. lated. Muno was _also· pursued _by ·"When you're buying a ·Mercedes, UCLA arid :USC. ,· · . the dealer doesn't ·try to' toss in the 
Although _the athletes contacted air· conditioning· to get you to buy 
_admitted to feeling pressure, each· . the car," -McLaughlin related. "But alsq stated that the experience, _by .when you're buying a Volkswagen, and large, was a good one..Willard the dealer might because there is ·a , Browner, freshman running · back, difference in quality between the 
, was one who reflected this viewpoint: Mercedes and the Volkswagen. I feel ''Actually; recruiting wasn't that big Notre Danie is the' most honest pro-· a deal. If they would have all been ·gram.-run, and that is barring none." after me at the same time, it would• .. · -'In many of the cases of the schools ·have gotten· pretty hectic. But one · which were on·probation, it was not coach would come one week and·one the coaches who' made illegal flnan­would_ come the following week, so cial offers·to the athletes, bu~ rather this way, it wasn't all that bad..It the alwnni.'.' Although alumni· can was all in all a nice experience. It visit' and talk with prospective ath­was something you worked for since letes, if they officially represent the you were a child and it was areward~ university,; it' would be: considered 
ing experience."· :: "· . . _one' of the :three visits. Of course, 
But the problem with recruiUng'_is . . like the "Bump Rule," if an alumnus that there are· other schools which just happens to run into a highly ·may not feel that the athlete should -recruited player; he might just hap­,conie_out of the recruitinggame with pen to mention something about the a · nice feeling and that · the high-· · is that there. is greater balati~ now._-school and why he should play there. pressure approach would• be better. The schools which in the past · It is doubiy unfortunate for the 'For example, Washington State. Uni-. couldn't compete with places which athlete wllen a school has a group_ of versity will have around 40 to 50 . gave out ·1ots of scholarships ·can rabid alumni like Notre Dame. How~ ,basketball players visit the campus compete now because of the limits on -ever, both Kuchen and Boulac stated ·in the course of.the year for visita-themimber of scholarships a:·school that the a:lumni have not been a don -ieekends:: Others just Hke to can give.out.".. . . .. . hindrance to recruiting, but rather 
spend . money, and lots of it. Mc-. · ·Of course,·· this . rule can '. be have been a help. The a:lumni from 
Laughlin, \\'hile not giving an exact limitations, the NCAA .proved that Notre Dame are·gerierally a success­
flgure, pointed out that because . it had a sense of humor with the ful group, and. the coaches pointed 
Notre Dame will deal with fewer· "Bump Rule." Kuchen pointed:0ut out that when that. is shown to an 
athletes in the course of ayear, they that this permits a coach, if he sees·. athlete, he'll usually be impressed 
can keep 1recruiting costs down. Ile ·. a recruit on a visit to his school that · with what a Notre Dame education 
pointed out that Oregon -spends · is not· directed toward getting that · can'do for a person. 
arouri·d $80,000 a year on basketball particular athlete; the coach :doesn't When tlle final decision has• to be 
recruiting. • . . have to walk past. the· athlete and made, it comes down to what Mc­
!'I agree ·that the nature of re-ignore him;' He cari talk with him, Laughlin· described as "a decision 
cruiting is· all too often pressure," but -wining and dining is definitely to be made by the athlete"and his assistant basketball; coach . Dick out.·•_ .. · . . family." Many recruiters realize that . Kuchen said; '-'But the NCAA, in im-Of . course this · rule can · be for many an athlete, after the.parade 
posing limitations on the riumber of stretched 'to the ridiculous, and it has finally left his ·doorstep, he will 
visits that a school can make-to an was ·pointed ·out that coaches could turn to his family for help in sorting 
athlete and in the fact that an athlete just happen to be at all 20 basketball out what was said. Dickerson related 
can visit a school only once, are. all ganies of· a certain athlete and the that a certain school used this ploy 
ad~ed to protect the athlete from coach could just happen to run into to lure him. "I was recruited pretty 
pressure." him after the game each time. All of heavily for Vanderbilt because· my 
. In addition, _the NCAA's limita-this would be legal under the<'Bump brother plays football there. Since 
O_CTOBER: 8, 1976 

any parent would like to see. his sons play ball on the same team, Vanderbilt seemed to recruit my parents a little stronger than they did me." 
The athlete will usually come. up 

•with two or three schools that he is particularly interested in from the sixthat. he visited. The athlete will, then try to decide about the schools' educational aspects, how often .they appear on television, the location of the school, who the head coach, is, how good the team is, and of course, wh,ether or not he will play. 
The athlete will have .to sort 

through six schools .telling him that 
his .particular major at their school 
is the best in the country. He has to 
sort ·through six. schools telling. him 
that he will be .the best thing to 
come to that school since . water 
fountains. And, he will have to sort 
through. six schools telling him that 
they have the best, of everything 
else ,that the a~lete could want... 
To . this. all, McLaughlin. tells the 

recruit to "Listen to every ·coach that 
comes ; by, but' don't believe any. of 
it/' Tha,t probably i!; the bestadvice 
that anyon~ can give to arecruit, be­
cause when it conies . down to the 
actual decisi!)n: much of it wiUrest 
not on what. the. recrui~er .has said, 
because the athlete has heard all that 
before. It will come down to subjec: 
tive impressions of ~e recruiter, the 
school and the players he met. 
When the ·recruiters have left, it's 

then up :to, the athlete to make his 
decision. Dickerson recalled that he 
had signed a conference letter of in­
tent for South Car~lina, and then 
after speaking with Boulac, suddenly 
orie night decided that Notre Dame 
was the place for him. Some deci­
sions are made that w.a:i while others 
involve more soul searching., ·· -. 
Freshman hockey··-player. •Greg Meredith feltthat "Recruiting was a time of pressuring people and .in~ fringing on their time arid. privacy and driving people crazy." The pres~ sure comes from the recruiters and 
' 


· 
... worked for it since a·child 

from the ~thlete because, after all, It's the pressure that makes· r~ it is his future that he is deciding.. · cruiting the difficult experience that 
Dickerson summed it up .the . best it is..·It would be an ordeal for· any in relating that "People do not re-person, but it is especially.so for an alize what.. athletes.go through with 18-year-old high school senior., The the recruiting business, because they .. recruiter has done it many times be­have not personally gone through it · fore, but for the athlete it's a new themselves. But let me tell you, ips and. strange experience, and a year a great deal of pressure and I can . later he'll look back on .with mixed see how some people could. not emotions,: perhaps wondering if it handle it." was all worth it. 
\ 
I 30 • SCHOLASTIC
I 
I ' 
\ 

"CINEMA 77' FALL.SEMESTER SCHEDULE 
Oct. 26-27. Our Hospitality (Keaton) Nov. 9-10 Thieves Like Us (Altman) Nov. 14-18 Western Film. Festival Nov. 14 · .-Red River (Hawks) Nov. 15 The Gunfighter (King) Nov. 16 ·Shane (Stevens) 
i

Nov. 17 · The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence· (Ford), Nov. 18 Lonely Are the Brave (Mill~r) Nov. 30/Dec. 1 Day.for Night {Truffaul) ' I Virtual! table 
·i 
I Compl · · 


ntent,

PATRON CARDS AVAILABLE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
. ALL SHOWS 7:30 & 10:00 P.M., ENGINEERING·. AUDITORIUM . · . 
'·)\~d.'~ -,. 
.,~-;;t,:11






~Js~j!_ 
_.• ~o,wr~w,1,atiofl~~-;:".· .· 
·. ::~,/,;;,~OU•re irifllliilielll ii:fiOfJlet'{f-' 

.-;:~t)fr;:.~t£ " -· · ·· ' ·--· ··· · •· ,. 'c"ft:fii'':.-,:;;< 
.,. ,"//_.';,/,( ·/.::: 
.•~~·f•>t ·:" _;:··~\L~ ·,-•-1~ 
''.:.;~{:!f;fcu;;,qf}t{ 
.•c.-·,'. 
t" :.;, 
,·, 
,.. 
_,... ' . 
.. ,,_ 
..·,;• ·: '\1!~:J/: 
.>..:::< ~-_i;~~:·\·:. 
-:~---\--•,•<::,.:. 
_,;•>·,,,;·, 
< ~ ~ • 
"'> --~'.•.\.,-;,_ ', . ,'," ·. .. ' 
·_·: <---..~~~~-; )'.f '. '--~ :;::,.:;·~;-, ·; ::·}·; ~~.:.·::.•.·.·_'.]_.·.·._·'.·::•_'_:··.·.'._·.~-·.;_t.:::,,'';-:.··;._•.·.···~·-:.~:-•·:~.·-:,::_._•.._:.·_. 
-·--·.-:.:: \-:·~ \;''.'.. -.. ~:·•,,··'..····.:•:.•.• :: ...• _:,.-_.·_,_·_•.·.:.~.~.·''.···:··.·..-••.:,:·_. .. • ~ • y '
:·J:f-•;;f;:i~-_.-:-)::--;~~~t,~r-./?-· ~~-----~,, 
·:., :\<~ ·. <-i~.; ~:.;.:,;,'Ipat can be.a.very serious·problem today;"especially with :. we'll mall youlite~ttire which"will give you·a good owrvie.11 oL --:. ::·,:•,··" : ·: ,.:;;-:, ! [ 1 • :· ,_":,/,\-:tuition costs climbing relentlessly:.Yes, you.can-borrow; but by".· ·the" scope of our operations._:'J.Jhy not write? Vk _think you'll: ·, · : ·1· -. '. '.' ·. ;/';':1•• '. :-,,·.~. ~ :: :i;[-,':.~etime·!,l(>U.enter practice those.debts.can be ~u~tantial.l{\:.• :.l½ iritei;ested in the P!)SSibllities.\•;/.,~-.'~: ;•;~}1~ ,:·, :.',._:, '.: .;:-: -: ...._.,;.-:;•i,'·>;~\; :..·-:\{'"\'.'.:
.j~.,-.'_ .~A< ... -~tTiiereis an'alt~ati~:.::an:1\irnoo Foi-c:~·Hffei.lt~ Profes:::;:-r;::-:-:;:'.i:7. ,~~/,-::-~~:_:-:-~:~i. ;.'.'7;~--::-::--·::-::::;:;::, :_-... ·.,;:\.f:;ic:f/c.'f' . 
. . , ...,, .. -/, ... (AFHP)'sc:hol' hi -w1ieih'"'' •"•siu-::i.•:~'t''~l5e''~:-.1;:AmiedForcesScholarsh1ps··..·,Uifs'-'?.C,:~-..:.,.·.s'{fr,,a •. Z•CN-106I .,, -~~;,.-••;-",,·',·,,
.'-:·-: .ri .·J· '.,510~ .• ' . ' . ~~ p:_ ..er yc:>ure~._,':'Y'n_g <!i. ,:a,?11'P.O.Box"AF.Peorla',ll;61614. 'r:t'J::,--;-·<:"? \c:-,r··:.,. > ·.;, ' I·::, '{:,;-:,:· ._';, ._·;'.
· ..'· .····, ,i:., phys1c1an.or a dentist, whether, your. goal fs,to, become an·.-, "es·lam·10• terested In Armed ,..ore·e·~5 Health Pro·fe'sstoris Scholarship,· · -,:, v ;·. " • ,. -_.,,,;., ..;•
• , '~ • • ,, " , ' ; h, • ;.,_ -\lo, ~ • ,-,~ ~tJ: • 1 JI I r1 ,,_ / :•-:-•" _. , '..i""' ~i\ 
. .'. : . '. ·:-: "'t:; :, osteo~t~.-~r an"opt~i:iiemst,_1J ':<'1'1~Y ~ur,e~~-ttre_ll!i!i<?,~,,a~,d_,, Ii OPJ'?fU~_itlescI!J~der5~n~ t~_e!~J!~ ~j!i~~t'.~9}~';;.:.> ·.. :.:-:::: {. l, -:~:.:·:'.~tt (J .:,;)tr 
..· · _· \:. ~: /t-;\:W~~"~~tilir:~tt~l\~-..:~:J~Wt:U\!l~i;l1-~~z.~~ci'!!t~~·':d··~~~-1tt:·t!t:~;:_:.).:./;·,:k:1rt?[\td·:tff 
·-... ?·-~. --·~·__;···c:~,-::-one:Ofihose·sch?l~fships ca~ give you fin~ncJ~(1rdepend1~~t· '.'0 V~ter_inary"':f.laPs~hology (~horrq-~_h,ys~~f: :~ D_enta1-:1,. I "<::::. ;,:,(~< ·-<<::~ 
,,:. · · :, · · no.vwhenyouneedltmost. .-; . . : · · ,_ ,-,, .. ·c ,,..,•:·.; l-. 9Ptometry •. ·:-· .;,....... -"-~·'.,' , -,: •. ... ,·-:::, ·, .;·'•'-'',· 
..-·:l?::_j§~~iship·:~~~~~~~~-:;:t::~~t:~~r~~~~,:1~;:fl~;.~:·;-_ /:~i:;~~~::;:J,:;~~~~d-~> -~~ r;?~::1:.~~-:-' -:·-~f~:;l~~~~:. _:_:~(~{ti
: .·_,_. ·.. : .·,·..-...,,underhighlyfavorablecrcumstances.You11beacomrrussloned-· I· . ··. -. ;•-•·,--· .., ! --:·•: __.•. -, .. _.• -·, · ~,,,,I· ·--·t '~~-·~ ~,;·' -/·•·:­
. ·'. ·..-_<~>:officer in the military.branch of your selectlon.-.Your practice : 1. City:, . '. 0 . ·• >,'.'. ··.:.·_ S•~te' · __-·'·.~· ,::z1r~'· 1 ·:,:~}. ·/1 :· ;,1/ii. 
:' :~'.--.-_.--:,,::}>'will be \.vaiting for' yoti:'You'll_ 'step-'ipto it ancl'.l<riow 'th~t• tlie ~ . i~roll~d~t .. ''.\:.:.-. < •,:.~, ~:;~·(&h~) ~; :·; . : ••; ., . ·:.·:"_:/.'.. ·... ·: >:x::.':~ 
.• .. ~~:-L: -:{i:,',cliall~~u·n_~t~II be 59l~ly__me~~I~n~·.a~d~p~~~:~_-., -· -fo·;i~~~~l~;::,.;7(,' .;c-c·;~f;~--;:'-.'~1'r?-';1:-;\:~·-· ·, -:; . .::<"'.·ol~,:.,.:·./'t•:j.-;;. >-;?:~i 
-. --~:::~:"-~:?.-?/~i~~~t:~m~1r~fu-;:-,~~;~unt;-~~/nit~~/'~1~Jt'.)i;t:f:~:~~~~t/.~Z,~~l:,~0~~:a~~~;i;::i!j~t.:~~,~ ii/1·-\tj/:-\· -:?Ji 
_ .:-: :.,Y:,'-..,:,!ArmedForceshavecreatedextenslve·andoutstandingclinical;, 1 · Prog~~':"· ._,:_.,'.'.'~.--\-_ -~J·.-,•.:.. ~;~:-.:-:'-: ::.· ,..>.,,. ·:._ '·~·'.. -., ,.. ;':,•:::.,,.-! ..._; (,:-,t . .: ,:;: ;_·.:·,{.if/:teaching'and researcli''pi-ogranis.-Onceyoti'decide on ,(spe•·'.. ·',Armell·,Forees:Healtla·Care.; ::: .:/<:\;·... :·~•>;;.-)li -_.~-.-: _-f~f-/:T,.f;;:'f~,o/:~.~Yfind~f-th-f ~~-"~1_.the.~~~~!~:~~~1-~iµ~i-~f r::;;:t~J-._!Dedicated-to·h~lth:care"and ··:::t:.~~.tfj:i~-\:_{j)':)!)J:,:)::)I~h1. 
• ,' ? ·~~ ·: :•·,J'ff:.~;O yourcn01ceatone_o eir,ac 1ties;,,.-~, :'.}.~•rz.: ·.<-·-;·:~'·,,;.-::· -·. 1·.'}':·-'.\~:\.,, trie"p"eople who"piactice It·.::. ·,:;:,':'f-'.);J -·:·' '''.';-"; ,'\ ··, '.:'\(:.,..,
• 
'_,·'::./,:t.ii'.,;, 'The'•detailsaremany:But'lfyou'llsend·lnihecoui:?on,'·\L:.:::;'·•'>·'' .... ·.-.. -· ·,, .. __ ._,. · ,.,,: ,,·~itJ-.'';'•i";·-'_",>-•"':·::;.','. 




