
RASMUSSEN
COMMERCE MAN’S BOLD LOOK. William Fletcher Daniels, marketing major from Chattanooga, Tenn., browses through a copy of Esquire in the Oliver lobby. His expression mirrors the moot fact that his date is a little late. Fletcher’s sport coat reveals a commerce man’s smart taste. It’s a spring-weight tan-and-white herringbone, tailored with three patch pockets ($25.00). His contrasting slacks are of oxford-grey flannel ($14.95). His shirt is a Van Heusen oxford white with wide-spread collar ($3.65). The tie is brown knit, perfect for bulging Windsor knots ($3.50).
for
‘ Campus Clotbes”
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
106-108 MAIN	13 0 -13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Letters
Sunny Italy
A Noire Dame Tradition
Catcalls in Washington Hall
Editoi-:
. . . culturally superior individuals have thought it necessary recently, and numerous times in the past, to deride those who wisecrack during the movies in Washington Hall. The appeal is invariably made to “culture,” to “gentlemanly conduct,” and to any other epithet expressive of the critics’ wounded sense of propriety.
Now I may be presumptuous in saying this, but I believe most of those who attend the Washington Hall movies prefer to hear the wisecracks, and for that reason go. What else could attract them? But comments during something “artistic,” ignoring the common fare, are intolerable to our self-styled critics; such behavior is “adolescent.”
This charge is ridiculous. It is indicative of an unfortunate product of our colleges — the stuffy, narrow-minded, intellect. Culture has been so inbred in
LENTEN RETREATS
This week's Lenten retreat moves across campus to Alumni Hall where it will open tomorrow night at the usual 7:30 time. Retreat-master for this fourth of the six scheduled Lenten services will be the Rev. Archibald M. McDowell, C.S.C. The particular halls included in this week's retreat will be Dillon and Alumni, but as usual any student may make it and all off-campus students are welcome any week end. Father McDowell will speak on the following topics: "Joy Through Patience Toward God"; “Joy Through Patience Toward Neighbor and Self"; and “Joy Now and Forever." The retreat originally scheduled for the week-end of April 2 and 3 has been called off because of the Bengal Bouts.
The schedule of exercises is as follows:
SATURDAY
7:30 p.m.—Opening Conference 8:00 p.m.—Rosary at the Grotto 8:30 p.m.—Confessions, Main Church
SUNDAY
7:30 a.m.—Mass and Sermon 9:00—Marriage Forum
11:00 a.m.—Holy Hour
1:00 p.m.—Conference
1:30 p.m.—Outdoor Way of the Cross and Renewal of Baptismal Vows
him that he has lost contact with his fellows.
A similar charge was directed at G. K. Chesterton by the same type of person ■—he (Chesterton) was too trifling and jocular to be serious. Yet his books are required reading in our courses. If, for a change, our critics should listen to the acid remarks of the students, they might discover an element of criticism which has heretofore been missed. . . .
Chesterton himself expressed the inherent quality of heckling when he agreed with Lord Curzon that “the cries, catcalls, jokes and jeers of the mob at a public meeting were very much wittier and more worth hearing than the speeches of statesmen from the platform.”
Oui- critic would consider- such conduct as Chesterton describes scandalous, for there is very little difference between heckling “art” and jeering statesmen.
The trouble here seems to be a holy respect which critics have for anything labeled “art,” in contrast to a disrespect the “mob” has for anything which misrepresents reality, no matter how artistic it is. . . .
Name Withheld
This letter was signed, but the writer asked that his name be withheld. . . . The writer presents the most splendid case for boorishness and selfishness we’ve ever seen. The objections to the noise in Washington Hall (which includes on occasion stick remarkable witticisms as loud belches from the tenth row of the balcony) have nothing whatever to do with “art” or “culture.” They simply ask whether a college student should act like a gentleman or like an ass. . . . The writer, by the ivay, should carry his splendid argument out to its logical conclusion: if the Washington Hall audience comes to enjoy itself rather than the movie, there is no rea-
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the • Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
501 NORTH NILES
son whatever why the University should make any attempt to bring decent films to the campus. . . . One last point: if those who attend these movies “prefer to hear the wisecracks,” why are so many of them forced to scream “Shut up!” at regular intervals?—Editor.
Concert Confusion
Dear Editor:
Congratulations to the University for a brilliant piece of planning. I am here referring to the outstanding concert of Miss Anne Byrne taking place on the same day and at the same time as the religion examination for freshmen and transfer students.
Are we not considered intellectually mature enough to appreciate good music or is it that we were not invited? One thing is evident. We couldn’t be in two places at the same time.
Frederick J. Bosco 203 Sorin
Campus Club Activity
Editor:
It seems that it has been the policy with some writers of the SCHOLASTIC to continually tear down the value of campus clubs. In the last issue (March 11) Max A. Browser added his little piece, which as far as we can check, was backed by nothing but imagination. It seems that the Rochester Club has come up with the perfect solution for the worries of our clubs. All you have to do is throw a dinner, pay half of it out of the treasury and you are in. (Where does the treasury come from in a club that is not active?) We are of the opinion that this is very true and congratulate the Rochester officers and members on a successful affair.
What we can’t go along with is that the other clubs are doing nothing, On Feb. 13 the Cleveland Club had a Communion Breakfast complete with High
March 25, 1949
3
Mass and choir. After Mass sixty of us attended a breakfast in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel that cost one dollar a plate although we only paid fifty cents, while the balance was paid by our treasury. We are sure that the same has been done by other clubs, too.
After trying unsuccessfully last Mother’s Day to obtain permission for St. Mary’s girls and for other girls who might be invited to attend a Communion Breakfast as guests of club members and having the same permission refused on other occasions we finally made the necessary arrangements for our February affair. It takes time to accomplish things, but our club is active.
This letter is not written in an attempt to steal any of the spotlight from the Rochester Club. It is written with the hope that the authors of your columns might realize that the clubs aren’t completely dead as an outsider reading the Scholastic most likely now thinks.
Campus clubs, the geographic ones that is, are organized for social activity. Seminars, lectures and the like are handled very well by the organizations set up to handle such affairs. Most students are getting what they want from their clubs. If they aren’t why don’t they talk to their officers, that is what they are for.
In closing might we ask why the
Dome has thought so little of the Geographic Clubs as to eliminate them from this year’s annual? Maybe the indifference that you speak of is justified if the organizations are not worth the space of pictures in our yearbook.
The Cleveland Club, Vincent F. DeCrane, President
Plaudits for Photogs
Editor:
The past two weeks you have published two outstanding cover photographs.
The creator of March 4th’s picture [the Ash Wednesday shot by Jim Fer-stel] deserves commendation for the excellent composition and subject matter. A very edifying print! Hal Munger also rates four-star approval for his humorous, front-page theme in the March 11 issue. Hal snaps for the common man.
These are assuredly selling features for Scholastic. Let’s have more of this vitality! How about some of those alltime classics: the Dome through one of the building arches, scenic views of campus coming in ND Boulevard, “spring shots” along St. Mary’s Lake (emphasis on subjects!), timely seasonal sports shots? That’ll be more of that real photographic excellence!
Bill Klee, charter member of the Slow-Eaters’ Society
239 Dillon
For a seasonal sports shot, see this week’s cover; for a St. Mary’s Lake spring scene (also by Ferstel), watch for the May 6 cover; for more on Fer-stel’s Ash Wednesday photo, see this week’s nezvs section.—Editor
Wilcox and the Opera
Editor:
I am a regular reader of your excellent magazine, having been a subscriber for several years.
Upon receiving my issue of March 11, I was somewhat surprised to find, in the “Letters” department, an epistle from one Joe Wilcox. ... I thought Mr. Wilcox had surrendered, long before now, to us loyal upholders of opera in its original language. Won’t he ever give up?
Some time ago, Mr. Wilcox voiced his opinion on this matter (when he wrote his column for Scholastic) and received strong disagreements from Mr. Jim Carberry (of Sorin Hall) and myself. Well, I still disagree with him and am again voicing my opinion against his.
Unfortunately I did not hear the recent “Barber of Seville” performance, and thus cannot judge the English translation; I can say, though, that no matter what the translation was, good or bad, (Continued on Page 35)
To drive in9 to relax in9 to play in9 to DIVE in . • •
BANTAMAC JACKETS . . .
“Classic” in super gabardine... 12.50
.... with the famous Bantatnac tailoring that gives you lots of comfort and style. Full bodied 2x2 blended gabardine that is light in weight, long wearing, windproof and stormproof. Knit waistband. In Putty, Maroon, Airforce Blue, Tan, or Seafoam Green.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: P. W. LEARY — 211 ST. EDWARD’S HALL
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Manly Art Dept'.
Next Monday night the boys with the bulging biceps and shatterproof chins start playing pugilistic paddy-cake for the Bengal missions in India. It will take a full week of swinging and ducking to determine which eight of the 70-odd contestants get the most mileage out of the dining hall’s assortment of beans and candied spaghetti. On Monday night Tony Zale, the Gary lad who scuttled Graziano’s ersatz title, will receive the first Bengal award for having “contributed the most to the youth of America by example and sportsmanship.” He’ll also be on hand April 2 to hand out the silverware to the eight division winners.
Secret of Charm Dep't.
The South Bend Tribune, with an eye to keeping its feminine readers from looking like Texas-grown honeydews, has added John Robert Powers, the gent with the New York model livery, to its list of featured columnists. In one of his recent columns, Powers divulged some secret information, known only to him and Tru-Form, on how the tender dears can keep their measurements down to two figures. Said John: “Stop wasting your time in needlessly wasted nervous energy (stop trying to get a commerce man to take you to a steak dinner).” To keep slender, not skinny, John offered this advice: “Do 15 push-outs standing arms’ length from a corner, facing into it . . . now try to touch your chin to the corner . . . now sit with your arms outstretched at shoulder level, pushing arms back behind shoulders and circling them 50 times.” Getting a little dizzy? Thought so.
Daring and Initiative
“Urg!” Charlie O’Brien said as he stomped into my room a week ago last Friday. Max A. Browser, the rear-page pulsifier, had just told his readers that Charlie, who is president of the Rochester Club, is “a young man of much initiative and daring.” ‘If Mr. O’Brien continues his progressive action (Charlie threw a club dinner worth $1.50 for one
buck),” continues Max, “he will take his
smart start and build it into something big.”
I happen to be a member of the Rochester Club and have known “Clinker” O’Brien for many, many years during which time Charlie has never been daring and what little initiative he did have usually got him in and out of bed. How Max A. Browser got the information that Mr. O’Brien was a new type of campus club executive ready to wield his city unit into a hard-driving, hard-hitting, world-beating unit has worried Mr. Charlie O’Brien no end. “What have I got to do now?” Charlie asked me as he flopped onto my sack. “Lay low,” I told him, “it’ll all blow over in a week or so.” “Urg!” Charlie replied, “URG!”
Into the Wild Blue Blunder
The generally accepted thesis that the British and American air forces won the last war is being exploded like the band on a loaded cigar. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey, a report compiled by a group of civilian investigators appointed by the President, reveals that after the thumping Germany took from the air in 1945-6 she was able to expand her war production nearly 100 per cent in 1944 over her unbombed 1942 output. It was also discovered that all this talk about the American Air Force being able to drop a bomb in a bushel basket at 10,000 feet a la Norden bombsight was just so much Pentagon press-agentry. One of the observers stated that an AAF bombardier, who had Hamburg as his daylight target, mistook Munich for his objective and dumped his load on a beer factory. The bombing wrecked German cultural life for six months, but heavy war production hummed on. Next time we see one of these ex-AAF men wearing a leather jacket with the names of every German target in Europe painted on the back, we’re going to ask him what a bushel basket looks like from 10,000 feet.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral 114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modem pipe, with brightly polished alumi-j
Melting Pot
Although the student body of approximately 4,800 is modest for a major university, Notre Dame has students from every state in the union and from fifteen foreign countries attending the University.
Basswood Lake Lodge oa Mian. - Canadian Border. Main Lodge and 2* log cabins. Modern bath rooaa facilities. Asuri-
CAMPWG MIK W1KMESS COK^
In Superior Wilderness Qnetico Lake Region Complete ewtStting sei site 23J* a day with Gram-
S8.M and eg. mm* BX. MNNKOTA ■■■■■
March 25, 1949
5
Entertainment
MARCH 25
COLFAX (through March 30) — Command Decision. Clark Gable and Walter Pidgeon head an all-star cast in this excellent and should-see movie. The script-writers did an admirable job in transferring it to the screen while director Sam Wood surpasses himself in keeping the action flowing and tense at all times.
PALACE (through March 26)—Velvet Touch and Incident. Vivacious Rosalind Russell picked the wrong story this time. The tale of an actress who kills her producer, it fails to come off as good entertainment. The second is a Monogram thriller which should be enough to scare anyone — away 1
GRANADA (through March 26)—Jiggs and Maggie in Court and Colorado Sunset. Buy a funny-paper. You’ll find more to laugh about in it than in either of these two flickers.
STATE (through March 26)—Wings of the Morning and Raiders. The feature was filmed in Ireland with Henry Fonda and Annabella in the leading roles. The co-attraction is a British war thriller. Both re-issues are worth seeing.
MARCH 26
WASHINGTON HALL—Sorry, Wrong Number. Barbara Stanwyck and he-man Burt Lancaster share honors in this melodrama. It is prone to wander at times, but for the most part it manages to diffuse its generous portions of suspense throughout its entirety.
MARCH 27
PALACE (through March 30)—Three Godfathers and Parole, Inc. John Wayne, Harry Carey, Jr., and Pedro Ar-mendiez are forced to adopt a new-born baby on western expanses when its mother dies. John Ford comes through, as usual, and adds many a graphic shot of technicolored beauty to this different western.
GRANADA (through March 30)—Badmen of Tombstone and Strike It Rich.
STATE (through March 30)—Saboteur and I Cover the War (re-issues). Entertainment has never heard of the preceding quartet, but if it were to go on titles, it would buy some popcorn and eat it on the bus.
MARCH 31
COLFAX (through April 6)—So Dear to My Heart. Walt Disney has concocted this colored fluff of nostalgia, depending largely on live-action rather than, on the cartoonmagic which will always be his forte. It’s strictly harmless and is particularly recommended to the kiddies.
PALACE (through April 2) —Fighting O’Flynn and Thunder in the Pines. Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., returns swishing and smashing with the greatest of swashbuckling ease. A story of Ireland and a threatened invasion by Napoleon (History 26-Z). Helena Carter and young Doug make this historical spoof a lot of fun.
GRANADA (through March 2)—Jungle Jim and Rusty Saves a Life. Johnny (nee Tarzan) Weismuller exchanges his loin cloth for some battered khakis. Save for the fact that you can’t see his aging flab, you’d never know this wasn’t of the Tarzan saga. Rusty is a dog and outdoes Weismuller dramatically by two yips and an eloquent “arf.”
STATE (through March 2)—Walk a Crooked Mile and Untamed Breed. The first one is about gangsters; the second about horses. Every man to his own taste. ' '

As far as I know, the Scholastic has never properly treated the age-old college humor subject of April Fool’s Day. Other college magazines (all monthlies) invariably devote their April numbers to satires on national magazines — usually Life or True Detective. They have a fine time kidding the pants off their subjects, and the results are usually pretty funny. Next week April 1 falls on Friday, our issuing day, for the first time in 11 years (according to my 200-year calendar). We intend to take advantage of that fortuitous occurrence; next Friday’s Scholastic will have its own April Fool issue.
Satire on Us
But we’re going to pull a switch on the humor mags. Instead of satirizing somebody else, we’re going to satirize ourselves. Inside the regular magazine will be4 a 12-page version of what the Scholastic sometimes looks like to its editors. It won’t be quite as lavish as the usual college humor product — we still have to print some news and sports stuff — but it should be pretty good. . . . Watch for Volume I, Number 1 of the Notre Dame Bombastic.
The week after that (April 8), we’ll have some dope on the new Science Building the University plans to erect in the next year or so. Also coming up is an article on the ND alumni organization by sportswriter Francis Wallace, new president of the alumni.
Roger Goes to Osceola
In connection with the April Fool issue, we were going to send a photographer down to Churubusco to get a shot of that turtle that fell in the lake. Maybe get a picture of him wading ashore and caption it, “I have returned!” The idea fell through, though, when we found out Churubusco is 60 miles away. Travel expenses would eat up half our photo money for the rest of the semeseter, so we decided to send the cameraman to Osceola to see if they have any turtles there. Roger O’Keefe will go along and write a story about the place.
—Bob Stock
6
The Scholastic
^4e Matte
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 March 25, 1949 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 2$, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR ______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT__________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN_____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN.__________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER—_______________Photography WILLIAM GORMAN.____Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER____________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK._____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN_Faculty Moderator
Scholastic Opinion
The Student Council Constitution
Notre Dame’s Student Council brought forth its new constitution last week after about six months gestation. No world-shaker, the document at least represents an attempt to make student government mean a little more here. Next Tuesday the student body will be asked to ratify or reject the constitution in a general referendum. Scholastic makes no recommendation to the electorate; instead, we point out some of the document’s good and bad features and offer a few suggestions to the Council. The student should re-read the constitution (see last week’s Scholastic) and decide whether he thinks the kind of student government envisioned by its writers is what he wants. Whether he does or doesn’t, he should make his opinion known at the polls.
As we see it, the new constitution makes two main provisions. One sets up the internal organization and operation of the Council, the other determines its external functions. The first provision would establish a new kind of membership selection. Formerly, representatives to the Council were elected by halls and colleges, plus one from the Villagers
Club. Now they are to be the four officers of each class, four at large from the Senior Class or the College of Law, and four from the previous Council. Scholastic is a little dubious about how the system will work. If past experience is any criterion, the Council won’t get the best men under the new set-up. Too often the class elections have been mere popularity contests, with the job going to the man with the most friends and the biggest name. The hall candidates, on the other hand, have generally been serious and sincere people who intended to work at their jobs. The Council thinks the new plan will mean better class officers; Scholastic is afraid it will mean worse Council members. If the con
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated pollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising oy National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the schjol year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: That right cross belongs to Jim Klockenkemper, 1948’s 147-lb. Bengal Bout champ. The young man with the ants on his pants and the glove in his stomach is Tom Crowley. This sort of thing has been going on around here for some 18 years now. A few years ago the Scholastic was the promoter, but the Ben-gals have had their greatest flowering under the guidance
of the Knights of Columbus. Besides being a lot of fun for the spectators and a lot of work for the boxers this
annual exchange of leather has one aim: to help self-sacrificing members of the Congregation of Holy Cross in their work among the missions of Bengal, Pakistan, India.
—Photo by Jim Ferstel
stitution is ratified, the class election day in May will take on much more importance, and the student body should demand full publicity on the candidates’ qualifications.
When the constitution gets to its second big provision, it really isn’t a constitution at all anymore. You can’t have a constitution when another body — in this case the University administration — enjoys sovereignty over the constituted body. As far as its external functions are concerned, the constitution is a set of principles to which the Council and the administration have agreed to adhere. Article IV, Section 1 says “The Student Senate shall authorize and supervise all extra-curricular activities which are not under direct supervision of the University administration.” Upon the interpretation of that good, but quite vague, principle the future of student government at Notre Dame hinges. If the administration gives the Council a free hand in supervising activities it doesn’t directly control itself (such as dances) legitimate student government will have arrived at Notre Dame. If, on the other hand, the administration chooses to resort to week-by-week interference with the Council’s operation, the constitution might as well be tom up. The University must decide now how much responsibility and initiative its students are to be allowed.
As this is written, we don’t know what changes will be made at Tuesday’s general meeting. We hope, though, that either at the meeting or within the next few weeks, the Council will amend the constitution to eliminate some of its disappointingly vague points and to change the name back to Student Council. We are at a loss to see the value of calling it “The Student Senate.” o
7
March 25, 1949
HE HAS BUILT A BRAND NEW CITY


•
C
x*»*

The “telephone man” is mighty busy these days!
Since the war, among many other things, he has built or enlarged 2,800 buildings . . . scores of them large enough to fit into the skyline of a modern metropolis.
These buildings are more than brick, mortar and telephone equipment. They are jobs for thousands of men and women . . . more and better telephone service for millions of people . . . more business for the towns and cities in which they are located.
But most important of all, they are an indication of the Bell System’s earnest efforts to keep up with the nation’s ever growing needs for communications service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic
AoAe Thorne
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 21 MARCH 25,1949
New Senate Constitution
Hits a Snag
Theater Drops 'Command Decision' Hans;
To Produce 'Shadow and Substance' on May 11
Plans for the University Theater's spring dramatic production experienced a sudden shake-up this week as the previous program for presenting Command Decision was dropped. William J. Eisen, director of the University Theater, announced that Paul Vincent Carroll’s popular Shadow and Substance would be produced instead.
Command Decision, a high-powered story of the problems of high echelon brass in the recent war, was dropped from the Theater’s plans after repeated tryout attempts failed to cast the play satisfactorily. According to Mr. Eisen, Shadoiv and Substance is a play that will accommodate the actors available, rather than an attempt to fit actors into the play, as was the case with Command Decision. Two tryout auditions for Shadoiv and Substance (which requires ten persons in the cast) will be held on April 1 and 4 in Room 241 of the Main Building at 7:30 p.m.
The new play is scheduled for presentation in Washington Hall on May 11, 12, and 13. It will be directed by Francis J. Hanley, professor of fine arts, who guided the recent three one-act plays through a successful two-day campus stand.
This four-act production, which was originally produced during 1937 in Dublin’s Abbey Theater, was a recognized hit on Broadway in 1938. Director Hanley says it is “essentially a drama, but with many genuine comedy elements.” He calls it a fine play that should find special interest among campus theatergoers.
The setting of Shadow and Substance is in Ireland—in Ardmahome, County Louth, in the Mourne Hills, to be exact. It is the story of worldly pride and arrogance, as contrasted with humility and love. The principal characters are Canon (pastor) Skerritt, a high-minded
cleric who has been transferred from a large city to the small parish where the action takes place, and Bridget, his humble, righteous housekeeper. The main conflict of the situation—and much of the comedy—comes as Bridget tries to bring together the haughty, aloof Skerritt and the lesser curates of the parish, who express a violent dislike for each other early in the show. The lesson is brotherly love.
This will be the final performance by the University Theater for the current school year, and Director Hanley urges that all would-be thespians attend the tryouts to be held next week.
Expert on Russian Situation To Discuss U.S.-Red Conflict
“Basic Factors in the Soviet-American Conflict” will be analyzed tonight at 8 in the Engineering Auditorium by Dr. Philip E. Mosely, professor of international relations and acting director of the Russian Institute at Columbia University. It will be the second in a series of addresses planned in celebration of the tenth anniversary of the Review of Politics.
Dr. Mosely, who is also a member of the Rockefeller Foundation, is a recognized expert in the field of political ban-terings on a global scale. In 1943 he served as advisor to the U. S. delegations to the Moscow Conference, to the European Advisory Committee at London in 1944-45, the Potsdam Conference in 1945 and the Council of Foreign Ministers in London and Paris in 1945-46. He was also a representative of this country to the Committee investigation of the Yugoslav-Italian boundary in 1946.
Tonight’s lecture will be attended by the graduate faculty and students of history, political science, economics and sociology.
Student Body to Decide Its Fate Next Tuesday
The newly-proposed constitution for student government at Notre Dame suffered two drastic changes Tuesday night as it went before a special student ratification committee. For four solid hours the document was thrashed out in the Law building’s court room, and was finally passed with major revisions in the provisions for elections and membership. The Student Senate constitution as it stands now is ready for ratification by the entire student body next Tuesday.
At the special Tuesday meeting, (which was attended by class presidents, floor representatives from each hall, Council members and off-campus representatives) the chief bone of contention was Article IV, concerning membership. After a heated discussion from the floor and lengthy speeches by Dave Matthews, off-campus, and Jim Conway, of Cavanaugh Hall, the membership provisions were finally amended to include two off-campus representatives and thirteen hall representatives. Membership of the Student Senate will now consist of the four presidents of the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior classes; three repre-sentatives-at-large; one member from the College of Law; two off-campus representatives; thirteen hall representatives; and a stay council of four members chosen from the existing Senate.
Committee Is Disappointed
Members of the constitutional committee were visibly disappointed at the document’s failure to pass without change. They say that in its present ratified form its membership provisions are practically identical to the same set of laws now in use by the Student Council. The only major difference is that respective colleges are not represented in the Senate Constitution.
Since the amended representation for the Senate snarled up proposed election procedures, another unexpected problem faced the conclave. A majority favored the old Council procedure—to elect all (Continued on Page 21)
March 25, 1949
9
Rubinstein to Appear At Concert, April 4
Artur Rubinstein, one of the world’s foremost pianists, will be the guest soloist at a concert to be given by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra in the University Drill Hall Monday, April 4, at 8:15 p.m. Plans for the distribution of student tickets will be announced next week, and WND will broadcast the concert.
It will be the first visit to Notre Dame for the 60-year-old artist, who is regarded by many music critics as the successor to Paderewski as the world’s greatest pianist. His scheduled appearance is in line with the University’s policy of bringing notables from many fields for brief appearances at Notre Dame. •
The program has not been announced, but it is probable that Rubinstein will play selections from Liszt, Chopin, and Beethoven, all of which he is able to render with great skill, giving each type of music its particular flavor.
Rubinstein, who is married and the father of four children, was a musical child prodigy. He gave his first concert at age six, and at age 13 was a soloist with the Berlin Symphony Orchestra. He made his first concert tour of the United States when he was 16 and has been touring the world ever since.
The Polish-born artist has maintained homes in Warsaw, Berlin, Paris, London, and New York. In 1940 he trans-fered his address from Paris to Hollywood, and in 1946 he became a U. S. citizen. Among the master’s many accomplishments is his ability to speak nine languages.—Ray Doherty
Singers Get Wanderlust; Serenade East in April
With the Easter vacation just around the corner, the Notre Dame Glee Club announces plans for an eastern concert tour from April 13 to 24. The 12 day trip will feature nine concerts by the 40-man traveling squad under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke.
As on their recent Florida trip the songsters will cover a great deal of territory. All efforts have been made to make this tour interesting and enjoyable by alloting more time for sightseeing and relaxation between concerts.
The following cities will be serenaded in order: Canton, Ohio; Buffalo, N. Y.; Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; New York City; Scranton, Pa.; Harrisburg, Pa.; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Steubenville, Ohio; and Fremont, Ohio. The Gleeclubbers will stay in Buffalo for three days and in New York City for two days.
President's Portrait for Alumni Office
This four-by-six-foot enlargement of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, has been placed in the ND Alumni Office. It was originally prepared as part of the decorations for a testimonial dinner in honor of Father Cavanaugh at his home town, Owosso, Michi-
gan. Inspecting the portrait, from left to right, are the Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters and brother of the president; the Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C.; the Rev. Herman Fidewa, pastor of St. Paul's Church, Owosso; and Mr. Joseph Mulhall.
Pan-American Day Set For ND Campus
Notre Dame will observe Pan-American Day this year by playing host to the Fifth Annual Congress of the NFC-CS Tri-Regional Commission on InterAmerican Action when it meets April 30 and May 1. The congress will adopt as its theme: The Development of Catholic Inter-Americanism in North America.
Invitations have been sent to member colleges of the NFCCS in this region to attend the two-day program, which will include panel discussions, general sessions of the congress, committee meetings, and group religious services. Thomas Murphy, off-campus, and Dan Norander of Alumni Hall are president and secretary respectively of the Committee On Arrangements at Notre Dame.
After registration Saturday afternoon in the Law Building, delegates will attend a general session in the Law Auditorium. A tour of the campus will follow until supper-time. After supper the congress-goers will be treated to a movie in, Washington Hall and a dance in the Drill Hall. Students are urged to attend the dance since a surplus of female students is expected. Admission fee is 50 cents.
Delegates will attend Sunday mass in Dillon Hall Chapel. The rest of the morning will be taken up with meetings of panels in the Law Building which will
discuss various aspects of North American relations. The afternoon will see another meeting of the general session and a meeting of the executive committee. Several members of the faculty will address the delegates.
—Dick Rosengarten
Student Relief Campaign Earns $31,359.29 Gross
As the 1948-49 Student Relief Drive begins to wind up its campaign, official receipts accrued from the various charity activities were announced last week by Jack Dempsey, Notre Dame’s chairman for the campaign. A gross of §31,359.29 was the grand total. The cai-award donations reaped §25,120.57 of that total, while §5,306.98 was taken in from booths at the Mardi Gras carnival. The dollar-a-man drive netted §831.74, and a flat §100 was received from outside donations.
When the final receipts from the car donations books were tabulated, winners of the Notre Dame monogrammed blankets were announced. These are the ten men who sold the most donation books: Ben Almaguer, Bob Mazia, James Mullaney, Charles R. Cain, R. P. Coury, John Moorhead, J. E. O’Brien, Steve Skundrich, W. Wozniak, John Krizman-ick, J. A. Parry, and John McLaughlin.
10
Th© Scholastic
From Gaelic Green...
Sure, an 'twas the momin' of Paddy's day when the emerald-tinged sun burst in all its Gaelic glory on the flag of Eire, flapping perilously atop the University's flagpole. Its ascent to the place of honor was unseen, so most likely its position was the work of some ersatz leprechauns.
—Photo by Harlan
WND Opens New Weekly Give-Away Show
In the spring, an N. D. man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of departmentals, outside reading and the like. Radio station WND is ready to take him away from all this—for one night a week, at least—with a new weekly give-away project. It’s called “A Date On WND” and it starts today.
As the name implies, the pay-off involves an evening out with your best girl, or a reasonable facsimile. It’s a
Sociology Students on Field Trip to Indiana State Prison
Twenty graduate students in the Department of Sociology’s course in correctional administration will make the annual field trip to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City today. The group will be led by Professor Hugh P. O’Brien.
According to Mr. O’Brien, the purpose of the trip is to give the students first-hand observation of state penal operations. The Michigan City prison is the state’s chief penal institution, housing most of Indiana’s major convicts and criminally insane.
The students will drive to Michigan City and will be the guests of Warden Howard during their visit to the prison.
March 25, 1949
Section of 'Alumnus1 Edited by Journalists
For the first time in its 27-year history the March-April issue of The Notre Dame Alumnus magazine contains a special 17-page student section, written and edited by students. The purpose of the special section is to show the far-flung alumni the changes which have come over their old University in recent years, as seen through the eyes of the students.
The special section, dreamed up by Mr. William R. Dooley, managing editor of the Alumnus, in conjunction with Professor Thomas J. Stritch, head of the Department of Journalism, will contain seven articles (with pictures), written by journalism students, and portraying phases of Notre Dame student life today, ranging from the bewilderment of an 18-year-old freshman to the woiTies of a 26-year-old married vet. Othei- articles describe the typical day in the different colleges and the various campus social activities.
“This is the Notre Dame of today as interpreted by the Notre Dame student,” Mr. Dooley said. “It will give the men who graduated ten, twenty, or thirty years ago a better picture of life at
for-free proposition, with WND picking up the check. The check, valued at between 15 and 20 dollars, includes a Rubin’s dry-cleaning job on your suit, flowers and candy for the little woman, a new tie for you, (or 10 dollars towards a new Parker-Winterrowd suit) two tickets to an afternoon movie and dinner at Papandrea’s spaghetti house.
An evening of dancing at the Palais Royale, followed by a snack at the Philadelphia will wind up the operation. Possibility of late permission for the lucky winner is being discussed.
Here’s how you can enter this contest: There’s nothing to buy, nothing to send in: WND has placed entry blanks in several of their sponsors stores. Next time you’re downtown, stop in at one— or all of these places, and ask for a WND Date Ticket. Print your name thereon, leave the stub and keep your numbered receipt. You don’t have to buy anything, and you get one ticket per week at each store, if you want to.
The stubs will be picked up weekly, and the first drawing for the lucky number will be held on Tuesday, April 5, during the “Requestfully Yours” program, (8 to 9 p.m.).
Listen to WND for more information on the contest.
Notre Dame today.”
Tom Brady, journalism senior from Oak Park, Ill., is editor of the section and author of one of the articles. Other contributors, selected by Professor Stritch, are Robert Azar, James King and Louis Rukavina, John Carrol, Richard McCarthy, and Frederick George. Their work, besides serving as magazine writing experience, will be credited toward the thesis project required of every journalism student.
The March-April issue of the 16,000 circulation Alumnus was to roll off the Ave Maria presses early this week.
' —Ray Doherty
... To Irish Queen
Genevieve Duffy, a harp-playing colleen from St. Mary's, helped entertain the throng who honored St. Patrick's day at the Irish Club's banquet. Dennis O'Neill is president of the club, while Bob Mahoney served as chairman for the only'official campus celebration of the" day. ~
n
Bishop of Lourdes Visits Notre Dame in Tour To Popularize International Peace Movement
By JOE DUKERT
The Most Rev. Pierre-Marie Theas is one man with a peace plan that doesn’t require an extensive background in political science and economic theory to be understood. Bishop Theas, of the Diocese of Tarbes and Lourdes, France, visited the Notre Dame campus last week as part of his coast-to-coast tour familiarizing the people of the U. S. with his international movement for peace through the intercession of Our Lady.
A Scholastic interview with the bishop was arranged with the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph P. Morrison, the French prelate’s temporary companion on the tour through the Mid-West, serving as an interpreter.
BISHOP THEAS OF LOURDES Pax Christi
Bishop Theas explained that his mission in America was actually two-fold— he had come as a representative of the French nation to thank our people for their generous aid during and since the war . . . almost as a personalized “Merci Train.” And secondly, even more important, he was here to propagate the “Pax Christi” movement, of which he is director.
According to Bishop Theas, “Pax Christi” has a triple object: international peace, spiritual prosperity of all nations, and the development of the Catholic faith in all nations. However, he points out, these are all closely united. For, when questioned about his formula for international harmony, he replied, “Peace among nations of the world is primarily a spiritual thing, and a re
birth of Christian charity among these nations will bring about a lasting peace.”
Skipping from the Bishop’s mission to some personal questions, we asked him how he had been treated during the years of war occupation. His smile faded momentarily, but flashed back almost immediately as he resumed speaking.
In his own words, “I protested openly against German persecution of the Jews and the profaning of churches and presbyteries by their occupation troops. Then, in the middle of one night, I was awakened by dark-uniformed soldiers.
“Click!” The Bishop jabbed a stubby forefinger at our chest. “At bayonet point, they forced me to dress and come with them. . . Gestapo!” he said solemnly-
After a brief imprisonment at Montauban and Toulouse, he was moved to the Compiegne concentration camp, where he remained for three months. He was about to be deported to a worse prison camp inside Germany when the war ended and he was repatriated by advancing American forces. But despite mistreatment at German hands, he has visited Germany four times on his tour, preaching to them on brotherhood and charity.
Although the interview time limit was nearing its end, and the Bishop’s companions were anxious to leave, we asked one question about Lourdes itself.
“Is it true that some of the revelations made to Bernadette have never been made public?” we asked. “It has been said that they are in your custody.”
Bishop Theas seemed almost sorry to disappoint us, but he shook his head negatively. “There was one secret that she was to have revealed later . . . but that was for her only. It died with her. . .
SUMMER SCHOOL IN MEXICO
All persons interested in the 1949 Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico are urged by Professor Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages to attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 29. The meeting will be held at 3:15 pan. in Room 250 of the 'Main Building, and will concern important information about the summer session.
Debate Gabbers Gird For Heavy Schedule
Tonight the most crowded seven days of Notre Dame’s debate schedule begin with an exhibition match between William and Mary and Notre Dame before the student body of St. Mary’s College. Frank Finn and Bill Carey will take the negative for Notre Dame.
Tomorrow evening Boston University will debate Notre Dame in the Law Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. On Monday two universities, Southern California and Texas will meet Notre Dame teams on campus. A unique topic was chosen by Southern Calif: “A Woman’s Place is in the Home.” Moreover, the two Southern Calif, debaters are speech champions from India, who will argue the affirmative. The Texas debate topic, also a variation from Federal aid to education, will concern the steel industry.
On March 30 the University of Pittsburgh will engage Notre Dame in a cross-examination debate on civil liberties before Professor Sommer’s speech class. The next night, Cornell will debate Federal aid to education in the Law Auditorium.
Also scheduled for March 31 and extending through April 2, is the Tau Kappa Alpha National Debate and Discussion Tournament at Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana. Notre Dame has won this event twice previously.
Last week Notre Dame’s third and fourth teams fared poorly at the University of Wisconsin Tournament, Madison, Wisconsin. The team record was two wins and six losses. However, one bright spot was the performance of John Gallagher, a first year debater, who placed in the top six in discussion, out of 300 participants.
Students on Capital Tour To Visit Turkish Embassy
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew has arranged another top-flight activity in the itinerary for the annual ND student tour of Washington, D. C., during the Easter holidays. The Turkish Embassy will play host to the student group with a formal reception Monday afternoon, April 18. Dr. Bartholomew is also working on arrangements for a meeting with Senator Robert A. Taft, distinguished statesman from Ohio.
AU students wishing to take part in this educational tour can get information from Dr. Bartholomew either at his home in South Bend or at his office in Room 20, Social Science Bldg. All who plan to make the trip must contact him by April 5.
12
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
Today
Toledo's Mayor to Talk
Mayor Michael V. DiSalle, of Toledo, will speak tonight in the Drill Hall on “Toledo’s Plan for Labor Peace.” His talk at 8:15 is under the auspices of the Aquinas Lecture Series, and is free to ND students upon presentation of their I.D. cards.
Mediaeval Lecture Slated
“English Critics of Civilization, and the Church of the Late Twelfth Century” will be the subject of the final talk in the Mediaeval Lecture Series this afternoon at 4:30. The Rev. George B. Flahiff, C.S.B., Professor of History at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, who has already presented three lectures here this week on various phases of the topic, will conclude the year’s program in Rcom 101 of the Law Building. The public is invited.
Next Week
That Ol' Green Magic
Wildcat coach Adolph Rupp chewed his fingernails down to the forearm, and several thousand ND men went stark raving mad while watching the original. Next Thursday, the weekly sport film program will present movies of last season’s amazing cage upset over Kentucky. You can watch the Irish pull the Old Gym hoodoo at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Journalism Films End
Robert Donat and Madeline Carroll will bring the Department of Journalism’s film classics series to a close Thursday night with The Thirty-Nine Steps. The famous re-release will start to flicker at 7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium.
Daily Record Concerts
On the slate for next week’s Cavanaugh Reading Room record concerts, at 12:30 p.m. each day, are: Monday— Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E Minor for Violin and Bach’s Italian Concerto in F Minor; Tuesday — Szostakowicz’s Fifth Symphony, and Bach’s Passacaglia and Fugue in C Minor; Wednesday—Jupiter Symphony, by Mozart, and El Amor Brujo, by DeFalla; Thursday—Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony and Appasionata Sonata.
School Group to Meet
Chicago’s Palmer House will be the scene of the annual meeting of the Mid
west Secondary School Department of the National Catholic Educational Association next Tuesday. According to Brother William Mang, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, who will chairman the group, the central theme will be “The Relationship of Government, Religion and Education.”
Debate to Be Aired
Two debaters from India, representing Southern Cal, will match words with the ND squad of gabbers Wednesday afternoon at 3:15 in a special broadcast over WND. The Trojan talkers, Omar Kureishi and Kamal Faruki, are both Pacific Coast champs and are expected to hand the Irish quite a tussle.
New WND Feature
Notre Dame’s version of the national candid microphone show will start its first journey along the campus steampipe line next Wednesday with a wire-recorded trip to the Bengal Bout workouts. The weekly “Inquiring Recorder” •will feature personalities, interviews and descriptions of campus events.
This Week
Seminars Planned
Work has begun on plans for a series of seminar meetings on the philosophy of science by a group of ND graduate scientists, according to The Third Degree, graduate school newspaper.
Big Fish Story
Speaking of old fish . . . ! The collection of fossilized specimens now on display in the Science Museum is roughly 45 or 50 million years old. The nearly perfectly preserved fish fossils from the Eocene epoch were unearthed in slabs of limestone rock quarried from the Green River formation of Wyoming.
Maritain Speaks Here
Dr. Jacques Maritain, world’s foremost Thomistic philosopher,. gave two talks Wednesday in Washington Hall, under the sponsorship of the Mediaeval Institute and the anniversary banquet honoring the Reviero of Politics. His topics were “Human Rights” and “The Meaning of Contemporary Atheism.”
Movie Magnate Visits ND
Mr. Gael Sullivan, executive director of the Theatre Owners of America, Inc., visited the ND campus to address seniors in journalism on the present state of the movie industry in this country.
wniiasc
Last Week
Law Head Speaks
Frank E. Holman, president of the American Bar Association, spoke to law students and professors on “Our American Heritage.” Mr. Holman, who was introduced by Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law, laid the lack of true liberty in Russia and many other countries of the world to the absence of an independent judiciary. “Liberty without law,” he said, “is license. Law without liberty is tyranny.”
Opportunity
Grad Record Exams
Graduate record examinations, results of which are required for entrance to many graduate institutions in this country, will be administered here for the last time this year on May 2 and 3. Registration for the tests must be made with Dr. Leo F. Kuntz in Room 125 of the Social Science Building any day except Saturday, between 2 and 4 p.m., before noon, April 14. The exam fee of $10.00 is payable at the beginning of the first testing session.
Vet News
Attention, Vets/
Vets were warned by an announcement from the Director of Student Accounts that all necessary books and supplies to be charged to VA must be purchased before April 13. The deadline has been set to provide sufficient time for the completion of accompanying paper work and reports in the office. Late Check Deliveries
According to an announcement from the Veterans Administration, several-thousand vets attending college under the GI Bill failed to receive subsistence checks on" time because they failed to notify VA of changes in address. Since the Post Office can’t deliver a government check to an address not occupied by a vet payee, such checks are returned, to the Treasury Department and a bewildering snarl of red tape.
March 25, 1949
13
Kunkle’s Madhouse or
Keep tyeet (Dutta the Jlifpe
By BOB VIERHILE
Photos by FERSTEL and FRIENDS
Photographers are the most misunderstood people in the world.
Motion pictures, comic strips, and radio have made superhuman Sam Spades of them. You know the kind. They’re equipped with flash guns, Speed Graphics, and phone numbers of vast assortment of blondes and brunettes who tip them off to all the lurid goings-on. They’re planted, by some tricks of fate, on the corner of State and Randolph at the very instant an irate Marshall Field clerk leaps to the pavement from the fifth floor. They’re on the spot when-even and wherever there’s a spot to be on.
All of this, I can assure you, is just so much Murine eyewash. Photographers right down to the Baby Brownie bugs are the most individualistic, the most abused people this side of Greenwich Village. Before a photographer gets one of those pictures worth 10,000 words, he suffers 10,000 headaches and sputters 10,000 blistering non-sequitters of the $/%#/?*c variety. All in all, there’s nothing like taking pictures to bring out the schizophrenia in you.
Enter the Hero
Notre Dame’s photographic department is located in the annex of the Main Building, that little box-shape affair*
GORMAN, FERSTEL. HUMELY, SPINNEY and MIKE — The Dog Is a Moron
that is separated by an alley from the gabbing hordes of dreamy-eyed secretaries. When, therefore, I inadvertently walked into this submerged isle of Notre Dame life and stubbed my head on a low-hanging floodlight, I felt short-circuited from the rest of humanity. Before I could get out through the exit, a huge photographer pinioned me in a hammer lock, pricked me with a photoelectric light meter, shot a smile at me, and said: “Hold it! We need this shot for the Midland Naturalist.”
“The name’s Kunkle,” said my assailant. “Sorry to use you as a guinea pig, but we didn’t have time to look up a real one. You’ll do.”
Wally Kunkle, by way of officiality, is the head of the Notre Dame photo department. Unlike “Casey, Crime Photographer,” he is a quiet, unaffected, thirty-ish shutter-fancier who works himself nearly to death. He photographs for the Scholastic, publicity department, athletic department, Dome, and just about any other campus department you can think of. Yes, even the philosophy department.
After watching Wally buzz around his 6-by-6 room cluttered to the doors with • magazines, film cases, tripods, and lounging student associates, I was convinced
KUNKLE and HIPP
that the dime-photo conception of photography and photographers was wrong, per se. It takes a great deal of skill and craftsmanship to produce a snappy shot of Fleming breaking over the 100-highs. What makes the task more difficult is the fact that all events of photographic importance happen at the same time. So Wally is expected to be omnipresent, which, to date, he isn’t.
Here’s the kind of pickle Wally generally winds up in. He’s expected to get a shot of Roskonsnoff finishing his 100-meter walk in the fieldhouse, Dr. Frisbee delivering his speech on “the dynamics of spawning” in the Biology Auditorium, and one or two shots of the bigwigs attending the World InsuranceSelling Conference over in the commerce college—all at the same time. Should he miss one of these—particularly Dr. Frisbee, who washed his beard in anticipation of the popping flashbulbs—Wally is apt to be dizzied by a barrage of one-syllable, unbiological words.
The “Karsh of Dogpatch"
Wally, I discovered, was hired as the regular University photographer in 1947. Prior to that he was what you might call the “Karsh of Dogpatch,” having free-lanced for the Notre Dame publications for many years. He took the club pictures for the Dome in 1946 and was wreathed with the job of official ND photog the year after.
Notre Dame’s photographic department has been little more than a series of empty closets. The first laboratory of any consequence was located up in the attic under the Dame. Here, for want of a better place, students with kodaks took and developed pictures of
14
The Scholastic
BRICKSON and HARLAN
their friends boarding the old trolley, nudging up to an Ovaltine in the Huddle, or just looking intelligent for the sake of the folks at home. The Big Winter of 1933 froze them out along with their stocks of hypo and developer.
Undaunted, these student photogs went snooping for another closet. They found one right around the corner from the Western Union office in the Main Building. This location was cramped, but it had running water (i.e.: there are many closets in the Main Building that still have their original running water). Father Kenna, quite unfortunately, lived above this darkroom. During the day his radio whirred with the interference of an automatic dryer; during the evening water gushed him into a state of cumulative frustration.
A Darkroom Is Bom
When Wally took the bull by the horns in ’47, he called in his father, a University carpenter, and asked him to build him the last word in darkrooms. His father produced the last word you now see in that little niche in back of the Main Building.	.
It so happens that there are a variety of contradictions in Wally’s department. I met all of them. “These gentlemen,” Wally told me as I was being introduced, “are the World’s Greatest Photographers, my student associates.”
By the way of explanation, this group of gentlemen so dear to Wally’s heart are the men who take most of the pictures for the Dome and Scholastic. They are a fierce, paradoxical lot.
I daresay that Don Spinney is one of the strangest assistants to anything you’ll find anywhere. He helps Wally
with his official photos, but that fact alone doesn’t make him strange. He has a wife and dog. His helpmeet is a charming person; the dog is mad. Why Don keeps the critter around is a mystery that remains buried in his head. The dog, if you’ll take my word for it, is the only moron pooch in South Bend. It guzzles hypo like a vet gulping the suds at Sweeney’s. It chews on flashbulbs and lets out a bark that strangely resembles a “watch the birdie, bud.” I decided to give it the bird, first.
Dick Gorman, Wally’s other official assistant, is married and has one child. Just to show you the kind of people photographers are he was married during final exams last year. His fellow kodak-ers refer to his early pictures as the “Earthquake Series.” All of them are out of focus.
Dean of the Scholastic and Dome staff photographers is Jim Ferstel, an absolute genius. He is the instigator of Scholastic’s dive-bombing B-36 and most of its covers. Jim, a law student who looks like a miscast Lewis B. Stone, is superbly indifferent to his fellow man. He would not turn the corner to watch the world blow up.
Bruce Harlan, a senior in the College of Commerce, appeared to me to be the Bachrach (pronounced back-rack) of the outfit. I watched him take a picture of a feminine employee for the Dome. He tenderly took her hand, posed her graciously on a Vel soap box, looked win-
CONERTY, MUNGER and FITZGERALD — Look at the Boidie
somely into her violet pools, and said: “Peer at the fluffy creature, dear!” Bruce will make a name for himself in the great world beyond ND and, in all probability, it will be spelled in cologne-scented script.
Sane Photographers Yet
There are a few sane members in the department. Leo Rumely, married and happily settled with his two daughters in Vetville, has shown no immediate signs of developing any photo phobias. Jim McLaughlin, photo editor of this year’s Dome, is normal in that he is given to panting regurgitations whenever the dining hall chow is mentioned. He’s now home recovering from an appendectomy.
Paul (Bugs) Fitzgerald is a borderline case. For some reason, probably unknown to himself, he has amassed the world’s largest collection of beetle pictures. Harold Munger, a sophomore architect, is a strong combination of the lost weekend and the finest hour. Joe Hipp, the ’48 Dome photo editor, is a free thinking, non-working individualist. Getting a picture out of him is like trying to get a laugh out of Scholastic humor column.
When I asked Wally how many pictures he and the thundering herd turn out in a week, he scratched his head and buried his paws under a Mt. McKinley pile of photos, bills, and reminders. “Plenty,” he told me. That “plenty”
March 25, 1949
15
adds up to about 600 in round numbers.
Last year’s Dome printed 1,166 photographs contributed from the department. Up to the March 4th issue, the Scholastic printed 472 shots.
Photographers, I must inform you, take a lot more shots than they ever hope to use. All of these student photographers own their own equipment which, to produce pictures good enough for publication, amounts to cameras, flashguns, and meters worth about $500. The University supplies the darkrooms and chemicals, paying them $1.50 for each published shot. That, I feel qualified to tell you, is not making Rockefellers of any of them.
Unappreciated Acrobats
Nobody appreciates this pack of pho-togs. Editors, those chaffing idiots who are only satisfied with the pictures they see in mirrors, treat them like a band of circus performers. “Go out and get a shot of the dining hall from ceiling level.” The photog hikes over to the grubateria, sticks a hook in his pants, digs into the ceiling, lines his Speed Graphic up on the hungry wolves below as George screams: “Don’t mar that Tyrian oak ceiling!”
Pay high tribute to these men. They have done a remarkable job of recording Notre Dame life. As I get the story, Wally and his madmen are modest about their artistic productions but they don’t mind getting overheated from a little praise. Okay, then. Hats, shoes, and socks off to the Notre Dame photographic department, a rugged, enterprising development in American collegiate life, a unit with a singlemindedness of purpose which points to the dawn of a new tomorrow or something.
yCS Lecture Series Helps Students to Choose Majors
Commerce and A.B. underclassmen got a helping hand this week on the often confusing problem of picking a major subject, as YCS sponsored lectures by department heads to outline and explain the various branches of study at the University.
Representatives of the four College of Commerce sections presented their series of talks Monday night in the Com--merce Building. Opportunities, prerequisites and courses were the main object of consideration.
Monday through Thursday afternoon found department chiefs in the College of Arts and Letters addressing individual informal groups of interested freshmen and sophomores. Each session was followed by an open question period, with the accent on job opportunities.
Universal ND Night Plans Include Salute to Science
Recent discoveries of Rh anti-bodies, Professor Guth’s chemical research, work on germ-free animals by Professor Reyniers, and other scientific developments at the University will be spotlighted on April 25 at the campus observance of Universal Notre Dame Night.
According to Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association, the local celebration will parallel similar programs in 105 ND clubs all over the world. Plans are being considered for broadcasting part of the festivities here over a Mutual hook-up.
An extra scientific feature of the night will be the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the world’s first wireless message, sent by Professor Green from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s College.
Aeros Begin Work on Model Of Supersonic Wind Tunnel
Notre Dame’s Department of Aeronautical Engineering has started a new experimental research program in cooperation 'with the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, it was learned last week. F. M. Brown, head of the department has announced that a smoke tunnel for the visualization of airflow is now in operation, and that a new 840 h.p. wind tunnel has been proposed.
A pilot model of the new tunnel is already under development, Brown said, and six compressors and electric motors have been ordered from War Surplus for use in the project. J. A. Parchem, in charge of operation of the tunnel says he hopes the entire program will be completed within a few years.
Upon completion, the huge supersonic tunnel will be used for student instruction and for fundamental high-speed aerodynamic research. It will be capable of 1500 pounds of air flow per minute.
CHESTERFIELD WINNERS
The following men have been named winners of the February Chesterfield contest, according to local agent Skip Rosser. Their cigarettes can be picked up at any time in 265 Morrissey Hall.
Tom Smith, 117 Zahm Hall
Dick McNamara, 361 Zahm Hall
Wm. G. Thompson, Apt. ISA, box 432, ND Bud Condron, 229 Howard Hall David Rogers, 158 Zahm Joe Rozier. 247 Alumni
Thomas O'Connor, 374 Dillon Hall
Fred Nicholas, Jr., 415 St. Ed's
Jim Sheerin, 451 Morrissey
Jim O'Brien. 237 Breen-Phillips
University Foundation Reports Last Year’s Record Passed
Gifts totalling $135,618.38 have been contributed to date in 1949 by alumni and non-alumni friends of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, it was announced this week by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c., executive assistant to the president.
The bulk of this amount is being applied to the new $1,750,000 Science Building which will help offset the overcrowded conditions existing in Notre Dame’s Departments of Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics. Notre Dame Alumni contributed $63,275.38 of this amount.
The report of March 18 states that 1295 contributions have been made so far this year, compared to the 407 donations that were made during the same period of 1948. The monetary sum of $89,623 is compared to last year’s $25,022. The Science Building Program committee claims that if the ratio holds, the $1,400,000 goal will be reached this year.
Services For Rockne Will Be Held Sunday
Notre Dame alumni and students will gather next Sunday to pay their respects to the memory of Knute Rockne. The traditional service is conducted by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association, and this year is under the chairmanship of Coach Bill Earley.
Services will begin in Dillon Hall chapel at 8 a.m. with Mass celebrated by the Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c. After Mass, breakfast will be served in the Faculty Dining Room. The principal speaker at the breakfast will be Gus Dorais, Rockne’s famous teammate. After coaching the Detroit Lions for many years, Mr. Dorais has opened a Chevrolet Sales Agency in Wabash, Ind.
Following the ceremonies on campus, the participants will visit the great coach’s grave in Highland cemetery, South Bend. The late John P. Nicholson, former track coach, and the late George Keogan, former basketball coach, will also be honored at the service.
. Knute Rockne is remembered as the nation’s most famous football coach and his name is linked inseparably with that of Notre Dame. The services have been conducted annually since his sudden death in an airplane accident on March 31, 1931. Mr. Earley announced that the services are open to all Notre Dame alumni, and their guests, and students. The price of the breakfast is $1.50, and tickets may be obtained from the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association in South Bend.—Jack Powers
Ths Scholastic
16
Notre Dame Nimrod
Getting the Bird is Al Gavans Job
respect for Indiana winters and a new outlet for a hobby with many facets. For hunting and stuffing are to Al Gavan but a part of a long process of interest in birds and other wild life which ends up on a drawing board or even Kennedy’s Art Gallery in New York City.
To the world he is a humble guy •with a voice that makes sounds like gurgles and a pair of quiet eyes. It’s hard for the world to guess that he’s the only Notre Dame student that has been giving the University the bird for almost a year and still lives to tell about it. But for Al Gavan this is all in a day’s work, said work consisting of hunting and stuffing bird life for the Biology department. All of which makes him the official hunter and taxidermist of Notre Dame.
“Stuffy” as he was inevitably fated to be called would object to the “taxidermist.” “I just prepare skins for study. What’s the difference? Well, my birds don’t stand up when I’m through with them. I don’t try to put them in action or on twigs. I’m just a stuff er.”
Staffers' Prerequisites
What does a stuff er do? Well, if he works for the University of Notre Dame Department of Biology, he gets himself a .22 rifle, treks out into the fields surrounding school and waits until some bird flies into his life. And, if he is Al Gavan, he promptly puts an end to the feathered friend with said .22. This
little act having been completed, he returns to the Biology Building and a room crammed with stuffed heads and skeletons and starts “stuffing.” When he’s through and the bird filled with whatever dead birds without insides are filled with, he mounts same on a little rack and goes back to Alumni Hall to study Commerce. That is, if he works for Notre Dame and Biology’s Professor Edward Dodson and his name is Gavan.
All these goings-on started one day when Al wandered into the Biology Building in search of the bird collection. He had been interested in our fraternal friends of the air for many a long year; had had a fling at falconry and done a little shooting. Shown the collection, he was professionally repelled. “It was pretty bad,” says Gavan. The University gave him a chance to do better. They supplied him with a scientific license which permitted him to hunt anything that “crawls, hops or flies” anytime, anywhere but on North Michigan street; bonded him for $200, and sent him out into the wilderness.
As a result Notre Dame now has some 70 birds on Mr. Gavan’s racks and over 50 species and Mr. Gavan has a keen
In Al’s words: “I guess I like to paint best of all. But just birds. I try faces and I scare myself. Birds are wonderful subjects for color. I’ve done a lot of work on them.” Some of Gavan’s work has paid off in more than an esthetic experience. Only six of his paintings are now hanging in Kennedy’s Gallery in New York where once hung more than a dozen. The rest have been sold.
Falconry Here to Stay .
Then, too, there is a little falconry in Al’s life. He hasn’t got a falcon any more but back home in Ridgewood, N. J., he donned the leather glove to break many an anti-social bird. “Falconry,” says Mr. G., “is not only here to stay but is coming back stronger than ever.”
Gavan is a Commerce student not by avocation but through a sharp sense of reality. He puts it bluntly: “There’s not much money in painting birds or wild life. The field is too narrow.” Only a junior, he has no plans after graduation.
And so it is that Donald A. Gavan, private student and public hunter, happens to be able to give this University the bird, with regularity and impunity.
Nothing is ever out of season for ND Official Hunter Al Gavan—Photo by Harlan
Fischer's Article Describes 'Newspaper of the Future'
“ ‘Last Newsboy Dies’ is a headline some of today’s children will live to read,” predicts Professor Edward Fischer, of the Department of Journalism, in an article in the current issue ” of America magazine.
According to the article, “facsimile” will be the key process in the newspaper of the future, sending newsboys, lino-typers, compositors, and pressmen to join the dodo bird and the Tasmanians in. extinction. The new papers, about the size of a large magazine, with wide columns, large print and lots of pictures, will be served up right in your own home, from individual receivers. “Scanners” and photo-electric cells will transmit the impulses, and vari-typers will replace the bulky and more expensive “clang, bang” of present-day mechanical departments.
Professor Fischer estimates that the new processes will eventually cut production costs 90 per cent and enable publishers to establish new metropolitan newspapers for as little as $20,000.
March 25, 1949
17
Will There Be a War?
Christian Calm for Trivial Tempest
The best reflection of any age is its literature. Certainly, the turbulence of our own era has created a turbulent, and generally not very good, literature, and further, a literature too often marked by utter despair. In surveying fiction, for example, we can sense a vicious unrest, and many times an absolute rejection of hope.
We ask ourselves, thus, is it possible for the artist to show happiness and hope, when it seems impossible for man to be
Thomas E. Cassidy
This red-thatched instructor of English is a campus favorite as teacher and companion. A former Army intelligence officer, who has continued to serve in that capacity on active reserve duty, Mr. Cassidy has become familiar with world affairs and their leaders, and is thus well qualified for the remarks he makes on these pages. He is a graduate of the University, class of '37 and has been teaching here since 1946.
happy in this age? When we reach the point of deciding that all is lost, that men have succeeded wildly in achieving complete chaos in their affairs, then we might as well give up, indeed hasten the ultimate horror — the final destruction by men of themselves and all they have created. But this is the denial of Christian hope and charity. That can never be.
One thing seems still very clear, in spite of our bitter experience of the past quarter-century. American bright-heartedness, almost light-heartedness, is still the national temper. We are probably the only nation still able to afford the luxury of quibbling about our national fate. It seems incredible that in our Congress in the year of 1949, for example, allegedly responsible statesmen can engage in shamming, dealing, and irresponsible shuffling of principles involving the basic rights of men — the same rights for which we battled all over the globe with fantastic success just a short time ago. Even more startling is some of the preliminary nonsense fussed out by other “statesmen” before the recent filibuster fiasco: it was seriously declared that "we were not going to “stick our necks out” for Europe again. How far can the clock be turned back by some nervous hands? Granted that we have fear where we have terror; should we transmit that fear of catastrophe to come to those other people in those other lands whose life is our life, whose being is our being.
But things, perhaps, are coming more sharply into focus. Internationally, a line-up (order of battle, if you wish) is being accomplished. And domestically, we have at least declared, through the last election, that the Rooseveltian social pattern is the mode of life for America. Obstructionists on both levels strive to keep us in a state of dim straddling, of confusion. But a spirit of positive hope does animate the people, if we respect the impatient stirrings of honest men in the face of any kind of chicanery or injustice — anywhere.
What I like to see, especially, is the steady inquiring by , (Continued on Page 32)
The Scientist in the World Crisis
Before this country’s entry into World War I, all branches of science, but particularly those whose practical applications bore directly upon the health and comfort of the people of America, were stimulated to greater activity and productiveness. Fortunately, the end of the wai* saw no diminution of this activity, and in the 1920’s we witnessed and utilized the products of the continued and intensified research. When the depression hit the country in 1929 and the early 30’s, industry increased rather than decreased its appropriations for research, so that when we emerged from the depression years in the late 30’s, still newer drugs, plastics, fabrics, devices of all kinds, made life a bit more enjoyable and safer.
The premonition of World War II stimulated all branches of science to even greater activity; Dec. 7, 1941 and the days that followed showed the extent to which science had been geared in this country to match and even to surpass other countries in the production of weapons, some entirely new, others which only a short time before had been in general use as peace-time agents.
When the war ended in 1945, many people were aghast at the destructive nature of the new weapons produced by the united efforts of scientists, while other individuals condoned the use of such agents by the reasoning that their use shortened the war and saved the lives of many who might have been doomed to die. Too many who censured the scientist for the destructive agents he produced failed to appreciate the peace-time applications which would follow, or which had existed before, and to realize that the scientists, used as puppets in the all-out effort, had been given little or no opportunity to express their own ethics concerning the use of these agents.
The present unrest in the world now prompts the questions concerning the role of science in future developments, and whether straight-thinking, God-fearing scientists can convince the world of the futility of a World War III, and also of the wisdom of utilizing science for constructive rather than de-
Lawrence H. Baldinger
As dean of the Notre Dame College of Science Dean Baldinger comes to these pages with high qualifications to speak on his subject. In an age of materialistic science he speaks boldly for .an infusion of morality' in the laboratory tomorrow. Dean Baldinger came to Notre Dame in 1931 for his master's degree, stayed on to get a doctorate and teach and ultimately to head Notre Dame's scientists.
structive purposes. In the past, too often, the scientist has been the pawn of those who would prostitute the results of scientific research and developments; too often, the power of choice did not rest with the scientist for the final use of his discovery. Rightly, then, the public should ask: Will the scientist rise in the present crisis to assert his rights and to accept his responsibilities to mankind?
The momentous decisions of World War II regarding the . .. (Continued on Page 32)
18
Tho Scholastic
A Scholastic Forum on the Problems Of a World Embroiled in Cold War
Rank Amateurs in World Politics
The political prospects of today result from the omissions and commissions of the recent past. The second world war ended with a great military victory, but it did not bring peace. The “hot war” with the Axis has been followed by the “cold war” with our foremost former ally and his satellites. We were warned as early as Nov. 16, 1946, by Wendell Willkie that “we shall win in the future peace only what we are now winning in the war — no more and no less.”
Ferdinand A. Hermens
One of the most widely respected men in the political science field today. Dr. Hermens, a native of Germany, has had practical experience in the fight against European Totalitarianism; is the author of such books as "The Tyrant's War and the People's Peace" and “Democracy and Anarchy"; is a regular contributor to many magazines and last summer returned to his University of Bonn alma mater as a guest lecturer.
Instead, it was official policy to concentrate on military • victory and to ignore the political requirements of peace. The slogan “unconditional surrender” served ideally to cover up this gap. Well can we understand it when we now learn from former Secretary of State Cordell Hull’s Memoirs that Mr. Churchill was “dumbfounded” when he fiist heard of “unconditional surrender” at the Casablanca Conference; that the State Department was not responsible for this formula (whose views were previously reported in Captain Butcher’s Diary); that General Eisenhower with many others opposed it; that in fact our Allies made repeated efforts to have it modified sufficiently to make it serviceable. The Holy Father warned against it repeatedly, but unsuccessfully. The negative approach prevailed; it created the vacuum in Central Europe and in the Far East which Communist power has filled with an appalling degree of success.
What shall we do? First, resolve firmly that our diplomatic thinking must return to the sanity of an earlier day, and that positive goals must have precedence over the inevitably destructive means required by war. Should, what Heaven may prevent, we ever find ourselves in a war with Russia, let us distinguish, as Pius XII has asked us again in a recent allocution, between a nation and the tyrannical form of government engulfing it. Second, eliminate, as quickly as possible, what remains of our negative policy in Germany and Japan. The once most productive economies of continental Europe and the Far East still operate under senseless restrictions; give them, within a framework of constructive guarantees, a freedom to work, and fill the vacuum which those countries still represent.
Third, let the economic Marshall Plan of ECA, and the diplomatic Marshall Plan of the North Atlantic pact, be followed by a political Marshall plan, aimed at saving the democracies of continental Europe, as well as the hoped-for
(Continued on Page 33)
March 25, 1949
War—What Is It, When Will It?
Max Weber tells us that politics concerns the distribution, maintenance, and transfer of power. But politics considered as a branch of the polite arts and as an ingredient of conversation invariably means a global problem, usually the relations of the United States and the Soviet Union. For some time now we have been bombarded on every side by the question “What will Russia do?” The fashionableness of this topic is due first to its omnipresent meaning, and secondly to the circumstance that every level of intelligence can form an opinion about it. This latter quality it shares of course with sport, which is why strangers invariably discuss politics, football, and/or baseball in season.
Now the problem of our relations with Russia offers fewer conversational gambits than say, the chances of the Red Sox. About these sterling fellows we know something precise, their batting and fielding averages, what they do in the off season, and the like. Even more important, when the Red Sox go forth the rules by which they intend to conduct themselves are pretty generally known, nine men on the field and all that, and there are very efficient people who see to the enforcement of these rules.
My knowledge of the Politburo, and I would say that this extends to everyone who does not have access to files of the State Department, is, on the other hand, very limited. About Messrs. Mikoyan, Beria, Malenkov, Bulganin, etc. I know only that they appear to enjoy having their photos taken while posed in front of other super-colossal photos of departed comrades. And the game which the Politburo boys propose to play has had for some time now no discernible rules, nor even by common agreement a starting or a finishing point. If it is hard to guess what the Red Sox will do under their very restricted and highly controlled environment, imagine how much more hazardous predictions about the Russians can be!
William O. Shanahan
Mr. Shanahan joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1941 after starting his career as a historian at Columbia University where he received his Doctorate degree. He is a graduate of the University of California in his home state. A specialist in German history. Mr. Shanahan ranks as a leading lecturer in the Department of History and has gained steady acclaim among students here. His references to the Bed Sox are
made strictly in the course of an academic discussion and do not imply any disparagement on the rest of the American League.
All this could be made to appear exceedingly complex and impenetrably scholarly by references to the imponderables of politics, or to my favorite expression, “the daemonic aspects of power.” This would beg the issue and ignore the plain fact that the Politburo neither contains gentlemen nor is likely to contain them. It is commonly known that the uncouth are disposed to settle their affairs by violence; I see no reason why this rule should not be true with respect to Russia.
(Continued on Page 33)	,
19
Names Make News
Tech. Sgt. LOUIS J.. BAGA, 36, formerly stationed with the Air Force at Stout Field, arrived at Notre Dame last week to serve on the supply staff of the Air ROTO unit on the campus. Sgt. Baga, a native of Iron Mountain, Mich., spent three years in the European theater and two years with the counter intelligence corps in Germany.
DR. E. A. HERMENS, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, discussed “The German People of Today” at a meeting of the 842nd and 267th composite groups of the organized reserve corps at reserve headquarters last Monday. Dr. Hermens was a visiting professor at the University of Bonn and University of Munster in Germany last year.
FRANK X. KAYSER, of Toledo, 0., graduate cum, laude in the class of ’48 at Notre Dame, has been appointed to the research staff of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was awarded the fellowship for research on tool steels by the Vanadium Steel Corp., of Latrobe, Pa.
The Foundation for Integrated Education recently asked the REV. GERALD B. PHELAN, director of the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, to supervise research on the Foundation’s new project of making a study of cultures in which some degree of integration in education has been attained. The project is world-wide in scope and was originally suggested to the Foundation by Father Phelan. It will consist of an examination of the instances of successful cultural integration leading to relatively stable societies with varying value standards worked out in different degrees with a view to determining precisely how the educative process works in each case.
Two grads and one student at Notre Dame are planning to recite marriage vows this summer. HAROLD W. SHEERAN, of Fostoria, Ohio, a student • at the University and veteran of two years with the Marines will marry Miss Frances Kuzbay, of South Bend.
Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Krause, of South Bend, have announced the engagement of their daughter, Shirley Ann, to EDWARD L. EAGAN, of Torrington, Conn.
Eagan is a graduate of the Notre Dame College of Law. The wedding is to take place on June 6.
In the current issuue of McCall’s Magazine Professor WILLIAM O. SHANAHAN, of the Department of history at Notre Dame, his wife, and their two children are pictured in a model South Bend living room. The room is in the home of one of Professor Shanahan’s neighbors. The Shanahans obliged the photographer and provided the family setting for the model room.
CHARLES E. (GUS) DORAIS, the man who threw touchdown passes to KNUTE ROCKNE on the 1913 Notre Dame team that defeated Army, has
GUS DORAIS Leaves Gridiron
quit athletics to buy an automobile agency in Wabash, Ind. Dorais was a close friend of the great Rockne and later gained prominence as a college and professional coach. Dorais will he the principal speaker Sunday at the annual Mass in memory of Rockne, GEORGE KEOGAN, and JOHN NICHOLSON, former Notre Dame coaches. WILLIAM J. EARLEY, of the University coaching staff, is chairman of the affair.
JOHN FRANCIS GUION, of Norvelt, Pa., and Mary Patricia McCarthy, of South Bend, announced their , engagement last Sunday. They also plan to be married sometime this summer.
Still another grad, LAURENCE J. ROUGEUX, of Clearfield, Pa., will be married this summer. Mr. and Mrs. Valentine A. Singler have announced the engagement of their daughter, Theresa Marie, to Rougeux. The ceremony is to take place on June 18.
Lieut. Commander JOHN H. BEAR, stationed with the naval unit at Notre Dame, suffered multiple body bums last week as he carried burning furniture from his South Bend home. The fire was started by a cigarette which had fallen on a sofa, according to firemen. Bear was given first aid by firemen and then treated at Memorial hospital. His wife and two children fled to a neighbor’s house aftei- the fire was discovered early in the morning.
The Irish love for liberty is desperately needed by the world today, CLARENCE E. MANION, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law, told the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in an address at Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on St. Patrick’s day. He stated that a series of “Irish Easter Week” rebellions behind the iron curtain would go a long way towards solving the world’s problems. Dean Manion went on to ask his listeners to “Work or pray for a sweeping revolution in all communist controlled countries,” and told them that pacts and treaties with or against ■ the communist governments will either speed up a war or merely postpone the inevitable conflict until the “enemy is as strong as we are, or stronger.”
Last Monday evening REV. FELIX D. DUFFEY, c.s.c., superior of Sacred Heart Novitiate, South Bend, Ind., gave a lecture on “Chesterton and Every Man’s Philosophy” at the Aquinas Library in South Bend. This was one of a series of monthly reviews presented by the Aquinas group. These talks are open to the public.
Professor THOMAS E. DOWNEY, of the Department of History at Notre Dame, will speak on “Extra-Curricular Activities” in a panel discussion on “The Rights and Responsibilities of Students in the Government of the College” at a meeting of the Midwest College and University Department of the National Catholic Educational Association in Chicago next Tuesday. Sister Mary Made-leva, C.S.C., President of St. Mary’s College will speak on “Teacher Education for Our Young Religious” at a joint session of the Midwest College and University Department and the Midwest Secondary School Department- ; of the N.C.E.A.
20
The Scholastic
Council Constitution
(Continued from Page 9) officers except hall representatives and freshmen in the spring. Another minority proposal, however, purported to name all officers in the spring, except of course, the freshmen. After the concensus agreed that hall representatives could not be elected satisfactorily in May, the second proposal was defeated by a small margin, and the old Council policy was written into the Senate constitution.
Students to Vote Soon
So, as the constitution stands amended and ratified, hall representatives and off-campus members will be included in the Senate, and three distinct student elections will be held. The first, in May, will name officers of the three upper classes; the three senators-at-large; and representatives from the Law school and off-campus. The stay council will be elected by the Senate in May. In October, shortly after the school year begins, hall elections will name their respective representatives to the Senate; and the freshman class elections, as usual, will be held in November.
This is what happened to the proposed constitution Tuesday night, and this is the form in which it will be presented to the student body for ratification in the near future.—'Vic Dorr
Constitution Changes
The folloiving are changes in the Council Constitution made at Tuesday’s general meeting:
ARTICLE IV —MEMBERSHIP
Sec. I (a) The Senate shall be composed of the four presidents of the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior classes.
(b)	Three representatives-at-lafge chosen from the Senior Class, one representative from the Law School, and two representatives from off-campus.
(c)	A Stay Council of four members chosen from the existing Senate to hold office in the succeeding academic year to serve as a basis for the succeeding Senate.
BY-LAWS
ARTICLE I —ELECTIONS
Sec. Ill—Election of all members except freshmen, the thirteen hall representatives, and the Stay Council shall take place on the first Tuesday in May. These members shall not take office until the following academic year.
Sec. IV—The members of the Law School will elect one representative; three members-at-large from the Senior Class will be elected at the same time
WASHINGTON HALL MOVIES
The Washington Hall Saturday "Feature Presentations" for the coming six weeks include a number of the better films produced in the past year. First up is the much publicized "Babe Ruth Story" which finds William Bendix in the role of the
Yankees' favorite son, supported by Claire Trevor. "Good Sam" gives Ann Sheridan a multitude of laughs at the expense of her soft-hearted husband, Gary Cooper. Also ranking high on the schedule is the Jeanne Crain, William Holden, Edmund
Gwenn hit, "Apartment for Peggy.
APRIL 2
The Babe Ruth Story Switzerland Today News
APRIL 9 The Dude Goes West Cartoon News
APRIL 16 Luck of the Irish Democracies’ Diary News
APRIL 23 Good Sam Cartoon News
APRIL 30 Call of the Wild Jamaica News
MAY 7 Apartment for Peggy Answer to Stalin News
Senior Ball Set For May 20 in Drill Hall
A new precedent will be set on May 20, when the senior class holds its annual ball in the Navy Drill Hall. The Drill Hall, said class prexy Pat Costello, has been selected as the site for the dance because of its many advantages. After these advantages were explained at a senior class meeting last fall, over 250 seniors felt the Drill Hall would be the most satisfactory place for the dance.
The task of decorating the hall for the dance is in charge of Lou Scibelli, John St. Germaine, and Bob Molnar. The hall will be decorated in a cabaret style, assuring table space for every couple.
Although no contracts have as yet been signed, it has been announced by president Costello, that Sonny Dunham and his band will furnish the music for the dance. This band played for the senior ball last year and was favorably received. The all inclusive price of the bids is $9.00.
The Student Council agreed at its last meeting to underwrite the dance with the understanding that it will receive 25% of the profits, if any.
class officers are elected; and two off-campus representatives will be elected by the off-campus students.
Sec. V—The freshman class officers will be elected by the members of the freshman class in November on a date to be announced by the Senate.
Sec. VIII—Vacancies will be filled by the vice-president of the class if the president resigns or is impeached, and by runners-up if a hall representative resigns or is impeached.
Lawyers Pay Tribute To Professor Konop
Thomas F. Konop, LL.B., Dean Emeritus of the University of Notre Dame College of Law, was honored by the students and faculty of the law school at a Communion breakfast Sunday morning at 9:30 in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel. Dean Konop plans to retire soon from teaching, after 26 years as a professor of law at Notre Dame.
Dean Konop, 70, began his teaching career in 1894 in a public school. He was graduated from the University of Nebraska with an LL.B, degree in 1904, then was successively a member of the
DEAN EMERITUS KONOP Ad multos ones
U. S. House of Representatives, a member of the Wisconsin Industrial Commission, a prosecuting attorney, and Dean of the Notre Dame law school from 1923 to 1941. He was succeeded in the latter capacity by the present dean, Clarence E. Manion.
Under Konop’s deanship. Notre Dame’s College of Law was admitted to the American Association of Law Schools and, in 1925, was approved by the section of legal education of the American Bar Association, the Indiana State Bar Association, and the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
The breakfast Sunday followed a High Mass at 8:30 in the Dillon Hall Chapel at Notre Dame, which was sung by the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., professor of legal ethics in the law-school. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club, the Communion breakfast was chairmanned by William Walsh, senior law student from Port Huron, Mich. Jack Whitely, also a law school senior, was toastmaster.
March 25, 1949
21
Clubs
New England Breakfast
The New England Club held a Communion Breakfast last Sunday in the dining room above the cafeteria. Over a hundred students attended the Mass at 8:00 in Dillon Chapel. The breakfast was followed by speeches. Capt. Maurice R. Sullivan, a New York Army Chaplain, opened the speeches and was followed by Jim Martin, co-captain of the 1949 Irish grid squad. Finishing up the agenda was a talk by the Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C., on the advantages of Regional Clubs on campus.
audacious
Q
the BOLDER LOOK in shirts
If you’re the kind of a guy who shies from a sky blue shirt —just try one with your grey suit—and see what happens! The new Van Heusen Van Bold reflects that air of devil-may-care in eleven colors and white—in its wide spread collar— half-inch stitching—extra wide center pleat—French or single cuffs! Tailored with every Van Heusen quality detail —a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! §3.95 Other Van Heusen shirts §2.95 and up.
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP
Van Heusen*
the world’s smartest
Spanish Clubs Meet
The energetic La Raza Club has extended an invitation to the St. Theresa Spanish Club of St. Mary's College to attend their regular Sunday meeting this week. The purpose of the move is to discuss with the St. Mary’s organization the life in the many Spanish-speaking countries.
St. Pat's Follow-Up
The newly formed Irish Culture Club held its third meeting in a month last week and the response indicated that such an organization has been long missed by the students. The membership has increased three-fold during the
last month and more are expected and invited to join. Following up the highly successful St. Patrick’s Day Dinner, the Club has planned a number of future activities for the rest of the semester. At the most recent meeting, Professor John J. Broderick, Jr., assistant dean of the Law School, spoke on “The Legal Aspects of Irish History in the 18th Century.”
Law Club Program Rolls
John J. Hyland, new president of the Notre Dame Law Club, announced that the program of activities for this semester got under way last Sunday with a Communion Breakfast in honor of Thomas F. Konop, dean emeritus of the Law School. The breakfast was held in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel and heads the list of a number of tentative future plans, which include an informal dance at the Progress Club on April 28, the annual banquet for graduating seniors on May 13, and the resumption of the Practicing Law Institute on May 13 and 14. Officers for this semester are John Hyland, president; Tom O’Brien, vice-president; Clark Fisher, secretary; Tom Nelson, treasurer.
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
Van Hensen
“One Man Tells Another” GILBERT’S 813-817 S. Michigan Street
22
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Frank Leahy Resigns As Sports Chief
KRAUSE AND LEAHY — Frank laterals paper work to Moose
—Photo by Kunkle
Trackmen Face Big Nine At Purdue Relays; Leonard Leads Team In Final Indoor Meet
By JIM HOWARD
The Purdue Relays carnival of track events tomorrow will provide the final competition for the Notre Dame track team which has flashed through one of its most successful indoor seasons in many years. The Lafayette spectacle will also give the Irish their final opportunity to settle the current series with the Boilermaker thinclads. Notre Dame decisively whipped the downstate tracksters early in the year, then were edged by them in the Illinois Tech Relays. .
A whirlwind of special relay contests are the distinctive feature of the Purdue battle. Coach “Doc” Handy will employ a full team in the meet, in a strong effort to unseat the top Big Nine schools taking part. The mile, two-mile, 880, and 440 are not included in the program.
The special contests are the two-mile relay, the distance medley, and the 1000-yard run. There is a possibility that a
shuttle hurdle contest will be scheduled too. Capt. Bill Leonard, finishing his fourth year of indoor competition, will again lead the squad by his participation in the 1000, and in two or. more of the relay combos.
Bob Smith, the ace Irish sprinter is still suffering from an ankle injured in the Tech Relays, and it is doubtful if he will run in the 60-yard dash tomorrow. One of Notre Dame’s greatest all time performers, Bill Fleming, will run in both the high and low bander races, and will take part in the high jump if possible.
Composing the Notre Dame two-mile relay will be Ray Sobota, Pat Kenny, Jim Kittell, Gerry Johnson or Jim Bellas. Sobota will also serve as a key man in the mile relay, to fill out his role as one of the best middle distance runners in the mid-west. The distance medley group will be foi-med by Steve Provost, Kenny, Leonard, and Kittell.
Will Hold Grid Post: Krause New Director
Long pending reorganization of the Notre Dame athletic office was completed this week with Frank Leahy’s resignation as athletic director and the promotion of Edward “Moose” Krause to head the sports department. Coach Leahy will remain as head football mentor and Coach Krause will continue to direct the Irish eagers.
In his letter of resignation to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, Coach Leahy said, “It has been a distinct honor for me to hold down the positions of Director of Athletics and Head Coach of Football during the past eight years, but it is my firm conviction that with the increased enrollment, and the increase in athletic problems, it would be prudent for the University to
Trojans Sign Pact
Notre Dame and the University of Southern California have signed a contract which will continue one of the nation's most colorful grid classics through the 1950 and 1951 seasons. The series was started in 1926 by Knute Rockne and U.S.C.'s revered coach, the late Howard Jones. Notre Dame has won 12 of the 20 games in the series, while the Trojans have been victorious six times, with two ties being recorded. -
Notre Dame officials would not comment on whether the usual home-and-home relations will be retained. Under the present arrangements the game should be played in Los Angeles in 1950 and at Notre Dame in 1951.
have these two important positions handled by separate individuals. As we both know, Coach Krause has proven conclusively during the past year that he is thoroughly capable of representing this institution, in a most successful manner, as the Director of Athletics.”
This transfer of responsibility in the administration of athletic policy was initiated in February, 1948, when Coach
March 25, 1949
23
Krause became assistant athletic director. It was understood at that time that he would eventually relieve Coach Leahy of the pressing duties of the director’s office to permit Coach Leahy to devote his full time to the football team.
Krause will now be responsible for arranging all Irish athletic schedules and representing the university in the various national athletic groups with which it is associated. Shortly after receiving notification of his appointment, Coach Krause boarded a train to Seattle, Washington, to perform his first official duties in his new position at the annual meeting of the College Basketball Coaches Association.
The new athletic director graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 after winning all-American honors in both basketball and football. He is the only Notre Dame athlete ever voted a trophy by the student body. After holding coaching positions at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn., and at Holy Cross, he returned to Notre Dame in 1942 to be line coach for Frank Leahy. He took on the additional duties of head basketball coach in 1943 upon the death of George Keogan.
In commenting on Coach Leahy’s resignation and his recommendation that Coach Krause succeed him, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the university, said, “We at Notre Dame have always felt privileged in having the services of Frank Leahy. To us, he is the finest football coach in the country. He is a leader possessed of sterling mental and moral character. He has in addition served his alma mater exceptionally well as Director of Athletics. As a result of performing the duties associated with both positions, he has more often than not had to put in working days lasting 16 to 18 hours. We have now come to the realization that too much has been demanded of Frank Leahy. We are also happy that Frank has recommended Edward Krause to assume the position of Director of Athletics. Ed Krause has been schooled by Frank Leahy in the Notre Dame way of doing things. We know he will be an able successor to Frank as Director of Athletics.”
'Moose' Drops a Peg
Big Ed Krause, lumbering ND basketball mentor, has acquired a new nickname among the friends of a certain stu-.dent from New York. In a letter from home, the lad’s mother related her experiences at the thrilling Notre Dame-New York University basketball game in Madison Square Garden. Bubbling with malapropistic excitement, she concluded: “and I just love your coach, ‘Mouse Krouse.”
Irish Nine Faces Tough Midwest Schedule;
Board Approves Tennis, Golf, Track Slates
In the whirlwind of sports activities earlier this week the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics also approved the schedules for four varsity teams. Coach Kline’s diamond men will open the spring sports campaign when they travel to Bloomington to meet Indiana University’s Hoosiers on April 8 and 9. The tennis, golf and outdoor track teams will delay their initial contests until after the Easter holidays.
The golf schedule printed in last week’s Scholastic was approved without correction except for the addition of the National Collegiate Tournament at Ames, Iowa, on June 27.
Bill Leonard Cops Trophy In Cleveland KC Event
Captain Bill Leonard successfully defended his 1948 title in the 1,000-yard run at the Cleveland Knights of Columbus meet last Friday night and became permanent owner of the K. of C. trophy by virtue of this second win in the event. Leonard’s performance in Cleveland highlighted the week-end tour of invitational meets by Irish trackmen lucky enough to receive bids.
Split seconds were costly to the Notre Dame mile relay team in both the Cleveland games and in the Daily News relays in Chicago on Saturday night. Setting a blistering 3:23.4 in their heat at Cleveland the Irish could only get second place as Ohio State recorded 3:23.2 in an event that was judged by clocked times due to the large field. In Chicago it was the Loyola quartet that nosed them out in their division.
A lost shoe in the semi-finals ended Bill Fleming’s try for the hurdles title at Cleveland. The following night he was matched against Harrison Dillard in the first elimination heat and lost to the dusky Baldwin Wallace speedster.
The best that Jim Miller could do in the pole vault at Cleveland was 13 feet, at least nine inches under his best performance, to take a fifth place. He did not compete in the Chicago event.
The week before, running against the best in the Big nine, Coach Handy’s charges won second place in the Illinois Tech relays, being edged by Purdue’s' Boilermakers.
A double hurdles triumph by Fleming, a sprint medley relay first, seconds by Jerry Johnson and Paul Schwetschenau, plus several third place wins in other relay events contributed to the team’s 46 points.—Ted Prahinski
The outdoor track schedule is:
April 23—at Michigan State
29—Drake Relays
May 7—Pittsburgh, here
14—at Missouri
21—at Penn State
28—Indiana State Meet at Purdue
June 4—Central Collegiates at Marquette
17—NCAA Meet at Los Angeles, California
Participation in the NCAA event in June will be limited to those specialists whom Coach Handy believes capable of competing against the nation’s best collegiate track and field performers. The new director of athletics, Ed Krause, will attempt to adjust the track schedule to give the campus metre than one home event this year.
Coach Walter M. Langford’s tennis squad will meet eight opponents in dual competition in addition to participating in the Central Collegiate and NCAA championships. The complete schedule is:
April 29—At Purdue
30—Northwestern here
May 4—Western Michigan here
7—Detroit here
11—At Michigan
14—Michigan State here
20—At Wisconsin
21—Marquette here
June 2-4—Central Collegiates at Western Michigan
20-25—NCAA at Southern Methodist
An additional dual match with Miami (Ohio) may be added to the schedule if a satisfactory date can be found.
Coach Jake Kline’s men will take on the following ambitious 28-game schedule:
April 8-9—At Indiana
11-12—Iowa here
13—Cincinnati here
14,16—At Ohio State
18-19—At Terre Haute Phillies
20-21—Wisconsin here
22-23—Minnesota here
26—Purdue here
27—At Michigan
29-30—At Illinois
May 4—At Michigan State
7—At Chicago
10—At Western Michigan
11—Northwestern here
14—Chicago here
18—Michigan here
24—At Purdue
26—At Northwestern
28—Michigan State here
June 3-4—Western Michigcm here
24
The Scholastic
Irish Test DePaul In Pin Competition
Irish intercollegiate squad of the Kampus Keglers will go after their third consecutive win tomorrow afternoon when they meet a powerful DePaul University five at the Monte Carlo alleys in Chicago. The Fighting Irish of the maple lanes will also be out to avenge an early season loss at the hands of this same DePaul team, which is currently resting in second place in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference.
Kegler Tourney Plans Made
Kegler Prexy, Ernie Huffmann has appointed Pete Lusardi, Ray Rusek, and Jim Jennewein to the Awards Committee of the Notre Dame Bowling Teague. They will handle the money and trophies which the League will award at the end of the season. They will follow the pattern set last year when 17 trophies and $550 were awarded. The 1949 awards should top the 1948 mark since the league has been enlarged by twelve teams.
ND to Host Collegiate Bowlers
Notre Dame will play host to Valparaiso, DePaul and Loyola pinsters at the Bowl Mor lane on April 30. This intercollegiate tournament is believed to be the first such tournament to be held in this area and should provide plenty of pin-action.
According to Tournament Manager, Ernie Huffmann, the plans are still in the Tentative stage. The winners of the afternoon matches, which will be determined by lot, will meet in the evening for the Tournament Championship. Suitable trophies for the winning team as well as the high individuals are being planned and will be announced later.
Records Threatened
In last Sunday’s action at the Bowl Mor, Tom Simon and Charlie O’Brien found the maples to their liking and proceeded to walk away with the honors. Pudgy O’Brien of the Rochester club rolled a 230 game with the aid of six consecutive strikes and moved into a tie with Bob Fisher of the Youngstown club for second place in the league’s high single-game category. Lee Sheridan leads with a 236.
. Simon led his Syrian-Lebanese team with a three game total of 611 (199-194-218) and also placed himself on top in the league’s high three-game series for individuals. Since Tom has returned to school in January his team has lost only one game, and are at present one of the hottest teams in the league. Charlie Derrico led his Italian Club team into first place in. the Gold League.
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
More Light on Louisville
We received a letter from Mr. Charles G. Morrow, president of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, clarifying that group’s position in the recent ticket debate with the University of Kentucky. Our “Bluegrass Alumni” are no more anxious than we are to cancel the Kentucky cage series. They recommended that games be scheduled with the University of Louisville in addition to the Wildcat series. They believe that the University of Louisville would be more liberal with the tickets allotted to Notre Dame. This would permit more of the Irish followers in the area to see Notre Dame play than is now possible. They are also faced with the fact that when the Irish return to Kentucky in 1951 the game will be played at Lexington in the new Wildcat fieldhouse. Rumors have it that the new contract with Kentucky substantially increases the Notre Dame allotment. Kentucky will play in the Notre Dame barn next year in accordance with the home-and-home arrangements.
More Word From the South
Reports on the St. Louis-Notre Dame game of March 7.
St. Louis Post-Dispatch by Robert Morrison: “It was hard for the Irish to take and they showed it . . - with a rough and rugged and sometimes surly battle. . . . Coach Hickey remarked after the game that the Irish started football practice early . . . the Irish were keyed high, but the will to win became a sullen and desperately rough attempt to come from behind. ...”
St. Louis University News:
Sportswriter Jim O’Neil: “Contrary to rumors that we hear . . . two Notre Dame football players did not rush on to the floor and tackle Marv Schatz-man.”
“J.F.B.” in The Reader’s Vieivpoint: “The exhibition of poor sportsmanship on the part of Our Lady’s boys at Kiel Auditorium a few weeks back was shameful enough. . . . The question now would seem to be simply and solely the protection of the physical well-being of our basketeers. ... I sincerely regret that the reputation of Catholic sports
manship is carried throughout the country in such hands.”
This is Stereotyped Complaint Against Notre Dame Athletics Number 4-A, normally indigenous to a region farther west, but noted to be dying out in that area. This new outcropping of this parasitical growth has at least one interesting mutation from the original species — it comes from the team that won; normally it is a defeated team that becomes infected.
Cecil B. Leahy
“Lights! Action! Camera!”
Notre Dame gridders are going into the movies! Plans recently completed with Enterprise studios in Hollywood call for a television short on the T-for-mation to be made, using the Irish football team as the gridiron starlets. Work will begin shortly after spring practice closes early in May. Coach Leahy will be technical director. The film will be released to the T-V circuits in the fall and it is reported that it will also be available in the 16 mm. home movie size.
Suggestion Box
May 7 looms, as a very busy day athletically for Notre Dame with the only home outdoor track meet of the season and the Old Timers’ game vying for attention. Could the Student Council arrange to have classes excused that Saturday and the athletic officials arrange to have the track meet in the morning and the football game in the afternoon so the students could get the full benefit of these events? We think the two events are important enough to warrant some such attempt being made.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Mar. 25—rENCING, National Intercollegiate* at West Paint.
Mar. 26—TRACK. Purdue Relay* 28-30—BOXING. Bengal Bout preliminaries.
31—BOXING. Bengal Bout semifinal*.
Apr. 2—BOXING. Bengal finds.
FENCING, at Cincinnati.
March 25, 1949
25
Roemer and Roblez Loom As Heavy Favorites In 'Volume Eighteen' of Annual Bengal Bouts
By BILL RILEY
Cartoons by LENZ, Photos by HARLAN
Six weeks of intensive training will start to pay off Monday night when the 70 Bengal Bout contenders begin pairing off to decide the finalists for the campus boxing crowns. The Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, sponsors of this 18th renewal of the campus event, are prepared to handle recordbreaking crowds during the five nights and to supply the patrons with their money’s worth in sporting entertainment.
Roemer Seeks Fourth Title
In the featured heavyweight finals Bill Roemer is favored to add another Bengal championship to the three he has already captured. Gus Cifelli looms as his outstanding challenger, and most probable opponent in the finals. The rumor mill has it that Roemer is a little slower moving around the ring, but he still has that ram-jet, left-right combination that has carried him to the top for three years.
The latest of the fighting Fallons, Joe, seems like a sure shot for the finals in the 180-pound class. He has accredited himself favorably in sparring matches with Roemer, and combines speed with a jolting sock in his boxing gear. George Dickson, one of last year’s finalists in the 167-class, also should make the finals in ’49. Dickson won the light-heavy title in 1946, but lost last year to Jim Brennan.
The rough, tough 167-pound division should bring out many good slugfests. Top candidate for the crown is chunky Paul Boulus. An idea of Boulus’ prowess can be gained by a look at his ’48 record. He beat Jim Brennan, who beat George Dickson for the championship. It’s a rough path for the prospective champ, however, with such outstanding men as Aaron Dyson as stumblingblocks. Dyson, a negro boy from Indianola, Miss., has a methodical stalking style that may bring him the title, and is guaranteed to make him a mean opponent.
The 157-pound class is the toughest for any prognosticator. Any one of the nine candidates could go all the way. Dan Finn looks like the best. For* the number two and three slots, the fieldhouse experts pick Joe Harmon and Ed Smith.
Two newcomers to the Bengals make the 147-pound division a little easier to spot, but that much harder on the rest of the contenders. Vic Roblez, the most business-like Bengaleer, and Joe Brown measure up as the best. Roblez, a tall, hard boxer from Utah, as smooth and fast as a striking rattler, promises to have the crowd on its feet when he starts throwing those lightning punches. Brown is another outstanding new fighter, and looks like Roblez’ toughest competition.
Ring-wise, hard-hitting Mike Conley
appears to have the 142-pound crown in his grasp before the fights start. Mike defeated both of the other two outstanding candidates last year. Jim Smith and Jim Farrell receive the nod as potential derailers of the Conley Limited.
Lightweights Promise Fast Action
With both of last year’s finalists returning, a newcomer who is a boxer and puncher combined, and another possible champ fighting it out, the 137-pound division promises some fast fistic action. Jack Griffin, last year’s champ, Russ Van Keuren, his opponent in the finals, and Lincoln Yamamoto, a former member of the University of Hawaii boxing team, make for fistic fireworks; Joe Archibald, whose weight is hedging around 127, is an outstanding candidate for either this or the 127-pound crown.
In the 127-pound class, look for Don Ewing and Sal Fiorella to meet for the championship. If Archibald makes the weight, count him in as either champ or top challenger.
FALLON FINDS PERFECT DEFENSE FOR ROEMER'S LEFT
BROWN AND ROBLEZ SPAR AS NAPPY WATCHES
26
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC	SCHOLASTIC
MAY /2, /93/—	MARCH 17, 1943
Horatio Alger—The Bengals Rise to Fame
“Who started the Bengal Bouts? Why were they started? Where does the money go? Has it always been the major sporting event that it is now? Who were the first Bengal champs?”
The fistic tourney which will open Monday night has had a hectic past. It has been alternately criticized and praised. It started as an obscure event sponsored by the Student Activities Council, predecessor to the present Student Council, and hit its peak last year with 18,000 spectators witnessing the five nights of boxing.
Bengals Had Inauspicious Beginning
In March, 1930 the S. A. C. made a call for candidates for an informal campus boxing contest and 20 students reported. The Scholastic that year gave it very little notice and even failed to record the names of the winners.
fighters Barney Ross and Billy Conn; fight luminary Arthur Donovan; sportswriter Arch Ward; coaches Elmer Layden and Frank Leahy. A Bengal champ even returned to do the honors and that was Max Marek, one of the few men who has Joe Louis on his list of victims. Max turned the trick in Chicago Golden Gloves competition in 1934.
The Bengal Bouts now rates as one of the top boxing events of the South Bend area and a classic among the nation’s college boxing programs. The profits have been both monetary and spiritual. The sponsors, the contestants and the spectators have the satisfaction of aiding a very worthy charity —the Bengal missionaries of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The monetary value is best expressed in a letter received last year by the Rev. Thomas J.
Trophies From ND Clubs Await Bengal Champions
As has been the custom in the past, the championship trophies for the annual Bengal Bouts are being sponsored by various student organizations on campus.
There will be a trophy for each of the eight weight classes. In addition to these, the Huddle will again sponsor the annual Sportsmanship trophy. The Bengal Bout Committee will present its first annual Bengal Bout Recognition Award to ex-middleweight champion Tony Zale. The Bengal Bout Committee will also present sweaters to the 16 leather tossers who climb into the ring on final night.
The weight class trophies and their sponsors: 127 class, Indianapolis Club; 135 class, Cleveland Club; 142 class, Met Club; 147 class, Student Council; 155 class, New England Club; 165 class, Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus; 175 class, The Rebels; heavyweight class, Kampus Keglers.—Jack Meaney
Brennan, C.S.C., from the Rev. Thomas Fitzpatrick, C.S.C., Procurator of Holy Cross Foreign Missions:
“ . .. brings to my mind the thought of the Bengal Bouts and the hope that you and the Knights and the men who will fight will make it the grand success that attended your efforts last year. I assure you and them that what they do is worth the trouble, the pain and the effort that goes into making a sport the means of helping Holy Cross and Notre Dame men meet with even greater success here in the Dacca diocese.”
Undaunted the S.A.C. tried again the following year and felt the critical blast of the Scholastic for its efforts. “A farce” was one of the kindei- remarks the editors had to say about the fights in the May 12 issue and in charity again failed to print the winners.
Apparently an enterprising editor saw possibilities in the boxing show for the Scholastic became the sponsor in 1932. With the new management came the title “Bengal Bouts.”
Until 1946 the Scholastic continued to promote the affair as a sideline activity, but in that year it relinquished its guardianship to the present sponsors, the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus. The Knights were able to give more time to the promotional effort and their first tourney, the 15th in the series, netted more money for the Bengal missions than the combined total of the previous 14.
Joe Louis Bowed to One Bengal Champ
Among previous honorary referees who have officiated at the Bengals were
TROPHIES FOR BENGAL BOUT CHAMPIONS —Photo by Rumely
March 25, 1949
27
Tournament Officials Name Eight to All-Campus Honors
Following the nationwide custom of picking all-star teams, the tournament officials of the interhall basketball loop have chosen an All-Campus cage team. Like many of the sportswriters, they encountered trouble singling out five individuals, so the officials selected eight men — three forwards, three guards and two centers.
The title-winning Farley quintet and Dillon hall each placed two men on the mythical team. The All-Campus basketbailers are: forwards: Jack George (Farley) of Washington, D. C., John Springer (Morrissey) of Rochester, N. Y., and Leo Murphy (Dillon) of Lewiston, N. Y.; guards: Chet Ostrowski (Farley) of Chicago, Tony Rados (Breen-Phillips) of Steelton, Pa., and Ray Keys (West Virginia) of Bellaire, Ohio; centers: John Holloway (Chemical Engineers) of Robinson, Ill., and Ray Petrzelka (Dillon) of Cedar Rapids, la.
Sailing Team Eyes Skies, Faces Michigan in Opener
Notre Dame’s sailors are keeping an eager eye on the cun-ent erratic Indiana weather with the hope that the end of April will find ideal sailing conditions prevailing in the midwest. On April 30 and May 1 the Irish sailing team will open its second season of intercollegiate competition.
Michigan’s Wolverines will host the Irish seamen in their opening regatta which will serve as a warm-up contest for the Midwestern Collegiate Championship regatta. Fifteen men will be chosen from the Sailing Club on the Monday prior to the meet.
On the week-end of May 7-8 regattas at the University of Wisconsin, the University of Michigan and Ohio State University will determine the nine finalists who will compete for the Midwestern Collegiate Championships to be held on May 23-24. Notre Dame’s representatives will compete in the six-team field at Wisconsin. The first three teams in each of the six-team regattas will move into the finals.
Michigan will be the scene of the finals and the first three teams in the regatta will secure bids to the National Intercollegiate Sailing Championships to be held at Michigan June 21-23. This will be the first time the Nationals have been held in the midwest and some 65 teams are eligible for bids, including teams on both the east and west coasts.
Notre Dame has also received a bid to the Northwestern Invitational regatta to be held at the Chicago Yacht club on May 14-15.
Roaring from behind in the final minutes of play, highly-favored Farley hall snared the interhall basketball championship by edging the Chemical Engineers, 42-39, in a St. Patrick’s Day melee on the fieldhouse floor.
The Engineers, Cinderella team of the big tourney, lead all the way only to lose the title late in that hectic last quarter. Trailing 39-37, Farley went ahead when big Chet Ostrowski dropped in a free toss and then followed up with a lefthanded hooker. Tom Fannon clinched the verdict with another fielder just before the gun sounded. Ostrowski was the hero of the evening, tallying eight of his 10 points in the final period.
The classy Chem lads held quarter leads of 8-7, 21-11 and 32-26.
The battle for third place was another thriller with West Virginia snatching a 25-23 verdict over Breen-Phillips in the consolation affair. B-P had a 6-0
FARLEY HALL —1949 CAMPUS CAGE CHAMPS
—Photo by Munger
Left to right: standing. R. Fink, T. Fannon. J. George. E. Schaub. C. Ostrowski and manager J. Perticone; kneeling, J. Ledwidge, D. Cannon and B. DeOrsky.
lead, but lost it in a hurry; the Mountaineers were on top at halftime, 19-16. The boys from the freshman hall had a chance to tie the game and send it into overtime, but they missed two free throws as the tilt ended. Williams and Keys had eight points apiece for the winners while Manion’s five topped the B-P scoring.
The first, second and third place squads received medals. Championship boxscore:
FARLEY (42)		CHEM.	ENG. FG	(39) FTP
	FGTP P			
Fink	3 0 0	Simitz	1	0 1
George	3 1 3	Gentilucei	0	9 1
Fannon	5 0 3	Kruse	2	3 4
Ostrowski	4 2 2	Murphy	0	2 3
Cannon	2 2 1	Maag	5	1 2
- DeOrsky	1 1 2	Holloway	6	3 3
Ledwidge	0 0 1	Newell	0	0 0
Schaub	0 0 1	Thomas	0	0 0
Mazur	0 0 0			
	■ 1	1	,1	■	1			—— 1
Totals	18 6 13	Totals	14	9 14
—Rudy Unger
28
The Scholastic
Irish *49 Grid Team Invades Cartier Field
Forced by the uncertain Indiana weather to spend the first three days of spring practice in the fieldhouse and Navy drill hall, Notre Danie’s footballers felt the browned, damp turf of Car-tier field for the first time Monday afternoon.
Those first few days, the squad reported in sweat suits and did its best to limber up in the cramped, improvised practice quarters. Some of the linemen got in plenty of running, and threw a few blocks too, in a series of basketball games played on the varsity floor.
Coach Frank Leahy had no scrimmages on Monday, but the linemen were blocking viciously, the quarterbacks were spinning and the running backs pranced through their obstacle course and threw blocks at the dummy.
The big picture parade slated for March 16 was called off at the last minute when the weatherman’s prediction of clear weather turned out to be slightly incorrect. Now the gridders are scheduled to pose for the cameramen tomorrow afternoon. Among those expected to take pictures of the Irish are four movie newsreel men and the syndicate photographers.
ND Fencing Trio Seeks College Title at W. Point
Lou Burns, Ralph Dixon and Bob Schlosser are representing Notre Dame in the National Intercollegiate Fencing Tournament at West Point this week end. They will compete against 39 other college trios in the two days of matches to decide the national title. Schlosser and Dixon were members of the threesome that went to the finals last year at Annapolis in which the Irish finished in a 12th-place deadlock with Detroit at Michigan State.
In preparation for the West Point matches, Coach Herb Melton’s swordsmen snapped back from the defeat handed them by Detroit to beat Wisconsin, 15-12. Burns and John Vincent bolstered the Irish scoring with clean sweeps in their matches.
On April 12 the University of Cincinnati will host the Irish blades in their final match of the season. This will mark the final appearance of four seniors on the squad: captain Ralph Wit-ucki, Lou Burns, Jerry Lubin and Ed Martin.
Coach Melton’s frosh team will have an intersquad tournament shortly after the Cincinnati match before they, too, put their blades away until next year.
—Jack Economou
Meanwhile, Notre Dame’s opponents of next fall were not letting any grass grow under their tackling dummies. On Feb. 26, North Carolina’s Tarheels wound up four weeks of what they call winter practice. Coach Carl Snavely has many gaps to fill, but he is well pleased with some of his newcomers. He excused from the drills several of his returning stars including Art Weiner, an all-conference end, and a back named Charles Justice. The Chapel Hill gang begins spring practice in April.
Attracting less attention but working just as hard as the southerners are Coach George Sauer and his Navy eleven. Sauer has 150 candidates, but, unfortunately for him, Bill Hawkins, Reaves Baysinger, Pistol Pete Williams and Scott Emerson are not among them. And the Middies have their usual back-breaking schedule to think of. Still, Sauer hopes for and expects a lot of help from his plebes.
“Our boys got a shot in the arm from that Army game (21-21 tie), and I feel certain that it will carry over into ’49”, he said. “I’m looking for an improved record for the 1949 season.”
—Ralph Wright
McBride Takes Over Line Job from Krause
Bob McBride, star Notre Dame lineman of ’41, ’42, and ’46, is the new Irish tackle coach, replacing Moose Krause. Last week, Bob announced that he had left his coaching job at Mt.
BOB McBBIDE From Chicago to Cartier
Carmel High School in Chicago and would come here.
An all-stater at Logan, Ohio, Bob earned a first string job here in ’42, then became a machine gun squad leader in Europe. He spent 122 days in a German prison camp and returned to the campus hampered by a loss of weight and frozen feet. The handsome 200 pounder won the Byron V. Kanaley Prize for 1947 awarded to the senior monogram winner exemplary as a student and leader of men. Bob graduated in ’47 and immediately went to Mt. Carmel where he has been head coach for the last two seasons.
Bob’s line proteges might be warned that the new coach doesn’t care for missing practices. In four years at Notre Dame, Bob missed only one practice session. And that was when his baby boy was born.
Wind and Sprains Get In Coach Kline's Hair
Bad weather and injuries have thrown a couple of curve balls at Jake Kline’s baseball team before the season is even under way.
The biting Indiana winds and unseasonable cold wave have forced the Irish to hold all but two of their practices in the fieldhouse, where hitting and fielding are handicapped. With the opener only two weeks away, Petrzelka, Kozlik, and Co., will be needing some outdoor batting drills soon. Batting in the windless and airless fieldhouse is a little different from hitting under game conditions with a 25 mile wind blowing in from center field and a fast lefthander on the mound.
The injury to Pete Koblosh, regular shortstop, is not as bad as it first appeared to be. However, the slim senior, who stepped into a fieldhouse hole while pivoting on a double play, will be out for some time. His ankle will be in a cast for two weeks, and unless the ankle sprain and pulled ligaments heal in a hurry he will miss the Indiana opener.
To replace Pete, Coach Kline has been experimenting with Captain Ray “Seeds” Petrzelka, the regular first baseman for the past three years. “Seeds”, who never played short before, hasn’t looked bad in the indoor practice sessions, but shortstop isn’t a position to be learned in two or three weeks. If Ray isn’t ready by April 18, and Koblosh is still out, Emil Garafalo will probably get the nod. Petrzelka will either go back to first base or take over an outfield spot. Ray can’t be left off the first squad because he has shown in the past that he hits a long ball—something the Irish will need this year.
March 25/ 1949
29
Ye Saintly Days of Yore
Point of No Return, John P. Marquand; Little, Brown and Company, Boston; 1949, §3.50.
By drawing upon his knowledge of New England and Metropolitan society, John P. Marquand has come up with another fine story of the people he knows best in Point of No Return. In this, his latest novel, he traces the rise of one Charley Gray from an uneventful boyhood in Clyde, Mass., to a successful position in a New York bank. And in it Marquand gives a penetrating insight to the forces that mold his life.
Charley Is Well-Off
As the assistant vice-president of the fashionable Stuyvesant Bank in Manhattan, Charley Gray would seem to have achieved all he wants to keep him happy. He has a modest home in suburban Sycamore Park, an ambitious, pretty wife, two fine children, and a Buick. He has friends, influence, and membership in the second best country club of the community. As far as living goes, he is doing well. Yet Charley is discontented that he is not doing better. The vice-presidency opening in the bank (to which a rival is also aspiring) causes him much concern, and he feels, as always, that he is swept along in a stream of events he cannot change.
Marquand makes his hero a victim of circumstances. Even from his early youth in Clyde, Charley seemed to be constantly coping with his environment. As a young graduate from Dartmouth, he fell in love with Jessica Lovell. From the beginning the match seemed impossible, for Jessica was the daughter of a rich, snobbish scion of Clyde society, and a member of the Johnson street “upper-uppers.” Charley, as anthropologist Malcolm Bryant puts it, is merely a “lower-upper,” a Spruce streeter, and cannot possibly bridge the gap between them.
Told in Retrospect
But all this is told in retrospect. Many years after, when Charley has achieved success in New York, he returns to the scene of his youth, a different man. He sees his home town as it was before, scarcely changed at all. He sees his friends, the places he used to know, and the life he used to lead. And he remembers what might have been. Here Charley knows that he has gone ahead too far, that he has reached his “point of no return,” and he knows he could never again be satisfied with the complacent, .comfortable life he lived in Clyde. Readers will wonder if Charley Gray ever
The prim group is very much out of character. Usually science students could be found back in the lab among babbling test tubes plotting miniature disasters. The young man on the extreme left was destined to be hailed in the ranks of science; his name — Julius Arthur Nieuwland. later to become Father Nieuwland, C.S.C. One toxic compound Father Nieuwland discovered was ultimately developed into Lewisite, a deadly war gas. Another experiment led to DuPont's Neoprene and synthetic rubber. While truly a scientist who sometimes slept on hard laboratory tables during experiments. Father Nieuwland had a great propensity toward detective novels. His definition of a gentleman is a classic: "A gentleman is a man who can play the saxophone but doesn't."
really got what he wanted from life, if he really achieved success in the end. Marquand gives you no answer. However, when Charley gets his bank promotion, and with it a chance to buy a new car, a new home, and boarding school education for his children, you get the idea that he hasn’t done too badly after all; that even though his environment did push him around, it pushed him in the right direction.
Point of No Return is a pleasant, interesting story told by a man who knows his people. The plot flows smoothly and freely, in spite of the retrogression (which seems the logical way to tell the tale). The characters are sharp and realistic; the boisterous, irresponsible, fun-loving John Gray, the haughty, selfcentered Lawrence Lovell, the beautiful Jessica, meticulous Tony Burton, and, above all, Charley himself, make Point of No Return a story to remember.
—Vic Dorr
Biography of Colonel Hoynes Completed by Father Lahey
A new book by Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., entitled Colonel Hoynes of Notre Dame, has recently been pub
lished by the Ave Maria Press. Father Lahey, who is associate editor* of the Ave Maria magazine, is the author of several other books and literature, including: Twisted Trails, God’s Heroes, The Children’s Friend and Morals of Neivspaper Making.
His latest literary accomplishment, Colonel Hoynes of Notre Dame, is a biography of one of the most memorable and picturesque figures ever connected with Notre Dame. A prominent figure at the turn of the century, Colonel Hoynes is best remembered for his work in creating the foundation for the Notre Dame Law School and serving as its Dean during the early and less stable years of the University. He also achieved fame and recognition as a lawyer, editor, government commissioner, international figure and Catholic gentleman. But to Notre Dame he was “The Colonel” and to Notre Dame men he was what Father Lahey terms, “histrionic” and above all he was admired and loved by all who knew him.
In the biography Father Lahey tells of the strange and humorous characteristics of the remarkable Colonel and gives a clear picture of his fabulous personality.—Jack Ward
30
The Scholastic
Radio
By BO CONNOR
In the February 19 issue of The New Yorker there is an interesting article on James P. Caffrey, of Wakefield, JR. I.— a man who hit a $24,000 jackpot on Sing It Again last summer. The article chiefly tells about the troubles Caffrey had in turning the usual huge assortment of prizes into cash.
First thing off, he traded the Ford in on a station wagon, and kept such items as the deep freeze, TV set, range, washing machine, dishwasher, and the frozen foods. The $2000 ring was figured to sell at $1200 by a jeweler, but Caflrey couldn’t get an offer over $750. He traded the $1000 wrist watch in for two less extravagant ones, but the Bulova people felt he deserved more, so they sent him nine others.
He gave the 7500 cans of food to charity, passed up an oil portrait painting, couldn’t take advantage of an airplane trip and a two-week vacation in Nevada (he and his wife couldn’t get away in time to beat the service company’s deadline) , and finally, he stored a great deal of the “stuff,” as he began to call it, in a local warehouse.
Among the items he sold was a steer, a hope chest, electric refrigerator, a set of Venetian blinds, a heating system ($1000 retail), a bedroom suite, luggage suite, clothes, a home-workshop set, and many other things — each at a price a good bit less than their retail value.
About five and a half months after “that” night, Caffrey figured up approximately what the $24,000 jackpot actually amounted to. As close as he could figure he took in $8669 (that includes the items he kept), and he expected to lose one-third of that in taxes, so he was left with $5780.
He said, “Boy! What a hell of a drop from the $24,000 jackpot! But what am I kicking about? The television was swell last night. The station wagon is a honey, and the two kids love it as much as Jane and I do. What am I kicking about?”
“You’re not kicking,” answered the writer. “You’re just acting like a human being.”
There wasn’t one current song represented on last week’s campus hit parade, and the movie, Words and Music, must have made quite an impression on the students. The top three songs were Blue Room, Thou Swell, and Slaughter on Tenth Avenue, all played and sung by members of the movie’s cast. Sounds like a nostalgic week for Notre Dame.
20 s Discount
on Any
TAILOR-MADE
Suit, Top-coat, Overcoat, Sport Coat, or Slacks
This Discount gives you several hundred patterns to choose from — $67.50 net to you!
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc 115/i North Main
"Upstairs"	•
“LOOK FOR THE BLUE TIN WITH THE RED RIDER”
The femme viewpoint does favor the man with a pipe, you know. And you’ll favor the gentle, extra-mild friendliness of KC’s famous White Burley blend. Smoke fragrant, flavorful Kentucky Club—“Treat Yourself to the Best!”
March 25, 1949
31

colleg&msnshould know!
t
f
This is a nightshirt. A flannel channel. Made Grandmother see red.
But tickled Grandfather’s fancy. He took it with a nightcap (or two). Only kind of sleepwear ’’Manhattan” doesn’t make.
This is a hint.. .for really restful snoozing, slip into a pair of roomy ’’Manhattan” pajamas. Durable cotton, rayon, and cotton and rayon prints. Luxurious Jacquards and Paisleys. Many equipped with stretchy ’’Manlastic” drawstring. Also smart sleepcoats and sleepshorts.

Cassidy
(Continued from Page 18) student minds into the vast issues that in the past have been so often buried for them by the academicians, who would reduce students to a devitalizing pursuit of safety, comfort, caution, and above all, the preservation of the status-quo, no matter how unhealthy or unhappy.
But this inquiring must be continuous, even agitated, because the forces of reaction in every sphere of human effort work steadily and insidiously to undermine you, to pervert you, to make you “cagey.” Every time you are warned, for example, that disaster accompanies the “socialization” or the “paternalization” of the state- (mind you, the terms are dished out to you), look for the label, look for the counterwarning, and look, above all, into your Christian conscience.
The ordered design of principle plus dogma will resolve the clutter far more effectively than the rantings of a fullpage newspaper advertisement of mystification.
Beddinger
(Continued from Page 18) use of scientific achievements emphasized the importance of a growing movement among scientists, a movement to take a more active part in world politics, to have a decisive voice in discussing the ethics underlying the use of modern weapons, to stress the universality of science, to promote the full cooperation of all nations for the welfare of all people, and, of paramount importance, to work diligently and constantly for the advancement of pure and applied science.
This type of endeavor on the part of scientists calls for academic training radically different from that which has resulted from the pressure of demand for technical training in which any semblance of logical thinking has had to give way to the necessity of cramming fundamental facts,- formulae, symbols, and principles into the minds of students. No one will deny the desperate need for men trained in science and technology; no one will deny that such individuals need far more intensive training than the generation before them; but most important at present is the need for men in science and tech-' nology equipped not only with good fundamental training but also imbued with spiritual values to meet the full impact of the implications of science, and also possessed with a firm spiritual resolve backed by moral strength.
Only in institutions such as Notre Dame where religion goes hand in hand with science in the training of those whose inclinations are toward tech-
32
The Scholastic
nological careers, can these spiritual values blossom to maturity and become active, integral, and utilizable parts of the individual’s training, whe^e students can be shown that science is not incompatible with God, that the scientist need not renounce his faith in a Supreme Being in order to pursue his scientific interests to their ultimate conclusion.
Of considerable importance, also, is the inclusion of cultural courses in the training of the science student so that he in time may take his rightful place with equanimity at the conference table, in senate hearings, in the drawing room, or in a political caucus. Here at Notre Dame, students in science programs are offered a liberal selection of cultural courses to complement the courses in religion and philosophy, and to supplement their fundamental training in the sciences.
We do not recommend that a scientist be plunged indiscriminately into government oi’ world politics without proper indoctrination in the principles of loyal Americanism, nor that he be given unlimited executive powers without proper training in the expenditure of funds for the public good. If he is a genuine scientist, the thought of such activities without a logical scientific approach would be abhorrent; neither is the true scientist particularly interested in pursuits which will exclude completely his investigative work. But if the scientist is to be used in war as a servant of his country, in peace-time he must assume mastery of his own inventions, must study the consequences of his professional skills, and must disseminate knowledge and a spirit of understanding to governments and individuals, this so that he may better check the chain of evil tendencies to convert peace-time de- ‘ velopments into killing agents for war.
Given these opportunities to assert himself, to express his opinions, and to have a voice in the regulation of his inventions, we can predict safely that the scientist, employing the same logical reasoning which he employs in his researches, will do as commendable a performance in benefitting mankind with his discoveries as he has done in perfecting them.
Mermens
(Continued from Page 19) democracy of Japan, from those of its friends, who are so “anti-fascist” that they have forgotten what it means to be pro-democratic.
St. Thomas Aquinas, in his “Governance of Rulers,” has told us that positive measures have to be taken to assure the “unity of peace” essential to the removal of any government. In his day he did not, and could not, know the
Audio-Visual Aids Enliven Law Classes
Projected enlargements of authentic banking instruments, presently being used in law courses, are studied by Bernard J. Feeney, of the graduate Department of Education; Professor Edward F.
devices which modern democratic constitutionalism has available to solve this problem. We do. Catholics in particular neglect a task of possibly decisive importance if they do not make up for the deficiency in constitutional thinking caused by Marxism, for which constitutions are “irrelevant,” and by pragmatism, which is the enemy of any kind of rational thinking and which in the political as well as in all other fields concerns itself only with “facts” without meaning.
Fourthly: Let us take our foreign policy more seriously. The memoirs of Cordell Hull and Henry L. Stimson have shown us to what extent the advice of competent political leaders was, during the recent war, displaced by the influence of rank amateurs, whose strength lay in the pressure groups supporting them. The average citizen must inform himself, and if necessary, use some pressure of his own. The ideals and the interests of the United States are worth fighting for. They are the ideals and the interests of mankind.
Shanahan
(Continued from Page 19)
And knowing this we may take due precautions. First among these is to uphold among ourselves those self-im-
Barret, of the College of Law; and Orville Foster, of the Audio-Visual Department. . The "mass sight" technique was devised to add spark to the usually "heavy** courses in negotiable instruments.
—Photo by Conerty
posed rules of behavior which give us moral strength. Then, without wholly ignoring the monster in the pit, to cultivate our garden with just regard for the order, simplicity, and tranquillity with which our ancestors have attended it. If anyone objects that this means the neglect of vital public issues, I would answer forthrightly that politics is not a global affair at all. It is really a series of small transactions with limited dimensions having apparently inconsequential results. Only the newspaper headlines make politics out to be vast earth-shaking decisions.
There is no dearth of programs, policies, and armaments in our present politics; what it wants is more good men. We will best serve ourselves by seeing to their increase. And so, ending on that didactic note which is appropriate to the teacher, let me say, gentlemen, that in this country we need never to be reminded of the rules of the game
'Rock' Shot Marbles, Too
A breach appeared in the ND tradition of the “invincible Rock” this week when a search of old Dome files revealed that on April 18, 1913, Knute Rockne finished second in the University Marble Tournament. Sure, but who ever heard of a guy named Herricks? ... he won!
March 25, 1949
33
Dr. Ralph A. Berman DENTIST
Alon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
RROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS and GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
Williams, The Florist
219 West Washington
“Just West of the Oliver’’
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
RARE OPPORTUNITY! Study... Travel n SPAIN
BARCELONA GROUP 65 Days
June 29, 1949
MALAGA GROUP 65 Days July 2, 1949
Sponsored by:
UNIVERSITY OF MADRID
For Information Write
Spanish Student Tours
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
Frank Administration
We had a long discussion of defects in the present Notre Dame system, of student spirit and the future of the student body with a member of the University administration the other day. Our conference came out with something that stuck in our minds for a long while. Long enough at least for us to mention it now. These are not his exact words, but the thought is essentially accurate, and I know he won’t mind if we put it down in our own little way.
“You want a lot of things changed around here, I know. A lot of students do. Some of their gripes are legitimate, others not so. But one thing most of them seem to forget when they are dealing with us and trying to get what they want is that everybody here is quite human — very much so. All the priests, professors, administrators. It’s a good thing to remember when you’re trying to get things done. From what I have seen there’s not enough gratitude on the part of the students for what’s being done for them now.
“Take my case for example. I run a service for students here which I really don’t have to. I do it because I think there’s a need for it and we aren’t equipped to handle it on a big scale yet. Through this service I’ve helped hundreds of students. Yet I’ve only received thanks from a dozen or so. I don’t care too much and I’m not griping, but that’s bad policy on the part of the students. It sours a lot of the people around here from going all out to help the students get what they really want.”
There was more but that gives you the general idea. We think that this particular Notre Dame administrator has something. We can only hope that both sides will take a few points from his little oration. For instance, the students approaching situations around here more calmly, with more open a mind, waiting for the answers before they go sour. And the administration giving those answers, letting known a few reasons behind policy. It would be a big step forward.
From the Mailbag
We received a letter last week which took us severely to task for daring to suggest that campus clubs could really be something or do anything. According to the writer these clubs were strictly social; couldn’t be brought together under any central directorship; were foredoomed to mediocrity.
What made it all the more shocking was the fact that it was written by an officer of a campus club — Mr. Oliver A. Kinsman, treasurer* of the St. Louis Club, to be specific.
One is almost forced to agree with the premise stated so boldly above if one is forced to think that all campus clubs are officered by the likes of Mr. Kinsman. We are optimistic enough to believe this is not so. We think that there are clubs on this campus sincere and energetic and smart enough to elect good, aggressive officers. If not, they might as well fold up their tents and silently steal away.
Mr. Kinsman is permeated with the fatalistic attitude much too prevalent on campus and in campus groups. Despite what these people think, you can make something out of a city club. You can coordinate them (Mr. Kinsman states in an earlier part of the letter that this can’t work). You can form clubs into a cohesive unit; get them helping each other; build up the weak members and do big things in big ways (forums, guest speakers, etc.). But you, club member, can’t do anything like that if you elect the likes of Oliver A. Kinsman to office.
And Furthermore
There is a letter in the “Letters” column of this magazine this week which opens an attack upon this column. It concerns that thing we did on Mr. O’Brien and the Rochester Club. Let’s clear the fog on that. Here’s all we meant. You need a start in club organization. To get that start, give the members something they’ll enjoy. Get them out and behind the club and take it from there. We are not holding up the Rochester Club as shining example number one. We just liked that little, simple idea they had. But more on this later.
34
The Scholastic
Letters
• (Continued from Page 4) the opera should never have been presented in English, at all! Such pitiless ruination! As to Mr. Wilcox’s criticisms about the poets which the Met hires for their libretti; well, why spend large amounts of money, which our beloved Met needs so badly itself, on good poets, when the operas themselves, are not being presented in English translations? All the Met’s libretti are intended for are to help. . . .
In closing, let me give Mr. Wilcox credit for something, and that is his Italian ending to his letter. It was most welcome to me, being a student of the language; however, I don’t think we opera lovers will ever have to go to Italy
or France to hear our adored works given as they should be. I hardly think the small minority will keep our opera companies from correcfy presenting our favorites. Only one thing more that I wish to say to Mr. Wilcox, and that is Grazie for bringing about the friendship between Mr. Carberry and myself. It is over a year old now, and I must confess that without Mr. Wilcox’s article on opera, we would never have met, probably. Grazie, Signor Wilcox!
And thank you, Scholastic staff, for your wonder fill magazine!
Cordially,
Miss Joyce A. Kitts P.O. Box 2826, Denver 1, Colo.
Which should properly take care of J. Wilcox. . . . By the way, Mr. Carberry, what goes on here?—Editor.
KE
Gilbert’s
ARROW
W\W.V.WAW.WW,WA\W^
A FILLIP For PHILIP
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street

Rose&Katz for ARROW
ARROW S SPREAD COLLAR STYLES
with FRENCH CUFFS
Phil, Bill and Jack—like many college men—like the extra touch of real style in Arrow's spread collar models with plain or French cuffs.
If you prefer oxford—ask for Arrow "SUSSEX." If you like broadcloth—ask for Arrow "PAR."
ARROW
Rvsc k Katz
I >	I
< UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
SOUTH BENO 7. INDIANA
March 25, 1949
35

MAKE YOURS THE MILDER CIGARETTE
Copyright 1949, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Ca
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS SMOKE CHESTERFIELD
M. H. GRIFFIN, bailey, n. c. says . . /Tve been smoking Chesterfields ever since I’ve been smoking. They buy the best cigarette tobacco grown . . . it's MILD sweet tobacco/'
Eveiybody likes Chesterfield Because it’s MILDER its MY cigarette
"A LETTER TO THREE WIVES