The Notre Dame Scholastic
753
COMMENT
Art McManmon in tights . . . Haskell Askew wrestling Al Culver . . . Carl Cronin giving his interpretation of The Sheik . . . (direct from the tents in Carroll dorm) ... Joe Kurth in his latest terpsichorean creation . . . Johnny Lisicki giving a sermon on the evils of chewing Bagpipe tobacco . . . Dinny O’Keefe doubling for Marie Dressier, in “Reducing.” These are but a few of the thoughts which come to us when we think of the approaching “Absurdities,” given annually by the monogram men.
{■]'■■■■■•.................nnniiuiii...inn........■■■■■■tiuiiiiiiiiiiiiuunuuiiiiiimiiniiQ
I The Notre Dame Scholastic
i Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
=	Pounded 1S67
The yearly entertainment provided by these men is always good for many rounds of laughter, but this year we have been promised a show which will leave us with hiccoughs for at least two weeks. Art McManmon says it’s going to be great, and we wouldn’t think of doubting Arthur’s word. Profsesor Frank Kelly is doing the directing, so we have further proof of the quality of the show.
From the time that this column first voiced its opinion as to those who were either forgetful or just plain dumb enough to smoke on the street cars while ladies were present, we have been reminded of the article, time and again. But the opinion hasn’t changed, not in the least. If a college man hasn’t learned that it is inhuman to suffocate a lady during the short time he is on a street car, he should be sent home to start all over again.
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley	Managing Editor John E. Bergan Associate Editors	Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kiener
Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan
John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske
The Week	Make-up Editor	College Parade
Richard J. O’Donnell	Walter V. Beesley	Daniel C. Williams
Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins Nezus Staff William C. Karl, News Editor	W. Leslie Raddatz
William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant News		Editor
John Conley	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Prybylski
Myron Crawford	F. Granger Weil	Edmund Stephan
Richard Molique William Knox	Walter Johnson Sports Staff Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor	Joseph Degnan Lawrence Dunda
Cleve Cabby	George Belting	T. Edward Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr. Edmund Moriarty	James Kearns Business Staff	Irving B. Halper Harry Burchell
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr. Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
J. Albert Smith	Daniel E. Brennan
James H. Rorke, Advertising Manager JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
E Vol. LXIV	APRIL 24, 1931	No. 24
Cigarette smoke—clouds of it—is bad enough in a crowded car, but the meanies who light their pipes and try to outdo their companions who are riding the Camels . . . the only man for whom we have less respect is the prof who flunks a man on a 69. Is that forceful enough?
= Frontispiece ________________________:_____________________752
E ‘ The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell____________________________754
E	Engineering Hall Announced—Walter Johnson_________________755
=	Lawyers’ Ball Held Tonight—William C. Blind_______________756
1	Harper Is Athletic Director_______________________________759
=	Glances From the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan--------------760
E	Book Reviews—John Pick____________________________________761
E	Father O’Donnell’s Radio Address__________________________762
E	A Man You Know—Edzvard E. Brennan-------------------------764
E	Campus Clubs—Leslie Raddatz------------------------------ 766
= Editor’s Page_____________1________________________________767
The Wink 768
E	Trackmen Fall Before Badgers—Edward Moriarty--------------769
E	Golfers Win Two More—T. Edzvard Carey---------------------769
E	Bill Sullivan Expects to Take Up Law—James Kearns---------770
E	Interhall- Sports_777
E	On Down the Line 780

THF, SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building:.
When your hair has turned to golden . . . and when Indiana stabilizes her weather conditions . . . we’ll all be happy. Until then we should always be ready to wish everyone a very “Merry Christmas.”
—W. V. B.
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at E special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
E	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage or
E	All Notre Dame Men.
Qiiiiiiii...............................■■■■■■■■................mini....iuiiiii..imiimii...mmiiuiQ
754
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
< \ ' <
"With the Ball but two weeks away, seniors are practicing uj) on their letter-writing technique. The problem of how to extract funds for the big weekend from the parental pocket is one that must be confronted. Therefore the outgoing mail in Sorin hall will be heavier than it has been since the football season came to a’close. After four years of practice in the intricate art of ob? taining finances through correspondence, most seniors have developed ability along this line. They usually prepare in advance by gradually increasing the number of letters sent homeward, until that state of mind which is known in business as “sales resistance” is completely banished. They emphasize the amount of work they are doing, how necessary it is that they soon have a little recreation, how they are staying home o’ nights, and the excellent grades they are going to get on the next bulletin. A few subtle remarks are made about the approach of the Ball, the importance of the Ball, the fact that it is the last big social event of their college career, and so forth. The whole plan is carefully worked out, and when the climax comes, and a check is requested, it’s a hard-hearted parent who will not mortgage the old homestead, if necessary, that his son may fulfill his duty to his class and his university by attending the Ball. (Yes, gentlemen, the writer’s father read? the Scholastic every week.)
—o—
^X.PPARENTLY the boys in Morrissey hall are ardent followers of this column. They at least carried out one of the suggestions made here last week . . . the one pertaining to the utilizing of the lakes. The Gold Coasters promoted a swimming meet on Tuesday night. It was a one-man meet, and the only participant, a cold and shivering freshman, won the plaudits of a large group of interested, if not innocent, bystanders by the manner in which he braved the freezing waters. Such courage had not been witnessed since the last time the Vigilance committee w’ent into action. Incidentally, the once highly-feared committee was not responsible for this impromptu bathing party. All credit goes to those considerate gentlemen of Morrissey and Howard who are determined to further the benefits of physical exercise among the residents of their side of the campus. They not only endorse exercise—they sometimes enforce it.
—o—	'
THOUGH it may be an exaggeration to say that everyone at Notre Dame plays football, at some time or other during his four years here, it is not stretching the truth much to say that few students have not participated in the playground ball games that started this week. With an interhall league, an inter-club league, and a Chicago club league, there are teams enough to permit even Albert and Alex to form a battery and step out on the diamond. The season opened rather drastically for the Sorin haliers, who bowed in ignominious defeat before the nine from
Sophomore. The loss of the game was attributed to the fact that the regular Sorin team was still in bed at the time the game started, and a set of unprepared substitutes had to take their place. Either the games will have to begin later in the day hereafter, or else Sorin will have to relinquish all ideas of winning the championship. In the inter-club league, a strange method of alloting positions on the teams is used. The president is the pitcher; the vice-president, the catcher; the secretary, shortstop, and so forth. With elections in the various clubs in the immediate offing, the members would do well to consider the athletic capabilities of the candidates before voting for them. There would be no sense in electing a president unless he had the ability to pitch nine hard innings of playground ball.
—o—
StUDENTS who are now at the University, and especially those who will remain here next year, should congratulate themselves upon being privileged to witness the climactic events in the evolution of the new Notre Dame. The announcement on Monday night of the donation made to the school by Mr. John F. Cushing of Chicago, following as it did upon the news of Mr. Hurley’s gift, and the beginning of the construction of two new residence halls, stirred the imagination of the entire student body to expectant ideas of the future appearance of the campus. Progress has been rapid at Notre Dame within the past few years, and the most obvious deficiencies in buildings and equipment are being consistently filled. The University is gradually acquiring all the accoutrement of modem education, and what is more praiseworthy, it is avoiding the evils of modern education. There is intensive work in improving the school, without the -usual consequence of extension of courses, and enlargement of enrollment. The next few years should witness not only splendid architectural development, but also continued maintenance of high academic standards.
—o—
Badin HALL is housing a newly-formed horticulturist club. An aesthetic group that lives within those hallowed walls has become enamoured of the art of landscape gardening, and is working its initial experiment upon the lately -plowed plot in front of the hall. The purpose of the experiment is the determining of the effect of sowing seeds by moonlight. Now that the seeds have been planted, the gardeners have been eagerly awaiting the results, watching daily from Badin porch for the first indications of success. So absorbed is one youth that he has been cutting classes for several days, intent upon being present at the debut of the sun-flower he has been nurturing. Since the group which is conducting the experiment was rather large, and since each of its members had his own ideas as to how to go about it, it is doubtful that there will be much unity in the resulting pattern. The effect will probably resemble a painting by a drunken modernist.

The Notre Dame Scholastic	755
ENGINEERING HALL ANNOUNCED
John F. Cushing, ’06, of Chicago, Donates $300,000 For Building
UNIVERSITY ALUMNI OBSERVE UNIVERSAL
Twenty-five Years As Engineer Have Shown Alumnus Needs of University Student.
Universal Notre Dame night, always a noteworthy occasion for both alumni and students, was made even more memorable last Monday evening when, at the banquet of the Notre Dame club of Chicago, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced a gift of $300,000 which will make possible the erection of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
John F. Cushing, the donor, now president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock company, Chicago, is a Notre Dame man. He was graduated from the University in 1906, with a degree from the Department of Civil Engineering. Father O’Donnell stressed this fact as indicative of a growing tendency on the part of Notre Dame men to contribute to the needs of Catholic educational institutions.
In his correspondence with the University in regard to this donation, Mr. Cushing said: “As an engineering graduate of Notre Dame who has followed the profession of engineering, I am naturally interested in the College of Engineering at my own school and that from two points of view. Even though a quarter of a century has passed since my undergraduate days there, I feel I still know the spirit of the place, the atmosphere in which the boys live and study. I think I know, too, the quality of the men who compose the faculty and appreciate the spirit that animates them. In other words I can still see Notre Dame from the inside, so to speak.
“On the other hand, twenty-five years of engineering work away from there has given me the other side of the picture. I have learned engineering from experience. I know what the graduate in engineering is facing when he leaves school. Knowing both the difficulties and the opportunities on the outside, I can take an objec-
John F. Cushing
tive view of the professional preparation which the college gives and, check this against the requirements which the profession makes. I have done this often enough in my own mind, in more or less informal way. It is difficult to reduce those reflections to anything like a fixed formula, but a few things stand out pretty clearly.
“I conceive that an engineer, speaking particularly but not exclusively of my own field of civil engineering, must be a man with a conscience in his profession. The gravest of all natural responsibilities are borne by him. He will be responsible for human safety and human lives. He must know his materials and his principles of construction. He must respect the one and be faithful to the other . . .”
In continuing his letter Mr. Cushing remarks on the serious aspect of the responsibility of the engineering profession, at the same time pointing out the unlimited possibilities that exist for a young man contemplating a life work in some field of engineering. “There are still great opportunities for those prepared to seize them. The field of service, indeed, is
(Continued on Page 778)
NOTRE DAME NIGHT
MEETINGS WORLD-WIDE
Father O’Donnell and Father John Cavanaugh Address
Club Gatherings.
Universal Notre Dame night was observed last Monday night by Notre Dame clubs throughout the world. The atmosphere of joy characteristic of former gatherings was somewhat subdued at this eighth annual affair, as it was the first opportunity of the alumni as a group to pay a tribute to Mr. Rockne. The gatherings, however, were not sombre, for as the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said in his address over radio station WGN from the Chicago Notre Dame club banquet at the Drake hotel, “he himself would not wish that that joy of living, of which he was so fine an apostle and exemplar, should be clouded for us just because the joy which he brought into our lives was so suddenly and so tragically stopped.”
Two items in Father O’Donnell’s address were of particular interest to the alumni and students of the University. After paying tribute to Mr. Rockne, Father O’Donnell announced that Jesse Harper, former head football coach at Notre Dame, had been appointed as the new directoi- of athletics.
Announcement of the $300,000 endowment for the new engineering building by Mr. John F. Cushing, C.E. ’06, of Chicago, was made. In commenting, the speaker said: “I make this announcement with the more satisfaction as Mr. Cushing’s benefaction is the largest single gift the University has received and it is the first important foundation made at Notre Dame by a- Notre Dame alumnus. There can be only one such first gift, and I am sure that Notre Dame men everywhere will join with me in congratulating Mr. Cushing upon his unique distinction.”
The Notre Dame club of the St.
(Continued on Page 778)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
756

Mr. Joseph P. Guadnola
Glenwood Springs, Colo.
General Chairman
The Lawyers’ ball at the Palais Royale ballroom tonight marks the beginning of the usual brilliant post-Lenten social season at Notre Dame. Chairman Joseph P. Guadnola and his assistant committeemen report that no effort nor expense has been spared to make this dance a perfect one for the lawyers and their guests. The members of the various committees have worked hard and if the success of the ball is to be measured by their efforts it will certainly exceed every expectation, according to Guadnola.
Garrigan’s Orchestra to Play
Jimmy Garrigan and his orchestra have been secured to furnish the music and the entertainment for the dance. Garrigan is not only well known to the denizens of Chicago’s bright spots, having played at the Via Lago Cafe for the past two years, but will also be remembered by radio fans as having broadcast over national chain hook-ups for the past two years. Although this is the first local appearance of Garrigan, he leaves nothing to be desired. He has played at numerous affairs of other universities and has been -well received. In addition to his regular orchestra he has promised to bring with him his original singing trio and other unusual arrangements which have made him and his orchestra favorites everywhere.
Invitations, Program Original
As another feature to make this Lawyers’ ball distinctive, the invita-
LAWYERS’ BALL HELD TONIGHT
» » » » » » » » » » »
tions this year will be in the form of a warrant for arrest instead of a subpoena as in previous years. They have been arranged by Chairman James W. Murray and contain several amusing features. Issued from the “State of Romance, County of Amaranth,” they “summon, rouse, notify, pursue, convoke, warn, and otherwise invite” the fair lady to whom it is sent “to be prepared to waltz, foxtrot, double-shuffle, camel hop, polly-wog, or otherwise disport the intricacies of the dance premiere,” and to “be graced, adorned, ornamented, garmented, or otherwise attired in decollette habiliments of formal decree.”
The programs this yeai- will be especially elaborate. Chosen by Chairman Robert E. Duffy, they are of white leather with a gold lawyer’s seal in one corner and the coat-of-arms of the University in the other and are bound by a blue and gold cord. Adding further to the novelty of the. occasion, the dances will be listed by legal terms instead of num-
SONG
“JUST YOU, ONLY YOU”
Words and music by Edward Massa
Chorus:
If I zvere as true I wouldn’t feel blue
For never a day would I be away.
Your tears have told
That I was too bold
And now that it’s over I’ve lost you, just you.
Your picture I’ll keep
And rays will leap
And sparkle from out of your eyes,
Which know our dreams are faded, it seems,
In thoughts of you, Just you, only you.
Miss Charlotte Pauls Long Beach, California Guest of Mr. Guadnola
bers. The program will also contain the song written especially for the occasion, a list of the patrons and patronesses, Law club officers, chairmen and the members of the various committees.
Guests of Honor
Miss Charlotte Pauls of Long Beach, Calif., as the guest of Chairman Guadnola, will be the queen of the ball. Joseph R. Yoch, president of the Law club, will entertain as guest of honor Miss Albertine Gagnier of Churubusco, New York.
Lawyers and their guests will dance to the strains of “Just You, Only You,” written especially for the Lawyers’ ball by Edward Massa, a freshman in the College of Law. The song has been featured for the past week at the Colfax theatre and has been well received by the public. A special arrangement of it has been promised by Jimmy Garrigan.
In accordance with the usual custom the lawyers have invited as their
The Notre Dame Scholastic
757
4-
JIM GARRIGAN’S
BAND TO PLAY
« « « « « « « « « « «
Miss Albertine Gagnier
Churubusco, New York Guest of Mr. Yoch
guests: Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; Joseph L. Wetli, associate editor of the Notre Dame Laivyer; William Lee O’Malley, associate editor of the Notre Dame Laivyer; John E. Bergan, editor of the Santa Maria; John E. Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Walter L. Terre, editor-in-chief of the Catalyzer; Paul J. Hallinan, editor-in-chief of the Dome; Louis A. Brennan, editor of Scrip; Timothy Benitz, chairman of the S. A. C.; Edward B. Madden, chairman of the Blue Circle; Robert J. Ruppe, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee; John F. Saunders, president of the senior class; Vincent P. Cavanaugh, president of the junior class; and Edward W. Dailey, president of the sophomore class.
The decorations for the Lawyers’ Ball this year are original and distinctive, according to chairman John M. Mahoney. The lounges are in the form of jury boxes, and at one end of the ballroom is placed a huge blue and gold monogram. Another novel attraction is the huge Lawyers’ seal
suspended from the ceiling. Mahoney and his committemen are to be commended for their excellent work in decorating the ballroom.
Patrons and Committees
The patrons and patronesses for the Lawyers’ ball will be Colonel William J. Hoynes; Dean and Mrs. Thomas F. Konop; Judge and Mrs. William M. Cain; Judge and Mrs. Orlo R. Deahl; Professor and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl; Professor and Mrs. Aaron H. Hugue-nard; Professor Clarence E. Manion; Professor and Mrs. Elton E. Richter; Professor and Mrs. William D. Roili-son; and Professor John B. Whitman.
Several informal parties will be held in South Bend over the -weekend. Reservations in the various restaurants of the city promise an interesting time for the guests.
Many graduates of the College of Law of the past few years have signified their intention of being present. Residents of South Bend and surrounding towns will make a typical lawyers’ reunion of this affair.
Committees for the dance:
Joseph P. Guadnola, general chairman.
Tickets—Robert J. Kuhn, chairman; Walter R. Bernard, John A.
WEEK-END PROGRAM
Friday, April 24—
3:30 p. m., Baseball game, Hillsdale vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
9:00 p. m., Lawyers’ Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom.
Saturday, April 25—
Informal Parties, South Bend.
Sunday, April 26—
9:00 a. m., Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
Mr. Joseph R. Yoch St. Louis, Missouri Pres, of Notre Danie Laie Club
Bitter, Charles J. Kovacs, George W. Vander Venet, John D. Voss, Robert M. Ward.
Music—Kenneth J. Konop, chairman; Vernon J. Freed, Anthony W. Kegowicz, Walter F. Kelley, Stanley T. Nowotarski, Wilton J. Sherman, Harry F. Walsh.
Reception—William B. Jones, chairman; John E.. Chevigny, Clarence J. Donovan, Edward J. England, Dennis J. O’Keefe, Manfred H. Vezie, Joseph L. Wetli.
Programs—Robert E. Duffy, chairman; Francis J. Downs, Kenneth J. Durbin, Emmett D. Ferguson, Arthur P. Hoctel, Alvin G. Kolski, Fred W. Lensing.
Arrangements—Norman J. Hart-zer, chairman; Thomas W. Callahan, Donald D. Coleman, Sylvester J. Cotter, Alan M. Foley, John J. McMurray, Benedict L. McShane.
Publicity—Austin J. Barlow, chairman; John W. Carberry, Joseph R. Donlan, Joseph I. Glass, Richard V. Konkowski, Edward G. McClallen, Joseph A. Moran.
Decorations—John M. Mahoney, chairman; Earl L. Hessmer, James E. Keating, Earl J. O’Brien, Joseph V. Stodola, John R. Sullivan, .John H. Tuberty.
Invitations—James W. Murray, chairman; Francis G. Fedder, Oliver F. Field, Garchin R. Friedman, William J. Judge, William L. O’Malley, Henry R. Pratt.
758
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SENIOR CLASS HONOR AWARDS MADE BY FACULTY COMMITTEE
Baker, Carey, and O’Malley Made Valedictorian, Poet, and Orator, Respectively
Richard Baker, class valedictorian
William Lee O’Malley, class orator
According to a recent announcement made by a faculty committee • composed of the Reverend James McDonald, C. S. C., the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., and professors Paul Fenlon and- Charles Phillips, all of the College of Arts and Letters, the valedictorian, the class poet, and the class orator for the 1931 commencement exercises have been selected. The awards were not based entirely on the scholastic records of the individual, although the class averages were large factors in the final determinations. The general capability of the student to serve in the capacity to which he was delegated was the point most considered.
To Richard Baker of Lima, Ohio, is given the honor of delivering the valedictory address for the class of 1931. Enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, and majoring in philosophy, he has made a phenomenal scholastic record. He received the first two years of his prep school training at St. Rose High school in Lima, but was graduated from Cathedral Latin High school of Cleveland. He is at present an active member in the Blue Circle and in the Cleveland club.
Charles Carey, C.S.C., Kokomo, Indiana, of Moreau seminary, and a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been named class poet. He has been a frequent contributor to Scrip, Notre Dame’s literary medium. Among his works, his poem “Northland,” has become particularly well known. Mr. Carey is a past associate editor of the Moravian, Moreau Seminary’s literary publication. ‘ He, too, has majored in philosophy.
William Lee O’Malley, who will be graduated from the Law school, is the class orator. He has had considerable success in public speaking, having at one time been a member of the varsity debating team, and at present a member of the Wranglers. Moreover, he is a past winner of the Mclnerny award, a prize donated each year to the best orator in the Law school. At present he is lecturer in the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, and is an associate editor of the Lawyer. He received his high school training at St. Ignatius academy in Chicago.
Other class awards will not be known until commencement week, as the final examinations often play an important part in determining them.
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 24—Scholastic staff meetings, editorial, 6:30 p. m., Publications office; news and sports staff, 7:00 p. m., 222 Main building. —Lawyers’ ball, 9:00 p. m., Palais Royale ballroom.
SATURDAY, April 25—Track, Drake Relays, Des Moines, Iowa.—Movies, “Remote Control,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, April 26—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.
MONDAY, April 27—Baseball, Iowa at Notre Dame, 3:30 p. m., Cartier field.—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building; French club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 3, Main building.—Knights of Columbus meeting,. 7:45 p. m., Council rooms.—Off-Campus S. A. C. representative nominations, 12:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, April 28—Senior class officers’ primaries, 12:30 p. m., Gymnasium.—Spanish club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Science hall.—Metropolitan club meeting, 6:30 p. m., old Law building.-—Concert orchestra rehearsal, 3:30 p. m., Music hall.— Classical association meeting, 7:00 p. m., Classical room, Law building.
WEDNESDAY, April 29—Senior S. A. C. representatives nominations, 12:30 p. m.; A.B., Room 3, Main building; Science, Room 1, Main building; Engineering, Room 5, Main building; Law, Law building; Commerce, Room 2, Main building. —Scribblers’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Howard hall “rec”. — Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law building. —Baseball, Northwestern at Evanston.
THURSDAY, April 30—Junior class nominations, 12:30 p. m., Gymnasium.—Spectators’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.—Publications banquet (announcement of editors for next year), 6:30 p. m., faculty dining hall.
FRIDAY, May 1—First Friday, Mass, - 6:20 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—
Last day for handing in graduation theses and prize essays. — Golf match, Loyola at Loyola.—Sophomore class nominations, 12:30 p. m., gymnasium.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
759
HARPER IS A THLETIC DIRECTOR
Former Notre Dame Coach Will Head Administration of Athletic Department
FR. O’DONNELL PRESENTS KEYS TO SCIENTISTS; PAPERA GIVES TALK
Returns From Farm in Kansas to Take Reins Left Vacant by Death of Rockne.
Jesse C. Harper of Kansas City, will be the new director of athletics, according to an announcement made this week by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Harper will take up his new position on May 1. Although he had been under consideration for several weeks, Harper officially accepted the position last Tuesday.
Under the new arrangement, also announced by Father O’Donnell, Harper will have control of all athletics. He will be assisted by “Hunk” Anderson, senior football coach, Jack C h e v i g n y, junior football coach, George Keogan, basketball and baseball coach, and John Nicholson, track coach.
Harper is a graduate of the University of Chicago, class of ’06. He learned football under A. A. Stagg during his four years as an undergraduate. In 1913 he came to Notre Dame as director of athletics and football coach, and in 1914 he made Knute Rockne his assistant, and placed him in charge of the track team. In 1917 Harper resigned, and Rockne was made head football coach on Harper’s recommendation. It was during the period from 1914 to 1917 that Harper and Rockne worked out the shift which is now famous as an integral part of the Notre Dame system.
Harper made a remarkable record while in charge here from 1913 to 1917, inclusive. In his five year period his teams played 39 games and won 33 of them, with one resulting in a tie. In his first year here, in 1913, he turned out an undefeated' team, winning all seven games on the schedule. This was the team that inaugurated the long series with the Army. Rockne, as captain and star end on this team, and Dorais, as quarterback, were mainly responsible for the terrific 35 to 13 beating that was given the Army. This team also
startled the football world by the invention and the. practical use of the forward pass.
The 1914 team lost two games, to Yale and to the Army. In 1915 Harper’s team won six of the seven games, losing to Nebraska by a single touchdown. The next year the team won eight games, but was stopped by the Army. The 1917 team was cheated of a perfect season by Nebroska, who won by a single point.
In a confirmation statement, Harper expresses his pleasure for the opportunity to resume his old position which he relinquished to his famous pupil, Knute Rockne. He says that he is “very much pleased, after being away so long, to be asked to come back again.” He said that it was his intention to continue the athletic policies now pursued here. His Kansas ranch is efficiently managed, and will not suffer by his absence, he said.
O’MALLEY, PICK ELECTED BY CLASSICAL CLUB
At the regular April meeting of the Classical Association on Tuesday, Francis F. O’Malley was elected president, and John Pick, secretary. Following the election O’Malley read a paper on “Forms of Literature in Greece and Rome,” a synthetic discussion of the literary types of classic antiquity, and their influence upon the forms of our English literature.
At the next meeting on Tuesday, April 28, John Pick will read a paper titled “Paul Elmore More, and Irving Babbitt” and James T. .Meehan will present a detailed study of St. Thomas Aquinas as scholar and saint.
Class Primaries Monday
The annual nominations for class officers will begin on Monday, April 27, according to an announcement made today by Timothy Benitz, president of the Student Activities council.
Each class has several men running for president. Candidates from each class for the S.A.C. are also being voted upon at this time. The final elections will be held at a later date.
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Universityy, presented the key of the Academy of Science to thirteen members of the organization at a special meeting held on Wednesday evening in Science hall. In addressing the members and guests following the presentation, Father O’Donnell stressed the importance of what he termed “intellectual thoroughness and honesty.” “Get the facts. Then follow the evidence to the goal to which it lead you. If the evidence is true, then the goal is the ultimate goal,” he said.
A paper was read by John Papera, a member of the executive committee of the academy. Papera chose as his subject, “Edward Lee Greene, Botanist.” Mr. Greene received his early training in botany while serving in the Civil war, and later joined the Episcopal ministry. In 1895 he received the degree of doctor of laws from the University of Notre Dame shortly after he had joined the faculty of the University. He died in 1915, leaving an extensive botanical library and herbarium to the school. The Reverend Julius Nieuwland, C.S. C., world-famous botanist and chemist and member of the University faculty at the present time, was a student and co-worker of Mr. Greene.
Professor Caparo Speaks
The Spanish club held its last meeting last Tuesday, April 22,tMr. Martinez announced that all plans for the banquet had been taken care of, and that he expected all members to attend.
The principal speaker of the evening was Professor Caparo, of the electrical engineering department. He talked about South America, although he said that he had not been there for twenty-two years; he recalled the most interesting things that exist in Peru, his birthplace.
The present secretary and treasurer of the club gave a few words of farewell.
Mr. Martinez closed the session by thanking the members for the cooperation on the success of the club.
760
The Notre D am e Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
“DOME” SATIRE SECTION OF THIRTY PAGES IS FINISHED BY BOYLE
Harpers Magazine for April contains two sonnets by Edna St. Vincent Millay which are included in her new volume of verse, Fatal Interview, to be published in the near future.
The feature article in Harpers, “Bank Failures: The Problem and the Remedy,” is a frank and lengthy treatment of the subject, written from the depositor’s point of view by J. M. Daiger, who has had much experience in bank organization and investment problems. Other interesting articles are “Diderot,” by Harold J. Laski, and “In Defense of Snobbery,” by Margaret Culkin Banning. The short stories are by Liam O’Flaherty, the Irish novelist and story writer, Charles Caldwell Dobie, and Lord Junsany. To the Lion’s Mouth department Elmer Davis and Philip Curtis contribute the humorous short essays, “On Lying Fallow,” and “Amos ’n Andy ’n Art.”
The April issue of the Ladies’ Home Journal is attractive as always. John Galsworthy’s “Maid In Waiting” is continued, a new mystery novel by Harold Macgrath begins, and there is an abundance of shorter fiction by Dagvar, F. Britten Austin, and others.
One of the most interesting features in the Journal is the series of articles by Dr. Isaac Goldberg on the career of George Gershwin. This series, entitled “Music by Gershwin,” is concluded in the current issue. Some of the high spots of that career as pointed out by Dr. Goldberg, may be noted. Gershwin wrote his celebrated “Rhapsody in Blue” in three weeks’ time. The opening movement of the piece came to him while listening to the noises of a train in which he was riding; the middle theme occurred to him at a party. The occasion for the composition was an invitation from Paul Whiteman for Gershwin to contribute something to a program given in New York on February 12, 1924. Compositions by Victor Herbert were also featured. Walter Damrosch was so impressed by the “Rhapsody” that he immediately requested the young composer to write a concerto based upon jazz motives. With no idea at all as to what a concerto was, Gershwin contracted to do the job, but first had to learn the fundamentals of instrumen
tation and orchestration, of which he had only an instinctive knowledge. The “Concerto in F” was completed and performed in Carnegie hall by the New York Philharmonic Symphony orchestra under the baton of Damrosch. A great many people have never heard this work and to many it is inconceivable that a graduate of Tin Pan Alley could write such absolute music . Later he composed piano preludes and an operetta. He has even taken into his hand the conductor’s baton. Gershwin, whose special idiom is jazz, is, however, ultimately interested in all music, and he would drop jazz in a minute if he could not find in it sufficient modes of expression. He is not yet thirty-three years old, and his ambition is to write an opera of America, of the melting pot.
Of the tendencies of some modern biographers, the Ave Maria remarks: “In times past biographers sought for ‘subjects,’ whereas today they very often hunt for ‘victims.’ Those who achieve greatness used to fear death because of judgement and the world to come. In this generation they are confronted with a new terror. They fear death, because in the world they have left biographers that have become detectives and criminal lawyers.”
The latest issue of Scrip is, perhaps, the best that has ever been edited. Mr. Louis Brennan has had his editorship commended by no less an authority than Mr. E. J. O’Brien, who recently in a letter to the editor, praised the high literary quality of Scrip. ME O’Brien is an acknowledged critic of the literary magazines, and his annual collection of short stories is the result of constant and careful examination of every source of the short story.
The stories by Joseph McCabe and George Spalding, the play by Frank Seward, and the study of Maxwell Anderson’s contemporary drama, “Elizabeth, the Queen” by Ronald Zudeck are outstanding in this quarter’s Scrip. The poetry and other features are unusually good. Father Ward’s essay on “Humanism” is splendidly done.
The Satire section of the Dome is now complete, and numbers about thirty pages. Austin Boyle, satire editor, and his staff of able workers, Leslie Raddatz, Donald Sullivan, and Charles Hanna, have burlesqued practically the entire campus in this year’s fun feature of the annual publication. Two of the articles which are sure to be received with a great deal of favor are “The National Chumps” and “The Rollo Boys at Notre Dame.” These two laugh producers are expected by the publishers to be instantaneous hits.
Those who have seen the copy and the specially posed pictures, which are well taken care of by Austin Boyle and his cohorts, deem it “the most sparkling comedy on the campus this year.” It is expected to far surpass the now famous “Elastic” and “Dining Hall” burlesque which appeared in the 1930 edition.
New Library Books
More than twenty new books have been added to the University library . during the past two weeks. The following are the titles and authors:
Bibliography: Collecting American First Editions by Richard Curie.
History: Coronado’s Children by James Frank Dobie.
Education: Principles of Guidance by Arthur Julius Jones.
Literature: The Man Who Made Good by Hilaire Belloc; Selected Articles on. Censorship of the Theatre and Moving Pictures by Lamar Taney ‘ Beman; Collected Poems by Robert Frost; The History of the English ‘ Novel by Ernest Albert Baker; Jeanne d’Arc by Percy Mackaye; Five Masters by Joseph Wood Krutch.
Social Sciences: America’s Story as Told in Postage Stamps by Edward Monington Allen.
Fine Arts: Art in America by Su-qanne LaFollette; The Spirit of America by Nathaniel Currier.
Philosophy: The Contingency of the Laws of Nature by Emile Bou-troux.
Religion: Dramatic Stories of the Bible by Thomas David Williams; The Things That Are Not Caesar’s by Jacques Maritain.
Banking: Selected Articles on Chain, Group and Branch Banking by Virgil Willit.	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
761
NORTHWESTERN DEFEATS N. D. NEGATIVE TEAM IN GOOD DEBATE
Professor J. H. McBurney, criticjudge, awarded Northwestern uni-‘	versity a decision over Notre Dame in
the discussion of the pros and cons of unemployment insurance last Friday evening in Washington hall. The University, represented by William Kirby, Charles Hanna and Timothy Benitz, defended the negative side of »-	the question. It would seem that
Northwestern was out to avenge their defeat in a different sort of activity last fall, for the debate was one of the most interesting, and most hotly contested heard in Washington hall this year.
*	Issues resulted over the ability of
economists to forecast future conditions of unemployment and the success or failure of the plan in Europe and certain industries in America. The financial soundness of the affirmative’s plan was demonstrated by *	means of a rather* indistinct chart,
which received its share of attention from the Notre Dame team.
This is the third defeat suffered by Father Boland’s teams this season. , Two more debates remain, a dual discussion with Illinois, both negative •	and affirmative teams debating.
Book Reviews
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS OFFER SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships for the eighth consecutive year have been awarded by the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus for college graduates desiring to follow the course in boy guidance.
The scholarships are for one year and are open to graduates of recognized colleges. They include room, board, and tuition for one year of graduate study in boy guidance at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame Popular
In a list compiled by the state department of Ohio, Notre Dame is included as one of the fifty most popular colleges and universities in the country. The popularity was judged according to the institutions in which a comprehensive number of high school graduates have enrolled in the last five years. The department is gathering information about these fifty colleges with the purpose of publishing a series of guidance manuals to aid the prospective college student.
Grand Hotel. By Vicki Baum. Doubleday, Doran. §2.50.
Grand Hotel takes its readers through the revolving doors of a Berlin hotel and opens to them the lives and characters of half a dozen people who are guests there: Otto Kringelein, a middle aged clerk from the provinces, who has been told by his physician that he has only a few weeks more to live and who resolves to spend his savings in a riotous fling at life; Dr. Ottemshlag, once a brilliant surgeon, whose ennui has brought him to deep and bitter depths of boredom; Grusinskaya, an aging star of the ballet, whose happiness hangs precariouly by the thin trickle of adulation which is still hers; Gaigem, a young and handsome and charming crook, a member of the old and impoverished nobility; Fraulein Flamm, a young and engaging beauty; General Director Preysing, a wealthy and no longer youthful industrial executive of the new Germany.
The lives of these men and women at cross currents with each other constitute a tale of absorbing interest, of tense drama and vivid colors. Swift, vigorous characterizations make Kringlein, Grusinskaya, Gaigem, and the rest of them entities in the reader’s consciousness. They become real people, whose lives are made by the author to epitomize the fleeting and tragic uncertainty of human happiness and existence.
Grand Hotel is probably best described as a melodrama with philosophical undertones. That is what it is, but its melodrama is not the sort that palls upon the reader. Rather, it is authentically of the stuff of life, this melodrama, and Vicki Baum has written a curiously moving and powerful novel about it.
Runt. By Joe Anderson. McDade. $1.00.
Of this book 0. 0. McIntyre recently said, “Today I read the rowdy and inclement exploits of a country mongrel dog named ‘Runt’ — a big bear hug for whoever sent it—and I not only rolled on the floor in wild guffawing, but burst out afresh every little while in a sudden cackle.” This, indeed, should be- a sufficient recommendation.
Jonathan Gentry. By Mark Van Doren. Boni. $2.00.
It was a lost love which, in 1800, sent Jonathan Gentry across the Atlantic from England to forgetfulness and peace among the hills of America, down the broad and yellow stream of the Ohio to fertile acres in Illinois. With this long trek begins Mark Van Doren’s newest and certainly his most ambitious poetic effort, a lengthy narrative poem built on epic lines, the story of Jonathan Gentry and his progeny through several generations, the story of his rebirth in a new land and the story of how, more than a century after the founding of his line in America, the inevitable disintegration sets in, awaiting a new rebirth of the Gentry blood. Let it be stated here, if it is not already apparent, that the history of the Gentry fortunes, of course, epitomizes the growth and the expansion of America, from its humble beginnings in the hands of sturdy pioneers to its urbanization today.
Mr. Van Doren’s poem falls into three distinct divisions. The first, entitled, “Ohio River,” describes Jonathan Gentry’s coming to the new land.
From the standpoint of sheer narrative the Civil War section of Jonathan Gentry is the most successful, and in it may be found some of the finest verse that Mr. Van Doren has written.
The final division, much longer than the other two, entitled, “Foreclosure,” deals with Gentrys who bear little kinship to the original Jonathan Gentry, except that the Gentry cycle has been completed and a new Jonathan Gentry, of a changed and changing land, meets with the. infidelity which had driven the original Jonathan to these shores.
Jonathan Gentry is Pulitzer prize material made to order. But that is not to say that Mark Van Doren has deliberately set out in his new book to capture the award.’ He is of pioneer Illinois ancestry. The motive and theme of his poem is of his blood, and in his career as poet and critic the long narrative verse has always been a major interest. He has built a poem of fine craftsmanship—one which is frequently of great beauty and which is sometimes marked by power.
762
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Address by the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C.
Broadcast From WGN, Chicago, on Universal Notre Dame Night
Mr. Toastmaster, Guests of Honor, Members of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, Ladies and Gentlemen of the Radio Audience.
I begin with a word of sincere thanks to WGN, the Tribune Station bn the Drake Hotel, for its very great courtesy in tendering us this interval of time in our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. I wish to take this occasion, too, to express our appreciation to Mr. Quin Ryan, personally, for the extraordinarily splendid manner in which he accomplished his part in the broadcast of recent religious services at Notre Dame which the whole nation, it seems, attended in the spirit of mourners. I refer, of course, to that sad happening which must give a solemn tone to the observance this year of Universal Notre Dame night. Wherever Notre Dame men are gathered together, there will be a reverent bowing of heads at the mention of the name of our beloved Knute Rockne, and from every heart there will ascend a silent prayer that peace may be his possession and j;est in Our Father’s House, in Paradise.
Solemn but not sombre and overcast need this memorial be. He himself would not wish that the joy of living, of which he was so fine an apostle and exemplar, should be clouded for us just because the joy which he brought into our lives was so suddenly and so tragically stopped. Rather, I take farewell of him, in the name of all Notre Dame men, in the following beautiful lines addressed by their author, Major Maurice Baring, to a companion lost in the Great War:
Because of you we will he glad and gay, Remembeiing you, we will be brave and strong. And hail the advent of each dangerous day And meet the last adventure with a song. And as you proudly gave your jewelled gift, We’ll give our lesser offering with a smile. Nor falter on that path where, all too swift. You led the way and leapt the golden stile. Whether new paths, new heights to climb you find,
Or gallop through the unfooted asphodel, We know you know we shall not lag behind Nor halt to waste a moment on a fear.
And you will speed us onward with a cheer And wave beyond the stars that all is well.
I am confident that if “Rock” could speak to us tonight he would say that all is well. Especially I am sure he would approve our carrying on with the coaching staff which he had built up, and that he would welcome the
announcement, now made for the first time, that his old friend and coach, Jesse Harper, has been engaged as Athletic Director at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame is approaching the close of its 89th scholastic year, graduating a class of some 450 seniors, coming up from its five colleges of Arts and Letters, Enginering, Law, Commerce and Science. Its enrollment, representing several foreign countries, including the Orient, and every State in the Union except one, reached a total of 3200, in spite of the fact that serious efforts were made to hold registration to a total of 3000, and some few hundreds of applicants were denied admission. Next year 3000 will be the absolute maximum admitted. Facilities for accommodating students on the campus next year will be increased by the addition of two new residence halls with a total capacity of 482 boys. One of these structures will be known as Alumni Hall, the other will be named Dillon Hall in memory of Father Patrick Dillon, second president of the University, the centenary of whose birth occurs this year.
In addition to these important adjuncts, as we consider them, to Notre Dame’s traditional mode of student life and training, the University will have two new buildings, one to house the School of Commerce, the other the School of Enginering. The first of these is made possible by a gift of $200,000.00 from one of Chicago’s most esteemed citizens, whose fame and whose record of public service are national and international, Mr. Edward N. Hurley, in whose honor this structure will be called “The Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.”
The second building likewise we owe to the generosity of a Chicago benefactor, a member of this Club, a Notre Dame Alumnus, a classmate of my own, Mr. John F. Cushing, C.E. ’06, novr President of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company. His gift of $300,000.00 makes possible “The. John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering” which we hope will be ready for occupancy in September. I make this announcement with the more satisfaction as Mr. Cushing’s benefaction is the largest single gift the University has received and it is the first important foundation made at Notre
Dame by a Notre Dame Alumnus. There can be only one such first gift, and I am sure that Notre Dame men everywhere will join with me in congratulating Mr. Cushing upon, his unique distinction. In this connection, it should be recalled that last year announcement was made that a substantial endowment for the College of Law was provided for in the will of the late William P. Breen, ’77, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Thus in one- year’s time, the Colleges of Law, Commerce and Engineering have received munificent benefactions.
If we record this as an event of major importance and if our satisfaction seem naive to some of our contemporaries in the field of education, I might point out that “relativity” plays a part in calculations other than those associated with the name of Einstein. Harvard’s endowment is a hundred and twelve million dollars, I believe. (These figures may be out of date, for I haven’t seen today’s paper). Yale University has reported in one year alone gifts amounting to twenty-three million dollars. -Incidentally, this is two million dollars more than the total combined endowment of all Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, acquired over a period of nearly one hundred and fifty years. The University of Notre Dame in this its 89th year of service has a permanent endowment of one million dollars. Consequently when in the space of one year gifts to an amount approximating that total are received, we can not help being pleased. It is not that the work of all these years is only now being appreciated. Notre Dame men have always been singularly devoted to their school, proud of its record, and fond of the men, from Father Sorin down, who put their life’s blood into their work. Rather it is, I think, that now there is a greater general competence than formerly, matched with a finer spirit of sacrifice in the individual even where financial resources may not be extensive.
Then, too, Notre Dame’s appeal is cumulative and diversified. Millions of Americans know of last year’s football record, but only Notre Dame men know that out of fourteen inter-
(Continued on Page 763)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
763
N. D. MONOGRAM MEN TO FROLIC
IN ANNUAL “BLUE AND GOLD REVUE”
Original Songs, Backfield Dance, Harmonica Playing Feature Performances
The “Blue and Gold Revue” has been chosen as the name of the production to be put on by the Notre Dame Monogram club in Washington hall on April 28 and 29. The cast will give three performances: a matinee at two-thirty on Wednesday, April 29, and evening performances on that day and Tuesday, April 28. Prices are fifty cents for general admission, and seventy-five cents for reserved seats.
Professor Frank Kelly of the speech department is in charge of the production. The show will feature a number of skits, original songs, and pure slapstick comedy. Rehearsals during the past week under the direction of Mr. Kelly are fast rounding the show into its finished form. Both the Monogram club and Mr. Kelly are attempting to make the revue more fast moving than those of past years.
Master of ceremonies for the production is Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 national championship team. In addition to him, every member of the monogram organization will take part in the revue. Singing, dancing, and even harmonica playing will show the versatility of the athletes. A backfield dance, featuring Frank Carideo, Marty Brill, Larry Mullins and Nick Lukats, will be one of the outstanding numbers of the show.
The many musical numbers in the show are being whipped into shape
by Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the music department. Campus composers who have contributed material to the production are Walter Philipp and Austin Boyle. They have written a “Carry On” march dedicated to the memory of Knute Rockne, and a satirical number, written in more typical revue style, called “Fathers, Be Pals to Your Boys.”
Pat Patterson, downtown theatre organist, has expressed a desire to include the “Carry On” number in his radio broadcasts soon over a local station. Featured also in the musical ensemble of the show will be several popular songs by the Monogram trio, Brant Little, Alex Wilson, and Gene Howery.
Among these will be the Senior Ball song, “Romance by Moonlight.” With the help of this trio and the leather-lunged chorus, success of the musical portion of the show seems assured. Johnny Perone, Freddy Ra' haim, and other popular campus entertainers are working hard on the skits and comedy material submitted by campus writers.
The extra performance of the revue . has been added on account of the wide-spread interest already shown on the campus and in South Bend. Since full houses are expected at all performances, students are advised to get tickets as soon as they are put on sale.
PHARMACISTS SPONSOR TRIP TO INDIANAPOLIS
The Pharmacy club sponsored a trip to Indianapolis on April 20-21, visiting the pharmaceutical and biological laboraotries of the Eli Lilly company. Karl Scherer, president of the club, was in charge of the ticket sale, and Dr. H. D. Hinton was the faculty representative, and was in charge of the trip. In addition to the members of the Pharmacy club who made the tour, senior pre-medical students and other seniors in science were guests. The party left Monday morning, visiting the laboratories in groups of eight in the afternoon. This was followed by dinner at the Severin hotel in the evening. On Tuesday morning the party was taken by bus to Greenfield, Indiana, where the biological farms of the Lilly company are located. There the students were shown the inoculation of a calf with smallpox virus, and also all the steps in the preparation of diphtheria antitoxin, from the bleeding of the horse (whose blood is used in the preparation of antitoxin) down to the final packaging of the goods. Lectures by officials of the company were also heard as part of the program. After the return to Indianapolis, the group were guests at dinner. The remainder of the afternoon was free to the students.
Theme Song Rendered
Joseph Talbot, a freshman in the College of Law, appeared on the stage of the Colfax theater, Wednesday and Thursday. He sang, “Just You, Only You,” the theme song of the Lawyer’s Ball. Talbot is making his last appearance today. The words and music to the song were written by Edward Massa, a freshman in the Law school.
FR. O’DONNELL’S ADDRESS
(Continued from Page 762)
collegiate debates, some of them with the leading universities of the country, Notre Dame won thirteen. This year to date we have won ten debates out of a total of twelve. Similarly, little news gets into the papers about our chemical research, but the leading chemists of America keep their eyes fixed on our laboratories. Again, there is the literary tradition of Notre Dame. It is interesting to note that upon the formation this year of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, three members of our
faculty were invited to accept charter membership in this national organization. And passing on to another department of art, it is not too much to say that the whole United States was enraptured by the beauty of the music recently broadcast from our campus when the University choir sang at the funeral services of Mi’. Rockne.
These things the Notre Dame man knows and loves. They go to make up the appeal of his school. He feels that Notre Dame today, in art and music and letters, in science, in law, in engineering and in the other departments is true to the best Notre Dame traditions, has kept faith with the men of the past, Gregori, Girac,
Stoddard and Egan, Father John Zahm and Albert Zahm, Stace and Green, Neill and Howard, Hoynes and McCue.
Certainly those men to whose keeping the destinies of our University are now committed, whose spokesman I happen to be, celebrate this Universal Notre Dame night in a spirit of profound gratitude to the excellent Mother of God, our patroness, who has given us such good work to do and such joy in the doing of it.
We rejoice in the loyal support of the finest body of alumni in the land and we are grateful to uncounted hosts of friends, the world over, for their devotion to our University.
764
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
DEMPSEY DOES IT AGAIN
At this time a write-up of Mr. Smithberger is particularly appropriate because of the momentous events of his recent life. Late last week he joined the army of Proud Parents. On Poetry, his first book, written in collaboration with Mr. Mc-Cole, will soon be published. ’Tis not often that a man becomes both a parent and an author at the same time. The coincidence is at least unusual enough to merit comment.
Mr. Smithberger was bom on a farm near Harrietville, Ohio. Since the nearest city is twenty-five miles away, he claims quite correctly that his home is twenty-five miles from civilization. After attending the rural schools, Elk Rural High school, and Marietta High school in Marietta, Ohio, finishing at the latter place in 1921, he entered Ohio university in Athens, Ohio. He was graduated with the degree of bachelor of arts from this university in 1925. Since then he has taught at Notre Dame — taught a variety of English courses, ranging from Freshman English to the English Prose of the Romantic Period. In 1927 he received his master of arts degree from Notre Dame.
When well-meaning persons insist in confusing Ohio university and Ohio State university, Mr. Smithberger takes great pains to set them right on the matter. He chose Ohio university as his school because of its beautiful setting, and because it was much smaller than Ohio State. The school is the oldest institution of higher learning west of the Alleghenies, having been founded in 1804. One does not hear very much about its football teams because they are monotonously good.
Mr. Smithberger has always led a very active life—one full of divers vocations and avocations. He was once editor of The Green and White, the college paper of Ohio university,
Prof. Andrew Smithberger
and a post of that sort keeps its occupant rather busy. Various sports take up a lot of his time now. Among them are tennis, handball, and swimming. When he insists that he only plays at tennis, does not play it, he is more modest than truthful. His handball playing is something to watch and admire; ’tis better to do that than to play against him.
He spends most of his vacations at his home in Ohio, working on the farm for twelve or fourteen hours a day, and loafing the rest of the time, resting up for his return to school in the fall. He likes farm work, having the gift of finding enjoyment where other less fortunate find only hard work. His favorite occupation on the farm is hay-making, a task which has never been considered easy.
“Juggler” Girls Number Best of All Time, Says Editor.
Editor John E. Dempsey has announced that contributions to the Girls’ Number of the Juggler have been pouring into his office. Excellent drawings, satire, poetry and humorous writings have been received. This year’s contributions have exceeded all others in quality. The cover is one of the finest examples of pastel work ever to appear on a Notre Dame Juggler. It has been drawn by a girl who has won fame as an artist. She has drawn heads of many famous theatrical characters and a head of Knute Rockne which might possibly be reproduced in colors inside the Juggler. The cover will be reproduced by a special four-color process similar to that used on the cover of the Christmas Number- of the Juggler. It will undoubtedly be the finest cover ever to appear on any college publication and will compare favorably with those on the best national periodicals.
Another feature will be the reproduction in four colors of the cover of the May, 1931, College Humor which was awarded to the Juggler for the best art work at the recent meeting of the National Association of College Comics. The same plates which were used in printing the cover of College Humor are now in the possession of the Juggler and are being prepared for this feature.,
The contributions received from girls from every part of the country are all uniformly good, according to Dempsey, who further said that the Girls’ Number of the Juggler will undoubtedly be one of the finest College comic magazines of all time.
Ball Song on Sale
“Romance by Moonlight,” theme song of the Notre Dame senior ball, has been placed on sale downtown by the composers, Walter Philipp, Austin Boyle and Kathryn Ullman. South Bend music stores will feature the number until the time of the ball. Sale of the song on the campus is being withheld for another week. The halls will then be canvassed. Boyle and Philipp are busy at present working on material for the Monogram club’s “Absurdities.”
Kohlbrenner Writes Articles
Bernard Kohlbrenner, instructor in the school of education, published an article entitled “What Supervision Do Teachers Receive” in the March number of the Catholic Educational Review. The article is a complete summary of a study carried on at the University during the summer school of 1930. Mr. Kohlbrenner at present is working on another article which when published will be the result of ten years’ study.
Work on Dorms Progresses
Work on the superstructure of the two new dormitories, Alumni and Dillon halls, will begin this week. The work will proceed with the setting of the granite and the laying of the bricks for the outside walls. The forms for the interior columns are to be started at the same time. At present there are thirty-five men employed on the two buildings. Alumni hall will be a U-shaped building, and Dillon hall will be in the form of an H.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
765
BAND WILL PLAY IN
ST. JOSEPH CARNIVAL
Also to Participate in South Bend Dedication Program.
The University band has been invited to attend the blossom festival to be held at St. Joseph, Mich., May 9, according to an announcement by Professor Joseph Casasanta, director of the band. The blossom festival is an annual event at St. Joseph. The band will march in the procession upon the occasion of selecting the beauty queen of the blossom festival.
The band has also been invited to participate in the dedication exercises to be held by the LaSalle Memorial society, May 19. At the exercises will be a massed band of five hundred pieces, including the Notre Dame aggregation. Professor Casasanta will direct the massed musicians.
The orchestra is preparing foi* a program to be offered sometime in May. The program as planned will be a presentation of a string ensemble. Preparations are under way for an entertaining program.
Professor Casasanta sjiys that the department of music has received a number of requests for “When Irish Backs Go Marching By,” the latest Notre Dame song, from all parts of the country. There is a big demand for copies of the song.
Express Office Notice
The following students and professors have packages at the express office:
Harvey Rockwell, Howard hall,
Norman Greeney, St. Edward’s hall,
Matt O’Brien, Sorin hall,
F. J. McCarthy, Walsh hall,
J. J. Flynn, Freshman hall,
Lawrence O’Leary, Chemistry department,
Thomas P. Madden, English department,
James A. Withey, English department,
J.	E. McCarthy, Commerce department,
Raymond Pence, English department,
Daniel C. O’Grady, Philosophy department.
Express office hours are from 12:30 to 1:10.
SENIORS NOTICE!
On Tuesday, April 28, at four o’clock, room 311 Science hall, oral examinations will be held for all seniors of the College of Arts and Letters majoring in philosophy. The examinations will be given by a board of the faculty of philosophy.
DR. KUNTZ INSPECTS INDIANAPOLIS SCHOOL
Last Wednesday Dr. Leo Kuntz and Mr. Bernard Kohlbrennei- of the school of education made a trip to Indianapolis for the purpose of visiting Cathedral Latin high school, an institution which is under the supervision of the brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In his position of critic supervisor for the state department of education, Mr. Kuntz inspected the teaching methods of the brothers in Indianapolis. While the latter receive their teaching credits from Notre Dame they must, on the approval of Dr. Kuntz, obtain a license from the state. During his stay in Indianapolis Professor Kuntz attended to a few business matters with the state department of public instruction located in that city.
K.	of C. Initiation
Exemplification of the first degree initiation of the Knights of Columbus will take place at a meeting of the Notre Dame council 1477, Monday night in their Walsh hall chambers. The first degree team of the Mishawaka council, Knights of Columbus, will have charge of the proceedings.
Announcements will be made at this meeting concerning the second and third degree initiation, to be held May 3 at Elkhart, in conjunction with the Elkhart council of the Knights.
The Notre Dame council yesterday attended a Requiem High Mass in Sacred Heart church, celebrated by the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., in memory of Knute Rockne.
Father Lavin Recuperating
The Reverend Walter Lavin, C.S.C., rector of Sorin hall until taken ill last year, recently entered the Mayo Brothers’ hospital at Rochester, Minn., for treatment.
SENIOR BALL PLANS NEARING COMPLETION
Isham Jones Will Play For Tea Dance on May 9.	,
Plans for the Senior Ball are quickly nearing completion, according to general chairman Walter Cahill. An announcement this week stated that orders for the favors have been sent, and that the Chain-O’-Lakes Country club has been engaged for the tea dance
The favors, the exact nature of which is not yet revealed, will be received here a week before the dance. Although the idea of the favors is not novel to the campus, they are of the best imported leather and are hand designed. The programs will be of the same type of leather as the favors.
Through the efforts of chairmen Shean and Golden, the Chain-O’-Lakes Country club has been engaged for the tea dance. The hours for the dance will be from two to five on Saturday afternoon. This affair will be augmented by the appearance of Isham Jones, who is the creator of such popular song numbers as, “I’ll See You In My Dreams,” “On the Alamo” and “What’s the Use.” Jones has also made an orchestration of Walter Phillip’s “Romance by Moonlight,” which is to be played especially at the ball.
Although Daylight Saving time will be in effect in South Bend at the time of the ball, it will create no mixup in the plans for the weekend social affair. Everything will be run on Central Standard time.
Invitations to the dance should be secured from Walter Cahill at 206 Sorin hall.
Postpone Chicago Club Dance
The Chicago club formal dance will be held June 8 at the Drake hotel, Chicago, according to announcement made this week at a meeting of the club. The dance, scheduled for Easter Monday, was postponed because of the death of Knute Rockne, honorary president of the club.
Eddie Ryan and Frank Holland, cochairmen of the affair, wish to express their gratitude to the Drake hotel and Keneway, Inc., for their kindness in extending their contracts to make the postponements possible.
766
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMIIf <IUIf
"Tsk, tsk, More Fan-mail"
L.	to R. Fan-mail/ Miss Butts
TABLOID
Above is a photograph, hitherto unpublished, of this writer’s secretary looking in dismay at the pile of invitations to banquets which friendly campus clubs have sent to the dubs editoi* during the past month. The secretary (a Miss Butts) is chagrined because the publications allow the campus clubs editor only one secretary. The campus clubs editor, however, thinks it’s not so bad.
FIGHTING IRISH
The NEW JERSEY club followed the IOWA dub last week in electing its officers for the coming year. Chosen were S. A. Bontempo, president; Al Capter, vice-president; Ray Geiger, secretary; Sabby Adonizio, treasurer. New President Bontempo won by a landslide; elections of the secretary and treasurer was more close, but not close enough for excitement.
CANCELLED
All club dances scheduled for the Easter holidays by Notre Dame’s clubs were cancelled on account of the death of Mr. Rockne.
MEETING
The CLEVELAND club met last week in the old Law building to complete arrangements for the club’s baseball team and to announce elections to be held early in May. Leading presidential candidates are Myron Crawford and John Collins.
BIGGER AND BETTER
Interclub baseball, an annual spring activity on the campus, has excited more interest this year than in many a season past.
The CHICAGO club has done more than any other group to keep club baseball from languishing. In addition to its team in the interclub league it has teams of Chicago men from each of the halls. By means of bulletins, the club lets its members know the latest news of the hall teams, their schedules, the places where they will play.
PLANS
That Notre Dame club activity does not cease with the end of the school year is shown by the fact that some of the city clubs have already begun discussing plans for their summer dances. In many instances these affairs are more pleasant than the more touted Christmas dances: the weather is pleasant and Notre Dame men again meet to compare notes after some time away from school.
INTERNATIONAL
A feature of the last meeting of the FRENCH club was a talk by Ralph Moller, a young man of German extraction, who spoke in faultless French of China, the country where he lives when he is not at Notre Dame.
FRENCH club president William Dreux also spoke.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
767
<*
EDITCK’J PAGE
ANOTHER FORWARD STEP
The need of a new engineering building at Notre Dame has been for some years an urgent one. It was therefore with much pleasure that the news was received this week that Mr. John F. Cushing had made a donation to the University for the erection of an adequate structure, fully equipped, to house the College of Engineering. Mr. Cushing has an appreciation of the requirements in equipment and facilities essential to the thorough education of men preparing for careers in the field of engineering. He, himself, described the graduates which he expects Notre Dame to produce as “men with adventuring minds, and a conscience in their profession.” Certainly, his contribution should materially assist the faculty in working toward this end.
The ability and the efficiency of the teachingstaff in the engineering school are unquestionably of the highest quality. In spite of the obstacles which have confronted them in the way of limited space, they have been doing work comparable to that in similar departments of schools more highly endowed, and almost perfectly outfitted. This has been accomplished however, only in the face of great difficulties and inconveniences. Mr. Cushing’s generous gift should effectively do away with these handicaps.
Mr. Cushing’s contribution makes more obvious the fact that Notre Dame’s alumni may greatly further the University’s drive toward perfection along all academic lines. The recent donation of Mr. Hurley was of immense assistance to the administration in its progressive work, and Mr. Cushing’s gift will undoubtedly tend to increase Notre Dame’s prestige among the nation’s institutions of learning.
HARPER RETURNS
Like Cincinnatus who left his plow to lead the ancient Romans to victory, Jesse Harper leaves his farm to come to Notre Dame. The University has made a popular decision in asking him to return. Formerly head coach over the late Knute Rockne, he seems even now an integral part of Notre Dame and of Notre Dame athletics. He it was who many years ago invented the play that “Rock” used so often last year—the play which took Schwartz over the goal line to win the Northwestern and Army games. The shift, an integral part of the Rockne system, was introduced here by him.
It seems only fitting that the original teacher should now return to supervise the organization left behind by his master pupil, to watch the progress, as it were, of another pupil. Many names were rumored for the position that Mr. Harper is now to fill—those of younger men, business men. But more than a business man is needed. Rockne was more. So must be his successor. That, most certainly, is Jesse Harper. As Rockne’s teacher and friend, as a former Notre Dame coach, as the Cincinnatus of football who left his farm to carry on for his school, he will bring a prestige that any other man would have found difficult to furnish. A better man than Jesse Harper could not have been named.
FORE!
Many Notre Dame mashie wielders have a bad habit of giving no warning whatsover as a bad hook goes sailing past the ears of a golfer a hundred yards or so down the course. The least that anyone can do is to wait until the men ahead are out of striking distance, and to yell lustily if he happens to be lucky enough to hit a good ball.
7G8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
IDEA
Forty-nine bottles
SUtiii’ on a wall, Forty-nine bottles
—Wa’al.
QUICK WINKS
Certain wayward old meanies who were caught planting corn in the newly finished park in front of Badin and the library. A nassy trick, because after all the trouble that has been gone through to have Badin emerge from the mud it just wouldn’t do to have its light hidden away under a bushel of corn . . . Ronnie Zudeck is pretty definitely assured of a fine position after graduation with the National Broadcasting company in New York. The rest of the Senior class will very probably return next fall to enter* the Law school . . . The staid and serious Mr. Lou Hasley going comic in the new mag, College Stories. We suggest some sort of an investigation into the question, What price the Master’s degree? . . . Aussie Boyle, ye old caddy maestro, complaining that he has heard quite enough in class of the Scholastic theory of this and that, and just for a change would like to have someone explain the Juggler theory of things . . . Father Clancy’s little joke about McTarnish and McTavish. The former was entertaining the latter, and when it came time for refreshments asked, “And now, McTavish, will you have a cup of tea?” McTavish thought it over and decided, “No tea.” Later McTarnish tried again and suggested a sip of coffee. “No coffee,” answered McTavish. In a final effort to fulfill his obligations the host said, “Well, McTavish, will you have a whisky and soda?” McTavish thought a moment before making up his mind. “No soda,” he said.
HEREDITY
I am they say, the Biggest Boob—
My antics simply slay ’em;
Yet you would know them family traits, If you would stop to weigh ’em.
For father was a behemoth
And wore an eighteen collar;
And grandpop bought the Brooklyn Bridge For one-tenth of a dollar.
—The Warden.
INTRODUCTION TO A POET
We take great pride in introducing for your approval a new poet. Among the many, many contributions that came to our offices from our two readers, there was one that we singled out for special mention.
This is the season of poets, whose highly sensitive and spiritual souls extend themselves in this weather to plumb the blissful depths of nature. Flowers may concern them, or trees, or sweet, soft nights. Romance may intrigue them. Or their subject may be the vaulted heavens, the budding blooms or something, the gentle rains, or golf sox. Their approach is generally subjective. Their ego is projected into a blossoming cosmos. They feel, they
think, they live with nature. And then with the aid of a stubby little pencil and a dictionary of rhymes, produce delicate, fragile bits of poetic composition about the moon, gnats, and camelopards.
And now a new star bursts into view in the literary heavens. Bangheart is the name—Oscar Bangheart to you. He has written a serious, beautifully tender poem entitled “Birds.” It is the last word in the field of nature poetry. It is subjective, of course. The poet once he had determined his theme was not content to write objectively of our little feathered friends. He wished to write authoritatively, with full and inside data on their lives and habits. He decided to investigate, and with permission from Mayor Walker and the Waterbury Garment Makers’ Bird league, began his studies among the Whiffle-Whippets, a species of the thrush genus, which inhabit the south banks of the St. Joseph river.
Soon he had made great friends with the shy subjects of his investigation, by the simple expedient of humming popular tunes and being generous with his candy and cakes when he received packages from home. Quickly he learned their language, and before long the birds were initiating him into all the secrets and intricacies of their mode of life. In the comparatively short space of three weeks, he could perch for two hours on a fence rail oxtelegraph ‘ cable without losing his balance. In another week he could build a very substantial nest, knew where desirable locations for nests were, and how many hours a day he was expected to be “in the nest” as the W-W’s say. (W-W is the poet’s own affectionate abbreviation.) The final expression these birds showed of their confidence in theix* new friend was when they taught him to rise early and obtain his breakfast by only his sense of smell.
Aftex* a year of this life, Bangheart was satisfied that he had arrived at a very thorough knowledge of the life and habits of the Whiffle-Whippets. He knew theix* loves, and hopes, and secret sorrows. He had laughed and talked and sported with them, and played theix* games. Much against his will, however, he had to leave them. The day of parting came all too soon. Bowed were the heads of his friends when on that last fateful day, at a touching farewell ceremony, Bangheart read these few affecting lines:
BIRDS
Birds are free and so are we; They fly the land and sea.
Birds do work and so do we;
They build their nests in the tree.
Birds spend their time like us;
In.the winter doivn south they goest.
Birds sing and so do we In the tree and over the lake. Birds are kind and so are we— They help us kill the worm.
—Bangheart.
Then off he hurried to attend the Senior Ball. “So long,” said the W-W’s.
—The Weary Bumper.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
769
SPCRTS
Trackmen Fall Before Badgers
64-62 Decision Lost When Branfort Slips Over Line In Throwing Javelin
GOLFERS WIN TWO FROM MICHIGAN OPPONENTS
J
€
N. D. Sprinters Lead Scorers; McCormick Wins 100 and 220;
Kelly, Gough, Also Shine.
Wisconsin’s well balanced track team officially raised the curtain for the opening of the 1931 outdoor season by scoring a 64 to 62 triumph over Coach John P. Nicholson’s Notre Dame squad in one of the most closely contested meets ever to be waged on old Cartier field. The result was not decided until the running off of the final event on the program, the javelin throw, in which the Badgers placed first and second to clinch the meet. Notre Dame had assumed an early lead and after thirteen of the fourteen events had been run off, were leading their rivals by a 61 to 56 score. “Brandy” Brantfort made a gallant attempt to win the meet for Notre Dame by hurling the spear 177 feet, 8 inches, a distance that would have won handily, but he became overanxious on the throw and fouled by inches, thus ruling out what would have been the winning toss and a victory for Notre Dame.
The Badgers ran true to form by exhibiting well-balanced strength in ■every event with the exception of the 100-yard dash, in which Notre Dame scored a slam. Wisconsin evened matters in this respect however, by placing one, two, three in the shot put to add nine points to their winning total. Bill McCormick, of Notre Dame, and Roden, of the Badgers, were the leading point-getters of the day with a pair of firsts apiece. McCormick was not pressed in winning either the 100- or 220-yard dashes and Roden had things just about his own way in both hurdle events. The extreme closeness of the meet alone tended to make it interesting, as the marks set up were only fair and only two Cartier field records were broken. “Dutch” Johnson soared to a height of 13 feet in the pole vault, to
establish a new Notre Dame record in that event, while Kabat, bespeckled weight man of the Badgers, set up a new mark in the discus throw by hurling the platter more than seven feet farther than Tom Lieb’s old mark of 140 feet in that event.
“Chink” Kelly
—who served notice on sprinters last Saturday that he must be reckoned, with in the dashes from noiu on.
Notre Dame was counted upon to snatch a great many points in both hurdle races, but Wisconsin pulled the surprise act by annexing two firsts (Continued on Page 776)
Detroit U. and State Teams Lose By Wide Margins.
Notre Dame’s golf team added two more victims to their growing list of defeated linksmen last Friday and Saturday when they whitewashed the squads representing Michigan State College and the University of Detroit. The State outfit lost by 17% to %, and the university team fell, 15 to 6.
The victory over Michigan State, at East Lansing, was the most decisive one that the Blue and Gold team has scored this year. Larry Moller and the Beaupre brothers, Fran and Russ, were tied for low, each getting a 74. Captain Fran Beaupre and Moller turned in the best card of the day, scoring a 70 in the best ball matches. Michigan State got their lone % point during the afternoon round when Minier, playing No. 1, tied Russ Beaupre on the second nine.
Long driving featured the play of the Notre Dame team. This well balanced squad all turned in excellent cards, no man being separated from his teammates by more than a single stroke. No one broke par on the long Michigan State course in the singles matches, although Fran Beaupre and Larry Moller with a sensational 30, six strokes under par on the second nine in the best ball matches, turned in a card of 70, three strokes under the perfect score.
University of Detroit provided the Notre Dame team with the stiffest competition that they have experienced thus far during the season and materially aided by tie scores in both of the best ball matches, managed to score 6 points against the South Bend quintet.
Moller and O’Shea turned in the best cards in this match, each getting 79. The Beaupres, Moller, and O’Shea swept their matches in the
Continued on Page 772)
770
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BILL SULLIVAN, HARD-HITIING FIRST BASEMAN, EXPECTS TO TAKE UP LAW
Starred In Basketball And Track As Well As In Baseball At Columbia Prep
We hesitated for a moment in front of'Room 114 Walsh hall before knocking. The prospect of bursting in on a home run hitting baseball player awed us a little. We did knock, though, and pretty soon we were perched on the bed listening to a lot of interesting things about Bill Sullivan and writing down those that we remembered.
Afterwards, when we arranged what we had, it seemed that William Joseph Sullivan had been bom in Chicago on October 23, 1910. That makes him quite a youngster for all the first base ability that he has. His father was a ball player too, though, being a catcher in the American League for quite a spell, so maybe it’s natural. The Sullivans moved from Chicago to Detroit and later to Portland, Ore., which is the present location of Coach Keogan’s first sacker when “at home.” He went to high school at Columbia University’s prep department there, where he met his present neighbor, Father Farley, rector of Sorin hall. Bill also took a year of his A.B. work at Columbia before leaving for Notre Dame.
He still remembers it as a great place. “They have rivers there,” he explains, “and canoes and, now and then, a moon.” He got off on a tangent for a minute but straightened out again to find that he had played baseball for four years at the western school and almost as much basketball. He attempted a career as a javelin thrower too, and while he showed plenty of promise, it was cut short in order to keep up on the baseball and to save a good throwing arm.
Coming to Notre Dame as a sophomore, Bill continued his A.B. work and also the baseball. The basketball was limited to interhall competition and the track was given up altogether. There was another Sullivan making a name for himself in college baseball circles at that time in the person of the 1928 Blue and Gold captain, Bill’s brother Joe.
The present family representative
played a great game around the initial bag and gathered an unusual total of base hits last year to win a place on the varsity. This season he has shown all of his old time form
Bill Sullivan
Slugging First Baseman and is one of the- steadiest men on the squad.
When College Humor selected its all-star college team for a trip to Panama and Cuba during the last Christmas holidays, Bill Sullivan was the choice for first base and he justified that selection with a classy fielding exhibition and a four-base blow in the final game. He likes to remember that trip and to talk about it. With “Dutch” Eyth of Carnegie Tech as his roommate, he seems to have had a most successful vacation. At least the pictures that he showed us backed up that idea, for the places and things he had snapped were swell —not to mention the people. They' seem to have moons in the Carribean
that rival even the Oregon specialties.
Which reminds us: Bill has a hobby and photography is it. He takes fine pictures and develops and prints them himself. He sounded capable of giving a great explanation of the art, but we didn’t think we could follow. The local roto experts, though, thought enough of some of his Carribean scenes to run them in a Sunday supplement. (They were not the pictures of the people.)
Together with the hobby, Bill has a group of pet superstitions. A load of hay or of barrels always means a win in a ball game. The loss of a certain penny that had gone through a season in Bill’s shoe almost proved fatal on one occasion at Michigan State. He uses always his own style bats, having had them made at a Louisville factory. Two or three of them were drying behind the desk in 114 when we were there.
Other activities than athletics have claimed much of Mr. Sullivan’s time since his coming out of the west. He was general chairman of last year’s edition of the “greatest” prom. He acted as private secretary to the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., for a three year period, and he kept his scholastic average up very close to the ninety mark at all times. He plays golf, too, in his spare moments both here and in the summer. We couldn’t quite see, however, just when he ever found any “spare” ones.
As to his ambitions and plans, Bill is rather definite. He will finish his A.B. course this June and expects to go on to Law school from that point. Possibly the legal training will be gotten at a Chicago institution, possibly not; he isn’t just sure. He is sure, however, that success in the business world is his primary goal in life and is the most important job he has just at present. Baseball, he regards as but a pleasant means to that end, never as an end in itself.
Along about this time Bill guessed that “that was all” so we guessed so, too, (with our tongue in our cheek) and folded up our notebook to grab a little “unofficial” conversation. After a while we left, and as we ducked into the rain and splashed through the puddles, we got our tongue out of our cheek by resolving to put it down that Bill Sullivan was more than a hard-hitting first baseman with a yearning for photography. He’s just about the most interesting and the most friendly fellow that we have ever met.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BASEBALL TEAM WINS
Sullivan Knocks Homer With Bases Loaded in 8th.
Going into the eighth inning with the score tied at 2 all in the game with the Indiana Recreation team last Saturday, Notre Dame scored five runs in a rally which featured Sullivan’s home run with the bases loaded to bring the score to its final status— Notre Dame 7, Indiana Recreation 2.
Sjcoring their second run in the first half of the eighth frame by virtue of two singles and a sacrifice fly, the Recreation squad knotted the count. In the Notre Dame turn at bat Mannix started the rally by garnering a walk, but was caught off second base
when Askew had singled. O’Connor then rapped out a single, advancing Askew. The latter scored when O’Keefe rang the bell with a base hit. Lomasney was granted a walk, filling the bases and setting the stage for the terrific drive from Sullivan’s bat that was to follow to clear- the bases. The ball, on this smash, was driven far along the first base line, taking a bounce and finally stopping on about the 50-yard line in old Cartier field.
Notre Dames’ first run was made in the second inning on three singles by Sullivan, Kolski, and Mahoney. In the third Mannix drove out a screaming triple and crossed home plate after O’Connor sacrificed to short. Only three hits were for extra bases— Tarrick, of the Recreations, doubled; Mannix tripled, and Sullivan recorded
his timely four-bagger.
Mannix, who went the route for the home guards, gave up 11 hits, but kept them well scattered. Notre Dame also collected 11 hits, five of which were bunched in the eighth inning, enabling the Keogan-coached boys to roll up the score. The Recreations used two pitchers during the course of the contest.
A large crowd divided its attention between the Wisconsin track meet and this game. Rumor had it that Stanley Coveleskie, world series pitcher with Cleveland in 1920, would be seen in action, but although he plays in South Bend during the summer he is not yet in condition.
The score by innings:
Ind. Rec. 000 100 01 0-2-11 N. D.	011 0 0 0 0 5 x—7-11
for bedtime
hunger
THERE’S nothing better than a bowl of delicious Kellogg’s Corn Flakes and milk. So easy to digest, it invites sound sleep. Dietitians advise it. How much more healthful than hot, heavy foods.
So order Kellogg’s when you drop in at the campus restaurant tonight. Enjoy with canned peaches, or sweeten with honey for an extra treat. Good . . . and good for-you!
The most popular cereal* served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, PEP Bran i Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.

CORN FLAKES
You’ll enjoy Kellogg’s Slumber Music, broadcast over WJZ and associated stations of the N. B. C. every Sunday evening at 10.30 E. S. T. Also KFI Los Angeles, KOMO Seattle at 10.00. and KOA Denver at 10.30.
CORN •UKES
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Go To The U. S. Flying School
The U. S. Air Corps takes yearly over 700 college men for free flying training as Student Flying Officers. Get the best instruction and more than 200 solo hours. You -will be paid a good salary. Receive generous mess allowance, frequent leave, social privileges and prestige of officers. Hundreds go each year. So can YOU. Find
out: how to get in, pay, rank, leave, actual life, etc. Take the first step now. Mail (§1.00) for complete information. Same information concerning West Point and Annapolis, same price. All literature compiled by those who have been through the schools.
U. S. SERVICE BUREAU,
513 Lissner Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.
Don’t
Look
Because
« « «
You’ll never find a South Bend autoist disputing the Chicago highways with a perspiring truck driver. The South Bender prefers to use the hourly s e r v i c e of America’s fastest electric railway, with its downtown Chicago terminal.
« « «

Every hour on-the-hour to Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, Chicago
GOLFERS WIN TWO MORE
(Continued from Page 769)
singles, while Bill Redmond broke even with his opponent, Lapham. Russ Beaupre was the only player to score the maximum 3 points.
Summary of Detroit meet:
Singles—R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Mooney (D), 3-0; Redmond (ND) tied Lapham (D),	F.	Beau-
pre (ND) defeated McFawn (D), 2%-%; Moller (ND) defeated Twitle (D), 2%-%; O’Shea (ND) defeated Whiting (D), 2%-%.
Best Ball—Redmond and R. Beaupre (ND) tied Mooney and Lapham (D),	Moller and F. Beaupre
(ND) tied Twitle and McFawn (D),
Summary of Michigan State meet:
Singles—R. Beaupre (ND) defeated Minier (MS), 2%-%; F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Jones (MS), 3-0; Moller (ND) defeated Sisontis (MS), 3-0; O’Shea (ND) defeated Wayne (MS), 3-0.
Best Ball—R. Beaupre and Redmond (ND) defeated Minier and Jones (MS), 3-0; Moller and F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Sisontis and Wayne (MS), 3-0.
COACH ART PARISIEN DRILLS FROSH NINE
Answering the call issued by Art Parisien, freshman baseball coach, 123 first year men reported Monday afternoon for the initial workout of the season, according to Bob Balfe, varsity baseball manager. In some quarters it was feared that interest in the popular sport was lagging at Notre Dame, but from the enthusiasm evinced by this large number of freshmen, officials feel that such fears were unfounded.
Regular workouts will be held during the season, and after Parisien has had opportunity to see the many candidates in action a cut will be made. Numerous practice contests will be held within the ranks of the freshman squad in order to give the embryo varsity men a firm knowledge of the, game.
Some three hundred papers are sold daily, (Sunday excepted), at the news-stand in the cafeteria.
| Residence	Office J
। Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
i	|
•	Dir.	Edgar S.	Lucas	I
|	Dentist	I
I	i
|	702 J. M. S. Building	।
|	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	?
K	I
I	Cor.	Main and Washington	|
WHERE
NOTRE DAME MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
773
HILLSDALE NINE TO MEET N.D. HERE TODAY
Iowa and Northwestern Also on Card For Busy Week.
In the second regularly scheduled game of the season and the third in the last week for Notre Dame, the Hillsdale college nine comes here Friday to engage the local squad on Cartier field. The Hillsdale outfit hails from Hillsdale, Mich., and last year held the position of champions of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association, otherwise known as the Little Big Six.
The other games on tap for Notre Dame within the coming week are those with Iowa on Cartier field Monday, and Northwestern in Evanston Wednesday afternoon. Iowa has played several games throughout that state, crossing hats with Luther college in several games which showed the mettle of the Hawkeyes. Northwestern rounded into shape during their recent southern trip and battled Indiana Monday in a Big Ten contest.
By resorting to the comparison of
scores, it can be seen that the Notre Dame foe for this afternoon is anything but a slow ball club. Western State teachers in Kalamazoo defeated Wisconsin, 11-9, recently, and Notre Dame defeated the latter team by a one run margin, 8-7. Last Saturday the Hillsdale outfit handed the Teachers a 13-1 lacing, the winning twirler letting the opposition down with only three hits. Hillsdale’s squad is composed of several veterans who played on last year’s victorious club, and, according to reports, has developed into a fast traveling outfit.
Mannix went the full route in his first start of the season last Saturday. Palt, Lisicki, and Romanin all pitched in the contest against the Mishawaka Indestructros. Lisicki and Palt also bore the brunt of the Wisconsin attack a week ago. Those facts make the selection of a starting pitcher for Friday’s game a toss-up, although Romanin or Lisicki seem ready for the job. Hillsdale is slated to present the pitcher who zipped the ball past Western State last week. The rest of the line-up will probably be the same with Sullivan, Askew, Mahoney, and O’Keefe in the infield and Lomasney, O’Connor, and McGrath in the gardens.
AL HOWARD RECEIVES JOB AT SO. CAROLINA
Another member of the national championship team of 1930 will take up the coaching reins. This time it is Alan Howard, former fullback. A few days ago Howard received his appointment as assistant coach at the University of South Carolina. He will aid Charley Collins, an end on the national championship team of 1924.
Joe Prelli. Dies
Joe Prelli, stellar halfback on the teams of 1925 and 1926, died last Saturday morning in a Chicago hospital, following an operation for appendicitis.
While a student at Notre Dame, Prelli besides being a two year monogram man, was president of the 'California club and a member of the Glee club for two years.
Victor Martzell of the class of 1930 represented the University at the funeral services, which were conducted in St. Rita’s church, Chicago. Interment was held in his town, Oakland, California, Thursday morning.

HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The South Bend Clearing 1
House Banks	|
Invite Your Patronage	J
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST COMPANY
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY
UNION TRUST COMPANY
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS BANK
i The Favorite Eating Place of
I	Notre Dame
□ ■.■>i.>.».<>.»>..»....iiimmii...mi.■■■■■■................    muH	13....................................................        >.Q
774
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DRAKE RELAYS ON TAP
FOR FRIDAY, SATURDAY
Coach Nicholson Enters Large Squad; Grid Relay Runs.
The track program for this weekend finds Coach John P. Nicholson and his Blue and Gold squad at Des Moines, Iowa, where they are scheduled to take part in the colorful Drake relays which are being held in that city. Each year hundreds of the nation’s best track athletes are attracted to this nationally-famed meet, and if the present entry list is any criterion, the competition will be just as keen as in other years.
Notre Dame will present strong relay teams and Coach Nicholson is most anxious to record victories in these events, especially the mile. The quartet which is expected to run in this event will probably be composed of Kelly, MacBeth, Little, and Wilson. The Blue and Gold will, in all probability, be pushed to the limit in this race by Michigan, Kansas and Chicago, all of whom boast of excellent teams. Notre Dame will also be
represented in a quarter-mile relay in which Kelly, Gough, Dilling, and McCormick will attempt to snatch a win over other strong quartets of batonpassers.
In the individual events, Bill McCormick will match his speed in the “Century” against such men as Tolan, the “Midnight Express’ from Michigan, Haas of Minnesota, Swifts of Washington State, and Glass of the Oklahoma Aggies, all of whom boast marks under 10 seconds. If Captain Johnnie O’Brien’s leg responds to treatment, he will be entered in both hurdles, but it is doubtful if Roy Bailie’s persistent injury will even warrant his competing in the meet.
“Dutch” Johnson will be entered against a strong field in the pole vault but on the strength of his past performances, he should give a very good account of himself. Bob Darling will compete in the high jump, Laurie Vejar and Gough in the broad jump, Brantfort in the javelin, Gene How-ery in a special three-mile race, while there is also a possibility of "Nordy” Hoffman and “Marty” Brill being entered in the discuss and shot respectively.
There will also be a special football
relay race in which Clarence Kaplan, Brill, Nick Lukats, and Johnnie O’Brien will carry the burden for Notre Dame, and the local gridiron speedsters are expected to give a very good account of themselves against the other quartets entered.
JONES AND VEZIE GET COACHING JOBS FOR ’31
Word was received today that Bill Jones and Manny Vezie, freshmen football coaches, had received appointments as college mentors.
Jones will go to Mount Charles College, Helena, Montana, where he will assume the position of head coach. He was guard on the Notre Dame teams of 1927 and 1928. He will be graduated from the College of Law in June.
Vezie will assist Tom Lieb, a former Notre Dame assistant coach, at Loyola college, Los Angeles, California. Vezie played right end on the 1928 team and held the same position during the national championship drive of 1929. He, too, will receive his law degree in June.
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING and HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND
stood between his rule by terror and a great city!
Phone 2-2228
| Washington Shoe Repair Co. I I	116 W. Washington Street	|
1	South Bend, Ind.	I
WALLACE BEERY In his most powerful picture with
LEWIS STONE — JOHN MACK BROWN JEAN MARLOW — MARJORIE RAMBEAU
STARTS SAT. — THRU TUES.
\. OMM /
The Notre Dame Scholastic
775
NETMEN LOSE AT TERRE HAUTE IN INITIAL MATCH
Blue and Gold Lose By 6-3 Margin; Reaume Stars.
Notre Dame’s tennis team lost its opening match of the season to the 1930 Indiana state champs, the State Normal team of Terre Haute. The matches were played last Saturday afternoon at Terre Haute, and ended with the Teachers holding the long end of a 6-3 score.
The’ biggest of the afternoon came in the first match, when Quimby, a veteran State man, defeated Captain Matt O’Brien, 6-0, 6-1. Bill Reaume tied things up, however, when he took Hutchins into camp, 6-1, 6-4, but with the next match Indiana State again took the lead, when Phillippe downed Bob Kendall, 6-3, 9-7. This time it was the other O’Brien who came through for the visitors. Mike had a tough time beating Stanley, and did so only in the third set. The score was 6-2, 1-6, 6-3. That was all the scoring for Notice Dame in the singles. Although Borda held on
until the end, he was finally overcome by Moore, 6-3, 2-6, 6-4. Sullivan closed the singles match with a loss to Kelley, 6-2, 6-2.
Notre Dame fared even worse in the doubles than they did in the single matches. Mike O’Brien and Sullivan were the only team to register a victory for Notre Dame in these events. After losing the first set, 5-7, they staged a classy exhibition of racquet-wielding, and finally downed Kelley and Stanley of the Teacher’s outfit, 6-4, 6-2. Quimby, the Indiana Intercollegiate champ teamed up with Hutchins to trounce Captain Matt O’Brien and Bob Kendall, 6-4, 1-6, 6-1. Moore and Phillippe brought the match to a successful conclusion for the hosts, by defeating Reaume and Borda, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.
The same men who represented Notre Dame in the match at Terre Haute, will journey to Kalamazoo tomorrow afternoon, where they will engage the Western State Teacher’s College team of that city. “Skinny” Byrum, a South Bend boy, and present holder of both the Michigan Intercollegiate and the Michigan state championships, is captain of the Western State outfit.
The scores:
SINGLES—Quimby (ISN) defeated Matt O’Brien (ND), 6-0, 6-1; Reaume (ND) defeated Hutchins (ISN), 6-1, 6-4; Phillippe
(ISN) defeated Kendall (ND), 6-3, 9-7; Mike O’Brien (ND) defeated Stanley (ISN), 6-2, 1-6, 6-3; Moore (ISN) defeated Borda (ND), 6-3, 2-6, 6-4: Kelley (ISN) defeated Sullivan (ND), 6-2, 6-2.
DOUBLES— Quimby and Hutchins (ISN) defeated Matt O’Brien and Kendall (ND), 6-4, 1-6, 6-1; Moore and Phillippe (ISN) defeated Reaume and Borda. 4-6, 6-4. 6-4; Sullivan and Mike O’Brien defeated Stanley and Kelley, 5-7. 6-1, 6-2.
Interclub Baseball
Due to rain and cold • weather all interclub games scheduled for Monday were postponed. These games are to be played at a later date. According to schedule there are to be games for Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
Besides having a team entered in this league, the Chicago club has formed a league of its own. According to Mr. Masterson, who is in charge of the league, there will be thirteen teams in the organization. There will be a prize given to the winning team.
Starting Saturday
On the Screen
Exposing the Woman Racket
LEW AYRES
Star of “All Quiet” in
“IRON MAN”
co-featuring
Jean Harlow—Robert Armstrong
Iron Man! Yes . .. but he melted at the touch of a beautiful girl’s lips. Story by the author of “Little Caesar” Directed by the man who made “Dracula.”
GALA RKO VAUDEVILLE
A bevy of Singing-Dancing Beauties
JOE HERBERT
in
“Personalities”'
with
RUTH HAMILTON
Lillian Gordon—Dave Steiner—Edna Mae Mary Sawyer—Harriet Sunderland
MELINO & DAVIS	TOMMY EVANS
Pints of Comedy	One-Man Jazz Band
JOE CHRISTY & COMPANY “The Perfect Nut” in Musical Capers
25c till 6 p. m., including Saturday
THE FINGER
99
Added attraction “Winning Putts” of a series of “Golf” with Johnny Farrell
NEXT SATURDAY
Constance Bennett IN “BORN TO LOVE”
Equaling his Success in “Dawn Patrol” RICHARD BARTHELMESS
underworld reporter io uses cold type to defy the hot lead of the gang.
TIG
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BADGERS WIN BY 64-62
(Continued from Page 769)
and a second in these events, and this really proved to be the turning point of the hotly contested meet. Captain Johnnie O’Brien and Poredon, Notre Dame, finished second and third respectively in the 120-yard highs, while Roy Bailie took a third in the 220 lows. Bailie showed indominitable courage in even attempting to compete, since he has been under strict surveillance of a doctor since the indoor season, and -was warned that if he competed he would be in danger of permanently injuring his foot.
The 440-yard dash ■was carded as the feature race of the day, but this failed to materialize when Captain Bill Henke, of the Badgers, was -withdrawn from the race after competing in both the 100- and 200-yard dashes. Alex Wilson had things just about his own way then, and won the event easily in 50 seconds flat. Wilson soon afterward completed his efforts for the afternoon by placing second to Brant Little in the half-mile.
Gough gave a good account of himself by annexing a second in the 100-yard dash and the broad jump.
The latter event marked the initial appearance of the diminui-tive Laurie Vejar, in the role of a Notre Dame thinclad, and he acquitted himself in fine fashion by winning the broad jump with a leap of 22 feet, 5 inches.
“Chink” Kelly, “Nordy” Hoffman, Bob Darling, Gene Howery, and Regis Kuhn, were the other Blue and Gold point winners for the afternoon, Kelly annexing a third in the hundred and a second in the two-twenty; Hoffman a second in the discus, and Darling and Kulm both garnered ties for second in the high jump and 440-yard dash respectively.
Summaries:
ICO-Yard Dash—Won by McCormick (ND); Gough (ND), second; Kelley (ND), third. Time :10.0.
One Mile Run—Won by Kirk (W); Little (ND), second; Thompson (W), third. Time 4:27.8.
220-Yard Dash—Won by McCormick (ND); Kelley (ND), second; Henke (W), third. Time :21.5.
Shot Put—Won by Behr (W); Kabat (W), second; Simmons (W), third. Distance 47 feet, 9 inches.
120-Yard High Hurdles—Won by
Roden (W); O’Brien (ND), second; Poredon (ND), third. Time :15.5.
440-Yard Run—Won by Wilson (ND); Kuhn (ND), and Mitchell (W), tied for second. Time .50.0.
Two Mile Run—Won by Wright (W); Howery (ND), second; Cort-wright (W), third. Time 9:40.5.
Pole Vault — Won by Johnson (ND); Lovshin (W), second; Lunde (W), third. Height 13 feet. (New Cartier field record.)
Discus Throw — Won by Kabat $ (W); Hoffman (ND), second; Simmons (W), third. Distance 147 feet,
8 inches. (New Cartier field record.)
-220-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Roden (W); Lee (W), second; Bailie (ND), third. Time :24.7.
Broad Jump—Won by Vejar (ND); Gough (ND), second; Lunde (W), third. Distance 22 feet, 5 inches.
High Jump—Won by Shaw (W);
Darling (ND) and Murphy (W), tied for second. Height 6 feet, 1% inches.
880-Yard Run — Won by Little (ND); Wilson (ND), second; Mett (W), third. Time 1:59.5.
Javelin Throw—Won by Lemm (W); Nee (W), second; Brantfort (ND), third. Distance 175 feet, 1 inch.
8
YOUR EYES
QCCASIONALLY
8
8
Have them examined every
year
we hear someone boast of
the extreme long life of his glasses—as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
8
8
8
8
8
Buy Your Kodak Film
i	and have them DEVELOPED	|
j	at the NEWS STAND in the	[
Notre Dame Cafeteria
।	When in town visit our store	I
1	with a complete line of Photo-	1
I graphic Supplies	i
Schilling’s Photo Supply
|	329 S. LaFayette Blvd.	I
I	South Bend, Indiana	I
I PHOTOSTAT COPY SERVICE j
The Notre Dame Scholastic
777
Interhall Sports
SWIMMING
The second preliminary interhall swimming meet was postponed last Friday and will be held tonight at eight o’clock. Mr. James T. Masterson, in charge of the meet, has announced that the list of officials will be the same. And so, it seems, the swimmers of Sophomore, Brownson, Walsh, and Sorin halls, after a week of anticipation, will finally tangle in the natatorium tonight.
Next Friday, the representatives of those halls which have not yet competed will swim in the third and final preliminary test. The finals are to be held either on the first or second Friday in May.
BASEBALL
Led by Bucky Halperin, who was the batting and pitching star, Sophomore won an easy victory over Sorin by 7 to 1. The star players of Sorin failed to appear, and those who did proved no match for the Sophomore nine. Dick O’Donnell starred in the field, and Bill Artman batted well for the seniors.
Morrissey clung to the top of the ladder in Group I by trouncing Corby 15 to 7. The Morrissey haliers, aided by Herb Giorgio’s homer, got to the Corby twirlers early in the game and handed Corby their second defeat. Jack Gandour also batted well for Morrissey, while Bill Newbold, Corby shortstop, looked good in defeat. St. Edward’s was granted a forfeit victory by Lyons who failed to put in an appe'arance either last week or this. Badin drew a bye in Group I.
Group II has Freshman and Carroll for its leaders. Each team has won two victories, Carroll winning from Off-Campus by a forfeit. Freshman was forced to their utmost to down a stubborn Brownson squad led by Curt Milheim and Johnny Buckley. Dupuy and Krause were the Freshman luminaries.
Manager Tony Wirry, in charge of interhall baseball, saved both Howard and Walsh some embarrassing moments by going around from diamond to diamond and gathering the competing teams, who for some in
explicable reason had strayed to different fields. After they had gotten started Walsh found easy pickings in the freshmen, who secured but one run. Led by Mike Crawford and Art Bec-var, Walsh crossed the plate exactly ten times. Kiep and Louy starred for Howard.
STANDINGS
Group 1	‘
w L PCT.
Morrissey___________2	0	1.000
St. Edward’s________2	0	1.000
Badin_______________1	0	1.000
Sophomore___________1	1	.500
Sorin_______________0	1	.000
Corby_______________0	2	.000
Lyons 0	2	.000
Results: Morrissey 5, Corby 7;
St. Edward’s 9, Lyons 0 (forfeit);
Sophomore 7, Sorin 1; Badin, bye.
STANDINGS
Group 2
	w	L	PCT.
Carroll		__2	0	1.000
Freshman			2	0	1.000
Brownson		__1	1	.500
Walsh		__1	1	.500
Howard		__0	2	.000
Off-Campus 		__0	2	.000
Results: Freshman 11, Brownson 7; Walsh 10, Howard 1; Carroll 9, Off-Campus 0 (forfeit).
EJ
BANKRUPT STOCK SALE
A Lucky Purchase of $8.50 to $15 values.
HI-GRADE FOOTWEAR
Smart Styles for the Well Dressed — “Edmonds, “Osteopathic,” “Musebeck’s” and others! Black, tan, kid and calf. Many toe styles.
$3.85 and $4.85
Meyer 9s Luncheonette
Fountain Feature
Fruit Salad Sundae with Whipped Cream
20c
MEN’S NEW SPRING
OXFORDS
Black or Tan, Endicott-Johnson make, new toes, all sizes ^1 QE 5 to 11
NOVELTY-COLORED
Corduroy Pants
All sizes, 28 to 38. Tan, Grey or Blue. Regular $4 to $5	AQ
values
Fresh Strawberry Sundae with Whipped Cream
15c
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
g I * STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
778
The Notre Dame Scholastic
What’s YOUR
Most PRINCETON men smoke—
IF you walk along Prospect Street in Princeton you’ll notice how many men load their pipes from the familiar blue Edgeworth tin. At Senior Singing on the steps of Nassau Hall this spring the pipes will glow with Edgeworth.
A pipe and Edgeworth—this is the smoking combination that has won the college man. Yale, Dartmouth, Cornell, Illinois, Stanford ... all agree with Princeton.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice: Try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process.
You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15< the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“Beady-Rubbed” and “Plug Slice.” All sizes, 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
NEW ENGINEERING HALL
(Continued from Page 755)
constantly broadening. Electricity, for example, seems always to be in its infancy. Nobody knows what the next day will produce. The same is true as . to the extension of the principles of mechanics. We want adventuring minds in all departments of engineering. Where shall we look for these results except to ’the products of schools like Notre Dame?”
In concluding his letter to Father O’Donnell, Mr. Cushing says, “Being deeply impressed with ‘The Needs of Notre Dame’ as so clearly set forth by you in The Alumnus of January, 1930, and because I find at Notre Dame the conditions that make for the twofold training of great engineers in all the departments of engineering, a technical training that ranks with the best and a training in character foundation nowhere excelled, and because I feel I owe Notre Dame a debt of gratitude which I can never fully discharge, I ask you to accept from me a gift of three hundred thousand dollars toward the erection of a hall of engineering to serve the immediate needs of the College of Engineering and to meet the expectations of older men like me who confidently look back to Notre Dame to produce the men that are to carry on.”
The building, designed by Francis Kervick, professor of architecture at Notre Dame, will be called the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. It will be located east of the new Law building, to which it will conform in architecture, Gothic, carried out in a modem manner. The exterior of the structure will be decorated with carved panellings representing noted Catholic scientists. Ampere, Volta, Ohm and Roentgen, are a few of the men who will be thus honored.
The new hall is designed in three sections: the first, containing class and drafting rooms,. will be three stories high. A second portion, two stories in height, will house the various laboratories and machine shops, while between the two, a single floor court will include an assembly room, seating approximately five hundred and fifty students.
In 1897, the College of Engineering at Notre Dame was etablished. During the thirty-four years since its organization it has grown in enrollment from seventy-nine students to four hundred and thirty-nine, in 1930. The old enginering building contains a mechanical laboratory, a machine shop and various laboratories. Na
turally this addition to the University facilities will greatly increase the efficiency of the College of Engineering, and at the same time fulfill the hopes which Mr. Cushing outlines in his letter.
In discussing the plans for the new building Monday, Father O’Donnell pointed out that it is through such generosity as that of Mr. Cushing that Catholic education will be allowed to progress. Advantages of non-Catholic secular institutions are the direct result of greater financial resources. Thus the increasing awareness of Catholic men and women of the importance of. the need is especially encouraging, he said.
The erection of a new Engineering building at the University, makes possible the extension of the expansion policy adopted by University officials six years ago. Since that time three dormitories, Lyons, Howard and Morrissey halls, the dining hall, a Law building, and Notre Dame stadium have been added to the campus. Plans for the immediate future include, in addition to the Engineering hall, a Commerce building and two more dormitories, Dillon and Alumni halls.
UNIVERSAL N. D. NIGHT
(Continued from Page 755)
Joseph Valley observed the occasion with a 7:00 o’clock dinner in the University dining hall. The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was the chief speaker of the evening, while Mr. Dudley M. Shively, retiring president, acted as toastmaster. The musical entertainment consisted of two groups of songs by the Notre Dame glee club and two baritone solos by S. Jerome Roach, soloist of the glee club. Nearly 300 members and guests attended the banquet.
In practically every large city in the United States a group of alumni met to celebrate Notre Dame night. Meetings were also held in Manila, P. I.; Montreal, Canada; Shanghai, China; Pilatos, Cuba; Arequipa, Peru; Havana, Cuba; Rome, Italy; Dacca, Bengal, India; Mexico City and Monterey, Mexico; San Juan, Porto Rico; and Cartagena, Columbia.
“Scholastic” Receives Praise
Much favorable comment has been received at the Scholastic office on the Rockne Memorial Number. From many sections of the country come requests for copies. Although an extra large number was printed the issue is being rapidly exhausted.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
779
Frosh Numeral Times for Swimming
Numeral times for freshmen swimmers are here reprinted by the Scholastic in order* to remind those taking part in tonight’s meet of their chances to
win their ’34.
40-yard breast stroke___:27
40-yard back stroke_____:28
40-yard free style______:21.5
100-yard breast stroke__1:22
100-yard back stroke____1:18
100-yard free style_____1:05
DRAKE RELAYS WINNER TO GET ROCKNE TROPHY
Drake university has announced that among the rewards this year in the annual Drake relays, scheduled for Friday and Saturday, will be a new beautiful Knute Rockne Memorial trophy. This trophy will become the permanent possession of the school winning the 440-yard football relay race. This particular event was instituted as a regular feature of the 1929 carnival, and is open only to football players that have won their monogram.
»
Rockne Eulogized by Coach
Ray Morrison, Southern Methodist football mentor, is of the opinion that Notre Dame’s football team will be more formidable next year than ever before. In an address at Dallas, Texas, recently, Morrison said: “Notre Dame will be harder to beat in 1931 than ever before, because those boys will be fighting for an ideal. You won’t ever need to mention Rockne to those fellows. They loved him.” Morrison will be remembered as the coach of the Mustangs who brought his team up north and gave Notre Dame, an awful scare last fall.	‘

Preregistration of Lawyers
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law announced ;this week that preregistration of students wishing to enter the Law college next September will take place in the Law building on Tuesday, April 28, at 7 p. m.
The program of courses offered to those who are eligible is posted on the bulletin board in the Law building. Eligibility consists of either three years college work or of ninety hours accepted credit.
GRID SQUAD CONTINUES WITH SPRING PRACTICE; SCRIMMAGE DAILY
Notre Dame’s embryo 1931 football squad added another week to its spring conditioning drive in the past seven days. Aided in the first part by perfect weather, the men progressed rapidly under the tutelage of a large staff of coaches. The rain and poor conditions of the later part of the period slowed up the work considerably but did not prevent the daily workouts.
With the squad divided into five groups, scrimmages were held almost every day. Four* of the forces are named for a quartet of major opponents on next year’s schedule. “Indiana,” “Northwestern,” “Carnegie • Tech,” and “Southern California” form those groups while the fifth is designated as the “varsity” and meets the others in scrimmage.
In the practice encounters held prior to the middle of the week, the “Indiana” contingent was the only opponent to register a score against the “varsity” squad. The various groups are under the supervision of members of the regular coaching staff aided by veterans of the past season who have finished their careers as players.
The practice sessions will continue daily for another week or more under the same arrangement. If the weather remains favorable much progress should be made in that time.
A. I. E. E. to Elect Officers
An election of officers for the coming year will be held at the next meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on Monday, April 27, in Chemistry hall. Dr. E. G. Mahin, of the chemistry department, will give a talk on a subject of interest to engineers.
Mr. J. L. Kreimer, of the Indiana-Michigan Electric Company of South Bend, spoke on “Substation Design” at the last meeting held April 13 in Badin hall. According to Earl Brie-ger, branch president of the A. I. E. E., Kreimer was a member of the class of ’23 and is connected with the substation department of the local company.
There are 270 bottles of milk sold in the candy store every day.
BOXERS NOTE!
All men wishing to enter the Student Activities Council boxing tournament to be held some time in the near future, should file their names with Ed Madden in Sorin hall.
EUROPE and
Back... $185
Sell Dad on the idea! United States Lines makes it so inexpensive. "Tourist Third” fares range from SI 85 round trip on the palatial REPUBLIC to S231 on the mighty LEVIATHAN, 5 day speed to Europe. Remarkable values also on the flyers AMERICA and GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Travel with the college crowd. Last year on one sailing of the LEVIATHAN 60 colleges were represented. This year the Harvard-Yale track teams sail July 1st on the GEORGE WASHINGTON for the Oxford-Cambridge meet.
Come on along! Enjoy fine food ... comfortable staterooms .. . movies ... sports on big sun decks... nightly dances to the rhythm of real college bands from Yale, Harvard, California, Pennsylvania, Ohio State, Virginia, Columbia, Fordham, Maryland, Penn State and other colleges.
Send at once for the booklet,"TOURIST THIRD CABIN TO EUROPE” and make reservations before the rush starts.
Official fleet of the Intercollegiate Alumni Associations
Consult Your Local Steamship Agent or
UNITED STATES
LINES
216 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HI. CHAS. KREILEK, General Agent,
FORDHAM UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW
NEW YORK
Case System—Three-Year Course
CO-EDUCA TIONAL
College Degree or Two Years of College Work with Good Grades Required
Transcript of Record Necessary in All Cases.
Morning, Early Afternoon and Evening Classes.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar
233 Broadway, New York
I
780
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
. . . HELENE MADISON, Seattle swiming star, now holds 12 world titles and 28 American records . . . Penn is scheduled to play 29 baseball games this year, including the Eastern Intercollegiate league two-game series with Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, Columbia and Cornell . . . The British open championship is the only important golf title which has thus far eluded GENE SARAZEN . . . JACK DEMPSEY is expected to take over the FITZSIMMONS bowl in Detroit this summer . . .
the spirit that w/ns the dash
Whether you like your track on the smooth cinders or prefer detouring cross country — you know it’s more than second wind that keeps you going. To go faster and farther — try Shredded Wheat. Your coach knows it means more fuel for the body—and that’s more speed for the legs. That’s because all there is of Shredded Wheat is good— and you digest it to the last calorie. It’s the breakfast of record breakers—it’s on the training table of the consistent meet winners. And if your running is confined to making early classes, Shredded Wheat can be eaten for breakfast in less time with better results than anything else you can order! Try it tomorrow!
. . . TED BECKETT, guard on the California football team last year, caught the longest pass on record last year ... it was a 285-yard pass, thrown -from the top of the Cam panile at Berkeley, Cal., by BILL INGRAM,, new University of California football coach . . . seven other players failed to make the catch . . . Philadelphia and Boston will be members of the American league professional soccer circuit during the 1931-32 season . . .
NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers"
SHREDDED
. . . A bout between ERNIE SHAAF and JIMMY MALONEY, rival Boston heavyweights and one of the hottest matches around Beantown in years, has been grabbed from under the noses of the Madison Square Garden boys by an unknown promoter, who’ll stage it in Braves’ field this summer . . . JOE VOSMIK, sensational outfielder of the Cleveland Indians, who purchased for $300 . . . DEL BISSONETE, Brooklyn’s first baseman is the only infielder in organized baseball who wears sun -glasses ... A. J. “BUTCH” NOWACK, star tackle on the University of Illinois football team in 1928, has been named assistant football coach at Indiana University . . .
. . . This is BABE RUTH’S seventeenth season in baseball . . . Right-handed pitcher MAHAFFEY of the Athletics writes with his left hand . . .“Bear Down” is painted in large letters on the roof of the gym of the University of Arizona ... it is in memory of the late “BUTTON” SALMON, football star, who on his death-bed told his team-mates to “Bear Down” for him ... It is be-. ing planned to stage combination prize fights and wrestling matches at the same arena . . . this is the first time it has ever been done in Chicago .. .
Ik
$