
i 
--·-. --~ ... --····--··--···­
•i 

•----· 
-.----.. --~L-_ 
-·..-·~~~"
.. 
~...;..__,;.._~~ 
•-. -k< _,_.,.• --~.... , 
____.S-----'-----+----'-~/"" I 
i 

.. ---~--·--~­----... .---.--~--. --~l~-~---­
-··-~~-:~ -+--·-·I I 
... .. . l·-··--. -. .----·· I 
i ·.. . . I 
.----..-..~,---. ·l · I 
__·-.·,-1·... --· •. ,· ·-·1 
--} . . i 
. \ 
-···-·7--· ~·-·--··•···• ...•·•·-·· ; . 

~......,.-----------....:.....-i . .. ·---:-.-!--·_•-....,.,___,....._,-· ----­
. 1· ' ..•·... · 





O!lliHroEMBER2004 
NEWS 04 

The MonkYears Emily Paladino 
An examination of Father Malloy's achievements and challenges during his presidency. 
A Spark in the Powder Keg? Mike Borgia 
The revoking of this would-be Notre Dame professor's visa has spurred a lot of controversy on campus and nationwide, 
CAMPUS LIFE 11 

The Road to Additions Lauren Wilcox 
The university plans to make more noteworthy changes to campus, including the closing ofJuniper Road. 



ENTERTAINMENT 24 
There Is a Museum on This Campus? Nick Kolman-Mandie 
Scholastic takes alook at the world-renowned art right in our own backyard. 
SPORTS 30 

Girls with Goals Megan Connelly The women's soccer team gears up for a stellar season after sunny pre-season play in Brazil. 
HUMOR 36 


Musings of a Misunderstood Messiah Steve Mattingly 
Scholastic convinced Notre Dame senior-Steve Mattingly to comment on all things random. 


From the Editor . . . . . . . . 2 Cribs. . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 ND Notebook ........ 4 Snapshot . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Campus Watch . . . . . . . 15 Being Like Mike . . . . . . . 38 Making Sense . . . . . . . . 16 Final Word . . . . . . . . . 40 
SCHOLASTICMAGAZINE 

-( 
I 
I 
I 
; 

Hey Notre ·Dame,You Caught Us Mendin.g Our Magazine 
Welcome back to the Bend. We at Scholastic know that the past two weeks most likely have broughtyou many changes. Your first misguided FlexPoint shopping spree, first early-morning dorm fire alarm due to the innate inability of 18-year-old girls to make popcorn correctly, first (and hopefully only) football loss. of the season, and now, a redesigned bi-weekly magazine. 
We think of the new Scholastic as a herald to the new era: a new per­forming arts center, a. new university president-elect and, for many of us, our first opportunity for civic participation this November. 
Thanks to the toil and tears ofour dedicated staff, especially our design­ers, Scholastic has a new look for the fall. Along with returning fan favorites like Cribs and the Gipper, we've gotnew humor columnists and a political op-ed columnist. We hope thatyou like ourchanges and encourage you to share whatyou love and loathe in letters to the editor, 

Mike Borgia Annie Robinson 
look for 
ISSUE 3 
on 
SEPT 23 
Vol. 146, No. 2 • 09 SEPT 2004 

SCHOLaSTIC 

COVER ILLUSTRATION 
NELL RYAN, NICK ABRAMS 
Editors in Chief Mike Borgia 
Annie Robinson 
Managing Editor 
Jennifer Osterhage 
Executive Editor 
Meghan Gowan 
Executive Design Editor 
NickAbrams 
Assistant Managing Editor Jim Ryan 
General Manager 
Christopher Kelly 
News 
Emily Paladino, editor Alisa Finelli, assistant Anna O'Connor. assistant 
Campus Life 
Lauren Wilcox, editor 
Katie Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Meskill, editor 
Mike lselin, assistant 
Entertainment 
Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor• 
Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Mike Healy, editor 
Erik Powers, assistant 
Design 
Nell Ryan . 
David Redenbaugh Tekla Sauter 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor 
Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief Jennifer Wadkins, assistant 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Viue Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, 46556.The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either In whole or in part, may.be.reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume llablllty for unso­licited manuscripts or material.All correspondence should be sent to·Scholastic Magazine, LaFortune Student.Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556.TO be published in the next iSSUe;1etters· must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday. before the Issue. Coming out everyday. All letters must include the writer's name, addre5s and p_honc_ number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon ·request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after pub­lication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate Is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date~ Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Advertising rates available on requCst.The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of. the University of Notre Dame or the student body~ · · 
2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

. " -------------,-----·, ' . . . .., . ' ., 


i I 
Judgment Calls 
Opinions and observations 
0 
NOTRE DAME GUYS 
UNAFRAIDTO 
ELLIPTICAL 
Men, we salute you and your unabashed willingness to do low­impact cardio, no matter the cost to your Rock reputation. 
(IN)CONSPICUOUS CROSSWORD-DOERS IN CLASS What's a five-letter word for "Everyone, including your seemingly oblivious professor, knows that you are not just staring at your notebook intently?" 

POPPED COLLARS 
Nothing says "I'm cool and independent" like doing something just because you've seen other people doing the same thing. So let's put this one to bed and go back to our sideways visors. 
CAMPUS BUILDINGS THAT LOOK LIKE CASTLES 
While we love that our new buildings contribute to our image as a Catholic Disney World, do we really need a security building/post office that Prince Charles could call home? So that's where the increase in tuition is going. 


CAR SALES IN STUDENT PARKING 
$30,000 a year in tuition and $ I 00 
for a parking permit? Yeah, you can 
park on the muddy grass next to 
the baseball stadium. 

SCHOLASJICEXECVIIYE STAFF 
In the previous presidential election, George W Bush won Florida by a handful of votes. This presidential election, the first in which many of us will have the opportunity to vote, may be equally as close. According to the latest poll in The New York Times, approximately 172 votes in the Electoral College were up for grabs in the "swing states." The Republican party can 


tional Review, on Sept. 22 safely claim 187 and 
The continued threat of at 7 :00 p.m. at McKenna 
the Democratic par­Hall. A complete listing 

terrorism at home and abroad, 
ty a close 179. States 
of events is at http://cent

as well as the weakened
that traditionally 
eiforsocialconcerns. nd. edu/

have displayed par­economy and the ever divisive 
justice_ed/election.shtml.tisan bias, are now pro-life/pro-choice issue will With only 5 5 days up for grabs in the 
also prove to be deciding until the election, there race to reach 270. 
are only 2 5 days left

factors in the November
The number of 
to register to vote and
election.
service members submit a request for an killed in the war in 
Iraq promises to be a defining factor in the upcoming elec­tion. The death toll reached the definitive number of 1,000 soldiers on Tues., Sept 7. Bush continues to support the war, stat­ing that it was -and still is -right for America, while Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry decla.res that the war was misguided, claiming that Bush's middle initial "W" stands for his many "wrong" decisions. 
The war in Iraq is only one ofthe many issues relevant to college-aged voters. The continued threat ofterrorism at home and abroad, as well as the weakened economy and the ever divisive pro-life/pro-choice issue, also will prove to be deciding factors in the November election. 

The Notre Dame Rock the Vote Cam­paign is sponsoring a series of lectures, debates and panels on a variety of elec­tion issues. Upcoming events include a faculty panel on Sept. 20 entitled "The Election and International Issues," and a debate between David Com, editor ofthe Nation, and Rich Lowry, editor ofthe Na-
absentee ballot. The 

necessary procedures vary by state, but information for all can be found at http://www.nass.org/electioninfol electfaq.html. For general FAQs and a link to your state's election office, check the "State Election Offices" page. If you are not registered to vote, y~m can do so at 
http:/lwww.rockthevote.com. . 
The Peace Coalition is sponsoring a prayer vigil Thu., Sept. 9, to commemorate the 1,000 
U.S. soldiers and over 13,000 Iraqi civilians who have been killed in the war. The service begins at 9:00 p.m. at the South Quadflagpole and will proceed to the Grotto. 
4 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

.SGH01.!ASTIG NEWS _ ·]1-------------------­





A Face to Remember 
The story behind the other "Scream'; 
AUSAFJNELLJ 
Any Notre Dame student, alum or enthusiast is sure to be familiar with the easily identifiable land­marks on campus: Touchdown Jesus and the reflecting pool, North Quad's Stonehenge and, of course, the Golden Dome. There is yet another sight on this long list, albeit a truly un­conventional one. It sits outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall and is com­monly referred to by students as "the screaming face." The face, whose formal name is Inner Vision II, was created by Chido Johnson, a former graduate student and professor in Notre Dame's art department. The sculpture is unique not only in its appearance· but also inhow it became a display on campus. Usu­ally, sculptures are chosen by 


the Selection [C:~TITl_itte:.like_111_ost..~~-=~ ~l_llP_US s~ufP.~U.~.e~:· ~-ent stones. The 
and Deaccession Committee headed by Charles_ Loving, di­rector ofthe Snite Museum. A benefactor willing to fund a new sculpture approaches the committee with a project proposal. After the acceptance of a project by the committee, the process is then passed on to the art department. Interested artists submit proposals inhopes that their ideas most closely reflect the benefactor's initial vision. 
Inner Vision II, however, was not chosen accordin to rotocol. Instead, it was l!t 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 
on display at the request ofJohnson, who 

now teaches in Detroit at the College of 
Creative Studies. The sculpture of the 
torso and tilted head was :finished in1996 
and installed for Johnson's 1997 Bachelor 
of Fine Arts show. "My work reflects the influence ofliv­ing between two cultures: the Euro­American and the southern African," explains Johnson in his autobiography. "The 18 years I spent in Zimbabwe and Zambia have been a significant influence on:· my persistent interest in addressing hu­man struggles for identity and place­ment," he adds. Johnson explains that Inner Vision II was a natural fol­low-up to his pre­vious work Inner Vision I, which now resides in a school in his native Zimba­bwe. Inner Vision II represents "a quest for knc;>wledge and understanding" and is constructed of three differ-' 
black is from . Zimbabwe, the white is from Italy and the limestone is from Alabama. To John­son, these materials from three different continents symbolize a person's potential "hybridic identity." Holes instead ofeyes represent access and passage. Johnson, who hasn't been back to campus since 2002, says he wants to return soon to see his work that has now become an unof­ficial landmark. As he says, "It's kind of ironic that it's become a symbolic marker." 
D 




Top 5 
Book~ Monk Shquld Write after His Retirement: 
I 
The Definitive Guide to Making a Television Commercial 

2,te:o~~;~;J;:i~:~ 
United States 
Put the Echoes Back to 3 Sleep: Notre Dame Football, 1994--2004 
4 Dodging the Poverty Vow: 
· · ·How to run aschool whose endowment is greater than the GDP ofmost third-world nations 
5 
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid 
Test Do~s, in Fact, Work 
· SCHOLASTICNEWS 5 

Notre Dame's growth under its I 6th president 
EMILYPALADINO 


I, 
j 
lJi :.11I l!1· 'I 
W:en the Rev. Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., ascended to 
he presidency ofthe Univer­sity ofNotre Dame in 1987, he had large shoes to fill. In the university's 145-year history, only 15 men had occupied the office of the president, including Theodore Hesburgh, John Zahm,John Ca­vanaugh and, of course, Edward Sorin. Now Malloy, who will step down from the presidency in June, will join the ranks of these prestigious men as the university's newest president emeritus. Judg­ing from the immense growth both on campus and within the student body and faculty under his leadership, Malloy has filled the shoes he inherited well. 
Malloy worked in the admin­istration for five years before assuming the office of the presi­dent. With three degrees from the university, including a Bachelor of Arts in English (1963), a Master of Arts in English (1967) and a Master ofDivinity (1969), he was familiar with NotreDame challenges, and I've tried to do that. He 

and was viewed as a natural successor to. set the model." 
the beloved Hesburgh. Malloy says it wasn't difficult to follow 
"Father .Ted did two great things for in the footsteps ofHesburgh; "People ask, 'What's it like to take over for a legend?' That wasn't in my head. I just said, 'Thank God h<:: did such a great jqb with the university and· estab­
If, after I. 8 years, we 'hadiJ. -• 
accomplished allourgoals ... 
lished a lot of momentum. I'm just going to try to build
and hadlost our commitment 
on that."' 
to our Catholic mission and 
And build Malloy did. When he first took office,

identity, I would feel my time [as_ 
Malloy outlined five major as­
pects ofuniversity life that he 
wanted to improve.The first, 
president] was afailure. 


-.Father Malloy, j 
of paramount importance to 

President ofthe University ofNotre Dame · 
Malloy, was ensuring that the university· remained faithful to its Catholic mission and identity. "If, after 18 years, we had accomplished all our goals me," Malloy says. "One: He left the uni­and had lost our commitment versity in great shape. And two: He left to our Catholic mission and identity, I the campus for a year. He encouraged me would feel my time [as president] was a to be my own person, to take on my own failure. There's no priority that's greater 
6 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 

'"";'l"':·:.••:.•.·.••,:'.'f;:,?i}{Z?'}(f;\})TC;91[s\{{iiT''·,-,,e;•:::n;rm1r 
-----------------------------------,,,-:~ 
for me, both as a person and as a Holy Cross priest," he says. 
Malloy's primary presidential purpose of preserving the Catholic character of Notre Dame also proved to be his biggest challenge. Leaders of Catholic institu­tions must be unequivocally dedicated to protecting academic freedom, and the violation ofthis freedom is contradictory to the Church's teachings. The university has been successful, he says, in progress­

,. " ·" ... i11g,, as an educational institution while .· ,, "' ;;__;::sdllremaining true to its religious foun­dations: "Lthink Notre Dame has been able to strike.the right middle ground in the sense that we have been faithful to our mission, but we are a place where free inquiry is promoted and where academic freedom is respected. "Nobody can spend time on this cam­pus and not believe that it's a Catholic university, in the best sense of the term, but that we're a full-fledged university wi.th all the give and take and diversity and the disagreements that go along with it." Dick Conklin, retired associate vice president for university relations, agrees. "In a time fraught with tension between 
•a secular notion of higher education and _<:me that preserves a religious dimension, ~Notre Dame is clearly a Catholic univer­
;, sity -no mean feat," he says. ·· Malloy's second goal was to place a spe­
:.cial emphasis on the academic dimension ,.~ofNotre Dame as well as to enhance the <graduate and research programs. A large 
. indicator ofMalloy\; success, the total university enrollment has risen from just under 10,000 students in 1987 to over 11,000 currently enrolled students. Additionally, funding for research has increased fourfold, and the number of foll-time faculty members who teach both graduate and undergraduate courses has risen by more than 200. 
Malloy's third goal was to make the university a more ethnically, socio-eco­nomically, and coeducationally diverse institution. The percentage of under­represented minorities has increased by more tlian 14 percent in the last two incoming undergraduate classes to now comprise 21 percent of the student population. Iris Outlaw, director of Mul­ticultural Programs and Services, says · 
9 SEPTEMBER. 2004 
:;~ _.:;.,;: \:·: .~, 

she has seen increasing attempts to rt \:S recruit not only minority students )j / .. :,> but also minority faculty members. /;; (-·. The creation of such centers as the " · Institute for Latino Studies, and the increased attention that has been given to Latino and African American Studies programs show that multicultural awareness has grown immensely on campus. "I think Monk will be sorely missed," Out­law says. "The mark he has left has really been a continuation of what was started under Father Hesburgh during the Civil Rights Movement." 
The. university's strong commitment to ensuring that students are provided with adequate financial aid has allowed a more diverse range of students to afford a Notre Dame education. Malloy says he i<·.·: c~e'dthe:ReVerenlEcl~ard:''Motik'{ 
sees the fruits ofthat commitment in the }j ... / Malloy,,c=.:s.c;/ .. : ' freshman seminar he teaches. "I've had•.•.'..;_;~_;_·:'.·.·/·: .. •·•• ··•••··.:-··. ,•:c-.• •., • · • ,,, : ,·· • ,. -:-,···•·, ..·•·,.,a··::<, .. \:) 
:~:~e;:sdi~;ft:!:s~;~i~a~~::r~:~st~;·..Jt •-·• :(/i;h~l~t~f&teJftlJ;~~1f~i!}e];:};:~t;_/-;@1 janitors. I've also had students whose-par-} .< dmi -~f'-H6lf ci-~ss at N~~~e' Da~e_>· · · · ents are billionaires. I had the daughter of .: . · · · , . . · the head of a country," he says. · a~claFello:"'andr_r'r~stee:oftheum-· One accomplishment Malloy is par-<· / .yer~ity,Ji11kins has. bee,11.a lllf!lllh~f 
~i~~~~t;;~;~~:;:i~!fiYJc:::i~:!kt•.•.-~ :•.:..+•·•B.f..t§f;.:ff§~Ify;sin,ie.•f?910,'·_te.achin~i: 
· pleted "Generations" capital campaign. l; ~,ncif~t_}119'fl1~e~ev.al pJulos~phy:\<: This amount, he says, is unprecedented andt~e phHosophyofteJigion.:J:Iei~, <. in Catholic higher education. While the tJff~fi}h.9f6_fKno~leclge't11idJ:?ait!Ji11 
, · 
-~--=.:.•,::;··.• !;::,'::.---.·---.. _··.·_.:·•··.·.·' 
·: ---~ 
::~: l-,~· .. ·,. 





i:t~;f~ff~t!!J~?Jht~~~hid:lf 
·-·.· .. ·:.-._-._.:;:/,·:-:.:•.:,_·_,:. . , : .:'.·.•·,_. '·.· .,_.·-.·.·._:·.
a~d'r~ligicrifsfC>uf11lls/ JenkinsieceivecLnvod~g}eesfroin 

D\ff~:i,Er:1i~~t¥1£1;~::fc·•·· 
: Mi!>tti;: ofpiv.inity,.1_e'gree frop.r the> ··, ,··•..·\,J~sllii:.S,¢4,6ol pf'::[l~~.ol?iY'at'B~rlce~::••· ,·. ··•·1eyiril9.~~.-A:Noti-J pa$l¥ltriniu;1s,,\ ihehold;••a.bathel6ts••.i11cfi.inaste~•s· ·•·.' dt!gfee}n. philosopty,/w~ich he 
·)l~"i!i~?~:;t!J;\t:~;i~;rf??6\ 
.·.··1~i1dns ~as::¥ciaiff¢4· iri\he' Bai.>t > 
.• si,liciofthe·Sa¢red B:ea.frin i983. He···.: ... 

1967 I 9 6 9· 
I 97 0 
Graduates from Notre Dame with B.A. in English 
Receives M.A. in English from Notre Dame 
Receives Masters in Divinity as a seminarian from Notre 

Dame 
Ordained in Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

L ... 
A portrait of Father Malloy will soon join those of past Notre Dame presidents in Main Building. 
money from this fund will be used to further develop all areas of the univer­sity, the majority of the money from the campaign -dubbed "A Campaign for the Notre Dame Student" -isbeing used to provide aid directly to students through scholarships. 
The additional evidence of the universi­ty's consistent dedication to its alumni and the fact that a quarter ofNotre Dame un­dergraduates are legacies, he says, shows that the university has been successful in accomplishing multiple goals at the same time. "We've been able to find a way to achieve diversity while still being faithful to other important goals. Keeping that multigenerational thing going has been a goal we've set for ourselves, too." 
Malloy also wanted to diversify the university by increasing the presence and influence of women on campus in order to make the university "more fully coeducational." The university hired two female departmental vice presidents this summer, and during Malloy's tenure, Notre Dame elected its first-ever female student body president. Since 1987, worn-en's sports have blossomed as six varsity_ women's sports were introduced-nearly half of the 13 women's sports teams now at the university. Three of those teams -soccer, basketball and fencing.:-have won national championships. "The suc­cess rate of women's athletics has been comparable to the best programs in the country," says Malloy. "We still need more women on the faculty and in lead­ership roles, but I think that ifyou look at where we are coeducationally, we've made a lot of progress." 
The fourth initiative thatMalloywant­ed to undertake was the incorporation of an international dimension into the larger university. "I believe everyone ought to study abroad as part oftheir Notre Dame experience. And if that means mastering another language, I think that's impor­tant too," he says. "I'd love to see everyone graduating from Notre Dame be bilin­gual. I know we're far from that, but it's still something that I would recommend. And even further, I think it would be great if people would graduate with fluency in English, Spanish, Mandarin Chinese and Arabic. Imagine the job offers you'd have after you graduated!" Malloy, ever the traveler, also says that he plans to spend time in both Australia and London after the completion of his tenure. 

Malloy's last main focus was an attempt to increase the interaction of the univer­sity with the neighboring city of South Bend. The Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts was largely constructed in an effort to enhance the university's relationship with the commu­nity. Members of the surrounding com­munity now have the opportunity to share with the university in the celebration of the arts that is such an essential part of the human experience, Malloy says. In addi­tion, with the establishment of both the Robinson Community Learning Center and the Center for the Homeless during Malloy's tenure, students have numerous service opportunities throughout neigh­boring South Bend. 
Malloy says that he is satisfied with the amount of growth the university has undergone in the five areas that he set out to improve. "What I'm proud of is 
8 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 


1974 ·· Becomes member 1997 Key player in 1999 Book "College of Notre Dame President's and Universities . Jac:Lllty Service Summit in as Citizens" Philadelphia and "Monk's 
1979 Moves into Sorin 
Reflections:A View 
College 
from the Dome" 

1986 1998Elected to the Vanderbilt Board ofTrustees University
' . ' .. '·( 

2003 
Declares desire to 
establishes chair of 
resign presidency

1987 Becomes President 
Catholic Studies in 
in June 2005
bf the Notre Dame 
his name 
that we've been able to achieve multiple goals simultaneously. I think that's the way a modern university needs to act. You can't just say, 'We're about financial aid,' or 'We're aboufleaching or about_ international programs.' You need to say, 'We're trying, within our resource . base, to do a lot ofthose things, but they all contribute to the quality oflife and 
the environment we have here."' 
While Malloy certainly has been im­mensely successful as president, his job was never easy. Throughout the years, he has had to solve seemingly unwork­able problems, make difficult decisions, and steer the university through some very high-profile and potentially em­barrassing public relations crises. 
For example, a widely-covered and highly scandalous official sanction­ing of the athletic program in 1999 -the first in Notre Dame's history -tarnished Malloy's presidency. The sanctions were the result of three separate violations. One· sanction in­volved a member of the booster club who gave gifts to football players and was romantically involved with several athletes. Another revolved around an athlete who offered game tickets .as a r,ep_ayment for a personal l9an. The last involved a student athlete who paid a tutor to write a paper for him. 

The university paid a high price for these violations: it was on probation for two years beginning in 1999, and lost one football scholarship for each of these years. The sanctions were a publicity nightmare for Malloy, a former Notre Dame varsity basketball player. "In terms ofpublic relations, the hardest thing I've ever had to do was deal with our NCAA penalty. I mean, I didn't do anything, but I was still re­sponsible for the situation." 
Malloy dealt with the situation by 
taking charge of the university's ath­letics and putting it directly under his jurisdiction. Before the sanctions, the university vice president handled ath­letics. "There was a great amount of scrutiny based on that whole situation, and thatwas essentially what prompted athletics to fall under Malloy's juris­diction," says John Heisler, associate athletic director for Media Relations, . Broadcast and Contest Scheduling. Be-
Teaching Assistant Timothy Ruggaber works in .the environmental engineering lab below Cushing and Fitzpatrick Halls. Under Father Malloy research funding has increased fourfold. 

9 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 9 
r­
..------------------------------------,-'; 
cause of his increased involvement in the university's athletics, Malloy "developed into one of the most influential people in college athletics," Heisler says. And Malloy's involvement in college athletics doesn't appear to be diminishing. He is 

.) 
currently the chair ofa NCAA task force addressing gambling by student athletes at the university level. 
Malloy also has had to address a multi­tude of student-related issues during his term as president, including the pres­ently contro­


versial issue of the treatment of homosexuality on campus. 
He ascended to the presidency in the 1980s, during which such issues as homosexuality, the Sexual Revo­
lution and the 
AIDS epidemic dominated the national spot­light. Despite 

.. ----· ------------------. 

"[Malloy] developed 
·into one ofthe most · influential people in college athletics."• -John Heisler, 1 associate athletic director for '. Media Relations, Broadcast and · Contest Scheduling , 
... . . ., 
of national turmoil. · He says he especially was affected by "the sense of mutual support and faith that loomed large" that day. 
Malloy says that, after he leaves his post in June, he.will take a sabbatical for a year and then return to campus to teach and write books. He recently 

the prevalence of such issues in American society, administrators refused to officially recognize OutreachND, a group of gay, lesbian and bisexual stu­dents. This official university decision sparked controversy and reminded the · university of its susceptibility to scru­tiny in the national debate on homo­sexuality. 
While some are not happy with the amount of progress that has been made on the homosexuality front, Monk says he is satisfied with the administration's· course of action. "I think we've tried to strike a set of policies and activities that are consistent with our Catholic value system and that are respectful and sup­portive," he says. "I'm comfortable with where we are." 
Looking back through the good and the bad ofhis time in office, Malloy says it's the people he will miss the most when he abdicates in June. "I've seen people's lives transformed, people rising to the challenge, and friendships formed. I've worked with a lot of great people in the administration. I've been able to meet a 

J 
10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 
lot of people, both in this country and abroad, that I never would have known otherwise." When he thinks about signifi­cant moments ofhis years at Notre Dame, he remembers "weddings and baptisms and funerals, moments at which the fam­ily comes together." 
His foremost memory ofNotre Dame, however, was the Mass on Sept. II, 2001, that he celebrated on South Quad. While 7,000 students, faculty and staff satin the glaring sunshine, Malloy addressed a uni­
versity in the midst 
published a book en­titled Monk's Travels and has plans to write several more. 
While he says that the university always will be growing and developing as an in­stitution, he believes that it will-change significantly with the opening ofthe new performing arts center. "It's just the most beautiful thing we've ever done. It's going to change the way people see us and the way we see ourselves. It will balance us out. We know that sports and athletics are a part of our university. This allows us to have a visibility and an opportunity to cultivate the arts in a way that we've never been able to before," he says. 
Regardless ofthe changes that happen at the university itself, Malloy says that the students are its greatest resource. "We're fortunate to have the quality of students that we do in terms oftheir po­tential. The challenge is figuring out how to bring out the best in them," he says. And it's the students, Malloy says, that he's enjoyed the most during his almost 18 years at Notre Dame. . 




Mal_loy_ __. 
. by the numbers 

,. : ·-· . 
E~dowment 


_$:3SO·:· 
.million to 
. . . ' ' ·, ' ' . : -:__ . '. 
$. --._b·· ·1·1·· 3-1 ion
,.• .·.-·· •••••' .-· ·_ f .; .'. •• ;. -•• -" -_ ­
-Overall .·Enrollment: 
.?f1~~k¢F:of:F'ef)Jdle .. · ~ -·t·Vft.rsity•_· Sport~ 




__-_·, to.-·:•13 

9SEPTEMBER 2004 


Join us at our Open House on : 
Tuesday Sept.· 14 7-9pm 


MIKEBORGIA 
Aclass without its scheduled profes­sor; a load of furniture stuck in South Bend; a vacant professor­
ship. In the ongoing controversy_ sur­rounding Tariq Ramadan, a prominent Muslim scholar, these are just scratches on the surface. 
In August, just before Ramadan was scheduled to leave his residence in Switzerland for Notre Dame, 
described by The New York Ti'l1Zes 

an American diplomat informed w f: d ·•t''h th· powers 
as a "pro-Israel advocacy group. 

him that his previously approved e are ace WI . · e. · . " 
In a piece submitted to the New

U.S.workvisahadbe~nrevok~d. of darkness here. Daniel Pipes 
York Sun, Pipes lays out a list of 

University officials said the dip-·,s a modern-day McCarthy. reasons why Ramadan should be
lomat offered no explanation for _ 

the decision. 

Whatfollowed was a nationwide debate reaching far beyond one scholar's travails into some ofacademia's hottest controversies: national security, academic freedom and the dynamic of political and inter-faith dialogue. . 
Ramadan's visa was revoked under a le­gal provision banning anyone the United States "knows, or has reasonable ground to believe, is engaged in or is likely to engage after entry in a terrorist activity," Kelly Shannon, a spokeswoman for the 
U.S. State Department told The New York Ti'l1Zes in an Aug. 26 article. 

Government officials, however, did not provide details particular to Ramadan's case, meaning that, at least for now, the specific reasons the gover~ment has _to suspect him ofposing a nat10nal secunty threat are a subject of speculation. 
"I worry about the implications for academic freedom and, more generally· ,for freedom of speech and the openness of American society," Scott Appleby, 
director of the Joan P. Kroc Institute 
for International Peace Studies told The 
New York Ti'l1Zes in the Aug. 26 article. "A 
secondary, more subtle level ofconcern is 
about how ready we are as a society to hear 
a discourse that is authentically Muslim, 
not an extremist discourse but one that is · critical ofU.S. policy." Ramadan, recently named one of the world's 100 most influential people by 

. But there are several pieces of Rama­dan's past that have raised some com­mentators' eyebrows. For some, his past is suspicious enough to merit the revoking of his visa. 
One such· commentator is historian Daniel Pipes, founder of Campus Watc_h -aWeb site that exposes the alleged bi­ases ofMiddle-Eastern studies programs at colleges and universities-and the di­
rector ofthe Middle East Forum; 
under state-department investiga­

The Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., theology professor and fellow ofthe Kroc Institute 
Ti'l1Ze magazine, was hired by the uni­
versity as a professor of Islamic Studies 
in the Department of Classics and the 
Luce Professor of Religion, Conflict and 
Peacebuilding at the Kroc Institute. This 
semester he was scheduled this semester 
to teach a College Seminar (formerly 
Core) course entitled "Islamic Ethics," 
which is currently being taught instead 
by Abdul Omar, assistant professional 
specialist at the Kroc Institute. 
Both the university and Appleby have 
released statements supporting Ramadan 
and his place at Notre Dame. 
"Like many others, he anguishes over 
the desperation and the conditions ~hat drove [terrorists] to take such a hornble action," Appleby says, "and he· grieves bothfor their families and their victims. This is what he has said repeatedly in his · public statei:neni:s, ·and that.is what we 
expect of him." 
. tion. Among these are Ramadan's 
alleged praise for "brutal Islamist 

policies" and personal connections with 
terrorists. 
Pipes and others are worried about 

what ties Ramadan might have inherited 
from his grandfather, Hasan al-Banna. 
Al-Banna founded the Muslim Brother­
hood in 1928 to violently depose Egypt's 
secular government, though the group 
says it no longer supports violence. Ra­
madan subsequently submitted his own 
op-ed piece to The New York Ti'l1Zes refut­
ing Pipes' charges. 
But others, including many Notre 

Dame professors, reject any notion that 
Ramadan participates in, or supports, 
terrorism. 
"Those accusations are totally un­founded," the Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., theology professor, fellow oftheKroc In­.. stitute and strong supporter ofRamadan's hiring says. "He was going to be a real presence to us and to the American­
12 SCHOLASTJCNEWS 
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 


NM&iM@IIIEWS" ;,: ,,·'1 

Muslim community," Burrell says. "He's international studies programs are not a strong guiding voice for Muslims living presenting a picture of foreign affairs in a pluralistic society." that is overly critical of U.S. policy in 
Like Appleby, Burrell is concerned the Middle East while receiving federal about the implications for academic free-funds. Opponents argue that the move dom, brought into focus by the revocation amounts to censorship. of Ramadan's visa.. Some academics, including Walshe, 
"We are faced with the powers of dark-fear that the decision to revoke Rama­ness here. Daniel Pipes is a-"'.modern-day clan's visa is another step in a governmen­McCarthy," he says. tal trend of restricting Muslim voices 
There has been some speculation that critical of the United States. Pipes and other pro-Israel advocates "The bill is a very serious attack on pressured the U.S. government to revoke academic freedom," Walshe says. ''An Ramadan's visa because some ofthe Mus-open debate on international relations . lim scholar's statements have.been inter-,·· is essential-tc/the security of this co~h­preted as anti-Semitic and overly critic~! try. This law severely limits the United of U.S. policy in the Middle East. State~• capacity to have this debate." 
"There is a strong tendency for sup"' Burreffalsb is concerned that the bill porters of (Israeli Prime Minister Ariel] and the Ramadan decision are signs of Sharon to equate any criticism of that a trend."... Daniel Pipes, godfather of governmentwith anti-Semitism," says Pe-the bill, virtually admits that he agitated 
__l

ter Walshe, to cancel professor I "I I 11 [R d ·] Tariq's
of political WI Ca ama an tO account visa," 

r~~~~~:~~~~~i~:~d~:vf;~~-:~~h~~-~h~-K~~->.-,
science. for those things if he becomes Burrell ----~------------------1
"They are not the a part of this community. : ~ ~-~ Jewish-Muslim dialogue. , 
same' but Rabbi Michael Signer, profossor of Jewish Thought and Culture in the Department of Theology aske d if Signer takes issue with Ramadan's 
you see that Ra m a _ controversial statement that some French tactic used again and again, and there was dan's visa situation and the International intellectuals favor Israel simply because some of this in the Ramadan case." Studies in Education Act are related. they are Jewish. "Professor Ramadan has 
. . Fueling fears of government censorship · · Some· professors, however,· do nofsee· written about French-} ewish intellectuals of academia is the International Studies the Ramadan issue as one of censorship. and has said things that are offensive to in Education Act, an education bill that Rabbi Michael Signer, professor ofJewish me," he says. "I will call him to account "increase(s) government monitoring of Thought and Culture in the Department · for those things ifhe becomes part of this federally funded programs in internation­of Theology, says that while Ramadan's community." al studies at colleges and universities," as . pastis a matter ofspeculation, his paten-Signer also rejects the notion that stated in the Sept. 3 issue of the National tial connections merit a closer look. He Ramadan's visa was revoked because of Catholic Reporter. The most controversial also says he is confident that Ramadan pressure from Jewish advocates. "We provision of the bill calls for the estab­will be allowed to teach at Notre Dame don't know that Daniel Pipes, or any lishment ofan advisory board, which will ifhe is truly innocent. other Jewish organization, had a direct include national security representatives Signer does not support the federal bill influence revoking Tariq Ramadan's and would have the authority to 
and says he does not believe it is visa," he says. "We do know that Colin monitor international stud.,. connected to the Ramadan Powell, Tom Ridge and Condoleezza Rice ies programs to ensure situation. "The academy are not Jewish." they represent "diverse doesn't need a federal "Why does Middle-Eastern politics perspectives." law to establish its cred-always have to be about the lsraeli-Pal­
The bill was passed by ibility __;_ but it could do estinian problem?" Signer asks. a wide majority in the a better job of policing As Ramadan is able to reapply for a visa House of Representa­itself," he says. Signer -and the university has encouraged him 
tives last October and 

was concerned about to do so-itseems that the situation is far s.oon will go before Ramadan joining the from over. With the International Stud­the Senate Committee faculty when Alan ies in Education Act set to go before the of Health, Education, Dowty -political sci-Senate committee and Christian-Jew­Labor and Pensions .. ence professor, Kroc In-ish-Muslim relations an ongoing debate 
According to the National stitute fellow and promi-on campuses nationwide, the larger con­Catholic Reporter, supporters nent Jewish scholar -is troversy looks to have even more staying of the bill-incl~ding Pipes planning to retire, thereby power. . -argue that this measure . creating an imbalance in is necessary the campus' Christian­
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 , SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 




OfficeMax® 
\Jn~t$ ~ouv-_ tn,~~1'" 

Don't waste time running from store to store...OfficeMax has the tools you need to help you do your thing: 
• 
Notebooks, pens, paper, binders • Computers, printers, copiers • PDAs, calculators, phones 

• 
Software and computer accessories • Desks, chairs, bookcases 


All at Guaranteed Low Prices! Plus FREE delivery on most orders of $50 or more. 
And don't forget: our in-store CopyMax center can handle all your printing and copying needs including color copies, lamination, book binding, and digital photo prints. Check out the special CopyMax offer bel.ow...valid for the entire school year! Save now by bringing the enclosed coupons to this OfficeMax store: Mishawaka/South Bend: Wilshire Plaza. Grape & Douglas Rds., next to Media Play (574) 273-0328. 
Bring in the coupon below to CopyMax and we'll laminate it for FREE! Then keep it with you to use as often as you want.
(. .··gqpy:Qlli~®,(.·.\t(y_:··... ·.• •--•-·...... '. 

,,~,j ·-s1rl0~,-·1s25~;;-·
1· 1~$oijff.· 1 Any Supply Purchase :Any Furniture Purchase ~ 
: .CopyMax DigitatPririting ·and Copying :, of $30 or More! 1 of $100 or More! ~ :: . ..Servic_es_ forJhe Entire SchoolJearr _>·. , ...-· j Valid In our Mishawaka/South Bend store only. I Valid in our Mishawaka/South Bend store only. :l:::; Excludes computers, gift cards, MaxAssurance I Excludes MaxAssurance, clearance items and ~ 
:Valid in-store only. uniii one percustomei. Cannot be use(in ..•._··. :'.,~ I 
•.. conjunction wit_h any other offer.'_Notvalld on P\ior purchase,s.or ~\~ : 
a~~ ~s;;t~~ii~~~c~~:e~~1~nv~I~~ ~~~0a~r 1 ~ispeh~~~~~~::i~~~:P~~~:~~i:!1i~u:i~~:~-y , I _xg·
1

other offer. Valid thru 9/25/04. other offer. Valid thru 9/25/04. 

1 1111111111111111111111111111111 : IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII :I 
___ !6~4!,!1!!!32!0'!!4 _ _ _ _ _ --!_6~41;1!!!32;_0'!!4 ___ -,1@
1,

t~i~f~l~i~i~~~I~I~t~!1~!.·· 
He's back, baby, and ready to serve up another year's worth of juice. After all, a school year never of­
ficially starts until the Gipper releases his first bodily fluids story: our wannabe frat boys jump on two-year-old fashion trains; and the majority of freshmen ob­tain instant messaging names with clever combinations of our school's initials, team name, administrative headquarters and their graduation year. Speaking of which, the Gipp was shocked to learn that, at press time, "NDirishDomer08" was still on the market. Grab it while it's hot, kids. 
Now, let's get this party started. 

Dishonorable Discharge 
Recently it has come to the Gipper's attention that the ladies ofthe lake are at it again. But this time, the counterpart is a man ofthe blade instead ofa man ofthe cloth. (Young ones: Ask around about the PriestGate scandal we had a few years ago.) Reportedly, an adult ROTC officer found a young SMCer to be a very dependable stor­age place. By that, the Gipper means that this warrior found pleasure in inserting his sword in her sheath, removing it, inserting it again and, well, you get the point. (Ladies, let's not think too deeply about that analogy; it could get painful.) 
T h i s wouldn't be a big deal, if he did not al­ready have a matron and heirs \ waiting for him back at his estate. 



The only positive his superiors can take from this incident is the soldier's proven ability to get his privates to stand at full attention. 
And ifyou wouldn't mind a little Gipper commentary . . . Girls, what's your deal, here? Apparently, there is some type of "off with your uniform, on with my birthday suit" arrangement. The Gipp can't think of two professions with more tradition and honor than the priesthood and the military, so it appears these gals are starting at the top of the totem pole and working their way down. And we all know how good they are at that. 

Scandalous Attire 
They say first impressions last forever. Ifso, it could be a long four years for the chap in our next tale. Better sign up tor summer school, buddy. · 
We start with sa traditional freshman disorientation in a male dorm. Our tip­ster reveal that after receiving new nicknames, the frosh were steered toward an off-campus house. (Nicknames, eh? Gipp could use 
one of those. Operating under a pseudonym would make this job · much easier.) They eventually 
ended up in a domicile with a few wound-up ladies, whose fan­cies had just been tickled by the fertile feather of a male stripper. After running out of skin to bare, the performer was dismissed and the 
ladies moved on to a more exciting pur­suit: taking advan­tage of young, help­less, drunken males. Their sweet talk convinced our pack of baby wolves "to dive into a couple of kiddie pools that were set up on the lawn," says our source. How you can actually dive into four inches 

of water is beyond the Gipp, but appar­ently, unlike their female friends, these guys didn't need to see more than four inches to get wet. 
Moving on: One particular student, who we'll name Gullible Gus, wanted to keep his garments dry, so he decided to do some stripping of his own. Don­ning nothing but his skivvies, Gus be­came the boy-toy of these older women. We're told that he "would do anything that the girls wanted him to, including repeatedly diving into this shallow pool and later breakdancing on a beer-covered floor, still without wearing anything but his boxers." Then, the gals discovered that their live entertainment had "acci­dentally" forgotten a male thong in the bathroom. It's probably a good rule of thumb never to wear articles of clothing left behind by anyone, much less those articles which actually touched someone's behind. But the merciless harem pressed on, and begged Gus to try it on. At first, he would only let it dangle down his neck­line. But then, someone whipped out the checkl:>ook. Two dollars (yes, $2) were pooled together and a final offer was given to Gus. Seeing the joys ofa free cab ride home, he took their offer. The Gipp's still waiting for the pictures. 
We're told that after re-robing, Gus found that Jhe thong inade for good headwear. He also draped his noggin with a female's shirt, which he reportedly mistook for a bra. In his drunken stupor, he had somehow managed to convince himself that he had received the "bra" as a token for his conquest of someone's tracts of land. He was so convinced that he spent much of the night taking whiffs of it and bragging that it "smelled like a girl." 
Welcome to college, jackass. People like you keep the Gipper in business. 
Solid start, folks. Just remember: When it comes to your stripper's G-string and the Gipper's inbox, keep the tips flow­ing. . 
14 NOVEMBER 2002 

Friends in high places The Gipper solicits tips from the most elite of sources.While most Gipper sources remain anonymous, this 
journalist, devoid of integrity, doesn't mind revealing that phones in the office of a certain monastic administrator have rung the Gipp's 
lines on more than one occassion.Tip the Gipp at gipper@nd.edu. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 15 





Of:>INION_J 


Prectous:~ P~o,d.uce-


The Economics ofTomato Picking 
RICH MCIVER 

Afteryears of insisting that Taco Bell the U.S. This makes the overall cost of of business. The failure of these busi­is more about social injustice than growing tomatoes abroad higher than if nesses would allow foreign agricultural chalupas, a Notre Dame student the work was done in the United States. producers to flourish because they would 
activist group, the Progressive Student Consequently, tomato picking stays here ..· be able to take advantage ofthe cheaper Alliance, has recently brought someJi,a,rd.-:-. As a result of all this, the small in-labor costs and living st_~gq_;itdsin their earned attention to its cause by suc't'ess/· creases in wages that ac;dvists regard as countries, enabling them,to hire signifi­fully pressuring Notre Dame to drop its . major victories end up meaning tliat either cantly more laborers in natiops that are . contract with Taco Bell. . . . . . plagued by unemployment. 
The PSA hopes that its local :5 . The key for such .a shift to work efforts will force Taco Bell's pro-iil .. is to make it a gradual process. · If 
~ 
duce suppliers nationwide to pay u we immediately removed agricul­higher wages to its tomato pickers. ; · tural subsidies then there would be While there is little doubt that a backlash of unemployment which the PSA has the best interests of would not be absorbed adequately by 
~ . 'fl.

the migrant worker in mind, its ~ _,J,. newindustries. Amore methodical proposals for reform often appear decline in subsidies would allow rather indirect and anti-free market. time for these individuaJs to learn This leaves many people, including , new trades and skills. myself, unconvinced thatthePSA's Student activists, such as PSA goals are feasible or even desirable S members, may not like this solution on a global scale. because it means that those indi-
The ultimate aim of the activists @ viduals who can least afford to go .is noble: . to ensure a living wage unemployed must do so in order to


rt(f
for migrant farm workers. How-resurface in an industry competitive ever, the reality is that the cost of ' Ail @ enough to offer them a living wage. living in the U.S. -even at the ~ Asunpleasantasthissolutionis, we inhumane income level at which ""•YG must fight the temptation to look for many migrant workers are forced ® easy answers by labeling big farming to exist-is much higher than that and multi-national companies, like of developing or third world coun-_ U.S. farming will become less profitable Taco Bell, as the "bad guy," thereby tries. This means that the PSA's goal ofa and companies will hire fewer migrant indirectly supporting ever-higher agricul­"living wage" will result in higher wages workers, thus decreasing long-,tenn de-tural subsidies. We must lookinstead for being paid to migrant workers here in the mand. Or, that subsidies will increase, market solutions that are sustainable in 
U.S. than the wages that would have to be hurting the tax-paying consumer and the long term. paid to achieve the same standard ofliving further smothering developing nations' In a market-based economy such as ours, in a less developed country. economies. Neither of these solutions we must avoid the temptation to take short 
Hwe stick to the notion that a tomato is will help the welfare of poor workers in cuts by supporting inefficient markets. We a tomato no matter where it is picked, the the long-term. must endure the painful but necessary obvious question is, why don't agricultural Reform, however, need not be anti-free-process ofeliminating these industries in companies move operations to countries market. In fact, some economists purport favor of more efficient ones. where they can utilize lowerlabor costs to that the best way 6f achieving such hu-It may not be as simple a solution as de­grow cheaper produce? manitarian goals may be to extend, not monizing big farming and multinationals 
There are a number of reasons for this, inhibit, the reach of the international seems to offer. Unlike that alternative, a including the cost of moving operations market. free-market approach creates a more ef­
. abroad and the cost ofshipping produce to Under such an approach, the U.S. and ficient economy. In the end, that is the the U.S. However, the greatest prohibiting other developed countries would gradu-only way that we can hope for sustainable factors in many cases are not these, but ally lower the agricultural subsidies and improvements in the living standards ofall agricultural subsidies and import taxes. import taxes that support labor-intensive individuals. D 
These two anti-free-market devices es-farming. This gradual lowering of trade sentially place a tax on every tomato im-barriers would put the most inefficient The views expressed in this column are those ported from abroad in an effort to support labor-intensive farming operations out ofthe author and do not necessarily represent • 
the labor-intensive agricultural system in the views ofScholastic or its staff. 
16 OPINION 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

DomeLights 
COMPILED BY ERIK POWERS 

At Least All That Tuition is Being Put to Good Use 
Source:The Landscape Services Department and Web site 

Walking around campus on a warm evening this time of year, even the most hardened criminal or soldier of fortune would have to admit that Notre Dame is 
a beautiful sight. Despite what our God did not originally sculpt in the well-manicured form /ill8:::)~ the Landscape Services De-outstanding job these people ,,,--,_ _,_ know concerning their 
Catholic status may lead you to believe, this little parcel of northern Indiana you enjoy today. For that, He created partment, and in honor of the truly do, here are some facts you may not 
pride and joy: Notre Dame. 

030 Number of workers employed by Landscape Services 0 I ,250 Number of acres comprising the campus of the University of Notre Dame ­0 I 6 Miles of sidewalk kept clear by the Landscape Services Department 070,000 Sprinkler heads throughout campus 0500,000 Capacity, in gallons, of the Notre Dame water tower 
.·Iini:! clue to its larger size) . , -Two.chicken breasts· -Lettuce from the salad bar -Tomatoes -Caesar Dressing -oip t.i _o n a I : 
Parm_esan cheese 
Cutup .the chicken . _ 

bre,'a:sts.':'B.e\ sur~ not to cut .·.· •.. _ . 
-through ·the wrap, or you will have· to start . over with the wrap-construction. Make sure not to over-stuff the wrap or you will end up with-~ore on your plate and pants.than in your m~uth. · · · 

D-Hall Tip 
··.. ·. 
Q&A 
With tb~ NE!w Lepr:ecbaun,_____~~ 
-~--. · 1 · Eddie 

Lerum 
-It's football season once again; time to 
wake zep the echoes ­
and feel the thunder ofthe Irish spirit. 
But how woitld the 
thousands ofIrish faithfuls rock the stadium without the guidance oftheir 
beloved mascot? Scholastic caught up with jun_ior Eddie Lerum; Notre Dame's migh'ty mascot, better known as the Leprechaun, between practices and tumbling classes. 
How long have you wanted to be the Leprechaun? 
Since my freshman year of high school. My good friends from high school and grade school thought it would be a good idea for me to be the Leprechaun. Every year in high school more and more ofmy friends would encourage me to be the Leprechaun. 
What will you do to get pumped up before 

games and pep rallies? The band is so helpful in getting people 
pumped up. Every time I hear the band 
... barn, I'm ready to go. The cheerleaders will also be a great support . . . overall, I love Notre Dame. 
What is your favorite thing about Notre Dame football games? 
The student section. The student unity and enthusiasm they give off in the student section is amazing. There is so much tradition that carries through and fuels off of it. 
What is your favorite thing about Notre Dame pep rallies? 
I was amazed at the scene and the way the dorms all sit together and every dorm says, "Our dorm is awesome." But then, when the speaker and band come out, we all come together as Notre Dame. It's amazing how pumped up everyone gets. 

Do you know how to do tumbling and flips? I played three sports in high school and I'm starting gymnastics classes at Michi­ana Gymnastics. I'm learning how to do some tumbling moves. 
What do you like most about being the Leprechaun? 
I've always been pumped about Notre :Oame and now I can show my spirit even more. I can now use the student section and stadium to show my energy for Notre Dame. 
How do you intend to get more fans 
involved? I want to try and pick out fans and make eye contact with them and use people I know. I want to meet more students and be as friendly and outgoing as possible. I want to share my enthusiasm with as many people as I can. 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 
-Lauren Wikox 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 






Truly Tropical 
Sorin residents do tropical theme the "right" way 
ANNAO'CONNOR 
In the short time since school has started, the guys of 303 Sorin Hall have transformed their ordinary com­mon room into an exotic island paradise. From the full-service tiki bar to a sink filled with seashells, this is a place that even Jimmy Buffett would be proud to call home. Sophomores Mike Toomey and Mi­chael Dewan, junior Dan Pearson, and honorary roommates, sophomores Steve Sushinsky and Bill Reimer, came up with the tiki themelastyearwhen they decided to room together. Each person brought different pieces, and they built the bar/ bookcase when they moved in. All the various tiki elements come together to create their tropical getaway. 

"A lot of people do the tropical theme, but no one really does it right," says Pear­son. "We went all out with this, and we think we did it right." 
The circular room is lined all the way around with grass skirt trim and multi­colored lights. A fishnet hangs in one cor­ner, holding a beach ball. Exotic posters cover the wall and a surfboard hangs overhead. Of a ladder leaning against the wall, "We like to think of it as our lifeguard ladder," says Pearson. 
The biggest attraction in the room is the tiki bar. To give it an authentic feel, one side of the wooden structure 
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 



9 SEPTEMBER 2004 .SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 19 



;'f,..JOMP~START·oN-JORD:A:NTneJ~Hefciscienceiuffiirtlylo~~!DuniperRoai:1:Will oe'orieof.·••·1 
Jthe first buildings completed in a new wave of construction on campus. . . . > ·. .· . . . J ,: 4---···--··-' -:.'------. ---------. "" .. ' ··_ -•--~-"-~ . ,· ..:_,_,.· . ---·'. ·--~------'. _..' .•..:... ·· --· "" ' ,., __ :_~ 


The Road to Additions 
The closing of Juniper Road will facilitate continued campus construction, likely to include new residence halls 
LAURENWILCOX 
Detour signs, beeping trucks and cranes lifting beams into the air. After a short break, Notre Dame is once again under construction. Currently underway is the construc­tion of the new security and post office building and theJordanHall of Science. The former is located next to Stepan Center and the latter along Juniper Road, in front ofRolfs Sports Recreation Center. These additions look to be just the first inklings of the changing face of campus. Early last June the St. Joseph County Common Council approved the eventual public closure of Juniper Road, which will become part of the university cam­pus, allowing Notre Dame to pursue its Campus Master Plan. The plan proposes several new buildings, renovations and residence halls around campus. The long-term plan calls for some­where around three or four new residence halls, one on West Quad and the others in the area currently occupied byJuniper Road, says James Lyphout, vice president of Business Operations. Before the construction begins, how­. ever, a new north-south route must be built to compensate for Juniper's closing. A proposed four-lane road connecting Edison Road to Douglas Road will be constructed in the Ivy Road area. Edison will be straightened out to reach the back end of the Logan Center so additional campus space will be created around the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts.. The university also is concerned about pedestrian safety, as more students and faculty will have to cross Juniper to get to the new buildings. "I think the closing ofJuniper is nec­essary given the way the campus is ex­pandinginthat direction," says Bill Kirk, associate vice president for the Office of Residence Life & Housing. "I think safety comes into play, and we have had accidents onJuniper Road before." Construction of the security and post office building should be completed by December 2004 so Notre Dame Security/ Police can move in after Christmas. Road work for the realignment ofEdison and the alternative route for Juniper on Ivy is planned to begin in the spring of2005. 
22 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9 SEPTEMBER 2004 
-------._---.-.--,-.-.---,,,· , ' ! ' •• '.-? \. 


r Iil"'';f S' Tr:· 




== INUS~;p~:;;,
The new route is scheduled for comple-into the residence halls, but offer se-· • · tion by the summer of 2006, approxi-niors more amenities than the more mately the same time Jordan Hall should traditional residence hall rooms. That's be ready for use. Juniper will be closed the idea we hear the most about at this to traffic once the alternative route is point." complete. Jeremy Lao, a senior on the committee 
"For student life this change will make and former student body vice president, ?•!,t:.,•t,i!;.,.,,. campus way safer," says Cappy Gagnon, says the committee's main objective is coordinator of stadium pe_rsonnel for to discuss how to increase the percent of NDSP, who lives just south of campus. students that stay on campus. "I think 
"Whatever minor in--------------the apartment style convenience this will It's our desire to keep living is an option 
be for people travel-that some seniors ing north to south upperclassmen on campus. willlike,"hesays. "I after the rerouting JamesLyphout, VPofBusinessOperations think in' the future ofJuniper, they will be compensated for the campus will look more modern, but by fewer traffic lights and delays on the still maintain its communal feeling." alternative route." The Future of Residential Life Com-
The road construction is definite, but mittee is about two-thirds of the way the proposed new residence halls are less through its work and will issue an of-·! a certain and will depend on fundraising. ficial report at the end of the fall 2004 
Lyphout says the university does not semester. have a specific timetable for the new resi-"We have done a lot ofhomework with dence halls because their construction is surveys to get a sense for things that dependent upon a residence hall master students like. We ran a bunch of focus plan. "We have hired a consultantto help groups last year and we have learned _a us look at what kind ofresidence halls we lot about how student life has changed should build in the future," he says. over the years," says Kirk. 
Notre Dame is currently examin-Notre Dame's residence hall system ing both the building of new residence is currently home to 80 percent of halls and the renovation ofexisting halls. the undergraduate student body and The Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., vice is exceeding capacity, meaning if the president ofStudent Affairs, created the university wants to keep more students Future of Residential Life Committee on campus, it will have to create more last year to explore possible alternatives dorm space. to current on-campus housing. The "It's our desire to keep upperclassmen committee is made up ofadministrators, on campus. We feel their leadership students and rectors and is co-chaired within our residence hall system is very by Kirk and Associate Vice President of important and we want to create space Student Affairs Ann Firth. for them," says Lyphout. 
· "One thing we talk a lot about are se-There are other building improve-t ,,-•""· 
nior suites," says Firth, ments_ current!~ in the works that have "which would be been mcluded m the Campus Master inc or p o -Plan. Once the new security and post 
· rate d office building is complete, the current 
A new multidisciplinary engineering 
security building and post office will 
building is proposed to be built at the site 
be renovated so that next summer all . 

of the University Club, a private restau­
Health Services operations may 

rant and club for university faculty and move temporarily into those staff, located next to McKenna Hall. 
buildings. A major one-year 

"There are a number of things in the 
renovation is planned 

student affair's plan such as a bigger and 
. for the Health Services 
better student center, graduate housing 
building next year. 

and a university village for married stu­
:>..... A 100,000 square-foot 
dents," says Firth. "For right now the
expansion ofthe law school 

residential halls are the most pressing
· ··:,:(-will double the size of the ex-
thing given where we are in residential 
~.-isting building. The addition will 
life and the importance we place on
be built on the site of the current post 

it." .
office but construction will not start un­_til fundraising is complete. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 23 


A Great· State 
***** 
Quirky comedy worth a watch 

BETH MURPHY 

The film Garden State marks Zach Braff's directing debut, and he should be very happy with his work. Braff, who also wrote and starred in the film, tells the story of Andrew "Large" Largeman -a strug­
he decides to take a vacation from the pills to ~ee what happens. 
What happens is a humorous, thought-provoking and wholly un­predictable adventure in which Large reconnects with old friends, makes a 

gling, 26-year-old, new one, and, in Los Angeles actor doing so, ultimate­who returns to ly reconnects with his home state of himself. He finds New Jersey (the this new friend in Garden State) af­Sam -a quirky, ter being away for fun and energetic nine years. "Large" girl -who com­has lived his entire pletely changes his life feeling numb life. Sam is played 

-numb to himself, to others and es­pecially to his father,· the psychiatrist who has been prescribing him lithium since the age of 10. Back home in New Jersey, it finally occurs to Large that he may not even have a problem, and by actress Natalie Portman and doesn't arrive on the scene until 30 minutes into the film -probably Garden State's biggest fl.aw. The film starts off rather slowly, butfortunately the plot quickly picks up. ­


Say Hello to Ciao's 
Local eatery offers authentic Italian food with a twist 
BETH MURPHY 

Located in the heart of downtown South Bend, Ciao's Bakery and Restaurant truly is a little taste 
of Italy. The owner, Adele de Rosa Ciao, is from just south ofNaples, Italy, and opened her restaurant nine years ago, soon after she immigrated to the United States. Two years ago, Ciao's moved from its originallocation at the Jamison Inn to its present location on North Michigan Street. 
When asked to pick her favorite item on the menu, de Rosa Ciao looked pained to have to make such a decision. 
. "I make the menu, so I love everything on it," she says. De Rosa Cia9 makes her own menu because she serves as both owner and head chef for her restaurant. Filling both of these roles would seem a bit daunting, butshe isn't phased. De Rosa Ciao loves her job and worked in the restaurant business long before moving to the United States. 
Overwhelmed by the vast amount of menu choices, Scholastic decided to try an appetizer: the dates wrapped in bacon -very tasty! For our two en­trees -which came with a choice of soup or salad -we chose the tortelli stuffed with crab in a leek cream sauce 

There are several brilliant scenes in the 
movie, most of wl).ich involve dialogue 
between Large and Sam. The chemistry 
between them is_ extraordinarily tangible 
and together the two exhibit a refreshing 
awkwardness. The film takes you on a 
weird journey, but a worthwhile one. And 
as the final scene fades out, you'll already 
want to watch it again. 
But be warned: Garden State is not for 
everyone. Don't go to this film in the 
hopes of seeing a knee-slapping comedy 
or a gripping drama; Garden State is 
neither. To say it falls somewhere in the 
middle is also misleading; this movie is 
unlike any other. 
Ifnothing else, the soundtrack alone is · worth the ticket cost. It includes tracks from Cold play and the Shins, among oth­ers. . 
Garden State isplayingat the Kerasotes Show­
Place 16 locatedat4S0 W. ChippewaAve. 

and linguini with baby lobster tails in a garlic cream sauce. Both dishes were deli­cious. From all that we sampled, it seems like you can't go wrong with anything on de Rosa Ciao's menu. 
The decor of Ciao's contributes to its genuine European feel. Beige stucco walls oppose painted brick with a tiled roof that overhangs the bakery on the left­hand side. The dining room is dimly lit, adorned with white-clothed tables, quaint wooden chairs and red wine-colored napkins. Five murals along the front wall simulate windows, and strategically placed fl.oral arrangements add the per­
24 SCHOLASl:ICENTERTAINMENT 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Welcome to the List! 1ou~II find this page in each issue this year. The premise: the top things you should check out in the next two weeks. Without further ado: 
MIDNl.~HT DR~MMERS' CIRCLE 

The rn(fue speaks· f~r.itself. At midnight on Friday (Saturday morning) the band's dru,mline huddles up at i:he base ofthe Dome's steps to lead Irish chants.· . .-.'..:· 
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN AT 2:30 P.M. 
Go to the game. Obviously. But before the game, this is the one weekend morning when sleeping in is not advised. 
Band concert and step-off 

An hour and a half before kickoff (1:00 p.m. for Michigan Saturday), join hundreds of others in front of Bond Hall as the Band of the Fighting Irish plays some classic-tunes and gives a preview ofits halftime routine. Forty-five minutes later, the band steps-off from the Dome in an electrifying march to the stadium. 
Brats, Dogs and Steaks 

· Only a· bad referee could miss the multitude of grilling stands peppered throughout campus. Support clubs' fund-raising efforts and fortify yourself for a couple hours of standing on bleachers. Check out the Knights of Co­lumbus s~and on. South Quad for some sirloin sandwiches. 
Tailgating 

Justbecause you don't know anyone with a hatchback doesn't mean you can't partake. Clothing that identifies you as a student often increases hosts' hos­pitality. It doesn't hurt ifthey've knocked backa few cold ones either (i.e. the louder, the more charitable). Watch what beverage is in your hand if you're underage -NDSP roves the parkirig lots. 
CHECK OUTTHE NEW MARIE P. 
DEBARTOLO CENTER FORTHE 
PERFORMING ARTS 
On Friday, Sept. 17, the much-hyped center will open for self-guided tours to all ofND's students, faculty and staff. From 4:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., check out performers in each ofthe building's five impressive venues. Each show is tailored to the traits ofits particular theater. 
HEARWYNTON MARSALIS IN 
CONCERT 1ouring with the Lincoln Center Jazz 
Orchestra, internationally renowned 
jazz artist Marsalis will perform at the 
performing arts center Sept. 17 at 8:00 
p.m. in the center's concert hall. 

LOG ONTO 
THEFACEBOOK.COM 
A little strange, but worth checking . out.· Described as "the ultimate stalking tool," The facebook is a national directory of college students. Post pictures, personal info and class schedules for others to look up. 
-Compiled by Nick Kolman-Mandie 
· feet touch. 
But the best part about Ciao's is, .of course, the food. Though slightly ex­pensive, de Rosa Ciao's cooking and the generous portions are worth every penny. Her menu offers a wide range . of Italian cuisine, with traditional appetizers :csuch ··a.s ·· cantaloupe wrapped in prosciutto, tra­ditional entrees such as homemade lasagna, · and more. 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

uniquedishessuchastigershrimpsauteed withgarlicandhotpeppersorhomemade spinach gnocchi tossed in gorgonzola cheese sauce, topped with walnuts. Meat, poultry, seafood and pasta dishes create a 
--:-·. well-rounded menu: 

''i, There~~ def;nitely .· i,oc~t.ii?/'2{:ri-l'Kfi~hlg~~ shs~~fu B~id{:. _; ?. 
somet 1ng or ev-,'.,'-1~1r~_;}:} .:,:·::~~:·~_;:~:~::~:.:·.t~(::~.~---..':,:~~ 






E::~1~-11 
on yo:iir. way out! 
So · forget La­


. SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 

Salle Grille and Tippecanoe. How predictable. On your next fancy date, go to Ciao's Italian Restaurant and Bakery. You won't be disappointed. Ciao! D 
. . <R-•l ,•.•.;·.~,.:.-,",,.:,,,· • .,,.-; •.•• ..... ·•·, . . , . .:-:, . ....--· 

......,...... ; 


BETH MURPHY 
Anew year, a new vision. Legends management will oversee several changes to the pub and restaurant this year. The menu alone is completely different, with only three or four items remaining from last year. There is a new chefrunning the show: Don Miller, the former head chef ofSorin's Restaurant in the Morris Inn. Miller has a completely different vision for running Legends' kitchen. "He's very big on contrasting tastes," says Carla McDonald, ser~ce manager, who worked at Legends smce its inception. The change in food is certainly notice­able (as well as the increase in price), as dishes tend to be more intricately pre­pared and lavish. The menu is still incom­plete, but it will undergo alterations as the weeks pass. The beer selection, while still impressive, has been reduced from 73 bottled beers to 41, as the manage­ment felt that 73 choices was overwhelm­ing for some patrons. The remnants of the beers that have been eliminated from the menu will be sold in limited avail­ability at a special discounted price, and the 24 beers on tap have not changed. Besides alterations to the menu, the res­taurant area itself is about to undergo a major redecoration. The walls in the upper dining area {which are now a light beige) will be painted Notre Dame blue, and throughout the rest of the dining area a timeline of Notre Dame history will be traced along the walls. The re­decoration even extends to the attire of the servers, who will don blue and gold shirts instead of last year's maroon and 
green. . 
Change is in store for the club side of Legends, as well, and the management is very optimistic for this year's events. 
"We have a lot ofgreatstuffcoming up," says Belinda Thompson, general manaper of Legends' Facility and Programming. 
"Some of the bands we have lined up are just phenomenal." The club is also insti­tuting an international music series called Rock Around the World. Beginning in the spring, this series will take place every second Thursday of the month and will feature such ethnic performances as an African drumline, as well as Brazilian and Celtic bands. "We are really looking to continue fostering the music scene on campus," says Thompson. ''And we do it for free." 
"Brew and View" is another new idea. On Thursdays, after parietals, movie will be displayed on Legends' 144-inch screen, and the bar will serve late night drinks and snacks. Legends hopes "Brew and View" will give students a late-night alternative to Reeker's. Thursdays seem to generate the most attendance at Legends' club, prooably because they are reserved for student performances, which are always well-at­tended. Thursday nights have been des­ignated "Senior Night" at Legends and boasts a margarita special that makes it the bar's most popular night ofthe week. As senior bartender Dan Johnson says, 
"Legends is the place to be on Thursday nights. Two-dollar margaritas? Friendly faces behind the bar and in the bar? You can't beat it." . 


DRINK SPECIALS 
Monday Night Lite 
Coors Light, Miller Light and 
Bud Light: $2.50 

-Be Well Tuesdays 
Well Drinks: $2.75 

Irish Wednesdays 
Guinness, Kinsale: $3.50 

Fiesta Thursdays 
Margaritas: $2.00 Margaritas with Cuervo Gold: · $3.50 Strawberry Margarita: $3.00 _24-ounce Corona: $4.00 

Frosty Fridays 
Frozen Long Island Iced Teas, 
White Russians (Siberian _ 
Huskies): $3.25 

L~gendary F~!=ts _ :_ ., .. • ­
. Between 700-800 margaritas are·sold on any given Thursday 
· • There are about 50 student workers a~ Legends (bartenders _ andservers) -· . --·-... -· · --•_ . --:-: _ 
•There are IO televisions interspersed throughout the . restaurant -. . .. . . ..-.-.• . . ___ .-. _ . . __ . > . There are 13 I ·quoted words painted in black ink across the 
. walls 

26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Lucky Boys 

Confusion 
Chicago band rocks Legends, encourages fans 

BRENNAMANNION 
How you doing Notre Dame?!" 
The salutation could be heard at any on-campus event, but add a few expletives and yell it at over 300 sweaty students, and it becomes a distinctly energetic Lucky Boys Confusion (LBC) concert. 
The Chicago-based rock band played an intimate 75-minute concert at Legends onAug. 28, complete with about 15 songs from both of their major releases, as well as an acoustic se.t. The atmo­sphere was electric as fans were treated to many of their favorite LBC songs, each one accom­panied by raucous cheering, jumping, pushing and danc­ing from the crowd. After they :finished playing, t,he band members came out to talk with fans, 
· or, in some cases, to :.in hetw'eenic1 · the ~ris at)-eg •
sneak out and have a cigarette. 
Adam Krier, Joe Sell, Jason Schul­tejann, Ryan Fergus and Kaustubh "Stubhy" Pandav formed LBC in 1997 in Chicago's wester1;1 suburbs. That year, they: released a four-song EP -What Gets Me High -on their own label. A year later they combined those four songs with 13 new tracks to produce Growing OutOflt. 
Neither album was nationally distrib­uted, but the band has had a strong, loyal fan base from the beginning. 
"We have always had a really good 
LBClead singer,Stubhy71 

fandav (far left), belts out a song during the group's. 
1Legends set. . . · . · .. · . . ._· · . j 
1 
following," Pandav says. "Our fans are great. At our third show we had about 300 kids there. We are kind ofa bust band. My band and Adam's band broke up and when we started this, we brought the old fans from our previous bands over to our 
shows." 
Soon after Soapbox Spectacle (EP) was re­leased in 2000, LBC signed with Elektra records. With Elek­tra, LBC debuted its first national release -Throwing the Game -in 2001. Throwing the Game was a compi­lation of Growing Out OfIt and Soapbox Spec­tacle. Theirsophomore effort -Commitment -was released inOc­tober 2003. 

Part of LBC's ap­peal is their fans' ability to relate to the singers. They write their own music and relied on friends and word-of-mouth for their first shows around the Midwest. They even slept on the floors in friends' homes in their early days. It also is appar­ent that they are in it for the music, rather than the money. During the concert, they proudly told those in the audience who already owned Commitment to "Burn it for everyone you know. We don't care, just get the music out." The band has worked rigorously to achieve its success thus far, playing over 250 shows in 2001, ,but as Pandav modestly admits, "We're 
Q &A 'With LBC 
Scholastid Brenna Mannion asks LBC lead singer Stubby Pandav five random questions: 
BM: Do you have anything in the works? .· SP: I'm writing. I just wrote. a song 
1

last night. · · 
. . . 

BM: What.instruments do you play? 
SP: Well, I'm the singer, butI also play the_ guitar. I try to work out melodies on the piano, but I'm not good. 
BM: Well, that makes two__ of us. 
SP: ·J'i:µ sure you're bette; than me. · 
Can you play with tw:Ohands? ._·· 
BM:Yeah... . . SP: .Then you're better than me. 
. . . . . . . ­
BM: Wh~t•s your favorite LBC: s~rig to play?. · ·. · · · . SP_: I like alot•ofthem; on different., days I like different songs. Itso depends on the mood and the crowd. Some days I_ Hke playing• "Saturd~y ,~ight" and "Bossman," which ate two Of my not 
as favorite songs ... and s:ome nights I.like doing "South Union." It really just depends. .· ·. . . 
. . 

BM: ~h~t music d~ you Hstenfo? SP: 13:verything! I listento everything froni the Am#eus soundtrack to like, the heavy stuff. Tmea:n, I,like ev:ery­
thing; it's the wholepoint. . . . 
BM: My frienchvants to krii>w if you al( have girlfriends? ··< . . . . · < 
SP: .!don't; Brian doesn't; Joe doesn't; . Adam dc,esn't; an~Jasori does; . . .·· 


09 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 





9 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Bend. 
The Snite's department ofphotography and its collection of 19th-century Old Master drawings are renowned, Loving says, and the collection ofMesoamerican/ Pre-Columbian art and artifacts is the world's most-acclaimed outside of Mexico City. "It's fair to say that our national standing is greater than our local stand­
ing." , 
The Snite has three general audiences: faculty and students, the local community, 
and out-of-town tourists, a percentage of whom visit from art-laden Chicago itself. ·On campus, several outreach programs work to draw increasing numbers of visitors to the Snite. The museum works closely with faculty, for example, who want to enhance their students' learning experience with the arts. About600 stu­dents in Notre Dame's Spanish language courses visit the Snite yearly for guided tours in Spanish. Many Notre Dame stu­dents also frequented the museum thanks ·to the Core program -the now defunct class for Arts and Letters majors·that has 
been replaced by the College Seminar. 
The Snite staff will even structure tours specifically tailored to a particular Notre Dame class, including courses in business and science. Loving says such students visit in hopes that studying art will improve their problem solving and analytical thinking, both of which are critical components of any education regardless of concentration. 
The Snite also reaches out beyond cam­pus to the South Bend community. Thou­sands oflocal elementary school students cross the threshold ofthe museum each year, and the Snite offers tours for high, school students in addition to classes on art .history for adults. Recitals, lectures, literary events and films also seek to at­tract the local population. 


Marketing to the society-at-large has become especially important since 1997, when the Snite lost its parking space to the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium. The museum used to see a yearly influx of approximately 100,000 people before the parking was lost, Loving says. He believes that it is the lack of nearby parking that has cut that figure nearly in half to 57,000 visitors per year. 
About one-third 

Center, "thereby creating a fine arts dis­trict on campus." 
Doordan points to the university's mission of holistic education as further evidence ofits artistic commitment. We have great facilities directed toward aca­demics, athletics and faith, he says, and now a new performing arts center to go with our museum. "Notre Dame wants to be a good neighbor," he adds. "Members ofthe community may not visit campus to 
see our chemistry 

of the Notre Dame --------------labs, but they will 
campus and local com- Learning about art is like  to take part in the  
munity will never visit the Snite, Loving says. "There is a large seg­ learning a foreign language. If you don't know the  arts. Arts are a very important bridge to the community."  
ment of the population with no interest in the  d h grammar an t e syntax,  Among students, Doordan sees the  
visual arts."  you feel  uncomfortable  greatest obstacle to  
At the opposite end of the spectrum, .an­ with it.  an interest in the arts as what he has  
other third, comprised  GinaCosto,SniteMuseumMorketingandPublicRclationsSpcci,list  coined the "embar­ 

largely of middle-aged 
to mature women, will visit regularly. 
"It's the middle third I worry about," 

says Loving, explaining the sports car exhibit as an attempt to speak to-that particular demographic. It was very rewarding, then, for him to see fathers and sons -members ofthe middle third -comingin over the summer to view the 
Ferrari and its companions. 
With a limited advertising budget and 
cramped working conditions, the museum 
administrators do feel frustrated, at times. 
However, both Snite staff and university 
officials think the future looks bright for 
the Notre Dame arts culture. "I'm taking 
[the new performing arts center] as an 
indication that the university is serious 
about promoting the arts," says Dennis 
Doordan, chairperson ofthe Department 
of Art, Art History and Design. "I'm very 
optimistic." Loving agrees. "I think the advent of the performing arts· center will be: a good thing for the museum," says Loving, whose long·-term dream-is to see the Snite Mu­seum relocated to a site·next to the DeBartolo 

rassment of riches" phenomenon. With the large number of events on campus, Doordan says, many students simply don't have time to take advantage of them. The wealth of op­tions also increases competition among event planners for what little free time Notre Dame students do have, he says. Walking throu,gh the poster-plastered halls of O'Shaughnessy is proof enough. However, the Snite has two major assets: Its marketing plays a strong role in at­tracting visitors, and the free admission is an incentive for visitors to view the museum's exhibits. 
Doordan's department works closely with the Snite, especially in the museum's end-of-year exhibit ofstudent art, which has proven popular in past years. 
Currently the Snite is exhibiting a col­lection of 32 prints by world-famous na­ture photographer Ansel Adams (through Oct. 31) and a collection of large-scale prints by modern artist Richard Serra (through Nov. 14), "likely the most im­portant [sculptor] of our time," says Lov­ing. On Sept. 19, an exhibition of Soviet propaganda posters from the Cold War opens to the public. 
"It's hard to measure how well a museum is doing," says Loving. "There are many factors considered and attendance knot necessarily one of them. I'm very inter­ested in the small number ofpeople with a profound interest in museums." The mission, he says, is to have a positive influence on individual lives. . 
9 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29 






Meskillaneous 
What Could Have Been CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
After last year's bowl game se­lections, the winds of change started to shake the foundation 
of the Bowl Championship Series Sys-tern. After all, USC, the team regarded as No. 1 by sports analysts was not 

Plaving for the national : · ---~----~---·-· ···· ---~--------··1 had occurred before the 
J -, . • : While the old BCS System was not , • championship. Because ,perfect, it would have done a better j most debated national 
of strength of schedule, job_ last year in deciding the bowl ichampionship game in the 
3 .a~s1gnments than the new system ) hi f th NCAA:>
N 2 Lsu d N

O. an O. : would have. e • 
Oklahoma were to play'-· for the title, while No. 1 USC was to faceNo.4MichiganintheRoseBowl. With LSU and USC both dominating their bowl games; a controversial split championship-which only happens when the No. l teaminthecountryis not the winner of the BCS champion­ship -sparked the need for a better system. During the off-season, the NCAA made two major changes to the BCS. First, strength ofschedule would have a much smaller role in deciding bowl games. Second, the computers that replaced subjective sports analysts have been given less significance in 
the rankings formula because they did not provide the objectivity desired by the BCS. 
Now that the dust has settled in the college football world, what would have happened if all of these changes 

, story O · ·-·-·---------·-' On selection day, the 
new system would have pitted No. 1 

USC against No. 2 LSU. both systems leaving one The winner of that match­team out of the big game, up obviously would have the real difference lies in been the national cham­the split national cham­. pion. No. 3 Oklahoma pionship. Since USC was would then have played ranked first in the AP poll, No. 4 Michigan in the last year's assignments gave Rose Bowl. Had Oklahoma all three contenders a shot at won that game; it would the title, rather than aJ.ienat­have finished the season ing one of them. Therefore, 
with a 13-1 record. But since it could not have catapulted above the Sugar Bowl victor in the final stand­ings, Oklahoma could not have earned a share of the national championship. 

To deny a 13-1 Oklahoma team a share of the national championship would have been even more of an injustice than requiring USC's having to split the title last season. After all, USC at least got a share of the title when they were shut out of the BCS champion­
ship game. 
While the old BCS System was not perfect, it would have done a better job _ last year in deciding the bowl assign­
ments than the new system. With 
the split national championship 

should have been perceived as a strength of the old system rather than a sigri that the system was poor. 
. 

STATZONE 
Bryan Lowery brings you ... 
ALLTHE STATS you need to know· 


Notre Dame Olympians: took home four gold medals from the Athens sum­mer games, topping the previous Notre 

· 1 Dame record of two, set in 1948. Incom­ing freshman Mariel Zagunis won the first gold medal for the U.S. fencing team in 100 years. Former Irish women's bas­ketball standout Ruth Riley and former soccer players Kate Sobrero Markgraf and Shannon Boxx combined for another three gold medals. This raises Notre Dame's all­time count to six gold, three silver, and five bronze medals. 
Men's Soccer (2-0-0): ranked ninth in preseason, the team's highest-ever pre­season rank. The team won its first game ofthe season last Friday night, topping Or­
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 

·tSGl:IOt'.ASIIG 


I ISHEYES N DREW 
MacKAY 

Freshman swinimer Drew MacKay comes to Notre Dame after competing in the Athens Olympics this summer. With a time of2:07.65 in the 200-meter individual medley, MacKay set both a personal and national record for the Cayman Islands. His .59 second start was the fastest time off the blocks in the entire Olympics. Drew talks about the Olympics and what brought him to Notre Dame. 
OPPONENT: MICHIGAN 
WHERE: NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

Why did you come to ND? 
WHEN: SATURDAY, SEPT. 11, 2:30 P.M.

The coach called me. I came up here on a recruiting trip andl really liked it. I 
like the guys on the team, the atmosphere of the schooling and this }s where I 
IAfter our performance at BYU, I
wanted to come. 
can't fathom Notre Dame putting 
together an offense to match
What was your most memorable moment at the Olympic Games? 
Michigan. Our offensive line couldn't 
Definitely standing behind the block on my first race. It was the first race of the 
hold anything back, and our running
first heat of the first day of the Olympics. I was there and I was just so nervous. 
game resembled pee-wee football. 
The stands were packed. 
I'm praying for it to be close, but 
expecting it to get ugly, quick.
How long have you been swimming? 
Michigan takes this one from the
I have been swimming competitively since I was 10, but I've grown up on an is­
Irish, 28-6. 
land so I pretty much have always been swimming. I always had a natural feel for 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL

the water and even before I started swimming competitively, I could easily beat 
people who did. 
Notre Dame 24, Michigan 22. Notre
You are pretty fast off of the blocks. What sets you apart from all of the other swim-
Dame looked terrible last weekend 
mers? · 
against BYU and Michigan ran right
I d9n't know. I thinkit's just natural. It's not something that you can practice. You 
through Miami of Ohio, but neither 
either have a _quick [jump off of the blocks] or you don't and I am just lucky that 
of those games were played in Notre
I have a quick one. It's pretty coolto be the fastest off of the blocks, but really, 
Dame Stadium. Notre Dame comes
that's not what I'm going for. 
out on its home field on Saturday, 
shocks the Wolverines and the 
Now that you have competed in the Olympics, what are yourgoalsfor college? 
students rush the field just like they
I want to make NCAAs each year that I am in college and, hopefully, place. Hope­
did in 2002. 
fully, Notre Dame swimming will have a couple ofother guys who make it and we 
MIKEISELIN

can have a team. We can compete, and hopefully we can win someday. 
KEYTOTHE GAME: 
·· · Who is your favorite athlete? 
Back to the Days of Davie 
Lenny Krayzelburg. He was a backstroker for the U.S., and I really idolized him. 
Notre Dame needs to find a way to Other than swimming, I would probably have to say Pete Sampras. I've just always 
run the football. The eleven yards loved the way he would run on the 'court and get the job done. He worked hard 
that the Irish gained on the groundand he was damn good. 
last week was simply embarrassing. If 
-Bryan Lowery 

the Irish are going to have a chance in this one, they will need Ryan Grant to be taking carries. 
egon State (0-2-0) by a score of 2-1. The season home opener against Evansville, offensive-player-of-the-week honors. So next day senior Jack Stewart led the team 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. far the Irish defense, led by fifth-year in a 2-0 win against Boston University All-American Melissa Tancredi, has (0-2-0)withhis second goal in two games, Women's Soccer (4-0-0): ranked sec­only allowed 12 opponent shots on goal earning him Big East defensive-player-of­ond in the nation for the second straight in four games, while the Irish have posted the-weekhonors. Senior goalkeeper Chris year. The Irish shut out 13th ranked Stan­16 goals. The team will travel to four away Sawyer also earned his first shutout ofthe ford, and junior Katie Thorlakson pulled a games before taking on Big East competi­season. He will be seeking his 22nd career hat trick and registered two assists against tor Pittsburgh at Alumni Field on Sept. 24 shutout this Friday in the Irish's regular No. 4 Sarita Clara, earning her Big East at 7:30 p.m. . 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 31 



Making decisions is never easy, and 19-year-old saber phenom Mariel Zagunis had to make a 
big one. During her senior year of high school while a member of the Oregon Fencing Alliance, Zagunis had to decide between Notre Dame's offer of admis­sion in the Class of2007 and her dream offencing in the Olympics. 

To complicate the matter, Zagunis • had two major influences drawing her• to Notre Dame. First, fellow Oregon Fencing Alliance members Patrick· Ghattas, Valerie Providenza and Angela· Vincent all accepted offers of admission to Notre Dame. Second, Zagunis' coach, Ed Korfanty, is a former Notre Dame coach and was trained by current Notre· Dame head coach Janusz Bednarski.•. Despite these factors attracting her to· Notre Dame, Zagunis opted to train for the Olympics. 
"Ever since I started fencing, my goal• was to go to the Olympics, and notneces-· 
sarily win but to at least make the team,". says Zagunis. "I am excited that I got the· chance to go and show everybody what I was made of," she adds. 
The difficulty of this choice was one· of the smallest bumps in the road on Zagunis' path to Olympic glory. 
Ranked 11th in the world at the time, Zagunis had her work cut out for her at the Olympic Trials. To earn one ofthe two United States saber spots, Zagunis had to upstage a very talented field that included sisters Sada and Emily Jacob,. son. With top-ranked Sada Jacobson almost assured a spot on the team, Za-
Freshman Mariel Zaguniswon the first gold medal for the U.S. Olympic fencing team since 1904 in Athens this year. 
gunis and Emily Jacobson competed for the final spot on the roster. In the closest match in either.oftheir careers; Zagunis and Sada Jacobson bat­

tled to a 14-point tie. Jacobson got the winning touch in the final round of this epic and secured aspot for her sister on the Olympic team. Despite her impres­sive bout, Zagunis believed she would be watching the Olympics from home. 
"I was really devastated because I put my life on hold to try and make the Olympic team," Zagunis says about the loss. 
Fortunately, there was a loophole in the system that would allow Zagunis to participate in the Olympics. For the loophole to benefit her, Zagunis needed two· things to happen: A saber who already quali~ed for the Olympics needed to drop out, and Zagunis would need to be the top-ranked independent qualifier. While a rumor spread about Nigerian Federation fencer Jacqueline Esimaje's withdrawal from the Athens games, Zagunis needed to continue her training. 
-In addition to training, ,Zagunis competed in a number of events before the Olympics to bolster her worldwide rank; At the Senior World Cup in Or­leans, France, Zagunis fenced her way to a sixth,-place finish, which marked her as one to watch heading into the World Cup competition in Tauberbischofsheim, 
32 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 
09 SEPTEMBER 2004 




--------------------ld;[g.Jiil:fUC!•il!,11.ZiJ+'§:~:jiiit!tol~SPOR'ts==]-----------------------, 
Germany. In Germany, Zagunis stunned the fencing world by winning the saber competition. This astounding finish moved Zagunis into sixth place in the world and, more importantly, within striking distance of qualifying for com­petition in Athens. 
Zagunis assumed a hop<!ful outlook on the open slot after the World Cup in Germany. "It was kind of a long shot," Zagunis says, "but as time went on, I had a really good feeling that this is going to work out -it's going to work out like it's supposed to." 
On June 6, while on a crowded bus in the international terminal of the 


Portland Airport, Zagunis learned that Esimaje ofNigeria had withdrawn from Gheorghitoaia at the break. Despite the Olympics. When Zagunis' mother slowing down her pace, Zagunis won received the phone call informing her her semifinal match, 15-10. of her daughter's accomplishment, she In the finals, Zagunis was scheduled to stood up and shouted from the opposite face the No. 5 Xue Tan of China, who end ofthe bus, "You made it, Mariel! You eliminated Sada Jacobson in the semifi­made the Olympic team!" nals. In her best bout of.the Olympics, 
Heading into the Olympics, Zagunis Zagunis set the pace for the match, tak­had climbed to a career-best No. 4 rank­ing an early 8-2 lead over her adversary. ing, and was in full throttle for Athens. Despite Tan's best effort at a comeback, Zagunis gained momentum, beating her Zagunis thwarted her rally to win the opponents by increasing margins in each gold by a final score of 15-9. of the Olympic rounds. Zagunis' win made her the first Ameri­
Granted a bye in the round of 32, Za­can female· ever to win a fencing medal gunis was set to face Madoka Hisagae of in the Olympics and the first American Japan in the round of 16. Close to elimi­to win the gold in fencing since 1904. nation, Zagunis battled back in an excel­Zagunis adds the gold medal to a col­lent match with ten deadlocked scores to .lection of impressive accolades which edge Hisagae, 15-13, and advance to the include numerous Junior World Cham­quarterfinals. pionship trophies, World Championship 
In the quarterfinals, Zagunis faced titles and World Cup medals. 12th-seeded Elena Jemayeva of Azer­"I'm just glad that I had a second baijan. The heavily contested match chance and that I had the opportunity was over in only 55 seconds. Zagunis to show everybody that I really deserved and Jemayeva tied it up at touches 3, to be here," Zagunis says, reflecting back 4, 5, 9 and 11. However, Zagunis came on all ofthe events that transpired since out on top in the end, with a 4-0 run to her .senior year of high school. advance pastJemayeva, 15-11. Despite having to choose between 
With two rounds remaining, Zagunis fencing for the Irish or for the United focused, calling it the "stage in the game States last year, Zagunis got t4e ~est of [where it is] completely mental." both ~orld~·: following h~r ~~n Olympic 
Zagunis dominated the semifinals, dream and now joining the Notre Dame leading 8-2 over Romanian Catalina fencing team and the class of 2008. . 


09 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 33 
,----------------------gm-m~ilalffli!Rram~-lffll1J.t>SPQ8TS :1-----------------------­
, I 
'i 
I! 
!· 


One ofthe most important mem­bers of this year's Notre Dame women's soccer team will not even lace up a pair of cleats this sea­son. She won't dribble a ball or put on a jersey. But trainer Jamie Cranage will do her best to make sure that every player is healthy and ready to play each game this season. 

"Our greatest challenge this season is really to stay healthy," says senior tri-captain Mary Boland. Boland, no stranger to the training room herself after several ankle problems, says she is fi­nally 100 percent and is not planning on any trips to the training room for herself this year. 
Aside from attempting to remain injury­free this season, the Irish began prepara­tions for their 2004campaign by taking a 10-daytrip to Brazil for some sunshine and soccer. From Aug. 10-19, the Irish trained in Campinas, Brazil -roughly an hour outside of San Paulo. 
"The trip to Brazil was great since it was 10 days with all the girls, including the freshmen," Boland says. "The tfip was earlier than any other preseason so we were able to concentrate on soccer, as well as have an opportunity to really 

· get to know one another off the field." 
Junior goalkeeper Erika Jfohn says that one of the strengths Of'.this year's team is the unity that the girls share. "Team chemistry is a big part of success. Going to a foreign country with a different language really helped us to come together. It was a great bonding and team-building trip, not to mention the great dance party_ on_ th,e 

bus, too." · · · · · Boland said that the Irish faced a very different, much more technical style of soccer than is pl,~yei:l here in the U.S. "It's not nearly as physical a game in Latin America," she says. "You don't see the hard-tackling play that is much more common here." Bohn agrees. "Every player has the abil­ity to take you on and beat you with the ball. The. players down in Brnzil may _not nec~ssarily be the most athletic, but they are just amazingly skilled with the ball;" she says. The different style of play didn't keep · the Ir1sh from playing their usual winning soccer. The squad played six games, wine. ning five and tying one; Leading scorers on the trip included senior Candace Chapman, with four goals, juniorKatie Thorlakson, with six assists, freshman Jannica Tjeder, with three goals and two assists, and freshman Ashley Jones, with two goals and three assists. The games -which Boland says attracted many curious local spectators -included the traditional exchange of gifts and group photos. The Irish also enjoyed their time at the Vitoria Hotel and soaked in the atmo­sphere at first-division Brazilian men's professional games held at Ponta Preta and Guarani. Meals included Brazil's · many exotic forms ofpizza and unique steakhouses that featured table-top carv­ings of a variety of entrees. "They cooked up all types of animals, serving the meat on sticks and delivering them right to our seats. Other than our 
34 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 


----------------------m;lm.lDNtimRlml:tc~'"s~-P.~:-bg___:BR;IT~S..,,,,~:_·,J1---------------------1 


"We need to build on last year and con­tinue to evolve," says Bohn. The team's record leapt to 4-0 this season after it defeated Stanford University and Santa Clara University in its kickoff Adidas Classic tournament. 
This season, the Irish women's team includes 23 former letter-win­ners and a freshman class rated as high as No. 2 nationally. 
With so many talented players, Wal­drum, in his sixth year as head coach, faces the challenge of selecting a start­ing 11. "Our depth really is our great­est strength since it will keep us fresh as the season goes along," says Boland. The greatest depth seems to lie in the defensive corps. The Irish return three of four starters from last year's unit, two of whom have been plagued by knee in­juries in seasons past. Standout defender Chapman returns this year after missing the 2003 college season and the Women's World. Cup due to an anterior cruciate ligament knee injury. Two other players who will form the core of this year's de­fense are returning starters: fifth-year se-­nior Melissa Tancredi -who missed the 2000 season due to an ACL injury-and sophomore Shaner. Tancredi is certainly included in any discussion of national player-of-the-year honors. Senior tri­captain Gudrun Gunnarsdottir, senior Kate Tulisiak, and juniors Jenny Walz, Miranda Ford and Amber McMillin com­bine to join sophomore Kari Kennedy to round but the Irish defensive unit. 
Bohn returns as the incumbent in the teammate, [sophomore] Christie Shaner, none ofus speak Portuguese," says Boland. "The most popular word used by the meat slicers was 'corazon,' which is the Spanish word for heart. After we had already eaten seven of these corazons, we learned that there were lots ofchickens grazing Brazil heartless!" 


Now that the season is in full swing, it's business as usual for the Irish. "We're not looking too far ahead, but we know what the final goal is," says Boland. "We need to focus on winning the Big East, and then having success in the NCAA Tournament. Obviously our goal is to win a national championship, but we need to take it one day at a time." 
Boland credits Coach Randy Wal­drum with creating the driven mind­set of this year's squad. "Coach has done so much. He's changed the way we practice and really given us adifferent mentality,'' Boland says. 
Being an elite squad has its advan­tages and disadvantages, as the Irish witnessed last year. The 2003 team suf­fered many key injuries but still was able to add its name to the record books during a 20-3-1 season that featured an 18-0-1 start, a 10-game shutout streak (fifth-lon­gest in NCAA history and longest since 1999), and a balanced overall squad that finished third nationally in scoring (3.04 goals per game) and fifth in goals-against average (0.49).Despite the team's success, the year still ended without a national championship for the Irish. 

nets after compiling a 0.84 goals-against average in her first two seasons with the Irish. 
In the midfield the Irish will be led by sophomore Jen Buczkowski. The rest of the midfield is made up of junior Annie Schefter, sophomores Jill Krivacek, Lizzie Reed, Claire Gallerano and senior Sarah Halpenny. 
The Irish's biggest losses from last year's graduating class are at the forward position; The Irish will miss the speed and scoring ability of Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin, who combined for a total of 85 goals in their Notre Dame careers. But members of this year's team certainly have the talent to replace them. Boland, named first team all-Big East and second team Academic All-American last year, will be joined at forward by juniors Thorlakson and Maggie Manning, as well as sophomores Becky Tweneboah and Molly Iarocci. 
The highly touted freshman class includes four highly regarded forwards -Amanda Cinalli, Kerri Hanks, Susan Pinnick and Tjeder -plus midfielder Ashley Jones and goalkeeper Lauren Karas. 
Boland emphasizes the importance of student support this season. "It means so . much when the crowd is really loud and heckling the other team -like the 12th man,'' she says. "We don't want teams to like playing us here." D 
With their sights set on a national 

09 SEPTEMBER 2004 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 35 
; .. -. . ' -. --~-~ ­
'-~-__ ------~ ______,..________--­






I 
I 
"This makes me vomit." -student buying course packets in Lafortune 
"This game is huge. Everyone is so excited they are even drinking caffeine." -overhead BYU cameraman 
"I'm so easy." -anthropology professor 
"I've never needed money because I've never had it. I grew up middle class." -overheard student on South Quad 
'"Yet' has to be the worst word in the English language." 
-journalism professor 
Guess we should have left this one to the engineers: 
A banner congratulating Arts and Letters graduates hangs upside down outside O'Shaughnessy Hall this fall. 

100 Years Ago 
On Fashionable Headwear 
This weekend, as Notre Dame welcomes visiting Michi­gan supporters, students will likely remember the courte­ously thrown hard-boiled eggs, spilled beers and spewed anti-Catholic epithets that marked Wolverine hospitality a year ago. But in 1904 it was another Big Ten university that precipitated the decline ofWestern civilization. 
From the October 15, 1904 Scholastic editorial section: 
"Henceforth the area ofa man's capillary adormnentwill remain unsurveyed to the public eye ... ·[The upperclassmen at the Uni­versity ofMinnesota] have agreed that uncovering the head in the open air is a menace to health in the winter and a nuisance during all other seasons; so a mere encounter in public with a female of one's acquaintance will no longer be a signal for dignified doffing. Hereafter a polite nod will be deemed a courteous acknowledge­ment ofa lady's presence, -anything further will be considered obsequious orfoppisB? 
There was no _mention of placing a raincoat over a puddle for a lady; this practice is likely aggravated foppery. 
-Eril, Powers 

36 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 



HUMOR 



-------~----­


i 
d 
,1
.,, 

MlKEHEALY 

Perhaps the most obsequious sight on campus during the first week ofschool is that of scattered lumber and pieces of lofts. I myself contributed to the preponder­
ance of elevated bedding structures, and I must say, it worked out rather nicely. The most rewarding part of the whole ex­perience came, surprisingly enough, 

when the loft was at last completed. motorcycles, dense, intimidating

As I stood over my creation, covered in sweat, sawdust and the tattered remains of my Muppet Show tank top, my roommate Kenton said that I "looked tall and strong, like a man should look." 
My first reaction to this (aside from feeling thankful that our lofts are separated by a decent amount of space) was to realize that this state­ment was, in fact, true. I resembled all the finest characteristics of Bob Vila and Gore Vidal, and wondered aloud whether nature had ever be­fore born witness to such a titan of testosterone as myself. 

After a short while, replete with self-admiration and quasi-intimida­tion, I came to the conclusion that the only way to determine my true level ofmasculinitywas to construct what I like to call the Healy Index of Masculinity (HIM). Essentially, the way HIM works (I know it sounds awkward, but it's for science) is through the input of a variety of acts and a description of their relative manliness to an appropriate public figure. The HIM encompasses a broad spectrum (a wide spectrum, not a spectrum for broads), ranging from Boy George (least manly) to Burt Reynolds (manliest). Ifyou wish to get a better grasp of the HIM in action, here is a small sampling: 
Corey Haim (low HIM rating) -Tea parties, nail polish, deliberately scratching someone, ballet, Waiting to Exhale, be­ing a girl. 
Cory Feldman (mid-level rating)-Sitting down, stand­ing, eating dinner, Archie comics, liking R.E.M., disliking R.E.M. 
Richard Greico (moderately high rating)-Drywall, cigarette· smoking, sport participation, getting punched in the face, dogs, chasing women, lumber, sparse chest hair. 
Indiana Jones (high rating) -Fighting (humans), sport watching, exceeding the speed limit, swearing, flannel, na­ture, White Snake, having a bad back, using a sledgehammer. (NOTE: Indiana Jones would comprise a much higher category ofmasculinity were it not for the fact that Dr.Jones a) is afraid of snakes, and b) sometimes wears glasses.) 
Burt Reynolds (highest rating) -Fighting (bears), talking 
about drywall, trucks, moustaches, 
chest hair, spitting, being a lum ­berjack, kicking things (not karate kicking), yelling at people. 
So you see, as a person you do not have a set level of manliness, but instead partake in different actions throughout your life, each having a different level of manliness. For instance, although my masculinity is suppressed somewhat by the fact that I am afraid of snakes (Indiana Jones) and do not know as much about drywall as I should (please don't tell anyone), I do enjoy yelling at people, and I did kick something once. 
In order to prevent the few people I know who read this from becoming upset with me, I would just like to state that the Healy Index of Mas­culinity is a purely subjective tool. A high rating is not "good," just as a low rating is not "bad." There are 

· good things on the Haimend of the scale, such as nail polish (when a prom date wears it for decoration), just as things at the Reynolds end ofthe spectrum can be bad, like moustaches (such as when the same prom date wears one for decoration). Furthermore, one should not let his life goals be determined by which end ofthe HIM he is trying to reach, but should let his life goals direct his orientation on the HIM continuum. Thus, if it is your lifelong dream to one day become a lumberjack, it would be wise to work towards the Burt Reynolds ideal. Ifyou really wanted to deliberately scratch someone, itwould behoove you to be as Haim-like as possible. There you have it, the definitive way to gauge your true level of manliness. I always knew God put me on this Earth with a greater purpose in mind, and I know now that it was to reveal this -the HIM-to you, the adbring masses. Having accomplished this task at long last, I shall sleep well tonight, perched high above the Earth on the Loft ofMan. D 
38 SCHOLASTICHUMOR 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 


Sign,Up on the Internet NOW @ www; LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in your 
>-· 2oos:=DomeVearbook! ­
WHO::. Class of 2005 
WHEN:·... Pictures·taken 
until Sept. 17 WHERE: -• LaFortune 108 WHY: :: . To be in the 2005 
Do'me--­
Remember to Sign;Up Today! 
www.:: 

LaurenStudios.com 
.. ---. ---------­
-~ -------~---­
by Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
New Beginnings 
Do not settle for the givenness of things. Imagine and work for a better universe and (I might add) an improved Notre Dame. 
This essay appeared in the Aug. 21, 1987 issue ofScholastic. At that time Father Malloy was beginning hisfirst year as Notre Dame's president. 

Iam genuinely excited as we begin another school year together. This is my first year as president of the university, and I feel a spe­cial affinity with those students and faculty who have joined the Notre Dame family for this first time. In one sense, Notre Dame is a large and complex institution -we have over 100 build­ings, 9,400 total students, 900 faculty members and 1,200 staff and administrative employees. The campus spreads out over 1,700 acres, and we are the second most popular tourist attraction in the state of Indiana. But there is another side to Notre Dame -its soul ifyou will. This soul is constituted by the network of friendships formed, by the dedica­tion of gifted minds to the search for truth, by the vitality of the worship throughout the year, and by the deep loyalty of its graduates who return so readily for visits. This is the Notre Dame of hallowed professors, beloved rectors and secretaries who care. Each of us is a part of this reality for better or for worse. It is a sacred trust which we all bear a responsibility to preserve. I will surely be feeling my way in the months ahead. Don't be sur­prised to discover some stupid mistakes or some seeming insensitivities. I, and all ofus in the ad­ministration, will endeavor to stay in touch and to foster a spirit ofopen communication. Com­munity is always a difficult achievement and it requires cooperation from all participants. In particular, to those ofyou who are students, I would like to offer a few words of encourage­ment and advice: -Keep struggling to find a healthy bal­ance between study and leisure, culture and recreation. Education is a serious endeavor. It requires self-discipline and drive. Indeed, millions throughout the world envy your op­portunity. Take full advantage ofthe resources here -the concerts and plays, the Snite, the lectures and symposia, the games, the clubs and the student government. At the same time, there is a legitimate place for fun and celebration, for music and dance, for bull sessions and for quiet walks around the lake. 
-Get to know and be known by the faculty and the head staff in the dorms. The passage from adolescence to young adulthood is full of challenges of all kinds. Sometimes one's life goals are unclear. Relationships flourish and then wane. Friends get sick and relatives die. Your journey is unique in its own way, but others have faced similar challenges and might even have a bit ofwisdom to pass on to you. Take the initiative and say hello or stop by for a chat. The seemingly callous professor or rector might turn out to be a lifelong friend. 
-Don't settle for a childlike faith or leave religious commitment at the periphery ofyour consciousness and concern. The dorm chapel, Sacred Heart Church, the Grotto_;__ these sites of devotion and prayer provide the opportunity for regular participation with the community of faith. This is an essential component of Chris­tian discipleship, but there is more to it than that. A Catholic university is an ideal place to ponder the Scriptures, to become familiar with the doctrine and practices of the Church and to confront the perplexing questions of con­temporary life. Furthermore, the Center for Social Concerns offers social service projects of all kinds. Whether you make an Urban Plunge, tutor a grade schooler, visit the elderly or spend a prolonged period in the Third World, you.will be cultivating a heightened sense of responsi­bility for the quality oflife ofyour neighbor in need. 
-Finally, take a few risks. The biblical author assigns to the young the challenge of dreaming new worlds. Do not settle for the givenness of things. Imagine a~d work for a better universe and (I might add) an improved Notre Dame. Do :hot be a prisoner ofyour major, your career plans or even your parents' expecta­tions. You have come here to learn how to think more clearly, how to clarify your values and how to make a difference. There is no better time to begin than this year. 
I hope that I can come to know many of you personally this year. Together we can build a greater Notre Dame. D 
40 SCHOLASTICFINALWORD 09 SEPTEMBER 2004 
---~--=.-;:c----;c;-_ --' I ' ~ 
', -. 
..Thursday . 1opmND St· 
. Stay afte i­
-BREW 

····•.•·..">'•···,,</Bflladeasting Everyday··aam:.2:0Dall''f'1c'j'I 
.· , I· 







