HE’S AMERICA’S
FRONTIER IN FRA
FD Rs Most-Tdephonei Ambassador
WHO KNEW all the answers when that new Army bomber crashed, with a French Air Ministry officer in it? Who knows all the answers when the President uses the transatlantic telephone for feedbox tips on the latest European crisis? The answer is: William C. Bullitt, who went from Social Register to Congressional Record. Read his story in your Post tonight. First of two articles.
HE ROSE FROM THE RICH
by Jack Alexander
If our nextpicture is a success
WERE RUINED*
• Hollywood? A genial madhouse. And Patterson McNutt knows all its cockeyed angles. In the Post this week he writes an amusing story of that fabulous land, where turning out a flop picture can even be enjoyable—if you can make somebody else take the rap for it. Watch closely and observe a new Hollywood feature: the double double-cross!
One Big Happy Family
A Hollywood Story by PATTERSON McNUTT
WHAT! Civil War soldiers raiding a tourist camp!
In 1939? Yes, it can happen here. And all because of a honey-colored blonde named Angel, and her vanishing $500 trousseau. Up to then, Prof. Lysander Markham had been sure the Civil War was over. Here’s a story one part historical, three parts hysterical.
Custer's Cavalry Rescues Uncle Birch
by ROYCE HOWES
if DETROIT BUYS A $100,000 ROOKIE. And what hurts, the Tigers had him earlier on a $5,000 option—and let him go! In One Rookie They Won’t Forget, Paul O’Neil tells you about the 19-year-old wonder boy who is still a mystery to major-league dopesters.
if MARY ROBERTS RINEHART describes a day in the life of a writer, and sums it up for you in three words: Writing Is Work.
if W. SOMERSET MAUGHAM talks this week about You and Some More Books. He gives you his favorites—this time among writers of France, Spain and Russia, whose stories are worth reading.
Wand..■ three lively short stories, The Cicadas Sang, by Stuart Cloete;
Crank Ship, by RichardHowells Watkins, and Mrs. Cupid, by Brooke Hanlon... ’A* PLUS articles, editorials, fun, and cartoons in the Post this week.
“SUBMARINE MAIL"
Spain’s odd war for stamp-collectors’ money
Because freak stamps bring fancy prices, Spain’s Loyalists engineered a'neat moneyraising exploit—submarine mail. A writer who accompanied the first cargo describes that hazardous trip through Franco’s plane and torpedo-boat blockade.
Stamp War by WERNER KELL
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The N otre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
March 10, 1939
No. 19
LINNETS HONOR ST. BENGAL BOUT PRELIMS BEGIN WEDNESDAY;
PATRICK ON C.B.S.
At the invitation of the Columbia Broadcasting System, the Notre Dame Linnets will do the first in a series of coast - to - coast radio shows on the afternoon of St. Patrick’s Day, March 17.
PROCEEDS WILL AID BENGAL MISSIONS
By William C. McGowan
CLANG! At the sound of the gong it will be exactly 8:15 o’clock next Wednesday night BENGAL BOUTS TIME, and the subsequent crunch of leather on flesh will be the first punch socked home in the first preliminary fight of the seventh annual BENGAL BOUTS sponsored by The Scholastic.
The Linnet Glee Club, accompanied at the organ by Director Orville Foster, will offer a program of Irish ballads for their inaugural network performance.
The choral group will do such memorable numbers as “Kerry Dance,” “Rose of Tralee” and the perpetual favorite of all true Irishmen, “Danny Boy.” Two selections on the program are from the stage success, “Eileen.” These are: “The Irish Have A Great Day Tonight” and “Thine Alone” which will feature the popular tenor voice of Anthony Do-nadio.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., will give the keynote address for the occasion. The program will be aired through the studios of WSBT in South Bend at 3 o’clock, C.S.T., March 17th.
Villagers Prepare For Basketball Banquet
•
James E. Armstrong, national Notre Dame alumni secretary, presented details of a plan whereby the Association of Commerce and the University may find part-time work for students, and also described the Placement Bureau which finds employment for Notre Dame graduates, at the annual joint meeting of the Villagers club and the St. Joseph Valley club in the Columbia A.C., last Monday night.
Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, and President Robert K. Rodi-baugh of the Villagers club, also spoke. Rodibaugh outlined plans for the annual testimonial banquet honoring the 1938-39 basketball team and coach, which will be held Monday evening, March 20. Dillon J. Patterson, president of the St. Joe Valley club, was toastmaster. Bernard F. Hiss is general chairman of the basketball banquet.
Promoter Da Pra
Has four Bengals behind him.
Appoint Mills Director of Rockne Memorial
•
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., last -week announced the appointment of Mr. Thomas E. Mills as Activities Director of the Rockne Memorial. Mr. Mills has resigned as director of the University Theatre to take over his new duties.
Mr. Mills has been assistant professor of speech at the University since 1936; he received his A.B. degree from Beloit College in 1905 and later did graduate work at the University of Wisconsin and the University of Illinois.
Before joining the University faculty, Mr. Mills was head of the department of speech at the Arkansas State College. He has also been a commentator for the National Broadcasting Company.
He was a member of the faculty of Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska, from 1915 until 1919, and from 1920 until 1925 was instructor of speech at Beloit College.
During the football season from 1926 until 1929, Mr. Mills served as assistant football coach under the late Knute Rockne. He also coached baseball during the 1928-’29 seasons.
Why
The net profits will be donated to the Bengal Missions in Bengal, India. This year they will serve two purposes: They will materially help the missionary work; and they will aid American nuns in establishing a chain of miniature hospital units throughout the Bengalese missions, as announced last week by the Most Rev. Timothy J. Crowley, C.S.C., Bishop of Decca; India.
When
The preliminary' bouts begin Wednesday, evening March 15, and continue March 16, 20, and 21. The bouts begin at 8:15 pjn. Final bouts in all divisions are scheduled for Friday evening, March 24.
What
Each preliminary night, from ten-to 15 fights will be run off, depending on the number of contestants in a given weight division. On the night of the finals there will be eight championship bouts.
How Much
The admission price for the prelims is ten cents. For the finals, a general admission ticket is 25 cents, and reserved seats are one dollar.
Who’s Who
One hundred of the best fighters in the University. Louis DaPra is promoting the Bengals. Dominic Napolitano, professor in the school of physical education is in charge of contestants’ training, assisted by William Padow, Joe McKeon, and Ed Broscoe. Vincent DeCoursey and William Fay are in charge of tickets, which will be sold by each member of the Scholastic staff. Donald Foskett has charge of publicity.
Referee*
Referees will be experienced men (Continued on Page 23)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
SCHOOLMEN PREPARE FOR DISPUTATION
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
Tentative plans for the fourth annual philosophical disputation were drawn up by the Notre Dame Schoolmen, society of philosophy majors, at a special meeting last Tuesday which honored the Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This philosophical discussion is annually one of the outstanding academic events of the schoolyear. Three years ago the Holy Father gave his especial approval to the inauguration of these affairs by the University.
Recently elected Pope Pius XII,
Schoolman Roche
Takes charge of disputation
Cardinal Pacelli, then serving as papal secretary of state, on behalf of the late Pope Pius XI, sent papal congratulations and blessings at the occasion of the first disputation in 1936. The message, addressed to the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, read:
“The Holy Father blesses the initiative of participants in the series of public philosophical disputations at Notre Dame.”
(Signed) Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli.
The discussion this year will take place about the middle of April. Subject matter of the disputation will center around epistemological problems. Thomas Roche, president of the Schoolmen, has appointed the following committees to investigate special studies in this field.
Ted Frericks, bibliography; Peter Repetti, Herman Romberg, John McGovern, John Walsh, theses; Irving Klister, Carl Fricke, Albert Pacetta, objections; George Haithcock, publicity.
The disputation is under the direction of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., head of the undergraduate school of philosophy, who will be assisted by other members of the philosophy faculty.
Aziz Saliba El-Araj
Last week we printed a little note on some rather peculiar thesis titles, among which was one called “Aziz Saliba El-Araj.” Since then we have discovered that “Aziz Saliba El-Araj” ’ is not the name of the thesis at all but rather the name of the fellow who wrote it. This makes the story seem at least twice as funny to us. We are still fairly certain—we’re not sure of anything any more — that “Greater Potato” is not the name of a student, but who would have thought that Aziz Saliba El-Araj was a fellow Notre Dame man, a member of the alumni body that includes such men as Pope Pius XII, President Roosevelt, Elmer Layden, and the Mayor of Chicago.
“I suppose,” wrote our corrector, “you will soon be referring to Stuhl-dreher as an English assignment, or Carideo as an Italian duty.” (He might have gone on to mention Rockne as a geology assignment but he was content with what he had already contrived). He merely went on to give us some history of this lawstudent from the Levant: “Aziz was probably the only mailman from Palestine Alumni Hall ever had, or ever will have. Between peddling Persian rugs to us boys, he also peddled mail for Alumni way back in 1933-34, and also slid milk and cookies across the counter when the Huddle was, without any resort to euphemism, called the candy store. He was also a very intelligent student, undergraduate and graduate, and used to upbraid the Law school profs in no uncertain terms when he became excited, which was not more than ten times per day.” •
And we also hear from other sources that Aziz spent a great deal of his time here translating Father Murray’s Introduction to Sociology into Arabian.
•
Top of Any Week
Bengal Prelims!
•
“Periscope” Survey
The following survey was made among “Week” readers, and the following results have been tabulated: I. Do you listen to “The Periscope”?
1	Vp=	9
2.	No JI™.™ ’"..499,984
3.	Occasionally ...... 7
II.	I listen to “The Periscope” because :
1.	Ed O’Connor is an unusual man.
2.	My room mate come from Rhode Island and he makes me listen.
3.	Kay Kyser is a southerner and you’ve got to listen to something (“Loyal Yankee” Answer Dep’t).
4.	His voice has such a sleep-provoking quality.
•5. Ooh geegosh, Ed O’Connor has such curly blond hair and such muscular shoulders (“St. Mary Freshman” Answer Dep’t).
6.1 always did like fiction.
7. My radio can only get So. Bend.
8.	1 thought it was a story about the navy and me brudder is a sailor (the “I Only Had To Listen Once” Dep’t.).
9.	Slander cannot go unheeded (the “Scholastic’s Libel Editor” Dept.).
10.	It’s a sure-fire way of persuading my room mate to go over to the caf and buy something for the two of us.
III.	I don’t listen to “The Periscope” because:
1.	Ed O’Connor is an unusual man.
2.	Kay Kyser, suh, is a southerner, and ah Jak ’im pow’ful well.
3.	Oh, that awful man! “St. Mary Senior” Answer Dep’t.).
4.	His voice has such a sleep-provoking quality.
5.	He has been seen on the campus holding fingers with a certain beautiful girl who works in the library and I burn up with envy whenever I think upon it.
6.	Never heard of the program.
7.1 sold my radio the first time I heard “The Periscope.”
8. Oh, that program.
9.1 can’t answer that question; it’s Lent.
•
Of All Places!
A fellow we know got a charley-horse while he was attending the concert the other night and he had to get up and wiggle his leg around right in the middle of a number. The next day he was telling his friends about the experience. “Where was it?” one of them asked. “In the calf?” “No,” he said with some irritation, “L told you it was in the concert.”
•
Tiger Lou
The boy we’re sponsoring to turn in the most colorful performance in the entire Bengal Bouts, Tiger Lou Essey, the Maxton Mauler, has really gotten down to serious training. The other day, for instance, Brother Lou did the following strenuous bit of road work. First he started on a hike down town, walking at a brisk pace until he picked up a ride as soon as he reached the highway. Then he sat drinking cokes in Walgreen’s most of the afternoon, recuperating from the strenuous hitch-hiking. Finally he extended himself to the heights of training discipline and walked all the way home. The wise money is all on Brother Lou, 147 pounds of dynamite and a sure bet to talk himself into the championship if his opponent lets him.
MARCH 10, 1939
BRIGHT HEADS NEW "LAWYER" STAFF
•
A nine-man editorial board of the Notre Dame Lawyer last Monday elected Francis E. Bright, junior lawyer from Franklin, N. J., editor-in-chief of the University’s legal publication for 1939-1940. Bright will succeed Francis Joseph Lanigan.
Other officials elected in the nonpolitical voting conducted by James J. Kearney, faculty advisor, were Leon Lange Lancaster of Orchard Park, N. Y., business manager, and
Editor Bright First issue in May.
John Clayton Hynes of South Bend, Indiana, note and case editor.
The editorial board, composed of the nine ranking junior lawyers, included Francis E. Bright, John C. Hynes, Leon L. Lancaster, William P. Mahoney, John H. Wilson, James E. Mann, Arthur J. Selna, Edwin D. O’Leary, Louis L. Da Pra, and John C. O’Connor.
Lancaster will succeed John A. O’Leary while Hynes will take over much of the work now done by Carl Doozan as note editor. The office of managing editor was abolished in the reorganization invoked by Professor Kearney.
Prior to the voting Prof. Kearney outlined the requisites for admission and retention to the nine-man editorial board. Students will be admitted to membership if by March 1 of their second year they have had two articles accepted for publication and if their scholastic rating places them within the first nine in their class.
To retain membership on the board a member must have an article accepted for publication by Oct. 15 of his third year and another one on Feb. 15 of that year.
Furthermore, any student may become a contributing editor of the Lawyer upon publication of an article in the quarterly.
The newly elected officers and editorial board will take over their duties in conjunction with the outgoing staff with the publication of the May issue of the Lawyer.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
Perhaps You May Not Be Aware . . .
But “Summerfield’s Silk Socks Send Scholars to School.” At least, that’s an alliterative headline in the Daily Kansan. The Summerfield scholars are on the University of Kansas campus because women wear silk stockings and because Kansas alumnus, Solon Erb Sjimmerfield, makes silk socks and sends $20,000 silk sock money annually for twelve scholarships to the Kansas school of higher learning.
Twisting the story and the socks around a little, this becomes the tale of college for 12 Kansas high school seniors each year to whom college looks like a field of summer clover, because Summerfield sells silk socks.
We wonder, too, along the pessimistic side, if there isn’t a secret clause in the Summerfield contract whereby the applicants must pledge to cause “runners” in silk socks for Summerfield’s sales.
—o—
Ennie, Meenie . . .
“Will you please give me a dime, sir? I’m deaf and dumb.”
“Deaf and dumb?”
“Oh, fudge! I mean I’m blind. It’s me twin brudder who is deaf and dumb, and we look so much alike that I get us all mixed up.”
—California Pelican
While Rubbing Some of the Ink ...
Off the exchanges this week, it struck us that the one syndicated editorial, which appeared in so many of the college papers’ editorial boxes, is not decent journalism even from the lazy man’s angle. These “canned words,” which were syndicated by one company to practically all of the college newspapers in the country, concerned the comments of four or five college editors who eulogized the Pope’s death.
Hypocrites, you might add, when we say that most of the offenders were Catholic college newspapers who recovered only a week ago from preaching about action and initiative during Catholic press month.
—o—
In and Out of the “Parade”
At the University of Minnesota, they have begun a much publicized drive for a student union building.... Students at Minnesota have pledged $50,000 for the project.... Advertise-men in- the classified section of the Duquesne Duke: “Wanted: A job that pays no less than 90 cents an hour. Person who desires the job—it must be part time—will give 10 per cent of his pay for the first three weeks to the person securing the job for him..”
5
GRADY FLAYS BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY
•
Thomas Grady, Farmer City, Hl., addressed the Wranglers Monday night on the subject of the present English foreign policy. Tracing Hie development of the British Empire since the time of Victoria, he showed how the present stand of Mr. Chamberlain is in distinct contradiction to the methods used by the men who made England great.
“The biggest point in the present aims of the British government seems to be the maintenance of the continental balance of power by appeasement,” said the speaker and then pointed out that the policy of the Chamberlain administration has not done so; indeed it has made almost certain a conflict in the future.
“To give Hitler everything he claims is not to satisfy his desires; its chief effect will be to make his
Objector Gerra
“Give the ‘have nets’ something."
claims stronger in the future. Munich did not settle the problem of war in Europe; it merely deferred it.”
Ralph Gerra took exception to the remarks and wanted to’ know how the “have” nations could deny the “have not’s” something that in justice belonged to neither. While agreeing in details with the speaker, he claimed that Chamberlain’s allowance of German aggression in Austria and Czechoslovakia was not out of line with ethics, although it might have been in agreement with British imperialism of the past century.
At the meeting it was announced by Jerry O’Dowd, chairman of the Wranglers - sponsored Notre Dame Catholic Oratory Contest, that the date of the event, had been set for the weekend of April 22.	*
Bill Shakespeare Dies
Stratford-on-Avon, Eng., March 3 —William Shakespeare, of Stratford-on-Avon, died today. He was 83, not related to the Bard whose birth here made the town famous.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
The Liturgy is the mouthpiece of the teaching Church. By word and action it daily repeats the lesson of the great mysteries of religion. The whole body of words which accompany the liturgical action is known as liturgical prayer. This is the official prayer of the Church as distinguished from private or special devotions. It derives its excellence from this official character as being the expression of the infallible Church. Its author is the Holy Ghost. The chief books of this official prayer are the Missal, the Divine Office, the Roman Pontifical and the Roman Ritual. To read the Missal with care is at once a source of instruction and edification. One learns while praying. The Lenten masses are totally preoccupied with the Mystery of the Cross. They instruct us in our duty to bear our cross through the ends of Lent—fast, abstinence, prayer and penance.
Mass Calendar: March 12 to 18
Sunday 12—Third of Lent. Mass proper. 2d prayer St. Gregory. 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Gregory, called the Great, is one of the four Latin Fathers. The Gregorian Chant is named after him.
Monday 13—Ferial. Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. R.
Tuesday U—FeriaL Simple. Mass proper. 2d prayer Intercession of the Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday 15 — Ferial. Simple. Mass proper. Collects as of yesterday.
Thursday 16—FeriaL Simple. Mass proper. Collects as of Tuesday.
Friday 17—St. Patrick. Bishop. Confessor. Apostle of Ireland. Double. Mass: Statuit (Common). 2d prayer of the feriaL 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Last Gospel of the feriaL
Saturday 18—St. Cyril of Jerusalem. Bishop. Confessor. Doctor. Double. Mass: In Medio (Common). 2d prayer of the feriaL 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo. Last Gospelof the FeriaL St. Cyril preached and wrote against the Arian heresy which denied the.divinity of Christ
Chalice of Pius IX and Gifts of Napoleon III Among Treasures of Sacred Heart Sacristy
By James Magarahan
The Sacristy of the Sacred Heart church houses treasures that have been accumulating since the foundation of the University. They include monstrances, crucifixes, chalices, ci-boriums, crosiers, rings and Mass kits which are on display in the miniature museum.
Of special interest is the. beautiful bronze crucifix given by Louis Napoleon III. The cross, which stands between six and a half to seven feet high, is of Gothic design. At the four corners of the base are steeples of four churches; in the middle of the structure are four embossed statuettes. The figure of Our Lord’s crucifixion is vividly portrayed by a three foot body hanging limply from the Cross. Napoleon III also contributed a chasuble, two dalmatics, and seven copes, all of gold cloth.
Gifts of Louis Napoleon III
These gifts from the Emperor of France were received through the zealous personal solicitation of Reverend Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C., who brought several crates of valuable articles from Paris to Notre Dame.
The Marquis Colbert de Maulevier, Secretary of State to Napoleon III, was another benefactor of Notre Dame, giving a monstrance, chalice, and ciborium. The monstrance is a radiant 42-inch gold piece, decorated with adoring angels, surmounted by a cross.
In 1875 one of the chalices of Pope Pius IX, a gift to Father Sorin, was added to the collection, as well as a chalice given to the first Bishop of Cincinnati by Louis Bourbon, Prince of Spain in 1826.
Numerous chalices are among the collection, including one which was rescued from the Chicago fire Oct. 9, 1894; one made of pewter which was used in the Reign of Terror in France and also used at Notre Dame, Paris, in preparing for ordination; and some 20 other chalices'used by various missionaries in the Middle West.
Upon the foundation of the Priests’ Eucharistic League in the United States at Notre Dame, the University was made recipient of a unique cloisonne and gold ciborium. Another ciborium, capable of holding 1200 Communion hosts, and one of the largest ever made, was presented to Father Sorin on his golden jubilee as a priest in 1888. The House of Santa
Brigitta in Rome donated a ciborium used by many Popes and Cardinals.
Father Sorin’s Monstrance
The first monstrance used at Notre Dame by Father Sorin was brought from France by him in 1841. He used it in services held in his little log church; later other pioneer priests used it. In 1896 it was carried in the Corpus Christi procession and one year later was placed in the museum by Father Corby.
Another valuable relic in the archives is the Mass kit of Cardinal Wiseman of Wesminster, England, containing a complete set of the vessels necessary for the Sacrifice of the Mass, including cross, candlesticks, chalice, paten, wine-water cruets, and missal. This kit was added to the collection by Bishop Kelly of the Tulsa-Oklahoma City diocese.
Lining the sides of the three large glass show cases are many crosiers used by illustrious members of the hierarchy and willed to the University at their death. Among these are the crosiers of Bishop Louage of Texas and India, a gold one of Bishop Dufal of India, and a wooden crosier of Bishop John Carroll of Baltimore, the first bishop in the United States.
Bishop Finnigan Gives Cross
Bishop Finnigan of Helena, Mont., former vice president of the University, and Provincial of the Holy Cross Order, willed his cross, chain, ring, and.crosier to the school. The figures of Saint George, his patron saint, and the dragon are carved on the wooden crosier, with figures of Saint Helena, patron of his diocese, the Blessed Virgin, and Saint Joseph.
Several chasubles offer a picturesque background for the display, each having its own peculiar history. A cloth of gold chasuble, to which was awarded first prize at the Saint Louis Exposition of 1904, an ancient Spanish cope of silver cloth given by Archbishop Hurth of the Philippine Islands, and a hand-embroidered chasuble depicting the crucifixion made in China and presented to Father Morrissey, former president, in 1916, are the most outstanding vestments of the collection.
Many rings, crosses, and chains of bishops, and various other historical precious vessels complete the treasures.
MARCH 10, 1939
'SANTA MARIA1 MAKES t WINTER DEADLINE
Another of the campus publications very much worth reading is the Santa Maria, quarterly publication of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. The winter issue, published Feb. 1, contains articles on economics, philosophy, humor, athletics, news and editorials, all on mat-
Editor Tom Hogan
Comes out again in May.
ters of live interest to the Catholic layman. These articles are written by students and faculty members of Notre Dame. The next issue of the Santa Maria is to be issued about the first day of May, Editor Tom Hogan announced this week.
The local council is carrying on activities in various fields. The Catholic Action group sponsored the recent lecture by Paul McGuire and is now sponsoring a study club which at the present is reviewing proofs for the existence of God.
Geary Heads Managers
Cornelius E. Geary was named senior football manager by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics at the annual manager’s banquet held last night in the faculty dining hall. Geary, Junior in Arts and Letters from Fitchburg, Mass., succeeds Joseph H. Dray.
Joseph C. O’Connell succeeds Lucien La Croix as associate manager in charge of stadium personnel. Joseph Hart steps into Andy “Splinters” Wilson’s shoes as manager of equipment.
Jack Hussey becomes manager of track; Gordon Whiteman, baseball; Walt Warburton, fencing. Managers for basketball and tennis will be announced at a later date.
ELECTRICAL ECHOES ANSWER PERRINE
By Samuel Boyle
Dr. J. O. Perrine, of the American Telephone and Telegraph, will lecture at 8 o’clock this evening in Washington Hall on “Waves, Words and Wires” — a lecture demonstration in the science of ’voice and sound communication. Experimenting with sound, speech, and music, he brings to the audience many of the acoustic results relating to the union of sound with electricity which scientists have labored years to find.
It was not until sound was converted into electrical impulses by the microphone and enlarged by vacuum tube amplifiers that many factors in our world of sound were discovered. Setting up an array of electrical devices, Dr. Perrine dissects speech and music, illustrating their characteristics, explaining their component parts, and performing experiments which experiments which demonstrate the work of Bell System scientists to improve the quality and scope of telephone service.
2,000 Miles of Circuit
Most unusual and interesting will be the experiment involving the phenomenon of electrical echo. A sharp sound made in the presence of the audience in the high-quality microphone causes an electrical current to travel and retravel around 2,000 miles of circuit. Multiple electrical echoes can be heard on the loud speaker at intervals of .2 of a second. Various other demonstrations will be made with this circuit. A high-quality radio program network circuit with a length of 800 miles will also be demonstrated.
Among various other items of equipment will be a loud speaker, weighing 600 pounds, equipped with electric wave filters and four separate “throats.” These throats reproduce sound frequencies from 50 to 9,000 cycles per second — nearly twice the range of ordinary loud speakers. This equipment vividly illustrates many basic physical laws involving sound— the result of either speech or music.
"My Darling Daughter"
The effectiveness of the Legion of Decency was demonstrated again last week when Warner Brothers’ revised the controversial “Yes, My Darling Daughter.” The picture was condemned for its frivolous attitude towards marriage. Following revision the picture was raised from class “C” to class “B” grouping.
7
DEBATERS SCORE AT IOWA TOURNAMENT
The varsity debaters rest this weekend after successive and successful arguments in the North Manchester, Indiana, and University of Iowa tournaments. The next opponent is the University of Florida which invades the campus one week from today.
The negative team — Frank Fitch and Al Funk — scored in four of six debates, winning from Northern Illinois Teachers, Kansas, Denver, and. Augustana, while losing to Hastings
Debater Wintermeyer
Wins debate—loses appendix.
and DePauw. The affirmative team of Milton Williams, and John Wintermeyer—who was subbing for Frank Parks—broke even, winning from Park College, South Dakota University, and the University of Wichita, but losing to Iowa University, Westminster, and Sioux Falls (forfeit).
The Sioux Falls forfeit was due to a sudden attack of appendicitis which sent Wintermeyer to an Iowa City hospital. Coach Coyne thus lost two of his best negative men within the week.
The results of the Iowa tournament . verified the findings of the Manchester Meet—that the negative is the better side of the argument: Resolved “That the United States should cease spending public funds for the purpose of stimulating business.” At Manchester the negatives won 160 debates, the affirmatives 120; at Iowa the negatives scored 61 times, the affirmatives 51.
Correction: The “B” teams at the Manchester tournament each won four of five debates. The affirmatives ' defeated Alma, Illinois Normal, Wabash, and Western State, and losing only to Manchester. The negatives won from Franklin, Northwestern, Indiana, and Manchester, but lost to De Kalb.
Your “two-bit ticket to the Bengal Bouts gives two-bits of encouragement to the Bengal missionaries. (See page 3).
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
Vincentian fuel or medical case work in South Bend often reveals a need for clothes in a family. The worker goes right into the home and he can readily determine just what is needed; his intimate association with the family gives him a good idea of the worthiness of the want. It may happen that a direct appeal will come from the mother for clothes for her husband or her children or even for herself.
“Oh, Mr. Worker, I would so much like a little tea dress for a party. The lady across the street is having one tomorrow. I guess none of your Notre Dame boys have tea dresses to give away I”
But women’s clothes may be available through the efforts of the South Bend Conferences. Under the present system of clothes distribution, clothes collected by the Notre Dame and South Bend Conferences are taken to the parish house of St. Patrick’s Church and stored until needed. Formerly, when the clothes were given to the Salvation Army in exchange for clothes credit with them, it was possible for an applicant to have a wider choice.
New System Works
The Salvation Army repaired the clothes, and the applicant, with Vincentian credit, went to the storeroom to pick out what he needed. However, at the Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame and South Bend Conferences two weeks ago it was reported that the new system is working out very well. With the incentive that whatever they collect is given to the poor completely (with the percentage previously given to the Salvation Army), the downtown Conferences are becoming more active in gathering clothes.
“We can’t go out and play because we haven’t got sweaters,” said three little colored boys to one Vincentian. The fact of the matter was that they had nothing more than pajamas in which to run around the house — a cold house — and watch the other children playing outside. This Vincentian, an N.D. student, was able to buy clothes for these children; nothing in the storeroom would fit them.
The situation is more serious when the father is without clothes to wear to work. He may have some kind of an outfit, but unless he is presentable, he will not make an impression on the employer. Such an ordinary work as fitting a poor fellow out may change his whole outlook on life. If the clothes help him to get a job, they have strengthened the morale of the man.
Rather frequent are the visits of transients to 23 Lyons for clothes to carry them to promised jobs in nearby cities. These men realize how important it is for them to make a good appearance. It is the South Bend families, however, that the Conference wants chiefly to help.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
A true Hoosier is Robert Kurtz Rodibaugh, 726 E. Broadway, South Bend. “New Paris, Ind.” is on his birth certificate, so he offers no defense. However his birth state didn’t keep him from winning the presidency of the Villagers: all his competitors were in the same boat. He was
backed by the famous Scott-Preko-witz machine, and won by a large majority.
He graduated from Riley high school along with Tom Wukovits and Joe Kuharich, and is now in first year law. Bob (his mother calls him Robert) hopes to get a commerce degree in 1940 and a law degree in 1941.
This lover of the great out-of-doors uses a good deal of will power to keep to the daily grind of law classes. In the summer when he’s foot loose and fancy free he turns to aquatic sports and becomes a “merman” and fisherman. (What was that big one that got away, Bob?) Tennis is another hobby and he enjoys stringing raquets too. Also has worked in Mr. Barry’s office in the summertime. (Foot loose et al doesn’t apply here). At present he works Friday and Saturday afternoons in one of the downtown insurance company offices.
The Villager, always genial (in
public anyway) has a habit of making a 45-minute telephone conversation. It’s the wrangler in him. Chief task now is to engineer the annual Basketball Testimonial Banquet March 20 at the Columbia A. Club. He likes to look at planes passing overhead, and also holds that Wisconsin U. coeds are nice looking. Played football in H.S. but gave it up for the way of the mouth which apparently to him is mightier than either the pen or the sword. Intends to practice law in the great Southwest — not in Hoosierland.
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
Coming Programs
Tonight’s Academy of Politics Forum at 7:30 with Mr. Ferguson and Mr. Mahoney sharing the microphone will bring to the listeners’ attention the Income Tax. Its history together with salient features will be discussed.
Next Monday night at 7:45 Dr. Richard R.- Vogt will carry on the regular series of- Faculty talks. Professor of Organic Chemistry and Director of Organic Research at the University, he plans to speak on plant water culture.
Mr. J. Elmer Peak, now starting his third term as judge of the Superior Court of Indiana, is scheduled to appear on the “Men of Yesterday” program Tuesday night at 7:00. Well versed in other fields besides the legal one, this interview should prove interesting. ‘
The Man Behind the Voice
Continuing our policy inaugurated last week, we present Edward K. Grimes. An aeronautical engineer from Ottawa, Illinois, Ed has been interested in local radio since his sophomore year. At that time he helped to guide Howard Hall to the finals in the Inter-Hall contest. He dabbles in writing songs but isn’t adverse to singing them. Interested in skit writing, .he collaborated with Ed Fulham, to produce the “Postage Stamp Revue.” This appeared to be licked from the start, but latest rumors are that it will reach the air waves after Easter, pending the addition of sound effects in the local studio. Ed’s big break this year came when he was slated to announce the Junior Prom —only to have the Golden Gloves broadcast cancel it! Listen to him next Wednesday night when he announces the Periscope at 9:00.
Airbreak* -
The recent death of Pius XI brings to mind two bad slips made by announcers during his reign. Announcer Clyde Kittell in introducing a radio
MARCH 10, 1939
9
address by the Pope, said, “We will now take you to Rome to hear His Holiness, Pipe Po-ess—I mean, Pipe Po-ess.” He stopped, horrified, and began once more, “His Holiness, Pope Pius, speaking from you to Vatican City!” Then there is the other one made by a St. Louis announcer who, waiting for a silent interval in order to read a commercial plug, absentmindedly selected the moment following this introduction, “The next voice you will hear will be that of Pope Pius XI.” The announcer said “Ajax beer is the beer for me. . . .”
Campus Radio Log
Mon. 7:45—Faculty Talk—Professor Vogt, Ph.D.—WFAM.
Tue. 7:00 — Mr. J. Elmer Peak •— WFAM.
Wed. 9:00 — Periscope of the News —WSBT.
Thur. 9:30 — Music Department — WSBT.
Fri. 7:30 — Academy of Politics ■— WFAM.
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
To those readers of the set that breathlessly await great movie entertainment let us say a few words. Two to be exact: “The Beachcomber.” It is quite possible that mention of this movie has escaped some persons. If it has and if it be that a portion of those ‘some persons’ is in the reading audience, we want it emphatically made known that “The Beachcomber” starring Charles Laughton and Elsa Lancaster is of the MUST NOT MISS variety.
Publicity reports only too often especially'in this country place a picture on a pedestal that no movie could ever hope to reach. This is found to be true even when eliminating the sensational type that influences only a small minority of moviegoers. In other words, it is an exception rather than the rule when we find a movie living up to advance ’ publicity.
Laughton Superb
• Now “The Beachcomber” was given an advertising mention that could not possibly have been false. It stressed Laughton, which is perfectly natural, as can be attested to by any one having seen him in action. But the point we are trying to make is that Laughton not only performs in superlatives, but he gives Ginger Ted a depth and a sureness that is gripping to watch. Throughout the movie the audience is made to feel the strength of the man Laughton.
He takes the role, molds it easily and subtly, trims it with genuineness,
which is the routine of characterization of the accomplished actor. But more, Laughton draws an unquavering line between the spectator and himself and makes Ginger Ted electrifying, magnetic, which is the mark of his sheer acting strength.
Sir Cedric Hardwicke, famous creator of the role of the Canon in “Shadow and Substance,” makes an interesting reflection in the February Theatre Arts Monthly. Subject concerned is the young actor’s obstacles in the modern theatre. One of these many obstacles, perhaps not obvious, is the scene designer. To many designers a play is no more than a good excuse to erect gorgeous settings, costly and ingenio.us. They subordinate the actor to his surroundings.
Technical Facilities Improve
Of course Sir Cedric does not suggest that we go back to the Elizabethan stage, since technical facilities are steadily improving and antiquated methods of production are naturally to be shunned, but he points out the success of “Our Town” and other scenery-less hits of the past season. Aside from Sir Cedric’s view we consider it quite a natural occurrence, this striving for freshness in designing, this desire of the set-builder to impress and perhaps stun the audience. It is merely the unfolding of new trends in that department of the theatre.
Correspondingly, trends in the acting department should synchronize themselves with other phases of a gradually changing theatre. If they do not, the period then arises when critics and theatre-goers fear for the future life of the legitimate stage.
ART
By Ed Kort
The Art Department of the University announces a new project, a loan library of reproductions representing the best artists of recent years and a few of the older masters. The reproductions are of the finest color processes available and are all true replicas of the works they reproduce. These pictures are all framed in natural wood frames and a number of them are also matted.
Small Rental Fee
The reproductions will be on exhibition next week in the Wightman Memorial Gallery of the University Library, where the students can choose those they wish to rent. The rental fee is twenty-five cents a month. The paintings will be numbered and titled and may be applied for at the gallery. The money obtained through the lending will be
used to buy more reproductions for the same purpose. The student will be responsible for any damage done to the painting.
The French Impressionists are well represented in the exhibition. In this group will be found such works as “Vegetable Garden” and “Portrait of a Young Man” by Van Gogh; “Red Roofs” by Pissarro; “Blue Ballet” and “Ballet Dancers” by Degas; “Still Life” by Cezanne; “Boy with Fife” by Manet; and “Pont d’Avognon” by Monet.
Also represented are three living American artists whose works are reproduced in a new color process that has recently gained great praise from critics. These paintings are: “Woman with Plant” by Wood, which by many is considered to be far superior to Whistler’s “Portrait of his Mother”; “Cotton Pickers in Georgia” by Benton, the Missouri muralist, and a water color “Beach - Combers” by Whorf.
Also On the List
Other reproductions that may be rented are: “Buccaneers,” and “Persian Market” by Brangwyn; “Pi-eta” by a Flemish Primitive; “Sir Galahad in the Castle of Maidens” by Abbey; “Main Winter” by Rockwell Kent; “Capri” and “Corsican Coast” by Gorbatoff; “Portrait of Cellist” by Van Dyke; “Breaking Wave” by Homer, and “Castle in Spring,” by Blum.
The purpose of this exhibit is to help the students gain a better knowledge and finer appreciation of good art, and to familiarize them with the works of. the fine artists. The easiest way to appreciate art is to become acquainted with it. New pleasures should be felt each time we look at a work of art, for that is what makes certain works last in popularity. Good art can never become boring.
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
In answer to many questions, I will try to outline the range of earnings in the field of music—roughly, earnings vary with ability of musician.
Among musicians with high earnings will be found well-known concert artists, who may receive $200 to several thousand dollars for a single recital; leading operatic singers, who are paid as much as $1,000 a week during the regular season; featured singers in musical comedies, who average about $700 weekly during the run of the show; and conductors of large symphony orchestras, who may receive from $20,000 to $40,000 yearly.
(Continued on Page 23)
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Hie Noire Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus . FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell_______________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.____________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney____________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay____________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett._________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C...........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	March 10, 1939	No. 19
Importance of Papal Election
THE WHITE smoke which slowly rose from the temporary chimney of the Sistine chapel that Thursday afternoon was a joyous and deeply meaningful sign for millions of Catholics. More than signifying the mere burning of the ballots which had elected Cardinal Pacelli as the new Pope, the rising smoke symbolized the great unity of the Church against the tremendous forces which seek to crush the eternal, spiritual values for which the Church stands. So great is the unity of the Church at present that for the first time in 318 years a pope had been elected within three ballots.
Written in that smoke in the Italian sky, we might easily have visualized the Cardinals’ message to the world: “As we have done, go and do you likewise.” And what is it that the Cardinals of the Church did? Fearlessly and audaciously they cast their votes for him whom they “judged according to God should be elected.” No political intrigue nor fear influenced them: they rightly scorned the admonitions of dictators and governments. There was no tryst with Mammon, no submission to the coercion of those whose vision is confined to this world. Surely, the College of Cardinals recalled the momentous speech of Pacelli made at Lourdes, April 28, 1935, in which he had said: “Whether they (dictators) are possessed by superstition of race or blood, their philosophy as that of others rests upon principles essentially opposed to those of the Christian faith. And on such principles the Church does not consent to form a compact with them at any price.”
In choosing Pius XII the papal electors were certainly not unaware of the need for a great statesman, and the new Holy Father had proved his ability to fit this need: his apprenticeship under the famed Cardinal Gaspaarri, his position as Apostolic Nuncio to Bavaria, and especially his many great works as active Secretary of State. But more than being an astute diplomat, Pacelli is a holy man filled with zeal and love for souls and for the active sacerdotal apostolate. It is not generally known that he desired to reject the Cardinal’s purple in order to devote himself more fully to the ministerial duties proper to the priestly life. Yet with characteristic humility, seeing the will of God, he submitted to the dignity of the cardinal-ate. Cardinal O’Connell, an intimate friend of Pius XII, has spoken of the new Pontiff in these terms: “The Holy
Father is humble and clever. He possesses great force and great restraint. He truly may be said to be a living saint.”
These, then, are the qualities which the College of Cardinals sees in the new pope: intellectual and spiritual vigour and a powerful determination to do the will of God as he sees it. These are the qualities against which all the unleashed powers of Hell shall never prevail, and there are indications that some of the powers of Hell are raging against the Church over which Pius XII comes to rule.
Every Catholic is facing a definite challenge in the face of these new powers. The sturdy action which we expect to find forthcoming from Pius XII is what should characterize our personal strivings against the forces of evil which surround us. As it has been spiritual and intellectual development which has marked him as the leader of the visible Church of Christ; so, too, spiritual and intellectual growth should mark us as followers of Christ. Not by piety alone nor by profound blit merely secular scholarship can we meet the world’s challenge to Christ and His church. Rather by a continual harmonizing of our intellectual and spiritual faculties will we prepare ourselves to meet this challenge. If we are really to assume our task as Christians and face the world with intrepedity and confidence in God, we may be certain that under the leadership of our Holy Father Pius XII the “profound renewal of the Christian spirit” for which Pius XI so ardently longed will surely be realized.
—George J. McMorrow.
Courtesy on the Campus
WE HAVE been conscious for some time of a distinct lack of courtesy among a great part of the student body. Most of us seem to have forgotten completely that the other fellow exists. Obviously this is not only an unpleasant state of things, but left unchecked it can also develop into a positive evil.
It is not pleasant, when one is trying to work, to have a blaring radio or a long distance corridor conversation continually interrupting. But such unpleasant annoyances as these we perceive every day on the campus. They could easily be eliminated by a little consideration for the feelings of others.
Another much needed courtesy is to keep to the prescribed paths. It is also a matter of simple justice. In the spring days it is just as much a depredation to cut across the lawns as it is to shie a brick through a window. Costs are involved in either instance. Just what the hurry is no one even has attempted to discover. Decency at least, if there is no sense of beauty, demands that we avoid wearing paths across the lawns.
To go one step further, there is the matter of loose paper. Every city and hamlet has its regulations: “Help keep our city clean” is not an unusual sign. A college man ought not to need one. Those wrappers, discarded papers, whatnot, have their proper receptacles. Why not make the effort to put waste where it belongs?
The opening of the accommodations in the Rockne Memorial involves further consideration in courtesy. They are very numerous, very important and calculated to advance the enjoyment of all. So all in all, let’s try to remember better what we owe to the other fellow.
—Mark J. Mitchell
MARCH 10, 1939
THE ANGELIC DOCTOR
THOMAS: THE MAN
The articles on these pages were written by members of THE SCHOOLMEN — campus philosophical society — to commemorate the feast day of St. Thomas Aquinas, patron saint of Catholic education and founder of the Thomistic Philosophy.
By William J. Syring
The life of St. Thomas was almost uneventful. He was bom about the year 1225 in the fortress castle of his family at Roccasecca, not far from Naples, Italy. He was the seventh son of illustrious parents. His mother, Theodora of Theate, was of Norman stock; his father of Lombard nobility. He started to school at the age of five entering Monte Cassino, the home of the Benedictine Order. His parents were content with the prospect of his becoming a monk, providing that he achieve a position that would increase the honor of his family.
In 1239 because of renewed attacks on Monte Cassino by Frederick II, he .was sent to Naples to continue his studies. He studied mathematics, astronomy, music, dialectic, Cicero, Caesar and Seneca. We have only one fact concerning his life at this time. He entered the Dominican Order, an action of which his parents did not approve and about which they tried in every possible way to change his mind. They went so far as to have Pope Innocent IV interfere, but to no avail.
The Dominican General decided to take him to Paris. His family, hearing of this, took him prisoner a short distance outside of Rome. He was closely guarded for more than a year and every influence was exerted to change his vocation. During this captivity he remained on devoted terms with his family. Finally, when his mother saw him adhere steadfastly to his chosen course, despite discouragement and suffering, she helped him to escape.
He went to Naples and from there in 1245 to Paris to study under Albertus Magnus without whose inspiration he might never have succeeded. Thomas became his beloved disciple. In 1248 Thomas and Albert journeyed to Cologne, there to study at the newly opened ‘stadium generale.’ During his four years there he fell in line with the new Aristotelianism and it
was there he received much important philosophical information. He returned to study in Paris in 1252 where he received his mastership in theology and wrote his Commentary on the Sentences and De Ente Et Essentia.
He started to teach in 1261 as Professor of Theology at Paris. Later he held the same position at both Orvieto and Rome. Nearly the whole time he was in Paris he was obliged to take part in disputes which concerned his Order. In one instance, friction arose between the Friars (Dominicans and Franciscans), and the secular priests. William of St. Amour spoke for the seculars and Thomas defended the Orders. William demanded that a check be put on the privileges of the Friars and that each Order should hold one chair in the University. At first Rome tended toward his side, but William was carried away by his passion to succeed in his De Periculis Novissorum Temporum. St. Thomas replied in Contra Impugnantes in 1257, and his authority and influence turned the tide against William. Rome decided in favor of the Orders.
About this time Raymond of Pennafort asked St. Thomas to write a book to serve for argument with infidels. St. Thomas wrote the Summa Contra Gentiles, one of his greatest works. The next few years St. Thomas spent in Italy, where he wrote a short work Catena Aurea and The Office of Corpus Christi. In 1268 he was hurriedly recalled to Paris. A crisis had arisen in which his own views of Aristotelianism were being undermined by a system called Av-erroism led by Siger de Brabant. He defended his system against the old charges in a treatise called De Per-fectione Vitas Spiritualis. Again in his De Unitate Intellectus Contra Averroistas he denounced the Aver-roists thoroughly.
In 1272 he left Paris to reorganize studies at Naples. The strife had
worn him out and he had decided to stop writing. In 1274 Pope Gregory X requested that he come to a council at Lyons. On the journey sickness overcame him and he was unable to continue. He requested Reginald, his close friend who accompanied him, to take him to the Cistercian monastery of Fossanuova.near by. A short while later the monks brought Viaticum to him and he broke into tears praying aloud: “I receive Thee, ransom of my soul. For love of Thee have I studied and kept vigil, toiled, preached and taught. Never have I said a word against Thee.” He died on the 7th day of March, 1274, at the age of forty-eight or forty-nine.
From his writings we can find little or nothing about his own personality.' From them, however, one receives the impression of tranquility and spaciousness. His extreme modesty and serenity make his works almost dull to the reader. He was not the colorful writer that St. Augustine was, nor could he have written pages of beautiful verse. He has little to say of aesthetic emotion and any personal experience is kept well in the background. His appearance was like his character, hi his portraits he is large, smooth-browed and serene.
His biographies suggest a very gentle giant, unambitious and preoccupied with thought and prayer. He was sufficiently aware of facts and events and could give broad-minded advice to any one who needed it. He had little interest in worldly matters and would not accept a higher position in the Order when it was offered to him. His holiness, wisdom, habits, thought, conduct and other traits can be summed up in one word, sanctity. There is a story that one day an image appeared to him and said: “Thou hast written well of Me Thomas; what recompense wouldst thou for thy labours?” St. Thomas answered: “Nothing save thyself, Lord.” No better example can be given as' a summary of his character and life’s work.
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Thomas: The "Dumb Ox"
By Thomas E. Hackett
Today we look back and ridicule those fellow-students of St. Thomas Aquinas who called him the “Dumb Ox”; and yet in one sense the name, at least in part, was quite a fitting one. In no sense of course, was St. Thomas “dumb,” but there is a very real analogy in referring to him as an ox. We can call St. Thomas an ox, because oxen are tough, and although in the minds of some people “toughness” may not be a very nice word to predicate of the greatest doctor of the Church, still I think that it describes more accurately St. Thomas, and his system, than any other word we could use.
In an encyclical of 1879, Pope Leo XIII wrote: “It is well known that there have not been wanting heresi-archs who openly said that if the doctrine of St. Thomas could be got rid of, they could easily give battle to other Catholic doctors, and overcome them, and scatter the Church.” What higher tribute than this, paid Aquinas by his enemies, could any one receive? Thomas Aquinas, in other -words, has almost single-handedly protected the integrity of the Church against its heretical assailants of the .Middle Ages. This should mean a lot to Catholics, in fact it should mean a lot to any Christian, for the Medieval Catholic Church was the predecessor of both the Protestant and Catholic Churches of today. He was not then defending the Catholic Church, but the Christian Church, and when today one of us proudly shows his ability to prove rationally that God exists, we would do well to remember that this power is due more to St. Thomas than to ourselves.
Plato, Descartes, Kant, Hume, etc., were men of great minds, and they, like Thomas Aquinas, attracted followers to their teachings; they formed, like him, schools of thought; but unlike his, the systems they founded lacked toughness. While critical attacks bounce off the tough hide of Thomism, they easily punch holes in these other systems, and as a result, for the most part their doctrines have been broken down and discarded, while Thomism still goes strong.
A good test for toughness is durability; we know that a thing has to be tough to last. Applying this test
to Thomism, it is clearly shown that “toughness” is an appropriate word to use in describing it. At its very inception, Thomism was bitterly attacked, probably more than it has been since, but it weathered this attack just as it did those that came later, and today we see it being revived and adopted for study by some of our greatest American universities, chief among them, the University of Chicago. One by one, as they fail the test of critical examination, other philosophies are being discarded for Thomism.
Because of the recent revival of Scholastic Philosophy, one might come to think that it is just now that its worth has been recognized. This notion must be gotten rid of though, for the value of Thomism has always been realized, though in varying degrees. Although at first he was severely criticized, it did not take long for the power and strength in St. Thomas to be recognized. In 1342, less than seventy years after his death, the general chapter of the Dominican Order, held at Carcassonne in 1342, declared that the doctrines of St. Thomas had been received as sound and solid throughout the world. The fifteenth and sixteenth centuries saw Thomism in a triumphal march which led to the crowning of St. Thomas as the Prince of Theologians, when his “Summa” was laid beside the Sacred Scriptures at the Council of Trent, and St. Pius V, in 1567, proclaimed him a doctor of the universal Church.
During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the influence of the rise of Protestantism, Humanism, the study of nature, and the French Revolution, all contributed to a decline in the application and study of Thom-istic principles. Other systems of philosophy were substituted for Thomism, but as time went on, it was found that all the substitutes were inadequate. And today, looking back on the shortcomings of their predecessors, modern educators are coming to realize—as Scholastics have for a long time—that there must be a return to Thomism. Robert Maynard Hutchins of Chicago, easily the foremost figure in modem education, has recently informed members of the medical and
legal professions, that if they want to progress, they must return to the study and application of Thomistic Cosmology and Metaphysics.
The strength of Thomism is inherent mainly in two things, a rigorous application of Aristotle’s logic, and a firm foundation in metaphysics for all its doctrines. Previously to Aquinas, the Scholastics avoided the philosophy of Aristotle in preference to the mystical system of Plato. It took the powerful mind of Thomas Aquinas to show that Aristotelianism was free from errors traditionally attributed to it for so long a time, and to gain for the greatest Greek mind, the high place in philosophy it so well deserves. It is the strict adherence to the rules •of logic that makes it so hard for any one to punch holes in Scholasticism. Francis Bacon, one of the greatest of the anti-Scholastics, was so conscious of their power of expression that he once said: “If a man’s wit be not apt to distinguish or find differences, let him study the_Schoolmen, for they are Cymini sectores.”
One may well ask why should we, in this age of progress and advancement, embrace a system of philosophy that is centuries old; how could doctrines which originated in the Middle Ages be applicable to our modern civilization? The answer is that the doctrines of Thomas Aquinas all find their basis in Metaphysics, the science which is so universal it transcends time and space. A true principle of metaphysics can be applied just as easily to the operation of a modern radio as it could to the club of a pre-historic cave-man. Speaking of the universality of Thomism, Jacques Maritain said recently: “There is a Thomist philosophy; there is no neo-Thomist philosophy. We make no claim to include anything of the past in the present, but to maintain in the present the ‘actuality’ of the eternal.”
Let us then follow the spirit of this mighty ox, partake of the gifts he has left us, and clothe ourselves in ■ the tough hide of his doctrines that we may be able to meet all comers who would endanger the dearest possession of all real philosophers — Truth.
MARCH 10, 1939
13
Thomas: The Perennial
By James C. Daner
Four hundred years ago, an Augustinian monk split the Christian world with a history-making reformation—a man who had a single and special talent for emphasis, for emphasis and nothing but emphasis, for emphasis with the force of an earthquake. The son of a slate-cutter, he nonetheless had a personality that was in itself emphatic in every res-spect: brooding, sincere, decidedly morbid — and his name was Martin Luther. So strong was his personality and so marked was his emphasis that when he quoted Scripture and chanced to insert a word or phrase that was not in the Scriptures, he merely shouted at his hecklers, “Tell them that Dr. Martin Luther will have it so.” In short, he abolished Reason and substituted Suggestion.
But to destroy Reason, he had first to destroy the gospels of Reason, the works of St. Thomas Aquinas. We know that Luther did publicly burn the Szcnima Theologica and numerous other works of the Master of Reason, but to bum a book is difficult, and there is something especially irrational about the idea of such wanton destruction when one considers the compact complexity of all that fundamental survey of social, moral, and theoretical things, all the concise definitions, all the profound speculation and reasoned judgment upon good and evil, limits of government, and conditions of justice — in short, all this mass of medieval humanism that became ashes before the eyes of a passionate peasant who rejoiced contemptuously upon the death of the Intellect.
For a time it seemed as if the destruction was complete as golden maxims turned to golden flames, but St. Thomas does not bum easily, and today, four hundred years after flames had consumed the words o'f Thomas, the thought of St. Thomas still lives. The triumph of the Intellect is nearly complete as hundreds of books about the Angelic Doctor and his works pour from printing presses all over the world.
This rebirth of St. Thomas Aquinas can be ascribed to the undeniable objectivity of his work, wherein the mind is a free agent and whose freedom consists in finding a way to liberty and the light of day, to reality
and the land of the living, because the images which it seeks are real things; “the flower is a vision because it is not only a vision.” The object is an object and the mind in grasping this object perfects itself and is made
LESSON
Wisdom vii. 7-14.
I wished, and understanding was given me; and I called, and the spirit of wisdom came upon me; and I preferred her before kingdom’s and thrones, and esteemed riches nothing in comparison of her. Neither did I compare unto her any precious stone, for all gold in comparison of her is as a little sand, and silver in respect to her shall be counted as clay. I loved her above health and beauty, and choose to have her instead of light, for her light can not be put out. Now all good things came to me together with her, and innumerable riches through her hands. And I rejoiced in them all; for this wisdom went before me, and I knew not that she was the mother of them all: which I have learned without guile, and communicate without envy, and her riches I hide not; for she is an infinite treasure to men, which they that use become the friends of God, being commended for the gifts of discipline.
—From the Mass for the Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas.
more complete, much in the manner of a king who conquers new lands, and in conquering, adds to his power and greatness. To taste the tangy dish of reality is good in itself, but to eat of it affords the real romance and glamour of living, a reality that cannot be found by staring inward at the mind, butbythe union of mind with reality aifd^the subsequent contemplation thereof. Consequently, the
mind is not purely receptive, nor purely creative, but both; an activity which consists in following, so far as the will chooses to follow, the “real light outside that really shines on a real landscape.”
Reality, the recognition of reality, and their meeting, is a kind of a marriage, but a marriage that is fruitful because it produces practical resuits flowing from the combination of an adventurous mind and a strange fact. God made man so that he was able to contact reality, and what God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. Thus Thomism is a fruitful phil- -osophy because from the recognition of this union of knower and things known flows the common sense values of Thomism — values which, resting on the indestructible foundation of everlasting objectivity, preserve it as an Everlasting Philosophy. It solves the problem of a seeming multiplicity within a unity, the problem of the immaterial and the spiritual, the problem of individuality and specific difference, and the problem of a transcendent yet immanent God “without contradicting itself or having to take refuge behind the mask of illusion.”
Should another such as Dr. Luther arise in the world today with sufficient religious zeal, mental strength, and personality, he too could burn the works of St. Thomas, but when the belching flames and sordid smoke had died away, the ashes would take root, break through the sullied ground and blossom forth with new vigor, for the seed of Thomism is an intellectual solvent for all things to come, as if the seed of God himself, giving a rational working interpretation of all things at present really known, and facing the future with firmly established principles. It faces the Universe with a question mark behind every premise, taking nothing for granted, relying for its solutions on no authority whatever, and solely with- tools of flesh directed by intelligence,, it fights its way through what seems to be an impenetrable jungle, nature and the cosmos. It will live through the ages because it is a philosophy of hope and promise —a philosophia perennis that reflects the strong personality, the massive and magnetic presence, and the mighty intellect of the Angelic Doctor, St. Thomas Aquinas.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Thomas:
The Modern
By Alfred John Callan
We are living today in a paradoxical world. The antithetical forces of doubt and credulity, of skepticism and belief are ravaging and tearing at our intellectual innards producing at the same time, a chaotic and disordered mass of jumbled opinion.
Our contemporaries delight in their liberal and critical attitude and proudly point to the fact that they have freed themselves from the shackles of philosophical and religious dogmatism. Their point of view, they claim, is quite different from that of the Middle Ages when blind faith and abject intellectual humility were the order of the day. Yet, if we critically examine this statement, we will discover it quite contrary to fact, and thus untenable.
Conditions Today
We find, on the other hand, that the contemporary age, far more than the medieval, is shackled to a blind faith and an uncritical acceptance of alleged truth. The so-called facts of science and positivism are greedily eaten up and assimilated by the contemporary mind with little or no reflection as to either their possibility or plausibility. We see then that both religion and philosophy are either doubted or rejected, while positivistic science and phenominalism are avidly swallowed. Why is this so?
The answer lies in the fact that positivism and science promise man a superiority over nature and himself and allege to provide him with control over life and activity. In short, man is to be deified. Philosophy and religion, on the other hand, subordinate man to God, consider man as. a finite and contingent being whose ultimate . end is not humanity but God. Yet, from the viewpoint of our contemporaries, this is nothing more than a pious thought engendered by credulous and dogmatic churchmen. Science can never reach God, they cry, and thus why speculate about the existence of things we can know nothing of? God cannot be seen through a microscope,
therefore, as far as we are concerned He does not exist.
We, of course, reply that God can be known. But it is not by means of the positive sciences that man, by the sheer power of intellect, can transcend the material and sensible universe and achieve a knowledge of the supersensible. It is only through the medium of metaphysics, the science which by its very nature transcends the physical and positive, that this can be accomplished. And yet today metaphysics is sorely neglected. It is more or less isolated from our colleges and universities and suspiciously looked upon as an antique relic of the Middle Ages, musty and discarded. Today, more than ever, we need the guidance of the most profound and erudite of all metaphysicians; we need the wisdom of the Angelic Doctor to liberate the intellect and to cure the modem world of its ills. And what are some of the indications of these ills?	.
M. Maritain sees three main symptoms of what he calls a very radical disease, since “they attack the very root, the triple root, rational, religious and moral of our life.” These symptoms are the errors of agnosticism, naturalism and individualism. Their only cure lies in the teachings of St. Thomas, the champion of metaphysics and reason. St. Thomas was the lover of truth, and in his teachings we find the most complete expression of it ever achieved by man.
Attainment of Truth
Thus far, we have been chiefly concerned with the mental ills afflicting contemporary life, and we have presented the teachings of St. Thomas as a cure for these ills. It would, however, be erroneous to imply, from what has been written, that no truth or certitude can be achieved by a pursuit of positive science. Truth can be attained, but only truth of a special nature. It is truth limited to the sensible and material order. We cannot as we have said before, acquire a knowledge of the supersensible by
means of the test tube or microscope. We miist pursue a science which transcends these, the science of metaphysics.
Just what is the diflerence between the science of metaphysics and the positive sciences, and why do we so eagerly proclaim the superiority of metaphysics and cry out for its restoration as an integral part of contemporary life? The answer to the latter part of this question necessarily flows from the distinction between these fields of knowledge, a distinction which is twofold. A particular science, on the one hand, confines itself to a study of a particular part or portion of physical reality and studies this reality only as it is apparent, i.e., only as it acts. It does, to some extent, seek the causes of these actions but, at most, can arrive only at a knowledge of proximate or secondary causes. In other words, the chemist or biologist, no matter how extensive or complex are the results of his work, is always unable to answer the final “Why?”
Objects of Metaphysics
The metaphysician, on the other hand, studies not only physical reality, but all reality in the light of its ultimate causes. He is not interested in acquiring a great number of facts about things; he seeks only to know the ultimate reasons for these things. Thus, technically speaking, the scientist and philosopher differ in the material and formal object of their study.
It should be clear then that metaphysics, both because of the dignity of its object and the point of view from which it studies that object, transcends and is superior to positive science. Metaphysics deals with the totality of being, sees all things in their proper relationships, and is thus able to place everything in its proper order. This is wisdom, and the world needs wisdom. It needs the teachings of a wise man to bring order out of chaos. The world needs St. Thomas.
MARCH 10, 1939
. 15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
BENGAL PRELIMS NEXT WEEK
•
With five strenuous weeks of conditioning exercises gone with the wind, over 100 well-conditioned fighters tonight were ready for the final week of sparring sessions in preparation for the opening of the most spectacular preliminary fights in the history of the Bengal show. Tentative dates for the preliminaries have been set for March 15th, 16th, 20th and 21st, it was announced today by Promoter Louis DaPra.
With the largest squad of fighters ever to see action in a Bengal tournament, this year’s preliminary scraps are certain to surpass those of former years. The first bouts in the tournament are always the most colorful and with the galaxy of stars in this year’s show ready to go, the coming fights will undoubtedly be tops.
The first set of twins ever to compete for coveted Bengal crowns will see action in the 155 and 165 pound divisions respectively. Harry and Larry McLaughlin, sophomores from Royal Oak, Michigan, are in top form and ready “to shoot the works.” They are both good punchers and may come through with winning performances.
The name of Purcell is once more on the list of Bengal contenders. Paul, younger brother of Phil and Lou Purcell, former lightheavy and welterweight title holders of past years, will compete in the 145 pound class. He is fast, can hit and is a clever fighter.
Bill Schickel, a fast, hard punching freshman, has definitely established himself as a first-rate contender in the 135 pound division. As a matter of fact, he is one of the most promising newcomers of the lot and will undoubtedly keep all opponents in hot water. Another freshman, Tom Foley, 155 pound scrapper, has shown up well in conditioning drills and will be ready for the opening whistle.
Jack McNicholas, who two years ago fought his way to the finals in the 145 pound class, has looked exceptionally good in daily workouts and is a number one contender in his division.
Tommy O’Malley will be the seventh defending champion in this year’s show. O’Malley, having gained valuable experience in former tournaments, will be a hard chap to beat.
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE MEET OPENS TONIGHT; PITT FAVORED TO TAKE TITLE FROM IRISH
By Frank Aubrey
Tonight, former champions will be present in every event except the 60-yard high hurdles when the Central Collegiate Conference meet opens in the gym. Notre Dame will defend the team title it won last year with 56 points. But Pitt, which took second last year with 24% points, is stronger this season and should be the ’39 winners.
The Pitt mile relay team which tied the meet record of 3:21.5 last year is back intact. Ohl, Ferrara, McKee and Woodruff may be pushed to a new record by Marquette’s breezy quartet anchored by Herman Carr, the outdoor 440 yard Centrals champion. Woodruff, Pitt’s Olympic and anchor man will also defend his titles in the 440-yard dash and the 880. Woodruff has done the quarter in 47 flat and the half in 1:50.3.
The mile will see champ Greg Rice race against Bill Southworth of Butler, a 4:13 man and possibly John Munski of Missouri. Greg set the meet record at 4:16.2 in 1937. Since Greg did 9.12.4 while finishing third to Cunningham and Lash in New York Saturday, he should easily clip a few seconds off his Central record of 9.19.6 in the two mile. Handicapped by his size in the mile, Rice has been concentrating on the longer distance and is a greatly improved
Notre Dame Welcomes C.C.C. Trackmen.
runner. Facing him will be Bill Feil-er, the mite from Drake and other two-mile luminaries.
While the high hurdles lacks a champ, Bob Shurilla, of Marquette who took the 1938 low hurdles will be back. He must defend his title gainst Ken Ryden of Pitt and Dave Reidy of the Irish who rank among the outstanding low-hurdlers in the nation. Wilbur Greer of Michigan State looks for no important opposition in the 60-yard dash. He is the fastest thing in sight for the sprints.
Ed Beinor, Notre Dame’s big tackle and weight pusher, will toss against odds in heaving with Bud Faymonville, Elmer Hackney of Kansas State and Johan Bazyk of Pitt. While Beinor is defending champ, Faymonville has beaten him by from two to three inches in every start this year.
The preliminaries will be run tonight in the 60-yard dash, high and low hurdles, 440-yard dash, 880-yard run, the shot-put, and possibly the mile. Semifinals and finals take place tomorrow afternoon. The following teams are entered: Albion, Butler, Drake, Iowa State Teachers, Loyola, Michigan Normal, Michigan State, Marquette, North Central, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Wayne, Western State, and Notre Dame.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH END CAGE SEASON AGAINST N.Y.U. HERE FOUR SENIORS FINISH COURT CAREERS
SWORDSMEN TAKE ON WASHINGTON BEARS
By Pete Sheehan
New York University’s “Team of the Future” will make their first appearance on a Mid-Western basketball court tomorrow night when they invade the Notre Dame Field House to help the Irish ring down the curtain on the 1938-39 basketball season. The Violets, under the leadership of Howard G. Cann, one of the game’s outstanding mentors, intend to show the residents of Hoos-ierdom that the eastern boys are also capable of playing a pretty fair brand of basketball.
It will be interesting to compare the different types of play. Eastern basketball, and New York basketball in particular, is built upon an old tradition. This tradition dates back to the days when the New York Celtics were the kings of the basketball world. They employed a smooth running offense featuring tricky passes and smart ball handling. Today a Gotham five would be considered violators of tradition if they should forsake this type of play. However, New’ York fans will always fill the Garden when a team from Indiana comes to town because they are sure of seeing that fireman brand of basketball for which all Hoosier teams are noted. They will see a team that disregards all Celtic tradition and depends on speed, fight and endurance.
The Violets have won twelve and lost seven. Their latest victory was recorded last Saturday when they dowmed Rutgers, 49 to 35. Most of the squad will be available next year and Coach Keogan, after seeing his boys defeat them in the Garden last month, 34 to 30, stated that Coach Cann had one of the most promising squads he had ever seen.
Bob Lewis, junior forward, has scored 176 points in 17 games while his running mate, Irving Resnick has accounted for 118 points in the'same number of contests. Dubinsky has won the center berth from Stevens w’hile Auebach and Dowd will face the Irish again from their defensive positions.
Captain Earl Brown, Ed Sadowski, Duke DuCharme, and Frank Gaglione will appear in a Notre Dame uniform for the last time. These boys had more than a little to do with the •winning of the national titles in 1937 and 1938 when Moir and Nowak were attaining stardom. Aided by Mark Ertel, Red Oberbrunner, Gene Klier and Ed Riska, these boys are determined to make their last game for George Keogan and Notre Dame a memorable one.
-Italian athletic authorities recently amwunced that Italy would make a strong • •bid 'for ' the 1944 Olympic games when the Olympic Committee meets this June. The games have never been held in Italy.

Gene Klier
Last time this season.
(iinamaiiamifiaiiHmaiiiaiuiaaiaaaiiiiiiiaiaaiiaiaaiiaaitaaaaaaiaaiiaa
First Spring Grid Drill on Brownson Field
•
Stymied for a day or two by a belated snow flurry, Head Coach Elmer Layden and Captain Johnny Kelly finally brought their Fighting Irish gridmen out onto the wide open spaces of Brownson Field last Tuesday afternoon for the first organized springfpractice of 1939. Line Coach Joe Boland and End Coach Joe Benda were also present to handle their respective charges.	.
About 150 aspirants for varsity positions answered the call and Headman Layden lost little time in getting them down to the serious business of preparing for a veteran Purdue team that will open the season here on next September 30. Centers, linemen, backs, and ends were all taken aside by their various mentors and given an opportunity to learn new tricks or brush up on old ones. All the kickers were given a chance to show their wares to Elmer, with dependable Harry Stevenson getting off some fine boots.
Among the veterans absent. from the first practice were: Bob Saggau and Benny Sheridan, excuse'd'because of track duties; and Lou Zontini, who is busy fighting for a place on Jake Kline’s baseball squad.
Bearing as fine a seasonal record as any Notre Dame team of recent years has collected, the Notre Dame varsity fencing team will make its farewell bow for 1939 in the local field house tomorrow. The opposition, as the curtain rings down for the men of Professor Pedro de Lan-dero, will be furnished by the Washington University team from St. Louis.
Followers of the Irish fencing team will remember that when the boys traveled to St. Louis last year, one of the finest battles of the season ensued. The match tomorrow promises to hold every resemblance to that of last year. Led by Captain Shotliff, the Missourians will present a rather unusual spectacle in that their squad will probably not consist of more than five or six men. Shotliff will fence in all three weapons, and the othei’ two veterans, Huffstat and Willman, will take part in both the foil and epee bouts. These three have been consistent point winners this year, and, aided by a fine supporting cast, should give the locals a real run for their money tomorrow.
Five Seniors in Last Match
Comparative scores show that the two teams deserve to be rated on a par. Both met Purdue, and the latest Notre Dame victory over the fencers from Lafayette eclipsed by only half a point the win scored over the same team by the St. Louis boys. Further, a closer- scrutiny of other comparative scores shows that Ohio State is considered to have an equal advantage over both Notre Dame and Washington. These facts, though indefinite, serve to impart that when the two teams meet tomorrow fur is going to fly.
For Notre Dame, five seniors will enter into their final collegiate competition. Al McEnearney and Joe Leising will take part in their last foil matches, and Charley Colgan and Tim Graham will compete in the epee bouts for the last time. That leaves just one senior to be mentioned— Captain Sal Scarlata, of Lodi, New Jersey. It is regrettable that more cannot be written of this man—his leadership of the squad this year certainly deserves the highest kind of praise—but space and time do not permit. Suffice to say that he has been the finest kind of a leader throughout the campaign of 1939. Along with the other aforenamed seniors, he is determined to end his collegiate fencing with a victory.
MARCH 10, 1939
17
RECORD TURNOUT FOR BASEBALL SQUAD
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
In an announcement from Raymond Dumont, President of the National Semi-Pro Baseball Congress, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline has been named Indiana State Commissioner for the Congress. Kline announced that he hopes to obtain the
Commissioner Kline A new post.
Studebaker field in South Bend for the staging of the Indiana State baseball championships next summer.
An all-time record turnout of 100 men greeted Coach Kline for the 1939 edition of Notre Dame’s baseball squad.
“We’ve got 30 pitchers out for the team and the entire turnout is the biggest in history here,” Kline commented in his office this week. “For lack of space, I’ve been forced to turn some fellows down until after we get out of doors,” he furthered. “When we are able to work outside, everyone who wishes to play will be given a chance.”
Drills in the field house have been limited to early season conditioning drills, practice for pitchers and catchers, and infield practice.
Coach Kline looked over the list of reserves from last season who did not earn monograms from which he. hopes to uncover most of the talent for this season. Sullivan and McHale head the catching prospects while Celia, Thompson, Demer, Phillips and Minogue are hurlers back from the reserves of last year. Ken Oberbrunner, basketball forward, played both first base and the outfield a year ago.. Others who saw action in the infield a year ago were: Gaglione, Crane, Wagner, Hoag, and McIntyre. Gaglione and Wagner also competed in the outfield, along with Lou Zontini, footballer, and Jack Joyce.
Monogram men back include: Hunthausen, Mandjiak and Ellis, pitchers; Doyle, first base; Sullivan, third base; Captain Nardone, outfield; and Ver-hoestra, catcher.
Biggest sporting event of the week, of course, was Greg Rice’s spectacular two-mile race against Glenn Cunningham, Don Lash, and Tommy Deckard, last Saturday night. Greg as you know, coming up on a too-long-delayed sprint, finished in third place, at Lash’s elbow, and only six-tenths of a second behind the winner, Cunningham.
We listened to the meet, read the newspaper accounts, heard Greg’s own story, and Coach Nicholson’s— and we are still convinced that Greg is the best distance-runner in the country. “Nick” tells us that four mistakes were made — three by the runners themselves, and one by “Nick” himself. The biggest error of all was Don Lash’s, in running just the kind of race that had to be run in order that Cunningham might win. This was the situation: Lash and Rice have been primarily training all season at two-miles; they are both used to a fast two-mile pace and are physically capable of covering two miles faster than any man who has trained only for the mile. For Cunningham, the race had to be run at a more or less medium two-mile pace, so that he might still have his famous long sprint left to carry him through.
V
A fast pace would have either drawn his sprint out of him or left him too far behind to catch up. At the first mile the time was about 4:30 —just the right pace for a 9:00 or 9:05 two-mile, a very fast pace. At the mile, then, Lash took the lead away from the former pace-maker, Tommy Deckard, and deliberately slowed things down, running the third half-mile in about 2:30, fifteen seconds off the former pace.
V
This was just the kind of easy going that Cunningham wanted, and he was smart enough to take advantage of it, staying back in the field till about two laps from home, then stretching out to take the race in 9:11.8. It must be said for Lash that he undoubtedly was thinking about his coming attempt at the world two-mile record tomorrow night up at the special Dartmouth track, and did not feel he could run too fast a race against Cunningham and still have enough left for record-breaking the week after.
Cunningham made a mistake him
self, but only a slight one, in holding off his sprint. He is most powerful when putting on a “long” kick, for about the whole last quarter of a race; yet last week he let the last quarter mark — approximately three laps from the finish on the Madison Square Garden track — go by and started to sprint with only about two laps to go. He still managed to win, but Lash and Rice both almost nipped him at the tape.
V
Greg himself made a similar mistake, in holding his own sprint too long. Realizing that the pace was too slow, he stepped out in front of Lash at the mile and a half mark, and tried to speed it up. Finally Lash and Cunningham both jumped him with about two and a half laps to go, and with the final turn in sight, had picked up about ten yards on Greg. How they got that far ahead of him, he admits he doesn’t know; but with 80 yards to go, and 10 yards to make up, he started digging, on his toes. For every ten yards Cunningham and Lash ran, little Greg ran eleven, picked up about 8 la yards in the last 80 and was still spurting up when the race ended. Twenty yards more and he would have won easily. An earlier start would certainly have brought him home first, for his sprint is good up to about 250 yards. “Nick” figures he should have started kicking home with a lap and a half to go, instead of with barely a half a lap to go.
V
The fourth mistake, a psychological one, was Nick’s own. In discussing the race with Greg beforehand, he happened to observe that if the time was as slow as 7 minutes at the mile-and-a-half, Cunningham would win. At the mile and a half mark, it was exactly 6:59.8—and Nick is sure that his remark stuck in the back of Greg’s mind, perhaps with only slight effect, but still an effect that was bad psychologically.
However, no one, above all Nick himself, was displeased with the race. Nick swears that no runner ever learned anything in winning; but in losing he becomes aware of his mistakes and more quickly moves to correct them. This race, lost by only a few feet, should give Greg a big moral and mental boost for his next meeting with Lash.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Ted Leonas is learning to “beat the man” rather than to “assault the records,” the pattern that has been the difficulty of many high jumping athletes since the first grasshopper. That is the opinion of Coach John Nicholson who is teaching Ted two new tricks during the current indoor track season.
The first lesson switched Ted’s jumping style from the conventional western “roll” to the modified western “roll,” a style that has been popularized by the renowned Negro leapers, Dave Albritton and Edward Burke.
Ted’s latest lesson involves the trick that will prove to the lanky Notre Dame hopper that he can defeat the field at the 13th annual Cen-. tral Collegiate Conference indoor games in the Notre Dame field house beginning today and concluding tomorrow.
Jack Elder, century sprinter and dashing halfback of the class of ’30, induced Ted to enroll at Notre Dame when the Chicago youngster had attracted attention by winning the Central A.A.U. championship with a leap of 6' 4".
Teddy just missed a berth on the ’36 Olympic squad when he finished fourth at Randall’s Island, with only three to qualify. A lame back handicapped him during his freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame, but he was active enough to earn a monogram and threaten Vince Murphy’s
Notre Dame record, which stands at 6' 714", with a jump of 6' 5%.
In an event that is almost completely dominated by the Negro athletes Leonas ranks high among the Caucasoids, only Illinois’ Diefenthe-ler and Butler’s Marshall rating a comparison with Ted from among the mid-western jumpers.
Bob Lawrence, varsity hurdler who rooms with Ted in one of the St. Edward’s fourth-floor “sweets,” predicts that his roomie will break the tie that exists between Leonas and Marquette’s Eddie Burke, world’s record holder at 6' 914" when they cross the barrier tomorrow afternoon.
Burke and Leonas have met at the bar under a dozen circumstances, and the score stands with both hands on “6.” Wherefore, Notre Dame’s 140-pound ghost with the long under pinnings will be stretching his all to “beat the man” who has “assaulted the record.”
Carroll Heavies Win
Carroll and Morrissey were crowned Interhall Basketball League champions for 1939 last Sunday afternoon in a two-game carnival of champions, thus closing undefeated seasons for both teams.
The Carrollites, champions of the Junioi- group of the Heavyweights, defeated Sorin, Senior group cham-
SATURDAY, MARCH. I1TH
SPECIAL ADVANCE
55c
Tickets on Sale Now at ■Walgreen’s and Clark’s
PALAIS ROYALE
pions, 37 to 31, in a close, hard-fought game, and Morrissey, champions of the Senior group of the Lightweights, trounced St. Edward’s Hall, Junior group champions, 37-6.
In the opinion of Napolitano the outstanding team of the League, including both the Lightweights and the Heavyweights, was Morrissey Hall. The team, well-coached by Lloyd Thompson, besides having several “eagle-eye” shooters, had practically an impenetrable defense. St. Ed’s scored only one point during the entire second half of their game.
Spring practice for Lynn Waldorf’s Northwestern football team will start on March 13. Last of the Big Ten squads to start practice, the Wildcats will begin spring drills with a promising group of freshmen, including Bill DeCorrevont.
UH OR COORTRy
Feet Don t Quit in WALK-FITTED BOSTONIANS
FLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a. college education and a pilot's license.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. • LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field	Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: - Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
Always ready to go places and do ... feet fitted for action. Shoes that always look right because they feel right... fit right.
BOSTONIANS
$75» to $11
SELBY SHOES
130 West Washington St.
MARCH 10, 1939
19
KILLER PERFECTING HIS "BULLET DIVE11
By the Canvas Cub
“Gradually I yam working myself into one of them epitomes of emotion,” eloquently growled Champ Kell on our most recent visit. He was gazing contemptuously at the latest “half-shot” (and we do mean it) of his current Bengal opponent. “This fellow is peeked in de calves. He is a flat-foot, which is to his advantage, for he will need ’em flat to stand at all after I descends upon ’em. I’ll knit his very-close-veins into knots.”
Whereupon the Champ proceeded to tell me about his latest: the Bullet Dive, in which he flits through the air at his opponent, horizontal-fashion. Indeed this must be something to behold, thought I, so I asked Our Bet to demonstrate it for me and he obliged. “I backs against de ropes and starts me legs a-pumpin’. Then I takes off terrifically from de spring of de ropes, flit out to hammer the opposition wid my head, and finish up wid me hands. The trouble is I gets top-heavy enroute and falls on me head.” By this time the Champ was so enthusiastic he took a dive at the nearest wall. He moved with such rapidity that my eyes had difficulty following him, and the wall quaked and shook off its plaster coating.
Knowing that the Champ had not been doing any extensive training, I told him about his opponent’s latest threats and rigorous routines. “They come and they go like the boids,” the Champ purred poetically. Now the Killer is a modest fellow and doesn’t want to discourage anyone, because he does have an intense love for fistic encounters and all the romance that goes with such experiences.
“I do not train,” he continued, “because I’ve seen other opponents enter
Ok.
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
de ring wid pathos in their eyes and that touches me. I find it difficult to down me chivalrous attitudes. But when opponents start threatening to roll me head places, I loses me kindness. I’ll twist this thing into a corkscrew an’ make him queen of the Brewers Convention,” the Killer bellowed impatiently.
Yes sir, I believe the Champ is so tough he has muscles in his finger nails, and that’s putting it mildly.
Dr. Just Edits New Ecology Volume
•
Dr. Theodor Just of the Notre Dame Botany Department has recently edited a volume entitled Plant and Animal Communities which comprise the proceedings of the conference on that subject held at Cold Springs Harbor, L.I., New York, from August 2 to September 2, 1938. The work will be of considerable interest to ecologists throughout the country. Ecology may be termed the study of sociology as applied to plants and animals and their relations to each other. There were men from colleges throughout the United States and a representative from Estonia and the University of Leiden, The Netherlands.
The book is published by The American Midland Naturalist, a bimonthly publication of the University. Its progress since its founding by Father Nieuwland in 1909 is easily visible when one sees the steadily increasing thickness of the volumes from year to year.
The department carries on a system of exchanges with 45 foreign
Visit Our New Complete Record Dept.
VICTOR	BLUEBIRD
Larry Clinton	Artie Shaw
f “I Get Along Without You Very Well”	. f “Alone Together”	■
1 “The Masquerade Is Over”	( “Rose Room”
RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
— Open Saturday Evenings Until 9 —
REMEMBER THE TWO JIMMIES FOR:
WATCH REPAIRING
Jimmie Warner
(Located next to Candy Store and Telegraph Office)
countries in addition to a number of American universities and scientific institutions. In this way the University scientific library is increased and the news of progress here is spread to others.	.
Enjoy a Longer
SPUING
VACATION
FLY HOME by Flagship ★ American Airlines Flagships serve 57 major U. S. cities directly. Excellent connections out of South Bend to points East, Southwest and West. 10% saving on round trip fares. Meals aloft are complimentary. Stewardess on every ship. See American Airlines representative Frank Itzin, 23 Lyons Hall for full details.
NMBB1EAM MBUMEh*
The American Standard of Service
SHOE REPAIRING Jimmy McAllister
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Frosh Elect, Tuesday
Primaries in the freshman election will be held at the Carroll recreation hall, Tuesday, March 14, from 1 to 5 p.m., Paul McArdle of the S.A.C. announced Wednesday. If necessary, the finals will be held on Tuesday, March 21 at the same time in Carroll hall.
The only ticket entered in the race early in the week included: Edward Sullivan, Brownson, president; John Mead, Freshman, vice-president; Robert Donohoe, Cavanaugh, secretary; and Edward Monahan, Zahm, treasurer.
Additional candidates must submit their names to McArdle at 247 Sorin hall not later than today, March 10.
Elections in the upper classes will be held shortly after the Easter vacation.
They're From Missouri
The members of the Greater St. Louis club enjoyed pictures of the Minnesota-Notre Dame football game at a smoker held last week in Carroll Rec.
Football Captain Jim McGoldrick, was the guest speaker. He began his speech by telling the long neglected story which he failed to succeed in telling during any of the pep-meet-
vat-	=~	---iw>
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
—i	a&fe

■MHEKIIEF TEST PROVES ■essii sim KEK Will UNE SWIESS
Always clean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Chai-lenging' higher-priced pipes in briar quality and value. /

ings in the last football season.
As a reward for his excellent dissertation he was chosen as judge of a “tall - story” contest in which the
for that spring “head tonic” ... GET UNDER a new STETSON/
We feature these famous hats, $5 to $7,50
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
GOO
One School of Thought on this Stetson!
Gentlemen of the New School prefer its trim, smooth lines...its bound edge...its new International Colors. And, like gentlemen of the Old School, they prefer the label of quality: Stetson.
members of the club participated. The contest was unique in that the judge was also allowed to present a “tall story.”
A
i
HE55DnGUHRD miLAno
STETSON
•5 to *40

c
’ P A
MARCH 10, 1939
21
"DIGEST" TO DIGEST "DIGESTS"—ENGELS
By Frank Wemhoff
Professor Norbert Engels lays a whimsical indictment at the doorstep of the numerous “digest” magazines in his article “On Streamlining the Modern Reader” which appears in the March 4 issue of America.
Mr. Engels admits that the digest has some position in the literary world but only so far as it saves the reader many hours of worthless reading. The digest is the child of too many magazines each with too little to offer.
While a digest fosters no apparent harm, materially, it can educate a reader to its abrupt condensed style and center his tastes there. However, the main fault of the digest is the disruption of the style of the author’s material. The condensation, no matter how well handled, destroys the beauty of the original prose. This simmering process in literature is all right for the man who must gulp his reading over a breakfast table and reads solely for information, but not for the man who reads with discernment.
If we are anything of an egotist we must dislike the digest intuitively or become literary puppets. Mr. Engels quarrels with the digests because they want to choose his reading material. The digest voids the right of the reader to draw his own critical opinions because of the scarcity of evidence. The experience “of matching wits and logic and argument against those in the book” is lost.
This “skimming over” type of reading seems comparable to “eating the
hors d’oeuvres and then neglecting the dinner.” The dig at the “digest” was prompted by the refusal of The Saturday Evening Post to allow any further condensation of its material by a certain digest.
“In fact, if the present trend continues, and more and more of these booklets appear which not only select the article but bits of the article as well, I fear that we shall sometimes see a digest which selects and digests from all the digests, not only dehydrating them but completely devitalizing them as well,” Professor Engels concluded.	'
Notre Dame’s varsity basketball team represents a League of Nations —Eddie Sadowski is Polish; Mark Ertel is Dutch-English; Paul Du-
Spedalizing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
i
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Charme is French; Captain Earl Brown has a Dutch father and Scotch-Irish mother; and Eddie Riska is a Lithuanian. Coach Keogan, of course, is Irish.
Make no mistake . . . only fitted feet can be active feet__Only when shoes fit right, feel r i g h t, do t h e y look right.
TWO LESS FEET TO WORRY ABOUT IN
Kuehn's Master Fitted Shoes
Nationally Known
•	Nettletons'
•	Bostonians
•	Foot Joy
•	Crosby-Square
See the new Spring arrivals in our windows economically priced.
H. E. BOWLES BARBER SHOP JUL Washington
THIS PIPE NEVER BITES MY TONGUE’
MEDICO FILTERIP SMOKING
120 So. Mich. St.
Devoted exclusively to tl examination of the eye and the mating of fine glasses.
MEDICO’S patented filter, corn-bining 66 Baffle interior and cellopEane exterior, is greatest scientific smoking invention ever known. It traps nicotine, juices and flakes; and breaks up hot smoke stream, resulting in cool, “broken - in” Filtered Smoking in Medico Pipes, Cigarette and Cigar Holders.
FINEST BBIAB
MONEY CAN BUY
newest SHAPES
GENUINE FILTERS FOR MIRICO PIPES PACKER ONLY M TUB REO « RIACK ROX
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
L E M O N T R E E S Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
22
INDOOR SPORTS PLAY NEARS COMPLETION
By Francis B. Kennedy
With the Indoor Sports Tournament well into its third week of competition it appears that the winners of the various divisions will be real champions. With only a few exceptions the matches have all been hard fought, with the winners having the extra push which is always necessary for victory.
Because it started out with a smaller field it looks as though the billiard tourney, conducted by Andy Wilson, will be the first to be completed. In the past week the semi-final matches have been played, and it is likely that the winner will be produced within the next few days. A few of the men were dropped from the tourney because they failed to play their matches according to schedule, but most of the men advanced the hard way.
In the handball tournament all of the men have reached the second round, and some of the third round matches have also been played. The favorites — Metrailer, Byrnes, Callahan, and Trentacoste, the defending champion — have all won their first matches but are expected to find the competition a little keen the rest of the way. In the doubles competition also, some of the teams have already played their third round matches. Some of the outstanding teams are: Borgman and Metrailer, Dowd and Maber, and Bradley and Trentacoste.
First to enter the quarterfinals of the bowling tourney was Rev. Louis E. Ernsdorff, of Walsh Hall. Despite the exceptionally large turnout for this sport the matches have been played off according to schedule, with all of the second, and most of the third round matches having been
Bl
LEARN TO FLY with JTOCKEKT
FLYING SERVICE, Inc. Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, £45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in the United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall ‘Our business is in the air”
played. Favorites along with Father Ernsdorff are: Selna, Herrick, and Schnorr — all of whom have been bowling consistently well. The doubles tournament has not started yet, but the large number of entrants assures us that this event will also be a success.
Second-round matches have been played off in the table-tennis tourney, but the “third-rounders” are not responding to the call with the proper speed. Gottschalk, and Heckler, who is last year’s champ, have been the dominating figures in the tournament so far.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
1900
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Etchings
Here is a real value— genuine etchings depicting either the
Administration Building
or the
Campus Entrance
8 x 11 inches
While they last we are selling them at our net cost — $2.00.
N. D. Book Store
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sr. Madaleva Speaks
Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College, well-known Catholic poet and author, who was recipient of an honorary degree at the diamond jubilee celebration of Manhattan College last April, will speak at the annual corporate Communion breakfast of the Catholic Young Women’s Club at the Waldorf-Astoria Sunday morning. Mrs. Katherine Burton, who wrote Sorrow Built A Bridge, will also speak.
yOU'LL ARRIVE
vie
WW.
d_ . ■ —-‘
Vou leave the worry and fatigue of travelling to someone else when you go by South Shore Line. Rest and read in comfort —you’ll arrive on time, SAFELY, via South Shore Line electric trains. There’s always a convenient train . . . and the new one-way fares are cheaper than driving
CALL C. V. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
for more information about fares and service
CHICAGO SUU1H SHORE « SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
,s»uw
MARCH 10, 1939
23
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 9)
These figui’es represent the earnings of top-ranking artists, the number of which is small. Few symphony conductors receive §20,000 salaries; the average salary paid for full time symphony conductors is nearer §5,000 a year. Players in symphony orchestras receive minimum weekly salaries of §40 in smaller communities and §70 to §85 in larger cities during the season.
A soloist—or “first desk” player— may get us to §250 weekly. It is known, of course, that nationally famous dance orchestras command high fees for their services, and likewise derive large income from radio and motion picture appearances, and from recordings and otherwise. It is impossible, however, to make any generalizations respecting the earnings of the obscure dance orchestras.
Private teachers of music may earn from less than §1,000 to more than §10,000 a year, depending upon their reputation and clientele. Music teachers in private schools and colleges earn §1,000 to §5,000 a year; in public schools from §1,000 to §4,000; with directors of music sometimes receiving §6,000 or more. A few of the eminent teacher-artists on the staffs of graduate conservatories enjoy salaries in excess of §10,000 a year, and often augment their earnings by giving private lessons or recitals.
Critics on Announcer Basis
Full-time critics are paid according to the scales for feature writers—
For
Books	Stationery
Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
Visit
The Book Shop 130 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
usually from §30 to §150 weekly. Music commentators for radio broadcasters are paid about the same as announcers. ■
It is quite impossible to determine the range of earnings of composers. Although the few highly successful writers of popular songs and dance hits have become millionaires, famed composers of symphonic and other recital music usually must rely upon teaching or other music activities to supplement their incomes from royalties and performance rights. The reluctance of publishers to take the risks involved in the publication of new works by unknown composers is a well known fact.
These figures have been quoted from a survey entitled “Occupations in Music,” conducted this year by the National Occupational Conference.
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 3) from the South Bend branch of the the Amateur Athletic Union.
Extra
As an added feature some celebrity will be invited to attend as honorary
THE HUDDLE
WIN 6 DR. GRABOW PIPES IN AN EASY WlP* ad WRITING CONTEST
There's
Nothing to Buy! Dr. Grabow pipes are PreSmoked by machine, with fine tobacco, to make them sweetl They're fine gifts! They cost only Si .50! That's the story — just write an ad in this same size space, using the Dr. Grabow facsimile cut.
The best ad wins a set Si of Dr. Grabow PreSmoked Pipes in a gift box All entries become the property of M. Linkman & Co.
DESIGNED BY i PHYSIC^N hj? 1 SMOKE .
Dr. GRABOW
NO BITE . . NO BREAKING IN . . NO BITTER TASTE
referee. Thus far, Gene Tunney former heavyweight champion, Bobby Riggs, the nation’s ranking tennis star, and Billy Conn, new Irish middleweight sensation, have been mentioned.
Prize*
Winners of the finals receive heavy wool sweaters with a glove emblem, and light sweaters go to the losers in the final bouts.
NOTRE DAME MEN We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI
30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
“SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Stratigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
I Write as many ads as
I you -wish but do not use any _
I fancy art work, as no cuts will be I made. Send entries to the Dr. Gra-I bow Ad Editor, c/o The Scholastic.
T The winning ad will appear in the f Mar. 24 issue of this magazine. All I decisions final. Closing date Mar. 21.
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LENMONIER LIBRARY*
NO DANE, LOCAL
------------------------
that Satisfies with a Capital m
Radio City’s world- famous “Rockettes” and CHESTERFIELDS
...two can’t-be-copiedcombinations
There’s skill and precision in the way the Rockettes dance and there’s skill and precision in the way the mild ripe Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and proportioned to bring out the best in each.
That’s why Chesterfields are milder and taste better.. . that’s why they’ll give you more pleasure than any cigarette you ever smoked.
Chesterfield
... a HAPPY COMBINATION of the
Copyright 1939, Liggstt <t Myers Tobacco Co.
world’s best cigarette tobaccos