•PlS^E'QV^SI'SC/^Pt^-TiQ’X/f^/S* ViVfc’Q^SI^JVVST^O^in/^/S-
Vol.. XXXI.’	- NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 4, 1897.		No. 13,
-	•	.	,	• •	• -- *	or- .	.	— • - - ——		 —
■ . " ," ,	' Law.
PAUL J. RAGAN, '99. ‘
’^^ID sullen gloom and starless clouds that spanned
<uT« Across the new-born world; in dusky night,
When men bowed ’neath the bloody sceptre’s might, When force was rule, and battles filled the land, There came a queen, a goddess fair, whose hand
Held high above the gloom a beacon light,
. A torch with flame that breathed Peace and Right, To warring worlds where chaos held command.
c	-	’
This goddess-queen was Law; and bright she shone
With threefold beauty .’gainst the demon Strife, .
Who long had held an undisputed sway.
Soon from the land all dreaded feuds were gone,.
Harsh, cruel wars gave way to peaceful life, Then Justice ruled, and night was changed today.
Development in the Methods of Studying Law.
PROF. WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.
IRST in importance- among the (flX secular professions may justly be jKr ranked the law. All branches of knowledge are tributary to it. From time to ' f time come occasions for use in its practice of the sciences, classical learning, civil engineering, medicine, metaphysics, philosophy, logic, history and elocution, not to mention . the customs of trade, business regulations, and the like. It is a system vast and complicated. It adapts itself to the needs of every people and the wants of every age. It may be made the study of a lifetime. To very few indeed does it become fully known. Unfortunately, too many of those who register their names upon . the records of its temples are but mere.sciol
ists :qr smatferers. They study it with much the same feelings and motives as they would study, to qualify'themselves for some business pursuit. ' For these it has few laurels. It has beauties they rifever see; it has triumphs they never know; it. Has'"glories they never realize.
The aspiring and" industrious student, who ’ perseveringly strives ;toffbecome
NOTABLE -AS?A~ LAWYER, aims at attaining to as exalted a standard of honor-and usefulness as it;is>possible to reach. In scholarship, integrity,, courage; patriotism and world-embracing charity’lawyers need not hesitate to invite comparison with-their fellowcitizens in any other pro fess ion^dr walk of secular. life. Never have meanffriafrow and sordid men stood among the greafylawyers of the world, and to the end of time. thfeyTcan not stand there. Indeed, all the inspirations .Of law are repugnant to the formation of ,a: character mean, narrow and sordid. The office oMaw:is to declare and maintain jnstice and tO;prOmbte and preserve society for the common welfare. Thus it must discriminatingly pronounce4 in favor of whatever tends to promptfeVrigfit, liberty arid public tranquillity. Its animating spirit .almost necessarily enters into the,nature and contributes to form the character oflf&oSe who become indoctrinated in its principles.AIn short, its paramount aim is to promote the.ends" of justice; and it follows that the well-balanbeiR mind which most readily grasps the distinctions.. between justice, and injustice gives promise^off greatest possibilities in the domain of lawyA
These considerations can hardly fail toy be/, inspiring to young men. who propose tofentefc ■ in earnest upon the;-study of law,; arid endeavor to becorrie useful in the profession,"/ notable in its practice, and worthy of its hpnOrsy But here a question , pertinent, and important?. . presents itself. . It is—“How arid where:carir
202	NOTRE DAME
THE STUDY OF LAW
be most profitably pursued?” It will readily be admitted that no person can undertake intelligently to answer that question without some experience or observation in the line of inquiry. Especially true must this seem to 5roung men about to become students of law. These readily acknowledge their helplessness when left wholly to themselves for an answer. Consequently, they turn quite naturally for information and advice to those whom they regard as qualified to direct them. Many appeal to’ the lawyers of the town in which they reside, while others turn for light to a comparative review of the catalogues of different law schools. Some members of the bar are wont to say, under these circumstances, “Enter a law office and study there,” or “ Get the necessary law books and study under the direction of some attorney.” Others say, “Study the elementary books for a year or two, and then go to a law school.” Others again reverse this order, Saying: “ Go to a law school for two or three years, and then study at least a year or two in some law office.” Needless to state, the inquirer is often perplexed and bewildered by this diversity of opinion and advice. Turning for aid to the catalogues, he finds the situation hardly less disappointing. He learns that some law schools depend solei}*- upon the study of cases as their method of teaching. Stu-dents read certain adjudicated cases in the reports^ and then undertake at recitation to state in' outline the facts and law involved therein^ Other schools of law give instruction almostR.exclusively by means of text-books. These-are read by the students in much the same ^manner as they would be studied in a law office or at one’s home. Again, there are somef law schools that rely upon the lecture system as affording the most satisfactory means of instruction. However, a few of them have made it obligatory on students to read the elem'erifarv text-books in addition to attending -the JleGtures.
In? view of such want of uniformity in the methods of studying law, it must seem by no meaiis easy for young men desirous of qualifying ^themselves for the profession to decide how?to proceed or what to do. For them the question; “ How and where can the study of law be m@st profitably pursued?” has not been clearly of. satisfactorily answered. They can hardly feel disposed to proceed earnestly in any of the Tines indicated without further inquiry
SCHOLASTIC.
and investigation. They realize that work begun in doubt is not auspiciously begun.
The older members of the profession, whose studies date back to a time when there were hardly any law schools in the country, and when there was no particular test or standard of qualifications for admission to the bar, are inclined to recommend the law office as the proper training school for students. They remember that when they were themselves students they learned much from observing the transaction of a miscellaneous law business in the offices in which they studied. But they seem to forget that the old order of things has been radically changed or has passed away. Matters of litigation now show a strong tendency to run in grooves and specialties. In this process of segregation the practice of certain offices, especially in cities, becomes confined almost exclusively to this or that specialty. Moreover, attorneys in the early days referred to had more leisure than their successors have. Their offices, it may be said, were the only law schools at the time, and they took exceptional pains in connection with their own studies to instruct the students under their charge.. But now it is quite otherwise. The law-office preceptor has become a very indifferent teacher. Ordinarily he renders no aid whatever to the student in his office. The time of the latter is largely given to copying, doing routine work and going here and there on errands. These duties arise irregularly during the day. They are injurious in their effects upon the student, in that they make if difficult for him to form correct habits of study: Such interruptions lead to habits of desultory and -listless reading, and nothing could be more unfriendly to the study of legal principles — nothing more subversive of the power to understand them.
Except as to matters of practice and routine work, the day of the law office as a school of instruction has. gone. The great majority of lawyers so declare. These entertain a common purpose to elevate as speedily as practicable to a higher plane the standard of qualifications for admission to the bar. Even now, as observers may notice, the obstacles and difficulties in the way of passing the examination are increasing in number and formidableness from year to year, and the narrow, superficial and incomplete study of the law office no longer suffices.
After all, the law school is the only place where the foundations of legal knowledge can
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
203
be laid broad and d^ep. There the whole great system of jurisprudence maybe studied in all its branches and relations. And no student can reasonably hope to become eminent or notable in the profession without comprehending the law in that enlarged sense. But to comprehend it thus requires the patient study, the close analysis, the comprehensive research and the practical work appropriate to the curriculum of a well-appointed and properly-managed law school. Recognizing this fact, the American Bar Association has more than once urged local bar associations in the several States to “recommend and further the maintenance of schools of law.”
It has been predicted that the time is fast coming when “the law school will hold the same relation to the legal profession that the medical college and theological seminary no.w sustain to the medical and clerical professions.” The prediction appears to be fully warranted by the trend of events and the close relation of the law school, or the law department, to the economy of university education. For example, fifty years ago there were only two or three law schools in the country. Now they may be numbered by the score. They are connected with and form component parts of all the leading universities. And so it has been for many centuries in Europe. There the great universities have four faculties,.theology, philosophy, law and medicine.,. In some, too, there is a fifth faculty—that of administrative and political sciences. In Germany the regular collegiate or undergraduate studies are taught in Mie. gymnasia. The tendency in the growth .and expansion of facilities.- for acquiring a higher education in this country has been to conform to the European model. This fact suggests that law schools must soon hold rel7 atively the same position here that they do in Europe in the economy of legal education.
The inquiry proposed as to where and how the law should be studied leads inevitably to the conclusion thata law school offers the best facilities for thoroughness and comprehensiveness in its study, and that the system of study should not slavishly conform to the standard of any particular school, but be eclectic to a degree, comprising and combining lectures, case-reading, text-book work, moot-court practice, etc., in one harmoitious whole. What is popularly called “office work” should also receive a fair share of attention. A system thus broad and practical realizes the highest standard of legal education, and it is laudable that the present aim of wisely directed law schools is to attain to that standard.
The Legal Profession.
F. HENRY WURZER, ’9$,
The dignity of those who master and defend the law is second only to the dignity of those who uphold and spread religion. The theologian has charge of the world to come, and the jurist has charge of this temporal world-their responsibilities are the heaviest, but their rank and honor the highest. They are the servants of men; but it has been aptly remarked that “A man who considers service to be an honor has the noblest soul.” Religion can.not remain and live without a.ministry: the law must decay unless some one be equally devoted to it. Civilized society demands that justice prevail. Should we lose track of this it would be at the expense of . social order and real liberty. But that justice might prevail we must first provide proper tribunals for its administration. This consideration- serves to set forth clearly that. lawyers are indispensable to the well-being of a community..
The sphere, of usefulness is an extensive one. Usefulness for good, both for self and for others, that is usefulness in the true sense. We perceive in the legal profession, with but little reflection, the highest form of this usefulness. For self-improvement the science of the law has a most profitable and salutary influence. In it we find the strands of almost every phase and condition in life, and none of them can be properly disentagled unless the whole skein is carefully studied. Burke says of the law that it is, “A science which does more to quicken and invigorate the understanding than all other kinds of learning put together.” It broadens a man’s views and culls out the servitude of bigotry. The true lawyer learns to see the happy, side of all things, and -when clouds of adversity are- really threatening he palliates the hard fact by clothing them with a silvery cloak. I believe that the depravity of Buddhists is really due to their want of men well versed in the principles of law: for a true lawyer can not be.a pessimist. As there is no branch of learning or of labor in this life that does not, in. some manner or other, extend its fibres into the vast science of the law, the lawyer, has the best opportunity to realize the benefit. and necessity .of all sciences, of all • vocations and. of the<blessings Divine. Providence has bestowed upon, us in the division of employments. He sees that all is for our best.
204
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
This same wholesome influence upon self— when man’s character is thus once imbued with it—makes it morally impossible for him to prevent it from spreading out for the benefit of the whole community. He can not misdirect it.- 1 say he can not misdirect it,— morally he can not, but physically he can. .	.
Why look with suspicion.on the integrity and probity of the legal profession? It is too often the result of fallacious reasoning. Many advance a very correct premise; but they fall into a pit before they come to the conclusion. They say both sides of the case can not be right. This is quite true. And they immediately jump to the wild conclusion that for this reason orie of the attorneys must know that he is trying to maintain what is not just, and must be corrupt and dishonest. The accuser is violently begging the question. He assumes that it is always known beforehand what is really the precise contention, and-what 'the result will be. If his. assumption were a good one, what need would there be of a lawyer; and what sense in his toilsome and tedious nights of preparation for a trial? We do not find the treacherous and the lowly busying the civil courts. Though the State may bring them into criminal courts, they appear there much against their will. Usually the most honest and representative men meet with differences in the complex relations of life, and these they seek to haVe adjusted in the courts. Nor is the usefulness of the lawyer abused when he . does not look at both sides of a case with the most conscientious scruples lest injustice be done. I venture to say it is always safe to trust that his adversary will not allow those books iri which he may hope to find any least clue of success to gather more dust. Moreover, when/he is fully warmed to the study of his case, he will, in all likelihood, conclude that there really is but little doubt that his client must be successful: Of course, he is never permitted to act directly in contradiction to ' the dictates pf-Cbnsciehce. If a mail’s intellect is. perverted he-is subject to thie. closest scrutiny. The triip lawyer /will always say
. .■“This aboyeall:;/To.thine own self be true; .
\ : - And it mugnfollbw, as .the night the diy, : /-	. .Thou caristTiot/jthen/befalse to any man.”
\ Duty Js ffi	_	,	___
duct; honest cony^fion hisgoal at all times.-His inatibn "of 'the supreme court is avoided, arid / sense of-honorJ^d^t^	its-judgesfare faithful to their sacred oath and
. never suffer beo^b^ zeal ,fbr succes^f " TipKbi.^	with: inflexible rigor
r - f Theladyahtage^l^	and austerity;- Th lawyer- has been true to his
f: f in-by'the-narrotytj^j^^	■/ trust inThe/past: andjwe’ may isafely/hppe.-that.
his village, city, county or even state. Though the theory upon which our Government rests is that all citizens should be active in politics, yet all can not be leaders, and few possess the precise knowledge required in the proper administration. of certain offices. There are Congress and the Legislatures of all the states in the Union. These halls are filled with lawyers,—and the more so the better; for how foolish it is to see a man voting in favor of a new law, or for the repeal of an old one, when he has not even the slightest knowledge as to the tenor and effect of the old one. People call upon a lawyer to fill these positions, because his life-study and daily experience are the only available and correct training to make a man fit for such duties. It is, indeed, to be lamented that politics is so commonly railed at with sneering detestation. Those who lend their tongues to the shaping of such slander detract from the integrity-of our institutions, and from the wisdom and patriotism of their founders. Herein we see the great danger that threatens our republic. The lawyer does not hesitate to bear this calumny so long as he is convinced that his country gains by his efforts.' Wherever he finds corruption in political affairs, the true lawyer presses forward and bends his efforts to enlist the interest and attention of the good citizen,—and this is the only remedy for demagogism. •
Then again there is that highest and most ’ august assembly in the land,—the federal judiciary, whose members must forever be chosen from among the ranks of the legal profession. To' the American citizen it is the highest, the last resort for justice’ It neutralizes the executive and legislative powers of bur government, and holds governor and legislator alike to a close observance of our Constitution. To corrupt this tribunal with incompetent men would be to destroy the bulwarks of our government, to let men sink into confusion, and fall into the furrows of devastation and revolution. Self-government would be forever set aside as a failure; and we would be in no small degree responsible for any despotism in future ages that might be the cause of this failure. It matters not so much if some plutocracy or
demagogism creeps into the executive and legislative-departments, so long as the contain
L



Z #£■
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
)
he will not be guilty of aBreach in the future.
Far back in the early history of the Egyptians, the first people of whom we learn after the dispersion of men from. Babel, we read of their wise codes of law and the men who were devoted to its development. They were the rulers and princes among men. We can trace the • constant labors, of these devotees to law and . humanity all the way up with the growth of civilization and the improvement of men. When they disappear the warriors seem' always to step into their places, and barbarism begins to prevail. The Rameses, Moses and Solomon were among the wisest law-givers. Later the Amphictyonic Council realized the initiative of. civilization in the intercourse of nations. And then followed Lycurgus', a man of law and war, and Pericles as great. Demosthenes was among the first to broach the cause of man’s freedom, his slender, frame, fortified with the fruits of his legal labors, sent defiance into the camps of the mighty Philip and Alexander, and challenged the success of their powerful armies. He sought .to free his countrymen. And was not CiCero a power and an influence in the welfare of Rome?—And Caesar? And Justinian, with the aid of Tribonian, digested and compiled the gathered wisdom of ages of law-making, and his labors were a source of great benefit to many nations. And the Magna Charta was also the handiwork of such men. In the British Isles the lawyer has constantly been the best servant of the people. There they venerate such names as Grattan, Erskine, Pitt and Burke. .	.
When we come down to our own great	_
America,—when we come to look at this great saying that “The gods sell to us all good ‘	things for labor. We must not heed, the
republic, this grand structure that has amazed the world and has proved itself worthy to be the Promised Land of liberty, was it not a lawyer who set fire to the fuse of the revolution that gave it birth? And did he not boldly stand forth with majestic bravery, and alone, to declare the cause of liberty amidst.the cries . of “Treason”; and did not the same Patrick Henry challenge the world to fight for freedom when he immortalized the. cause of liberty and emblazoned its motto in his eloquent words, “Give me liberty or give me death”?
/
Who can ever forget that it was a lawyer who those of the past. Many, today, frequent?the drafted that grandest charter of man’s equality court either as judges or practitioners, itoo and rights, the Declaration of Independence;' busy to engage in political life.unless tjie and that twenty-four lawyers signed that same' people call them away. Then, like;many>df paper?’ Lawyers constituted over one-half of .
the delegates to the convention in Philadelphia
.‘that framed the present Constitution. And
when the citizens over the whole of our land attacked this Constitution and the idea of union, with the most bitter opposition, the lawyers gave up all self-interest and sacrificed themselves wholly to this cause, that the Godgiven-fruits of the successful revolution might not pass* away with the morrow. Is it not gratifying for us to observe that a lawyer turned the tidal wave of opposition by indue-ing the ninth state into the adoption of this Constitution, thereby virtually creating our superb, our glorious Union? The lawyer kept a ‘ watchful eye upon.the growth of the country’s < strength and prosperity; and when.‘domestic	<
troubles began to threaten the existence of our republic he was the last to hesitate; and the : first to act. The pages of our history will forever : be illumined with the memory of the"? illustrious . 1 Webster and his forensic Battles, and along. with him Clay and Calhoun arid many others. . , But what grander eviderice of the: lawyer’s . patriotism, counsel and service* do we want than to point to the Emancipation Proclamation that has stamped the memory of Abraham . Lincoln with immortality !	-
Look at all this, such power, such glory, such dignity, all withiri the legal profession. . Let it bring home to us a lesson. Let us at least try for like power arid usefulness. W’heri ? we do not attain to it at once we should not cowardly turn away. In such moments of soli- J tude and gloom let us follow for a few morhehts in the paths of the Immortals. They will give .. us new inspirations; they will all tell us the . < same story of neglect and years of want; they . -will tell us that the Greeks are quite correct in :
popular complaint that the great lawyers of the past are never equalled in the present day. . It is only collateral to the common cry-that the immediate past is marked with but few great men, and the present is without true genius. This cry is common to all ages. In the past Shakspere has answered it through. ■ the lips of Cassiiis: 5 '	1 :
‘ “When.went there by an age since the great flood >
But .it was famed with more than one great* man?’’ We have lawyers as great, yes greater,’thank /
our ex-presidents and. senators, they leave their profession only for awhile^ to -.return to-ib after serving in the highest offices?in*the

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Benefit of Clergy.
LOUIS T. WEADOCK, '99.
In
its broadest meaning, the term “Benefit o ■
c

of Clergy” means the exemption from final trial in civil courts that all clergymen once enjoyed. The king’s courts had jurisdiction over clergy, it is true; but the court of appeal and of last resort was the ecclesiastical tribunal. For example, if a clergyman were charged with a felony, the courts of the realm could bring.him to trial. Yet on this first arraignment the only question tried was whether the accused man could read. If he were able to do this, his real trial took place in the ecclesiastical court. If he could not read he was tried in the lay court, and the proceedings were not subject to appeal to the canon law.
. This privilege of the clergy and scholars was for years the bone of contention between the authorities .of the Church and the kings of r England. The line of demarcation between the ; jurisdiction of ecclesiastical and lay courts was never strictly drawn. At some points these jurisdictions overlapped each other, and the J sole means of determining their exact limits lay < with the rivals themselves. When we say rivals F we do not mean actual antagonists; for the Church and State agreed perfectly as to prin-\ ciple. On the discipline alone didr they differ % There were long and . bitter struggles in the . twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth centuries ’ - . regarding the limits of canonical and civil • authority; yet there was not a single instance in
■p which king and bishop clashed as to the rights of either. The disputes concerned the exercise y of these rights, not the rights themselves.
!It is difficult to determine the exact time When this privilege was given to the Church’ The system undoubtedly was the result of long usage and custom which hardened into fixed law., We are acquainted, however, with the st^ths of the Church in early times; and it is prdBable that the-benefit of clergy arose from
tort, and could be brought to trial for any offence less than felony is equally certain. The civil courts invented a writ by? means of which ___________ the accused clerk could -be brought to trial astical^jufisdictions, and forbade tribunals of before/them. If the^bishop,/of his ordinary, either?cla^	cognizance of cases per? refused^ to deliver up: the: guilty man, his
■ taining?t^He^	.ecclesiastical, courts barony ;was/pf’oceeded?against? Thus the civil
hadycogm^	of spiritual matters;' courts rwefeyaided in the exercises-of -their
’ and wHen?t^	temporal matters lawful TunctionsibyTthe/ ecclesiastical courts,
/ ■ they7did'sbrqften^ith the express rcorisent, arid or • Cbur tsTGhristia/^	sometimes
always with tnejfujpfepw.ledge of the State. The- known.; <, i:	/ / : .. r/T /	•.
thecircumsfances in which the early Christian Ghufhh' was -placed. In England, William the Conqueror separated the civil and- the ecclesi-
canon courts were: the Archdeacon’s Court, the Consistory Courts, the Court of Archs, the Court of Peculiars, the Prerogative Courts of the two archbishops, the Faculty Court and, on appeal, the Privy Council.
Ecclesiastical courts exercised jurisdiction primarily over the clergy. This term included all who had received the tonsure. All clergy, including priests, deacons, clerks, monks, were subject to the canon law as distinguished from ’the civil law; but it must be remembered that such jurisdiction was granted by the state. The ecclesiastical authorities held that a clergyman, or a man tonsured, had become the servant of God, and that his crimes must be punished by the Church of God. This view was accepted by the lawyers and rulers of the realm, and although it varied in its application, the principle was the same. This law has influenced our law as we have it today, and was, for the purpose for which it was designed, highly beneficial. It simplified litigation to a large extent, and made the trial of cases more orderly. It took from the civil courts those cases which could not be justly dealt with by civil authority.
This ecclesiastical system dates, in all probability, from the middle of the twelfth century, when Gratian, ah Italian monk, collected the decrees of councils, opinions of the Fathers and other authorities, and formed them into one system in which there was unity. These sources had since been added to, and England had seen the best of the courts.
But the benefit of clergy did not apply so much to this complete system of ecclesiastical courts as it did to the exemption from the punishment 6F death, which the clergy once enjoyed. To understand this.question fully we must remember that the clerk was protected by the civil law, and that generally the ecclesiastical courts, did. not take cognizance of violence. That the. clergy were protected in their personal and property rights by the temporal law is certain; and that.the clerk could be sued in the civil: courts on a contract or for a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
In order to promote the progress of learning and religion, and to secure safety for the ministers of the faith, it was granted to them that in almost every instance the death penalty should be withheld from them. Long imprisonment, various acts of penance and reparation they were subject to, but in most cases they were safe from capital punishment. The offences that were clergyable, as the term was, varied in different countries at different times. It never reached to misdemeanors or offences below felony, and high treason was without the benefit of clergy. Felonies were within the benefit. A clergyman was exempt toties quoties, as often as, from acquired habit or otherwise, he repeated the same species of offence.
Some writers have offered this fact as an evidence of depravity in the Church and of the Churchmen. Some have even gone so far as to say that the Church legalized crime and protected criminals from justice. History refutes this conclusively. In the first place, the privilege was granted freely and from no sense of compulsion; secondly, the original objects for which it was granted were worthy; and, strongest proof of all, history tells us that clergy were not the only classes exempt from capital punishment, but that the laity, if readers, were exempt for the first offence; that peers and peeresses were discharged for their first fault without reading, and with no punishment at all; and that branding in the hand was allowed commoners in place of death. These distinctions were made by the civil law, and were proclaimed in the civil courts.
Every clerk did not have benefit of clergy. It was required that his clerkship should be proved by his bishop’s letters and that his bishop claim him. If this were not done, the civil law-took its course. We read that bishops were loath to interfere unless they believed the accused clerk to be innocent. If his bishop claimed him, his bishop punished him, and in - the thirteenth century there were many complaints because the bishops did punish the clerks by long terms of imprisonment. When the ordinary claimed the clerk, he became bound for a large, sum (Aioo at one time) to produce the prisoner fortrial in-the civil courts.
From, the reign of William I.. to that of Edward I. the benefit of clergy had been generally recognized by every king of England.. The civil courts were aideddn their judgments by the Courts Christian, and the system had been, and \ still -was, a success; in the reign of the latter • king, however, charigeswere madein the priv
ilege of clergy which began the sweeping .-A A. . reformation that was destined to become radi- .
cal. Before we consider these changes, let us < ; A/y remember that King Canute, the Saxon, had	.
his laws framed to protect the clergy in their privileges, and Alfred had hanged a judge who .AA.’ had executed a clerk, because as a secular , judge he must have known he had no jurisdic-. : j. tion over clerks. We see that the principles	.
that governed the benefit of clergy were well . ' ?	'
fixed and were no innovation. Although Brae- . .. A ton, in the reign of Henry III., had declared ,	- A .
these exemptions to be settled law, the lawyers A of Edward confined their operation to a much :A AL! smaller extent than formerly, and almost v ? destroyed the usefulness of the ecclesiastical AAA’ courts by ill-advised changes. The benefit was . . A ; in his reign greatly restricted, and in some AA' cases was taken away. In the reign of Henry >	>
II. we see that famous quarrel between the king and Thomas a Becket, which ended in the A5A assassination of the Archbishop and the restor- - ;..A ing of some of the privileges to the clergy. A-A Stictly speaking the . so-called reform dated . C) from this reign, vet Edward I. made great addi- - <5 tions to the laws of Henry governing the" -• j AaO clerks. The bishops always had at their com-1 -1 r mand, and for their use, different methods of . Aj-A punishment for felonious clerks. Life imprison- A ment, branding, degradation and heavy penances	A A?
were among them.	.
Henry VIL made changes in the. law, and» by a statute of Edward VI. lords of parliament were admitted to the privilege, and bigamy was . declared no bar to it. Elizabeth declared, house-breakers and cut-purses to be without clergy, and finally high treason, burglary and . many other felonies were said to be without .. clergy as were all misdemeanors. 30 Edward ' III. c. 5 ordained that the clergy shall be exempt from arrests in civil suits. The benefit. . lived through the Reformation and flourished until the statutes 7 and 8 Geo. IV. c. 28 abolished it in England, and Geo IV. c. 54 did the, same with the benefit in Ireland. There never . was benefit of clergy in the United States as ; ■ve have no established church.
With the faults and advantages of the • *.'■ Benefit of Clergy and the ecclesiastical courts = A we. have no concern. The testimony we concerning them is of small amount and greatly5 A; prejudicial. Of one thing we are positive: bbtH'/ the Courts Christian and the Benefit had an influence on our law as we have it-'HOw that can not be estimated. The system feiippjur^^^ aged and fostered learning and religiomAjA^?-*
!,A' -
=> a.




2OS
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
Exchange or Bobbery ?
FRA X kT'O’S H A U G H N E S S E Y, ’9 9.
He telephoned for his carriage. When it came he drove to the residence of Edward Ransom, a tenant of his. Ransom was a carpainter; he had been out of work two months on account of a strike; but he had secured a position in California through the influence of his brother, and he intended to leave in a few days. Thorson explained to Ransom what he wanted done, and asked if it could be successfully accomplished.
“The work could be done easily enough,”* said Ransom, “but it would be dangerous to attempt it.”
“There is no danger whatever. I will see that the night watchman is away, and it will be as safe as though you were working in a private room.”
After some persuasion Ransom agreed to undertake it.
Thorson waited at the store that evening until the watchman came. He told him he would be away from home that night and wanted him to go but to his house. There was nothing unusual in that, he had done it several times before.
Two men entered the front door of the store about ten o’clock, one of them carried a large basket covered with a cloth; they went out through the back door to the car-shed. At nine o’clock Sunday morning, the two men left the store in a carriage. Mr. Thorson was at his desk Monday morning when the receiving clerk entered the office.
“ There are two cars of sugar in the shed and the way bills call for canned goods,” he said.
“You don’t say so!” exclaimed Thorson. “ That is fortunate; I did not expect the sugar so soon.”
/‘Had I not better see the agent and have , the matter straightened out?” asked the clerk.
“ Unload the sugar first and fill the orders; you can see to the correction later,” replied Thorson? . . j ,
“ But—’’ began the clerk—
- “Do as*Esay! Mistakes like that are of common occurrence with.those careless bill clerks.”
“What are weTto do for sugar. Mr. Thorson?” • asked the order^olerk as he stood in the doorway of the buyer’s private office with a bunch of orders ;in hisfhand. Mr. Thorson did not look up; his byes were fixed intently upon a letter lying before him on the desk. He was considering how-to break the forces that were working.against him- The order clerk repeated the question? ;Mr. Thorson answered sharply:
“ I shall s.eeJvWhat can be done ! Put the sugar oh back{ord.ef and ship the other goods.”
It was the/middle of the fruit season, when the demand foYsugar is the greatest. In order to force the’pri^up, the trust had closed three of the big refineries. The supply was limited. By shrewd foresight the rival firm of Brown & Taylor Had:-bought all. that was allotted to that section' of/The country. Their warehouse was filled?an?lseveral cars were standing on the track loaded with sugar. The firm Thorson, .Gox_^	had set the price
on groceries ?:throughout the West for many years': "ThenPfade.bxtended to the borders of Utah,, arid.-nd^	to bow to compet-
itors'so bbscufbkSs Brown & Taylor. Thorson called; at the shipping desk, and inquired ner-z.vdusly h65Y-mucfewa needed for the orders on Hand? : aZ/W:?,-
“ Seven:-Hundred qsacks,” replied the order clerk. ■	‘
“I will haye/it fbiS^	- afternoon,” said
Mr. Thorson. He then • flighted. : a cigar and walked out to the car-sh^d> in^ffe the store. There were four caffs* standing. on the track; he looked at the shipping Tags^two. of them were loaded with canned gdqds; for him, and the other two contained sugar for Brown & Taylor. Carelessly he glanced "at th e initials on the side of the cars. All of them’ were of, the B. & O. RR.’ He paid little atte'n- ~
tion to this. Suddenly an idea flashed through
his mind. He held his cigar firmly in his teeth . ' Mr. Taylor Awas standing in the doorway of and began to smoke furiously..	his^store/and Co’s truck
a, “It would ruin riie if the attempt failed;” he wagon’s/-passed-/loaded.with sugar.
exclaimed under his breath, “but it is my:only “WelB ;that’systrange,’?he said, “I wonder •chanbe^ahd J /will ? riot let those /blood-suckers where They? got: it.” y:..	.
- beat .me.”	.	& Taylor’s receiv-
- H	and walked back to the ing clerk -//was? confounded^when., he ■ opened
? . ?shippirig desk? • ^ ^ X - ? ~	two. cais^bf^ugar, as<h:d^supposed,'and found .
_ ry“ Holdi theesugar; dr^	Monday,” He canned^goods?? He^wbrit^to' see: the/agent. of.
Jriaid\tQ?tffe clerk, and? therilwent. ^	called rup


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^2QQ
the bill clerk. How did it happen? The car numbers corresponded with the way bills, but there was a mistake somewhere. The receiving clerk reported it to Mr. Taylor. .
“ That’s where they got the sugar,” exclaimed Taylor.
“Go and tell the agent I want to see him immediately!'” addressing the clerk.
When the agent arrived a stormy scene followed. What kind of stupidity was it that allowed'Thorson, Cox & Co. to get his sugar? Taylor, knew he had lost a sale that would have earned hundreds of dollars for him, and he blamed the railroad company. •
Mr. Thorson was visited, but he could make no explanation. It may be a mistake, but he had sugar coming arid this might have been it.
Ransom departed for California Sunday, but the night before he left, he had chariged the numbers on the cars, so that the sugar intended for Brown & Taylor was in the cars consigned to Thorson, Cox & Co. The work was done in a skilful manner; , he used soil to dull the fresh paint so that the most careful examination could not have detected the alteration.
Removal from the Bar.
THOMAS M. HOBAN, ’99.
It is a well-settled principle that the jurisdiction of a court includes the power of enforcing rules of order and of governing its attorneys. And a court may compel obedience on the part of attorneys by various modes, even to the disbarment of the attorney, if necessary. In regard to this matter the Supreme Court of the United States says:
“This power of removal from the bar is possessed by all courts which have authority to admit attorneys to practice. It is a power which should only be exercised for the most weighty reasons, such as would render the continuance of the attorney in practice incompatible with a proper respect of the court for itself, or a proper regard for the integrity of the profession. And except where matters
personal fidelity may be viplat^d^y^ets'.'wH'fch.
fall without the lines of .pfpfess^
and which may/have; b.eenbpgffMm^d: put, of the pale of court—su.chrtwdfil^^
quences of-beating, orinsult	-the
street fora judgmejit?iri f(^	.	.	.
Thus it has. been Seeriyfi^^	bf
' the court, that-
disbar, an; attorneyfT<^	unprofessional
■ committed. bothtjnsS^	court, they are
judges, constitute the grounds of its action, the..-, disposed^ to .allb^
power of the court should never be exercised latitude t*p\ma'k^	for/theo.ffenceffie
without.notice to the offending, party of the may,have \cpffimittg^^
grounds of complaint against him,..thus afford- offence is«s£;ril3!^n^	crimi-
ing him ample opportunity^ explanation and 'naljty;^	from; ther banbis,
occurring in open court, in presence of the
tuting the grounds of complaint hayg?o^currep in open court, under the personal ^sefvatibn of the judges, the attorney should3'^'^ard before the order of removal is riiadefTfonffiis , -motives may be susceptible of such explahaJ- . tion as would lessen their offensive .Gh'j^^er, ' or ne maybe ready to make proper.apology: and reparation. x
“Admission as an attorney is not obtained-without years of labor and study. Thgtp^fioe which the party thus acquires is one ofA^Siie, ‘ and often becomes the source of great 'honor and emolument to its possessor. ;\Tp^most ... persons who enter the professjdn-jafyi^tth'e means of support for themselves arid/®feir-families, and to deprive one of an offi^etofFtliis character would often be to decree, ppverty'to himself and destitution to his family^^rer^yal from the bar should never be decreed where any punishment less severe—such as> a jeprij- > mand, temporary suspension of fine^Wpulh.’.
accomplish the end desired.

“ But, on the other hand, the,yp.bligation -that attorneys impliedly assume, is ilbt m^^.ly to be obedient to the constitution arid^lajy^ -but to maintain at all times the :respep|^ to courts of justice and judicial officers? T?his5 * . obligation is not discharged by fn.erely./pbs^M^ ■ ing the rules of courteous demeanor iff openr court, but it includes abstaining out of \c§^ from all insulting language and pfferisiye2^^| duct toward judges personally for their Judicial'
acts.”

In matters collateral to official djuty^^^" learned judge said, in the case of AuStufjg^ others: “The judge is on a level with members' of the bar, as he is with his fellow.citize5^*ms' title to distinction and respect festingf on ,no : other foundation than his virtues, aridjgualifies as a man. But it is, nevertheless, ev-id^



defence. And. even where the matters coristi- d

210
NOTREDAME
SCHOLASTIC
lli
Notre Dame, December 4, 1897.
JBubltsljcT) cfacrg'Saturtag Iiunns Jurat Eintt at fl. 0. Snibcrsitn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Danie, Ind.
TermsrIi;5O per::Ahmnn. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
y . .	,*.g	’ Notre Dame, Ind.
The Board, of Editors.
... ELMER ragAn, 97;:
■I
PAU.L J.
FRANK 'E. HERING^ ’98;
WILL1AMSHEEHAN,'9?
EDWARD J.MINGEY, 98;
JOHN
MURPHY, '97;
FRANK J. F. CONFER, ’97;
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98;
. RAYAiOND G. O’MALLEY, ’98;
FRANCIS W. O’MALLEY, ’99;
J. DOWD," -.99;
-LOUTS ■ C. M
JOHN F. FENNESSEY, ’99;
•I-	-	-C.
REED. -	■	>
F^ANGIS;-O-SHAUG^	I " Reporters.
ROY'A5hjU.RRAY,y. - ’ ’	'
—'^ifea’cly^have the Staff members tucked up'thei'h sleeves and dipped their pens into the ink to write the Christmas Scholastic. It is a .huge thsfeT^ before them, so that on S'aturd^	will be no Scholastic to
disturb.: thq^	labors. Their hopes
are' that>th'e number of the holidays will fill the;gap,'and: that ye printers will be smoothly working, atfi^ size. Until then they can sfOp \only; tphsay. a- hurried7 Auf wiedersehn.
. ^Ccftaj'n-:me^	of-the class of law took
it upon tli^msTjly^^b sgatner-.Tuiidfy essays on their own study^	fill the .
yawning columns
edition,'therefore, is-^sejTF?forth as«their own;
- and that they- can wigld ’ tlie\p?en iwithyas much skill as fli’ev give• cbuii^lh-and Ccross-examine witnesses we need?ndCSsk;Jhe\reader
After all, Taw andUiterafure?^	much
t m	T v-cG -A'-.-A''-' A”
to do with each dtiliery.^
holds one must of necessity k^	the
other.	'	•
—The season of' Sodtb^llhlfas^
eating of. the' -Thanksgiying;/dimtef..
there is a wish7borie to.^be’broken ;4th'erehare
’ ’	‘	■’ -	jusLiy piuuu 01 our college
tackles and feats of. the^gr^dir^^to^ ■ .grounds, not sb much on account of the park, over. For all - that we a£e: n^t Icgnfe^^ asforthe • natural} beauty of. the surroundings, cracking wish-bones and discussing'-	hope , that enough' is ,said. ■
that has been. The long interim between the seasons of football and baseball must be filled in some way.
Basket-ball in one short month developed’ into an interesting game at Notre Dame. Last year we were an inexperienced lot; but were not long in discovering the “ hows ” and “ whens” of the game. Our record of successes is a bright one. Agility, skill and steadiness were all with us.
For ’97 the opening is most auspicious. Old players are ready for work; new ones can easily be found. From the raw men of last year was evolved a team that might well have claimed the championship of the West. With the men of this year, some of them experienced, Notre Dame should be at the top in basket-
ball, and the to triumph.
Gold and Blue should be borne
—Harpers Magazine for December is the most attractive of the Christmas numbers. Everything that pen and pencil could do is to be found between the covers. There is variety and interest among the contents; science, poetry, drawing, stories, humor,— everything is of the highest order.
—It is too bad that all men do not agree with Keats in believing that a thing of beauty is a joy forever. Of course we could not ex-pect-that all should be equally able to discern the beautiful. An uncultured person can be excused for not appreciating the fine points of a poem or of a painting. But in this age we did not expect to find any one so unpoetic as to destroy.a beautiful'piece of natural scenery, merely to get a glance at a clothes-line full of washed sheets. , It is a hard blow to our pride to .think that here at Notre Dame we have meh who would chop down a graceful row of drooping, dreaming, willows merely to get a better view of the back end of an old washhouse. .The vandal, or philistine,—we know not which To say—has again made his appear-a.nce, and laid waste much’that added a charm to our,college home.
We speak here of the cutting down of some willows and poplar trees near the old Professed
House.. Everybody-interested in Notre Dame, : faculty and x students- alike, should protest against..this, outrage-, going any farther. We have always, been justly proud of our'college ‘
:We hope that enough' is ,said.
-1

NOTRE DANIE
SCHOLASTIC.
IT
President’s Day.
With the day of St. Andrew comes, it seems, the first scattered snow-fall of winter. The white flakes steal down softly through the darkness, and try to hide the withered leaves and grasses from the day. Then the sun comes
for awhile, looks scape, and bustles off to his cosier home behind the clouds. The world is left with a few flecks of white and daubs of black; the sky is dull and the day is dreary. Such was the weather of President’s Day; bi.t the honors went off rather merrily for all that.
Every one from ’ every hall entered
Dame,-with no endowments; IfadEd^^ hard to keep well up at the head^^^	.
of travellers. All praise is due tb- tK’emE^&a't’ have taken up this work of Father:Sonn’srandr builded the walls, the success and tfrejglb^^^ Notre Dame as it is now. '	,
To begin the day, Solemn HigliAM^Jj^s,. I celebrated,—as is Notre Dame’s custornttg^ thanks for such feasts—by the Rev. President* himself? assi^teH^ . by Fathers FreEch; -and Regan.^Fat'lmr\:4-Burns deliVefed^aV ' '	•... A
sermon Aon^Str And re w, th e patron;
s a i ri.t of * FatfieE ~ Morris s.e yfianSA. pointed .^out^ -traits and qualiti'e^ ; of this gQpdXsafintK5.-of old whoseE^^' ample is j^odMorl’ . the guidangg^j^ youth today/? f In the morning;:.
the band—a day _	*	—	; r ► r > ■
common spirit. All realize that even such as could be done on that day was little enough, and they resolved to make all that could be made out of that little. For the President of Notre Dame each student has esteem and honor within his heart, though it be not possible, perhaps, to show it outwardly.
To their presidents Notre Dame owes its existence. Very Rev. Father
upon the cheerless land-
Presidents of Notre Dame University.
Very Rev. E Sorin, C. S. C., Founder and isVPresident.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., 3d President. Very Rev. T. E« Walsh, C S. C. Sth President.
wa nting with 0 u£ t it—marched to tb'e^X'’ ,	. AAA-’’
rot uri d a of
main build 1 ngariSA? * played m arGh^i^A that reverbefated’^-*' ,	'	AAA'.
through the
dors, until;; tlijLXi‘
rocked with eeli^es^
%
Just , for the\saflTeX-of old tim.es; some? - -marches thap/hav^.\ been’ play^fe^n^? Presiden t’s V>^ajyfT many .mqonsibEfekf. were fegeate^^^^h; ' spirit,	.
the,'^	'
blue,G.Cg.^
PRESENT INCUMBENT, REV. A. MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev. Patrick Dillon, C. S. C., 2d President.	Rev. A Lemonnier, C. S. C , 4th President
again ASEf'h^Dea fi the founder. What trials ’ and ‘ labors and . of the. drum,, their- part- in-Thd^ev^ discouragements fell to his share everyone ' day done.:..-....	-	;
knows well. After his work, however; there After the banquet with was still much to be done. Progress hurries	and chrysanthemums, the.djvpj^^
and o-oads the world before her; and .Notre	The: students~evefyQne\a.tSN<^
Sorin was the first,
Rev. Patrick J. Colovin, C. S. C., 5th President.
Art i'i
<2
>4/1
5 A
A J > cj A-o A '
NOTRE DAME
Asdfne’< guests from South Bend—assembled {; A;JhA'Vashington Hall. President Morrissey was U'^ggeted with the college yell as he entered. /	the echoes died away mingled with the
,- WnXusiG of the orchestra, Mr. Paul J. Ragan, as representative of the student body, delivered > 'the- following address of congratulation:
- 'V -RIwer^ and dear Father Morrissey:— ■
'	we analyze the affections that creep into the human
-' ■' J^pheart we find that they are of two classes. At times our ■ whole soul goes out to the eloquent orator, and we listen - CS|®^ith rapt attention to the skilful musician; but as soon as the Words of the former have ceased to ring in our ears, >AX{aiid when the pleading tones of the latter have died away, { 'our admiration ceases. This was but a fleeting affection, the offspring of our excited sensual organ,and it relapsed -^Was soon as the object that caused it had disappeared.
is, however, another more lasting and truer KIS affection, a love that can not be taken from us so long as J AAfte heart beats. It takes root in our souls, when we are -•^^XrchiUreh; and, like the proverbial ivy and the wall, it. clings to us until we go down together. Never passionate,
1 ifC-f fgvir violent, yet strengthened by. its very calmness, it ’ dwellsdn the breast like the hidden rock upon the sea-;:*^^6re, that appears only when the tide rolls back. This .the affection that binds man to man. Even the gloom-■V-V:£5iest misanthropist has some tender feelings toward his ,^\{ffeUowmen; for the God who created us social beings placed these sentiments within our breasts. .
i Since then we must have kindly feelings of regard for Xf^i &ch other, there are times and places for us to show it. are’t00’ some Persons who have a greater claim to our love than others. The relations that you, Father '^^5 ^fdrrassey, as President of this institution, have toward the . student body, are such as to engender in us the .^^f^MOGerest" bonds of affection and regard. By repeated of kindness and self-sacrifice to your position, you oLhave always manifested the deepest interest in our wel-?
* £^fare. and happiness. The love that you bear toward us 1
from sentiment or emotion, but from the heart . 1	strong man. No student of Notre Dame has ever
found its President unwilling to encourage or to help L ' ‘^pim- dt would be ungrateful on our part, then, if-we didr: A' ^ndtcigake some attempt at least to show our appreciation first-night performances, when stage-settings f- .’.^5^u£',noble work. We feel it, not so much an honor as ; ' are persistently wrong, and things are not in A' 't^l^jityto give testimony of our gratitude for the;many- the right place. To the Society of the Saint FxV/his.pur^^^	body success and credit is due.
assembledShere'this afternoon. We rejoice deeply with '	.	... i j i j , -	, L •
^da tlns St-Andrew’s day, and wish to take advantage d Dreary rehearsals and hard work in staging to.-express the-love that, we feel for .the play must be considered. All in all, every-^^^anj^and her President. Language, however, is thing was well done. That the praise be given fully the sentiments that lie buried fo whom it is due, we copy the programme Those to whom special'praise is Tne'DurdeiTpfciny. feeble words, told as briefly as possible,	, • T ,	_	„
•amj^tsjtAjliikr While we are' proud of our Alina ‘Maier due are J°hn» F. Morrissey, Albert L. Krug, an^pr^d'xoJJ'you. he	give you today our
clioic^^^	our. best wishes. ?
Ftolloggmg^^^	the,University Quartette,
cqni^p^®|of^Mdssrs. Crowley, Steiner, "Kegler, Sc^iHoT’	<was\ good and;, fairly
rend^rt^y; f^iti^	Quartette r.would
bedonm^i^ul^^
. lege.^leey.	merely chosen to represent the body, and that
.fortKermoreAffiiti^fe^	- to them.was the success of Notre Dame due.
for its work. La Paloma and Hope of Alsace, though not of .exceeding difficulty, require no small amount of skill, and these were without flaw, save, perhaps, an occasional jarring rattle of the drum.
In accordance with the law of custom, which is unchangeable at Notre Dame, the Minims of St. Edward’s Hall selected one to give their wishes to the President of the University. This year the chosen one was Master Lawrence K. Weber, who, it may be justly said, bore off the laurels of the evening in the delivery of his address. The wishes, hopes and greetings of the little band were expressed in verse.
To the Saint Cecilians of Carroll Hall the place of honor was given in the festivities, as custom has always allotted .it to them. To produce a play for a single night requires seemingly endless rehearsing and difficulty. In the Bell Ringer of St. Paul’s, misfortune seemed to rule over the dark skies of the Cecilians’ hopes. Twice was the part of Martin Fairfax given out and rehearsed, and twice were the two who were to act it called away. At the last moment Mr. John W. Ryan came to the rescue of the despairing Director, and took upon his shoulders the burden which was borne smoothly in the play.
By the necessity of remodelling, the plot was- somewhat confused and the effect of the play was weakened. Though the drama was a heavy one for small shoulders to bear, it went off smoothly, which is due to the efforts of Mr. Carmody who directed the rehearsals and to whom all credit is due for the play’s success.
There were some hitches, it is true, but these were no greater than such as usually happen
yJ. W. Ryan, C. N. Girsch, A. Becker, Roy A. < Murray and T. P. Condon.
As a'conclusion, President Morrissey gave a <few-words-of thanks to those-who had made-'the day a pleasant one-for him. He said that whatever praise was given was due to him
only as a member of the Faculty ; that he was
9


•>r

NOTRE > DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges.
Our Friends.
a -
A recent number of The Illini has a humorous quatrain entitled “Where it Originated.” An early number of The Scholastic had a humorous quatrian entitled “ Where it Originated.” Great minds run in the same direction. We appreciate the compliment when an exchange copies any of our verses; but we appreciate it much more if we receive credit for them. We know there are moments, just before the paper goes to press, when the cry “copy!” ’rings out above the clatter of the machinery— a request that tempts the editors to use peacock blue “cuss” words. Perhaps the Illini men were in just such a predicament when they stole the quatrain, but that does not excuse them. There is absolutely no attempt at literary work in the Illini. In the copy before us there are a page of editorials and about fifteen pages of local notes. The man that writes the department “Among the Doctors ” seems to be the only “poet” the Illini owns. Even now we can see him running his fingers through his hair when he gave vent to the following spasm:
“Rah, we are the husky medic boys, . And we’re out to make all kinds of noise;
Were the colts and our papa is Illinois, And there’ll be a hot time in the old town tonight.” Beautiful, beautiful! After reading that we can almost forgive the board of editors for their theft. We do not know whether any of them are troubled with kleptomania; but we should dislike very much to leave any stray umbrellas or other knick-knacks lying loose around in the Illini sanctum.
■2^ * *
Our exchanges have said-so many pleasant things about the new cover of the Georgetown College Journal that we must content ourselves
with telling the editors that much. The reading matter however, would reflect more editorial board if it contained the students and less from
we like it very of the Journal, credit upon the more work from the faculty. A
• college paper should be,—to change Lincoln’s ' famous words—of the students, by the stu-
. dents and for the students. There is no objec- , tion to occasional contributions from faculty ‘ members; but when a single copy of a paper -1
contains two or three of these essays one naturally concludes that the editors are either lazy or that they are incapable of doing, the work. Now we know the Georgetown, men can do the work, and so we blame them all the . more for not doing it. ; _ . • •	.	*
—Francis P. McManntis, Law ’givis.e^agedl in the real estate business in Boston,
—Misses M.' Scallen, Etta/Toole^ Brinen made a pleasant call oh’friends
—Louis C. Wurzer, Law ’96, is rapidly corm^z -to the front at the Detroit bar. He fdhedfly 4 conducted a case, of much prorhi brought it to a successful?.termination;';
—Edward Gilmartin of Foft Wayne (stuoj^ty ’96, Law Department) spent Thanksghdng'^ friends here. “Gil’s” many admirers-wiir^^' pleased to know that he is doing wdll?^^ .'..
—Mr. J. J. Crowley and wife of ^CjM^got ’ stopped off at Notre Dame On Thahks|^y4n||S -Day while returning from an Eastern; tr^.v They were entertained by their son, Mf.y^f^me*. Crowley of Brownson Hall.
—Rev. Father Tighe, Pastor of Holy AngSlMf ‘ Church, Chicago, Ill., ran down for a shOrt M^iti' ' to the President on St. Andrew’s Day. Fatlferc . Tighe is always a welcome visitor to his^^^'-
Mater, but his calls are all too short?’

—ivir. josepn ivi. loner (student ob-goj^was married on Thanksgiving Day to Miss.;H^^^f Keenap of San Francisco in .theChurc^ Charles Borromeo of that city. Mri ahd^^^ Toner have the Scholastic’s very best>^^^s and congratulations.	• <	.
—A. S. J. Magruder, Law ’97, who. has^^en' taking a post-graduate course, left for hiidiorne -in Kentucky last week. Mr. MagrudeKi^^^ unique record. In over two years he !hhjE|not* lost a single case in Moot-court’ or debate.-He will be with us again before sprin^S)^?^
—Air. James Mulligan of Leadville, GoTjahcl his brother, Lawrence T. Mulligan ;ofrJE.6ngs-mont, Col., were on a short visit td^^ofrb Dame last week. From the earliest days^of^tne. University the Mulligan family were' be staunch and tried friends. It is hppedi-@at . the “boys” will call again soon. -1
—Edward A. Howard, who was aI§g?F^tnef' .
Covington, Ky. His admission to theHW^tgji^^ place a few weeks ago, and if the su^ge^wh'icht■ , was his in college attends him fmhisvpf^fes-sion, his lines will be cast in pleajgnfcfplaces.' -? Ed was very popular while at Notre	.
and his earnest work won many?fnend§^:'
—Among the close friends df'thetJJ^ that came to Notre Dame to congpa^^^^ur . Very Reverend President on his feasLda^^ the Very Reverend Father O-llrien ofiKalama-zoo, Reverend Father • Rat£r’
homa, Reverend Father MdShan^^^Kic^ Reverend Father Hilary, ’ Reyi^^	-
Hon. Judge Howard, ‘Mn.-Q^Stlj<^
Bend; Mr. Krug of Cirimnn^jv?inm^ McGurk (student*	H




214
HOTRE- DAME ; SCHOLASTIC.
%
Local Items.
r
5,='
'X: '-:A
—The Christmas examinations will take / place on the 20 and 21, Monday and Tuesday.
— Attorney to witness: “Did you hear that ^statement from the defendant’s own mouth? ”— /■“ No, sir, I saw it.”	■	'
';X~—First juror: “What did that attorney say Jabout killing the horse?”- Second juror: “ I 7 don’t know, I was reading the Black Cat while /he was making his plea.”
—/Lawyer: “I have sent for one of my wit? nesses, Mr. D. E. Lay, and by the indulgence of • the court until he— Court: “I can’t do it, we L must- proceed without delay.
/. —Shag.—“ Mocking birds are scarce, are ? they not?”—Wurzer: “Yes, in the North they are rare.'’—Shag: “Then, I suppose they
; are well done in the South?”
—Hoban (for the prisoner): “I object to : that question.”—His Honor: “ The objection is Sustained.”—Hoban (excitedly): “I object to the. objection being sustained.”
. —Rev. President Morrissey knew where favors would be properly appreciated when he ~ sent his big feast-day cake to the Minims. The young gentlemen return him sincere thanks.
—A Fable:—The wagon was stuck in the ; mud when the team passed. It called out: /-‘Here, fellows, 'have a drag.’” The team : replied: “Can’t do it;.we would lose our ‘pull with the coach.’ ”	.
’	—Eggeman received a circular last week
from a firm making artificial limbs with rubber /hands and feet. If this firm is catering to foot-Lball players they should supyly artificial heads /with rubber necks.'
t —Oneof our tyros remarked the other morn-?/ing, as he was laboring under the difficulties of / an empty<stomach, that he was going over to

the law room .to see if he could not digest some ^ xj/ pf the provisions of the Indiana statistics.
—Jamie is going to have a man, a real live ■	his coats, and polish his

?'//shoes and-wake him in the morning and spend ./^issmoney. Notice is given that .he (the man) lent for money or friendship.
-	of the regular meetings of the
.’ d/aw-Debating.Society tonight, the'!pleadings .■jn^fiPMa§eof Garter vs. Barker will be made.	„
are, hard at work on the case, court, but it’s a mighty close shave.”
during the next five months. Chesterton is now working on several new plays in which he uses the laws of mathematics. Col. Mackenzie will manage the team which will spend the proceeds of their games at Scheveningen during the summer.
. —The defendant’s attorney, in a late criminal case to the jilry: “This prosecuting attorney reminds me of Bassanio in the Merchant of Venice, in that he takes a long time to say an infinite deal of nothing.”
Prosecuting Attorney: “I object, Your Honor.
The court: “On what grounds?”
Prosecuting Attorney: “On the ground that there is no such evidence before the jury.”.
The court: “ Objection overruled.”
—The hour for the morning lecture had arrived and the room was filled with shivering students.. Some turned up the collars of their overcoats; others embraced the radiators. Cold? Slightly; Alaska is torrid compared to the frigidity of that particular law-room on that particular morning. Then from the depths of the basement, where Mr. O’Brien regulates the steam-heating apparatus, came his quivering tremolo, singing to the Law Class that immortal ballad, “Oh, I Don’t Know, you Ain’t so Warm.”	■
—Legal replies to illegal questions:—McCormack (1):—I’m going home in June, aren’t you? (2) What railroad is Chicago on?—(1) Don’t know. (2) Ask Hartung.
Brucker:—In view of the fact that I wish earnestly to improve myself, and to that end would take up a new study, what would you advise? Law and “Hirsute Culture.”
Niezer:—Do you know where a barber-shop is? What do you care?
Dreher: — Please give me a list of famous writers on international law, won’t you? Grotius, Puffendorf, Weadock, Wurzer and Walsh.
—In a recent case on a gambling debt before an acting judge, our Honorable Dean being absent, Mr. Louis Weadock, arguing for plaintiff, stated a very doubtful proposition of law. The acting judge eyed him with an Antarctic stare, and asked: “ Mr. Weadock, do you think that is law?” With a submissive smile he replied: “In all candor I am compelled to say I do not—but I did know how it would strike Your Honor.” The judge hesitated a moment,
and said: “That may not be contempt of
'-'aha j$iy?/argUm^	very —How sweet it is to lie on your downy,
.forciBmT,.^	J. i V-Vi//-.	' sweet, little couch (which is a complete lie for-
T-y9jlirow^^i”	may not be. unlaw-	it isn’t	sweet nor soft nor downy, and it’s
have a provision , painted	a hideous grass green) watching the
tliat	. played outside of the dreams of the holidays as come flittering
s£cqm^	/.whether..Charlie	through	the wavering, floating clouds of cigar-
• ffit-^l^hletQ^L;npt<buKwe . haven’t;seen	ette smoke, and sipping.the blood-red nectar
anyihing?^^^	: C .	:	" that was’once the juice of dusky-grape that
—Qojidef^Mdtt-a^^^	Sorin' grew in the sunshine of the.valey of Avalon, or
;HallCwiIk^g|]^^^	some other-old valley, listening to the howling
give'exh\bjtidfr^^me§/ever^^^	winds rushing by with burden of snowflakes and
4


NOTRE ^DAME\\ SCHOLASTIC.
musing upon the warmth and security of your own little apartment and then—get pulled for taking a quiet smoke.	•
—The Director of the Historical Collections acknowledges with gratitude a gift of two large albums filled with photographs of college societies, classes, old students and members of the Faculty, presented by Rev. M. J. Regan. Mrs. W. P. Breen of Fort Wayne, Ind., has generously presented the following articles: Jewish earthenware lamp_of the time of King David; Hebrew lamp; Saracen lamp found recently in excavations near Jerusalem; Mao-bitish lamp found in Petra south of the Dead Sea; Egvptian gods, three, found near the Great Pyramid; specimens of antique marble from Solomon’s Temple; The Ten Commandments in ancient Samaritan, fac-simile on linen copied from the oldest book in the world; Scorpion from Jericho; Honey from the Holy Land.
—Lawyers have a peculiar faculty of getting to the front. Look at John Meyers, for instance; he plays in the band and so do five more law students. There are lawyers on the Scholastic Staff and our own O’Shaughnessy (the genuine “Shag”) is on the same paper, and is manager of the Varsity Baseball Team besides. Niezer, Law ’99, is manager of the track team, and four of the Varsity football squad are members of the Law School; so is the Field Reporter and the chief rooter, and there are men without number (figuratively speaking) who are prominent in the society life of our University, temperance and otherwise. The Fire Department, the Columbians, and all kinds of literay, debating, dramatic and eating clubs are ‘ honored as members by the presence of the distinguished gentlemen of the Law School. Then all hail to the Law School!	,
—Moot-court.—Pion. Wm. Hoynes, Judge; Joseph E. Corby, Clerk; Bengamin Pickett, Deputy Clerk; Louis T. Weadock, Prosecuting Attorney; Thomas M. Hoban, Deputy Prosecuting Attorney; Stephen J. Brucker, Sheriff; Alexis C. Rupel, Deputy Sheriff; Joseph A. Healy, Jr. Coroner; ■ Peter J. Wynne, Deputy Coroner; A. S. J. Magruder, Referee; J. R. Meyers and Eugene Campbell, Jury Commissioners; Paul J. Regan, Reporter, Paul E.
• Hartung, Notary Public; Samuel J. Spalding, Recorder.
COURT OF CHANCERY.
Hon. William Hoynes, Chancellor; Francis P. Dreher, Clerk; J. J. Kraus, Deputy Clerk;’ F. H. Wurzer, Master-in-Chancery; Wm. W. O’Brien, Deputy Sheriff; James F. Murphy, Reporter.
justice’s court. -
. Francis J. F. Confer, Justice of the Peace; C. V. Shermerhorn, Clerk; Edward J. Rockey, Constable. ■ •	. .
UNITED STATES COMMISSIONER’S COURT.
M. J. Ney, United States Commissioner;
Edward J. Walsh; Clerk; William A> (jujJtpyle. Assistant United States < Dictricti Attorney; Ralph Powell,-Deputy United States
1 -- -
■ UNITED STATES DISTRICT pOURT-r
Hon.Wm. Hoynes, Judge;. F.OIShaugh^^y; Clerk; Peter E..Kearney, United StatesV^s-trict Attorney; John W. Eggeman,.Assi^fant United States District Attorney; Mich McCormack, United States Marshal;
Malloy, Assistant United States 'Mafshal^^? J. Mingey, Reporter. , .
—Sr. Alex Andre Karnee, in response . question: “What do you consider theseSTe^ success?” has submitted the following? Scholastic:—“Ah, my dear sir; this, is a j§f|y subject, and one upon which I. can speal^au-.-thoritatively. Let me congratulate youdpbn-your wise selection for on, answer. You K^eL dropped the fish-hook of inquiry Jn the fj^lft; spot, and she will yield a w’hopper. : There several kinds of success—success in busjpgfsp success in love, success in riding a tandem.
still other kinds. - I will confine my bf ief rtSlE-t. ■ however, to success in riding a tandem^. FifstP of all, procure a tandem. How do youi expect- .. to learn if you don’t get a wheel some).placb^-Never mind where you get it, arid don't, thi^K-( of consequences. What if you do Eave'To^l^ to the pen for a few years. In learning toJfjd^kX seek no assistance. I received no Jassistl^^ from any source, except a policeman, and 'h^-A-isn’t a source of any good. It was a long-:tlmeA before I could get ■ any one to ride with ? m^A^A Even Charlie Fpidks (and you know, -how;Jie begs for a ride) refused to get on - behind? There are divers ways of mounting :a wheM^g^-but the best way is to get right /om - A; tandgm will get unmanageable at times, ibut that iSn'tS#*. always your fault you may have been '-dripkh^^ ing bad phosphates. If she, gets, away j you, just stick your hands in your. pockets anTA?-? go away whistling;. also tell the farmer^ that>^; you will send a physician to patch iup. his^^?-children that were playing in .the road./Lam^§r' how able to ride a tandem . any ? old { distant Sometimes I return on.a freight train and otheg^" times I walk; but just so long as you getsback^^) the bicycle dealer doesn’t send a warrant afteg^^ you, and perhaps you can stand him, the next instalment. Its cheaper nottp ^^^aj bicycle, for in the long run one accidentally^ forgets that it isn’t one’s own and uncdnscidhSly. takes it oft to a summer resotr, .pr “perhaps*. unthinkingly sells it.to payback wages^;^ to one. In such cases one is as.^uiltlesSy of theft as Dorothy is of wearing aSioust^clie..
—Orders (and any other-old	.
left with Weadock or GorbyAWC^I^ work of fiction entitled, “Antpri^a'S^^eat^sf’ Lawyers.” The book is weii;prftftc^ practical nature^ Full-page, portrait^ Webster; Clarence V; Schermerhorn,)jRuJus Choate and DemostheneAJj^
J-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.'Pa£eS- Biographies of eminent jurists, includ-Hartung, Campbell and O’Shaughnessy, may be found. A delightfully modest autobi-. Q	bgrapher of Mingey is included. The table-of-
’ ;	contents is written by Corby, and Weadock
has illustrated the book. The chapter on .‘‘How I Trew Down de Udder Guys and Rose • T " 'hr to be Sheriff,” by Stephen J. Brucker will prove A.--iVT. interesting. Already six copies have been sold, -■ <; Ap"-	and Mingey taking them all. Price
eight pins or two first-class cigarettes. Discount '■	' to the professor.
r -^-The following is the programme presented U7SU; fby the St. Cecilians on President’s Day.
.	-	Programme.—Part 1.
Overture—“An American Beaut}’”............Kerker
■	/	.	University Orchestra.
■-= Address from the University Students.....Paul J. Ragan ’ - - 'A' Quartette—“Angels Guard her Dreams Tonight,” Murray •	t:	Mr. Jerome J. Crowley Mr. William G. Kegler
’, Mr. Thomas A. Steiner Frederick J. Schillo
• ’.LT Festal Greetings from St. Edward's Hall... L. K. Weber ■ IJT Selection—“Hope of Alsace”.....................Herman
'	University Orchestra.
-	:	Interludes.	'
•• / /P-? l. “ La Paloma.” 11. “ Zenda Waltz.” Ill. March Anniv.
Part 1L
Aa .. THE BELL RIGGER OF ST. PAUL’S.
•’	. A DRAMA IX TWO acts.*
' •'T'A. Presented bv the St. Cecilians of Carroll Hall. ■ T	Cast of Characters.
~	Charles II..................... - .William F. Shea
’ 3';John, surnamed the Huntsman, the Bell Ringer of St. -	-'<■?;	* • Paul’s..................John F. Morrissey
- _-T- Talbot, son of John.... v.......Albert	L. Krug
; Martin Fairfax, the Spy.....-..........John	W. Ryan
’ ; Sandy Macray, the Pedlar.............William F. Dinnen -	Walter Russell, son of Duke of Bedford... .G. N. Girsch
.. T? Cord Ludlow, Friend and Comp, of Russell—A. Becker - vLT Edward Grey,a Medical Student	Thomas J. Murray TIT'Cornelius Skim, the Bell Ringer’s Deputy..Roy Murray ' Ji TT-Uilbert, Nephew of Cornelius	Thomas P. Condon f. r- - r . )	Alfred J. Richon
L° Eair^ax	Frederick J. Kaspe
.	fS'-vCbiirtiers—Cecil H. Pulford, Patrick A. Curtis, Thomas
.	’ , WnCjNoonah, Leo J. Kelly, John M. Quinlan, Henry. E.
■ Bfown, Joseph E. Mulcare, Eugene E. McCarthy.
-; ‘ ^LfCitizens^Jay B. Schmitt, John P. McSorley, Francis B. .John L. Slevin, Louis B. Beardslee. '
• The First Act takes place in Scotland two years . 77^4? Execution of Charles I. of England. The Second ' fT^bdJThird Acts in London, five years later.
- ' - ~~—•
gUTTL-T;’ Boll of-Honor.
SORIN HALL. ’	.	•- .	'
-Messrs. Arce, Brown, Brucker; Byrne, Cornell, Camp-tb.eff^Daly, Delaney, Eggeman, Eyanson, Foulks, Follen, - .F.enCessey. T^ Franey, Grady, Haley, Kegler, Kear-ffiey^^rau^j’iLanders,. Miller, -Mullen, J. Meyers, D. M^^^Iingey,/ J. Murphy, Monahan, Morris, McConn, ,MjcGinffis'L^	McDonough,-McKenzie, Niezer,
‘ F' Wfail^A^Q’Brien, J. OTrien, -Pulskamp, Piquette, PoiveW^I^ed;^	Stuhlfauth, Spaulding, Steiner,
Wui^r^Welk^	■	■
, ‘	HALL., 7 '	'	'•
. -Messre^A^am^lMrniijo.' H.. Barry, Bohner, F. Bouza, - J. BB^a^^BaahlLBurg, ■ W/.Berry, J; Berry, Bouwens, Buira jBMbnn; Bourns,;R. Barry,- Blish, .Callahan, Cava-naugfijCjr^	Crawford,> Crumley,. Dalton,
Dominguez, Donahoe, Drejer, Dooley, Delaney, Donovan, V. Dwyer, Devine, T. Dillon, Duperier, Dreher, Dellone, Daly. J. Dillon, Desmond, T. Dwyer, Doherty, Ensign, Fitzwilliam, Fetherston, Farragher, Farley, Fleming, Fadeley, Funk, C. Flannigan, Fox, M.Flannigan, Furry, Guerra, Glynn, Glasheen, Graham, Guilfoyle, Gainer, C. Garza, Gilbert, Gordon, Hay, Hoover, Herbert, Harrington, Hubbard, Healy, Heinemann, Hagerty, Hanley, S. L. Hunter, S. R. Hunter; D. Hunter, C. Hunter, Howell, Hayes, Hoban, Hesse, Heffelfinger, Hennebry, Jennings, Jerrell, Kellner, Kehoe, Klein, Kuppler, Koehler, Kasper, J. Kangley, G. Lins, Lampert, Longan, Metcalf, Mul-crone, Moorhead, Murray, Morrison, Morales, McKenzie, F. McCallen, McDonald, McDonnell, D. Naughton, J. Naughton, O’Reilly, F. O’Shaughnessy, O’Sullivan, M. O’Shaughnessy, O’Connor, Pickett, Posselius, Pendleton, F. Pim, Powell, J. W. Ryan, J. F. Ryan, Rupel, Reed, Reising, Revels, San Roman, Sullivan, Scheubert, Sauer, Shiels, Sherman, J. Sanford, Schwartz, Singler, Scott, Summers, Simpson, Spalding, Swonk, Sossoman, Smogor, Thacker, Thams, Vogt, Wynne, Wieczorek, Robert Wilson, Woolverton, Waters, F. Ward, J. Ward, Ralph Wilson, W. Ward, G. Wilson, Wagenman, Wells, White,* Yockey.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Armijo, Bloch, Britt, F. Brown Brann, Barrett, G. Beardslee, L. Beardslee, Bligh, Bellinger, H.E. Brown, H.Brown, Becker, Berger, Buck, Clement, Clyne Crowley, Carney, Condon, Curtis, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Cowie, Dinnen, Donsett, Edgarton, Ellwanger, Elitch, Ernst, F. Flynn, A. Flynn, Fink, Furlong, Ferstl, Frank, Friedman, Girsch, Gibbons L. Garrity, M. Garrity, Hinze, Hickman, Hickey, Hogan, Hunter. Hoban, Hubbell, Joyce, F. Kasper, R. Kasper, Krug, Kirkland, G. Kasper, Kelly, Luken,T. .Mulcare, J. Mulcare, Michels, Moxley, Morgan, Mooney, A. Mueller, AV. Mueller, R. Murray. Maher, Morrissey, Meagher, T% Murray, McFarland, Mc-Sheehy, McSorley, E. SlcCarthy, T. McCarthy, McDonnell, Nast, Nolan, Noonan, Naughton Ordetx, O'Malley, O'Brien, Petritz, Phillips, Pulford, Page, Putnam, Quinlan, Ryan, Richon, Staples, Sibley, Smith, Stengel, Slevin, E. Sheekey, Schmitt, Shea, Schoonover, Spillard, Scheftels, Weidmann, White, Ward, Wheelock, Werk, Welman. Welch.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Masters Arnold, Abercrombie, T. Butler, W, Butler, Bernero, Blanchfield, Bosworth, P. Bortell, C. Bortell, Cressy, Casparis, Caruthers, P. Dougherty, H. Downer, Dessauer, Donahoe, Davis, Ervin F. Ebbert, G. Ebbert, Frain, Frost, Fleischer, Fleming, A. Fuchs, C. Fuchs, J. Fogarty, F. Fogarty, Milton Flynn, Miles Flynn, Griffith, Guilbault, Huleatt, Houser, Hinsey, J. Hart, L. Hart, Hall, T. Jackson, G. Jackson, Jonquet, W. Kellner, O. Kellner, Leclerque, Lawton, Lockwood, Leisander, J. McGeeney, E. McGeeney, P. McBride, L. McBride, J. McBride, Willie McBride, M. McMahon, R. McMaster, B. McMaster, A. McFarland, C. McFarland, J. McMahon, W. McMahon, Nix, B. Nye, C. Nye, Paul, F. Phillip, G. Phillip, Robbins, Strong, Sinnott, Schonlau, Shields^ Seymour, Shipley, St. Clare, Topper, Trentman. R. Van Sant, L. Van Sant, Veneziam, F. Van Dyke, H. Van Dyke, Wigg, Wilde, Weidman, Weber, Williams.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Messrs. Barthel, Buse, Coyne, Crowley, DeLorimier, DeWulf, Darron, Davis, DuGuay, Gallagher, Gorski, Dwan, Hiss, Heiser, J. J. Hennessey, J. Hennessey, Long, Lavin, Murphy, Marr, Moynihan, McKeon, Nieuwland, M. J. Oswald, M. Oswald, O’Brieri, O’Connell, Ritter, Rees, Sutton, Sullivan, Sammon,' Schumacher, Szalewski, Trahey, Walsh.	-	'	•	.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.	,	..
Messrs. Adelsperger, Benson, Brogan, Baldwin, Brand, Clifford, Carlton, Cullinan, J. .Corley, E. Corley, Crepeau, Dwyer, Dorian,^Donahue, Doran, Fenton, Guiff, Hartzer, Jones, Kachur, Kelly, F. Malloy, B. Malloy, J. McIntyre, R. McIntyre. McKeever, Norris, Neville, Pieper, Power,.. Sulliyan. Schwanz; Shields,-Sherry, Vennet, Wolf. , .
* Omitted the last two weeks by;.mistake.	■