GOT STARTED
HOW THE STARS
!>
$
AMERICA’S NO. 1 "QUEEN OF THE ICE"
£
rt £
Camels agree with more people
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.
I STARTED SMOKING CAMELS
ABOUT NINE YEARS AGO. I FIND
Camels delightful mildness
AND FLAVOR. SUIT ME JUST

g
I

Donna Atwood says:
“I was 13 before I put on skates.
I’d had ballet lessons and this helped my skating. In three months, I surprised even myself by winning the Pacific Coast novice championship. Three years later — the National Singles and Pairs. Then I joined the Ice Capades. Skating’s still fun!
RIGHT, YEAR AFTER YEAR!
vOU SHOULD TRY CAMELS
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
THIS IS SYLVANIA...
BIG ...diversified... CROWING
THE IDEAL ENVIRONMENT FOR YOUNG ENGINEERS
lu 1953, Sylvania’s 40 plants in eleven states produced upwards of $300 million worth of products in more than sixty categories of lighting, radio, television and electronics equipment.
This year will see the completion of additional new plants and laboratories, as another phase of a continuing expansion program which has doubled plant and equipment in the past few years.
As a graduate engineer, you’ll naturally find a wide range of opportunities in every phase of engineering at Sylvania. And you’ll find yourself making rapid headway as the company continues to add new facilities, new fields.
A stimulating atmosphere of accomplishment and onnortunity — plus size, growth, and diversity —
make Sylvania, a company of young men where the executive level averages 45 years of age, an ideal place to build a satisfying career in engineering.
For detailed information, see your College Placement Office or send for our comprehensive brochure, “Today and Tomorrow with Sylvania”, by writing to Supervisor of Technical Employment.
SYLVANIA v
Sylvania Electric Products Inc.
1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.
LIGHTING
RADIO • ELECTRONICS • TELEVISION
April 9, 1954
3
Scholastic
Vol. 95 APRIL 9, 1954 No. 22
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ................Features
FRED C. ECKART ..........  ......News
PAUL -J. LaFRENIERE ___.Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS ....................Copy ROBERT B. FROLICHER .............._  Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ....................Circulation JERRY. D. BAIER ............. Advertising
BOB FOWLER________Editorial. Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE.________Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
Students Back Arrow Shorts in Big Swing to Comfort
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton. Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, 'James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike W’ard, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Guegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris, John Phelan, Bob Ruhl. ADVERTISING ASSISTANTS: Ken Woodward, Pat Logan.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Students report that in “taking a stand on comfort”, they enthusiastically endorse Arrow Shorts. Arrows are designed for ease with such features as no binding center seams. Wide range of fabrics, styles and colors now at all Arrow dealers.
»»------------------------
TRADE ® MARK
Member of Catholic School press Association,_ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
---- SHIRTS • TIES * UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS « SPORTSWEAR
OUR COVER: The two half-frozen lads whom you see on the front of our magazine this week are representatives of what the average Notre Dame student would like to do most now that we finally have a Spring vacation—travel to Florida. Our models, Frank Raith and “Digger” Dwyer, spent almost 30 minutes in positions similar to the one which you see on the front piece. The motif, we think, represents South Bend in all its “splendor and beauty at Easter time.” Photography was done with half-frozen shutter and iced lens by John Caster.
Make GILBERT’S your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S 813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
4
The Scholastic
There’s
no limit
to the way
the Easter Spirit multiplies


when you send Easter Greetings
L^l

the most special way there is
wm as™’’
I by TELEGRAM
EASTER... APRIL 13
WESTERN UNION
105 N. Main St.
Phone 3-6101
RESTRING
WITH
as^^.
At tennis shops and spotting goods stores.
STANDS UP in your racket • Moisture Immune e Lasting Liveliness
STANDS OUT in play
• Harder Smashes e Better Cut and Spin
COSTS LESS than gut
APPROX. STRINGING COST: Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00 Multi-Ply Braid.$5.00
Nation’s Alumni Clubs Will Salute ND Night
More than 20,000 Notre Dame alumni, representing 145 alumni clubs, will gather in cities throughout the country on April 26 and the preceding and succeeding weeks, in the 31st annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. “Great Teaching” is this year’s theme.
Numerous banquets and celebrations will be held in the different cities of the nation. Prominent alumni and educators will address the gatherings. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will join vice-president of the U. S., Richard Nixon, in addressing the alumni in Washington, D. C., on April 26. Father Hesburgh will give an address at a dinner in Philadelphia on April 27. He will then travel to Detroit for a banquet at which he, Mr. Ralph D. Paine, publisher of Fortune magazine, and Maj. Gen. Frank A. Armstrong, commanding general of the Second Air Force, will be guests of honor. Mr. John J. Bugas, vice-president of Ford Motor Co., will be toastmaster for the affair.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, will give addresses during April at Cincinnati on the 21st, Pittsburgh on the 26th, and Johnstown on the 27th. His May engagements are at Dallas on the 3rd and at Houston on the 5th. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University, will speak at Toledo on April 25, St. Louis on April 26, and Indianapolis on April 27.
Terry Brennan, Notre Dame’s new football mentor, will be featured at banquets in Chicago and Milwaukee on April 26 and in Kalamazoo on the 28th. Mr. James E. McGoldrick, New York attorney and captain of Notre Dame’s ’39 football team, will talk at Hartford on the 26th, Boston the 27th, and Providence the 28th. In February he was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
“Great Teaching” will be the subject treated at all the gatherings. It will em- -phasize the tremendous need for great teaching in conjunction with the University’s current faculty expansion program.
Parker-Winterrewd
Ine.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Ine.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1171/2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
Wt CaUr to Banquoto and PartUt
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
ASHAWAY BRAIDED RACKET STRING Choice of The Champions
DRAFT EXAM
The Selective Service College Qualification Exams will be held on campus Thursday morning, April 22. The exam will be administered in Room 251, Main Building. Tests will also be administered in other centers about the country for those on vacation.
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
April 9, 1954
DRAWING BOARDS
Visionary Young Engineers Work Years Ahead on Jet Fighter-Bomber Design...
There’s drama on the drawing boards at Republic!
A great new jet fighter-bomber is being created, years ahead of its time. Like its famous predecessors, it will be the product of young men of vision, working in an atmosphere encouraging individual initiative.
For, Republic has long believed that its engineers are creative men who cannot be cast into a mold and still maintain the individuality and imagination that are the lifestream of aviation. At Republic, the ability and creativity of the engineer thrives on a diet of challenging assignments that permit him to probe and express new ideas.
This approach has been notably successful. Since 1931, Republic has been a leader in the aircraft industry, and today employs over 27,000 people, with an engineer ratio of 1 to 8. From the first
all-metal plane to the famous Thunderbolts, Thunderjets, and Thunderstreaks, Republic planes have been pace-setters in aviation. And Republic engineers, sharing in this success, are at the peak of (heir profession, earning top pay in industry.
Republic engineers know, too, the pleasures of good living. Centrally located on Long Island, with its model suburban communities and abundance of year-round recreational facilities, Republic is less than an hour from New York Gty and its unparalleled cultural and entertainment attractions.
For further information concerning our training programs, which prepare graduate engineers for positions in aircraft engineering or manufacturing supervision, please write directly to your special Republic representative, Mr. Charles J. Ketson, Employment Manager.
Formingdale, Long Island, Now York
The Scholastic
SBUH[
Volume 95, Number 22
Notre Dame, Indiana
April 9, 1954
SERVICE CENTER TO RISE IN BADIN BOG
Hammes’ Large Gift Will House Bookstore
The Notre Dame Bookstore will have a brand new home—possibly by Christmas, 1954—together with a clothing store and bowling alleys—it was announced today by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president. The new $250,000 building will be erect ed in Badin Bog with its entrance facing the main quadrangle.
Construction of the building has been made possible by a gift from Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes of Kankakee, Ill., Father Hesburgh said. As president of Romy Hammes Enterprises, Inc., Hammes operates auto dealerships in Kankakee and South Bend, Ind., and has established housing developments in Kankakee and Joliet, Ill., Fort Lee. N. J., and Las Vegas, Nev.
“Notre Dame is deeply grateful to Mr. and Mrs. Hammes for this practical gift which fills a genuine need on our campus,” Father Hesburgh said. “The growth of the University in recent years has made the facilities of the present Bookstore inadequate. The handsome structure to be erected through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Hammes attests to their concern for the development of Notre Dame. The University .is privileged to number them among its most devoted friends.”
The new building will be constructed of buff brick with a slate roof. Its architecture will harmonize with other campus structures.
Main Section is Two Stories
The main section of the building will be two stories tall with a 63-foot frontage and a depth of 130 feet. The west wing of the Structure, one story in height, will also have a 63-foot frontage, but it will be recessed 80 feet from the front of the other section. The two sections of the building will be joined by a colonnade or covered walk adjacent to the building on the south and west.
The two-stoiy section of the building will have 16,400 feet of floor space while the one-story west wing will have 3,000 square feet of floor area. The new building has been designed by Prof. Frank Montana, head of the Notre Dame architecture department, in association with Robert Schultz, also of the University architecture faculty. Contracts for construction will be let in a few weeks.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hammes have long been interested in Notre Dame and its development. Mr. Hammes is a member of the College of Commerce Advisory Council, and Mrs. Hammes is active in the work of the Woman’s Advisory Council of the University.
Receive Papal Honors
Their support of the Church and Catholic education was recognized by Pope Pius XII in 1951 when Mr. Hammes re
ARTIST'S CONCEPTION OF NEW BOOKSTORE BUILDING
Buff Brick Structure Will Stand on Historic Badin Bog
ceived the Order of St. Gregory the Great, and Mrs. Hammes was honored with the medal “Pro Ecclesia et Ponti-fice.” Each of the Hammes housing developments bear the name “Marycrest” in honor of the Virgin Mary. In each of them, Hammes has made provision for churches and Catholic schools.
Mr. and Mrs. Hammes have given substantial support for the construction of churches and chapels in North Carolina, Formosa, Africa and Japan. They have also assisted in the erection of an orphanage for thousands of homeless children in postwar Italy.
Recognized as a civic leader in Kankakee, Mr. Hammes is a former president of that city’s Chambei- of Commerce and is active in many civic and professional groups. He is also a member of the advisory board to the Commanding General of the Fifth Anny on business matters.
April 9, 1954
’Four Friends' Signed
Freshmen Will Launch 'Showboat' on April 30; Review, Breakfast Share Weekend's Spotlight
For Senior Ball Spot
The freshmen will launch their
“Showboat” at 9 p.m. April 30 with the opening of the Freshman Frolic. Miss Maureen Horan of Peoria, HL, has been voted queen of the semi-formal affair. She is a senior in high school at Peoria. Jim Cusak of Peoria will escort and will reign with the queen.
A “democratic” system of voting for the queen at the time of ticket purchase broke a long-standing tradition. Formerly the queen has been the date of the chairman of the dance.
The rhythmic beats will be provided by Bill Walker and his orchestra, currently engaged in the elite Pump Room of Chicago’s Ambassador East Hotel. Bill, a native Chicagoan, is himself a pianist and has made several top recordings on such labels as RCA Victor, Decca, Mercury, and Coral. Peggy Lee and David Carroll have also been featured on these platters.
Other events of the week-end which the frosh will attend are the Presidential Review on the afternoon of May 1 and a Senate Dance to take place that evening. The review will feature some 1500 ROTC men exhibiting drill finesse.
A Communion Breakfast on Sunday will end the freshman weekend. The Mass will take place at 8 a.m. in Dillon Hall Chapel, followed by a breakfast in the Faculty Dining Room at 8:45 a.m.
BILL WALKER
;	Tunester for Frolic April 30
> The celebrant of the Mass will be Rev.
। Thomas Baker, C.S.C., chaplain of the | Freshman Class. Highlighting the | breakfast null be talks by Rev. Theodore I M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the
i *
i
I s I
University, and Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall.
Guests of honor at the event null be the rectors of the four freshman halls: Rev. Daniel Curtin, C.S.C., of Farley; Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., of Breen-Phillips; Rev. Paul Fryberger, C.S.C., of Zahm; and Rev. James Moran, C.S.C., of Cavanaugh.
General chairman of this year’s dance is Bob Miller. Assisting him are Chuck Grace, business manager; Tom Doyle, decorations; Jack Moynahan and Marty Murphy, tickets; Jack Casey, publicity; and John O’Drobinak, refreshments. Filling out the roster of chairmen are Jerry Garvey and Butch Hickman, entertainment; and Don Stuhl-dreher and Jack Maloney, transportation.
University Receives Valued Labor Papers
The personal papers of Mr. Frank Duffy, a 93-year-old labor leader, recording a half-century of the history of the American labor movement, were presented last week to the University.
Serving as vice-president of the American Federation of Labor from 1913 to 1948 and secretary of the International Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners for 48 years, Duffy presented the material to Rev. James E. Noi-ton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
In accepting Duffy’s papers, which will be housed in the University Archives, Father Norton said they will be “an invaluable source of material for scholars studying the turbulent growth of the labor movement under such leaders as Mr. Duffy.”
Duffy, who retired as a union officer in 1948, recalled that he nominated Samuel Gompers for the office of president of the American Federation of Labor at its national convention in 1904. He later nominated the late William Green for the same post. For many years he served as editor of The Carpenter, official publication of the Carpenters and Joiners Brotherhood. Included in his papers are many of his editorials, as well as his speeches and correspondence.
Duffy was born in Ireland in May, 1861, and came to New York City at about the age of 20. He became a carpenter and active in union affairs from the start. He is a widower and the father of seven children, three of whom are living.
The Senior Ballgoers will enjoy something special in the way of entertainment for their May 14 “Auf Wieder-sehen” when the “Four Friends” take the spotlight with a whole repertoire of
‘THE FOUR FRIENDS’
New Quartet Sings for Ball Intermission
new and old hits and some that they have recently recorded.
Composed of four men from the University of Loyola who were only recently organized into a professional quartet, the group will provide some close harmony during the intermissions of Ralph Marterie and his Band.
The Friends’ baritone is Jack Laboe who attended Notre Dame’ for three years, leaving in 1951 to pursue his studies in dentistry at Loyola. One other member of the Friends is also a dentistry student in Laboe’s class.
While at Notre Dame Laboe sang baritone in the Glee Club and was one of the regular traveling members.
The group was organized nine months ago when a press agent heard them at a private party and offered to represent them. Since then they have recorded on the Brunswick label and for Coral, who holds their contract at the present time. Their first two releases will be on the market sometime next month.
Also highlighting the weekend will be a social Friday afternoon in the Student Center which will feature Sophomore Bobby Brown and his Combo. There will be a door prize for the affair and a Charleston contest for which a dinner-for-two prize will be awarded for the Club Lido.
The Scholastic
Campus Territorial Clubs Plan Gala Dances For Vacationing Irish During Easter Respite
Senior Retreat Begins j With Mass Tomorrow
Headlining the action-filled agendas of the territorial clubs on campus will be the first annual Florida Club dance at the Governor’s Hotel on the beach at Ft. Lauderdale on Easter Monday. There will be informal dancing in the Orchid Room from 9 to 1.
Ducats for the affair will be limited to 150 because of the limited accommodations. Tickets are on sale in all of the halls on campus until the vacation begins, at a cost of $3.60. Tickets at the door, if any are left, will run $1 extra.
Moving up the Atlantic Coast to New York City, the Met Club will be sponsoring its annual ball in the Hotel Statler on Easter Sunday evening from 9 p.m. on. Francis Walther will be providing the bounce on the Penn Top Roof for the “Bunny Hop” theme.
Dance ducats run $4.25 and include favors. Tickets at the door will run $1 extra.
The New England Club will have its dance at the Commonwealth Country Club in Chestnut Hill, Mass., on Easter Tuesday. The semi-formal affair will begin at 9 p.m. and end at 1 a.m. The price of this dance is $6.
The Chicago Club will hold its dance on Easter Sunday night at the Congress Hotel from 9 to 1. Popular Fletcher Butler will furnish the music in the Gold Room. Ducats cost $4 each; at the door a dollar extra.
The Detroit Club will round out the agenda with its dance on Easter Monday at the Veterans’ Memorial Building
Library to Offer 1500 Books In Special Sale May 3-4, 6-7
Changing previous policy, Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, director of the University Library, has announced that students have the opportunity to purchase the library’s surplus books at two special sales to be held on May 3-4 and 6-7.
“The books are not outdated volumes,” says Mr. Schaefer, “but only extra copies of books of which we have sufficient numbers already. Books will be priced to sell, and it is hoped that students will take advantage of the low prices for these worthwhile books.”
The books to be' sold will be of all types, some fiction, and others concerning topics such as economics, engineering, history, and philosophy. Half the total number of books will be offered at each two-day sale, from 2 to 5 p.m. and then from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 212 of the Main Library.
There will be some 1500 books offered in the sale.
in downtown Detroit from 9 to 1. All are invited. Admission at the door will be $3.50.
Glee Club Will Leave For East on Tuesday
The Notre Dame Glee Club will begin its annual Easter tour to the East Tuesday evening where it will travel through 2500 miles of concerts, lawn parties and TV shows.
Thirty-two million people will view the warblers foi- the sixth time in as many years on Easter Sunday night when Ed Sullivan’s Toast of the Toivn TV show hosts the 40-man traveling squad.
Featured soloists performing throughout the trek will be John Noland, Gene Gorski, and Dan Coleman, all previous soloists on Sullivan’s show. Robert Ogburn, freshman, will be the fourth soloist for the trip.
The Eastei- Sunday TV appearance has become a tradition both with the Club and with Sullivan, who was led to remark recently that as long as he is in charge of Toast of the Town the Club will continue to appear on his show.
Other highlights of the tour will be a specially arranged lawn party in New Rochelle, N. Y., on April 17; an appearance at the Hotel Pierre Easter Luncheon on Fifth Avenue; a concert in Philadelphia for the famous Montrose Academy; and a combined concert with high school vocal contest winners in Summit, N. J.
JOHN NOLAND
Tenor Soloist Mokes Last Tour
The first Senior closed retreat will begin tomorrow and continue through Sunday under the direction of retreat master Rev. Daniel A. Lord,' S.J., renowned author of various Catholic pamphlets and periodicals.
The retreat opens tomorrow with Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 7 a.m. ■
Complete schedule for the retreat follows:
Saturday—7 a.m., Mass (Sacred Heart); 9 a.m., Conference (Sacred Heart), 11 a.m., Conference (Sacred Heart), 2:30 p.m., Stations outdoors (weather permitting), 5:15 p.m., Conference (Sacred Heart), 7:15 p.m., Conference and Benediction (SacredHeart).
Sunday—8 a.m., Mass (respective hall chapels), 10 a.m., Conference (Washington Hall), 11:30 aan., Conference (Washington Hall), 3:30 pan., Question-answer period (Washington Hall), 5 pm.. Holy Hour, conference, and closing of retreat (Sacred Heart).
Questions concerning topics covered by Father Lord during the retreat will be collected after each conference and will then be answered by him during the question-answer period.
Confessions will be heard 'after each conference, as well as tonight from 7:30 to 8:30.
Off-Campus students are invited to use the facilities of the Student Center during the intervals between conferences. Spiritual reading material will be available in the Student Center for all retreatants. The Center will be reserved tomorrow afternoon for private meditation.
During the spiritual conference, Father Lord will discuss such subjects as “Prayer—Family Rosary”; “Devotion to Mary”; “Ethics in the Business World”; “The Married State”; “Responsibility of Catholic Service Men”; and “The Apostolate—Converts.”
Father Lord has been editor of The Queen’s Work since 1925. A noted counsellor to youth, he has written numerous books, pamphlets and plays.
Father Lord organized the Sodality of Our Lady in 1925, and is the organizerdirector of the Summer School of Catholic Action founded in 1931. He was educated at Loyola University of Chicago and St. Louis University, and was ordained in 1928.
The retreat is being sponsored by the Senior Class, the Blue Circle, and the Department of Religion. More than 750 June Graduates are expected to attend the retreat. Classes will be excused for those who properly registered for cuts.
April 9, 1954
9
BASQUE SINGERS AND DANCERS STAGE “EUSKAL-JAI” PAGEANT Group Will Re-enact Folk Dances in Concert Tuesday
Juniors Scramble For 500 Coveted Prom Bids; Memory Book Records 'Fascination' Weekend
An evening of “Fascination” with Ralph Flanagan is the reward for the 500 lucky men who were able to secure tickets for the Junior Prom, May 7 in the Student Center.
Lured by the name of Flanagan and rhe impressive trio of events, the scrambling juniors disposed of all the tickets for the Prom, the dinner dance and Communion Breakfast in short time on the opening day of ducat sales.
From 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. on May 7 the juniors and theii- ladies will dance to the musical strains of Ralph Flanagan in the Student Center. The dance is strictly formal and corsages will be worn. Residence curfew is 2:30 a.m. and the usual car permissions are available. Chaperones for the dance will be the deans of the five colleges in the University.
Ralph Flanagan and his orchestra are hailed as the nation’s top band according to Billboard. Buddy Victor and Scottie Marsh are the featured vocalists, while the singing group, “The Singing Wings,” are an added attraction. The Junior Prom marks the first appearance of Flanagan at Notre Dame.
On Saturday evening the South Bend Country Club will be the scene of the Junior Class Dinner-Dance. From 5 p.m. until midnight the junior classmen and their dates will enjoy a turkey or
10
ham dinner and dancing to the music of Don Gels and his orchestra.
On Sunday morning after 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall will cap the juniors’ big weekend. Guest speakers will be Head Football Coach Terry Brennan and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. Honored guests will include Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of business affairs; Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs; Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs; Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Junior Class chaplain; Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C.; Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C.; Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C.; and Mrs. Terry Brennan.
Room reservations at the Morris Inn and in private homes in South Bend are being handled by George Vosmik, 205 Sorin.
A special feature of the prom will be the junior pram memory book to be prepared under the direction of Bud LaLonde. The book will give a complete coverage of the weekend. Costing 50 cents apiece, the books will include 12 pages of pictures and text. The memory books will be' ready two weeks after the prom.	'
Basque Dance Troupe Gives Recital Tuesday
The final pre-Easter concert sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Series will be presented by the Euzkadi, a festival company of Basque singers and dancers, Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
The Euzkadi offei- an unusual program employing folk songs and dancing integrated into colorful pageants depicting the customs and life of the' Basques, a people who still preserve their distinctive culture despite being absorbed into two modern nations. The Basque Provinces lie both in France and in Spain in the regions of the Pyrenees Mountains.
The first half of the program is entitled “Pyrenees” and evokes the deep rooted traditions of the sturdy mountain folk. After the intermission, the mood turns to “Euskal-Jai,” a major festival in a Basque fishing village' on the shore of the Bay of Biscay. A feature of the performance is to be a re-enactment of Pelota, better known as Jai-Alai, the world’s fastest sport. Another climactic moment is achieved with the performance of the Fandango and Porrusalda, in which the entire company participates.
Juan Onatibia, director and principal soloist of the group, also provides much of the music by playing the txistu, a rustic Basque flute, in one hand and beating out the rhythm on a drum with the other.
The Euzkadi are in the midst of their second American tour. The company of 14 has been well received by both the public and the press in cities from Massachusetts to California. Typical of their reviews is the Statement in the Brooklyn Eagle that, “The colorful costumes, the unusual music, and the overall brightness of the production all add up to a most pleasant, educational, and interesting evening.”
The Basque culture is one of the oldest in the world, and Euzkere, the language of the Basques, is the oldest language in Europe. It bears no relation to any other known tongue.
Tickets costing 25 cents for Notre Dame students and 50 cents for all others will be on sale in Washington Hall.
Ah--
HAPPY EASTER
With this issue, the SCHOLASTIC will begin its Easter vacation. The next regular issue will appear the second Friday after the vacation, May 7.
The Scholastic
May Day Observance Scheduled For April 30
The annual campus May Day observance will be held this year on April 30, after classes have resumed following Easter vacation.
Students will assemble outside the assigned exits of their respective halls and the actual procession will get underway at 7:55 p.m. The Hall Council System > will provide marshals for each hall group. Off-Campus students who wish to participate will line up at the Circle.
Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Junior Class chaplain, will lead the recitation of the rosary over a loud-speaker system during the procession from the various > halls of the Grotto.
Included in the ceremonies at the Grotto will be the renewal of baptismal _ promises, an act of consecration, and a short talk to be delivered by Rev. John L. Reedy, C.S.C., rector of St. Edward’s Hall and editor of the Ave Maria.
’ ” In case of rain the ceremonies will be held in Sacred Heart Church.
The Knights of Columbus will provide candles for the ceremonies, while the Grotto will be prepared by the Third Ordei* of St. Francis.
, Detailed information will be given in the April 30 religious bulletin.
Passion Story to Be Enacted
I At 9 O'Clock Mass on Sunday
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will celebrate solemn high Mass Palm Sunday at 9 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church. Palms will be blessed and distributed at this Mass and at the later services. Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., will be the deacon, and Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., ’ will be sub-deacon.
At the 9 o’clock Mass the Story of the Passion will be enacted in the sanctuary. The Passion will be related by Rev. Ralph Davis, C.S.C. acting as the Chron-I ista. Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., will enact the role of Christus. Rev. ;	Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., will be Petrus.
The Turba, the rabble of the Jews, will •	be portrayed by the Moreau Seminary
r»	choir.
The significance and flavor of the drama dates back to the Miracle Plays of the Middle Ages. Begun in Germany and France, they were brought into full development in early England where re-“ ligious drama played a very important part in the lives of the people.
; Because of the length of the services there will be no 10 o’clock Mass.
I April 9, 1954
Palais Royale Lanes
13 Beautiful New Brunswick Alleys
For reservations call
2-1131
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Nationally advertised WATCHES—DIAMONDS JEWELRY—RADIO Guaranteed watch repairing.
Qet hot with a DOT this season - **
3
1
For scorecards you’ll be proud of, ploy the ball that gives you all these advantages:

MAXIMUM DISTANCE



POWERED BY TRU-TENSION WINDING
ABSOLUTELY UNIFORM PERFORMANCE
PERFECT
BALANCE
LIFETIME
WHITENESS
PROVEN
LEADERSHIP
SpaldinG
For maximum distance with durability play TOP-FUTE.® DOT® and TOP-FUTE sold through golf professionals only.
s


11
Three Opportunities to See Europe
1. SUMMER BICYCLE TOUR
Travel through Holland, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany, Switzerland, France and England. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, bicycle and equipment, room and board at student Hostels. Tour conductor: Dr. Clement
H. de Haas from the Univ, of Leyden. Limit: 25 students. Time:
8 weeks. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price.____
2. SEMINAR TOUR IN EUROPE
Special program for students of Political Science, History and Geography. German, Italian. Art and Architecture, and Liberal Arts. Program lasts 95 days and attends Seminars and lectures in famous universities in Holland, Germany, Italy and Austria. Also attend the famous Salzburg Music Festival. Price in-
eludes round trip ocean transportation, room and board, and tuition. Application deadline: April 24, 1954. Full price.....
3. STUDY AND TRAVEL PROGRAM—Two Semesters
Live in Vienna. Austria and take the English taught courses offered by the University of Vienna. Student groups travel and explore nine countries of Europe and North Africa with competent professors. Courses are creditable. Price includes round trip ocean transportation, complete room and board for 10% months while in Europe, tuition at the University, travel dj”!
expenses and special lectures. Deadline: June 1, 1954. Price.-
SCHOLASTIC CREDITS WILL BE OFFERED BY NOTRE DAME FOR PROGRAMS NOS. 2 AND 3 For further information see Walter Clemens, 326 Badin Hall between 6:30 and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES, 7325 S. Maryland, Chicago 19, Ill.
WHY INCH THROUGH HIGHWAY TRAFFIC or wait until skyway weather clears? Take a train home and keep that very first date for sure! ITS MORE FUN GOING with the crowd all together on the train. There’s room for bridge or bull session. And, in the dining car, you can enjoy the next best to home cooking.
GO FOR 25% LESS than the regular coach fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same train, then returning as a group or individually.
Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information
EASTERN RAILROADS
$690
$895
Philosophical Confab Will Open on April 20
Three members of the Department of Philosophy will participate in the 28th ' annual meeting of the American Catho-lie Philosophical Association to be held in Milwaukee’s Hotel Pfister, April 20 and 21.
Chairman of the round table discus- . sion, treating “The Meaning of Transcendental Unity” will be the Administrative Head of the Department of Philosophy, Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C.
On the second day of the convention the principal paper will be read by Dr. Vincent E. Smith. The subject of his paper will be “The Prime Mover in Philosophy of Nature and in Metaphysics.’”
That evening Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., will speak at a joint meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association and the National Catholic Education Association at a gathering in the north ballroom of the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago. Father Ward’s paper is entitled “Some Principles in Christian Learning.”
Last year, the annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association was held at Notre Dame. Father Ward is a past president of the association, and Dr. Vincent Smith is the Editor of the association’s quarterly publication, The New Scholasticism.

Moreau Seminary to Observe Pan-American Day on Sunday J
The Moreau Seminary will hold its f second annual Pan-American Day Observance Sunday in conjunction with the Latin American students attending Notre Dame.
■The activities will begin at -5 p.m. with a keynote address, and will continue with a buffet supper in the seminary dining hall. The supper will be followed by workshops on various aspects of Latin American life and entertainment.
The Holy Cross Congregation’s activities in Latin America include the operation of St. George’s College and parish in Chile and of schools conducted by C.S.C. Brothers in Brazil and Haiti. The present bishop of Cap Haitien, Haiti, is Bishop Cousineau, C.S.C., former superior general of the congregation.
The aim of the Pan-American Day observation is “to crystallize for both | seminarians and Latin American stu- H dents the basic issues facing our Christian culture in the whole hemisphere,” Q according to Mr. John J. O’Keefe, C.S.C., g| chairman of the Pan American Committee.	®
The Scholastic £
12
Scholastic Sports
KLINEMEN EMBARK ON SOUTHERN TOUR
Memphis Air Station Opens Irish Schedule; Positions Undecided As Practice Nears End
By BOB RUHL
Although the elements have been against him, baseball coach Clarence (Jake) Kline is attempting to round his proteges into shape for a tough spring grind of 26 games which will begin April 15 at Memphis against the Memphis Naval Air Station.
The pitching staff, a keynote of last season’s excellent 16-7 record, shapes up as deep in material but short on experience. Last season’s starters, Stan Konopka and Jim Gibbons, have been lost through graduation, but seniors Jim Dalton, Gerry Smith and John Reynolds give the Irish a tough core to work with.
Junior Ron Mottle, a member of last year’s squad, is expected to ease the burden as are sophs Leo Linbeck, Gerry Spaeth, James Smith, Angelo Capozzi, Bill Roth, John Reynolds, Dan Yarr and Bob Ruhl. Senior Tom Meglen, juniors Ted Bintz and Morey Cicciarelli will also add to the strong hurling potential.
The catching department is set with
FOUR NOTRE DAME INFIELDERS
(I. to r.) Roger Allan, 3b; Tom Russell, ss; Dick Colloton, 2b; Mike Lesso 1b.
veteran mittmen Dick Gaberik, Dick Farrell, and Tom Pettersch. Sophomores Jerry Ryan and Mike Mallardi will handle the reserve catching chores.
Three veterans and two sophs appear to have the inside track on the infield posts. Dick Colloton, a handy man with the glove and the timber, is back at his second base slot. The rangy keystoner drove in 13 runs last year and posted a .271 batting mark. Stocky senior Hal Reilly, this year’s captain, moves from his shortstop position of last year to the “hot corner” at third. The Staten Island product turned in a .271 batting mark last season, but has been troubled all spring with arm trouble. If Reilly suffers arm trouble, veteran Rog Allan will take over the position.
Soph Tom Russell is likely to stait at shortstop. Russell is a nifty fielder, adept at making the double-play pivot to perfection, and provides a dangerous threat at the plate.
JAKE KLINE, MARK TREMBLAY
Coach and Leading Hitter of ’53	|
The first-base chores will be handled by another second-year man, Mike Lesso, who is filling the position held last sea' son by Dick Rosenthal, now barnstorming with the basketball College All-Stars.
Heavy hitting flychaser Mark Trem- | blay, who pounded the horsehide at a | .350 clip -last year, is the only returning g outfielder. The squatty little center- | fielder accounted for 13 runs batted in | and covered his position flawlessly. Coach Kline hasn’t as yet decided on the gardeners to flank Tremblay, but will pick from among left-hand swingers Andy Corrao, John Delaney and Jim Twohy, and right-hand swatters Bill Teschke, Jack Dumas and Jim Phillips. Coach Kline plans on two-platooning his outfielder trio according to the opposing pitchers.
After tackling the Memphis Naval Air Station on the 15th, the Irish will continue their nine game southern trek by facing Arkansas State at Memphis on the 17th, Memphis NAS on the 18th, Southwestern College at Memphis on the 19th, a final of the three-game series with the Naval Station on the 20th, Memphis State on the 21st, Arkansas State at Little Rock on the 22nd, Arkansas State at Jonesboro on the 23rd, and Purdue at Lafayette on the 27th.
April 9, 1954
13
Name Gallagher Net Captain of '54 Squad
Chuck Gallagher, senior in the College of Commerce, has been named captain of the 1954 tennis squad, replacing Don Crowley. Crowley previously had been elected to the post, but was forced to resign recently.
Gallagher, a two-year monogram winner who hails from Lakewood, O-, will be captaining a team which Coach Charles Samson has termed “the most ambitious and energetic” group of players he has seen.
Samson, who is beginning his first year as tennis mentor here, also pointed out that this year’s tennis squad can
CHARLES GALLAGHER
Netter Leads Irish, Replacing Crowley
boast of something more than athletic ability, since the varsity team has a scholastic average of 86.
He reports a field of 36 netmen work, ing out at present. Among this number are 22 freshmen, who will be given the opportunity of acquiring experience this spring in several practice matches with local players.
Among the 14 upperclassmen reporting for practice are the following returning lettermen: Wally Clarke of San Francisco, Maury Reidy of Denver, Bill Reale of Mansfield, 0., and Don Kennedy, of Lakewood, O.
A name made famous at Notre Dame in the past shows promise of earning new distinction in another field of endeavor. According to Coach Samson, John Stuhldreher, son of one of the immortal Four Horsemen, is one of the outstanding sophomore prospects on this year’s squad.
Coach Samson faces quite a rebuild
ing job this spring, having lost several key members of the 1953 team, which chalked up a 6-4-1 record. For this reason he has begun a new experiment this year—indoor practice sessions in the fieldhouse to help him get a longer look at his material.
Another new feature this Spring is the addition to the schedule of a Spring training tour, which will be taken during the Easter vacation. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill will be the site of pre-season net activity for the ND aspirants, and practice meets have been scheduled with the host team as well as with North Carolina State. Meets with Duke and Wake Forest are tentative. Seven members of the squad will make the trip.
The first scheduled meet of the season will be in April with the University of Cincinnati, and the home season will begin on April 30, with Michigan furnishing the opposition.
Squires, Vaulters Pace ND; Three Holiday Meets Slated
Notre Dame’s Bill Squires and Jim Harrington captured firsts, and several other Irish tracksters turned in fine performances in the Texas Relays last Saturday at Austin.
Squires won the Jerry Thompson Open Mile with a time of 4:14.2, and Harrington leaped 14-1 in the pole vault. Teammate and captain Joe Springer tied for second in the pole vault by going over at 13-6.
Dependable Bernie Allard gained a tie for second in the high jump by clearing 6-5%. In addition, the Irish sprint medley team of Dennis Malec, Jim Pit-cavage, Alex Pestrichella, and Squires finished third in their event behind winning Kansas and runner-up SMU. The Kansas squad set a new world record of 3:20.2 in their victory.
Malec turned in his best quarter of the season, 49.5, in the medley, and Squires did the half in 1:51.7 for his top mark of the current campaign. The other ND entry, the half-mile relay team, consisting of Malec, Pitcavage, Pestrichella, and Tom Rohr settled for a sixth-place finish.
On April 15 they travel to Bloomington for a triangular relay with Indiana’s Hoosiers and Purdue. Coach Wilson is sending a distance medley team, two pole vaulters, and a high jumper to the Kansas Relays on April 17, and also plans on entering distance and sprint medley teams in the Penn Relays on the 23rd and 24th.
The Irish have three engagements during the Easter holidays and a dual meet with Michigan State on May 1.
Notre Dame Keglers Host For MIBC Tourney May 1
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate bowling team will host the sixth annual Midwest Intercollegiate Bowling Conference tournament on May 1 at the Palais Royale alleys.
The five teams making up the Conference—Loyola, DePaul, St. Joseph’s College of Rensselaer, Ind., Valparaiso, and Notre Dame—will all participate in the tournament. Other Midwest independents have been invited to participate in the tournament, but their acceptances are tentative.
A testimonial dinner will be held on the day of the tournament, with “Moose” Krause, Notre Dame’s athletic director, and the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, heading the speakers.
Paul Pfohl, president of the MIBC and captain of Notre Dame’s bowling team, will serve as toastmaster at the dinner, which is limited to members of the participating teams.
This will be the first time in five years that Notre Dame has hosted the MIBC tournament. The MIBC, incidentally, is the only major college bowling league in the midwest besides the Big Ten.
Twenty-Eight Squads Sign For Interhall Softball League
Twenty-eight teams have been entered in the interhall softball league’ according to Mr. Maxwell, director, and more are expected as the outdoor sports go into the final week of registering a team roster. The deadline date for signing up has been set for April 13.
Because of the limited time, Mr. Maxwell intends to schedule softball games for the evenings at 6:30 on both Wednesday and Thursday. There 'will also be games in the afternoon during the week.
If it is at all possible, Mr. Maxwell would like to have the softball teams divided into three leagues. This program is composed of residence halls, city clubs, and regional geographic clubs, which would comprise the different leagues. At the end of the tournament, the respective league winners will play off for the campus championship. The traditional interhall medals will be awarded to the top three teams, gold, silver, and bronze in that order.
Baseball, volleyball, and softball schedules will be made up during vacation and will be posted on campus bulletin boards.
The Scholastic
14
Brennan Holds Initial Scrimmage of Season
Coach Terry Brennan shifted his Spring drills into high gear last Sunday afternoon with the first formal scrimmage of the 20-day practice stint.
Brennan’s first team, which may be a clue to next year’s starting eleven, consisted of Ralph Guglielmi at quarter, Joe Heap and Don Schaefer at the halves, with John Gaffney at full. The line had Dan Shannon and Paul Matz at the ends, Sam Palumbo and Frank Var-richione at the tackles, Ray Lemek and Jack Lee at the guards and Dick Szymanski at center.
Sunday also marked the first appearance this Spring of co-captain Dan Shannon. Shannon missed the first two days of drills due to an attack of the flu.
Paul Reynolds, who is given a good chance to nail down a starter’s berth at fullback, did not participate' in the initial scrimmage. Coach Brennan apparently wants to be positive that Reynold’s knee is completely healed before letting him perform in any contact work.
Reynolds won letters in both the 1951 and 1952 campaigns before' injuring his knee in last Fall’s pre-season workouts.
The Spring sessions thus far have been dominated by fundamental drill work, the backfield stressing basic plays and the linemen polishing their timing, blocking and tackling.
Linksters Open Squad Drills For April 23 Home Lid-Lifter
Despite the bad weather that has been plaguing his golf charges, Rev. George L. Holderith has finally opened intrasquad matches in competition for places on the team.
To date eight of his linksters have registered tune-up rounds of 78 or under. Paul Minnich, Ed Gschwind, Jim Terry, Bob Filipiak, and Joe Foley appear to have the inside track on varsity berths.
Tomorrow, eight varsity aspirants will compete with eight members of South Bend’s Erskine Park Country Club, some of them former ND performers. Another added feature this season will be several matches in May with five or six professionals from the Chicago area.
The Irish season will open with a match against Western Illinois at home on April 23, followed by another home match on the 24th with Bradley. Valparaiso and Michigan State will host Notre Dame on April 29 and May 3, respectively.
“THE GUY’LL LOSE
"... I walks into this haberdasher just off campus, see, and ask for a white shirt. He starts givin’ me this song-and-dance about that Van Heusen Century with the soft collar that supposed to not wTinkle ever. The jerk starts snowin’ me with some 14-day free trial deal, that if I’m not satisfied after wearing it and washing it for 14 days, he’ll gimme my dough back.
'Tm from Brooklyn, see, and I don’t trust nobody. I ask the guy, ‘What’s the catch, buddy?’ He says, ‘No catch. Wear it as much and as hard as you want. If the collar ever WTinkles or wilts, you get your money back. Wash it yourself. It’s easy. You just iron the collar fiat, flip it, and it folds perfectly because the fold-line’s woven in.
If not, your money back.’
“The guy tells me it’s the only soft one-piece collar in the world, that it lasts up to twice as long as other shirts and only costs S3.95 for whites and S4.95 in colors and superfine whites. I tell him he’s nuts to make such a stupid offer. I tell him he’ll lose his shirt. It’s a kind of joke, see. I figure no shirt wrill live up to all that malarky.
“And y’know what? I been wearin’ and washin’ it now for a hunercl and fourteen days, and I still can’t find nothin’ Avrong with it.”
See the New Van Heusen Shirts at
RASMUSSEN men's shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STREETS
April 9, 1954
15
"I lacked Confidence inmyselP...
but one visit to Arthur Murray's changed my whole life."
"Yes, I was always shy, reserved and never had much fun. Then I went to Arthur Murray’s. At my very first dance lesson, I discovered my dormant ability to dance. In almost no time I became a smooth dancer, had new self-confidence and popularity.”
Let Arthur Murray’s expert teachers bring out your hidden dancing ability. Come in for a $1.00 trial lesson now.
'ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne	2-3339
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Aesooiates
228 So. Michigan St.
AattwiaA.
JliJviGJLq, atui Bock Sk&p.
We Sell Truth
City Club’s invitation to good going...
Win a Chevrolet Corvette
1st PRIZE—'54 Chevrolet Corvette 2nd PRIZE—$1,000.00 in cosh PLUS SOO PRIZES—0 pair of CITY CLUB
Amigos
WINNER OF FIRST GRANO PRIZE, if entry « on S«i-cial Entry Blank obtained from a City Club dealer, will receive additional $250 cash prize for operating costs.
in the big, easy
City Club shoe contest I
— NOTHING TO BUY—ENTER NOW. SIMPLE RULES OF THE CONTEST: —
1.	In 25 words or less tell why “I like City Club Shoes . .
2.	Send in as many entries as you wish, but each must be on a separate piece of paper. Print your name and address clearly.
3.	It is not necessary to use an Official entry blank but handy entry blanks may be procured at your City Club Dealer (they carry an extra advantage—see note above).
4.	Mail all entries to Peters Shoe Company, Dept. C4, Box 5995, Chicago 77, Illinois.
5.	Contest starts March 15—ends May 15, 1954. All entries postmarked before midnight May 15 and received by May 22 eligible.
6.	Entries will be judged on originality, aptness and sincerity by the Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. Judges’ decision final. Duplicate prizes in case of ties. No entries returned. Entries and ideas therein become property of Peters Shoe Company to be used as it sees fit. Winners will be notified by mail.
7.	Contest open to all residents of continental United States and Canada. Contest not open to employees of Peters Shoe Co., of City Club Dealers, of their Advertising Agency, nor their families.
SEE your City Club dealer. Or for name of your nearest dealer, write:
Peter* Shoa Company, St. Louis 3, Missouri
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
Yz Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
“Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
16
The Scholastic
Senior Fencers Drop Old-Timer Bladesmen
Notre Dame’s six graduating members ' of the varsity fencing squad made their final season’s appearance last Thursday in an unofficial match with four graduate students, who formed the nucleus of the ’53 fencing team. Rod Duff, captain of the ’54 squad, led his mates, dubbed as the “Has Beens,” to a 7-5 vic-* tory over the “Old Timers,” led by Jack Mooney, captain of the ’53 swordsmen.
Since four matches were fought in each weapon and both squads were undermanned, several of the contestants had to double, up on the weapons. Dick Hull of the “Has Beens” competed in * two matches in the foil and one in the epee. Jack Mooney of the “Old Timers” competed in four matches, two in the - foil and two in the sabre, and his teammate, Jim Hurley, participated in two matches in both the sabre and the epee. Jerry Brainerd, Tony Mandolini, Gerry ’ Finney, and Duff of the “Has Beens” each competed in two matches in their respective weapons, as did Bob West-rick and Dave McBride of the “Old Timers.”
According to Duff, this affair was an innovation in Irish fencing history. Since ' the matches were all in fun, no individual statistics were recorded, but the individual decisions were available. In the foil the “Has Beens” swept all the decisions as Hull defeated Mooney and Westrick. In the sabre' the “Old Timers” gained a split, as Mooney and Hurley both defeated Finney. However, , Mandolini of the “Has Beens” picked up the remaining two points for his mates as he downed both Hurley and Mooney.
The “Old Timers” made a comeback in the epee as they captured three of the four matches, but it was not enough to overcome the “Has Beens’ ” lead. Mc-, Bride picked up two wins over John McGinn, and Duff and Hurley decisioned Hull, but Rod Duff gained a decision over Hurley to round out the margin of victory.
This summer formal
won't stain
or wrinkle!
Cummerbund and Tie Sets, 7.50 to 15.00
Midnite Blue Dress Trousers, 12.50
See Your Local AFTER SIX Dealer
WITH EXCLUSIVE “STAIN SHY” FINISH
Holds its press evening after evening ..."Stain Shy” finish resists stains, repels most liquids.
26.95
IT'
CANOE TRIPS
Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $5.00 per man per day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom. CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box-717 C. Ely, Minnesota.
See the latest “After Six” formal wear at
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30—1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75 4 601 N. Niles Ave.
Michigan at Washington — On the Comer
April 9, 1954
17
Sections Will Enter Spotlight After Easter; Candidates Vie For Senate, Class Positions
Class officer, college Senator and Senate President elections will be held following the Easter vacation on Wednesday, April 28, reported George Carhart, head of the Blue Circle election committee. Nominations for the various offices close today.
The officers to be elected include: sophomore, junior and senior class officers, senators from Colleges of Science, Commerce, Law, Engineering, and Arts and Letters; and the Student Senate president.
Voting will take place in the basement of the Dining Hall, under the preferential ballot system, from 12 noon to 6:30 p.m.
Voters must have their ID cards punched by the election committee in order to vote.
To insure privacy in voting, each party Avail be allowed one “challenger” to ward off any possible last-minute campaigners or vote seekers in the voting circles.
Two days prior to the election the Student Senate Information Bulletin will carry 250-300 words from each senator candidate wishing to express his views.
They will be given this chance to discuss any issues they please.
The election committee is also trying to get radio time for each senator candidate on WNDU, but as yet no definite announcement has been made.
Candidates may also campaign with 11x14 posters on hall bulletin boards and by distributing mimeographed material to the students’ rooms with the permission of the hall rector.
Father Hesburgh Will Review Combined ROTC Units May I
The 1954 Presidential Review will be presented by the combined forces of the University’s Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units on May 1, at 2 p.m.
The annual review, to take place on the athletic field south of the tennis courts between the Stadium and the Morris Inn, will honor Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. In addition, annual ROTC awards will be presented to outstanding cadets.
The 1,500 men comprising the three units will be under command of Air Force Cadet Col. Paul Robst.
Many distinguished and prominent guests will attend the Spring review. Mayor John A. Scott of South Bend has accepted an invitation to attend.
Military leaders who will be present include Lt. Gen. William B. Kean, commanding general of the Fifth Army and Admiral Richard P. Gloss, commandant of the Ninth Naval District at Great Lakes. Brig. Gen. Matthew K. Deichel-mann, commandant of the 209 AFROTC units in the United States, is also expected to attend. Business and civic leaders from the surrounding area will also be in attendance.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
Special Student Rates
Freshman Frolic Junior Prem Senior Ball
Approximately 1,000 suits to choose from. All the newest styles in all sizes.
Free alterations for personal satisfaction.
A complete line of accessories may be rented or purchased.- No Deposits for N.D. students or faculty.
LOGANS TUXEDO RENTAL
107 N. Main	Oliver Hotel, So. Bend	Ph. 3-9658
18
The Scholastic
Case of the dry "oil" well
Not at all unusual, you say? But this well was purposely drilled that way! In fact, precautions were taken to see that the well wouldn’t contact oil-bearing sands. It was to be a vital part of an elaborate waste-disposal system built into one of Du Pont’s new plants near Victoria, Texas. It is an example of the unusual engineering problems which Du Pont technical men encounter.
The "well” itself is almost a mile deep—4900 feet, to be exact. Waste fluids from the plant are forced down this well, to be absorbed by non-oil-bearing sands—far below the level of any surface water. Piping near ground level is in the form of concentric shells, and fresh water is delivered to the annular opening around the waste pipe. Furthermore, the water pressure is higher than that of the fluids in the
waste section. In this way, any leakage in the pipe system causes fresh water to enter the surrounding sands (or the inside waste system) and prevents objectionable materials from reaching the sands at surface levels.
Other interesting procedures are used throughout Du Pont’s many plants to guard against river pollution. For example, scientists were asked to make a complete marine-life census on one river before a plant was built nearby. The company wanted to be certain that no waste would be discharged which would challenge the natural pattern of marine life.
Throughout the DuPont Company, wherever there is a need for the services of technical men, there are varied and interesting problems that present a challenge tb engineering skill and imagination.
Now available for student ASME chapters and other college groups, a 16-mm. sound color movie—“Mechanical Engineering at Du Pont.” For further information, send post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
,E5-U.S.PATOFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch “Cavalcade of America” on Television
2-WAY CIGARETTE
THE PROOF YOU OUGHT TO HAVE
I smoke REGULAR Chesterfield,” says Mary Healy
I like KING-SIZE Chesterfield,” says Peter Lind Hayes
SMOKE REGULAR OR KING-SIZE CHESTERFIELD...
AMERICA’S MOST POPUIAR

THE QUALITY YOU WANT
No matter which size Chesterfield you buy you get the same premium quality cigarette, and all the flavor and mildness that goes with it! You get the world’s best tobaccos, selected by Chesterfield buyers with the help of our research chemists . . . and proven, by actual tobacco tests, to be highest in quality.
the TASTE and g
MILDNESS 1
THE LOW HICOTIHE YOU WANT
Before we buy tobaccos for Chesterfields, our laboratories take samples from all over the tobacco country and analyze them for low nicotine content. The extra care pays off! In recent “tobacco tests,” the six leading brands of cigarettes were chemically analyzed. The findings: of them all, Chesterfield is highest in quality— low in nicotine.
rOB^CO
SINUSES
NOSE
THROAT
A group of Chesterfield smokers have been examined by a doctor every two months for almost two years. 45% of them have been smoking Chesterfield, on the average, for well over 10 years. The doctor’s examinations show... no adverse effects to the nose, throat
and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.
Consider Chesterfield’s record with these smokers—with millions of other smokers throughout America. Change to Chesterfield and enjoy the taste and mildness you want—highest in quality—low in nicotine—best for you!
CHESTERFIELD
BESTFOB FOB
8
Copyright 1954, Liggett & Ito Tobacco Co.