The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Students Tour Europe in ’50
March 51, 1950
The Scholastic
Letters
We, One People
Editor:
The editorial “we” is in good taste in unsigned editorials and in editors’ comments. Probably no one can criti-2 cize the use of “we” in signed articles when the writer expresses thoughts which he shares with others. But it seems to me that this poor pronoun can be overworked. In Mr. Thoren’s article last week, the words “we,” “us,” and “our” (obviously meaning “I,” “me,” and “my”) occur at least eleven times in the first three paragraphs. For example: “. . . WE promptly managed to get bit by the flu bug ...” “Doc Egan stuck the thermometer into OUR 9 mouth ...” “ . . . the penicillin needle made OUR arm look like a piece of swiss cheese and OUR temperature started to descend ...” (The caps are my own.)
To at least one reader the moderate use of “I,” “my,” and “me” is far less objectionable than the use of “we,” “our,” and “us,” when the meaning is so obviously first person singular.
V etville
J. C. Noyes
I agree with critic Noyes and even though I have tried, I will continue to try to curb these overworked pronouns. I appreciate the Vetville comments.— Ken Thoren.
Frosh Orators Must Sign By Tuesday for Contest
All Freshmen wishing to compete in a speech tournament are requested to > turn in their names to the Department " of Speech not later than April 4. Preliminaries in this tournament will be judged on April 21, and finalists will be determined on April 26.
The contest will consist of a five minute oration on a topic chosen by the student, and a $10 cash prize will be awarded to the winner. Three judges, whose names will be announced later, will determine winners.
Choose your VAN HEUSEN SHIRTS $2.95 up from the complete selection in the Men's Shop at
First Floor
ROERTSOFS
of
on these pin-up beauties!

Van Gab sport shirts
Completely washable! .. . just as sure as their name is Van Gab. And what gabardine! ... like you’ve never seen! Silky-smooth gabardine ... with a new luxurious softness. Finer-woven gabardine ... that wears and wears and wears. Comes in a variety of colors and fabrics . . . shown here is famous California Lo-No model with exclusive two-way collar . . . smart open or with a tie ... only. S4.95.
Other models, $2.95 to $5.95
Van Hensen ,..
"the world’s smartest” SUlflS
PH I LLI PS - J 0 NES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
The Place to Go for the Names You Know
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
3
March 31, 1950
awifflffiand MROAT he the judge/
FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS .. .
so round, so firm, so fully packed—so
There's never a rough puff in a Lucky
Meant e^te reaaeca
Maurice evans says: 7 always count on Luckies for a perfect performance!” Correct, Mr. Evans... yon can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness, mildness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco that’s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!
free and easy on the draw
The Scholastic
4
* THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick
the Louis Johnson trophy, symbolic of the all-around, super-dooper, unified Department of Defense ROTC championship.
Bottom of the Week
. . . wonder where the pinkies is?
Top of the Week
Spring is here, the grass has riz . . .
Blood for the Missions
By the time this Scholastic appears on the newsstands, the 1950 Bengal Bouts will be almost over. The fact that tomorrow night’s final round will be held on April Fool’s- Day, may or may not have some effect on the outcome — but one thing is certain — the way ticket sales have been going, just about everyone will be there . . . magna cum laude students, pinkie students, off-campus students, common-ordinary students, townspeople, profs, profs’ wives, profs’ kids, night watchmen, janitors, maids, bus drivers, ex-cons, the Scholastic staff . . . everybody.
Don’t miss ’em.
Question of the Week
Is it true that when Bengal Bouter George Chopp’s manager found out his boy was entered in the tough 137-pound bracket he sold advertising space on the soles and heels of George’s shoes?
Attention, Colonel McCormick (wherever you are)
Some people are said to be always subconsciously aware of their desires. No exception to this rule, Joe Shelley, WND’s chief announcer, indicated the other night that he has definite plans for his future:
The red light went on in the WND fieldhouse studio, and our hero, script in hand, glanced at the clock, and said, ‘‘this is W-G-N . . . er, no . . . is it ... uh ... ” Silence reigned over the air until a quick thinking engineer dropped a record on the spinning turntable for Joe. Its title was I Can Dream, Can’t 1?
But no kidding, Joe is a good announcer. Since all WND announcers are possessed of an extra-abundance of technical knowledge (they have to be ready to double as engineers, repairmen, human transmitter-parts, etc.), Joe has his share of radio know-how. But does this cause him to use technical terms over the air? No, sir, on the contrary, Joe tends to over-simplify sometimes. For instance, the other night, as he was about to play his favorite tune (Teddy Bear’s Picnic), rather than confuse the listeners by
calling the disc a transcription, he said, “this song is recorded on one of those big red things that spins around slow.” Plain talking to us folks like that has endeared Joe Shelley to his audiences.
Mystery Man?
Rumor has it that next week’s Scholastic will carry a feature story entitled What’s Wrong With Tom Kel-leghan? By the way, who is this pseudo-Lincoln Steffens? Or is the whole thing a publicity stunt sponsored by the Rural Life Club’s Good Old Days movement?
Irish Shoot Rams
Here’s an interesting item that has escaped the nation’s (and the Scholastic’s) news pages:
It took the unification (?) of the armed forces to bring together athletic teams from the country’s two outstanding Catholic universities. Yep, Notre Dame is finally going to play Fordham, in the Notre Dame stadium, for a national championship — and this year, too — but it won’t be a football game. It’ll be a rifle match.
The Notre Dame Navy ROTC nimrods, already winners of the Hearst National title, victors over Annapolis, and official Navy Department champs, will fire a postal-match on the stadium range, against a Fordham team which is the nation’s number one Air ROTC unit. ■
The winner will gain possession of
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
ND Fellowship Is included In Socony-Vacuum Awards
A fellowship to the University of Notre Dame was included in the renewal of five such awards by the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company as part of its program of 20 fellowships for the 1950-51 academic year.
In each case the fellowship carries an award of §2000, the major part of which is paid to the student to assist in defraying living costs. Recipients are selected by the colleges and universities.from among students with at least one year of graduate work.
No restrictions are placed by the company on the recipients as to future employment or publication of the findings of their investigations. Similarly, the students are free to study subjects other than those connected with the petroleum industry.
Chicagoans Dance at Easter
The annual Chicago Club Easter Dance will be held this year in the . Casino Room of the Congress Hotel. The Cabaret Dance will take place on Easter Sunday evening from 9 till 1 to the music of Buddy Dunn, familiar to patrons of the Saddle and Cycle Club on the North Side. The price per couple is §3. Proceeds of the dance are to be used to support a baseball tournament in the Chicago Club. John Broderick, of Oak Park, Ill.,' will be the chairman.
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
March 31, 1950
Entertainment
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY
Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.
J.M.S. Bldg.
MARCH 31
WASHINGTON HALL—Taking advantage of the lull in the Bengal Bouts, the Concert and Lecture Series has booked Miss Ann Byrne foi’ a piano recital tonight. Miss Byrne, well remembered for her entertaining concert last year, will present a program of light and semi-classical and contemporary music.
COLFAX (through April 5)—Preview-goers who saw When Willie Comets Marching Home (Legion of Decency Rating A-2) last week will vouch for this laugh-getter. Starring Dan Dailey, it is a howl fest from the opening gun. John Ford proves he is as good a director of comedy as he is of western epics. Corinne Calvert, Colleen Townsend, William Demerest and Evelyn Varden all help handily with the fun.
PALACE (through April 1)—This is your last chance to see All the King’s Men (B) before it leaves town. It copped several of the Academy Awards and is a fine movie that should be seen.
AVON (through April 4)—Without Honor stars Lar-raine Day and Dane Clark.
APRIL 1
FIELDHOUSE—The 1950 Bengal Bouts presents its final night of fights. Mid-term exams might have made it difficult to get to some of the fights, but here’s a final program so jam packed with good exhibitions that you won’t want to miss it.
WASHINGTON HALL—My Friend Irma (A-2), the wacky comedy postponed last Saturday, has Marie Wilson in the title role with John Lund, Diana Lynn and Don DeFore supporting. Jerry Lewis and Dean Martin stand out in the pic as two zanies.
GRANADA (through April 4)—Blue Grass of Kentucky probably sounds like just one of those old girl-boy-horse affairs. Well, it is; but it is a good one. Bill Williams and Jane Nigh vie for honors with some beautiful thoroughbreds. The co-pic is West of Wyoming, a Johnny Mack Brov.ni duzie.
APRIL 2
PALM SUNDAY—Holy Week begins. .
APRIL 4
EASTER VACATION—Notre Dame’s Spring vacation lasts only a week but even though it is so short, it will be good to get home and visit with our families. The major portion of our vacation is spent during Holy Week. Let’s remember that and go easy on the celebrating.
APRIL 12
VACATION ENDS—The hordes will shuffle back from all directions, prepared to buckle down to the last lap. Balmy Spring weather (or will it be snowing?) won’t help those attempting to pound the books.
COLFAX (last day)—Betty Grable and Victor Mature head the cast of Wabash Avenue. It is a typical Twentieth Century-Fox musical; garish, loud, short on story, long on music; but, in the long run, fun. Phil Harris makes one of his rare film appearances in it.
PALACE (through May 13)—Red Skelton hasn’t been as good for a long time as he is in The Yellow Cab Man ■ (A-l). Sure, he’s silly and perhaps the show is slapstick. But so what? If it’s done well — it can be really entertaining. Gloria DeHaven plays Skelton’s vis-a-vis.
Free Transportation Westward . . .
Car, Gas and Oil provided if you drive our car to Salt Lake City, Utah. You need $25 for insurance deposit here, S25 for gas. All this money is refunded to you in Salt Lake City. If you are 21 and have driver’s license, call at 207 W. Washington Ave. See Mr. Hartt.
SAVE! SAVE! SAVE! SAVE!
BASEBALL SHOES $5.25, $6.50, $8.50
BASEBALL GLOVES $4.95 to $18.25
LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BASEBALL BATS
SONNEBORNS SPORT SHOP 121 W. COLFAX AVE.
South Bend, Ind. Phone 3-3702
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91. March 31, 1950 No. 21
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Sophomore Awarded *50
Edward A. Goerner, a Sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters from Brooklyn, N. Y., won the 1950 Breen Oratorical Medal at the final contest held March 23. He defeated a field of four other finalists with an address entitled “Asia and Your Freedom.”
The Breen Medal was founded by William Breen of the class of 1877 and is awarded for outstanding oratorical ability. Besides Goerner, the finalists
Breen Medal for Oratory included Joseph Browne, C.S.C., Joseph Hoffman, c.s.c., J. Edward Kelley, Jr., and Robert Niquette.
This year’s contest was under the direction of Mr. Jerome A. Fallon of the Department of Speech. The judges were Mr. Gerald Kamm, a South Bend attorney; Professor William Grupp of the Department of Modem Languages, and Mr. William Mejah, Toastmasters’ Clubs of Northern Indiana.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 191S.
LEARN TO DANCE
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI _________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS _________ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE __________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY  Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN______________Photography
LEON GARDNER__________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising EDMOND FOLEY ______________ Circulation
ROBERT WILDEMAN ___________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch, Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone. Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan, Frank Cotter, Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger, Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Tom Murphy, Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin. Joe Deiss, Bill Delaney, Ray Dittrich, Jack Economou. Jack Keane. Joe Moresco. Ted Prahinski. Bill Reidy, Frank Ron-nenbetg, Bob Rubery, Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: With Summer vacations loom-ing"iri*’the not too' distant future and trips to Europe being planned for the Holy Year celebration, the Queen Elizabeth, the world’s largest ocean liner, floats majestically with flags flying and invites all travelers to a journey abroad. Photo courtesy Campus Tours, Inc.
> March 31, 1950
Stop passing up good times. Now you can enjoy the same fun and popularity that all good dancers do. There is no substitute for good dancing. Now is the time to acquire a social education. Don’t just wish you were a good dancer. Call today for a free trial lesson. You’ll be dancing in no time at all, thanks to Arthur Murray’s Magic Step Method.
Club Dance Every Thursday Night
7

PROVE
TO YOURSELF
noWgarette HANGOVER when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
A A -
HERE'S ALL YOU DO!
In just a few seconds you can prove PHILIP MORRIS


IS OMNUKT USS IRRITATING

13 Wfc»	_
than the brand you’re now smoking!



- W:
„-S
-'.'A
I* • • light up a PHILIP MORRIS
2. ..light up your present brand Do exactly the same thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
THEN, just take a puff-DON'T INHALE — and s-l-o-w-I-y let the smoke come through your nose. And NOW . . .
NOW YOU KNOW WHY YOU SHOULD 6E SMOKING. PHILIP MORRIS!
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.

!s PHILIP MORRIS
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
£ VOLUME 91, NUMBER 21
MARCH 31, 1950
Juniors Finish Plans For April 21 Dance
Final plans for the Junior Prom were being made this week by Co-chairmen Mike Jacobs and Tom Meyer. By Tuesday an orchestra had not been chosen, but in a class meeting held Wednesday, it was hoped that a selection could be made.
The dance, to be held April 21 in the Palais Royale, will begin at 9:30 p.m. Friday and last until 1:30 a.m. Saturday. Prom-goers have 2:30 residence permissions and the Office of Student Welfare has extended car permissions from noon Friday, April 21, until noon Sunday, April 23.
Bids, tentatively priced at $6, will go on sale April 15. At that time hotel accommodations at any of the three hotels (Oliver, Hoffmann, or LaSalle) may be obtained. Handling the hotel reservations for Prom dates is Gene Smith of 206 Badin.
Tux rentals are under the supervision of Jim O’Donnell, 343 Badin. There will be a Saturday night dance sponsored by the Student Council, featuring Gene Hull and his orchestra. Tickets for that dance will be priced at §1.50 and may be bought at the Palais Royale the night of the dance.
Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of Religion, has scheduled the 9 o’clock (Continued on Page 13)
Holy Week Services Begin Sunday With Solemn Mass
Holy Week Services will officially begin this Sunday with the 8 a.m. Solemn High Mass for the N.D. student body in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University President, will celebrate the Mass. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be Deacon and Rev. Louis J. Thornton will be Subdeacon.
Tenebrae services will be held at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. On Holy Thursday the Solemn Mass is scheduled for 7 a.m. Mandatum will be held at 2 p.m. and Tenebrae at 7:30 p.m.
The Good Friday Mass of the Pre-
Second Notre Dame Man Within Month Dies: Jack Donahoe Injured While Playing Handball
For the second time in a month a Notre Dame man lay dying in a hospital bed while the student body prayed and comforted him through the crucial moments of his existence. John J. Donahoe, Jr., 22, died last Sunday afternoon at 3:40 o’clock after a struggle with
Jack Donahoe .
death that focused the unswerving attention and prayers of the campus on the little room in St. Joseph hospital.
Jack ran into a wall while playing handball in the Rockne Memorial courts a week ago Monday. He was admitted to the hospital that evening and his condition was termed critical. He underwent two operations in an attempt to remove the blood clot which eventually proved fatal.
sanctified will be celebrated at 8 a.m. There will be a Chapter at 2 p.m. and Stations at 3 p.m. Tenebrae is again set for 7:30 p.m. The services for Holy Saturday will begin at 6 a.m. with the Mass at 7:30 a.m. All services will be held in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
Jack's death was the second catastrophe of the sort to blight the campus within .a month. On Feb. 23, Ray Espenan, veteran football player, died of a broken neck suffered in a fall from a trampoline during an exhibition at a South Bend high school.
Jack Donahoe’s injury, following so closely upon the first, seemed to knit the students into a team of intercessors to Our Lady to save the young life from extinction. Posters appeared on the Book Store wall and in the Post Office and in other conspicuous places about the campus, soliciting the prayers of the living for their dying brother.
At 8 o’clock Mass on Sunday morning, Rev. Richard J. Grimm, c.s.c., prefect of Religion, forewent his scheduled sermon because he had news that Jack was sinking. He led the Massgoers in the prayers for the dying. As Sunday wore on, Jack's fight for life became weaker and he died at 3:40. He went home to his Mother — Notre Dame — in heaven.
Jack graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1949. He was in his third semester in Law School. One of the founders of campus radio Station WND, Jack was active in Student Council affairs. He was chairman of student activities in the Naval ROTC unit and one of the leaders in the annual Mardi Gras drive for students abroad.
He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Donahoe, and a 14-year-old brother, Thomas. His body was taken to Chicago for funeral services which were held at 10 a.m. Wednesday in St. Edmund’s Church, Oak Park. Six navy ROTC midshipmen from the Notre Dame unit served as pallbearers.
A campus funeral Mass was held for Jack on Monday morning at 6:30 aan. in the Main Church. The student body turned out in force once again to pray for him. This time the prayers read “Requiescat in pace.”
March 31, 1950
9
Ad Man Speaks at Bishop O'Hara Lecture
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce and Mr. William Powers, advertising manager of Chevrolet, look over a speech before a Bishop O'Hara lecture.
Retreat-Goers Impressed With Lenten Series; Conference and Stations Voted Most Popular
Asked how the Catholic life of the student body could be improved, the retreat-goers came up with a multitude of remedies. Chief among them were those which called for closer relations between priests and students, more interesting and pertinent sermons, and increased devotion to the Liturgy through recitative Masses and congregational singing.
With regard to the retreat masters, Fathers Robinson, Hesburgh, Lahey, Mullahy, and Laskowski were all lauded for their practical and moving sermons.
This is the fifth consecutive year in which lenten retreats have been held. This year they were under the supervision of Rev. Edmund Murray, c.s.C., Assistant Prefect of Religion.
From graduate student to Freshman, all who participated in the recent series of lenten retreats were favorably impressed. All asserted that the retreats should be continued, many suggesting that they be longer and more frequent.
At each retreat, those present — nearly 200 every week end — were given a questionnnaire in which they were
10
asked to state their reactions and opinions concerning the exercises.
The conferences and outdoor Stations of the Cross were voted most appealing; the former because they were practical, straightforward, and “solid,” the latter because they were unusual and realistic. The evening Rosary at the Grotto and the Sunday afternoon Holy Hour were also regarded highly.
To the question: “What suggestions would you make to improve these retreats?” many recommended that the exercises be more united, secluded, and contemplative. According to several replies, this could best be accomplished by conducting a closed, three-day retreat for all the students, using the Drill Hall as a chapel.
MARRIAGE FORUM CHANGE
Because of the Bengal Bouts last night the Notre Danie Marriage Institute will hold its final session this evening at 7:30 in the Law Auditorium. This is a change from the regular Thursday sessions that were usually held in the Engineering Auditorium.
Freshmen Plan Dance At Palais on May 5
“Some Enchanted Evening” will be the theme of the Freshman Class Dance to be held on May 5 at the Palais Roy-ale ballroom in South Bend.
With Tom Field, who originated the idea for the theme, in charge of decorations, plans have been made to give the W dance a tropical atmosphere complete with palm trees, South Sea backdrops, and Hawaiian leis.
No corsages will be permitted at the semi-formal affair. Scheduled to begin at 9 p.m., the dance will continue until 1 a.m., and the Frosh will have until 2 a.m. to return to their halls. Car permission for the evening has also been granted.
Bids are $3 and may be obtained after Easter- vacation at the Dining Hall or from the Freshman floor representatives.
Dance Chairman Brian Kelly has appointed Bill Dargan to arrange hotel and tourist home accommodations for out-of-state dates invited to the dance. It is suggested that all who wish to invite home-town girls do so during the Easter vacation.
Although it has not yet been decided who will provide the evening’s music, Bob Lewis and his band, which played at the recent Mardi Gras dance, are being strongly considered.
—Don Carbone
Students Win Cash Prizes At Joint Meeting of AIEE
The annual joint meeting of the Notre Dame branch with the 'South Bend section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Engineering Building on Tuesday, March 21. Prizes were awarded tb three Notre Dame students for competitive papers on some field of electrical engineering.
First prize of $20 went to John Machinchick who spoke on electric power systems with a paper entitled “System Stability.” The $10 second prize was won by Howard Wurth and j-his paper on “Short Circuit Calculation.” John Elsbree was awarded third prize for his paper on “Galloping Conductors.” All three are Seniors in Electrical Engineering.
The judges and prizes were furnished by the South Bend section under the chairmanship of Mr. Robert Cliff of the General Electric Company. Machinchick will represent Notre Dame in a district meeting at Jackson, Mich., sometime in early May.
0
The Scholastic
Ann Byrne Returns In Concert Tonight
After being temporarily forced into the background of student interest by the current Bengal Bouts, the University Concert and Lecture Series will step back into the spotlight tonight as it presents its final olfering before the Q Easter vacation.
This evening, at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall, the Series will present Miss Ann Byrne, the noted pianist, in a carefully selected program of light, semi-classical, and contemporary music. Since this will be the third successive year that Miss Byrne has given recitals here at Notre Dame, this talented artist should need no build-up or introduction to the many students and faculty mem-£ bers who have enjoyed her performances in the past.
After a three-week Easter lull, the Series will resume activity on Friday, April 21. For on that date, the Rev. J. Courtney Murray, s.J., is scheduled to give a lecture on “Church and State” at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Father’ Murray is editor of Theological Studies, Woodstock, Md.
Two nights later, on April 23, the renowned South Bend Symphony Or-_ chestra is slated for a concert in the W Drill Hall at 8 p.m. Featuring Zino Francescatti, a world-renowned violin soloist, this concert group of talented South Benders should provide an enjoyable and entertaining evening for the large expected audience.
Also, the Series wishes to announce that Earle Spicer, the noted American ballad recitalist, was unable to appear for his scheduled performance in Washington Hall last week, but will instead make his appearance at some later time. No definite date has been set for Mr. Spicer’s recital, but tentative arrangements have been made which would bring the New York artist to the Notre Dame campus sometime in May or in the latter part of April.—J. Bolger
Faculty Lounge to Bubble With Installation of Kitchen
The Ladies of Notre Dame, an organization of the wives of faculty members, will soon have its own kitchen here on campus. Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, c.s.c., Supervisor of Maintenance, has announced that the installation of kitchen facilities in the Faculty Lounge will soon be completed.
A part of the Lounge is being partitioned to contain the ladies’ culinary equipment, which will be used to prepare refreshments for their social func
tions. The Faculty Lounge is located in the Main Building, and this new addition to it is intended as a convenience for the ladies.
National Forum Set By NFCCS for April
The seventh national congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will get under vray April 11 at the William Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh. Several hundred student representatives from every part of the United States will attend the convention.
Each member college is permitted to send from two to five delegates, according to the school’s population.
Four members of the local NFCCS council will represent Notre Dame. They are Jim Garvin, senior delegate and campus OSP chairman; Ed Farrell, junior delegate and Mardi Gras Carnival chairman; Bill Kirchner, regional vice-president in charge of commissions, and Regional Liturgy Commission chairman Art Frericks.
“Social Action and the Catholic Student Community,” aimed at the “reChristianization of society,” will be the theme of the congress. This aspect — concerning group, industrial and labor,
DiHonites Open Rec Room With Party
Dillon Hall celebrates the opening of its new student-financed recreation room with refreshments. The room was financed by a carnival and student contributions.
family, international, and governmental relations — chiefly involves the commissions on Interracial Justice, InterAmerican Action, and International Relations; the Overseas Service Program, and a new Committee of Church-State Relations.
Several meetings of executives, commissions, regions, and committees are planned, in addition to the general assemblies. Mass will be celebrated daily for the delegates. Also on the congress agenda is a dance, scheduled for the evening of April 14. The convention will adjourn the following afternoon.
NFCCS national president is Thomas A. Brickley, while Louis L. Manderino is congress chairman. Both are students at St. Vincent’s College, Latrobe, Pa. The Pittsburgh Region will act as host for the convention.
To distribute the varying transportation costs more evenly, a travel pool . has been arranged in which two delegates from each college will participate. By the plan, Chicago Region members, including Notre Dame, must pay §8 to the pool fund.
The four Notre Dame delegates will also attend a regional meeting at Loyola University’s Lewis Towers in Chicago this Sunday to make final plans for the national convention.
—Don Carbone
March 31, 1950
11
Marriage Institute Nears End
Brickson
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley and Father Bailey lead seventh Marriage Institute.
Dr. Waldman Testifies Against Miracle Drug
Back in December, 1946, Indiana State officials brought the sellers of a product called “Vrillium” to trial for fraud. “Vrillium” was supposed to be a new radio-active miracle drug, which cured every known ailment of man. Put up in capsules, it had only to be suspended near the ailing part of one s body, and its healing rays produced a complete and immediate cure. Placed near the heart it cured all known heart diseases, near the throat it cured goitre, near the stomach it cured diabetes and cancer, and so on down the list of mankind’s afflictions. Proving that these claims were false was the prosecution’s main task.
To support its case, the State needed an expert on radio activity, to test the actual extent of the capsule’s radiation. Doctor Bernard Waldman, of the Physics Department of the University of Notre Dame, a recognized authority of neucleonics and radio-activity, and one of the scientists engaged in the wartime Manhattan Project, was called in to give his professional testimony. After conducting a series of tests on a “Vrillium” sample with a Geiger Counter and other radiation indicator devices here at Notre Dame, Dr. Waldman testified that there were no radioactive rays of any sort emitted by a “Vrillium” capsule.
12
But the case did not close in 1946. Not content with the prosecution of a few mere sellers of the drug, the Federal Government was after bigger game. So, after years of preparation and investigation, the Federal Pure Food and Drug Commission finally built up a case which they considered strong enough to convict the actual manufacturers of “Vrillium,” and two weeks ago the trial opened in Chicago’s Federal. District Court.	u
Actually, the case was scheduled' to begin in 1947, but by means of every conceivable type of legal road-block and stall, the defendants had managed to delay the trial for three years. Under the terms of the Pure Food and Drug Act, the Government is attempting to prove the manufacturers guilty of misbranding and misrepresenting their product, by falsely claiming properties of radio activity, and by proclaiming it to be an absolute cure-all.
To prove the former of these charges, that “Vrillium” emitted absolutely no radiation, beneficial or otherwise, the prosecution again summoned Dr. Waldman to testify. And again, as he had done four years before in the Elkhart trial of “Vrillium’s” retailers, the Notre Dame Physicist stated the results of his experimental findings, and his conclusion that the product was definitely not radio-active.
How the trial will finally be decided is hard to determine, for the defendants are expected to counter by claiming
that “Vrillium’s” rays are of a completely new and hitherto unknown composition, which cannot be detected by Geiger counters or other indicators of ordinary radiation. Also, the defense will produce numerous witnesses who will claim to have been cured of various diseases.—Justin Bolger
Illinois Tops Enrollment With 815 ND Students
Each of the forty-eight states an.d twenty-eight foreign countries are represented in the 1949-50 enrollment, according to figures released by the Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs.
A breakdown of the Notre Dame enrollment for the current schoolyear reveals that 815 students are attending the University from Illinois, which sent j more students to Notre Dame this year than any other state. New York is second with 717 students attending Notre Dame, and Indiana is third with 632.
The figures further show that the Notre Dame enrollment from all parts of the United States has come from a total of 1,805 high schools and preparatory schools. Of the total number of schools represented at Notre Dame, 1,162 are public schools and 643 are < private schools.	*
Foreign students attending Notre Dame come from as far away as China, England, Germany, Guam, Hawaii, India, Italy, Japan, Norway and Spain. “Neighbors” of the United States which sent students to Notre Dame include Canada, Mexico and Central and South American countries.
Authorities Will Discuss f Foreign Trade Problems
Problems, methods and potentialities of overseas markets will be discussed at the third annual Foreign Trade Conference, to be held on May 11 in the College of Commerce.
The aim of the conferences is to stimulate interest in world trade and to bring about an educational exchange of ideas between businessmen and educators. Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head £ of the Department of Marketing, is chairman of the 1950 conference.
Nationally known authorities on foreign marketing will open the all-day program with a series of round table discussions. These will deal with Traffic and Freight Forwarding, Advertising and Sales Promotion, Finance and Credit, and Export Management.
After a luncheon meeting, a public panel discussion will be held.
The Scholastic
Juniors Finish Plans
(Continued from Page 9)
Mass in Sacred Heart church for* Juniors and their dates. A practice game by the Notre Dame football team still is hoped for.
Of deepest concern to committeemen, however, is the selection of an orches-a tra. Negotiations for Charlie Spivak “ were almost completed when he received a better offer from Cleveland and accepted. Latest plans have the Juniors bringing in a danceable band with the added possibility of obtaining a topnotch vocalist to increase the entertainment.
The Prom is open to Juniors and Seniors only. Any questions concerning the affair should be directed to Co-chairmen Mike Jacobs and Tom Mever in Alumni W Hall.
Glee Club to Tour
East Over Easter
On April 7 the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, dean of the Department of Music, will embark on a ten-day concert tour through the Eastern states. The forty men who will travel via chartered bus will make their first stop in New York City on Easter Sunday. A four-day stay is planned in the great metropolis and the group will be accommodated at the Hotel Biltmore.
The Glee Club will make their first public appeai’ance of the Easter tour on Sunday night, April 9, when they will be featured on Ed Sullivan’s television variety show, “Toast of the £ Town.” This hour show is to be televised at 6 p.m. EST. Monday will be a day off for the group to enable them to rest up and see the town. On Tuesday, April 11, the glee club will give a concert at Town Hall in New York City and on Wednesday the group will put in a special appearance at the Queen of Peace High School in North Arlington, N. J.
The Glee Club will depart from New York on the thirteenth for Buffalo, P N. Y., where they will give a concert at Kleinhan’s Music Hall on Friday night. The last stop of the Easter tour will be at the Peristyle in Toledo, Ohio, on Sunday and the group will arrive back on campus Monday morning.
Besides the regularly scheduled appearances, a Sunday afternoon radio show in New York is pending and the singing at High Mass on Easter Sunday in St. Patrick’s Cathedral is also still tentative.
Murphy
The Junior Prom Committee holds its first meeting. L-r: Bob Moriarity, Ray Yanics, Gene Smith, Dick MacDonald, Don Sondag, Pat Barrett, Mike Jacobs, Tom Myers.
Mediaeval Institute Hears Talks by Jacques Maritain
Dr. Jacques Maritain, noted French philosopher and former ambassador from France to the Holy See, delivered a series of lectures this week on campus under the sponsorship of the University’s Mediaeval Institute.
Dr. Maritain spoke last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday on “A New Approach to Basic Ethical Ideas of the Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas.”
The lectures were closed to members of the Mediaeval Institute.
Dr. Maritain, who is now teaching at Princeton University, formerly served as a member- of the faculties at the Catholic Institute of Paris and at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada.
New ND Quarterly Reviews Work in Lay Catholic Action
All phases of the work of chaplains and religious assistants in lay Catholic Action in the United States will be treated in Anima, new quarterly bulletin published at Notre Dame.
The new quarterly, intended as an exchange of techniques and information between the various fields of Catholic Action, is edited by the Bev. Louis J.
Putz, c.S.C., professor in the Notre Dame Department of. Religion and official chaplain of the ND campus Catholic Action group.
Anima will include discussion of religious formation, education, documentation and the growth of the lay movement in the United States. Also featured will be reprints of pertinent articles from European publications.
Other members of the editorial staff, in addition to Father Putz, are Sister Agnes Cecilia, c.s.c., Head of the Department of Education at St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.; Sister Mary Ruth, F.S.P.A., of St. Angela’s Academy, Carroll, Iowa; and Rev. William Quinn, Diocesan Director of Specialized Catholic Action for Chicago.
Detroiters Dance
The Detroit Club will hold their third Easter dance Monday evening, April 10, at the Glen Oaks Country Club. Jack Callahan and his orchestra will play for the affair.
Bids are now on sale in all campus halls at §3 per couple, tax included.
Next Sunday the Detroiters will attend a 9 ajn. Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel and a Communion breakfast in the West Dining Hall immediately after Mass. Rev. Phillip L. Hanley, o.P., will speak at the breakfast.
March 31, 1950
13
By AL LAPORTE
Like the opening of the Cherokee Strip, the concentrated rush for the land of the Eternal City and St. Peter’s will hit full stride this Summer. From all over the world hundreds of thousands of pilgrims will flock to the seat of Catholicism in celebration of the twenty-fifth Holy Year, declared by Pope Pius XII. The eyes of all will turn once more to Rome, and all roads will lead to her portals.
Not since the troopships of World War II plied the oceans with monotonous regularity will so many souls embark from foreign shores bound for Europe. But, unlike the reluctant pilgrims who sailed with pack and rifle, these mid-century passengers know where they’re going. For many of them, this year’s tours will take them to places seen under different and pleasant circumstances. For many of them this will be the first time they’ve walked the deck of any boat other than the Staten Island ferry. For all of them
Airlines, Steamship Companies and Travel Agencies
Prepare for Rush as Thousands of A
Students T our Eu:
the call of fields afar is too alluring to resist during this Holy Year of 1950.
With miraculous swiftness, hundreds of travel and touring agencies have sprung into existence where, before, there was nothing. Every newspaper seems to carry enough ads to “See Europe in 1950” to warrant special biweekly editions. Civic societies, bridge clubs, transoceanic shiplines and chancellery offices have all announced package conducted tours to religious shrines, cultural centers, and the Vatican. And the demand is still strong. The Holy Year has, to some degree, been pushed into the background, now only an excuse for many to grasp the opportunity of a lifetime — an oft dreamed of, lowcost trip abroad.
Dozens of Releases
To list all of these whirlwind “pilgrimages” would take more space than this magazine could devote in two issues. Sifting through dozens of publicity releases which flooded this desk since the Holy Door was opened by the Sovereign Pontiff last December, Scholastic presents, from the welter, a variety of inviting trips for those who
wish to tread foreign streets this Summer.
Suggested by TWA is an 18-day tour to Portugal, Spain, France and Italy with all transportation by air. The TWA junket includes visiting shrines, cathedrals, etc., in Lisbon, Fatima, Rome, Paris and, on extension jaunts, Assisi, Seville and Lourdes. This flight will be by way of Newfoundland and the Azores in TWA Skyliners. Complete information can be obtained from the University Travel Service, 539 Ramona Street, Palo Alto, California.
For those of you who didn’t receive a full share of classrooms and classwork this semester and who want to study briefly abroad, the University of Freibourg offers a ten-day tour of Holland, Belgium and France before, and a two-week tour of Italy after the summer school session from July 17 to August 19. The Italian trip will include a Holy Year pilgrimage to Rome and Lourdes after school closes in Switzerland. Details can be had through correspondence with the University of Freibourg Summer School,
Anne Hathaway's cottage. All who visit London will want to Romantic Venice, with its many canals and gondolas, is always make a side trip out to see the charming Shakespearean town, a favorite sight-seeing spot for European touring students.
Campus Tours, Inc.	Campus Tours, Inc.
icrican
@pe in’50
O.K. — so you aren’t a millionaire and you don’t want anything more to do with textbooks after the finals. Then maybe this little deal cooked up by the
We go back to study tours for more European travel. Under the Associa-(Continued on Page 24)
X- -J -
1312 Massachusetts Avenue N.W., Washington, D. C.
Again, for the world student, Travel & Study, Inc., presents a program of from six to ten weeks of intensive study, with much attention given to visiting historic sights and sightseeing. This organization, working in close cooperation with the major European academic institutions — the Sorbonne, Oxford, Cambridge, etc. — will accredit students fulfilling the specified requirements of their colleges. Further information may be secured upon written request from: Travel & Study, Inc., 110 East 57th Street, New York 22, N. Y. Half Sold Out
One of the bigger and more extensive tours emerging from the debris of this bombardment is that sponsored by Campus Tours, Inc. Already two of this outfit’s group trips have been sold out, but open spots remain for the party leaving August 10. If you don’t care about final exams, there’s an excursion sailing on May 17.
This trip, departing from New York on one of the better Cunard White Star liners, doesn’t leave much out. Packed
Campus Tours, Inc.
The dome of St. Peter's can be seen from almost every spot in Rome. The Eternal City and its churches will be a Mecca for all pilgrimagers this Holy Year summer.
into a 52-day visit are stops in Ireland, Scotland, England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France. The “pilgrim” sees everything from the Blarney Castle to the Black Forest, from Loch Lomond to Sorrento. Two days are spent in Rome itself, exploring the Catacombs and the Coliseum. The trip through France is thorough and the accommodations throughout are reportedly among the best. But, for §1295, why shouldn’t they be? Address Campus Tours, Inc., 39 South LaSalle Street, Chicago 3, for the whole story.
American Youth Hostels will appeal. Starting in late June or early July this organization will conduct hosteling trips through the British Isles, Scandanavia, France, Central and Western Europe, the Mediterranean and Southwest Europe.	-
Hosteling trips consist of hiking or cycling your way once you’re abroad, with ocean travel included in the §780 top price for Europe. Other tours are being arranged for North America, but this is the Holy Year, remember? If you’re interested, write American Youth Hostels, 6 East 39th Street, New York
_ European tourists will be awed and delighted by such beauti-V ful pastoral scenes in Switzerland. This is near Jungfrau.
Campus Tours, Inc.
Heidelberg, one of the few untouched spots in Germany, is a must-see with its old-world charm and pretty Neckar setting.
Campus Tours, Inc.

---------- ADVERTISEMENT
NEGATIVE is POSITIVE
PLEASE ACCEPT THIS
INVITATION . . .
The new Photo-Fitted Method has solved many clothing problems just as it is helping thousands of people all over the country buy the best fitting suit of clothes they've ever had. Now, when we individually tailor a suit for you, we photograph your posture and proportions against an accurately calibrated background to insure perfect contour corrections before cutting the cloth.
When you come in to select a suit, you will find a choice selection of 500 beautiful fabrics from which to choose. Then, you select the style that fits you best for your individual personality.
A few seconds with the tape measure and it's Lights, Action, Camera! Your needs are permanently recorded!
You will receive the most handsome suit you have ever had. It fits because it's Photo-Fitted the modern way and it costs you no more than an ordinary suit.
Photo-Fitted suits can be yours for as low as S55.00. Fabrics of every' description are here for your selection. Gabardines, tweeds, worsteds in plaids, checks and many' other beautiful patterns in all the newest shades.
Drop in today! You have our invitation to inspect this newest, most modern method of individually tailoring your suit . . . the Photo-Fitted way.
PAKIKEK-MrillKWI
INC.
bailors • (3lotkUrs
115%!-117’/2 N. Main - Upstairs
South Bend 7, Indiana
Phone 3-6318
Dramatists Complete First Act Rehearsals ® Of 'Gentleman'; Play Booked for April 24-26
Judging from two weeks of rehearsal, the University Theatre’s third production of the year, A Gentleman From Athens, by Emmet Lavery, seems slated to live up to its predecessors for dramatic ability and downright entertainment. The play is slated for Washington Hall on April 24, 25 and 26. It is under the direction of Professor F. J. Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts, assisted by Stage Manager Ted Stelten.
The first act is already set and ready to go, and rehearsals without books will begin right after Easter. Especially encouraging and indicative of a good performance is the early showing of Lou Garippo, who was good enough in Whistling in the Dark last fall to get his picture on the Scholastic’s cover, as Congressman Steven Socrates Christopher, the central figure of the play.
The Gentleman From Athens appeared on Broadway in 1948, where it did not win full approval of the critics and ran a comparatively short time. But opinion away from Broadway can be summed up in a piece by Peggy Doyle in the Boston American: “A triumphant demonstration of the successful capsuling of vital world issues in comedy form . . . stands on its own as
Talent Show Auditions Draw 22 Contestants
The result of the Sophomore Talent Quest was the auditioning of twenty-two Notre Dame student performers last Saturday, March 25. A variety of talent, ranging from classical vocal renditions to a comedy dialogue, performed for the judges. However, Gene Hull and Bill Toohey, who are in charge of the affair, are not yet prepared to release the names of those who will appear on the final program.
It has been some time since such a venture has been undertaken at Notre Dame, and since its supporters hope to make it a permanent feature on the University Calendar, every attempt is being made to present a well-organized performance, which will set an example for similar ventures in the future. To this end, the public display of our local virtuosos has been postponed until after the Easter vacation, to give the committee time to organize the various acts into a finished program. If possible, Gene Hull’s band will provide support for the musical talent after the
stimulating, humorous entertainment... it elicited more curtain calls than we could wait to count at opening ...”
According to the author, the play answers the question of what a Congressman with a conscience would do when saving his political career depended upon blackmailing a brother congressman. Audiences and critics away from New York seemed to think that The Gentleman did just that, and it enjoyed great success in the “theatre beyond Broadway.”
After a few .early changes, casting is now completed. Additions to the cast since last week’s issue went to press include Phoebe Stapleton of Vetville in female romantic lead and Mickey Carroll as the hero’s trusty lieutenant. Ann Gullia of Vetville will play a “club-woman” type Congresswoman. Doug Robertson portrays a tough politician and a leader in the House. Arthur Casey will appear as a butler and Bill Riley and Bill Jordan as a newsreel crew. One part, that of the newsreel director, is still uncertain.
An interesting note on this production is that 95 percent of the cast are Freshmen, which indicates a possible top-notch theatre organization on campus for some years to come.
fashion of the Horace Heidt show.
In any event, the Talent Committee is hopeful that it can offer a display of amateur- talent that will please the students, and gain from them the support necessary to the continuation of
Vending Machines Indicate Sales Normal Despite Lent
Notre Dame students apparently go on the theory that Lent should be a positive thing rather than a negative affair of giving up luxuries. The cig- : arette and candy machines placed in strategic spots around campus have enticed omniverous students to lay by their Lenten resolutions and smoke and .. chomp between meals as much as they 0 usually do. Or so the figures would J . indicate.	F
For the first week of Lent, cigarette ( and candy sales from the mechanical | merchants were slightly off the pace and looked like at least a few students had taken the temporary sweet and nicotine pledge. But after the first ; week, the sales jumped back to former levels and here they have remained to date.	f.
.	The Scholastic
16
Scholastic Sports

Bengal Finalists Clash Tomorrow Night
Charley King (left) misses with a left as Bill Kramer ducks under. Kramer finally won.
Klinemen Open With Illinois Wesleyan April 10
Although Northern Indiana weather has not been indicative of the fact, another baseball season is upon us. Coach Kline’s Irish nine will first answer the call to “Play Ball” at Bloomington, Ill., where they open the season against Illinois Wesleyan, a last-minute addition to the Irish schedule, on April 10. This will be the first meeting between the two schools, and very little is known about the boys from Illinois.
Immediately thereafter, last year’s NCAA District 4 Champs journey to | Iowa City, Iowa, for a two-game series with the perennially mighty Hawkeyes of Coach 0. H. Vogel.
By this time Easter vacation will be only a memory, and you’ll get your first glimpse of the Irish on April 15 when the Michigan State Spartans invade Cartier Field. Look for the men of Sparta to operate more smoothly than the Klinemen for they crossed the Mason-Dixon March 21 on a ten-game training jaunt and, from all reports, f March 31, 1950
seem to be encountering few difficulties in the Southland. Just last week, they rolled over Clemson by a score of 18-5.
Johnny Kobs, one of the smartest collegiate baseball mentors in the nation, will be out to make his twentyfifth year at State a successful one, and it’s a safe guess that the visitors will show plenty of diamond savvy.
The following week the Irish will play host to Ohio and Chicago on successive dates before traveling to Western Michigan on the 22nd.
Notre Dame hopefuls began work outside last Saturday. Coach Kline still claims that the starting lineup depends upon what happens from now until April 10, and the only men sure of their jobs are captain Tommy Martin and first-baseman Dick Geidlin. Although nothing has been said about the matter, a good guess might have Tony Lipton or Bob Nemes on the mound for the home-opener on AJ>ril 15.
Knights to Recognize CYO'S Bishop Sheil
Tomorrow evening in the Fieldhouse an overflow crowd will watch the 16 survivors out of a field of 90 entrants slug it out for eight championship crowns in seven weight divisions in the finals of the 19th annual Bengal Bouts. There will be no 142-pound award this year due to lack of fighters in that weight class. However, there will be two 167-pound trophies awarded because of an over-abundance of sluggers in that particular division.
Co-Chairmen Dick Cullen and Bob Savage have announced that this year’s honorary referee and recipient of the annual Bengal Bout Recognition Award will be Most Reverend Bernard J. Sheil, d.d., Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago. Bishop Sheil was chosen for his outstanding work with the youth of Chicago, particularly in his care of underprivileged youngsters through the establishment of such institutions as the Sheil House, and his development of the Catholic Youth Organization in Chicago.
Monday Night
In the opening fight of 1950, Chuck Dooley and Matt Clune, two 167-pound-ers, put on the bloodiest exhibition of the night. Clune, with a longer reach and an effective left jab, held a decided first round advantage as he opened Dooley’s nose with a vicious right cross. Dooley carried the fight to Clune in the final two rounds and succeeded in starting a flow of blood from Clune’s nose with two lefts and rights late in the third round. Clune’s early lead, however, was good enough to enable him to gain a close decision.
Bob Bickert took a unanimous but unpopular- decision from Ray Carlin in the second 167-pound clash of the evening. Bickert repeatedly cornered Carlin but the latter replied with a battery of blows that drove Bickert across the ring. Bickert piled up points with solid smashes to Carlin’s head and staggered his tired opponent with a left hook late in the final round.
(Continued on Page 20)
17
Miller Leads Trackmen's Last Indoor Meet To Round Out Highly Successful Season
By TED
Jim Miller, with a tie for first in the pole vault, led the trackmen as they closed out their indoor season last Saturday at the Purdue Relays.
Miller tied with Don Laz of Illinois, who is one of the nation’s best college vaulters, and two other men to get into the limelight.
Johnny Helwig lost his return shot put match with Chuck Fonville, the one-time king of the metal heavers. Helwig set the track world buzzing when he beat Fonville a few weeks back at the Illinois Tech Relays.
In the relay events, the two-mile squad beat a former conqueror, Indiana, to take second, and they gave first place Michigan State, probably the nation’s best two-mile squad, a real scare before bowing. Outstanding was anchorman Vai Muscato. The husky Concord, Mass., Junior started 30 yards behind Michigan State’s Jack Dianetti, caught up to him, but lost on the kick. A little later Muzzy came back to take fifth in the 1000-yard run.
PRAHINSKI
Though hampered by his injury, he continued his winning ways until pulling another muscle which has laid him up for good — or at least until the outdoor season begins. Despite the leg trouble, Bill’s season record with the team shows six wins and one second in seven races — and that doesn’t include his Sugar Bowl win. During the season Bill also equalled the world’s record for the 60-yard low hurdles, but since the race was run over four instead of the standard five hurdles the folks who accept records could only list it as an outstanding performance.
Helwig, the California shot putting phenomenon, lost only twice — in the first and the last meets of the season. Both losses were to Michigan’s Fonville. In between these two losses Johnny beat Fonville once, while winning five meets, and upped the school shot put mark to 54 feet, four inches.
Coach Handy lost 13 lettermen from his 1949 squad, but still came up with a better team in 1950. One of the
chief reasons was the fine job turned in by the Sophomores.
Benny Almaguer was a consistent pointgetter- in the two-mile, and Con Tetrault, who just started running the mile this year, did 4:24.8. John Mohar and Joe Riley came through in the halfmile to give Coach Handy the depth he needed in the middle distance races. Several other Sophs hit the scoring lineup as well.
Well-spread team strength was the chief point of the 1950 season. In each of the three dual meets Notre Dame scored in every event — an oddity that illustrates the balance of the team. If any strong point existed it was in the hurdles and in the races from a quarter of a mile on up where the Irish could generally count on getting two or more places.
NEXT THREE WEEKS IN SPORTS
APRIL 1—BOXING, Bengal Finals 8—TRACK, Southern Relays 11—BASEBALL at Iowa 12—BASEBALL at Iowa 15—BASEBALL, Mich. State, here
17—BASEBALL, Ohio U., here
GOLF at Iowa
18—BASEBALL, Chicago, here 20—GOLF, N. Texas State, here
The other relay squad running for Notre Dame, the mile team, came in fifth.
The season just completed was one of the better ones in the Notre Dame records. The boys went undefeated in their three dual meets and took second in the Central Collegiate Championship contest. They showed almost unbelievable team power as they crushed their three top caliber dual meet opponents — Missouri, Purdue, and Indiana — by margins that ran from 12 to 19 points. Just after the open meet season began, a plague of injuries hit several performers, but you could never tell it from the record. The boys pulled in plenty of headlines and hardware in the open meets — the Central Collegiates, the Illinois Tech, the Chicago Daily News, and the Purdue Relays — despite these troubles.
Bill Fleming and Johnny Helwig were the top individual stars of the indoor season. Fleming began winning on the last day of 1949 at the Sugar Bowl meet in New Orleans and kept on doing it until laid up by injuries. Bill won the Sugar Bowl 120-yard high hurdles with a record breaking time of 13.9 seconds, a clocking that only four men in track history have ever beaten.
After this blaze he continued to burn up the hurdles world until straining a leg muscle halfway through the season.
Captain Jerry Groom Starts Practice
Kinville
Captain Jerry Groom opens 1950 Spring practice for photographers, as Coach Frank Leahy (left) and All-American quarterback Bob Williams hold banner for the team.
18
The Scholastic
* HEROES OF PAST
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By RUDY UNGER
Did you ever hear of Joe G. Rice from Missoula, Montana? — Want to bet? He was a little “pip-squeak” of a guy — 5’4	—with a big barrel chest,
a tendency to get fat, and an idea that he could run. He came to Notre Dame in 1935 as one of “dem mountain boys,” he left in 1939 as “Gregory the Great,” the greatest runner in Notre Dame track history! Before he hung up his cleats in 1943 Greg Rice was the greatest middle-distance runner in the world’s history!
When Greg first turned out for practice his great tutor, John Nicholson, for whom he came to have a great affinity as their acquaintance grew, took one look at his “slightly” (156 pounds) overweight candidate, stood a long while in a state somewhere between meditation and frustration and then exclaimed “Do you run or do I roll you!”
Coach Nicholson, long an advocate of sweat from the brow, guided Greg in setting a new mileage record running the lakes. Lest there be any doubt of Coach Nicholson’s ability to get what he was after, it so happened that the squad was once in a routine workout in an Indiana electric storm and one of the runners, Steve Szumachow-ski, fell across a downed electric line. He continued to lay there as one runner-after another ran right on by. The only man to stop and aid him was Rice. The injured runner had to be treated for shock in the Infirmary. Coach Nicholson had a rule—“Finish every race, no matter what!”
That Greg learned his lessons well, everyone knows. It would take this whole page just to record his achievements in statistical form! The little fellow, with a heart and spirit that wouldn’t quit, soon let the world know of his presence. Excluding dual meets, Greg won 20 individual championships while running under the Gold and Blue including the NAAU 5,000-meter title, the NCAA 2-mile title, both in record time, plus Greg’s greatest running and second greatest sport thrill: winning the 5,000-meter European Championship in Berlin in 1938 while still a Notre Dame student!
In his post-college days Greg was even better. Running anything between one and three miles, he set two world and four American records between
(Continued on Page 21)
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by flack Meaney
Crystal Ball Gazing
By the time the next issue of the Scholastic makes its appearance, three weeks from now, spring should have arrived in Indiana. Jake Kline’s troops will have played four games, Frank Leahy’s men of 1950 will begin thinking about the Old-Timers game — and the major league baseball season will be a couple of days old. Risking possible injury to life and limb, we herewith present our prediction of the way they’ll end up next October.
American League
1.	Boston. Third time never fails. The Red Sox have three of the best young pitchers in the league to go along with the plate power of Williams, Stephens, Doerr and DiMaggio. It’s almost certain the Sox won’t repeat their poor starts of the past two years that cost them the pennant. The schedule makers have seen to that. Twenty-two of their first 30 games are played at Fenway Park where last year the Sox won three out of every four games. Joe McCarthy is on the spot in the Hub City and he’ll have to come through with a winner.
2.	Detroit. With the best pitching staff in the league the Tigers should be in there all the way. Gerry Priddy at second will tighten up the Bengal infield and his potent bat should strengthen the hitting department. If Charlie Keller can make a comeback, the Tigers may be in.
3.	New York. The Yankees have established some sort of sequence whereby they win the pennant in the odd years and rest up in the even. This is the year they take it easy, but you never can tell about the Yanks.
4.	Cleveland. Age has finally caught up with the Indians and they don’t have the rookies to replace the old-timers. Lemon, Garcia and a 1948 Gene Bearden will put the Indians in the first division.
5.	Philadelphia. Connie Mack still hasn’t got the long ball hitter he needs to “win one more pennant.” With all that pitching the A’s will be rough for the rest of the league.
6.	Chicago. Jack Onslow has his sights set on the first division and with young fellows like Zernial and Kuzava
around, the Pale Hose could very well climb over Cleveland and the A’s into the top four.
7.	Washington. A new manager but about the same old ball club. Bucky Harris has a couple of good pitchers but he’ll need more than that to get any higher than seventh.
8.	St. Louis. You can’t sell and trade your best players and still expect to win games. The Browns are building on a weak foundation and will hold up the American League for another year.
National League
In the National League, we’re calling them in this order: Brooklyn, Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis, New York, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and Chicago. The Dodgers still have the best team in the league, although any of the other top four could give them trouble. Willard Marshall and Sid Gordon give the Braves the power they need, and if Johnny Sain and Sam Jethroe come through, they will be hard to beat. The Phillies have a lot of young ball-players and if the long schedule doesn’t bog them down, they could very well finish on top. St. Louis is in somewhat the same situation as the Indians, but they do have Stan Musial and some youth plus a couple of oldsters who still have a good year or two left. For the Giants, they’ll have to get superb pitching all season to make up for the loss of heavy-hitting Marshall and Gordon. As for the other- teams, they’ll be content to build for ’51.	'
In the World Series, we’ll take the Sox over the Dodgers.
Time Out
Big Ten schools might be averse to meeting the Irish on the gridiron but they have no qualms about taking on the Notre Dame diamondeers. Every Big Ten member, including Michigan State, managed to fit two games with the Irish into their schedule. Three of these teams have opened up their season by taking southern training trips and from the way they’ve been playing down there it looks as though the Irish will have their hands full when they meet Ohio State, Northwestern and Michigan State.
19
March 31, 1950
Bengal Finals Tomorrow
(Continued from Page 17)
The third fight of the evening was over before the crowd was aware it had started. Frank Hamilton dropped John Schickel to the canvas twice in quick succession soon after the gong. The ref decided Schickel had had enough and awarded a TKO to Hamilton in 52 seconds of the first round.
Aaron Dyson TKO’d a game but outmatched Jack Cronin in 1:42 seconds of the second round in a 167-pound go. Dyson had control all the way and dropped the Bronx boy three times in the first round, but Cronin came back to send Dyson down in the same stanza. When Cronin went down for the fifth time in the fight in the second round, the ref stopped the battle and gave Dyson a TKO.
Tom Chisholm outpointed Dick Hynes in a well boxed 157-pound scrap to gain the first split decision of the evening.
Bob Davison edged Cliff Collins on a split decision in another 157-pound get-together which the crowd heartily disapproved.
Perhaps the most surprising decision of the evening was Rusty Vigil’s unanimous decision over George Ottot in a fast, rugged battle that was featured by some fine in-fighting. Ottot got the better of it in close, but the stalking Vigil hit harder in all three rounds to take the 157-pound contest by a decision.
In the first light heavyweight fight of the evening, Bill Kramer of Eldora, Iowa, got off to a fast lead over Chuck King of Morrissey in the first round. King came back strong in the second and third rounds, but the aggressiveness of Kramer earned him a split decision.
The only clean K.O. of the evening came in the light-heavyweight bout between Dick Viola and Dick Frankel. Frankel was the aggressor throughout, but the effective counter-punching o? Viola kept him in the fight until 1:25 of the second round when Frankel dropped him to the canvas for the ten count with a right to the mid-section.
In the last bout of the evening a hard fighting Pat Dunne took an unanimous decision from Willie Maccario in another light-heavyweight classic. Maccario was very effective at long range so the resourceful Dunne forced a toe to toe battle to carry the victory.
Tuesday Night
The second night of the 1950 Bengal Bouts was highlighted and climaxed by two knockouts in the heavyweight division. Bill "Zip” Roemer KO’ed sturdy challenger Mike Merrigan in 1 minute,
20
52 seconds, of the first round. Bill floored Mike for a nine count during the first minute of the round and then knocked him down again with a hard left. Mike was unable to get up in time and the ref called an end to the fight.
In the very next fight big Gus Cifelli, outweighing his opponent, George Desmet, by 32 pounds, quickly went to work and, with a series of deadly lefts and rights, had the game but outclassed Desmet on the canvas for good in 1 minute, 29% seconds, of the first round.
Johnny O’Brien came the next closest to a KO with his third round TKO of Mike Sutton in the fourth bout of the evening. It was O’Brien all the way as his quick punches scored consistently. Mike was down in the second round but stayed at it until the ref came between them and stopped the 137-pound clash at 52 seconds of the third round.
Jack Cronin (left), Aaron Dyson battle
Also in the 137-pound class, Joe Straub took a unanimous decision from Frank Feeney. Straub, a cagey fighter, floored Sweeney in the second round of what was not a very active fight.
George Chopp and Joe Perozzi put on a classy exhibition of boxing in another battle. It was close up until the last round when Joe seemed to lose his grip on himself and Chopp closed in and took advantage of many openings. It was Chopp by a unanimous vote.
The first appearance of the 127 pounders saw a lot of leather thrown around by all four of the night’s fighters. In the opening bout of the night, Chuck Sheerin outpointed Brendan Cryan in a fast and furious crowd pleaser.
Pat Ross came through with a unanimous victory over Randy McNally in the other 127-pound event. Ross coolly
and calmly went about luring Randy after him and then let him have it with some hard punches. It was a clean-cut win for Ross.
George Novotony gained another chance at the championship crown by beating Fred Mansour in a 147-pound tilt. A beautiful right uppercut sent Mansour to the floor in the first round and won the round for George. He managed to hold his edge in the second round but Fred came back with a furious onslaught, in the last round and nearly took the fight.
Dick Windishai- outlasted Mike Turner in a very close battle in the 157-pound division. Many thought that Turner had the fight but the Judges decided that Dick had the slight edge.
In the lone lightheavy go of the evening, Charlie Roth was TKO’ed by George Briody in 1 minute, 8 seconds of the second round. A burst of hard lefts and rights was too much for the heavier Roth. The first round had about as many punches thrown as there were in every other fight of the night.
Wednesday Night
The decision in the opening fight of the night, a 127-pound clash between Sal Fiorella of New York City and Pat Drew, also of New York, was definitely made in the third round. Drew opened with a rush and landed solid punches in the first canto. Sal began to find the range in the second round, but it was about even going into the third stanza. Then, when the tired Drew threatened to turn the fight into a wrestling match Fiorella took charge. On the basis of his third-round surge Fiorella was returned the unanimous victor.
Dan Brennan at 127 pounds, had @ all he could handle in Eugene Perry’s left hand for the better part of three rounds. Brennan, who hails from South Bend, fought a counter-punching, defensive fight against the Brooklyn lad and bided his time. Dan’s chance came midway in the third round when Perry, obviously very tired, could no longer throw his left. Driving long; looping punches ahead of him Brennan clubbed Perry into submission in 1:43 of the last round.
Ed Roberts of New Rochelle, New York, seemed intent on returning to his . studies as it took him less than two f minutes of the first round to put Ed O’Toole away in their 145-pound match. Roberts broke with the bell and landed with everything he threw. O’Toole was never able to throw the left hand punch that was his strongest weapon.
Three fights were scheduled in the 157-pound class and only one of these went the distance. Tom Chisholm, of
The Scholastic

' Pampa, Texas, and Rusty Vigil, of Boys Town, were the fighters who lasted the limit with Chisholm being awarded a split decision. Clinches predominated this rather calm fight, and Tom Chisholm had a tough time in the infighting. It was at long range with looping punches that Tom made his points.
I came, I saw, I conquered might well be applied to the lightning way that W Vic Roblez disposed of Bob Davidson in the second 157-pound fight. It took Roblez a mere 51 seconds to flatten his opponent from St. Paul, Oregon, with a savage left hook.
It looked for awhile as if Joe Brown was in for a bad evening in his 157-pound go with Jim Engel of Minneapolis. Engel started like a house on fire and for most of the first round the boys stood toe to toe and slugged. Brown, who hit the harder of the two and was in better shape, finally toppled Engel for a nine count late in the first canto. The second round started the same way but this time when Brown landed at 1:43 it was all over. Brown, who can take terrific punishment, appears to be the only one with a chance to beat Roblez.
At 167 pounds Matt Clune and Tom Carroll put on the bloodiest exhibition of the evening. Clune with a longer • reach succeeded in keeping Carroll away for the first two rounds and Tom’s third round rally was cut short by a cut across his eye. It was unfortunate that Carroll started so late because at the end he was clearly the aggressor and had Clune on the run. The crowd roundly booed the split decision that was awarded to Clune.
Outside of Vic Roblez, Frank Hamilton was the most methodical and capable fighter to appear on the card. W Hamilton, who was fighting one of last year’s finalists, Dick Hyland, at 167 pounds, started stalking his opponent at the opening bell. He hammered Hyland from one corner to the next and the few times Hyland took the offensive Hamilton quickly fought his way back on top.
The best fight of the night was a furious three-round melee between Joe O’Brien of Canton, Ohio, and Dick Frankel, of Racine, Wisconsin. O’Brien got the unanimous decision of the officials but he will never get a tougher one.
The last fight on the card was a light-heavyweight encounter between Frank Tripodi of Philadelphia and Bill Kramer of Eldora, Iowa. It was almost a replica of the fight that preceded it but it was a little less hectic. Kramer pounded out a unanimous decision over Tripodi and had the better of it almost the whole way.
Fencing Team Climaxes Best Year at NCAA Meet With Sixth Place in Field of 32 Entrants
Notre Dame’s fencing team this season climaxed its most brilliant year by placing sixth in the recent National Collegiate Athletic Association fencing meet held at Detroit’s Wayne University. The 1581 bouts, which combined the efforts of the 32 entrants, assembled enough steel for their two-day marathon to dwarf the great Carnegie empire. But when the slashing had ceased and the smog had lifted the Irish invaders found that their sixthplace finish was tops for any Notre Dame crew entered in a national meet.
Six points and five places better than the Irish fencers were the Midshipmen from Annapolis whose 67% points spelled first place. Two mediocre morning sessions cost the Irish an even higher finish than their- sixth spot. This is attested to by the fact that Irish beat three (Navy, New York University, and Rutgers) of the top five finishers in each of the individual events. Of the top decade only Notre Dame was able to stand her ground against the eastern invaders, as she was the only mid-western school in that group.
Fencing first found a home at Notre Dame in 1934. Notre Dame immediately heeded the call to arms as the ’35 and ’36 teams went undefeated to post 7-0 and 9-0 records, respectively. When a certain ex-fencer for the Irish, Herb Melton, came on the scene the sword was here to stay.
Relying on the old axiom that you can’t build a sturdy house on a faulty foundation, Coach Melton went to work building his dream house. This season his efforts have really crystallized as the Irish posted a 10-0 record, finished a high sixth in the national meet and proceeded to break more records than an octopus at a plattei- party. Ask Michigan State, Chicago, Illinois Tech or any of the other Irish opponents of this past season where all those blades flashed from and they’ll probably tell you they thought it was one of the marine pusses they were battling.
Just to give you fans a glimpse of how the record books will be re-written, here are some of the records set: best undefeated season, 10-0; most consecutive bouts without a defeat, 26; shut out opponents’ foil teams three—times. (never done before); best foil team (68-13 for an .840 percentage) ever to perform; and so on. What it all adds up to, as Coach Melton said: “the best fencing team in the history of the sport at Notre Dame.”
With all the superlatives flying over this year’s swordsmen, the natural query revolves around next year’s prospects. The foilmen, with Westrick, Scalera, Pai-isi and Walsh all back for another year’s competition, shape up* as about the top foil unit in the country. The sabre situation is not quite so rosy, losing its one-two punch of Captain Schlosser and Bosler. Graham, Daschle, and Gibbons, three promising sophs, are expected to form the backbone of next year’s sabre team. The loss of Dixon, Vincent and the January graduation loss of Dobyns leaves the epee team most wanting of the three. To fill the shoes of these capable performers are sophs Franzgrote, Conlon, and Duff.
Greg Rice
(Continued from Page 19) 1940-43 while winning 65 consecutive races. He ran every one of his college and post college races with a double hernia.
Greg, outside of his running ability, was a great personality. He possessed that certain “personal magnetism” and when Rice ran, regardless where, everybody turned out; for when the little guy with the big heart ran, everybody in the crowd ran with him, took every turn with him and hit that tape with him!
That race caused the following commentary by a New York radio announcer the next day which pretty accurately expresses how America felt about Rice: “Whatever it was that spurred him on last night, we can mark it indelibly in our book of sporting events that America, in the person of Gregory Rice, has the best middle distance runner the world has ever seen. He embodies the speed of the Four Horsemen, the endurance of Rockne, the spirit of Notre Dame ... on whom we proudly paste our banner of . . . once in a lifetime.”
And Greg today is still giving that example and influence. Aside from his position as an accountant for Louis Marx and Co. of New York City, largest manufacturer of children’s toys in the world, and his capacity as an official and committee member of the A.A.U., he’s active as a member of_______ the Notre Dame Club of New York and every week he speaks 'to young folks at CYO and parish dob' meetings, at Communion Breakfasts, etc., which in his words—“gives me an opportunity to plug Notre Dame.”
March 31, 1950
21
Student Law Association Initiates Moot Court
the lessons they have learned at and from their Alma Mater.
Competition to Provide Higher Court Practice
Last week marked the initiation of the first in a series of Moot Court competitions for Juniors in the College of Law. Instituted by the Student Law Association to provide students with practice in problems and procedure in courts of appeal, the three-day competition was the first round in a series of three eliminations.
Approximately fifty students have entered the competition, which is strictly a voluntary activity. The co-directors of the Moot Court are Henry M. Shine and Thomas A. Nelson. Norman Kopec, Wilmer McLaughlin and Cyril Vidra serve on the policy committee. Professor Edward F. Barrett and Robert L. Sullivan are the faculty moderators.
The Moot Court competition is based on appellate work. It involves such practice as is carried on before the state supreme courts or other courts of appeal. In each competition, students are presented with the record of a trial held in a lower court. One team, composed of two senior counsels and a junior counsel, prepares a written brief contending that the decision of the lower court should be reversed. The opposing team prepares a brief supporting the lower court.
The two teams submit their briefs and, on the scheduled nights, appear before an appellate court with three persons sitting as judges. The seniorcounsels of the opposing teams submit oral arguments supporting their briefs and then answer questions posed by the judges.
After the arguments, questions and rebuttals are completed, the judges retire to consider their decision. This decision is two-fold. One decision is handed down on the law involved, the other on presentation of the case. The decision on presentation is based on excellence of the written briefs, the oral arguments, the ability to answerquestions and the general demeanor of the participants before the court.
The competition is on an elimination basis and a second contest will be held after Easter. Final eliminations are scheduled for June. The two men with the highest scores in the finals will be awarded prizes and will represent Notre Dame in interscholastic competition.
Moot court competition, a new venture for Notre Dame, has been carried on in other law schools for many years. The practice appellate trials will form a regular feature of Law School activities in the future.
April 17 to Mark Date Of Universal ND Night
April 17 this year will mark the annual commemoration of Universal Notre Dame Night. The purpose of Universal Notre Dame Night is to propagate and propagandize, in the great sense of the word, the accomplishments and glories of Notre Dame. The various Alumni organizations will hold banquets and similar gatherings to remind themselves and the world of
Among several other local gatherings in many sections of the country, the following distinguished speakers will represent the present University in addressing these certain Alumni Clubs:
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, will give an address at the Drake Hotel in Chicago on April 15. An engagement at the U. S. Naval Academy on April 17 renders Father Cavanaugh unable to speak on that date.
There will be a large gathering of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley in the campus dining hall on April 17: a local radio broadcast of the festivities is being planned.
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., VicePresident in charge of Public Relations, will speak in St. Louis on April 17.
Mr. Edward W. “Moose’’ Krause, Director of Athletics, will speak in Newark, N. J., on April 17.	■
Again on April 18 Father Murphy will give an address, this time accompanied and in conjunction with Mr. Frank Leahy, head football coach and Assistant Director of Athletics, to the Notre Dame Club of Omaha, Neb.
Mr. James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, will speak in Indianapolis on April 17.
Mr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, will speak in Charleston, W. Va., on April 17.
Executive Vice-President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., will deliver an address in Detroit on April 17.
Radio and television broadcasts of some of the events are being planned, but no further specific details are known at present.
Murphy
Counsels for state and defense open newly formed Notre Dame moot court competition sponsored by Student Law Association.
Murphy
On the bench are (l-r) Elton E. Richter and Robert E. Sullivan, professors of law, and Arthur A. May, a local attorney.
22
* The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ
This week the THIRD DEGREE is turning over a portion of its space to the Dean of the Graduate School who has a very worthwhile message which every graduate student will do well to note and absorb. There is no better way to come out of your shell into the big wide world than by following his excellent advice. The era of the learned monomaniac who knew everything about nothing is happily a thing of the past, and today’s educated man is supposed to be capable of integrating his special knowledge into the broader picture of education.
There is no better way of accomplishing this integration than association with men of comparable interests and educational achievement in other fields. The Graduate Student Association is able and eager to provide this association. Think it over. Some of those peculiar-looking strangers in other departments may turn out to be pretty fine people when viewed over the rim of a glass of suds. Come on out and give us a try!
To the Graduate Student Body:
As Dean of the Graduate School, I would like to see every graduate student at Notre Dame a member of the Graduate Student Association. There are several reasons for this. The principal one is the purpose of the Association as stated in the By-Laws: to promote community solidarity among the a graduate students of the University. The important opportunity which the Association offers to every student is community in his social, intellectual, religious and spiritual living. The graduate student is engaged in specialization, and specialization tends to produce isolation. But a university — and especially the University of Notre Dame — is much more than a number of academic departments in which specialized studies are pursued. It is a community in which the lives of teachers and stu-W dents are enriched by association. A university community is a varied community and the student who stays within his own department and does not avail himself .of the opportunity to mix with students in other fields of learning misses much of what a university has to offer him. At Notre Dame, the graduate student living off-campus, staying close to his specialization and associating only with those who speak his specialized language, is certainly ft
w March 31, 1950
missing some of the finest values and experiences of the University. And then the sense of solidarity, the sense of belonging to the graduate student body and the active identification with that body should have meaning for every student and bring him no small measure of satisfaction.
Rev. Philip S. Moore, c.s.c.
Dean of the Graduate School
To which we add only a hearty amen.
K.C. Chairmen Name Dates for Initiation
Notre Dame Council No. 1477 Knights of Columbus, headed by Grand Knight Jack Noonan and Arthur McGrath, membership chairmen, announced that second and third degrees initiations are scheduled for Sunday, May 7, and Sunday, May 14. There will be two first degree initiations prior to the major degree exemplifications set for these dates.
The first of the first degree initiations will be held Tuesday, April 18, and students over the age of 18 who desire to receive the major degrees before the end of the present school year are requested to contact a member of the Council in their halls, or visit the Council general offices in Walsh Hall basement to obtain information as to procedure in preparation for the exemplifications. The offices in Walsh Hall are open daily from 1 to 5 p.m.
With these proposed major degrees, which will include candidates from the fourth district, Notre Dame Council will reach a new membership program of 200 members for the present year.
Applicants desiring to gain admission to the Knights of Columbus must do so without any delay in order to qualify for the initiatory work. The Annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal will be held at the Erskine Country Club Friday, April 29, and the annual picnic is scheduled for Ascension Thursday, May 18. Both of these events are notable Council functions and open to members only.
Housing Specialist Ends Bishop O'Hara Lectures
Mr. James C. Downs, Jr., Chicago business analyst and one of the country’s top housing specialists, gave the final lecture in the Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lecture Series last Wednesday afternoon in the Engineering Auditorium. The session was sponsored in cooperation with the advisory council of the College of Commerce.
Mr. Downs spoke on “The Meaning of Housing in the Economy.” He is the
publisher of The National Market Letter, author of an economics text The Principles of Property Management, and a recognized authority in the field of housing problems.
The Bishop O’Hara Lectures were named for the former President of the University, now bishop of the Diocese of Buffalo, N. Y. The series is intended to supplement classroom business instruction with lectures by established businessmen.
HEALTH SPOT I
SHOES
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN 209 W. Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen. Mgr.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
AT LAST!
A BOOK THAT GIVES YOU THE TRUE MEAHIHG OF VERBS!
rhe NEW “VERBULARY” Amazingly Complete
Simple To Use
Have you ever looked for Only the ACTUAL meaning of a verb and gotten everything a but that? The VERBULARY, $ the new book on the meaning of verbs solves this problem. It took 20 years to compile, and the result is a masterpiece, of clarity and exactness. It's a "must" for every scholar, every business man, everyone who has ever boon in doubt as to a particular verb's meaning. RUSH YOUR ORDER NOW AT THIS SENSATIONALLY LOW INTRODUCTORY OFFER.
Send check or money order, wo pay postage, or GO.D. plus postage.
The VERBULARY CO.
BrMklya IE. N. T.
23
Students Tour Europe
(Continued from Page 15)
tion for Academic Travel Abroad, 42 Broadway, New York 4, there’s another tour of England, France, Italy and Switzerland beginning July 1 and running until August 7. The tour, priced at $780, includes stops in London, Paris, Marseille, Rome (3 days and a Papal audience), Venice, Geneva and Shannon. The quoted price includes air travel to and from New York.
The same sponsor offers this tour open to the general public: stops in London, Paris, 5 days in Switzerland, 15 days in Italy and a return via Naples through the Straits of Gibraltar. Transocean travel is by steamer both ways. This one costs $1060 and runs for a little less than a month.
Though most of the travel folders have quietly ignored the main reason
for this mass exodus and migration to ‘‘Sunny Italy,” preferring to subordinate the Holy Year to the dream of a lazy vacation, some of them have kept a bit of the idea of the Christian ceremony in their blurbs. It isn’t an easy thing to do when all signs point to exploiting the goal for all it’s worth. Yet some concept of the meaning behind this “golden” opportunity should be had by all who will remember that it was the Pope and not some travel agency who started the whole business.
The idea of the Holy Year dates back to Moses, who designated every 50th year as a time of pardon during which slaves were to be freed and debts wiped out. Pope Boniface VIII Christianized the Jubilee Year by offering indulgences for the remission of spiritual debts to all who should visit Rome and the tombs of the Apostles during the year 1300-1301. One of the pilgrims who
made this first Holy Year' was the celebrated Italian poet Dante, who later described his experiences in the famed “Divine Comedy.”
Pope Clement VI shortened the time between these celebrations to fifty years by pi-oclamation of a Papal Bull. The time in turn was cut down to the present 25-year lapse by Pope Paul II. From 1450 until now this rite has been observed every 25 years except for a few exceptions in the 19th century when political disturbances made omission necessary. A special Holy Year was called by Pius XI in 1933 in honor of the nineteenth centenary of the Passion, Death and Resurrection of Our Lord.
This 25th Holy Year was opened, as you may remember, by Pope Pius XII on Christmas Eve, 1949, when the Pontiff struck the Holy Door of St. Peter’s Basilica with a silver hammer. As the
di fed S' ^dfedi
NEW YORK
WASHINGTON - $2430
9m
“ hrs. 5 min.
(Rail Coach: $30.71—16 hrs. 45 min.)
Ifezi iizzi i fezi
I fed'
fed fezd-^zd fezd fez^ fezA fezd fezb fezd ‘----------
fezd fed
ijfezzi fed fed fed fezd fezd fed fed fed fed fes ■ fezi fezd fed fed fed fezd fed id
23 r/z? zdfeifedfedhdfedfe
zzdfezfe sdifedd j zdfedfezz zifez
v v .
Vzd fezd fed bd fed d>zi 'zd fezd fezi fed feii LX fed fed bd fez __	__ iciA fed fed T^^nighthawk'. jP WrcoachV
4 hrs. 5 min
(Rail Coach: $25.91—15 hrs. 40 min.)
yyi9yA
zaifedfe^n zdfesdfezim zi fezzi fezib s-.
Equally fast flights . . . equally low fares to Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Detroit
(All fares plus federal tax)
In CHICAGO:
FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 S. Clark St. & Stevens Hotel & The Palmer House or your travel agent 'For Air Travel ANYWHERE in the World, Call DEarbom 2-5711
mA fed fez
fed fed fez

I
4
4



d fezd Lz^ tzzzJB
zb fezd fe/fe fezd fe
zzb fezb fezd fezd fezd	^B
"■t rzz^ rzz^	rz^ ^zz?
zd fed fed fezd fed fed fed^^^^^L rzz^ ^zzz? rzz?
yA fed fed fed fed fed fed fed fed^n^^^^^M
JZZ^ feZz,	^ZZZS
y/i fed fed fed fed iyy/i fed fezd fed fezd fed fed fezz
zdfedfedfe Tzz^ fed fezd fei
l\\fedfezdfe
fed feb
»zzd fed fed
fezd fezz»k^^^^^5*afed fed tozd fed
^zzz,	^-ZZ^	^z. ^zzf
md fed fe£ tzzd fed fed fed bi fed fed fezd fed fed ^zd

4
24
The Scholastic
third blow was delivered, the Door swung back and His Holiness stepped through the archway. The whole occasion was one of great solemnity and awe, being at the same time a cause of rejoicing throughout the Christian world. The pomp and pageant marking the opening of the Holy Door will give way to some degree to the swarms of plain dressed pilgrims who come in answer to the Papal invitation, returning in full color at the solemn closing on Christmas Eve of 1950.
Aboard NSA tour boat last summer
Parisians Hear Gurian In Series of Lectures
Dr. Waldemax- Gurian, who has been in Europe the past seven weeks, recently gave a series of lectures at the Institute of Political Studies at Paris.
Although presently residing in Germany, Dr. Gurian is spending much time in France and Italy in research on behalf of the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations of which he is Head. His principal occupation is that of gathering documents illustrating the Vatican role in world affairs of the past two decades.
Dr. Gurian has not released a great amount of information as to his activities, but he did give some idea of the nature and extent of his duties by writing that he is looking forward to his “vacation” during the summer session when he will again resume his teaching duties. He is expected back at ND in the latter part of May.
Professor- Matthew Fitzsimons of the history department, recently left for England where he also is on research work for the committee. Spending his time at London, Oxford, and Cam-bi-idge, Professor Fitzsimons is investigating similarities between the pres
ent-day British labor- government and the traditional lines of British political organization. He is expected to return in September.
Dr. Francis Gives Address Before Mennonite Society
Dr. E. K. Francis of the Department of Sociology delivered an address yesterday entitled “Tradition and Progress Among the Mennonites in Manitoba” before the Mennonite Historical Society in Goshen College, Goshen, Ind.
Before joining the ND Department of Sociology in the Fall of 1947, Dr. Francis was engaged in research on the Mennonite settlements in Western Canada under a fellowship of the Historical Society of Manitoba. The publication of his report in book form is planned under the auspices of the Canadian Social Science Research Council.
In the March issue of the American Journal of Sociology an article by Dr. Francis was published entitled “Toward a Typology of Religious Orders.” Another- review article of his, “American Sociology at the Cross-Roads,” is to be published in the April issue of the Revieiu of Politics.
Currently Dr. Francis is working on a “Sociology of the Ethnic Group.”
Seven beatifications and seven canonizations are announced for this Holy Year, adding to the richness and splendor of the time. Rome will become the gathering place of thousands who come to pray and behold the magnificence which is the outward sign of Christ’s kingdom.	'
But all this is not included in the travel brochures. Pictured within these gaily colored folders are the rich farmlands of southern France, the Swiss Alps, Italian vineyards and seashores. Descriptions are plentiful of the French peasant, the Swiss dairymaid and the Italian wine maker. “See France”; “Come to Switzerland”; “Italy Is Calling.”
And the response is eager, great. The tourists will bring into rebuilding countries sorely needing money and take away pleasant memories of “quaint” customs. Paris and Madrid, Geneva and Venice offer excitement and charm few visitors can resist. Old Rome, with her history of many millennia waits like a patient mother for her charge’s visit, the Eternal City.
Europe is in the spotlight again this year and, courtwise, she will be at her best for her courtiers, wearing hexpriceless jewel — Rome — for everyone to behold . . .
IT’S NOT TOO LATE!
You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe
With International Youth PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Inc.
150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. • COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
March 31, 1950
25
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Xkoren mmw
Stockholders
Last week the Junior Class was told it might be able to get Charlie Spivak for its Prom if it was able to put up $300 as sort of security toward the amount necessary to get Spivak’s band. The ultimatum didn’t stop the ’51 men. It didn’t take long before a small committee had not only gotten pledges for the amount but also had gotten the cold cash, too. Approximately 30 men chipped in ten bucks each in order to reach the specified goal.
For a while it looked as if the Prom was going to be one of the most ‘‘pushed” dances ever given at Notre Dame. The reason being the 30 men who held “stock” in it. If the dance failed, they would lose their money. If it made a profit; well, they’d get their money back, but no profit to go with it. The incentive to recoup their loans was enough to make the investors show great interest in the success of the Prom. If things had continued the way they started, we’ll bet those fellows would have pushed the dance far into the winning circle.
But, things didn’t continue like that. Because of some mix-up — which has yet to be explained to us clearly — a wrench was thrown into the Spivak dealings. At this writing we hear the Class is getting some baton-waver named Jimmy Featherstone — or is it Fliverstone? He’ll undoubtedly supply good, danceable music. The stockholders, however, have gotten their money back, and no longer have the same interest in the dance.
It will be interesting to see how the Prom does turn out. Nothing about it, though, will be so exemplary as those fellows who came through in the pinch with their money. It’s too bad their “stock” fell so fast. Perhaps the outlook would be different now if the crash hadn’t occurred.
The Knights
The Bengal Bouts reach their climax tomorrow night with the finals. Before it has all passed into the record books, we would like to toss a few words of commendation in the direction of the local Knights of Columbus. They did a mighty fine job of promoting this year’s Bouts.
Every facet of the undertaking was
26
well handled. The mid-term exams put up plenty of competition for them, but the Knights managed to get the Field- . house well-filled every night of the fights. And tomorrow night it looks as if the big barn will be so jammed even the sparrows will find it hard to flit around.
The Bengal Missions benefit greatly from these yearly fights. And the Knights of Columbus should feel rightly proud of the work they do in promoting this annual charity function. Every student should also feel proud for his contribution. The work the C.S.C.’s are doing in Bengal can’t be tabulated by facts and figures. And neither can the work of the Knights. So, congrats men; you did a swell job and we all know it.
Going Home
Like everyone else, we hate any contemporary "to pull that ‘ holier than thou” stuff on us. We hope the following remarks won’t be taken as such.
We’d like to say something about the conduct on the trains headed for home next week. We have been traveling on one for three years. One of the only things that has made the gruelling trips half-way tolerable has been the big doings in the club car. They have always been great fun up to a point.
The point is reached when one or several jokers get out of hand. It wouldn’t be so bad if there were nothing but Notre Dame students in the car, but there are always a few strangers sitting, watching the proceedings. These loud-mouthed clowns are also the ones who made sure everyone knows they are from here.
Whether we talk about it or not, we’re all proud of our school — particularly when it comes to talking about it to strangers. We suppose that’s only natural. That’s why it is doubly embarrassing to see someone receive the wrong impression. The behavior of the raucous exhibitionists is in no way representative.
Since we are to be traveling home in the middle of Holy Week and since we do have a reputation to uphold, let’s all try to smother the festivities a bit. Let’s remember that Holy Week is the most penitential time of the year. We can all have a good time without going overboard.
IMA Co-Sponsors Seminar With College of Commerce
The Indiana Manufacturers Association will co-sponsor the Northern Indiana Pension Seminar with the College of Commerce during the latter part of April. The Seminar is the third and last of a series, the first two of which were held at Butler and Indiana Universities. They are intended to discuss the several phases of pensions and their possible relationship to profit sharing.
The panel members, considered experts in their respective fields, are: T. Benson Leavitt, Consulting Actuary, McCready Pension Engineers, Inc. and Assistant Actuary of the American United Life Insurance Co., who will discuss the types of pension plans; Mr. Howard E. Nyhart, President of the Howard E. Nyhart Co., Inc., Pension 4^ Consultants, who will speak on “Considerations in Establishing a Pension Plan”; Mr. Milton K. Elrod, Jr., Attorney-at-Law, who will consider the profitsharing plan; and Mr. John M. Zuber, Vice President and Trust Officer of the
American National Bank, who will present the techniques of the administration of pension plans. Mr. Joseph J. Miller, Jr., of the College of Commerce, will act as moderator during the discussion period. This discussion period will follow the various talks.
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce will give the greeting on behalf of the University and Mr. Harold Schuman, Secretary of the Industrial Relations Department will welcome the Association members.
This Seminal' was originally planned to be held on Feb. 23, but was delayed because of bad weather. The date has not been definitely decided on as yet, but April 20, 25, or 27 have been tentatively set. Anyone interested in the Seminar is invited to attend. The exact time and place are yet to be announced.
District Attorney Explains Criminal Law Problems
The second in a series of lectures for : students in the College of Law was . delivered last week by Mr. James ♦ Keating, First Assistant United States District Attorney for the northern dis- g trict of Indiana. Mr. Keating spoke on the practical problems of Criminal Law » practices.
These lectures are a part of the extra curricular lecture series and are sponsored by the College of Law. Their purpose is to supplement theoretical	’
knowledge of law with practical law	.
problems of the present day.
The Scholastic	$
Pe^ect Qi^t a Notte 2>ame A/gm to- (flue
K Rosary
There are big ones, small ones, delicate ones, heavy ones, colored ones, and plain ones. And THE BOOKSTORE has them all! Plus the cases to put them in!
For men, for women — in sterling, crystal, pearl, unbreakable and black bead.
They range in price from 95c to $12.

Look them over — in the Religious Article Department at
Notre Dame Bookstore
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
March 31, 1950
«27


4
•3
1
I
A2; VJ ‘
>>f £ rt Ay ‘cwf
C.

" If you want a Milder cigarette that Satisfies its Chesterfield"



...and JASPER T. CARTER, PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER say: "Chesterfield pays the top price to get . the very, best mild, ripe tobacco. ^Chesterfield has been my cigarette gfor over 35 years." n -t^n
the Best cigarette forYW to smoke
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Mteks Toucco Co.