The Notre Dame Scholastic
35252525253525252525252535253525252525252525252525252
HELLO MEN!
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
25253525252525252525252525252525253525252525252525
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
Comment
Read It Every Day in
THE
NEWS-TIMES
A BASKET BALL COLUMN BY A WRITER WHO KNOWS HIS STUFF.
C3^3C3^3C3C3CSK3C3C3C3
WYMAN’S
£5252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525
’I
New Indestructo
TRAVELING BAGS $14.75
“My DEAR, isn’t he DIVINE! And just LOOK at his smart TRAVELING BAG!” These are the remarks you’ll hear if you carry one of these new Indestructo bags on YOUR next weekend out-of-town. Of boarded cowhide, double handles, leather lined, sewed frame, Yale lock, 18 inch size, black or brown. Specially priced now at $14.75.


The Notre Dame Scholastic
561

I
562
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INDIANA
^e£uxe
CAB COMPANY
“The Cabs the Students Ride”
The New Roy ale Cabs
The Aristocoal of Reasonable Cabs
In our never ceasing endeavor to give Notre Dame students improved service and comfort we have inaugurated 4 The Roy ale Cabs'*—spacious-smooth riding and as always, inexpensive.
Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147
^Reliability! Safety! Courtesy!
The Notre Dame Scholastic
563
up here
© P. Lorillaru Co., Est. 1760
EDDIE CANTOR Premier American comedian starring in the glorious new production, "Whoopee.”
"Folks, how can I make Whoopee
when down in front
the 'coughers’ are whooping
"Maybe the audience would be grateful if I stepped to the footlights some night and voiced the above protest about the f coughing chorus’ down in front. "Butthat wouldn’t be kind and it wouldn’t be just. The cougher doesn’t cough in public on purpose. He can’t help it. It embarrasses him as much as it annoys his neighbors.
"What he needs, to avoid that throat ti sle, is an introduction to OLD GOLDS.”
(SIGNED)	/O •
Why not a cough in a carload?
Old Gold Cigarettes are blended from heart-leaf tobacco, the finest Nature grows. Selected for silkiness and ripeness from the heart of the tobacco plant. Aged and mellowed extra long in a temperature of mid-Jnly sunshine to insure that honey-like smoothness.	'
eat a chocolate . . . light an Old Gold . . . and enjoy both!
564
The Notre Dame. Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
565



I

Ln [H
E
fl
fl fl fl
~ Gke
Nol re Dame 5cholas^ i c
Disee- Quasi- Semper-Victurus-Vlve-Quasi^ras-Moritum
Founded in 1872
John V. Hinkel, ’29.....
Harley L. McDevitt, ’29
David W. Saxon, ’29
EDITORIAL STAFF
Managing Editor
T. Vincent McIntire, ’30. .Assistant Managing Editor James J. Walsh, ’30.
LITERARY STAFF
Murray Hickey Ley, ’30.....
.............Literary Editor
Murray-Young, ’29
Basil G. Rauch, ’29
Bayard Kurth, ’30
John J. Nanovic, '30
James Callahan, ’30
Frederick N. Davis, '30......
Janies L, Rizer, ’30.........
James II. Rorke, ’31
Frederick J. Bauer, ’32
VOL. LVII
___Editor-in-Chief .Business Manager
J. Archer Hurley, *30...................The	Week
Bernard A. Walsh, ’29..........The	College Parade
............Music	and Drama
NEWS STAFF
Jolin Bergan, ’31
News Editor
Thom. A. Cannon, ’31, Club Editor Herman Cohen, ’30 John E. McCarthy, ’30
James J. Kearney, ’31
Robert C. Balfe, ’31
Emil Telfel, ’31
Alfred E. Gall, ’31
John A. Kiener, ’32
Paul Hallinan, ’32
James Collins, ’32
SPORTS STAFF
J. Gilbert Prendergast, ’30 ....................Sports	Editor
John H. Zuber, ’31...........
.......Interball Sports Editor
Harry A. Sylvester, Jr., ’30
Daniel D. Halpin, ’31 WUliam J. Magarral, ’31 Gerald Duffy, ’32
Myron E. Crawford, ’32
Robert J. Fischer, ’32
Neil Hurley, ’32
BUSINESS STAFF
..Local Adv. Mgr. Harrington J. Noon, ’29.............Local	Cir.'Mgr.
Foreign Adv. Mgr. Chester M. Ashman, ’30............Foreign Cir. Mgr.
Eugene J. Carlin, ’29	John Blanda, ’31
Frank J. Conboy, ’32	Andrew McGuan, ’32
FEBRUARY 22, 1929
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week____________________________ Ode_________________________________
Presentation of Flag________________ Speech of Acceptance________________
Music and Drama___________________
Campus Personalities________________
Campus Clubs______2_________________ Book Reviews______
The Wink____________________________ College Parade______________________
Editor’s Page_______________________ Misho ______________________________
Feelings of a Sensitive Man in Much
Company__________________________
Twilight of the Snows (a poem)______ Snowfall (a poem) __________________ Illinois Trackmen Conquer N. D______ Splinters From the Press Box________
Archer Hurley_____
Murray Young______
Harry Manfred Vezie
No. 18
___566
___568
___569
The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C______-570
__Paul J. Hallinan__
__Emil L. Telfel____
__Thomas A. Cannon
___Bernard A. Walsh
__John L. Nanovic
__Dennis J. Shanahan____ __John W. Gibbons_______ .„J. w. s., c. s. c.____ __J. Gilbert Prendergast _ __Harry A. Sylvester, Jr.
572
573
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
582
583
591
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191 7, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of AH Notre Dame Men
Slop, slop, slippity, slop. Slop, slop, slippity, slop. And so on, ad infinitum et ad nausaeam! No, Brownsonites, this is not the intermezzo from the Garbage Man’s Symphony, nor yet is it another of those modern poems inspired by such realistic things as Jack Cannon’s weekly vocalizations in the lower Lyons’ showers. Rather it is our interpretation of the chain gang’s disconsolate plodding through slush and mud on their way back to security and Morrissey after the ever so intensive cross examination imposed on Sunday afternoon by the charming jurors across the Dixie Highway. Last week the heart shaped boxes of bon bons overtaxed the superannuated mail truck over there, and the valentine donors, having gone into ecstacies and the room-mate’s socks over the amorous notes sent in appreciation, braved the slush and winds of our plains of Abraham to endure the infelicities of parlor conversation. Looking at the affair through the smoked glasses of one who is chronically platonic, my observation is that love is not only blind, but that it has the hoof and mouth disease and is web-footed.
On February the twenty-second in seventeen-hundred and thirty-two George Washington was wrapped in his swaddling clothes. As to the nature of those clothes researches have been able to discover but little, yet we presume that they were of a kind with many other such garments. The thing we wish to stress is that George soon outgrew this attire. In later life tradition unveils him as one who hewed to the line, whether he was cutting cherry trees, British forces, or political nuisances. And for that Americans give Washington their sincere thanks and themselves a holiday. We have a way of commemorating here that is especially suitable. In the ceremonies at Washington Hall, the Seniors, for the first time, wear the cap and gown, the swaddling clothes of the university man soon to leave his institutional cradle and try a bit of hewing. We may not be able to cut as truly as he did, but there is consolation in knowing that oui- axe can be sharpened just as keenly. It’s all very well to talk of Americanism, the W. C. T. U., and Al Smith’s decisive defeat, but can you imagine the serene head of Washington bending over a Prohibition Amendment with anything but decided displeasure?
“MY DEAR, isn’t he Divine! And just LOOK at his smart TRAVELING BAG!” Did you read that too? I begin to think that the advertising in the SCHOLASTIC will have to be passed on by-a cuspidor committee from the depths of Sorin. And now that the mood has us—the tough boys from Chicago must have felt very much at Chicago last Friday night while seeing “The Racket” for during the show several seats in the balcony gave way with a crashing so realistic as almost to turn our silent drama into a “Squaw-kie.” Considering the good work that machine guns are doing, “The Racket” was timely presented. Under the patronage of the Chicago Club and the Windy alumni, Soldiers’ Field should be given over for an entire week to the warring gangsters, who, equipped with machine guns, gas bombs, and the other West Side playthings, could fatally decide the su
premacy. We would be given a universal per for the weekend that all might see the finals between the two surviving factions. This system will meet with general approval, for besides killing the gangsters, it will provide wholesome public amusement in an intense form. The winning gang will be entitled to a bootleg monopoly of the city, while the police should be able to make as much from gate receipts as they now do from graft.
The boys in Carroll were all excited over a questionnaire circulating among them Tuesday morning; the other freshman halls were probably similarly moved. Starting off with a list of proposed recreations, the questionnaire assumed in a later paragraph that first year men are more interested in social affairs than in track meets, smokers, or stag banquets. One peculiarity in the question order was that, in speaking of a formal dance, it started with: “Would you support such an affair?” Then followed, “Could you?” Evidently the compiler overlooked the truth that the freshmen are always the wealthiest men in school. One of the last questions was something to this effect: “Would you invite a Saint Mary’s girl if the date could be arranged for you?” That little word “if” has seldom been used with less of its true meaning.
Snow and rain are composed of like elements, but they act differently. True, • snow will melt and run down one’s neck, but rain isn’t at all partial and would just as soon get in a shoe or even in a wrist watch. Rain in a pocket is fatal to cigarettes. These statistics were gathered at various times during the past three years while I awaited the late arrival of my car, the Notre Dame sixty Brill electric. During the winter one can think of Amundsen or Byrd and be consoled, but now that our two months of rain are about due—well, who wants to admit that he is all wet? The day dogs might send a pack of their loudest hounds to howl in the offices of the street car corporation, or, possibly, the taxi companies can be persuaded to reduce their rates still more. At all odds, we should have a car station. Perhaps a garage, airplane hangar, or boat house would be just as ornamental, but utility comes before beauty in this matter of dampness. •
It has been two years now since Notre Dame has had an organized hockey team. Though the sport has ended the talent lingers on, for a hastily collected Notre Dame team defeated the Culver sextette most decisively last week. Which brings to mind the fellow who talked about his home town in nearly every Sociology class last semester—we never know what talent is slumbering beside us until such an awakening is met with. Somebody ought to be kind to those students who like nothing so well as to talk about what has been done in Ashtabula or Lake Bluff. As with halitosis, not even their best friends will tell them, though they are apt to be avoided in their windier moments. Petrograd wasn’t much of a town until Peter the Great made the Russians buy Gilletts and wear Oxford bags. He is a model for any college man from a small town. Remake the home town, and history will do the talking for you.	—A. h.

•J
The Notre Dame Scholastic
567
••• ♦♦♦ «£♦ ♦♦♦ »?♦
♦	NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS	❖
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	»;♦ »>	$ •> .>	<. .j«
FRIDAY, February 22—Scholastic business staff meeting, 6:30 p. m.; editorial staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Publications’ room, Main Building.—Basketball, Michigan State at East Lansing.—Way of the Cross, Sacred Heart Church, 1:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, February 23—Indoor track meet, Northwestern University vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 7:30 p. m.—Baskeball, University of Detroit vs. Notre Dame, at Detroit.
SUNDAY, February 24—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Meeting of Wranglers, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 10:00 a. m.—Interhall basketball, University gymnasium, 9:30 a. m. to 5:30 p. m.
MONDAY, February-25—Knights of Columbus meeting, Council Chambers, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Scribblers’ room, Organizations building, 8:00 p. m.— Buffalo Club meeting, Library, 6:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, February 26—West Virginia Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:45 p. m.—Meeting La Circle Francais, Hoynes College of Law, 7:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, February 27—El Club Espanol, a las siete y media de la noche en la sala de la banda en la edi-ficio Washington, 6:30 p. m.—Concert, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, February 28—Toledo Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 8:00 p. m.
FRIDAY, March 1—First Friday.—Scholastic business staff meeting, 6:30 p. m.; editorial staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Publications’ room, Main Building.—Movies, "Air Circus,” 6:30 p. m. and 8:15 p. m., Washington Hall.—Way of the Cross, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 2—Indoor track meet, University of Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame, at Madison.—Basketball, Marquette University vs. Notre Dame, University gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Varsity debate, De Pauw University vs. Notre Dame, at Greencastle.
§ § §
PHILIP TOMPKINS ADDRESSES SCIENCE ACADEMY
Members of the Academy of Science listened to Philip Tompkin, a senior in the College of Science at the University, who presented a paper entitled, “The Nitrate Series of Drugs,” at a meeting in Science Hall last Monday night. The nitrate drugs, according to Mr. Thompkins, are beneficial to man chiefly in their action on the muscles and the blood system, giving relief to persons stricken 'with spasm and those suffering from high blood-pressure.
Previous to the talk, the Academy elected Marshall Wallner secretary-treasurer. Mr. George H. Paff, ’27, was made an honorary member by a unanimous vote.
Father Albertson read a letter from the Associated Biology Clubs of Catholic Colleges asking for a representative, and if possible a speaker, at the second annual meeting which will be held at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., April 4 and 5. A member residing in the east and going home for the Easter holidays will probably be appointed to represent the University at the convention.
JAMES C. ROY WINS STATE ORATORICAL CONTEST
Receiving almost the unanimous decision of the judges, James C. Roy, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, was awarded first prize in the annual
JAMES C. ROY
contest of the Indiana Intercollegiate Oratorical Association held last Friday, February 13, in the Goddard auditorium of Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana. Robert C. Goodwin, of Wabash College, received second honors, and Ezra Sensibar, of Purdue University, third.
Mr. Roy finished second in the contest last year, and third in 1927 so his triumph this year was especially commendable inasmuch as it culminated three years of hard work on his part to bring the honor to the University. He gave the same-speech, “Twenty Thousand
Leagues Under the Sea,” which he delivered in Washington hall several weeks ago when he won the Breen Medal contest.
By winning the state contest, Mr. Roy earned the right to represent Indiana at the sectional contest to be held on April 6 at the institution winning the Illinois finals. In addition, he also received a gold medal commemorating his achievement, besides a monetary prize of §50.
Mr. Roy has achieved many honors for his oratorical . ability while at Notre Dame. Winning the Breen Medal in 1927, he also won first place in the Breen Medal contest in 1928, and again this year, although ineligible to receive the Breen Medal, which can be won but once. Mr. Roy has also been prominently identified with the Wranglers, and has represented the University in many intercollegiate debates.
§ § §
THEODORE MAYNARD TO TEACH AT SUMMER SESSION
Theodore Maynard, internationally prominent Catholic poet and educator, and at present professor of English at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C., has accepted an invitation to teach in the 1929 summer session of the University, the Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C. S. C., director of studies at the University announced yesterday. The announcement is doubly important at this time inasmuch as it comes on the heels of Mr. Maynard’s acceptance of the invitation extended him by the Scribblers to be one of the judges of the annual poetry contest of that organization, which is now on. Professor Maynard will teach courses in “The Romantic Movement,” and “Modern Catholic Poetry.”
Born at Madras, India, in 1890, Mr. Maynard received his early education in Indian and English schools. In this country he studied at the Mount Hermon school in Massachusetts. He became a convert to Catholicism in 1913. Before going to Georgetown he was professor of English literature at the College of San Rafael, California; St. John’s College, Brooklyn, New York; and the Graduate school of Fordham University at various times.
Among his best known works are: “A Tankard of Ale.” “Folly and Other Poems,” “Contemporary Catholic Poems,” an anthology, and “Book of Modern Catholic Prose, also an anthology.
668
The Notre Dame Scholastic
§
Ode
For the Twenty-second of February
Our heritage is more than marble stones ■ That shift the movement of the evening light. And more than all the cold elegaic bones Ensepulchered of men nou; one with night.
This heritage is not within a terse Virgilian line upon a monument, It rather lies zvithin a deeper verse Whose rhythm beats with every breath that’s spent.
It is the memory of each great name
Pulsating through the movements of our breath That is our heritage though we proclaim Marmoreal remembrances for death.
In what necropolis they may assume In chiseled stone a gesture knozvn in life, We are indifferent, and we grant the tomb What secret griefs inflamed their splendid strife.
It is enough that they have come this tvay With destiny encaptured in their hands And place a mark upon that nascent day; Our latter vision sees and understands.
It is enough that they possessed the skill ■
And knew the moment, when the moment struck;
As hostages they now surmount the hill And plead for us against the tides of luck.
A strength is nurtured in the names of these Which is our testament upon the wind, And we who knoio the stride of different seas Receive a dignity beyond our end.
One name precedes the others with a calm Assurance not distempered by defeat,	•
And if we bring the tributary palm
The leaves first scattered must enfold his feet.
The patrimony which we take from him Reneios us with the fervent zeal it gives, And stirs the accent of the blood where dim Remembrance of our pride and honour lives. '
And if today by speech or by a song Commemoration of his name is kept Then we have wakened pride that far too long Beneath the dullness of our days has slept.
And after him the strong, assuring list, Row after row each grave and noble face. .
And some if they have knoivn Time’s wasting mist Reverberations have indexed their place.	.
Like us they pay their tribute to the dust, (More solemnly perhaps in stately urns), But while we share the predatory lust Of worms, theirs is the only fire that burns.
.	—MURRAY YOUNG.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
569
University’s Largest Senior Class. Participates In Washington Birthday Exercises
Four hundred and forty men attired in cap and gown, the largest senior class in the history of the University, participated in the customary Washington Birthday exercises in Washington hall this morning in the traditional presentation of an American flag to the University by the graduating class.
Promptly at 9:35, after forming by colleges in the Main building, the seniors began their short march to Washington hall. The colleges were formed in the order of their organ
ization at the University. The College of Arts and Letters seniors, 166 in all, led by Rev. Dean Charles Miltner, C.S.C., was first in line, and was followed in proper succession by twenty-eight College of Science seniors, led by Rev. Dean George Albei-tson, C.S.C.; sixty fourth-year men from the College of Engineering, under the leadership of Rev. Dean Thomas Steiner, C.S.C.; forty-six seniors from the College of Law, led by Dean Thomas Konop; and one hundred and forty seniors from the College of Commerce, under the leadership of Dean John E. McCarthy.
The exercises in Washington hall were formally opened
with the singing of the “Star Spangled Banner” by the seniors, and a large crowd of invited guests and students from the other classes. Joseph P. McNamara, editor of the Juggler, and prominent campus orator then delivered several selections from Washington’s “Farewell Address.” Following this, Anthony J. Kopecky, University Glee Club tenor soloist, gave several vocal selections.
The Ode, written especially for the occasion, was then given by Murray Young, president of the Scribblers, and well-known campus poet. Immediately afterwards, EL Manfred Vezie, president of the Senior class, presented the flag to the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, who received it upon- behalf of the University.
The singing of Frank Shea’s old campus hymn, “Notre Dame” concluded the exercises.
The University Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, interspersed the program with several popular selections.
Howard A. Bair was chairman of the senior committee which included the following: Kenneth J. Konop, John Vai-chulis, Robert Lane, James Keating, Thomas M. McMahon, and Joseph J. Daigneault.
I Presentation of Flag To School By Senior Class
Speech of President H. Manfred Vezie
Reverend Fathers, members of the faculty and fellow students. Since 1896 it has been a tradition at Notre Dame
for the senior class, on Washington’s birthday, to present to their alma mater an American flag. Notre Dame, a university, national in student
H. MANFRED VEZIE
body and In interest, one which enjoys intimate contacts with such schools as West'Point and Annapolis, cannot fail to impress her students with a sense of national pride. But it is fitting, nevertheless, that this, the birthday of the father of oui- country, should be set aside by Notre Dame, to instill into the minds of her students the proper spirit of Americanism and a sense of civic duty.
Under the protection of this flag, Notre Dame has
prospered until she has become one of the greatest universities of the land. Today, we, the members of her senior class, are permitted the privilege of presenting to her the banner of our nation which will overlook this community for the coming year. As the students pass beneath this beautiful emblem, it will remind them of a hundred and fifty years of American history. It will remind them of the Declaration of Independence, of the American Constitution, of all of the
wars that have been fought to preserve our federal union, to keep it intact against foreign aggression, to enable this university to prosper and to permit each one of us to be here today. The forty-eight stars of this flag represent the one and perfect union, to which we pledged allegiance in our youth, which pledge we renew today. Its stripes of white represent the unblemished record of the world’s greatest democracy. Its stripes of crimson represent the blood that has been shed in its defense; it represents the blood of those gallant heroes who starved at Valley Forge; it represents the blood of those who died at Gettysburg, many of whom were blessed on the morning of their death by Notre Dame’s own Father Corby; it represents the blood of those men, including many Notre Dame men, who gave their all at Chateau Thierry, Belleau Woods, the Argonne and Saint Mihiel.
The cross on the tower of the church reminds us that a life without faith and hope is futile; the statue of Our Lady on the Dome is a constant inspiration to lead a life that is clean and pure; and the Stars and Stripes flying from the other pinnacle of the campus is suggestive throughout the year of the grandeur and glory of our nation.
Reverend Father Mulcaire, we of the class of nineteen hundred and twenty-nine ask you to accept this beautiful emblem in all of its glory. The great heights to which it has risen in all of the great conflicts in which our nation has been involved, can be accounted for, only by the blessings which our father has showered upon it. May this flag continue to be one of the beacons of Notre Dame, may her students continue to be guided by the cross, the statue of Our Lady and by the flag.
570
The Notre Dame Scholastic
*
Speech of Acceptance
REVEREND MICHAEL A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C.
Gentlemen of the Senior Class:
In keeping with a precious tradition you have assembled here this morning to present to your Alma Mater the flag of your country. It is a tradition of beautiful significance
REV. MICHAEL A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C.
that as you are about to conclude your scholastic career, ready to go out and take an active part in the work of the world which awaits you, you should give this public expression of your belief that the religion which you profess and the education you have received within the walls of this University have made you better citizens, and that the love of God and the love of country are inseparately united in your heart as in the heart of every true Catholic. For more than
thirty years each g-raduating class has assembled in this same hall, on this day, and here upon this platform has given pledges of undivided allegiance to that Hag which your spokesman has given so sincerely and eloquently today. The world knows with what wholehearted generosity the men of Notre Dame have kept their pledge of patriotism, the record of their achievement is a glorious one, written in the blood of many of them on the battlefields of the Civil War and of the World War. In their private lives, no less have the sons of Notre Dame exemplified those virtues of manly, honest citizenship necessary to the welfare of a nation.
With pride, therefore, do I, in the name of the University, accept this precious token from the class of 1929. We have no doubt that the high resolve which animates you this morning will inform your lives and actions in the years to come, that the-high principles of patriotism which have distinguished the men of Notre Dame in other years will inspire you to greater achievement in the cause of God and country.
For more than a hundred and fifty years this flag which you now offer to Alma Mater has been the symbol of liberty and the synonym of opportunity to the oppressed of every race and every creed. It has invited to the shores of this country, from every land, the victims of civil and religious oppression. A million immigrants have left their native lands and kindred, have quit the soil which held their fathers’ graves, and, filled with new hope, have come here to dedicate their manhood or womanhood at the shrine of liberty over which floats this banner of freedom. For them there was no other requirement for admission and welcome than the profession of their undivided allegiance to the land of their adoption. Every man has been at liberty to enjoy the privileges of citizenship and to worship God according to the dictates of his conscience without apology for his religion. Heretofore, a man’s religion was not made a test of his citizenship or of his patriotism, and when it was written into the Constitution that no religious test should be required as a qualification for office in this country, it was felt that the clause meant that no Catholic should be disqualified for office because of his religion.
But recently important changes have taken place, and now it seems that a man’s religion can be a disqualification for public office, and there are those who believe that a Catholic is unfitted for an office of public trust under the United States. Time was, within the memory of all of you
here present this morning, when a Catholic did not have to vindicate his patriotism against the slander of bigots. The memory of a great war In which a gallant army, the flower of our Catholic citizen, played a glorious part, should forever silence those who would question our loyalty to the flag we love. From factory, and farm,* and office, they came at their country’s call, and in the history of our country there is no brighter page than the one they wrote. When one of the last shells from a gun of the enemy marked for death a Catholic priest who had stuck to his dangerous post to the last, it was hoped that it had stopped forever the whispered libel that a man cannot be a good Catholic and a good citizen. Yet, scarcely had the blood of that martyred patriot priest dried upon the battlefield of France, scarcely had the grave closed over his lifeless body, when there was born under the flag for which he had given his young life, a shameless knighthood, so-called, to revive and popularize calumny concerning the essential disloyalty of the Catholic. During the eight years of disturbance those slanderers of your patriotism and mine did not dare to show their faces to the world. They sought security behind a mask, and came forth under the cover of darkness, because their bigotry would wither under the brightness of the noonday sun. But when a man whose political achievements as governor of a great state had won for him recognition and acclaim from all honest people and the nomination of his party for the presidency of the United States whose welfare he had promoted with such distinction, the mask was put aside and the venom of religious prejudice was poured forth against Catholicism. When that man’s private and public life was found to be beyond reproach, the intolerants attacked the religion which he professed and which you and I hold dearer than anything else on earth. In the name of patriotism and Americanism they villified everybody and everything Catholic.
I have seen the Catholic priesthood, which I, in part,, represent, and which you revere, cartooned in vilest jest, as a menace to the peace of society and the purity of the home. I have heard saintly women who have sacrificed all that the world holds dear, who have gone out from home and friends and families, and consecrated their whole lives on the altar’ of service to their fellowmen in hospitals, schools, and asylums, women who have been regarded even by men of no religion as the most sublime embodiment of the best in human nature, branded as harlots who ply their trade under the guise of religious profession. This vile and leacherous scribbling has been done not by the unfortunate guttersnipe whose mind never rises above obscenity, but by those in high position, by some who have attained the eminence of bishops in churches classed as Christian, and senators in our national legislature, and all in the name of Americanism and in the name of patriotism.
Before such an audience as this there is no need to refute those libels nor to declare our devotion to the flag under which we live. I cannot believe but that this attempt to subvert religious freedom will fail as all others have failed. This country will continue to stand for human rights and no blatent bigots can be ultimately successful in establishing an infamy under the shadow of Old Glory. That flag which you have presented this morning, which typifies to the world civil and religious freedom, and the Constitution which protects it, will , never be divorced. It will remain the priceless heritage of a free and libertyloving American people, the hope and the inspiration of all mankind, regardless of race or creed.
i t
i
1
'I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
571
PROFESSOR KELLY HEADS INDIANA STATE ORATORICAL ASSOCIATION
Professor Frank W. Kelly, head of the department of public speaking at the University, was elected president of the Indiana State Intercollegiate Oratorical Association at a
meeting of the heads of the public speaking departments of eight institutions which participated in the annual contest of that organization at Earlham College, last Friday. The new president succeeds Professor William N. Brigance, of Wabash College, who has headed the association for the past several years. The term of office is for one year.
At the conclusion of the State Oratorical Contest last Friday it was announced that the finals of next year’s contest will be held at Notre Dame. §
SOUTH BEND “TRIBUNE” FEATURES SENIOR JOURNALISTS’ LETTERS
Jr
During the past week, the South Bend Tribune has been featuring letters by members of the senior class in journalism at the University on its editorial page. Among the letters printed were those of John V. Hinkel, editor of the Scholastic; Bernard A. Walsh, conductor- of the College Parade feature in the same publication; John P. Nanovic, a member of the literary staff of the Scholastic; David S. Lehman, associate-editor of the Juggler,” and Henry B. Olbricht, prominent campus writer.
The merit of these letters was upheld by Mr. Gerard Cosgrove, associate editor of the Tribune. Mr. Cosgrove’s ■ speech, “The Editorial Mind,” which he delivered before the class in editorial writing Tuesday, February 12, was printed in the last issue of the Scholastic.
§ § §
I*
! -
LAETARE MEDAL COMMITTEE ANNOUNCED
The committee in charge of the awarding of the Laetare Medal has been recently announced. The medal awarded annually to some prominent Catholic layman who has done something for Catholic education and welfare, is to be presented to the winner on Laetare Sunday, March 10.
The members of the faculty committee on the award are as follows: the Reverend M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., Thomas Steiner, J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Professors Edward J. Mau-rus, Jose A. Caparo, Henry B. Froning, Burton Confrey, and Vincent Fagan.
The Laetare medal was awarded to Mr. Jack Spalding, a promnient attorney of Atlanta, Georgia, in 1928; to Miss Margraet Anglin, famous actress, in 1927.
§ § §
“JUGGLER” OUT FEBRUARY 27
The fifth number of the Juggler will make its appearance on the campus next Wednesday, February 27. According to the staff, the Funny Fellow will have a background of Indiana: weather, politicians, moon, and other features for which the state is famous.
PRIZE-WINNING DESIGNS EXHIBITED IN ARCHITECTURAL STUDIO
Seven drawings, submitted in various competitions at the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in New York City, were on exhibit Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of this week in the library of the Architectural Department. These drawings, all of which are medal or prize-winning designs, exemplify work done by the students in the architectural departments of other universities. The designs are being sent to numerous mid-western universities and architectural clubs by the Beaux-Arts Institute to show the quality and standard of design required in competitive work.
On exhibit were drawings of the following subjects: A Department Store, a Summer Residence for the Mayor of a Metropolis; a Living Room in the Queen Anne Period; a Cambodian Temple; and a Design for a Sanctuary.
The library of the Architectural Department, which is situated on the fourth floor of the Administration Building, is open every week-day after-noon, excepting Saturday and Sunday, until four o’clock. Professor Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, has extended an invitation to the faculty and student body to visit the studios of the department to see later displays which will be on exhibit in a week or ten days. The exact date will be announced in a later issue of the Scholastic.
§ § §
FIRST GLEE CLUB ROAD CONCERT TONIGHT IN DIXON, ILL.
k The first Glee Club road concert of the season is to be given this evening in Dixon, Illinois, under the auspices of the Knights of Columbus council of that city. Thirty men, accompanied by Director Joseph Casasanta, made the trip.
The ensemble will sing twelve songs with other added selections to be given by the soloists. Anthony Kopecky, tenor soloist for three years, and Fred J. Wagner, president, will each sing two solos. Thomas Salmon and William McAleer- will present two duets. John Beljon, pianist, and Zeno Staudt, banjoist, will offer several novelty selections.
The men making the trip are: first tenors—Charles Gibbons, Arthur Glasaw, Andrew Hayes, Thomas Kerrigan, Tony Kopecky, Frank O’Neill, Francis Staudt, and Ronald Zudeck; second tenors—Jerome Culligan, Jerome Parker, Raymond Staudt, William McAleer; Edward Gore, John Beljon, John O’Donnell, Norbert Collins; first basses—Fred Wagner, Joseph Butler, Vincent Carney, Roland Schlager, Thomas Salmon, Edward Donovan, Harry Merdzinski and Al Welzenbach; second basses—Thomas Carey, David Barry, Rudolph Sturm, John Phelan, John Waltz and Raymond Ziliak.	.
§ § §
K. C. MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE SETS DATE FOR NEXT DEGREE EXEMPLIFICATION
In a meeting held last Friday evening in the Council' Chambers, Walsh Hall; the membership committee decided that the Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus would exemplify their second third-degree of the current year on Sunday, March 10. This committee, headed by its chairman, Francis McGreal, agreed that the enrollment in this class would be limited to seventy-five candidates, and that the first degree would be given on two different occasions before the final degrees are held.
The exemplification of all the degrees will take place in the South Bend Council Chambers, and after the initiation the newly-initiated will be tendered a banquet in one of the-large banquet rooms in South Bend.
572
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC AND DRAMA
LAW COLLEGE NOTES
The music of Haydyn, Debussy Liszt and other classical composers formed the program of an evening of excellent music presented by the Little Symphony orchestra of Chicago, Wednesday night. Aided by two soloists, Miss Maria Matyas, soprano, who sang a group of Hungarian folk-songs and Oscar Trengbad, trumpeter, the orchestra played nine numbers, each of which was characteristic of the manner of rendition that has made this orchestra so popular in the middle west. The ensemble was composed of twenty-six instruments under the direction of Mr. George Dasch.
Opening the concert with the overture to the “Merry Wives of Windsor,” by Carl Otto Nicolai, the orchestra played the well-known overture in a spirited way that is indicative of the entire opera from which it is taken. Light and merry, conveying the semi-comical touch that has made this number almost indispensable on orchestra programs, the movement immediately won the hearty approval of the audience. It was followed by a delightful symphony by Haydyn, known to music lovers as the “Surprise Symphony.” It is the interpretation of a humorous incident which struck the fancy of the great composer and the soft, simple melody which opens the selection, ending with the unexpected crash of the whole instrumentation, carries out his intention perfectly. The symphony is in two movements, the Antante, which contains the “surprise,” and the finale, which is built on a happy theme, perfectly scored.
Four selections from the ballet “Coppelia” by Leo Debiles were followed by a trumpet solo by Oscar Tengblad. The number was a waltz, “Scintilita” by Perkins and was played in a lilting style with the accompaniment of the orchestra.
The second part of the program opened -with a tinkling of castanets announcing the “Capriccio Espagnol,” one of the best works of Rimsky-Korsakaw. Five movements comprised the selection, all of them played without pause: the Alborada, a morning serenade; variations with the horns carrying the theme over a soft accompaniment; a repetition of the Alborada; the Scene and Gypsy Song, and the finale, an Andalusian dance known as the “Fandango of the Asturias.” This number was especially well received.
Two lighter melodies, Habanera and the song of Vaquero by the popular American composer, Victor Herbert, were followed by another fanciful selection by Debussy, the “Golliwog’s Cake-Walk.” This was formerly one of a set of piano numbers by the composer, which have recently been transcribed for the orchestra.
The outstanding part of the concert, just before the closing “Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2,” was a group of five Hungarian songs arranged for the orchestra by its conductor, George Dasch, and sung by Miss Matyas, who was dressed in Hungarian costume. Her songs, simple little melodies of love and laughter, had a charm in them that delighted her listeners. Although sung in her native language, the singer translated each one into English before singing it. For an encore Miss Matyas repeated one of the songs, “See That Little Pretty Maiden.”
Of the twenty Hungarian rhapsodies written by Frank . Liszt, the second is ideal for orchestral rendition and it made a fitting close to the concert. Beginning with a slow section, the rhapsody works up to a quick movement that is typical of much of the Hungarian music. The entire program from the overture to the closing bars of Liszt’s masterpiece, was carefully arranged and skilfully presented.
—PAUL J. HALLINAN.
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Law College has announced the courses that will be open during the the summer school of 1929. They are: Constitutional Law, Evidence, Equity, Federal Procedure, and Damages.
The course in Constitutional Law is open to students in any of the other colleges for a fouishour credit.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ *
Mr. Charles P. Wattles, an attorney at law in South Bend, will deliver three lectures on Abstracting to the students of the Law College during the last two weeks of February. Mr. Wattles is a graduate of the University of Michigan and is considered an eminent authority on this subject. .
* * * *
Judge M. M. Oshe of Chicago will be present at a meeting of the Law Club some time within the near future, according to an announcement made by club officers. Judge Oshe is a graduate of the class of 1912, and is a widely known authority on the subject of titles. He was recently made Chief Title Officer of the Chicago Title and Trust Company, the largest trust company in the United States.
. $ * *
Plans are also being made by the club members for the celebration of the annual “Hoynes Night.”
§ § §
PRESIDENT’S OFFICE RENOVATED
The office of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, have been renovated during his absence. The walls of the office have been painted and a new floor has been installed.
Father O’Donnell is at present making an extensive tour of the East, visiting numerous colleges and universities. He is also addressing Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout that section of the country.
§ § § '
UNIVERSITY ORCHESTRA RECORDINGS ACCEPTED BY COLUMBIA
The test records made by the University Orchestra, a short time ago, have been accepted for distribution by the Columbia Recording Company. The orchestra was under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta.
The selections recorded were, “The Victory March,” “Down the Line,” and “The Hike Song.” The records are expected to be released shortly.
§ .§ §
PRAYER BOOK WHICH SAVED LIFE IS GIVEN TO LIBRARY
A relic of Civil War days—a prayer book which saved a soldier’s life in the most decisive siege of the great conflict— has been presented to the library by Corita F. Steckler. The book is a Catholic missal, with a cloth cover and contains 385 pages. Imbedded in the book, diagonally from the back is a lead bullet about an inch long. The miracle probably occurred as the result of the book being carried in the left pocket of the shirt, thus deflecting the bullet’s path to the body.
The incident took place in the battle of Gettysburg in July, 1863. Although the soldier, whose life was saved, is unknown, the book was presented to J. Fred Lieben, grandfather of the donor, three or four days after the battle.
The Notre Da
me Scholastic
573
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
Room 327, Sorin, is the scene of probably more acrimonious discussion than any other place on the campus, for it is the room of the president of the Scribblers’ Club, Murray
Young, whose literary views and accomplishments have al-
ways caused discussion. Young
MURRAY YOUNG
has written poetry, short stories, and critical essays; his work in these branches of literature are far above college standard. His careful, almost flawless technique, his sense of rhythm, and above all his careful analyzation of his own themes and the writings of others—all point to a literary future. All of which sounds somewhat eulogistic. Possibly, but as a rule the writer of this column is rarely carried by premature enthusiasm.
In his freshman year, Young had his work printed in Pan, the literary magazine edited by the
discriminating Professor Charles Phillips. Harriet Monroe’s publication, Poetry, which has started many of the contem
porary poets on the road to fame, has also accepted Young’s

poems.
Two years ago his story, “The Secret,” (recently printed in the Scholastic) received second prize in the Culver contest. Under the pen name “Prospero Image,” he has written some exquisite poetry for the Scholastic, besides numerous criticisms and short stories.
Young has been a member of the Scribblers for two years. The club elected him president this year; and under his guidance the organization has shown signs of activity.
In passing it might be mentioned that Murray’s home town bears (for an* Oklahoma town) the rather romantic name of Poteau.	—E. L. T.
§ § §
VILLAGERS TO FETE GEORGE KEOGAN AND BASKETBALL TEAM THURSDAY, MARCH 14
The third annual civic testimonial banquet to be given in honor* of the varsity basketball team will be held in the Rotary room of the Oliver Hotel on Thursday evening, March 14, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Villagers Club, who have been sponsoring the affair for the past three years.
The entire personnel of the varsity as well as Coach George E. Keogan and Student Manager Tom Ryan will be the guests of the Villagers at the affair, which will be one of the foremost events sponsored by a campus club this year. Francis Jones, president of the club, is acting as general chairman for the banquet. It is expected that the captain for the 1929-30 team will be elected at this time.
Many celebrities in the sporting world, including Justin Molony, a former Notre Dame cage star, and at present a leading basketball official; Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner; W. F. Fox, the Indianapolis News; Nick Kearns, prominent basketball referee, and K. K. Rockne, director of Notre Dame athletics, will be present.
The committees are working earnestly on the banquet and are in hopes of surpassing last year’s successful affair. A limited number of students are invited to attend the banquet and may procure tickets from any Villager.
INDIANA CENTRAL COLLEGE INITIAL OPPONENT OF WRANGLERS TONIGHT
The Wranglers will open their outside debate season tonight when they meet Indiana Central College at Indianapolis. Thomas Keegan, Frank Noll, and Arnold Williams will defend the affirmative of the state question regarding the adoption of the English procedure. Tomorrow night another Wrangler team, composed of Edward Phelan, John Keefe, and Walter Stanton will meet Hillsdale College at Hillsdale, Mich., and will oppose governmental control of the hydroelectric power plants of the country. This debate is a dual one, as Hillsdale’s negative combination will come to Notre Dame to meet the Wrangler affirmative, composed of William Brown, Edward Conners, and Joseph P. McNamara, in Washington hall at 8:00 p. m.
These three engagements will inaugurate the Wrangler schedule of outside debates with neighboring Indiana and Michigan schools. This activity, initiated last year, is a further extension of the Wrangler program of affording facilities for debating for those who are unable to participate in varsity debating at Notre Dame. Other outside debates have been scheduled with Manchester College, Kalamazoo College, and Evansville College. All members of the Wranglers will participate in one or more of these debates.
The matches were arranged by Arnold Williams, chairman of Wranglei* outside debates.
§ § §
LIBRARY ACQUIRES RARE BOOK AND ANCIENT HEBREW BOWL
A valuable book, a copy of the “Coleleste Palmetum” was presented to the library recently by Mrs. M. Bourgeois of Chicago, through a former Notre Dame graduate, Mr. Paul Maitin. The book’s value is increased by the autograph of Cardinal Von Giessel. During the conflict between the church and state in the reign of Frederick William IV, this noted prelate was appointed to the important see of Cologne as archbishop. He died in 1864. An autographed photograph of the cardinal has also been given to the Library by the same donor.
Another interesting object was acquired by the Library this week, known as a Hebrew incantation bowl from the north of Babylon. The receptacle which is four inches high and nine inches in diameter is inscribed on the inner surface with a prayer written in Aramaic. According to the custom of the Jews, water was placed in the bowl immediately after the writing had been made. The water absorbed the ink, which was of vegetable origin. The sick then drank of the water with the intention of absorbing the spirit of the prayer. The bowl is from the time of Ezra, who was one of the great law-makers of the Old Testament.
§ § §
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO HOLD OPEN MEETING; GALVIN TO SPEAK
The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Knights of Columbus Notre Dame Council 1477 will be held Monday evening, February 2-5, in the Council chambers in Walsh hall. Grand Knight Edward P. McKeown will conduct the meeting, which will be in the nature of an open meeting, all members being requested to bring a friend.
Timothy E. Galvin, a prominent attorney and Knight of Columbus of Hammond, Indiana, will be the speaker of the evening. Musical selections will also be on the program of entertainment.
Plans will be discussed for the first initiation of the new year, which will be held in the Council Chamber next Thursday evening, February 28. At this time the first degree will be administered to the new members.
574
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MEN YOU KNOW
The Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Litt. B., D.D., LL.D., former president of the University and nationally
known speaker, writer and educator, was born in Leetonia, 0.,
May 21, 1870. He received his Litt. B. at Notre Dame in 1890,
and was ordained to the priesthood on April 21, 1894. Dur
ing his stay at the
of The Ave Maria and retained this position from 1894 to 1905. He was given his D. D. at Ottawa university in 1906. and in 1921 was recipient of an LL.D, degree at Notre Dame. In 1898 he was appointed superior of Holy Cross Seminary and served in this p o s i t i o n until ISO5 when he forsook the office to become president of the University. From 1902 to 1904 he was a
University he was an associate editor
REV. JOHN w. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.
Professor of English Literature and also served in that capacity later at Holy Cross College in Brookland, D. C. From 1905 to 1919 he was president of Notre Dame and it was due to his untiring efforts that the University first became nationally prominent.
Father- Cavanaugh has long been noted for his gift of oratory. He had the honor of speaking in practically every large city of the United States and due to the contacts he made, numbered as personal friends men of national prestige. He was a great friend of Justices White and Hughes. At the University he was chiefly concerned in student welfare, and the response from the students justified his labors for them.
While serving as president, Father Cavanaugh took pains ' to see that the student body had the benefit of hearing the best lecturers of the time. Some of them who honored the University were Henry James, Cecil Chesterton, brother of the famous G. K. Chesterton, William Gibbs McAdoo, Monsignor Bickerstaff Drew, Wilfred Ward, Senator- Beveridge, and Chief Justice Taft. It was during his presidency that the University celebrated its Diamond Jubilee. Father Cavanaugh did not allow the demand for him in other cities to interfere with the program he had outlined for himself at home. During the first years of his office Walsh Hall was built. Later on Chemistry Hall, the Law Building, and the Library were annexed to the University.
Father Cavanaugh is at his best perhaps on St. Patrick’s day. His speeches on the feast day of Ireland’s patron saint have become famous. He is recognized in “Who’s Who in America,” and boasts of membership in the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America, and the National Educational Committee. At present he does some lecturing and occasionally contributes to the magazines, in addition to his schedule of classes in the English department of the University.
FOUR “SCHOLASTIC” APPOINTMENTS MADE ;
J. G. PRENDERGAST NEW SPORTS EDITOR
The Scholastic takes pleasure in making the announcement of the appointment of Mr. J. Gilbert Prendergast to the position of Sports Editor. Mr. Prendergast, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, replaces Mr. Harry J. Sylvester, a junior in the same college. Mr. Sylvester resigned from the position to devote more time to pressing duties which demand his immediate attention. He will remain on the Sports staff however, as a feature writer, conducting the column, “Splinters From the Press Box.” ■
Three appointments to the news staff have also been made recently. John E. McCarthy and Herman Cohen, juniors in the School of Journalism, and Alfred E. Gall, a sophomore in the College of Engineering, are the recent appointees.
§ § §
KRIEG AND MOORE REPRESENT UNIVERSITY AT STUDENT CONFERENCE
William Krieg, chairman of the Student Activities Council, and Lawrence Moore, chairman of the Blue Circle, ai-e attending the ninth annual convention of the Mid-west Student Conference of Colleges and Universities as representatives of Notre Dame. The convention is being held February 21, 22 and 23, at the Universtiy of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Mid-west Conference is the oldest student organization in the country and is composed of thirty-three leading colleges and universities of the mid-west and south. The annual conventions are held for the purpose of discussing student problems and government.
§ § §
DAILY REHEARSALS IN ORDER FOR CAST OF “JULIUS CAESAR”
Daily rehearsals have been in order for the cast of “Julius Caesar,” the production selected by Professor Frank W. Kelly, head of the Department of Speech and Drama, and his assistants. Most of the major roles have already been cast for the play, which will be presented as part of the St. Patrick’s day program in Washington Hall, March 17. The complete cast of characters will be announced in a later issue of the Scholastic.
§ § §
BOOKS RECENTLY PURCHASED FOR LIBRARY ARE LISTED
Books acquired by the Library within the last few weeks include the following which will be of interest to the students:
Biography—Hilaire Belloc, “James the Second”; B. C. Forbes, “Automotive Giants of America”; Archibald Henderson, “European Dramatists”; W. N. Burns, “Saga of Billie the Kid”; H. C. Marillier, “Dante Gabriel Rossetti.”
History—N. M. Crouse, “In Quest of the Western Ocean”; Booth Tarkington, “The World Does Move”; Hutton Webster, “History of Mankind.”
Literature—Peader O’Donnell, “The Way It Was With Them”’; I. K. Shakhnovskii, “Short History of Russian Literature”; E. D. Johnson, “Murder.”
Religion—Official Catholic Yearbook, 1928; L. A. Weigle, “American Idealism.”
❖ A mistaken impression has gone abroad to the effect ❖ ❖ that Monty Tennes, Jr., of the class of 1928, was the ❖ •J* person mentioned in the press dispatches from Chicago ❖ ❖ as ^having been injured as a result of a domestic quarrel. ❖ ❖ The person involved was not our Monty, and was not ❖ ❖ a student at Notre Dame.	❖
The Notre Dame Scholastic
575
CAMPUS CLUBS
WISCONSIN CLUB
The Wisconsin Club held its first meeting of the new year Friday evening, February 15, in Badin hall “Rec” room. At this meeting the financial report of the dinner dance held in Milwaukee during the Christmas holidays was read by Harry Porter who acted as chairman of the affair. Although the report showed a slight finnacial deficit the majority of the members were well satisfied with the outcome of the dance because it proved to be the most enjoyable social event held in Milwaukee during the holidays.
After Mr. Porter’s report was completed the regular routine of business was taken up by the club. The main issue presented at the meeting was whether or not to have an Easter dance. After a lively discussion in which every member present participated no satisfactory decision could be reached. It was then decided that the matter should be carried over to the next meeting for further discussion, when more members would be present.
The date and place of the next meeting of the club will be announced in next week’s issue of the SCHOLASTIC.
WRANGLERS CLUB
The Wranglers Club held its regular weekly meeting Sunday morning, February 16, in the Organization Building. William Brown, a newly elected sophomore member of the club, gave a very interesting and well prepared talk on the “Puritan Element of the Law and Its Effects on Present Day Law.” In his talk Mr. Brown made several comparisons and pointed out many incidents of the influence brought into our laws todya. Following the talk a round table discussion was held with Walter Stanton, Thomas Keegan, Ed Phealen, and Edward Connors taking leading parts.
At the meeting President Joseph McNamara announced that the Wranglers club would again act as sponsors for the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest for high schools which will be held sometime this spring at Notre Dame. He appointed Walter Stanton chairman of the contest and placed him in charge of the committees to arrange the details for the event.
The next meeting of the club will be held Sunday morning, February 24, at 10 a. m. in the Organization Building.
CLEVELAND CLUB
The next meeting of the Cleveland Club will be held in the Lay Faculty Dining hall Monday, February 25, at 7:45 p. m. At this meeting a new constitution will be submitted to the club for its approval. A number of new by-laws have also been drawn up which supplement this constitution. Dick Bloom, chairman, Phil Prendergast, and Harry Gaffney were the men composing the committee whcih framed the new constitution and by-laws.
The club members are planning a banquet which is to be held on Thursday night, March 7. As yet a suitable place has not been chosen for the banquet. This and several other particulars concerning the banquet will be announced at the next meeting. The Freshman class members have charge of this affair with the following men making up the committee: John Collins, William Van Rooy, and Myron Crawford.
The Cleveland club will give no Easter Dance this year because of the Notre Dame Glee Club concert, which will be given in Cleveland during the Easter holidays. The club members decided to sacrifice their dance in order to give their full support to this concert.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
The New Jersey Club will hold its first meeting of t' e new yeai- Wednesday, February 27, at 7:45 p. m. in Badin hall “Rec” room. At the meeting Joseph Abbot, who served as chairman of the Christmas dance, will give his financial report of the affair. Much new business including plans for a banquet which is to be given soon will be up for discussion at this meeting. It is imperative that all members attend this meeting in order to aid with the clubs plans for the future.
’ PRESS CLUB
The Press Club held the second of a series of “Coffee and Chat” meetings in the Notre Dame Cafeteria Monday night. The guests, of honor at this meeting were Mark Nevils, of the editorial staff of the South Bend Tribune, and James Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, and alumni secretary.	’
Mark Nevils told the future reporters many of his experiences while breaking in as a “cub” reporter. He also explained the chief difficulties which lie in the path of the young reporter. His information disclosed some very valuable “tips” in overcoming these obstructions.
“Catholic Paper As a Field for Notre Dame Journalists” was the subject of Mr. Armstrong’s talk. Among other things he said that “because of the present nation-wide interest in the Catholic Church, the Catholic newspapers are beginning to widen their scope and quality of their articles.”
SCRIBBLERS
Father Leo Ward of the English department, and contributor to the “Midland” magazine, addressed the Scribblers Monday night on the subject of the short story. He emphasized particularly the need of concrete detail in any writing which pretends to portray life in a realistic way. During the course of his talk, he read numerous passages from the stories of Ruth Suckow, not only as examples of the excellence of detail to advance a story, but also for the beauty of detail in itself when properly handled. The Scribblers look forward to a time when they will have the pleasure of hearing Father Ward agian.
EL CLUB ESPANOL
Se reunira el Martes, Febrero veinteseis a las siete y media de la noche en la sala de la banda en el edificio Washington. Se requirse la presencia de todos los interesados en la lengua Espanola.	■
BUFFALO CLUB
All members of the Buffalo club are requested to be present at the meeting of the club which will be held in the south room of the University library Monday evening at 6:30. Important business will be discussed at this time.
576
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
❖	❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
❖	BOOK REVIEWS	♦
❖	❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖	❖ & ♦i*
“FRANKLIN’S ECONOMIC VIEWS,” by Lewis J. Carey, A. M.; Doubleday, Doran & Company, New York.
“Franklin’s Economic Views,” by Lewis J. Carey, assistant professor of Economic History at the University, is another book to add to the long list of published works by members of the Notre Dame faculty. It is an intense study of the economic views of Franklin, probably suggested to Mr. Carey during the years he was Research Librarian in the private library of William Smith Mason at Evanston, Illinois, a library which contains a valuable collection of Frankliniana. This book is important to those who have an interest in the economic history of our country since it is a personal expression of the philosophy of one of America’s greatest sons. After reading it one is amazed at the similarity in the trend of modern economic thought, for Franklin was an idealist in the sense that every thinker is an idealist, and consequently the thoughts which are collected in this volume are really colonial forecasts of the thoughts, principles, and basic ideas underlying the business and financial conditions of our day. Dr. Friedrich Schonemann, an acute critic, makes the following observation: “Through his great practical mastery of life Benjamin Franklin has become the father of the shrewd Yankee as we find him in innumerable examples in life and also in American literature. His moral transmutation of economic life in its entirety, especially, has, in the course of time, become increasingly more symbolic for America and her business men. The whole American philosophy of business traces its origin to this consistently successful son of Mercury.”
The book itself is a clear, matter-of-fact presentation of Franklin’s economic thought. An easy, fluent style makes the inherent interest of the subject matter even more appealing. The work is divided into two parts, the first seven chapters deal with strict economic thought, while the last two, though they do not follow ah economic trend are, nevertheless indirectly connected to the subject since they are dissertations of Franklin on varied subjects of deep interest.
Briefly then, the book treats of the following thoughts. As an advocate of paper money Franklin wrote constantly on this subject in his essays. His “Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency” was, in all probability, the most complete and original work of its kind published up to that time. It was widely read among the colonists, and generally accepted by them. On value and interest Franklin’s first opinion was that the value of a thing is most justly measured by labor and that interest on capital should be equal to the rent that such capital could command if invested in land. Later he changed his theory of value after he came under the influence of the Physiocrats.
Probably Franklin’s greatest contribution to economic literature was his population theory as embodied in the essay, “Observations Concerning the Increase of Mankind.” This treatise was valued by such able contemporaries as Adam Smith, Turgot, Hume, and many French economists and all were more or less influenced by it. His theory of population was practically identical with that which Malthus presented some fifty years later. Franklin was an advocate of abolition of slavery. He could see no justification whatsoever for the practice and attacked it both from a humane and economic standpoint. -In his letters to his friends and, more directly, at the English Court he used all his influence to secure the prohibition of slave importation in America. As president of the Pennsylvania Society for the Abolition of Slavery, during the last three years of his life, he was internationally.
famous. Among his many forceful dissertations on this subject, two of the most popular were “An Address to the Public” and “A Plan for Improving the Condition of the Free Blacks.”
Franklin’s first opinion upon insurance and mutual benefit societies were formed when, as a boy, he read Daniel Defoe’s “Essay on Projects.” Later in life we find him instrumental in the formation of the Philadelphia Society for Contributionship, a society formed to insure property against fire damages. He wholeheartedly approved of life annuities because they provided for old age and, in addition, they inculcated the habit of thrift.
Circumstantial evidence would lead us to believe that Franklin was of more than a little influence upon Adam Smith and his “Wealth.of Nations.” It is reasonable to believe that Franklin did give Smith some assistance in the form of criticisms and suggestions and, in particular, the American colonial point of view concerning the disputes with England prior to the Revolutionary War. In his visits to France, Franklin met that group of economists known as the Physiocrats. He accepted many of their theories probably because th ay, like he, were opposed to the British theory of Mercantilism. Later he became intimate with many of the leaders of this French school and gradually he accepted the whole of their philosophy. Their influence is readily discernable in most of his later work. .
Of the two chapters not following the economic .trend, the one, “Franklin’s Services and Interests in the Promotion of Agriculture, Silk Culture and Botany,” illustrates a few of his varied interests. He introduced silk culture into Pennsylvania but the stringencies of war stifled this industry before it was firmly established. He also exchanged specimens with many prominent botanists of the continent and is responsible for the mutual benefits derived. The last chapter entitled “Miscellanea,” includes Franklin’s opinion on many varied topics, some only remotely connected to the subject matter. Among those discussed are: import and export duties, internal and external taxes, representation and descent of property interests, patents, wages, and immigration.
—J. L. c.
♦ FROM FILES OF THE "SCHOLASTIC” ♦
ISSUE OF SEPTEMBER 26, 1885
A pleasing exhibition of club-swinging and trapeze exercises was given from the stage of the Music Hall last Thursday afternoon. The skill of the athletes excited universal, admiration. In particular the Indian Club exercises displayed grace and poetry of motion combined with extraordinary skill and endurance.
ISSUE OF MARCH 9, 1872
The pupils have commenced their dancing lessons, not that they may become ball-room devotees but rather that they may acquire that habitual, easy, modest self-possession in their movements, so essential to refined deportment.
ISSUE OF NOVEMBER 25, 1871
Every Wednesday evening is devoted to musical reunions, at which the pupils of each class have an opportunity of showing their proficiency in scales and exercises.
ISSUE OF MARCH 9, 1872
The monthly specimens from the penmanship classes were, as a whole, very good. The best will be noted in the honorable mention for penmanship in the next number.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	577
OUK OWN COLOR KOTO SECTION
This feature is furnished to our readers with the regular Eriday issue at no extra cost.
PARTING
(Lila)
A senseless croivd;
Iron railings, fenced-in squares;
Ticket punchers, baggage smashers;
Porters. A roiv of tracks.
A tine of cars; smoke And steam, and noise. Lanterns lighted, useless in the light. Noise, crowd, dirt, rush, but you, in all—
A Kiss
Multitudes dissolved;
Trellised gardens, beds of flowers,
Ethereal creatures; beauty, Peace and quiet; vapor clouds; Twinkling stars in heaven— But you were gone!
—WAZMUS.
This headline appeared in the February 15th Chicago H erald-Examin er:
HOUSE TO ACT SATURDAY ON ALIEN GANG BILL Deportation of Foreign Gunmen Sought.
No doubt this is another move to -protect home industry.
* * $ $
LINES BY THE POUND	'
I know a Beagle puppy— A breed to zuhom the hunt
Is usually second nature, But you should see this runt!
His romping ground is measured
By seven feet of chain;	'
He rots for months, a prisoner, Out near the stable lane.
He never pupp-antics
■	As all good puppies should;
The jerking of the collar Has spoiled his puppyhood.
His master takes him hunting, Say, once or twice a year, And wonders why mere shadows Should fill his pup with fear!
-	Pd love to put the master
Who’d chain his puppy in, In irons near the stable
To make his puppy grin.
—NUMBER 55.
SEVEN GANGSTERS SLAIN
Here are seen seven members of the famous Moron gang of Chicago as lined up against the wall of a warehouse by members of the notorious Lavender gang of Detroit in the opening American league contest of the season.
The Lavender gangsters came into the warehouse apparently to collect a bill for protection during the month of January (they were disguised as policemen). The local lads claimed that they had just spent their last pennies for cigarettes. Pretending that they were going to search them for the cigarettes, the Lavender gangsters lined the boys up against the wall and trained a machine gun on them.
“Now,” said the head of the Lavender outfit, “I hear that you boys have been cutting into our bay rum sales. Will you promise to quit that, or will I have to shoot?”
“Dear Dear!” replied the head of the Moron gang, “you simply slay me!”
There was a rattle of machine-gun fire. When the judge was told of the last remark made by the Chicago gangsters, the charge was changed from murder to justifiable homicide.
§ § §
Due to our complete and exclusive story of gang war in Chicago which appears together with photographs in this issue, and to the deluge of entries we have received, we have not sufficient space to give the returns of our worst pun of the week contest, but we will have the result for you next week.
—YE ERRING KNIGHT.
578
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In answer to the question, “What type of man do you prefer?” the co-eds at Louisiana State University, according to The Reveille, stated their- preference for tall, dark, good looking men, who are neat in appearance and wear clothes that are not too collegiate. Triflers are not popular. Most of the girls favored men who are good dancers. Other qualities in demand are sweetness, thoughtfulness, good manners, and wit.
“One Sophomore,” says The Reveille, “was very emphatic on two points. ‘When he’s through college he must quit wearing his fraternity pin, and start wearing garters.’ Another young woman summed up her ideas in a few words. ‘I want a man who has been places, and seen things. He’s got to be sophisticated.’ A popular- senior gave her ideal in these words. ‘Strong, quiet men.’ A graduate student, well known for her radicalism, said, ‘My ideal must be very reserved, must not drink or smoke, and must be a real pal.’ ”
* * * * •
At Steven college, sleep in the form of an afternoon siesta is included in the girls’ curriculum. Six hundred Steven’s girl students sleep each afternoon between one and two o'clock. Members of the faculty report that this innovation has brought about a noticeable scholastic movement.
* * * * .
From The. Pacific Star, published-monthly by the students of Mt. Angel college, St. Benedict, Oregon:
On the list of lucky persons who captured turkeys, geese, and chickens which were thrown from the roofs of business places in Mt. Angel on the day before Christmas, were the names of five students attending school at Mt. Angel College. Although some of the boys didn’t have to work as hard as the others in getting their prize; nevertheless they all deserved their reward, considering the fact that hundreds of other persons were there with the same intention, willing to stake their all in a wild scramble to capture a free appetite appeaser.
University Play Director Gives Honest Opinion—headline in Southern California Dai'y Trojan.
How strange I
Sji
A tale of an imprisoned class and of an instructor who said other things besides French conjugations, as told by The Daily Orange of Syracuse University:
“The class is dismissed.
“There was a mad rush for the door. Someone, with a vivid vision of beans before him, reached the door first, but pulled too fiercely on the knob, making his hungry classmates prisoners.
“The ingenious French instructor examined the mechanism that barred’ the way to liberty and beans, made a wild
request for button-hooks, toothpicks, ‘anything with a crook in it.’
“A mob of students clamored for beans. Several Jimmy Valentines offered useless suggestions. A sweating instructor twitched his eyebrows frantically.
“Suddenly a hairpin was waved aloft. The instructor grasped it, twitched the lock and his eyebrow again, and opened the door.”
* * * *
Regulations outlawing smoking by women in public places, on the campus, and campus buildings, have been struck out as the result of action of the Women’s conference at Leland Stanford University. This action follows similar steps being taken on most of the co-educational campuses in the country.
* ❖ *
On the unquenchable ardor of a freshman at Niagara University, New York, as described by The Niagara Index:
“Festivities at the recent Frosh-Soph inter-class battle were considerably enlivened by a tug-of-war between halves. The incident -wasn’t on the program at all, but that didn’t make any difference. For those -who are still in ‘the dark as to what happened, it was like this. Joe Villa was devoting his lung-power to the Freshman cause and was on the Freshman side of the court. The Sophs craved Joe’s presence on their own side, so they took steps to transfer the said presence. But the Frosh thought otherwise. A free-for-all immediately started, with Joe unfortunately on the receiving end of most of the -warfare. The Sophs finally carried out their purpose; but that didn’t seem to diminish'Joe’s ardoi-a bit, for a little later he was back again with the Frosh cheering contingent.”
• $ $
A bed collapsed at one of the fraternity houses about 11 o’clock last night.
Fortunately, it happened early and not everyone was in bed yet. As it happened only eight were injured.—Oregon Daily Emerald.	.
* ❖ * *
A contest limited to co-eds for the purpose of finding out what student is the answer to a maiden’s prayer was held at Kansas U. The winner- got a golden apple.
* st: $	~
Good students study less than those who receive the lower grades, according to Dr. Herbert A. Toops of the department of psychology at Ohio State University.
Questionnaires answered by the students in the psychology department revealed that those who received the best grades studied only twenty hours a week, while those with lower marks studied as much as fifty hours a week. The student receiving the average grade studies about thirty hours a week, according to the survey.
The moral, it seems, is—don’t study too much.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	579
□
LENTEN LEADING
The Nbtre Dame student seems to be blind, blind after the fashion of those who cannot see the forest • for the trees, aftei’ the fashion of those to whom the distant fields are always the greener. Here, even in the intimate contact maintained with the very soul of the Church, sight is lost of the fact that this same Church furnishes a most fecund field for reading, for browsing in the days of the past.
A timely incentive for this sort of self-education has been afforded by the recent concordat signed by the Pope and Mussolini relative to the. creation once more of a Papal state. A student in a Catholic .	• college owes it, not only to his religion, but also to himself to furnish himself with the necessary historical
background for the intelligent discussion of such events, events whose roots extend back many centuries.
Last week’s issue of the Scholastic published a sketch by Dr. James J. Walsh under the caption, “The Role of-Catholic Physicians and Scientists in the Advancement of Civilization.”’ The author might
• have just as easily replaced the Physicians and Scientists in the title with any other professor, and had just as much material to choose from for his article.
The Church has ever been the greatest socializing agency the world has known, the most brilliant '*' lighthouse of knowledge, no matter how dark and gloomy the times. It is she who was, and is, the most*, generous patron of the arts and sciences, the most jealous guardian of the truth.
Now that the more public and communal recreations for the most part have been curtailed, it is a , peculiarly apropos season for an introduction or else a more familiar appreciation of the functions of the Church. Catholics generally are expected to be able to answer any question on such matters put to them
■* by the members of another creed. How much greater then is the responsibility of one holding a Catholic college degree?	—D. w. S.
TEIE ^r CHE IIIEKI"	.
The men of ’29 are officially on the “home stretch.” They observed Washington’s birthday in the traditional manner this morning, and in so doing, definitely announced to the University that they are
* cognizant of the fact. For the thirty-third consecutive year the member of the graduating class fulfilled tradition by assembling in Washington hall attired in cap and gown to pay tribute to the greatest American, and to present to the University a flag symbolic of the loyalty of Notre Dame in matters of state.
The usual exercises commemorating the event were held in the historic building. They were conducted as customary, with the utmost simplicity, yet a simplicity that was tremendously impressive because it marked the first official act. of the class as a senior group.	.	,	.	•
! In less than three months, the four hundred and forty men who participated in the exercises this morning, the largest senior class since the founding of Notre Dame, will once more don their caps and gowns to participate in their last official act as undergraduate students of the University—graduation. And the time until that all-important second day of June will pass quickly, too quickly. Only five weeks remain until the Easter holidays, and after that recess the men of ’29 will have but a very short time
M ’ before they will be numbered among the alumni.
>	The seniors are indeed upon the “home stretch.” Their years of endeavor towards a degree will
fructify this June when they will forever bid the University good-bye as undergraduates. They have been on this “home stretch” since the present semester started. The exercises this morning, however, served to bring home the realization to those who had not already appreciated the fact, that they were on this “home stretch.” The handwriting of graduation is definitely on the wall of their undergraduate j careers. Their days at the University are numbered; and their entrance into the worlds of commerce, journalism, engineering, law, science and the other professions for which they so arduously prepai'ed nt Notre Dame, is almost at hand.
It is not necessary to remind the men of ’29 what these last few months mean to them. They are seniors, and as such, should appreciate the fact that it is the “home stretch” that counts. —J. V. H.
580
The Noire Dame Scholastic
Misho
JOHN L. NANOVIC
LONELY and sad, Misho sat by the window. Across his full, strong face fell a trellised shadow, part of a larger shadow that eagerly filled the window, to overflow the room, for the sun was low behind the new “skeleton” breaker. There sat Misho, waiting for his father to come home—to come out of the earth wherein he toiled, to the surface on which he lived. The boy was sad because his young life of fourteen summers would soon end. As soon as that black skeleton which cast its figure on his face would be covered with the large metal sheets waiting near by, he too would leave the school and the boys and girls who lived happily and healthfully above ground. He must go to join his father and those lost beings underground.
Crushers, shaft heads, slag piles—was this all there was to life, these great, black structures rising high into the air, and as if not satisfied with their supremacy above, even groping down deep within earth, twice-crowned kings? Was there nothing more to human being than to hide from the world—from God’s heaven and the sun and the trees and the earth—to dwell within its innermost depths? Was he to live like all others, and die like them, with less joy of living than a machine?
He thought of his father, and of the other fathers, the toiling men dead in living, the men who tore earth’s dark heart to pieces. Each morning they would rise before the tardy sun had cast its first rays over the black ground, and, like beasts of the forest, go toward the breaker, dumb offerings to a heartless master. Handfuls of them would step upon the “lift” and drop down, away down, to their underworld prison, where in the pitchy blackness their flares would light the black world in which they worked, splitting and nackmg, digging, and shoveling the load for the sighless mules, to which they were no more than brothers.-
He saw their faces, ghastly like his father’s from the heavy air. The color of his own cheeks would leave them, too, and the breath in his own skin would be choked by the dust and the dampness. That stolidness would fade, and there would be hollows there. His eyes would no longer sparkle; there would be ghosts in them—ghosts of things and places above earth which they no longer saw. He, too, would reach his hand to his forehead, mechanically adjusting the lamp that was not there. His ears would feel that quiet thunder of deepest earth, and hear nothing else. His shoulders, now straight, would droop from lost hope, his arms would hang lifeless at his side, and his feet would learn that shambling gait. He would learn how to bend his knees as the “lift” hit the bottom, to ease the shock.
Yes, he, too, would soon become one of these. He would be a number all the day, and when night came, he would like a coward sneak from his deep cavern to the little shack in which he slept—to his home and his family. He would blink at the brightness of the lamp and would curse the laughter of the children as it fell upon his ears. He would
eat, and then he would go into town—to the hall—to drink and swear and fight and sing all night. Then he would come home and sleep, and the next morning he would again follow the herd to the gaping earth. Thus Misho’s life, now just beginning, would be spent.
It was growing darker. The shadow upon his face was melting. This was the last time he would see the sun sink slowly beneath that huge jagged mountain of slag—the refuse of the Black Monarch. He would not see that street through which he had often ran at sundown, hurrying at the call of his mother. The deepening shadows seemed even now to be hiding it from him—, hiding those rickety buildings, with their dingy windows, now beginning to stream a callous yellow light. His peering gaze, eagerly spreading itself ■ upon the darkness, could distinguish a random child hastening toward one of the shacks. He would have looked longer, but the blackness rushed to his face, into his eyes, and laughed mockingly in his ears.
His world of youth was gone—he was a man now, and how he hated that manhood! How he would shed that mantle which conceals all that is free, all that is true, all that is good in man! For him it covered the world of life. For him it was only a free imprisonment more bitter than that behind bars because it was so free. What was the world to him henceforth? What to him were wars and conquests, adventure, romance, beauty, achievements? The Fates had set him his task, and he would have to follow in their call. Among a people ambitious' only to exist, there was no code but that of stern obedience. The son was not father to the man, but the man was ruler of his son. Rebellion was not brooked; defiance was intolerable. Nobler was the suppliant who bore his. yoke unto his grave; nobler was the unwilling martyr who complained not than the spirit that longed for greater things. These pigmied minds did not esteem the soul that sought the world of larger compass; they scorned it. They could not see the charm in a rose at dawn, because they saw neither the dawn nor the rose. They did not long for sights of grandeur, for broad lakes, cool rambling brooks, or for whispering trees, because all their lives were spent in a blackness that revealed nothing. Their lives were as narrow and low as those black lanes in which he would soon dwell.
The night had now covered everything. More faltering streams of light, coming through dirty window panes, pierced the darkness with broken spears of light. Down at the “workings” the bright lights were beaming, and the men were moving about. The day’s work was done, and Misho’s father would be home in a few minutes. He watched the men straggle to their homes, and saw his father, the hulk of a once powerful body, wearily approach the house and enter. Under his arm he carried a package. It was a dinner pail, the symbol of membership in the realm of manhood. But to Misho it was the tombstone of youth and life.
The Notre Dame Schola
s
tic
581
Feelings of A Sensitive Man in Much Company
DENNIS J. SHANAHAN
MUCH company, as Cowley would have it, is found only in the crowded cities. Evidently Cowley never attended boarding school, for if he had he would have found that much company there has a much greater “intension” than he was aware of. A stranger in a great city might be very much alone, but to be alone in a boarding school is the next thing to impossibility. It is the lot of most of us to have at least one roommate, eleven tablemates, and hundreds of class mates. No one will deny that this is much company, that this is very intimate company.
The shy, sensitive freshman steps uneasily (by his very nature it could not be otherwise) from the sheltering wings of home directly onto the stage set for his boarding school life. He is an unnoticed minor actor, surely, but he feels immediately that he is the cynosure of inquisitive, derisive eyes. He is wounded a thousand times a day during the first few months of the new life. At the slightest harsh word from an instructor, the slightest reprimand of a prefect, he reddens painfully and then imitates the delicate mimosa by protecting himself under the closed petals of silence. His hero during these trying times is not, as one might imagine, the football captain; it is one of his acquaintances who is known as a “good mixer.” He cannot know then, of course, that this-gifted friend will turn out to be an insurance agent; that he is so thorough a “mixer” that the batter he produces will likely result in boredom and disgust. The freshman tries hard to imitate him, to slap people on the back without feeling at the same time very much like Mr. New-rich at his first reception among the elite. He is not successful. He fears the public rebuff which might be administered to him; he dreads the pointing finger of scorn. Ridicule is his most feared enemy, one before which even the rhino-skinned Murad smoker invariably quails.
When the curtain rises on Act Two we perceive that the setting is the same as that used in Act One. The school has not changed very much. The campus is merely a bit more muddy. But what has happened to our timid minor character? We must peer closely to recognize him. Something has happened while we were taking our cigarette and stroll between acts. Strident commands of professors, green slips carrying sharp warnings from deans, and accusations and indictments by all-powerful boards fail to disturb his equanimity. He remains as serene and undisturbed as did the windmill when Quixote made his futile charges. What has taken place? Has this young man lost his sensitiveness? No. He has merely assumed a prospective covering. When these sensibilities are attacked he becomes an armadillo and presents only an armor-plate indifference to the assailants. Jibes and insults ricochet from this defense, skip harmlessly along the waters of unconcern, and then sink from hearing forever. Vituperation or the less severe “riding” only evoke _from him replies in kind but not more kind.
What has brought about this change? You’ve guessed it. Association in much company has turned the trick. Cowley saw this association as something to be avoided, something to be abhorred. In this case, however, he would have to revise his opinion, for here much company was the wholesome antidote which dislodged the painful breeders of the distressing affliction called sensitiveness. These breeders are
solitude and pride. Now let us proceed to see in what way much company affected this cure.
The minor cause was first eliminated. This minor cause was solitude. How can a man be alone at boarding school? How can he remain aloof from the man next door who has borrowed his overcoat on the strength of a ten-minute aquaintanceship? How can he maintain only a surface friendship for the neighbor who asks for his criticism of the letters received from “the nicest kid in Naugatuck”? How can he afford to be merely “the fellow two doors down” with the man who always has the next day’s duties finished the night before? He just can’t!
Now pride was a much more worthy antagonist for much company. Sensitiveness in man is directly related to the amount of pride he possesses. The proud man resents instantly the least criticism leveled at him. To ridicule him is to make an instant enemy for yourself. Witness the results of the inordinate pride of Nero. The Beast thought that his voice was divine and his poetry surpassing. (The descriptive adjectives were furnished by the ward heelers of the day who had friends seeking consulates in Africa.) Consequently when one of his braver courtiers ventured to grin sardonically when the Emperor’s voice cracked on high C, he merely cut another notch in his fiddle and spoke a few well chosen words into the ear of the offender. At these words the unfortunate courtier, if he were a follower of Seneca, summoned his chair and rode calmly to his villa and a philosophical exit. If he were less stoical he pleaded vainly with Nero and in the end accomplished the same result; but he made much more fuss about it. A jump into the Tiber is not as spectacular or trying as a slight slash at the veins of the wrist. Others are less proud than Nero was, of course, but they are no less sensitive than they are proud. Our minor charactei- possessed pride in too great a measure when he made his debut in the play we have been witnessing. He lost this pride rapidly, though, when its nourishment was taken away. Even had he been wealthy he could not have long remained proud of that fact when he found that in his new environment this potent sesame lost its effectiveness to force open the gates of companionship. Corduroy-clad, hobnailed young men don’t consider wealth as much of a social asset. Pride of intellect can’t exist long, either, when you find that the more you know the more you know you don’t know.	'	'
With solitude and pride banished by Dr. Company, sensitiveness had little else to thrive on. With its loss, however, our actor gained. His gain was the attainment of an indifference to non-essential criticism. This attainment will be of considerable value to him in the more severe battles of non-collegiate life. In the increasingly complicating fight to gain a living, people rarely stop to consider the other man’s feelings. They ask for no quarter and they give none. To go into this conflict as poorly armed as Cowley’s “native . Americans,” would be to court many hundreds of painful wounds each day. But as the curtain descends on the Second Act we see that our young friend is armed cap a pied for this conflict which will take place in the Third Act, about one year from now.
582
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I
El

From out the impenetrable blackness of the night, A myriad of mysterious snozvflakes, silent, fall.
Like cluttered bits of cotton, hide the pall
Of darkness in a flickering, ghostly light.
Around me note, deep shadows blanche in fright Then disappear before this spectral wall;
Both day and night are exiled; over all
A wierd, uneven filament of white.
How beautiful? Ah, friend, a magic art To match those zointer windows of Jack Frost, But just as lifeless. Like the Beauty in Death, A brilliant, waxen form tvithout a heart;
The soulless Beauty of a world that lost
Its sun, or Love, its living breath.
—JOHN W. GIBBONS.
The lifeless petals of a faded flower, That fall from stiffened fingers of the sky, Are remnants of a vanished hour That shed its glory and panoply.
Upon the anvil of a cloud
These foils of snow were hammered thin, To make a candid burial shroud
For earth, and wrap its soulless visage in.
—J. w. s., c. s. c.
iB555B5H5B5HSZ5a5a5B5B5g5tl5g5B5g5B5t!Sc!5tZ555gSt!5gsgS5StiEa5g5^^
or
B5Bsa5a5B5g5B525B5a5B5B5B5a5B5B5a5a5a5B5a525B5a5B5g5a5a5a5a5a5B5B525a5B5B5B5B5B5a5B5B5B5g5B5asBsa5BSB5a5B5Bg
The Notre Dame Scholastic	583
Illinois Trackmen Conquer Notre Dame
Score 61 1-2 to 33 1-2; Three Records Broken or Equalled During Meet
Capturing eight of the eleven events which comprised the program of the annual Illinois-Notre Dame indoor track feud, Coach Harry Gill’s trackmen repeated their triumphs of previous years over Notre Dame track teams subjugating their hosts under a 61 1-2 to 33 1-2 score. Although the Illini were victors by twenty-eight points, Coach John Nicholson’s proteges forced them to the limit in every event and deserve commendation for the showing they made against one of the finest track teams in the country. The meet was staged in the Blue and Gold gym, before a crowd of four-thousand people.	■
The meet was featured by brilliant duels in practically every event. In fact, so intense was the competition that one world’s record was tied, a gymnasium mark was broken, and a second gym record was equalled twice during the course of the evening’s program. Captain Elder of Notre Dame, tied the world’s record for the 60 yard dash; Simon of the Illini broad-jumped to a new gym mark; Sent-man of the visitors, twice equalled the gym record in the 60 yard high hurdles. Other' sensational performances during the meet were the effort of Abbott of the Illini, in the two mile run, Harper and McDermott of the guests, in the pole vault, and Quigley and Walsh of Notre Dame in the quarter and shot put respectively.
Neither team succeeded in making a clean sweep in any one event, although the visitors came within a half point of this achievement in the high jump. The Illini were also manifestly superior in the pole vault, taking first and second places by a comfortable margin. At the conclusion of this event, Harper, one of the winners, attempted a vault of thirteen feet in an effort to better the gym record set by Glazer of Marquette two years ago. Ken Fishleigh, the only Notre Dame man to qualify for points, cleared twelve feet, showing a remarkable improvement over his previous attainments.
Captain Elder, the Kentucky flash, continued his habit of tying the world’s record for the 60 yard dash when he covered the distance in 6 1-5 seconds. The flying Colonel was hard-pressed by Timm, Illinois football star, who got off to a fast start and led the Blue and Gold captain until the twenty-yard mark was reached when. Elder with a desperate burst of speed breasted the tape inches ahead of his rival. Ken Boagni of Notre Dame, came from behind to clinch third place after an interesting duel with Burkhart of Illinois, the fourth man in the finals of the race.
Simon, of the guests, shattered the gym mark for the broad jump by 1-2 inch. His effort of 22 feet 9 inches barely surpassed Gilfillian’s, an old Notre Dame track star’s record jump registered in 1919.
Johnny O’Brien of the hosts, forced Sentman of the Illini
the whole route in the 60 yard high hurdles, and the Illinois flash had to tie O’Brien’s own gym record which he held jointly with Joe Griffin, last year’s captain, before he was able to defeat the Notre Dame sophomore by less than a foot. Rodgers of the Champagne outfit finished third, but only after* Conlin of Notre Dame had given him a spirited battle for the honor.
Abbott, Hlnois’ stellar distance runner, gave the fans a demonstration of the way an Olympic man steps off two miles, covering the sixteen laps in 9:36.5.- The blond Nurmi finished his race far in the van of his opponents, leading Vaichulis to the tape by more than a hundred yards. It was quite evident that Abbott was seeking to surpass the-gym record of 9:34.2, and had he been more closely pressed, it is more than probable that he would have bettered that mark.
It was in the shot-put that Coach Nicholson’s proteges won their highest honors, Walsh and Hoffman copping first and second places respectively. Bob Walsh who, like his famous fathei* and brother, has been endowed with the name “Big,” heaved the iron ball 43 feet, 8 inches, to win the . strong-arm event with comparative ease. Hoffman cleared the forty-foot mark, comfortably ahead of Fox, the Illinois point-winner. This was the only event in which the Illini displayed any chronic weakness, their aggregate score in the weights being exactly one point.
Tom Quigley gave the Notre Dame cohorts occasion to rejoice by running a beautiful race in the quarter mile dash, breaking the tape several yards ahead of two Illini. Although the time chalked up for this event, :53.5, would not ordinarily be very impressive, the condition of the track rendered it far better than should have been expected. Running anchor man in the mile relay, Quigley would, in all probability, have repeated his splendid performance, had not an unfortunate accident intervened. It seems that Cunningham, finishing the third race of the relay, and Quigley were unable to pass the baton with harmony; so that when the Notre Dame anchor man should have been setting the pace around the first turn in the track, he was actually stopping to recover an elusive baton. This accident cost Notre Dame the relay race, . and a ten-point margin in the final box score, as Cunningham was possessed of a small lead over his opponent when it occured.
Summaries:	j
60-yard Dash—Won by Elder (ND); Timm (I), second; Boagni, (ND), third. Time—:06.2 (equalling world’s record.)
. Pole Vault—Harper (I) and McDermont (I) tied for first; Fishleigh (ND), third. Height—12 feet, 6 inches.
One Mile Run—Won by Stine (I); W. Brown (ND), second; Biggins (ND), third. Time—4:32.8.
584
The Notre DameScholastic
60-yard High Hurdles—Won by Sentman (I); O’Brien (ND), second; Rodgers (I), third. Time— :07.2 (equalling gym record.)
High Jump—Won by Carr (I); Leonard (I), second; Sentman (I), and Welchons (ND), tied for third. Height— 5 feet, 10 inches.
Broad Jump—Won by Simon (I); Replogle (I), second; Purtell (ND), third. Distance—22 feet, 9 inches.
440-yard Run—Won by Quigley (ND); Bertlesman (I), second; Hundley (I), third. Time—:53.5.
880-yard Run—Won by White (I); Orlovich (I), second; ■ Stephan (ND), third. Time—2:03.
Shot Put—Won by Walsh (ND); Hoffman (ND), second; Fox (I), third. Distance—43 feet, 8 inches.
Two Mile Run—Won by Abbott (I); Vaichulis (ND), second; J. Brown (ND), third. Time—9:36.5.
One Mile Relay—Won by Illinois (Kelly, Nickol, Orlo-vich, and Bertlesman). Time—3:33.
§ § §
GAGERS UPSET GREAT BUTLER TEAM WITH 24-21 SCORE
Continuing the brilliant form displayed against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame last Friday defeated Butler by a score of 24 to 21. The game, which was played at Butler’s new field house, was one of the hardest fought that the Blue and Gold had experienced this season. It was won only after a sensational rally by the Bulldogs in the closing minutes of the game was halted by the final gun. Butler, rated as one of the strongest teams in the country, had met defeat only once this season until last Friday’s setback. The setback also marked the first loss the Bulldogs have experienced in their recently completed fieldhouse, which was dedicated last spring.
The game opened up swiftly with both teams using a fast-breaking style of attack. Hosier, Butler guard, inaugurated the scoring in the first few minutes of the game when he converted Donovan’s foul. The visitors quickly retaliated, however, with two field goals and a foul which gave them the lead, and never again were they headed.
Colrick played a stellar game at center, breaking away three times in the first half to score from under the basket. The first period was marked by the air-tight defensive games of both teams, but Notre Dame’s accuracy was superior, and at half time the Blue and Gold had a four-point advantage, 15 to 11.
For the first five minutes of the second half the Bulldogs were unable to pierce the impregnable Notre Dame defense, during which time their guests gradually boosted their score. With the score 24 to 16 against them, and with only a few minutes left to play, Butler suddenly unleashed a brilliant attack coupled with a strong defense, which advanced the score to within three points of a tie. Christopher, Chandler, and Hosier were the leaders in this rally. At the final gun both teams were fighting desperately for possession of the baR.
The contest was exceptionally rough, nineteen personal fouls being called during the game. Ten were chalked up on Notre Dame, and nine on Butler. Butler passed up a great opportunity to boost its point total when it missed ten out of its nineteen free throws. Hildebrand, Butler center, and Donovan and Bray, Notre Dame guards, were removed from the game with four personals each.
John Colrick, elongated Notre Dame tip-off man, led both teams in scoring from the floor, registering a quartet of two-pointers, all of which came at extremely opportune times. Chandler of the Indianapolis team was the high point scorer of the engagement with a trio of field goals and five successful foul tosses to his credit.
Week of February 24th
Palace Theatre
Radio-Keith-Qrpheum
SUNDAY thru TUESDAY
AL TRAHAN
On Tour with Lady Marie Duval
—in—
“The Curtain Speech"
Headlining a “wow” bill with a riot of mirth.
WEDNESDAY thru SATURDAY The Internationally Famous Stage and Screen Star-
Miss Betty Blythe
—in—
“Musical Moods"
U. S Indian Reservation Band
22 Full-blooded Indians in a Spectacular offering
“From Camp to Campus ’9
Other Artists and Attractions.
SUN., MON., TUES.
William Boyd
zvith
ALAN HALE ROBERT ARMSTRONG
FRED KOHLER	DIANA ELLIS
•	.	—in—
“The Leatherneck"
WED., THURS., FRL, SAT.
GRETA GARBO
—in—
“ Wild Orchids”
,	with
NILS ASTHER and LEWIS STONE
| Radio-Keithr-Orpheum Theatres |
The Notre Dame Scholastic
585 -
PUBLIX CELEBRATION WEEK Inaugurating a new starting point in youi' memory of good shows.
C«u*X
Home of Paramount Pictures
4 Days—SAT.-TUES.—4 Days
What is the Sin that is Greater than any other Sin? ....
SEE AND HEAR
DOLORES COSTELLO
in
“The Redeeming Sin”
A Warner Brothers VITAPHONE TALKING
PICTURE with CONRAD NAGEL —Also—
Celebration Week Novelties
3 Days—WED.-FRI.—3 Days
BROADWAY
Comes to
SOUTH BEND
An entire New York Production with its original cast of stage stars brought to your door through the medium of Movietone ..
Paramount presents
RUTH CHATTERTON | The Dummy” \
An	-
ALL-TALKING FARCE
with
Zazu Pitts and Mickey Bennett You’ll roai- at this talking comedy of the dummy of the detective who talked in his sleep.
Colrick, together with Co-captain Crowe and Donovan, played the best basketball for the Blue and Gold. The veterans Christopher and Chandler were the backbone of the Butler play. Summary:
Notre Dame (24)	Butler (21)
B F p	b , F P
Crowe, f_____________2	1	1	Chandler, f__________3	5	2
Jachym, f____________1	0	0	White, f_____________1	1	1
Colrick, c___________4	0	1	Hildebrand,	c_______1	0	4
Donovan, g___________1	0	4	Hosier, g--------:—1	1	1
Bray, g--------------0	1	4	Bugg, g, c-----------0	0	1
Moynihan, g__________1	1	0	Christopher,	g_______0	2	0
Smith, g_____________0	3	1
Totals_______________9	6	11	Totals_______________6	9	9
Score at half—Notre Dame, 15; Butler, 11. Referee— Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio. Umpire—Schommer, Chicago, Hl.
§ § §
ELDER’S GREAT WIN OVER WILLIAMS FURNISHES UPSET AT NEW YORK MEET
Jack Elder, Notre Dame’s track captain, furnished the biggest upset in the New York Athletic club’s annual games last Monday evening by defeating Percy Williams, Canadian and Olympic sprint champion, in the 60-yard dash. Elder’s time was :06 2-5, a fraction above the world’s record of :06 1-5.
Williams had never before been defeated either outdoors or indoors. Just a week ago Elder had been trimmed by Williams at Philadelphia, Pa., in the Meadowbrook games, but in last Monday’s race, Elder beat Willaims off the mark, held a lead all the way and stood off the Canadian’s great closing challenge to win decisively.
In defeating Williams, Elder was also forced to beat out Jimmy Quinn of the New York Athletic Club who copped the same event in last year’s games. Quinn equalled the world’s record of :06 1-5 in taking the event last year but was unable to come close to Elder last Monday night.
The 60-yard dash was ran off as the feature event of the evening and the 12,000 spectators were set to see Williams cop a supposedly easy win. Karl Wildermuth and Jimmy-Daley, the only two who were conceded a change of stopping the winning streak of the Canadian, schoolboy, did not appear. Jack Elder, Percy Williams, Jimmy Wiese, also of the N. Y. A. C., and Jimmy Quinn were the only contestants.
§ § §
BASEBALL SQUAD CUT TO 53 BY COACH MILLS
Rounding into the third week of baseball practice finds the list of aspirants for berths on the Notre Dame nine cut almost in half. Coach Tommy Mills this week cut all but 53 out of the original squad of 100. On the squad of 53 players there are 16 pitchers, seven catchers, three first basemen, three second basemen, four third basemen, seven shortstops, and 13 outfielders.
§ § §
YEARLING TRACKSTERS BEAT ILLINOIS FROSH, 431/2 TO 371/2
The Notre Dame freshmen spike shoe artists trounced the Illini yearlings in a telegraphic meet held in the gymnasiums of the two universities, Thursday and Friday afternoons, February 14th and 15th. The final score was 43 1-2 to 37 1-2.
Wilson, high point man for Notre Dame, took first place in the quarter-mile and half-mile runs. Out of ten events, the Irish yearlings registered first places in the broad jump, the 60-yard high hurdles, the 440-yard dash, and the mile run. The freshmen also scored a grand slam in the half mile event.
586
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The summary:
60 yard dash—McCormick and Branstetter, Notre Dame, and Useman and Hampton, Illinois, tied for first place. Time, :06.6.
440 yard dash—Won by Wilson, Notre Dame; Sultan, Illinois, second; Miller, Notre Dame, third. Time, :51.6.
Broad jump—Won by Hutton, Notre Dame; Wanger, Illinois, second; Roti, Illinois, third. Distance, 21 feet, 9 inches.
Pole vault Won by Morrison, Illinois; Behrman, Notre Dame, and Frey, Illinois, tied for second place. Height, 11 feet, 11 1-4 inches.
60 yard high hurdles—Won by Vaughn, Notre Dame; Hol-bach, Notre Dame, second; Navarro and Kepler, Illinois, tied for third. Time, :08.4.
Shot put—Won by Moos, Illinois; Brill, Notre Dame, second; Purma, Illinois, third. Distance, 41 feet, 7 inches.
High jump—Won by Kirkpatrick, Illinois; Navarro, Illinois, second; Darling, Notre Dame, third. Height, 5 ft., 9 in. ( 880 yard run—Won by Wilson, Notre Dame; Touhy, Notre Dame, second; Rudd, Notre Dame, third. Time, 2:00.5.
One mile run—Won by Howery, Notre Dame; Jones, Illinois, second; Roberts, Illinois, third. Time, 4:39.5.

That 47th
Improvement
Pressureless Touch
Geo. S. Packer’s latest, in the Modern Duofold—aids college work immensely
Think of this: Apen that’s 28 fo lighter than rubber, yet this light weight alone is all that is required to start it writing at the first touch of the point to paper. And keep it writing—smoothly, evenly and beautifully at any speed!
Finger-pressure is relieved! No bearing down! No effort! Merely guidance from your hand —the pen itself does all the writing for you!
And none of the interruptions or intrusions that any other kind of pen has ever caused before— a gliding, smooth response that clears the track for THINKING, thus producing BETTER thoughts for class-room or home work.
So smooth and even that all papers take ink better from it.
This is Geo. S. Parker’s 47th Improvement in a fountain pen, known as Parker Pressureless Touch.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville. Wis.
OFFICES AND SUBSIDIARIES:
NEW YORK • CHICAGO • ATLANTA BUFFALO ' DALLAS ' SAN FRANCISCO TORONTO. CANADA • LONDON, ENGLAND
Special Senior Duofolds for men, 'with 24% greater ink capacity than average
Dinfold Pencils to motet pens, $3, $3.50, $4 rod$5, according to sine and foist.
fold is a pen of lifelong perfection, we offer to make good any defect, prov ided completepen is sent by the owner direct to the factory with 10c for return postage and insurance.
Duofold
Pens £5 to £10, according to size and finish
The result is the most able pen you’ve ever used — a pen we ^guarantee forever against all defects so its benefits to you are everlasting.
Try it without obligation at any nearby pen counter today. All dealers are glad to have you demonstrate it to yourself.
Other Parker Duofold features are Barrels of Parker Permanite, Non-Breakable, Ink-Tight Duo-Sleeve Cap, Non-Leakable, Choice of Five Flashing Colors and New, Modern Black and Pearl, the Latest Mode.
Every genuine Parker Duofold -Pen or Pencil is stamped, “Geo.
S. Parker—DUOFOLD,” on the barrel. That is there for your protection. See it when you buy.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
587
MORRISSEY DOWNS BADIN TO TOP HEAVIES; FRESHMAN C AND MORRISSEY B LEAD LIGHTS
Four games short of the finish line the interhall basket-blal race has narrowed down to a grim struggle between a few teams in both divisions. Morrissey assumed the undisputed lead of the heavy division by downing Badin in a thrilling overtime game. This victory did little to relieve the congestion on the top rungs of the interhall ladder however. Badin’s defeat dropped it into a four way tie for second place—sharing honors with Off Campus, Sophomore, nad Carroll. Morrissey has an easier schedule for the remaining games than her closest opponents but holds her position by too slim a lead too be considered safe.
The light division presents fewer complications. Freshman C and Morrissey B share the top position while Freshman B and Sophomore B and C are separated by one and two games respectively. With tough games ahead the Sophomore teams are well out of the race leaving Freshman C Morrissey B, and Freshman B to scrap it out with slight odds favoring the former.
The scores, Sunday, Feb. 17:
MORRISSEY 15—BADIN 13
MORRISSEY, 15 B F P
Tunney, f....................2	0	2
.	Kay, f.......................0	0	1
V	Sullivan, f..................0	1	2
*	Bloom, c.....................2	0	3
Dillon, g....................1	2	1
Rusk, g......................0	0	1
Hilger, g....................0	1	1
Cavanaugh, g.................0	1	1
Totals....................5	5	12
BADIN. 13 ‘	B F P
McDougal, f.................0	1	2
Cronin, f...................0	0	1
McCarty, f..................1	2	0
Midland, c..................2	1	2
Deeb, g.....................0	0	0
Gilbertson, g...............0	1	1
Purcell, g..................1	0	1
Totals.
*	OFF CAMPUS 24—WALSH 10
A smooth passing attack that proved tco much for the
■* Walshites to cope with for three quarers gave the Day Dogs an easy victory. Finally solving the puzzle Walsh put an effective end to the scoring proclivities of the Down Towners but not before Off Campus had amassed such a lead as to be in little danger.
OFF CAMPUS 24	WALSH, 10
' B F P	B F P
Law, f.....................1	1 3	Daley, f...................0	0	2
Mulhern, f................ 0	0 0	Horka, f...................1	1	3
Moran,	f._________________2	2	0	Derby,	c ..................0	0	0
Streb,	f................  2	1	2	Smith,	c................. 1	0	0
Damour, f__________________1	10	F. Dailey,	g..............2	0	2
Hertz,	c................. 2	1	1	Jane,	g................  0	1	1
Doerr,	g.________________ 0	0	0	Purcell, g.................0	0	1
Davis,	g.________________ 0	0	0
Totals...................  9	6 7 Totals_____________________________4 2 9
k	SORIN 29—BROWNSON 12
I The closeness of the first half gave no indication that the Sorinites would become beserker in the last and run up twenty points while holding their opponents to four. Brownson easily held down the individual scoring efforts of the seniors r in the first half but could not cope with the teamwork that featured the final Sorin offensive.
BROWNSON, 12
B F P
Murray, f..........—1	2	1
Banes, f............. 0	1	0
Reidy, c............. 0	1	2
Doyle, c_____________ 0	0	0
Brown, g._____________1	0	0
Murphy, g.............1	2	2
l’	SORIN, 29
|	B F P
'	Sidenfaden, f..............2	1	2
Haw, f______________________0	0	0
Cronin, f..................4	1	2
Laughlin, f.______________ 0	0	0
Leach, c____________________3	1	3
’,	Angsten, c.................6	0	1
।	Dutromert, g________________2	0	0
I	Lyons, g____________________0	0	0
Wilhelmly, g._______________2	0	2
Totals...........—3 6 5
SOPHOMORE 21—HOWARD 7
Holding the yearlings scoreless for the first half Sophomore'ran up thirteen points with ease and rapidity. Facing an inspired Howard attack in the third’ quarter Sophomore was unable to get going but cut loose again in the last per
iod to outscore the Gold Coasters and preserve their first half lead.
SOPHOMORE, 21		HOWARD. 7		
B	F P	B Oelerick, f	1	F 0	p 2
Taschens, f		2	0 1	Duffy, f.	0	0	0
Sullivan, f	1	1 1	McCloud, f	0	0	2
Dorschel, f.	0	0 2	Dyniewiecz, f.	2	1	0
Stack, f		2	1 0	Matousek, c	0	0	0
Koski, c	".	0	1 0	Myers, g	0	0	0
Coughlin, g.	 1	2 0	Bradley, g.	 . 0	()	I
Beesley, g.	 0	0 2	Higgins, g	.’..0	0	0
McDonald, g.	2	0 0	Brikachek, c	0	0	0
-■ 1 .	■ , ■ ■ —	—...»	......	
Totals	8	a 6	Totals	3	1	•>
CARROLL 22—CORBY 9	’
Scoring first and continually adding to their lead the Main Building Squad won easily as they repeatedly broke up the He Men’s passing attack. Holding the Corby squad to two goals each half Carroll ran wild till last quarter substitutions cut their offensive strength.
CARROLL,	22	B	F P	CORBY, 9	B	F	p
Cunningham, f				...2.	0 1	Duke. f.		9	0	1
Snell, f			...1	1 0	Rees, f			1	0	0
Conley, f					...0	1 0	Kolski, -f			0	2	3
Gorman, c				...2	3 1	Smith, c			0	0	0
Max, g.				2	1 1	Senulinc, c			0	1	3
Murray, g				...0	0 0	Kozak, g.					0	0	0
Conty, g				...1	0 0	Wisko, g.			0	0	2
Rogers, g			...0	0 0	Kane, g.			0	0	0
				Calhoun, g.—				0	0	0
				Carberry, g				0	0	0
Totals-----------------------8 6 3 Totals.........................    _..3	3 9
LYONS 27—FRESHMAN 17
Successfully opposing individual efforts with perfect teamwork the Gold Coasters took the yearlings measure rather handily. Springing into an early lead when O’Malley counted on the tip off Lyons was never headed, although Freshman repeatedly threatened throughout the first half.
LYONS, 27	FRESHMAN, 17
B F P
Leahy, f_____________________1	0	0
Callahan, f________________ 2	0	1
Dolan, f.__________________ 1	0	0
Conness, c.__________________1	0	2
O’Malley, g._________________4	1	0
Ziliak, g....................4	0	1
B F P
Hitzelberger, f 0	1	0
Brennan, f________________ 0	1	1
Tunney, f__________________2	0	0
Jones, f.................. 0	0	1
Meyers, c__________________2	1	0
Litcher, c_________________1	0	1
Waterson, g________________0	0	0
Jeffrey, g................. 0	0	0
Kolski, g.__________________1	2	1
Totals________________________13 1 4 Totals..
.6-5 4
SOPHOMORE B 32—CARROLL B 10
Carroll B proved no match for the second year men; the latter amassed a total of fourteen goals from the field to completely overwhelm the Carrollites.
SOPHOMORE B, 32
B F P
Langdon, I............. 2	0	1
Snyder, f.______________3	1	0
Thompson, c.—__________ 3	2	1
Gannon, g.______________4	1	0
McMannon, g._____________2	0	0
Totals.............. 14	4	0
CARROLL B. 10
B F P
Watson, f.______________ 0	0	1
Smurthwaite, f___________2	1	1
Cox, c___________________1	0	0
Nolan, .g._______________0	1	0
Crawford, g______________1	0	0
Totals__________________4	1	2
MORRISSEY C 12—SOPHOMORE C 9
In one of the best games of the inter-hall season Morrissey C subdued Sophomore C in two extra periods. Neither team scored in the first extra session but in the final five minute overtime Morrissey clinched the game with a field goal and a foul.	•
MORRISSEY C. 12
B F P
Reaumc, f_________________3	0	0
Flynn, f._________________0	0	1
McNally, c________________1	0	0
Wethe, g._________________0	0	2
Brazil, g.________________2	0	0
Totals__________________6	0	3
SOPHOMORE C, 9
B F P
Murphy,	f.______________0	0	1
Rahaim,	f.______________1	0	2
Fox, c._________________2 0 3
Muffler,	g.______________0	0	1
Rudolph,	g______________1	1	0
Totals_________________4 1 7
HOWARD C 30—HOWARD B 24
An inter-house game supplied a heated struggle which was closely fought throughout. Both teams displayed fine accuracy for the hoop which swelled the score above the usual inter-hall average.
588
The Notre
D
me Scholastic

■MVMmNUM
HOWARD C,
CAN YOU
ROLLICK?
If you can; join
The Midwestern
University Tours
Sailing from Montreal in the new Cunarders ANTONIA June 21st or ATH-ENIA June 28th.
Membership open to the students, faculty and alumni of the Midwestern ’ Universities and Colleges.
3 You’ll visit France, Engn land, Belgium, Germany, g Switzerland .... 38 days spent in visiting the gayest .... most historic, and picturesque points of interest in Europe.
For further information
SEE LOCAL AGENTS
CUNARD UNE
It will cost you $426.50 from Montreal to Montreal or $489.45 from Chicago to Chicago.
Let the experience of the many Midwestern University people who traveled with us in 1928 be your guide in planning your 1929 Tours.
The American Express Company
346 N. Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois
Gorman, f...... Igoe, f------ Dunleary, c.... Hechinger, g. Asman, g-----
Totals_____
B .1
.4
.1
.0
F 1
0 1
1 1
.13 4
P 1 1 3 0 0
.... HOWARD B. 24 ....
Conway, f_ Chevlier, f. Riley, c___ Kaczrowski, Fogarty, g.
Totals---
B
___3
___3
___1 g 0
...0
F
4
0
P 0 1
1
1
7 10 4
SORIN B, 18—CARROLL, 11
Sorin B rose out of the cellar berth by handing Carroll C its sixth succes-
sive defeat. Before team had registered
SORIN
Burns, f.__ Schulze, f..... Leach, c___ Lyons, g.._ Bittner, g....
Totals___
B. IS
B.
___2
.L’.i
—3
___.1
___1
B
...s
F i o 1 o o F
P 0 0 1 1 1 p 3
this game neither in the win column.
CARROLL c. B
Watson, f.___0
Smurthwaite, f 2
Pohlmeyer, c. Gerbel, g_____ Perone, g_____
Totals______
,2
.0
11 F 0 0 0 0
3
p 0 0
1 1
1
.4 3
3
FRESHMAN C, 21—BROWNSON C, 19
Freshmen C remained at the top of the lightweights only after a bitter encounter with the Brownson C squad. The latter struggled hard to break the leader’s running streak but fell short by a scant two points.
FRESHMEN C.
Hall, f..... Torrell, f..... Hietz, c.... Fabrycki, g. Tomasi, g....
Totals .....
B .0 .3 .3
.0
21 F
1
P
BROWNSON C. 19
1
1
0
1
0
0
.8 5 4
Locke, I______ Flannegan, f... Casey, c______
O’Sha’nes’y, g. Misterly, g___
Totals_____
B
9
4
.1
.0
F 0 0 2 1 0
P 0 0
1
1
.8 3
FRESHMAN B, 2—BROWNSON B, Forfeited.
INTER HALL LEAGUE STANDING
HEAVYWEIGHTS
J Morrissey ...
7 Badin ______ 1 Off Campus. “ Sophomore . J Carroll ____ 1 Sorin ______ n Walsh ______ J Howard _____ ] Lyons ______ a Freshman .... J Corby ______ j Brownson ...
W ...6 ...5 ...5 ...5 ...5 _4 ...4 ...4 ...3 ...1 ...0 ...0
1
3
3
4
6
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Freshman C... Morrisse.v B.... Freshman B... Sophomore C-Sophomore B. Howard B_______ Howard G_______ Brownson C... Brownson B... Sorin B.;______ Carroll B______ Carroll C._____
seat
3
0
NOTRE DAME TO SPONSOR C. I. C. TENNIS MEET
Tennis Captain Ted Griffin and Athletic Director Knute K. Rockne have recently completed preliminary negotiations whereby the University will sponsor the first annual open tennis tournament of the Central Intercollegiate Conference. The meet is to be held on some club courts in Chicago on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, next May 14, 15 and 16.
The tournament, which will be open to representatives of all colleges and universities' of the middle west, including Big Ten schools, has the sanction of the Western Lawn Tennis association, a branch of the U. S. L. T. A. Silver trophies will be given to the champions in singles and doubles play. Schools will be restricted to one entry in singles and one team in the doubles.
The inadequacy of the local tennis courts has moved the promoters to seek a suitable one. A choice will be made between the South Town Tennis club; on the south side of Chicago, and the Chicago Tennis and Town Club. It is thought that a better attendance will result and a better entry list if the meet is held in Chicago, instead of on the University’s small courts.
a:
W ...6 ...6 ...5 ...4 ...4 ...4 ...4
...1
...1
...1
...0
L
1
3
5
5
6
6
GOLFERS TO MEET
All students interested in golf are re- 1 quested to attend a golf meeting which is to be held on Wednesday evening, February 27 at 8 p. m. in the University gymnasium.
Larry Moller has been elected cap- . tain of this year’s mashie wielders.
won’t seem so
hard at the end of the session when you’re energized by a breakfast of shredded wheat. The vital food elements, vitamins, proteins, carbohydrates, mineral salts, bran—all answer “present” in Shredded
Wheat
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
589
the Most Honorable Tourist enters a Japanese shop, experienced travelers tell us, - he is instantly struck by the elegant bareness of the shelves. The astute Eastern merchant discloses his wares one piece at a time, working down from the choicest to an eventual sale.
If our local tobacco shops were conducted on the Japanese system, we venture to predict that Chesterfield would be the first cigarette
offered — and about eight times out of ten there’d be a sale on the spot!
At least that’s what the sales figures indicate — over six million smokers keep asking for Chesterfield and the salesmen all know it.
And no wonder, you smokers. You who have tried ’em know there’s no need to sell Chesterfields — that mild different flavor just puts itself over.
Chesterfield
MILD enough for anybody. . and yet.»THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
590
The Notre Dame Scholastic
DWT JTAY
UP UNTIL
HIISKII
I	K a.J

WJo hottb pnjJui. fjtrh-triM---•A‘" ---------
7

. Mo m ml Jftit 9rf /Mt em iiM
It is no longer necessary to wait up until midnight, in order to get the lowest rate on long distance calls.
Station-to-station rates are reduced at 7 p. m., with still further reductions after 8:30 p. m., continuing to 4:30 a. m. Station-to-station calls are those in which you ask for a telephone number or advise the operator that you will talk to anyone who answers the telephone, at the distant point. *
A saving of about twenty-five percent can be had by placing your calls between 7 p. m. and 8:30 p.

?
Between 8:30 p. m. and 4:30
m.
a. m. the charge is about one-half of the day rate. Charges on sta-tion-to-station calls can now be reversed, if you like, where the rate is twenty-five cents or more.
. INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
The Notre Dame Scholastic
591
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <♦ ❖ ♦> ♦> ❖ ❖ ❖ <♦ ❖ *:• ❖ <♦ ♦> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ •> ■>> ❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ♦
Even as there was little doubt as to what section of the country led the nation in football ability this past season, so is there little doubt as to what section leads the nation in basketball. No one can dispute the middle west’s claim that it has produced the best basketball teams this season. With the exception of Pittsburgh,. Eastern teams have met with small success in the various East-West meetings.
When Ray Conger conquered Paavo Nurmi in the Wanamaker mile at the Millrose games he accomplished something no other runner this side of the Atlantic ever has', namely, to beat Nurmi at the distance of a mile. Conger’s performance is all the more remarkable when one considers that he not only had to beat man but a mighty tradition as well.
Even though Sabin Carr has graduated from Yale it looks' as though the Bulldog will still remain supreme in the pole vault w’ith Fred Sturdy going well over thirteen feet consistently.
592
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Yale and pale vaulting champions have been synonomous since the days of 1888. Bob Gardner, a Yale man, was the first to clear thirteen feet back in 1912, and Sabin Carr was the first fourteen-footer.
Forrester Clark, Harvard’s giant tackle, plays on the Crimson polo team. We don’t know for sure but we would like to bet that he uses more than one horse a chukker.
¥	¥	4*	¥
John F. Hennessey, prominent tennis internationalist, has been ranked fourth in the national singles list, and paired with his partner, George M. Lott, Jr., first in the national doubles list. Mr. Hennessey has done much to foster the sport at Notre Dame as regards coaching and the giving of exhibitions.	-
Ralph Lupton, captain of North western’s wrestling team, has never been defeated in an intercollegiate bout. He won
his twenty-ninth straight bout two weeks ago in the meet with Wisconsin.	-
New Hampshire University again won the nineteenth annual Dartmouth winter sports carnival. Earl 0. Pederson, star of the winning team, won the ski-jump for the third successive time.
$
Once again the bad boy of tennis, Mr. William T. Tilden, 2nd, has been reinstated and once again he has been ranked at the top of the mythical first ten. Mr. W. 0. McGeehan of the New York Herald-Tribune has suggested that in order to avoid a repetition of last season’s unfortunate occurrences, the manufacture of portable typewriters should be prohibited by law, oi- if people think this too drastic a measure, at least a law should be passed to the effect that all users of portable typewriters would have to hold a license.
E E E E E E E
YOU’LL find that
Kellogg’s Pep
E E E E

S 3 S ffl
3 ffl S H 3 a
Bran Flakes are better bran flakes. There’s nothing like that peppy flavor of PEP or that unusual crispness.
Try these better bran flakes. You get the nourishment from the wheat. Just enough bran to be mildly laxative. Order some today at your campus cafeteria or the fraternity restaurant. Made by Kellogg of Battle Creek.
^0^
PEP BRAN FLAKES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Pep Bran Flakes, ALL-BRAN, Rice Krispies, Krumbles, Corn Flakes and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee
—the coffee that	«
lets you sleep.
I
PEP BRAN FLAKES w,n’ o™** p*»n or .WHEAT
company
13 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 ry
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dr. Frank M. Powes
ESTAB
SERVICE I
> EBIGLfsi^NiytRSITY ' >^>VER^ftiUTHFUL mTbis^guished WiY® STATES.
ouse
•4^»5O
rc««t»
1928 Isaac Walton Goes Poetic Now
BY SPECIAL APPOMTM^T OVR STORE IS THE
Charterhouse
of South Bend
The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House will earn your most sincere liking.
MAX ADLER CO
South Bend, Indiana
Bingham, Maine Jan. 31,1928 When you’ve planned a trip for fishing, And you’ve spent a lot of kale, Bet the whole of your vacation On some advertiser’s tale And you fish a lake of beauty Hidden in a land of dreams, Where the air is clean as sunshine
Haunted by songs of crystal streams. Comes the moment when you’re casting And a smasher hits your line, Then you play him like a gamester With the battle going fine, Till a snag, a yank, and silence And the line is hanging slack, While you grit your teeth and whistle And reel the fishline back.
Take the pipe and fill with Edgeworth, Light her up and learn to grin Then by gum you are elected
To the Club of Try Agin?
A. R. M., Jr. •
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
OFFICE 2-1067 RESIDENCE 3-4041
Phone 3-12o4
University Physician
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTISTRY
701-702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates Bldg.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
KRESGE’S
Has an Opportunity for Executives
£

with College Training^
What other College Men have done with
KRESGE’S
“In 1918 I graduated from Ripon College, having majored ia chemistry. After following my profession several years I concluded that my personal advancement was limited. In 1923 I entered the employ of the S. S. Kresge Company, worked hard and many long hours, but today, as manager of a new store, I am proud of my membership in the great Kresge Organization. My future is unlimited.”

An Illinois Wesleyan University graduate, class of 1915, says: “My efforts with the Kresge Company have been amply repaid and now, as store manager, I feel sure that any man who gives his best efforts to die Kresge Company will not be disappointed.”
One of the many successful Kresge store managers is a graduate of the University of Illinois class of 1920. His advice to ambitious young college graduates is: “Prepare yourself now for future success. Cast your lot with the Kresge Company."
5
$
1 $
A graduate of the Ohio State University writes: “I am not boasting of my success as a manager of a Kresge Store, but I know that financially I am far ahead of most of my college pals. A man's ability is practically the only thing limiting his success.”
We WANT MEN to grow with Kresge’s. We are now operating 510 stores and are opening new stores at the rate of 75 to 80 a year; thus creating opportunities for men who join our organization. We oSer to train college graduates to be the kind of men we need so that they may reach the kind of positions they desire.
If you have a trained mind and a well-rounded personality, you • possess the first two requisites. If you are willing to work hard, to learn the details of every phase of store management and to start at the bottom on a small salary, we may very possibly do business together. For the reward is well worth the earning. To those who follow out the Kresge training plan, we offer store managers’ positions paying very attractive salaries.
It’s like having a business of your own, plus the added opportunities in a corporation with $150,000,000 sales annually.
A Kresge representative, possibly a graduate from your own college, will be sent to tell you personally of the opportunities with Kresge if you write our Personnel Department.	-	• •
PERSONNEL DEPT. 3

Another successful store manager, a graduate of Indiana University says: “The young men of today who are willing to begin at the bottom and work their way to the top will be tomorrow's leaders in every field of endeavor.” The Kresge Company will train you for greater responsibilities.
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES
25c. to $1.00 STORES
KRESGE BUILDING, DETROIT
