■ ®tje ■
Hot re Danie Scholastic
• DI5CE• QUASI ■ SEMPER-VICTURVS- VIVE-QUASI • CRAS • MCRITVRVS-■	FX-A-
Vol. XLI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 14, 1908. No. 24.
Saint Patrick. •
PATRICK J. HAGGERTY,'’IO.
/^\N Erin’s verdant coast in days of old
Where Christianity from shore to shore
Was then unknown, and pagan worship bore The fruits which now adorn the Christian fold; , A youth by God commissioned, fearless, bold,
Implanted in the land of druid lore
The germ of faith divine, and kept guard o’er The little germ until it gained firm hold.
Deep rooted like a great old giant oak,
Whose g?asp is held so tight that strong winds fail To stir its base, or move it by their stroke,
The Faith Saint Patrick planted breasts the gale Of fierce oppression, and the blows of time, At home, abroad, no matter in what clime.
A Plea for the Immigrant.
Edward P. Cleary, ’09.
EARLY three centuries have passed since that memorable Thanksgiving which found a huddled group of colonists ■ hugging the storm-swept shores of New England. Three hun
dred years have come and gone since this land first reached forth her welcoming hand to the oppressed from across the seas, and, with the love of a mother for the new-born child, pressed them fondly to her breast. With thankful words and valorous hearts these exiles from a cruel land knelt beneath-
the canopy of the Most High and.breathed to battle with the stubborn world, while in simple words, the fervor of their souls, suffering and trial, hardship and privation' “ May this fair land,” they prayed, “remain, await them at every turn—to leave the:
forever the abode of justice and of peace. May her shores be for us a refuge from oppression and strife, and may we find within her fertile hills the Christian freedom and liberty which are our inheritance.”
This prayer, simple as it may seem, sent its echo far across the distant seas, and was taken up in joyful unison by every nation. Thus like a mighty river whose stream rising among the distant hills and valleys and gathering strength as it slowly winds its wav along, now bursting forth in .an angrv torrent, now rashing wildly down the calion, pouring its wildest volume into the open sea, has the tide of peoples come forth into this land. At first a scattered handful torn by strife of kings, hither direct their wav; then a hundred others
join them in their flight; forward they march with hearts all throbbing. Motherland is left behind, and a country’s crown ; of fair ones leave her for this new-found .
shore. Forth with youth and strength and courage comes this mighty tide of men; forth from every nation’s cradle they spring with, one accord. From the white cliffs of Albion, from the land of grape and vineyard, from the sunny skies of. Italy, from Erin’s shores of green, pours, in ever-increasing volume, the very essence of the nation’s life blood. ’	.
We pause for a moment to gaze upon the motley throng, as onward they hasten to their goal, forgetful of the past, with .a future bright with hopes. We ask ourselves why thej' come when other lands would seem so fair? What fpllyjsends them forth
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
land which brought their fathers and errandfathers into the world, which nourished them in their infancy, the land whose history bears the hallowed deeds of mightv generations, around whose every tree, mountain, lake and brooklet there cling the memories of their nation’s glory ? What motives would tear them so cruelly away from their native shore? It is in.order that they may reach this land of peace and plenty’, this spot formed in liberty’s name; the land where justice and -freedom, religious and civil, opens before. their eyes; the land whose very name breathes the air of right and truth—America, .where every path leads through opportunity, * where every man, black or white, brown or yellow, rich or poor, stands side by side; America whose proud name has yet to feel the sceptre of conquest’s sway; :the land which cast the gauntlet at the kinglv feet and swore to O’	O ~
live in freedom. \ "
To such a land the immigrant has come in search of life. To this blest spot the children' of the earth are hastening. Day by .day the mighty throng pours in upon the land, bearing on its way the inheritance of the past. The glories of the ancient Greeks, the splendor of the East, the blood of Raphaels and Angelos, the sturdy Norse, the thrifty Celt, the polished Gaul, the hardy Gael—eachy and all blending coherently together the habits of Occident and Orient under the
been formed the powerful republic of the West. ’
Many there are among us who have voiced themselves against the influx of other races; many stand in fear and trembling as they behold from their snobbish heights the souls, in number as the sands of the sea, pouring in from every side—“like a scourge,” they assert, “sweeping over the land and dragging us to ruin.” But alas! they heed not the cry of their ancestors who once sailed across the seas and knelt at America’s threshold. They see not the pages of our country’s history covered with the deeds of bravery and valor of the foreign-born American; men whose lives were offered up that we might live in the America of today. ’ How little of prosperity would our country possess to-day if we had not received with open arms the thousands and thousands of souls who have striven with
all their power . to place America, first among nations. What vast resources would have remained unfolded through hundreds of years, while countless multitudes were denied the rights of their inheritance, and which, even to-day, with our immense population,'have only been touched.
The coming years, like those which have preceded them, shall bring to light boundless ^possibilities in this land, arid vast numbers ’of workers there must be to develop them. America’s standard must be maintained.

clear blue of America’s sky, under one flag, Our country’s welfare depends on the .utili-have assembled the children of the earth, zation of her resources. Her future will In the country of their adoption they are require not only the industrial element proborn again into a new life, with new hopes duced dofnestically, but the material which
and new aspirations?; Forgetting the trials
the whole world must furnish.
and sorrows of former days, free froth the Instead of selfish and un-American ideals, tyranny of oppressive rule, and nourished let us look forward to the future with the by the pure air of freedom and liberty, they assurance that this nation shall prosper as take on a new spirit, a spirit which can no nation has done before, that her influence be found in but one spot on earth,—the shall stand supreme among the powers of spirit of America.:^They become in the real the -world. Let morality and education be sense true Americans; In their hearts are the standards bv which our citizens, and found such sentimerits as are befitting a those desirous of becoming citizens, shall be loyal son of so great a race.	judged.- Let unjust discrimination find no
America has drawn the seed of her civili- echo in the halls of dur representatives or zation and progress from foreign shores arid - in the hearts of our. people, and let us pray , planted it in ground most fertile where' it that: justice and liberty be shown towards has grown and thrived; at first, tender .all, so- that' our nation may forever hold and delicate, but finally bursting forth into that title which she has so long held among -the full bloom of the new man. From ;the. peoples of the world — “The home of the waning empires . of the East has the brave and the. free.”	; ;

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

I
d
5
i .
!
si
2
North Wind.*
Harry, A. Ledwidge, .’09.
^RE you filled with the breathing of battle, The thunder and roar of the fight,
•The boom of the' guns and the rattle •
■-Of rifles, and fear and of flight, .	’
' The shrill of the ■ clarion calling
.. ■ Eor heroes to do or to die, Where the human sea rising and falling Scatters scarlet for spray far and nigh?
Hear it tremble and halt in its pleading, Beseeching, imploring in vain;
Hark! rthe shouts of the victors, the bleeding, And tremulous -moan o’er the slain, ■
The ;rhythmical tramp of :the. -legions,
A dying man’s agonized cry, Break forth when like wolves from their regions . The winds of the north hurry by.
How they rage as with lust for the slaughter, . And haste o’er the snow-sparkling plain.
Obes Odin once more send his daughter;
Is Walhalla still hungry for slain?
’ How they babble and murmur, then thunder,
And sink into silence once morel. Ah, the rage and the riot of wonder, ■ . Intangible phantom of war 1	..
How it fills with unspeakable longing To ride on- the sweep of thy -wings, .
Through spaces and avenues thronging ■ With.music and songs that it sings!
Why compel with the pulse of thy passion
My spirit to hasten with thine On wings that' thy threnodies fashion, Great winds of the north divine? . .
at work. Slowly at first the thick smoke ;• curled around the log and, like a lazy schoolboy, hesitated and then wandered up the chimney. The man, wrapped in his: rich robe
. and a thick cloud of blue smoke, saw not . this but. tier on tier of faces rising before him watching every movement and listening intently to every word that fell from his lips. Years had passed since that night, but so vividly was the scene stamped bn his memory that it seemed but an. exceedingly short time. It was there that-he first
. met Her. Gradually the other faces faded from view until only her face remained as
. he saw it that night.. . She-wore no orna- .
. ments save a single white rose thrust into her golden tresses. As the smoke'grew thinner the face became more radiant and .
1 '
. the eyes a deeper blue. How his heart sang . as he remembered that afterward, in. the
solitude of his room he thrust the single -white rose into a vase on the mantelpiece.
The smoke grew thinner, in fact only a
-. . faint trace now "arose from the fiery arms that were rapidly enveloping, the log. The faint light fell upon a face . that. bore the marks of a long, hard fight,—a face that .
. White Rose.
. Jesse H. Roth, ’10
looked very thin, in its frame of gray hair . — that fell down over his shoulders. A faint * . smile played about his firm mouth as the..
unsteady flicker fell upon him. •	.
In fancy he was again walking over the • .- sunlit fields and at his side was his “White - Rose,” for such he was wont to call .her. , . How splendid she looked that’ morning as , . she swung her sunbonhet and chatted gaily.
.. He led her.to a shaded knoll at whose foot
Seateddcep in his arm-chair gazing into the..-brightly blazing .fire, the once, famous Dick- Carrington, novelist and .playwright, smoked in silence that was broken only by a few words and a fond caress that.he bestowed now and then on the -dog stretched-
murmured the wise old brook which smiled and passed on.
Again thev/were gliding down the lake in the-moonlight. He olaved his mandolin . and she sang. How happy they .were, and how quickly the. hours passed and he found himself on his way back to the .city. -
The old log, half-burned, sputtered in
out on the soft rug beside his chair.< Lazily . indignation, but the fire only leapt the : : the. filufe rings ascended from his pipe,, but. higher. The old man rubbed his shins in he only -settled himself the more comfort- sheer comfortableness, and. the: dog, :dis-ably, in his chair.	' turbed -by the heat, moved away, from .the, ;
out on the soft rug
At length .after the fire>,had-almost..died:.dire and founcl^a./place more suitable to ; down Jie seized’another small log and* tossed -. continue his slumber. :.The ■ scenes . ofi his~
Jt upon the glowing embers. Then, filling his pipe from a jar on the table at his elbow, he sank back and watched the fiery demon
youth passed before* his eyes with kaleido-.-scopic rapidity.
He stood facing her father, a white-haired
388	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
old country gentleman whose views of life were like those of all men of his time and environment, exceedingly narrow and radical. How the old gentleman fumed and sputtered and tore his hair.
“No,” he cried, “never will a darter o’ mine marry an actor, a good-for-nothiug city chap. No, not as long as she remains under This roof;- and she’ll remain here until I choose otherwise.”
Still raging he .turned and walked away, and the young; man, after a moment’s hesitation, started toward the road that led to the statiop.
The log, nearly* burned, fell apart on the andirons, and a shower of sparks ascended to the chimney, leaving a mass of glowing, quivering and trembling embers.
In the silence and solitude of .his room he sat immovable before a letter, her last, which lay spread out on the table before him. Little did he heed the clock that ticked off the seconds late into the night, or the wind that shrieked and moaned by turns without. Why should he care now, she—his White Rose—was lost to him. Despairing of receiving her father's blessing, she had forsaken all and had sought solace in a nearby convent, there toj eke out the rest of her uneventful life cherishing his memory to aid her in her task. ■ \
A few coals stilb glowed upon the hearth, . but the old man remained seated staring with unseeing teyes at the almost dead ashes before him? ;	.
He passed down* an avenue lined on both sides by graves, each marked with a plain cross. He stopped - before a freshly-made grave. Long he knelt as the tears streamed down his cheeks. With a heart almost bursting with its unspeakable anguish he placed a large wreath of white roses on the still damp clay, and with bared head walked away through the gathering twilight.
He had paid his last tribute to his White Rose. He arose; the fire had long since ceased to burn. On the cold stones-lay a handful of charred- ashes; his pipe was lying where it had fallen on the rug. The clock struck a very late hour. The dog^ aroused from his slumber stretched himself. ;
“Jack, you’re the only friend I have left,” _ he sighed, and he brushed the tears away with the back of his hand.
A Skiving Incident.
Raymond A. Rath, ’08.
(After the German.) '
Last week as I came home via Ullery’s, I was suddenly confronted by a tall man with a smoky countenance. He wore no	I
shoes; his feet were like the cloven hoofs	j
of a prehistoric mammalian. Before I had	1
time to die, or get bald, or lose my eyesight,	■
or shrivel up, or turn into cereal,—he	i
shouted: “How do you do, Mr. Sambo;	|
where hast thou been, my son of Anna	i
Goldman?”	f
“I—I—am not—I	was—a-hunting rabbits,	I
that’s all.”	t
“Hum—m!” He quaked like a seismic	|
disturbance. “But” he said, pointing to my	|
gun, “what have	you	here?”	I
“ 0,” said I, gathering my scattered wits, and focusing them. “This here? Why this is my pipe, your majesty and princeship.”
He looked interested. “I’ve been out of the smoky regions for some time. I’ve a craving; pray is she stuffed?”
Such familiar language made me bolder, and I replied. “Yes, indeed, just take the pointed end into your mouth, while I light her up below.”
Having sprung this suggestion, I felt for a moment greater than Edison, greater than Marconi, greater than Napoleon, for I knew that in another moment my ingenuity w ould begin to reap immortal glory for having blown Satan out of the universe.
He grabbed the barrel, or, as he thought, the pipe stem. He brought the long barrel to his lips. They were whitish-gray, like fire bricks; w hile his teeth were as one	j
-red piece coiled (one above, the other . I below7) like too fiery snakes behind his lips. ■ j
He pulled.	.	; I
I pulled. -	- '	; ;
“Bang!” .	.	;
Well, what do you suppose happened ?
He spat the whole charge of-shot, wad - -and all, back into my facer saying-with-an - -ineffable grin of mockery:	;
“Sambo, that’s strong tobacco.” .	;;
Then he leaped into the air and straddled the little cloud of smoke that had been created , by the discharge; and- drifted' to- ' ‘ I ward Chicago. .	.	.
	NOTRE DAME . Varsity	SCHOLASTIC	389	. Verse.	.	. ?
	AN OLD MAN’S DREAM.	THE PESSIMIST.	‘	-
	\X7HEN the light of day has died	He grumbles in the morning,
	-	•	if	' Over yonder on the plain,	And he grumbles in the night,	_ - •	,
	It is then my heart grows sad	He grumbles in the darkness	.	.
s	With the pangs of longing pain.	And he grumbles in the light."
	‘ For in dreams in darkest night,	He’s angry at the weather	-
	I have viewed with silent awe,	When it’s rough and cold and drear,
	I have heard the endless song,	And lie’s angry at the sunshine	.
	As the mystery I saw.	' ‘ - If it happens to appear.
	Far within those golden gates,	He is sullen at his labor,
	Where the heart with rapture thrilled,	He’s grouchy at his meals,	.
	I had heard a voice most sweet,	And you’ll always hear him murmur .
	And my cup of joy was filled.	When you ask him how he feels. .	'
	Though I gazed not on the form,	He eyes you with suspicion	'
	As the voice fell on my ears,	When he hears von speak his name,	-
	Still the memory will soothe	And-hc always thinks vou’re cheating ’ 		 . .
	In my last declining years.	When you play an honest game.	.
	For I know that far awav,	When he gets up in the, morning	,	'	.
	In that land bevond the shore,	.	He makes an awful fuss,	'	-	_
- r	That sweit voice again will sound	And while the bell is. ringing"”"
	In my cars for evermore.	He does nothing else but cuss. .
	' ’ Where the rich and. poor-unite	He’ll grumble wh le he’s'living,	'
	In the mansion of the bl st,	And he’ll grumble when- he dies,
	Where our weary soul’s reward	If he doesn’t gain admission
	Is to have eternal rest.	.	To that “mansion in the skies.” ;	.
	As I sit beside the grate, ‘	ENVOI.	.	-
	. And the coals die o”e bv one.	Don’t grumble, grouch and. murmur,	.
	Every dving c >al procla:ms	And try ard look so gruff,	. .	.
	That my course is nearly run. ’	.	’Cause it shows there’s something lacking,
	How I long but for the dav, -	. ■	That you haven’t got the “stuff.”
	When that voice will call to me,	.	Charles C. Miltner, ’ll. --
	And my weary limb* shall rest	- A BIRTHDAY OWED.	"“7
	tn that land beyond the sea.	Sixteen!	'	< .	<
	P. J. Haggerty, ’10.	Aileen?	.	.7
	DELIVER.	-	Well, did you ever.!	. _	'
	- ' -	’	Great Scott!	<
	■	“Take this,” said the boss, “and deliver”— '	I thought	.	' ’
	“I can’t,”, said the boy with a quiver.	She’d own it never.	. . . . . i
	“ With slush on the ground .	
	And rain all around,	But, stay! -
	It goes pretty -hard on de liver.”	'	They say	z
	W. J.-.Heyl, ’ll.	Girls like that age,	„ . . j	. 's
		.	And plead	. .	”
	A SCENE.	Indeed	.	;	/
	. There once was a fellow from Patterson,	-	’Tis life’s best page.	. .	.
	Who fought sixteen rounds with a hatter’s son,	. In fact ..	. ..	/ \
		But	he hadn’t a punch	With tact .	- “	■ .
	While his “pal” had a bunch,	.	.	Some hold it long,	■	‘
	So. he fled then with only some tatters on.	And tell—	' .	t ; . 5
	‘	T. A. Lahey, ’ll.-	. Oh! well,	.	. ‘	■
		They know ’tis wrong.
	STUDIES IN AGRICULTURE.	\	' ' '	■ , , . _ „
	* - . - ’	And so,	. z
	.	If Illinois raised all the corn,	-	- ’- You know,	. : .	?
	.	And.wheat would Michigan adorn	- .	For many a year	\ . Z V ■
	. . .While Oklahoma oats would sow, .	’ - Aileen	.	- z	•
	‘	What kind of grain would Idaho ? ;	.	'	- Sixteen	’	, .	~
1 • 23	-	. F.. M, Gassensmith, .110,	.	May still appear,	A. J. O’Kerr. - .
39°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'	Erin’s Dawn.
Peter P. Forrestal, ’ll.
’"THE true light of heaven has dawned on our nation, And Erin’s Apostle communes with his God;
No more shall the Druid or child of Baal station His idols where Christ’s great ambassador trod.
Crom Crunch is shattered; the power of Baal broken, His groves once held sacred no more to be seen.
And naught of those days now is heard but what’s spoken
Of Erin’s Apostle and shamrock of green.
The fire which Saint Patrick on Tara once lighted ’Midst princes assembled their gods to adore, Although many hopes of her sons have been blighted, Still burns in our isle as it used to of yore.
Ah, Patrick, look down on. thy children in sorrow, For basest detraction their character taints;
Then send not the clouds of to-day on the morrow, But visit with blessings the Island of Saints.
Moods of a Student.
E. M. Kenned!, ’OS.
He was seated in his Moris chair one evening studying philosophy; and the more he pondered over the questions, the more • muddled his brain became.
“Why the dickens didn’t that old fellow croak before he had time to put such thoughts into writing? Whoever heard or dreamed of such a theory as he advocates? Why, it’s worse than anything old Dowie ever said, and we think he’s daffy. And to make us study such ‘dope’ as this, it’s simply preposterous. Well, here I go for another attempt, and then”— But the sentence was never completed, for just then his glance met the picture of a young lady -who adorned his desk. .
“Yes, it’s three weeks since I’ve heard from her. Well, if she doesn’t wish to write to me it’s immaterial—I suppose 111 survive. I’ll, drop her a note telling her whatl think.”
Seizing his-pen and writing pad he wrote: “Miss Alison:—Have been expecting a letter from you for the past two weeks, but have failed to receive any. If you did not wish to write to me, why did you not inform me? It would.have mattered little ..to me. : Noticed by the paper that you.and Jack Harney led the cotillion for the
Colonial Club. I suppose you are giving too much attention to him to write to me.
“Robert E. Nolan.”
Hastily addressing the envelope he searched through the tablet for a’stamp. On the same page with the stamps there was an unopened letter. A glance at the writina was sufficient. The other letter was o
thrown in the scrap-basket.
“I called you a fool, Sophicitus, but I apologize. I believe I’m the biggest fool in the country. Wouldn’t I have been in a predicament, if I had mailed that letter! And to think I could have been jealous of Harney! I guess I’ll have to change my brand of tobacco if it acts that way. Moreover, how did I write such a letter. I might have known there was a mistake somewhere. But it’s all right now. I’ll be home in a few days and I won’t have to think of letters for a couple of weeks. But I wonder how that letter ever got in my pad? I don’t—” .	..
Again his thought was interrupted, this time by a knock at the door.
“.Come in. Oh, it’s you Bill; sit down.”
“No, thank you. I haven’t time. Just dropped in to tell you that when you were in town last week I took your mail and put it in that tablet.; Forgot all about it till now. I’m sorry about it, Bob, but—”
“That’s all righty Bill; don’t let that worry you. But if you ever do a trick like that again 1’11 throw you out the window.” “But come on, have a cigarette. There goes the ‘wink/ so no prefect -will be around and we can enjoy a little smoke.”
. '	<. The Snowbird. -
j Edward P. Cleary, ’09.	.
A THOUSAND angry gusts and snowflakes gray, Precede the flutter of your tiny wings,’ ’	■■
And ever through the stretch of lonely, day, .
A welcome wish from ine your presence brings.
With chirping-cheer-and-jojT-bespeaking sound, Beneath my.sill, on. every .branch of tree, In sheltered .nook, you forage fruitful ground, .
Or frolic-in the drifts-from .care so free.
Inspiring bird, what’hope and cheer you bring...
The myriad-troubled souls that hear your voice;
Of winter’s blast we freely crown, you king,.
With you in song’henceforth--we will rejoice.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC -
Fairyland.
Tuomas A. Lahey, ’ll.
DRAY, little maid of four summers’ bloom, Wliat do you see in the evening’s gloom ?
Why do you gaze with that far-off look, Down where the shadows by yonder brook Hide in the willow trees growing near? What do you mean by that look of fear, Maid of the wistful eye?	•
Ah, now I see; ’tis your fairyland.
This is the night when the goblin baud Roams in the fields and the darkened wold; This is the. night, for the moon, I’m told, Fails to appear when they prowl about. List, did you hear their hellish shout, ■	'
-	. Maid of the wistful eye? •
We can not see as the children do, Fairies and goblins and witches too; We do not know of the woodland sprites, Playing their pranks on the moonlight nights; We are denied all those sights so fair. Oh, how I envy your gift so rare, Maid of the wistful eye.
Pilate’s Remorse.
James Kehoe, ’ll.
Pilate sat alone in the council chamber, his head bowed, his face flushed, his whole attitude that of a man who has passed through many hours of deep worry. Suddenly he aroused himself and tried to .shake off . the thought that was slowlv wearing away his mental strength.
“I am a fool to trouble myself about that man,” he muttered; “he was a blasphemer and deserved death.” Then he recalled his wife’s message: “Have nothing to do with that just man.” Was it possible that he was innocent, that a just man had been crucified? The thought tortured him; but do what he would he could nob shake it off.
Again he seemed to see the Nazarene standing before him, so simple, so humble and yet so noble; those gentle eyes,yet seeming to pierce his very heart; that mouth so firmly but gently closed; his whole.attitude more befitting an emperor than a prisoner and blasphemer.	:	*
On the other hand he saw the angry mob demanding the victim, threatening his own
391 L
life and the life of the entire nation if they • were refused. Was it not better that this man be sacrificed than that he should be . murdered and the whole land be plunged into war? How glad he was that he had ' declared himself innocent of the victim’s blood, that the guilt would fall on the Jews and not on him. Consoling himself with * this thought he retired.
In a dream he found himself standing before the throne of justice. Around him were all the gods, silent and mournful. But who .was that standing beside the Judge? It was the man he had crucified, a J Nazarene, but a God. His heart sank in .. his breast as he waited the inevitable. Now the Judge began, to read his doom:
“You, Pontius Pilate, Governor of Judea, because you have given the son of man to . be crucified, you shall be cast into everlasting torture.”
When the Judge finished there was a murmur of applause, but it was interrupted by \ the crucified one.	.
“Father,” he began, “though this man has done me a great wrong, I ask you to pardon him; his courage would not permit ' that he do otherwise. Let him go back to earth and have one more trial.”	' .
He tried to speak to tell them it was not for himself that he feared, but his tongue . would not form the words. He was powerless to defend himself and must return to .	_
face the world again, to be called a coward and a murderer. With a groan he: fell ' upon his knees, begging them to permit him . to remain. Thereupon the entire assembly rushed forward, and after dragging him to the srate cast him out of heaven. As he was about to be hurled forth, the voice of his : Victim, cried out:	’	.
“Father, forgive him, he knew not what he did.’-’ With these words ringing in his . cars the terrified man sprang from his. bed, , but seeing where he was, buried his head in his pillow, crying: .	. .	: : . V'.
“ Gods of Rome 1 why did you permit me . to meddle with that man.”	.■
; Truth and Honor. . .	. ’
, Dissembling is indeed an:art,	. : - "
- But honor’s his who plays no part. ~	.
.	'	F.-A. Zixk, ’08.
392
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Prodigal.
F T. Maher, ’OS.
AJ THE years, the vanished years!
That have left me all alone
With my- heritage of tears
And the wilding growths I’ve sown— All my laughter has departed
And the stars shine dim and lone.
Now ab nt me comes the night And I search the distant way, Like some bird in homeward flight
At the closing of the day ;
Gloomy shadows round me hover Like to gtcwsome birds of prey.
From the past, the darkened past, Many a spectre, grim and gaunt, Stares my Lightened soul aghast, Though it dire not cry Avaunt!
For the haunting si apes that hover Bear some comfort though they haunt.
Whither L a ’s the way I roam, -Never yet by mortal trod,
To a wil 'erness?—a home?—
Where the yew and cypress m d ?
Will my soul yet find a haven In the bosom of its God?
Crummer’s Last Run.
Denis A. Morrison, Jr., ’10.
Jim Mitchell, the round-house foreman, was “up in the air.’’ News had come by the latest wire from Stockton that an “extra” with forty carloads of Texas steers was due shortly after 37, the regular local freight, pulled out. A crew had to be collected for the train, but it is not easv to get a traincrew on such short notice. Jim came puffing over to the round-house from the yard-office.
“Here, kid,” he said to the call-boy, “take these orders with you and rout out anyone you can find for this train. Doyle,” this to the under boss, “go down and take a look at the 613. Bill’s done washing lier out, and she’s dead cold, but we’ve got to use her. Get a fire in her quick, and put on the blower as heavy as she’ll stand it.”
Engine No.613 bore a bad reputation among the railroaders of the east end division. Only six months before, while Dick Marshall was starting a fire in her
with the oil-burner, the oil leaked and started a blaze which would have ended in the destruction of the round-house, had not a providential rainstorm intervened. On another occasion her injector refused to work. Luckily, the engineer jumped in time, but the fireman was cooked to a turn before he knew what had happened to him. These incidents and. others showed 613’s bad temper, and nobody wanted to have anything to do with her. She was a hoodoo, and such things are dispensed with as much as possible among railroaders.
After repeated effort, the call-boy succeeded in recruiting an entire train-crew, with the exception of a fireman. This he reported to the foreman.
“Call Cruminer,” said Tim. “He’s taking 7	J	O
his rest now, but he’s a pretty'- willing boy.” Turning to Dovle, he continued. “That Crummer’s all right, and don’t you forget it. He’ll show up.”
And Crummer “showed up.” Half an hour later, rubbing his eyes, and stretching his arms, Crummer walked into the foreman’s office. He was a tall, straight young fellow, with a stalwart frame and an engaging look of youth in his face. He had only lately returned home from the Philippines, where he had seen active service “chasing niggers,” as he termed it.
“Well, Tim, what time's she goin' out?” he asked cheerily.
“Oh, you’ve got lots of time,” responded the foreman.’ “ 613’s a washout to-night, and she’s run cold. I guess you can crawl in hayr awhile yet.”
An hour later a hoarse whistle resounded from the turn-table, and with grindingwheels and steaming cylinders, No. 613 emerged slowly from the round-house: Out beyond the clinker-pit she rode to the watertank and the coal-chutes. Then, having received a full supply of water and fuel, she backed graduallv into the waiting line of cattle-cars.
“Fine night, Jerry,” Crummer said to the engineer, as he climbed into his place. The latter replied in a gruff affirmative. Engineers are seldom talkative, and never when they are on duty. But his young blood was pulsing strong with the glow of life in the vitalizing air of the night. Above the stars shone, and. a resplendent moon
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
looked down, bathing the landscape with • soft light. Plying the shovel with the vigor of reserved energy, Crammer felt--that it was good to be alive on such a night as this. Soon the yards were left behind and the Mississippi rose in view. -
Calm with a peaceful majesty, not a ripple on his glassy surface, the lordly Father of Waters presented an inspiring view. Far out in the channel some clamdiggers were plying their nocturnal trade in silence, adding a mystic glamour to the scene. Slowly the lumbering train thundered over the long bridge, and then sped forth into the undulating prairie lands of Illinois.
Jerry Haskins was uneasy. He knew 613’s past record, but had never before been in charge of her, and, to -say the truth, he didn’t like it. On this night she was acting badly, and though he did not confide his fears to the fireman, he was anxious to reach Wever, the end of the trip. With the fireman it was different. He was new to the business, and besides did not believe in worrying over something he could not put right. So on and on the train rolled, now through a sleeping village, now past long stretches of ripening fields or intermittent patches of standing timber. Smithfield was reached, and the greater part of the journey was over. But the worst lay yet ahead. Some distance beyond Smithfield was a long, difficult incline known as the Smithfield Hill. Jerry Haskins knew that if this, hill could be passed without mishap he could trust his engine for the remainder of the journey. But his fears were ever present.
“Give her a lot of coal,” he shouted to the fireman. “I reckon she’ll keep you pretty busy for the next few minutes.” And a faint flicker of a smile crossed his stolid-face as he watched Crummer heave the coal into the seething furnace below. -	'
“Laboriously the train plodded up the steep grade. Industriously as the fireman wielded his shovel, the indicator refused to record another pound of steam. Alarm was visible on the engineer’s features as he made this discovery. He moved quickly now, trying to discover the cause of the trouble. The injector was working all right, but the water,—ah! the water. As he looked at the indicator he saw that there was not a drop of water registered
393'
where but a moment before there had been full two inches. Instantly grasping the full meaning of the situation he closed the throttle, threw on the air-brakes, and shouting a quick warning to the fireman, prepared to jump. But it was too late. Crummer stopped, standing in front of the open door of the fire-box with the full glare of th^ blaze in his face. Beads of perspiration stood on his forehead and trickled down his cheeks.
But even as he stood comprehending the engineer’s gesticulations, a huge roar was heard. The engine trembled, her cylinders gave forth a rasping groan, as that of a man dying with thirst, and as Crummer stood, rooted to the spot with terror, the hot fire before him rose like a seething and screaming fiend and hurled itself through the open door upon him. He screamed aloud with pain as the burning coals pierced his garments, and he struggled, futilely to elude their deathly embrace: But it was over in a moment, and as the train came ' to a halt at the breast of the hill, Crummer tottered and fell forward, in a crumpled, dead heap.
The train men ran forward to find out what was wrong, and saw him there, his ■ flesh burned into a mass almost beyond recognition, his eyes though glassy in death still retaining the agonized expression of. intense pain.
Jerry Haskins was found twenty feet from the engine, insensible, with a broken leg and contusions on the head. He had been literally blown that distance by the terrible • force of the explosion.
Number 613 was taken to the back shops to be repaired, but when she came from the hands of the machinists, looking spick and span in anew coat of black paint and graphite, she was received with .curses from the men.' No engineer would* handle' her, and though now her type is out of date she stands to this day on the lonely spurtrack, a derelict, shunned and detested by all.	.	.
A Consolation.
Every day that brings a sorrow
. Has a corresponding joy;	,
Every day there comes a morrow Which will please us, or annoy.
:	.	D.* A. jO’Shea, ’10, -
394
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $ J .50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, K^arch 14, JSC8
Board of Editors.
ROBERT I.. BRACKEN, ’OS
FRANCIS T. MAHER, 'OS IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE '09 JOSEPH J. BOYLE, ’OS
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, ’OS FRANCIS X. CULL, ’OS GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 RICHARD COLLENTINE, ’09 HARRY A. LEDWIDGE, ’09
THOMAS A. LAHEY,
WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’OS YARNUM A. PARISH, ’OS JAMES J. QUINLAN, 'OS JAMES J. FLAHERTY, 'OS ROBERT L. SALEY, ’OS OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09 COE A. MCKENNA, ’10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, ’09 PETER E. HEBERT, ’10 ’ll.
every point of technique, particularly in character portrayal and development, they are far outclassed. -
We can account then for our problem only by saying that the reading public of to-day is more easily pleased. Our mercantile life has to a large degree diverted the trend of intellectual activities from their proper sphere, and has concentrated them on more sordid pursuits. To a very large extent the patrons of our libraries read for recreation only. 'Creative and critical study is left to the scholarly’ critic, whose opinions appear regularly in the closing pages of literary journals which reach only those of his o • n class. Unfortunately, his class is not large enough to :pay a liberal annuity to the author, while the applause of the multitudes is echoed by the jingling of dollars. Accordingly the critic’s judgment is not consulted, and the author, like the aspiring politician, lends his ear only to the vox populi. The absorbing necessity is to please, and artistic merit is left out of the balance.
— On' looking over the lists of the bestselling books for the months, we are surprised to find the recurrence of the same authors’ names at such short Mercenary intervals. We are surprised at , Literature. the machine-like prolixity of many of our contemporary authors, which enables them to score a hit with the public, two, three, and even four times in the same rear. When we recall the accounts given of the old masters working months and years correcting and revising a single manuscript for publication, and then giving it to the world, often to meet even then with rejection, we are amazed at tyhis modern state of affairs. It would seem that the change can . be accounted for only in one of two ways: either the modern author must be far superior in the literary craft, or the public must be more easy to please.
We can not conclude that the former is true. A critical comparison of the: modern novel with the novel of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries shadows our contemporary authors into insignificance. In completeness of plot, in clearness of, style, in
—System—where have we heard that term before? It must have been in connection- with Thomas W. We will not essay to argue system with Sir Copper-System. dom, that were folly, but we will say that one of the most essential factors in life, and especially college life, hinges on this same word—system. Show us the college man. who has system in his work, system in his play and system every day of his life, and we will show you the. successful alumnus, the successful man of affairs. Twentieth century living docs not merely approve system, it demands it, and demands it from the very housetops. Know to-day . what you are to do to-morrow, what you are to do the .next, a month hence; then do it ahd do it right. Each day will take care of itself, and the thousand worries incidental to procrastination together with the innumerable swarm of petty college trials, will vanish like mist before the bright sunshine. Now is the time to begin, not toTmorrow. . Inject system in to. your college career, and when you step out into the arena of worldly strife you will have an asset which will win more than one powerful struggle in the years which are to come.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
395
.I I
I
—Not so very many years ago it was considered a rare sight to see-a skyscraper even in our large cities. Now we can not pass through the business dis-Thc Modern trict of any of our large cities Skyscraper. without noticing numerous buildings all -the way from ten to fortv stories in height.
The Singer building in New York City, which is over forty stories high, eclipses all previous records for lofty buildings. While this Singer building is much larger than the average building of any large city, still plans are on - foot- for several structures’ which will be even larger' thamthe Singer building. The prediction that the coiintry would have such skyscrapers in nineteen-hundred and . eight, if made- a .quarter bft a century' ago, would ^have-'been-'passed, by without giving it further thought, for no one expected such wonderful advancement-to be made by the master constructors. -	'
The question now arises where is this to end ? Has the skyscraper reached its limit,. or does the hand of progress point still h:gher? Where ground is so valuable, as it is in our large cities, the skyscraper is sure to be pushed to its' maximum; for every additional story means greater returns for the,capital invested. <	'
—Nearly every year we witness some new course being added to the number already taught in our American universities. Since o	,	,
the consular service of the New Courses in United States has been placed Universities.. under .the civil service, many of our educational institutions. have begun to develop a course particularly adapted to fit men to serve the United States in the capacity of consul. Another course that has developed in the last few years is the one in finance, preparing men for commercial pursuits,. especially the banking business.	.	. ■
, The working of librarians is now considered of sufficient importance to require college preparation, and many of our higher institutions of learning are installing a course intended to fit men and women for that occupation.
Still another pursuit which has, during the past twenty- years,' begun to demand college preparation is agriculture. -For some
years only State universities offered such a course, but lately other schools are considering the advisability of establishing a course of this kind. The wonderful resources of our country in this line demand such a course of instruction. /
The change of the attitude of people in general throughout the country during the last twenty-five years in regard to the necessity of a college course as a preparation for the different phases of human activity, is remarkable. It used to be thought that only the- professional man needed such a course, for others it was considered a -waste of time. Year by year we find a larger per cent of college graduates going into business—the mercantile -business, the banking business and:^manufacturing. .Who knows what-change the next.twenty-five years may bring ? It may be- found necessary .for a man to have?- a- college education in order to succeed .in any'kind of business.	- . • >
. —The time is fast approaching when we will be given opportunities to yell and cheer for our baseball team. Nothing makes a game more enjoyable or more
Our exciting than good rooting and “ College Yells, good yells; besides, when .the game is going against a team, nothing does more to put new energy, into -	.
the men and help to win the, game than .the sound of a good college yell coming from the throats of loyal supporters. At present . we have several yells which are good enough for ordinary occasions, but they lack originality. We have no yell which is not similar to the general run of yells in. other colleges; we have no yell which is unique with us; -we have no yell which maybe called’clever, _ -or -which may be pointed out as belonging . exclusively to us. We should have a yell ’ of which we may be proud, one with a special flavor of Notre Dame. We should have a yell that would vibrate with the ' spirit of our school. We should have a yell which would not only sound well but ' also be original. The right'kind of college . spirit demands that the college yell should not be used with entire': selfishness. To . - ; give the college yell of your opponent is U a commendable act. .	' \	,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Athletic Notes.
Notre Dame, 49; Indiana, 36.
The Varsity track team defeated Indiana University in the first indoor meet of the season last. Saturdav by the score of 49 to 36.	"	"
The meet was close, and every event proved interesting. Notre Dame led all the way with Indiana always a close second. It looked for a time as though the affair
The Varsity would be decided by the relay, as all of the inter-hall meets have been, but Daniels’ win of second place in the broad jump put the Varsity on the safe side before the last event was run. Notre Dame made a clean sweep in the dash, Captain Keach and Cripe taking both places. There was some dispute over second place in the dash, but there is no doubt whatever that the place was won by Notre Dame. .
Easch started scoring for Indiana by
winning the mile run from Dana in the slow time of 5:03. Both men are capable of much better time, and the race vas disappointing, owing to the fact that the time was so;slow. Easch set the pace, and Dana followed him. On the last lap both men sprinted, but the Indiana man had the most left and won. Johnson defeated Moriarty in both of the hurdle events. For some reason Moriarty did not show the form he has displayed in the inter-hall meets against Scales, and the Indiana man beat
O	7
Basket-Ball Team.
him handily. Cripe and O’Leary upset a little dope when they defeated Bonsib, the Indiana crack in the quarter-mile. Cripe w on the event in 54 4-5 seconds, and O’Leary out-raced JBonsib for second place. The t me was good and is the fastest that has been made in the Gym for three years. With Johnson out of the pole vault, Moriarty had an easy time, although Miller gave him a good fight for a green man.
The half-mile run was the best, race of the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	397
afternoon, and occasioned more excitement than the whole afternoon’s program. Easch, who was in to set the pace for Bonsib, fell on the first turn and threw Devine, Notre Dame’s star, out of the running for a few seconds; but the Notre Dame man gathered himself quickly and soon caught up with the leaders. Hutzell set the pace and hit a fast clip for four laps, with Bonsib running second, Dana third and Devine in fourth place. On the last lap Dana jumped into the lead and Devine and Bonsib fought it out for second place. Up to the lastfthirty yards Dana led, and then Devine and‘Bonsib both passed him, Devine winning the event bv inches.	•
The relay race was Notre Dame’s all the . way, McDonald jumping into the lead on the start, and each man in turn, Allen, Cripe and O’Leary, keeping it; O’Leary ran a great race and increased his lead about ten yards.	.	.
Johnson of Indiana was the largest'individual point winner, capturing 15; -Miller of Indiana w*as second with 13, and Moriarty of Notre Dame was third with 11. From the start Coach Maris has made, .it is reasonable to expect Notre Dame to show something in the State Meet this year.
Summary.
■ Forty-yard dash—Keach, Notre Dame, first; Cripe,. Notre Dame, second. Time, :04 4-5.
One-mile run—Easch, Indiana, first; Dana, Notre Dame, second. Time, 5:03.	■
Forty-yard low hurdles—Johnson, Indiana,-, first; Moriarty, Notre Dame, second. Time, :05 2-5 -
Four hundred forty-yard dash—Cripe, Notre Dame first; O’Leary, Notre Dame, second. Time, :54 4-5.
Forty-yard 'high hurdles—Johnson, Indiana, first; Moriarty, Notre Dame, second. Time, :05 4-5.
High jump—Miller, Indiana, first; McDonough, Notre Dame, second. Height, 5 feet 7 inches.
Sixteen-pound shot put—Miller, Ind , first; Daniels, Notre Dame, second. Distance, 36 feet 914 inches.
Po’e vault—Moriarty, Notre Dame, first; Miller, Ind , second. Height, 10 feet 14 inch.
Half-mile run—Devine, Notre Dame, first; Bonsib, Indiana, second. Time, 2:0S.
Running broad jump—Johnson, Ind., first; Daniels, Notre Dame, second. Distance, 21 feet 114 inches.
Two third mile relay race—Won by Notre-Dame; Time, 2:18 2-5.
* . * *
Coach Curtis has had the baseball squad out doors this week for the first time this season. The first few days of outdoor work were spent in catching flies and batting. On
Thursday morning the squad was divided, and the first game of the season was played. At present all the new men are tearing the cover off. the ball, as the pitchers are taking things easy fearing sore arms. Weather permitting, the practice games will come often now and the baseball fans can witness a game nearly every day.
Munson made the first home run of the season in Thursday’s game. • .
* *
Manager McGannon has troubles of his own with the baseball schedule. The Eastern trip is nearly completed, but the at-home schedule is causing plenty of trouble. Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin will not appear this year. Illinois has refused Notre Dame a game this year; Minnesota is not coming this way, and Wisconsin’s faculty will permit them to play but seven games. In former years Notre Dame met at least six of the big nines and, incidentally, generally won most of the games. Many things have arisen this year to break up the old customs, and the chances are that very few of the big teams will appear here this year. Chicago and Michigan may be landed, but as yet no date has been agreed upon.
Lecture by Gilbert McClurg.
“O Brave New World of Texas” was the title of the lecture delivered in Washington Hall last Thursday evening by Gilbert McClurg. During the course of two hours Mr. McClurg entertained his audience in a most pleasing and instructive manner. He has a splendid collection of pictures relating to the history and development of the Lone Star state, and these were presented in rapid order. No one can attend Mr. McClurg’s lecture on Texas without feeling that the largest of our states is a most wonderful country. If anything might be mentioned in particular as a- conclusion to be drawn from the lecture it is the fact that in few parts of the United States are there such grand opportunities for the agriculturist. Mr. McClurg’s lecture was in many respects, the most satisfactory of the illustrated -lectures that we have had this year.
398	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Doctor Monaghan’s Lecture.
No reception could be more genuinely gratifying to any of our public lecturers than was that which was' tendered to Doctor J. C. Monaghan when he appeared in Washington Hall last Wednesday afternoon to deliver a lecture before the students on the meaning of the present social discontent and its causes. His subject was “Anarchy,” and his treatment of it was that of a master lecturer. He described in the first place what was the origin of government; he showed in what way-different forms of government have developed; he painted a scene the pigments of which were taken from Tolstoi; he described the influence of such, men- as Voltaire, Diderot, and Rousseau ; ,he compared .-the upper tenth with the lower tenth; . he indicated what might be taken as . a cause for tendencies toward anarchy in the social and economic elements of our own- national: life; and finally he emphasized the importance of the teachings of Christ as the antidote for the evil tendencies of the age.
Doctor Monaghan is not only admired by the students, but holds a high place in their affections.’ It is: well understood that he is one .of. the most-zealous workers for the advancement?^. AZma. Mater and that he has a personal interest in every student.. Few men have. the power to. inspire such devotion as Dr. Monaghan gets from the faculty and students.
The Annual Notre Dame Hop at New York.
The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York held its. first annual hop at Lotus Hall, -.New Yofk City, on the night of Feb. 22,1908. The dance .was attended by old and young alumni of the University. The, married graduates, Anthony Brogan, Thomas .Reilly and Frank Cornell, had their wives vdfh them,—such charming helpmeets, too—and the.urimarried.sons of Alma Mater were the joyous escorts of sweet young ladies, who, it is fair to conjecture, will become brides in this leap year of Oiir Lord.
Everybody danced. Ambrose d’Connell, Ernest Hammer, Walter Joyce, Paul McBride,
and the numbers' he gave were very enjoyable and added.greatly to the .program. .The program as a whole was a decided success.. Every number. _ was. greeted with hearty
........ ..	. .	. applause and Created more than a favorable,
youths to ^	and .filling up their impressibji. Those who had the pleasure
cards. There w^?no .wall flowers. William of attending. are earnest and unanimous K. GardihCf ^ing: two solos By request, and in the expression of ’their opinion that it was? accomj^^ied 2bn the piano by Miss was the best entertainment given this year Anna AlcGlynnHAt the intermission the male in Brownson. .... ;	?	.
and' Frank Eyanson looked after engage
mentsfor the dancers, introducing backward
portion of the assembly got in a ring and gave the college yell with a snap and volume that would have delighted some of the old yell-masters of the gridiron. The affair was a success. Everybody met everybody else. Everybody wants to meet everybody else again. Some of those that met at the dance will meet for tea, for instance, in Brooklyn next Sunday evening. After that theatres, parties—oh I this is Lent. Well,’ after Lent.
Brownson Entertainment.
An entertainment was given by the Brownson Literary and. Debating Society and the Brownson .Glee Club bn Monday evening, March the. 9th, when' the foilo wing-program was rendered :’Song} “Stars of the Night,” Brownson Glee Club; The Strenuous Life, John C. Sullivan;' Father’s Way,’Richard B. Wilson; Vocal Solo, “I’m Tying-the Leaves So They Won’t Come. Down,” William J. Moore;. Roosevelt, the Hunter, .Darnev A. Kelly; The Dreams, Frank L. Madden; Song, “Solomon Levi,” Brownson' Glee Club;' Imperialism, George AV. Sands;- The Soul of the- Violin, . Claude A. Sorg; Song, “The Soldier’s Farewell,” Double Quartette: Messrs. S. Dolan, C. Bentley, E. McDermott, A. H. Keys, W. Moore, L. Maloney, J. Dixon, C. Fuchs;? Humor in Daily Life, Henry A. Burdick; Ashes.on the . Slide, James .B. O’Flynn; Vocal Solo, “Smile;Honey, Smile,” Rudolph L. Siewertsen, accompaniment by the author, Joseph A. Artis. Patriotism, Justin J. Maloney; Baritone Solo, “When Vacation- is Over,J’ Carl E. Fuchs; My Neighbor’s Baby, Brother Alphonsus, C.S. C. Song, “Aly Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean,” Brownson’‘Glee. Club. Mr. Moore rendered his selection in his usual pleasing manner and the appreciation ’shown speaks well for his future - success' in this role. Mr. Sorg’s interpretation = Of the of the .Violin showed his unusual ability as a reader and . was probably, the most enjoyable number of thee veiling.'The talk on Patriotism by Mr. AIaloney was exceedingly fine and the . topic was treated in a manner most entertaining. j-The -Society is indebted to Air. Artis for his. active- interest in its work. He is an accomplished musician of South Bend
NOTRE .DAME
Local Items.
—The first “V” of geese has passed over on their way north.
—Found—A fountain pen. The owner may get same from Bro. Alphonsus.
— Father Delahanty celebrated the 56th anniversary of his ordination in a quiet way last Thursday.
—Seen on the Sorin bulletin board: Game wanted for the 17th—the Irish against the world, the Dutch preferred. .
—Many Brownsonites are taking advantage of the beautiful mornings by walking out into the country before breakfast.
—Glad to see that Duffy, the St. Joe track man, is around . again after having been laid up with an attack of appendicitis..
—Lost.—A gold-banded fountain pen of Fountagraph make. Finder will kindly return it to Brother Just in Carroll Hall;
—Some “wall flowers” still cling to the reading-room and smoking-room during recreation despite the beautiful weather.
—George Washburn and Charles Murphy have returned again to Brownson Hall. 1 llness has detained them at home since the Christmas holidays.
—The Carroll Hall track team had a try-out Monday evening, the selection of representatives including all who won first, second, or third place in any event.
—The Irish and Dutch of Corby Hah will cross bats in a game of ball St. Patrick’s Day. Frank Roan will have charge of the Hibernian aggregation, while Carl Pick will manage the. wooden shoe contingent. ..
—Considerable success has been attained in the development of congregational sing-., ing during the services in the church. Those hymns with which the students seem best acquainted are sung with splendid effect:
—Two bulletin board announcements reported from St. Joseph Hall:. No. 1—The Dutch will meet in the “rec.” room .immediately after breakfast. No. 2—The Irish will meet in the “rec.” room immediately before, the Dutch.
—The Corby Hall track team will hold a meet with the South Bend High School on next Saturday afternoon in the big Gym: Manager Huztell is also trying to arrange a meet with the- Hyde Park High School of Chicago, to be held in that city.
—During the hard times resulting from the panic a number of the worthy poor of the neighboring city have been receiving food from our kitchen. Every day nearly forty members of different families come with baskets and carry away enough food for about two hundred persons.
SCHOLASTIC	399
—The '“Short Pants Kids” is the name of a new organization in Carroll Hall, each member being circumscribed by the regulation implied in the title of the society. B. Marr is president, H. Armstrong is vicepresident, J. A. Fordyce is secretary, J. McIver is treasurer, and G.. Schuster is manager.
—The students of all the'halls are taking advantage of the fine weather we have had lately to get the full - benefit of out-door exercises, especially in baseball practice. Some have taken to jumping, pole-vaulting, and weight-throwing. • A few mopes are still burying themselves in the stuffy air of the reading-rooms. .
—The lakes at Notre Dame are as,high as they have been at any time in years. The upper lake is overflowing into the lower one in a large and noisy stream. All the low places between the two lakes are covered with water; the Holy Cross baseball field is entirely under, water, much to the discomfort of those v, ho Would use the field these fine days.	-	'
—The menu card used at the first annual dinner of the University of Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia is a work of art, but from the enthusiastic accounts sent by the members it was of no .higher scale of excellence than the entire - evening’s experience. Some people in Philadelphia may be slow, but—there are also some Notre Dame people in Philadelphia.
— Contributors must bear in mind the fact that articles of any kind intended for publication in the Scholastic must bear the signature of the writer, even though the signature is not to be published. Communications that are wholly anonymous W’ill be consigned to the waste-basket, nd matter how meritorious may be the essay or-poem or editorial or personal or local item which the writer presents. '	.	-	-
—Last Tuesday evening the candidates for the freshman debating team in Holy Cross Hall held a preliminary try-out to-select five speakers for the final contest which was held last night. The seven speakers, who took part-ini the exercises Tuesday evening were listed by decision of the judges in the following order of excellence: F. Wenninger, T. Lahey, C.- Miltner, B. Mulloy, W. Carey, J. Donahue, W. O’Shea.
—At a meeting of the Social Science Club' held Tuesday evening, the following officers , were elected to serve till the end of the term: A. F. Gushurst, president; R. T. Coffey, vice-president; D. A. Morrison, Jr., secretary; M. Juraschek, sergeant-at-arms. The club has enjoyed a very prosperous season under ’ the efficient leadership of Mr. Fox, and the new regime is ushered in under the most favorable auspices.
400
NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
—Last Fridav evening the Engineering Society had the pleasure of hearing Dr. J. A. Nieuwland’s lecture on Primary Cells. Dr. Nieuwland illustrated his lecture by constructing a simple type of a primary cell, showing the chemical reaction between the electrolyte and the electrodes, also showing the strength of electro-motive force a cell of this type would produce. On Friday evening, March 20, J. L. Bathe will present a paper on the Incandescent Lamp and its Lighting Abilities.
—At the last regular meeting of the University Faculty arrangements were made whereby the department faculties might assemble fortnightly and consider individually the work of each student with whom the members of these faculties come in contact in the class-room. In carrying out this plan the Director of Studies has held meetings of the faculty of arts and letters, the faculty of science, and the faculty of engineering. The case of delinquent students is considered minutely in these meetings, and in special instances the individuals who fail to do satisfactory work are summoned to appear before the faculty with -which they are registered.
—Besides the members of the staff there are several others who are concerned in preparing matter for our columns each week. The responsibility for the writing of the editorials rests almost entirely upon those who are assigned to membership on . the staff. Local news is looked after largely by Messrs. D. Morrison of Sorin Hall, J. Deerey of Corby Hall, R. Skelly of St. Joseph Hall, W. 'Moore of Brownson Hall, and C. Tyler of Carroll Hall. Any person who has news for the local column may confer with the reporter designated for the Hall in which he resides. Personal news about former students will be received by these reporters or by any member of the staff.
—Derrick, the “Dome” jokesmith, will be
pleased to receive, contributions from any unknown funny man wdio has a few laughs up his sleeve. Derrick is somewhat worried on account of the present inactivity in the fun-factories. Coffey’s, latest war-cry is, - “Down with the Reds! ” This sounds unpa-
tri otic coming from Air. Coffey, but we have heard that he has a special abhorrence for alP things Eye-talian. Ryan and Dreamy Scanlon are working on a pantomimic sketch entitled, “Pete Griffin, the Bold and Belligerent Buccaneer, bi* Who Stole Pam Alclntyre’s Tooth-Powder? ” The ambitious and energetic young authors expect to complete the play in time for a grand opening on St. Patrick’s , day in the morning. Price of admission a cigarette paper, wheat-straw-preferred./DeClercq is weeping because the snow ls gone. . He used to cut up. just awful/ •
and then go shovel off his demerits when he thought no one was looking.
—At the last regular session of the Notre Dame Moot-Court a jury refused to grant $1000 damages in favor of John Bookman against the Indiana Northern Traction Company. Bookman, who is a student at the Universitv, boarded a Notre Dame car at the Post-Office on November 7, 1907. He tendered a ten-dollar bill in payment of his fare. The conductor informed the voung man that he could not change the bill and asked him if he did not have some money of a smaller denomination. Upon being informed that it was all the money the young man had the conductor requested him to borrow five cents from one of the students on the car. This Bookman refused to do and became very abusive. The conductor signalled the motorman to stop the car, and he then proceeded to eject Bookman. Bookman resisted the efforts of the conductor and assaulted him. The jury was ouUfor some time, and it was thought they would disagree. Bookman was represented by Woods and Walker. The Traction Company was represented by Nebel and Quinn.
—On the 17th of this month the Philopa-trians will present “Hamnet Shakespeare,” a play , which was written by our former professor of elocution, John Lane O’Connor. The author of the play is. at present as- -sociated with the western company of “Parsifal,” now touring California in the capacity of leading man. The play has for its theme the death of Hamnet Shakespeare, the only son of the great English dramatist. Five years ago' the same play was presented in Washington Hall and was most favorably received. The following is the cast of

j
characters: ,	.
Hamnet Shakespeare..................Norton Burt
William Shakespeare...............W. R. Tipton
Aaron Hathaway....................J. F. Nugent
Willie Hart...;..................W.	P. Downing
Bob Bunch, Servant to Shakespeare—R. H. Bowels . Players ;in Shakespeare’s Company
Ned Burton..................
Wat Brewster...............
Diav, lo, Chief of’ the Gypsies.
Gypsies
...B. F. McLain L: M. Livingston ...M. D. Fanning .	o
Adrino.....................................  F.	J. Donahue
Jeppo..................................L. Park< s
Bozzo......................;............;....C.	P. Sch’ckler
Roberio.........	........................^C. J. Tyler -
Karpo...............................;...H. W. Prendergast Pedro...............,.............a.......... ,H.	A. Duffy
Edwardo-v..';..................;.....;.....E.	A. Moynihan
Elvino.................................L ......M. S. DHI^t
Luigi..:h.„...^h...„...^„... .L....7........R. H. Wobles Giovanni..........:...'....;.-..;...:..:.. ;.J.	A. ,Hubbell-
. .Hamnet’s. Companions.	'
Tom Brown....................h........'........W. F. Cody
D ck Norman..'...,.....L^............ .„.......M.	Gumbiner
Harry .HaUL...;...L.............  ;.......-.-..J.	S. McIver .
Jack .Lee„„>........7..;L^	W.	Schwalbe
Bert King	 G.	A. Milius	-
George, Barhs\.‘...’.7.vL^.............:....;J. M..Fordyce .,