Vol. XXV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 26, .1892.	_ No. 29.
Ballade of the Dead and Living.
The Greek Drama.
. " Gloria et honore coronasti cum Domine.”
—Roman Breviary.
The suffering sons of Innisfail,^
No thought of fear shall e’er affright,
As rocks amid the raging gale,
They stand unmoved for the right.
Let not their foemen’s snake-like spite, Their base and hateful rivalry,	. '
Rejoice, while there remains to fight
The flower.of Erin’s chivalry.
Alas! Alas! of no avail
Their brave deeds in the dreary night
Of persecution! Still they fail
To rend the cloud excluding light;—	'
’Tis true, ’tis true. Let this incite
Our glorious serried cavalry ■
That they stand firm with banners bright, The flower of Erin’s chivalry.'
No land on earth has such sad tale;
No land stands in such woful plight;
No land sobs forth such plaintive wail
As Ireland; yet ’tis my delight
To share her woe; and yet the sight
Of her bowed down in slavery
Breaks my sad heart. Fight, souls so white, The flower of Erin’s chivalry.
l’envoi.
Dead heroes, living out of sight,	*
Your brave deeds need no heraldry;
You’re crowned on God’s eternal height, The flower of Erin’s chivalry.
A. Kehoe, ’92.
London, in 1891, had a population of 4,231,431; Paris, in 1886, one of 2,344,550; Vienna, in 1890, one of 1,364,548; Berlin, in 1890, one of 1,579,244; New York, in 1890, one of 1,710,715; Canton one of about 1,600,000, and Pekin, one of about 500,000.	.
BY B. C. BACHRACH, ’g2.	:
-	I.
Modern theatre-goers, when sitting on the cushioned chairs in one of our fine play-houses, little dream of the changes that have been wrought since first the portrayal of the phases of humanlife and passion was made to please and instruct. They come’to the theatre to pass an evening; seats obtained beforehand, all possible comforts conveniently at hand, and yet it is a question whether they enjoy the performance as much as the ancient Greeks did.
The habits and customs of the ancient Greeks were far different from those of people in our age. Instead of engaging in mercantile pursuits and working for daily subsistence, the Greek gentleman left all this to his slaves, who made the fortunes of their masters, while the latter devoted themselves entirely to pleasure. This enjoyment they found in literature, painting, sculpture, the fine arts, and their religious practices. They had a particular love for the god Dionysos, and, consequently, they learned most of the legends that were current about him. These legends were, however, regarded as truths in the eyes of the Greeks, and on the four festivals of Dionysos parties would be formed for the celebration of the festival. The day would be passed in songs and drinking. These songs were almost invariably hymns describing some event in the life of the god, and prefaced with explanations given by some member of the party.
The strain of these hymns was in accordance with the season of the year, and, of course,

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
assimilated to the struggles of Dionysos in passing from one state to another; for instance, in the spring festival the hymns dwell on the rebirth of Dionysos, in the winter on his death. At first the dithyrambic singers and dancers were the celebrants of the festivals; but as their party increased from year to year, they fancied themselves under the influence of the same events as the god himself, and assumed the characters of subordinate deities, such as Satyrs, Nymphs and Pans, who were supposed to be the attendants of the gods. From their resemblance in dress and action to goats they were called zpayoi, “the goats”; and their songs Tpa'ftpBtat, or “goat songs.” Among the city youth it was a custom to make sport of these country doings, and they mimicked the dances of the Satyrs, and their songs were called vMpMdiat, “the revel song.” .
Sometimes during the festivals of Dionysos those worshipping under the influence of wine danced around a flaming altar led by a flute player, and occasionally the corypheus, or leader of this chorus, assumed the character of the god himself, and the chorus were his attendants. Previous to the time of Arion, all the singing and dancing was spontaneous, and the performers trusted to inspiration from the wine cup. He invented a dithyramb to be danced, with lyric accompaniment, around a blazing altar by fifty men and boys. He was also the inventor of a style of music adapted to a chorus of Satyrs.
II.
Arion flourished in the time of Periander, about 625 B. C. A beautiful myth' is told of his escape from the sailors with whom he journeyed from Tarentum, where he had gone to compete in a musical contest in Corinth. He had won the prize and was laden with gifts. The sailors, anxious to obtain these treasures, conspired to murder him. When he found that to save himself was impossible, he asked permission to play once more on the cithara. It was granted, and, donning his festal garments, he placed himself in the prow of the ship, invoking the gods with his music, then cast himself into the sea. The musical dolphins had assembled, and he was carried on the back of one of them to Tarentum whence he reached Corinth in safety, and related Kis'adventure to Periander. Thespis is said to have made an important- change in Greek tragedy. He was' a contemporary of Pisistratus, and acted about 535 B. C. The change he made in the usual routine was the introduction of an actor, in order that the chorus rest.. The poet was generally the actor himself.	\
Thespis invented a disguise for the face by means of a pigment made of an herb. He also constructed a linen mask that the actor might be able to sustain more than one character. Phryni-chus continued the custom started by Thespis. But, however, to make the chorus have a part independent of the actor, ^Eschylus introduced a second actor,.and the dialogue was carried on between these two actors independent of the chorus. Sophocles added a third, and Cratinus is said to have first made this addition to the comedy. These actors Were distinguished by regular names. The protagonist, deuteragonist and tritagonist, first, second and third actors, respectively. These actors could be recognized by the door through which they entered. For instance, the protagonist always entered by the door in the centre, the deuteragonist through the one on the right, and the tritagonist came in by the left.
This much has been said about the origin of tragedy proper. Now we come to the satyric drama. The first writer of satyric dramas was Pratinas. For some time—even since the time of Thespis—tragedy had been departing from its old characteristics, and inclined to heroic fables to which choruses of satyrs were not fit accompaniments. But the choruses of satyrs were popular,, and the satyric drama distinct from the recent dramatic tragedy, containing the sport of the old dithyramb, was founded by Pratinas who was surpassed even by Chcerilus. The tragedians always wrote these, and as they generally produced four plays at once, three tragedies and a satyric drama, these four were sometimes connected in one, called a tetralogy, and often three tragedies only were connected, forming trilogies.
Now, since the origin of the various plays has been treated, it remains to show the connection between the drinking bouts and the more recent theatrical exhibitions. That there were four festivals of Bacchus has been mentioned before; their names are the Rural Dionysia, the Lenaea, the Anthesteria and the Great Dionysia. The country Dionysia were celebrated all over Attica in the month of Poseidon, reckoned by our calendar as the latter half of December and first half of January. This was the festival of the vintage. The Lenaea was the festival of the wine-press; itwasheldih the month of Gamelion, the latter part of January and first half of February. But this festival was confined to a particular spot in Athens, called the Lenaean, where the first wine-press was2 erected. The Anthesteria were held on the nth, 12th and 13th of the month Anthesterion, corresponding

&
I

ft
I
i
1
I
3
I


NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC.	485
to a part of February and March. This was not a vintage festival like the other two. On the first day the wine was drawn from' the cask, on the second it was tested, and on the third the participants in the exercises banqueted. The Great Dionysia were celebrated between the 8th and 18th of the month Elaphebolion, our March and April. 'From the drinking songs and speeches on these occasions the tragic, poets took their ideas of dialogue and chorus. At first, as has been mentioned before, the dialogue was a minor consideration, but was gradually made more important; first by the bringing in of an actor by Aischylus, the adding of another by Sophocles and the introduction of a third.by Euripides.
III.
It may not be out of place to give here a short description of the theatre. The first plays were acted in rude enclosures made of boards;-but because on one occasion these broke down, the Greeks always made use of a hill, and cut seats out of the solid rock. This was the case with the theatre of Bacchus, which stood on the south-eastern side of the rocky Acropolis. It was in the form of a semicircle, and the seats' were arranged in tiers capable of accommodating thirty thousand. The centre of the theatre was reserved for the chorus and musicians; in the centre of this space stood the Thymele around which the chorus danced. Two entrances opened on either side that horsemen, necessary in some plays, could pass through. Four or five feet above this was the Logeion, or speakingplace. Two flights of steps led up to this. It was very narrow, and back of it was the scene, generally a palace with its three entrances for protagonist, deuteragonist and tritagonist. The manner of presenting a play was as follows: In the first place there was a man in the pay of the state, called the choragus, who had charge of all theatrical performances. When a poet wished to produce a play he would go to the choragus. This man would provide him a chorus free; he would board them and provide teachers to train them. The poet himself would generally be the protagonist. It was the custom that three poets should compete for the prize, each one producing three tragedies and one sa-tyric drama. This competition it was that made the Greeks so renowned in literature. It may perhaps seem incredible, but it was nevertheless true that the citizens of Athens would sit in the theatre listening to the plays performed from early dawn until sunset. The reason was this: the season for playing did hot extend throughout tlie year, but only on the festivals of Bac
chus, and it is safe to say that every citizen in Athens was present; and let it be remembered he was present as a worshipper besides to be amused; for the exercises were nothing more than a public worship. The priest of Bacchus was the king of the occasion, and all the other priests of the other deities were seated near him, while he himself was in the first row in the middle seat.
IV.
But now let us speak of those who have been instrumental in beautifying the drama, and winning the crown of letters for the country of their birth; for, although Greece was defeated in war by the barbarian nations, who took all its military glory away and stripped it of its splendor, yet she forced the inhabitants of all the surrounding countries to come and worship at the shrine of Wisdom and Art. These men were Asschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Aristophanes. The first three mentioned were dramatic poets, the fourth was the prince of Greek comedy.	.
^Eschylus was the oldest of the three tragedians,—older than Sophocles by thirty years, and Euripides by forty-five. He was born at Eleusis, Attica, 525 B.C.,and was contemporary with Simonides and Pindar. He is said to have been initiated in the mysteries of the worship of Ceres. At the age of twenty-five he was defeated in the contest for the tragedy prize against Chcerilus and Pratinas. He then turned to military pursuits and fought in several battles. In 484 B. C. Aischylus gained his first dramatic victory. The titles of the plays produced on this occasion are unknown, although his competitors were supposed to be Pratinas and Phryni-chus. “ Persea,” the earliest of the dramas now extant, won him the prize in 472 B. C. In 468 B. C. his young rival Sophocles defeated him in the tragic contest, which so discouraged him that he left Athens in disgust. He visited his friend Hiero on this occasion at Syracuse, and composed a number of plays there. Shortly after this Hiero died, and 2Eschylus returned to Athens. It seems that from this point in his life his troubles began. He was accused of impiety, and he was only saved through the intercession of his brother who had distinguished himself in battle. In the year 456 B. C., at the age of sixty-nine, 2Eschylus died.
Quintilian says of his style that it was sublime, heavy and grandiloquent even-to a fault, but unpolished. His characters were, like his style, imposing and majestic; and because they were superhuman, they were not always capable of teaching practical lessons like the plays of
486	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sophocles and Euripides. His style was much more epic than either Sophocles or Euripides, and he dealt for the most part in the awful and terrible. The play by which he is be^t remembered is a trilogy of the “ Seven against Thebes.” This was written in Sicily, as was also the “Women of ^Etna.”
^Eschylus is said to have written seventy tragedies and several satyric dramas. He gained the prize for tragedy thirteen times. But the only one of his trilogies which remains entire is the “Orestes,” consisting of the “Agamemnon,” the “Chcephorae” and the “Eumenides.” Three other pieces which we possess entire, namely, the “Seven against Thebes,” the “Suppliants” and the “ Prometheus,” are undoubtedly parts of trilogies. AlthoughHhe “Father of Tragedy” was at all times renowned, he was not fully appreciated by the Greeks themselves, and his genius has been unearthed by modern men, Melcher especially, and since his time many others have been engaged in studying^Eschylus. He was, indeed, criticised by Aristophanes and Sophocles, but their sayings refer merely to the form of his works.
Sophocles \yas born at Colonus, a demus of Attica about a mile from Athens, B. C. 495. He was educated, after the fashion of all distinguished citizens of Athens. Music and gymnastics, the two leading branches of Greek education, were especially studied by him, and he won a prize in both. That he was a great dancer and well developed in form is evident from his being chosen, as leader of the chorus, to dance around a brilliant trophy with a lyre in his hand, and thus celebrate the victory of Salamis. This occurred 480 B. C. At the age of twenty-seven he defeated TEschylus. From this time Sophocles held the supremacy of the Athenian stage until a powerful rival arose in Euripides, who, however, won.the prize for the first time in 441 B. C. The “Antigone,” the best of. the tragedies now in existence, appeared in the year 440 B. C., and this play so pleased the Greeks that he was appointed general of the'army at Samos. His military glory, however, did not amount to much, since Pericles said concerning him that he knew better how to create poetry than to command an army. In after years he was troubled with family dissensions. He died in 406 B. C., at the age of ninety. Some writers say that he was choked by a grape; others say, that while reading the “Antigone ” in public he • sustained his voice so long without a pause that he lost breath and' life together; while others ascribed his death to excessive joy at obtaining a dramatic victory.	- . .
All critics agree in saying that the tragedies of Sophocles are the perfection of the Greek drama. Sophocles was thoroughly human; he did not put language in the mouths of his characters other than human beings would use. One hundred and thirty plays Sophocles is said to have written; but Aristophanes of Byzantium claims that seventeen were spurious. Quintilian, in comparing the two rival poets, Sophocles and Euripides, says that for pleader Euripides is preferable inasmuch as the style of Sophocles is too sublime and too lofty for the forum.
Euripides was the son of Mnesarchus and Cleto, and is said to have been born at Salamis 480 B. C., on the very day on which the Greeks defeated the Persians. Thus it was often said that on that day on which Euripides first saw the light of day, Aeschylus, a full-grown man, fought in the battle, and Sophocles, a beautiful boy of fifteen, led the chorus when the victory was celebrated.	‘
It is related that the parents of.Euripides were of a mean class, and that his mother was an herb-seller. It is more probable that his parents were respectable; for Prodicus, an expensive teacher, taught him rhetoric. In consequence of an oracle predicting his being covered with garlands, his father had him educated as an athlete, and, while yet a boy, he won prizes at the Eleusinian and Thesian contests. At the age of seventeen he offered himself as a competitor in the Olympic games, but was not admitted on account of some doubt as to his age. He afterwards studied painting without success. Euripides is said to have written a tragedy at the age of eighteen; but the first play exhibited in his own name was the “Peliades” when he was twenty-five years' of age. •
In 441 B. C. Euripides won the first prize for the first time. He continued exhibiting plays until 408 B. C., when the “Orestes” was produced. Shortly after that he left Athens for the court of Archelaus, King of Macedonia, his reasons for this step being unknown. Many ascribe it to the attacks of the comic poet, Aristophanes, especially. He died in Macedonia, in 406 B. C. Most authors agree in stating that he was torn to pieces by the king’s dogs set upon him by Arrhidaeus and Cratinus, two rival poets. The Athenians asked for his remains, but Archelaus refused to give them up, and he was buried in Macedonia.
The charge that Euripides was a woman hater is false. Sophocles says of his tragedy: “ In it men are represented, not as • they ought to be, but as they are.” . Cicero and Quintilian were great admirers of Euripides, and Aristotle
L
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	487
commends him as having been the first to produce an effect by the skilful employment of words from the ordinary language of men, calculated to express softer and gentler feelings.
According to some accounts, Euripides wrote in all seventy-five plays; according to others, ninety-two. Of these eighteen are extant. The best known of his plays are the “Medea,” produced in 481 B. C.; the “Heraclidae” about 421 B.C.; the “Orestes,” 412 B.C. The date of the “Iphegenia” is uncertain. The “ Electra” was produced about 413 B. C.
Should ever a colossal monument or an obelisk be erected with the names of all great men engraved upon it, should they place the names of Caesar, Alexander and Napoleon at the head of the militaryheroes,should they place Michael Angelo and Raphael foremost among, the painters, when they come to consider tragedy, on the very pinnacle, surrounded by a chorus of poets carrying lyres and singing, let them place zEschylus, Sophocles and Euripides.
O Why are the Zephyrs Asleep To-Night?
(A Ballade^
“ Songs unhear.l are sweeter than those heard.”
—Keats.
The poet went wandering down the street, .Out into the woodland and far away, And the brambles were breaking beneath his feet, As the tree-tops were kissed by the sun’s last ray. A-dreaming he passed to a silent bay, All lit by the mellow moon’s pale light:
No ripples are stirring,—O where are they?
O why are the zephyrs asleep to-night?
He paused on the strand; for to him it is meet, As a poet, to gaze on the scene, and delay.
He lists to the music of silence made so sweet, And an echo awakes in his heart. Yet stay, Thou wandering bard; for the Sirens’ lay Now rises afresh to yon starry height:
He lists to the singers,—O where are they?
O why are the zephyrs asleep to-night?
And he looks again on the motionless sheet, Stretched out in the night on his dreamland’s way;
The stars are laved in the water’s retreat, Afar where they gleam in their silv’ry array. Not a sound is born, but his heart is gay;. For he lists to the silence, and hears with delight The song of the Muses,—O where are they?
O why are the zephyrs asleep to-night?
l’envoi.
O mortals, O men, you but see in the day, And hear when the sound is at fullest height.
Your questions are answered:—“ O where are they? O why are the zephyrs asleep to-night? ”
M. A. Quinlan, ’93.
Free Coinage*
It is unnecessary to state the importance of the measure we are discussing to-night. It is a matter which permeates the business of the world. It concerns the English manufacturer, the French tradesman, the German buyer; it reaches over a vast expanse of waters, and interests the Australian merchant, and, moving towards the New World, regulates the traffic of the American with his neighbor.
In itself a purely economic measure, through the machinations of politicians it has assumed a political aspect. It is not a question of the day which blazes forth with great intensity for the time and then seeks a fitting place in oblivion’s shades; but it is a question near and dear to each of us, because it concerns that which, next to friends and relatives, we value most— our pocket-book, our money. Free coinage and .the silver question in general is far from being interesting. It is a dry, hard subject to us, but it is also the leading question of the times, and it demands an answer. We cannot turn away from the task, no matter how disagreeable it may look.
Some one has said that an honest money is the life blood of the nation. Observation alone is necessary to know that this is correct. A nation is known by its prosperity. We do riot live in the past; this age is of the present, and progressive beyond the dreams of the most sanguine of a few decades ago. Commerce rules the world. It is the commercial nations— England, Germany, France and the United States—which are the central figures of this century, the embodiment of the ideas of this age. Money governs commerce because it is the means by which commerce is carried on. Destroy a nation’s money, or impair its value, and by the same stroke you blot out or cripple its commerce. We, then, see that any measure which would in its workings give us a depreciated currency would destroy or injure our commerce, and through it our prosperity. Such a measure is at present before the people of this country. The sound, financial system of the United States is in danger of being supplanted by the theories of dreamers and demagogues, whose opinions on silver are worthy of about as much attention as the candidacy of Belva Lockwood for the presidency. They urge the need of free coinage
* Argument presented on the negative by James R. Fitzgibbon, ’92, at the debate given under the auspices of the Law Society on March 12.
488	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by saying that there is a want of money in the country, and that if enacted the debtor class could pay off their debts with a cheap currency. Let us look at the first of these reasons. Are we in need of money? No doubt, many in the audience would say yes; but the nation would say no! Money has never been more abundant than it is now. The low rate of interest which is charged testifies to this fact; the present amount is being increased every month by over five million dollars. Money cannot, nor never does, cause prosperity; prosperity causes money. We didn’t hear the cries about this great scarcity thirty years ago, when there was a want of silver; but it is at the present day, when the output of the mines is overstocking the market, and silver bullion is accumulating in the vaults of the corporations, that the need of silver is felt by those humane and benevolent institutions —the corporations.
Let us now look at the second object of the free coinage men in placing silver on a parity with gold—that of giving a cheap currency to the debtor class. But who are the great debtors of the nation? Is it the farmer with his $2000 mortgage, or is it the laborer whose $500 incumbrance upon his home throws a shadow upon his every enjoyment? No, the corporations are the large debtors. Free coinage is wholly in favor of these institutions. It helps the monopolies which own the mines; it favors the gigantic combinations which are gradually acquiring ownership over the whole country. The indebtedness of our railroad amounts to six times our national debt; the Loan and Trust companies, three times that debt. With greed for gain as the mainspring of their actions, corporations are indeed worthy of the solicitation and assistance of the people at large. And in this same discussion the true colors of the coinage men are exhibited in the garb of a demagogue. When you see a man appealing to the lower nature of his fellow-men, to his selfishness, or kindred qualities, to gain his ends, then you can set it down as a fact that there is something wrong with the man, or the cause which he advocates. The brilliantly-colored picture of aland of plenty, painted by the silver meh, is enough to tempt a man better fitted to ward off temptation than the ill-paid toilers of to-day. To fill his mind with this picture and his heart with the desire of it needs neither great eloquence, nor uncommon argumentative powers. Workingmen are too prone to grasp at anything which they think would ameliorate their condition. The coinage men hold out a view of the promised, but never-to-be-gotten land, the workingman
is allowed to look upon it and is kept a captiveStripped of its verbiage free coinage means inflation of the currency. The inflationist promises too much. The poor will not be always with us, if we are to listen to them. Do not believe the man who says that he can cleanse the water of the Chicago river and make it as pure and clear as the wells of paradise. He can’t do it! The great city on the lake could no more destroy the odor which arises from the depths of her river than she could hide forever the gentle modesty which distinguishes all her acts. These men who promise too much end by accomplishing nothing. The silver men would do away with all wretchedness, all misery; the object is laudable, but the end is not in the means.
Now what would be the effects of this measure were it once in operation? It would indefinitely postpone all hope of an international compact, without which silver cannot be regulated. As stated before, this question is an economic not a political one. Silver is not national. We are a great silver-producing country, but do not consume much of it. Being an international question it should be treated by a congress of nations, and not by a congress of any one nation. No matter what action the present Houses will take upon the matter it is plain that their action will not influence other nations to do likewise. Within our own broad territories the decrees of our Congress will be looked to and respected; but where flags other than the Stars and Stripes float it will have no more effect than a comet has in causing a war.
Another result of free silver would be to place a premium upon gold which would speedily drive that commodity from circulation. What makes a paper dollar worth one hundred cents? Not the paper of which it is made—intrinsically it is not worth five cents—but the promise to redeem at the United States Treasury, and the knowledge that such a promise could and would be kept. Why is it that a Mexican dollar, con^ taining more silver than the American dollar, circulates for eighty-seven cents, while our dollar commands one hundred? Presented at the Treasury the American dollar can be redeemed in gold. If the gold were not there the dollar would fall to its market value which is about seventy-four cents. We say that silver coinage would drive gold from circulation, because as soon as enacted every European nation which has silver would send it to the United States and exchange it for gold. Europe would have gold and the United States silver; and without gold to back up our silver certificates our finan-

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.,	489
cial honor would be imperilled, and with it the prosperity of our country.
Silver is steadily depreciating in value. New mines are being discovered; the European commercial nations have demonetized it; the output has doubled, and the demand has fallen off one half. Silver has been mined at a cost of but fourteen cents; fifty-four cents, however, is the usual cost. In the market it brings ninety-four cents. No other article offers such enormous profits to corporations. No wonder mine owners are so frantic in their efforts to get free coinage! With this in full operation they see the whole product of their mines in dollars yielding them forty-six cents on each one coined. Inflation has always proved a failure—whether we see it in the acts of our forefathers in stamping large quantities of paper to exchange as money, or in later results in other countries. A wise man profits by the mistakes of his neighbors—a wise nation should do likewise.	■
‘ The Argentine Republic was one of the most prosperous of our South American neighbors. The music which betokens prosperity—the din of commerce and the hum of manufactories— was heard in all its cities and towns. She was proud of her flowing rivers, her broad plateaux, her constantly increasing commerce; the future appeared to her as glowing as an “iridescent dream”; she listened to the silver-tongued inflationists, and now she stands wrecked and helpless. But yesterday she might have defied the world; to-day there is none so poor to do her reverence. But, you will say, there is no danger of anything like that befalling us; look at our past; view our present. Yes, but at the height of his grand career, when at the bare mention of his name thrones tottered and ‘ armies shuddered, did Napoleon think that in the future there was a Waterloo? And he was the greatest genius of the Christian era, as we firmly believe this Republic to be the greatest nation! At peace with the world, and with abundant crops and ample prices, why should we adopt a measure which has been another nation’s ruin? We hear the famished cries of the Russian peasant, and from our stock of plenty we give them food. We are treading a pathway upon which other nations have been wrecked. Universal history condemns the republican form of government. European nations view with ever watchful eyes every movement of this Republic. Envious eyes are cast upon our prosperity. But despite the sneers of the envious, the jibes of the jealous, our ship of state moves grandly on in its unbeaten and hitherto glorious course. Let no rock intercept the voyage. Place no impediment to the fulfilment of those dreams. Let it not be said that by the hands of its own legislators was that ship dismantled, and helplessly thrown upon the sands, the prey of the ever-grasping powers of the Old World.
The paradise of roses prefigured by the silver coinage men, harvested, means a wilderness of ' thorns. -
University Extension.
Before expressing our hopes or fears of the success or failure of a movement which is certainly fraught with much good for many a youth of our land, it will be worth while to take a brief correlative view of its rise and progress in England and its rise and budding efforts in America. Conservatism held English universities in thrall, while the universities of the Continent were improving their methods of study, inventing new methods of exposition, and while our universities, both by precept and example, taught Europe the doctrine of treating all men alike. That long-continued exclusiveness of the English universities must have produced a reaction. Since the highest caste and the richest of the land were the sole occupants of the universities, the material work of the state was done by non-university men.
A few years ago the universities began to feel lonely in their exclusiveness, and. lent their countenance to the idea of extending the benefits of university training beyond their old limits. This idea originated with what the universities were pleased to call “Fellows,” but in reality were men who had nothing to do with themselves, but to impart their university knowledge to others. This movement was distinct from the universities, except that a committee was formed from among the officers of the university. Considering the fact that the English lack many of the means for the diffusion of knowledge with which America is blessed, the movement has done a great deal of good.
This is the movement which has attracted the attention of Europe, and which has already taken deep root in American soil. University Extension proper will never thrive in America as it has done in England. We do not need it as badly, nor in the same sense, as our neigh- . bor. We have had no exclusiveness here; we have made no distinctions, nor drawn such lines between caste and caste. A question of the utmost importance presents itself at the outset of this movement: Will we have men? It has been said that in America positions are waiting for men, and in England men are waiting for positions. We might solve the difficulty with our neighbor by giving our positions to her men. On the condition, however, that they would carry on “University Extension” according to American principles, not as it is carried on in England. University Extension is the proper term for the movement in England; but it is a barbaric title to be applied to the movement in America where religion and education have always been regarded as our prime consideration. H.
490	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
t&tru £sturt«g iurtnjj Senn Sime at N. B. Snibereitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame, March 26,1892.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now enters upon the twentyfifth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
A. Kehoe, ’92;	• Hugh O’Neill, ’92;
Louis P. Chute, ’92;
Joseph Just, ’92; Ernest DuBrul, ’92;
J. R. Fitzgibbon, ’92;
T. J. Hennessy, ’92; W. Houlihan, ’92;
H. C. Murphy, ’92.
A. Ahlrichs, ’92; Fred B. Chute, ’92;
M. A. Quinlan, ’93;	.
J. J. McGrath, ’92; F. J. Vurpillat, ’92;
B.	C. Bachrach, ’92.
—In addition to the subjects for the English Medal already announced, the gentlemen entering the contest may choose “ Poetry and Science,” “The Prose of Thackeray,” “The Development of the Novel,” “The Literary Element in Brownson,” and “George Washington as an Author.”
—Those selected to represent the Graduates in the various courses this year at Commencement are: Nicholas J. Sinnott (Classical), Valedictorian; Emil J.Neef (Scientific),Poet; James R. Fitzgibbon, Ernest F. DuBrul, John J. McGrath, Class Orators; Benjamin J. Bachrach, Frederick B. Chute, Musicians; Charles J. Gil-Ion, Prophet.
---------— :'
—The L/Etare Medal—the crowning honor within the province of the University of Notre Dame—will be bestowed tO-morrow (Laetare Sunday) upon Mr. Henry F. Brownson, LL. D., of Detroit, Mich. We are confident that there is not one among the American Catholic public who will gainsay the appropriateness of this award. A worthy son of a worthy father, Dr. Brownson
is now, in thought and word and act, a leader among the Catholic laity; and from his discretion, judgment and zeal much has been realized and much is expected. We hope next week to have more to say upon this subject. In the meantime the Scholastic tenders its respectful congratulations to Dr. Brownson with its best wishes for a long continuation of his noble and useful life.
—On Wednesday, the 23d inst., at 7.30 p. m., the Faculty and students of the University assembled in Washington Hall to listen to the Rev. James F. Nugent of Des Moines, Iowa, lecture on “The Philosophy of Civilization.” The Rev. gentleman spoke for almost an hour and a half, and not for a single moment did the attention of the audience flag. The . reverend gentleman is of fine physique, of strong and clear-cut features, and has all the ease and gracefulness that give to a speaker the power of fascination. His style is idiomatic, clear, elegant and brilliant; his treatment of the subject comprehensive and philosophical, and his delivery not only pleasing, but charming. His lecture sparkled with figures of thought and diction; but we must leave to our next issue a report more in keeping with its merits.
—How are the unemployed to be given employment? Who is to blame for the appearance of so many idle men? These are the most absorbing questions that are agitating the people of Vienna? The laboring classes in that city are reported to be in a deplorable condition; out of work and with no means of support, they are compelled to rely on public aid for food and clothing. And now, after hearing this account, comes the cry from the Chicago Socialists that Chicago is also overrun with unemployed men. Some claim it is the duty of the city to find employment for these men; others make this a pretext for attacking the capitalist, asserting that the “tyrant capitalist” alone is to blame for this large concourse of idle men. Why these people declare that it is the employer who has brought all these outside laborers to the city is very difficult to comprehend. One of the Chicago papers says the cause of the influx can be attributed to the trades unions; for, by forcing the wages up and the hours down, the city was made a “ Mecca of laborers.” Too often do we see the walking delegates denounce the capitalist when it is their own fault that the laboring class are out of work; If these supposed
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
friends of the laboring people would do more work and make less hullabaloo about the employers there would be greater peace and harmony between capital arid labor.
—Saturday, the 19th inst., the festival of St. Joseph was celebrated at Notre Dame with all the solemnity befitting one of the great festivals of the Church, and, in a special manner, of the Congregation of Holy Cross. At 8 a. m. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by the Very Rev. Provincial Corby, assisted by the Rev. Fathers P. P. Klein and B. Ill as deacon and subdeacon. An appropriate and eloquent sermon was preached by the Rev. Father French. The main altar and sanctuary were beautifully decorated in honor of the solemnity. The music of the Mass was in keeping with the joyousness of the festival, and tastefully rendered by the college choir.
At St. Joseph’s Novitiate the ceremonies of the day were begun with the reception of the Habit by nine young men, whose joyous countenances during the. day bespoke the happiness that filled their hearts; these were the following: Joseph Sullivan, who received the name of Bro. Cassian; Wm. Donovan, Bro. Ernest; Michael Lonergan, Bro. Eli; James Barret, Brol Pastor; James O’Connor, Bro. Arthur; John Holland, Bro. Bennet; Michael White, Bro. Walter; Jos. Lang, Bro. Amos; Henry Klein, Bro. Linus. Mass followed immediately upon the conferring of the Habit, and the singing during these ceremonies was such as only a great feast-day, like that of St. Joseph, can inspire. At 2 o’clock all were once more assembled in the beautiful chapel to close the exercises of the day by Vespers and Benediction, and to honor in this special manner their Patron Saint.
Stedman on Poetry.
. The first of a series of lectures on the “ Nature and Elements of Poetry,” recently delivered before the students of Johns Hopkins University by Edmund Clarence Stedman, is published in the March Century. Mr. Stedman takes for his subject “ Oracles Old and New,” and gives us a careful, appreciative and critical study of poetry and the poet.	.	.
No one who takes the. slightest interest in poetry, or literature of any kind, can fail to be interested in, and receive increase of delight from, the perusal of this article. Years of faith
fulness in the study of the masters enables Mr. Stedman to give to us a work of great value. His aim in this lecture is a practical one: the stimulating of the reader’s interest in poetry, and, at.the same time, the bringing to light the hidden origins of the noble art. It is the viewing of poets and poetry by a poet, and his appreciation of the works of the masters, which is refreshing. We recommend this lecture to each and every student as a means of improving the mind and assisting in the study of the poets. ..
' '	M.
The Political Issue.
Though more than a hundred years old, the tariff was never a more vital question than it is to-day. It has engaged the attention of every Congress, from the first to the one now in session; and it is the one subject that has never been finally settled.
This system of duties imposed by the Government upon goods imported (we have no export duties) has always divided the people into two great political parties—the one seeking to raise the tariff rate, the other to lower it. As a consequence, the system has assumed every gradation between a “Tariff for Revenue Only” and an extreme “High Protective Tariff.” It meets with a revision at every accession of the parties to power.	_	-
To-day we “enjoy” high protection through the McKinley law, enacted by the last Republican Congress. This law will probably remain on the statute book until the Democratic party gains the ascendency. Meanwhile the Democratic House, unable to procure the passage of a general tariff bill, is attacking the present law by “perennial legislation”; that is, by framing single bills, as, for example, a bill placing wool or binder-twine on the free list.
Thus we see that the tariff is the foremost question of the hour. The tariff will be the main issue, if not the only one; in the approaching campaign—McKinley’s “High Protection” vs. “Tariff Reform.” ;	B.
Rambling' Remarks.
Have you ever noticed, gentle reader, how on certain occasions the kindness, solicitude and admiration of your friends become to you a source of endless vexations, and seem harder to bear than positive insult ? Some slight change
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in'your dress or personal appearance is generallysufficient to place you in such a predicament. For instance, you have just returned from a visit to a tonsorial artist. A friend trips gaily up to you with a bland smile and the usual question: “ Oh, got yer hair cut, didn’t you ? ” He then takes off your hat and proceeds to criticise, or praise, the cut, as the case may be. He pats your head gently, looks at it from every point of view; and if he shares a harmless monomania in common with “the Professor” he begins to expatiate upon your phrenological bumps with all the certitude of professional ignorance—leaving you all this time with uncovered head to the mercy-of a wintry wind. Perhaps while this is going on, a few more friends and “small boys” appear on the scene and contribute to your sense of misery. You feel within you a regular Vesuvius of suppressed wrath, which is about to burst over the head of your tormentors, when he fortunately desists. When one examination is finished you have to undergo another; and about twenty such experiences, more or less 5^-stirring, follow each hair-cut.
* * •
Perhaps you have had the pleasure of feeling for several weeks a roseate excrescence—commonly called a “bile”—developing on the back of your neck. A kind friend, thinking to enlighten you, tells you of it, and to make his remark more pointed he gives the “bile” a prod with his index finger. Of course you are immediately aroused, and swear by all the gods that this was done once too often, and that your vengeance shall fall on the next who dares give you such a “pointer.” We shall not inquire into the fate of the young man who shortly after comes to you, throws his arms around your neck in genuine hail-fellow-well-met style, and kindly inquires how you feel. We shall draw a veil over the scene, and hope that no villainous phonograph is near to transmit your reply to posterity.
Well, such things must be; in fact, we couldn’t do very well'without them. They are useful; bearing, as the poet says, .
.	“——in themselves this good;
That they are still the air, the subtle food, To make us feel existence and to show How quiet death is.”
*
. * * . ’
For the past few months we have been treated to a. great amount of news concerning the “Aiderman,” his sayingsand doings—“ wise and otherwise.” The _ persistency of “ye Local” man in filling his columns with these items
would do credit to any of the big dailies were	t
they trying to demolish a Jake Sharp, or some	•
other “bopdling” aiderman. Now, if it.be true ; (and we are told over .and over again that it is) that the “Aiderman” is all right, why trouble him? In the modified words of a common proverb we say, “ Leave Allright alone! ” Friend Alwin, thou hast our sincere sympathy. Thy enemies will soon be at their wits’ ends; in the -meantime take cheerfully whatever their meagre	|
wit sends.	1
*	;
* *	1
Regarding the late discussion-	among	the	!
poets much might be said	to	condemn	it.	I	i
shall refrain, as I have no intention of tilting ; a lance with either of the magnates who con-	!
ducted the discussion. 'I think, however, that	J
the affair was badly mixed up. It began with i sonnets and ended in knob-holes, tin-horns musty	■
puns, etc. Such affrays should be avoided. If	j
our poets have any superfluous inspiration or	!
talent lying around loose, let them use it for . the general good. Give us a couple of volumes ; of poems, strike off several new college songs, j send in some tons of spring poetry (of an original	|
kind) to the Scholastic, and make their muse	1
amuse, and at the same time instruct. We hope this bit of advice is in season; the poets, at least, should seize on it.
, * *
That sonnet, by H. G. T., on the cabbage, was quite a performance. There was more truth than poetry in it,especially in the closing lines,wherein he tells us of what is often found “Beneath the hats of youthful sonneteers.” We hope the author wrote those lines with uncovered head; otherwise his words might seem too personal. We do not wish to insinuate anything—oh, no! but it is always better to be on the safe side. (More anon.)	Roumaney Rye.
Exchanges.
—What a pleasure it is, after having toiled laboriously through a pile of exchanges, whose chief recommendation consists in the fact that they represent the industry of hundreds of students anxious for self-improvement, to come ; upon our old friend, Acta Victoriana. The Acta. ■ is, without question, the brightest of the smaller 1 monthlies which we receive. Its typographical | appearance is attractive, arid its table of con- ' | tents always presents an agreeable variety of	|
reading matter which, on perusal, is generally	j
found to be of a high order of excellence. In the || February number “Forma Mentes YEterna/’ 0
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	493
“British Columbia,” and “Poetry” are worthy . of special mention.	.
—The University Monthly, Fredericton, N. B., never disappoints one’s expectations. The February number, amongst other articles of solid worth, contains well-written contributions on “Rousseau” and “The Renaissance.” One cannot, perhaps, always agree with the writer of the first in his estimate of Rousseau; but his admiration of the great socialist and infidel is so temperate and so evidently confined to the poetic element in Rousseau’s utterances that it would be hypercritical to object to the essay on this score. We were pleased to learn in the editorial columns of the Monthly that the University of New Brunswick holds an annual session of a Mock Parliament. The Mock Congress at Notre Dame has so long enjoyed uninterrupted success that we feel justified in pronouncing it the favorite form of debating clubs amongst students.
—In “Romanism and the Rebellion,” the ' Holcad has a burden greater than even so stout a ship should be made to carry. The essay, as one may readily see from its title, is a tirade against “Romanism” as the enemy of political freedom, intellectual growth, and moral progress. The writer of this delectable bit of ignorant vituperation may be excused on the plea, that he has never given any study to the religion which he condemns in so utterly illogical and intemperate a manner; but in an American citizen who loves the Constitution of our country, and is bound to uphold its principles and defend its justice, there can be no palliation for the gross display of religious intolerance contained in the following:
“Let us crush this enemy (Catholicism) out of existence while it can be done at a single blow, and not harbor it until it has gained form enough to defend itself, and then enter into the horrors of a religious war which shall mar the beauty of our land, hinder her progress, and sacrifice the best and most noble of her citizens.”
About the writer of this we have but one remark to make. He exemplifies, more fully than any one whom we have ever met, the aphorism: “If man had power in proportion to his malice, Satan might rest on his laurels.”
—The Manitou Messenger is the representative organ of the students of St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn., and in many respects it is entirely worthy of them. The essays and extracts— though evidently the work of immature minds— are carefully written, and show a desire on the part bf the editors to bring their paper to a high standard of excellence. The exchange column is, however, inferior, and bears the stamp of
poor judgment in the selection of clippings from other journals, and inconsiderate zeal in praising “the bold persecutors of all sorts of public and private foolishness.” In the February-number, for example, it condemns, in a mild sort of way, the Scholastic’s criticism of Puck, Judge, and similar papers. The Scholastic deprecated “the harm done by such publications by their contempt for authority, and their indecent.flings at the religion and nationality^! honest citizens.” The Messenger, commenting on this -passage, says:	•.
“ Perhaps other people do not regarcTthese periodicals in that light, but rather as the bold persecutors of all sorts bf public and pri irate foolishness.”
Does the exchange-editor of the Messenger consider respect for authority, reverence for religion, and national pride as “sorts of public or private foolishness”? If he does, there must be something fundamentally wrong either in his education or in his natural mental endowments. We strongly advise the infusion of some common sense into the exchange columns of the Messenger.
—The Cadet, published in the interests of the cadets and alumni of V. M. I., is a military friend that we are always glad to see, and never fail to welcome right heartily. The Cadet's prose matter is quite up to the standard of the best college magazines. Much of it, in fact, is brighter and more readable than the average essay published in students’ journals. The poetry does not deserve the same praise. Some of it would appear to advantage, perhaps, if written in the form of prose; but as verse, criticising it from a merely technical point of view, it is very disappointing. This, however, is a fault in which The Cadet has so many accomplices among collegejournals that we fear the honest expression of our opinion will accomplish little good. There is another thing to which we wish to call the attention of The Cadet. ' Isn’t the design on its front cover rather lacking in taste and military propriety? The young soldier with gun at “Support Arms” has his left hand so placed that he needs only an expression of; anguish on his face to give one the impression that he is suffering from a bad attack of inal de ventre. Besides, in the new Infantry Drill Regulations, adopted Oct. 3, 1891, there is no such command as “Support Arms”; and, consequently, The Cadet is guilty of a military solecism for which, in consideration of the time which has elapsed since the abolition of that command, no valid excuse can be offered. Why does not The Cadet take steps to remedy this glaring defect in its otherwise almost perfect make-up?	;
494
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Obituary.
—It is our painful duty to record the death of our fellow-student, James Bliss Cosgrove, of Booneville, Mo:, who departed this life after a lingering illness on the morning of the 25th insf. The deceased was in the eighteenth year of his age, and the second year of his student life at Notre Dame. He -was beloved by all, professors and* students, whose sincere sympathies are now extended to his bereaved relatives. The following resolutions have been passed by the students’ organizations:
BROWNSON HALL.
Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God, in His infinite wisdom, to remove from our happy home a loving companion, and from the bosom of his family its dearest hope; and,	’ .
Whereas, We deeply feel the loss of him who for years moved among us, and whom we had learned to love for his superior gifts of mind, his amiability of disposition; Be it, therefore,
Resolved, That we offer to his afflicted relatives and family our most heartfelt sympathy, reminding them that their and our loss is the loved one’s eternal gain;
Resolved, That we attend in a body the Holy Sacrifice to be offered up in the Church of the Sacred Heart, that his soul may be speedily admitted into the home of everlasting rest and peace;
Resolved, That these resolutions be published in our college paper, the Notre Dame Scholastic, and also in the daily papers of the home of the deceased, and a copy of the same be forwarded to his afflicted family.
■ P. H. Coady,	W. Cummings,
. J. Flannigan,	D. Murphy,
C.	B. Rudd, R. Frizzelle.—Committee.
The Corby Corps.
Whereas, It has pleased Divine Providence, in His infinite wisdom, to remove from this world oiir admired fellow-student, J. B. Cosgrove; Therefore, be it
Resolved, That we, the members of the Corby Drill Corps, deeply feel his loss and sympathize with his bereaved family in their affliction;
. Resolved, That these resolutions-be printed in. the Notre Dame Scholastic, and that a copy of the same be forwarded to the sorrow-stricken family.
’	J. W. Raney, }
-	A. H. Herr, [ Committee.
J. Henly, )
Local Items.
. —Shoot the burglars!
—Johnnie, get your gun!
—Many entries for the oratorical contest this year.	'
—We have received a contribution from “Nemo,” but we would like to know who he is.
—Mr. Nicholas J. Sinnott, Portland, Oregon, has been selected as the Valedictorian of the Class of ’92.
—The Rev. J. M. Pulcher, of Grand Rapids, Mich;, was a welcome visitor to the College during the week. -	.	;
- —From the number of those who. have given in their names as contestants for the English
Medal we should judge that the race will be an exciting one.	•
—The argument for a new trial in the late case of Frost vs. Snow took place on Wednesday, the 16th inst., in the Moot-Court. It was granted by the court, Col. Wm. Hoynes presiding.
—The Carrolls will play a return game with the Brownsons—beard the lion in his den, so to speak,—when they are assured that the latter’s alley or court has been put in good condition.
—Lost.—On St. Patrick’s night, two badges: one white, with shamrocks painted on it; the other green. They were fastened together by a tie-pin. Finder will please return to Students’ Office.	.
—It may seem presumptuous in the Carrolls at this early date to assert that they have a nine within their precincts that can beat any team within a radius of 25 miles. But—the proof of the puddin’ is in the ’atin’.
—During the week Father Kirsch took some excellent photographs of the only portrait ever made of the late Paul Wood. The original was painted by the young artist himself from his reflection in a mirror.
—The Carrolls’ special have won four, and lost two games thus far this season. They say, though it may be bad form to boast, that they were in bad form when they played the M. L.S. team the other day—hence their defeat.
—Col. William Hoynes, Dean of the Law Department, will deliver an address under the auspices of the Light Guards on military matters next Thursday evening at five o’clock. A cordial invitation to attend is extended to all.
—The Belles-Lettres class, having finished the philological consideration of Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales,” has begun Newman’s “Essay . on the Poetics of Aristotle.” The regular halfhour lecture to-day was on “The Arnolds— Thomas, Matthew and Sir Edwin.”
—Rev. President Walsh spent part of Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in examining the classes in the Minim department. The Minims are always glad to have an opportunity of showing the Rev. President how faithfully they attend to business. He intends to continue the examination until he has visited all the classes. So far he is highly pleased with the result.
—The St.-Boniface German Society held a re-election of officers last Thursday evening. The following members were elected: Rev. P. P. Klein, C. S. C., Director; Col. Hoynes, Presi- ■ dent; F. Kleekamp, Vice-President; E. Neef, Recording Secretary; V. Brennan, Corresponding Secretary; F. Schopp, Treasurer. Hereafter the regular meetings will assemble on Tuesday evenings.	-	.
—About three months ago the Minims were requested to collect stamps for the'missionaries, and a prize was offered to the Minim who should have the greatest number.. Ori Saturday; last the stamps were; handed in, when it was

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	495
found that Master R. Berthelet, of Milwaukee, had the largest number (9000),’and to him was awarded the prize—a silver medal. Masters Gavin, Morrison, Londoner, Chapoton, Wilson, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, Hilger, White, Wolf, Burns, Repscher and G. Scherrer had large collections.
—The following are the subjects for the final competitive essays in Classics and Letters: “ Life in Animals and Man ” (against Darwin); “Origin of HumanSociety” (againstLubbock); “Causes and Remedies of Socialism” (against Karl Marx); “Necessity of a Hereafter” (against Buchner).
The astronomical subjects in the Scientific course are as follows: “The Fuel of the Sun”; “The Cometary World”; “Other Worlds than Ours”; “The Sun: its Constitution, its Phenomena, its Condition”; “The Nebular Hypothesis”; “The Ptolemaic, Copernican and Lychonic Systems”; ““ The Stability of the Planetary System”; “Saturn and His System.”
:—St. Joseph’s Day the Carroll Hall Crescent Club gave a sociable which proved a most enjoyable occasion to all present. The club orchestra opened the programme with an over-* ture from the “Chimes of Normandy.” Mr. Prichard gave a declamation in his usual happy style. A piano solo by Master C. Myers, and a violin solo by Mr. E. Chassaing, with piano accompaniment by Mr. Lamar Monarch, were greatly enjoyed. Mr. E. DuBrul delivered a comic selection in excellent style. The treat of the evening was a “Medley” consisting of selections from “The Raven,” “Little Jim,” “Horatius,” and other pieces rendered in a masterly manner by Mr. Lamar Monarch, whose powers of oratory need no encomium.
—Hand-Ball.—Last Saturday afternoon the Brownsons ventured to send two of their special hand-ball players to the Carrolls’ “gym” to show (!) the youngsters the points of the game. The Carroll specials—Messrs. Wellington, W. O’Neill and J. Girsch—beat the visitors two straight games, allowing their opponent 6 and 4, respectively. They walloped ’em badly. At this juncture the Carrolls were generous enough to substitute their reserves who lost the game, the score being 2 to 7 in favor of the Brownsons. The visitors were encouraged, and Davis by this time felt warm enough to do without his coat. There was a good deal of vim exhibited, and excellent plays were made by both sides. This game also went to the Brownsons’ score 21 to 19. In the 5th game the Carrolls had it all their own way. Score at the finish 21 to 8.
Total:—Carroll Hall.....:............89	points
Brownson Hall...............6o_points
No one imagined that after such a defeat there could be found two more among the Brownsons who wished to learn the intricacies of the game, while striving to sustain the honor of their campus. Nevertheless, Messrs; Henly and O’Carry, nothing daunted by the fate of their confreres, made their appearance among the Carrolls on
the evening of the next day. The specials being out of form, and, knowing the ability of Messrs. Rend, Sullivan and Ball, allowed them the left alley. Three games convinced the visitors that they were not “in it,” as it were, and so they gracefully retired.
Score:—Carroll Hall............... 63	points
Brownson Hall...............50	points
—Mock Congress.—The 14th regular meet-' of Mock Congress was held Sunday evening, the 20th inst., speaker N. Sinnott in the chair. The calling of the roll and the reading of the ‘ journal, together with the reports of the differ^ ent committees, engaged the attention of the members only a few moments, after which the house resolved itself into a committee- of the whole for the consideration of an amendment to the United States Constitution to the effect that the person receiving a bribe shall alone merit the prescribed penalty. “The doors being open” during these proceedings, it seems no more than proper to report the debate which took place. The Hon. H. Ferneding, of Ohio (Rep.), the framer of the bill, took the floor, and gave • his reasons for such a change; but these were soon completely refuted by the Hon. Michael Quinlan, of Ill. (Dem.), who succeeded him: During the remarks of the former gentleman, the Hon. C. Rudd, of Ky. (Dem.), insinuated that the amendment, as worded, was unconstitutional, an opinion which was sustained and ably explained by the Hon. L. Whelan, of Ind. (Rep.). In nearly every meeting of Mock Congress there is a certain amount of wrangling carried on, and this meeting was not without its share. The Hon. Ahlrichs, of Ala. (Dem.), and the Hon. E. DuBrul, of Ohio (Rep.), occupied the attention of the house on questions outside the bill under discussion to the extent of about three speeches each. At last, the chairman of the committee, the Hon. J. Raney, of Mo. (Dem.), put a stop to it. The Hon. E. Mitchell, of Ill. (Dem.), vigorously opposed the amendment, as also did the Hon. M. McFadden, of Ill. (Dem.), and P. Murphy, of Oregon (Rep.). On rising, the chairman of the committee reported that the bill was rejected. New bills were then in order, and the clerk was called upon to read those given to him. After these were referred to their respective committees, the house adjourned. At the next meeting the members will discuss House Bill No. 11, which advocates that the President be elected by the popular vote of the United States.
‘ Roll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Bachrach, Brady, Combe, Cartier, L. Chute, F. Chute, Coady, Carroll, Dechant, Fitzgibbon, Flannery, Gillon,. Hannin, Joslyn,* Langan, P.Murphy, Monarch, Maurus, McAuliff, McGrath, Neef, O’Brien,. Quinlan; Rothert, Schaack, Sanford, Sullivan, C. Scherrer, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, F. Vurpillat, V. Vurpillat. ■
496	. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:

BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Arts, Burns, J. Brady, Baldwin, E. W. Brown, Beaudry, Brinin, E. J. Brown, Chassaing, Corcoran, Corry, Cosgrove, Crawley, Cassidy, Carter, Correll, Chilcote, Caffrey, Crilly, Castenado, F. S, Cummings, Conroy, Coady, Case, Colby, Carrey, Cullen, Cameron, Chidester, Doheny, Delaney, Devanny, Egan, Elliot, Femeding, Foley, Flannigan, Fardy, Heneghan, R. R. Harris, Hesse, Holland, Henly, Houlihan, Heer, Hagan, Hennessy, Hartman, Jacobs, Kenny, Krost, Kleekamp, Kearney, W. M. Kennedy, Kelly, Karasynski, Krembs, Kintzele, W. A. Kennedy, Kearns, E. Kenny, Kunert, Libert, S. Mitchell, McFadden, Monarch, D. Murphy, McErlain, McKee, F. Murphy, McCarrick, McCullough, McDermott, Murray, Maynes, Maisen, Nockels. Newton, O'Donnell, O’Shea, O’Connor, Patier, Powers, Pulskamp, Phillips, T. Phillips, Perry, Quinlan, M. Ryan, J. Ryan, Ragan, E. Roby, Raney, Sherman, Scallen, Stanton, Schopp, Stace, Thome, Vinez, Vurpillat, Whitehead, Weaver, Wilkin, Zeitler, Zeller.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Ashford, Bauer, Bixby, Barbour, Baldauf, Ball, J. Brown/ G. Brown, Byrnes, Bearss, Bates, Casey, Curran, Cullen, Carpenter, Corcoran, Cheney, Dion, Dix, DeLormier, Duncombe, Dillon, Dillman, Delaney, F. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Dixon, Dorsey, Evans, Edwards, Fleming, Finnerty, A. Funke, G. Funke, W. Ford, S. Ford, Foster, Fitzgerald, Feehan, Falk, L., Gibson, N. Gibson, Gilbert, Griffin, Gillam, Garfias, Girardin, Garst, Gemer, Gerdes, Hill, Hagan, Hilger, Hargrave, Hagus, Hittson, Healy, Hack, Harrington, Janssen, Johnson, Joseph; Kauffmann, Kreicker, Kindler, W. Kegler, A. Kegler, Kerker, Levi, Lee, Lowrey, Luther, Leonard, Lane, Mills, Mitchell, J. Miller, W. Miller, Meyers, Marre, Miles, Mahon, Moss, McPhee, McDowell, McLeod, Medalie, H. Nichols, W. Nichols, Nicholson, E. O’Connor, O’Brien, O’Rourke, W. O’Neill, Oliver, Peake, Prichard, Pope, Rupel, Rogers, Ratterman, Renesch, Rumely, Regan, H. Reedy, C. Reedy, Ryan, Sullivan, Stern, Strauss, Sparks, Sedwick/Shimp, Scholer, Stone, Sweet, Slevin, Stephens, Smith, Thornton, Thome, O. Tong, Teeter, Thom, Trimble, Tobin, Todd, J. Tong, Vorhang, Walker, Weaver, N. Weitzel, B. Weitzel, Wellington, Wells, Wagner, Wensinger, Warner, Jos. Yeager; Yingst.	'
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	‘
Masters Ayers, Ahern, R. Brown, O. Brown; Burns, Blumenthal, V. Berthelet,' R. Berthelet, Ball, Bopp, Cornell, Corry, Christ, Curry, Crandall, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Croke, Cross, H. Durand, B. Durand, Du-Brul, L. Donnell, S. Donnell, W. Emerson, F. Emerson, Everest, Egan, Finnerty, Fossick, Fuller, J. Freeman, E. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, Girsch, Gregg, Gilbert, Hoffman, Howard, Holbrook, Hilger, Healy, Roy Higgins, Ralph Higgins, Hathaway, Jonquet, Kinney, Kroll-man, Kern, G. Keeler, S. Keeler, W. LaMoure, E. LaMoure, Londoner, Lawton, Loughran, Lowrey, McPhee, McIntyre, R. McCarthy, G. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, E. McCarthy, McGinley, McAlister, McGushin, Maternes, Morrison R. Morris, F. Morris, Nichols, Ninneman, O’Neill, O’Brien, Oatman, W. Pollitz, H. Pollitz, Peck, Pursell, Pieser, Pratt, Platts, Ransome, Rose, Repscher, W. Scherrer, Swan Stuckhart, L. Trankle, F. Trankle, Trujillo, Weber, Wilcox, White,
Class Honors.
. COLLEGIATE COURSE.
- Messrs. McCarrick, E. DuBrul, R. Corcoran, A. Corry, Palmer,Flannery, C. Mitchell, H. O’Donnel, T. Quinlan, M. Ryan, Doheny, J. Ryari, E. Ahlrichs, Crawley, Kearns, M. Quinlan,. Devanney, W. Burns, Houlihan, O'Shea, Cassidy, Correll, Maurus, ;Neef, Vinez, J. Fitzgerald, Dinkel, Casey, Walker, Cosgrove, H. Mitchell, Marr, C. Fleming, J. Delaney, J. Dempsey, ‘ Carney, W. M. Kennedy, J; Brady, Keough, Kearney, D. Phillips, Joslyn, Dacey, E/ W. Brown, F/ Powers, J. McAuliff, L. Monarch, B. Bachrach,/McGrath, Rothert, E. Scherrer,
A. Ahlrichs, F. Vurpillat, Bolton. P. Murphy, V. Vurpillat, Sanford, Lancaster, Fitzgibbon, J? McKee, F. McKee, Karasynski, R. Sinnott, Sullivan, W. O’Brien, N. Sinnott, Ragan, Castenado, Hannin, L. Chute, D. Cartier, C. Gillon, Combe, P. Coady, F. Coady, Schaack, Jewett, F. Chute, Coll, L. Mitchell, Frizzelle, Schopp, Decant, Kunert, Jacobs.	•
List of Excellence.
-	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy—Messrs. A. Ahlrichs, Just, J. Fitzgibbon •, Logic—Messrs. Rothert, McAuliff, Neef/Quinlan, Fitzgerald Latin—Messrs. Ahlrichs, Quinlan, McAuliff, Hennessy, E. Ahlrichs, Dechant, Schopp, Maurus, Mon-tavon, Leo, Flynn, Frizzelle, Mattingly; Greek—Messrs. Schopp, Hennessy, Morris, Leo, E. Ahlrichs, Quinn, Montavon, Flynn, Bachrach, McKee, Kehoe; Belles^ Lettres—J. Fitzgibbons; Literary Criticism—Messrs. J. Just, M. Quinlan, Dacy, Josslyn; English Literature— Messrs. Schopp, Casey; Rhetoric—Messrs. Chidester, Vinez, Durbin; English Composition—Messrs. Arts, Hennessy, Holland, Zeitler; Astronomy—Messrs. Ahlrichs, Sullivan; Civil Engineering—Messrs. Gillon, Sullivan; Analytical Mechanics—Messrs. Sullivan, Murphy; Calculus—E. Maurus; Surveying—Messrs. Correll, McMahon, Flannery; Analytical Geometry—F. Keough; Trigonometry—Messrs. McNamee, Hennessy, Karasynski, D. Murphy, Kearns, Flynn; Algebra—Messrs. A. Corry, Flynn, Marr, H. Mitchell; Geometry—Messrs. Kennedy, Corry, H. Mitchell, Montavon; English History—Messrs. E. Ahlrichs, Carney; Modern History—Messrs. Kennedy, Murphy, Walker; Ancient History—Messrs. Brady, O’Shea, Smoger, Stace, Warner; Chemistry—Messrs. E. Maurus, Dechant, Joslyn, T. Hennessy; Botany—N. Sinnott; Zoology—W. Marr; Geology—Messrs. McGrath, Combe, Morris, V. Vurpillat.
st. edwards’s hall.
Arithmetic—Masters Cornell, Krollman, Lowrey, L. Trankle, Blumenthal, H. Durand, E. Furthman, C. Furthmann, H. Hathaway, O. Brown, J. Freeman, Wilcox, Wolf, Ransome, Jonquet, Gavin, Rose, McAllister, S. Keeler, Langley, Curtin, R. Berthelet, LaMoure, Hilger, McPhee, R. Brown, B. Morrison,Wilson, Ball, F. Trankle, G. Scherrer, Tussner, S. Donnell, McIntyre, V. Berthelet, R. McCarthy, Finnerty, Ahern; Grammar—Masters Lowrey, Cornell, Krollman, Blumenthal, W. LaMoure, H.JDurand, O. Brown, C. Furthmann, King, J; Freeman, Burns, Girsch, Lonergan, Londoner, Gavin, Hilger, McAllister, R’. Berthelet, Trujillo, Rose, R. Brown, Platts, White, Curtin, Nichols, Pratt, Hoffman, W. Scherrer, Fuller, McPhee, Everest, Morrison; Reading—Masters Lowrey, Blumenthal, W. LaMoure, E. Furthmann, C. Furthmann, Hathaway, King, Wilcox, Wolf, Maternes, McGinley, Jonquet, McAllister, Hilger, O’Brien, Londoner, L. Donnell, Platts, F. Trankle, E. Chapoton, G. McCarthy, Wilson, Ayers, Hoffman, Peck, S. Donnell, A. Coquillard, Everest, Repscher, V. Berthelet, R. McCarthy, Finnerty, Oatman, DuBrul, B. Freeman, Ahern, B. Durand, Swan; Orthography—Masters King, Krollman, Cornell, Blumenthal, H. Durand, Hathaway, Ransome, O. Brown, J. Freeman. Wilcox, Burns, Maternes, Wolf, Girsch, Lonergan, Jonquet, Hilger, Gavan, Londoner, Langley, R. Berthelet, O’Brien, Jones, Fossick, Holbrook, F. Trankle, Pratt, Nichols, McPhee, E. LaMoure, Corry, Croke, Curry, Lysle, Peck, J. Coquillard, Egan, H. Pollitz, E. McCarthy, R. Higgins; Geography —Masters Blumenthal, Cornell, Lowrey, L. Trankle, E. Furthmann; Hathaway, King, Wolf, Lonergan, McGinley, Ransome, Hilger, McAllister, R-. Brown, Chapoton, L. Donnell, Kinney, E. LaMoure, Elliot, Corry, Keeler, Stuckart; Penmanship—MastersC.Furthmann, Blumenthal, Wilcox, Maternes/ J. Freeman, E. Furthmann, Ayers; Pieser, Kern, Kuehl, Rose, Gilbert, W. Scherrer, Pratt, Crandall, Pursell, Fuller, W. Emerson. F. Morris, Ahern, B. Durand, Corry; Music—Masters H. Durand, O. Brown, Hathaway, King, Cornell, Wolf, Graf, L. Trankle, W. LaMoure, Blumenthal, C. Furthmann, W. Scherrer, B. Freeman. ’ ; V ,	' / . ■

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	497
St. Marv’s Academy.
Different Standpoints.
One Mile West of Notre.Dame University.
—The Gospel of the day furnished the. text of an interesting sermon on Sunday last, in which the Rev. Father Hudson gave some very practical suggestions as to the manner of observing Lent.
—“The extra recreation entertainment committee” presented a delightful comedy on the evening of the 17th, and, needless to say, many repetitions ■ of the same have been called for ever since.
—Saint Joseph’s Feast was a day of special devotion at St. Mary’s. The High Mass at eight o’clock was celebrated by Rev. J. Scherer, C.S.C., who delivered a sermon on “Obedience,” that virtue so marked a characteristic of the Patron of the Universal Church.
—At the last meeting of St. Agnes’ Literary Society the secretary called attention to the fact that there were two vacancies in the roll of officers. A vote was taken, and as the result Miss Maude Garrity and Miss Mabel Davis were promoted from the ranks.
—An appreciative audience gathered on Saturday evening, to see the Juniors move through the graceful figures of a stately minuet. The bright young faces, and quaint costumes of a century ago formed a pleasing picture, and suggested to many a comparison between “then” and “now,” much to the advantage of “then.”	.
—At the Sunday evening reunion Miss Alma Thirds read a timely selection relative to St. Joseph’s power in heaven; after which Rev. Father Corby drew upon himself expressions of righteous indignation from the Chicago girls, by relating an incident which had a tendency to prove that Chicago people are not very well . known at heaven’s gate.
Light of Light.
The deep was moved, and primal darkness thrilled As forth the fiat rang:—“ Let there be light.” And ere the Godhead’s words had pulsed through night, Glad day was bom,—the heart of chaos stilled.
More dense the sin-wove shades of gloom that filled The souls of men, till Gabriel’s pinions bright Bore Mary’s words unto the throne of Might,—
“ O be it done to me as Thou hast willed! ”
All hail, Thou word-made light! Thy beauty glows' In flower and stream and on the wild-bird’s wing, To tell our hearts that heavenward is our way.
But Thou, O Word made Flesh, dost more disclose; For Thou, the glorious Light of light, dost fling , Upon our.path the pledge of lasting day!
When an aspiring artist has had the honor of admittance as an exhibitor in any reputable art gallery, it would seem that his ambition has received a crowning joy; far from it! for the position of his work in the salon is as much to him as was its acceptation by the committee. Those intrusted with hanging his picture are haunted by his eager face as he follows them around until his place is assigned; and.why this anxiety? Simply because it is his desire that his work be seen to the best advantage, and the fear of its not being in a good light has caused him many a sleepless night. The jealousy which often exists between men of genius sometimes arises because the work of one is seen in a better light than another’s; for how many pictures owe much of their praise to the position in which they are placed! It is not only the poor artist who wishes his works to be seen from a favorite standpoint, but all men feel the importance of the view from which their actions are judged.	-
How often a man may present to the world an appearance so rough and uncouth that he is shunned; but let adversity come to his neighbor, and then it is that we see what a charitable heart his is. There are men whose countenance seems to tell us of their amiable disposition; but, perhaps, if we were to consult those who constantly associate with them, we might learn how deceitful appearances maybe. Look at the lady of society who possesses such highly-polished manners that she wins the admiration of all around her; but if we were to see her in her own household how different she might be!
In order to enjoy the beautiful colored arc that cheers the earth after a storm, we have to stand in a certain position as regards the sun and the falling rain; in like manner, that all things around us may be judged correctly, we must study them from various points of view. The diamond gives forth new rays from every facet when presented to the rays of light, and yet it may rest in a velvet casket without a sign of the hidden fire in its heart. Then, too, look at the stained-glass window our cathedrals and chapels boast; surely they do not impress one as objects of beauty when seen from the outside; but if we look at them from the inside, while the warm sun glides through the different colors, they are indeed beautiful to behold. Thus it is all during life; it is only when our actions are seen in a favorable light that we win the praise of man; and if we would recognize the necessity
49s
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of knowing both sides of everything, there would be fewer hasty conclusions, consequently fewer mistakes, and less unhappiness. Everything that we see passes before a mental tribunal, as Father Faber tells us, and we are as stern judges who sit and pronounce sentence for or against the victim.	.
‘ Ah! and has not prejudice here a wonderful» influence? for, when we judge one who is near and dear to us, how eloquently does not love plead his cause, how blinded we are to his faults, and how we strive to convince others of the goodness with which our fancy has invested him! But woe to him who is not our friend, and who has at any time caused us displeasure! We look at his actions from a different standpoint, and find his good deeds hidden from us by the enmity that rises as a mountain between us.
Not only do personal examples present themselves to us, but striking historical ones are found on almost every page of the world’s records. A glance at the annals of the Medici family,the Borgias, the Guelphs and Ghibilines, . show us plainly what party spirit has done. And of our own day, Philip Gilbert Hamerton, in speaking of disinterestedness in political views, says: “The conservative journalist in England is a monarchist in France, and has no hopes for the Republic; the liberal in England sees no chance of tranquillity outside of republican institutions.”
Take another instance of what point of view does: the ceremonies of religion bear a different lesson to different persons; as, for instance, when a Catholic and non-Catholic view the ceremonies of a Church function; to the latter they seem strange and void of meaning, to the former they appeal to his most sacred feelings. Again, we who are accustomed to the simplicity of a republic often ridicule the ceremonies of court life; while the courtier, who sees the bonds which custom forges, would find it quite dangerous to the maintenance of discipline at court to change even the angle of a bow.
The scientist views poetry through the same focus which is required in his researches, and he finds no pleasure therein, and often scorns the lines which so often are found to be a comfort to others; the poet views science from a poetic standpoint, and the result is neither poetry nor science. Even looking at persons and things from every available point of view, allowing for imperfections in our mental lenses, taking into consideration the power of influence and the thousand and one causes which may affect the image formed, we can hardly hope to arrive
at a perfect judgment; but by always striving to pass a charitable sentence, in both thoughts and words, on the deeds of others,, we will the nearer approach the point of view from which we would wish our own actions judged.
Agnes Lynch.
Boll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Agney, R, Bassett, E. Burns, Bell, Brady,K. Barry, Buell, Black, Bogart, Bartholomew, Charles, M. Clifford, Crilly, M. Cooper, L. Clifford, Davis, Dempsey, Duffy, Dieffenbacher, Daley, E. Dennison, M. Dennison, Fitzpatrick, Field, L. Griffith, Green, Galvin, Grace, Lucy Griffith, Gibbons, Gage, Haitz, Hellmann, Higgins, Hopkins, Hittson, Hunt, Jacobs, Kirley, Kling-berg, Kieffer, Kelly, Kasper, Kingsbaker, T. Kimmell, Kinney, Lewis, Ludwig, Londoner, Lancaster, Lichten-hein. La Moure, Lantry, Morse, M. Moynahan, Marrin an,' Murison, Morehead, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, M. McDonald, Maxon, Nacey,Nickel,M. Nichols, B. Nichols, Nester, O’Sullivan, Plato, Patier, Payne, Pfaelzer, Quinn, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Robinson, M. Roberts, Rizer, Russert, Rothschild, M. Smyth, A. Seeley, Sena, Shaw, Sleeper, Singler, Thirds, Tod, Van Mourick, Wile, Wagner, B. Winstandley, G. Winstandley, Wurzburg, Wolffe, Whitmore, Welter, E. Wile, Wolverton, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Allen, Cowan, Coady, M. Davis, Ford, Girsch, Garrity, Hickey,Kaspar, Londoner, Mills, Morris, Nacey, O’Mara, Ryder, Scott, J. Smyth, Tilden, White, Wolverton, Wheeler.
■ MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ahem, Buckley, Dysart, Finnerty, A. Girsch, Keeler, Lingard, McKenna, McCormack, A. McCarthy, Murray, Palmer, Wolverton.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses E. Adelsperger, Fitzpatrick, Griffith, Morse, Nacey, Nester, Nickel, Wile.
ist Senior Class—Misses R. Bassett, E. Dennison, Haight, Lynch, M. Moynahan, A. Ryan, C. Ryan, Thirds, Gibbons, Marrinan.
2D Senior Class—Misses Bero, Charles, M. Kirley, Klingberg, Ludwig, Plato, Zahm, F. Carpenter, Maxon, Field, Tormey. ,	,
3D Senior Class—Misses Bell, M. Clifford, A. Cooper, Duffy, Farwell, Grace, Galvin, Hellmann, Higgins, Hutchinson, Keating, Londoner, N. Moore, Morehead, McCune, M. Nichols, Pengemann, E. Seeley, Smith, Van Mourick, Wurzburg, Kinney, O’Mara.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses A. Buell, Dieffenbacher, Hunt, Hammond, Kelly, Kieffer, Lennon, Lich-tenhein, E. McCormack, D. McDonald, A. Moynahan, O’Sullivan, Quinn, Rizer, A. Seeley, Tod, Whitmore, M. Davis, B. Davis, S. Smyth, Meskill.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Agney, Black, Crilly, M. Dennison, Dingee, Hittson,-Hopkins, Kauffman, Kingsbaker, Leppel, Sena, Shaw, Sleeper, Wile, L. Adelsperger, Doble, Field, Nacey, Baxter, N. Smyth, White.
3D Prep. Class—Misses A. Augustine, Culp, Payne, Rothschild, M. Russert, Schmidt, Tietgen, Singler, McColm, Welter.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses Cooper, McDonald, Pfaelzer, Coady, A. Cowan, L. Dreyer, Dennison, Girsch, Londoner, Williams. -
ist Junior Class—Misses Crandall, Dysart, Ford, Finnerty, Mills, McKenna, M. Murray, Ryder, Tilden, -Wheeler, McCormack.
2D Junior Class—Misses Ahern, Buckley, H. Girsch, Lingard, McCarthy, Palmer, Keeler, Wolverton.