

-er;;.~.~:.~~=~, . -.,'_. __ __~--,,;;:>~~ Reprinted by permission of Masters Agency.._:;=._·=.7ea=::=·,'"' 
Copyright, 1978, Los Angeles Times. Reprinted by permission. 
THE WIZARD OF ID by Bro.nt parker and Johnny hart 

The Wizard of Id by permission of Johnny Hart and Field Enterprises, Inc.. 
by Garry Trudeau · 
DOONESBURY 
~)5,511?.
"Pf,~ BUT He'll.. ~ PFm4Bl,Y.I'tt. H4Vl: IMT1?1XBI£ 
'KJ A5f<EIJPITH 6cT7lN6 IN 
• ',(XJ-71/IITKIP ax.t.E6c, 11/H? IS lflN/l,/,l'fe! / 
I 
Copyright, 1975, G.B. Trudeau/distributed by Universal Press Syndicate. 
downstown by Tim Downs 

Reprinted by permission of Tim Downs. 
conrenls _____,;,..._____.;.~_;,__----. 
Editor-in-Chief  James F. Basile  
General Manager  Maher A. Mouasher  
Design Editor  Peter D. Wowkowych  
Managing Editor  Matthew H. Bradley  

Production Manager Barb Blanchette 
Administration 

Pete Cespedes/Advertising Mike Hoffman/Asst. General Mgr. Michael Setzer /Circulation 

Editorial 
John DetUing/Sports Mary Dolan/Departments Mary Hartney/Student Life Ted Kelleher/Nat. Affairs Jennifer Niederst/Art Jean O'Bryan/Notre Dame 

Layout 
Tim Arnold/Nat. Affairs Sue Serrato/Departments Kathleen Lau/Notre Dame Phil Flesch/Sports Alfredo Marr/Student Life 


Cover Photos 
Barbara Gadacz/front Paul Rakestraw /back 

The opinions expressed in SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of SCHOLASTIC or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless other­wise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the editorial board. 
SCHOLASTIC is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertising, Inc. Published bi-weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, SCHO­LASTIC is p~inted at The Papers Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manuscripts to SCHOLASTIC; Notre Drone, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of SCHOLASTIC. Copy­right © 1985 SCHOLASTIC. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Volume 127, Number 8 Football Review, 1985 SCHOLASTIC  
2/The Eye in the Sky Don't Lie by Greg Dingens 5/The Players Behind the Players by Bob Musselman 8/lrish Get BOwled Over by Chris Scheuermann 13/Home Cooking Does the Trick by Chuck Freeby 15/Boilers Thrash Irish by Larry Burke 17/Rocky Mountain Low by Pete Pranica 21/lrish Bomb Cadets by Phil Wolf 23/Irish Send Trojans Out On Their Shields by Chuck Ehrman 25/Reserve Missile Thrower Sinks Navy by Ian Larkin 27 /Rebel Y eH Silenced by Jim Basile 29/ND Fed to the Lions by Gene Boes · 31/Tigers Sneak by Irish by Marty Burns 33/Hurricanes Blow Away Irish by Pete Pranica 36/The Walk-on: An Uphill Battle by Gene Boes 39 /Lou· Holtz is no Laughing Matter by Pete Pranica: ·  I I !  
Ed note: Special thanks go to the South Bend .Tribune Sports Dept, especially Bill Bilinski, for providing us with· some of the photos. And without whose help this review of the 85 Irish football season wouldn't be as complete.  
1  

J 
Pi 

The Eye in the Sky 

Lie 

•1·---· 
t 
by Greg Dingens 
"Dingens!" 
I cringed in the darkness. 

"Would you like to tell me what you are doing on this play?" 
A few scattered laughs rose above the clicking and whirring of the film projector as the source of the voice repeatedly advanced and reversed the frames thrown against the screen in front of us. 
. "I thought..." 

2 
"Hell, you thought nothing: that's the problem." More laughs filtered through the projector's low rhythmic noise. The voice would · suddenly and somewhat mysteriously emanate from .an undefined point behind the bright light of the projector's lens, rem­inding us of the unseen presence lurking behind us. I shifted down in my seat, thankful for the pro­tective cover of gloom, as I watched myself fire off the ball into the wrong gap. Onscreen I realized I had gone the wrdng way, stopped, and had been buried by a pulling guard in my moment of uncertainty. The click­ing and whirring continued. 
It was this sequence which was running back and forth for the amusement of all: CLICK. There I was, getting knocked flat on my face. CLICK. There I was, miraculously flying from flat on my face -with a 270 lb. blob of plastic, flesh and mesh on my back -up to my feet, my momen­tum seemingly sending the guard scurrying backwards in a per­verted moonwalk. CLICK. Here he comes again, about to crush me. CLICK. CLICK. CLICK. CLICK. Coaches could really have a sick sense of humor. 
Finally, the film continued. As it turned out, the nose tackle and linebacker did a great job ~stuffing up the middle, making 'the runn.ing back bounce outside, where he tripped over me and my huge, sweaty, human backpack. I remember that play distinctly, hearing my name over the loudspeaker credited with the 
tackle as I pulled my facemask from the sod where it was imbed­dcd. People were cheering because we had stopped them on third down. My lips had curled into an ironic smile when I real­ized the fans probably thought I was some kind of hero, when really we stopped them because two of my teammates had gone 
SCHOLASTIC 


"Dingens!'' I cringed in the darkness ... 
beyond their call of duty and covered for me. Funny how that works. No one knows the truth until film sessions. As they say: "The eye in the sky don't lie ..." 
"Kiernan!" The shadowy voice brought · my thoughts back to the auditorium. "If you were grading this film, would you call this a RAB?" 
In the dim, flickering light I glanced to my right, where "Kitty Kat," as we call him, was about to go through the · same thing I just had. He was being accused of running-around-the-block, one of the many no-no's which merited the punishment of "down-ups," unpopular exercises doled out at Monday's practice. Kitty squirmed in his seat and looked toward me. I shot him an empathetic smile. He rolled his eyes and returned his gaze to the screen. In the weight room before the film session we· had talked about the plays we were dreading to see on this Sunday evening. These were but two of several. CLICK.· 
"Kiernan, what shouid be your technique here?" CLICK. 
"I'm playing a 'zero tech­nique,' coach." CLICK. 
"You mean you are playing zero technique." More laughter from the peanut gallery. I even threw in a chuckle -after all, it's not me. "Write that down. That'll 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1985 
earn you ten down-ups come 
tomorrow." 
"But coach, I knew it was going to be a down block" Kitty said, with a smile in his voice that said he didn't believe a word that just left his mouth. 
"Oh, but then why didn't you make the play, if you are so all-knowing?" The voice enjoyed these playful interchanges. "If you would have made the play, then everything would have been great because you would have looked good, and therefore I would have looked good. They would have said, 'Boy, is that defensive line ever well coached.' And I probably would have even gotten a raise. But you didn't do any of the above, so tomorrow you shall do down-ups." 
Kitty gave a little grimace as · the film continued to roll, bathing the entire auditorium in pulsating light. As I looked around, the faces of all my· peers were briefly and repeatedly illuminated, revealing the slight apprehension etched in their faces as they awaited their tum in the spotlight. The unblinking eye of the camera harshly exposes your every mus-· cle twitch, back and · forth, back and forth, magnifying the slightest misstep made in the heat of battle to a glaring, enormous error, mer­cilessly repeated in the cold light of the projector. The flickering darkness punctuated by the 
rhythmic whirring of the projec­tor and fleshed out by the tense anticipation of all created an eerie, melodramatic atmosphere which hung heavily around each person in the cool auditorium. All eyes were transfixed on the screen. 
Well, most eyes. Glancing to 

my left, I saw my brother, Matt, 
as relaxed as can be: hands 
clasped on his stomach, legs · draped over the seat in front of him, mouth slightly agape, eyes firmly shut. I smiled to myself and decided to let him be; he had a rough night. 
"All right, next drive" called out the voice through the dark­ness. "We are in a 50 tiger cover red. Or at least we should be." 
I reached down between my legs and retrieved a can of Diet Coke from the floor, raised it to my lips quickly, and .set it down slowly, careful not to make a metallic ping when it hit the cold tile. Having food or drink in meetings is another punishable offense, but in the darkened audi­torium, with all eyes (except two) fixed on the screen, it's not hard to bend the rules a little bit... 
"Damn it, Dorsey, what do you do on a tiger stunt?" demanded the voice, bristling with annoyance. 
"But coach, I could read pass by their stances" Dorsey pro-·: ; 
:1 
s ·:1',, 
! 
.. Football takes a cornu­copia of . personalities and melts them down into a single-minded machine.'' 
tested feebly. Seeing Eric Dorsey do anything feebly must be akin to watching a hippopotamus dance the Nutcracker Suite. 
"That's right, and so you have CONTAIN on a pass play, right Eric?" The voice was baiting the poor little guy. · 
"Well...yes...but I saw a lane and..." 
"Eric, · please don't invent any mor'~ of your own defens es." 
Jeff; "Miami Vice" Kunz leaned up from his seat behind me and whispered in my ear; "I bet he says 'I've taught you everything I know and you still don't know anything."' 
''.Eric, I've taught you every­thing I know, and you still don't know anything" boomed the voice from the back, laughing apprecia­tively at his own joke. 
I looked back at Jeff and shared a laugh. One thing about playing the same position on a football team, you spend half your waking hours together during the season ai::id get to know each other inside and out, like it or · not. And you really get a melting pot; there i~ quite an assortment of regions, races and reasons represented 'on the team, not to mention the defensive line. Foot­ball is a powerful equalizer: you CruJ. gather "spoiled suburban kids" ' from Palm Beach and 
4 
Bloomfield Hills, "city toughs" from Chicago and Cleveland, "oil brats" from Texas, "free spirits" from California, and, of course, 
Kitty Kats from Kentucky. You can have kids wander in from all corners of the country, shed their faded Levis, Brooks Brothers slacks, .and camouflage pants; kick off their Gucci loafers, cowboy boots and black Converse hi-tops; hang up their Oxford cloth button-downs, Polo shirts and Adidas tee shirts; have them don their shoulder pads, helmets and cleats and emerge as one thing -a team. Football takes a cornucopia of personalities and melts them down to a single minded machine... 
"Who's the right tackle in there?" demanded the voice over the noise of the projector. 
"Kleine" drawled six foot nine Wally Kleine, faintly. 
"Who?" 
"Me, coach" Wally said, not much louder. 
"Is that you, nine six?" 
"Yes, sir" 
"Which foot are you stepping with first on this play?" 
There was a pause as the pic­tures in front of us ran back and forth. We all watched Wally do a little dance on the screen as the projector showed Wally step for­ward from his stance with his right foot then CLICK step back­ward into his stance then CLICK forward again. It was obvious he was stepping with his right foot, which happens to be the wrong foot if you are a right tackle (got that?). The voice just warited to hear Wally admit it. 
"I don't know, it's kind of hard to tell from this angle." Nice · try, Wally. 
"Don't give me that garbage, Kleine. We've got to use tech­nique to defeat· the man across from us. You stepped with the wrong foot because you were in a lousy stance to begin with." 
Apparently this time it didn't matter that Wally still made th~ play. The voice reserved the tacit right to be fickle. Coaches are paid to be perfectionists. No matter how well you play, they are rarely satisfied because they can always find just as many mis­takes committed as good plays made. They realize that the little things really do count, that they add up to be significant. Discip­line is the name of the game in a team sport. In the words of Napoleon, "Without discipline, there can be no victory." I think the -whole team began to feel the weight of these words these last few years... 
"Dingens!" 
I cringed in the darkness ... • 
SCHOLASTIC 
-
a • • -• • 

-' 
. ' ­
-~ ) . ' ' ' . ,. , . , 
The Players Behind. the Players 
team. Moreover, they win and 
by Bob Musselman 

lose with the Fighting Irish. 
Fourth down and two. Notre Dame, down by three, must decide between attempting a 25­yard field goal, which would force a tie, or going for the first down and a possible game­winning touchdown. There is less than a minute left in the crucial game. What will the Fighting Irish do? 
The network camera zooms in on Notre Dame head football coach Gerry Faust, pacing pen­sively on the sideline. He has decided to bring on the kicking team, which significantly reduces the chances for an Irish win. The network announcer wonders, rhe­torically; if the coach has made the right decision. 
No matter how tight the shot, another person almost always appears on television with Faust. It's not quarterback Steve Beuer­lein, star tailback Allen Pinkett or one of Faust's responsibility'.'laden assistant · coaches. Fallowing Faust,· making sure his head phone cord stays as free and mobile as the coach himself, is ¼rk Gess. Gess serves as head football manager. He is one of a group· of dedicated students who help make Notre Dame football the institution that it is. 
Managers, contrary to popu­lar conception, are part of the 
"The Student Manager's Organization," says informational literature given to prospective freshmen managers at recruiting nights, "consists of a close knit work force structured by class." Freshmen work during . football practices, learning the basic chores which managers must per­form every day. Sophomores work football practices, the night before home games (called "game prep"), and during home games. They also help during the basketball season. 
By the end of the year, twenty-five or thirty sophomore managers usually remain. After the annual spring scrimmage, the "Blue and Gold Game," the top fifteen are chosen by the senior managers. Those fifteen spend their entire junior year managing football, and at the end of the season are ranked from top to bottom by themselves and the senior football managers. The top three manage football their senior year, while the remaining twelve are distributed to the other sports · which require managers: men's and women's basketball, and. men's baseball, soccer, lacrosse, swimming, tennis, track, wres­tling, hockey and fencing .. 
As · yearly assignments and responsibilities vary, so does com­pensation.•. Freshmen receive a "Notre Dame Managers" Wind­breaker. Sophomores get free books and basketball tickets. Juniors, since they report ,before school starts with . the : team, receive-a $700 tuition· i credit. They continue to get free books and basketball tickets, and travel to one or . two road games. Juniors also receive a manager's "uniform" a jacket, . shoes, sweats, shorts and shirts .··· to be worn during games. 
Senior managers , are rewarded with everything_ they've received before, plus · a much­coveted monogram jacket .(just like varsity athletes wear); All three travel with •_ the team to every road game. Most substan­tially, each receives tuition ',credit based upon his · ranking] The organization pays 100 percc;:p.t of the head football manager's tui­tion and 75 percent of the 'two associate football managers',, tui­tion. The two basketball managers, the hockey manager and the women's basketball manager also receive 75 ,percent, and the seven . other _senior managers are reimbursed for 65 percent of their tuition costs. 
On a dreary November day, the three senior footbali managers work quietly in thev Managers; Office, a closet"'.'like ·room 
adjacent to the indoor track' Gess looks over the· d·ay:'s practice schedule. The , -equipment manager, Bob Landry, ..-takes requests from sophomo~es work-ing in the locker room who need everything from pads to screw-in cleats to placate players who have arrived early. Mark Murphy, per­sonnel manager, prepares a roster of players who y,ill dress for the upcoming game.· 

"We always have to be here, but the physical doing of things is 2 left tothe juniors," says Landry. .§
..

Indeed,•. most work the three ~ senior managers do is administra-:::S tive and organizational. Working l 
through the university equipment manager, Landry makes sure the team and the managers are never far from a vital item. Murphy not only keeps track of player person­nel, but also schedules freshman, sophomore and junior managers for work times. Gess is ultimately responsible for everything, but unlike his two associates, he has a . specific job on practice and game days..Gess is coach Faust's per­sonal assistant, from working by his side at the top of a 40-foot tower during practice to carrying his heaq · phone cord during 
games. 
As 'Landry said, the real· work occurs farther down the totem pole. Juniors are charged with a tremendous amount of 
· · r~sponsibility. Each has a specific duty during each practice, responsibilities which rotate so that everyone can do every job. On this day, Jay Sellick and Mike Kennaugh are preparing . the locker room. They came in at I 
p.m. and began sorting laundry done after the previous day's practice. As players begin to trickle in for the 4:25 p.m. ses­sion, Sellick, Kennaugh and their freshman and sophomore assis­tants begin distributing equipment and catering to the players' requests. During practice they guard the practice field's lone gate so that only those who are supposed to attend are admitted. 
Afterward, they clean the locker roorri and ready the bundles of. laundry for the nighttime cleaners. 

Juniors run the show on the practice field. Each has a specific position: some are assigned to individual coaches, while others have more general duties. Sopho­mores and freshmen perform minor tasts, such as running errands. 
"Where the hell are all the managers?" a player yells as he runs from the field. During prac­tice, managers must be around when needed, but mostly they blend into the training and discip­line that characterize a full scale football practice. 
Junior Dave Robbins has learned when to be conspicuous and when to take charge. Before practice, he helps move the mas­sive amount of equipment from the· Athletic and Convocation Center to the practice field. He rubs down new footballs. But when practice begins he assumes the rble of · a ball · spotter and chaser. During one particular drill, he and three other managers form a chain which keeps activi­ties moving. The quarterback throws a pass, which is caught along the sideline. The receiver tosses the ball to one of the managers stationed along each sideline, who relays the ball to Robbins. Robbins throws the ball to a manager standing just outside the area where the drill is taking place. He makes s·ure that another manager, who spots the ball for each play, has enough footballs to keep the drill moving. Mechani­
cally, this procedure. and others like it take place for almost two hours. The managers, when things go right, become part of the machine. 
Before every game, a ritual takes place at Notre Dame Sta­dium. It's called "game prep." Landry indirectly supervises the activities, and two juniors actually make sure things are done correctiy. But the brunt of the preparation falls upon sopho­mores, all of whom are required 
to . attend each game prep. For home games, that means being at the stadium from early. evening Friday until early morning Satur­day. In the historic Notre Dame Stadium locker room and the dark, dank halls of the half­century-old football facility, sophomore managers discover if th~y have the drive to succeed their supervisors. 
In the area where .· conces~ sionaires peddle their goods on game day, sophomores Mike Gan­non and Mike Fleming prepare helmets for their weekly painting. First, they cover each helmet's face mask with cellophane, and tape areas which are not to he painted. Another sophomore gives each helmet five coats of a specially mixed lacquer-paint. Fleming and Gannon remove the cellophane and tape, touch up rough spots .and. return the hel­mets to the manager responsible for setting up each locker. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Jay Sullivan, who is in charge of this week's game prep since he is also in charge of the locker room for the next day's game, explains that mixing the paint is tricky since the mixture is depen­dent upon the amount of moisture in the air. If the helmet painting goes slowly, it could be a long night for all, since everyone must i:: 
ig

stick around until the locker room 
ia
al 

is ready. ~ 
"When we're finished, after a ~ good night, the helmets look fan-Ill 0 tastic," says Gannon with obvious pride. "We can say those are our helmets out there shining." 
Inside the locker room, sophomore Steve Hartle helps put up "psyche signs," inspirational phrases written on the locker room's walls with athletic tape. "Pride" is written on a blue and gold pillar, and "Look at 110%" adorns a mirror. 
Other managers are assigned several players whose lockers 
. they must set up. Each player prepares a bag of equipment at the ACC locker room, which the managers . bring to the stadium. The manager must make sure that his player has all his equipment and that it's in good shape. 
Sophomore Mark Thebault has just finished preparing defen­sive lineman Eric Dorsey's locker and is currently preparing the 
· equipment belonging to lineman Steve Bynum. After "stuffing" Bynum's game pants (putting the pads in), he works on Bynum's big shoes. He tightens all of· the cleats· and removes dirt accumu­lated during practice. He shines the shoes' white leather so it looks almost new.·· 
"It's just stuff that has to be done," Thebault says with a shrug as. he tightens. a cleat. ''Actually, it's pretty fun. It's one of the best jobs." 
On a good night, which this is, preparations are· finished by 2 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986 

a.m. By nine o'clock, however, everyone is back in the locker room preparing for the real thing. 
On game day, all juniors have specific duties and are assigned sophomores to help carry them out. The players · arrive around IO am. , after which the managers crowd in a back room which exits into the stadium. There, most sit, talk about foot­ball and eat sandwiches prepared for ·after the game. Sullivan, how­ever runs around making sure every player has all his equip­ment. When he finds a dissatisfied customer, he calls the ACC and ·has the necessary item brought 
over. 

Robbins will set up · the field today, but since it's raining he waits until the grounds crew removes the protective tarp. At. 11 :30, an hour before kick off, he leads his crew onto the field. They position the yard markers, and transport game balls, towels and . others equipment to the Notre Dame sideline. By noon, they've finished, and ht~.ve time to view the opposing team's cheer­leaders as they enter the stadium. 
In the · locker room, just before . the game, Coach Faust delivers his pre.:.game ·. pep talk. The locker managers crowd at.the door of their sniall back room and listen to the coach's words bf encouragement. As the players leave, the managers reclean the 
locker room and set up coolers full of diet soda for halftime refreshment. They work quickly, since after they're finished the · managers are allowed to stand 
along the sidelines. The view's not 
great, but it's fun to be on the 
field. 
Just before halftime, the locker room managers return to their post, awaiting players who . will Iieed · towels and equipment repairs. Halftime means more waiting, talking about football and eating sandwiches. As the player's return to the field, the locker room is put in post-game condi­tion. Each locker gets a sandwich, and to the diet soda is added non-diet varieties. The psyche signs are removed. 
Finally, after the game ends and · players change into street clothes and begin the victory cele­bration, the locker room managers attempt their final cleanup of the day. After an hour or so, Sullivan leaves, bestowing upon the sopho­mores · the final responsibility for locking and cleaning up. By · 6 p.m., the locker room is empty, and the managers· are free to enjoy their own day off--Sunday. 
"You get to know the team by being with· them every day, traveling with them--you're a part of the team," Gess says. "You want to win because you're part of the team. · Every loss is your loss, every win is your win."• 




IRISH Get BOwled Over 
MICHIGAN CONTROLS THE TRENCHES AS ND LOSES ANOTHER OPENER 
Banks stacks up Michigan offense 

by Eric Scheuermann 

Ann Arbor -The sun seemed to be shining on just about every­one except Head Coach Gerry Faust ahd his Notre Dame foot­ball team, as the Irish opened their season with a disappointing . 20-12 loss to the Michigan Wol­verines. On a beautiful day in 
Ann Arbor, the Wolverines -who were not regarded very highly going into the game -surprised the Irish by outplaying them in nearly every· phase of the game. The Irish entered· the game ranked No. 13 by the AP poll and No. 11 by the UPI, while Michi­gan was not rank-ed by either. But this game certainly showed how little those early-season listings mean. 
"All this victory proves is that we're decent, that we're not the dog people think we are," said Michigan Head Coach Bo Schembechler, who still has never lost a home opener in his 16 sea­sons as head coach of the Wolver­ines. "But right now I'm not sure how good we really are." 
The Irish would probably conclude the Wolverines were very good. Notre Dame started the game out on the right foot by winning the coin toss, and deferred their choice to the second half. The Wolverines could go nowhere on their first posses­sion and punted. 
The Irish could do nothing until they . received the ball back at midfield for their second series. On the strength of the running game, Notre Dame soon had a first-and-IO at the Michigan 14­

. yard line. But two runs by senior tailback Allen Pinkett could only pick up five yards, and a crucial illegal procedure penalty pushed the Irish back· to the 14-yard line on third down. The Irish ran Pinkett again, and he was tackled for a two-yard loss by defensive tackle Mike Hammerstein, who played an outstanding game. The Irish had to settle for a 34-yard field goal by junior iohn Carney with 3:05 remaining in the first quarter, something that seemed to. set the stage for the rest of the 
SCHOLASTIC 


afternoon. 
"If I had the chance to do it over when we were inside the 20," said Faust, "I'd call different plays." 
"People think they can run the ball on us, and I don't know why," said Schembechler, whose Wolverines held the Irish ballcar­riers to 97 net yards on 2.4 yards per carry for the afternoon. "I was surprised they ran so much." 
Although Michigan was .. not able to score on its next posses­sion, their offensive line began to show signs· of the dominance that would become evident as the game progressed. The Wolverines advanced from their own 20-yard line· to the Nqtre Dame 30-yard line, largely on the strength of 41 yards rushing. And · although Michigan freshman kicker Mike Gillete was short on ~the 47-yard field · goal, it was very apparent the Wolverines . were ready for anything the Irish threw· at theni. · 
A balanced running and passing attack brought the Irish down to the Michigan 14-yard ljne after the missed field goal. But once again Pinkett could get nowhere on three carries, and Carney booted his second three­pointer to put the Irish up by six. 
"It's very frustrating to . get down there close to a touchdown · and not get in," said Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beuerlein. ''A 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1985 
Tim Brown upended 
lot of the guys didn't understand the running calls. But the coaches have been around a lot longer than we have, and they have a philosophy they want to stick with. We had no trouble getting down the field and then we thought we could hit the run. Obviously the coaches thought we could pound it in on the ground." 
The running game was the main ingredient in a Michigan drive that went 55 yards in ten plays to the Notre Dame four­yard line late in the second quar­ter; The Irish forced Wolverine quarterback Jim Harbaugh to throw incomplete into the end­zone, and Gillete kicked a 21­yarder to cut the deficit to three. 
The Irish came right back at the end of the half, . going 50 yards in 51 seconds~ and Carney came on to kick his third field goal, a 47-yarder, with 13 seconds left in the half. 
As the Irish left the field . with the 9-3 lead in hand, it seemed that a victory was well within reach. The offense had moved the ball well, although it hadn't been able to reach the end­zone, ·and the defense had held Harbaugh and the Wolverines to a mere field goal. "We felt we had them at halftime," said Beuerlein, who finished with 11 completions in 23 attempts for 160. yards and one interception. "We were just 
confident we were going to go back out there and win." But Schembechler had other things in mind. 
"At halftime I knew we could run on their ·defense, and I knew . we could throw on first down," he said. "And they hadn't crossed our goal line, so we were confident that we could win. The only time I got mad at the kids was when they allowed that field goal at the end of the first half." At the half, Michigan had already gained -142 yards on the ground, while Harbaugh had only· thrown for I6. This domination by the Michigan line would . soon catch up with the· Irish. 
The Irish lead would not last long, as the second half began in the worst way possible for Notre Dame and junior tunning back Alonzo Jefferson. Jefferson fum­bled the kickoff at the 5-yard line, and .Michigan's Dieter Heren recovered' at the 14-yard line. Jefferson suffered a season­ending knee injury on the play. 
"The fumble was definitely the big play we needed," said Wolverine running back Jamie Morris, who would finish the day with 119 yards on only 23 carries. "There's no doubt that that was the turning point in the game:" 
Beuerlein · echoed these words: "The. fumbled kickoff was a big, big factor as far as momen­tum was concerned," he said. 


· And Schembechler believed 

it was divine intervention. "It was 
one time when God looked down 
on someone other than Notre 
Dame," the Wolverine mentor 
commented. 
Harbaugh, who hurt the Irish all day with his scrambling (60 yards gained on the ground), sliced into the endzone three plays later on a third-and-six play from the Irish 10-yard line, and after the extra point the Wolver­ines had taken their first lead of the ballgame. and were on their way. 
"That quarterback draw was called by the coaches up in the booth," said Schembechler. "We knew that the defense was in man-to-man coverage, which means that every man is covered except the quarterback. So we ran the quarterback draw." 
"Harbaugh hurt us on a cou­ple of scrambles," said Faust "We were caught in the man-to-man on that first touchdown, and they called the right play.'' 
The Irish received a break when Dan Sorensen's punt was fumbled by the Wolverines' Erik Campbell and recovered by Irish sophomore Matt Dingens on the Michigan 29-yard line. An Irish first down gave them first-and-I 0 at the Wolverine 15-yard line. But, yet again, the Irish gave the .ball to Pinkett three straight times, and he could not get the 
t 

first down. Notre Dame settled for a school record-tying fourth field goal from Camey (a 25­yarder) and a 12-10 lead. 
"Some of the play calls were hard to understand," said Beuer­lein. "But we should have been able to get in the endzone and win with what we did today. 
We've · got to come off the ball better." "We just didn't execute inside the 20..:yard line today," Faust said. 
Michigan came right back on its next possession, winning the battle in the trenches. A Wolver­ine drive that. covered 80 yards and used up 7:02 on the clock led to a one"."yard touchdown run by Gerald White that put Michigan in the lead to stay, 17-12. 
. A cruciai penalty h,elped the Wolverines continue their drive when it · appeared they would have to settle · for an attempt at a field goal. On a third-and-seven play from the .Jrish 26-yard line, Harbaugh threw to a wide-open Eric Kattµs at the 15-yard line, but he dropped the ball, seem­ingly giving the Irish a break. But a roughing-the-passer call on defensive tackle Wally Kleine gave the Wolverines a first down at the 13-yard line, and three plays later White gave Michigan the game-winning touchdown. 
Replays seemed to show that Kleine was in the air as Harbaugh 
• • 11 was one time God was looking down on 
someone  besides  Notre  
Dame."  Bo  Schem­ 
bechler  

Pinkett found tough going inside the twenty. 
released the ball, and could not have avoided . a collision with the Michigan quarterback. "That call really surprised me," said Kleine. "If it was a penalty, then it was a stupid mistake." 
The Michigan offensive line continued · to push around the Irish. "I thought Michigan con­trolled the line of scrimmage on both ends of the ball," said Faust. "We aren't going to win many football games when they do that The game was won on the lines and in our failure to execute there. They had a better rush and opened up better holes," he con­tinued. "If we can't open holes our game won't go. When you make five or six yards on first down you're going to win the football game. I'm tired if this happening. We've got to get off the ball better." 
. Senior offensive guard ·Tim Scannell thought he and· his team­mates might not have been quite ready for the excellence shown by the Wolverine defensive line. "I think they were a lot quicker than we anticipated,'' said Scannell. "They just outran us and moved to where they wanted." It was the Wolverines offense that continu­ally gained at least five or six yards per carry in the second half, while the defense held the Irish scoreless after Carney's field goal. 
"We didn't do anything. dif-
SCHOLASTIC 

.....I'm tired of saying until next week' ... " -Steve Beuer­

lein ­
The day ended on a high 
note for Jamie Morris and 
the rest of the Woll'erines. 

ferent defensively in the second 
half," said Schembechler. "Notre 
Dame didn't really surprise us _ 
with what they did offensively. 
We knew that they had run the 
single-setback formation before. 
They ran a lot of things that they 
had used before. We gave them 
problems with offensive align­
ments, so our guys were tough to 
handle. We don•~ really have great 
size on the line, but we do have 
good quickness. I didn't think 
we'd be able to run as well as we 
did." 
Beuerlein was disappointed with the Irish offensive effort as a whole. "They made a few adjust­ments at halftime," the Irish quar­terback said. "They took away a. few things that had worked for us in the first half. We should have reacted to that, and we really didn't." Pinkett felt the Irish had hurt themselves again with penal­ties and other mistakes at impor­tant spots in the contest. "There were some crucial mistakes made at critical points in the game," he ·said. "We· can't keep on letting 
that· happen.;' 
Schembechler felt the ability of the Wolverines to control the ball led to the strong defensive effort, and eventually to victory. "Our confidence was definitely up in the second half," said Schembechler. "A year ago we couldn't pick up the first downs to help out our defense. But today we had two good drives and we were able to keep our defense off the field. I thought the defense played well, and I hope the offense continues to be productive." 

The Wolverines picked up their final three points on a 23­yard field goal by Gillete, after a 74-yard drive that was helped along by a controversial 15-yard pass interference call on Irish defensive back Marv Spence. 
The Wolverines gave the Irish a chance to come back when, with 3:43 left to go in the game, Morris fumbled the ball away _at the Notre Dame 27-yard line and Troy Wilson recovered for the visitors. But after a drive of 51 yards; Irish hopes were dashed when Beuerlein's fourth­down pass was intercepted by Doug Mallory at the Michigan 11-yard line with only 1:02 remaining. 
Harbaugh needed only to kneel down behind center three times before the gun sounded, sending the Irish back home losers in their opener for the second year in a row. 
"Unfortunately, we made two mistakes (Campbell's fumble on the punt and Morris' fumble) in the second half, and so we never got control of the game," said Schembechler. "But I was pleased that our team showed resolve. We had the two horren­dous turnovers that we could 
. have let break our back, but we didn't -we persevered. I hope it's a sign of things to come for our team. We hung in there, played hard, and won the game." 
Meanwhile, on the opposite end, the Irish could only hope to turn their season around after the disappointing loss. "Nobody played well," said Faust. "I'm not taking anything away from Michi­gan, but we've got to come back next week a much improved team." 
The Irish players also hoped the team could find strength to improve on its performance and come back with a better. effort in the next contest. "We just have to do a character reevaluation, come out and play harder and cut down 
-on mistakes," offered Pinkett, who finished with 89 yards on 22 carries. "We've got to be a lot tougher mentally." 
"We could have gone iw,with a little better attitude," said Irish outside linebacker Mike Larkin. "All our backs are against the wall now. If anyone has to show what they're made of, we do now. I thought we were very apathetic." 
"Now we've just got to get together and come back ready to play," said Beuerlein. "But I'm tired of saying 'Wait until next week.' We've got to go out there and show people what we can do."• 


Pinkett was no slouch either, keying the Irish ground game. 

SCHOLASTIC 


HOME COOKING DOES THE TRICK 
IRISH STIFLE SPARTANS AT NOTRE DAME 




STADIUM 
by Chuck Freeby 
Notre Dame Stadium. 

Those three words are magic in college football. They speak of autumn. Saturdays, with leaves and visiting teams falling frequently. They speak of a brick­yard of tradition, where Lujack and Lattner, Hart and Hornung, ran over and by opponents. It's a place where Leahy and Par­seghian have methodically patroll,ed the sidelines along with the ghost of Rockne. 
Before you get all sentimen­tal, though, you. should remember Notre Dame Stadium is also a place where the Irish have lost eight of their last 12 games, including a dismal 2-3 record in 1985. Instead of leaves and visit­ing teams falling, it always seemed that rain and Irish ball carriers came down every Saturday. 
-"We know as seniors we haven't guarded (the stadium reputation) as well as we should 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986 
have," commented Allen Pinkett before the season. "We want to leave something for the other guys. For me, it's a private issue playing in Notre Dame Stadium. We know how a lot of teams have played here in the past." 
On this Saturday night, the Irish showed some resemblance to the great teams of old, posting a solid 27-10 victory over Michigan State. Notre Dame used the big play on offense and a solid defense to even its 1985 record at 1-1. What really made the differ­ence in this game, however, was neither offense nor defense, but two intangibles. Notre Dam~ showed two factors it hasn't had an abundance of in recent years -­emotion and creativity. 
"Notre Dame was an inspired football team," noted Spartan safety Todd Krumm. "They came out of the tunnel and wanted it. You can always expect that from Notre Dame." Obvi­ously, Krumm had not seen the Michigan game the week before when the Irish came out with all the emotion of a wet sock. Pat Ballage was there, however, and he knew there was a different feeling about this Notre Dame team. 
"We played this game dif­ferently than Michigan," com­mented the senior Irish safety. "I think what made us win this game was that our hearts were fully in it. Everyone was psyched going into the game and we went out and did the job." 
It didn't look that way immediately, though, as the Spar­tans marched downfield on their opening drive, behind the play of freshman quarterback Bobby McAllister and senior tailback Lorenzo White. White capped the drive with a four-yard run and Michigan State took an early 7-0 lead. While Gerry Faust was con­cerned at that point, he didn't hit the panic button. "We kept to our game plan --it was just a matter of settling down after the first touchdown." 
The Irish defense may have settled down, but the Irish offense kicked into gear. Pinkett rambled for 35 yards to the MSU 
34. Then Steve Beuerlein set the Irish passing game in motion, con­necting_ with Tim Brown for a first down at the Spartan 19. A week earlier the Irish had not passed once inside the twenty yard line. This was another game, however, and Beuerlein found a lonely Tony Eason in the end zone to tie the game at 7-7. 
From that point, the Irish defense went to work making White earn every one of his 123 yards, and making life miserable for McAllister. Mike Haywood, a senior member of the secondary injury, returned to the lineup as a nickel back. He was worth a lot more than that to the Irish defense, though, as his blitzes befuddled, beleaguered and buried McAllister. 
who  sat  the  bench for much of  
the  Michigan  game  with  an  
1s  



"lfe (McAllister) hurt us a couple of times on the outside in the first drive. We tried to negate him by going to what we call our sub-defense and using Haywood as an extra backer to use his speed." It certainly worked, as the Spartan signal-caller fired 11 consecutive incompletions on his way to four-for-17 throwing night. 
Meanwhile, the Irish offense had resumed its sputtering ways, finding the same .old ways to kill drives in the first half. First, ·' Beuerlein overthrew a wide-open Frank Starns on a dar­ing fourth-and-one .play at the MSU 27. Then, late in the first half with first-and-goal at the Spartan ·s, Beuerlein rolled left and hit Paul Bobbitt somewhere between the "3" and the "9" on his uniform at the two-yard line. The only problem was Beuerlein was wearing blue and Bobbitt was clad in white, thus killing the Irish drive. 
Tied 7-7 at halftime, the Irish offen:se had not been able to capitalize on some golden oppor­tunities. -'Tim Brown took care ·of that problem on the opening kick­. off of the second half. Brown took 
the kickoff at his own seven and · 

Beuerlein connected 011 the long bomb to Brown. 
1 

The Irish threw deep. {Gasp) And it worked . {Scream) 
started up the middle of the field. "Their corner speed was not the Suddenly, he cut left and from best and we thought we could that point the only reason the take advantage of that." The Spartan defenders had to give sophomore receiver proved that chase was to make it look good, theory correct, hauling in a as Brown ran for 93 yards and Beuerlein bomb, before going out the touchdown_ to give Notre of bounds at the two. From Dame the lead. "There was just a there, everybody knew Pinkett big hole," noted Brown. "I didn't would run next, but nobody could have to do anything but run. The stop him as he knocked over two blocking did a great job because defenders to reach paydirt and· nobody -touched me." put the Irish on top, 21-10. 
The Spartans valiantly triedWhile the. return certainly to come back. Safety Phil Parkertook some wind out of the Spar­picked off another Beuerleintan sails, Michigan State was not aerial, returning it to the ND 3I.

ready to pull into the docks yet. 
Three plays later, though, Brandy The Spartans received a big Wells blocked a Caudell field goalbreak, when Shane Bullough attempt, and the Irish set up shoprecovered a Pinkett fumble at the at the Spartan 45. 

Irish 35. The Irish defense would not relent, however, and Chris The nails were slowly Caudell was forced to kick a 21-pounded into the coffin from that yard field goal to cut the margin point. Pinkett and running mate to 14-10. Frank Starns grinded their way to 
the goal line, with Starns taking Now the Irish offense was the honors on a five-yard jugger­ready to show some creativity. naut up the middle to make the 
final tally. 

Oh sure, Faust had thrown six times on first down in the first 
So, outlined against a half. Yes, he had even installed 
Musco-lit sky, the Irish had rode the entire second unit in the again. It was longer Lattner
no second quarter. But, now, he was 
and Lujack scampering to pay­ready to try something completely 
dirt, but Brown and Pinkett. The different.· 
names did not matter, though. Only the magic. 

Are you sitting down? For one, brief shining
The Irish threw deep. 
moment, the magic had ·returned ·
(Oasp) And it worked. ·(Scream) to Notre Dame Stadium. Unfor­

."We felt we could go deep tunately,. it would not be found against them," commented Brown. 
elsewhere.• 

SCHOLASTIC 





Boilers Thrash Irish 
l 
z 
s:: 
i Q> rlJ 
~ 
0 
0 
..c: 
-·-' ll. 

El'erett turned this day into an Irish wake. 
by Larry Burke 

The most striking similarity between .this year's Notre Dame­Purdue rilatchup an.ct last year's was the outcome--the Boilermak­ers came out on top for the second year in a row. 
But this time there were no surprises, no last-minute starter at quarterback, and most of all, no excuses. There was just Jim Everett's arm combined with a Purdue defense that was made to look a lot better than it really was. 
What it all added up to was a 35-17 loss for Notre Dame and the first . real indication that the Irish were in a lot of trouble. 
No, this wasn't 1984 and it wasn't the Hoosier Dome, although there were some similar­ities, most of which centered around the quality, or lack thereof, of Notre Dame's play. There also were some differences -this time the Irish knew what was coming and they knew who Jim Everett was, but the results indicated that there was little they could do about stopping him, or about moving the ball with any consistency, for that matter. 
"I've got to give Everett a lot of credit," said Irish coach Gerry Faust. "We tried everything against him--blitzing, adjusting our defensive fronts, but he just picked us apart. There's no doubt he's an excellent quarterback, one of the better quarterbacks we've· faced in all my years at Notre Dame. 
"The shotgun formation gives him a lot of time to get well-set back there in the pocket. Their offensive line did a good job of picking up our blitzes and stunts, so they kept Everett in good shape. Even when we flushed him out of the pocket, he was able to run for yardage."· 
Everett deserved a · lot of credit for dissecting the Notre Dame defense for 27 compietions in 49 attempts that added up to 368 yards and three touchdowns. But the fact was that things could, and perhaps, should have been a lot worse. Several times Everett overthrew wide open receivers, and in the first quarter a wide­open Mark Jackson dropped a sure touchdown pass on a third and one play when the Notre Dame defense was fooled by a play-action fake. 
It was Notre Dame's offense, however, that was the biggest problem--in terms of on-the.-field performance as well as play selec­
yards on 21 carries--his lowest rushing total since the 1982 sea­son finale when he was held to 43 yards. As is so often the case with the Notre Dame offense, as Pink­ett goes, so go the Irish. 
Notre Dame's problems on the ground (56 net rushing yards in 41 attempts) were matched by its problems in the air. Quarter­back Steve Beuerlein was off the mark all day, finishing with jl.lst_ seven completions in 25 attempts tion. Tp.e Boilermakers were key­,; I ing on Allen Pinkett, and they ! shut him down to the tune of 45 
J 
'i 
15


0 
0 
..c: 

P... 
for 88 yards. Twice Beuerlein was replaced . · by sophomore backup 
. ~ . . 
Terry'Andrysiak, but it was pain­fully · obvious that the offense needed a :lot · more spark than either was able to provide. 
"I j~st wasn't doing the job," Beuerlei~ said of his fourth­quarter benching.. "It was the worst game -I've ever played in my Jife--one game I'm really asham~d . ·of .. I was missing open receivers, and once I missed the first few I started pressing a little. That's something a third-year quarterback-can't afford to do.". 
Purdue free safety Ron 
Woo·dson~ ·· who picked off an Andrysiak pass late in the game and took jt back for a touchdown to put the final nail in Notre Dame's tcoffin, was outspoken in his opinion of Beuerlein. 
"As · I came onto the field 
(before . the . game); 1· saw that Beuerlein. didn't have any zip op. his ·pa~ses," · said Woodson. "I suppose:.· that was because of . his shoulder injury, 
"I · think:· as soon as he (Beuerlein) ge,ts the ball and looks at his intended receiver, he never takes his eye off him." 
But .Beuerlein's problems were IlOt · the sole reason for Notre Dame's offensive woes. As was the, case two weeks before wheri the Irish lost to Michigan, Notre Dame's play selection was 

questionable. On their first 13 first down plays the Irish called 11 running plays, with Pinkett getting the call on seven of the first nine. 
"Steve wasn't throwing the ball as accurately as he has been," noted Faust. "And we felt we could run on them on first down." 
That belief proved false, and Notre Dame backed itself into a corner by not passing until it had to. The Irish trailed 21-3 heading into ·the fourth quarter before they scored their first .touchdown on a three-yard run by Pinkett. Beuerlein hit Pat Cusack with a pass for a two-point conversion that made the score 21-11, with close to nine minutes left. 
When Purdue gave them the ball right ·back after three plays and a ten yard punt, the Irish had a chance to make things interest­ing. They had a first down at their own 49 yard line, and the clock showed 6:42 remaining. 
"I felt we were still in the ball game at that point," said Faust. "We were within striking distance with more than six minutes left, but we didn't move the ball--their defense held." 
That was something that Purdue's defense had been doing all day long. Two incompletions and a sack later, the Irish were forced to punt. It marked the 
The Irish of(ense was shut doivn. 

sixth consecutive possession where Notre Dame had failed to pick up a first down. 
In contrast, the Boilermakers had little problem moving the ball. They outgained the Irish in total yardage 482 to 21 7, and scored on four drives of 78 yards or 
more. 
Late .i.n the second quarter, one of those drives was kept alive by a critical penalty for "illegal participation." What that meant was too many men on the field, and the results were disastrous for Notre Dame. Instead of facing a fourth and eight on the Irish 41, Purdue wound up with a first down at the 26. Four plays later Everett hit Ray Wallace for a .i5­yard touchdown pass and a 14-0 · lead. 
"That was a case of disorgan­ization," said Irish cornerback Mike Haywood. "It's one of those things where a guy (the sixth defensive back) is coming out on the field not calling out the new coverage. It's a situation where there's a lack of communication, and when people aren't concen­trating there's going to be mental mistakes that will cost us." 
As it turned out, the Purdue game was a harbinger · of bad things to come for Notre Dame. It was the first time that mistakes and a lack of execution really came back to haunt the Irish. It wouldn't be the last.• 

SCHOLASTIC 

·, . ' . 
.. . . . . , ~ -~ . ' . 
.., ' • • • • .,:-l .,_ • 


Rocky Mountain LOW 
"Notre Dame is a great football team. They just seem to be a lattle bit snake-
bitten." --Fischer FALCONS BEAT IRISH AGAIN 
by Pete Pranica 

While it was not reflected in the official weather report for October 5, 1985, a large somber cloud was seen hanging above the Notre Dame sideline as the Irish lost their'~third · game in four tries, this one a 21-15 gut-wrencher to Air Force. 
"You can't lose one any tougher than that," muttered Irish coach Gerry Faust, who had just lost his fourth straight to the Fal­cons. What the fifth year mentor was referring to was the pivotal play of· the game. That Terry Maid's block of a John Carney field goal and A.J. Scott's resul­tant 77-yard return for a touch­down was the pivotal play cannot be denied. Unfortunately, the game did not have to hinge on that one play as the Falcons did everything but hand the Irish the game on a platter. 
DeBerry 
"Breakdowns are becoming too much of a habit for us. When we had the chances to score, we didn't do it," explained junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein. "We had a couple of opportunities inside the l 0-yard line and we didn't put the ball in the end­zone." Credit Beuerlein with understatement; what else could you say? 
Breakdown number one occurred early on as Falcon quar­terback Bart Weiss mishandled the exchange on the first snap from scrimmage and linebacker Robert Banks pounced on the loose ball at the Falcon 17. Notre Dame's first play, an off-tackle run by Allen Pinkett, gained 11, but then the drive soured because of mistakes. Tight end Joel Willi­ams jumped offside on the next play. After rolling right for three yards, Beuerlein tossed an incom­pletion and then on third down, stumbled coming from under center, forcing the Irish to settle for three after having a first and goal on the Falcon seven. John Carney chipped an 18-yard field goal through the uprights and the Irish led 3-0 with 2:15 elapsed. 
The Irish got another Air 

Force gift when Weiss fumbled on the third play on the ensuing drive and the Irish were back in business on their own 38. How­ever, after a Beuerlein completion good for 14 yards, the Irish offense stalled again and Dan Sorensen came• on to punt. ','Our defense will bend, but they don't give up much yardage," com­mented Fischer DeBerry, second year Falcon coach. 
Both teams continued their exhibition of stalwart defense until Weiss decided to air it out a little. Passes for thirteen and'.four­teen yards kept the Irish · defense honest which opened the door for the Falcon's powerful ground game. After bending a little th~m.;. selves, the Irish defense stiffened sufficiently to deny the Falcons on a fourth and six on the Irish 35 as Weiss' aerial for Ken Car­penter was batted aw~y by cornerback Troy Wilson .. and safety Steve Lawrence. · 
After taking over on downs, the Irish offense began to move on the arm of Beuerlein,. who completed 20 of 36 attempts ·on a perfect day for passing. But once. at the Falcon 28, three rushes net­ted a loss of two yards. and the Irish were forced to settle ; for three once more after driving 66 yards in twelve plays. Carney's 33 yard field goal wa:s good, but the offense was not satisfied. All the Falcons needed was one good touchdown drive an.d the hard­won Irish lead would be gone. "Air Force is the kind of team that waits for an opportunity. and then takes advantage of it," observed Beuerlein, obviously 
17 


..Breakdowns are becoming too much of a habit for us. When we had the chance to score, we didn't do it." --Steve Beuerlein 
unhappy with the inability of the offense to hit paydirt. 
Air Force took the ensuing kickoff and drove 80 yards in just six plays. The capper came on a first. and five from the Irish 24. Notre Dame had been flagged twice in succession (facemask and offside) which aided the Falcon march. Weiss took the snap and faked a handoff, continuing to roll left. He final,ly spotted Kelly 
Pittman standing unguarded in the right comer of the end zone. Weiss turned and fired all the way across the field. The Falcon run­ning back bobbled and nearly dropped the ball in his amaze­ment while Wilson and linebacker Ron_ Weissenhofer stared in bewilderment. Tom Ruby's extra point kick gave the Falcons their first lead of the day with I 1:47 to play in the second quarter. 
On the following drive, Notre Dame went to the air five times, completing three. The sixth time, however, safety Dwan Wilson picked off the pass at his own four• and scooted out to the 22. Agrun the Irish were guilty of an infraction on the play and the personal foul penalty moved the ball up to the Air Force 37. Keeping ,the ball on · the ground with the _exception of two passes, Weiss moved his troops down to the Irish nine. Again the Irish defense rose to the occasion and Ruby , extended the Air Force lead to I 0-6 with a 20-yard field goal with the clock showing 4:47 to play in the second quarter. 
Mainly on the strength of Allen Pinkett's running, the Irish n:ioved 58 yards in ten plays, but had to settle for a third Carney field goal, this one from 40 yards out and the Falcon lead was sliced to one with just over two minutes remaining in the half. Not to be outdone, Weiss led an Air Force drive which stalled at the Irish 27. This time, though, Ruby misfired and gave the Irish a chance to grab the lead before heading to the locker room. 
Operating with no time-outs, Beuerlein completed three con­secutive passes. With the ball on the Air Force .41 and the clock running under fifteen seconds, the Irish coaches decided against running one more play to throw the ball out of bounds and stop the clock. As a result, Carney was rushed into attempting a 59-yard field goal which hooked left. 
Faust explained the curious decision this way: "If we had completed a pass and didn't get it out of bounds, we would not have had time to get the field goal team on the field." In the locker room afterwards, Carney admitted feel­ing rushed while Beuerlein wasn't quite sure why he wasn't allowed to throw the ball out of bounds to stop the clock and give Carney ample time to line up. The gaffe cost the Irish a legitimate shot at the lead before the half. While questionable coaching hurt the Irish cause, on-field miscues hurt it just as much, if not more so. 
After receiving the second half kickoff, the Irish were flagged twice for holding, once on the kick return and again to nul­lify an 18-yard completion into Falcon territory. Sorensen was called upon to punt for the third time and again the Falcons played the part of the gracious host by fumbling the ball away on their first offensive play of the second hal[ This time the Irish put the ball in the end zone, although it took 13 plays to drive 42 yards. Pinkett did the honors from the two and the Irish took a 15-10 lead. On the two-point conversion attempt, Beuerlein hit tight end Williams right in the hands, but the junior let the ball dribble to the ground without a Falcon defender in sight. · 
Never one to leave a good turn unrecognized, the Irish promptly fumbled away an Air Force punt. On this drive, though, the Falcons were in the self­destruct mode as they were found guilty of a pair of crucial infrac­tions inside the Irish I 0-yard line. On first and goal from the eight, the Falcons merited an illegal pro~ cedure call and on the next play, Irish · linebacker Robert Banks had Weiss ·running for his life back at the 29 when he somehow 

·SCHOLASTIC 

"You can't ask kids to play 
any better than ours did 



today." --Gerry Faust 

unloaded a touchdown strike to Pittman. Fortunately for the Irish, an Air Force lineman was spotted illegally downficld and the six points were taken off the board. Following an incompletion, the Falcons settled for Ruby's second field goal, this one from 35 yards out, and the Irish lead was trimmed to 15-13 late in the third quarter. 
Defenses dominated through the rest of the third stanza and early into the fourth. Following a Mark Simon punt which gave the Irish the ball on their own 41, they called on Pinkett. The senior from Sterling, Virginia, who would finish the day with 142 yards on 31 carries, toted the ball nine times on the ten-play drive. But, as in the past, the Irish could not punch it in froni point­blank range. 
On first and goal from the three, Pinkett tripped over full­back Pernell Taylor for no gain. On the next play, the pitch went to Pinkett, but Dick Clark tracked him down and dropped him for a six yard loss. On third and goal, Beuerlcin found no one open and was pressured into intentionally grounding the ball. Again, the Irish were looking to settle for three and extend their lead. 
Carney set the tee on the 27­yard line. The snap and hold were perfect, but the blocking was not. Instead of · driving straight ahead, the tight end scaled towards the center of the line which allowed linebacker Terry Maki a clean path to the ball. The Falcon's claws batted the ball high into the air and side­ways. A.J. Scott measured the fluttering football like. an out­fielder and raced 77 yards in front of a disbelieving Notre Dame bench. Weiss added the two-point conversion and the Fal­cons led 21-15 with a shade over five minutes to go. 
Air Force was forced to kick off from its 25 thanks to the lengthy celebration following the touchdown. Hiawatha Francisco bobbled the line-drive kick, but Tom Monahan fell on it at the Irish 23. On the first play, the entire line missed the snap count. That transgression marked the tenth time the Irish had been penalized for a total of 7 5 yards. Still, they entertained hopes of sending the record crowd of 52,153 home unhappy as Beuer­lein hit Ward for 16 yards on a down and out and Pinkett tore off a 20 yard chunk for the Falcon 
45. Facing third and five, the Irish staff called for a swing pass to Frank Starns, the fullback, but Maki again made the play to stuff Starns for no gain. Unsure of the playcall on fourth and •five, Bcue.rlcin signaled for time. All those plans went ·out the window when Joel Williams lined up off­side. Fourth and five became fourth and ten and the Irish punted the ball away with 2:45 showing on the Falcon Stadium clock. From that point the boys in blue ran the ball and the clock to ice their fourth consecutive win over the Irish, becoming the only service academy team to turn the trick. 
"Notre Dame is a great football team," praised DeBerry. "They just seem to be a little snake-bitten." After the battle, Faust could only echo the words Irish fans had heard so often: "We had too many bad breaks." 
Faust went on to tell report­ers that "You can't ask players to play any better than our kids did today." The statistics and. facts begged to diff cr. A total of 13 penalties were whistled against the Irish for 97 yards, niany of those coming in crucial situations. Failure to execute in scoring terri­tory was never more painfully evident. "It went well until we got down to the goal line where we had a couple mix-ups," explained a gracious Pinkett. "The game came down to three plays." 
Those three plays went against the Irish and three losses went up on the board after a month of football. The only bright spot was a week off before a long homcstand and the Army team waiting in the wings looked to be no pushover. Call it time for a gutchcck. • 


Underwood clears the way. 


The scoreboard says it all. Photo by Lucien Niemeyer 
The Irish cracked the wishbone. 
SCHOLASTIC 




Irish Bomb C·adets 
BALANCED OFFENSE .AND DEFENSE SPELL ND VICTORY 
by Phil Wolf 

The •· 1-3 Irish football team definiteiy had something to . prove on October 19 when it took the field: in Notre Dame Stadium to · challenge Army's undefeated team. After losing 21-15 to Air Force's powerful wishbone offense a week earlier, the Irish found themselves looking at another wishbone team in Army, 5-0 and ranked 19th.J"o·salvage what was left of the season, the recovery had to begin on that Saturday afternoon. 
When Saturday evening . came, it was the Army players 
who had to recover from a 24-10 
·defeat They had come up against 
an Irish squad that was tired of 
losing. 
"We've been subjected to a lot of adversity this last week," 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1985 
Allen --Pinkett explained after the game. "We saw this game coming up as a chance to fight back against that adversity. We have a lot of pride. With an undefeated team coming into our stadium, it was our job to defend our sta­dium, because we feel it's a very special place." 
The Irish defended their pride and their stadium by play­ing almost errorless football for the first time in the 1985 season, while they also capitalized on Army's mistakes. 
The first mistake for the Cadets may have been the most costly. On the second play of the game, quarterback Tory Crawford pitched the ball over the· head of halfback William Lampley, and Notre Dame's Steve Lawrence recovered it on the 16-yard line. Then the Irish offense, which had had trouble executing well inside the thirty in four previous games, came up with a touchdown. Per-. nell Taylor's one-yard run and John Carney's point after gave the Irish more than . just seven points. Notre Dame had momen".' tum, which the Cadets never quite overcame for the rest ·of the afternoon. 
"They . certainly . had momentum after we fumbled early," Army coach Jim Young said. "That play took a lot out of us and fired them up;" 

Pinkett agreed. "H gave us lots of confidence," he said. "Our offense has lots of talent, and when you don't get touch­downs it is extremely frustrating. Once we got the touchdown, it broke the frustration. We weren't so worried, and we just went out and _played." 
After Army's next drive ended _ in a punt, the Irish marched 86 yards· down the -field for another score. The offense stalled briefly inside the twenty, but Steve Beuerlein finally found flanker Tim Brown in the end­zone for a 19-yard strike. Beuer­lein ended the day with 12 com­pletions in 20 attempts for I86 yards. · 
The Irish defense contin­ued to hold Army's wishbone in check, and it wasn't until halfway through the second period that .I I the Caqets got on the scoreboard. I The . Notre Dame defense held Army to just 207 rushing yards, well below the Cadet's 393.6 average. Army tallied only 393 total yards (they were averaging 
456.4) and scored only IO points (they were averaging 42.6 every game). 
That is not to say that the Cadets were no threat to the Irish. On it's first possession of the second quarter, Army marched from its own 11-yard line to first and · goal on the eight The 'defense held · for three plays. On 
Pinkett breaks through. 

the fourth, Lampley took the pitch from Crawford and threw to Rob Dickerson in the endzone. Dickerson was called out-of­bounds, and television replays were not clear as to whether he was in or not. 
On the Cadet's· next pos­session, however, there was· no 
question that Lampley scored when he took a pitch from Craw­ford as Cedric Figaro pulled the quarterback down. 
There was no more scor­ing in the first half, but the crowd roared as Pinkett set the Notre Dame all-time rushing record with a 17-yard gain. Pinkett ran 133 yards total in the game to bring 
. his four-year total to 3,556 yards. He passed Vagas Ferguson's 3,472 for the record. 
"The full effect hasn't hit me yet," Pinkett admitted after the game. "I think about records · after the season. The thing I'm thinking about now is just win­I ning. Going for records and the Reisman may be in the back of my mind, but every time I step on
I 
·the field, all I want is for Notre Pame to win." 
Notre Dame's chances of winning were threatened slightly on Army's first possession of the second half. Crawford pitched to Lampley, who ran into the end­zone from the four. But Crawford was ruled down on the play, as 
22 

Eric Dorsey dragged him to the ground. After the one-yard loss, Craig Stopa kicked a 22-yard field goal to bring the Cadets within four at 14-10. Again it was time for the Irish offense to prove that it could produce points when the pressure was on. 
An 82-yard drive, occu­
pying 6: 15 .of the third period, 
was the Irish offense's answer to 
the challenge. Pinkett finally tal­
lied the six points after Beuerlein maneuvered the team down the field. That drive reestablished Notre Dame's momentum and closed the lid on Army's hopes for victory .. 
"The offense moved the ball very well," Irish head coach Gerry Faust said after the game, beaming with pride. "Any time you can take . the ball 87 yards twice in a game, that's a good offense. The drive early in the third quarter was · very impor­tant." 
Not to be outdone by the offensive unit, the defense stalled the Cadets on their next possession. After a 49-yard kick­off return by Lampley, Army was unable to gain a single yard in four downs. The Cadets never got more than two yards into Notre Dame territory for the rest of the afternoon. 
The Irish · offense contin­ued to execute well, and Carney's 

Rehder helped key the short 
passing game. 
field goal with 6:23 left put the game safely out of the Cadet's reach. On the last possession of the game, time expired while Notre Dame held the ball on the Army four-yard line, saving a touchdown that would have made the final margin even greater than the 24-10 defeat the Cadets actu­ally suffered. 
Pinkett attributed the exe.:. cution of the Irish offense to hours of 1:1.ard practice the week before. "In practice this week, we scrimmaged against the first-team defense from the 15-yard line on in," Pinkett explained. "We exe­
. cuted well against our defense, and we felt if we could do that, we could do well against anybody in the country." 
Faust suggested that there might be another reason for the 

' · turnaround in his team. He said the memory of the ·Air Force defeat may have been motivating the players. 
"They were emotional against Air Force," Faust said. "In the locker room after the game, the players were devas­tated. That was good for them, because they had their hearts in it. When your heart is in the game it hurts more." 
"It's . a good sign if a loss bothers you that much." 
But the Irish were sure happy about a win.• 
SCHOLASTIC 


..., >,., 8., z  ..., >,., 8., z  
i::-~ u ;:l ..:I  i::., ·;:; ;:l ..:I  
>, ..c  >, ..c  
0..., 0 ..c:: ll.  0..., 0 ..c:: ll.  


Irish Send Trojans Out 
On Their 

Shields 
Southern Cal's return man, Randy

ND rolls over SC 37-3 

Tanner, forcing a . fumble that Troy Wilson recovered on the USC two yard line. Just five by Chuck Ehrman seconds later, Allen Pinkett whis­tled past the goal line on the first play from scrimmage. A John USC won the toss, but that Carney point after made it 7-0 in favor of the Irish. The tone had
was about all. been set. 
On the opening kickoff, freshman George Streeter On an unusually sunny South 
inflicted a major league blow on Bend Saturday afternoon, . the 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986 


Irish become a deadly demolition crew for an abusive sixty minutes of football. At the sound of the final gun the USC team must have felt like it had been hit by some sort of natural disaster. It was a day oh-so-golden for the Irish as they ·pounded their number one rival in the 57th renewal of col­lege football's greatest game. · 
The final score stood at 37-3. 
The outcome sent · shock waves of happy passion through Notre Dame's fanatic following of fans, disappointed by a season already sputtering along. Stum­bling into the game with a 2-3 record, bad times had already caused depression among the Irish contingent. Head Coach Gerry Faust had been facing the slings and arrows of · a hostile press and public. At the postgame press conference Faust said, "I don't read the papers anymore. That's· how I keep my sanity." The year had already taken its toll. The USC walloping must have offered a man worn ragged a temporary respite from · the demons screaming in his head. 
Pinkett said the game was a question of who outmuscled who. It was tough head-to-head foot­ball between two legendary giants of the college sport. Reflected USC tailback Fred Crutcher, "We just lined up and they outplayed us. It was power football against power football and Notre Dame 
. 23 


••1 felt ·.. we · · were Notre . Dame 
whipped in every phase and pounded of the game. There are took us right no excuses for us losing own game. · it 
came out us. They out of our ·. was natur­

like we did' today. ·.·.We ally a great disappoint­




were ready mentally ment for and physically, but Tollner 
simply won." Defensive back Pat Ballage noted that the Irish offense and defense played together well, like a well-oiled machine. 
After stopping the Trojans on their initial drive, the Irish did not dilly-dally and promptly marched downfield for their second score, a six-yard Steve Beuerlein roll-out to the end zone. Carney's extra point was 011 the money and it was 14-0. 
But this was not enough. Notre Dame would bulldoze its way to three more scores by half-· time. Carney kicked two . field goals, from 26 and 33 yards out, and .in between all the kicking, fullback Frank Starns was plowing across the goal line from five yards out on a first and goal play. Carney booted the extra point. 
It was 27-0 at the half. 
Green, green and more green. To start half number two the Irish returned d~cked out in· green jer­seys, a move that stirred up a bit of controversy and ruffied a few feathers, later . being blown way out of proportion by the scaveng­ing media Some said it was adding· insult to injury. 
Faust hoped to .. use the jer­seys as an emotionalploy for the team. USC Head Coach Ted Tollner really didn't care, saying, "The · green uniforms had no effect on our team at all.We were responsible for our own embar­rassment." After all, like Faust himself said, "It's the people under the · jerseys · that matters though. You still got to play the game." 
And play the Irish did, very well for the next thirty minutes. USC would score first, though, on a 40 yard field goal. But sorry, no more after that. The rest of the day belonged· to Notre Dame, hands down .. 
In the waning minutes of the third .quarter, Carney connected on a 43 yard field goal, his third of the day. And in the final 
quarter, the second team offense, behind sophomore quarterback Terry Andrysiak, would score the final touchdown on an eight yard roll-out pass to Joel Williams, found standing around all alone in the ten most important yards on the entire field. Carney put · the icing on the cake with the point after. That Illade it 37-3. 
· For the battered and bewil­dered Tollner, it was just one of those days, the type of day that, halfway through it, · you realize you should never have gotten out of bed. in the first place. 
At the postgame press conference the · Trojan coach could only shake his head and sigh; "I felt we were whipped in every phase of the game," he said. "There are no excuses for us los­


us." -Ted 
ing like we did today. We were ready mentally and physically, but Notre Dame came out and pounded us. The opening kickoff fumble set up the stage for the whole game. Notre Dame deserves all the credit. They took us right out of our own game. It was naturally a great disappoint­ment for us." 
It was a much happier story for Faust and the Irish, though. The win pushed the teams record to an even 3-3. There were no tears shed for lost pride in the winner's locker room. None at all. 
The victory helped to deflect any new criticism waiting to be hatched at a moment's notice by the press. Pinkett chided report­ers saying: "People say our offense is predictable. Well, you're darn right it's predictable. We go out and shove the ball down a team's throat" No one was argu­ing, not this week. 
Next year the Irish meet USC in the Coliseum. One burger-eating, beer-drinking Southern Cal fan was all too aware of this fact at a postgame tailgater. "Just wait till next year out in California--things will be different," he said. · 
But that doesn't matter to Irish fans, for all the bragging rights are sole property of Notre Dame. South Bend is a happy football land. ·For now. • 

SCHOLASTIC 


¦ RESERVE MISSLE ¦ THROWER SINKS NAVY 

Stams up middle 


~ 
0 

g­
~ 
f 

§. z 
~­
~ ~ 
by Ian Larkin 

Under threatening skies the Navy Midshipmen came to Notre Dame Stadium to combat the Fighting Irish. The game was billed as a battle of the backs between Notre Dame's Allen Pinkett and Navy's Napoleon McCallum. Both were potential Reisman Trophy candidates at the start of the year, but with Navy's 3-4 record and the Irish's 3-3, neither had much of a chance, despite the success each of them had been having. 
The Midshipman had the big running back, but that's about all. The Irish were coming off two convincing wins over USC and Army. This game marked the 59th consecutive meeting between the two schools with the Irish holding a 48-9-1 edge and a streak of 21 straight wins. This day was to be no different for the Midshipmen as the Irish romped to a 41-17 
win. 
Rain threatened on the a cold, overcast day. Captains Pink­ett, Mike Larkin, and Tim Scan­nell won the toss, but elected to defer until the second half. On the first play from scrimmage McCallum took a handoff from Navy quarterback Bill Byrne and fumbled on a jarring hit · from defensive tackle Eric Dorsey. Byrne recovered, but it was an ominous sign of the punishment 
that Dorsey and the rest of the defense would be levelling against McCallum. Navy was forced· to punt and it looked like Notre Dame would be coming on strong, but the offense was stopped on a fumble by Pinkett on the Navy 25-yardline. Navy then took the ball 75 yards for a touchdown on a one-yard plunge by McCallum. 
Notre Dame's next posses­sion was lost when quarterba:ck Steve Beuerlein threw into triple coverage to Tim Brown and was intercepted by• Navy's defensive back Marc Firlie. On the Irish's next possession they failed again and were forced to punt. 

With 1:23 left in the first quarter Irish Head Coach Gerry Faust took Beuerlein out and put in sophomore Terry Andrysiak to try to spark the offense. It began to work as the crowd started chanting_;_ ,"Terry, Terry." Andrysiak and Pinkett set up a drive to the Navy 19-yard line and, on 2nd-and-5, Pinkett broke for a 15-yard run, after slashing to the left and breaking two tack­les. One play later Pinkett took a pitch and scampered into the end­zone untouched. The offense finally awoke from its first quar­ter slumber with Andrysiak at the 
helm. . 
The offensive success had certainly fired up the "D" as they forced Navy into a 4th-and-4 situation on the Irish 42. Instead of punting Navy decided to try a pass play to McCallum that was deflected . by cornerback Marv Spence. With good field position Andrysiak and Pinkett combined on another scoring drive of 56 yards with Pinkett taking it in 

McCallum was battered into three fumbles. 


Navy by · this time seemed totally demoral­ized and the great 

.I

McCallum wasn't look­z ing like · the threat he · .i was supposed to be. .3 
t 
0 
0 
-= p. 
from the one. Kicker John Car­bling for turnovers. Notre Dame their next try he again fumbled, 
ney uncharacteristically missed finally got going, after starting this time into the arms of Steve The extra point and the score from the Navy 46, and scored on Lawrence. From there the offense stood at 13-7. two plays in 24 seconds. The took it into the endzone for their touchdown came on a sweet run last score on a 15 yard run by
· Spence and inside linebacker 

by Pinkett that took him 29 yards Francisco making it 41 to IO. At
Mike Kovaleski contained Navy 

throµgh six Navy defenders and the end of the game the Irish
on .their next drive, but. the Mid­

into the endzo~e uncontested. saw playing time
reserves some
shipmen managed a 42-yard field 

and Navy scored one more
goal by Todd Solomon. The Irish Navy finally put together a 
touchdown the
rambled to the Navy 47 and on drive, only to have Byrne's pass to make final 
score 41-17.
1st-and-10 Pinkett broke away intercepted by free safety Steve for a 43-yard run with the aid of Lawrence at the goal line. The an excellent downfield block by Irish offense was finally forced to The keys to the Irish victory punt for the first time since were Terry Andrysiak (11 of 17
freshman flanker Mark . Green. 

for 165 yards), Allen Pinkett (161
After Pinkett took it down to the Andrysiak was put in. Again the 
yards on 27 carries), and the
one, fullback Frank Starns plowed Midshipmen took the ball long, 
entire defense. The defense con­
in for the score. almost 70 yards, but again came up empty on a fumble by· McCal­tained the explosive McCallum An. intercepti9n by Spence and forced 6 fumbles from a team
lum. The third quarter ended allowed. the Irish offensive to. with Notre Dame leading 27-10 that had only lost two all year. penetrate deep into Navy terri­and in complete control. McCallum had 124 yards, but also tory once again. With a I st and three fumbles which directly goal situation Faust called a run­Jhe fourth quarter was not resulted in Notre Dame touch­ning play -Pinkett up the middle any better for Navy as the Irish, downs. Eric Dorsey was credited again . behind Andrysiak and
-with no timeouts left, that. ended with two and helped on the third. Pinkett, went 76 yards for seven
in no gain. Time then expired as Andrysiak tried to stop the clock more points. Andrysiak hit Brown After the game Dorsey said 
with a throw out of bounds. The on a 40 yard pass play and, after of McCallum's fumbles, "he said breaking two tackles, he saun~ that it was mainly his fault that he 
first half score was 20-10. 
fumbled them, but I don't think
tered in unscathed. After the 
The battle of the backs cer­

defense stymied the Navy attack­too many running backs· could 
tainly shaped up in the play of the ers, Faust felt confident enough have held onto the ball the way we hit him." The other Irish
first half as McCallum had ·72 in his 24 point lead to re-insert defender to have a superb game
yards on 15 attempts and. Pinkett Beuerlein · in the quarterback slot. 104 yards on ,17 tries.· That 104 Allen Pinkett also made way for was Marv Spence who was all over the field and made two key
yards marked the fourth year in a junior tailback Hiawatha Fran­
plays with a deflection and f um­
row Pinkett had gained over 100 cisco. 
ble recovery. Navy was never
against the Midshipman .. 
Navy by this time seemed able to sustain. a. drive or stop the The second half started off iri totally demoralized and the great Irish offense while losing their the same fashion· as the first . with Mccallum-wasn't looking like the 22nd-straight game of the Notre ·Pinkett and McCallum both f um-· threat he was supposed to be. On . Dame-Navy series.•· 
SCHOLASTIC 


'ti 
::r 
0
... 
0 
er 
"< 
t"' 
i:: 
;·n 
::, 
z
;· 
~ 
.. 
. . . ' ·.· . . . ' . ' 



Rebel Yell Silenced 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986 
ND EASILY MASTERS MISSISSIPPI 
by J.im Basile 

All week before the contest with Mississippi, Notre Dame fans speculated about the quarter­back situation for their team. Coach Faust declined · to announce who would be his star­ter: Steve Beuerlein, top signal caller in 27 of 29 previous games or sophomore .phenom Terry Andrysiak, who had devastated · Navy the· week before. Though Andrysiak started, the QB com­petition was inconclusive as the Irish defense played the decisive role in a 37-14 Notre Dame win. 
In the end, Mississippi's quarterbacking situation was more of a factor in the outcome of the game. Rebel quarterback Kent Austin was unable to play due to a knee injury, leaving Ole Miss under the direction of two inex­perienced freshmen. The Rebel · offense was stopped all day·. by a relentless Irish defense that held them scoreless for three quarters. _ 
The Irish won the toss but elected to kick off to start the game. Frosh quarterback Mark Young could not move the Rebels who were forced to punt. It was a familiar· scene on -this day. Of eleven first-half Mississippi pos­sessions, eight ended in punts and three in turnovers. 
Mike Smith's · punt · was fielded by Troy Wilson at the ND 

"3 
di 
p,. 
>. 
.ll 
.8 
0 
.C: a 
p,. 
41 and returned all the way to the Rebel 24. Andrysiak led the Irish offense onto the field but could gain · only one yard . in three downs. John Carney converted the 41-yard field goal attempt 
After the ensuing kickoff and a personal foul penalty on Notre Dame, Ole Miss wound up with the ball at their own 47. The Rebel's offensive impotence con­tinued as the drive ended in a loss of twelve yards and a punt. Notre Dame's offense, however; proved equally inept as the two teams exchanged four straight punts. 
Early in the second quarter 
Young threw an interception 

straight at Steve Lawrence on the ND 25 .and Lawrence returned all the way to the Mississippi 48. With Beuerlein replacing Andrysiak, the Blue and Gold began to march. On first down Starns carried for one. Pinkett . followed for fifteen. Starns, Pink­ett and Monahan toted the ball on the next five downs as the Irish used their superior size, running the ball straight at the Rebels. On fourth and two at the ten Faust elected to go for it and Beuerlein passed to Starns for seven. Starns . carried again for two and Pinkett somersaulted over the middle for the one yard touchdown. Carney's extra point gave Notre· Dame a ten-point lead and it was clear that the Irish running attack was wearing down the Rebel defense. 
Mississippi's offense was hav­ing it's own problems. Robert Banks ended their next drive with a sack of Young. The shell­shocked freshman would end the half with minus five yards passing and the Rebels would only rush for sixty yards. After the punt ND put together its best drive of the day, a twelve-play, 73-yard march. While Pinkett and Starns rested, Hiawatha Francisco car­ried for five and Beuerlein hit Ward for fourteen and Brown for sixteen. The drive ended in a fourteen yard touchdown pass to a wide open Timmy Brown. After Carney's placement the Irish had a virtually insurmountable 17-0 lead. Rebel coach Bill Brewer sent Chris Osgood in at quarter­back but the half ended with Mis­sissippi bogged down on its own side of the field. 
The second half continued where the first left off. An Ole Miss drive stalled and Smith punted. On first down, however, Pinkett fumbled on his own 27 and Jonathan Shelley recovered. The Rebel offense even refused this gift as two plays later Joe Mickles fumbled into the arms of Steve Lawrence who returned the ball 79 yards to the UM 5. On third down Pinkett punched the ball in from the two and Carney converted. 
Beue,';lein hurled for one touchdown. 

After Mississippi gave the ball up on downs at their 43 Andrysiak guided the Irish for another score. The running of Francisco and Monahan com­.bined with a twenty-yard catch by Alvin Miller brought the Idsh to the 22. On first down Andrysiak threw to Tom Rehder at the sixteen. Rehder rambled down the sideline and did his imi­tation of a bulldozer, running through a UM defender for the touchdown. Carney was perfect again and ND owned a 31-0 lead. It was all over except for the cheering of the enthusiastic Rebel fans. Mississippi scored ·. two fourth-quarter touchdowns against the Irish reserves and Corny Southall notched another one for Notre Dame late in the game. 
The voracious Irish defense had been the major element-in the ND victory. Eric Dorsey led the defense with six solo . tackles and a sack. Brewer called him the "one of the best damn guys we've seen." Lawrence's two turnovers also sparked the defense. Beuer­lein and Andrysiak . played to a draw, each passing for sixty yards and a touchdown. 
After four straight home wins the Irish were in position to re­enter the bow! picture. Their next opponent, however, the number­one ranked Nittany Lions of Penn State, would prove much stiffer opposition.• 
SCHOLASTlC 




ND Fed to the Lions 
PENN STATE RETURNS LAST YEAR'S FAVOR 
by Gene Boes 

Coming into their contest against the Penn State Nittany Lions, the Irish were looking to accomplish several things: 1) They wanted to maintain the momen­tum · they had built with four straight victories at home against Army, Navy, Southern Cal, and Mississippi; 2) they could win a road game for the first time since their 19-7 win over USC in November '84; 3) they could up their record against # 1 teams to 2 -0 _under Gerry Faust; 4) they could gain a measure of respecta­bility; and 5) they could impress one of the eight bowl representa­tives in attendance enough to be considered· for a major bowl bid. 
Despite the horrendous weather--heavy rain, 38-degree temperature, and 15-20 mph winds--the Irish came out strong. The · Nittany Lions won the coin toss but decided to postpone their option until the second half. The Irish received, and after a 16­yard return by Tim Brown began the first drive of the game from their own 17. Despite the pouring rain. -and slippery field, starting quarterback Steve Beuerlein -took to the air with great success, com­pleting 7 of 10 attempts.-All the 
FOOTBALL .REVIEW 1985 
receivers contributed as fullback Frank Starns, tailback Allen Pink­ett, tight end Tom Rehder, split end Reggie Ward, and flanker Tim Brown each had receptions. 
Even though the running game netted just three yards, the strength of the passing game brought the Irish deep into Penn State territory. The Irish came up short on third down and six from the 25-yard line and, like so often in the past, had to settle for the field goal attempt rather than the touchdown. Kicker John Carney lined up for the 37-yarder, the snap from center was perfect, but the ball slipped through the hands of holder Hal Von Wyl. Von Wyl picked up the ball and rolled right, getting a pass of to Rehder that would have been enough for a first down, but the ball fell incomplete. 
Penn State took over at their own 21 and marched down the field, effectively mixing up the running of tailback D.J. Dozier and the passing of quarter­back John _Shaffer. On first and ten from the Irish 21-yard line Shaff er hooked up with. Dozier in the right flat and Dozier scam­pered down the right sideline for the TD. Massimo Manca added the extra point and the Nittany Lions owned a 7 -0 lead. 
Alvin Miller returned Manca's kickoff to the Irish 29 but the Irish could only advanc; the ball out to the 40 before hav­
ing to punt. The fouled-up field 
goal attempt seemed to take the 
wind out of Notre Dame's sails 

and they never were able t~ 
recover. On 4th and 11, Dan 
Sorensen's punt covered only 25 
yards before sailing out of bounds 
at the Penn State 36. The first 
quarter ended with Penn State at 
midfield. 

The Irish defense held, and Troy Wilson made a fair catch of State's punt at the Irish 12. The best the offense could do was 8 · yards, but Sorensen got off a good, 38-yard punt. Unfor­tunately Penn State came up with a 15-ya_rd return. The Irish defense held on the drive, but Manca still managed a 43-yard field goal, the first of five on the day. 
The on:e part of the Irish game that was going well was-the return department, as Brown took the kickoff back 31 yards to the Irish 29. The Irish offense seemed to be on the roll again as they marched _across midfield in just three plays. The drive halted abruptly as Beuerlein was inter­cepted on 3rd and 1. State line­backer Rogers Alexander returned the Irish miscue down to the 34-yatd line, and five plays later Manca hit his second field goal from 27 yards out. 
Sophomore Terry Andrysiak took over the controls 

The Irish "D" wallowed in the mud. 
The "Irish/Penn State game was no longer a competitive contest."--ABC Sports 
for the Irish, and on his first play Pinkett took the pitch right for 15 

yards. But the next four plays saw Andrysiak recover his own fum­ble for a I-yard loss, Starns stopped for no gain, a 5-yard delay of game penalty, and an incomplete pass from Andrysiak to Starns. Sorensen's 41-yard punt was Notre Dame's last play from scrimmage in the first half. 
Penn State drove for their second touchdown, then Tim Brown, after returning the ensu­ing kickoff out to the 31-yard line, fumbled the ball. The Irish defense drove the Lions back to the 33, but with three seconds left, Manca nailed a 50-yarder and the Irish headed into the lockerroom down 23 -0. 
In order to get back in the game the Irish would have to play errorless football in the second half. Penn State had dominated nearly every statistic in the first half, out-gaining the Irish 100 yards to 34 yards on the ground and 126 to 87 in the air, had 40 offensive plays compared to 29 for the Irish, and never turned the ball over--the Irish had twice. Notre Dame was close in posses-. sfon time, 14:06 to 15:54, and led in · return yardage 111 yards to_ none. The only reason the Irish had the lead in this category was that they had yet to kick off to Penn State. When Penn State opted to kick off in the second 
.SO 
Photo by Lucien Niemeyer 
half, it looked as though the Irish 
kick off team would never take 
the field. 
Notre Dame came out of the locker room facing a challenge they had only met successfully once on 13 previous occasions under Faust--win a game after trailing at halftime. And it was clear after their first possession that the number would reach 14. 
After moving the ball out to 
the 46-yard line Beuerlein 
dropped back to pass, threw 
deep, and was intercepted by Ray 
Isom who returned the ball all the 
way back to the Notre Dame 32. 
The Lions took just eight plays to 
score, with Shaff er going over 
from the one on a QB sneak. 
The next miscue came three 
plays after the kick off as Beuer­
lein was intercepted again, this . 

time by State's Mike Zordich. The · Lions put together their seventh scoring drive in eight possessions on Manca's fourth field goal, this 
one from 26 yards away. 
The Irish started their eighth possession from their own 22 after Miller's 19-yaro kickoff return. They didn't fumble this time, nor were they intercepted. Instead, they found a new way to tum. the ball over--via a blocked punt--and. Penn State took over on the Irish 21. The Irish immedi­ately spotted.the Nittany Lions 10 more yards ort a personal foul penalty. The Irish defens·e pro­ceeded to back Penn State up on back to back sacks by tackles Eric Dorsey and Jeff Kunz, but Manca still managed his fifth field goal, a 35-yarder. Fortunately for the Irish this closed out the scor­ing for Penn State. 
The fourth quarter saw lit­tle change in the complexion of the game. The only noticeable changes were the clean jerseys of the Penn State replacements, as Joc Paterno called off the dogs and cleared his bench. The Irish did manage to .score on a short run by Hiawatha Francisco late in the game, but missed the PAT. The final score stood at 36 -6. 

All in all, the Irish had lost in typical fashion--they · had an over-abundance of turnovers and mistakes, the offense failed to move the ball consistently, and they had gotten in the hole early. On top of an embarrassing loss the Irish had set possibly the most humiliating precedent in the his­tory of national T.V. football cov­erage. Late in the third quarter ABC actually decided to drop the game to switch their coverage to another as the "Irish/Penn State • game was no longer a competitive contest." 
The Irish headed home licking their wounds, out of con­tention for a major bowl bid, and faced with the task of preparing 
for their next game against a tough LSU team.• 
SCHOLASTIC 

Tigers Sneak 
by Irish 

VICTORY ELUDES FAUST IN HIS LAST HOME GAME AS IRISH HEAD COACH. 
by Marty Bums 

The LSU Tigers had just fig­ured out another way to beat his hapless Irish, but Gerry Faust walked off the turf of Notre Dame Stadium the same man he was when he had first walked on five years before. 
Well, almost the same man. 

His hair grayer, the lines on his face more pronounced, and his walk reduced to an awkward waddle by a s~ries of knee opera­tions, the 50-year-old coach going on 65 could only remember those days of his spry youth five years before when he became head coach of Notre Dame. 
Ironically, it had all begun for Faust in the same place against this same team. In a scene more befitting an episode of "Fantasy Island," Faust led his team, and his dream, to a 27-9 thrashing of the Tigers before a loving audience and an impressed media that boosted Notre Dame to No. I in the national rankings two days later. 
Since that time, of course, had come the disappointment of five mediocre seasons along with the wrath of fans and alumni which formed a continuous black cloud that hung over him. That game in 1981 was only a distant memory on Nov. 23, 1985 when Faust sat down before a group of reporters and talked ab<:>ut his future arid his team's I0-7 loss that day on a soggy field. 
"You can't fault our kids because they played hard," he whispered. "They did an excel­lent job and when it came down to the wire we were on the · short end. 
"I never even thought about this being my last time walking off the field here at Notre Dame. And that's the honest to God truth." 
Jeffrey Wickersham was throwing passes for his high school team in Merritt Island, Florida on that day in 1981 when Faust had his greatest moment. But the. 6-2, 195-pound LSU quarterback saw that game on television. . He, like just about everyone· else who has followed the saga of Gerry Faust over this last half of a decade, smiled for the coach in his good times and bled for him in his bad times. 
"When I went across the field to congratulate Coach Arnsparger," said Faust, "Wick­ersham came over to me and said, 'You're a. great coach. It was great to play against your team.' He's a fine young man, isn't he?" 
It was nice of Wickersham to throw that compliment Faust's way. After all, the tall righthander had thrown everything else per­fectly on the day, completing 3l­of-42 passes for 294 yards. Those 31 completions were the most ever against a Notre Dame defense, and they made the difference in the game as the Irish were able to effectively shut down the heralded running game of the Tigers. 
Even with Wickersham's awesome aerial display, however, LSU was unable to get the ball into the endzone until only three minutes remained in the game. Unfortunately the touchdown score forged the I 0-7 final, giving LSU the lead and the game after ND had led for so long on an early touchdown of its own. 
The LSU touchdown drive, which culminated in a two-yard Garry James run, was vintage Wickersham. Setting up safely in the pocket as he had for the. entire game, Wickersham passed his team from its own 48-yard line to the ND 4-yard line with three straight pass completions. 
"We felt we were moving the ball well the whole game, we just weren't scoring points," said Wickersham. "We knew we had to turn it around and, in the end, we were able to do it. 
One player on the LSU side­. lines who was particularly grateful . for Wickersham's heroics was pla­cekicker Ron Lewis. Lewis shanked two first-half field goal attempts, one from 49 yards out and another from 26 yards out to keep the Irish in command at 7-0. 

Photo by Lucien Niemeyer
Photo by Lucien Niemeyer 

...but in the end it was another frnstration. 
l\Totre Dame contained the Tiger offense ... 
It was no surprise then when Arnsparger called out punter Matt DeFrank to attempt a 27-yard field goal with only seconds left in the first half after Wickersham's four passes had moved the Tigers into scoring position. DeFrank, who later would miss a 29-yard field.goal of his own, floated the ball --just barely --over the cross bar to set the halftime margin at 7-3 in favor of the Irish. 
"We probably set two records on Notre Dame today," said Arnsparger. "Jeff completed more passes and we probably missed more field goals. There were not many plays out there that were not big plays. We both had g'ood and bad moments." 
The bad moments for Notre Dame, to which Arnsparger must have been alluding, were all John Carney's. The usually automatic Irish placekicker had to suffer not only the frustration of missing one attempt but also of kicking into an oncoming locomotive by the name of Henry Thomas. 
The 6-2, 255-pound Tiger 
noseguard managed to get his paw on both a 50-yard attempt in the first half and on acrucial 23-yard chip-shot in the third quarter to keep the game within the long reach of his talented · quarterback's arm. The latter block was the big one, coming 
S2 

after an incredible 18-play Irish drive to start the second half. 
"If they would have made it ( on that 18-play drive), it would have changed the outcome of the game," growled Thomas. "They're easily the biggest team we've played this year, but I guess I was just able to get through the line, and I timed it well when the kick came." 
Still, despite these seemingly unlucky breaks which would have many men look up to the heavens for an explanation, Faust kept the faith. And in the final minute of the game he got a break from the spirits of Rockne, Leahy, Par­seghian, et al that still rule the field under the Golden Dome. 59,075 fans in attendance thought they were seeing one last gift to Gerry Faust. 
After Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein (11 completions, 25 attempts, I06 yards) had throwi1. an interception at the LSU 31­yard line with 1:50 remaining in the game, most in the house were heading for the exits; But in a page out of the glory years of Irish history, ND's tenacious nosetackle Eric Dorsey (9 tackles) wrapped up LSU's Dalton Hil­liard and stripped a fumble only 34 yards away from victory. 
This was the Notre Dame magic at· work again after a long layoff, right'! This is what had eluded Faust ever since that first win against LSU in 1981, right? 
Wrong. On the very next play, Beuerlein's pass downfield for super wideout Tim Brown (who had scored the only ND touchdown of the game on a daz­zling 18-yard scamper) ricocheted off Brown's shoulder and into the arms of a Louisiana State dcfencler. 
"It seemed like it could have been one of the famous Notre Dame comeback stories," mused Dorsey. 
"I've had a lot of breaks in my life," smiled Faust, even at the bitter end. "I've got my health, I've got a great family, I represent a great university, and I've been able to work with great kids." 
Perhaps Notre Dame's incomparable tailback Allen Pink-· ett, whose I03 yards on 30 carries in another disappointing loss drew the usual array of post-game accolades from both locker rooms, summed it up best: 
"It seems .weird that I'm not going to play another game here at Notre Dame. I truly like Coach Faust. I'm going to miss him when I leave." · 
Allen Pinkett and Gerry Faust. Two good souls that vic­tory eluded; Notre Dame will miss them both.• 
SCHOLASTIC 






Hurricanes Blow Away Irish 
JOHNSON CLOSES THE GATES 
OF 

1\/IERCY 
by Pete Pranica 

It was very hard to decide which was most galling about the Miami Hurricanes' 58-7 massacre of the Irish just two days after Thanksgiving and three days after a coaching change: 
Was it that Hurricane coach Jimmy Johnson ran up the score late in the game? · 
Was it that . the majority of the Irish players gave at best an _indifferent effort, playing without emotion or intensity? 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986 
Was it that the Irish finished 5-6 for the second time in five years? 
Or was it that coach Gerry Faust had to coach his final game under the foregoing cir­cumstances? 
Whatever the choice, the scene on the Orange Bowl turf was ugly, a shameful blot on the historic Notre Dame football ledger. A team noted for pride and motivation showed none in the face of Faust's jmpending departure. The scene on the field was bad enough; a look at the scoreboard was positively sicken­ing. Gerry Faust was going to leave Notre Dame having lost more games· than· any other Irish coach and the last one would be the worst. It was a poor time for goodbyes. 
The first goodbye came at Tuesday's regular press confer­ence . when Faust stunned his audience by telling them that he had · talked to University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, as well as Fr. Edmund P. Joyce and Gene Corrigan, and had informed them of his decision to resign as coach following : the Miami game. His five year con­tract would be over anyway, and to save further controversy, Faust simply let it all end on the second floor conference room of the Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
While the coaching contro­versy was on its way to being set­tled with the selection of Min­nesota coach Lou Holtz -less than 24 hours later, the Irish· were down in the Sunshine State facing a Miami Hurricane team that did not like Notre Dame and wanted to prove on national television that they were deserving of a higher ranking than their fourth place position. By putting 58 points on the board, the 10-1 Hurricanes not only embarrassed their hated rivals, but also put themselves into · the Sugar Bowl against Tennessee with an outside shot at the national championship. 
Miami started off slowly as quarterback Vinny Testaverde connected oil. his_ first four passes to set up Greg Cox' 39 yard field goal slightly over six minutes into the contest. The Irish offense failed to negotiate the . requisite ten yards in their three initial plays and punted to the Hurri­canes. A 35 yard strike to running back Alonzo Highsmith set up a six yard burst by Warren Williams to stake the 'Canes to a I 0-0 lead. 
Forced. to start from their own 20, the Irish dug themselves a hole by getting flagged for an illegal block on the next play. Two. plays netted eight yards and on third and nine, Kevin Fagan sacked quarterback Steve Beuer­lein as 49,236 fans basked in the glory of another devastating Hur­
. ricane onslaught. · 
ss 
Cox closed the scoring in the first · stanza with his second three~pointer, this one from 47 yards· out, to make it 13-0. After achieving their· initial first down in the waning moments of the period, the Irish broached Hurri­cane turf early . in the second, thanks to a. 21 yard connection between Beuerlein and flanker Tony Eason. On the very next play Beuerlein flipped the. ball into the left flat and into the wait­ing arms of free safety Bennie Blades who sprinted 61 yards into the Miami sunset for a 20-0 advantage. 
That twenty point margin was familiar to some of the Irish who had endured a 20-0 drubbing on national television two years earlier._ That was the game which saw Blair Kiel benched and Steve Beuerlein inserted as the Irish quarterback. And as happened two years earlier,. the starter, in this case Beuerlein, was shown the bench as sophomore Terry Andrysiak entered the game. Joined by the entire second team offensive· unit, Andrysiak moved the· Irish troops down the field, mixing the running of Tom Monahan and Hiawatha Francisco with a . 23 yard connection to Alvin Miller. While · the second­teamers moved the ball into posi­tion, the certified star of the Irish squad, Allen Pinkett, bashed -into 

the end zone from three yards out to. avert the shutout and keep Irish hopes alive. 
The Hurricanes were relent­less however, as Reisman candi­date Testaverde completed five of six tosses in moving the 'Canes 68 yards. The final completion was a seven yard TD strike to Mel Brat­ton to reassert a twenty point edge, Andrysiak came back out ready to slice into the lead again and moved the Irish down the field to a first down on the Miami 20, thanks in large part to a defensive holding penalty which gave the Irish a gift first down when Andrysiak misfired on third and ten. 
Pinkett, who would end his career this day as Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher, gained four of his 77 yards · on first down, but consecutive sacks by Dan Stubbs and John McVeigh forced John Carney to try a 4 3 yard field goal which sailed left of the mark with 40 seconds remain­ing in the half. The 27-7 Hurri­cane lead at the intermission left even . the most resolute Irish backer hard-pressed to find either a' bright spot in the first half or hope for the second. 
Testaverde, who had clicked on 13 of his 20 passes in the ini­tial thirty minutes observed, "We studied . a lot of film. I took the snaps_. and they reacted just like the films showed. We took what 
11 I'd rather · have a better memory, especially_ for the seni_ors. Things just didn't end up the way we'd like." Gerry Faust 
they gave us and things just seemed to click." On the other side of the field, cornerback Mike Haywood tipped off the true mental state of the Blue and Gold. "Everybody tried to cover up, but underneath we still had the pres­sure and the tension. There was · so much no. one had a good week of practice. We were never really emotionally into it." 
And it showed --all game long. 
Beuerlein returned to the huddle to begin the second half after Andrysiak suffered a . separated left shoulder on the last sack of the first half. The junior completed three passes, one a 34 yard bomb to Reggie Ward, but could not wring any points from the effort, despite having a first down on the Hurricane 18. A five yard penalty gave the Irish a first and fifteen which three consecu­tive tailback runs, two by Pinkett and one by Francisco, . could not cover. Beuerlein's · fourth down peg for tight end Tom Rehder fell harmlessly to the turf and Miami had the ball once again. 
Highsmith, who finished the day with 31 yards on eight car­
. ries, handled the ball on the first and eighth plays of the ensuing drive. The other eight were Tes­taverde passes. Having misfired on the last two however, Tes­taverde gave way to Cox who booted a 48 yard field goal to put 
84 
SCHOLASTIC 


.. It was extremely diffi­cult to stomach the post-Thanksgiving mor­sel the Hurricanes had prepared for the Irish." 
the Hurricanes up 30-7 with 5:36 to play in the third. 
The Irish failed again to attain a first down on three plays and gave the ball back to Tes­taverde and the Hurricanes. The curly-haired heir to the Miami quarterback legacy, who would throw for 356 yards against a porous Irish secondary, exhibited the lightning-quick nature of the Miami offense as just six plays, 75 yards and two and a half minutes later the Hurricanes were out in front 3 7-7 on the strength of a 15 yard TD to Mike Irvin. 
Andrysiak returned and the Irish next managed only a four play effort that ended with Dan Sorenson's fourth punt of the afternoon to close the third quar­ter. Testavercie, still in there pitching despite the lopsided score, engineered an 80 yard drive featuring completions good for 45, 11, and 21 yards. Anxious to grab a piece of the action for himself, the 6-5 quarterback scampered over . from one yard out two minutes into the final period to make it 44-7. Irish defensive tackle Eric Dorsey drew a 15 yard personal foul penalty for hitting Testaverde high and late as the Irish frustra­tion mounted while the score did likewise. 
Despite the sore shoulder, Andrysiak moved the Irish to midfield, but Francisco found 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1985 
nowhere to go on fourth and one. With 9:40 to play, Jeff Torretta came on in relief of Testaverde. While many expected Torretta to do little more than hand off to his running backs, Hurricane coach Jimmy Johnson had other ideas. "You stay in the offense you run. We're a passing team. Everybody knows that. We school our quar­terbacks to take advantage of what defenses the opponents run, not to be governed by the score­board." 
Full of his coach's blessing, Torretta used play action passes to guide the Hurricane reserves into the end zone for a sixth Miami touchdown. The final blow was a 1 7 yard pass to Andre Brown, giving the 'Canes a 51-7 edge with 6:11 to play. Faust rein­serted Beuerlein for the next series which consisted ·of three plays and a punt --and even that led to more Miami points. 
"We didn't even have a punt block in our game plan. We had return-right and return-left on and had two men rushing the punter," claimed Johnson, who came under some heat for the final margin of victory.· On ·the punt, defensive back Bubba McDowell blocked Dan 
Sorensen's punt and defensive tackle Bill Hawkins scooped up the loose package for the 'Canes' final tally. Insult was· added to injury when pressbox observers pointed out that Miami only had ten men on the field at the time. 


With just over four minutes to play, . the Irish offense, out­gained 534 to 339 on the after­
. noon, managed only three plays and a punt for the fifth time. Merc.ifully, the Hurricanes ran five straight running plays, including a reverse, to end the carnage at 58-7. While Johnson was trying to defend his playcal­ling, Faust was reciting one last time what .had become a familiar litany to rep,orters. "We played quite well most of the season­
' 

· today Miami played well and we had a couple of games like that this year. We just seemed to have trouble. with the pure passer this year. Miami was good in all ·. phases of the game," intoned Faust. He stopped to praise Tes­taverde and refused to talk about the lopsided score. Looking over the assembled m~dia, he said "I'd r_ather have a better memory, ' especially for the seniors. Things just didn't end up. the wav we'd 
like." . The · dream of coaching at Notre Dame had long become something less than ·pleasant and despite his. protests that he'd "do it all again" even with the medio­cre record, one had to feel that it was extremely difficult to stomach the post-Thanksgiving morsel the Hurricanes had prepared for the Irish. The Faust Era was over, and there was nothing worth cele­brating.• 
S5 
¦ 
II

The \/Valk-an 

An 



Battle 

by Gene Boes 
This article is dedicated to the 35 walk-on members of the 1985 Notre Dame football team for their courage, determination and selfless attitude. 

When a ·walk-on player arrives for his first football prac­tice, he has dreams to chase and goals to achieve, just as the scholarship player docs. Each has to earn his stripes and must work hard to climb the ladder of success. But the yardstick by which . a wa.lk-on player meas­ures success has a much dir­
ferent scale than that of a scho­. larship player. The scholarship yardstick may have notches for EARN A MONOGRAM, EARN A STARTING POSI­TION, BECOME CAPTAIN, or ACHIEVE ALL-AMERICAN STATUS. the walk-on yardstick usually includes notches like DRESS FOR A GAME, MAKE THE TRAVELING TEAM, 
36 
SCHOLASTIC 


PLAY IN A GAME, PLAY ON A REGULAR BASIS, and 
EARN A SCHOLARSHIP. 
Although the walk-on may not feel the same pressures to perform, or have the high expec­tations· of a blue-chip recruit, there are still many difficult adjustments to be made. First, the walk-on player must get over the feeling of awe for the scho­larship players and realize that even though he may not have the same physical talents, he has enough heart and determination to compete on their level. Next he has to deal with the attitudes of the coaches. Coaches tend to concentrate on the scholarship players because they are players that they ·hav.e studied and recruited. If a walk-on player is to be noticed, he must perform to perfection at practice, day in and • day out. Coaches .often shrug off a mistake by a scholar­ship athlete, but should a walk~ on make a mistake, a coach is usually quick to point it out. 
Perhaps the most impor­tant · fact a walk-on willingly accepts is that he will always be a role player. Mike James, a gra­duating senior who spent his entire four years as a walk-on describes himself and his coun­terparts as· "players who commit · themselves totally to the team. To win as a team is the ultimate · goal, and personal · success 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 1986. 

..... the scene on the Orange Bowl Turf was ugly, a shame­ful blot on the' historic Notre Dame football ledger. A team noted for pride and motivation showed ·none in the face of Faust's impending departure.'' 
always takes a back seat to team success." It is necessary for a walk-on to accept this selfless a(titude and understand that any chances for personal recognition are very ·slim. 
Basically, the role of a walk-on player is that of prep team inember. The prep team is 
· made up mostly of i walk-ons with a few scholarship players, usually freshmen. Its job is to simulate as accurately as possi­ble the offense and defense of the next. opponent. This means spending tiine outside of regular practice hours studying· films of the opponents. Also, the walk-on inust be mentally prepared for ·each practice and play at a high level of intensity .. The starting units performance on game day depends a· great deal on how well the prep teani did its job during the week. Walk-ons must treat each practice as if it were a game, because in all probability practice is the only "playing time" a walk-on will ever get. 
There are some excep­tions. Three players on this years squad (John Carney, Pat Cusack and Tom Monahan) started out as walk-ons and have not only played · a · great deal, they have· earned scholarships as well. The talent of these three individuals is quite evident in their performance. According to Carney, "being in the right place at the right time," was just 
as key as all the hard work and 
dedication. 
Walk-ons are over­achievers. They need to. play to the limit of their physical abili­ties to even take part in practice. What they lack in size, strength, or skill, they more than make up 
i 

for in heart, determination, and . ! confidence in their own ability to compete. Without the fierce mental attitude, the dedication, the total commitment to team success, it would be impossible for walk-ons to endure their routine. There is the daily beat­ing sustained from performing on the prep team against the starting squad, the frustration of not being noticed by the coaches, the disappointment of not ·getting. to dress for the game, the fact that freshman recruits step · ahead of them in the fall, no matter how hard they've worked to move up in the depth charts during spring drills ...the list goes on and on. 
Despite the adversity, the personal disappointments and the sacrifices; each walk-on receives the ultimate satisfaction come game day, when they all come charging out of the tunnel in Notre Dame Stadium, wear­ing the blue and gold. They are, in the truest sense, members of the greatest football tradition ·in America.• 




111atter. 


by Pete Pranica 
If what you did yesterday seems big, then you haven't done anything today. --Lou Holtz 
Yesterday was the Minnesota 
Golden Gophers, a team in disar­
ray, without so much as a facility 
for the entire team to meet at 
once. Joe Salem· left Holtz a crew 
which had lost ten of its last 
eleven games, outscored on the 
average by a 50-16 margin. But 
one man's garbage is· another's 
treasure and after leading the 
Gophers to four . wins in 1984, 
Holtz did what any good magi­
cian will do --an encore. Fullof a 
Golden pride which had been 
missing from the Gopher program. 
for years, the Maroon and Gold 
sped out of the gate on the 
strength of a dandy quarterback 
named Ricky "Sweetfeet" Foggie. 
The Gophers stumbled briefly by 
dropping a heartbreaking 13-7 
decision to eventual· • national 
champion Oklahoma. While the 
Big 10 proved to be a monstrous · 
conference in '85, the Gophers managed to hold their own, . pounding lumps on the likes of Purdue while giving Ohio State 
38 

the biggest scare this side of Orson Welles and "War of the Worlds." Brent Musburger of CBS· nearly canonized Holtz on national television that day while hand-held cameras caught his every grimace. The Gophers fin~ ished the season at 6-5, good enough for. an invitation to the gulf town of Shreveport, Louisi­ana, for the Independence Bowl against Clemson. 
Holtz, however, was not there to coach h~s latest salvage operation. Instead, · he . was trying to figure out how to re-toQl the Fighting Irish, an outfit coming off a losing season and its worst loss since the days when FDR was a head coach. Like the magi­cian he is, both on and off the field, Holtz vanished fi:om Min­nesota through an escape clause in his contract which allowed him to take only one other job on God's green earth _:. at God's Golden Dome as coach of God's 
College Football Team. 
Yesterday was the Minnesota Gophers; today is the · Fighting Irish, a band ofhardly disciplined and hardly motivated prima don­nas who· seeined to· arbitrarily decide when arid if they felt like playing winning football mixed with a precious few who. really cared about . the team concept There will be no . such rift this season. ·Already Holtz has met with his players on a personal basis and given them a shirt which has the word "TEAM'' across the top and the word "me" across the bottom. Certainly, no shirts have ever won a football game, but Holtz is deadly serious about winning again. Being taken seriously has been Holtz' major problem. 
In their first meeting, the players slouched in their seats, half-expecting a stand-up routine. They didn't · get one. Sure, he may be funny, but when he's on that field or getting ready to take the field, no orie will mistake him for Johnny Carson. · 
"I wouldn't say I'm mean, but I would say I'm very demand­ing, very intense,'' said Holtz just before the Christmas holidays. That, by the way, is not the per­son captured in print Read arti­cles about Holtz and there often will be· a sidebar filled with "Holtzisms" because the guy is so dolgurned ·. funny. Note however, the very fine line between being a humorist . and being a comedian. Holtz is a good measure of the former and almost none· of the latter. 
. . 

A humorist makes light of a situation with a purpose in mind while a comedian is looking for laughs and little else. Humor, and not comedy, can be a way to defuse the banality of the ,typical questions .a football coach gets asked in the course of a season. 
SCHOLASTIC 



New Irish coach Lou Holtz 
89

FOOTBALL Rli:VIEW 1986 
------~ ~--------~-------­

., 
i:: 
::s :9 
~ 
Ill 
tll 
.... 
0 
6j'
., 11 
0 
u 
0 
.µ 
0 
..c: 
p.. 

Corrigan and Holtz meet the press. 
Sample question: "Say, Coach Holtz, Jockstrap· Tech has the best defense in the country, do you think you can move the ball 
on them?" 
Sample Lou Holtz answer: "I'm convinced we're going to move the ball. I just hope to God it's forward." 
See how that works?· Instead of grating on forever about drive blocking and crossbucks and influence plays, he simply says, "Yeah, we're gonna move the ball.'' What is he supposed to say? "No, they're just · too good for us"?. 
His quip that Notre Dame fans· seemed to be unarmed made great copy at his initial press conference, but the comment was not made for the e~press purpose of being funny. How else do you answer questions about the pres­sures of coaching at Notre Dame when you've never felt it? The humorous answer to a nebulous question is a Holtz trademark; Holtz deals in honesty and a homespun philosophy which just so happens to work good things, not miracles. What Holtz did at Minnesota was not so much per­

.. form a miracle as get the same people who were 1-10 the previ­ous year to believe that they ,could win. When asked how his dad does it, son Skip says, "Motivation." 
Ah, yes, -· motivation. That was supposed to be Gerry Faust's hallmark until it became painfully obvious that yqu cannot treat col­lege men like high school boys and expect their confidence and respect -Talk to successful coaches in .any sport and their players and they'll tell you that the key to good coaching is know­ing how to -· g~t the best out of y,our players. Some · need to be pushed and berated, some need to be handled with velvet gloves, some need the rah-rah while oth­ers need the soft sell brand of motivation. · That's the kind of know~edge that comes with 15 yeats as a ·collegiate head coach. 
In Holtz' introductory press conference, athletic director Gene Corrigan stated that previous 
college coaching experience was a definite . qualification for the Notre Dame job, a sort of back­handed acknowledgement that the hiring of Gerry Faust may have been a mistake, no matter. how fine a man he was and is. Before settling on Holtz, Corrigan enlisted. the aid . of Ara Par­seghian~ a man who knows some­thing about coaching at Notre Dame. 
Parseghian told Corrigan, "People forget that I was a head coach for J 4 years before I came to Notre Dame, and I needed every one of those when I got here." From the experience stand-
There is a very fine line between being a humorist . and comedian ... Holtz is a good measure of the former and almost · none of the latter. 
point, Holtz is eminently quali­fied. 
In college football circles, Holtz has been around the block, up the next street and across to the corner drugstore. He's been a grad assistant, a fulltime assistant and a head coach. He's coached at ·smaller schools (William and Mary) and larger schools (Arkan­sas). He's weathered his share of controversy ranging from the suspension of three black athletes following their discovery in a partly-clad coed's room on the eve of an Orange Bowl clash with Oklahoma (the Razorbacks buried the Sooners 31-6) to his eventual dismissal from Arkansas for no apparent reason. And he wears it well despite what he calls "a phy­sique which appears I've been affiicted with beri-beri and scurvy most of my life." 
See, there he goes again. 

But seriously folks, Lou Holtz is a winner. Why? He gives his . teams a purpose and makes sure· they carry out their assign­ments. There's a right way and a wrong way to do things in the Lou Holtz cosmos and if you won't do 'em the right way you might as well clean out your locker or dust off a spot on the bench. "I refuse to compromise what I believe in," states Holtz matter-of-factly. There you have it. The buck stops here. The winning starts here. • 
SCHOLASTIC 


O.k., HIIRVI/RO, I't-L 
OIi. YcS, THAT5 

PVT YOV 001<1/V FOR 
A G0OO ONc N/Ce

ENOI/V6 TIie WAR... 
THINKIN6, STANFORP.. 

.. A/.1 .. STANFOR0.1 
.. Vii.. NOTRE OAMEl 
I 
I 
/ 


MORE: 
FOOTl!IALL­
6AMc5.1 
........__ 


Copyright,  1971,  G.B.  Trudeau/distributed  by  Universal  Press  Syndicate.  
'l'ANI{ )JCNJ\)IAllA  by Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds  
1-\t. RECORP $1 t/llWON CHtCK 'TRE DAME GOT FOR PU\YIN& JtJ  
TTON BOWL-7  FAn-1£1<  SCl-llJ  
Ll7 11-1!: COACH iT II/AS G 1 INTO THE FOOR BOX  
.  ~.....  ...~  
b;  

Copyright, 1978, Universal Press Syndicate. 


-~~ 

~~ MATERINlllT'f {€;n WAIRD 
VISITING HOURS
&~ 
7 TO 10
; 
< 


"H~u..o, NOTR~ DAM~ A1H1,E:r1c D~PARrMeNT?'1 
Reprinted by permission of Chicago Tribune­New York News Syndicate, Inc. 

....0 c,:i If) 
..... IJ.~• 
_J -..c, 
z '<;j'­C, _J 
H -=r:z 
f-H H 
u er:: 
w ,::. 
_J 
::E: 
_J 
w
,=, 
:z 
u 
0 
w 
2 w 
E 
:E:
-=r: LL -=r: 
Cl c, 0 w 
•W 
cc 
> 0::
f-..... f-
c:, z c, 
z :::i 2 
-. 





