Drill Night
From a point high on the campus, a radar beam searches the sky. Lights burn in classrooms. Khaki replaces tweed and covert for the night as college men assigned to Reserve units study the machines and methods of defense.
Preparedness is the order of the day.
And the Bell System stands prepared. In five busy years, we have added more than 12,500,000 telephones. Many improvements have been made in the quality and speed of service. Our force of highly skilled, experienced men and women has been greatly enlarged—and now numbers more than 600,000.
A nation in a hurry goes by telephone. This country has the best telephone service in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
2
The Scholastic
GIVE YOURSELF THIS
POPULARITY IKI
Do you look forward to going to a dance?
Yei
No---
Do partners enjoy dancing with you?
Yes---- No------
Would you rather dance than watch others?
Yes^_ No-
If you answered "yes” to all the above questions you must be the most popular person in town. But, if you had to say "no” a couple of times here’s how to change those "no’s” into "yes’s.”
Come in today to Arthur Murray’s. Just put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and before you know it, you’re dancing with confidence and grace.
Then watch those invitations come your way, for good dancers are always in demand. So don’t wait, don’t miss out on good times you deserve to have. Come in now and be 51 set for your next dancing party.
ARTHUR MURRAY
no E. WAYNE — CALL 2-3339
<Osftoortf)’s
Healthknit Shirts.. . Briefs
. MEN’S SHOP . . . Main Floor
Typing wanted by former commercial teacher. Experienced at theses and theme typing.
PHONE 3-1048
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Special Student Rates For All Dances
White Gabardine Dinner Coats. Tuxedos, Full Dress Cutaways, Sizes: Boys’ 3 to Men’s 56; over 500 suits to choose from.
No Deposit for Students.
We Invite You to Come In and Inspect Our Formal Attire
LOGAN'S
107 N. Main	South Bend, Ind.
3
Jan. 12,1951
Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN
408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
PHONE 7-1409
Res. ph. 2-6697
foundry [
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, necJ> wear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
—Thousands of tiny windows in the fabric invite every breeze. Painstakingly tailored for extra semesters of wear. Comfortable price, too.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
104 N. Main St.
J. M. S. Bldg.
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
HEALTH SPOT
—White button, down oxford, soft roll to the collar. Popular as a holiday with the fellows and the gals.
*o* min wqmin and cniuhun 209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING
CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
BLOCK BROS
Comer Michigan & Washington
Jewelers to
Notre Dame
for more than
25 years.
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
The fast approaching end of another semester . . .
An Infamous Deed
If these pages burn up in your hands as you' read, there’s good reason. Right now our usually well-controlled pen must embark on an attack. Our foe is mighty, but our cause is Just. So, let the chips fall where they may.
Not long ago we criticized the South Bend Tribune for their removal of Walt
ing and high averages.
Another thing about this year’s exams that is noteworthy is the honor system, being employed for the first time in the College of Commerce. Each student has the honor of receiving an individual proctor.
On the whole, though, exam worries are taking a back-seat to worries of the * military sort. We guess we could follow
suit with the other columnists and writers on this mag and bid fond adieus to departing enlistees, but we won’t. It seems a waste of time to say goodbye to somebody whom you’re going to be seeing again in about five months, doesn’t it?
Frozen Ground
Work on the new Science Building, the Morris Inn, and the Fisher Hall is progressing steadily despite an occasional blizzard or monsoon. It feels good to see something getting built nowadays.
The Fisher Hall construction will probably go down in the annals of dorm building. It’s the first time the workers have had to import dirt instead of digging it out.
Bottom of the Week	.
. . . might as well kiss your deferment goodbye!
Kelly’s comic strip “Pogo.” The Tribune didn’t heed the comments. Time magazine gave “Pogo” a write-up not long after the Tribune’s dastardly act. “Pogo” got more space in Time than the Tribune could get if their whole staff resigned and Paul Neville started a Red puppet government in southern Alaska.
The 'Tribune, according to reliable reports, refuses to bring back “Pogo.” Their reasons are ethereal. But to heap insult upon injury, the Tribune inserted something called “Hopalong Cassidy,” we hope you’ll excuse the expression.
Does the Tribune think all their readers are a bunch of “Hoppy-happy” six-year-olds? If not, let’s get “Pogo” back, and quick!
Exams and Such
Just about every year just about everybody starts worrying about just about all their finals just about now. (These “just abouts” were made available through the courtesy of the English Department which had some left over from last semester’s collection of theses.) It almost defies explanation to see formerly carefree and happy students suddenly sink to the depths of fear and despondency because of a little ol’ week of something called finals. It’s just like any other week, really, and nobody worries during other weeks, so why worry now? The answer to the question of the WEEK: Why not?
Rumors have been going around that the History Department and the Modern Language Department have combined their departmental exams this semester. Now students taking either one or both of the courses requiring departmentals can kill two birds with one stone by answering both exams at once. This does away with a lot of messy double flunk-

Jleafut to-
it's easy!... it's fun! ...
the GEORGE DAVIS way.
H RATES NOW . IN EFFECT
Alice and George Davis
DANCE FIESTA
Every Thursday, 9 p. m.
All Notre Dame students invited to attend our friendly socials. No charge.
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost pf one the GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50%. You'll enjoy the congenial atmosphere of South Bend's largest and most beautiful dance studio. Come in . . or call 3-8229 for free trial lesson.
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
Dial 3-8229
Jan. 12, 1951
5
I

JANUARY 12
PALAIS ROYALE—Many neophyte test tube and stethoscope practitioners will take their dates to the Science Ball tonight.
COLFAX (through Jan. 17)—Because of last Sunday’s opening date nearly everyone has already seen Harvey (Legion of Decency Rating A-2). For those who have missed the pleasure, this is one of the best and warmest comedies ever screened. Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull are perfect in their roles. Don’t miss it!
PALACE (through Jan. 18)—The West Point Story (A-2) has a miserable setting and title but outside of these two defects and also a tendency to be over-long, it shapes up as a sprightly musical with James Cagney back in stride as a volatile hoofer. Virginia Mayo, Gordon MacRae, Doris Day and Gene Nelson all help the bantam ably. The co-pic, Pygmy Island (A-l), does not star Cagney too.
AVON (indefinite run)—Those zanies, Jerry Lewis and Dean Martin, burst out in their first starring film, At War With the Army. If you liked them in the Irma series then you’ll really enjoy them in this. Following this booking will be Never a Dull Moment (A-l) with Irene Dunne and Fred MacMurray, Grounds for Marriage (B) with Van Johnson and Kathryn Grayson, and Frenchie (A-2) with Shelley Winters and Joel McCrea.
JANUARY 13
GRANADA (through Jan. 16)—Emergency Wedding (B) is a weak and silly comedy with Barbara Hale and Larry Parks. The other feature, The Killer That Stalked Neiv York, is somewhat like Panic in the Streets in. theme but not nearly as well done.
JANUARY 16
CAMPUS (through Jan. 25)—EXAMS!!!!
WASHINGTON HALL—The House of Magic show will be put on at 4 p.m.
COLFAX (through Jan. 24)—Breakthrough (A-l) is an excellent war film about the rugged advance on St. Lo. David Brian and Frank Lovejoy head the large cast.
*	JANUARY 19
PALACE (through Jan. 25)—Red Skelton’s latest Watch the Birdie (A-l) is even poorer than his last effort.
JANUARY 25
Mid-semester vacation begins.
JANUARY 26
GRANADA (through Feb. 8)—Kim (A-l) is a technicolor whopper in the same category as the recent King Solomon’s Mines. Dean Stockwell, Errol Flynn and Paul Lucas help make this a top-drawer adventure film.
JANUARY 28
Commencement exercises (see page 9 for details).
JANUARY 31
PALACE (one day only)—Some who leave the campus for between semester vacation will want to hurry back to see Gene Autry and his stallion romp both on the stage and screen.
FEBRUARY 2
The annual Mardi Gras Dance will be held from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. at the Palais Royale.
FEBRUARY 5 and 6
A loud hubbub will echo throughout the Drill Hall as the Mardi Gras Carnival holds sway. -
FEBRUARY 6 and 7
The University Players • come back from Catholic University in Washington, D. C., to present Shakespeare’s Macbeth on the first night and Shaw’s Arms and the Man the second night. Both performances start at 8 p.m. and an admission, will be charged for this Concert and Lecture Series presentation.
Vol. 92 January 12. 1951 No. 14
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52_________________News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52_____Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51__________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52 Sports	,
JACK R. VARLEY '52_______Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51.._Photography LEON GARDNER, '52________.Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51______Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52 Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico. Dick Cody. John Corrigan. Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Bob Finney, Tom Codfrev. Dave Hayes. John Kelly, R. O. Murphy. Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.	’■»
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Joe Dciss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub. FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan. John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Larry McDermott, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta and Jack Ward. PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald. John Kinvillc, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: As a sequel to the Nov. 3 cover entitled “What the Professor Sees,” the Scholastic presents “What the Student Sees” this week. Not all the professorial types could be included, because of space limitations, of course. Drawings by Chuck Lenz.
TAe Scholastic '

Where Does Charity Begin?
No one needs to be told that the fourth annual Mardi Gras Carnival is on hand. Quiet preparations have been going on for over a month and things are now beginning to hit the usual hectic stride.
This annual affair is without a doubt one of the biggest and certainly one of the best events put on by the student ! body during the entire year. When it was originated it had a wonderful cause behind it — relief for foreign students. > Now, however, the cause behind this charity affair is the 1 Campus Charity Chest.
This, too, is a worthy benefactor. But there is something lacking. When all the profits went toward the needy foreign students everyone felt they were doing something concrete. Now, however, the profits are poured into this Chest and then ladled out to any seeker deemed worthy.
No fault is to be found with this procedure because careful investigation is given to each and every organization and person who asks for help. But shouldn’t part of the proceeds go toward something even closer to home?
Our suggestion would be to donate a share of the Mardi Gras receipts toward a building fund for the student union. Thousands of people throughout the country have been approached for donations by the Notre Dame Foundation. Everyone, that is, except Notre Dame’s own student body. Certainly students don’t have much extra money to contribute individually but here’s a way for them to donate as a body.
This is by no means a new idea. The Student Council < has mulled it over but has as yet to decide one way or the other. Everyone knows the actual building of the student ' union is a long way off. But perhaps each year the student body could contribute an amount to its eventual construction.
Then when it is built our share in it would be much greater. And secondly, wouldn’t everyone’s interest in the | Mardi Gras Carnival, itself, be intensified?
Our Departing Troops
' Rumors ran rampant last week. So-and-so enlisted yesterday. Somebody is leaving tomorrow. Although verification couldn’t be had for all the rumors there was undoubtedly some truth to a lot of them.
Many faces will be missing when the second semester starts at the end of this month. Our country’s mobilization has become a cold reality.
It is impossible to keep track of each departing enlistee and draftee but the Scholastic would like to keep in touch with them after they don their uniforms. So, if you are planning on entering anv of the services soon please let us v-	'
know about it either before you leave or else as soon as you get settled at a camp or base.
And for those who will be leaving shortly, the Scholastic, on behalf of the entire Notre Dame student body, wishes you good fortune. We know such empty phrases have little significance at a time like this, but leave, knowing it is meant sincerely. And may Our Blessed Mother be with you wherever you go as she has been here at Notre Dame.
•
Huge Eyesore
Look around. Our campus is in sorry shape. The grounds are never’ at their best during the winter months but this year they look worse than ever.
A blanket of white snow covers the rubble with an appearance of beauty. But once it melts you have nothing to see but clumps of paper trash, rotting food, cans and other globs of waste.
Blame for this condition can not be put upon the Maintenance Department. They do their utmost to make the Notre Dame campus one of the most beautiful in the country during Spring, Summer and Fall. Old man weather, however, is too big a foe for them to combat in the Winter.
Two spots, in particular, come to mind for being shamefully dirty. They are the courts between Alumni and Dillon and between Dillon and the Dining Hall. Every wastebasket in those two halls must be near an open window and not much can be said for the aim of the Gold-Coasters.
It’s about time everyone started to respect the campus. If nothing else, their negligence is a poor reflection of their upbringing.
So Long, Staffers
The Scholastic seldom takes time out to bestow pats on the backs of any staff members. Tradition is tossed to the winds this week in recognition of two men who are ending their tour of duty on the publication.
The first man leaving is Jim McLaughlin, photography editor. Jim has worked long and tirelessly for four years ‘ on the Scholastic. His photographic work has been judged by many ND oldtimers as ranking among the best ever pro- ‘ duced by a local shutter-clicker. He had an imagination, a fine technical skill as well as a desire to work that will be long remembered.
Charlie Dullea is the second staffer to depart. The Scholastic’s assistant news editor left Wednesday to join the Marines. Ever since he arrived at Notre Dame three years ago, Charlie has been an active member of this publication. He, too, has worked long hours striving to make the magazine a worthy one.
The entire staff wishes both of these men luck and blessings in the future, o
7
Jan. 12,1951

21 22 23 fc* 2s



The nature of your eye movements as recorded on film by this instrument provides a key to improved reading ability.
You con learn more by reading more in less time. (
Educators know that efficient reading ability usually means the difference between ordinary and superior grades,/
.4----
Hundreds of successful business and professional men, no matter how fast they had been reading before, find that similar material can now be read easily and normally in far less time. Because this training changes basic habits, results are as permanent as they are astonishing.
How good are your reading skills? Our Complete Reading Skill Survey, available at a nominal fee, will measure them for you in a few hours time. This survey, taken now, will tell you what to expect from the training before you begin — or will provide you with a basis for immediate improvement on your own.
Let this improvement help you with your current heavy reading load. Come in, or call, for the three hour Survey today.
Stop in for a free copy of the booklet “You Can Read Better.” It tells you how you can easily master this new skill.
Foundation for Better Reading
114 E. LaSalle Ave.
Next to the Aquinas Library
Phone 3-0077
8
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 14	JANUARY 12, 1951
Commencement: Award 230 Degrees
Mardi Gras Carnival to Open Semester: Feb. 5 and 6 Dates for Fourth Annual Event
Frs. Murray, Flynn Will Address Grads
Monday, Feb. 5, and Tuesday, Feb. 6 —jot those dates down in your little black book. Those are the days when the Student Council will present Notre Danie’s fourth annual Mardi Gras Carnival in the Navy Drill Hall.
This year’s carnival which promises to be one of the best ever, will start the new semester off with a bang. Its pi’o-ceeds will go to the Student Council’s Campus Charity Chest to take care of requests for donations made by charitable organizations throughout the country.
This year the Student Council offers the lucky winners not one, but two, brand new ’51 Chevrolet convertibles. The student who sells the winning ticket for Tuesday night will get a chance to see South America, all expenses paid. If by chance he can’t go, he will get the cash equivalent of such a trip.
The man who is in charge of this year’s gala event is John “Ollie” Ce-lusta, a Law student. Ollie is assisted by Bob Savage, also of 'the Law school. These two men last Fall were co-chairmen of the Knights of Columbus dance and have been active in other Notre Dame affairs. Handling the carnival itself will be Ed Noonan, a Junior in Engineering, while the raffle chairman is Frank Crovo, a Commerce Senior.
This year an attempt is being made to have the sale of donation books go over big. The committee is offering 46 prizes to the top donation book sellers. The man who sells the most books will get $100 cash plus the $30 award that goes to the best salesman in each hall. The 44 other winners will receive rewards for their salesmanship ranging from $30 down to $5.
The awards for the 1951 drawings have been apportioned according to halls. In each of the 13 halls and off-campus, the man who sells the most books will get $30. Prizes will be given to each runner-up depending upon the
number of students in his hall. This method of awarding prizes has been adopted by the committee as the fairest possible.
Ollie Celusta, Mardi Gras chairman, said about it, “We hope the men in the smaller halls won’t feel slighted but we felt it would be only fair to give the men from the larger halls more prizes.” As in the past the Mardi Gras’ big drawing card will be the carnival itself. Here anyone who wants can come and spend an enjoyable evening. They can spin the wheel, throw the dice, or engage in any of 20 different games of chance in the Drill Hall.
As in the past the booths will be taken care of by geographical and other campus clubs. These clubs will present the usual run of games and a few novelties. The most original and the most productive booths will each receive $25.
As another point of interest, camival-(Continued on Page 23)
Rev. John Courtney Murray, SJ.
Approximately 230 degrees will be awarded at the Notre Dame January commencement exercises by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. The commencement proceedings will be held Jan. 28 at 2 p. m. in the drill hall. Six doctorates and twenty-three master’s degrees will be awarded in addition- to approximately 200 bachelor* degrees in all colleges.
The Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J., noted Catholic editor and Professor of Theology at Woodstock, Md., College, will deliver the principal commencement address. Father Murray is vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and a member of the Advisory Board of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame. He is the author of the forthcoming book, Freedom of the Church and the Freedom of the People.
The Baccalaureate Mass will be celebrated by Father Cavanaugh commence-
(Continued on Page 23)
Very Rev. Vincent J. Hynn
Jan. 12,1951
9
Miss Linda Duffy
Publish Principal Addresses Of 1950 Economic Workshop
The first series of principal addresses of the college workshop on the teaching of Catholic Economic and Social Principles held at Notre Dame this past summer have recently been published by the Catholic Business Education Association, the sponsor of the workshop. The session has been reported by the social action department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference as “the most important meeting of its kind ever held in the United States.”
Amcng the speakers whose addresses are presented in the present series is the Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, who discussed the “Problem of Nationalization.” Other addresses in the same publication include: “Economics and the Moral Law” by the Rev. John F. Cronin, S.S.; “Christian Concept of Property” by the Rev. Charles B. Aziere, o.s.b. ; “Problems of Labor” by William J. Hart; “Problems of Management” by John W. Leslie. Future issues of the Catholic Business Education Revieiv will contain additional addresses delivered at the Notre Dame conference this past summer.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
SCHOLASTIC belatedly acknowledges an error in the Dec. 8 Football Issue. In that issue we named the social chairman of the band as Jack McVey, of St. Louis, Mo. The real social chairman of the band is Jack McVeigh, of Honesdale, Pa. Our apologies to both gentlemen.
Grad Ball to Feature Tony Papa's Music
Tony Papa and his orchestra will provide the music for the Senior Class January Graduation Ball, Jan. 26. This band is currently popular for its recording of “Harbor Lights,” which Billboard Magazine selected as the record-of-the-month for December.
Linda Duffy, of Amherst, Texas, the guest of co-chairman Tom O’Brien, and Barbara McFarland, of Elizabethtown, Ky., the guest of co-chairman Dick Herrle, will act as queens for the evening. The girls attend St. Mary’s College. Miss Duffy is a Sophomore, and Miss McFarland, a Senior.
The dance is formal and is scheduled for the Indiana Club from 10 to 2. Bids may be obtained for $4.00 in the cafeteria during the evening meals on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and at the neon meal on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. They may also be purchased from Dick Herrle in 225 Sorin or Tom O’Brien in 346 Sorin.
Those going will have 3 o’clock permissions and may obtain car permissions from the office.
Mardi Gras Semi-Formal Feb. 2 for 500 Couples
With the Mardi Gras season rapidly approaching, the Senior Class is formulating plans for the annual Mardi Gras Semi-Formal Dance. Held every year in conjunction with the local pre-Lenten festival, the dance this year will take place on Friday, Feb. 2, in the Palais Royale.
A committee of eight Seniors, headed by Co-chairmen Steve Herr and Dick Marshall, has been selected by the officers of the Senior Class to manage the affairs of the dance. In an effort to minimize expenses, the committee has prohibited the wearing of corsages and tuxedos.
Tickets, selling at $2.50 per couple, were placed on sale at noon today, and are available in the lobby of the dining hall. Concerning the purchase of tickets, Co-chairman Herr advised: “Those students planning on attending the dance should procure their tickets before the beginning of semester holidays,” because the ticket sale has been limited to 500.
In addition to the two Co-chairmen, the committee consists of John O’Brien, Jerry Hank, Pat McAteer, Dick MacDonald, Dan Minahan, and Tom Mullins.
This year’s affair will run from 9 p. m. till 1 a. m., with residence permissions being extended until 2 a. m. In addition, the committee has secured car permissions for all dance-goers.
Miss Barbara McFarland
Science Men to Experiment With Ball at Palais Tonight
A series of annual Science Balls will be inaugurated tonight in the Palais Royale Ballroom starting at 9 p.m. Music will be furnished by Gene Hull and his merrymakers from 9 till 12:30 a. m.
Three young ladies, the dates of the chairmen, will reign as Queens of the Ball. Barbara Schmitt from Chicago, Ill., will be escorted by Don Sontag. Barbara attends Mundelein College in Chicago where she is a dramatics majoi- in her Junior year.
Bob Beh will accompany the second Queen, Sue Whalen, of Des Moines, la. Sue is a Freshman at St. Mary’s. Another St. Mary’s girl, Jeanne Johnson, will be presented by Corky Desmond. Jeanne comes from Elmgrove, Wis., and she is a Junior English major at the college.
The science men have been granted car permissions and extended residence permissions until 1:30 a.m. St. Mary’s girls don’t have to be back until 1, and bus transportation will be supplied to and from the Palais.
Bob Knoebel and his committee have been busy decorating the Palais for tonight’s event. Jerry Hurtgen has handled the publicity for the affair while Pat Barrett had charge of the orchestra. Jim McGuire was kept busy getting the bashful scientists blind dates. William Conroy is in charge of the program at the dance this evening.
NEWS STAFF
The first News staff meeting for the next semester will be held at 6:30 p.
• m. on Thursday, Feb. 1, in the SCHOLASTIC office.
10
The Scholastic
“DOME” NOTICE
Any student who wants to receive a copy of the 1951 DOME, and who won’t attend Notre Danie during the second semester, may make provision to receive the yearbook by a payment of four dollars at the Publications Office, Farley Hall.
New Frosh Enrolled For Next Semester
Notre Dame, for the first time since World War II, will accept the enrollment of new Freshmen who desire to begin their college education in the semester which opens Jan. 30, it was announced by Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar.
Father Thornton, in making the announcement, said that Notre Dame’s post-war enrollment policy has been changed in order to afford young men faced with induction into the armed forces a chance to obtain at least a part of their college education before entering the service.
The Notre Dame enrollment policy since the end of World War II has permitted new Freshmen to enter only in the semester which begins in September. Previously, the only students who were accepted in the February semester were transfer students from other colleges and universities, and former Notre Dame students who were reentering the University.
Father Thornton said that Notre Dame will be able to accept new Freshmen in the February semester this year because of openings in the student body left by mid-year graduates and by a limited number of students who have been called to active duty with the armed forces.
Pre-Examination Novena Starts Tomorrow Morning
Ample opportunity for spiritual preparation for the forthcoming exams will be afforded Notre Dame students. The usual Novena for Exams will run from Jan. 13 through 21, while another devotion, the Chair Unity Octave, will be concurrent with the exam period.
Requirements for both devotions—in other words, from Jan. 13 to 25—will be daily Mass, Communion, Rosary, and visits to the Blessed Sacrament and the Grotto, for success in the semester finals. During the latter eight-day period, the student body is asked to pray for the added intention of conversion of the world to Christianity.
Jan. 12,1951
Glee Club Shoves Off For Balmy Southeast
When the furor of final exams ceases Jan. 25, the Notre Dame Glee Club will embark on their annual between-semes-ters concert tour and this year their sights are set on the sunny Southeast.
With their director, Daniel H. Pedtke, 36 members of the University singing group will present six formal concerts during a 12-day jaunt via Indiana Motor Bus.
On the night of Jan. 25 the “Singing Irish” will appear in Evansville, Ind. From there they travel to Miami, Fla., for another concert on Jan. 28. Vero Beach, Fla, residents will hear the Glee Club on Jan. 29 and on Jan. 30 the songsters will sing in West Palm Beach, Fla. A formal concert on Jan 31 in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., will conclude the Florida section of the tour.
On Feb. 5 the Glee Club will sing in Greenville, Miss., a regular stop on the club’s Southern trips for the past two years. The group will return to the campus on Feb. 7.
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, vice-president in charge of Student Affairs, will accompany the Glee Club on their tour as chaplain.
This year’s Glee Club, while well manned with two and three year veteran singers, fears the present world situa
New Glee Club officers (I. to r.) John Tabor, Theodore Twardzik, Thomas J. Boyle, William F. Sahm, and John Powell discuss Southeastern tour with Director Pedtke.
tion and the eventual drain on club personnel. The Southern tour of 1951 will be for a lot of the Glee Clubbers, their last in white tie and tails.
Featured performers at the six midsemester concerts will be John Powell, tenor; John Broderick, baritone; and James Etling, pianist. Haldan Tompkins will be the accompanist for the group.
yCS Sponsors Retreat To Gethsemani Monastery
A full load of 37 Notre Dame men will spend their between-semesters vacation at the famous Trappist monastery at Gethsemani, Ky. Although the number of students making the five-day retreat is the same as last year, several applicants were turned down because of limited accommodations available.
For the second consecutive year, the campus YCS organization is sponsoring the retreat. The group will leave via chartered bus Jan. 26 and return in time for registration Jan. 30. Cost of the excursion is §20.
Like last year, the group will closely follow the life of a Trappist monk, praying and meditating much of the time. However, conferences will replace the customary manual labor, and there will be much to see at the monastery. The Notre Darners will also be spared the rigors of early rising. Reveille for them will be at the comparatively late hour of 5 a.m.
11
The Ice Cometh
Barbara Ann Scott fan tries to execute flying half-gainer without much success.
When Winter comes to the ND campus the student body usually cringes and dreams of sunshine and warm surf breezes a la Miami Beach or Wakikii.
There’s one aspect of the frigid days, however, that brings joy to many. When the water of St. Mary’s lake freezes it’s ice-skating time. The flying blades reign supreme then, and if you don’t own a pair of skates you wish you did.
Most of the Notre Dame skaters just like to glide around, but a few are accomplished trick artists. An occasional hockey game, with no holds barred, can be started at the drop of a puck.
The University lakes have not yet provided “soft” ice for skaters who find keeping their equilibrium as hard as keeping out of the Army. But, you can’t beat an afternoon of ice-skating in the long run and when the first crocus pokes itself out of ground, we’ll miss that ice.
Two skaters prepare to put on their silver blades. Below: a skirted figure attmpts to hitch a ride.


12
The Scholastic
Legitimate Theatre Returns to Campus;
Players, Inc. Give 'Macbeth,' 'Arms and Man'
The legitimate theater will return to Washington Hall soon for a two-night stand when Players, Inc., presents its adaptation of Macbeth and Arms and the Man on Feb. 7 and 8, respectively.
Still remembered for their performances in Much Ado About Nothing in the ancient auditorium last season, the 16 troupers, all past graduates of Catholic University’s Department of Speech and Drama, have more than doubled their efforts over- last year.
The actors — whose average age is only 27 years — have increased their repertoire to three plays, which will be presented before 177,000 people during the eight-month jaunt through the U.S. and Canada.
Players, Inc., was organized by Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, o.P., in 1941. Disbanded during the war, the non-profit group resumed its activities in January of 1949 and is now on its second national tour.
Teddy Marie Kinsey, who portrayed the sharp-tongued Beatrice in Shakespeare’s comedy here last year, will further display her versatility as Lady
GE Electronics Show Visits Here Thursday
Embattled Washington Hall is in for another shock or two. Next Thursday, the General Electric Company will demonstrate the powers of modern electronics in the famous “House of Magic” display.
The show will counteract the first shock wave of exams by performing many wonderful feats of electricity, such as the trick of frying an egg in a pan held by a man sitting on a stove, suspending a ball in mid-air, which were among the stunts featured in past shows.
Of the two 75-minute exhibitions, the first will be held at 4 p. m. for students. The evening performance at 8 o’clock will be viewed by members of the Michiana section of the American Welding Society and their wives. Students will also be welcome at that showing.
GE’s “House of Magic” will visit Notre Dame as part of its annual tour of the nation.
Cooperating with the University and General Electric in staging the show are the Perry Welding Sales & Service Co., and the South Bend Appliance Co., GE distributors for this area.
Jan. 12, 1951
Macbeth in the Bard’s immortal tragedy and as the giddy Catherine in George Bernard Shaw’s comedy. Stanley Tel-chin has the title role of the wickedly ambitious Scotsman, while John Burns and Carol Anthony have the lead parts in Arms and the Man.
Highlights in Macbeth are the witches conclave, the sleepwalking scene, and the battle at Dunsinane. The play features 13 of the thespians in over 30 roles. Miss Anthony portrays Lady MacDuff, a witch, and an old attendant.
Only eight characters appear in the Shavian comedy, which concerns the love affair between the flirtatious Raina and Captain Bluntschli, a Serbian officer with a flair for chocolate creams.
Prices for each performance are scaled at §1.80, §1.50, and §1.00 for general admission and §1.00, 75c and 50c for students.
The appearance of the troupe at Notre Dame is being sponsored by the University Concert and Lecture Series. The plays null begin at 8 p.m. both evenings.
Firms Seek Promising Men Despite Their Draft Status
Students who normally would be interested in a regular job upon graduation should continue to come to the interviews, with the representatives of various business and professional firms, sponsored by the Placement Bureau, regardless of their draft status, according to Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau.
“Businessmen that I have come in contact with recently still want to get hold of promising graduates and give them a job in their firms, even if the boys will only have a month or two before they are called into the service,” the director emphasized.
He said that these firms are willing to gamble because they want to protect themselves when the war is over and be assured of having some intelligent, and, at least, partly trained men coming back to their respective companies.
At the very beginning of next semester two more interviews will be held. Dr. L. S. Scott of DuPont will be here Feb. 5 and 6 to hold separate interviews with physics and chemical engineering majors. On Feb. 8 and 9 a representative of Standard Oil Company of New-Jersey will interview B.S. and M.S. candidates for mechanical engineering degrees.
Several firms sent representatives here
the last week. Mr. Harvey Foster, special agent, in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Indiana, gave a talk to interested students on Wednesday. Kingan Company, a large meat packing firm of Minneapolis, was represented here yesterday.
Harvey, Dowd Due Here February 12
A man’s best friend is not always his dog. Sometimes it is his rabbit. Especially if the rabbit doesn’t exist. And practically everyone wants to be friends with Harvey, the world's most famous non-existent rabbit, and special buddy to Elwood P. Dowd, hero of the celebrated Broadway comedy hit, Harvey, coming to Washington Hall on Feb. 12 through Feb. 15, as a presentation of the University Theatre.
The spirit and idea of Harvey has so penetrated every city - throughout the world where the comedy has been given that Harvey has come to enjoy a popularity that makes most live and visible actors green with envy.
The Harvey gag is still going strong, but it reached truly gigantic proportions during the play’s four-year run in New York and simultaneous coast-to-coast tour.
When Frank Fay, who played Harvey’s pal on Broadway, strolled into a restaurant with Mary Chase, who wrote the laugh hit about the six-foot rabbit who wasn’t there, a waitress came over to ask, “Will there just be the three of you?” Evidence of Fay’s persuasiveness in his role—or of the reality of Harvey?
Just how much people can get caught up in the spirit of this Harvey nonsense is illustrated by the story of one man in Cincinnati who assured a waitress in one of the city’s swankier restaurants that Harvey would be along any minute and that he was holding a place for him. During the meal, the lone diner addressed many remarks to Harvey and asked his opinion on various subjects. The payoff came when the waitress included Harvey in the bill, and assessed his host a §2 cover charge for Harvey’s imaginary presence. They say the man paid the bill without a whimper.
Encyclopedias say there are 57 varieties of rabbits. And then Mary Chase discovered Harvey—white, six feet one and a half inches tall, and invisible. The family of pookas, to which Harvey definitely belongs, have been part of Celtic folk lore for centuries. They are imaginary creatures that can be seen only by those folk favored by the spirits, and they always appear as oversized animals.—Pat O'Malley, ’5i
13
Who’s
Who
Student Council members have selected 32 students who will be included in the 1950-51 edition of IFAo’s Who in American Colleges and Universities. The students were named on the basis of campus leadership and activity.
Among those listed were: William An-hut, Student Council president; William Carey, Beaucaup National Debating Honors; Thomas Carroll, Freshman president, Junior secretary, and president of the Blue Circle; John 0. Celusta, Toledo Club president and co-chairman of the K.C. Ball; Walter Clements, managing editor of the Dome, Wrangler, and co-editor of the Juggler; Richard Cullen, Dome editor of 1949-50, K. of C. grand knight, and chairman of the Ben-
John Celusta
Don Murphy	Jack Hines
Bernie Lavins
John Elsbree
14
The Scholastic
gal Bouts; John Elsbree, editor of Technical Review; James Garvin, Sophomore president and secretary of the Student Council.
Others included were: William Fleming, outstanding track member; Jerome Groom, captain of the football team; James Hennessy, Senior class president; Gene Hull, Freshman president and leader of the campus band; John Hines, vice-president of the Junior class, Dome and WND; James Kelleher, vice-president of the Y.C.S. and editor of the Dome; William Kirchner, 1949-50 president of the Student Council; Norman Kopec, president of the ND Student Law Association and Student Council member.
Also named were Donald Krebs, president of the Liturgy Club; Bernard Lavins, Freshman vice-president and Blue Circle member; Henry Madden, Senior class vice-president and manager of the student musical; James Mannion, president of the Junior class; Donal Murphy, first N.R.O.T.C. riflist in the nation and captain of the university team; George Murphy, member of Student Law Association and Student Council.
There were also: Charles Perrin, mayor of Vetville this semester; Frank Regan, Student Council and Blue Circle member; John Maher, manager of WND and Blue Circle member; William Rich, president of the YCS and member of the
debating team; Robert Savage, managing editor of the Dome, K. of C. deputy grand Knight, and co-chairman of the Bengal Bouts; Henry Shine, secretary of the ND Lawyer and co-founder of the Moot Court; David Schoen, commander of the A.R.O.T.C. unit and secretary and treasurer of the Blue Circle; Kenneth Thoren, editor of the Scholastic; William Whiteside, president of the Air Cadet and Philadelphia Clubs and member of the football squad; Robert Williams, Sophomore vice-president and AllAmerican member of the football team; and David Yerex, Wrangler and editor of the Juggler.
Each year a different set of Who’s Who candidates is selected.
Dave Schoen	Jack Maher	Jerry Groom	Dave Yerex	Bob Williams
Henry Madden	Jim Hennessy	Henry Shine	Don Krebs	Bill Whiteside
Frank Regan
Jim Garvin
Bill Anhut
Norman Kopec
Jim Mannion
Jan. 12, 1951
15
Marriage Institute Lists Eight Sessions
This year’s third annual Marriage Institute will run from Feb. 6 to April 12. Eight sessions will be presented in the Law Auditorium, each session beginning at 8 p. m.
Under the auspices of the Department of Religion and the direction of Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C. seven of the sessions will consist , of two talks each .with one session having but one talk.
•The Institute is open to all Seniors and married students (men only), and also to any student who will graduate any time before June of 1952. Those graduating in June of 1952 are not eligible to attend the forthcoming Insti
Marriage Institute 1951
(February 6 to April 12 — Law Auditorium)
DATE	SPEAKER	SUBJECT
1st Session:	Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Courtship and Engagement	
Tues., Feb. 6	Mr. Edward Krause	Teamwork in Marriage
2nd Session:	Rev. Richard J. Grimm	Christian Love in Marriage
Thurs., Feb. 15	Rev. William A. Botzum	Masculine and Feminine Psychology
3rd Session: Tues., Feb. 20	Mr. John H. Sheehan Rev. Francis D. Nealy	Economic Planning Both Before and During Marriage Marriage Legislation and the Ritual of the Church
4th Session: Thurs., Mar. 1	Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer Dr. John J. Kane	Marriage as a Means of Strengthening and Increasing the Life of Grace The Family As the Basis of Social Living
5th Session:	Dr. Sherman L. Egan	The Medical Aspects of
Fri., Mar. 9		Marriage
6th Session: Thurs., Mar. 15	Rev. Charles E. Sheedy Mrs. Dennis J. O’Neill	Moral Problems Betiveen Husband and Wife Sex Instruction for Children
7th Session: Thurs., Apr. 5	Rev. James P. Smyth Mrs. William R. Dooley	The 'Theoretical Side of Raising Children The Practical Side of Raising Children
8th Session: Thurs., Apr. 12	Mr. Patrick Crowley Mrs. Patricia Crowley	The Influence of Family Life on the Individuals in the Family The Influence of the Family on Others Outside the Family
tute, but will be able to attend the series of sessions to be given next year in the Spring semester.
Charge for the entire series will be 50c, and the ticket may be bought at the door. This ticket should be held by the student for admission to all talks. The small charge is to help cover the expenses of mimeographing and printing incurred in presenting the Institute, and other expenses in connection with the program and the speakers.
Mimeographed outlines of the talk will be handed out at the door as the students come in so they may follow each speaker with greater interest. Each talk will be approximately 20 minutes long. After the two talks, there will be a break of about three minutes to allow those who do not have the time to remain
for the question period to leave the auditorium. Then the sessions will resume with a question period. The talks and question period will be informal.
There will be three matched microphones in front of the three persons at the speakers table. Plans are tentatively set to have a roving microphone in the audience for the question period.
Though men only are admitted to the series, this applies only to the first seven sessions. The last session, the eighth, will be open to the men and their lady friends.
The schedule for this year’s Marriage Institute appears in an adjoining box. Those who plan to attend the Institute are requested to cut out this schedule in order to keep track of the sessions.
Room Still Open For Tour of Capital
There is still time to place reservations with Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Political Science department, for the five-day tour of Washington, D. C. Dr. Bartholomew stated this week that he is willing to accept reservations for the capital trip, but requests those interested to let him know as soon as possible.
Dr. Bartholomew further stated that Walter Trohan, chief of the Washington Bureau of the Chicago Tribune and a graduate of Notre Dame, has extended an invitation to the Notre Dame group for a buffet dinner at his home on Saturday evening, Jan. 27.
The five-day Washington excursion leaves Notre Dame by bus Thursday afternoon, Jan. 25. From LaPaz, Ind., the group will board the Baltimore & Ohio’s streamliner, the Columbian, and will arrive in Washington next morning.
The stay in Washington will feature tours of the city and the surrounding country, including visits to such points of interest as Congress, the Supreme Court, the Pentagon, the FBI, and the Smithsonian Institute. ' The group -will also visit the Irish Embassy in Washington.
The ND’ers will leave Washington on Monday, Jan. 29, and arrive at LaPaz, whence to South Bend, the following morning. The cost of the trip, including round-trip coach fare, meals, hotel accommodations, tours, and lectures, is $97.
Communion Breakfast Set For Mountaineers Sunday
The Rocky Mountain Club of Notre Dame has scheduled a communion breakfast for its members in the East dining hall this Sunday at 9:30 a.m. It will follow a Mass offered by the club moderator, Father Michael Murphy, C.S.C., in Dillon chapel at 8:45 a.m.
The Scholastic
16
Local NFCCS Group Adds Four New Campus Chapters
Complete organization of the National Federation of Catholic College Students on campus came closer to realization this week when four new chapters began operation.
In addition to the regular Apostolic Chapter meeting Monday, initial meetings of the Inter-American Affairs, International Relations, and Interracial Justice groups were held Wednesday, while the Press Chapter convened Thursday.
Each chapter united the campus clubs pertaining to its specific field, to deal with various local and national NFCCS projects.
At • the Apostolic Chapter meeting, projects for next semester were considered, and the Chair Unity Octave devotion planned for the semester exam period. Ed Burke of the Third Order was elected to succeed the retiring ChapterSecretary, Arnie Lane.
Jerry Kerns and Bill White were introduced as the Knights of Columbus representatives.
National Bridge Tourney Slated for February 17,18
On Feb. 17 and 18, the culmination of the school year for all devotees of Goren, the Four Aces, Jacoby, and Culbertson takes place here on campus, this being the elimination duplicate sessions for the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. The University of Notre Dame again this year has been invited to hold elimination bouts, and give the top four partnerships a chance to enter the National Contract Bridge Tournament in Chicago, to be held at the Blackstone Hotel on April 20-21.
Those undergraduate partnerships participating in the elimination sessions held here on campus on the 17th and 18th will have a crack at two titles. At the same time the N.I.B. boards are being played, the battle will be going on for the Notre Dame championship. Anyone connected with Notre Dame is eligible to enter the running for the campus championship. Among the rewards to the top campus pair are two beautiful trophies.
The eligibility for the N.I.B. playoffs is limited to undergraduates. They will be playing a set of prepared boards mailed here from Tournament headquarters in Chicago. These boards will be scored by recognized authority.
Listed among those competing in the 1951 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament are more than 300 accredited institutions from all states of the union. The colleges and universities in
vited to enter the tournament are those last accredited by the Association of American Universities, as listed by the United States Department of Education in its 1950 catalogue.
As already listed in past weeks in Scholastic, every Sunday afternoon the ND Chapter of the American Contract Bridge League holds duplicate sessions in the Vet-Rec Hall. At these Howell Movement bouts, the top three partnerships receive percentages of master points and token cash awards.
Hugh Braun Elected New YCS President
At a special meeting in their Law Building headquarters last Saturday, the Young Christian Students elected their officers for the coming year.
Hugh Braun was chosen as president and Jerry Kelley as vice-president. Tom Field was elected secretary, a position to which he was appointed during the past semester to fill a vacancy. All three men are Sophomores. Freshman Yates Hafner takes over the treasurer’s duties from Junior Jerry Hafner, who will fill the new post of business manager.
The retiring leaders are president Bill Rich and vice-president Buck Hennigen.
The new officers were elected by the majority vote of the YCS Federation Council, consisting of officers and section leaders. Each officer then received the unanimous approval of the Council.
Incoming officers for the year of the campus Young Christian Students are (left to right) Tom Field, Hugh Braun, Jerry Hafner, Jerry Kelly and Yates Hafner.
Professor Sheehan Named Economic Group President
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, was installed as president of the Catholic Economic Association at the national meeting in Chicago at the end of December. Founded in 1941, the organization has more than 350 members in the United States and in eleven foreign countries.
Previously, Mr. Sheehan, a charter member, had served as national program chairman and as first vice-president of the association. Since 1948 he has also served as associate editor of the official journal, Review of Social Economy.
DuPont Gives University Post-Graduate Fellowship
The University of Notre Dame announced last week that it was the recipient of a post-graduate fellowship in Chemistry given by the E. I. duPont De Nemours and Co., Inc. The University will decide which graduate student in the Department of Chemistry will receive this award. He will receive $1400 if single and $2100 if married. Notre Dame will also receive $1200 for fees and expenses.
This is one of 78 post-graduate and post-doctoral fellowships and ten grants-in-aid offered by duPont to 57 universities annually since 1945. The awards are intended to “stockpile” knowledge through advancement of basic research.
Jan. 12,1951
17
WE DARE THEM ALL!
leading brand t sug^Xhi0? °*her
this test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
f
1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?

A
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
Riesr
Inc .GX*
NO CIGARETTE
hangovere
IMV SMOMNO PltA”,,


-PHILIP MO RR IS
18
The Scholastic
Irish Quintet Faces Xavier Tomorrow
Cincinnati Host Boast Six Impressive Wins
By FRANK RONNENBERG, ’52
The next two weeks hold the key to the outcome of this year’s basketball team. The great promise shown by the Irish early in the season is beginning to go by the boards. In winning only four of their past seven games Notre Dame has begun to revert to their in again, out again play of last year. While it is true these losses have come at the hands of top teams, the Notre Dame schedule is studded with front running quintets. During the next fortnight the Irish, in quick succession, will come up against three of these high calibre teams.
Tomorrow night in Cincinnati, Ohio, the Xavier Musketeers will play host to the Irish hoopsters. Xavier sports a formidable six won, two lost record, including victories over Loyola of Chicago and North Carolina. Kentucky, the Irish opponent on next Monday, was hard
Jerry McCloskey seizes the ball in heated moments of Butler tilt in the Old Gym.
pressed to down the Musketeers by 10 points.
Down in Louisville Coach Adolph Rupp has fashioned another great Kentucky Wildcat team. Built around seven foot center Bill Spivey the Wildcats were undefeated going into this year’s Sugar Bowl classic. A one-point overtime loss to St. Louis in the first round of this tournament represents Kentucky’s lone mishap in a season that includes victories over Kansas, St. Johns and Syracuse.
Around Spivey, Rupp has gathered another collection of fine basketball players. Six foot, five inch forward Shelby Linville, an adept shot and rebounder, provides the big scoring punch when Spivey is slowed up. Captain and forward Walt Hirsch is used as the front man for the Kentucky fast break. Frank Ramsey, a sophomore guard, has provided the spark and drive that Kentucky needs to shake Spivey loose.
At the conclusion of semester exams on the 25th of this month the Irish travel to East Lansing to tackle the Michigan State Spartans. The Spartans
Sophomore star Jerry McCloskey
are a far cry from the team that Notre Dame whipped so handily last year. The doormat role Michigan State* had last year when they won only four of 22 games has been discarded this year. The Spartans have lost only one game thus far this year and in their first game as a member of the Big Ten conference they whipped Northwestern.
Coach Pete Newell’s starting five is composed of only one regular from last year’s quintet. Captain and guard Jim Snodgrass is the lone holdover from last year, but to date he has taken a back seat to center Ray Steffen and forward Bill Bower. Steffen has provided the scoring punch and Bower has been Newell’s top rebounder.
Butler University provides the opposition when Notre Dame journeys to Indianapolis on the 30th of this month. The Irish have already whipped Butler once this year in the fieldhouse but at-Butler it is always a different story. The Bulldogs, sparked by Orvis Burdsall and John Hall, have had a disappointing season, winning only one out of eleven games. They did, however, push Notre Dame to the limit with Hall leading the way with 18 points.
Marquette University, which faces the Irish on the third of February at Notre Dame, has also been the victim of a disappointing season. They have been able
Jan. 12, 1951
19
to salvage only two wins, against Ripon and Wisconsin, thus far.
It is an almost completely sophomore team that Coach Bill Chandlei' has presented this year. Forward Gene Schram-ka is the only veteran on this year’s team and for this reason much of Marquette’s trouble can be traced to inexperience. At center Chandler will start 6’7” Grant Wittberger, while the other positions will also fall to sophomores Don Marek, John Powers and Glenn Sievers. This is one of the tallest teams in Marquette history but the fact that four of them are second year men has hurt considerably.
Leslie Leads Irish Scoring Parade With 15.2 Average
With ten games and seven victories under then* belts the Notre Dame basketball team has outscored their opponents 665 to 601. Leroy Leslie has led the scoring parade with a total of 152 points for a 15.2 average. Battling for second place are Dan Bagley and Marty O’Connor. Bagley has scored one more point than O’Connor and holds the second place slot with a total of 112.
SCORING
First Ten Games
	FG	FT	AVG. PER	
			T	GAME
Leroy Leslie -		... 58	36	152	15.2
Dan Bagley 			... 43	26	112	11.2
Marty O’Connor ...	... 38	35	111	11.1
Norb Lewinski 		... 39	20	98	9.8
Jerry McCloskey ...	... 34	4	72	7.2
Jack Neumayr 		... 19	10	48	4.8
Bob Wray 		... 9	7	25	3.1
Don Strasser 			... 7	9	23	7.7
Ree throw specialist Marty O'Connor
Wilson Makes Ready For Indoor Season
By TED PRAHINSKI, ’51
With the start of the indoor track season only three weeks off Coach Alex Wilson is starting to bear down on the practice sessions. The recently released indoor and outdoor schedules shows the Michigan State Relays on Feb. 2 as the first meet of the season, and it is to be followed by one triangular and two dual meets—all three in the local fieldhouse.
For the first time in years Big Ten teams will be missing from the indoor schedule, because all the Western Conference teams are meeting each other in dual meets, thus leaving no room for outsiders. However Notre Dame has squeezed into the Purdue-Northwestern outdoor meet on April 21, so there will be some Big Ten competition.
This year’s team won’t have the dual meet strength of past years, largely because graduation left the team weak in the field events and sprints, but Coach Alex Wilson will have a strong group of middle distancemen for the relay events that form the major part of the indoor open meets. This year there won’t be any indoor stars of national ranking like hurdler Bill Fleming of last year’s team, but some of the relay teams might bring the school a few headlines.
Team captain Vai Muscato features a group of half milers that have stellar possibilities as a two-mile relay team. Besides “Muzzy,” John Mohar, Joe Riley, and Jim Bollas have plenty of experience and newcomer Sam Hoover is a mighty strong runner.
The quarter-milers, too, are going to form into a hot relay team. Norm Fel-tes, a long-legged soph has been stepping around the track in particularly fancy fashion, and veterans Jack Wagner, Frank Boiler, Bob Boyne and Bollas don’t leave too much to be desired. Soph Mike Begley—a younger brother of Jerry of last year’s football team— also looks good. Another soph, John Has-
REMAINING FOES OF HOOPSTERS
Jan.' 13—Xaviei- at Cincinnati
15—Kentucky at Lexington
' 25—Michigan State at Lansing
30—Butler at Indianapolis
Feb. 3—Marquette here
10—DePaul at Chicago
13—St. Louis here
16—DePaul here
19—Michigan State here
24—Canisius at Buffalo
26—NYU at Madison Sq. Garden
27—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Mar. 3—Marquette at Milwaukee
tings, was doing very well before being injured just before Christmas.
Things aren’t bad in the longer races either. Ben Almaguer, now a Junior, looks like the hottest thing here in the two-mile since the famed Greg Rice and Oily Hunter graduated from Notre Dame. Bob Fieler, second to Ben consistently in cross country, and last year in the two-mile is back, and John Joe O’Connor and Harry Snyder will give a little strength in the event.
Mile chances were hit hard when Jim Kittell lost his eligibility through complications arising from the wartime freshman competition rales, but Connie Tetrault, George Helfenstein, Tony Da-Damio, George Gross, and Lou Lepry will all hold their own in any dual meet.
Even though Bill Fleming, who holds all the school hurdle records has graduated, things should be all right in that event. Soph John Campagnone, from the same high school in Rhode Island as Fleming, looks like he might be a good successor to him. Soph Ed Powell is about equal in ability to Campagnone, and finally Senior Leo McKillip, in Fleming’s shadow for the past two years should be a lot more appreciated this year. Broad jumper John Worthington can top the timbers quite capably as a fourth man on a shuttle hurdle relay team.
But in the rest of the events things look a lot bleaker, even though a lot of newcomers have been responding quite nicely to the coaching of Alex Wilson and his staff. Bucky Ewing is the only experienced sprinter, and though John Worthington is an excellent broad jumper he won’t have much support.
Not one proven pole vaulter or shot putter is around. Don Mahrt, Tom and (Continued on Page 22)
Lewinski fights for ball in Butler game
20
The Scholastic
Jack Meaney, Sports Editor, was called home because of a death in the family. This week’s column was written by Jack :	Varley, Assistant Sports Editor.—Ed.
i
Irish Cagers Doing Good, but
Notre Dame’s hoopsters have thus far turned in a pretty good record. Two of their three losses were at the hands of teams rated by the Associated Press as among the top ten in the country. But ! their victories were over teams that at best could be called average. St. Louis was not impressive in their win over the ■	Irish and thus, Notre Dame didn’t look
I	too good. In the Butler game, Krause’s
5	crew won, but they looked anything but
-	impressive. So if they don’t do some-
l	thing, this squad is liable to wind up
|	with a record like last year’s. Tomor-
l	row night they meet Xavier, a top-notch
|	team and then Kentucky at Lexington
|	and Rupp’s quintet is always dangerous
I	on the home court. (Notre Dame hasn’t
|	beaten them on their own court since
j	1946). Thus, if Notre Dame is going to
|	lose to all the teams on its schedule
I	tagged “rugged,” the Irish are liable to
4	lose quite a few before the season closes
2	— Kentucky, Xavier, Michigan State,
'	Canisius and NYU. If the Irish should
|	beat Xavier tomorrow and then Ken-
|	tucky it would be one great big feather
*	in their cap. It would prove that they
can down the big ones too; it would give notice that they are out to make Coach Krause’s last season as basketball mentor at Notre Dame a successful one.
Who Gets the Job?
Speaking of Krause’s last season at the cage helm, who is going to take over | his job when he retires to become full:	time Athletic Director? Rumor has it
;	that Jim Jordan of Loyola might be the
I man. He’s a former Irish hoopster and I has been doing fairly well with an average team up in Chicago. Then too, there’s Ray Meyer of DePaul. But it seems DePaul wants him more than anyone. Every time a new offer comes in, he gets a raise.
Ray Donovan, Director of the Department of Public Information, would like to pass along this little item. He informs us that Frank Crosiar and WHOT are doing our out-of-town basketball ... games and have not always been listed
in the daily press. Here is the broadcast time for the games:
January 13—Xavier, 7:20 p.m.
January 15—Kentucky, 7:45 p.m.
January 25—Michigan State, 9 p.m.
January 30—Butler, 8:10 p.m.
February 26—NYU, 7:45 p.m.
February 27—Pennsylvania, 7 p.m.
NCAA Faux Pas
The NCAA seems to be planning to follow the Big Ten in outlawing the televising of football games. The reason: probably that it cuts down the attendance at the games and thus the receipts. If they do, they will be making a mistake. Right now there is a great threat of war and all the curtailments that war brings with it. If as in the last war, the government has to ration gasoline, give travel priorities and such, colleges are going to find many half-empty stadiums when their gridders take the field. Then they will appreciate television receipts. Another thing—many students, fans and even players will be in uniform by next football season. They won’t be able to be at the games, but they might be able to see them on television.
Another Award for Williams
Over- the holidays, the Gridiron Club announced that it had awarded the Swede Nelson 'Sportsman Award .to Notre Dame’s All-American quarterback, Bob Williams. Williams deserved it. As Francis Wallace of Colliers’ Magazine wrote in his ballot:
“In three seasons I doubt if Bob Williams ever had a personal foul called against him—a superior student, a fine gentleman, a credit to his game. After capturing national honors as a junior with an outstanding cast, Williams stayed in there as a senior, with an inferior team and in a losing season, played his game even better than the year before in all sorts of weather and under constant pressure, a competitor who fought to live instead of dying gamely until the waning minutes of his final game where he was forced out with an injury that kept him out of the EastWest game.”
Minor Sport?
The 1950-51 version of the Notre Dame fencing team will soon be un
veiled. Here is a sport that comes under the heading of “minor sport.” Just what that means we don’t exactly know for it is not minor for those who .know of the practice it takes to become proficient with the epee, sabre or foil. It takes an awful lot of time—from early October until April—to prepare for and then participate in their matches. Last year they went undefeated in ten meetings. With a little luck and some support they should do as good again this year.
Notre Dame’s indoor track season starts soon. This will be Coach Alex Wilson’s first season as track coach. We all hope it’s a good one. He has made an effort to make it such. Last Fall, for the first time in a good while, students in the phy ed classes were given a chance to try out for the team. Chances are that Wilson might have come up with some good material from this untapped source.
Penn, DePaul, Marquette, NYU Tickets On Sale at B-P
The ticket committee has announced that the advance sale of tickets for the Notre Dame-NYU basketball game, Feb. 26, in Madison Square Garden began Jan. 8 and will continue until Feb. 5. Because of the limited quantity, only students who reside in the following places may make advance application: New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, the New England States, and Pennsylvania.
Students from the above areas may make application at the Ticket Office, Breen-Phillips Hall. Tickets are S3.00. Any unsold tickets will be placed on sale over the counter at the Ticket Office, with sale open to all.	.
Tickets are also available for the DePaul game at Chicago Stadium, Feb. 10, the Penn game at Philadelphia, Feb. 27, and the Mai’quette game at Milwaukee, March 3.
ND Debate Squad Competes In Illinois State Normal Tilt
Eight students, Al DeCrane, Tom Field, Paul Davies, Bill Fagan, Bill Hank, Don Dowden, Ray Smith, and Hugh Brown, are representing the Notre Dame Debate Club at the Illinois State Normal Debate Tournament today and tomorrow, Jan. 12 and 13.
Tomorrow Bill Carey, Bill Dempsey, John Houck, and Bill Kerwin will participate in the Purdue University Debate Tournament.
Another engagement of the ND Debate Club is an exhibition debate today for the PTA of St. Joseph School of Mishawaka. John Houck, Ray Smith, and Dick Wolf gram gave a similar exhibition for the Perley PTA Jan. 9.
Jan. 12,1951
21
Ed Smith (center), 165-pound class champion finds himself in trouble in match in interhall wrestling program completed last week by Dominic Napolitano and staff.
Swimming, Basketball Feature Hall Program
As midyear exams approach, Mr. Napolitano and his staff are busily engaged in completing two interhall programs, and are making preparations for two more to introduce the new semester. The wrestling tournament has already ended, and only the semis and finals await the completion of the handball eliminations. Still largely in the formative stages are the two really big attractions, the annual basketball tourney, and the midwinter swimming meet.
On December 14, after several weeks of conditioning and the actual grunting, eight new university wrestling champions were crowned. The two extremes in the weight classification produced the quickest match and largest point totals. In the 121-pound class, Vern Essi pinned Chet Llugocs in the speedy time of 23 seconds, while heavyweight Fred Poehler and Joe Conwell went the distance before Fred won a 10 to 3 decision.
Bengal champs Ed Smith and Wes Dyson added to their laurels by copping the 165 and 175 pound titles. Ed won by a fall in 3:53 over Herb Haile, as Dyson took an 8-1 verdict from Charley Loctefield. While Dick Anton, Carl Carlson, and George Ottot were all capturing theii* crowns via decisions over Tony Lapasso, Tom Skundrich and Dick Burke in the 128, 145 and 155 pound class, respectively, Charley Paquette was
able to wrest a 2:32 victory from Pat Drew in the 136-pound class.
The handball tournament has already passed the quarter-finals, and after play tomorrow and Monday, a new champ will be crowned. At present, of the 36 men who entered competition, eight remain. Thus far the matches have gone true to form, and all indications point to a meeting of the top-seeded men in the finals.
Whereas three rounds have already been played in the 40-team basketball tournament, actual elimination play will not start until February. The newly introduced three-round preliminary games serve a dual purpose, in that they give the men added opportunity to play ball, and also give the Interhall Department a chance to watch the teams play and to seed and match them accordingly.
In its present form, the tourney is divided into two leagues, the afternoon, which is composed chiefly of club and organization teams, and the evening, in which the various halls will compete. This distinction is largely to facilitate schedule making, and will disappear- as the semi-finals are reached.
The proposed swimming meet will not be unlike past similar events. Plans are being made to include both team and individual aspirants. Events -will probably run the field from the short sprints, through the longer races, and will end up with the relays. There is also under-consideration a plan to include novelty events.—Jack Economou, ’52
BENGAL CONTESTANTS WORKING OUT
Daily practice sessions for the Bengal Bouts started this past Monday. Anyone still interested in trying out should get a medical exam slip from the university physician, and then report to Mr. Napolitano in the boxing room of the fieldhouse for daily workouts.
Track
(Continued from Page 20)
Joe Hinkes, and Phil Carnaggio are all working out in the vault, but it takes a long time to develop a good vaulter. Bob Toneff is a fair shot putter, but whether or not he’ll be able to throw is debatable.
The high jump, a weak spot here for years, might turn out to be surprisingly strong this year. Only Tom Devine has varsity experience, but Sophs Tom Has-senger and Bill Sullivan look pretty good. Furthermore once basketball season is over Hughes Wilcox and Jack Neumayr will be available.
The schedule:
Feb. 4—Michigan State Relays
10—Bradley, home
17—Marquette and Western Michigan, home
24—Michigan Normal, home
Mar. 3—Central Collegiate Conference Championship, here
9—K. of C. Relays, Cleveland
10—Milwaukee Relays, Milwaukee
17—Daily News Relays, Chicago
31—Purdue Relays, West Lafayette
Apr. 6-7—Texas Relays. Texas
21—Purdue and Northwestern, at Purdue
27-28—Drake Relays, Des Moines
May 5—Pittsburgh, here
12—Missouri, there
19—Central Collegiate Conference, closed meet June 2—Bradley, there
9—Central Collegiate Conference, open meet 16—National Collegiate Meet. Los Angeles
March of Dimes Dance To Feature Five Bands
The March of Bands for The March of Dimes will be the theme of the dance to be given by the St. Joseph County Chapter of The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis featuring the music of Herb Germann, Harlan Hogan, Marty Ross, Tony Rulli, and Myron Walz.
A floor show and style show will also be included in the $1.20 per person admission charge. Dancing will be from 9 till 1 in the Palais Royale on Jan.. 30.
-Dress will be semi-formal and tickets may be obtained at the South Bend Floral Co., and Gilbert’s.
2 a. m. permission has been granted and tickets must be obtained in advance and shown to your rector.
22
The Scholastic
Mardi Gras
(Continued from Page 9)
goers will be entertained both evenings by a Dixieland jazz band. The committee has also made sure there will be a good variety of booths and that they will
John "Ollie" Celusta
be well arranged so everybody has lots of room.
In the Drill Hall itself money will not be used. It will be traded in at the door for bogus bills sold at a booth run by the Blue Circle.
The Charity Chest
In answer to queries, the Scholastic herein explains the function of the University of Notre Dame Charity Chest Fund. Under the chairmanship of John Broderick, this Fund receives all profits of the annual Mardi Gras Carnival and Dance.
All requests for contributions which reach the University are submitted to the Student Council Charity Chest committee. This committee studies the requests, reports to the Council on their findings and gives a recommendation on each plea.
Among the requests that have been answered with money from the fund have been the Community Chest, the National Scholarship and Fund for Negro Students, and Aid for Leprosy Patients. In addition to these large requests many small ones come in each year addressed to the Student Body asking for help. From Montana, where the Sisters of St. Francis asked for funds to help supply school books for their charges, to Madras, India, where soap, clothing, medals, etc., were sought. Help
has also been extended to the building • of seminaries in Italy and Mexico.
The main benefit of this Charity Chest is to relieve the individual student of the bother and burden involved in continual collections at his door. With the Mardi Gras he gives to the Charity Chest once a year.
January Graduation
(Continued from Page 9)
ment morning at 9 in the drill hall. The Rev. James C. Norton, vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs, will be deacon of the Solemn High Mass, and the Rev. John J. Burke, vice-president in charge of Business Affairs, sub-deacon.
The Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, distinguished educator and president of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon. Father Flynn was president of the Association of American Colleges in 1949, and is now a member of the National Advisory Committee for Selective Service.
Also featured in the commencement weekend’s activities will be the traditional “Last Visit” Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. Theodore M. Hes- > burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame will say the Mass which will begin at 9 a. m., Saturday, Jan. 27. Breakfast will be served in the dining hall at 10 a. m. for those attending the Mass.
With Membership Chairman F. Brophy (center) are new Wranglers (I. to r., seated) C. Misner, J. Powell, (rear) J. Tunney, W. Razer, M. Fisk. Missing, F. Hennigen.
A reception for parents, relatives, and friends of the graduates will be held Saturday afternoon from five to six o’clock in the faculty lounge in the Administration Building, and the Moreau Seminary Choir will present a concert of sacred music Saturday evening at 8:15 in Sacred Heart Church.
Provision has been made for Mass and Communion in the Dillon Hall chapel early Sunday morning for those who wish breakfast before the Baccalaureate services.
Campus Wranglers Induct Five From Large Field
The Notre Dame discussion group, the Wranglers, inducted five new members at a meeting last week. The men chosen were: Joe Tunney, Bill Frazer, Milton Fisk, Charles Misner, Jack Powell and Frank Hennigen.
The new members were chosen from a field of 17 applicants. Each applicant was questioned by the Wranglers five-man membership committee and each submitted a three-minute discussion paper.
Frank Brophy, chairman of the membership committee, pointed out that only the limited number of vacancies prevented accepting more than six new members at this time.
Jan. 12,1951
23
Professors HERBERT L. JOHNSTON, JOHN J. GLANVILLE, and RICHARD J. THOMPSON of the Philosophy Department and Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN of the Mediaeval Institute have returned to the University -after attending a meeting of the American Philosophical Association. This meeting was held on Dec. 27 and 28 at the University of Toronto in Canada.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
announces a
Store-wide Clearance of superior quality
Suits - Topcoats - O’Coats
$50 to $60	Suits	& Coats	$37.50
$65 to $70	Suits	& Coats	$47.50
$75 to $80	Suits	& Coats	$57.50
$85 to $100	Suits	& Coats	$67.50
$250 (100%) Cashmere Coats $165.00
ALL SPORT COATS —1-3 OFF
Included are personally selected finest quality worsteds, sharkskins, gabardines, flannels and imported tweeds: all sizes including regulars, shorts, stouts and longs.
20% DISCOUNT ...
20% discount on all made to measure suits up to $125.00. Hundreds of fine imported tweeds, flannels, sharkskins and fine unfinished worsteds from which to choose.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc. 1151/2 - 117% N. MAIN ST. (Upstairs)
Former ND end and currently a Chicago Bear pro player, BILL WIGHTKIN, of Culver City, Calif., has announced his engagement to Miss Joan Waechter, of South Bend.
■Two more engagements were announced by students still in the University. LAWRENCE GALLAGHER, Hazelton, Pa., to Miss Delphine Klein. And DAV
ID SWEENEY, Rockeville Center, L. I., to Miss Ethel Kennedy, Tenafly, N. J.
Dr. JOHN KANE of the ND Depart- * ment of Sociology was recently elected first vice-president of the American Catholic Sociological Society. Dr. E. K. FRANCIS, another member of the University’s Sociology faculty was elected to the council of the organization.
STANLEY S. SESSLER, head of the Department of Fine Arts at the University, spoke before the members of the Mishawaka Women’s Club, Jan. 5. His lecture, “Pictures for the Home,” was a - ; . review of popular taste in pictures, past and present, with suggestions given for selecting correct pictures for home decorations.
Rev. A. L. GABRIEL, professor in the Mediaeval Institute on leave of absence at the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study, was on the program of the American Historical Association meeting held in Chicago, Dec. 28-30. He was discussion leadei’ of the session on mediaeval education.	*
A United States patent has been granted to FRANCIS P. BALDWIN, a member of the staff of the chemical division of the Standard Oil Development Co. which provides for a method for curing synthetic rubbers. Mr. Baldwin is presently on educational leave and is attending the University of Notre Dame.
Rev. MARK J. FITZGERALD, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics, recent- *' ly accepted an invitation to serve as a guest lecturer in the graduate division of Loyola University, Chicago. Father Fitzgerald discussed the significance of the present trend in government ownership and regulation in economic areas.
Chessmen Battle Eastern College Via Postal Cards
Notre Dame’s embryo chess club will hold its next meeting Monday night in T Room 4 of the Law Building at 7:15 p.m. The group has laid plans for an open tournament early in next semester. In addition, invitations from other universities have been received and a postal tourney begun against the New York State Teachers’ College at Albany.
Jean-Paul Massicotte is the organization’s newly-elected president. Other officers are John Milewski, vice-president, and Charles Allen, secretary-treasurer. Rev. Robert Woodward, c.s.c., and Mr. John Treacy are the club’s advisers.
The Scholastic
Babbit, Business And Christianity
By ED GOERNER, ’52
The social responsibilities of business is a phrase that one hears often these days. It is bandied about at Rotary Club luncheons, at chamber of commerce meetings, in labor as well as business publications and associations. Oddly enough this same phrase quite often represents a wide variety of ideas. For the Rotary Club it may stand for contributions by local businessmen for a new county orphanage. In the chamber of commerce connotation it may denote Christmas decorations for Main St. paid for by local merchants. The unions may interpret it to mean only higher wages for less work. And to the businessman in general it probably means least of all. He often recognizes it as a new public fetish to which he must pay homage in print and on the air. He must extol it at luncheons and dinners and at public gatherings of all sorts. However, he is often quite ignorant of what it should or does mean. At best he realizes that it has some vague connection with the welfare of the community, obliging him to refrain from practices that might have an apparently and immediately harmful effect on the community.
We may well question if any of these notions are even an approximation of the social responsibilities of business. As a basis for discussion, let us divide these responsibilities into two categories: responsibilities toward individuals and responsibilities toward the community.
In the first category, those responsibilities concerning dealings with competitors and stockholders have been more or less defined by law. With regard to employees however, there are vast areas of contact in which the responsibilities are subject to great varieties of interpretation depending on the interpreter. A fundamental condition of employeremployee relations is the recognition of the fact that labor is more than a commodity, that the laborer is a human being' and has a right to be treated as such. Most businessmen, while admitting that labor is more than a commodity, are not quite sure what this admission entails in the way of practical decisions.
Legislation on minimum wages, maximum hours, child labor, accident and old age insurance springs from an awareness of the human factor in labor. It is a responsibility of enlightened businessmen to support legislation of this sort, not only for the common good but
also to protect themselves from those unfair competitors who would, in effect, deny the worker’s rights as a man. The business world might well ask itself whether health and old age insurance could be provided by private employers instead of by the government and, if so, it should sponsor legislation requiring such insurance benefits as part of a minimum wage.
But business responsibilities go much deeper than the legislative level. They demand a recognition of the laborer’s rights as a man not only in public talks but in the everyday operations of thousands of plants. And it may not be too much to expect that labor’s sense of responsibility will grow apace. It seems that only in this way can some of the terrible disadvantages that have come to us with machine mass production.
Business responsibility to the community, on the other hand requires a reevaluation of the place of the profit motive in the economy. Business must be willing to recognize that the profit mo-
American Youth Hostels Offer Junkets to Europe
A scholarship trip to Europe next sumnier, with all expenses paid, will be awarded to the person who writes the best essay entitled, “Why I Would Like to Go Hosteling in Europe,” American Youth Hostels has announced.
The winner in nation-wide competition for this trip will join one of the supervised groups sponsored by AYH and will spend eight weeks abroad. He will have his choice of trips to the British Isles, Central Europe or France and the Rhineland.
The British Isles trip includes visits to London, Cambridge, the highlands of Scotland, Loch Lomond, Belfast and Dublin. The itinerary of the France and England trip includes ten days in Brittany, a week in Paris and brief stays in London, Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford. Countries covered in the Central Europe trip are Germany, Austria, France and Switzerland.
Regardless of which group the winner selects, he will sail about June 15 and will return about Sept. 1. Going as a member of an AYH group means that he will cover some distances by train and ship, but that the greater part of his trip will consist of hosteling.
Hosteling derives its name from the
tive is justified only as long as it operates within the fabric of the common good. Unless American businessmen are willing to admit that no profit, acquired at the expense of the community, is justified, they may find that the public will tend to deny the right to profits of any kind, as many European peoples have already done. Business will not find its responsibilities light, but it is essential that it accept them for its survival may well be at stake.
Businessmen and business organizations must do more than pay a verbal homage to some vague, meaningless responsibilities. They must willingly and energetically seek to establish more precisely what their obligations are. Thinking businessmen must help write and champion legislation to make such responsibilities binding on all as a protection against those who would avoid them to the hurt of those who willingly accept the burden. It is only in this way that business can save itself from en-gulfment by the super-state.
low-cost overnight accommodations, “hostels,” available to those with hostel passes traveling by bicycle or hiking. Hostelers carry their clothing in saddlebags on their bicycles or in packs on their backs and frequently prepare their own food. Their expenses seldom exceed $1.50 a day.
The competition for the trip is open to United States citizens who will have reached the age of 17 by July 1, 1951. In addition, they must apply for a hostel pass for 1951. The pass costs two dollars for those under 21 and three dollars for those 21 or older, and permits the holder to stay at hostels both in this country and abroad for between 20 and 50 cents a day.
Entrants may use any number of words they choose in their essays up to 1,000. Entries must be postmarked not later than April 15, 1951. The winner will be notified by mail within two weeks and his name will be announced in the Summer, 1951, issue of Hostelinff magazine.
The phrase “all expenses paid,” officials of AYH pointed out, includes trans-Atlantic passage, transportation by public conveyance in Europe as stipulated in the itinerary, food and lodging.
Jan. 12, 1951
25
Enlistment Fever
It’s beginning to look like next semester will find the University without any undergraduates. Enlistment fever seems to have hit over the vacation and everyone we see these days is Air Force, Navy, or Marines bound.
Only the Seniors seem to have held on. Most of them are grasping toward the degree straw, hoping to sweat out the next few months and graduate before that draft notice comes through.
The Frosh, Sophs, and Juniors, however, have taken the bull by the horns. Foreseeing a blank in place of 1951-52 school year, they have apparently decided to enlist now and let the chips fall. We know of one triple in Walsh where all three men have joined up—one to the Air Force, one to the Navy, and the third to the Marines.
The University also has its troubles. What to do about the enlistees who must leave before the imminent finals are over. The practice, so far as we can ascertain, is that having completed 14 weeks, a student is able to get credit and a grade for his courses. This seems eminently fair.
We take this opportunity to wave the farewell flag to the first Scholastic “casualty.” Our Assistant News Editor, Charlie Dullea, left Wednesday for Parris Island and the Marines. Best of luck from this corner. We’ll feel the loss.
like the Germans, as a nationality, experienced in 1940-41, and in 1917-18.
An interesting sidelight on the world situation in general, and on human nature in particular.
A Sign of Change
Playing with intangibles is tricky stuff, but we think we’ve noticed a subtle change of atmosphere around campus since the vacation is over. We all stagnate to some extent towards the end of any given three month period at Notre Dame, and there is always the rejuvenation of a vacation evident after any holiday stretch. But the current change of atmosphere is different.
We are not sure exactly what it means. Before the holidays there was a fairly general attitude of lethargy. Students looked at the headlines and shrugged. It was a period of uncertainty. The future was a nothing, a question mark.
Since Christmas, the attitude seems to have changed. Some sort of new vigor seems to have possessed the students. Perhaps the enlistees have helped clear some of the uncertainty from the air. There is still uncertainity, but there is something to do and to be done. There wasn’t before.
One answer might lie in the vacation itself. There was relatively little enlisting or drafting before the holidays.
To the January Graduates, 1951:
Each Senior being graduated in January is entitled to ten announcements, given to him without cost by the University.
These announcements may be secured by the Senior, in person, at the Alumni Office in Carroll Hail, beginning on Friday, January 12, during office hours. (Saturday morning, 8 a. m. to 12 p. m.)
Janies E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary.
There were a lot of calls for physicals, but the guy next door, and most of the guys in the hall, stayed around.
Over vacation, many students returned home to find a lot of their old friends in the service. This in itself may have had some effect. There was more talk of the situation at home, more serious consideration. This also may have had some effect.
Whatever the explanation, the fact seems, to us at least, pretty sure. There is a change of attitude on campus. An attitude is a delicate thing to measure, a subtle thing to pin down. We don’t know the answer. But we feel the signs.
The Last Word
To all January grads, and to all who are leaving in the next few months for other fields, we say goodbye and good luck. To all who will be with us for the Feb. 9 issue—see you then.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis 702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
Sidelight
An interesting sidelight on the Chinese Communist business may well pop up in the next six months. The sidelight, as we attempt to look ahead, will be a wave of China hate.
For years the people of the United States have preached, if not acted, an attitude of buddy-buddyism with China. Since the latter decades of the last century, the United States has considered itself in the role of “Big Brother” to less fortunate China.
This attitude has persisted through two wars in our- own century. It looks like the attitude is about to change. Communist China took up arms actively against the United States in December. By June, we predict that the Chinese, as a nationality, will experience something
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosie’s” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles
26
The Scholastic
*
I
THE DT P0^ I
DIGEST
On the road and in the laboratory, Du Pont scientists are writing
The Inside Stoy of Engine Deposits
Engineers have long known that deposits which accumulate in gasoline engines have a direct bearing on engine performance. Even now, however, no way has been found to eliminate these deposits or their effects.
As a manufacturer of chemicals used by the petroleum industry, the Du Pont Company has a particular interest in this problem. It is currently the subject of a comprehensive research project, conducted both on the road and in the laboratory.
When Du Pont engineers began their studies, some aspects of the relationships between engine, fuel, lubricant, operating conditions and de-positswere known. But to understand how and why deposits form and to develop ’ corrective measures, they needed additional information.
Engineers take to the road
To get these facts, Du Pont engineers are supervising tests in a fleet of passenger cars and trucks that travel hundreds of thousands of miles yearly under carefully controlled conditions. The effects of deposits on octane number requirement, valve performance, spark plug condition and other performance characteristics are measured. After each test, the deposits are weighed and examined physically and chemically.
In the laboratory, other engineers study the effects of the same variables on multicylinder engines. Here, where closer control of the engines is possible, greater attention can be paid to specific fuel or engine operat-ingeflects. Performance factors, such as power output, can be more conveniently measured.
A third group of Du Pont engineers uses single cylinder engines in laboratory studies of deposit formation, adhesion, removal and harm. Exploring new fields, these men had to design complex instrumentation for measuring factors such as surface condition and deposit thickness.
Chemists synthesize deposits
Chemists, too, have an important place in this research. They study the chemical and physical characteristics of engine deposits. Among other things, they devise ways of synthesizing, in fired engines, deposits consisting almost entirely of a single chemical compound in order to study its effect on engine performance.
The results of this comprehensive research program are not yet conclusive, although the relationships between engine, fuel, lubricant, operating condition and deposit formation and harm are much better understood. In the past Du Pont scientists have licked even more difficult problems. Working as a team, they will persist in their effort to provide the motorist with improved engine performance through better fuels.
Douglas L. Schultz (center), B.S. in M.E., M.I.T. 1947, supervises installation of engine for study of deposit formation in truck operating under heavy-duty conditions.
W. E. Bettoney (left), B.S. in M.E., Maine 1939, tests installation of single-cylinder gasoline engine used in study of factors influencing deposit formation in the combustion chamber.
H. K. Livingston, Ph. D. in Phys. Chem., Chicago 1941, operates apparatus for measuring porosity and absorptivity of combustion chamber deposits taken from test engines of the Du Pont automobile test fleet.
DID YOU KNOW . • .
... about 60% of Du Pont’s sales today consist- of products that didn’t exist or weren’t commercially available 20 years ago.
HEG.U.S.PAT.OfE
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEAIISTRr
Entertaining, Informaiive — Listen to "Cavalcade of America," Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Jan. 12,1951
27
Copyright 1951, Xigcht & Tosacco Co.
A Paramount Production y Color by Technicolor
BACK STAGE, ALAN LADD ANO MONA FREEMAN ENJOYING THEIIt CHESTERFIELDS BETWEEN SHOTS WHIIE FILMING "BRANDED"... PARAMOUNT'S NEW TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION. BOTH ARE STEADY CHESTERFIELD SMOKERS.
'MONA FREEMAN ; ^co-starring with Alan Lad^ ? in "BRANDED"
"Make this Mildness test and you'll smoke Chesterfields like I do" says -
Open em ■ Smell em ■ Smoke 'em
Compare Chesterfield with any other cigarette
Make your next pack Chesterfield...open it up...smell that milder tobacco aroma-no other cigarette has it. Smoke Chesterfield and prove what every tobacco man knows ...tobaccos that SMELL MILDER
-Smoke Milder

4TCh e ste r f I e ld
Smells MILDER Smokes MILDER No unpleasant after-taste