ONE
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
NO CARRYING CHARGE

Get what you need for now and the holidays ahead, and charge it the Campus Shop way: Pay one-third in June, 1963, one-third in July, 1963, and one-third in August, 1963. You can get the clothing you need for yourself . . . gifts for dad and the men on your list. . . and charge your purchases this handy way. Never a service or a carrying charge, of course.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS FROM
OF AMERICA'S FINEST UNIVERSITY SHOPS
^GILBERTS
3
DECEMBER 3
a Xerox representative, who will be on your campus ....
XEROX
CORPORATION
WHERE IN THE
WORLD . will you go after graduation?... will you find challenging opportunity?... will you be in 10 years? These important questions you must answer within the next year.
Real opportunity is a two-way street, a 50-50 proposition. Your professional advancement is based on two interdependent factors:
First, the growth potential of the firm you join—secondly, your own competence and initiative.
The following figures show our ability to provide the first requirement. You must furnish the second.
Xerox Corporation has doubled its sales in the past three years—from §27 million annually to §60 million, with less than 1% in military billing • tripled its profits—from §1.6 million to §5.3 million • increased employment from 1,650 to 4,300, branch offices from 17 to 35 ... And plans for the future are even more astounding (see Fortune, July, 1962).
Opportunities exist in the following areas: Research and engineering • manufacturing • control • finance • sales.
Contact your placement office to arrange an interview with
4
The Scholastic
Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric
There’s no place at Western Electric for engineers who feel that college diplomas signify the end of their education. However, if a man can meet our quality standards and feels that he is really just beginning to learn ... and if he is ready to launch his career where learning is an important part of the job and where graduate-level training on and off the job is encouraged — we want and need him.
At Western Electric, in addition to the normal learning-while-doing, engineers are encouraged to move ahead in their fields by several types of educational programs. Western maintains its own full-time graduate engineering training program, seven formal management courses, and a tuition refund plan for out-of-hours college study.
This learning atmosphere is just one reason why a career at Western Electric is so stimulating. Of equal importance, however, is the nature of the work we do. Our new engineers are taking part in projects that implement the whole art of modern telephony, from highspeed sound transmission and solar cells to electronic telephone offices and computer-controlled production techniques.
Should you join us now, you will be coming
to Western Electric at one of the best times in the company’s history. In the management area alone, several thousand supervisory jobs are expected to open up to W.E. people within the next 10 years. And our work of building communications equipment and systems becomes increasingly challenging and important as the communications needs of our nation and the world continue to increase.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. All qualified applicants will receive careful consideration for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For more information about Western Electric, write College Relations, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when our college representatives visit your campus.

MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY
UNIT OF THE BEIL SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Kearny, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
November 16, 1962
5
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’ “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
The SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 104 November 16, 1962 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
COMMITTEES: AN AGONIZING RE-APPRAISAL
Founded 1867
To those of you who stay out of your student government because you believe the committee system is just an excuse for inaction, let me cite an example to prove that a committee, properly led and directed, can be a great force for good.
Last week the Student Council met
at the Duluth College of Veterinary Medicine and Belles Lettres to discuss pur
chasing a new doormat for the students union. It was, I assure you, a desperate problem because Sherwin K. Sigafoos, janitor of the students union, threatened flatly to quit unless a new doormat was installed immediately. “I’m sick and tired of mopping that dirty old floor,” said Mr. Sigafoos, sobbing convulsively.
(Mr. Sigafoos, once a jolly outgoing sort, has been crying almost steadily since the recent death of his pet wart hog who had been his constant companion for 22 years. Actually, Mr. Sigafoos is much better off without the wart hog, who tusked
him viciously at least once a day,but a companionship of 22 years is, I suppose, not lightly relinquished. The college tried to give Mr. Sigafoos a new wart hog—a frisky little fellow with floppy ears and a waggly tail—but Mr. Sigafoos only turned his back and cried the harder.)
But I digress. The Student Council met, discussed the doormat for eight or ten
hours, and then referred it to a committee. There were some who scoffed then and said nothing would ever be heard of the doormat again, but they reckoned without Invictus Millstone.
Invictus Millstone, chairman of the doormat committee, was a man of action —lithe and lean and keen and, naturally, a smoker of Marlboro Cigarettes. Why do I say “naturally”? Because, dear friends, active men and women don’t have time to brood and bumble about their cigarettes. They need to be certain.
* * *
You don’t need a committee to tell you how good Marlboros are. You just need yourself, a Marlboro, and a set of taste buds. Buy some Marlboros soon at your favorite tobaccc counter.
They must have perfect confidence that each time they light up they will get the same gratifying flavor, the same Selectrate filter, the same soft soft-pack, the same flip top flip-top box. In brief, dear friends, they need to be sure it’s Marlboro—for if ever a smoke was true
and trusty, it’s Marlboro. Get some soon. Get matches too, because true and
trusty though Marlboros are, your pleasure will be somewhat limited unless you light them.
Well sir, Invictus Millstone chaired his doormat committee with such vigor and dispatch that when the Student Council met only one week later, he was able to rise and deliver the following
recommendations:
1.	That the college build new schools of botany, hydraulic engineering, tropical medicine, Indo-Germanic languages, and millinery.
2.	That the college drop football, put
a roof on the stadium, and»turn it into a low-cost housing project for married students.
3.	That the college raise faculty salaries by S5000 per year across the board.
4.	That the college secede from the United States.
5.	That the question of a doormat for the students union be referred to a subcommittee.
So let us hear no more defeatist talk about the committee system. It can be made to Work!	© 19G2 Max Shulman
JOHN McCABE
Editor
JACK AHERN
Associate Editor
JIM WYRSCH .............News	Editor
TOM HOOBLER _______ Features	Editor
JOHN BECHTOLD........ Sports	Editor
JOHN PESTA .........  Layout	Editor
JIM GALVIN..............Copy	Editor
JAY WARD ___________ Business Manager
PAT SAXE.................Art Editor
STEVE ENRIGHT...........Assistant Art
RICHARD ROGGEVEEN ________________
.............. Advertising	Manager TOM DALUM ................. Circulation
BRIAN BECK .............Photography
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER ..............
	 Assistant	Sports JOE RYAN............ Assistant	Sports
DONALD COSTELLO .... Faculty Advisor REV. JOSEPH HOFFMAN ..............
.................. Faculty	Advisor
COPY STAFF: Al Dudash, Dick Notebaert, John Pope, Jack Rowe, Bob Zielsdorf.
FEATURES STAFF: Brian Barnes, Pat Bauer, Jim Bonnybury, Dennis Corrigan, Dick Gibbs, Frank McConnell. Bill Metz, Bob McGowan, Larry Sicking. Carl Wiedemann.
NEWS STAFF: John Anton, Ken Arnold, John Buckley, Greg Callaghan. Ted Carlon. Jr.. Joe Caspar, Dick Connelly, Vince DeCoursey. Charles Dunn. Bob Edler. Geary Ellet. Jack Gerken. John Gorman. Bill Lcsbee. Bob Lumpkins. Dick Maher. Terry Meek. John McAlearney, Fiank Smith, Tim Sullivan. Richard Weirich, Don Wharton.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
6
The Scholastic
EDITORIAL
	*T*he recent series “Spirit and Tradition” written 1 by Robert McGowan has focused our attention on the disorder in our midst but has not provided us with a workable solution for the “rebirth of the community.” He has distinguished many of the visible manifestations of inner unrest at the University but has not composed a viable program for progress. His efforts to put in perspective the causes of disenchantment of the various factions within the community are commendable; obviously he is motivated by a deep concern for the institution. However, he has posed a number of questions which neither he, nor we, can answer satisfactorily. His central plea retains vital significance: What is needed at Notre Dame is an entire
A fter A premature referendum last fall a watered-down version of the original program for permanent stay hall residence — achieving at best 20% integration of the upperclass halls — was put into operation. Because of this plan’s inherent ineffectiveness, the issue should be raised once again — the students must decide either to give stay hall residence a legitimate test or drop the matter entirely. To adopt the latter possibility would be a facile way of ignoring real problems generated by a steadily increasing enrollment and changing student attitudes. No longer can we feel any strong attachments to the traditional symbols that in days past lent a feeling of oneness, of uniqueness to our community. A small homogeneous unit is necessary if we are to attain any genuine sense of belonging. The hall, now officially regarded as a place for sleep and storage, could become the rallying ground for a meaningful Notre Dame spirit, could be a convenient grouping for enjoyable social activities, could be a source of pride, could be a place for maturation through association. If the status quo is maintained, the freshmen will remain in their ghetto where isolation breeds misery, the underclassmen will not have the benefit of upperclassmen’s experience with organizations, professors, majors, and courses. The student will be compelled to find entertainment on the streets of South Bend, or among the mobs at the campus-wide mixers, or at the massive and boring class dances. On the other hand, full integration of the residence halls will allow us to spend three or four years in the hall of our choice with the students we like best. It would be a sensible answer to a very pertinent question: what are we to do when a 10-0 season, the Golden Dome, or a knowledge of past glories is not enough to provide a proper intellectual, social, or emotional atmosphere. This is not the place for a detailed explanation of a suitable permanent hall plan, but one based on a quota system allocating to each class a predetermined number of rooms in each of the seventeen halls while providing free intrahall and limited interhall movement would be conducive to a favorable and desparately needed change in hall life. Stay hall residence will mean minor temporary inconveniences — some seniors will live on the North Quad, incoming freshmen will receive the less desirable rooms, and interhall transfers will be allowed only between members of the same class. However, these sacrifices will be far outweighed by the advantages of greater hall individuality, independence, and self-discipline. November 16, 1962	re-evaluation of what we were, what we are, and what we would like to be. Our intention is to reopen discussion by examining seeming deficiencies in his critique. McGowan reflects the disillusion of students in the face of imperfect example — for spiritual enthusiasm, intellectual understanding, and human compassion — among priests, administrators, and faculty. Nevertheless, there is not “a strong anticlerical feeling” on campus but rather a longing for leadership in confronting our condition. In regard to academic rules, McGowan’s proposal of academic anarchy would require vision on the part of many. McGowan fails to provide a framework for the new academic order. McGowan sees a conflict between an older football-centered spirit and a new, emerging though not yet representative, spirit of educational achievement. We must investigate the former to realize our need of the latter. Big-time football has created a false double standard, and is no longer compatible with honest desires for academic excellence. His solution — “to arrange a schedule consisting of schools with	j standards equivalent to ours” — fails to indicate	1 either the standards of academic proficiency that	■ must predominate at Notre Dame or the standards	; by which we must choose intercollegiate opponents.	j The most basic problem — “that there is a seg-	j ment of the student body which makes no use what-	j soever of the opportunities offered them by life at	j Notre Dame” — remains untouched. McGowan’s so-	j lution to completely eliminate the majority of the	j student body seems improbable, undesirable. The test	f case of talented students “who do not lead because	i they feel they have no obligation to lead, and because	j the student body indicates that it does not want to	j be led” — is a dilemma that lies unanswered. We are	; urged to MOVE but to where and, equally important,	| how? McGowan stresses the futility of student gov-	j ernment but sees a hope in some form of stay-hall	; system. We concur in the opinion that student gov-	| ernment has tended to become an organization in-	? dependent of the student body, stagnated through	j concern for trivia, but do not see this as a permanent	1 condition. Some form of stay-hall residence could be	| the key to gaining sociality. Student government	1 would then be relieved of instigating social programs	j and struggling over procedure in this area. Student	1 government should be permitted to concentrate on	> the direction of student life in the intellectual and	1 spiritual realms, and should play a significant role in	j the formation of University.	1 i 7	1
Letters
Dear Editor:
Several things have been bothering me lately. I have been upset over the two publications of “The Senior Survey.” After reading the first edition, I developed a headache and feared I was beginning to lose my eyesight. On the front page, my reading was constantly interrupted with the word, “Higgs” (precisely 18 times in 15% inches of standard newspaper column, 19 times if you count the headline, and 1,000 more if you take the picture of the man into consideration).
Adding to this tension was the effort to see the relevance to the Senior Class of the statement, “Removal of human organs for repairs, followed by safe restoration of the parts to the body, may soon be possible, three University of Minnesota scientists predict, following experiments with dogs.” This did not seem to fall into the realm of political, social, or economical controversy.
On the editorial page, I became despondent. One “s.c.k.” announced that the editors were having trouble getting copy for their first edition and therefore he would fill a column with rambling. I decided not to ramble with him.
In the second issue, we discover that name dropping has once again become fashionable and has expanded from campus politics to the national level. We find John McCormack,
SUMMER JOBS in EUROPE
3000 OPENINGS —RESORT, FARM, OFFICE, FACTORY, HOSPITAL, CONSTRUCTION, CHILD CARE, CAMP COUNSELING, AND MORE THROUGHOUT EUROPE. WAGES FROM ROOM AND BOARD TO $175 A MONTH. COMPLETE PACKAGES WITH TOURS FROM 6 TO 24 DAYS—COSTING FROM $150 (not including Trans-Atlantic transportation) to $799 (including round trip jet flight).
TRAVEL GRANTS AWARDED FIRST 1000 APPLICANTS
See your Placement Officer or Student Union Director or send 20 cents for complete 20-page Prospectus and Job Application to:
DEPT. N, AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE,
22 Avenue de la Liberte, Luxembourg City, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
DON'T MISS IT!
Annual Thanksgiving Dance Friday Night, Nov. 23, 1962 Great Hall of the PICK-CONGRESS HOTEL Continuous Music from 9 to 1 DON JERIS ORCHESTRA JUMP JACKSON TWIST COMBO CHICAGO CLUB
Harry Byrd, Mike Mansfield, Vaughn Gary, Robert Kennedy, Bob Wilson, Barry Goldwater, Everett Dirksen, Henry Wilson, John Bailey, Hugh Scott, John Tower, William Miller, and Governor Harrison of Virginia, all appearing in one action-packed editorial. The sum total of their sentiments was that, yes, they thought young people ought to accept political responsibility, and become active in politics without becoming extremists; that yes, there was a place in politics for the young, that young people are more interested in politics of late, and that they should become even more so.
I was particularly disillusioned in learning that a member of our senior class administration wasted the time of this nation’s leaders with questions such as, “Would they, who are veterans of the political field, recommend that one who feels so disposed to give his life to this form of public service enter the field?” (politics) “Does politics presuppose a compromise of one’s personal moral standards?” One wonders what answers this class official expected. We can also wonder at the vanity or “ambitiousness” that prompted this class official to have all political contacts photographed. What possible advantage to his class did this serve?
There are other reasons why I feel that this publication can be terminated. An effective voice for student opinion already exists. This publication reaches more people (students and faculty) and therefore without stretching our rational powers, we
NOTRE DAME
Jewelry Diamonds o Watches
Hundreds of Gift Items
AT
BLOCK BROS.
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
Jewelers to Students and Faculty tor over 40 years
could conclude that it is more effective. The article are duplicated in many cases. The Scholastic covered William Higgs in an article by Ralph Martin; Jack Ahern reported the Mississippi trip, and there was a sideline article, “More on Segregation” by John Kirlin. This was followed by faculty comment, student comment on the faculty comment, and another article, “The Mississippi Crisis” by John Pesta. The fact that the Scholastic is a weekly publication encourages a much more spirited debate, and the fact that it is campuswide invites universal contribution. That the letter of the Senior Class President to the South Bend Tribune, and the article on the Washington Day Exercises appeared in the Scholastic, but failed to appear in the Senior Survey, demonstrates that not only are many senior projects of campus-wide interest, but also that the Scholastic will very often have the jump on the Survey with regard to news stories. This will lead to continual duplication if the Survey persists.
Thirdly, the avowed purpose of the Survey, to create political awareness, is now the prerogative of the Political Affairs Commission under student government. There are also the Young Democrats and the Young Republicans. The Senior class can and should cooperate with these organizations (as they did with the Young Democrats with William Higgs) in stirring political interest, but the Senior Survey has failed to stir even its own staff.
In summary, 1) the Survey is not representative of the Senior class and is an insult to their intelligence, 2) a voice of opinion already exists, and 3) political awareness can be stirred through already existing organizations.
My second problem is finances. I enjoy seeing my friends together having a good time at a party and enjoy having good times with them, but now I am not sure how long I can continue attending gatherings.
(Continued on page 30)
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
BROKEN LENSES DUPUCATED BROKEN FRAMES REPLACED
•	i
DR. M. MITTERMAYER	j
Optometrist
228 S. MICHIGAN
8
The Scholastic
Young Mon With a Date
Make a date to talk with a representative of the Bell System Recruiting team
NOVEMBER 27 & 28
The Placement Office will make appointments for interviews with representatives from the following companies:
AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY
Long Lines Department — builds, operates and maintains the world’s largest communications network
WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY
— the nation’s largest manufacturer and supplier of communications equipment	'
SANDIA CORPORATION
— design and development of ordnance phases of nuclear weapons
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
ILLINOIS BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
Supplying the finest in communications to homes and businesses — and representing Bell Telephone Companies across the nation.
This team will consider all qualified applicants for employment without regard to race, creed, color or national origin.
November 16, 1962	9
Now a clean-filling, smooth-writing, money-saving Parker cartridge pen...only$3— New PARKER ARROW
You can buy an ordinary cartridge pen for a dollar and even get a couple of cartridges thrown in free. But, then you pay and pay and pay. This pen can save you up to 20^ every time you buy cartridges. You get five BIG Parker Quink cartridges for only 29£. But, even if you didn't save a dime, this pen would be worth the extra price. It's a Parker.
And only Parker gives you a solid 14K gold point tipped with plathenium —one of the hardest, smoothest alloys ever developed. It should last you for years no matter how much you use it.
The pen won't leak the way the cheap ones do. It has a built-in safety reservoir, and it must meet
PARKER Maker of the w*
most of the tough specifications we set for our $10 pens.
you have trouble saying it, say it with a Parker. If you're a little shy and have difficulty saying "I love you" or even "I like you very much"—say it with a Parker.
The new Parker Arrow makes a beautifully expressive gift and looks as if you paid a small fortune for it.
The new Parker Arrow comes in black, dark blue, light blue, light gray, and bright red, with a choice of four instantly replaceable solid 14K gold points. Gift-boxed with five free cartridges.
's most wanted pens
10
The Scholastic
• The events preceding the home-coming game were worthy of the victory.
Father Hesburgh crowned Nancy Ruzicka, from Kansas City, Queen of the Homecoming Ball. Nancy was the winner by a large majority in the first popular election for queen. John Gordon, a sophomore, was her escort. Cheryl Lampley, who captured second, was, contrary to rumor, not disqualified because Hugh Hefner tried to stuff the ballot boxes. For consolation prize, Fr. Hesburgh asked their escorts to kiss the five runners-up. Father Collins wasn’t there, so they all kept their I.D. cards, and everyone was happy.
The nod for this year’s winning hall decorations on the theme “Roman Holiday” went to Pangborn with their galley procured at Philadelphia, a caged panther, and a forum complete with nymphs sporting low-cut togas. Walsh and Keenan took the next two places. Perhaps the most inspired decorations were put up by Fisher: a sign planted in the shrubbery in front of the hall exclaimed: “Rah!” Rah, Fisher!
After rumors, flyers, and more rumors, the oft-purloined Father Sorin statue really materialized. The helicopter which brought it on the last leg of its lengthy journey was denied access to the campus, so the statue’s triumphal return began at noon behind O’Shaughnessy. Amid a crowd which swelled to 827, betogaed Sorinites and their dates brandished signs of “Jupiter Saves” and “Je Deseret” (“I Desire”). They paraded their elusive treasure in a slavedrawn chariot to its original home with cries of “Hail to the Emperor” and “We’ll keep Sor-Inn.” Fr. Sorin, rescued from members of another hall attempting to prolong his travels, presided at the crowning of the Sorin Hall Queen. The statue will remain in the hall, until someday its wanderlust revives again.
One group wasn’t particularly happy with the enthusiasm demonstrated before the game. The students taking the Law Board Exams in the Main Building that day were witnesses first to a fight talk to the football team, which filtered through from the room next door, and then to the Sorin installation heightened by loudspeakers.
• The finals of Moot Court, postponed when Supreme Court Justice Byron White, head judge hearing the case, became ill, will be tomorrow at 7:45 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. The question to be argued will be: “Does a conviction under the Connecticut birth control statute (making it a crime to advise the use of
November 16, 1962
campus at a glance
contraceptives) violate the First and Fourteenth amendments to the U.S. Constitution?”
• Dick Kavanaugh, long acclaimed for his theatrical abilities and his attention to the minute details of his art, rose to new heights in the Sunday afternoon performance of Hamlet. Kavanaugh, playing the title role and intent on giving his all to the part, shed blood in the final duel scene in a bit of misdirected swordplay. Unlike Hamlet, Kavanaugh lived. Only Jim Loula’s fabled prone falls as Othello last year, and as Claudius in Hamlet rival this as a display of “gutty” acting.
• The academic commissions of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame will sponsor a “Break the News” session on November 27 at 8 p.m. in O’Laughlin Auditorium. The program will feature liberal Illinois Senator Paul C. Douglas, former University of Chicago economist, who has been voted “best Senator” by newsmen. Three Washington correspondents will question him: Lucien Warren of the Buffalo Courier Express, John Metcalfe of Background, and Neil Stanford of the Christian Science Monitor. After the discussion, there will be a question and answer period in Saint Mary’s new recreation room.
Also on Nov. 27, The Turnau opera players (a group formed seven years
ago to foster American interest in opera) will present Mozart’s satirical Cosi Fan Tutte in English. Said the Woodstock N. Y. Press after their performance of the play: “Here was living theater, pure in style. Here was an integrated ensemble of beautiful voices, held together by musical insight, integrated direction and expressive acting.” Place: Washington Hall. Time: 8:15 p.m.
•The Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society elected 17 seniors and two
juniors to its ranks this week. The society honors engineering students of outstanding scholarship and character. The club, led by President Edmund Barton, gathered with faculty members from outside the school of engineering for informal discussions.
The seniors, selected from the top one-fourth of their class after interviews, were: Jim Leineweber, Richard Antonson, Leo Craft, Frank Bolek, Edmund Hermanns, John Jordan, Michael Rothstein, Dan Lawson, Richard Chin, Enrique Davila, Randolph Wolf, Thomas Brunner, Michael Harron, Clinton Brooks, Robert Metzger, James Green, and Don Maus. The two juniors selected were: Thomas O'Connor, five-year-student, and Peter Clark.
• The Student Government of the University of Pittsburgh is recommending to the administration that alcoholic beverages be allowed on campus. Of about 1500 students polled on the issue, 87% favored its recommendation.
The plan to be submitted will permit the use of alcoholic beverages at social affairs held by school organizations on campus. The Student Government will have charge of granting permission to the groups to use liquor, and will be the means through which the state of Pennsylvania will take all possible legal action for violation of its liquor laws against the organizations involved. If accepted, the provisions will undergo two semesters of probation before being permanently granted.
• In a survey of about 500 students, the Scholastic received a vote of confidence. Of those polled, 62% thought that the magazine was good this year, better than last. Sports was the most popular section, followed by Campus at a Glance. The series Spirit and Tradition received full support.
Time Out is being continued because of the support shown, but in a different format. It will include a listing of the movies, and a serious review of the movie of the week.
Opinion was evenly divided on retaining the St. Mary’s column Yes, I Know! as it was, and the Scholastic decided to discontinue it because it was being censored by St. Mary’s.
11


T
The possibility of life in outer space poses no problem for the liberal theologian. Yet some people boast that belief in God will be refuted once and for all when we discover other intelligent life. These people are as naive as those who cling to scriptures to prove our uniqueness. The essential point in the theological discussion is that the Redemptive plan which we know applies to us and to us alone. Our race is unique only in that we are all part of one evolutionary epic. This is symbolized in the Bible with the story of Adam and Eve. Thus there exists a special relation between God the Creator and the descendents of Adam. The knowledge of God is the only necessary common denominator among the myriads of civilizations. There may be a thousand unredeemed races, a thousand Incarnations, a thousand Blessed Virgins, a thousand races un-
LIFE IN OUTER SPACE
by Jim Moran
defiled. Are we to fathom the infinity of God’s plan? Are we to act like spoiled children, demanding the sole attention of the parents? As L. C. McHugh, S.J., said in America: “Does it not seem strange to say that God’s power, immensity, beauty, and eternity are displayed with lavish generosity through unimaginable reaches of space and time, but that the knowledge and love which alone give meaning to all this splendor are confined to a tiny globe where self-conscious life began to flourish a millennia ago?”
The basic arguments for the existence of other intelligent life are quite simple and may even appear naive, but they are supported by centuries of astronomical observation and other scientific work. The first argument comes from the theory that the galaxy is filled with clouds which condense into stars. When a huge, slowly rotating cloud begins to contract it also begins to rotate faster. Any ice skater knows this principle. The secret of spinning fast on ice is to rotate slowly and then to pull your arms in close to your body. In the cloud of gas, the centrifugal force due to the increased rotation tends to tear it apart. Thus a cloud can form a star only by getting rid of this energy so it can contract without rotating any faster. To accomplish this feat the cloud either forms two stars or a star with a system of planets. Now, about half the stars observed are binary systems; the second star from the handle of the Big Dipper is an easily observable double star. Most of the other half of the stellar population probably has planets and thus meets the first requirement for life. Unfortunately, planets outside our solar system are too small to be seen.
Every star has a zone around it in which the temperature is conducive to life. Our sun has two planets in this ecosphere, Earth and Mars. Most stars probably have at least one. Furthermore, recent biological studies at the University of Chicago indicate
that given a moderate temperature, enough time, and certain natural conditions, life can spontaneously evolve from inorganic chemicals. In one experiment, an electric discharge in a bottle containing elements of the earth’s early atmosphere produced complex organic molecules such as amino acids — the building block of protein molecules. Evolution ensues from this natural development due to lack of food, and since survival depends on intelligence it is reasonable that evolution leads invariably to reflective consciousness. This reasoning on stars and life indicates that one new civilization is born about every ten years, allowing for peculiar mishaps in individual cases. Thus, using the development of our system as a measure the stars that were born about five billion years ago are just now beginning to produce technical civilizations.
With one new civilization born every decade, what is the technical longevity of a civilization? That is, how long does a civilization survive after it has advanced enough to communicate with other civilizations and to destroy itself? If the political turmoil in our world continues, the longevity of our civilization may be only ten years. If this situation is general, then there are probably very few civilizations flourishing in our galaxy. This doesn’t seem very realistic. More likely, if a society can adjust to the real possibility of total self-destruction, then it is mature enough to live in space. Thus, the longevity of a mature civilization might be 100,000 years. A distinct possibility is that a civilization might lose its interest in science. This may not be at all disadvantageous except for communication purposes. If an average race of people endures 100,000 years, then there are nearly the same number of civilizations existing today.
How can we communicate with these civilizations? The thrill of physically reaching them may forever remain a part of science fiction.
The Scholastic
12
Through our present space effort, travel around the solar system will soon become an easy task, but the distance between the suns is just too great. Flying saucers cannot be admitted as contrary evidence because sightings have never produced an artifact. The best a theoretical physicist can do is design a rocket engine which converts matter directly into energy by mixing matter and antimatter so that only energy results, while the particles are annihilated. This unbelievably potent rocket is far from accelerating a vehicle at a reasonable rate, the human life span being a check on ultra-long-term planning. Today, rocket travel to distant stars is incomprehensible; it will require a revolution in physics to change that.
In contrast to rockets, communication by electromagnetic waves is both feasible and relatively inexpensive. These waves provide the fastest possible communication and the information that can be exchanged is limited only to the user’s ingenuity. The National Science Foundation is already sponsoring a search for signals from nearby stars. Scientists will listen both for stray local signals and for more powerful signals beamed in the direction of earth. Search for stray signals is motivated by the fact that much of the radio energy generated on earth by radio, television, and radar stations escapes through the ionosphere into space.
Listening for signals aimed toward earth presents the problem of selecting the wave length on which to listen. Looking for a weak coded message somewhere in the electromagnetic spectrum would be a difficult undertaking. Astronomer F.D. Drake made an analytic study of this problem and found that the physical laws dictate that a wave length of about three to four centimeters is the optimum signalling wave length. This study assumes that physical laws are constant throughout the universe and that any civilization will recognize the superiority of this channel. This region is far removed from the conventional radio wave lengths; WSND uses a wave length of about a quarter mile. In the unused regions around three centimeters, very sensitive receiving equipment has been built for radio astronomy, which studies the natural emissions of the stars. Studies have determined that if we could place our most powerful transmitter with our largest antenna a distance of 800 light years from the earth, our receivers could still detect the signal. Imagine a sphere about the earth with a radius of 800-light years! It would contain 10,000,000 stars and
any civilization on one of those stars, with transmitters like ours, could send out signals which we could receive!
If there are 100,000 civilizations among the 100,000,000,000 stars, then there is an average of one race per 1,000,000 stars. This immediately places us within reach of ten civilizations. But we are among the newest civilizations in the galaxy, having emerged only ten years ago. This greatly enhances the possibility of communication. The search for other life has begun at the government-supported radio observatory in West Virginia, and someday we may receive a message after careful observation of many stars.
How will we talk to “people” about whom we know absolutely nothing? The easiest way is to send a stream of pulses which can be decoded into pictures. Dr. Drake made up the message shown in the diagram. The
1 I 5 \ 5 4 It 5 It II Il B It 15 14 11 I! B
message was supposedly received from Tau Ceti as a series of 551 pulses. This is deciphered into a picture of 29 by 19 characters.
A high-school education and imagination are all that is necessary to get all the information from the diagram. For example, we discover that the ten-foot tall creature shown in the center inhabits the fourth planet in his nine-planet solar system, a planet of 7,000,000,000 inhabitants. The planet’s chemistry is based on oxygen and carbon. The first word of a language is defined between his legs and in succeeding messages the inhabitants will refer to themselves as “four bits.” By sending this message many times before a series of more advanced messages, a knowledge of a civilization can be built up previous to actual conversation. When such communication becomes a reality, we may become students in the cosmic classroom.
November 16, 1962
13
International Relations
by Tom Schlereth
That the world is divided into several aspects of crisis has provided mankind with a real and vibrant opportunity to stop and then survey exactly what it stands for. The Soviets are doing more than challenging the Western world’s military might — they are offering us the chance to examine and then clarify our cultural and spiritual values.” With this note of optimism, Dr. Stephen Kertesz, acting head of the Political Science Department, inaugurated on October 15 the first in a series of lectures sponsored by the Committee on International Relations. His topic was “The Divided World.”
In this introductory lecture, Dr. Kertesz sought to present the “conspectus of rift, schism, and unprecedented division of today’s world” on an academic plane, since the popular news media have made lectures of a merely informative nature unnecessary. The series of lectures will continue this approach.
Europe was the greatest example of a division no longer possessing the flexible balance of power of previous years. The loss of balance began after the close of the Second World War when Europe as an entity disappeared and became “a sphere of influence for the two supra-powers.” Comparison could be made with the diplomatic powder keg in the days of the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente.
There are cracks in the Communist bloc; relations between mother Russia and her daughter nations are not characteristic of the Stalin or postStalin era. Although Western newspapers tend to oversensationalize, still, all is not well between Peiping and Moscow. Yet the rift is not so acute with regard to Yugoslavia. In a crisis, Dr. Kertesz feels, Tito would look eastward instead of to the Free World.
Bridging the chasms that separate the world powers can only be done by a multiple approach. Dr. Kertesz feels that strong diplomatic policy, exploitation of the fallacies and weak
nesses of the Communist lie, and public diplomacy in the UN are good and necessary. However, he prefers to place the question on a higher plane. Contending that “not by bread alone doth man live,” he asserts that triumph in the competition of two civilizations would have to take place in the minds and souls of men. “We are too quick to jump to calculating the military and scientific instead of humanistic aspects of world crisis.” In the words of historian Christopher Dawson, Dr. Kertesz felt that the situation, divided as it is, still affords the possibility for a “world-wide expansion of the West.”
In a subsequent lecture on October 22, Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, also of the Political Science Department and recently returned from Germany, examined one of the world’s trouble spots, discussing “American Foreign Policy and the Image of Germany.” Documenting his treatment of American diplomacy with discussion of de Tocqueville’s concept of a “democratic foreign policy,” Woodrow Wilson’s diplomatic forays with Germany, and Walter Lippmann’s theory of American foreign relations, Dr. Hermens offered the conviction that a direct relationship exists between a democratic country’s foreign policy and its domestic policy. Hence, he concludes, a popular psychology greatly misguided in its thinking could wreck a foreign policy beyond recognition. The simplified picture now presented in our age of mass communication often affords a stereotyped image of a nation. In this regard, Professor Hermens apparently feels that William Shirer’s work, The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich} and incidents like the Eichmann case contribute to promoting a simplified image.
However, it was in vain that the audience listened for some inkling of exactly what this image of Germany was. Told that it was “not realistic” and “overworked,” there was no attempt to relate it to important questions such as reunification. According to Dr. Hermens, this
problem might be alleviated by the rise of a new nationalism. He felt that there could not be two German states, that to recognize East Germany now would be merely recognizing terror. With regard to West Berlin all that was learned was that defense of the divided city was no more than defense of all of West Germany, and perhaps all of Western Europe.
The question of Washington’s relation to all of this remained somewhat of a mystery. Contending that U.S. diplomats have never adequately learned the lessons of post-World War I international tensions and have not done their diplomatic homework prior to, during, and after the second world conflict, Dr. Hermens advocates a strong foreign policy based upon thinking before acting.
This final conclusion prompted a question from the audience — the most invigorating thought expressed in the entire evening’s discussion. The query: “If it were true that American foreign policy or that of any democratic nation would never learn the lessons of the Nazi take-over or policies of the Chinese communists, it appears that the teachings of history are useless to such departments of state and hence we will continue to make the same mistakes and continue to be the brunt of our naivete.”
Dr. Hermens did not agree. He suggested that the democratic process was more flexible and workable in the case of international difficulties. Also, he added, one must remember the King of Sweden’s maxim on diplomacy: “The world is governed by small wisdom.”
A week later (October 29) Professor Robert Byrnes, Director of the Russian Institute at Indiana University, continued the optimism previously expressed by his colleagues in a lecture titled, “New Glimpses into Eastern Europe.” The talk was based on a summer’s journey through Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Bulgaria in order to inaugurate a series of exchange programs involving graduate students of these countries and the U.S.
Because of obvious language barriers Dr. Byrnes had to confine his discussions with governmental, clerical, and educational leaders of these countries. Nevertheless, his observations aligned almost identically with those of Professors Kertesz and Hermens regarding the depths of Russian domination in these areas. Although some observers would have us believe that the Soviets completely dominate the minds of these people,
(Continued on page 2Jf)
14
The Scholastic
LAW BOARDS
by J- J- Pottmyer
Tomorrow, throughout the land (as well as in 13 foreign countries), college students will engage in that great sport of competitive aptitude and achievement tests. The results from these tests can be sent to various institutions of higher learning which will, invariably, ignore them. Students are particularly fortunate in having some liberty in choosing the date they take the examinations. These tests can be taken either on the week end of a home-football game or during final exams for the first semester.
It is well recognized that any attempt to “cram” for the tests in a short period is futile. One would have to learn the distinctions between good test words such as: obloquy, obsequious, obsequies, obviate, ocarina, occult, obtrude, obtund, ochre, ontogeny, etc. Many students have been observed to have almost total breakdowns attempting to distinguish between all the words beginning with O. It should be noted in passing that these words constitute a disproportionate number of the words used in word analogies, synonyms, and other parts of the verbal tests.
Many students wonder whether or not to guess answers to questions about which they are not certain. It should be borne in mind that a certain percentage of the wrong answers raised to the power of the negative of the natural logarithm of the student’s age less five times the standard deviation of the number of incorrect answers in a particular section is subtracted from the number of correct answers. Although the effect of this correction has not yet been determined, it is hoped that it will discourage students from haphazard guessing.
As an aid to those who will be taking the test tomorrow, we are publishing some of the more difficult questions from the test, a copy of which was purloined by our staff at great risk.
1.	Six chimpanzees sitting at six typewriters
(A)	would destroy the typewriters in less than a day
(B)	invented the phrase “most grave penalty”
,(C) would require only 5 million years to type all the books
currently in the Notre Dame library
(D) were once observed to type “xuY68aNdl ggg kiq riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of shore to bend of bay, brings us by a com-modius vicus of recirculation. ...”
2.	Notre Dame is a
(A)	city
(B)	town
(C)	hamlet
(D)	zoo
(E)	university
3.	The difference between God and 	is that the former is everywhere whereas the latter is everywhere except Notre Dame.
(A) Fr. Hesburgh (B) Fr. Sorin’s statue (C) sunshine (D) cannot be determined on the basis of information given
4.-------It is erroneous to-the existence of traditions from the 	of a press-box announcer. (A) deduce . . pronouncements (B) influence . . success
(C) degrade . . failures
5.	COACH : SPORTS ANNOUNCER ::
(A)	loss : settlement
(B)	sorrow : pleasure (C) 1962 : 1963
6.	HABITAT : ANIMAL :: AIRPLANE :
(A) engine (B) aileron (C) Fr. Hesburgh
7.	A book retails normally for $5.98. The wholesale price is $4.50. The Notre Dame Bookstore is a nonprofit organization. The price of the book will be
(A) $6 (B) $6.50 (C) $7 (D) none of these
DIRECTIONS: Read the following passage. Then answer the following questions on the basis of what you have read. In some cases more than one answer will be correct. In all cases select the one answer which is most correct.
It has been observed that there is a correlation between performance on certain types of objective tests and the educational performance of candidates who take these tests. The use of these test scores increases the probability that a candidate’s abilities will be fairly evaluated. When properly used, test scores can save time and money by eliminating undesirable applicants before they “flunk” out. The distribution of raw scores is observed to deviate slightly from the Normal or Gaussian distribution, which gives a bell-shaped probability curve. Indeed, a bit of skewness is not entirely undesirable insofar as candidates with low scores (who are therefore imbeciles anyway) are most apt to be “suckered” into spending another $12 to try to improve their scores.
8.	On the basis of the above passage it can be concluded that
(A) this test is good (B) this test is very good
(C)	all schools should require objective entrance tests.
(D)	these tests are written by positivists and make no sense to someone educated in Aristotelian philosophy who, by that reason, deserves to fail anyway.
November 16, 1962
15
Chicago Primer
If you’re walking down Chicago’s
Michigan Avenue on Thanksgiving Day, listening to the wind whistle “Chicago, Chicago, that wonderful town,” and if that wind that never stops starts you thinking about Mom’s roast turkey and cranberry sauce, the best place to go is Ivanhoe’s for an old English dinner in Sherwood forest and a nip or two in one of the Dungeon’s seven bars. Another place to have that Thanksgiving dinner is Jacque’s, for people who don’t like turkey there is George Diamond’s, Don the Beachcomber’s and the Golden Ox.
The best place to stay is at a friend’s house; the “Y” is the next cheapest, but not for three or four days. The best place in Chicago is the Hilton, but bring some buddies along.
If you’re out of bed before six p.m., there sire several interesting places where you might kill a day.
The Museum of Science and Industry will take a whole day to go through, but it will be interesting even to the most avowed anti-intellectual. The Chicago Board of Trade is the world’s largest grain exchange — lots of excitement there.
The Art Institute of Chicago has the largest collection of paintings in the Midwest, and if you’re a real down-to-earth pseudo, don’t miss the
showing of the major works of Georges Braque at the Arts Club of America, 109 East Ontario.
For economists who like to gaze at stars sans femme, there’s a good look at the Adler Planetarium and another at the Dearborn Observatory. Right next to the planetarium is Shedd’s Aquarium, which is the largest building in the world devoted exclusively to fish.
While on the subject of animals — the Brookfield Zoo has one of the largest and most diversified collections of animals west of South Bend. Penguins, by the way, are fed at 3:30. Also Lincoln Park Zoo with its well-rounded collection of 2600 mammals has Zoo Parade and Otter feeding at 3:00.
The 63rd annual Livestock Exposition moves into the International Amphitheatre on the 24th. It’s reputed to be the best in the country.
All of the above-mentioned places, are inexpensive, if not free; but at night, Chicago, though it does put on a good show, still knows how to grab a buck. So for that reason the E’s, M’s, and C’s which you’ll find below after each of the night spots will try to be a guide to the expensive, moderate, and cheap places around town. Of course it really hinges on one’s own capacity for overindulgence, so there’s no way of knowing
about individual cases. For shows, seats can be found in all three ranges, if you can get seats. Chicago is not the theater town New York is, but there is a lot less to go around.
For the opera lover, the Lyric Opera is putting on Verdi’s Rigoletto Wednesday and Friday. If you’ve never seen an opera this might be a good time to catch one and you may be pleasantly surprised. Thursday and Friday the excellent Chicago Symphony Orchestra will be directed by guest conductor Hans Rosbaud, and here again this is a very fine opportunity to broaden stagnant cultural interests.
Carnival is playing nightly at the Schubert, and if you missed Mary, Mary when it was in town, you can see it at the Blackstone. At Second City, The Establishment, an offbeat group of British satirists, is causing eyes to open and is well worth seeing.
The only sporting event other than the Livestock Exhibition is at Chicago Stadium, where the Black Hawks take on the Detroit Red Wings on the 22nd and the New York Rangers on the 24th.
After the theater there’s the Tip Top Tap Room over the Allerton Hotel and the Carousel in the Morrison that have good drinks and good views (E). The Old Town Ale House and the Old Town Pump challenge you to all you can drink for $2.00 from 7 till 9. (M) Old Town, on the Near North Side, is a great place for cardless lads. Unless you’re from Gainesville, Ark. be sure to miss Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs, (folk singers?), in the Prudential Building Auditorium Nov. 21.
But, if you don’t like money, you can catch Ahmad Jamal at the London House and then stop in and ogle Rusty Warren at Mister Kelley’s (E).
Here'are a couple of cabarets that have good entertainment: Bourbon Street — good band, but $3.00 minimum (E) Camelia House — best band in city and a good place to impress a date (E). Professor John Logan reads his poetry at the Rising Moon on Tuesday, and the rest of the week it’s a real swinging place. (C)
For Dixieland fans who don’t need $2.50, you can hear the best at Jazz Ltd. (M). Also there’s real good jazz on the South Side at the Sutherland Lounge (M). It’s a Small World, but you can hear very good folk singing there any night of the week (C).
Finally the Chicago Club’s annual Thanksgiving dance will be held Saturday night at the Pick-Congress. If you can grab a date, they say these things get pretty wild.
— Vince De Coursey and -	Joe Caspar
16
The Scholastic
The Innocents. Hopefully, this film will be shown again at the University in the near future. It is certainly one of the finest of American pictures, a psychological interpretation of Henry James’s The Turn Of The Screw. Deborah Kerr performs splendidly as Miss Gibbons, a psychosexual young woman who becomes governess to two neurotic children, Miles and Flora, played almost flawlessly by Peter Wyngrave and Megs Jenkins. Miss Gibbons, in part, personifies a kind of psychological evil, bent upon destroying every fragile thing in her milieu (flowers fall apart when she touches them — and this type of symbolic action is latent throughout the movie, culminating with her destruction of the children).
In the first scene, Miss Gibbons, who is not only looking for a man but for a father to replace the one she lacked as a child, falls in love with the debonair uncle of Miles and Flora, and accepts the position of governess to his niece and nephew on his country estate. The setting of the rest of the movie is this estate, which exhibits a variety of psychological symbols: a lake, a castle with a tower, a circular courtyard, a circular patio, etc. Here Miss Gibbons has hallucinations of ghosts — Miss Jessel, the former governess, and Peter Quint, Miss Jessel’s sadistic, evil, and masculine lover. She fabricates an idea that these ghosts are trying to reach each other by possessing the bodies of the children, to whom they were close when alive. The effect of this is that she falls in love with the child, Miles, whom she now sees as the embodiment of Peter Quint and, because Miles resembles him, the uncle. No one sees these ghosts except her and the audience — the audience because the movie is presented from the third-person-limited viewpoint and stays exclusively behind Miss Gibbons. Hence, the governess begins to find herself going
MOVIES
mad; her contrivances and supernatural analyses become more fantastic, and she tries to make the children admit that they see the ghosts and are possessed by them. But the children, who had been deeply attached to Quint and Miss Jessel, react violently to her forceful exhortations and are annihilated: first Flora, like the symbolic flowers before her, is cruelly destroyed, falling into insanity in the superb but horrifying patio scene; then, after sending Flora and all the servants away, the governess is left alone with Miles. She tries to make him admit that he is possessed, but he sees through her, blatantly tells her off, and throws Rupert, a pet tortoise (an archetype of masculinity and evil) at her. But this is not enough, and, in the climactic moment, he is torn apart entirely. Miss Gibbons then seals her crime by kissing his dead lips, and the movie is complete.
Requiem For A Heavyweight. This movie is overbilled and somewhat overrated. Columbia calls it “the gutsiest picture ever made,” which may be considered ominous. But it isn’t guts — and certainly not action — that makes this picture good; it is perceptive characterization. Anthony Quinn, though a bit heavy-handed, does a good job in his portrayal of the heavyweight, Louis “Mountain” Rivera. Jackie Gleason displays his renowned versatility in the part of Mountain’s perfidious manager, and, together with Mickey Rooney, the loyal trainer, presents the only truly humorous scene of the movie, a cardgame direct from “The Honeymooners,” with Rooney taking Art Carney’s part. The movie, a dusky drama from Rod Serling, centers on Mountain Rivera’s tragedy — his loss of the only profession he knows, prize-fighting. He is entrapped by the ring he has been expelled from, which is
by James Devlin
symbolized by the square (the elevator scene is the best example) throughout the movie. It is also a study of humility — Rivera’s acceptance of the most lowly and repugnant occupation, show-boy wrestling, in order to save his disloyal manager from destruction at the hands of racketeers. The plot is not unique, not even representative of Serling’s skill, but the acting and photography are good, and the pain of Mountain Rivera’s situation comes poignantly, and sometimes embarrassingly, across.
AVON—As of Monday, the manager didn’t know what was going to be showing this week end. In case they don’t show anything, the South Bend Public Library is next door, and it’s not really such a bad library, even by normal standards. Probably the best thing in South Bend.
COLFAX—Gay Purr-ee, a featurelength cartoon with (among others) the voices of Judy Garland and Red Buttons. Ho-hum.
(ee: 1:15, 3:10, 5:05, 7:00, 9:00)
GRANADA—What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? has, not surprisingly, been held over. This is the best movie that’s appeared in South Bend since school started. Betty Davis is Baby Jane and Joan Crawford is her sister Blanche. They have a lot of fun torturing each other, and the ending is laughsville too.
(What?: 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, 9:00)
STATE—Harold Lloyd’s World of Comedy, in case you didn’t know, is a pretty funny old world. The Three Stooges in Orbit is all right if you can’t walk any farther and want to get in out of the rain. You should be able to sleep through it without much trouble.
(World: 1:20, 4:30, 7:40; Orbit: 3:00, 5:50, 9:20)
November 16, 1962
17
Hrw hOXT
WALK
The University Theater production of William Shakespeare’s Hamlet goes downhill rapidly after the opening scenes—as an immense boulder goes downhill, constantly gaining a bounding irresistible momentum. The cumulative impact of this vertiginous presentation is (to use tasteful and expected critical understatement and reserve) considerable. Actually it is tremendous.
Not to take anything away from the obvious gifts of the players, the real power of this performance seems to be released by a relatively simple directing device: the facile and swift delivery of the Shakespearean dialogue. Though this device may be simply conceived, its organization and execution must needs be arduous.
Amateur productions of Shakespeare, if the University Theater’s production may be thusly grouped, seem most likely to collapse completely on this very point of speed of delivery. Nothing would mire Hamlet as readily as breathy pauses and soulful glances. It is this same point that Fr. Harvey’s directing converts from a potential disaster to a genuine triumph.
It is sheer toil rather than sheer plod that makes this “plow down silion shine.” Shakespearean dialogue delivered at an Old Vic pace is not easy to listen to and follow; in fact, it requires a distinct effort on the part of the audience. The demands in terms of elocution, interpretation, and so on, on players who usually speak American English, are much greater. But the rewards are amazing, as can be seen in the University Theater’s Hamlet. The “magic spell” is cast; and the cast themselves fall under it. The scenes and speeches flow together, the
movement of the play becomes compelling. The pace builds and builds until it seems that the dramatic tension will surely break, and its final release, after the death of Hamlet, is electric.
Alacrity of speech and gesture follows naturally from the conception of Hamlet as a man of action, giving the whole performance a vibrant tenor. Richard Kavanaugh seems temperamentally ideal for a violent Hamlet, and in the second half of the performance, as the action begins to
pulse, he truly comes alive as does his Hamlet—it becomes difficult to believe that the black-clad, sallow figure bounding about the stage is really Richard Kavanaugh and not the Prince of Denmark.
Because this Hamlet is a man of action, Kavanaugh seems a bit ill at ease or constrained in the early moments of the play before his confrontation with the ghost gives him cause for definite action, but perhaps this stiffness is necessary and it rapidly disappears. Another consequence of Hamlet being as impetuous as portrayed by Kavanaugh is that he seems a bit mad from the start, prior to his assumed madness. A Hamlet of action, besides spurring the pace, serves also to explain otherwise perplexing sequences such as his stabbing of the hidden Polonius, his killing of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, and his leaping aboard a pirate ship.

Kavanaugh has added considerable inflection to the rich cadence of his voice for the role of Hamlet, and^so the famous soliloquies are swift and deft, but his control in the scenes of \ interaction and more sanguine humors is just superb. The scene with his mother, Queen Gertrude, and the whole sequence of the play within the play, can’t be commended too highly.
The other question, why does a Hamlet of action hesitate, is skillfully answered by Kavanaugh as he brings to the audience’s consciousness the
clear realization that Hamlet is quite alone, isolated, trapped in a situation, a world, pervaded by evil and sin. How can any good act be performed in a corrupt world? In addition, Kavanaugh slips in a subtle suggestion that Hamlet, impatient as he is, simply doesn’t want to kill Claudius even though Claudius murdered his father.
Though Kavanaugh is better than ever, the cast is definitely not a one-man gang; and the play doesn’t become a vehicle for Hamlet’s character development.
The part of Ophelia doesn’t seem particularly difficult to play; the difficulty seems to be in the prior decision as to what, if anything, is wrong with her. I feel sure that the right decision was made. Ophelia, as done by Gayle Foy, is clearly not normal from the beginning, limpet-like in her attachment to Laertes, Hamlet, and especially her father Polonius. When
18
The Scholastic
by Carl F. Wiedemann
all three are removed from her suddenly, she can no longer manage herself or her environment. Her madness is easily understandable, and Gayle Foy’s rendition of the mad scenes is both vastly gripping and emotionally tearing. In a Broadway musical it would be called a show stopper. Gayle Foy’s Ophelia is a fine distaff counterbalance to Richard Kavanaugh’s Hamlet. x.
The other woman in Hamlet’s life, his mother. Queen Gertrude, is portrayed handsomely by Angela Schreiber. Her earlyMines are competent, motherly and qbeenly enough. But once the Queen becomes distraught with the realization of her possible duplicity in the enveloping evil and with multiplying calamities, Angela Schreiber remarkably maintains a tone of voice wracked and choked with growing grinding despair, a tone that never becomes tiring or absurdly rer morseful. The part could easily have been overdone, but it was instead sympathetic, real, and full.
James Loula, as Gertrude’s husband King Claudius, still vaguely sounds as if he were reading his lines, but when his scene comes, kneeling and attempting to pray, he rises to it, or rather kneels to conquer. His Claudius is a reluctant dragon and not an unsympathetic character. This quality makes Hamlet’s hesitation more believable, but also makes it seem a little strange that all the evil in the play is emanat
ing from Claudius. His surface kindness seems more genuine than unctuous, and he seems at times more like a Dutch uncle than Hamlet’s treacherous uncle. Oddly enough, Claudius doesn’t come off the worse for it, perhaps because Jim Loula puts so much sheer force into his part. When Claudius goes down before Hamlet’s sword, Jim Loula does it so realistically that one wonders if he’ll be able to get up for a curtain call.
Though Laertes may be a carefree character at the beginning of the play, Hank Whittemore appears to be acting in a different key or at a different pitch from everyone else. When Laertes returns to encounter the twin deaths of his father and sister, however, Mr. Whittemore is able to make a greater change than does Laertes, and does it well. His Laertes is very boyish as well as hotheaded, a Hamlet without restraint of intellect, but at the end a good match for Hamlet sboth with the sword and as a characterization.
rm afraid I can by no means justify John \Patrick Hart’s treatment of Poloniusxas a foolish and effeminate old fop. I’m sure this interpretation comes near^endangering the whole performance ahd disrupting the balance in the play put there by Shakespeare. His acting can in no way be faulted. He plays the role to the hilt with great confidence and superior technique. But the part, I feel, could
not be conceived more wrongly. There are several reasons. First, Polonius is too closely connected with the king (the focal point of evil) as chief counselor, to be taken lightly. Second, if Polonius is an utter comic ass, then Laertes and Ophelia are fools to be so upset over his death even out of duty or because of an abnormal family relationship. Third, though Polonius’ speeches are tedious, dull, and a bit amusing, if we listen to what he says rather than how he says, there is very great malice in his ramblings which John Hart loses completely. Fourth, there seems to be enough comic relief in the gravediggers and Osric (who, for some reason, Sean Griffin brought off as rather strait-laced). One drunken porter is enough in Macbeth. Finally, if we can’t take Polonius seriously, which we can’t here, his murder is not a “rash and bloody deed” but instead loses all significance. Polonius is a fool, but is nonetheless a malevolent and evil-minded old man and not an effeminate fop, if the play is to make complete sense, which I think it does. Even a Falstaff-like Polonius
(Continued on page 2S)
November 16, 1962
19
HOGAN DRIVES PAST KALTENBACH FOR FIRST IRISH SCORE
Irish Bid to Even Season Record
Tomorrow’s North Carolina encounter begins the final third of the season for Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish. The team will be trying to salvage what started as a “lost season” and build up the momentum to carry them through next year’s play.
It was this newly found momentum which brought the Irish through the second half of the Navy contest and mushroomed to a 43-point surge against Pitt. It is this momentum that has killed, at least for a while, the “Joe’s gotta go” movement on campus. Should this momentum continue through the final three games, JLK may well pull a “Murray Warmath” right here at Notre Dame.
North Carolina is not one of the better teams Notre Dame has faced so far. “Moose” Krause must have felt that the Irish would need a breather at this stage in the season. The Tar Heels’ six-game statistics show only one man, Ken Willard, with more than 100 yards on the ground, as the Tar Heels compiled a 2-4 record. In their last two outings, North Carolina broke even, losing, 17-6, to Clemson, then topping Virginia, 11-7.
Junior Junior Edge directs the Tar Heel offense and carries a sixty per
20
cent completion average into tomorrow’s action. Last year, as sophomore Junior Edge, he was UNC’s top defensive back, intercepting seven passes in as many games. This year, Edge’s offensive role has limited his defensive play.
Carolina is trying to run a three-platoon system this year, mimicking LSU’s efforts of a few years back. The starting team is called the Blues, the offensive team, the Rams, and the defensive lineup, the Tar Heels. The success of the system thus far is doubtful, unless one looks on North Carolina’s 3-5 mark as successful.
The Tar Heels should give Notre Dame a chance for rest and experimentation before the Irish face Iowa a week from tomorrow. Iowa is a team that has showed moments of brilliance (28-14 over Ohio State) and moments of mediocrity (a 42-14 trouncing at the hands of Wisconsin). Statistically, the Hawkeyes should be hard to beat, yet their record is only .500. Their quarterback, Matt Szykowny, was seventh in the nation in passing last season with a .568 percentage and 1,078 yards gained via the airways.
Szykowny’s teammates in the backfield are noteworthy. The Hawk
eyes boast Bill Perkins who last year led the team in rushing at fullback, Sammie Harris at right half, and Larry Ferguson, All-American in 1960, at the left halfback position. Ferguson was injured in Iowa’s opening game last season and was unable to play the rest of the schedule. Since he didn’t play more than a few minutes, he was awarded an extra year of eligibility. Though he is not having as good a year as 1960, he will look mighty good compared to North Carolina’s backs.
After Iowa, the Irish close the season in the Los Angeles Coliseum against Southern California. A few games ago, one would think the visit was to feed the lions. The Trojans have improved, to say the least, since last year’s 30-0 drubbing by Lamon-ica, Dabiero and mates. Quarterback Pete Beathard and end Hal Bedsole have led Southern Cal to seven victories in a row and should they beat UCLA next week, they’ll meet the Irish undefeated and assured of a Rose Bowl bid.
Momentum is the key to Irish victory. If this momentum continues, no team will be good enough to beat them.
—Joe Ryan
The Scholastic
Cage Preview...
Inexperience — this is the major problem facing the 1962-63 Irish eagers. But Varsity Coach John Jordan and his assistant, Chuck Lennon, look forward to a season that they hope will make amends for last year’s 7-16 tragedy. The first three games of a rugged schedule will be at home. Notre Dame will open the season December 1 against St. Joseph’s followed by Michigan State on the 4th and St. Francis on the 6th.
The varsity squad numbers 14 players, including eight sophomores. Four of last year’s top six players have departed. Co-Captains John An-dreoli (6-3) and John Matthews (6-0) are the returning starters who averaged 13.0 and 12.2 points per game, respectively, through the 1961-62 campaign.
There are three probable sophomore starters for the Irish. At the low post position under the backboards will be 6-9 Walt Sahm, an aggressive rebounder and defensive player. Ron Reed, a 6-5 forward possessing a deadly jump shot, will be at the high post. The versatile Andreoli and Jay Miller (6-4) are the corner men while Matthews is at the only guard position.
Another sophomore, Larry Sheffield (6-0), is likely to see plenty of action. An excellent dribbler and ball handler, Sheffield is also an outstanding rebounder for his height.
Juniors Tom Finnegan (6-2), primarily a defensive player, Ed Malloy (6-3), Sam Skarich (6-4), and Dick Erlenbaugh (6-3) give the team depth. They, along with sophs Larry Jesewitz, Jim Affeldt, Pat Dudgeon, and Owen Dowd, have been giving the first team strong competition in preseason scrimmages.
This season the Irish eagers will use the fast break more often than they have done in the past. A switching man-to-man coverage will be employed on defense.
Teams like Kentucky, Indiana, DePaul, NYU, and Illinois are on the Irish schedule and tabbed to be among the top 25 in the nation by some preseason polls. The outcome of the season will depend, to a large extent, on the performance of some talented, but inexperienced sophomores.
—Rex Lardner
Voice in the Crowd
It has been and will continue to be the policy of the sports department to give praise to the football team when it is deserved and criticism when it is needed. We cannot follow Coach Joe Kuharich’s wishes by giving unqualified support of the club, thereby becoming merely another publicity organ of the University. However, we have never been and will never be the cynics that we were denounced as by senior end Dennis Murphy at last Friday’s pep rally. We feel that the absurdity of the charges was realized by the majority of the student body and many members of the team.
THE BEST IN FOUR YEARS
Whether it was a “show the Scholastic” attitude that inspired the team against Pitt is debatable. However, whatever the cause was, the fact remains that Notre Dame played its best game under Kuharich in winning, 43-22. The 22-point first-quarter outburst by the Irish recalled the better days of some of Frank Leahy’s championship squads. Notre Dame jelled in such a manner that it is hard to believe that this same team lost four straight games.
The performance is even more outstanding considering that Pitt is certainly not a weak team. Jim Traficant and Paul Martha are two of the better backs Notre Dame has faced this season. Fullback Rick Leeson is rated by Kuharich above Michigan State’s Irish wrecker George Saimes as an all-around back. While it is unlikely that any college back is more of a threat than the “Golden Greek,” Leeson is, as Kuharich says, “one of the strongest players in the country.”
This certainly was a team victory in which almost everyone blocked better, ran better, and generally played better football than in any past game. However, there were — even in this array of superior performances — two individual standouts. They were junior end Jim Kelly and senior quarterback Daryle Lamonica. Kelly’s deeds are ably described in this week’s feature story; I can only add , that Kelly cannot be overrated and will cer- sharp as hell tainly go down as one of the greatest receivers, if not the greatest, in Notre Dame history.
Kuharich summed it up best when he said that Lamonica was “sharp as hell.” His over-all play selection was superb and his direction of the team left nothing to be desired. Lamonica tied Angelo Bertelli’s record with 17 completions and four TD tosses, and showed great poise when pressured by the tough Pitt line. It was definitely an AllAmerican performance.
A COME-BACK UNIT
Notre Dame has played topflight football in the last two games after its disastrous encounter with the Big Ten. There is no reason to believe that this comeback will not continue. Lamonica is giving the Irish the signal-calling leadership that, except in a few cases, they have lacked in recent years. Don Hogan and Ron Bliey are the best pair of sophomore halfbacks Notre Dame had had in recent memory. If the line shows steady improvement, the Irish should be a powerful opponent in the remainder of the schedule — including the Southern California game.
— John Bechtold
November 16, 1962
The Pass-catcher
Part of Notre Dame’s football heritage is a tradition of great passcatchers, stretching all the way from Knute Rockne to Leon Hart, Jim Mut-scheller, halfback Jim Morse, and Monty Stickles. Jim Kelly proved on Saturday something a number of people have suspected for over a year — that he belongs among them.
Not only was Kelly’s showing against Pittsburgh one of the outstanding single-game individual performances of the Kuharich era, it was probably the finest game played by a Notre Dame end in over a decade.
By catching 11 passes for 127 yards and three touchdowns, Kelly wrote his name in the Notre Dame record book with those of Mutscheller and Stickles, breaking Stickles’ mark of eight receptions set against Pitt in 1958, and tieing the record of three touchdown catches in a single game set in 1949 by Mutscheller, late of the Baltimore Colts. His season total of 27 catches for 363 yards puts Kelly within easy striking distance of Mutscheller’s season mark of 35, set in 1950.
“It was a great victory for the team,” concluded Kelly. “I could feel before the game that we were going to win it. We had a new spirit that came with confidence. I know that I personally wanted that game in the worst way, because I played right alongside their tackle, Gary Kalten-
bach, for two years in high school.
“We didn’t plan to throw as much as we did, but it worked so well that we kept trying it. Daryle was throwing ’em right in there; his passing couldn’t have been better. I even messed him up a few times with some cuts I made — I didn’t wind up where I should have been.
“Daryle’s always been able to throw like that, but the fine protection he got from our line made a big difference, I think. He only got spilled once, when I was the only receiver and couldn’t shake the two men who were on me, and he had to eat the ball.
“Two of the touchdown passes Daryle threw to me were on the same play — a fake-run rollout pass. I faked a pinching block to the inside, Don Hogan came wide as a receiver, taking the defenders down and out with him; they forgot all about me, and I just cut behind them, all alone.”
Kelly, a 6-2, 190-pounder from Clairton, Pa., who showed so much promise as a high school pass-catcher that he had over 85 college scholarship offers, has his own philosophy of pass catching. “There are a lot of things a good receiver must have or do,” he says, “but most important is what Red Hickey, coach of the San Francisco 49ers, calls ‘an utter disregard of the consequences.’ What he
means is that when you turn your back on the defender, as you often have to, you can’t hear footsteps, because your complete concentration must be on the ball.”
Also vital: knowledge of the defenders and what moves it takes to get loose, the ability to spot the quarterback in a split second and to see the ball coming, good hands — “especially on short passes, the ball should never touch your body.”
“I’ve worked with Daryle mostly on short patterns,” explains Kelly. “I know I can get open consistently, and I especially like running hooks and comebacks. On a play like this, the quarterback throws the ball to a spot, and it’s the receiver’s job to be there. You run down hard, fake out, and come back toward the line of scrimmage. As a result, the defender is still backpedalling while the ball is in the air, and he has almost no chance to break up the play.
“I guess nothing helps a receiver or ball carrier more than a good call,” Kelly mused. “The play on which Daryle threw me that jump pass for the touchdown was a perfect example. It was a great call. He caught them all bunched up, and his fake into the line brought them up even tighter. I was all alone.
“You know, we couldn’t do anything wrong Saturday.”
—Terry Wolkerstorfer
22
The Scholastic
Mitchell Travel Service
LaSalle Hotel — South Bend
CE 2-2253 — Phones — CE 3-1181 Res.: CE 2-0185
•
OPEN SATURDAYS
•
*	AIRUNE RESERVATIONS
*	HOTEL & RESORT RESERVATIONS
All at no extra charge to you.
ICE SKATES $9.95 up
Reco Sporting Goods
113 N. Main St.
Next to Oliver Hotel
STAY WITH A N.D. MAN
BLUE & GOLD MOTEL
1 BLOCK NORTH OF TOLL ROAD
EXIT ON U.S. 31
•
Reservations: CE 4-0136
•
CHUCK SWEENEY, N.D. ’38
LOUIS ANDERSON, N.D. ’38
A Most Welcome Gift
For Christmas
SPECIAL
4 LOVELY GIH MINIATURE PORTRAITS $950
N.D. Student Card Honored LIMITED OFFER
o
Call Now: CE 2-2003
McDonald Studio
116 W. COLFAX
November 16, 1962
EXPERIENCED SHOE SALESMAN NEEDED TO WORK PART-TIME at leading department store — EXCELLENT EARNINGS —
Apply to Mr. Prue, Shoe Dept., Robertson’s, South Bend
23
AVAILABLE
AT
GOLDBERG’S
MEN'S STORE
324 S. MAIN
ELKHART, IND.
getting the big play!
GENUINE HOOKA
(Turkish Water Pipe)
No argument. In slacks the leader is Post-Grads. Taking it from the top, they’ve got traditional belt loops and on-seam pockets (no tricky jazz). Slim as a licorice stick, they taper off at the bottoms with solid cuffs. Get Post-Grads, the genuine article—in a flock of colorful, washable fabrics; at swingin’ stores $4.95 to $12.95.
Post-Grad Slacks
Have a harem of your own—read on A new smoking rage is about to sweep American college campuses. Alter decades, the Hooka (or Turkish Water Pipe) is now being rediscovered as a noticeably more enjoyable and safer way to get smoking enjoyment. The smoke actually bubbles through cool water before reaching your lips. The result is the coolest and best filtered smoke yet obtainable.
No statistics have yet been obtained, but we venture a guess that 9 out of 10 women prefer men who smoke HOOKAS. Probably some gals will want you to take them into your Harem. In any case, this device is a real gas, a sophisticated novelty, and, incidentally, a good gift item. Be the first in your block to own one. Comes complete with simple instructions, and full money back guarantee. Send $3.75 cash, check, or MO to: HOOKAS, P.O. Box No. 630, Oak Park, Hl.
International Relations
(Continued from page 14) Dr. Byrnes does not agree but rather accredits failings of U.S. foreign policy in Eastern Europe to general misunderstanding and many times total ignorance of existing situations. As an advocate of extensive studentexchange programs, his solution was quite evident.
Contending that one simply doesn’t “write off a hundred million people off the map” because of backwardness to your methods, he pointed out that an exchange program must be so constructed as to bring about more than mere transfer of students. Apparently in the past only scientists have had access to Western ideas through such a program, while the U.S. sends a more balanced amount of students in both the humanities and the sciences. The result: No Western-orientated historians, political scientists, or statesmen return to this area, hi short, no policy makers emerge from Eastern Europe as a result of the exchange.
However, for the American student interested in the study of Eastern European affairs abroad, the academic opportunities in the satellite countries offer less red (literally) tape than is the case with mother Russia. Dr. Byrnes pointed out that those interested would find ample opportunities to pry the usually tightly sealed research centers to delve in primary sources, freedom to travel and correspond, and comparative ease in getting into the libraries of the countries he visited. There are obvious controls and one is closely watched, but conditions are not as acute as in the Soviet Union where a student needs a temporary passport for permission to travel from Leningrad to Moscow.
Drawing some general conclusions or as he terms it, “glimpses” about the area he visited, Professor Byrnes found Eastern Europe definitely behind the West. The “air of dissatisfaction in Czechoslovakia” was typical. The anticipated agricultural revolution has not come. The farms are still worked with hand hoes and rakes. The basic change is retrogression: “Now men tilling the fields are replaced not by machines, but by old ladies!”
And yet, the horizons are not totally bleak contends the Russian expert. The embers of 1956 still glow with heat and intensity and while Bulgarian nationalism may be dying, that of Hungary is not. On this darker side of the ledger, he prophesied that the next 50 years will see the Bulgarian language and culture
The Scholastic
24
evaporate under Soviet control. Nevertheless, although Sophia may be no more than a “little Moscow,” the Communist ideology is nothing more than “a joke” in other capitals of East Central Europe.
Apparently the Communist attempt a decade ago at forming a sort of “alliance for progress of Eastern Europe” was a premature move by the Soviets. Only now is any kind of confidence that advocates “shifting for themselves” ebbing into such areas. According to Dr. Byrnes, the outlook is to “go west” and hence an innovation like Telstar has had a great impact toward granting an additional point of view other than that of Moscow.
In conclusion, he felt that the Soviet propaganda wells had run dry of further persuasion and that the people of East Central Europe now “thirst for Western knowledge and information.” The area is ripe for intellectual and political warfare.
Endeavoring to provide more than glimpses into the situation, Professor McCartney from All Souls College, Oxford, presented the Rockne Lounge audience with an evaluation of “Eastern Europe Between the World Wars.” This lecture took place on November 5.
His talk also contained hope. A hope, as the Englishman put it, “to remedy the great disappointments of past developments” and to look for “another chance to reconstruct the map of the area.”
To the Hungarian expert, this period has been “the story of the long struggle of the principle of nationality.” The process of independence for the 14 nation-states in the early decades of the 20th century was naturally viewed by the liberal thinkers in both England and the United States as “an expression of each nation’s particular will.” But the life span of that expression was shortlived. According to Professor McCartney, the “New Eastern Europe lasted only 20 years”—by 1941 the process of sweeping revolution, consequent counterrevolution, and absolute dictatorship of the fascist variety had run its course. Not one of the original 14 had assumed a lasting government that was democratic in nature as had been hoped.
Nevertheless, politics was not the sole dilemma of the period. Wartime destruction, uprooted bands of refugees, the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the inevitable drop-out of the timber, tobacco, and wheat markets plunged the area into economic despair. The blight was universal; standards of living plummeted; total
(Continued on next page)
NOTICE!
UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT ROMAN INN CORNER OF NOTRE DAME & SOUTH BEND AVENUES “On the Bus Line” — DELICIOUS FOOD — 'Ar Hungarian	★ German
★ American	Jr Italian
DANCING DOWNSTAIRS
YOUR HOSTESS	YOUR CHEF
MISS “COBY”	JOE KRONBERGER
Manager	•
Private Rooms Available for Private Parties: For Arrangements Call CE 3-0480
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by W (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)	''
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S
|	Keep your hair and scalp F
wHAIvIr	really clean, dandruff-free!	?
tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control.


November 16, 1962
25
NOTICE — Special Scholastic Advertising Rates Now available for all Campus Clubs and Organizations For Information call JAY WARD, Ext. 515
THE SAFE WAY to stay alert without harmful stimulants
NoDoz keeps you mentally alert with the same safe refresher found in coffee and tea. Yet NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. Absolutely not habit-forming.
Next time monotony makes you feel drowsy while driving, working or studying, do as millions do . . . perk up with safe, effective NoDoz tablets.
Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
Are you a one pat or a two pat man? Vitalis with
V-7 keeps your hair neat all day without grease, f vitalisl Naturally. V-7® is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® L -y with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis with V-7 today!
(Continued, from preceding page) depression resulted. Even legislation of the American Congress back in 1921 and 1924 regarding immigration in the U.S. exerted pressure on a deficient economy unable to cope with an expanding population.
According to Dr. McCartney, “there was no one moment of absolute peace” because of constant boundary disputes, despite a historical phenomenon that had never occurred before and will probably never come about in the future. Central Europe had been the battleground for both the Great Slav and the Great Teuton in World War I. However, now both Russia and Germany were “out” simultanously of the world power structure and policy makers in Paris were pulling the diplomatic strings.
The power scrabble of pre-World Wai' I began anew. “The year 1939 saw not one of the little states courageous enough to help another one of its neighbors,” asserted McCartney. War came again to Central Eastern Europe.
Professor McCartney’s method of prevention of continued strife in this area was fivefold. He felt that the old system of “national states cannot be reconstituted—that it must be a political bloc that must be formed.” Secondly such a bloc must be neutral: “The old French treaties failed to serve any purpose in the past and they are only valuable as examples of what to avoid in the future.” A third aspect was the question of territorial limits and their location. Apparently, according to Professor McCartney, both the Germans and Russians had genuine grievances in the national bordei' line-ups after World War I.
As a fourth preventive measure, the West must assume the responsibility of working toward the greatest possible reduction of inequalities and minorities in order to secure unity. In his words, “the fact that in 1920, 24 out of 110 million Eastern Europeans belonged to various minorities must be remedied.”
In the last of his proposals, the Oxford scholar expounded the possibility of a federation for the entire area. How this would differ from the above-mentioned bloc was not explained. However, here again the feasibility of such plan was assured by a confident tone. The reason ? Growing desire for Westernization and “the slow and painful death of a mutual hostility among the various ethic groups because of confrontation with a mutual enemy. The Great Slav is no longer “out” and the Hungarians, Czechs, Bulgarians and their neighbors are well aware of it!
26
The Scholastic
COLLARED:
THE OXFORD LOOK
The Arrow “Gordon Dover Club” has captured the Oxford look with a newer, softly rolled button-down collar.
A trim placket front, button in back of collar — and back center plait completes the tradition. Comfort is tailored right into the cotton Oxford cloth. Come in and
collar yours now!
55.00
GILBERT'S
November 16, 1962
27
Hamlet
(Continued from page 19) might have been better. Polonius, as conceived (not as acted) by John Hart may be the production’s only serious flaw.
A special word of praise must be given to Terry Francke as Horatio. To him goes the Scholastic award for the best speaker of Shakespearean dialogue. Incidentally, his subtle and unobtrusive portrayal of the admirable philosopher is nearly perfect Dick Kavanaugh as Hamlet couldn’t have a truer friend (as far as rhe performance goes) than Francke. His part is not really large but he would be sorely missed.
The many smaller parts are articulate, smooth, and dexterous all, notably Michael Hartford and Frank Obert as the gravediggers. Some, however, are not particularly animated. For example, it is hard to conceive of Rosencrantz and Guilden-stem, played by C. Michael New-
brand and David Clennon respectively (who interestingly look alike just as their characters’ names sound alike) as comrades of the intense Hamlet. To say the least, none of the minor roles retard for a moment the performance’s driving tempo.
Any slip which may be present in the acting is easily carried by the staging and the production staff. Perhaps the cast should carry the production staff up onto the dais at the end of the play to be honored along with Hamlet’s body. The unit staging seems ideal and the use of an extended front stage, giving much greater access to the acting area, is a slight master stroke. Many threadlike details, such as the use of lighting during Ophelia’s burial, the costumes for the play within the play or the somber drop curtains of the king’s throne room, help weave the web of theatrical magic until it is like a cable. Occasionally the dialogue could have been altered to fit the production, such as the reference to
the armor of the Ghost, which he doesn’t have; or the significance of Fortinbras could have been made clear. But these are for the purists to debate.
Special mention must be made of the dueling scene. On first thought it seems that a dueling scene done with any ardor in Washington Hall would necessarily result in a theatergoer (probably a Scholastic critic) being stabbed through the heart. The dueling scene in the University Theater’s Hamlet comes off like the chariot race in Ben-Hur, on a smaller scale. No one would have been surprised if Hamlet and Laertes had begun swinging from drapes. For those who arrive late, it is worth going to Hamlet to see this scene alone. Hollywood may be the next step for fencing coach John Ricci.
In case someone hasn’t realized it by now, the University Theater is putting on a production of Handed that is, all things considered, excellent. In a word — a triumph.
The one lotion that’s cool, exciting -brisk as an ocean breeze!
The one-and-only Old Spice exhilarates...gives you that great-to-be-alive feeling...refreshes after every shave...adds to your assurance... and wins feminine approval every time. Old Spice After Shave Lotion,
I 1MA.I IC
1.25 and 2.00 plus tax. SHU LTO N — the shave lotion men recommend to other men!
28
The Scholastic
N I C O L A ' S Cracker Crust Pizza
• CE 4-6688
•
Restaurant in back at 607 No. Michigan
You Always Get a Square Deal at Breen’s
•	WATCHES	• DIAMONDS
•	RADIOS	• SHAVERS
Expert Watch Repairing
SPECIAL DISCOUNT TO N.D. STUDENTS
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 S. Michigan St. Phone AT 7-3630
COVER
In case there is any doubt the somber fellow on the cover is Pat Saxe’s rendition of Hamlet. Turn to the center spread for Carl Wiedemann’s review of this University Theatre production.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
AUTUMN SPECIAL • FREE Goodyear Rubber Heels with
MEN’S FULL SOLES.....$3.89 MEN’S HALF SOLES.....$2.89
•
•	QUALITY MATERIALS
•	EXPERT WORKMANSHIP
•	COURTEOUS SERVICE
•
Washington Shoe Repair Shop 116 West Washington Street
Sikorsky Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now for an appointment.
Wednesday, December 5
November 16, 1962
29
Letters
(Continued, from page 8) The going price started at $1.50. Then it went to $2.00 and finally got to $2.50. The justice of these prices is hard to determine since all figures have been withheld up to the present. What has been our capital outlay for Mr. Higgs, for instance? We know he came partly as the guest of the Young Democrats, but how much they paid and how much we paid is still unknown. How much do the dance halls cost? What is the profit on drinks? The point is, we don’t have any idea of our financial situation. How much will the next dance cost? Will the cost be posted before
dance time or will they count on the pressure at the door again ? How much do the bands cost? And lastly, and most importantly, how much does the publication of the Senior Survey cost per edition? What are the future plans for expenditures?
If their house is in order they should be able to furnish figures within the week. At any rate, after figures are available, I challenge them to a senior referendum on the continuation of the Senior Survey. True, the officers of our class have been elected, but I cannot believe that the class is voiceless as to what policies will be pursued, and helpless to change what is unacceptable to them. I want figures, and I want a referendum.
Figures in themselves are certainly no guarantee of honesty, and the lack of them is assuredly not a confirmation of corruption. But a periodically published report of income and expenditures shows that at least someone is keeping track, that the “petty cash” is still “petty,” and that there is some financial organization at least, in an administration that lacks editorial organization. The issues are clear, and I expect a reply.
— interested, and anxious seniors
(Editor: In our next regular issue there will be a reply to these “interested and anxious seniors” by Senior Class President Ed Eek.)
Message to BS & MS Candidates —Engineering and Physics
ANNOUNCING A NEW
CENTER OF CONCENTRATION IN SPACE TECHNOLOGY
GENERAL PRECISION AEROSPACE
To meet the nation’s burgeoning requirements for space exploration, General Precision has launched an endeavor focusing on aerospace systems with strong emphasis on guidance and control. These broad efforts will be centered in a rapidly expanding complex of laboratories, developmental and production facilities.
KEARFOTT FIGURES
PROMINENTLY IN NEW COMPLEX
Supported by Kearfott’s widely respected scientific staff and technical facilities, General Precision Aerospace is further strengthening its capabilities with a major Research Center for Space Sciences and a recently formed Aerospace Systems Division. Evidence of this group’s commanding technical posture lies in its initial assignment, a program to provide stellar-inertial guidance for a mobile mid-range ballistic missile. And beyond this are advanced programs supplying major guidance and control systems for projected missiles and space vehicles.
IMMENSE OPPORTUNITY AT GROUND-FLOOR LEVELS
Still in its formative stage, this new scientific community is rich in openings for talented young men capable of early growth toward leadership positions. Working with a select staff of scientists and engineers, they will find a flexible atmosphere open to fresh thinking at all levels.
FREEDOM TO EXPLORE MANY CAREER AREAS
During the incoming graduate's initial year, a formal professional training program allows unusual latitude for young scientists and engineers to “get the feel” of areas pertinent to their interest. The graduates are assigned to a specific engineering division akin to their interest and qualifications and during rotation may elect permanent assignment to a specific laboratory when their interest is defined. Advanced degree holders may choose an immediate assignment parallel to their preference and training. To the right are several broad areas where current assignments exist:
Stellar & Inertial Guidance System Land & Marine Navigation Systems Analysis & Test Analog & Digital Equipments Control Systems & Servo Mechanisms
Electronic Instrumentation & Circuit Development
Component Research & Development
Scientific Programming (Adv. Degree Req.) Engineering Math Analysis (Adv. Degree Req.)
Systems Field Engineering
We invite you to consider these career opportunities in a vital field. To learn more, arrange an interview through your Placement Director or write to: Robert L. LoPresto
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS NOVEMBER 26, 1962
1150 McBRIDE AVENUE. LITTLE
KEARFOTT DIVISION
SYSTEMS DIVISION
RESEARCH CENTER
FALLS, NEW JERSEY
An Equal Opportunity Employer
30
The Scholastic
WHOSE WHAT Dear Editor:
In your editorial last week, you adequately described many of the difficulties involved in selecting nominees for Who’s Who among Students in American Colleges and Universities. In spite of all the measures you advocated for a better choice of nominees, the question still remains as to just what type of excellence should be rewarded by placing names in this book which is sold to gloating parents and very few libraries.
I wonder if it would not be better to avoid the problem entirely by Notre Dame’s dropping out of Who’s Who. I might point out that the only other
major university which nominates students for this “honor” is Johns Hopkins. All the ivy league schools shun this organization.
I have known a few of the nominees from small colleges which are allowed three or four places in the Who’s Who. While one of these would probably have achieved this distinction if he had been going to Notre Dame, the rest emphatically would not.
I should point out that there are a few other advantages besides having one’s name in the book. One can buy an impressive gold lapel pin; one gets a certificate (this for free even); and one is entitled to three letters of
recommendation from the Who’s Who organization.
I don’t believe very many people at Notre Dame are inspired to greater heights by the prospect of nomination to this group made up largely of student leaders from state teachers’ colleges who would likely have no time at all for extracurriculars if attending Notre Dame. Jim Pottmyer 615 E. Washington (Editor: We feel the remarks of Jim Pottmyer deserve consideration and rebuttal by those most closely connected with the selection of Who’s Who candidates. Perhaps Paul Charon could clarify the issue, and briefly state this year’s procedure.)


Is this the only reason for ggi ®
using Mennen Skin Bracer?

Skin Bracer’s rugged, long-lasting aroma is an obvious attribute. But is it everything?
After all, Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the after-shave lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. Conditions your skin.
Aren’t these sound, scientific virtues more important than the purely emotional effect Skin Bracer has oh
urn
Mm
skin braces:
' women?
In that case, buy a bottle. And—have fun, ■H
November 16, 1962
31
Patronize your SCHOLASTIC advertisers
MICHIGAN
invites you to a
SKI WEEKEND
where the boys and girls are
where the snow is
where the accommodations are
Join the migration to Michigan’s snowy slopes and winter sports spots. Skiing and winter fun for all. Come by car, bus, train, or plane—attractive rates.
ECONOMICAL package rates that include everything
One easy price for complete ski weeks or weekends includes all your lodging, meals, lifts, rental equipment and instruction.
FOR FREE MICHIGAN SKI MAP, WRITE TO
MICHIGAN TOURIST COUNCIL
ROOM 65, STEVENS T. MASON BUILDING • LANSING 26, MICHIGAN
32
The Scholastic
Human beings do not exist in vacuo. Very often, a quite real kind of psychological nourishment sustains them and their dreams through the viscissitudes of existence. A heritage of faith established in American Catholics a driving kind of inner direction, compelling them to strive to shed the chrysalis of the ghetto and present themselves without liability on the American scene — socially, culturally, intellectually. Catholicism is a total view — a way of life. The outlook, the spirit, the drive that it imparts permeates, at its best, every facet of a Catholic undertaking. So much so, that often — even after intense secular influence — the drive itself may still remain, though its original source be no longer clearly recognized. But, as is the case with psychological influences of this kind, while it does exist it establishes certain meaningful jumping-off points, certain symbols representing the aspirations of the drive (which symbols often become traditions), certain sustaining ideas for those who are “believers.”
Not the least among the establishments of pure Catholic inner-direction in the United States is its educational apparatus. Momentarily, let us consider a particular facet of this educationally channeled inner-direction — that of the small group of Holy Cross priests who established Notre Dame. Without qualification, it was their intense, Catholic inner-direction which realized the foundation of this school. From their courageous vision and
driving belief came Notre Dame. In the years subsequent to the university’s originally bovine atmosphere, the inner-direction of those priests — their Catholic spirit, soon to be called the “Notre Dame spirit” — attached itself to all phases of educational life on the campus. It attached itself particularly to what was then only a very popular local vehicle for releasing the educational pressures of a completely masculine atmosphere — namely — the sport of football.
Through the years, this originally Catholic spirit with its inner-directed motivation for the ascendancy of the good and true in the Catholic perception of life effected what was to be a momentous transformation. It transformed the desire to win-or-die-trying-for-Notre-Dame in football games to a significance beyond that of a simple campaign to rack up victories. The desire to win football games, as a result of the Notre Dame spirit, became an answering construct, a symbol of the aspiration for which Notre Dame at her best stood — intellectually, culturally, socially, physically. It became a sustaining ideal for all associated with this university and, soon, for all those — Catholic and non-Catholic alike — who began to look wonderingly at the victorious facility of the school’s football team. Many began thinking — many grew up thinking — because of this very physical manifestation of internal spiritual, and intellectual strength — that perhaps there was something unique about the place. Perhaps there
was something which set it apart from every other university in the country — not to say the world.
The Notre Dame spirit, the desire to win over all for that abiding internal reason, became more than a sustaining symbol. It became a sustaining tradition. This tradition, this answering construct, nourished the school in a special way for many years. The values and meanings it held within its frame of reference were valid and good and, as mentioned above, stood for Notre Dame at her best.
We face a conundrum today where football is concerned. We have awakened to find that we no longer win simply as a matter of course. We have even begun to sneer at such terms as “winning tradition” and “Notre Dame spirit.”
This results because the answering construct of the tradition, the sustaining ideal, has lost its grace of meaning — like so many liturgical terms. We have awakened to find that the old meaning of Notre Dame football has escaped us. The old, unconscious, but clear-cut motivation is gone. Worse, there is a hysterical confusion of directives for the future. Should we continue to play football on the terms of Dr. Carberry and Dr. Hutchins, or should we let our football situation continue as it is, or should we forget football and continue in the hope of consistent and true intellectual development.
Carberrian-Hutchinsism suggests that we withdraw once again into a ghetto. This would be a ghetto of
November 16, 1962
33
The Football Dilemma continued
Ivied good guys. We’d play football with them while the likes of the big bad Big Ten boys go their devious way. This supposedly exemplary conduct seems so noble in the de jure yet is so cowardly in the de facto. (We need not be ashamed to call upon the de facto for its mundane wisdom.) Perhaps from the beginning the football tradition at Notre Dame was overblown and out of proportion. But the fact remains: for many years winning football representing the true spirit, direction and aspirations of this school psychologically, even more than financially, aided Notre Dame in quest of its goals. Dr. Carberry and Dr. Hutchins suggest that we have become too mature to henceforth rely on the sustaining drive of that physically manifest spirit in its original context. Let it be submitted that such a proposal is really begging the reality of the question we face. Human beings do not exist in vacuo. Accepting such a proposal, we are denying the alternative we have of somehow revivifying the answering construct of the ancient idea of Notre Dame football related to Notre Dame spirit — whether for financial reasons or no. We would also avoid the possibility of making this whole concept quite reasonably and socially acceptable to all those who at present doubt the existence even of such pertinent psychological value.
Or, we are faced with the alternative proposition of letting the present situation evolve its own solution. Which solution will run something like this: No one finds any positive meaning of any kind in consistently bad, losing football. After a while no one will come to see such football. Finally — headline small corner New York Times sports page — Notre Dame Discontinues Football: Financially Untenable.
Assuming that we wish, for the present at least, to continue the sport, shall we continue on the basis of “win over all’’ for a reason without devious means, or must we give up our traditional place—the best of the best— in favor of Dr. Carberry’s proposal?
Collegiate football as it is played today is better than it has ever been. Indeed, it does not seem a degradation of vicarious experience for a student body to unite wholeheartedly behind the very best players its athletic department can find to represent them. Most students, especially at Notre Dame, look upon big-time football in just this way. It is good to watch, and it allows a participation in some kind of traditional school spirit; that
is, it has its place in its own way as much as drama does in a university. The problem is not that collegiate drama students or collegiate football players become professional, but the means by which they are brought to the campus and what their coming does to them and the campus. If then, big-time football with its “win over all” aspirations and manifestations of tradition in the whole spectrum of purpose for this university is to be continued, how may it be done so without dissembling? And, if it be continued, what assurance is there that it will express a revitalization of the old ideals and meaning of that ancient, inner-directed spirit? There is no assurance that energization of the football program will revivify anything. But we are living in a very unique human situation — that of the University of Notre Dame. Is it not better to attempt to correct and improve our heritage than to sweep away our traditional place and seek status in the second reality of an Ivy League perception of football and its meaning? A perception which would find it very difficult to apprehend the breadth and depth of what football tradition has meant to this school. It seems best for us to try to improve what we have. Let’s beat the bad guys at their own game. Let’s win over all, but let’s do it openly, let’s let everybody know about it, what it means, what it stands for at Notre Dame.
In the first place, a large portion of the now voluminous football gate must be set aside for the explicit establishment of a “football office.” The precise function of this office would be to maintain communication with a majority of Catholic highschool athletic departments in each state — naively, perhaps, but honestly explaining the relation of football and being in the Notre Dame spirit. Surely, such an aspiration as we have discussed will not be repulsive to a very large number of intellectually qualified, physically capable, young men. Not repulsive if the Catholic spirit has had any meaning in their early training. From so large a number of candidates this initial expenditure for a football office would garner, it would no longer be necessary to select tutorially sustained, hopeful monsters. Indeed, such an office will have to contend with the lucrative alternatives presented by many other schools. Yet, we would be getting our aspiration to the grass roots of the country. It seems doubtful that the results would be less than rewarding.
Secondly, these now respectable candidates could certainly be offered the benefits of scholarship help without qualm. Since good football would maintain the football gate, a large portion could be invested in these scholarships. As a result of these two measures most of the evils Dr. Carberry cites would remedy themselves.
If it is found that the present coaching regime is inadequate for the spirit and aspiration of the endeavor upon which we will have set out, the athletic department should spare no expense — while the funds are still available — in . locating those who are able to teach and lead, in keeping with our goals.
I do not think that my proposal is to make a business of football, nor do I think it is an aberration of the metaphysical conception of a game. I do think that it is an open and completely honest, if technically sound, means of continuing the Notre Dame winning football tradition. Indeed, it would quite openly illustrate what the effect of a united, knowing energy can do.
Many will be indignant with what I have said. I do not think that our obligation lies in withdrawing from the bad situation in which we have found ourselves. Again, I do think it lies in picking up the torch once more, putting our heads together to see what we can do about it. A halfcocked venture into the alternate proposal of Dr. Carberry would lack the psychological motivation, the inner-directed spirit, that something like our football tradition — playing and beating the best in the country— gives. Without the bubbling, human spirit of something like this great football tradition, just as the drive to turn the University of Chicago into a Midwestern Harvard levelled off, so too would the drive to wax Harvardian, Catholicly, at Notre Dame. We are not conscious intellectual entities only. A great deal of our being is sustained by unconscious, psychological motivation. We have not as yet at Notre Dame a lone, alternative, spiritually-meaningful in a completely intellectual sense, answering construct. We would leave a psychological vacuum. We would be asking our aspirations for this university to settle for something perhaps far less than second best — in every facet of meaning Notre Dame presents to human education — our intellectual goals notwithstanding. Notre Dame would become: “Oh, that pretty good Midwestern Catholic school that used to have good football teams. Used to be known for its spirit or something —didn’t it?”
34
The Scholastic
THE CLEAN WHITE SOCK
He not only wears the clean white sock; he is "clean white sock." It’s a kind of confidence that comes from knowing the right thing to do; even if he decides not to do it. His clean white socks are by Adler. His girl is by his side, every bit as "clean white sock" as he is. Naturally they don’t always wear white socks, they just act like they do. People who really swing are wearing the Adler SC shrink controlled wool sock.$1.00.
ADLER
THE ADLER COMPANY, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO
ADLER’S swinging SC’s available at
Fine Stores Everywhere
NDS-
J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
EVERY INCH A MAN'S SMOKE!
If you're looking for flavor that runs deep ... get with Camel. Get taste that speaks with authority. Clean-cut. Alert. All there. It's got swagger—yet it’s smooth. Get with Camel—every inch a man's smoke ...his kind of mildness, too!
THE BEST TOBACCO MAKES
THE BEST | SMOKE!
RAY BUCKNER—Chief Petty Officer. U. S. Coast Guard. Polar Navigation Specialist on the icebreaker "Eastwind.” Camel smoker? You bet!
TURKISH & DOMESTIC 13 L EXD

< □ d
u u 6 z u
