Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL iS, 1885.	No. 32.
Memory.
Dust thou art, 0 mighty Past, but whither Send the flying motes of time?
We who love and laugh, yet surely wither With the woes of every clime.
Sailing, with our phantom fleets of glory,
Down the waves engulfing all, Graving on white marble heights a story
Broken with the falling wall.
Weak and hollow sound our voices
In the void of the unknown,
While the Resurrection peal rejoices, Pain and death about us moan.
Rank on rank the tender germs are rising Through the clods that held them fast, But no early dream, our hearts surprising
Rises, living from the past.
Marion Muir.
Glaciers.*
In mountainous regions, where the summits of the mountains reach the line of perpetual snow, the valleys are sometimes occupied by large masses of ice and compact snow which are constantly moving downward; these masses of ice we call glaciers. Their formation and motion I shall at once proceed to discuss.
The formation of glaciers is due to the action of the sun on water. When the sunbeams fall upon the sea, the water is warmed at the surface. This warm layer of water sends up a large quantity of aqueous vapor which, being lighter than the air, rises; when it has reached a certain height it is caught by the upper trade winds and carried towards the poles. But before the vapor reaches the poles great changes take place. The aqueous vapor, on leaving the equatorial regions, is held up by the warm air which forms the upper trade winds; when it reaches a certain elevation it is condensed by the action of the colder atmosphere above, and falls in the form of rain or snow. If the atmosphere is sufficiently cold it falls in the form of snow, otherwise as rain. We know that the higher we are
* Paper read before the Notre Dame Scientific Association by Charles C. Kolars.
above the sea level the colder the atmosphere is. Now, when the vapor reaches the line of perpetual snow, it is first condensed into water, and the water is then converted into snow. When, therefore, the current carrying the aqueous vapor strikes ’ against a mountain whose summit reaches the line of perpetual snow, it is forced over it by the oncoming current; some of the vapor is chilled and falls in the form of snow on top of the mountain. The snow, by alternate thawing and freezing and by the action of its own weight, is converted into ice, and we have a glacier.
There are three lines to be distinguished in the atmosphere about the earth, namely: The line of . perpetual snow, the mean line of ,32° F., and the line of the lower limit of the glacier. The line of perpetual snow forms- a spheroid around the earth. At the equator it is from 16,000 to 17,000 feet above the level of the sea, and it touches the sea level near the poles. The mean line of 32° F. coincides at the equator with the line of perpetual snow, but it touches the sea level at about 66° North and South latitude. The line of the lower limit of the glacier is, at the equator, nearly the same as the preceding two, and touches the sea level at about 500 North and South latitude. These lines are very irregular. For instance, in Chili the glaciers touch the sea level at 46° .50' South latitude.
The highest part of a glacier is called perpetual snow; lower down is /zeW—granular snow—which is intermediate between- the snow and the ice; still farther down is the true glacier ice; and, finally, the river, which is formed by the melting of the glacier ice. A fact which should not pass unobserved is that at the end of every glacier there is a river; and thus we see that the water which comes from the ocean is again returned to the ocean after undergoing a series of changes.
The size of the glaciers varies greatly. In the Alps we find some that are as much as fifteen miles in length, and from one half to three miles in breadth. These again vary in thickness, some being four hundred feet thick, while others are as much as six hundred feet thick. In the Hyma-laya Mountains, they are of much more gigantic proportions, because the Hymalaya Mountains are so much higher than the Alps that there is never any appreciable thawing on their summit. But it is only from those of the Arctic regions that we can form an adequate idea of the size of glaciers. Green
502	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
land is apparently covered with a sheet of ice several thousand feet thick. The Great Humboldt glacier, in Greenland, at the point where it enters the sea, is over forty-five miles wide, and over three hundred feet thick. In the temperate regions of North America glaciers are to be found only on the Pacific Coast in the Sierra and the Cascade ranges. Glaciers equal in size to those of the Alps have been found on Mt. Shasta and especially on Mt. Rainier.
Naturally, we would suppose that the surface of a glacier is smooth and level; but such is not always the case, owing to the accumulation of stone and earth on its surface. A stone lying on the ice protects the ice directly under it from the action of the sun’s rays, which, however, thaw the surrounding ice, and in time pillars are thus formed. When the pillars are some twelve or fifteen feet high the stone slides off by reason of the ice thawing more on one side than on the others. The stone then settles on the lower portion of the ice and the same operation is repeated over and over again.* Now, considering that the number of stones on top of the glacier is sometimes great, it necessarily follows that the surface is very irregular. Again, the earth which accumulates on top of the glaciers, when not too thick to allow the heat rays of the sun to pass through, absorbs them and the ice directly under it thaws more rapidly than the ice surrounding it. Again, there' are fissures or crevasses which are often from ten to twenty feet wide, and often several hundred feet deep. These are sometimes formed by the change of the slope of the bed of the glacier. As all these irregularities are sometimes entirely concealed by covering of snow, the travelling in glacial regions is rendered very dangerous.
The glaciers are sometimes covered more or less with loose stones and earth, which they gather from the falling of cliffs on either side.' Sometimes the whole surface of the glacier is covered with these loose stones and earth, but more generally they are to be found in lines on the surface of the glacier. These are called Moraines.
There are three kinds of moraines, viz., lateral, medial, and terminal. Lateral moraines are lines of earth and stone on the two sides of. the glacier, evidently formed by the crumbling of the cliffs on the sides of the glacier. Medial moraines are the lines of earth and stone which occupy the central portion of the glacier—they are often in one, two, or more lines, and sometimes the whole surface of the glacier is covered with them. Agassiz, who was the first to explain their formation, says that they are formed by the union of the lateral moraines of the interior tributary glaciers. Both the lateral and medial moraines are often situated on a ridge of ice from fifty to eighty feet high. Everything that has fallen on the surface of the glacier is slowly carried down and deposited at its termination. In course of time an immense quantity of stone and earth is accumulated at this point which is called terminal moraine. And, indeed, it is the existence of these terminal moraines that indicates the motion of the glaciers. ‘
The transporting power of the glaciers is enormous and follows no. law laid down for that of a river. ■ Large bowlders are carried down with as much .ease as the finest dust. One bowlder, described by Professor Forbes, contained 2^,000 cubic feet.	.
We have now learned how glaciers are formed, and we have also learned that they are in constant motion, let us now consider the general laws gov-7	OO
erning their movement.
_ o	__
These are seven in number. They are as follows: (1) The centre of the glacier moves faster than the margins. This is proved by the actual measurements made by Messrs. Agassiz, Forbes, and Tyndall. In 1841 M. Agassiz caused six piles to be driven into the glacier of Unteraar, and noted their position. In 1842 their displacement was found to be as follows: 160 feet, 225 feet, 269 feet, 245 feet, 210 feet, and 125 feet respectively. The middle figures here correspond to the stakes driven in the middle of the glacier, hence we see that the velocity of the middle is nearly twice that of the sides. •
On July 21, 1857, Prof. Tyndall measured the motion of the glacier J/er de Glace, below Mon-tanvert. Eleven stakes were driven into the ice, and, beginning on the eastern side, their displacement in twenty-four hours was found to be as follows: 20-23-29-30-34—28-25—25-25-18-9 inches respectively. Here, again, the middle numbers correspond to the displacement of the middle stakes. On July 23, in the same year, he measured the motion of the glacier at Les Ponts. Here, ten stakes were used, and, again beginning on the eastern side, 7	7^00	7
their displacement in twenty-four hours was found to be 13-15-16-18-20-23-23-22-17-15 inches respectively. On July 28, he measured its motion at Trelaporte. Here six stakes were driven into the ice, and, again beginning on the eastern side, their displacement in twenty-four hours was found to be' 15—18-19-17—15—13 inches respectively. In all these measurements the middle numbers, corresponding to the middle stakes, are the greatest, which shows clearly that the central portion of the glacier moves faster than the sides. .
But we also observe that below Montanvert the displacement of the stakes on the east side is greater than on the west side; that at Les .Ponts the displacement of the stakes on the west side is greater than on the east; that at Trelaporte the displacement is greater on the east side , than on the west. The cause of these variations is that at the three points named the glacier changes its direction. The glacier, in changing .its direction, tends to move in a straight line as long as possible; hence the middle or the line of the swiftest motion is carried past the middle of the glacier in its new direction. From this is deduced another law which is (2), the line of the. swiftest motion, is • more sinuous than the channel.- (3) The third law is that the velocity of the surface is greater than that at the bottom. .In July, 1857, by measurement Prof. Tyndall obtained the following results* on the glacier .Du G^ant: The wall exposed was about 150 feet high; one stake was driven at the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°3
top and another at the bottom. In twenty-four hours their displacement was found to be—that of the one at the bottom 2^ inches, and of the one at the top 6 inches. (4) The fourth law is that the velocity- in creases with the slope. This is evident, and needs no proof. (5) The fifth law is that the velocity increases with the fluidity. This is proved by the fact that the velocity of the glaciers is greater in summer than in winter, and during the day than during the night. (6) The sixth law is that the velocity increases with the depth. In the Alps where the glaciers are from two to three hundred feet thick the motion is from one to three feet a day; while in Greenland, where they are from two to three thousand feet thick, and at a much lower temperature, they are said to move as much as sixty feet a day. (7) The seventh and last law governing the motion of glaciers is that a glacier, like a water current, conforms to the irregularity of the bottom and the sides of its channel. The channel, in some places, is shallow, in others deep; in some places it is narrow, in others wide; now, as the glacier is constantly moving through it, it necessarily follows that it does conform to the irregularities whatever they may be.
We have now seen how glaciers are formed; we have learned the general law regulating their motion; we have observed the velocity with which some of them move; it now remains only to cast a glance on the theories advocated to account for their motion. Two principal theories are upheld, one by Prof. Forbes, and the other bv Prof. Tyndall.	.	"	*
According to Forbes, ice, though apparently so hard and solid, is in reality, to a slight extent, a viscous body. It is evident that, if true, this theory accounts for all the phenomena of glacial motion. It is certain that a glacier does move like a viscous body, but whether it does so by the virtue of the property of viscosity is a question which as yet has not been satisfactorily answered. The idea which underlies malleability, plasticity, and viscosity is that of capacity of motion of the molecules among themselves without rupture. The difference among these is the greater or less resistance to that motion. When the body is malleable, as is the case with metals, great pressure is required to produce motion; when it is 'plastic, like wax, less pressure is required to produce motion; and when it is viscous, like stiff tar, the motion is spontaneous, but slow; while in liquids the motion is free, with - little or no resistance. Now, as the pressure increases with the mass, and as the motion of the malleable and plastic substances depends entirely on the pressure, we may conclude that if the masses be sufficiently great, these bodies will flow.
Bodies may be divided into two classes, viz.: those that are malleable, plastic, and viscous, and those that are brittle. Our idea of brittleness is the total incapacity of motion among the molecules without rupture. Now, as ice belongs to the class of brittle bodies it follows that it does not move by virtue of the property of viscosity. Prof. Forbes endeavors to remove this difficulty by showing that some bodies which are apparently
brittle flow under their own weight. Thus, for instance, pitch, so hard and brittle that it flies to pieces if struck with a hammer, will flow and spread itself if the containing barrel be removed; Hence, the essential peculiarity of a stiff, viscous body is that it yields only to a slowly applied pressure. Forbes, therefore, thinks that glacier ice is one of these stiff, viscous bodies, which, though apparently brittle in small quantities and to a suddenly applied force, moves by the slowly acting but enormous pressure of its own weight, conforming to all the irregularities of its bed. The velocity, it is true, is small, but it is in proportion to the stiffness of the viscous body. Another theory upheld by Prof. Tyndall, is the regelation theory. The term regelation was first applied by Dr. Hooker to the freezing together of two pieces of ice. Everyone must have noticed the fact that if two pieces of ice be put together, they will freeze firmly together, even though the ice be melting. This fact observed by Mr. Faraday, in 1850, is the foundation of the regelation theory.
By experiment Prof. Tyndall found that, no matter how slowly pressure is applied to small pieces of ice, it always breaks; but if the fragments be pressed together they will reunite into a new form. In this manner’ spheres of ice have been flattened out into lenses, hemispheres changed into bowls, etc. This property of moulding under pressure we may possibly call plasticity (although it is not true plasticity); but it can never be called viscosity, for the true definition of viscosity is the property of yielding .under tension. In moulding ice by slow pressure there is no sudden visible rupture, but an infinite number of small ruptures and regelations is going on all the time. Now, according to Tyndall, this is precisely what takes place in a glacier. Forbes’s theory supposes motion among the molecules without rupture; while Tyndall’s supposes motion by rupture, change of position and regelation. The undoubted viscoid motion is equally explained by both: in the one, by a property of viscosity; in the other, by a property of regelation.
Mary, Queen of Scots.
Mary Stuar-t, more familiarly known as “Mary, Queen of Scots,” was born at: Holy rood, Scotland, in the year 1540. She was a descendant of the royal house of Bruce, an illustrious race, which was among the most unfortunate in the annals of. history, almost every one of its rulers having met with an ill-timed and tragical end.
The first of the Stuart family to ascend the throne of Scotland was a grand-nephew of the cel-, ebrated Bruce. He assumed the name of Robert II, and, after a short reign, died of a broken heart, and the same is said to have been the end of his son, who took the name of Robert III. A son of the latter, being the next heir, succeeded, and assumed the title of James I, who was murdered. His son, James II, following, had the misfortune to be killed
S°4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by an explosion. James III, was slain on his deathbed by an assassin under the guise of a priest. On “ Flodden Field,”—since rendered so famous by Sir Walter Scott in one of his poems,—James IV, bravely battling for his native land, fell mortally wounded. James V, father of the subject of our present sketch, died heart-broken at being betrayed by his base and cowardly followers.
A strange coincidence occurred in the lives of all these monarchs. Each one became sovereign while but a mere infant, thereby necessitating the appointment of a regent, who in too many cases administered affairs to foster animosity and disunion, and to .further his own interests.
Mary Stuart was only a few days old when her rash and importunate father died. Hamilton, Earl of Arran, was entrusted with the management of affairs. The notorious Henry VIII, desirous of annexing the Scottish to the English crown, offered to betroth his son to the young queen. The Scots indignantly spurned his proposal, whereupon he, in a spirit of revenge, waged against them a fierce and bloody war.
At six years of age, to prevent her from falling into the hands of the English, Mary was sent to the French court, and her mother, Mary of Guise, became regent. During her sojourn in France she mingled in the best society and was always to be found in the company of the most pious and learned. She studied several languages and could write with facility in Latin and French, both prose and verse. Besides, she excelled in music and drawing, and was proficient in all the accomplishments belonging to her sex. Gentle, kind and condescending, graceful in all her manners, she was reputed to be ihe handsomest woman in Europe. While in France, her relatives had her affianced to the Dauphin, who afterwards became Francis II; her nuptials were celebrated when she had attained the age of fifteen.
About this time Queen Mary I, daughter of Henry VIII, died, and the English crown rightfully descended to the Scottish queen as being the next lawful heir. Her friends having induced her to assert her claim, coin was immediately issued on which were stamped the figures of Francis and Mary. This met with strong opposition from the adherents of the Reformation, of which Elizabeth was a warm and ardent supporter. Elizabeth, therefore, became the idol of the reformers, gained their approbation, and was acknowledged by them as their queen. In the mean time Francis died, and, sorrow-stricken, Mary was obliged to quit the scenes of her childhood in sunny France, and seek the wild and sequestered glens of her native Scotland. In the interval between the time of her mother’s death and her return to Scotland, violent persecutions had been carried on by the reformers: churches were plundered, monasteries burned, priests were either exiled or beheaded; everywhere ruin and desolation were plainly marked.
On arriving at the shores of Leith, she was welcomed by a remnant of her true and warlike nobles, who formed a procession, and straightway conducted her to the palace of her ancestors—the
renowned house of Holyrood. As she passed through the principal streets, acclamations of joy and delight greeted her at every step. But how different was the scene a few days later! While Mary was attending Mass in the chapel at Holyrood, an infuriated mob, incited chiefly by the celebrated John Knox, attacked the house, the priest narrowly escaping with his life.
The most wealthy and powerful princes of Europe sought in vain the hand of the young queen. A young nobleman,.Earl Henry Darnley, whose only recommendation was his personal appearance and charming accomplishments, attracted her attention, and won the heart of the young queen. Her marriage with him took place on the 29th of July, 1565. Alas! it produced for Mary but little joy or happiness. Proud and haughty, dazed at the exalted height to which he was raised by this alliance, he wished to. exert, in common with his queen, authority over the realm: this could not be done but by a special act of Parliament. In his rage he caused the musician Rizzio, who was accustomed to perform favorite pieces from the Italian for the pleasure of the queen, to be brought into the hall and there beheaded in the presence of the queen and several noble ladies of the court.
A few months later he was seized by a serious illness which necessitated his removal to a house near Edinburgh. Here his queen frequently visited him, giving him marks of the tenderest affection, and lamenting most piteously his condition. It happened, however, that the house in which, Earl Darney was lodged, was blown up, and suspicion at once rested upon the queen and upon one of the earls—the Earl of Bothwell.
To undertake to prove Mary innocent of any participation in this crime would exceed the limits of our sketch; suffice it to say that the ablest historians have cleared her of any connection in the matter; but the Earl of Bothwell was immediately seized and cast into prison.
The court-house at his trial was surrounded by a great number of his vassals; conspicuous amongst them were a thousand gentlemen who professed to be of high rank and position. The prosecutors failing to appear, a respite of forty days was asked for, but could not be granted. Taking advantage of this favorable circumstance, he prevailed upon them to sign a paper declaring him innocent, and recommending him as a suitable husband for the queen. The queen, at that time visiting her son at Stirling Castle, was met on her return by the brutal Bothwell at the head of a thousand horse. Being seized, she was led off to the Castle of Dunbar, where she was kept in close confinement until she consented to become his wife. Roused at the insult cast upon them and their queen by this dastardly proceeding, the nobles immediately flew to arms to avenge their own and their queen’s honor. On Carberry Hill a fierce struggle took' place between the followers of Bothwell and those of the crown; Bothwell’s troops were completely routed, and he himself was forced to fly; he rested not until he embarked on a ship and sailed for Denmark. There Providence seems to have visited
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5°5
him with the punishment due to his crimes, and the last ten years of his life were spent in prison. At this battle Mary was taken prisoner and led a captive to the Castle of Lochleven—a fortress situated on an island in the middle of a small lake. Here she was forced to resign the crown in favor of her infant son, who subsequently ascended the throne under the name of James VI, and later that of England as James I. Some two months afterward, effecting her escape, she rallied around her whatever remained of her gallant and faithful followers, and a heroic but unsuccessful attempt was made to win back the lost sceptre. Perceiving the defeat of her arms, and beholding the lifeblood of her noblest warriors uselessly shed, she resolved, as a last resource, to seek help and protection from her cousin Elizabeth, queen of England. Against the entreaties and advice of friends, who endeavored to dissuade her from so daring and hazardous a project, she crossed the Solway in a fishing-smack, and at once hastened to obtain an interview with her cousin. Elizabeth, instead of receiving the unhappy queen with those marks of affection and courtesy which had been promised on different occasions, immediately cast the poor fugitive into prison; she publicly ignored the many manifestations of love and friendship which she had previously so often exhibited.
During nineteen long, wearisome years did the unhappy and desolate Mary languish in English dungeons, subject to ridicule, exposed to insult and injury, and a prey to the fury of the most cruel and crafty of Elizabeth’s pliant miscreants.
At last, when extreme suffering had brought her almost to the brink of the grave, Elizabeth signed the warrant for her execution. The Earls Shrewsbury and Kent were designated to visit Mary and to read for her the fatal document. When it was read she was given to understand that the crime alleged against her was having entered into a conspiracy to take the life of Elizabeth. She instantly laid her hand upon the Bible, declaring, not only her innocence, but her ignorance of the whole matter. Whereupon the Earl of Kent said that her oath was of no value as it was a Catholic Bible. “ So much the more do I prize it,” she answered; “ and, according to your reasoning, it ought to be more satisfactorily received.” Upon inquiring at what hour she would be executed, she was told at eight o’clock the following morning. Amazed at so brief a notice, she expressed a desire to see her almoner, but the request, she was told, could not be granted. The reason alleged was that it would expose the souls and bodies of the commissioners to certain danger; and that her life would be the death of their religion, whereas her death would be its life. She then knew for the first time that she was really to die for her religion. The next morning, being led to the place of execution, and dressed as though for a festival, she obtained, by a special favor from Elizabeth, permission that her waiting women might undress her, as the rude ruffians, who were to be her executioners, wished to shock the poor victim to the very utmost by this extreme act of indelicacy. When ready, she came
forward, crucifix in hand, and uttered a few fervent prayers for her son, her cousin, her enemies and her country; after which she knelt down, laid her head upon the block, and at the second blow of the axe she was no longer amongst the living. Thus perished the illustrious but unfortunate queen of Scots, whose life, death and character have been fertile themes for friends and foes; by the former, perhaps too highly praised, while the latter have certainly misrepresented and maligned her.
As the biographies of the ill-fated Queen follow one another in quick succession, impartial historians, while rejecting all, or nearly all the grave charges alleged against her by enemies, grow eloquent in admiration of her nobility of character . and heroic virtue.	B. D.
[Selected.]
A Hundred Years to Come.
Where, where will be the birds that sing, A hundred years to come?
The flowers that now in beauty spring, A hundred years to come?
The rosy lip, the lofty brow, The heart that beats so gaily now; Where will be love’s beaming eye, Joy’s pleasant smile and sorrow’s sigh, A hundred years to come?
Where, where, where, A hundred years to come?
Who’ll throng for gold this crowded street, A hundred years to come?
Who’ll tread yon church with willing feet, A hundred years to come?
Pale, trembling age, and fiery youth, And childhood with its hearts of truth; The rich, the poor, on land and sea, Where will the mighty millions be, A hundred years to come? ' Where, where, where, A hundred years to come?
We all within our graves shall sleep, A hundred years to come.
No living soul for us will weep, A hundred years to.come.
But other men our lands will till, And others then our streets will fill, While other birds will sing as gay, As bright the sun shine as to-day, A hundred years to come.
Where, where, where, A hundred years to come? •
Professor:—“Why does a duck put his head under water?” Pupil:—“For divers reasons.” Professor:—“ Why does he go on land ? ” Pupil: __“For sundry reasons.” Professor:—“Next. You may tell us why a duck puts his head under water.” Second Pupil:—tfTo liquidate his bill.” Professor:—“And why does he go on land?” Second Pupil:—“To make a run on the bank” —Ex.
506	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Historical Reminiscences.
.	No. III.'
Letters from Bishop Hailandiere.* (*)
Vincennes, Nov. 3, 1841.
Dear Father and Confrere:—I had written you a few hours previous to the arrival of Mr. Rother, and I have hardly leisure to add these lines. ■ I have given Mr. Rother a remnant of cloth which will certainly be enough for an overcoat. I thought I could also find enough for a pair of pantaloons for Mr. Fran^ais, to whom I send a winter overcoat by Mr. Rother. As for the hats, since only very fine ones can be procured here, it seems to me that it would be better, when an opportunity presents itself, to get them from Louisville.
I have settled your account at Mr. Hayes; it amounted to $23.37*4, including the articles purchased by Mr. Rother. As Mr. Buteux has not returned the equivalent of your gold, and as I had no monej7, I borrowed some. I send you $50. Amount $223—37 of which I have kept account here and $28 at Evansville. The wine you are expecting has not yet come; and, frankly, if it is going to cost in proportion to your boxes, the freight will exceed the value of the wine. I bought two mares for you, they are fine and strong. Perhaps I may be able to get a third one; thus you would no longer need Mr. Delanne’s horse. For the rest, deal with him as you wish. As for me, I have no desire to transact money-affairs with him. I think of going to Terre Haute, in a few days. I will ask the good Sisters to pray for your Brothers. I earnestly commend them to your prayers. So far, God has blessed them beyond our hopes. But, lest a bad wind should destroy all, pray that they may increase in humility. I also recommend myself to your prayers, I have great need of them. Often I nearly lose courage. Oh! but for the thought of the Cross of fesus and the outrages of His Passion, where should I find strength and support? May you, my dear Confrere, know but the charms of your mission! Adieu!
.	Yours in Xt'o.
CEL., Bishop of Vincennes.
(2)	.
Vincennes, Nov. 15, 1842.
Dear Confrere:—Enclosed, find the $310 you asked of me; also a letter of credit on Mr.' Coquillard for the sum. of $231.12*4. I'believe it is at least what he still owes-me. You’ll see about it and write to me. If was $250 I deposited
* These letters are among others from Bishop Hailan-difere—of whom we spoke in our last numtier—written to Father Sorin before and after his arrival on the spot which marked the foundation of Notre Dame. From them may be gleaned an idea of the simplicity and devotedness .which characterized the pioneers in the work which was destined1 to have such a magnificent issue, and the almost prophetic vision of the good Bishop as he encourages Father Sorin to persevere in his undertaking.
with him in July 1840. I’ll be thankful to you to forward me the list of the articles you intend to leave, with the value at which you estimate them. I will take all I can reasonably purchase. Do not forget that the tax for this year on the land du Lac (Notre Dame du Lac) has not been paid.
I offer you my wishes for your success. May the angels of God accompany you on your way, and may Notre Dame du Lac smile at your arrival and bless you! Oh, may the work you are going to‘begin make saints! May the me,rit of the Fathers who have, nearly two ages ago, planted the cross that you’ll find there,—may those of Badin, De Seille, Petit (our dear Benjamin ),—serve as a corner-stone for the edifice that your piety and zeal prompt you to build!........ My	hopes
are as immense as my desires.	.
■	Adieu!
CEL., Bishop of Vincennes.
(3)
Vincennes, Dec. 12, 1842.
My Dear Confrere:—At last you are in z South Bend; I think of you as very lonely, very busy, and, perhaps, also a little frightened at your undertaking. But the Lord, I doubt not, will help you; and, indeed, the past ought to be for you a guarantee for the future.
Probably you have been informed that the box so long a time astray has just been found. Another one, sent by Madame Parmentier, has arrived. It is, I am told, full of vestments which she sends you as a present. Brother Celestine is here since two days. Your Brothers at St. Peter’s are well. Mr. Chartier has worked a great deal in behalf of fairs in the neighborhood. He has forwarded me here in your name the list and estimates of the objects you intend to sell.
The affair with Mr. Bach is arranged. He is going to send me the deed. I will pass it to you without delay. I can also, whenever you wish, forward you the collection, or the 2600 frs., or both sums together. How do you find the country ? I await news from you with a sort of impatience.
I have the honor to be, with profound respect, Your humble servant,
CEL., Bishop of Vincennes.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A second edition of Miss Eleanor C. Donnelly’s “ Children of the Golden Sheaf ” is in press.
—Mr. Maurice F. Egan’s collection of Catholic .stories, “The Life Around Us,” will be issued by Pustet & Co. in a few days. .
—A monument has just been erected inf St. Petersburg to the composer Seroff, one of the founders of the modern Russian school of music.
—Dr. Hans Von Billow, the distinguished pianist, recently injured his hand by a fall, and has in consequence been obliged to abandon his concert tour.	.	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Century Magazine has, owing to its large editions postponed the day of its issue. Future numbers will be issued on the ist day of the month of which each bears date.
—The Athenceum says that a “ Mr. Casdagli has published a specimen of a translation of ‘ Paradise Lost’into modern Greek. If supported, Mr. Casdagli means to bring out the whole of his translation in twelve parts. It is hansomely printed, and contains D ord’s illustrations.”
—Franz Abt, the composer of “ When the Swallows Homeward Fly ” and of many other songs which have become true folk-songs and are known throughout the world, is dead. He was well known in this country, not only through his songs, but personally, as he visited America in 1872 at the invitation of several of our leading vocal societies.	'
—What is announced as an adequate “ Life of Turner,” none such being in existence, has been undertaken by Ernest Chesneau, who has received his commission from Mr. Ruskin. The work will be prefaced by a history of previous landscape,' and Mr. Ruskin is quoted as saying that he believes his own revision of it “ will have little to add in order to make it a just and sufficient record of my beloved master.”
—On May 9, the anniversary of the birth of John Brown, Roberts Brothers will publish the hero’s “ Life and Letters,” edited by Mr. Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord. The volume will comprise 45° pages, more than one-half of which will be Brown’s own letters, covering the last twenty-five years of his life. Several portraits will be given, with a view of the house at Torrington, Conn., in which Brown was born.
—Mark Twain, having been elected an honorary member of the Concord (Mass.) Free Trade Club, writes to the Secretary in acknowledgment of the compliment, and says: “ It does look as if Massachusetts were in a fair way to embarrass me with kindness this year. In the first place, a Massachusetts judge has just decided in open court that a 'Boston publisher may sell, not only his own property in a free and unfettered way, but also may as freely sell property which does not belong ■ to him, but to me—property which he has not bought, and which I have not sold. Under this ruling, I am now advertising that judge’s homestead for sale, and if I make as good a sum out of it, as I expect, I shall go on and sell out the rest of his property. In the next place, a committee of the public library of your town have condemned and excommunicated my last book—and doubled its sale........And, finally, the Free Trade Club of Concord comes forward and adds to the splendid burden of obligations already conferred upon me by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts an honorary membership which is worth more than all the rest, just at this juncture, since it endorses me as worthy to associate with certain gentlemen whom even the moral icebergs of the Concord Library Committee are bound to respect.”
College Gossip.
—The average weight of the Oxford crew is 162 lbs., the Cambridge, 162^.	-
—A class for the study of the Spanish language has been started at Princeton. Spanish has for some time been a very popular elective at Columbia as well as at Notre Dame.
—The north dormitory of the Agricultural College at .Amherst has been entirely destroyed by fire, though much it contained was saved. It was built'in 1867, at a cost $30,000.
—Bishop Ireland says that, from present indications, the trustees of the proposed American Cath-lic University will receive about $1,000,000 on their first call, including in this sum Miss Caldwell’s magnificent gift.
—Professor (to student):—“There are several misspelled words in your essay, Mr. B., one of which is ‘sophomore.’ For a college student, such an error is inexcusable.”	.
Mr. B. (making the best of it):—“But I am only a freshman, sir.”—Sun.	’
—Two freshmen were talking to as many young ladies in a Madison avenue horse car. Said one, with a fearful drawl, as they passed the college, “Aw, Charlie, do you remember that place?”
“ It seems to me I do. I am not sure, but I went there to school when I was a boy.”—Ex.
—In commenting on President Seelye’s recently expressed hostility to college papers, the Collegian, a paper published by college graduates in New York, says editorially: “We believe that no branch of the college curriculum is of greater or more permanent benefit to the student than the ‘ elective ’ of college journalism. No required lib erary exercise so tends to develop originality of conception, facility of expression, and finish of style. ‘ The best school of .journalism in the world,’ said Prof. Thwing, ‘ is the editorial board of a college journal.’ From the college paper graduate the trained writers, the authors, the editors, who mould the great mass of public opinion, and direct the literary tendency of the age.”
—A curious illustration of State education, as practised in the newly established, lycdes for girls, was given the other day in one of those institutions at Bdziers. The mistress proposed as the subject of a theme for her pupils—“ The impressions of a sub-lieutenant on first joining his company!” The indications given for the proposed theme, and which have since been actually published, were to the following effect: -
“ Opening.—A young officer, from the military school at Fontainebleau, recounts his first impressions and reception on joining his regiment.
“ Climax.—He takes part in his first engagement, the attack of a redoubt.
Finale.—The redoubt is taken, and he is the only officer left alive.”
It is proposed to send copies of young ladies’ themes to all the sub-lieutenants of the garrison of Beziers!—London Tablet.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, April 18, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and grad-uates of the University.
—We hope that each of our literary and scientific dissociations will take it to heart to provide at least one public entertainment before the close of the year. So far, this session, these public meetings have been confined to the St. Thomas Academy, but, necessarily, the subjects for debate by this organization are limited to one particular branch of study—philosophy. An agreeable variety in our entertainments, as well as general instruction to both participants and auditors, would be afforded were the other societies to come forward and prepare an interesting soiree and invite the attendance of their fellow-students. We have received excellent accounts of our societies this year. A lively interest is taken in them by the students, and the preparation made by very many of the members is thorough. We are glad of this, and wish for all continued prosperity and a large increase of efficient members.
—We have received from the author, Rev. A. A. Lambing, A. M., of Pittsburgh, Pa., a copy of a valuable historical document, entitled “ The Baptismal Register of Fort Duquesne.” It is pub
lished in a folio of some 100 pagesand contains, in addition to the “ Register of Fort Duquesne,” an introductory Bssay and Notes by the Rev. Translator. The work will be found of special interest and value to every student and lover of History. Father Lambing is the President of the Ohio Valley Catholic Historical Society, and has published a number of treatises besides a valuable History of the Catholic Church in the dioceses of Pittsburgh and Alleghany. We hope that the movement recently inaugurated in behalf of the development of a more perfect study of the History of the Church in this country will meet with every encouragement.
—The leaders of the socialistic movement in America, as well as in Europe, have started out with the avowed purpose of doing away with all the evils which afflict humanity. Were they able to do this they might be worthy of a hearing,— nay, could they do away with even a few of them, they might and ought to be listened to, were it not that for the destruction of evil there is an institution of divine origin—the Catholic Church. Whatever there is of evil here, the Church will combat and endeavor to overcome. But the socialists and so-called labor reformers seem not to understand what is really an evil. According to them, if labor itself be not an evil, at least the condition in which most laboring men live—that of poverty—is an evil, and they consider it a duty to put all men on an equal footing, and thus do away with poverty.
There is no evil in poverty. The evil is in man himself. If he looks to his destiny, he sees that he can accomplish it without wealth as well as with it. The great trouble is that men too frequently forget what their destiny is. They seem to think that all that they are created for is to accumulate riches, or to enjoy pleasure, or to make a great name. They seem to forget that man’s destiny does not lie in these,—that he is made for a greater and a supernatural end. They forget that it is man’s province to seek something beyond this life. Were they to remember this, then would all their reasonings crumble away.
The leaders in the socialistic movement seem to be ignorant of one great fact. Mankind is so constituted that it is impossible for all to be satisfied. When we speak of rich men and poor men, we make use of very indefinite terms. No man in New York is considered rich, we believe, unless he is possessed of at least three or four hundred thousand dollars. It would, then, if we take this standard, be very hard for all men to become rich. Of course the leaders in the movement would scout the idea that they expect all to possess such an amount. What, then, do they want?. They wish that labor should be equally shared by all, and that no one should be very poor; that all should, by their own labor, earn the necessaries and comforts of life. But this can never be done. There would be no doing, away with poverty—at least with what is called the evil of poverty—with some, for the evil does not arise from the consideration that I have
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	509
enough to supply me, or what will give me the necessaries and comforts of life, but from the consideration that my neighbor has more than I have, and yet such will always be the case. It is in this very fact that all the supposed evil lies.
Would it not be better for the laborino- man to content himself, knowing that he has sufficient wherewith to live, and strive to work out in a manful way the end which his Creator has destined for him? Though his walk in life may not be strewed with roses, he may enjoy more real pleasure than he who possesses millions.
—Our neighboring sister institution—St. Mary’s Academy—mourns the loss of one of its most efficient instructors, and one of the brightest and truest exponents of the art of music—Sister Mary of St. Cecilia—who was called to another and better life on last Tuesday, the 14th inst. So intimately interwoven with the history of the institution was the life of the deceased Religious, so rare and exceptional were the graces and talents of her beautiful mind, that, though the void left by her early demise may^perhaps, be filled in time, yet her memory and the beneficent fruits of her gentle, active presence will live and endure as long as St. Mary’s survives to continue her work of training the minds and hearts of the young.
Sister Cecilia—Miss Editha Lilly—was of a family remarkable for musical genius. For upwards of thirty years, three generations—grandmother, mother and daughter—have been engaged in the work of musical instruction at St. Mary’s; while a son—the Rev. Edward Lilly, C. S. C.—deceased Dec. 30, 1879, ^or many years directed the musical department in the University of- Notre Dame. There was but a slight difference in the ages of brother and sister, and while yet very young they frequently appeared in concert with other members of the family and astonished and delighted the public by their performances on the piano and other instruments. The evidence which they gave in infancy of their musical talents became more striking as years progressed and their powers matured and strengthened under instruction.
In particular, Sister Cecilia developed such wonderful power and facility of execution that from a very early age she became remarkable as a pianist. Often in the years following her childhood, while as a young girl she was pursuing her academic studies at St. Mary’s, did her wonderful abilities attract the attention and admiration of many a distinguished musician who visited the institution. And when in due time she graduated with honors, had she chosen to leave her Academy home and display her powers before the world there is no question but that she would have received the homage accorded the greatest artists of the day. But she chose rather to devote entirely to the service of her Lord the gifts which He had so plentifully bestowed upon her. She chose, like her mother, to- become a religious, a Sister of Holy Cross, and jn thp fulfilment of the mission of her order, to
employ her talents in the training of the young. How well, how successfully, how enduringly her work was accomplished needs not to be told by us: it is indelibly impressed upon the minds and hearts and affections of hundreds of pupils of St. Mary’s Academy; it is ineffably and ineffaceably recorded in the Book of Life, to be recompensed by Him who sees and judges all things, and who rewards superabundantly His good and faithful servants. Well did she serve Him to whom she had consecrated her young life; and when, in the 35th year of her age and the 13th year of her Religious Profession, He called her to Himself, she was well prepared and went forth calm and happy to meet Him.
It is souls like Sister Cecilia, who, in their humble ■ and retired lives ’mid the peaceful shades of the cloister, make genius serve as the handmaid of religion; who, rising superior to the material, find their repose in the intellectual and spiritual; who, realizing their transitory condition in this life, seek, by closer communion with the supernatural, for the foretaste of that fixed, unalterable, eternal happiness of theTife to come; it-is such souls that form the brilliant jewels in the crown of the Church militant; such prove themselves the most devoted children of the Spouse of Christ upon earth and most effectively aid her in the accomplishment of her Divine mission.	’
Of this gifted family, whose members for so many years have been the ornaments of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame,—whose exquisite taste and skill have exercised a marked influence in the formation and refinement of the scientific and artistic culture of these twin Institutions,—but one survives, —the bereaved mother. To her in this new trial with which it has pleased our heavenly Father to visit her, we respectfully offer our heartfelt sympathy, bidding her have the consoling assurance that her child is now numbered amongst those “ that sing a new canticle, and follow the Lamb whithersoever He goeth.”
Exchanges.
—The Boston College Stylus for April comes out under a new board of editors who promise to keep the paper up to its former high standard. The prose and the poetry of this number are far above what we commonly see in college papers.
—The Cam-pus is the title of a handsomely gotten up and fairly well edited paper published semimonthly by the students of Allegheny College, Pa. The sixth number, now before us, is an exceptionally good one in all its. departments; the Exchange notes, especially, are lively and vigorous, and do not follow the beaten track.
—The College Speculum, from the Michigan Agricultural College, has lately been enlarged and improved. A very good portrait of Pres’t Willits adorns the first page of the current number, to be followed by similar illustrations in future. The Speculum is a quarterly; the essays are very
510
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
short, but well written, and- the editorials are creditable. The Exchange department—about three quarters of a column in length—could, we think, be extended to advantage. Elsewhere we take the Exchange-editor to task for a libellous utterance against the Niagara Index. There is as much truth in the story as there was in the campaign slanders against Mr. Jas. G. Blaine, accusing him of being an apostate Catholic and at one time a Kno w-N othing.
—The Cornell Sun has done well in calling the attention of the alumni to the approaching election of trustees. There are two candidates;—one, the Rev. Geo. R. Vande water, of Brooklyn, is an Episcopalian clergyman of high standing and fine talent; the other, a Mr. John Frankenheimer, of New York, is a confirmed infidel of the most advanced type. Both are graduates of Cornell. President W hite maintains that Cornell is Christian, but not sectarian; while, on the other hand, the Syracuse Standard says that “ many good folks have tossed sleeplessly on their beds at night because some promising young friend was going to an ‘ infidel ’ college.” If Cornell wishes to .pose as a Christian institution it is evident that she must repudiate Mr. Frankenheimer, an advanced pupil of Felix Adler, and a man who openly speaks of Christian truths as “ exploded fallacies.”
—The Skirmisher, “ A Monthly Magazine published by the Cadets of the Kentucky Military Institute,” Farmdale, Kentucky, publishes a letter over the pseudonym of “ Burchard Deane ” which for sheer idiocy takes the cake. It is headed “farum dail marruch 14th,” and begins as follows:
“ my deerest bill	<
itt has bin a long tiem sintz i lasst hurd frum you, and i kunkludead 2 rite and ster you up.”
One item of news from the “ letter ” is as follows: “neley was going 2 atend the inoggural bawl, but desided not-two. He tellegraffed to the pressident and they went on - witth the serremoney although thay wer verry sorry.” Kentuck}7 is noted for the large proportion of its illiterat i, but- we don’t think it will relish the idea of being made game of in that way. The pseudonym, “ Burchard,” was-suitably’ chosen for this idiotic specimen of humor. The editors of the “ monthly magazine” would do well to try some other, and far different, kind of literary skirmishing.
—The College Message, always remarkable for the excellence of its exchange department, contains this month an interesting sketch of “ A Ramble in the Mountains” of southern Arizona. The descriptive part of the sketch is very good, but there is hardly enough of it. “Lux” should try his hand again at similar sketches. Our own rambles among “ the Rockies” makes this sketch specially interesting to us, and we are sure the general reader who has not yet feasted his eyes upon our western mountain scenery will also read it with pleasure. The article on “ The Possibility of Miracles” is also well written, but for such an article a. graver nom de -plume would be more suitable. The Exchange-editor, praising the ar
ticle on “ Tariff-Protected America” which lately appeared in the Ariel, and received the first prize in the home contest, says that he was almost convinced by its arguments. We are surprised at this; we read the article carefully, and could not find a solid argument in it. It is three-fourths assumption, and one fourth deduction from false premises. It is sheer nonsense from beginning to end, as is also the article following it in the Ariel, on “ The Class Laborer,” which is as pernicious in parts as it is untruthful and illogical in the main.
— The Dial, Chicago—already well known to many of our readers as the best literary periodical published in the West, if not the best in the United States—sends out the index to its fifth volume with the April number. The 344 pages of matter here indexed present a widely varied table of contents, chiefly concerning literary men and their books, from the ablest writers in the United States. Apropos to Prince Bismarck’s 70th birthday— celebrated in Prussia on the 1st of April (All Fools’ Day, and. the wily Prussian statesman has made a fool of many another statesman during his long career),—N. M. Wheeler opens the current issue of The Dial with a bold pen-and-ink sketch of the man of “ blood and iron.” AV. T. Poole lays aji iron-mailed, iconoclastic hand on John Esten Cooke and the Pocahontas story. Sidney A. Low’s “ Dictionary of English History ” is reviewed by Herbert B. Adams, and Chas. Howard Shinn’s “Mining Camps” calls forth an article on “Rudimentary Government” from the pen of James O. Pierce. Some recent notable works of Fiction are reviewed and criticised by Wm. Morton Payne. Horatio N. Powers contributes a review of “Ham-erton’s Landscape,” recently issued in London by Seeley, and in New York by Macmillan. The “Briefs on New Books” retain the old-time interest attaching to this department. The current number of The Dial is not a remarkable one, but it is fairly representative of one of the best edited arid handsomest literary periodicals in our language— one that should be as much an object of pride to the West as it is an object of literary men in the East as well as in the West. Edmund Clarence Stedman does not hesitate to say that he thinks it “ the soundest, most dignified and creditable literary journal in America,” and Richard Grant White that it is “ one of the most interesting periodical papers published in the country, and certainly the handsomest.” This is much for Eastern critics to concede, and something for the West to be honestly proud of. In this connection it may not be amiss to correct a false impression created by the recent suspension of a small paper called The Dial, in New York, the mention of which in a general way by the daily press led many to suppose was the better known periodical published in Chicago.	.
—Our bright West Virgina contemporary, the Bethany Collegian, says, editorially:
“The world is full of fault-finders. .And they are always around to tell you how you ought'to do this, and what you ought not do, and so on ad infinitum. And if you don’t
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
'■	follow their advice, they lean back on their injured dignity
■I	and feel that they have been insulted. We always felt
|	charitable toward such people and rather admired them, for
they seemed to be among the few who were born smart. Advice is good in its place and should always be cheerfully accepted. And it is often that we can profit by it. But fault-finding is a childish whim, and a sensible man should pay no attention to it. At least in that light we consider all such nonsensical trash.”
You are right, brother; but when the time for applying the advice rolls around we find the adviser sorely in need of a dose of his own medicine. Take, for instance, the following, which w.e find in the same issue of your paper:
“Generally speaking, college journalism rarely presents anything which, in itself, is remarkably amusing; but occasionally there appears a ludicrous spectacle, like that which the exchange thumper (that’s the name for him) of the Notre Dame Scholastic affords us fortnightly. The ultimate analysis of this Scholastic man, at the hands of his unfortunate contemporaries, has, apparently, resulted in the decision that he is either an iconoclastic terror, or a monstrous clown. Between his majesty himself and Roman Catholici-m on the one side, and the whole Protestant college world on the other, he, at least, labors earnestly to discharge the grave responsibilities of his position and defend himself in the strifes of his own originating. And what a dust he raises! Whew! What with the Lariat, the Era, the Wooster Collegian and many others, the atmosphere is impregnated with the sulphur of his wrath. We started out to say, brother, that all this is really ludicrous—this noise and dust and whirlwind which you blow up—and the longer we think upon it the more ludicrous it does seem. You really impress us as being actually combative. Have you red hair? Ah, that may explain it all.
...	. But say, brother—don’t. It doesn’t pay. Just devote
yourself a little, for a change,' to matters outside of the
. Catholic kingdom, and honor rolls, and the Niagara Index —it would seem so charmingly fresh, you know—just to get, for once, a glimpse of something non-sectarian in your columns. Your friends expect much of you, you see, and it isn’t nice, you know, to be always showing them how pugilistic you are, and all that; and then, you see, it makes vou appear so much like a solfatara or an Iceland fumarole, which, of course, you are not.”
Is that grumbling, or fault-finding, or is it both? Both, we think. It needs to be well shaken before taking it. When it is settled we find, in the elegant phraseology of the Collegian, that the Notre Dame Scholastic “ thumps” weekly instead of fortnightly; that it has had no trouble with its esteemed contemporary the Era; that it does not “ devote itself to the Niagara Index” which is a strong paper, well able to take care of itself and of its pugnacious contemporaries also. The Collegian says truly that “the world is full of faultfinders ” who “ are always around to tell you how vou ought to do this, and what you ought not do, and so on ad injinittcm” but its editors must not “ lean back on their injured dignity, and feel that they have been insulted.” We feel charitably inclined towards them, and pity them for thinking themselves smart when in reality the}' are blunder:	ing in their efforts to appear so. We are com-
bative occasionally, and when set upon in the dark we are wonderfully active, but we. have not “red hair.” If nature or Providence had bestowed upon our cranial appendage a hirsute covering of *	. that color we should not feel in the least ashamed
of it; some of the most eminent, and the- most amiable, men and women that, ever lived had red hair.. As we said before, we are charitably in-
! •
dined, and especially to the weak; we always take a special delight in protecting the weak against the strong. We will not, therefore, empty the vials of our sulphuric wrath on the head of our West Virginia brother, nor blow him up in a whirlwind, nor make a noise to frighten him. No: on the contrary, we wrap him up in cotton and gently lay him in his little crib.
Personal.
—-J. P. Twohig (Com’l), ’S3, is in business at Jackson, Nebraska.
—David J. Wile, of ’73, is practising law with great success in Laporte, Ind.
—Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, C. S. C., is in Lafayette on business of the Community.
—R. C. and C. Johnson (Com’l), ’66, of Chicago, passed a few days at Notre Dame during the week.
—Very Rev. Father General will very probably be with us next week, that is, if he has been able to leave Europe when he expected.
—Among the visitors during the week, were: Dr. Schneider, Polo, Ill.; J. T. Cooper, Dubuque, Iowa; A. A. Reed, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Leon Stern, South Bend, Ind.
—We regret to say that our esteemed Prof. McCormack still continues very ill. We hope that soon, with the return of fine weather, he will be restored to his usual good health.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., went to Chicago last Thursday on business connected with the Scientific Department. Profs. Lyons and Hoynes were also in the Garden City on the same day.
—James Caren, ’75, whose nomination we announced last week, has been elected City Solicitor of Columbus, Ohio. He is well fitted for the position, and will without doubt fill it to the utmost satisfaction of the people. We extend congratulations and wish him continued success. .
—We learn from the Reading Eagle that James A. O’Reilly, ’70, has been re-elected President of the Common Council of the City of Reading. This is another evidence of the popularity which this talented and energetic son of Notre Dame enjoys in his native city. We congratulate him upon it and the marked success which is attending his career through life.
O	O
—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70, the talented Editor of the Catholic Columbian, who takes occasion of every opportunity to say a good word of his Alma Mater, recently gave in his excellent paper a complimentary notice of the plays published by Prof. Lyons. We reprint the same.in another column. Father Clarke is also Rector of St. Mary’s Church at Columbus. His many friends at Notre Dame are pleased to hear of his restoration to Health and hope soon to have the pleasure of a visit.
—We would again call the attention of old students to this column. It it is one that must pds-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sess peculiar interest, and they should consider it a . pleasure to furnish us with as many personals as possible. There are some who send us items occasionally, while others, that could do so, seem .to think that there is no use in sending them in. We cannot tell the whereabouts of a student unless our friends inform us.
Local Itome.
—Stroke!	.
—“How doth the little busy b—”?
—Weather-prophets are at a discount this season.
—Our dude was overwhelmed with Easter cards.
—Five degrees above zero Thursday morning.
—The Junior Branch of the T. A. U. will hold a grand “ Rally ” to-morrow evening.
—The sporting season opens two or three weeks later this year than it did here in ’84.
—Rev. President Walsh inaugurated another general visit of the classes during the week.
—The sonorous voice of the coxswain is now heard on the lake, calling, “stroke! stroke!”
—The fine gravel walk which has been laid around the Juniors’ Campus is a “ thing of beauty.”
—Prof. Hoynes will lecture this evening on * “ The Great Northwest.” All are invited to attend.
—“Lay on MacDuff!” says Dick,—but the “Proffessor” objects to being mistaken for that personage.
—An “awkward squad” has been formed in connection with the 1st and 2d squads, and is open for recruits.
—Our Secretary of Botany announces the advent of the circium altissinmm on the marsh south of St. Joseph’s Lake.
—The members of the choir are gaining quite a reputation for themselves, and receive many praises upon last Sunday’s singing.
—The Surveying Class, by their measurements, place the elevation of the Statue on the Dome at 199 ft., 1 in. above the basement floor.
—The Minim “ Giants ” and Junior “Pigmies” played their second regular game. This time the • Giants were “ waxed score, 36 to 24.
—The Scientific Association is in a flourishing condition. Its meetings are well attended and made highly interesting and instructive.
—Thursday afternoon the surveyors took measurements for the plat of St. Joseph’s Lake; they intend to issue lithograph copies of their work.
. —It would be well for one of our rising musicians to bear in mind that Mendelssohn has written other things besides his “ wedding march.”
—The first Christian Doctrine Class is receiving lectures now from Father Fitte, on a very interesting epoch of Church History—the “ Reformation.”
—It is to be regretted that the baseball season is so backward, as we miss many of those interesting games which cause “ rec ” day to pass by so pleasantly.
—The most beautiful of all the medals, to be given in the Minim department at the end of the year, will be the one for politeness—presented by Mrs. Meehan, of Covington, Ky.
—This is now the time to do good work in classes, before warm weather comes, with spring fever, and a thousand other maladies peculiar to a college atmosphere in summer time.
— We had expected, in accordance with our announcement of last week, to publish a number of society reports this week, but the secretaries failed to “ come to time.” They need stirring up.
—We call for “judgment,” from every aesthete, in regard to the ditch, which was opened last fall, leading from Science Hall. We hold that it is not “ a thing of beauty ” and should be covered up.
—We understand that it is intended to have “Graduates’ Day” this year come before commencementweek. The 10th of June is spoken of as the day upon which the Class of ’85 will hold their exercises.
—A former student of Notre Dame, and an old friend of the Boat Club, generously comes forward and offers to the Captain of the winning crew in the June race a large gold anchor. This is given in addition to the College awards.
—At the 17th regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club, held on the 13th ■ inst., P. Chapin read an excellent • criticism on the previous meeting. Essays were read by Messrs. Cartier, Marion, Duffin and Bates.
—Those in charge of the exercises of Commencement Week have already begun to give their attention to the programme. We hear that a magnificent new Cantata, to be produced on a scale far surpassing all previous efforts, will be the great feature of the occasion.
—The 8th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Monday, the 10th inst. An interesting debate was carried on by E. Kelly, I. Bunker, J. McNulty, F. Salman, J. Kelly, W. McPhee, C. Campeau, E. Berry, F. Cobbs, D. Sweet, and G. Landenwich. ’
—Persons who are permitted the privilege of reading the exchanges and other papers placed, for the use of the students, in the reading-rooms, should not carry them off—or if they should do so for a short time, the papers should be promptly returned. If abuses recur, admittance to the reading-rooms willbe refused.
—The Surveying Class spent Thursday afternoon of last week in practice at a point south of the Academy. A little difficulty was at first experienced in obtaining the proper course of a line, which the magnetic needle persistently designated as. north. This phenomenon was accounted for by Lewis as the result of “ local attraction.”
—On the afternoon of the 12th inst., the first;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5i3
regular game was played between the Juniors’ and :	Apprentices’ first nines, which resulted in a victory
i for the former, the score bein£ 28 to 21. E. Benner, G. Menig, G. Myers, J. Dorenberg and F. Reilly did some fine playing for the Juniors; whilst M. Burns, J. McHenry, J. Sullivan and J. Moran strove well for the apprentices.
—Our friend John says that the new work of ■ engineering, yclept the ditch, leading from Science Hall resembles the river Arar, described by Caesar, —Quod injluit, incredibili lenitate, ita td octdis in utram partem jttdicari non possit,— with the difference that, in the present instance, the “impossibility of judging”is not owing to the “ lenitate” but simply to the absence of any water.
—The Amateur Cricket elevens played their second game on the 12th inst. A large crowd gave evidence of the general interest in the sport. C. Senn’s superior batting won the applause of the multitude; whilst P. Mullane sprung the wicket two out of three. The score resulted 6 to 7 in favor of the “ agitators,” captained by D. Cartier; J. Baur, captain of “ Invincibles,” was awarded the palm for catching.
—A very interesting game of baseball was played on Thursday afternoon between the two Junioi' second nines, captained by Masters Portillo and Luther. The game for the first two innings, stood in Luther’s favor, hut, owing to an accident to his pitcher, turned in favor of his opponent; but by masterly play, he recovered before the end of the game and gained the victory: Score 10 to 9. Masters McCourt and Porter made some nice plays.
—Letters sent to Mexico should be weighed before stamping, and prepaid in full or not prepaid | at all. The postmaster informs us that many of the Mexican students waste their postage-stamps for want of attention to this rule. Letters underpaid are charged full rates over and above what has been already paid. The single rate of postage i to Mexico is five cents for every half ounce, and five cents additional for fractional weight exceed; ing a half and not over one ounce.
’	—In the absence of the regular stenographer,
L Mr. Geo. De Haven, at Chicago, the proceedings of the Moot-court on Saturday evening last were taken by Messrs. Samuel P. O’Brien, Matthew J. Clarke, and J. P. O’Donnell. The case was an exciting one, the debaters waxed warm, and two or three would occasionally be speaking at once, but the shorthanders succeeded in getting them “ down.” One gentleman’s “ kaow ” played an important part in the proceedings.
—The work in the interior of Science Hall is progressing rapidly. The flooring is nearly all , laid, and the plastering about finished. Before i Commencement, the main portion of the building, ■ which includes the museum, will be all complete and prepared for the inspection and delight of visitors. Of course, it will require many months to have the whole immense structure in a finished state, but the Departments of Physics and Chemistry, together with the Laboratories and the museum will be thoroughly fitted up by June.
—We learn that material improvements will soon be made in the system of lighting the College buildings. Instead of the gasoline used up to the present, and which was far from giving satisfaction on all occasions, coal gas will be introduced. The question to be decided first, and which is now occupying the attention of the authorities, is whether it would be preferable for them to purchase their own “ plant,” or have the gas supplied from South Bend. In any event, before many days have passed by, we may be assured of better and more satisfactory light. •
—The latest puzzle is the placing- of eight pieces on a checker-board so that no two will be in a straight or diagonal line. A few persons of the many who have tried it—our friend John among the number—have succeeded in placing the eight pieces on the board; after which our friend John proposed a new puzzle, in which nine pieces are to be placed without two being in line, straightwise or diagonally. Our friend John is somewhat of a genius, but we think he will not succeed. It may take him some time to get the eight pieces on a second time.
—On last Sunday the Captains chose their crews for the June race. Following are the names of the men of each, including six regular substitutes: the regular crew of seven will be picked from these and announced next week. T. J. McKin-nery, Captain; H. Steis, F. Dexter, L. Kavanagh, S. J. Dickerson, A. Gordon, J. Riley, C. C. Kolars, J. Hamlyn, J. Wagoner, G. O’Kane, F. Coghlin,. M. Sykes. P. Goulding, Captain; T.Mathers, D. Saviers, E. Harless, P. Chapin, E. Hotaling, M. Burns, J. McMillan, J. Campbell, W. Tess, A. McNulty, F. Combe, A. Ancheta.
—An opening game of ball-was played on Thursday afternoon between the two temporary-nines chosen by the captains at the beginning of the week. The cold, damp weather interfered greatly with the game, which closed at the 8th inning, by a score of 9 to 5 in favor of the “ Reds.” The players were, on the “Reds,” J. McCabe, c.; A. Brown, p.; F. Coghlin, s. s.; F. Combe, 1 stb. Rahilly, 2d b; Tully, 3d b.; Chapin, c.-f.;. Breen, r.f.; Dolan, 1.f. For the “Blues,” were, C. F. Combe, c.; Goodfellow, p.; Loomis, s. s.; Harless, 1st b.; Hotaling, zdb.; McNulty, 3d b.; McGill, c. f.; W. Murphy, 1. f.; W. Collins, r. f.
—The St. Cecilians at their last meeting debated a very interesting subject, viz.: “Resolved, that the Stage has a Moral Tendency.” The negative was held by W. Daly, C. Harris, J. Monschein and C. Mason; whilst on the affirmative F. Hag-enbarth, C. Stubbs, J. Courtney and M. Mulkern succeeded in winning two of the three judges to their opinion. The speakers in the debate deserve credit, not only for,the careful preparation of their speeches, but also for the manner of delivery—speaking from memory and with evident interest in the subject. Public readers .were appointed as follows: F. Hagenbarth, T. Cleary, E. Porter, C. Stubbs, W. Wabraushek, J. Courtney, and J. Monschein.
t
5*4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—In the University Moot-court, held on the nth inst., Judge Hoynes presiding, the case of Hastings vs. Howe and Palmer was called. D. Byrnes appared for the plaintiff, P. J. Goulding for the defendant. The witnesses for the prosecution were J. Conlon and V. Burke: for the defense J. D. Wilson and T. E. Callahan. The jury, composed of Messrs. T. Sheridan, J. Kleiber, C. D. Saviers, F. Loomis, S. Murdock, and D. Reach after a lengthy discussion, returned a verdict in favor of the defendant. J. A. Ancheta acted as clerk, M. Burns as sheriff.
—Crescentio Arce, of Zacatecas, and Francisco Alvarez, of the city of Mexico, both students in the Senior department, are becoming excellent amateur photographers under the direction of Rev. Father Zahm, of the Scientific department. They have a nice photographic outfit—one large camera which cost $180, and two small ones—and have taken some fairly good pictures of the college grounds, buildings, groups, etc. For the artist and the descriptive writer a knowledge of photography is a very useful accomplishment—few things can be more so. We almost envy Messrs. Arce and Alvarez their splendid outfit and their facility in using it. o	■
—The season is approaching when schools are preparing for their annual literary and oratorical display, with accompanying dramatic presentations. As many of these dramas are trashy and meaningless, the effect they would otherwise have is lost. They do not always point a moral. Prof. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has compiled a number of excellent plays of high character, giving fine opportunities for elocutionary displays, well suited for college and school exhibitions, and we can cheerfully recommend them to directors and teachers of schools. All of them we have seen produced, with most satisfactory effect, on the stage of the old Washington Hall at Notre Dame.— Catholic Columbian.
—As intimated in previous issues, it is intended to make thexoming Shakespearean Entertainment the grandest affair of the kind ever presented in Washington Hall. An elaborate, but carefully and tastefully selected, programme has been arranged, and preparations for its fitting rendition are being actively pushed forward. The entertainment will be given on the evening of the 29th inst., under the auspices of the Euglossian Association of the University. Acts and scenes from the most celebrated of Shakespeare’s plays will be presented with all the stage accessories, scenery, costumes etc. The musical . part of the programme, both vocal and instrumental, will be of a high order of merit. We hope to give further details in our next.	.
—The Junior Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary held a very interesting meeting under the presidency of the Rev. Prefect of Discipline, last Sunday evening. Essays were read in the following order: W. Daly, on “St. Rose of Lima”; E. Darragh, “St. Edward King of England”; T. Cleary, “ Indulgences ”; and C. Stubbs
on “The Psalms.” Rev. Father Granger gave
the ten minutes’ instruction. The singing, under	<’
the direction of Father Kirsch, was well rendered.	j
At this meeting were present, besides the Rev.
speaker of the evening, Fathers Robinson, Fitte and Kirsch; Brothers Alexander and Marcellus. > F. J. Hagenbarth, M. B. Mulkern, R. Oxnard and W. Wabraushek were appointed to prepare papers for the next meeting. After the closing hymn, the meeting adjourned.	;
Boll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satis;	.
faction to the Faculty.]	'
SENIOR DEPARTMENT
Messrs. Arce, Ancheta, Alvarez, A. Browne, Baca, Becerra, Burns, Breen, F. Burke, Conlon, Crilly, Walter Collins, Wm. Collins, Chapin, Conway, Crawford, Creel, Car- -tier, De Groot, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, De Haven, Estrado,	,
Finlay, Goulding, A. A. Gordon, Guthrie, Garcia, Goodfellow, Horn, Hamlyn, Halligan, Howard, Hausberg, Johns- . ton, Jess, Kolars, King, Kavanagh, Keys, McMillian, Me-Kinnery, McCartney, Marion, Miller, Morrison, Jno. Murphy, Noonan, O’Kane, C. Paschel, H. Paschel, Perley,	j.
Padilla, P. Prudhomme, H. Porter, Phillips, Rothert, Rice,	!
Ramsay, T. Ryan, G. H. Smith, Sheridan, Steis, Spillard, Shafter, Saviers, Snapp, Snyder, Jno. Troy, J. S. Troy, Troxel, W. Williams, Wagoner, White, Wilson, Woodbridge. Werst, Zeitler, Reach.
fl
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	-	I;
Masters Amoretti, Arts, Borgschulze, Baur, Berthelet, S Congdon, Cummings, Colina, Chamberlain, G. Cartier, D. p Cartier, Cleary, Cleveland. Chute, Dillon, Dempsey, Doren- i burg, Donnellan, Daly, De Hass, Darrah, Ewing," Finck,	!
Feher, Flood, Frane, Grunsfeld. L. Grever, Hoye, Howard, j* Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kegel,	g
Kenny, Klenk, .Luther, Loya, Martinez, Mulkern, V. Mor-	\
risen, W. Morrison, B. Morrison, R. Morrison, Monschein, f Myers, Macke, Meehan, Nester, Nussbaum, Oxnard, O’Brien, O’Kane, Portillo, Porter, Regan, Rose, Rattigan,	i
Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Reynolds, Rogers, Ryan, Rietz, I Redlich, Stubbs, Senn, Soden, F. Smith, Spencer, Schmauss, | Shaw, Sedberry, Servis, Talbot, Tarrant, Thurston, Thomp-	>
son, Wabraushek, Wagner, Williamson, West, Levin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Boos, Bloomingston, Bull, Barger, Baker, Campau, Cobbs, Chute, F. Dunford, E. Doss, L. / Doss, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Garber, Grunsfeld, Henry, Haney, C. Inderrieden, Jones, E. Kelly, J. Kintz, A. Kintz, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, McGill, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Millard, McGuire, Nussbaum, Noonan, F. Peck, J. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul, Quill. Scherrer, Stone, Tracy, Weston.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.].
PREPARATORY COURSE.	.
Messrs. Troxell, G. Hasson, T. Ryan, Jno. Troy, Tully, White, McMillian, J. Crawford, Estrada, Baca, Woodbridge, Walter Collins, Snapp, Horne, Conlon, Finlay, De . Groot, W. Williams, Jess, Arce, Maguire. P. Prudhomme, Alvarez, Becerra, Levin, E. Prudhomme, Martinez, Portillo, Real, Hoye, Nussbaum, Kegel, Senn, W. Morrison, Hemisbaugh, Chute, Redlich, Chamberlain, Wagoner, Rebori, Finckh, R. Morrison, Tarrant, Oxnard, Arts, F. Reilly, G. Cartier, Loya,' Donnellan, Fisher, Day, Wiet-ing, M. O’Kane, Reynolds, Cleary, West, Ewing, Macke, Flood, Servis, Cooper, Fraine, Cleveland. .	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	515
Saint JHary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
Obituary.
Sister Mary of St. Cecilia.
With a pang of deepest sorrow it falls to our lot to record a loss that, humanly speaking, is well nigh overwhelming, the untimely death of dear little Sister Cecilia, who breathed her last at about half-past two o’clock p. m., on Tuesday, the 14th inst. She had been seriously ill for two weeks, but danger was not apprehended until near the fatal hour. Born in Lancaster, O., in 1849, since her fourth year, this lovely child of Holy Cross has known no other home than that beneath the shadow of the sanctuary-at St. Mary’s. As Editha Lilly she was a pupil of the Academy till 1870, when she entered the Community and took the beautiful name of Sister Mary of St. Cecilia. Her loss will be deplored wherever the name of St. Mary’s has reached. Inseparable from the celebrity of the Conservatory of Music was the inspiring, energetic, and winningly affectionate influence of this eminent teacher. The wide circle of her admirers, her loving friends, well know that the worth of her wonderful genius was enhanced tenfold by her angelic sweetness of disposition, her deep.sense of justice, and her indefatigable devotedness. This little sketch must suffice for the present. May her soul rest in peace!
—Mrs. Gavan and her daughter Miss Kathleen, of Lafayette, are on a visit to the Academy.
—At the regular Academic reunion, the Misses A. Donnelly, M. Fuller and A. Murphy recited.
—The Roman mosaic cross was drawn by Ellen Sheekey, who waved her right and gave it to Miss T. Balch.-
—A valuable treatise on “ How and What we Should Read” occupied St. Teresa’s Literary Society on Tuesday.
—The Minims of St. Mary’s gratefully acknowledge the reception of a beautiful little clock from Mrs. Lee, of Chicago.
—The golden prize in the Minim department fell ex ccquo to Bridget Murray and Flora Johnson, the former kindly waving her claim in favor of the latter. Father Shortis assisted at the award.
—Among other messages of sympathy at the loss of our good Sister Cecilia was the following:
- Evansville, Ind., April 14, 1885. Mother Elizabeth, St. Mary's Convent:
. Dear Mother :—Accept our deepest sympathy for you in this hour of your sorrow. The hand of God pressed upon you. We pray that He may strengthen you to bear it. Mass to-morrow for her precious soul.
Yours in sincere sympathy,
Mrs. H. Fendrich.
Intellectual Culture.
As intellectual culture may be overrated, in the sense that it may be allowed to take undue precedence of the moral, or that it may lead to neglect of the physical, yet no thoughtful ’person can deny that the greater danger lies in the underrating of this noble culture; Of the two extremes, it would at first appear difficult to decide which should be accounted the more deplorable.
Were the materialist right in his opinion, there would be no question. To livd like the worm or the butterfly,—to eat, drink, sleep, die, and mingle with the dust, like the animal, would be well enough. The sa-vant and the herdsman would be on a level in the end, enlightened and savage equally happy. Equally happy? The misfortune would be on the part of the learned man, on the part of the enlightened. Why take so much trouble for the few days.we have to exist? Murder and suicide would be resolved into harmless actions. In truth, vice and virtue, good and evil, right and wrong- would be meaningless terms. But the materialist is not right. Above the physical nature is the spiritual. The physical will decompose and mingle with the earth at death. Not so the spiritual. t It is immortal and can never die; therefore the underrating of spiritual culture, taken in the broad sense, is the greatest possible misfortune. This tender care of the superior part of our being should hail the first dawn of intellect. The trite line of the old poet, “Just as the twig is bent the tree’s inclined,” is but another way of saying, what was sung by a more recent writer:
“ Strange that flowers of earth Are visited by every air that stirs, And drink in sweetness only, while the child That shuts within its breast a bloom for heaven, May take a blemish from the breath of love. And bear the blight forever.”
First impressions are the most lasting; accordingly their character should be of the noblest. We have heard of a saint who had a devotion to do penance for foor rich people; and, indeed, the children of the rich whose earliest impressions are received from hirelings, from servants who are often as unscrupulous as they are ignorant, suffer from the most abject poverty—the poverty of enlightened affection. The rich foor feofile are those who find their pleasure in the home-circle, and in the development of those habits of thought which give a zest to life, and cause us to forget the perplexities and vexations that are attendant upon the most propitious lot because they occupy and exer-cise.that part of our being which finds delight only in things whose worth is measured by a standard far above that of the materialist.
May this not account for the army of great men who have risen from the lower and middle walks of life ? In our own country, especially, we find prominent names springing up from, very obscure beginnings. Washington, Fulton, Clinton, Clay, Greeley, and numberless’ others who might be named, were trained in the school of frugality, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
under the eye of cautious parents, who prized integ- I rity of character above every worldly consideration.
These great men not only cultivated the understanding, but they cherished the will to do right. In one of his sermons, not many years ago, the late eloquent Dominican, Father Reville, said: “ When the understanding is strong and the will weak, the individual perceives the truth, but stops there. He does not apply it. He dwells upon the principles of truth; and his mind is called speculative. It is wonderful how low those of great minds and of weak wills can fall. The will, when strong and submitted to truth, causes us to perform our actions with the utmost perfection. They become grand, because their object is grand.”
From this we can infer the absolute impossibility of true culture when the heart, the seat of the will, is neglected. It is at the mother’s knee that this work is begun. Neglected then, the life is blighted. If the first years are conscientiously regulated, if the character be formed by a pious, strong-minded earnest-hearted Christian mother, the tide of infidelity may dash against that soul, but it 'willcome out upright.
The great Lacordaire is a striking proof of this; but his experience, in schools where the intellect was trained at the expense of the religious nature, aroused all the energy of his great heart to establish schools where Faith was to be the key-note to all instruction. His life, as a Dominican, was devoted to this measure. ■ Would that Lacordaires were multiplied in the world of Education, to silence the flippant opposition raised against the cause so dear to him! Father Revillo was admitted to the Order of Preaching Friars by Father Lacordaire himself. Those who doubt the fact that power of intellect is indicated in so-called trifling actions should consider the following—a continuation of the extract given above: In the wrords of the pupil may he heard the ring of the master’s clear, and almost inspired voice. In it may be found the secret which drew the hearts of the young to the illustrious preacher, to the restorer of the Dominican Order in France: “ If you sweep,” says Father Revillo, “ it is an action of dignity if it be done for God. The actions of politeness show a strong will, for it requires a very strong will to keep such a constant attention to the happiness of others. Where this politeness is wanting, you may be sure there is a weak will. Rudeness, unkindness, comes from the want of the will. Should you see those who are uncouth, who are mockers, who are annoyers of others to please themselves, there is a want of will, no matter under what prestige it may be sheltered.”
The highest culture of the intellect is certainly manifested in apparently small things: not always in “Borrioboola-Gha” adventures; not in becoming a “ prima donna,” not in extorting applause from the fickle multitude, but rather .in honestly accepting the lot apportioned to us in life, and in making the best use of the best gifts with which we have been endowed.
A gifted lady, not long since, wrote for one of our standard literary magazines, on the “ Gospel
of defeat.” According to her, the receivers of this gospel are those endowed with genius which the world does not recognize. The Christian, however, knows nothing of such defeat. True intellectual culture leaves the adulation of the public out of the question, except so far as reputation may effect the power of accomplishing something to benefit the world, and to which celebrity may be accessory.
St. Paul in the Mamertine prison was greater than Saul the persecutor. St. Dionysius was not defeated in his mission to the human race when he suffered decapitation. His true success dated from the hour he forsook the royal portico of Athens to go and be martyred in the far-off land of Gaul.
If our literature be tame or unsafe; if the public taste be enervated and unreliable; if, socially, we have much to deplore, it is because real intellectual culture has been despised, and that a mawkish pretense has taken its place. Nothing more solid than the novel can satisfy.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, M. Bruhn, M. Blair, Brady, Bubb, Carney, E. Call, Dunne, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, M. Dillon, Fuller, Fitzpatrick, C. Griffith, C. C. Ginz, B. Gove, Gavan, A. Gordon, B. Heckard, L. Hutchinson, Hale, E. Horn, M. Helpling, N. Kearns, Kearney, Lange, T. McSorley, McHale, O’Connell, O’Halloran, Ramsey, Rose, Sharrette, Sheekey, M. Scully, C. Scully, Schmidt, Stull, Schuler, Thornton, L. Walsh, White, Walker, L. Williams, A. Richardson, 2d Tablet—Misses A. Gordon, E. Walsh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses O. Boyer, S. Campeau, M. Cox, Erlenborn, Hertzog, McEwen, M. Murphy, Norris, Prudhomme, Preston, Paul, Richmond, Regan, E. Sheekey, Snowhook, Stadtler, Searls, Trask, Van Horn. 2d Tablet —Misses Keyes, Smith, E. Balch, T. Balch.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, M. Hopkins, E. Hammond, F. Johnson, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Murray, A. Schmauss, F. Spencer, S. Van Fleet.
Class Honors.
General History—Misses Call, Dunne, Gove, Ginz, Ramsey, Sheekey; Astronomy—Misses Carney, Keenan, Heckard, Barlow, Munger; Logic—Misses Carney, Heckard, Barlow, Keenan, Munger; Rhetoric—Misses Horn, C. Griffith, Morrison, G. Wolvin, B. Kearney, A. Shephard, A. Donnelly, N Sheekey, A. Keys, J. McHale, M. Fuller, A. Murphy, M. Kearsey, M. Dillon, E. O'Connell, M- Adderly, C. Scully, M. Hale, M. Helpling, E. Donnelly, N. Brady, C. Richmond, N. Kearns, G. Regan, B. Snowhook, L. Trask, B. Heckard, Fehr, T. McSorley, Thornton, A. A. Gavan, Taylor, Rose, Addie Gordon, B. English, M. Fisk, E. Wallace, L. Walsh. E. Schulze, Cox, M. Schmidt, Faxon, Alice Gordon, M. Scully, L. Van Horn, M. Morse; Literature—Misses N. Keenan, J. Barlow, M. Munger, L. Carney, L. St. Clair, S. St. Clair, E. Schulze, A. Heckard, M. Helpling, M. Ducey, L. Williams; Chemistry—Misses E. O’Connell, Griffith, E. Horn, N. Sheekey, A. Shephard, M. Ducey, M. Adderly. M. Kearsey, A. Donnelly, J. McHale, M. Dillon, M. Walker, A. Murphy, M. Fuller, G. Wolvin, A. Keys, B. Kearney; Algebra—Misses Brady, Kearns, Trask, Snowhook, Rose, Walker, Taylor, Regan, T. McSorley, A. Donnelly, B. Heckard, C. Cox, Keys, A.. Gordon, A. Gordon, Fehr, Faxon, M. Schmidt, L. Walsh, Wallace; Modern History—Misses Horn, Wolvin, Dillon, Kearney, N. Sheekey, Kearsey, Keys, A. Murphy, O’Connell; Ancient History—Misses Fehr, Kearns, Heckard, Taylor, Kegan, Trask; Latin—Misses C. Lang, C. Scully,
' M. Helpling, L. Trask.