3
COLLEGE PARADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
FAMOUS LAST WORDS . . .
“If fate hands you a lemon, squeeze it . . . and start a lemonade stand.”
—Purdue Exponent
STUDENT COUNCIL. NOTE .. .
A digest of a summer semester’s dull social season at Indiana U. runs as follows . . . twelve dances, nine picnics, outdoor movies, seventeen swimming parties, campus singing, play nights, a grand and gala carnival, a Round-Up (whatever that is), climaxed by the Summe? Prom and a Post Prom the night following . . . what!, no Tea Dance?
ON FOREIGN HELDS .. .
We hear that Tonawanda Sub Normal has a new school hymn, Is My Baby Blue Tonight or . . . Did You Fall in the Inkwell, Sweets? By the way, the author of that tune is the same little moron who said he wanted to go to Veronica Lake for his vacation. (Hmm, why the silence?)
One of the big troubles at Minnesota these days is the difficulty that foreign students have fitting into the college scene. They cite their main trouble as being the language hurdle and need for individual counseling — here at Notre Dame, the Brooklynites are inclined to experience the same difficulty.
❖
We have reports from Indiana State that due to the influx of veterans, a crisis of major proportions is at hand. There are now 43 more men students on campus than women. Rough!
The Oklahoma Daily made a survey ' of the co-eds to find out their attitude toward a good night kiss on the first
date. One cutie answered . . . “Oh, an impassionate quickie is okay. Depends on how it would affect him.” Undoubtedly, the little bit cf fluff was a psych, major.
Two crafty students of Auburn were not to be stopped by the housing shortage: they just rented the tower of the Church of Innocents and have made that their living quarters. Interested N.D. students take note . . . rumor has it that Clashmore Mike, Jr., is vacating the first of the month.
Indiana co-eds this fall will be taking flying lessons as part of a new course in Physical Education . . . hmm, interesting, but aren’t women flighty enough without the added advantage of instructions?
The students at Georgia Tech filed a protest with the Tech Athletic Board because of the fact that seats assigned to them for home football games extended from the 25 yard line to the end zone. The Athletic Board replied that if better-seats were assigned to students, the revenue from football games would be cut down. That’s all understood—but who is a college football team supposed to be representing, the student body or ths great paying public?
Then there’s the fellow at Oklahoma U. who advertised in the Daily’s Lost ani Found column: “One pair of trousers lost in Math 2 class.” There’s one boy who was caught with his pants down. His pants down, that is.
JOKE DEPT.
“What’s the difference betwen a sculptor and a hairdresser?”
“I’ll bite. What’s the difference?”
“Well, a hair dresser curls up and dyes and a sculptor makes faces and busts.”—Auburn Plainsman
The student wishing to cash a , check in the Treasurer's Office must have it initialed or Ok'd by one of the following:
Rector of Hall
Prefect in Hall Prefect of Discipline Dir. of Students Accts.
This includes all checks. Personal, Government, etc.
Office of the Treasurer.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
SCREEN AND RADIO
"NKSK, €OOl ANO MIUOW, MY
AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS STAR OF
America'* favoritt movie and radio tinging star’s judgment commands respect, for few men ore his equal os a pipe connoisseur. Take Bing's tip-smoke an ever-fresh-tosting MASTERCRAFT yourself; discover how easy on the draw it is. how its selected pore-processed briar insures mellow coolness. For day-in. day-out enjoyment-there's no other pipe quite We it*
Papular $230 Standard $330 Da luxe $5 00 Custom Made $730 Hand Made $10.00
man fcnowt there's a pipa shape that’s created especially for him. set.
smell oval face large full face long lean face
• • toe. tong aval face
The Huddle
A you ceeY ceme in. check fete corf wef de At reg.
4
99
WORLD-FAMOUS PAINTER OF THE AMERICAN SCENE
most wanted
• Truly remarkable is the preference for Parker 51’s. Recently, American pen dealers, by a margin of 3.37 to 1, named Parker the most-wanted pen. More-wanted than all other leading makes combined. • Today, more 51’s than ever before are being shipped. So see your dealer soon. • Here is a pen made to true precision standards—not just hurried out. The sturdy tubular point starts writing instantly, smoothly. For the tip is a ball of
ranter
micro-polished Osmiridium. • Onlythe“51” is designed for satisfactory use with Parker “51” Ink that dries as it writes! • .Three colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis. and Toronto, Canada.
5
THE WEEK * by Bill Braun
TOP OF THE WEEK ...
“Do you have a closet in your room?”
LOW BLOW . . .
Sports scribes all over the nation have been trying for the last month to predict the wins and losses of prominent college and university football teams for the coming season. Very close to the home camp a low blow was struck last week when the N.D. eleven was termed slow, lazy and lacking the old winning spirit. This article was reminiscent of that which appeared some years back, ominously signed Bearskin, and showed the same transparency of character. How can any one actually believe that a team with first class strength in every department
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY ... FAMOUS ADDRESS
—men like Sitko, Lu jack, Livingstone and Mello—can be anything but a contender for the national championship? As Saturday’s intersquad scrimmage plainly showed, the Irish varsity will go places this fall, and when the final whistle blows we will have witnessed a duplication of previous Notre Dame greatness.
RADICAL CHANGES AT NOTRE DAME
There will be none . . . there is no room for radicals . . . veterans have all available space.
THE SPIRIT WALKS
After getting off to a slow and rather
shaky start, the gathering staged by the Vets’ Club in the Navy Drill Hall last Thursday night took the proportions of a pep rally, and the Notre Dame Spirit, idle all summer, got up off its posterior and walked among the crowd, greeting the new and welcoming back the old. It’s beginning to look like old times already, so step forward Joe Dillon and' Ziggy Czarobski and take a well deserved bow.
GOOD HEALTH TO ALL
According to the manual of modern mastication, it is considered an aid to good health to leave the table feeling just a bit hungry.
This year the dining hall dietitians have done a commendable job in the science of health preservation. Oh, to be full again.
WELCOME. WIVES
With the cooperation of the N.D. Athletic Department, an idea that originated in the Married Vets Club was carried through to completion.
This fall married vets can procure a season pass for their wives so that hubby and wife will be side by side. Though a small item in itself, this action on the part of the A.D. has met with campus commendation.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
“Hell no, I sleep in one.'
THE STUDENT PRINTS
How about contributing to your column, fellows?
Original quips, gags, jokes, poems, and sayings will be welcomed . . . Local material especially can be used . . . What we want to know is what you, Joe Student, are thinking and laughing about . . . We want your ideas in your magazine ... So be a little clever—use your eyes—and write out your observations . . .
Although THE STUDENT PRINTS will be primarily a students' column, anyone else in our life on the campus is cordially invited to contribute.
Please mail all contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall, or slip them under said door . . . Then look for YOUR name in YOUR column next week.
6
V-2 ENGINEER
The Story of
DICK PORTER
TT is typical of Dick Porter’s experience that his x latest assignment, that of experimenting with such “guided missiles” as the V-2 rocket, is almost a complete engineering departure from his earlier fields of concentration.
As a senior at the U. of Kansas in 1934, his interest was in radio. His doctor’s thesis at Yale in 1937 was on frequency doublers.
But at General Electric Dick found opportunity to learn other phases of engineering. In G-E engineering courses and “on Test” he worked out problems in transformers, induction motors, oil circuit breakers.
His first major assignment with G.E. was in a field not only new to him but to the electrical industry—he contributed to the pioneer research in amplidyne control.
As the war progressed, flight engineers began to dream of the Superfortress, whose gun turrets would be turned electrically, whose heavy guns would be aimed electronically. Development of this gunnery system called for a supervisor whose engineering knowledge ranged through many fields. It was Dick Porter, less than ten hard-working years out of Kansas U., who drew the assignment.
This year he was presented with the Yale Engineering Association’s award for the advancement of science.
Next to schools and the U.S. Government, General Electric is the foremost employer of college engineering graduates.
For his campus radio station, Dick built studio and transmitter equipment.
Today he is project engineer in the study of captured V-2 rockets.
GENERAL © ELECTRIC
When the gridiron exploits of the FIGHTING IRISH are splashed across the nation's Sport Pages —	।
Read the NEWS BEHIND THE NEWS in the	<
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	.
Subscription rate — $2.00 per semester. $4.00 for the School Year — 27 Issues.
Name_________________________________________________________________________ ’
Address..........................:____________________________________
I (Clip Blank and Mail to Publications Office, Notre Dame, Indiana)
7
THE nOTRE DflfflE SCHOLASTIC This is Notre Dame
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867

tim»mmiimmmimimimmminmiiimimmiimiiimimm»imt
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber
H. Smith Keel
James Clemens _____________News Editor
Frank Keenan ____Associate News Editor Joe Cheney_______Sports Editor
Joe Wilcox __________-... Feature	Editor
COLUMNISTS
The Week Bill Braun
The College Parade
_____.Louis Almasi, Thomas M. Higgins
Campus Clubs _____________-Jerry dwell
PHOTOGRAPHY
Jim Ferstel Photographic Editor
Frank Cacciapaglia
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
__________________1____Faculty Adviser
Tom Gargan, John Denniston —Circulation
M. E. Varga________________Advertising
Cover by Jim Ferstel
in.«mmmmmimmtmmmmmmmmm....
Member of •Catholic School Press Association, Assoc.ated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — S-n Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is - published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence. to: Publications Office. Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Down through the course of Notre Dame’s century-old history many traditions and customs have come into use and it is our purpose to acquaint the new students with some of the factors contributing to the school’s significant and often dramatic past.
Notre Dame is a friendly school, and that is part of our tradition. The absence of social fraternities contributes to that friendliness. There are no class distinctions here; the graduate of Freshwater Prep is held in no greater esteem than the guy from Public High School No. 3. Men matriculate and graduate on the same plane of equality.
With the football season about to open, new students will see and feel and be a part of the spirit of Notre Dame. The Friday night pep rallies, Saturday afternoons when “Go‘ Go! Go!” will flood the gridiron 'with sound, the student trip— all will be solid manifestations of that spirit. It becomes even more evident when the student body troops to the station to meet the team, whether returning in defeat or victory, after the Army game.
Despite the innumerable queues, overcrowded rooms, and the other all too evi- ' dent discomforts that world events have thrust upon this generation of college students, life is returning to normal at Notre Dame. The accelerated semester that came to the University with the war vanished last June with the departure of the Navy.
The country club aspect of college life is slowly returning to the campus. The formal class dances made their hesitant bow last spring after a war-time absence, and this year the Senior Ball, Junior Prom, and Sophomore Cotillion will again be the big social events. Victory dances after home football games, club dances, and the many other student activities that make college such a pleasant four years will be important items on the students’ agenda. This year the students will be in New York in full force on November 9 to cheer the Fighting Irish on to victory when they meet Army in Yankee Stadium.
S’t. Mary’s Sunday afternoon tea dances remained permanent fixtures throughout the war and continue to roll along merrily but are now playing to a restricted clientele with admission by ticket only, and the tickets are strictly rationed.
All this is part of the tradition of Notre Dame, for tradition can be pretty light-hearted, too. A living part of that frothy tradition is the collection of pew rent from unwary freshmen and the resale each semester of Knute Rockne’s desk lamp and George Gipp’s easy chair.
With every dining-hall meal book issued there goes the prerogative common to all boarding schools: the right to gripe about the food. Even back in prewar days, when the students were served at tables gleaming with white tablecloths and heaped with as many 12-ounce steaks as desired, they complained just as loudly about the horrible viands—and put on weight.
Notre Dame’s greatest tradition is its rich spiritual heritage. It finds concrete expression in visits to the Grotto, where generations of students have gone to pray at the shrine of Our Lady; in daily Mass in the hall chapels; and in frequent Communion.
This, then, is Notre Dame, where you will spend the next four years of your lives. You may find the strict discipline galling, but within a short time—a surprisingly short time—the traditions and the spirit of the University of Our Lady of the Lake will be a part of your being, and you will be proud to say, “I am a Notre Dame man.”
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
For the next few weeks, until Student Accounts has compiled a mailing list, off-campus students are requested to pick up their copies of the SCHOLASTIC in the Publications Office, Room 118, Main Building. When the mailing list is completed, copies of the magazine will be mailed to off-campus students' addresses.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 1
SEPTEMBER 20, 1946
NOTRE DAME! INDIANA
Record 4,400 Students Attend ND
Solemn High Mass Opens School Year
College students of today, more than ever before, have a definite obligation to take full advantage of their educational opportunities in order to make up for time lost during the war in preparing themselves for places in the outside world, according to the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh expressed this view in an address before the Notre Dame student body at the formal religious opening of the school year at a Solemn High Mass last Sunday in Sacred Heart Church.
“As a Notre Dame man,” Father Cavanaugh said, in addressing each student personally, “you are not just an anonymous one of 4,500 boys who happens to be trying to get an education as a means of making some money and to have your name appear sometimes in the headlines. Now in a special way you have elected to be a son of Our Lady. Now as a Notre Dame man you haven’t merely yourself to look after; you may not use your time as mere whim inclines you; you may not take any attitude you choose toward developing the talents with which God has endowed you. As a Notre Dame man you are now a part of a great family with wonderful privileges to enjoy but with considerable responsibilities.”
Father Cavanaugh stressed that “members of the Notre Dame faculty are consecrating their talents and energies to a great cause: to continue in the cultivation of your minds and hearts the high standards of Christian scholarship that they themselves have inherited from generations of teachers gone before.”
“If there is one outstanding feature of Notre Dame spirit,” concluded Father Cavanaugh, “that feature is loyalty. In
(Continued on Page 33)
ILLINOIS GAME SET FOR STUDENT TRIP
With just a week remaining until whistle time of the Illinois game at Champaign, enthusiasm has reached a new high on campus with assurance of a Student trip.
Rev. James Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, announced this week that all arrangements had been completed and that tickets would go on sale at 1:00 p.m., Sept. 21, at Gate 14 of the Stadium. The distribution of tickets has been arranged for the following hours on Saturday, Sept. 21: Seniors, 1:00 to 2:00; Juniors, 2:00 to 3:00; Sophomores, 3:00 to 4:00; Freshmen, 4:00 to 5:00. Any student interested in making the
(Continued on Page 33)
Members of the faculty attend opening Mas* in body, entering church in formal academic procession.
Add 60 to Faculty, Raising Total to 300
By FRANK KEENAN
The heavy tread of many feet was nothing new to Notre Dame. In its 104 years of existence the University’s beautiful acres had been crossed and recrossed many thousands of times: from the day in 1842 when Father Sorin and his small band founded the school on St. Mary’s Lake to World War II, which found Navy and Marine trainees and civilians alike engaged in the hurry-up rush for war-time education. Nor did the first post-war year see a slackening off in the quest for learning. In the spring semester this year Notre Dame had enrolled a record number of 3500
(Continued on Page 32)
9
ORIENTATION—Campus Style
By JOE WILCOX
In case you missed the campus tours (tips to the guides optional) the Scholastic submits its annual orientation to the campus course; any relation to the military variety of orientation is strictly disowned.
One of Notre Dame’s pet boasts is that it is a completely self-contained city. Provision is made for all the wants of man: doctors, watch makers, laundresses (more than four shirts every two weeks) and a Post Office. Soon, reconverted Army barracks will house married veterans, while 12 residence halls will accommodate most of the single students. If some wise old bird who has been trying to get his degree for the last 20 years tells you this isn’t like the old days, tell him you know better. Notre Dame has always had an acute housing shortage; it came with Father Sorin who lived in a log-house, and has settled down to live. Ample rooms for all have been, like Hoover’s prosperity, just around the corner. Now, with more crowding than ever, the prospect has receded even farther down the block.
The two campus dining halls feed, after a manner of speaking, most of the resident students on the campus. Before the war, the students used to eat family style in the dining halls, but, with the coming of the emergency and the subsequent arrival of the Navy students, the cafeteria system was installed and seems likely to stay. Its disadvantages— long, weary line-sweating, food carrying, etc.—seem to be necessities since the swollen student body would tax the old system beyond capacity. ’Tis said the food isn’t what it used to be, but since nobody seems quite able to tell just what it used to be, it is impossible to determine if it is better or worse.
The University’s venerable theatre, Washington Hall, dates from the ’80’s. It was originally built for stage shows only, so when you go broke and have to take in “The Shiek” of a Saturday at a free movie, sit in the middle. Otherwise, everybody on the screen will look like the thin man. The theatre has a reputation for being haunted, but the subterranean rumble you will hear is probably only the pool balls in Brownson recreation room, which is under the theatre.
The University Barber Shop will now, according to those who have been clipped, charge you one inflated dollar for a haircut, unless you go to South
10
Bend and locate a barber shop. The telegraph office takes care of the wires asking pop for money, as well as the ones refusing it.
If anyone has enough ambition to want any more exercising than he gets dashing from class to class, the Rockne Memorial Building furnishes workout rooms, a swimming pool, handball courts, sun-bathing rooms, and other conveniences for the Charles Atlas type. The golf course, which all avid golfers have discovered by now, is one of the few college-owned golf courses in the country. Golf needs are supplied by the golf shop, located in the Rockne Memorial building.
Two lakes, St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s, adorn the campus. In the spring, students swim in St. Joseph’s. Any student who wishes to try his luck fishing needs an Indiana State license, but must get a fishing permit from Father Steiner, the provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation, whose office is in the Presbytery behind Sacred Heart church.
In addition, there is a watch repair shop, to which you may take your broken watch after you have dropped it while fumbling for it when you were half asleep. Service is faster than outside, and prices are little, if any, higher.
The Student Infirmary takes care of you when you feel a -wee bit off your feed. Complete medical service is provided with the exception of major operations.
For the convenience of all and sundry to keep them in the way of the straight and narrow, and so that they may not see the inside of the Prefect of Discipline’s office, the Student Manual is issued. It never has worked to say you didn’t read it. Read it. Weep if you must, but read it.
TO A FRIEND OF DISER O'CONNOR
Last June, a Notre Dame veteranstudent wrote the Alumni Association that he was with Sgt. Diser O'Connor, ex-'44, when the latter was killed by enemy bazooka fire in Alsace-Lorraine in January, 1945. Diser's parents would like to contact this young man, whose name was not signed to the card. If back in school, will, he please contact the Alumni Office.
Crowd Storms "Rock" For St. Mary's Debut
Despite warm weather and the fact that only 150 tickets were issued for the event, well over 200 Notre Dame men were lured to the “Rock” Sunday afternoon as the belles of St. Mary’s rang in their 1946-47 social season with a tea dance.
Highlight of the dance was the debut of St. Mary’s freshman class, said to number 190 members. Shortly past 2 o’clock, the freshmen, looking gay and fresh in their Sunday-best finery, sauntered into the convocation hall, where a smattering of juniors, acting as hostesses, began the process of introducing their sister-students to the visiting gentlemen from across Route 31.
According to one of the hostesses, 150 tickets for the dance were sent over to Notre Dame for distribution through the residence halls. It was soon discovered, however, that the tickets were being collected at the east entrance to the wing where the dance was being held, while numerous ND men were infiltrating through the southwest entrance, where nothing but a coat and necktie were the ticket of admission.
By 3 o’clock, most of the freshmen and their hostesses were busy on the dance floor, yet the stag line was still most impressive in size.
At 4:50, the music stopped and the convocation hall emptied. Inquired one SMC freshman, “I wonder if these dances will meet with as much enthusiasm in weeks to come?” Without a doubt, the young lady had asked the $64 question.
Bishop O'Hara Reports Of Needs Of Japanese
More than half of the property of the Catholic Church in Japan was destroyed in air raids during World War II, Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University cf Notre Dame and now Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., declared in a recent visit to the Notre Dame campus.
Bishop O’Hara, who was president of the University from 1934 until his elevation to the Bishopric in 1940, visited the Notre Dame campus on his way back to Buffalo, after his return to this country by plane on July 28 from a four-week tour of Japan. Bishop O’Hara and Most Rev. Michael Ready, Bishop of Columbus, O., visited Japan to make a survey cf postwar needs of the Catholic Church there. Their report will be made to Popa Pius XII, who requested the survey.
NOTRE DAME ADDS 33 PROFESSORS TO FACULTY FOR FALL SEMESTER
Due to the unprecedented enrollment for the Fall semester, thirty-three additional teachers have been added to the Notre Dame faculty, it was announced by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies at Notre Dame.
The new faculty members will assume their duties immediately. A record enrollment of approximately 4,500 students, mostly war veterans, is registered for the Fall Semester at Notre Dame. This number is about 1,000 above Notre Dame’s normal enrollment.
The new Notre Dame faculty appointments are:
College of Law: Louis L. Roberts, former City Attorney of Evansville, Ind. and formei’ Colonel, Army Air Forces, to be Professor of Law; Harold Gill Reusch-lein, former Colonel, Office of the Judge Advocate General, United States Army, to be Professor of Law; Dr. Anton-Herman Chroust of the Harvard Law School, to be Associate Professor of Law; Bernard J. Feeney of the Catholic University of America, to be Instructor of Law; and James F. Thornburg of the University of Indiana to be Instructor of Law.
***
College of Arts and Letters: William O. Shanahan, former Lieut. Commander in the Navy, and former Notre Dame Professor, to be Professor of History; Dr. Francis J. Brown, former Army Occupational Counsellor at Fort Devens, Mass., to be Assistant Professor of Economics; Dr. Aloysius B. Capon-igri of the University of Iowa, to be Assistant Professor of Philosophy; William J. Eisen of Northwestern University, to be Assistant Professor of Speech; Rev. Speer Strahan, former Chief Chaplain, Veterans Administration, San Francisco, Calif., Assistant Professor of English.
Dr. Paul E. McLane of Seattle, Wash., College, Assistant Professor of English; Robert D. Nun er, former Major, Military Intelligence, Instructor in Modern Languages; William B. Murray, Assistant Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame, to be Instructor in Sociology; Loren J. Hess, former Captain in the Army and volunteer instructor in the first college conducted by the Army overseas, known as the “University of the South Pacific,” to be Instructoi- in Sociology; Robert Duncan Brown, former Colonel, Military Intelligence, to be Instructor in History; Frederick Stanley Beckman, former Staff Artist, Army Air Forces, to be Instructor
in Fine Arts; Rev. John Fitzsimons of Liverpool, England, to be Instructor in Religion; and Frederick B. Govern of Stamford Central School, Stamford, Conn., to be Instructor in Speech.
***
College of Commerce: Thomas T. Murphy, of Holy Cross College, to be Associate Professor of Accounting; Joseph J. Miller, former Lieutenant, United States Navy, to be Instructor in Business Administration; John B. Morgan, former Lieutenant, United States Navy, to be Instructor in Accounting, and William E. Slowey, a 1946 graduate of Notre Dame, to be Instructor at Large.
***
College of Engineering: Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, of Columbia University, to be Associate Professor of Metallurgy; Leroy D. Graves, until recently a civil engineer with the Army Engineers, to be Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering; and Herman S. Altman, former Lieutenant, United States Navy, to be Instructor in Engineering.
***
College of Science: Dr. Christopher L. Wilson, Industrial Research Director of Ashtead, Surrey, England, to be Professor of Chemistry; Dr. Joseph P. LaSalle, of Cornell University, to be Assistant Professor of Mathematics; Dr. Archie J. MacAlpin, formerly Field Geologist with the United States Geological Survey, to be Assistant Professor of Geology; Norman B. Hasser, Notre Dame graduate, class of 1943, and former Army officer, to be instructor in Math-
ematics; Paul S. Stokely, who has just completed studies at Notre Dame for the degree of Master of Science, to be Instructor in Biology; Dr. Russell R. Williams, Jr., of the Clinton Laboratories, Knoxville, Tenn., to be Instructor in Chemistry; Dr. H. S. M. Coxeter, of the University of Toronto, to be Visiting Professor in the Department of Mathematics, and Arthur L. Stevens, of the University of Portland, to be Research Associate in Biology.
Danis Heads NROTC; Capt. Barry Retires
Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commandant of the naval training units at the University since 1943, has been retired by the Navy Department, according to an announcement at Notre Dame.
A hero of World War II, Capt. Anthony L. Danis, U.S.N., has been appointed Professor of Naval Science and Tactics at Notre Dame and will be in command of the single remaining naval training unit at the University, the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps. Commander George Hutchinson, U.S.N., will remain as Executive Officer of the N.R.O.T.C. at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame is one of the 52 leading universities and colleges in the United States which will conduct the N.R.O.T.C. program on a peacetime basis. A total of 269 N.R.O.T.C. students are enrolled for the University term which began Sept. 12.	•
Naval and University officials explained that ths N.R.O.T.C. program will be conducted on a civilian basis and as an elective course to the regular University curricula. Members of the unit will not wear uniforms except during drill periods.
Local Group Builds Houses For Faculty
Shortages of housing for members of the faculty at the University of Notre Dame will be greatly relieved in the immediate future by the construction of dwellings for certain University faculty members by the recently organized University Enterprises, Inc., according to. an announcement by the Rev. John 3. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame President.
When it became apparent to officials of the University that the enrollment at Notre Dame would reach a new high of more than 4,000 students in the Fall semester, every effort was made to house students on the campus by doubling-up the residence halls and by constructing houses near the campus for 117 married veterans who are students. Realizing ' that a critical situation existed regarding housing for Notre Dame faculty members, a group of South Bend citizens offered to incorporate into University Enterprises, Inc., to assist the University in this housing problem. '
II
Dr. Ross Appointed Head of Math Dept.
Dr. Arnold Ephrain Ross, one of the nation’s most prominent mathematicians, has been appointed Head of the Department of Mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced- by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Dr. Ross comes to Notre Dame after twelve years as Associate Professor of Mathematics at St. Louis University. At Notre Dame he succeeds Dr. Karl Men-ger, who has resigned to join the faculty at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. Dr. Menger, however, will continue to edit the Notre Dame Mathematical Series.
The new Notre Dame department head, who also will serve as Professor of Mathematics at Notre Dame, engaged in important research work for the United States Navy during World War II at the Stromberg-Carlson Company in Rochester, N. Y.
Dr. Ross received his Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Chicago in 1928, his Master of Science from the same in 1929. He was awarded his Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1931 from Chicago. During the summer of 1943 he was a Senior Fellow in the School of Mathematical Mechanics at Brown University.
Dr. Menger, who helped greatly to make the Department of Mathematics at Notre Dame one of the strongest in the
NOTRE DAME RECEIVES NAVY COMMENDATION
A special commendation for the part played by the University of Notre Dame in the Navy V-12 program during World War II has been received at the University from the U. S. Navy Department.
The commendation, signed by Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal, reads: "This mark of commendation is awarded by the Department to the University of Notre Dame for effective cooperation with the United States Navy in the training of officer candidates under the Navy V-12 program during world War II."
During the tenure of the naval training station at Notre Dame, which graduated its last class of ROTC trainees at Notre Dame's 101st commencement on June 30, more than 2,200 graduated from the V-12 program. More than 12,200 men attended the Navy midshipmen school at Notre Dame and 9,099 were commissioned in the Naval Reserve. 290 in the Marines.
The commendation was presented to the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., by Vice-Admiral George D. Carpenter, U. S. N., Commandant of the Ninth Naval District.
United States, came to Notre Dame in 1937 from the University of Vienna. He first visited the University in 1936 as a Special Lecturer.
Balance Of Power
Needed, Says Gurian
The Soviet Union will accept only a communistic world state, and no other, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame and editor of “The Review of Politics,” published at Notre Dame, said at the University of Chicago in speaking to the Institute of Student Federalists at a meeting at the International House.
The Institute was organized by students of various American colleges and universities for the purpose of studying world affairs. More than 500 students, representing 74 colleges and universities, heard Dr. Gurian speak on the subject “Russia in World Affairs.” Dr. Gurian is an internationally distinguished authority on Russia.
“As long as the U.S.S.R. exists,” he asserted, “there is no possibility of a democratic, non-communistic world government. The work for any political commonwealth other than a communistic one is regarded by the Soviets as a hypocrisy covering up the preparation of an alliance against Russia. Only on the basis of a precarious balance—of power policy—is it possible to avoid war with Russia.”
Dr. Gurian emphasized, however, that a war was not necessarily coming, nor would such a war, if it were to come, necessarily result in world government, as is believed by many persons.
Notre Dame men sweat out the Veterans' Affairs tangle on registration day while right. Dean McCarthy and Professor Fenlon trade class cards for students* vital statistics.
12
Mediaeval Institute
Here First In U. S.
Creation of a Mediaeval Institute, the only one of its kind in the United States, at the University of Notre Dame has been announced by the administration.
The Director of the Mediaeval Institute will be the Very Reverend Gerald B. Phelan, Ph.D., LL.D., F.R.S.C., who since 1937 has been President of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, Canada.
The Mediaeval Institute will be a distinct and independent academic unit within the University. It will be primarily a research institution, devoted to an intensive study of the life and thought of the Middle Ages, the critical editions of unpublished materials, the publication of scholarly studies and critical analyses of available sources, the tracing of currents of thought and movements of civilization and, in general, whatever may advance our knowledge and understanding of Catholic mediaeval culture.
At the outset, courses in Mediaeval Theology, philosophy, history, Latin, and English ■will be offered in the Institute, while research will be concentrated on theology, philosophy, history, and English literature. Later, other courses will be added to the curriculum and the fields of research will be widened.
Students admitted to the Mediaeval Institute must hold the bachelor’s degree and have done adequate work in philosophy, English, Latin, history, and the modern languages, French and German. The full course of study, leading to a diploma from the Institute, will extend over five school years. Within this period, the Master’s degree may be received from the University at the end of two years, and the Doctor’s Degree at the end of four years.
Dr. Phelan, Director of the new Institute, has been Co-Director with Professor Etienne Gilson of the Institute of Mediaeval Studies, from 1931 to 1936. He came to the University of Toronto in 1926 as Professor of Philosophy. Dr. Phelan is the author of a number of books, the latest of which, Some Illustrations of St. Thomas’ Development of the Wisdom of St. Augustine, has appeared this year: He also has contributed numerous articles to philosophical journals.
Now, with the establishing of the Mediaeval Institute, the University is giving new impetus to the scholarly investigation of one of the richest periods in the history of Western thought and culture.
Welcome to N. D.
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Welcome, stranger, to the University of Notre Dame, and to the thriving little city of South Bend. Here you will spend the next few cherishable years, so in order that you may be part of this mad whirl, we shall hereby put you wise to a few points.
South Bend is the home of the Studebaker, the South Bend lathe, and the Browser’s Card. In football scrimmage, not even Jimmy Mello can get by the line of scrimmage without his browser’s card. Get one!	,
Most Notre Dame men go for gaudy bow ties and white shirts, which are considered distingue (that’s French for “sharp”). Most Law students and California men are considered good dressers, but the sharpest lads about campus are Ziggy Czarobski and Vito Popelka.
South Bend is a pedestrian’s town. It’s the only town in which bus drivers have to creep around corners, giving those afoot the right of way. That’s why so many drivers quit in disgust; it’s no fun inching around corners, so they go out to Los Angeles where they can run a pedestrian down right at his doorstep. Incidentally the town is loaded with traffic signals, all saying “Wait.” Rumor has it that the reason N. D. dropped two in a row to Army is that the Cadets rolled out a couple of glimmering yellow “Wait” signals, and the ND men, drilled in obedience, refused to budge ’til the light changed. This year the sign ought to read “GO.”
There is only one first-run theatre in town; other flicker-houses cater to cowboy yarns, spook shows, and kiddie cartoon carnivals. A good many Phys-Ed majors attend the latter in squealing delight as they munch on Abba-Zaba bars.
Close by our learned glades is the local Dragonwyck, venerable, old, St. Mary’s-of-the-Lake. St. Mary’s girls all wear long stockings and drab hats, mostly beanies. A small scouting party of ND men usually traipse over to the Never-never land each Sunday just for 'tradition’s sake.
Armed with this guide, and steered along the right paths by the Student Manual, you should be able to weather the trip in the best collegiate style.
Chemistry Meeting Held At Notre Dame
Invaluable contributions made by the nation’s scientists to the national defense of the United States were spotlighted at a special four-day conference of more than 150 leading scientists, which opened on Sept. 3 at the University of Notre Dame.
Among the subjects discussed by the scientists were the latest information and theories on the chemical preparation and reaction of explosives, war gasses and other lethal products. Dr. Paul D. Bartlett, Professor of Chemistry at Harvard University, was chairman of the Conference, while Dr. Charles C. Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame and 1946 recipient of the American Chemical Society Award in Pure Chemistry, was chairman of the committee on arrangements.
The scientists were welcomed to Notre Dame by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, who told of Notre Dame’s many contributions to science. Among the greatest, he declared were the following: perfection of the basic formula which made possible the production of synthetic rubber; development of powerful antimalarial drugs; pioneer experiments in aeronautics and wireless telegraphy; and important studies in nuclear physics, biology, botany and chemistry.
Vets’ Club Blasts
U. S. Foreign Policy
During the summer a petition signed by 700 members of the Notre Dame Veterans Club Was forwarded to President Tinman and Congress, assailing “shortsighted and narrow-minded” policies pursued in conquered Europe and Japan by the victorious allies.
The petition demanded a congressional investigation as to the reasons why State and War Department plans for the military government of conquered Germany were discarded in the spring of 1945. It further urged that Germany be placed in a condition in which it can support itself and pay reparations out of current productions, instead of being supported as an “economic slum” by U. S. taxpayers.
Full support in the work of reconstruction of Japan was advocated for Gen. MacArthur.—Ed Snyder
13
Fr. Cavanaugh Elected President,
Among important reappointments given out by Father Steiner were these:
Fr. Murphy Vice-President of N.D.
Election of Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as President of the University of Notre Dame for a three-year term was announced last July by Eev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the United States Chapter of the Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the religious order which conducts Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh, who has been vice-president of Notre Dame since 1940, was chosen for the high honor by the Provincial Council of the Congregation at the latter’s triennial chapter meeting at Notre Dame. He succeeds Eev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., who has been president of Notre Dame for the last six and one-half years. Father O’Donnell will be given a special assignment by the Provincial.
Elect Fr. Murphy Vice-President
At the same time Father Steiner announced the election of Eev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame since 1943, as vice-president of the University. He will also serve for three years.
Important appointments announced by Father Steiner included the following:
Eev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., to be president of the University of Portland, Ore., succeeding Eev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., who has been in ill health. The University of Portland is under the direction of the Priests cf the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Eev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., to be president of Kings College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. This is a new college which was opened this month under the direction of the Fathers of Holy Cross.
Eev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., to succeed Father Murphy as superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame. This seminary is where candidates for the priesthood complete their college education.
Eev. Alfred C. Send, C.S.C., to be president of St. George’s College at Santiago, Chile. This is a preparatory schoo. •conducted by the Priests of the Congre-tion of Holy Cross.
Eev. Thomas D. Eichards, C.S.C., to become superior of the Holy Cross Mission Band, which conducts missions, novenas and retreats in all parts of the United States.
Eev. William M. Eobinson, C.S.C., to become assistant religious superior at the University of Notre Dame. Father Eobinson was for the last three years president of St. Edward's University at Austin, Texas, which is now being directed by the Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Fr. Haggerty Named
Eev. Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., to become superior of the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame. Father Haggerty has been pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis., since 1943.
Eev. Thomas C. Duffy, C.S.C., to become superior of the Holy Cross Eastern Mission Band, at North Easton, Mass., which conducts missions, novenas ana retreats in the New England and other Eastern states.
Eev. Vincent J. McCauley, C.S.C., to be superior of the Foreign Mission Seminary of the Congregation at the Catholic University, Washington, D. C. Missionaries for India are trained at this seminary.
Eev. Norman J. Johnson, C.S.C., to be editor of The Bengalese, official publication of the Foreign Mission Society of the Congregation. Father Johnson has just returned from distinguished service as an Army chaplain in the Pacific.
Retiring President Fr. O'Donnell congratulates his successor Fr. Cavanaugh and newly-elected Vice-President Fr. Murphy.
Eev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., to continue as editor of The Ave Maria, national Catholic weekly which has been published at Notre Dame by the Congre
gation of Holy Cross for more than 80 years.
Eev. Eichard J. Grimm, C.S.C., to continue as superior cf Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. This is a preparatory seminary.
Eev. Bernard E. Eansing, C.S.C., to continue as superior of Holy Cross Seminary in Washington, D. C. This seminary is where candidates for the priesthood complete their theological studies.
Appoint University Officials
Eev. Thomas M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C., to continue as director of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society at Washington, D. C.
Eev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C., to continue as Director of Studies at the University of Notre Dame.
Eev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., to continue as Prefect of Discipline at the University.
Eev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., to continue as Prefect of Eeligion at the University.
Eev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., to continue as Eegistrar at the University.
Father Murphy was born July 18, 1912, at Eacine, Wis., son of the late
(Continued on page 33)
14
The Eleventh President
An association with the University of Notre Dame that began 29 years ago when a young man from Owosso, Mich., became secretary to the president of the University, has been climaxed by the elevation to the presidency of Notre Dame of this same young man.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., whose election to the presidency of Notre Dame by the Provincial Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross was announced on July 20, has had a varied, interesting and meteoric career as any priest ever to hold office. He was embarked on a promising business career with the Studebaker Corporation before beginning his studies for the priesthood. He has traveled and studied throughout the world. His career in education has been eminently successful, and in spite of his exacting duties he is even now considered one of the best handball and bridge players on the Notre Dame campus.
Worked for Ford
In his home town of Owosso, Mich., John Cavanaugh left high school to take business training and soon became secretary to the late Frank Campbell, private secretary to Henry Ford. At Notre Dame at that time a student, especially if he had special aptitudes, could work full time for two years and then obtain a free university education. To take advantage of this opportunity Father Cavanaugh remembers riding the interurban from Niles, Mich., to South Bend and being introduced to the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the president, by John Mangan, University chauffeur, who even then was a fixture on the Irish campus. Father John W. Cavanaugh, no relation to the new president, showed his new secretary the campus and “was very patient with me,” Father John J. Cavanaugh recalls.
As a Notre Dame undergraduate, John Cavanaugh lived in Walsh and Corby residence halls on the University campus and played guard on the Walsh Hall interhall football team. His Corby Hall roommate was Gus Desch, an Irish track and football star, and the duo’s special friends were Paul Castner, AllAmerica football player, and Roger Kiley, now a judge of the superior court in Chicago.
Even in his student days at Notre Dame, John Cavanaugh was the most dynamic leader on the University cam
pus, and as an undergraduate was elected president of the Student Activities Council, which is the student governing body at Notre Dame.
Traveled in East
During the summer vacation of his junior year, Father John with three college friends shipped on a freighter out of San Francisco to the Philippines and orient. John, the secretary, planned a nice summer cruise as boat stenographer but two days out his dreams were rudely shattered and he became an engine wiper in the fiercely hot engine room. By the time he returned to Notre Dame in the fall he had lost 35 pounds.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
John Cavanaugh graduated with the class of 1923 at Notre Dame, also the class of his brother, Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who was in the seminary during the time John was an undergraduate. Father. Frank is the present Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame.
John Cavanaugh, with his friend Paul Castner, went to work for the Studebaker Corporation in South Bend immediately after graduation. Castner remained with the firm and became truck division sales manager before going to the White Motor Company in Cleveland, 0. By 1926 John Cavanaugh was assistant advertising manager for Studebaker
when he decided to forego a promising business career to enter the priesthood.
“I was making good money and had as bright a future as most young men in the business world,” Father Cavanaugh reminisces, “but I wasn’t satisfied. My job then was to see how many cars our company could sell. Then I got to thinking what difference would it make 50 years hence how many cars I sold or how much money I made; I would get no satisfaction out of it. The priesthood, I became convinced, offered the greatest opportunity for rendering the service to mankind that I wanted to give it. So I went back to Notre Dame.”
In 1931 John J. Cavanaugh became Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and went immediately to Rome to continue his studies. While in Europe he met Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, now Pope Pius XII, and received the Ph.L. degree from Gregorian University in Rome. In 1933 he returned to Notre Dame; ultimately succeeding the then Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as Prefect of Religion at the University, a post he held until he became vice-president in 1940. Father O’Hara later became president of Notre Dame; still later Bishop of Milasa, and now of Buffalo, N. Y.
Headed Athletic Board
As vice-president, Father Cavanaugh also was chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics during which time Frank Leahy became Notre Dame’s football coach and director of athletics. When the motion picture, “Knute Rockne-All American” was filmed Father Cavanaugh was the University’s representative in Hollywood Calif., and during the same period he traveled extensively through South America.
The University’s new president is a firm believer in liberal education which he considers the basic foundation for good education. He also believes with customary modesty that:
“The success of any university, especially one the size of Notre Dame, depends on the cooperation of the religious and lay members of the faculty and the alumni and friends of the school. Success here depends not so much on any one man as on that admirable cooperation and unity. Coming into a high position at Notre Dame a man knows he can rely on that spirit and so he can have the courage to carry on.”
15
K. C. Name Slate, Plan Activities
With the installation of the officers by visiting District Deputy William D. Phalen of La Porte, Ind., and a discussion of plans for their forthcoming picnic, the Knights of Columbus of the Notre Dame council began thsir yearly program last Tuesday evening. The council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall were the scene for the initial meeting of the knights at which a series of appoinlments were made for various committees and plans drawn up for a banner year.
Among the appointments made by Grand Knight James Sullivan were Frank Grimaldi to the position of Program Chairman; Lecturer, Frank Coleman; Catholic Activity, Leonard Aull; Membership, Larry Turner; Publicity, Jack Miles; Council Activity, Tom Broden; and Fraternity Activity, Bill Meehan. The selection of Jack Desmond and Bill Dillon to head the House Committee and the announcement that the knights were to handle the work of furnishing ushers for the Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church also highlighted the first meeting of the current scholastic year.
Those students of the University who desire to fill out applications and to be considered for membership in the fall class of the Notre Dame council are asked to drop in to the council offices
between the hours of 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. any day during the week. A member of the committee in charge of membership will assist them in making application and in explanation of any pornt concerning the knight which might be required.
Officers installed to guide the council through the coming year were: James Sullivan, Grand Knight; James Webb, Deputy Grand Knight; John McCormick, Financial Secretary; William McShay, Treasurer; John Galloway, Recording Secretary; Arthur McGrath, Chancellor; Joseph Sobek, Warden; Fred Earley, Advocate; and George Engler, Guard.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS PICNIC
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30, the members of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus will meet to begin their first PICNIC of the year. Chairman Art McGrath has announced that free transportation will be furnished to all members who are present in the circle with their traveling cards at this time. The scene of this get-together for the knights will be Cook's Grove on the St. Joseph river near the city of Mishawaka. An abundance of food, entertainment, sports, and beverages will be furnished at no cost to the brothers who are in attendance.
LOOK in the SCHOLASTIC
"I Scout Blanchard and Davis for Notre Dame" is appearing in the current issue of LOOK, the Family Magazine. We express our thanks to the editors of LOOK for their permission to use the pictorial feature and are especially grateful for their co-operation in meeting the SCHOLASTIC deadline.
Hint imiiitniii tniiuimuti  	ti
Authorities Double
Laundry Allowance
Due to the general misunderstanding about the amount of laundry to be handed in, here is the information given out by a laundry executive this week:
Each student will be allowed to turn in the following articles every two weeks: 8 shirts, 2 pairs of pajamas, 6 suits of underwear, 12 pair of socks, 16 handkerchiefs and 6 towels. The quota listed on the back of the laundry card is the amount allowed for a one-week period; therefore, double the number of each item when sending the laundry in.
Bulletins are posted at all residence halls stating the day on which laundry will be picked up at each hall.
—Daniel J. O’Neill
Hundreds of students receive Holy Communion at Mass marking formal opening of school year. (Story on page 9).
Father Murray to Assist Prefect of Religion
Father Edmund Murray, C.S.C., has been named assistant Prefect of Religion with offices in Cavanaugh Hall. He will aid Father William Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, whose offices are in Dillon Hall.
A native of Bridgeport, Conneticut, Father Murray graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 and was ordained in 1938. From 1939 until shortly after Pearl Harbor he was a member of the Department of Religion at Notre Dame and a prefect in Badin Hall.
Father Murray enlisted shortly after the outbreak of the war and served at Camp Barkley, Texas, until the activation of the 104th Infantry Division. This division saw 195 consecutive days of combat in the European Theater, at various times being attached to both British and American Armies. Father Murray holds a commission as major in the Reserve.
16
"I Scout Blanchard and Davis for Notre Dame”
Unhappy Jack Lavelle, 250-pound Notre Dame football scout, says it's not a job —it's a nightmare
By JACK LAVELLE As told to TIM COHANE
{scout Blanchard and Davis for Notre Dame and may the Lord help me. Felix Anthony (Doc) Blanchard is fullback and Glenn Woodward (Junior) Davis left halfback on Army's football team. Army was national champion in 1944 and 1945. They beat Notre Dame, 59-0 and 48-0. Mainly responsible were Blanchard and Davis, two of the greatest players who ever lived. And I wish they never had.,
Blanchard and Davis will be graduated next June and commissioned second lieutenants. It will be the first time they were ever second anything. I plan to attend the graduation. I will cheer and kick my heels. If Benny
Havens still ran a grog shop near West Point. I might even pour. The U. S. Army will get two fine officers. And I'll get some peace of mind.
But that’s next June. Now. September. I niust begin scouting Army and its Blanchard and Davis again. Notre Dame plays Army at Yankee Stadium. November 9. Before then I will see Blanchard and Davis against Villanova. Oklahoma. Cornell. Michigan, Columbia. Duke and West Virginia. I must send a weekly report to Frank Leahy. Notre Dame coach, with recommendations for stopping them. Maybe I should have told Hitler how to stop Eisenhower and Hirohito how to stop MacArthur.
I'm a Notre Dame grad, and I used to enjoy scouting for the school. My heart was in my work. Then Davis and Blanchard went to West
Point. Now m.v heait's in my mouth. Notre Dame pays me money to scout Blanchard and Davis. I take it. too. Why not? If I was hired to construct a square circle, devise a perpetual motion formula or satisfy Mr. Molotov. I'd also expect recompense.
A scout seldom sees his own team play. Instead, he sits in a stadium far removed, studying some future opponent. In my case it’s Army and those two persons. Well heeled with sharp pencils and paper, I draw X’s, circles, dotted lines, curved lines, straight lines, numbers, I.set down all Army's plays. I attempt to learn each player's strength and weaknesses. When the game is over, my work is just begun. On Sunday I write a 22-page report which I air mail to Notre Dame. (Continued on page 20)
17
18
FASHION PARK — WORSTED-TEX SUITS AND COATS
McGREGOR SPORTSWEAR
KNOX HATS . . . VAN HEUSEN AND ARROW SHIRTS . . . BOTANY TIES . . . INTERWOVEN HOSE
Operation "COLLEGE"
Welcome bock N. D. Students
Max Adler’s has been headquarters for Notre Dame Students for many years. You are always welcome to come in and browse around. ■ A very convenient location—On the Comer Michigan and Washington right in the heart of South Bend.
«TK MKHHN f MMNMN
13 .
I SCOUT FOR NOTRE DAME continued
There’s no such thing as a
defense for Blanchard, Davis
Thai's the conventional method of scouting As far as Blanchard and Davis are concerned, it is obsolete. I might better spend my Autumn Saturdays at the Opera, where the chorus doesn’t feature. “On Brave Oid Army Team." It would be easier on my nerves and sanity. And I could write a better scouting report as follows:
1 — If it is not too late, cancel the game. 2—If too late to cancel the game, then don’t show up. 3—If you insist on showing up, remain only until after the National Anthem has been played. Then walk dignifiedly but purposefully off the field. People will understand, even at §4.80 a head. Unless they
are extremely crude, they will even applaud. 4—If you insist on playing, come loaded down with ropes, pickaxes, bear traps, nets and paid up life insurance policies.
A gag? Not at all. Listen. The first operation in a game is the kick-off. What should I recommend Notre Dame do about that, if it wins the toss? Should the Irish kick off or receive? Army prefers we receive. Whenever they win the toss, they kick off. For two years Blanchard has been kicking off and rushing downfield to throttle the receiver someplace inside his 20-yard line.
Doc is really a nice fellow. He only acts this way because he
can’t help it. He wants the ball back so he and Davis can run with it. He gets it back soon enough. You try a couple of plays, get nowhere and punt-out of bounds unless your kicker is already a little dizzy from contact with Doc. Army gets possession of the ball near midfield and promptly throws its T-formation arsenal in your face. Comes Blanchard. Comes Davis Comes chaos.
Suppose you kick off instead of receive? You merely hasten the inevitable. Blanchard or Davis catches the ball and runs, which is not good. Army has other excellent backs-Arnold Tucker and Bobby Jack Stuart —but with
Blanchard and Davis around, they sometimes feel a little unnecessary. So would Frank Merriwell and his brother Dick.
Once the problem of the kickoff has been thoroughly flunked, the rest of the game proceeds in similar disorder. There is no such thing as a defense for Blanchard and Davis. Navy and Michigan used eight-man lines. Army got five touchdowns on Navy and four on Michigan. And Blanchard and Davis got all but one of them. Doc ran 68 yards for one against Michigan. He eluded the last man with a side step and a heel click.
“Blanchard not only runs for a touch-
loveiie wonts to leap ovt of the pm* box, Roe th* Stadium for hit very life. But the horror of Blanchard fascinates him. Ho can't remove his gaze from the scene.'
20
I SCOUT TO* NOTSE DAMS continued
Tom-toms bogin boating in Lavelle's brain. "Blanchard and Davis," they drum, "Davis and Blanchard." Ha foals his sanity abbing away.
But better, yes, far better, indeed, to live quite oblivious of Blanchard and Davis. What have Jack's scissors wrought: Ncftre Dame's Four Horsemen?
Blanchard is a wrecker
Davis keeps in high gear
down,” a Western Conference scout remarked appreciatively. “He also gives you the Fred Astaire.”
Blanchard’s formula is blockbusting, power plus quick pickup. He weighs 208 and can stay with the fastest sprinters for 25 to 30 yards, the important yards in football running. You may wish to compare atomic power with Blanchard, but remember: Doc came first.
He is a pulverizing blocker and tackler, a deft punter who gets the ball off as quick as anyone I’ve ever seen, a nimble pass-receiver and a smart defensive man. He has intercepted several passes and run them back for touchdowns, including one each against us and the Navy last year. But most impressive is his wrecking power.
I have seen him demolish or slow up bigger and just as well-conditioned specimens by his sheer force: men like John (Tree) Adams, 6 feet 7, 230-pound Notre Dame tackle; Don
Whitmire, great 230-pound Navy tackle; George Savitsky, of Pennsylvania, another outstanding tackle weighing 235.
Even officials aren’t safe. In the 1944 Notre Dame-Army game, .Dr. David Reese, head linesman, thought a play was going to the opposite side of the line, an illusion shared by ’ several Notre Dame linemen. Instead. Blanchard came back to Dr. Reese's side and the doctor was in the way. When excavators got down to him, they found a dislocated elbow and a wrenched knee/
A writer asked me that year: “Does Blanchard run well to his right or his left?
“Yes.” I replied, “and he also runs well over you.”
' The first time I was introduced formally to Blanchard, I got a break. It was at the 1945 intercollegiate track meet in Madison Square Garden. At some of these meets I’m official starter. That night, fortunately, I was just a spectator. After
shaking hands with Doc, I couldn't have fired a water pistol. I hastened to the nearest hot water faucet and held my hand under it.
’ After five minutes I was able to pry my fingers apart.
. Like Blanchard, Glenn Davis is the best at his position—in the last 15 years, at least. If Davis had gone in seriously for track, he might have set a new world’s record for 100 yards. But he has more than speed. He is so shifty, if he were placed in a 30-foot square room with two other athletes, they might or might not catch him be, fore going limp from exhaustion.
Glenn's 170 pounds carry exceptional shoulder, arm. chest and leg strength. Army’s attack assigns him more blocking than Blanchard, and he excels at it. He is a strong tackler, a good passer and a great pass receiver. On deep passes he is impossible to. cover._ ' Unlike Blanchard, who relaxes when Army has a big lead. Davis always stays in high gear. He . • works just as hard at his faking as he does at his ball carrying.
I think Blanchard and Davis will be even tougher to stop this year, for three reasons. First: Army's T ran smoother than ever in Spring practice. Second: with tougher opposition and weaker tackles, Army will be in closer games. This means Blanchard and Davis will play more than the 27M minutes a game they averaged in 1944 and 1945. Third: they will be better under pressure. The most inspired game they ever played was the closest one they’ve been in—the 23-7 victory over Navy two years ago.
Notre Dame expects to make a contest out of the Army game this year. It won't be 59-0 or 48-0. But the only way Army can be beaten is by outscoring Blanchard and Davis, not by trying to stop them. That cannot be done.
Yet. I’ve got to watch Blanchard and Davis week after week and suggest to Notre Dame how it can be done. Such a job does things to you. I’m only a shell of my former self, which nobody can deny—not even Blanchard and Davis.
Bereft of his wits, the Notre Dame scout wistfully puts notes to the scissors. Poor, put-upon Jack — dreaming of past Notre Dame glory.
’ The light of sanity returns. But Honest Jack hides from it, shuts himself off
from the. world of Blanchard and Davis and begins his dismal memoirs.:
21
Leahy Gloomy About Illini Game
Harriers Preparing For Opening Meet
The largest squad of cross country aspirants since pre-war days reported to track coach “Doc” Handy at the field house last Thursday. The squad of 25 would-be harriers are busy rounding into shape for the opening meet with the Wisconsin Badgers on Oct. 11. The nucleus of this year’s team will be six aces from last year’s team which placed second in the Nationals and met defeat only at the hands (or should it be feet) of the Drake national champions. These returning harriers are Tully, Leonard, Murphy, Zabota, Styers and Tracy. They’ll be hard pressed for varsity berths by McGuire and Johnny Lyons, both returning to the team after discharge from service. The large turnout leaves Coach Handy with many bright prospects headed by Hahn, Leeds, Cameron, Johnson, and Diagulis.
The team is at present training for the University championship tentatively scheduled for the first Sunday in October. Coach Handy expects to fill his varsity berths with the winners of this event. Any member cf the student body is eligible for this run. Entries will be running against the members of the cross country squad and had better begin early training on theii- own or under Coach Handy’s supervision with the other varsity hopefuls. The present training course, which is also the official cross country run, is four miles, but the University finals may be cut to a mile and a half. Most of the route will be around the lakes with the start and finish in the vicinity of the fieldhouse. An inter-hall cross country meet is also tentatively scheduled, but the date has not yet been set. - .
Though the good doctor is pleased •with the season’s prospects, there is one note of gloom. It is highly possible that Bill Leonard, whose fleet legs carried many an ND team to victory on the hardboards and cinders last season, will not run with the harriers this fall because of a summer operation. Though not bothered at present, Doc wants to take no chances with his star and may hold him in reserve for the indoor and outdoor seasons.—Joe Fahey
ReLUatiGn
Costin
“South Bend Sports Editor Wonders When Notre Dame’s Varsity Is Going To Snap Out Of It And Really Go To Work.” — With the above heading his story, Mr. Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, in a recent issue of that newspaper let loose a journalistic blast at the 1946 varsity football team. No doubt prompted by the varsity’s poor showing in an inter-team scrimmage on Saturday afternoon, Sept. 7, the editor, using this one game as a Cxiterion for the entire pre-season practice session, severely censured the boys for their lack of spirit, fight,' and aggression.	"
The story opened up nicely enough. Mr. Costin told his readers all about the Notre Dame teams he has watched play —way back to 1909 when he was but a little lad. With this vast amount of experience behind him, he is now naturally (Continued on Next Page)
CHORUS LINE — Sitko. Mello, Lujack, and Livingstone do a. shuffling off to Buffalo routine for the cameramen.	-
Poor Kicking Cited By Worried Mentor
Coach Frank Leahy is of the opinion that some progress is being made in preparing his men for the opening game with Illinois, at Champaign, on Sept. 28, but after watching last Saturday’s intrasquad scrimmage he stated: “If our kicking does not improve, we are always going to have our backs to the wall in a close game.”
Quarterbacks Johnny Lu jack, Connellsville, Pa., Frank Tripucka, Bloomfield, N. J. and George Ratterman, Cincinnati, O., did the booting Saturday and not one of the three bettered 40 yards all afternoon. Consequently, Leahy is giving all three long kicking drills and they have two objectives. They are trying for distance and also to boot the ball out of bounds. The reason for the out of bounds directive being that Buddy Young, one of the fastest men in football, will be the Illinois safety man.
In Saturday’s scrimmage, the so-called first team wearing green shirts defeated the white-shirted second stringers five touchdowns to three. Fred Earley, diminutive Parkersburg, W. Va., halfback,
22
working for both teams, booted eight successive extra points.
Lu jack showed an improvement in his passing while running the “greens.” He completed eight of fifteen tosses, one for a touchdown. In addition, he scored another touchdown on a six-yard .run around right end. Emil Sitko, Ft. Wayne, Ind., scored twice for the “greens” on runs of 20 and 22 yards, and Bob Livingstone, Hammond, Ind., added the other first team touchdown on a 16-yard scamper.
For the “whites,” Ratterman passed for two touchdowns and Tripucka one.
Leahy singled out Guards Joe Sig-naigo, Memphis, and Fred Rovai, Hammond, and right end Jack Zilly, Southington, Conn, as having performed well on defense.
With three weeks of practice out of the way, the lineup of leading candidates reads as follows: Ends—Zilly, Bob Skoglund, of Chicago, Jim Martin of Cleveland, Frank Kosikowski of Milwaukee, Bob Walsh of Chicago, and Paul Limont of Pittsfield, Mass.; Tackles—George Connor of Chicago, Bob McBride of Lancaster, Ohio, Ziggy Czarobski of Chicago, Jack Fallon of Alton, Illinois, George Sullivan of East Walpole, Mass., and Wilmer Russell of Omaha; Guards— Ro
vai, Signaigo, John Mastrangelo of Vandergrift, Pa., Bernie Meter of Cleveland, Tom Potter of Kearney, N. J., and Vince Scott of LeRoy, N. Y.; Centers—Marty Wendell of Chicago, George Strohmeyer of McAllen, Texas, Bill Walsh of Phillipsburg, N. J., and Bill Vangen of Bell, Calif.; Quarterbacks—Lujack, Tripucka, Ratterman, and Pete Ashbaugh of Youngstown, 0.; Left Halfbacks—Livingstone, Gerry Cowhig, of Dorchester, Mass., and Terry Brennan of Milwaukee, Wis.; Right Halfbacks—Sitko, Michael Swistowicz of Chicago, and Floyd Simmons of Portland, Ore.; Fullbacks— Jim Mello of West Warwick, R. L, John Panelli of Morristown, N. J., and Corwin Clatt of East Peoria, Illinois.
Wins 24 Letters
George Strohmeyer, one of the leading candidates for the first string centei" job this year, must have set some sort of a national record as a letter winner while attending McAllen (Tex.) Senior high school.
He earned four letters in football, basketball, boxing, baseball, track and swimming for a grand total of 24. He also captained the football and baseball teams in his final year.
Refutation of Costin
(Continued from Pg. 22)
in a position to tell us what is the matter with the team this year. It seems the lads haven’t got the old “rah-rah” spirit to do or die for the “Golden Dome,” and furthermore they haven’t brought back with them their pre-war teen-age zest for playing the game.
At this point I would like to inject my own “two cents.” It is true I haven’t been around since 1909, and so will have to discount my lack of experience in comparing Notre Dame teams of old with the 1946 club. Nevertheless I have watched that team work out daily for the past two weeks, and in my opinion the boys out on Cartier Field are showing plenty of spirit, plenty of fight, and plenty of aggression. If they haven’t brought back with them their 17-year-old freshman eagerness to break a leg, or to lose a set of front teeth just to win a football game, can we blame them for that? Mr. Costin seems to have forgotten that this year’s team is not made up of 17- and 18-year-olds, but of players the great majority cf whom are over 21; many in their mid-20s; some are married, with families and consequent responsibilities. It is composed of men who have come back to school after serving three or four years in the service. They have come back to Notre Dame primarily to get an education. They didn’t need football to help get them their education but because they want once more to play under the colors of Notre Dame. They want to beat Ili-nois in the opening game next Saturday, and they want to go right on winning until they catch up with a certain service team in early November and hand that team the defeat they have been saving up two years.
Football players are no different from their fellow ex-servicemen students. The average vet at Notre Dame found it no easy job to readjust himself, to get back into the scholastic grind after an absence of years. It took him time to find himself, but when he did his grades were every bit as good as his pre-war record. And whether it be in the classroom or on the football field, the result will be the same. The 1946 Varsity will find itself; and when it does, Notre Dame will have a team of which it can be justly proud. The fact that they have already begun to show the excellent brand of football we can expect to see this fall was evidenced last Saturday when the second in^er-squad game was held with better results than on the previous week-end.
23
1946 Varsity Football
1945 Record: Won 7, Lost 2,
	1946 Schedule	Tied 1
Sept.	28—Illinois at Champa’gn	Notre Dame 7; Illinois 0
Oct.	5—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame	Notre Dame 40; Georgia Tech 7
Oct.	12—Purdue at Notre Dame	Notre Dame 34; Dartmouth 0
Oct.	19—Open Date	Notre Dame 39; Pittsburgh 9
Oct.	26—Iowa at Iowa City	Notre Dame 56; Iowa 0
Nov.	2—Navy at Baltimore	.	Notre Dame 6; Navy 6
Nov.	9—Army at New York	Notre Dame 0; Anny 48
Nov.	16—Northwestern at N.D.	Notre Dame 34; Northwestern 7
Nov.	23—Tulane at New Orleans	Notre Dame 32; Tulane 6
Nov.	30—Southern California at N.D.	Notre Dame 7; Great Lakes 39
Coaching Staff
Frank Leahy—Director of Athletics and Head Coach of Football
Edward W. Krause—Assistant Coach
Bernard Crimmins—Assistant Coach
John Druze—Assistant Coach
Walter Ziemba—Assistant Coach
Joseph McArdle—Assistant Coach
Marty Brill—Assistant Coach
N. D. Grid Team To Be Representative
Last spring Coach Frank Leahy went on record as saying that Notre Dame would have a “representative team” in 1946. In so stating, what he was implying was that “Notre Dame will have a fairly good team.” He also added, “However, we’ll probably lose three or four-games.” Some thought these statements to be contradictory. They are understandable though when one examines the 1946 schedule. He still feels that he’ll hav= a fairly good team, but a team can be good and lose to Army, Illinois, Navy, and Southern California, not to mention Purdue, Tulane, Northwestern, Iowa, and Pittsburgh.
defense. In addition, all major teams this year will probably be more even in strength.” In conclusion Leahy added, “The ‘T’ formation is always dangerous and we will use it at Notre Dame during the forthcoming season.”
Married Vets Softball Team Winds Up Season
During the past summer the married veterans who stayed in South Bend kept Notre Dame’s name alive with a hustling softball team. Although not too strong, they managed to hold their own in a series of battles with some of South Bend’s better teams. The highlights of the season were the games with Eagle’s Lodge, Class A softball champs, and
“the Behemoths” .of the Notre Dame football team.	‘
Under the managership of Jim Clemens, the aggregation finished the season with a .500 percentage. Composing the team were Joe Lane, Chuck Golden, John Bradley, Harry Florence, Frank Quinn, Leo Popkoa and Ed Blake. The workhorse pitchers were Tim Bradley and Jack Both.
In spite of the caliber of the material . the wives of the members of the team deserve a great deal of credit for their success as they composed one of the loudest cheering sections heard in these parts in some time.—Lou Horning.
N. D. Has Dead-Eye Dick To Boot Extra Points
Mr. Extra-Point this year at Notre Dame will be John Frederick (Fred) Earley, right half from Parkersburg, W. Va., who is scheduled to do all the placekicking for Coach Frank Leahy’s charges.
Earley will always be remembered at Notre Dame for booting the two extra points in the 14-13 win over the Iowa Seahawks in 1943. He was at Annapolis in 1944 and most of 1945 -but returned to Notre Dame following discharge from the Naval Academy because of a bad knee. The same knee confines the five-foot-seven 165-pound Earley to strictly place-kicking assignments at Notre Dame this season.
At Parkersburg high, in 1939, he scored the touchdown and then kicked the extra point which defeated New Martinsville, (W. Va.) high, 7-6. In a high school contest he came through with a conversion record of seven-for-seven. However, against Wheeling, (W. Va.) high he made 25 straight placements before the game and then missed his first attempt after the contest commenced.
Coach Leahy rates Army, powered by Blanchard and Davis plus a squad which, with few exceptions, has been together two and three years, as the strongest team in the country! Army will be better than Illinois, which has a 220-pound line paving the way for Buddy Young. The Irish mentor- declared, “We do not have a break-away runner. Our line, though not tco experienced, may be able to open up holes to get our backs through for three and four yard advances. But we can only hope that they, when momentarily shaken loose, can pick up 10 or 15 yards or go the distance on their own.”
In connection with the widely-used “T” formation, Leahy said, “Scoring generally will be reduced this season throughout the country as coaches are beginning to catch up with the “T” on
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	CYR’S BARBER SHOP	5 Barbers Manicurist
* W. E. Cyr, Prop.	“South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT 100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
BOOK HEADQUARTERS
Dictionaries Atlas Stationery Supplies
SOUTH BEND BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
24
Kelly, Boss Direct Athletic Managers
With the tail-end of summer came the familiar resounding of toe thudding against football, and shoulder against blocking dummy. Some of the men who will be against the scenes doing their part in making the season a success deserve a friendly pat on the back by the students.
The Notre Dame Managers Association, headed this fall by John H. Kelly and Bill Boss, is hard at work again, quietly and efficiently fulfilling their many duties.	-
Under the leadership of Kelly and Boss and the other four senior managers, Bill Flaherty, Richard Gottsacker, Tom Earls, and Charles Becchetti, the 21 managers with a number of freshmen and sophomore candidates have the job of tending every equipment and personal need of the entire squad.
Besides checking in players daily, watching the Cartier Field gate, running coaches’ errands, repairing and replacing damaged equipment, and tending the injured, the traveling group (seniors and two juniors) check on previously arranged reservations, tickets, and grouping of players in the hotels. Aid is also given visiting teams in their rooms while at Notre Dame.
Short of hands during the war, the Irish now have a full complement of ■ managers, representing about every college of the University, and every section of the nation.
Kelly is a senior Business Administration major from Comstock, Texas. Ranching on the Rio Grande heads his post-graduation plans. Boss, from Franklin, Ohio, is interested in a sports-writing career after completing graduate work in English at Notre Dame. He already has his B.A. Boss was also a football manager in ’43 while a member of the R.O.T.C. program at N.D.
Flaherty is from Barrington, Mass., and a second semester senior major in aeronautical engineering. He is in charge of equipment. Gottsacker and Becchetti are both Business Ad. majors. Gottsacker, also head track manager, is from Sheboygan, Wis., and Becchetti is from Hibbing, Minn. Earls, only junior of the senior group, is personnel manager of football, and an accounting major. His home is Portland, Me.
The others are juniors George Kennard from Ann Arbor, Mich., and Arthur A. McGrath and the following sophomores:
Louie Watkins, Houma, La.; Dick Nolan, Greenwich, Conn.; Edward Mad-
Don't look now. but you're being followed—action in last Saturday's scrimmage.
den, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Bill Brown, Dallas, Texas; George E. Schrosder, Ottawa, Ohio; Ray Srsic, Pittsburgh; A. J. Cassidy, Los Angeles, Calif.; Donald McGloon, Fairfield, Conn.; John D. Caemmerer, Williston Park, L. I.; and Leo Costello, Paterson, N. J.
Students desiring to join the association may attend the meeting Wednesday night, Sept. 25, in the Managers’ Office
The UPTOWN Restaurant
POPULAR NEW EATING PLACE
Cordially invites Notre Dame Students to try our FAMOUS DINNERS
a
120 SOUTH MAIN STREET (Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A. M. to 7:30 P. M., Seven Days a Week
HAND BAGS	LUGGAGE
Hans/^Rintzsch . WELCOME BACK TO NOTRE DAME!
PIPES	LEATHER GIFTS
'	Michigan at Colfax	Telephone 3-2200
“Where you wait for the Bus"
of th; Old Gym. Scheduled for 7 p.m., the meeting will be over before the 7:30 Mission time.
Members of the Managers Association must maintain a 77 average and are now required to apply as freshmen. New senior managers are selected each spring by the outgoing senior leader’s, with the approval of the University Board of Athletics.
25
Splinted yuun Ute PteAA fe&x,
-	•	-	...	- By jqe CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
“The inarch is on, no brain or brawn, can stop the charge of fighting men” . . . The Hike Song with its peppy lyrics bouncing off the walls of the stadium, the cheer-leaders yelling for more noise, the monogram men parading to class comparing notes on yesterday’s scrimmage, and Brother Conan whispering “All right LADS, put on your bonnets for a short scrimmage,” whenever he runs into a group of football players . . . Yes, fellas, it’s football season at Notre Dame.
Coach Frank Leahy told us that Notre Dame would have a “representative” team this fall. Translated, this means that Notre Dame will lose maybe three or four games. . . . We doubt this very much. With men like Mello, Sitko, Livingston, Lu jack, Cowhig, Kelly, Tripuka, Ratterman, Simmons, Brennan, Creevey, Panelli, McGurk, and Gartiser carrying the ball in back of a line packed with good material such as McBride, Connor, Sullivan, Fisher, Fallon, Mastrangelo, Rovai, Scott, Meter, Higgins, Tobin, Potter, Signaigo, Walsh, Statute, Stroh-
WILL DO TYPING for Students —
Call 3-1942 between the hours of 9:30 and 4:00 P. M.
MRS. KELLER
meyer, and Westenkirchner we look for more than a “representative” team . . . we look for another National Champion outfit.
The material is exceptionally good with the boys back from the service, some of whom made our ’43 team National Champs. The coaching was never better than it is at the present time. We’ll all miss Ed McKeever who is now
head coach at Cornell University. The next and most important ingredient which goes into a winning team is the team spirit. Sb far it’s not what it should be but we believe that when the opening whistle blows at Champaign on September 28th, the ol’ spirit null be back sparking the drives up the field to pay dirt.
THE TEAM AS WE SEE IT
There is very little difference between the first two teams. At present none, including Coach Leahy, knows which is which. Johnny Lujack is slated to call the signals but his passing will have to
greatly improve if he ever hopes to be mentioned in the same breath with Ber-telli whose shoes he had to fill back in ’43. We don’t mean to take anything away from Lujack. He’s a hard worker and a good team man but you can’t go by his good passing record of three years ago. Remember one thing, the team realized three years ago that Lujack was an • eighteen-year-old kid with no experience and they tried their darndest to make him look good. This year he has to make himself look good with the help of his unspectacular receivers . . . Frank Tri-pucka will be giving Johnny a run for his money. His passing is more accurate but his inexperience holds him back . . . George Ratterman will probably see quite a bit of action although he, too, needs more polish . . . Jim Mello, back after 25 months in the Navy, fills the bill at fullback. He has the drive and the power for those first-down drives. Jim was first string fullback back in ’43 when he carried the ball 137 times for a total gain of 714 yards, which amounted to an average net gain of 5.2 yards . . . (Commerce students check me if I’m wrong) . . . Bob Livingston was bothered with foot trouble during spring practice but he looks as if his effective cut-back running will win him a starting assignment against Illinois . . . Emil Sitko, a cousin of Steve Sitko who called signals for Notre Dame a while back, reminds us of Juzwik. Watch him for long runs through the line and around the ends. He’s good . . . Gerry Cowhig has been switching between halfback and fullback this fall. He may surprise the whole ’ coaching staff once the season gets under way . . . his old speed is missing . . . but wait and watch- him. Emil Slovak, 155 pounds of drive and spirit, will probably see action before the coming season is too old . . . Coach Leahy calls him a “150-pound Doc Blanchard” so keep youi’ eyes peeled on number 57. Bill Gompers, Floyd Simmons, and Terry Brennan have all looked good at different times during practice and will probably see a lot of action . . . Pete Ashbaugh is the big question mark this fall . . . Does Coach Leahy intend to use him??? Pete has the spark and the spirit that any coach would like to see in all his players. He excels on pass defense.
The Notre Dame line should be strong with men like Czarobski, Cifelli, George and Charles Connor, McBride, Fischer, Mastrangelo, Meter, O’Connor, Potter, Rovai, Scott, Signaigo, Sullivan, Tobin, Strohmeyer, Statuto, Wendell, Walsh, and McNichols. Fred Earley should have plenty of time to kick those extra points this year . . . Our first prediction of the season is that Earley will break all point-after-touchdown records. The kid •with the accurate toe does nothing but prac-
26
tice field goals day in and day out . . . and we’ve yet to see him miss one even in practice. George Dickson left school about two weeks ago after practising all spring and part of the summer to enter’ Southern California.
RANDOM THOUGHTS
Dick.Whiting deserves a slap on the back for qualifying in the Amateur Golf Tournament only to be defeated later on . . . Tom Sheehan, Jack Mayo, and Frank Gilhooley played baseball all summer on the Burlington team of the Northern
Come In and Look Us Over ■ - -
League which was coached by our own Jake Kline . . . Billy Hassett traveled to Colorado to bat .345 for a fish packing club . . . Their motto was “A halibut for a homer” . . . Speaking of baseball, the Dodgers may still catch the Cardinals in the final days of a red-hot pennant race . . . Cy Singer is back on the campus trying to drop a few pounds before the start of basketball season. Cy was one of the starting five who played with Eddie Riska, George Sobek, Bob Faught, and Art Pope back in ’41 . . . Walker’s Shoe Store of South Bend is giving away a pair of shoes to the player who scores the first touchdown in each game . . . The New York Club is planning to do the same thing for the out-standing lineman of the week with the students deciding the winner by a campus vote after each game . . . Since Notre Dame is used to seeing one of her ends on the All-American Teams, we wonder which one of the following will make it this yeai- . . . Jack Zilly has had the experience, his defensive prowess is exceptionally good, and he can snare down a pass under pressure. Frank Kosikowski and Jim Martin along with Bob Skoglund have also been great this fall.
Wyman's Men’s Store
Genial "JIM" O’Neil, our Men’s Shop Buyer is an Expert on More Than Men’s Furnishings---------------
If you've a shopping problem such as furnishing a room, buying a gift for "mom" or dad — or for that very "special” person — come in and see "Jim." He'll give you the same good advice he's been giving Notre Dame men for years . . . and you're under no obligation to buy.
Of course if you're in the market for any men's furnishings he can offer you the leading brands such as Wilson Shirts, Hickok Belts, Paris Suspenders, Custombilt Pipes, Dunhill Lighters, McCurrach> Botany, Wembley, Cohama and Wilson Brother Neckwean Royal Lounger Robes, Wilson and Jayson Pajamas, Revere Sweaters, Interwoven Hosiery, Paris Garters, Remington Electric Shavers and Sportswear by Wilson, Jayson, Woolmaster, Sportville and many others. Come in and look us over!
N. D. PIONEERED IN TELEGRAPHY
Men’s Furnishings — Street Floor
The first successful experiments in wireless telegraphy in the United States were conducted at the University of Notre Dame by Dr. Jerome Green, Professor of Physics and Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame, in 1899. The first wireless message sent in this country was flashed that year from the Notre Dame campus to St. Mary’s College for Women, 1% miles away.

Store Hours — Monday, 12 Noon to 8:30 P. M.
Tuesday thru Saturday, 9:45 A. M. to a :30 P. M.
27
NOW READY- New and enlarged edition "REFERENCE DATA for RADIO ENGINEERS”
Compiled especially for Radio Engineers, Students of Engineering, Educators, Electronic Technicians, Radio Amateurs, Inventors.
The second edition of this widely accepted pocket-size handbook ... revised and enlarged . . . now includes important radio technical data developed during the war.
Compiled jointly by the physicists and electronic specialists of the Federal Telecommunication Laboratories and the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, the material in this new book has behind it the technical authority of an organization with international leadership in radio, communications and television.
Enlarged from 200 to 336 pages with over 400 charts and diagrams, it makes available quickly the answers to problems that normally arise in practical radio work. This ready reference feature is one reason why Reference Data for Radio Engineers, in its earlier edition, received such an enthusiastic welcome by electronic specialists. Orders totaled more than 50,000 copies. With the wealth of new material now included, the second edition can be of even greater aid to the practicing radio engineer.
Commenting on the first edition, Walter J. Seeley, Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering, Duke University, wrote enthusiastically:
“It is so chock full of useful data that I am urging all students to purchase their own personal copies ... fills a long-felt need for a convenient compilation of both mathematical and engineering data, and the combination will be appreciated by all ' who have to work with radio circuits and their concomitant mathematics. That applies especially to teachers and students and I should not be surprised if it becomes a must in many college courses”
The new, second edition of Reference Data for Radio Engineers, in green cloth binding, revised and enlarged to include much new data, is ready now. To order, merely fill in the convenient coupon.
PRICE $2
(In lots of 12 or more, $1.60 each)
federal Telephone and Radio Corporation
Publication Dept., 67 Broad Street, New York 4, N. Y.
PARTIAL OUTLINE OF CONTENTS
General Information. Conversion Factors, Greek Alphabet, Electromotive Force — Series of the Elements, Position of Metals in the Galvanic Series, Relative Humidity, Weather Data, Power Supplies in Foreign Countries, World Time Chart, Radio Frequency Charts, Frequency Band Widths Occupied by Emissions, Tolerances for the Intensity of Harmonics of Fixed, Land, and Broadcasting Stations, Classifications of Emissions, Decibels.
Engineering and Material Data. Wire Tables, Insulating Materials, Plastics: Trade Names, Wind Velocities and Pre-sure, Temperature Chart of Heated Metals, Physical Constants of Various Alloys and Metals, Thermocouples, Melting Points of Solder, Spark Gap Voltages, Head of Water in Feet, Approximate Discharge Rate, Materials and Finishes for Tropical, Marine Use; Torque and Horsepower.
Audio and Radio Design. Resistor and Capacitor — color codes, Inductance of Single-Layer Solenoids, Magnet Wire Data, Reactance Charts, Impedance Formulas, Skin Effect, Network Theorems, Circuits, Attenuators, Filters. Rectifiers and Filters. Typical Rectifier Circuit Data, Rectifier Filter Design. ' Iron-Core Transformers and Reactors. Major Types, Temperature, Humidity, Pressure Effects, General Limitations, Design of Power-Supply Transformers.
Vacuum Tubes. Formulas, Performance Limitations, Electrode Dissipation Data, Filament Characteristics, UltraHigh-Frequency Tubes, Cathode-Ray Tubes, Preferred Radio Electron Tubes.
Vacuum Tube Amplifiers. Graphical Design Methods, Classification of Amplifier Circuits, Cathode Follower Data,
Resistance-Coupled Audio Amplifier Design, Negative Feedback, Distortion. Room Acoustics. Good Room Acoustics, Optimum Reverberation Time, Computation of Reverberation Time. Electrical Potter Levels Required for Public Address Requirements.
Wire Transmission. Telephone Transmission Line Data, Frequency Allocation Charts, Noise Measurement—Wire Telephony, Telegraph Data.
Radio-Frequency Transmission Lines. Attenuation Due to Mismatch on Transmission Lines, Impedance Matching with Shorted Stub, Open Stub, and coupled sections. Army-Naty List of R-F Cables, Attenuation of Standard R-F Cables, Resistance of Transmission Lines at Ultra-High Frequencies. Wave Guides and Resonators. Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves in Hollow Wave Guides, Rectangular Wave Guides, Circular Wave Guides, Electromagnetic Horns, Resonant Cavities. Radio Propagation and Noise. Propagation of Long, Medium and Very Short Waves, Great Circle Calculations, Time Interval Between Transmission and Reception of Reflected Signal, Radio Noise and Noise Measurement.
Antennas. Field intensity from Elementary Dipole, from Vertically Polarized Antenna with Base Close to Ground, Vertical Radiators, Field Intensity and Radiated Power from a Half-Wave Dipole in Free Space, Radiation from End-Fed Conductor of Any Length, Maxima and Minima of Radiation.
Non-Sinusoidal Wave Forms. Relaxation Oscillators, Electronic Integration and Differentiation Methods, Fourier Analysis of Recurrent Wave Forms, Analysis of Common Wave Forms.
Use This Coupon — Order Your Copy Now!
I Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation
J Publication Dept. C44, 67 Broad Street
| New York 4, N. Y.
I ( ) I enclose __________________________dollars, for which send me_____________
| copies, at $2.00 per copy.*
| NAME___________________________________________________________________________
| ADDRESS________________________________________________________________________
* CITY_________________________________________ZONE_________STATE________________
■ *For 12 or more copies, sent to a single address, the price per copy is $1.60
28
Budenz Joins Fordham University Faculty
Louis F. Budenz, who resigned recently as Professor of Economics at the University of Notre Dame because of serious sinusitis, announced that he has accepted a position as Assistant Professor of Economics at Fordham University.
Mr. Budenz, who gave up his position as managing editor of the Communist “Daily Worker” last fall to return to the Catholic Church, taught journalism and economics at Notre Dame from last October until his recent resignation. He and two of his daughters had suffered from acute sinusitis since the Budenz family moved to South Bend.
“My sorrow at leaving Notre Dame,” Mr. Budenz declared, “is matched only by my pleasure at being associated with Fordham University.”
Mr. Budenz, who has remained in virtual obscurity since joining the Notre Dame faculty, has authored a book, “This Is My Story,” which is scheduled for publication by the Whittlesly House on October 11, the first anniversary of his return to the Church. The book describes why he renounced Communism for Catholicism.
Married Veterans to Reorganize Club
The first meeting of the year for Notre Dame’s married veterans and their wives is scheduled for Tuesday, September 24, at 7:30 P.M. in the auditorium of the Engineering Building. In addition to the election of officers and the adoption of a constitution, there will be a brief program of talks and light refreshments.
This meeting is intended primarily to implement the organization of the club as well as to provide an opportunity for the members to become better acquainted.
During the summer the members of last year’s group kept the club alive with a dinner at Rosie’s, a picnic at Pot-
awotamie Park and the valiant efforts of a hapless softball team captained by genial Jim Clemens. The plans for the coming months include the establishment of useful facilities at the housing project as well as a comprehensive program of social events of interest to all the members.
Dr. Price Receives
Chemistry Award Here
Scientists from the University of Notre Dame had prominent parts at the annual convention of the American Chemical Society, which closed its five-day
RIGHT OR WRONG?
By JOSEPH C. BYAN
Here are ten statements concerning Notre Dame football and football personalities. Are they right or wrong? If you get nine or ten right you are doing very well; if you get seven or eight right you are better than average. Anything under six is failure. Answers on Page 32.
1.	Elmer Layden was captain of the great N.D. team of 1924, which included the Four Horsemen.
Right------ Wrong-------
2.	Notre Dame lost four games in 1928.
Right-------- Wrong---■
3.	In 1937	N.D. played	two	games
in which the final score was 9 to 7.
Right-------- Wrong----
4.	The Four	Horsemen	received
their name from Grantland Rice in his write-up of the Notre DameArmy game of 1924.
Right------ Wrong-------
5.	N.D. has never defeated the University of Minnesota in football.
Right------ Wrong-------
Headquarters — for
BOOKS and RELIGIOUS GOODS
A very comprehensive selection of the best in Catholic Literature — a complete stock of Missals, Pamphlets, Breviaries, Rosaries, Bibles and religious artidles.
I— I
AQUINAS LIBRARY & BOOK SHOP, Inc. 110 E. LaSalle — just four doors down the hill from Elbel's Music Store
sessions last week. Hundreds of leading scientists from all over the United States were in attendance.
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department at Notre Dame, received the American Chemical Society’s Award in Pure Chemistry for 1946, which is awarded annually to the most promising American chemist.
Professor Kenneth N. Campbell presented a paper before the Medicinal Division, discussing the continuation of his antimalarial studies at Notre Dame. These studies have produced four important antimalarial medicines, which are now undergoing clinical tests.
6.	N.D. won each of the first two games of the 1939 season by three points.
Right------- Wrong--------
7.	Coach Eddie Anderson of the University of Iowa once captained ■ a Notre Dame team.
Right------- Wrong--------
8.	Pat Filley was captain of the N.D. teams of 1943 and 1944.
Right------- Wrong--------
9.	N.D. has never played football with teams from the Southwest.
Right------- Wrong--------
10.	Coach Ed McKeever of Cornell, former assistant to Coach Leahy, never attended Notre Dame as a student.
Right-------Wrong---------
29
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL	'
The signs around the campus said the Navy Drill Hall. Promptly at seventhirty we were there. One hand was filled with free cigarettes donated by the Chesterfield people. Incidentally that deserves mentioning. Just one telephone call and we had ten-thousand butts on hand for the evening. Not bad! While our left hand juggled the cigarettes the right was wrestling with ice-cream and cookies. On the platform the Vice-President of the University told us that we could gripe. He said a lot more important things than that however. Fr. Kehoe told the three-thousand some odd vets that were gathered in the hall, (plus a thousand non-vet guests) that he looked forward to meeting everyone, that is everyone who hasn’t been on the carpet in
front of him as yet. Coach Leahy told us ND would be well represented as usual. And with all this the Vets Club held the first official club function on the campus for this semester. Joe Dillon, new Prexy for the Vets did a swell job on this smoker, along with his assistant, Joe O’Reilly.
SCOOP DEPARTMENT:
The first scoop comes from the Vets Club. They would like this Thanksgiving Day to be one of the best the University has ever seen. They want to have a huge dinner in the dining hall with all the trimmings, table-cloths included. General Omar Bradley, head of the Vets Administration would be invited, as would be

notables. Not official as yet the project is still in the formative stage.
Another sure-fire suggestion is forwarded by the California Club and its Christy Walsh. Christy is the same Walsh who hired the C-47 which took the California Club home the end of last semester. His suggestion is for the California Club to hold a huge Victory Dance after the Southern California game. The best of bands, would be at oui- disposal. Christy named such bands as Tex Beneke and Tommy Dorsey. Then I sat down. With plans such as these it would be a shame if this couldn’t go through.
Number three on our scoop parade is one that deserves stand-up attention. The Philly Club and its President Art Coughlan are the authors of this one. Each year Philadelphia would send one boy, a needy boy, to ND on a scholarship. The fund would be raised by the selling of chances. The prizes on the drawing would be choice seats to all the better games of the season. The Philly Alumni are backing this venture and through the local Philly Club have asked the cooperation of all the Campus Clubs. If this idea becomes a reality it deserves good backing.
Quality DRY CLEANING Service
for Notre Dame Students
Paris
CLEANING
DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
PHONE 3-3197
Orw>n 8:00 to 5:30
Sat. 8:00 to 3:00
THE SUMMER PARADE:
We didn’t get the opportunity to visit all the localities where clubs come from this summer. We did however have a chance to atend a few of the dances given by some of the clubs. We started off in Chicago a few days after school closed. The boys from the Windy City threw a swell shindig at the Morrison Hotel. Too bad the place wasn’t air-conditioned. Everyone had a good time and the club made all ends meet. On leaving Chi foi' NY we ran into a few of the boys who-told us how that plane ride of the California Club made out. It seems that they all got very very sick. And to make matters worse the door opened while they were in the plane. There were no casualties and all got well, well enough to attend a business meeting and party at Christy Walsh’s home in Los Angeles. Getting back to our trip: we left Chi for NY. In NY we arrived at the Penn Hotel and July 13th attended the Met Club dance. J. Fred Coots the eminent song writer, famous for his “Santy Claus Is Coming To Town,” brought a complete show up with him. He had the leading lady from the Gay Nineties show of CBS. One of Fred Allen’s gag writers was among the troupe. The music was perfect and the Penn roof was beautiful that night, but the club members did not support the dance. Eighty couples attended whereas one-hundred and eighty should
30
have been there.
After leaving NY we hit Philadelphia where Art Coughlan and his cohorts threw a fine affair. Over two hundred couples danced the evening away at the Whitemarsh Valley Country Club. Among the guests were Jordan Olivar, head football coach at Villanova, and Bob Dougherty former basketball coach at Penn University.
Each Campus Club, geographical or otherwise will have one complete page in the Dome. Pictures and names are the main feautres. It is the duty of each club wishing to be represented in the 1947 Dome to cooperate with this department when we come around. In the future a meeting will be held of all club presidents. More poop will be issued then.
The Central Illinois Club, which will be known from now on as the “Ulini” Club deserves a pat on the back. Last semester they dedicated 5 masses, 5 Holy Communions and 5 Visits to the Grotto apiece to the ND war dead from Central Illinois. They made spiritual bouquets and the club’s committee sent one to the family of each deceased service-man. It would be splendid if all the clubs took up this idea.
REVIEWING THE PAST:
Taking a glance at the past sometimes
lets us in on the future. Last semester the thirty-five Campus Clubs were led by the Vets Club. Right behind them was the Married Vets Club. This semester each club has almost doubled its membership. By the way, you know what a Married Vet is? He’s the one with the contented smile on his face. Under Jim Webb last year the Vets gave dances and smokers and speeded checks from the government to the boys. The Married Vets had their poverty dances where they came out dressed as B. 0. Plenty and Gravel Gertie. Movies were the order of the night for many of the club meetings last year. Mr. James Armstrong, National Secretary of the Alumni was one of the frequent speakers at club meetings. Many clubs had outings and
picnics. High pressure politics swamped the campus during election time, and Gus Kelly held this column in check with his devastating letter asking what the “Winchell” of ND will pull next. That was last year. This year each club will have many more members. Activities should be more frequent and better. Let’s make this year a huge success.
IMPORTANT:	*
This column is written for the enjoyment of the student body. It is also to be USED by all the clubs. If you have any interesting news, or want any announcements made just drop a line to the Scholastic and tell me what you want to see in print. See you next week.

Best wishes for Another Successful
Tear to the
N. D. Scholastic and Student Body
COMPLETE PHOTO-ENGRAVING SERVICE OF HIGHEST QUALITY

31
Inter-American Club Planning Big Year
Inter-American Affairs Club is now well underway with elaborate plans for its most interesting year since its birth five years ago.
Number one on the agenda is a proposed trip to Mexico next summer for Notre Dame, S't. Mary’s, and other college students to be offered at an amazingly low cost. Another item is the semiannual convention of the Chicago Area Commission on Inter-American Action which will be held this fall at Notre Dame with the Inter-American Affairs Club acting as host. There will be many interesting lectures by noted speakers, movies, dinner meetings, quiz matches, panel discussions, and dances.
This honored Notre Dame club is generally considered one of the most outstanding clubs of its kind in the country. Credit for this is due largely to the untiring efforts of Father William F. Cun-nigham, C.S.C., the faculty advisor, who has just returned from another visit to Mexico.
The club at present is composed of American, Canadian, and Latin American students, though open to thirty students of any nationality. The activities prove most helpful to foreign commerce
For Your Convenience in Shopping, Stop at the
DINING HALL BASEMENT STORE
N. D. SHORTS and SHIRTS
GLOVES
NECKTIES
SANDALS
CIGARS — CIGARETTES — CANDY
and political science majors, but this is no restriction on others wishing to join. Prospective members are asked to leave their name and campus address with Father Cunningham’s secretary in room 108 of the Law Building.
ANSWERS TO RIGHT OR WRONG QUIZ on Page 29.
1.	Wrong. Adam Walsh was caplaln.
2.	Right. Notre Dame lost to Wisconsin, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech and Southern California.
3.	Right. Notre Dame, 9; Navy, 7; and Carnegie Tech, 9; Notre Dame, 7.
4.	Right.
5.	Wrong. Score of the 1937 game was Notre Dame, 7; Minnesota, 6.
6.	Right. Notre Dame, 3; Purdue, 0; and Notre Dame, 17; Georgia Tech, 14.
7.	Right. Anderson was captain of the 1921 team.
8.	Right.
9.	Wrong. Notre Dame played Southern Methodist in 1930 and 1939, Arizona in 1941.
10.	Wrong. McKeever attended N.
D. in 1929 and 1930.
BATH TOWELS
WASH CLOTHS
SOAPS
. . ON CAMPUS!
RECORD ATTENDANCE
(Continued from Page 9)
students, 200 above the previous high.
Last week, however, all former concepts of high enrollment had to be discarded when 4400 men, approximately 3700 of whom were veterans, swarmed onto the campus for the opening of the 1946-47 Fall semester. The figure 4400 was made public early. this week, but University officials estimated that by the end of registration an additional one hundred students will have swelled attendance figures to the 4500 mark.
Although an exact breakdown of enrollment figures for the various colleges in the University was not immediately available, estimates indicated enrollments of close to 1200 for both the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Commerce, ■with the College of Engineering numbering about 1100. Law School officials predicted a registration of 200, nearly double that of previous years, and about eight per cent veteran. Also nearly doubled in the number of its members, the Graduate School expected a final enrollment of approximately 240, while the College of, Science counted an all-time high enrollment of close to 530.
To relieve the burden of teaching the record enrollment of the Fall semester, more than 60 new members, including thirteen additional priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, had been added to the faculty of the University, increasing that body to more than 300 members. The Graduate School and the College of Law, due to their nearly doubled student bodies, in particular strengthened their teaching staffs. Rev. Philip Moore ,C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, expected research in that school to increase twofold, especially in the Science Department, into which a number of outstanding scientists had been brought. And this Fall, for the first time, a Graduate School of Engineering was established.
Evidence of the bulging student body was everywhere: in the steady, hour-long processions into the cavernous dining halls, each of which can care for a thousand hungry men at one sitting; in the long, slow-moving lines and human traffic jams at registration (some men waited as long as four hours in a single line); in the trunk-littered residence halls. The Book Store, stocked more heavily than ever’before, soon found itself short of many editions. The Railway Express Office, flooded with luggage from every state in the Union, envisioned many a lengthy line before the flow would subside. And to the harried citizens of South Bend stories of a record enrollment crystallized in crowded stores along Michigan Avenue.
Housing, too, was a problem. South Benders answered in gratifying numbers
32
the University’s appeal for more room for its students. Double-decker bunks, remnants of war-time Notre Dame, were pressed into service. Yet, the urgency of the situation hurried work on shortage-stalled Farley Hall and on the housing development for married veterans, already dubbed “Pneumonia Row.”
Despite the crowds, the waiting, and the shortages, new student and returning veteran alike displayed an admirable patience, a war-won maturity. It would be trite to say that the post-war student had integrated his endeavors with purpose, but what other explanation could there be?
SOLEMN HIGH MASS
(Continued from Page 9) trip on the Special train will present his Athletic Certification slip to the appropriately marked window in exchange for his Athletic book, which he in turn will present to the next window in order to purchase the combination tickets. It should be noted that students not making the trip will exchange their slips for Athletic books at the regular time th a following week. Those who have already purchased game tickets and desire train transportation will be permitted to purchase round trip train tickets at the same window after 4:00 p.m. for $6.00
The Student train will leave Notre Dams siding, located near the Steam Plant, at 7:30 a.m., Saturday and will arrive at Champaign at 11:45 a.m. Departure from Champaign is scheduled for 7:30 p.m., and arrival at Notre Dame is 11:45 p.m. Lunches will be served on the train during both trips.
Inasmuch as all 72,000 tickets have been sold for the game since late in July, one student in particular is to be credited for his zeal in keeping the “ball rolling” towards making this particular student trip possible. Joe Dilon, president of the Vets’ Club on campus, began to studentize the trip a week before final exams last semester. In order to keep plans active, Joe made several trips to the campus this past summer to confer with Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Father-Kehoe. In due time he submitted a report to the University officials to the effect that the proposed trip could be conveniently and economically arranged. As a result the Prefect of Discipline began negotiations and consequently next week over 500 students will back our club to its opening win. To add the traditional spirit to the occasion the Student Council is planning a giant pep rally to be held soon after the students’ arrival in Champaign.
—Louis Homing .
STUDENT TRIP
(Continued from Page 9) debating, on the athletic field, in all the campus organizations, in the life of the halls, the glory of the individual comes second to the good of the whole. It is yours to see that this spirit of working together, of holding together under all circumstances, is the keynote of your generation at Notre Dame.”
Officers of the Solemn High Mass which opened the school year at Notre Dame were: Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S'.C., Vice-President of Notre Dame, Celebrant; Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies at the University, Deacon; and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., University Steward, Sub-Deacon.
Fr. Cavanaugh New President
(Continued from Page 14)
John H. Murphy and Gertrude Baumann Murphy. He attended St. Patrick’s Parochial School in Racine and in 1926 entered the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. After attending the University for two years, he began his study of theology and philosophy at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy.
Ordained in December, 1938, at Rome, Father- Murphy then pursued further
ELLSWORTHS
From Campus To Datetime!
Puritan coat style or slip over sweaters in assorted colors for smart around-the-clock wear. Sizes 36 to 48. Also sleeveless sweaters in plain or plaid colors. Sizes small, medium or large.
Slip over or coat style_5.00 to 10.00
Sleeveless__________3.41 to 3.50
Men's Wear . . . Main Floor
graduate studies in scripture at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome during 1939-40. At the outbreak of World War II he returned to the United States. He continued his scripture studies at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., in 1940 41.
From 1941 to 1943 Father Murphy served as Director of Vocations at the Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus. In the latter year he was appointed superior at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame.
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cam
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
33
Man About Town kif KdU&y and
Indian Summering-. And as the golden Indiana moon dips under the horizon we step off the Pacemaker at the station. Now we are in South Bend. Two things greet the ND student, one a holdover from last semester, the other brand new. First of all we have our famous, or is that infamous, Walk and Stop lights. We still suggest that they should be Stop, Wait, Walk, Trot and then Gallop . . . The other feature is that everyone in town has a new “Studie.” Whether or not you wash the floors at the plant or are the top Vice President makes little difference ... As per usual the new semester officially opened at Rosie’s last Friday night. In our haste to reach this retreat of spaghet and hot sauce we were literally tossed on our posteriors. At the entrance to this great establishment was the entire SMC freshman class. And do they look it!
Sallies in our Alley. Noel Digby, famous as the genial gentleman from the deep South is now the proud poppa. For that matter so is Chuck Perrin . . . Mike Cut and the hair that is not here any more . . . John Toole wondering how he will get even with a certain SB gent who stole his date in Boston . . . Gasper Urban just a little longer than before . . . Duane Hull and his hot trumpet, which his rector probably won’t appreciate . . . Father Sheedy and his under par golf games . . . Bill Meyer and those beautiful pictures of his gal . . . Red Gallagher is still peeved that a lot of people confuse him with a student of old . . . Dick Bateman still shorter than a peanut . . . Mike Romano still vowing he will never play football any more . . . Bob Snee continually worrying about where his next glass of that amber ine-briant will come from. But then who isn’t Bob? . . . Jim Flannigan and his big Irish smile decorating the campus . . . Frank Cronin still sports that duck walk.. . . Lou Guiney and that unusual peaked hat of his . . . Tom McCaffery now ranking with Hazel Scott as far as the piano is concerned . . . Bud Allwein getting together pieces of his heart. That is, all that are left after this summer .. . Janet Cadden salading at the Hoffmann with big Mike of Howard . . . Killroy and Gizmo who will be beating the paths around town looking for dirt.
*
South Bend Nocturne-. Last night I was lonely and restless . . . And the rain splashing against the pane . . . Only made me more so ... I decided to walk
it off ... In the storm . . . Aimlessly I went . . . First along lighted Michigan Ave . . . Then down the darker back streets ... In the middle of one of these . . . Just about as we both came abreast of the light ... I saw a girl . . . The golden gleam of her hair . . . The exquisite curve of her lips ... I saw . . . All else faded away into the shadow ... Of her umbrella and the rain . . . Then she was gone . . . And I was more lonely than before ... I kept on . . . inwardly cursing conventions . . . that held me from speaking to her . . .And wondering where 0. Henry got his stuff about romance and adventure . . . On the Notre Dame Express ... I started back to the campus . . . The opposite way ... I turned down the next street . . . And there coming toward me . . . She was again . . . This time she smiled ... As though to say . . . “We seem to be doing the same thing tonight . . . n’est-ce pas?” . . . And I smiled back . . . And then hastened back to my hall . . . Without once looking back . . . Lest she think ... I was no Notre Dame gentleman.
The Semester’s Agenda: It is very appropriate that we see just what is in store for us as far as knowledge is concerned. What will we learn? Well we should discover that neatness is the good thing of being bald. Philosophy is the system of being unhappy intelligently. Some local philosophers are fellows who know just what to do until it happens to them . . . Campus committees are groups that keep minutes but waste hours . . . SMC gals are the happy-go-luxury type . . . The local belles are just aristo-cats . . . The local belles and their talk which is in money-syllables.
Echoes of Main Street: At the Emerald Room: “She knows all the answers. It’s the questions that confuse her” . . . At George’s: “He’s lost weight, but he was once the biggest jerk in town.” . . . At the Hoffmann: “Now that there is no OPA people should be reminded that a fool and his money are soon worthless.” . . . At the Palais Royale: “Now go stand in the corner like a good little BORE!” . . . Typical Southbendite: “In right with the wrong people.” ... At the Oriole Room at SMC: “Get the way she’s working on him. Up to her old MINKY business again.” At Sweeney’s: “Did you see that blond this summer in her three whistle play-suit?”
WELCOME
Back to Notre Dame and to
THE BOOK STORE
BADIN HALL
On Campus
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend. Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
34
35