LOVE THAT BEER TASTE BUT HATE THE BUZZ?
. . -TRY- .»
AND YOUR JOB!®

SARCASTIC
. NOTRE DAME’S HUMOR MAGAZINE
. Vol. 134, No. 20 . .	? April 1, 1993	. :
Non Damns Tan turn Stercus . Nee, Oree, Tu Agas . .. :
Founded 1867 (That's 126 years I
EDITOR IN CHIEF Bratty Spoiled
' MANAGING EDITOR ■	:
Harlot for a Penny - .
•EXECUTIVE EDITOR .....  ..	..
Rabid Hoeslinger
NEWS Editor: Dork Catchhell VIII
CAMPUS LIFE : .	.
Editor: Silly Putty, ;	/
Assistant: Ismell Crotch .
SPORTS	:
5 Editor: Dim Bruiser . ; ;. Assistant: "Socks" Clinton ..
. ENTERTAINMENT	,
Editor: A. Babbling Wre.ck < Assistant: Peg Board.
J DEPARTMENTS -: }
1 ;Editor: Plate Withkraut /. . ..
^ PHOTOGRAPHY a
Editor. Kenny "the lost" Osgood
eppy^ .	■ •.
. Editor: Piss Bedpan '.
rGRPAHIC ARTS:	;\
£;Manager:'Flake Frosted< X
ManagerWang Chung?
: ADVERtlSING \	jk.f;^7
; Manager: Happy Smiley.,	; ;
■<BUSINESS j..	:
^Manager?Smelly Belly :
.:'SDfeTRJB6fidN^
^'.Mahagen Dark.Pitsofgizurh vX ;
Dear Editor:
My name is Tudy Frudy. I think you might be interested in my story. My dream had always been to attend The University of Obnoxious Dame. Even though I flunked out of highschool, spent time in a mental hospital (I was convinced I was one of Santa’s elves) and was arrested for trespassing on Graceland (during my Elvis stage) Obnoxious Dame always had a special place in my heart. I knew, if they would just give me a chance, I could prove that I was a Domer.
After ten years of sweating away in a coal mine, dreaming of O.D., I finally got my chance. On my way to South Blah, I had a revelation. I could be a cheerleader. Although I had no facial hair, was 4’ 11” and had lost an arm in the coal mine, I knew with determination and hard work I, too, could hold an Irish megaphone. Four years later, I showed my mettle. During a sub-zero game against Northwestern, which O.D. was winning 57-3,1 got to lead a cheer. Mustering a huge, fake smile and fluffing my pom-poms, I burst into “WE ARE ... O.D.” The paltry crowd joined in. It was the moment of my life.
Please publish my letter. I’m trying to tell the world my great, uplifting story. I think it deserves all the room you can give it. I would also be very willing to co-operate with any interviews or feature stories you might want to write about me. You could also consider writing to some movie companies about turning my lifestory into a major motion picture. If you can convince them, I would be willing to get you into the mo vie as extras. Bless you all.
Tudy Frudy, ‘75
Former Irish Great (Cheerleader)
Sarcastic is published ones a year, usually on or around April 1 or whenever the hell the editors fill life it, at the University of 9&ln Dams,	and printed at EHs ‘Sapirs, Inc., Milford, In 4SS42.
Elie subscription rate, if you really want to get this crappy rag, is Sl.OO/year and rare coUectors' editions are available at jl8.7S/issue. Ufa opinions expressed in Sarcastic are merely ths brainstorms of ths authors and editors and do not even coma close to representing the entire editorial board of Sarcastic and definitely not the University of Mptrs ‘Dams, its administration, faculty or student body. ‘Editorials, signed Sarcastic, represent the opinions of those poor unfortunate souls that remained in the office just before the issue left for ths printer ■ that is, if our lame-o editors decided to thin^enough to writs one. All unsolicited materialgets laughed at and thrown away, maybe recycled if we are filling charitable. Stop reading this annoying tiny type and read the magazine, you.
Copyright 1993 Sarcastic magazine. AU rights denied (just li%e the administration). fyporduction in whole or in part without permission written in blood is punishable by death.
Dear Editor:
I’m very upset I was arrested in the D.U.D.S. raid at the Nosetackler, along with dozens of other Crying Shame students. I’m not upset about that. What bothers me is that “the other publication” deliberately left my name out of the front page story they wrote on the incident. I’ve worked very hard to achieve such notoriety, and now they are trying to blemish my record. Everyone else had their names printed in boldface type, why not me? I was hoping you could rectify the situation by publishing my name. I want all my professors to know what a bad-ass I am. Thank you very much.
Ima Lush, president of Crying Shame Committe to Legalize Marijuana (CSCLM)
Dear Editor:
I am a Bloody Mary’s student, and I AM PROUD OF IT. Yes, that’s right. I want to clarify just how much Neuter Dumm benefits from Bloody Mary’s. First of all, where would the Cretin Revue be held every year, if it wasn’t for the auditorium at Bloody Mary’s? Neuter Dame guys don’t have to walk us home, they can just pop a quarter in the slotand wave goodbye to us after putting us on the shuttle. Bloody Mary’s also has a renowned Theology department, as shown by the large numbers of Neuter Dumm students who choose to take theology at B.M. Besides, there’is lots of other stuff, I’ve just forgotten it lately. Oh yeah, what about all that extra stuff we add to the newspaper? Bloody Mary’s has its very own editor on The Perverter. Lastly, where else can you find a school where 75 percent of the students have the middle name Marie? Gotta go paint my nails, see ya at the shuttle stop!
Love, Buffie Marie O’Leary
Letters to Sarcastic must be written upside-down and backwards in purple Crayola crayon on spiralnotebooJ^paper (with the ragged ends) and definitely must include the writer's relevant biographical information: shoe size, favorite color, favorite dinig hall meal, proportions, (fou must also include your phone number so we can call you up late at night and say nasty things if you criticize our high-quality publication (yeah, right).
*We reserve the right to reject any letters that we don't like or just don't feel Hk/printing. So there.
Address all correspondence to:
Ufa Editor Sarcastic La fortune Center 9(ptre Dams, iMib^b

CampusBoO
1	BY THE GIMPER
LAMENESS, LAMENESS, LAMENESS
Just so you know where the Gimper stands on one particular issue: The Scammes® ’Nother Dime Bookstore sucks! Sarqastique doesn’t want to trouble you with yet another screed on the subject, but in case you weren’t particularly clear on our editorial bias, that’s it.
BITTERNESS, BILE AND EGO
Yeah, that’s right, the Gimper is cranky, crotchety, self-righteous and indiscriminate. Besides that, he’s tactless, inane and irrelevant. But you all read this column first every week anyway, so shut up! I see you grabbing your copies out of the stack in the dining hall, skipping over the stupid Crappus Life articles on where Johnny Domer spent his spring break or the sports article giving you an insight into how coach Loose Fartz picks his socks every morning. That’s right, you’re skipping all that crap so you can read MY column. Ha. Eat my dust, Obscener Insipid Columnists.
E-MAIL GEEKS TAKE NOTICE
Earlier in the year, Sarqastique ran an article on e-mail which told people how to make those little cutesy smiley faces for use in their cutesy little e-mail notes. Grow up, kids. Junior high is over, and you can stop sending each other notes between class. Smiley faces are for shiny happy people, which most of us aren’t How about some realistic smiley faces?
:-1 = Same old same old.
: -Q=I ’ m dying for a smoke but can ’ t have one in this @#$% computer lab.
%-0 = There are drunken screaming louts
APRI—
all around so I have come into this somewhat quiet place for ten minutes of solace.
®-[—< = This campus is full of fascist robots.
WHAT DOES STUDENT GOVERNMENT DO?
YetanotherGimpercontest! Anyone who can answer all of the following questions is probably aresume-stuffinggoon. Send your completed copies along with your 1993 Student Survey to the Student Government office on the second floor of LaBigtuna:
STUDENT GOVERNMENT EV ALUA-TIONFORM 1040-EZ
(1)	Name the Student Body President and Vice President
(2)	Name your student senator.
(3)	Visit the student government office with a real question and see if anyone knows whose job it is to answer your question. If someone answers your question, list their name and title here:.
(4)	Describe what the average student government office holder does on any given afternoon without using the words “waste,” “brown-nose,” “resumd-stuffing” or “nothing.”
(5)	Compute the average annual cost of those neato nameplates on everyone’s desks on the second floor of LaBigtuna as a percentage of the annual student government budget Compare this figure to the amount spent on student government activities which you would actually ever take part in.
(6)	Name something practical that HPC does. (Note: “Eat pizza” will not be accepted as an answer.)
(7)	Number of activities sponsored by your class per week:.
(8)	Number of activities sponsored by your class that you actually take part in:.
(9)	Number 8 as a percentage of number 7:.
(10)	Compare line 9 to line 5.
If you have answered any of the above questions properly, or if the numerical values of line 10 is greater than 0, you have qualified for a free lobotomy! Report to the second floor of LaBigtuna any weekday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and present this certificate to receive a desk plaque with a fancy title and your lobotomy.
ONE STATISTIC THE OBSCENER WILL NEVER RUN
Did you know that the final protest sponsored by MAULR (Maniacal Anti-Abortionists United to Lose Respectability) was met by an overwhelming opposition? The final score: Anti-Abortion Zealots 35, The Rest of the World 120. (That’sright,therest of South Bend came out in full force to stop these maniacs—you’ll probably never hear that fact on this campus.)
iEbtii

Father Jed Iceberg Writes Again
Wanderings with Jed and Fred Documents Slow Road to Senility
After retiring from an illustrious career of 35 years as Grand Inquisitor of the University of Noted Doom, Father Jed Iceberg found himself with way too much time on his hands. Learning quickly that weasel taming was not a hobby for him, he devoted his time to writing a grossly self-aggrandiz-ing autobiography. He finished; he grew bored.
One day, while wandering the halls of the Investigation Building snapping his suspenders and mumbling “Big Man, Big Man,” through clenched teeth and tears, it hit Iceberg. It was a two by four wielded by Iceberg’s acutely perturbed successor Father Edwin “Mongrel” My toy. In his dazed unconsciousness, Iceberg conceived a pretext for writing a second book of endless self-aggrandizing anecdotes.
As soon as he regained mastery of his legs and bladder, Iceberg hurriedly bought a slew of plane tickets and forced his beautiful and talented sidekick Father Fred Juice to join him on what would become a truly hellish trip around the world.
Upon returning to his playpen at Noted Doom, Iceberg dictated the scattered and incoherent memories of his trip. These memoirs have become what is now the esteemed literary master stroke, Wanderings with Jed and Fred. Here is just one salient excerpt.
24 February
Ah, Sri Lanka, home of the Sri Lankans! My invasion of this small island nation has gone smoothly since landing, for I have either caught the natives by surprise or the entire country is ignoring me in hopes that I will go away(just like at Noted Doom).
Our flight was only an hour out of New York when I ran into the cockpit, held a Salad Shooter to the pilot’s throat and de
manded that the plane be flown to Sri Lanka. I was courteously informed by the attractive and busty flight attendant that the plane was bound for Sri Lanka and we would be arriving in the capital city of Colombo in nine hours.
We had taken the wrong flight! My highjacking attempt was foiled! I was asleep in the toilet when we landed in Colombo.
25 February
It’s a good thing I packed only the essentials as we had to walk (skip, actually) all the way from the airport to the hotel carrying our luggage (a distance of 124 miles. Fortunately, that is the moral equivalent of 199.55016 kilometers'). Tn one suitcase T
have a change of clothing and a compass; the other contains only a box of kleenex, a small supply of peat moss, six gallons of olive oil, a toboggan, a stuffed badger, the 1927 Encyclopedia Britannica, a manhole cover, several dozen non-returnable bottles, a Jet-Ski, and a baloney sandwich, and Fred Juice.
My invasion has met with little organized resistance as yet, although the natives tend to frown a bit when I whack them in the back of the knees with the light sabre I got at Toy s R ’ Us before I left (a safety measure). How-
ever, my effort to gain support has also been	darts! □
hindered by the fact that the only phrase in the native language I know is the Sinhalese equivalent of “I am your mother.”
26 February
My all-out offensive (code-named “of’) against the northern and eastern sections of this country was to have begun today, but the driver wouldn’t let me on the bus with a small dog carpet taped to my head. Undaunted, I went back to my room to cross and uncross my legs.
27 February
I woke up this morning severely unenlightened, yet painfully aware of the pimple that has erupted where the elastic of my underwear rubs against by back. Somehow it’s all part of a recurring dream I have in which BurtReynolds and I stand on a Hollywood street comer, staring at the girls and making rude comments like, “Boy, would I like to block her mother’s hats,” and, “Hey, Sugar-face, what can you tell me about liturgical dance?”
This morning I was shaken from this reverie by the friendly bellhop who practices his English on me: “My brother is Florida; like to ride Disneyland, see big breasts,” he gesticulated, quite oblivious to the fact that the maid was hiding under my bed, secured there by some heavy twine and a towel over her mouth.
I went downtown to continue the invasion, ringing people’s doorbells and then running into their backyards. Sri Lanka is mine!
28 February
Apparently, “If you didn’t want me to block traffic with a giant bust of Dick Van Dyke made entirely of figs and toothpaste,” is no longer deemed an acceptable excuse under the laws of Third World nations. Still convinced I could win the police over to my side, I hopped aboard the coffin in a passing funeral procession and shouted, “Thanks for the time difference, biscuit-faced singing man!”
It would seem, however, that all of the police officers were supporters of the labor unions as they hustled me downtown to a little room with doors. There I met up with Fred Juice who had applied for asylum in the Peruvian embassy. We were processed for deportation and we prepared to move on to our next port of call. Farewell, Sweet Sri Lanka, mother of poetry, home of lawn
f

Iastig ~|
Today’s Gaelic Lesson
Read the passage below and answer the questions which follow.
Dbmhnall Eachann Meek
Tha na co-dhunaidhean seo a' cur an deagh chuid taic ris a' bheachd a bh'aig Skene mu'n ddigh-litreachaidh, ach a-mhain gu bheil iad a' cur an c6ill gur h-e seasamh oifigeil nan c&nainean a tha a' raighladh a' ghnothaich aig a' cheann thall. Jumbo Burrito tha e inntinneach a bhith a' cuimhneachadh nach do sguir an cleachdadh idir air a' GhMdhealtachd an dSidh nam Meadhon Aoisean, agus gu bheil deagh eisimplear againn d6n aon rud ann an Lhmh-sgriobhainn Angus Padgomy (femaig notaichean). Soy tu padre a chaidh a sgriobhadh aig deireadh na seachdamh linn deug, agus a tha air tajo a steidheachadh air ddigh-litreachaidh na Beurla. Gheibh sinn iomadh eisimplear as lugha sios chun na linn seo, agus iad sin uile, 'nam bheachd-sa, a' sealltainn cho duilich's a bha e do 'n Ghaidhliga bhith bed ri taobh choimhearsnach cho cumhachdach ri Scots no ri Berula gun a bhith a' gabhail an dreach oirre fhein.
QUESTIONS:
1.	Is this legal in your state?
2.	How did the taller man divide the cantaloupe?
3.	Does this scene take place indoors or in a forest preserve?
4.	What was the maid's attraction to livestock?
5.	Is the man who bought the rope a Republican or a Democrat?
6.	How often do the neighbors mow the lawn?
7.	Why does sausage-lady have a glass eye?
8.	Who is left to clean up?
“Warm Welcome for Sausage-Lady”
a'bheachd - to tease cdill - bondage oifigeil - curtain rod idir air - municipal child labor laws ddidh - thrusting agus gu - ecstasy MhlcRath - a traditional dish made with whole cattle sgriobhadh - ring-tailed lemur deireadh - utilitarianism linn - big jugs tajo - taco Berula - Helen Keller e - to refuse a second helping by feigning interest in whatever is on television
choimhearsnach - to have that bird
gabhail - slurping noises oirre - (This is Serbo-Croatian.
Sorry) fhdin - complete exhaustion
If you thought Ifptre “Dame was only for white males, yOU UlEiRE
Turdsday's Verse:
Multiculturalism that everyone can enjoy:	
ALBANIAN POETRY CORNER.	Njerezija jane ndarb
	Disa lloje disa fare
Gruaja dyzdt	Ca Q’kerkojne e gjejne,
Thote jo vertbt	Ca kerkojne po s’gjejne,
Nuk jam aq	Po te gjithe te helmuar
pojam mb pak;	As nje bote i gezuar.
Vbrtet thote jam Tridhiet s’i kam!	Njeriu i mjeri
Gruaja e buker	Sikunder q’erdhi Ashtu edhe shkon
Edhe ver’ e embel	Asgje s’kupton
Tb dyja jan mbrujtur	Dhe atjd ku vetc
Tb ghzojnb zgmbr	Gje s’meir me vehte.
Ketd te mira jane Po farmaqm e kane.	(Haunting stuff, isn’t it?)
The Ol
VOL DCLXVI. NO. 13
THE CO-DEPENDANT SNOOZEPAPER SER
Editor gets new hairdo
Ms. Groan N’Pant
SOUTH BEND (A&P)—The waitis finally over,Ms. Groan *n* Pant has shown her new hairstyle to the world, and the world has never felt better. More than three dozen supporters gathered outside Sooth Bland’s Three Shared Hairs in bone-chilling twenty-be-low weather to catch a glimpse of NeverBlamed’snewestsuperstar, Groan ‘n* Pant. Yesterday was the final day of waiting for the flock who, in their ever-growing vigil, needed the reassurance Pant was to guarantee that same afternoon. A recent poll conducted by
The LaLa Times revealed that seventy-five percent of working mothers would stay home from work if it was raining out, they also lived near a public park, their toilet seats were pink, and Groan ‘n’ Pant would be on CCNNN.
When Pant emerged from the salon, there was an elated murmur present, complete with a few fainting spells. Stoned Benz police chief, Hait L. Kidz, reported only one minor injury to a Ms. Fan Marie Toobored, who passed out after observing the hairstyle firsthand. Witnesses claim she screamed, “Her hair looks like one of those tes ticles that was in front of my dorm last semester,” and was subsequently clubbed from behind by a Pant supporter who could not stand that kind of an insult.
Fashion and crime expert Drooling Parrot, on assignment in Spain, commented that this was a monumental day for hairstylists throughout Fishy-Manna, and that soon teeny-boppers in malls everywhere would be sporting the Pant look.	;
The Mayor of Sooth Bland quickly issued a statement proclaiming his full support for the hairstyle, and not to be out-done, President Dill Scrimpin’ conveyed his own praise for Pant with a handwritten note which said, “I like the new doo, but HA! HAI, 1 still beat your buddy Swoosh and I’m in the Slight Hsas-==-ny&nya nya!”
The biggest question bn everyone’s mind was finally answered yesterday when the mystery of THE PENCIL was revealed. Pant was. quoted as saying, “The pencil will never leave my ear. I never use it, except to keep itperfectly sharpened. It follows me into the shower, the office and even when I am interviewing Leg Trustus or training Tepid Phlegmmy to be the next big cheese of the Big 0. THE PENCIL commands my hairstyle and, this is the one it wanted, so there.”
Sa
In this land of s milk and hone} thing to say—i believe in, Sau better. Themij underworld; is,
Oi
Guest i most wonderfu verse. How ct Without Satan tl of the great arts noCopsontelev on the radio avenger. There /nweandnbN< out Satan. Hov In fact, you h. the power of Sa life — you jusl Even the Unr Shame is clearb imp of evil. Sei females in ord sexual drive run dust in the dinin students return choose to cornu tony, and char] conscionable si school, thusproi all examples of promotes evil.
Conser
; .r
OUTSIDER COLUMN
W^ylah’t I get a date ?
My Mom: told me thatifl spend four years writing Outsider Columns for the Absurder
(?)I would find thelove andacceptancelcrave. ; And she was right— ;
justlastweekendlwent out with Olga Katrina, aj'tmioratSL Joseph’s
Screech Shearson
Self Esteem Editor
ThaAt
The recent warm,blustery weathe and students back outside to stuc
Tigli School, and in-' ■ "...	~
stead 6f the usual coldblowoff,shehuggedmegood
:■
' she was obviously swayed by the clever weekly marketingof my social problems inwitty,ttjngiie-m-cheek(no pun in intended^snarff; snarff, sniffle, sniffle) articles, so I set but to determine which one delivered the decisive Cupid’s arrow to her heart. It might have been'any;one of my Valentine’s Day columns. Maybe the top-ten Ust of Valentine’s Day Hate songs brought tears of ecstasy toher sympa-the&bdy&?&j^	lipsquivcrcd tpdiscover
thateveryyalehtine’sDay I stay inside and wbrk on adetailedexplanation for the absence of cards and flb^isbhmydoifie^^
my masterful expose of Notre Dame dating habits! I must have* fooled' her into thinking I’m -actually familiar with; the dating tehhiques of American mrUes^-d/d^	< : .• ■	■■.
LaughtfybuSv^	getting a hug from
Olga bn Saturday night.
WANTED
Messiah for the Domer Alternative Nation. Come be like all the different people. Our favorite campus band, Fizzle, is graduating and we don't know who we’re going to worship now. Interested egomaniacs can contact WCF1KR, or any cast member of "CogPloy."
Texas Doctor who can’t get it up and subservient wife want to make the most of your Catholic angst. Well spoil that baby that you don't want. Don'tuse birth control, don't have an abortion, become baby factories for
iscurer
|ViNGTOTALLY LAME ANP SOON MARRIED
ERRSDAY, APRIL 1,1993
tan is good
supposed religious f, I have only one 10 matter what you in is much, much ?hty wizard of the quite frankly, the
Zebub
Columnist
1 part of the uni-m you not agree? iere would benone i. There would be isionandnoSlayer without the dark wouldbenoPem-2-17 movies with-i boring.
ave all been under tan for your entire I did not know it. /ersity of Never y supportive of the )arating malesand er to make their wild, serving saw-g hall so that when home they often ait the sin of glut-ging students un-ams to attend the moting avarice, are how Never Shame
I have grown to love this behavior and so should you. It just feels so good to step on the little guy, just like it makes one tingle to spit in the face of his mother. I know that many people are supportive of good, but that is only because they have no real sense of history or how to get ahead in the world. Evil and Satan are the right paths to follow.
History books are filled with stories about thecrusades, war, greed, lust and treachery. These events happen so frequently because they are so awesome. They are written down as a record of all that is right in the world. Look at the hours of pure enjoyment that have come from Hitler’s life: books, comics, poems, John Wayne movies and even musicals. Without the hand of Satan, none of this would be possible.
Teddy Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Warren G. Harding, even Richatd Nixon—all demonic entities doing the bidding of the devil. Disguising themselves as human beings and coming to this earth, these great leaders have secretly done the will of Lucifer for genera-tions. Often omitted from Lincoln’s famous Gettysburg ad
dress is his revelation of the true nature of our founding fathers. Unlike the scandalous lying filth printed in history books, the true words of this great president differed greatly from what is commonly believed: “Four score and seven years ago, our forefathers pledged their allegiance to the dark lord.”
John F. Kennedy was not assassinated, he is not dead. Neither the CIA nor the Cubans are responsible for his alleged death. The Fallen Angel merely claimed his human form so that he may grow in power. Kennedy is among us today as one of Satan’s legion.
The reality of this matter has been hidden from you. The Slave Law of Hispanic Protestant Bourgeois Nazi Dentists from Holland controls the writing of history. Collaboration for centuries, this devious group of bankers has used their financial power to hide the truth — Satan is good.
So do what is Just — fight for evil, you know you want to. Your life will have lasting significance if you kill, rape and plunder. And, hell, we might even tell your story in this newspaper.
aurdor/Margarlta Flop
»r has sent squirrels
An argument defending
my dog
Shakespeare said, ‘All is true.’ That’s good enough forme. Abortion reminds
me of aforsaken leaf floating, swirling, and perpetually floating over a river of crystalline, icy flavorful waters, swiftly drifting and uplifting. Mom usedto tell Darby, “Why don’t you two take to the stage? Absurdity is in and incoherence matters.” She was right and Darby knew it before he died. Now, some say celibate priests can’t talk about Our Lady of Medugoijie and uphold Tradition while smoking and liking it in a building on this campus at the same time, if women become priests as well. I would die to say the contrary. Infact,itis much clearer to me: a believer can believe and believe despite that old leaf. A young student recently wrote a letter to me trying to convince me that everything I was
w a s somehow wrong and that
not many people knew what the hell I was getting at anyway. I wrote back and said, thanks.
As if like, head-bent moneymakers the wind blew through me and sent me headlong into the Buddhist abyss. And why not? The war somehow changed the sisters across the street in a way reminded me of my fourth dead dog in heaven: a leaf is but a non-believer, wandering through war tom Yugoslavia and saying to the Virgin Mary, ‘though thousands believe, I don’t.* I aim to say only that one can objectify oneself in the eyes of others by being less than normal. And since, I write by reference and allusion, let that leaf go. My smokes and my memories are not for sale.
iy.
us. Good money paid for your children.
Campus Band seeks guitarist who will play lots of Spin Doctors and U2 covers. Very little artistic satisfaction but plenty of gigs at Senior Bore and Gidgers. We’re only doing it because we like fellatio and money.
PERSONAL
Hey Snap-A-Scam Man:
If you weren’t hard up you wouldn't be doing this. Get a life.
Cheesegiri
What ever happened to “hi ag?"
I need four G.A. tix for any game for the rest of my lifellllll WILL PAY $$$$ Call X9999
Abortion Kills Children.
Abortionists Kill Doctors.
I love you snookumsl XXOOXXOOXXXOOXX
HAPPY BIRTHDAY
JOEY!!
Your wife is a bitch but I still love you.
Whatever happened to the Lizard King?
AMY F.
What DeFrock Doesn 't Tell
You
Top ten places to go after 2
a.m.
by Dag Hammarskjold
But sneak in while some schmuck is really grooving on that new Gustav Mahler CD in their studio, and the roof is all yours. VW
Though pessimists bemoan the lack of interaction between die sexes here at Neutered Shame, there is still plenty of mashing, mauling and (let’s be honest, kids) even straight-out screwing going on in this place. In fact, there mighteven be kinky sex, butwe suspect that such things only go on in that mysterious building known as Brownson Hall. For those of you undergraduates unfortunate enough to be bound by the in loco qfbrainus aims of the administration, the dreaded 2 a.m. curfew, Sarquastique would like to suggest places to go for after-hours fornication.
Be informed that many of these locations may not be the most private of places, but at least no one is going to throw you out. Lust-filled couples may be taunted by security people or janitors, but if you tell them in a fear-stricken voice that you’ve run out of mayonaise, they will probably leave you alone. So, without further ado, here’s the 1993 Sarqastique rating guide to:
The Top Ten Places to Grope and Be Groped After 2 A.M.
10. All over the place in Riley Hall. This building is chock-full of nooks, crannies, niches and other dark places where you can do the nasty, and it’s open 24 hours. If you get caught, you can probably just tell the janitor, “Leave us alone. We’re working on a serious art project here.” Especially good are the darkrooms and the wood shop. The ceramics area is full of interesting and fun toys but may be too well-lit and open for most people. VW
9.	Library basement bathrooms. If you’re into that. 1/2 V
8.	Outside of Old College. Only good in springtime, and for those who don’t really care too much about privacy. Drawbacks: you’re liable to end up sitting in duck poop. Also, sexually frustrated undergraduate priest-wanna-bes might throw water balloons at you or start holding prayer vigils for your soul. V
7.	Church confessionals. You can sin and then confess to it right afterwards. Not very roomy places, but they’re usually available and always quiet. They’re definitely secluded, if that’s what you’re worried about W
6. Under university president “Punk” Annoy’swindow. Justtobughim. Besides, if the administration finds out that stuff like that goes on, they’ 11 be able to form so many Investigative Sub-Panels and Committees and Reports to guarantee that no useful work gets done for the next century. Wl/2
5. The roof of Nieuwland Hall. Find out from a freshman who is taking astronomy what the combination to the door is. There’s supposed to be an astronomical observatory up there: yeah, right South Bend hasn’t seen the sky in 16 years. Stars, my foot We’re talking physics grad students showing clueless freshman women “The Big Dipper” up there. VW
4. The roof of O’Shaughnessy Hall. Staff members of WZZZ... know that the roof is a quiet place where they can retreat from the din of the raucous classical tunes that they play over the air. But it’s purely for platonic relationships, of course. Staff members might have discussion about the merits of twelve-tone composition under the paleorange South Bend night, but nothing else.
3. In the “Interaction Space” near the DeBartolo Computer Lab, really late at night. You need to take a break for writing that seminar paper ... there’s really no one around... why not? The more daring might just go for it under the tables in the lab. And who knows what those consultants do behind that counter??? VW
2. In the Architecture Building. They leave this place open so that those bleary-eyed geeks with pens and rulers can finish their projects. Don’t worry, you won’t bother them. Most of the guys in here haven’t the faintest clue what to do with a member of the opposite sex because they haven’t even seen the sunlight since then-sophomore year. They run from human contact in tenor. Unless you look like a building, they won’t come near you. It’s likely that you won’t even distract them if you’re especially noisy because they’ll be so wrapped in up in drawing plumbing or making a paper cut-out of the Sears Tower. A good place to get action indoors. VVV1/2
1. The number one place on campus, as told to us by former Sarqastique Editor Jon Mauls Tots, is the second floor women’s bathroom in Nieuwland Hall. This place not only has a couch and a low probability of anyone wanting to use it (how many women do you ever see in Nieuwland?), but the door locks! That’s right, hours of uninterrupted hormonal release are yours if you are lucky enough to get there early! Bring your alarm clock and a bottle of Gatorade, and you can spend the night there with your amour.
*

ww
©
CONSIDERATIONS ...
ANOTHER “ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE”
To complete this version of the famous Obscener full-page anti-homosexual ad, just fill in the requested words at the places where they appear. Read it back with the new words inserted and have a good laugh.
Recent Obscener reports and commentaries appear to be sending confusing signals relative to the^,^,_[ inherent in homosexual activity.
/ ■
In his book, Homosexuality and the Christian Way of	Father “Punk” Annoy, president of the University of
Neutered Shame, observes that homosexual activism did notp^in this country until That explains, in part, why, among pre-1960 adults, there is outrage directed at the growing-p^of this^^^^deviation.
The Church has long held that there are [number] sins which “cry to	for vengeance”:
[something that Is probably against the Cburch) and THE S^I OF (^p
The crime of wy takes its name from the town of1S357H5r It involves men having-^^relations with-p^.
Because of that crime, the cities of-p^and-^-were plagued with bad football teams and the inability to win a World Series.
(Another Bible quote.)
Aiso.-iHiEiHpSFsorrs^	this crime, and other^^sexual prompted God to “vomit out” iweo,dcohol|
and p^r-For he said that any person who does such a hateful thing “must be cut off from his ^1
In [yet anodw Bible quota). St. pg^choes the words of the Book of ^55^,. He says that some men refused to recognize the handwork of-p5nous p6r£<iRrevidenced in the natural world, and began worshipping strange [nour>p[ufa||- As a result, he “delivered these people up to shameful-pjn^ap For their women have changed their 1——j^into that use which is against good taste. And in the manner like men, they have taken up^^and ceased to shave their legs, working that which is filthy.”
WHY THIS MESSAGE?
BECAUSE I share-psgg-with^jjj-and believe that the homosexual way of ^1^ is incompatible with the Christian way of [activity]'
BECAUSE I also believe his prophecy has come true. That is that the homosexual community has succeded in [veffa ending in through a sympathetic-p^^, that monogamous-pap^marriage (and family life) is a lad)ectve] institution and must be replaced by some up to now untried forms of sexual-pg^;
BECAUSE I have waited and waited for some other [typ9otpereon]> or a	this free exchange environment, to speak
out in support of the [Oppressjve insMon]’s teaching on this issue. So far, no one has done so.
Small Pisser, Neutered Shame Alumnus, 1543
'This Is a paid advertisement.
Return of the Big
Sweaty Guys
Losers band together and grapple with the reinstatement of wrestling
by Unleavened Donuts
Last year Arthritic Protector Trick Hose-us-all dealt the Neuter Dumm wrestling team a harsh blow when he abruptly disbanded the squad. Hose-us-all allegedly decided the team’s fate last year after realizing that he had no money for cab fare upon leaving The Kit-Katty lounge the previous night. The uproar that resulted from his difficult decision was a complete circus sideshow with the Arthritic Protector being burned in effigy, the Nooter Doom Flight-for-strife club leading chants and Saul Sticher making his standard appearance. We were all a bit frightened then, but the most horrifying comment was recieved anonymously (although the Arthritic Deployment letterhead was glaringly obvious) through the mail which proclaimed, all in capital letters, “Trick blows chunks.”
This year, however, another miracle blessed Nooter Dam when our favorite son, Pocket Wish-you-smell, returned to campus. Wish-you-smell encouraged Hose-us-all to reinstate the team to active duty, using his contacts throughout the Freudian Football League to ensure the wrestling squad’s re-birth. We are so very, very lucky here, so please just visit the Grotto one more time for me. Because of Hose-us-all’s surprise decision, this year’s team is not a very talented one, but that will not stop the boys from giving their 110 percent every match for good old No-more Shame.
This year’s coach, Harvey Cowlick, should be a familiar face to some, for he was one of those rent-a-cops that used to chase homy couples away from the set of that
wonderful movie, Judy. Cowlick sings the praises of his group of young men, especially the four seniors who have braved ridicule and are trying to learn that in this sport, counting to three is a bad thing to hear. Cowlick has also intoduced a new division for those who are not the most beefy of men, the ninety-seven-pound weakling division. Not surprisingly, this division has the toughest competition for the starting position, with quite a number of nimble young men coming out from the depths of Tanner Hall to boast their prowess on the mats.
Here is a division-by-division preview of this year’s wrestling squad, with a few obligitory predictions thrown in to make it a real sports article.
Heavyweight: This weight class is filled by only three Nappy Dame seniors who have no clue what they are doing. As six-year senior Dopey Foreigner puts it: “We’re fat, we’re obnoxious, and we like to wear tight clothing.”
Seven Grotto Stones: In this division, we have six men who are not quite fat enough to be called heavyweights but are still too lazy to become walk-on for the football team. Coach Cowlick wants to have high hopes for these guys, but he has none. Cowlick says, “At least the girls from Soon Married College will have someone who will have been scored upon more than they have.”
Six Pounds of Bacon: This is where the hopes of the team lie (or lay, or whatever) anyway as far as anyone can see, but that would be pretty far from the NCAA Tournament, oh well. Five freshmen are vying for the position, and the competition will be fierce. Assistant Coach Jack Fealme feels
that they will ultimately fail to succeed, but he added, “To combat the feeling of defeat they will consistently achieve, we are requiring a mandatory bonding situation with a special T.A. direct from bonding hell, Ascummi Hall. We feel that this will keep their egos fully intact”
Five Tons of Feathers: One wrestler, one woman, one love, one more superlative, please. Our solitary soldier in this weight class is a transfer from Nebrisket and can fit more dip in his lip than all the guys from Dillong Hall together. When asked why he left such a wrestling powerhouse to come to Notrim Dames, he first spit on me and then replied, “I wanted to be the only conceited and inconsiderate misogynist on this campus, only now I have to share that honor with too many others, but I am trying really hard to be the best.”
Ninety-Seven Pound Weaklings: This division is chock full o’ wimps and is lead by our campus journalism maniac, Saul “Screech” Shearson. Saul is a campus phenomenon and will most definitely break school records and score with more than just the women. When Shearson was questioned about his new quest, he eloquently replied, “I was sick of all the hugs that I recieved after my dances, so I needed something that would give me the power to lure the babes again and again. I could have tried Ain’t Cherries College, but you know what that means.”
Here they come, a bunch of losers rolling -around a mat together, and as long as it's in public it will all be okay. At least we still have synchronized swimming. □
12
—MB
Ree-Oh ¥w:&
by You Probably Know So I Won’t Make up Any Stupid Name
Its Up and I’m Coming
I’m just so excited about all the wonderful concert opportunities that we have at Notre Dame that I might explode! It would be just fantastic if Madonna could blow into the stadium next September 18 at half time of the Michigan State game and play "Justify My Love," "Likea Virgin" and" WhereLife Begins" in front of 59,075 fans screaming: “Get out of here you blasphemous whore.” ... orBetter Yet, Prince on October23 at half time of the Pittsburgh Game. He could sing "Darling Nikki," " Cream" and "Purple Rain" in front of a crowd of alumni yelling: “Get out of this stadium you blasphemous male whore.” ... But the best concert of all would have to be Sinead “Skinhead” O’Connor and Roseanne Arnold coming to Notre Dame Stadium on October 23 for the USC game to sing the National Anthem. The skinny-bald one would probably not sing, turn her back on the flag, call Father
Malloy a fascist, tear up a picture of the Pope and urinate on the Irish Guard. The overweight one would probably sing off-key, spit on the band, grab her crotch and strip so that we could all see that she is “Property of Tom Arnold.”
Another good concert would be Billy Joel at any campus event But, as you know Catholic girls start much to late, and if you wait for this harmless performer to come to our free-thinking university you may just wait forever. (I think someone in the administration had a secret crush on Christie Brinkley and was so leaked off at Mr. Joel for marrying his secret dirty-fantasy woman that he blighted this performer from ever playing here again.) Anyway, if you read this colum looking for anything of value, I. really fooled you on April 1.	fl
Yes, separated at birth.
And in an event that defied any concieveable odds, these two were reunited after being recruited to play basketball for the same university. And then, in a cosmic coincidence, they were placed in the same dorm room their freshman year. Amid a river of tears from many and chuckles from a few, these long lost brothers found each other in the Thunderdome. Alas!
LoU93 — The Most Happening Station Around
By Plate WithKraut
There are some advantages to going to school in bum-farting Indiana, besides the fact that Woody Harrelson hails from here, the state is flatter than Diane Chambers’ s chest, and the chicks have fatter asses than Rebecca Howe. Even if the most exciting thing on TV is a seven year-old series with way too many old beer jokes, we can be thankful for ONE THING — great radio.
That’s right, folks. It’s time we start giving credit where it’s due, and sometimes the only thing that keeps me going during a tough weekof classes is the fresh, unrepeated tunes on the bestradio stationin the country,
LoU93. Just hearing their slogan sends the shivers down my spine “From the dark hole below my bone, to every stone in Indigan.”
One of the best things about LoU93 is their commerical-free pledge. I just hate waking up in the morning and being yelled at on those “other stations.” Another great feature ishow they won’trepeatasongmore than once in four days, unless of course, it’s anything by Spin Doctors, Ugly Kid Joe, or Whitney Houston. (I especially like the song about the kittens in their bed.) Some classics are just so great you can’t get ever hear them too much. When I hear those first few bars of Whitney’s throaty voice crooning “Iffff, iiiiiiiii couououolldd ssssTayayayay,” and again when she holds that one high note with such power and
grace, tears come to my eyes, and I remember how glad I am to be in South Bland, the radio capital of the U.S.
The single best thing about the radio station (besides the awesome remixes they always play) has got to be the Copin’ Louse Parties. Hearing dedications from star-crossed teens makes me feel likel’m back in junior high, and that’s a feeling I relish. The best dedication I ever heard was when a 14 year-old called up and requested “In Your Eyes.” She said “I wanted to request this song for my boyfriend Cuddles, who is the light of my life. Our three year anniversary was yesterday. Can you please play our song, because I wasn’t allowed out last night, and I want him to know I love him.” Thanks, LoU93, ‘the spew for you.’
APRIL 1,1993
This Week Is Student Appreciation Week ...Make the Most of It by Anita Buck
Anita Buck works for Fiscal Pain as a penny manager. Her tasks include looking in public telephones for quarters, running a metal detector across the quads and rummaging through the dumpsters, looking for anything of value.
This place never ceases to amaze me. Just when you think thattheadministration of the Financial Ire can do no more, they pull this off. Yes, believe it or not, it is time once again for Student Appreciation Week. In return for this year’s investment in the University of Fiscal Pain’s endowment fund, the university is offering the choice of either a San Francisco Forty-Niners pennant and Debartolo Building photo pin or a six pack of Coca-Cola and apicture with your favorite Sorin Society member. These investment incentives can be picked up all next week at the Office of Student Accounts which will extend their hours until 4:45. In addition there is a lot more planned for students Here is just a brief list of all that your investment administrators have in store:
1.	On “Money Monday” morning from six until seven, the Hammer’s Bookstore will buy back all of your used books at 85 percent their original value. You must have your original receipt, a picture of you paying for the books and a notarized document signed by the original cashier and the professor who taught the course that the book was for.
2.	On “Theo Tower Tuesday,” you will receive a get out of the library free pass which will entitle you to one trip past the monitors without having to open your bookbag for a thorough search.
3.	“Overweight Wednesday” is student affairs day. Fatty O’Timeshareah will awarda two percent budget increase for the student group that gives the highest percentage of their budget back to the University of Facial Pain.
4.	Thursday is university president Ripoff “Duck” Bankboy’s gala banquet. The dining halls will be closed and Tippecanoe will cater an all-school five-
course dinner in a circus tent on Stepan field. This is free for all students, even the off-campus deserters.
5.	The weekend kicks off with “no fee Friday.” Fees for transcripts, photocopies of receipts, parking tickets, sporting events, lost (or stolen) IDs, The Oddserver, graduation expenses and bed debunking ($50 fine) will all be waived. To qualify, students must tap their heels together three times, say “there’s no place like the Dome” and have have the names of all the Heisman trophy winners tattooed on their ass.
6.	The biggest day of the week though has to be “Never Smelly Saturday.” The university goes on a hygiene kick and kills all of the shower flies in the dorm bathrooms and has the Bentdicks company turn off its ethanol spewing plant. Also, look for all squirrel dung to be removed from the quads and north dining hall will again be closed.
7.	The week will sadly come to an end with “No Snowjob Sunday.” University officials will answer all questions honestly and concretely. Major topics to be discussed: research versus teaching, financial disclosure, University of Fiscal Pain’s myths, homosexuality on campus, co-ed dorms, parietals, sexual equality, where football T.V. contract money goes, why our financial aid blows .will those who care about the students stand up and do something, is bigger better, and why Sarquastique, in it 126th year, gets so little money we can barely do jack dookey.
Enjoy! Also during the week look for lower-priced food at the vending machines and at the Cuddle, more LEXIS terminals opening at the library, beer on campus and a student radio station that the students might actually want to listen to and be able to hear in their dorms.	$$
1
"The Italian Ristorante"
1412 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46617
artdt d
Want a break from the dining hall? Come and enjoy
the great Italian food at Parisi’s, not far from the Notre
Dame campus.
232-4244
‘Italian dining with an Irish view’
^4 joS M;
Big Appetites:
6 Foot Party Sub
Light Appetites:
6 Inch Meatbail Sub
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite !! !
Only $1.69!
From $37.95!
•SUBWAy*.
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31N (By North Village Mall)
April 2-3: The Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held at Stepan Center featuring collegiate big bands and combos from around the nation, as well as the traditional "Judges' Jam." Former Chicago jazz legend Bunky Green will be performing with the Michigan State University Jazz Band on Saturday evening. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune information desk:
General Admission	Notre Dame Student
All Session	$15.00	$7.00
Friday Night	$8.00	$4.00
Saturday Afternoon $5.00	$2.00
Saturday Night	$6.00	$3.00
Eden Alderman
author of
In Our ‘Defense to speak on "The ‘Bill of^jgkts in Our ‘Times"
Tuesday, April 6 Library Auditorium 7:30 Pid
April 10-11: Easter Break Overnight Trip to Chicago includes transportation, a stay at the Days Inn on Lake Shore Drive, a ticket to see Shear Madness and mass on Sunday.
STUDENT UNION BOARD