Vol. XXII. ✓
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 29, 1889.
No. 43.
Notre Dame and its Founder.*
by HAROLD v. hayes, ’74, Chicago, 111.
Intent upon a noble course of life,
Which strong ambition urged him to pursue, A youth, intrepid, armed for manly strife
Appears, like fabled knight, to view.
Dreamlike, a vision of success he sees, . Through many hard fought battles to attain;
Nor shirks the contest though the pathway leads Through hardship, self-denial, pain.
Out from the depths fierce fiends swiftly rise, Rally and charge with deadly zeal and aim;
While ebon darkness clouds the azure skies, And giant forces shock the quiet plain.
As Satan’s minions to the conflict swarm, And sable Night her frowning vigil keeps, Behold, a voice ascending through the storm, In fervent supplication sweeps!
“ 0 Father, shed- Thy heavenly rays around, Dispel these evil phantoms from my sight!
O Virgin kind, uphold thy servant’s arm, With strength and power to defend the right!”
Thus flaming shield and gleaming lance he wields, Undaunted ’midst the strife of raging war;
When-joint or plate of steel-ribbed armor yields, The Heavenly Hosts protect him from afar.
Lo! Satan’s yeomen tremble with afright,
Their poisoned shafts dart harmless through the air, Their eyes are blinded by celestial light,
They fall, like fading spectres, in despair!
A golden halo lights the bloodless fields, And startled Nature sinks into repose;
While onward march in regal triumph leads O’er luckless fortune and designing foes.
From youth to manhood, manhood to old age, A life-long struggle waged our hero bold;
Until at last to patriarchal gaze, His youthful visions wondrously unfold.
* Ahmini Poem, Read at the Forty-Fifth Annual Commencement.
By summer’s sun revealed, O dreams sublime!
No hillside, vale, or woodland can compare
To thine; no fertile soil of foreign clime
Raise fairer blossoms into perfumed air.
Here curving paths through fragrant gardens bend, ,Where gentle zephyrs fan each blooming flower;
And shady lanes o’er hill and forest tend
Past sheltered spring and tempting vine-clad bower.
Here spreading trees abound and earth’s green fields, Where floral verdure drops the glistening dew;
Here waving grain abundant harvest yields, And sparkling waters gleam in distant view.
Lo! stately buildings from this landscape rise;
Turret and spire add beauty to the scene, And gilded dome majestic to the skies
Uplifts the Royal Image of our Queen.
Hail, College Halls! by Virtue’s Model crowned;
Both Truth and Wisdom here hold genial sway, Within their realm thrives knowledge most profound, And rapid ignorance falls in quick decay.
Hail, Sacred Shrines! in church and chapel built;
Before thy altars consolation dwells, And silent comfort reigns, and fevered Guilt
From sinful souls withdraws his fatal spells.
Our Nation’s Pride! world-wide thy renown;
Home of our youth, where joys perpetual reign;
How grand thy work through ages rolling down The course of time, how limitless thy fame!
Alma Mater, fount of truth unending,
Countless blessings from thy temples flow;
See, thy precepts o’er our lives extending
How they guard and shield us from the foe!
A child’s delight transports the thoughtful mind
With rapture, at the sound of thy fair name;
Possessed of magic power to aid mankind, Thy title’s wisely given—“ Notre Dame.”
Hail, Notre Dame! where humble labor thrives, Content to reap rich harvests from the soil;
Glad, without gain which slaves-of Mammon prize, To teach our youth by unremitting toil.
698
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ah, some may wonder whence th}' source of power! But plain to me this secret stands confessed, Where Work contributes free her friendly dower
There institutions prosper and are blest.
Though wayward skeptics firm convictions feign, Though worthless critics falsify the truth,
Though dark Rebellion with insidious train Shocks the Republic, decimates her youth,
Though wild dissensions storm the Ship of State, Yet, ’midst these ills such institutions stand;
Proud battlements! where storms and strife abate; Blest in themselves, they bless our native land!
See! bravely forth well trained recruits they send, Whence patriots, warriors, statesmen true are born, That every woe and every ill may end,
And happiness may every hearth adorn.
Hail, Notre Dame! by peaceful charnis surrounded;
No evil thing can flourish near thy walls;
Thy radiant homes with zealous care were founded, For which all praise to Father Sorin falls.
Now in silent eloquence far more real
Than e’er was voiced by word or glowing pen, The great Example of his life shall kneel
Pleading for right to the hearts of men.
O honored Sage, victor, and hero bold, Rejoice! thy name both Church and State revere.
O humble Priest, knight of our story told, Rejoice! thy conquests to the world are dear.
The Advantages of Collegiate Training*
By William P. Breen, ’77, Ft. Wayne, Ind.
The Alumni Oration is supposed to be a sort of 'ligament which binds those who have passed beyond the pale of collegiate life to those who, under the auspices and in the thick of the benign influences of this University, mould their present and speculate upon their future. The Alumni orator is one of the links in the chain of public commencement events which, when that chain is unwound, tells to the old students and the old graduates, sometimes in urbane manner and in rythmic eloquence—but this year in awkward mode and crude phrase—that they ‘are yet a part of Notre Dame, and that their memory is here kept fresh by maternal pride.
To the old graduate who comes back to the boards of the University stage years after the •bestowal of his degrees, shall I say that the occasion lacks aught of inspiration? Here where he stands before those who yearly grace this hall by their presence and who pay such elegant homage to educational energy—here, where
* Alumni Oration Delivered at the Forty-Fifth Annual Commencement, Wednesday, June 19.	s
he distinguishes thought-lined faces, mirroring the intellectual strength, the admirable fitness and genuine affection which were wont to man-tie him when, as student, he moved under the shadows of this famed shrine of energized mind and unalloyed religion; here, where the very atmosphere exhilarates remembrance, and the breezes metrically stirring the trees are vocal with the recollections of a delicious,-but never-to-be-forgotten past—the past of youth, of college life and college pleasure—a retrospect rises painted upon the eye of memory sweet and beautiful. To follow this strain would trench upon the conceded territory of others who are nearer now than I am to this fane of learning.
“Life is earnest, life is real.” Within these confines none of us ever dwelt with bated breath upon the wealth of significance in those simple but expressive words. But we had scarcely crossed the college threshold when we found them indelibly impressed and inscribed upon every avenue and pathway upon which we sought to tread.
Theory is measured in the world by the material success and the good it yields in practice; if it cannot stand this crucial test it is mere waste. The airy flights of genius are unrecorded until indissolubly welded and forged to senseful, practical application. The years spent here garner those theories which, if tested properly, carry with them.as inseparable incidents success and senseful application, if the sense, virtue and mental strength here imbibed be put in play.
The aftermath of collegiate life may be found rich, plenary and satisfactory, or it may be poor, empty and useless, because great possibilities in this country are grasped by him who steps into the contests of the world with his right arm panoplied with the mail of an education. .Now, the sphere of educational life is broadened and widened; educative facilities are increased and elevated; the age, the spirit, the people, are all prepared for the refinement and attendant blessings that flow from attachment to the genius of education which, strong and stalwart, is abroad in our land. The tint, the color, the handiwork of a higher, better and deeper education are observable on all sides. We are marching onward and upward under the rngis—beneficent and glorious—of an educational spirit that is heightened, tempered and blessed by religious influences, not born of narrow, strained bigotry, but the offspring of enlightened, intelligent, rightly interpreted Christianity.
Man can lift- himself ■_ to altitudes practical and intellectual; others find him a burden, ser-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
viceless to them and too heavy to carry; they will not carry him; he must hoist himself or be content to grovel below. Every proper move the outgoing student makes in life may be under the effulgence-of this tower of light, around whose base his younger years were passed'and his foundation for after-life fashioned; but if the move be tainted, if it lack either the intellectual or moral tinge here engrafted, this beacon is obscured and his pathway is dark—and all light is valuable on a dark pathway. Fidelity to the religious lines blazed here, faithfulness to the intellectual rudiments here gathered must constantly attend him who would earn a place among his fellows, which, though not laden with fame, would bring him satisfaction and genuine self-pride.	.
By the aftermath of collegiate life I mean those fruits that are plucked along the lines that were here marked out, from which departure is ever unwise, but extension always praiseworthy and often the embrace of power and reputation. The love of classical lore here engendered, if nurtured, if cultivated, is one of the essential equipments of the literary man and the oft-recurred to and never-failing supply of the orator. The scientific rudiments here acquired give to their possessor the start in engineering and the practical arts in life; to all are these of practical service. I have known them to be of pleasurably recreative service. I am proud to know a lawyer of versatile acquirements of erudite and profound knowledge, but whole-hearted, charitable and unostentatious in manner, who has recourse to mathematics for recreation. No art is taught, no science is absorbed, and no knowl-■ edge is imparted here but can be utilized in real life. No man ever passed through the transition from scholastic life to the sterner and infinitely less grateful realities of active life but has looked back with regretful eye to some knowledge which he neglected or with which his acquaintance was not thorough. When one leaves here he knows not in what lines his life may be cast; but he feels that, with ambition and loyalty to his affiliations here, he must build a future that will be stable and permanent and redound to his credit. If his lot be cast in the mercantile way, the industry, resolution, perseverance, as well as knowledge gained here, will, under ordinary conditions, make him a successful business man. • He feels that success needs, as forerunners, sense, honesty, push and emulation of his more successful yoke-fellows; thus heralded, lie becomes a credit to himself and gains reputation and commercial strength. In his reflective ’ monientSj as he views the results, full of
699
exultation and further promise, can he not descry the fashioning which he got here and to it ascribe, with propriety, some of the credit for the outcome which repletes his soul with gratification?
Can the physician, who here initiated an education, although at the time it probably here did not suggest the following, of Hippocrates, after years spent in the pursuit of that ennobling calling, worthy compeer of the ministry, find aught in his retrospect of the training received here to call forth a grateful impulse ? If he has attained position and standing in that grand profession, does he ignore what of knowledge and application he learned here before it ever entered his head to devote himself to an avocation which, though filled with onerous cares and huge responsibilities, is one of eminence and nobility?
The lawyer who, when a student here, thought not of the great principles of human conduct and civil life, but afterwards attained station and prominence in his profession; who, perhaps, has won laurels in the band of great minds who administrate the law; in his triumphs and success has he not recurred to infant efforts here, when his diction, his language or his oratory has. fetched a result which tickled his self-pride?
The minister of God, who, a gay and mischievous boy here, gave no intimations of being wedded to a life which wealth but impoverishes and which finds its only solace in the satisfaction of doing good and in the promise of a better life, of which it is the emblem, does he find anything in the life he passed here that nerves, strengthens and aids him for the arduous tasks incessantly upon his shoulders? When in the pulpit enunciating the principles of God and exhorting his hearers to allegiance to their application, in that sacred place—the broadest and grandest theatre for the display of pure eloquence and mental brawn, where genius is absolutely without trammel—if his efforts have evoked impression and resolution in his hearers; if, at the bed of the dying, he pour the redeeming unction upon the agonies of despair, can 1 he not say to himself that to the exhibitions of genius here and the religious air with which pious minds and holy hands and heads suffused his being here that he owes some debt?
In every sphere of life, if the whilom student of Notre Dame has made anything of his opportunities, he divides the honors of his conquest with his Alma Mater. The roll of her old students comprise many who have struggled determinedly for right, with upright minds and unflagging resolution, and whose efforts here were but an earnest of the force, power and apt
700
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ness which contact with the world sublimated into the characteristics that the world respects and dignifies. In no boastful spirit this University can unfold the roll of those who were her students and select distinguished, honorable names. In the lists of the higher clergy, prelates of high distinction and worth have won rank, who were boys among the boys here in earlier days; less honored but equally worthy clergymen of character, ability, purity and brains throng that list also.
Upon that roll will be found names whose probity and integrity are passports in the mercantile empire of this republic. Law, Medicine and the other professions have linked names upon that scroll to honorable ambition, reputation and ennobled character. Search on that tablet will disclose names honorably located and creditably conditioned in the less pretentious and aspiring walks of life.
Their reputation, their success, their honors are all anchored here and are the aftermath of collegiate life. They have found no El Dorado where the treasures of success lay heaped at their feet. Patient work, unintermitted perseverance, well poised ambition, high resolve and invincible adhesion to religion have developed the seed here implanted.
True, every student leaving here has not paid the requital of honorable, earnest, manly endeavor which was due to the teaching, the training and the spirit which blanketed his college years; he who -has failed, because of the lack of moral character or the absence of genuine ambition to make himself credit-worthy, has been faithless to the trust that was imposed upon him at the hour of his departure. That trust contemplated inflexible attachment to his religion; unabated and unquestioned obedience to the law; ready, willing and cordial responsiveness to all the duties of loyal citizenship, and well directed, vigorous activity in whatever place or condition of life he should be put. He who has not lived up to these conditions has, to the extent of his failure, violated his trust and ignored and disregarded his duty, as a man. In sooth, man is not perfect; humanity is often on the erring side; but when man’s imperfections and apathy come not from the heart, he may still be esteemed manly and honest. If a man follows the dictates of conscience and the promptings of a good heart to follow better nature, his success or unsuccess is but the fortunate or unfortunate evenfuation of intentions properly and sacredly obeyed. Therefore the student who laid here the moral and intellectual cornerstone of his character and who has erected the superstructure of his
subsequent life upon it, instead of finding an-othei' and variant base for character and future, while fame may not encircle his brow, is well-bottomed, a good citizen and an honest man whose aftermath of collegiate life has been rich and full.
I have thought it germane to these fragmen-tary thoughts to allude to one whose heart and soul were enfibred with the single thought of giving to the student here all that he could for the future; who was ever ready to extend a grasp and kindly word to the old student who returned to revel in the memory of his boyhood’s days, and who was the conspicuous character at Commencement times in everything that the occasion brought out. He was the life of the Alumni, an enthusiast in all that pertained to the association and an zealot for its strength and prosperity. I therefore beg no apology for this feeble but sincere tribute.
“All that lives must die!” That voice whose sound was instinct with sweet recollections is hushed; that hand, the index of a heart limitless as space itself, is palsied; that tongue which knew no vocabulary but the kind and gentle words of our language and the spontaneous expressions of a heart sublime in its purity and charity is traceless in the grave. Joseph A. Lyons, lion-hearted friend, in whom even the stranger saw the features of a friend—high-minded and erudite Professor, who inspired the diffident with confidence, and kindled ambition .in the aimless—staunch, sterling Catholic who devoted his life with magnificent and unselfish purpose to the betterment of his fellows, is reaping his aftermath in another sphere. Over that form, the casket in life of a soul that pure, noble, generous and angelic, is undoubtedly keeping vigil of this night, the most grateful tears of Notre Dame were shed.
Valedictory.
BY T. A. GOEBEL, ’89.
Embarking, as we are, on the untravelled sea . of the veiled and mysterious future, we-pause, like those who are leaving their native shore, to take one long and lingering look at the familiar scenes and faces of our college life before they sink forever below the misty gray horizon of the past. It is especially on such an occasion as this that our minds are filled with sweet and tender recollections, never so fully appreciated . as now, when mingled with the sad and solemn, thoughts of parting!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The sun of our school-day is slowly setting. No more shall it wake us to the toil of daily studies, nor shine upon those walls where our boyish hopes and aspirations raised a “ladder -leaning on the cloud” of fame, that vanished as a phantom before the morning light. As we pass for the last time through these halls that have been the silent witnesses of lessons learned and slighted, of contests won and lost, they seem to whisper a low and mournful adieu. The shady walks, the field with its joys and games, the peaceful bosom of the lake upon whose shore we have often breathed the freshness of the summer air, all blend their sighs in one long and sorrowful murmur. Even the tones of merry bells and cheering music cannot banish the spirit of the hour, and their echoes slowly dying, linger in each nook and corner, as if expressive of their sympathy. The past can never be recalled, but its memories shall always be treasured within our beating hearts. Theory must now give place to practice. For us the last rehearsal is over, and to-day the curtain rises upon the real drama of life.
Quickly have passed our years of preparation. Here, under the kind and gentle guidance of proficient and loving teachers, each one of us has built his ship for failure or success. How strong he has made it, with how much care and labor he has worked, the storms and waves and billows of the voyage shall test. But should a mast be broken, should the hull prove weak or the rudder powerless, how helpless his condition, how useless his regrets for negligence and squandered time!
For the Class, of ’89 I predict a bright and glorious future. Guided by the compass of sound morality, and having honor, truth and duty as our watch-words, we dread no shoal, no rock, no reef. Be our future all sunshine, be it darkened by the black and menacing brows of angry clouds, our trust shall be in Heaven. But .whatever befall us, like travellers who now and again cast their eyes towards' their native land, we shall often look back to that shore where gleams the star-crowned head of our Alma Mater, a sparkling beacon to all her struggling children.
Farewell, O gentle Mother, short was thy tender care! May we not only be worthy of the illustrious band of thy sons, but also show ourselves as true representatives of thy high and noble education!	,
Venerable Founder of Notre Dame, it is with joy and affection that we hail your safe return from Rome and your fatherly presence amongst us. .
Rev. President and members of the Faculty,, your tedious and difficult task is done. Long and carefully you have led us up the steep and winding path of knowledge. Little by little we have acquired strength, and now you bid us walk alone. Much we wish that your encouraging eyes might still beam down upon us; but this cannot be. We must act for ourselves, and we are confident of success if we but rightly apply your well-taught lessons. Filled with sorrow at leaving and having a deep appreciation ’of your labors, we bid you a last and affectionate farewell.
Companions in study, who are making the same journey we have ended, be persevering, patient, industrious, for the end is worth the greatest efforts, and though the time seems long your school-days will pass by sooner than you wish.
Dearest classmates, the sad hour has come to break those bonds which have held us together for the last few years. Thus far we have sailed side by side. Although we cannot make the voyage together, although the lapse of years may dim our sight and continents divide us, still let us cherish those relations which have been hallowed by the ties of college life.
Our fleet has reached the high sea, and one moment more each shall be flying his separate way. For some the journey may be calni and straight, for others stormy, long and dangerous. Yet though different the way the same goal awaits us all. And now as the wind and tide of the Present are wafting us far apart, I bid you, one and all, an earnest, heartfelt farewell.
The Forty-Fifth Annual Comniencement.
The following report of the Commencement exercises is taken from the South Bend Tribune:
The June rains, which have been exceptionally severe this week, have not deterred the annual rush of visitors to Notre Dame University. Many of them came thoroughly drenched in the short ride between this city and the University, but,none the less, jolly as Mark Tapely’s, to think they were once more under , the rooftree of their dearly loved University. The attendance of old graduates is particularly large this year. The older they get the more anxious they are that they shall not miss a single Commencement. They make it an annual pilgrimage of love and of duty. They may have reverses or successes in business; they may be so locked up in their professions or business relations that they cannot find time to go to the sea-side, to Saratoga or to Europe, but there are never any business or professional entangle
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ments that can prevent their annual pilgrimage to Notre Dame.
Nor are the visitors by any means confined to the old graduates who are, many of them, old enough to have their children or grandchildren among the present students. Archbishops, bishops and other distinguished prelates; prominent business men like Col. W. P. Rend; great soldiers like Col. Elmer Otis; famous politicians like the great democratic leader of Minnesota, Hon. Patrick Kelly; distinguished professional men like Hon. John Gibbons—all visit Notre Dame and count it among their greatest pleasures.
This year the crowd of visitors is surprisingly large. The hospitality of Notre Dame, great as it is, has been taxed to its utmost to “bed and board ” them, for in addition to these visitors there are 660 students and hundreds of pro’ fessors, priests and attaches of the University to look after.
As the students are from all parts of the United States, Canada and Mexico, so, naturally, are the visitors. Men from Maine greet men from Mexico. The Southerners of Louisiana and Texas shake hands with the Northerners from Manitoba and Canada, while Cape Cod Yankees cross palms with descendants of the Argonauts of the Pacific slope. A great meeting place, indeed, the campus and corridors of Notre Dame. The opening exercises were held last Wednesday evening in Washington Hall. Prominent among the vast audience was a delegation of “old boys” which came in on the Grand Trunk (or “in a shower” as one of them expressed it), and were met at the station in this city with a cornet band. The musical and other features of the programme were heartily applauded; but it was easy to see that the great interest centred in the oratorical contest. The three judges who were to decide the contest, were Father Cleary, Mr. Harold V. Hayes and Mr. William T. Ball of Chicago. The three contestants were H. P. Brelsford, Eusebio Chacon and Robert C. Newton. (The orations were' published entire in last week’s Scholastic).	•
Mr. Chacon, who is we believe, a Mexican by birth and of Spanish descent, chose for his subject, “ America’s Discoverer.” He grew eloquent in depicting the life and character of Columbus and made a good impression on the audience, as was indicated by the hearty applause accorded him.
Mr. Brelsford’s subject was “Mary Queen of Scots” and afforded him great scope for his fine oratorical powers. He has a clear, ringing voice and articulation which shows careful training.
* . WEDNESDAY.	.
■ The fears that the day would be one of “rain it raineth every day” were disappointed at sun up. “No rain to-day” said the early risers, who are weather-prophets, and everybody was glad that the regatta and the field sports were to be on. Alumni Mass was celebrated in the Church
of the Sacred Heart at 8 o’clock, and there was an eloquent and instructive sermon by Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of the Class of ’56. Following this came the dress parade of the Hoynes’ Light Guards on the campus, then the regatta. The shaded banks of the beautiful lake were soon covered with spectators and the roadway around it lined with carriages. St. Hedwige’s cornet band discoursed some of its best music while the crews were making ready. Shortly after ten the two boats shot out from shore manned as follows: Minnehaha (“Reds”)—J. H. Mithen, Coxswain and Captain; A. Jackson, Stroke; J. McCarthy, No. 5; E. O’Brien, No. 4; L. Pim, No. 3; F. E. McErlain, No. 2; K. Newton, Bow. Evangeline (“ Blues ”)—R. Newton,' Coxswain; T. McKeon, Stroke; J. Hepburn. No. 5 and Captain; A. Leonard, No. 4; T. Youngermann, No. 3; B. Hughes, No. 2; F. Jewett, Bow.
The crews were fine looking young men and they handled their oars with a strength and science which showed careful athletic training. The boats kept side by side until nearly the close, when the Minnehaha shot ahead and won by about a boat length amid deafening cheers.
Following the six-oared race was one of four oars, with the following crews: “Old Gold and Black”—J. Mithen, Coxswain; T. Coady, Stroke; S. Campbell, No. 3; R. Bronson, No. 2, and E. Prudhomme, Bow.
“Old Gold and Red”—George Craig, Coxswain; T. McKeon,Stroke; J. Hepburn,No.3; A. Leonard, No. 2, and T. Youngermann, Bow. This race was won by the Gold and Black crew.
It was now high noon, and for the next hour and a half the refectories were crowded with students and visitors.
The afternoon was very fair and warm, just the kind of weather for outdoor sports, and a large crowd of spectators gathered on the Seniors’ campus to witness a game of ball between the “old boys” and the present students. The latter, who were in good form, gave the old fellows a severe drubbing. The game had many amusing points and was greatly enjoyed by the lookers on. There were other sports during the afternoon by the Juniors and Seniors that were quite interesting and very much enjoyed. The distribution of Class Honors in the Junior and Senior departments and the distribution of Premiums in the Minim took place at 5 o’clock.
At the annual meeting of the alumni,Wednes-day afternoon, the following officers were chosen for the ensuing year: Rev. A. Morrissey, ’78, President; William T. Ball; ’77, 1st Vice-President; GeorgeF.Sugg,’8i,2dVice-President; Rev.N.J. Stoffel, ’76, Secretary; Prof. William Hoynes, ’72, Treasurer; George E. Clarke,’87, Orator; Albert Brown, ’86, Alternate; John G. Ewing, ’77, Historian; MarkM.Foote, ’74, Poet; Dennis J. Hogan, ’73, Alternate.	.	.
WEDNESDAY EVENING. ’
Washington Hall never contained a larger audience than the one that gathered there in the evening to listen to the interesting pro
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7°3
gramme of musical, literary and dramatic exer-' cises prepared for the occasion by the students and the alumni. The doors were opened about 7 o’clock, and long before the hour for beginning the entertainment, 7.30, every seat was taken and nearly a hundred chairs placed in the aisles and corridors occupied, while there was a row of standing spectators around the outer aisle of the main floor to the hall. The members of the orchestra were nearly crowded out of their seats by the pressure of the audience towards the stage. It was a gathering of intellect, beauty, wealth and fashion such as is seldom seen in this part of the country, the hundreds of visitors, both ladies and gentlemen, from all parts of the United States, from Mexico, the Canadian dominion and other countries, including the Faculty of the University, the alumni-and students attending in a body. The audience numbered nearly 1800 souls.
The entertainment began with an overture by the University Orchestra which was never in better shape than this season, and never did better work than last night. The new instructor in music, Prof. Liscombe, has greatly improved the standard of music at the University, both. instrumental and vocal. Following the opening overture, Mr. Harold V. Hayes, of Chicago, Class of ’74, appeared upon the stage, a tall, fine-looking man, and recited the alumni poem which was a creditable production and excellently delivered. The poet was loudly applauded as he retired.
Then came the first act of the cantata of “Pilgrim’s Progress, or the Christian’s Triumph,” given by the students under Prof. Liscombe’s direction, and which has been in preparation for some time. The stage was filled with singers, the Minims being arrayed as angels and Juniors and Seniors as demons. The choruses were artistically rendered and the solo parts by F. L. Jewett, H. L. Smith, W. Lahey and A. E. 0’Flaherty were admirable. The boys were frequently applauded and in several instances were obliged to respond to encores.
At the close of the first act of the cantata or sacred opera, Mr. Robert C. Newton,- pne of the three entered for the oratorical contest of the night before, but who was compelled to give up his oration then by an accident to the electric lights, appeared and favored the audience with his production, “The Irish Nation and its Great Leader.” Mr. Newton, whose home is in Little Rock, Arkansas, and who is one of the favorites at the University among the students of this year, as a public speaker, is a slender young man with a well poised head and very easy and graceful in his stage presence and gestures. He also has a sonorous voice of the baritone quality, and speaks with deliberation and measured force. His subject was a good one, being a sketch of the life of Daniel O’Connell, the brilliant Irish oratoi* and leader of the past century. He did it full justice, and eloquently depicted the influence of O’Connell’s deeds and words
upon the cause he espoused in the times in which he lived. He closed with an appeal to Irishmen to follow the great man’s wise teachings, and Ireland would rise from her distressed condition as the sun appears in the majestic ’ splendor of the dawn.
Between the second and third acts of the opera the tower scene from Richard III was given by S. Hummer, who personated the deformed Richard, and L. Hermann as King Henry. The young men displayed good dramatic talent and training in this scene. Between other acts four young gentlemen played a selection upon two pianos.	.
Then Mr. William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, of the Class of ’77, delivered the alumni oration. Mr. Breen is an interesting speaker, and entertained the audience highly with his remarks upon college life and its influence upon the practical affairs of business and professional after life. He closed with a graceful tribute to the memory of Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, whose genial hand grasp and words of friendly greeting were so greatly missed by the old students at this Commencement.	’
It was nearly 10.30 o’clock before the retiring march was performed by the orchestra and the vast audience filed out of the Hall. ‘ A large number of conveyances were on the grounds to carry the people to the city and St. Mary’s, and soon the roads leading thither were alive with flying vehicles, while those who remained as guests of the University lingered on the spacious porticos of the college building or strolled along the winding walks through the extensive grounds by the soft rays of the electric lights upon the lofty dome until a much later hour. The night was fair and one of the most charming of the summer, o
The following is an extract from an article written by one of the visitors to Commencement which appeared in the Rocky Mountain News of Denver, Colo.:
“The Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, will be closed to-morrow morning, June 20, with an unusually large attendance. Guests have already assembled to the number of several thousand and the multitude is constantly receiving accessions from all parts of the United States. A special train has just arrived from Chicago, chartered by the old stu- ’ dents and alumni, for the accommodation of the numerous friends and patrons of their Alma Mater and favorite institution. So great, indeed, is the throng assembled that all the class-rooms, halls, reading-rooms and lecture rooms have been converted into temporary dormitories. Yet no one feels the want of accommodation and entertainment. They are all boys again, and completely devoted to amusement, relaxation and the recounting of old reminiscences. Give them a chance to roll on the grass again,
7°4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to sin? the songs and relate the old adventures of boyhood, to shout and chase the ball; nothing more is wanted. They have challenged the University nine of this year for-a match game to be played this afternoon, which promises to be an exciting one. o
VARIED EXERCISES.
“Though the length and variety of the Commencement programme, with its field-sports, its exhibitions of class work, its orations, songs and theatrical performances, its regatta and military drill, are sufficient to entertain the guests constantly during several days, yet the chief attraction to one accustomed to such performances is the University itself. Located between two handsome lakes, three miles from the city, surrounded by the University fields with their twenty miles of elegant hedge rows and by fresh native groves of maple, oak and hickory, it has all the attractiveness of an excellent summer resort.
“Throughout the entire day ladies and gentlemen, with their children, throng the parks, the gardens, the campuses, or stroll leisurely through ■ the long shaded walks. But at evening the scene is the most delightful and the retirement best appreciated by one accustomed to the rush of business. To the religious the close of day is a time of absolute repose, of a calm and sacred peace, of quiet meditation. The world does not concern them.- They walk among the hills and groves telling their beads; they have time to breathe, and they love the new blown wheat and clover with the rich perfume of harvest time; they attend the robin, the thrush and thousand soft harmonies that close up the day with a sweetness like the forerunner of a better world. One cannot grow accustomed to this strange scene of peacefulness, rendered the more noticeable by contrast with the noisy boat crews, the military drum and the uproar of 6oo students at play.	.
“During the day, however, the University is like an active little village, self-contained and counting among its members men of every profession. ’ There is a bakery that supplies fresh bread each day by the wagon load; a butcher shop where three fat, stall fed beeves from the University Farm are daily dressed for the students and community, a printing office where three presses are kept running constantly. Besides these are workshops of every variety where anything can be made from a steam engine to a pair of boots. The carpenters and masons to the number of several score are always busily engaged. At present they are completing a large building for a seminary and another for the University proper; last year it was a novitiate, a handsome boat house and a church.
'	IMPROVEMENTS.
“ Last season also witnessed the completion of a large collegiate building for the accommodation of advanced students. Here each one has an elegant room to himself and unlimited time
for study. With this convenience and the liberty of several hundred acres of park, grove and campus, the student finds all the opportunity and inducement to study that could be well imagined. Although the advantages of this system have been tried but a short time, they have proved so eminently satisfactory as to demand an enlarged building to accommodate all the- applications for rooms. The same increase is also noticeable in other directions; the college for the younger boys has doubled in the last year, and the number of boarding students actually enrolled and attending classes, we are told, numbers upwards of 700 for the entire University.
“Studentsflock here from every state and territory in the Union, and the University on its part yearly widens its departments to meet the growing demand. JI er Faculty consists of religious meh and men of the world, who are always abreast of the times and animated by the progressive spirit of every-day life; and this seems to be the secret of their success. A glance at their catalogue of courses and branches of study will be sufficient to show that their instruction and the material equipment of their departments compare favorably with those of any other institution on the continent. This is what has made Notre Dame so well known in the West, and particularly in Denver, renowned for its schools. She has numerous representatives from Helena to the City of Mexico, and, we are proud to say, representatives who have always distinguished themselves in competition with the students of the East.”
The South Bend Times prefaced its excellent report of the exercises with the following beautiful tribute:	.
“When the Commencement .exercises of Thursday are completed at Notre Dame University, that noted Catholic seat of learning will have had its forty-fifth annual Commencement. .
“Forty-fiveyears form but a short span in the lapse of time; but in the life of an individual or the history of an institution, such a period of time is fraught with the good fortunes or disasters that nearly, if not wholly, show the trend of the life current of a man of mature years; or comprise within the limits of those years a series .of events, impressions and results whose ripples extend to the furthermost expanse of the sea of existence.
“Those graduates of forty-five years and less ago; those students who year after year have come and gone to old Notre Dame, are filling posts of honor, achieving business triumphs, moulding the thoughts of men; or, maybe, they are content to occupy the humbler, quieter spheres of life. They are scattered far and wide; the New World containing most of them; the Old World with a liberal representation. Many have gone to their last reward, and no small
O	7

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	705
number of the promising classes that have stepped from Notre Dame’s portals could, in their re-union to-day, appropriately quote the words of that old poem:
“ 'Some are in the churchyard laid; Some sleep beneath the sea; And none are left of our class Excepting you and me.
And when our time shall come, Tom, And we are called to go,
We’ll meet again with tliose we loved Some forty years ago.’
“The graduates of the first years of Notre Dame are now old men. The snows of time are drifting up about them; their allotment of years will soon have been spun out, and they live on borrowed time. The fires of ambition burn far less fiercely in their souls; many have found that what they so wanted, they did not want. Their brightest memories are their schooldays, and the furrows of care soften as they think of boyish pranks, of school-time victories. They would give their all to again live over those school-days; to again feel the honest pride of a graduate on Commencement day. But gone, gone, are those happy guileless moments: scattered or dead are there school-day associates, and the hopes of youth have become ashes on ’ the altars of age.
“The year 1889 furnishes the occasion for the graduation of a fine class from Notre Dame University, and also for the enjoyments of Commencement ' week. Friends and relatives are gathered from near and from far, and they find Notre Dame University greater, grander than ever before. They find that onward is the watchword of the authorities there. They have no steps to retrace, but keep right on in the march of progress.
“The attendance at Notre Dame in the past scholastic year has been the largest in its history, the number reaching fully 650 students who hail from all parts of the country and even from beyond its limits. The increase in attendance has been met by an increase in efficiency, and no scholastic year has been marked by better work in the history of Notre Dame than the scholastic year of 1888-1889.	.
“The authorities at the University were particularly fortunate in securing as one of their instructors the past year that eminent elocutionist, Prof. Walter C. Lyman of Chicago. More than fortunate were they in being able to place among their instructors that widely known author and literary gentleman, Prof. Maurice F. Egan, now a citizen among us.
“ May the progress of this year be only a foretaste of the progress yet to come, and may Notre Dame University flourish and prosper as the years come and go, and may the ‘era of brick and mortar’ be a constant one in her grandly useful existence.”
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Augustin Daly, of New York, and George Derring Wolff, of Philadelphia.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on John J. Kleiber, Brownsville, Texas.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on Albert Brown, Brownsville, Texas.
The Degree of Master of Arts in honorem was conferred on John B. Berteling, South Bend;
The Degree of Master of Science in honorem was conferred on Edward McCarthy, Chicago, o	•
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Tiburtius A. Goebel, Marietta, Ohio.; Patrick E. Burke, Stillwater, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Robert C. Newton, Little Rock, Ark.; Joseph E. Cusack, Fort Niobrara, Neb.;' Vincent E. Morrison, Fort Madison, Iowa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on JohnB. Meagher, Mankato, Minn.; D. Edward Dwyer, Albert Lea, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Law was conferred on Eusebio Chacon, Trinidad, Colo.; W. H. J. Tiernan, Chelsea, Mass.; Henry S. Smith, Tacomah, Wash. Ter.; Daniel C. Brewer, Denver, Colo.; Jas. V. O’Donnell, Chicago, Ill.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Charles F. Dacy, Woodstock, Ill.; John D. Mooney, Hyde Park, Ill.; James L. Galen, Helena, Mont.; Hilary C. McAlister, Columbus, Ohio; Edward J. Maurus, Seneca, Ill.; Isaac S. Rose, La Grange, Ind.; O. H. Woods, Avon, Ill.; Irving L. Bunker, Kansas City, Mo.;
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to Geo. Knoblauch, Carver, Minn.; John B. McCarthy, St. Paul, Minn.
CLASS MEDALS AND PRIZES.
CLASSICAL COURSE. .
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to Tiburtius A. Goebel, Marietta,O.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to William Larkin, Elkader, Iowa.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE. -
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to William McPhee, Denver, Col.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to James Brady, Versailles, UI.
The McPhee prizes for the course of Elementary Science were awarded to Henry Crooker, O. H. Woods and R. Rorke.
The Rend Medal for Practical Mechanics was awarded to John Delaney, Newburgh, N.Y.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Gold Medal was awarded ex cequo to John D. Mooney, Chicago, Ill., and Charles F. Dacy, Woodstock, Ill.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (First Course) was awarded to Louis J. Herman. . ": ■
706
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (Second Course) was awarded to Hilary C .McAlister.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (Third Course), presented by Rev. T. F. Galligan, Chicago, was awarded to Alwin Ahlrichs.
The Gold'Medal for Christian Doctrine in the Junior department was awarded to John J. Reinhard.
The Gold Medal for English essays, presented by Mrs. Mary English of Columbus, Ohio, was awarded to John B. Meagher, Mankato, Minn.
The Gold Medal presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, to the student having the greatest number of mentions Xvas awarded to Edward J. Maurus, Seneca, Ill.
The Gold Medal for general excellence in studies, presented by Mrs. James Meehan, of Covington, Ky., was awarded to Leo J. Scherrer, Denver, Colo.
The Breex Gold Medal for Oratory was awarded to Homer P. Brelsford, of Onarga, Ill.
The Barry Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to Daniel C. Brewer, of Leadville, Col.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in the Junior department, presented by Mr. Jacob Scherrer, of Denver, Col., was awarded to H. Lamar Monarch, of Owensboro, Ky.
The Sadlier Gold Medal for English Literature was awarded to Homer P. Brelsford, of Onarga, Ill.
The Gregori Gold Medal for Figure Drawing was awarded to Wm. Morrison, Fort Madison, Iowa.
The Gregori Silver Medal for Architectural Drawing was awarded to Henry L. Jewett, Chicago.
The Prize presented by the Western Electric Co., Chicago, for proficiency in Telegraphy, was awarded to George Knoblauch, Carver, Minn.
The - Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Leonard Hoerr, of Ohio.
The Prizes for Vocal Music were awarded to Frederick L. Jewett, Chicago, Ill.; Wm. Lahey, Niles, Mich.; Henry L. Smith, Winona, Minn., and Aloysius E. O’Flaherty, Kansas City, Mo.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to John M. J. Cudahy, Chicago.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal, presented by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, SuperiorGeneral, C. S. C., was awarded to Benjamin Bates, Denver, Colo.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[The “First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
’ First Honor Medals were awarded to Stafford Campbell, 0. H. Woods, Eusebio Chacon, Edward Stephenson, Michael J. Howard, James IVIcAuliff, Otto A. Rothert, James H. Mackey,
Clement S. Burger, Wm. Larkin, Thomas H. Coady, John P. Kenney, Hilary C. McAlister.
RENEWALS.
Jos. S. Gallardo, Michael Dore, Dennis Barrett, Louis P. Chute, Francis Fehr, Tiburtius A. Goebel, Ferdinand Long. 7	o
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
James M. Brady, HenryS. Cauthorn, Lewis N. Davis, John T. Greene, Ellsworth C. Hughes, James L. McIntosh, John J. McGrath, Edward J. McIvers, H. Lamar- Monarch, Frederick E. Neef, Francis B. Peck, James S. Peck, Henry J. Pecheux, Michael Quinlan, John J. Reinhard, Isaac S. Rose, Richard M. Spalding, Sewell T. Collins, Christopher C. Fitzgerald, Alfred Neef.
RENEWALS. -	'
Frederick B. Chute, William A. Rowsey, Leon J. Scherrer, Tanner A. Wilbanks.'
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
William J. Connor, Wade H. T. Durand, Joseph T. E. Seerey, Benjamin F. Bates, Francis J. Parker, John M. J. Cudahy.
RENEWALS.
Charles J. Connor, John J. Dempsey, Charles S. D. McPhee, Herbert J. Mooney.
SECOND HONORS.
[The “Second Honor” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
William Lahey.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Rolland A. Case, John A. Cunningham, Frederick C. Prichard, James C.Bradley,Samuel Rose, Charles S. Schillo, Albert E. Welch, Arthur J. Devine, George Elder, George Frei, John E. McMahon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Joseph M. Hagus, James J.M. O’Neill, Charles V. Grant, Henry Oppenheimer, Jacob Maternes, Thomas J, Burns, Francis A. Dempsey, Pablo Trujillo.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the .whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	‘
Alwin Ahlrichs, Angel L. Alvarez, James T. Brennan, Joseph J. Burns, Patrick H. Coady, Charles F. Dacy, John J. Gallagher, William E. Hayes, Louis J. Hermann, John Lesner, Richard J. McNally, Aloysius E. O’Flaherty, William O’Brien, John G. Schmitz, Joseph M. Toner, Harry E. Steiger, CharlesP. McGinty, Jacobo M. Lozano, Robert A. O’Hara, Jesse D. Crooker, Charles Paquette, William C. Roberts, Anthony Karasynski, E. A. Zeitler. -
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. ‘
Harry J. Aarons, Earl W. Bates, Edward M. Baltes, Patrick H. Bryan, Slyvester L. Cleary, Eugene B, Crandall, Ernest F, Du Brul, Porter W,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7°7
Fleming, Charles S. Fleming, Adolph Heller, William F. Hanrahan, Jr., Philip Hague, Otto H. Ibold, John A. King, Wilbert 0. Kutsche, William F. Maher, Edward J. Maurus, Charles Merz, Frank P. Sheehan, Charles H. Sullivan, Lester L. Sutter, Matthew W. Smith, George T. Weitzel, JosephTalbot, Paul Populorum,William B. Hennessy.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Bruel, Eugene Dorsey, Frederick B. Webb, Robert Webb, Leon J. Paul, Isaac Gregg, Manuel Elkin, Eli W. Elkin, Loy Downing, August Mattas, Victor Washburn, Arthur Lonergan,William Crawford, Maurice Levi, Arthur W. Seidensticker, Edward J. Fanning, Guy A. Livingston, Arthur Miller, Adair Greene, Douglas Goodwillie, John Marre, Thomas Finnerty, William Creedon, Simms McGuire, Frank Weaver, Angelo Marre,Charles McCarthy,Francis Goodman, Arthur Crawford, Samuel Blake.
Examination Averages.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Ahlrichs, 88; A. Adams, 88; A. Alvarez, 76; W. Akin, 75; I. Bunker, 74; J. Brennan, 82; J. Burns, 85; E.Brookfield, 67; C. Burger, 92; E. Blessington, 80;'W. Brugge-mann, 74; F. Brown, 79; J. Becker, 78; E. Brannick, 77; H. Brannick, 90; D. Barrett, 91; R. Bronson, 72; H. Brelsford, 80; C. Brown, 75; W. Blackman, 79; C. Brookfield, 60; E. Conway, 62; M. Cassidy, 79; J. Crooker, 93; J.Cooney, 69; S.Campbell, 73; G.Cooke,77; J. Cooke,62; W.Cullen, 78; I.Casey, 80; H. Carroll, 55; D. Cartier, 78; W. Cartier, 79; G. Cartier, 80; C. Cavanagh, 84; F. Carney, 60; T. Coady, 76; P. Coady, 80; L. Chute, 89; W. Campbell, 92; E. Coady, 77; J. Combe, Si; L. Chacon,65; C. Dacey, 93; M. Dore, 85; J. Delaney, 65; J. Darroch, 59; R. Davis, 64; N. Dinkel, 47; L. Dunning, 92; G. Eyanson, 71; J. Foster, 77; B. Freeman, 71; D. Fisk, 73; R. Fleming, 71; J. Fleming, 79; A. Finckh, 92; F. Fehr, 79; W. Ford, 85; R. Fitzgerald, 84; E. Fack, So; F. Forbes, 74; M. Goke, 67; J.Giblin, 90; J. Gallardo, 81; F. Galen, 79; J. Galen, 85; M. Garfias, 62; J. Gallagher, 86; J. Hepburn, 52; P. Houlihan, 88; W. Healy, 82; W. Hayes, 86; W. Hackett, 75; B. Hughes, 88; L. Hermann, 91; M. Howard, 77; E. Hoover, 86; W. Hill. 88; .E. Howard, 65; S. Hummer, 95; W. Hermann, 81; C. Heard, 93; B. Inks, 70; J. Jennings, 60; 0. Jackson, 65; F. Jewett, 79; H. Jewett, 87; J. Kinsella, 73; E. Kehoe, 88; F. Kelly, 88; G. Knight, 75; J. Kelly, 68; J. Kenny, 92; S. .Karasynski, 78; G. Kimball, 80; M. Louiselle, 90; F. Lane, 81; W. Lahey, 78; J. Lesner, 82; J. Lozano, 86; A. Leonard, 77; J. Lappin, 63; F. Long, 93; L. Long, 84; W. Larkin, 93; G. Long; 85; R. McNally, 77; H. Murphy,63; F.McErlaine, 73; H.McAlister,91; G. McAlister, 81; E. Morton, 83; J. Mackey,90; F. Mattes, 78; F. Madden, 72; J. McAuliff, 72; F. McKeon, 87; J. McCarthy, 78; C. McGinty, 63; W. Morrison, 95; W. Meagher, 87; E. Melady, 75; K. McLeod, 75; J. Mithen, 69; H. Murphy, 90; H. Ma-horney, 66; A. O’Flaherty, 89: E. O’Brien, 73; W. O’Brien, Si; J. O’Shea, 94; J. O’Connor, 70; R. O’Hara, 93; P. O’Flaherty, 85; L. Paquette, 74; C. Paquette, 91; H. Prichard, 90; E. Prudhomme, 74; L. Pim, 80; F. Powers, 82; D. Reedy, 71; M. Reynolds, 88; R. Rourke, 73; W. Roberts, 78; O. Rothert, 78; H. Steiger,69; J. Sullivan, 82; E. Stephenson, 79; T. Smith, 83; G. Soden, 72; C. Soden, S3; C. Spencer, 90; J. Toner, 61; C. Tewksbury, 65; V. Vurpillat, 85; F. Vurpillat, 86; H. Woods, 90; T. Wade, 61; j. Welch, 68; C. Youngermann, 92; F. Youngermann, 69; E. Zeitler, 60.
’	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E.	R. Adelsperger, 92; J. Allen, 69; W. Allen, 64; H. Aarons, 78; J. Ayer, 67; M. Adler, 69; E. Adams, 68; G. Anson, 78; E. Berry, 88; W. Bates, 68; J. Bradley, 73; J. Brady, 81; M. Blumenthal, 81; R, Boyd, 90; W, Bailey,
84; E. Baltes, 77; H. Bronson, 82; P. Bryan, 83; T. Cleary, 58; S. Cleary, -78; J. Cunningham, So; E. Crandall, 77; J. Connors, 73; E. Connors, 78; F. Connors, 65; S. Ciar-coschi, 83; W. Covert, 83; R. Case, 76; G. Connelly, 60; S. ColVns, 93; A. Campbell, 79; H. Cauthom, 79; R. Clendenin, 82; F. Chute, 87; B. Cass, 77; F. Crotty, 70; W. Davis, 83; L. Davis, 76; E. Du Brul, 88; O. Du Brul, 80; A. Devine, 75; L. Dempsey, 86; F. Duffield, 95; H. . Darroch, 63; H. Doherty, 63; H. Des Garrennes, 81; J. Ernest, 61; G. Elder, 76; J. Flannigan, 75; T. Falvey, 58; P. Fleming, 73; C. Fleming, 90; G. Frei, 85; E. Ferkle, 68; C. Fitzgerald, 91; J. Fitzgerald, 93; J. Green, 66; J. Girsch, 79; M. Galland, 61; J. Gappinger, 83; R. Graham,’ 68; J. Healy, 68; R. Healy, 79; P. Healy, 71; A. Heller, 79; B..Hesse, 83; C. Hinkley, 6g; L. Hoerr, 83; W. Hannin, 83; E. Hughes, 89; F. Hanrahan, So; P. Hazen, 68; L. Hoffmann, 65; W. Hennessy, 83; G. Hahn, 86; E. Hammond, 78; W. Hartman, 60; O. Ibold, 78; W. Joselyn, 91; W. Johnson, 90; E. Jewett, 76; T. Johns, 73; J. King, 95; A. Kutsche, 68; W. Kutsche, 65; L. Kehoe, 73; F. Kellner, 50; A. Kelly, 64; F. Krembs, 81; E. Lamon, 68; J. Lenhoff, 72; J. Moncada, 47; T. Mahon, 70; W. Maher, 71; E. Maurus, 95; L. Monarch, 69; F. Mainzer, 77; J. Malone, 60; A. Mayer, 77; E. Morrison, 71; J. Mooney, 86; C. Merz, 92; J. Mackey, 69; J. McIntosh, 65; L. McIntosh, 67; J. McGrath, 83; J. McMahon, 70; E. McIvers, 77; R. McCarthy, 68; W. McDonald, 43; W. McPhee, 95; J. McNulty, 82; F. Neef, 82; A. Neef, 83; J. Nockels, 84; A. Nester, 78; E. Noe, 64; W. O’Neill, 81; W. O’Brien, 79; G. O’Brien, 72; J. O’Mara, 91; J. O’Donnell, 68;- F. O’Rourke, So; C. Priestly, 70; P. Populorum, 79; F. Pritchard, 74; H. Pecheux, 78; F. Peck, 72; J. Peck, 87; R. Palmer, 86; M. Quinlan, 84; I. Rose, 81; S. Rose, 56; E. Roth, 75; A. Roth, 64; J. Reinhard, 84; L. Reidinger, 55; W. Rowsey, 71; C. Rowsey, 74; M- Rice, 83; F. Schillo, 85; C. Schillo, Si; F. Sheehan, 66; M. Stanton, 68; C. Sullivan, 75; R. Spalding, 65; L. Sutter, 78; C. Scherrer, 84; L. Scherrer, 96; C. Shear, 81; M. Smith, 75; A. Sachs, 76; H. Sloan, 67: G. Staples, 72; A. Sullivan, 81; J. Talbot, 81; W. Tetard, 67; A. Towne, 69; F. Thome, 85; J. Wright, 78; G. Weitzel, 95; A. Welch, 78; J. Walsh, 78; F. Wile, 74; P. Wood, 75; W. Willien, 69; T. Wilbanks, 71; W. Williams, S3; B. Wile, 71; W.
Young, 82.	*
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F.	Ackerman, 90; B. Bates, 95; S. Blake, 89; J. Barbour, 88; S. Bruel, 90; T. Bums, 87; J. Burns, 90; O. Brown, 89; A. Boyle, 90; C. Blease, 79; H. Connelly, 92; F. Cornell, 93; W. Creedon, 94; A. Cohn, 92; C. Connor, • 90; W. Connor, 92; W. Crandall, 89; j. Crane, 89; J. Cudahy, 90; W. Crawford, 92; A. Crawford, 91; J. Carter, 89; A. Clarke, 92; L. Downing, 90; H. Durand, 96; J. Doherty, 90; J. Dungan, 80; Jas. Dungan, 90; E. Dorsey, 89; J. Dempsey, 92; F. Dempsey, 89; H. Dench, 86; C. _ Dodson, 87; M. Elkin, 92: E. Elkin,96; F. Evers, 95; G.' Evers, 89; J. Elder, 87; T. Finnerty, 89; E. Falvey, 92; W. Foster, 90; E. Fanning, 94; E. Furthman, 84; C, Furthman, 80; W. Furthman, 82; C. Grant, 92; A. Greene, 90; D. Goodwillie, 91: I. Gregg, 98; F. Goodman, 89; F, Gerber, 88; W. Girardin, 8g; D. Gilkison, g2; J. Gray, 89; -H. Hendrj’, 84; J. Hagus, 89; W. Hamilton, 92; F. Hill, 89; M. Henneberry, 89; E. Hedenbergh, 85; H. Johns, go; J. Kane, gi; C. Kroolman, go; R. Kirk, g2; S. Keeler, ' 80; C. Kaye, go; C. Koester, gy; V. Kehoe, g6; E. Lansing, g2; M.Levi, go; G. Livingston,8g; H. Londoner, go; A. Lonergan, 80; W. Lee, 88; B. Lehnberg, 76; J. Marre, 8g; A. Marre, 88; J. Matemes, 86; H. Marx, go; C. McPhee, go; A. Mattes, 8g; F. McDonnell, 88; E. McDan-eld, 82; S. McGuire, go; H. Montague, go; C. McCarthy, g2; J. McCarthy, 87; A. Miller, Sg; W. Marr, 96; B. Morrison, 8g; H. Mestling, 76; E. Mestling, 78; W. Mosier, 79; W. Nichols, 90; C. Nichols, 82; J. O’Neill, 96; H. . Oppenheimer, 90; H. Plautz, 86; F. Parker, 90; L. Paul, So; C. Paul, 85; R. Powell, 94; D. Quill, 92; F. Roberts, 90; J. Seery, 94; J. Snyder, 90; A. Seidensticker, 82; L. Stone, 90; G. Stieneman, 80; A. Stange, 90; T. Stafflin, So; D. Thornton, 90; N. Trujillo, 90; S. Witkowsky, 94; F. Webb, 95; R. Rebb, 92; F. Wever, 95; V. Washbume, 90; W. Wilcox, 89; W. Wilson, So; L. Wilson, 86; T. ' Watson, 92; W. Waterman, 90; C, Zoehrlant, 7S; H. Zoehrlant, 79.	.........
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
W W SCHOLASTIC
q3ubltsfjc& rbcrj SaturDaj During Ccnn Eime at If. S. Snibrrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, June 29, 1889.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has completed the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The Forty-fifth Annual Commencement which was held last week was one of the brightest o
and most successful in the history of Notre Dame, forming a fitting close to one of the most prosperous scholastic years. The press reports, elsewhere given in this paper, speak in detail of the varied exercises which afforded entertainment to the large throng of welcome visitors and at the same time displayed to advantage the talent and training of the students. The enthusiasm manifested on the part of old students returning in exceptionally large numbers to visit Alma Mater seemed to pervade all hearts : and lent additional charms to the pleasure of " the occasion. The visit of the large delegation • of “old boys” was one of the most agreeable episodes of Commencement week.
Still more was the joy of all increased by the return of
Very Rev. Father General Sorin, the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, without whose presence Commencement would indeed be deprived of its greatest.charm. He arrived from Rome early On Wednesday morning and was thus in time to be present at the principal exercises, as well as to preside at the distribution of prizes arid awards to his little favorites the “Princes.” During the exercises on Thursday morning Rev. President Walsh took occasion to express to the venerable Founder the heartfelt welcome accorded him by all. preserit, to
which Father General replied in his own expressive manner. It was with feelings of great joy that all noted the beneficial effect the voyage had upon the health of the illustrious Founder. May he live for many years to witness even more glorious Commencement exercises than the brilliant one of the 20th of June, 1889! Rt. Rev. Bishop Keane who had visited the University a few days previously intended to be present at the Commencement, but, to the great regret of all, he was unexpectedly called to Washington.
* $
Among the degrees conferred was that of Doctor of Laws upon Mr. Augustin Daly, of New York, and Mr. Gerger Derring Wolff, of Philadelphia. Honors could not be more worthily bestowed. Mr. Daly is well known through his successful efforts to elevate the standard of the stage in this country. Mr. Wolff is the distinguished Editor of the Catholic Standard, and is well known in the literary world.
The “Oratorical Contest” was one of the great features of the exercises. This year it was unusually close and exciting. The three contestants acquitted themselves so nobly that the judges’ task was by no means an easy one. While the triumph of the victor was glorious to him, the defeat of his competitors had nothing in it which they had reason to regret.
& »
The Alumni Poem and Oration were highly creditable productions. We are glad to give them entire in this number. Mr. Breen’s tribute to the lamented Prof. Lyons was eloquent and touching in the highest degree. The manner in which it was received by the immense audience in Washington Hall is the most convincing proof of the enduring hold which the memory of the lamented Professor has upon the affections of the students and patrons of Notre Dame.
Law Department.
Indications point to the attendance of an unusually large number of students in the Law Departirient next year. A fair percentage of them will be adults, ranging in age from twenty-one to thirty years. The educational qualifications prescribed for admission and graduation now register a creditably high standard, and young men who are not well grounded in at least the. common English branches cannot be enrolled as law students. All the late text-books
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and State Reports will be added to the library during the summer, and students need incur no expense in the purchase of text-books for private use. Three classes will be taught- daily during the coming year. Moot-court cases are to be tried once or twice a week. With proper variation these cases will deal with contracts, torts, crimes, equitable subjects, maritime law, pleadings, evidence, practice, etc. General subjects involving questions of history, political economy, state-craft, etc., will be debated weekly either in public or at society meetings. Nothing will be left undone to insure the student at Notre Dame greater progress in his studies within a given time than can be counted upon elsewhere. The period prescribed for study in the law course continues unchanged, to wit, from two to three years. It is proposed to keep unbroken the record which shows that no graduate of this Department has ever failed to pass successfully even the most searching examination for admission to the bar. Although examinations are yearly becoming more difficult, yet the course of instruction is correspondingly increasing in thoroughness, o	o
Book Notice.
Four Lectures on Anthropology and Biology. By Rev. Thomas Hughes, S. J., Professor in Detroit College. Jas. Monaghan: 353 Jefferson Avenue, Detroit.
In the first lecture the author considers “ Prehistoric Races,” a question of great difficulty. . The author believes that this term “prehistoric” is only relative and not absolute, a view which we always regarded as the only true one that ever could bring light into those so-called dim o o
ages of mankind. Prehistoric is a term not to be used as indicating any special time in the chronology of the world’s history; but may be used to mark that period of time in the devel-. opment of a nation which precedes all historical record of that nation. Now, this particular period of one nation may be contemporaneous with the historical period of another. For example, we need not go very far back in the history of America to arrive at its prehistoric time. This is true even of our own time. Do we not find in our own days nations that have not as yet passed their prehistoric time ? Not long ago the Indian used his stone implements, till, trading with other nations, he gradually substituted those made of iron and steel; but even to-day many a tribe has as yet no historic record to show. We think, therefore, that no argument can be drawn from archaeology as to the absolute age of mankind nor as to his origin. This the author has endeavored to show in his first lecture; and although this view has not been brought but as forcibly as it might have been,
still his arguments are strong enough to be worthy of serious consideration, ‘	'
In the second lecture the author speaks of the “Actual Races in History.” In the opening paragraph the author states clearly the object of his lecture. He says:
“We have considered whether in the past there ever existed a species of men different from that which we know of now. This was the question of prehistoric anthropology. It still remains to be seen whether in historic times any man of a different species from our own has existed, and can exhibit in his person the link which is sought to connect us with a lower order of animals.”
Clearly enough the author considers one of the main difficulties in this question, the meaning of which is to be attached to the term species. This term must be absolute and fixed, otherwise great confusion would obscure all questions of biology. Bringing all existing nations forward, the author fails to find any specific differences among them. There may be differences in form, color, size, shape, etc., but such are not differences recognized in the definition of a biological species; and, certainly, this is the only species recognized in nature. Races and the migration and intermingling of races are also here considered, and the author shows clearly that he has given much thought to his subject.
In these first two lectures the author has shown that in the chronological order of mankind no human beings are found to differ specifically from man of the present day. Now in his third and fourth lectures he considers the same question from an ontological point of view, and examines the possibility of man taking his specific origin from some other species of living body or developing, so to speak, de novo from the simple elementary form of life—the cell.
In his third lecture the author investigates the theory so commonly spoken of as-Darwin-ism. What is Darwinism ? It is a theory first propagated (not discovered) by Mr. Charles Darwin trying to explain the origin of species, differently from what it generally is thought to be, i.e., creation—actual or derivative. The peculiar theory of Darwin is that species in nature have arisen by a natural phenomenon called natural selection; and if this theory is applied to man, as it is thought to be universal, it means that man is a species of living being deriving his specific origin from some pre-existing living species different from man, i.e., some ape.
In this lecture the author contents himself in bringing before his hearers what had been so many times said of Darwinism as a theory in science and philosophy, namely, that the theory is based on no single scientific fact, and is full of most glaring, logical sophisms and errors.
As an explanation of the origin of man it fails, therefore, as it is based on untruth, sophism and error. But now we come to the fourth and last lecture of the author. Here we have the question as to the origin of man considered from a new point of view. The cell, said to be the physical basis of life, does it hold within itself the potency of specific difference? Can one cell
7io
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
have in itself the power of developing into one or the other form of animal or vegetable life? What is the origin of the living cell? Is it produced in nature spontaneously? These are questions considered in the fourth and last lecture of the series. Needless to say the author investigates these questions with a clear and philosophical view, and, needless to say, his conclusion is as clear and as philosophical. The cells have their specific origin as well as the complex organism. The cells of bone cannot generate a cell of nerve no more than the germinating cell of the chick can develop into a specific form different from the chicken. Omne vivum ex vivo is as true as omnis cellula ex cellula—“All life from life as all specific cell from its own specifically distinct cell.”
To sum up the author’s conclusion: The origin of man cannot be explained by prehistoric time, nor by the actual existing races, nor by the theory of natural selection, nor by cellular biology, but must be sought for in a transcendental cause of nature which must and can only be recognized as the ultimate cause of all living existences.	A. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Personal.
—Rev. A. Morrissey, the genial Director of Studies, is spending a few days at Watertown, Wis.
—Roland J. Hemmick, ’66, of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, has been appointed U. S. Consul to Geneva, Switzerland.
—F. J. Combe (Prep.), ’85, is practising Medicine in Brownsville, Texas. He. has the best wishes of his friends at Notre Dame.
—Prof. James F. Edwards was greatly missed by the visitors. He is in Paris, and for the first time since he was a Minim was absent from a Notre Dame Commencement.—Tribune.
—Prof. A. F. Zahm left the University on the evening of Commencement Day en route to Paris where he will spend .the vacation. He was accompanied by Messrs. Leo Scherrer, ’90, and Alvin B. Daniels, ’93.
—Amon? the welcome visitors during Commencement week were Mrs. J. Murphy and daughter of Woodstock, Ill. Mrs. Murphy was much pleased at the substantial progress made during the vear by her son Henry, a promising student of the Senior department.
—Mrs. E. P. Hammond, wife of Judge Hammond, Rensselaer, Ind., was a welcome visitor at the University and St. Mary’s during, the Commencement exercises. Years ago Mrs. Hammond was herself a pupil at St. Mary’s, and to her is afforded the gratification of seeing her daughter, Miss Angela, also at the Academy and ranked among its most gifted and promising pupils.
—Hou. Lucius Hubbard, of South Bend, assisted in the examination of the law graduates just prior to Commencement.. He is expected frequently to
lecture to the Law Class during the ensuing year. It is responsive to the feelings of those well acquainted with Mr. Hubbard to state that in all Indiana there is no person abler as a lawyer, more respected as a citizen, or more honorable as a man.
—Charles J. Stubbs (Classical and Law, ’88), of Galveston, Texas, has entered into partnership in that city with his brother James B. in the practice of law. He has already taken an honorable position at the bar, and gives promise of going to the “top-shelf” in that state. The Galveston Evening Tribune thus refers to his address to the jury in a case recently tried:
“ After a telling and able speech of about three quarters of an hour, District Attorney Oliver gave way to Mr. Charles J. Stubbs, who addressed the court. As it had been announced that the rising young attorney would deliver his maiden address in this important trial, a large number of the stellar lights of the legal profession were present to note the manner in which he deported himself. If they anticipated a sophomore flight to the airy clouds, or the attempted eloquence of a novice, those prompted by curiosity alone were surely disappointed. Mr. Stubbs plunged into the intricacies of the testimony with the confidence of an adept and illustrated the grave subject at hand with masterly skill. He deftly tore down the line of prosecution vouchsafed for the State, and substantially built up for his client a sturdy bulwark of defense. Mr. Stubbs spoke for nearly an hour, and when he resumed his seat the suppressed murmurs of admiration and commendation in the court-room gave evidence that the local bar had gained another worthy acquisition.”
—It is said that the number of visitors at the Commencement exercises this year" was greater than that of any previous year. We regret that we cannot record them in our little paper, but the vast majority never thought of inserting their autograph in the College “Register,” so that a partial list would omit the' names of many a valued friend and son of Alma Mater. However, we may name the following:
o	_
Among the clergymen present were: Revs. T. O’Sullivan, ’56, Chicago, Ill.; John R. Dinnen, ’66, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Denis A. Tighe, ’70, Chicago; James Cleary, Kenosha, Wis.; T. F. Galligan, Chicago; D. McMahon, D. D., New York; James Sullivan, Chicago; L. B. Barroux, Detroit, Mich.; J. Crowley, ’51, Laporte, Ind.; John Blockman, ’67, Michigan City, Ind.; T. Guendling, Lafayette, Ind.; T. Durnan, Milwaukee, Wis.; J. Duehmig, Avila, Ind.; A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Charles Thiele, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; F. A. O’Brien, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Louis Moench, Plymouth, Ind.; Edward J. Kelly, Monroe, Mich.
The “Chicago delegation of old students” comprised the following: Mr. and Mrs. Mark M. Foote, Mr. and Mrs. Harold V. Hayes, Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Crummey, Mr. and Mrs. F. P. Dwyer, Mr. and Mrs. McGurn, Mr. and Mrs. O. Jackson, Mr. Denis Quill and sister, Mrs. M. Keefe, Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Wells, Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Cooke,. Mrs. F. Taylor; Messrs. John J. Fitzgibbons, Denis J. Hogan, Geo. F. Sugg, E. Sugg, W. T. Ball, Thos. Nelson, N. Nelson, A. Seevers, Alex. Reitz, C. T. Reitz, J. Moffit, Jas. J. Healy, John J. Healy, John M. Armstrong, T. J. Moore, J. D. O’Mara, J. Taylor, R. Hayes, J. Lambin, J. H. B. Daily, D. C. Graham, J, Donnelly, Harry Fitzgibbons, J. Raftree,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7”
Dr. J. E. Keefe, J. B. Coffin, H. T. Fitzpatrick, P. L. O’Meara, C. C. Connolly, K. Scanlan, D. Donahoe, L. Bach, J. Rehm, Henry G. Foote, and others.
—From the South Bend Tribune we take the following notice of Mr. John D. Larkin, of the Class of ’83:
“ Mr. John D. Larkin, a leading lawyer in Pottsville, Pa., was at Johnstown during the flood visiting his grandmother, Mrs. Gillman. When the flood came about 3.20 o’clock, John was in the jewelry store room. The river had been as high as the curbstones, but not any higher than the year before. Mr. Larkin happened to look out of the window and saw a freight car turn the next corner with the advance portion of the flood. He made for the second floor, where Mrs. Gillman was and just reached it in time. They were hoisted from the balcony by means of ropes to the third floor of the adjoining building where they remained. The Larkin building is a three story brick with brick buildings on each side of it. The flood accommodatingly deposited two frame houses in their backyard, and these broke the force of the current, no doubt, saving the brick structures. Besides the first shock of the deluge was broken by some frame houses above. The water remained at a height of 25 feet until 3 o’clock Saturday morning, when it began to subside. It had been dammed up by the debris accumulated against the Pennsylvania R.R. bridge below the town. It was a night of horrors, and the newspapers have made no exaggeration of the awful scenes. Across the street two men clung to the windows of M. E. church, the water at times reaching their waists. Just across the way Elmer Sigfried sought refuge on a roof, and they halloed to each other at times. The front and back of the Larkin store was gutted as if cut out with a knife, and the torrent of water destroyed and carried off the stock of jewelry. A few watches and a napkin ring were picked up of all that fine stock. The safe was found all right in the cellar.
“James Larkin, father of John, went down to the ‘ Point ’ in the morning on business and was unable to get back owing to the freshet. The flood washed the house he was in away, and with seven others he clung to the roof. The building was unable to pass the dam, and floated about all night in the eddy. It turned over three times, but each time he got on top and, with the others, was rescued next morning. There was no notice that the dam was about to burst. The people who owned the dam tried to conceal its true condition.”
Local Items.
—Bye, bye!
—Vacation.
—Come again.
—All things gone up.
—“Limber-back” holds the fort.
—Twenty Minims remain during vacation. It is picnic all day long with them.
—It is expected that the “pie house” will be completed during the vacation months.
—The genial Director of the Tailoring Estab-lisment went to Chicago on Tuesday last.
—St: Edward’s Park is the admiration of all. It never looked so gorgeous and beautiful.
—Some of our esteemed contemporaries called it the “ Forty -fourth annual Commencement.”
—“ Old gold and blue ” was sported with pride by Notre Dame boys in Chicago last Saturday.
=-Angels chewing gum presented rather too
forcible a materialization during the cantata.
The charm was broken.	• •
—Alas! Dannie is no more! Thepurp isgone! Shot ruthlessly down while basking in the rising sun of Tuesday!
—On the feast of Corpus Christi the statue of St. Edward in the park was elegantly decorated to welcome the King of kings.
o	o
—The substitution of Certificates of s class distinction for book Premiums, in the Senior, and Junior departments, is one of the new departures which promises to give general satisfaction.
■—Rev. President Walsh and Professor Maurice Francis Egan assisted at the Minims’ examination and were more than pleased with the proof the Minims gave, that they had worked well during the year.
—Hon. E. P. Hammond, of Rensselaer, Ind., has kindly presented to the Law Library two volumes of the Indiana State Digest. He has our cordial thanks for his warm interest in the success of the Law Department.
—The Secretary of the Junior Branch of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary'- regrets very much to find that the. name of Master Henry Des Garennes was omitted from the Memorial Card of the Association.
—The general verdict is that Commencement week never passed more pleasantly, and that the students never before left Alma Mater in more admirable dispositions. May Notre Dame have many scholastic years as prosperous and successful as ’88-89!
—Letters from Father Zahm announce that the Far Western delegation had a most enjoyable trip, The journey between Notre Dame and Denver was made in but little more than thirty-six hours. No delays, no accident of any kind marred the pleasure of the trip.
—In the list of-Premiums published in our last number Messrs. C. Burger, W. McPhee, P. Populorum, F. Schillo, H. Bronson, F. Peck, C. Shear, E. Crandall, A. Nester, H. Woods, W. Bruggeman should have been credited with Premiums for Piano, and Richard J. McNally for 1st Premium in English Literature.
—There is a bark lost forever in the death of “ Dannie,” the black and tan terrier. The unfortunate canine succumbed to a gunshot wound inflicted through a window of the trunk room at an early hour on Tuesday morning last. The avenger having found the favorable opportunity that was long sought after, advanced to the window with step cautious and slow, descried the quadruped inside, levelled his piece at it, fired, and, lo! all was o’er.	.
—The solemnity of the Festival of Corpus Christi was duly observed at Notre Dame on Sunday last. At eight o’clock Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, after which the procession of the Blessed Sacrament took place. As usual, it wended its way around St. Joseph’s Lake, stopping before
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
two beautifully adorned repositories at which Benediction was given. It was solemn and imposing, though perhaps somewhat less striking than the processions of former years, owing to the absence of the students.
—Students and others interested in the “ Boat Club Watch” will be pleased to learn that it has been secured by No. 1089.
—Tuesday evening about six o’clock, just as the rain was pouring down in torrents, the Grand Trunk special train of six coaches full of Notre Dame students from Chicago steamed into our city and stopped at the depot, where the St. Joseph Cornet Band, of Mishawaka, and a large party of waiting friends had gathered to receive the delegation. There were over one hundred and fifty of the old college boys in that crowd, and as the band furnished the wind with musical accompaniment, ‘ old Jupiter Pluvius poured down a deluge of aqua pura that soon found a resting-place deep in the folds of the clothing of the Chicagoans. This did not daunt them, however, and soon the hotels were adorned with every style of Notre Dame chirography with a Chicago attachment. The old boys came to have a good time, and renew old associations and harrow up old memories of school-days no more to be theirs, and were heartily welcomed on all sides.—South Bend Tinies.
—On the 21st inst., St. Aloysius’ Day, the closing exercises of “The Leonine Literary So' ciety,” which is composed of collegiate students of.Holy Cross Seminary, were held in the studyhall of the seminary. The following was the
programme:
“ Rolling Down the Stream ”............Choir
“ Marguerite of France ”—Declamation, G. Mayerhoeffer “Our Defenders”—Declamation..........Y.	Maguire
“ The Dead Soldier-Boy ”—Declamation H. Santen “The Sparkling Cup”—Declamation....M. Donahue
‘‘Collen Avarra”.....J. Hyland and Seminary Choir
Oratorical Contest.
Oration—" Dante ”..................H. A. Holden
Oration—“ Napoleon ”............T. A. Crumley
Oration—“ The Missionary Spirit of the Church ” ................................J.W. Cavanaugh “Sweet Dreamland Faces”.........   Seminary	Choir .
At the conclusion Very Rev. Father Corby congratulated the young men on their elocution, and particularly on their singing. The judges of the contest, Fathers Corby, Walsh and Fitte decided in favor of Thomas A. Crumley. The prize for Declamation was awarded ex cequo to M. Donahue and J. Maguire. Father Fitte’s words of encouragement were heartily received.
—The South Bend Times in its report of the: Commencement exercises spoke of the Alumni oration as follows: .
“ The treat of the evening, like the good wine of which the Gospel speaks, was reserved for the end of the feast. It was the oration of the Alumni, by William P. Breen, Esq., of the Class of ’77, now a rising member of the bar . of Fort Wayne. The oration was admirably delivered throughout, the orator showing himself at ease before his audience and in full control of voice, gesture, movement and position. In addition to this the discourse at times arose to the full -height of genuine eloquence, meriting for the speaker his title of orator. -The subject of the
oration was ‘ The Special Advantage in every walk of life of a Collegiate Training,’ showing conclusively that in the higher sense of the term, all the sciences are practical; that there is nothing studied by the young man in college which does not help to fill out and complete his power in after life, and enable him the better to make himself a master in every profession and in every good which he may be called upon to do.
“ Mr. Breen’s discourse had this mark of genuine oratory, that it made his hearers think of the subject upon which he spoke, rather than upon the speaker himself, however admirable he might be. It was said in proof of the superiority of Demosthenes over Cicero that the people after listening to the latter used to say, ‘ What a fine orator Cicero is,’ while after listening to Demosthenes they went away saying, ‘We must fight Philip.’ The sentiments of Mr. Breen’s oration made a strong impression upon all present.”
—On Wednesday, the 19th inst., the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association presented, in a manner that reflects the highest credit on themselves, a very interesting entertainment in honor of Very Rev. Father General’s return from Europe. Rev. President Walsh, several members of the Faculty and a number of visitors honored the occasion by their presence, and were entertained with the following o programme:
Entrance March..........................J. Seerey
“Welcome”—Chorus......................Vocal Class
Address...............................B. F. Bates
“May Breeze”—Duet..........T.E. Durand, F. Cornell
“Greeting to Very Rev. Father General ”. .J. P. Cudahy “ Tobogganing ’’—Grand Galop..........L. Downing
“ Bald-headed Man ”.....................F. Cornell
“ Conjugating German ”—B. Bates, J. Cudahy, W. Marr “Dandy Fifth”.........................B. F. Bates
“Rifle Galop ”—Duet........L. Downing, J. Barbour
“ Competing Railroads,” C. Kaye, C. Koester, R. Powell
F. McDonnell.
Recitation— “Catacombs”...............E. W. Elkin
Recitation—“The Happy Man”............J. P. Cudahy
“The Light Brigade”—I. Gregg, J. Cudahy, F. Webb
C. Connor, B. Bates, A. Clark.
“Flight of the Swallows”..............Vocal Class
Distribution of Premiums.
Retiring March........................C. Koester
At the close of the entertainment Very Rev. Father General made a few remarks relative to - his trip to Europe, his visit to Paris and Rome, his audience with the Holy Father, the delight his Holiness felt in hearing of the marvellous success of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. He received a medal from the Holy Father for the best Minim. The unanimous vote of the the Minims gave the precious souvenir to Joseph Seerey of Cincinnati, who has been a pupil of the department for two years. The Very Reverend speaker concluded his speech, which was listened to with the deepest.attention, by complimenting in his own graceful way the Minims on their performance, and thanking them for the pleasure they gave him. It was a joy beyond expression for him to see them all again and to find them so happy. The Very Rev. and beloved Founder had ample proof that his affection, deep as it is, is fully reciprocated not only in the beautiful reception gotten up in his honor, but even more in the loving welcome that was plainly depicted on the faces of his one hundred and thirty little favorites, and on those of the distinguished audience.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame.
The site of Notre Dame was admirably chosen nearly half a century ago by Very Rev. Father Sorin, now Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross for the whole world, but then an' humble priest from France, who had travelled extensively in the West, determined to found the Community of Notre Dame, drawn to it by the extreme beauty of the location. He was warmly welcomed by the Indians, who heartily co-operated with him in erecting the rude buildings which answered in those pioneer days. These were eventually replaced by handsome ones of brick and wood, which were destroyed by fire in April, 1879, except the magnificent Church of the Sacred Heart.
Since then Notre Dame has been entirelyre-built and upon a scale of magnificence that the now venerable Father Sorin little dreamed of in the days of his youthful enthusiasm. The main building, or University proper, counting the class-rooms, dormitories, refectories, library, museum of natural history, geological cabinets, chemical laboratory, physical cabinets, parlors, reception rooms, etc., is a magnificent structure of white brick and stone, five stories high, with a huge dome springing seventy feet above its roof and surmounted by a golden image of Our Lady, fourteen feet high, whose head is illuminated at night with a crown of electric lights. The building is a splendid specimen of architecture and is the centre of a group of buildings none the less magnificent though not so large. Among these are the Academy of Music, Science hall, Minims’ hall and a half-score of other structures two and three stories in height, and finished with every regard for architectural beauty and adornment.	.
As conspicuous as the main building itself is the Church of the Sacred Heart, a church that has no equal in the United States for the beauty of its stained glass windows, for its frescoes, its altar appointments, or the value of its oil paintings, representing the Stations of the Cross. These, as well as the large corridor paintings in the University building, are the work of Signor Gregori, one of the most eminent artists of Rome. In the church is the largest organ in the State. In the tower is a chime of thirty-five bells, and below them is swung the largest bell in the United States. It weighs 14,000 pounds, and twelve full-grown persons can stand inside of it erect and without crowding each other. Notre Dame has electric lights, gas, water works, post office, bakery, carpenter, tailor and undertaking shops, a printing office, from which is issued the Ave Maria (edited by Rev. D. E. Hudson), the largest circulated and most ably edited Catholic magazine in the United States. Also the Scholastic which occupies the front rank among the college publications of- the country.
The University of Notre Dame occupies a
place with the very largest educational institutions in the land, and under the administration of President Walsh and the Faculty he has gathered around him, none is making a better record. The attendance of students this college year, the forty-fifth of the institution, was larger . than in any other year, and it is constantly increasing. This year there were students from every state in the Union, from the territories and even far-away Mexico.—Chicago Herald. .
St. Mary’s Academy, Austin, Texas.
It is now fully demonstrated that Austin can boast of St. Mary’s Academy as an educational establishment for girls and young ladies—from the pretty little prattler to the thoughtful woman—with no superior in the Union. For fifteen -long years have the Sisters of the Holy Cross labored in perfecting the academy. Year by year, as necessities demanded, they have added to the school gifted Sisters of the Order—constantly guided by a Superioress of consummate ' executive skill—and now the teaching corps numbers twenty-four ladies, proficient in every department of literature, science and art—and the institution supplied with every modem accessory for demonstration and practice.
Ori St. Mary’s hill, one of the most beautiful and commanding situations in our city of hills, stands the imposing building of St. Mary’s Academy. High above the busy streets the edifice looks down upon the city to the east, south and west, while on the north rise tall church spires and the lofty dome of the capitol.
The building is carefully protected from the north, while from the south and southeast the gentle summer breezes sport through spacious dormitories, study-rooms, recreation rooms, and ample refectories and halls.
Looking from the eastern windows the beautiful Colorado is seen meandering for miles through the fertile valleys, covered with farms beyond the city-limits. On the south rises the plateau beyond the river, dotted with live oak islands, with farms and straggling herds, while on the west are the beautiful blue ranges of the Colorado mountains, lonely, gloomy and sublime, bounding the horizon to the northwest with the sweep of the shining river. The spacious grounds occupy the entire block covering St. Mary’s hill—the building is on the very summit.
The surrounding grounds are carpeted with ' luxuriant grass, interspersed with beds of rare and beautiful flowers and fountains. Every surrounding betokens a love and culture of the chaste and beautiful. Fit resting-place for innocence and purity! Beautiful home for children, maidenhood and womanhood, for perfecting themselves for high and noble destinies, from the lowliest to the' most sublime vocation, to which they may be called.—Austin Statesman.
7H
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
St. Mail’s Aeademy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Among the clergymen at the annual Commencement exercises were Very Rev. E. Sorin, , Superior-General, C. S. C., Rev. Father Cleary, Kenosha, Wis.; Rev. Father O’Brien, Kalamazoo; Rev. J. R.Dinnen,Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. T. O’Sullivan, South Chicago; Rev. J. H.Guend-ling, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. F. Bleckman, Michigan City, Ind.; Very Rev. W. Corby, Provincial C. S. C.; Rev. Fathers Cooney, Hagerty, Saulnier, L’Etourneau, Morrissey, Moran, Zahm and Maher. C. S. C.; Rev. F. Kelly, Battle Creek, Mich.; Rev. Father Barat.
—One of the most pleasing features of Wednesday’s entertainment was the welcome extended Very Rev. Father General. On his departure for Europe he promised that he would return for Commencement and, true to his word, he arrived on the morning of the 19th. Just after the first essay, a whisper went round, “ Father General is coming,” and his venerable form appeared at the door. Joy was visible on every face, and the spontaneous “welcome Father!” told a little of the grateful affection entertained for St. Mary’s Founder by the pupils. Miss C. Moran read a short address of welcome, after which the exercises of the day were resumed.
Commencement Traditions.
BY ERNA BALCH.
Of Autumn, the loveliest of seasons, has William Cullen Bryant written:
“ The melancholy days are come, The saddest of the year.”
But if we follow the sentiments of this enlightened age, we will change the refrain and have it read:
"The melancholy days are come, Commencement time is here.”
As a rule, young ladies are accustomed to ■ compliments; hence a sigh of resignation is scarcely the acknowledgment looked for, when - one has sent an invitation to a friend expressing a desire for the honor of his presence at the closing exercises of one’s 'Alma Mater. Yet such is often the reception tendered our courteous bidding. We'are more or less swayed by public opinion, and there are some traditions that obtain credence with but the shadow of a foundation, arid many of these traditions are associ-. ated with the ceremonies attendant upon the - close of school life.	-
June has scarcely a rose in bloom, ere editors, whose school days are forgotten, sigh out a column of regrets that the regime of fifty years
ago is not the way of to-day. They waste many lines trying to make the public believe that the “sweet girl graduate” considers herself able to rule the world, and as for her essay,—she did’nt write it in the first place, her teacher did that, who is going to listen to a young girl when she expatiates on “Withered Ambitions,” “Conic Sections” or “Yearnings after the Illimitable”?
Kind suggestions are given in the daily papers relative to the graduate’s essay, something after this style: “Never mind what your subject is; but be sure to have your essay written on pink paper and tied with blue ribbon.” Then, too, according to tradition, the young lady whose school life is over has, at least in her own estimation, a mind stored with all knowledge: her philosophy is as profound as that of Plato; no question is too abstruse, for she is a graduate.
Again, public opinion affirms that the young lady who so tearfully bids farewell to her Alma Mater, her teachers and classmates, is more concerned over her dress than over the approaching separation; is wondering,between the lines, how she looks, and whether her crown of honor will be becoming.
The world’s censors next turn their attention < to the fond mothers whose pride in their daughters is the dominating sentiment, and who sit enraptured as they listen to the learned periods of their darlings’ essays.
Traditions founded on the authority of “they say',” seldom bear investigation, so let us examine into these charges, for, as graduates, we are nearly concerned. -
First, as to the essay question: each essayist must feel a certain ambition to write a composition that will possess the properties of clearness and simplicity; her best efforts are brought to bear on the subject, and, though the result may fall short of the sublime, she is satisfied if her parents are pleased. In a school where simplicity of dress is enjoined as a rule even upon the graduates, the second charge needs no comment.
As to the accusation that when school days are over, young ladies feel that they are fully equipped for the world, we. know only too well, that we have but laid the foundation of our learning. The exercises of commencement day we may call the ceremonies attending the laying of the corner-stone upon which is to rest the edifice of our education. A noble building we must rear, worthy of those who so carefully watched and guided the laying of each stone which forms the basis of our training. That this foundation costs much sacrifice on the part of our parents, and an untiring zeal on that of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

our teachers, is not a matter secondary to dress in the heart of a true child of St. Mary’s. Can we look back at the years we have spent in this retreat, and forget the kind interest that has manifested itself under all circumstances? The numberless advantages we have enjoyed, the care and solicitude of which we have been the object’, call for sincere gratitude, and, in the pleasures as well as in the duties of life, many a thought will be given to the days of our school life. And whether we recall the years when we were glad-hearted Juniors, or the day on which we received the golden guerdon which marks our graduation, it will always be with grateful affection.
Other traditions there are which pertain to the useless life led by young ladies of to-day— not in words but in deeds shall we show that our education, instead of ending with school life, is but a beginning, and each day shall we strive to become more proficient in all that makes a perfect woman, that we may ever prove worthy of our Alina Mater that claims us as her own on this Commencement Day.
Valedictory:
BY MARY A. REND.
“ Out of the shadows of night The world rolls into light; It is daybreak everywhere.”
With the sweet incense of morning orisons, rising from Christian hearts, is early mingled the hum of the day’s duties, the day’s cares; with the light they come to claim hand and brain. The sunshine brightens the morning hours as they speed on, each with its mission to accomplish; clouds gather heavy in the afternoon, and still hand and brain and heart find work to do. Many a sheaf is yet unbound when the “ twilight steals noiselessly into every nook, mastering all the land without the winnowing of its silken wing being heard or seen”; and the darkness says, “the day is done.”
Then it is, in the hush which follows toil, that to memory’s charms we resign ourselves, while the evening hour brings back in the gloom joys and sorrows of the day. The retrospect brightens the sunshine we have enjoyed and softens the clouds that seemed so dark; duties that cost us much wear a new look, and the emotions we experience after the long hours of care awaken a feeling that “resembles sorrow only as the mist resembles the rain.”
The periods of life may be likened to a day, and the time spent at school is not the least
important of these epochs. It has its dawn, its meridian and its evening. Who does not rememberschool life’s morning? Light were the duties, momentary the trials; but as years passed on, more complex became requirements, and more intricate the road to traverse. Discouragement bade us give up the struggle; many an enchanting by-path tempted us, and often was the heart ready to lose strength, even when the close of school life drew near.
The clouds that clustered on the horizon were separation from home and dear ones; a routine irksome to our restless nature; a restraint engendered by rules and observance—all of which served to hide the sunlight of perfect content from our vision. Rifts in the clouds showed us glimpses of brightness; but, not until the twilight of school-days began to gather close around us did we realize that with Longfellow we may exclaim: “the day is done!” •
Yes, the day is done, and before the morrow brings the dawn of another era in our lives, let us take a retrospective glance. On all sides do we find evidence of loving solicitude in our regard, and our work shows the guiding hand of devoted teachers and friends. Everywhere are reminders of by-gone happiness; how many precious graces have our souls received in these halls that breathe of Mary’s name—in Loreto’s . hallowed shrine, in our loved chapel! Lessons that are to lead us ever onward have we learned here, and in this home of virtue have we witnessed what noble self-sacrifice means, for we have been the object of a zeal, a fidelity that could come but from the spirit of the cross. To-day we leave all this; to-day we have attained that for which we have labored long, and yet, our joy is mingled with regrets deep, sincere. Strange would be our hearts if, even in this age of indifference, we could part from scenes endeared to us by so many ties, without a feeling of sadness. Our Alma Mater has been true to her children, and shall we be.unmindful? Ah, no! let us rather pledge ourselves to a grateful remembrance, undying through weal or woe.
During our school life, Very Rev. Father General, have your encouraging words and kind counsel forged links enduring; veneration and esteem for you, our devoted friend, bid us offer ere we depart, expressions of grateful affection, and the assurance that we deem it a privilege to be the children of an Institution founded by you, and whose very surroundings breathe your spirit. Deep was our anxiety in your absence of the past weeks, lest' we should not-have the honor of your presence on this day so eventful to us, but your fatherly smile has banished all
716
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fears, for it tells us we shall be strengthened in our going forth.by your parting benediction.
To you, our kind spiritual advisers, whose many ministrations, we hope, have brought to our souls precious graces, we offer parting greetings, and trust that we will not in the future be 'denied a remembrance in your prayers.
With grateful but sorrowful hearts do we turn to our loved Mothers and teachers; never shall we cease to remember the unwearied kindness you have bestowed upon us, and we beg that no thougfit of our seeming want of appreciation in the past may make our protestations of to-day bear a semblance other than truth. We thank you from our hearts; and whether sorrow or joy be our lot in life, we shall ever be what we are to-day, your grateful children.
Our kind schoolmates, we offer with our affectionate adieux the assurance of a lasting interest in your scholastic career, and the hope that success may attend your efforts in the future; that you may persevere as children of St. Mary’s until she places upon your brow the coveted laurel crown, and you bear away the golden mark of victory.
Dear classmates, in the past have we, as children of the 'same cherished Alma Mater, been united in hopes and interests. To-day we go forth to separate aims and,efforts; but, as one motto was our guide in the happy days of school life, let it be a talisman that will serve to bind us ’ to our promise ever to be worthy children of St. Mary’s. Bearing in our soul the knowledge that “the marble waits the sculptor,” let us with one mind and heart carve out a future breathing all the charm of perfect Christian womanhood; then will the parting of to-day be but for time; and, . when life’s school will be over, we will kneel to • receive at, the hands of the Master the crown which will bear witness that “in this Sign have we conquered.” *
. If, when the day is done, some
•	“.__songs have power to quiet
The restless pulse of care, And come like the benediction That follows after prayer,”
what may not be said of the peace that should be ours in this the evening of school life? For, well do we know that prayers shall rise for us as sweetest incense, and even when far from these happy scenes, our names will be whispered to Him in whose Sacred Heart: all are united, by those who have been our cherished friends so long. We will not, then, say farewell,
* The Academic Medal bears the inscription: “ In this Sign shalt thou conquer.” .
for, meeting in prayer, we. shall not be separated and, “for brief or long parting, for joy or sorrow, for life or death, what better can we say than adieu, placing those we love where we would ever wish to leave them—a DieuT
The Thirty-Fourth Annual Commencement.
St. Mary’s, always beautiful, is doubly so in June; and many were the expressions of delight heard on all sides at the order found everywhere on the grounds, the roads, lawns, walks, etc., all called forth words of praise. The visitors were numerous, and Concert Day found a greater number here than usual.
Wednesday, June 19.
The exercises were most interesting, and consisted of essays and music, instrumental and vocal.	’
programme:
“ Peasants’ Wedding March ”...........Sodermann
Vocal Class.—Accompanied by Miss L. Van Horn.
Essay—“Sursum Corda”..................F. Hertzog
Essay—" Hope is Tinged by Memory ”.......E. Coll
Essay—"Nothing but Leaves ”...........M. Smith
“ Robert ”—Grand Fantasia....Meyerbeer-Fumagelli
Miss L. Van Horn.
Essay—"Sculptors of Life”..........A. Reidinger
“Haberi die Deutschen Grund ) T -n u
j auf ihren Namen stolz zu sein?” )	'
Essay—“ Driftwood ”...................L. Meehan
“ Annie Laurie ”......:. Harmonized for four voices
Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran, M. Barry.
Essay—“Work and Fame”.................C.Moran
Essay—“ A Vaincre sans peril, on triomphe sans gloire,”
K. Gavan.
Essay—“Peaceful Conquests”............L.Ducey
“ Campanella ” Etude, No. 3.....Paganini-Liszt
Miss M. Rend.
Essay—“ Laurel Wreaths ”..............M. Clifford
Essay—“ The Bravery of Innocence ”.A. Donnelly
Essay—" Commencement Traditions ”.....E. Balch “ Quis est Homo ”.....................Pergolisi
Misses K. Gavan and C. Moran.—Accompanied by Miss
. H. Guise.
Essay—" Songs Without Words ”...   L.	McNamara
Essay—“Where the Brook and River Meet,” L.Van Horn “Toccata and Fugue,”in D.Minor.....Bach-Tausig
- Miss H. Guise.	,
"God Is Great,” Trio and Chorus from the“Creation,” Haydn.. Vocal Class —Accompanied by M. Rend.
The music is spoken of elsewhere, and of the literary part of the programme, the South Bend Times speaks as follows:
“ Miss F. Hertzog read a nicely composed and very creditable essay on the subject ‘Sursum Corda!’ as the next program number. The fair writer’s reading of her production is worthy of special mention. A resume of this essay would not do the same justice. She closed amid applause from her well-pleased listeners.
“The essay, ‘Hope is Tinged by Memory,’ then followed, the same being read by Miss E. Coll. This young lady’s production was another graceful effort whose reading was .listened to with the very closest attention. It was well
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	W
worthy the attention given and the applause it received. The same may be said of the essay, ‘Nothing but Leaves,’ by Miss M. Smith, which came next upon the program. Miss Smith’s essay showed plainly a carefulness of preparation, and was cordially received.
“ ‘ Sculptors of Life ’was the theme upon which Miss A. Reidinger’s fine essay treated, and from this subject she drew much that was instructive, and presented conclusions that evidenced a careful consideration of her subject. Miss Reidinger’s essay was closely listened to throughout, and was one of the best of the afternoon.
“‘Haben die Deutschen Grund auf ihren Na-men stolz zu sein?’ was the subject of the German essay by Miss I. Bub. The writer is not capable of a personal criticism, owing to a lack of knowledge of the German language; but those who understood the essayist complimented her upon the thought expressed and the manner of expression. The fine reading of the same was a feature of this number of the program.
“From the subject ‘Driftwood,’ Miss L. Meehan drew many fine thoughts gracefully and eloquently expressed. Her essay was well received by the audience.
“The essay ‘Work and Fame,’ by Miss C. Moran, followed, and was a production replete with good thoughts and was read with excellent effect. Miss Moran was followed by Miss K. Gavan’s French essay, A Vaincre sans peril, on trioniphe sans gloire. Those who were conversant with the French language among the essayist’s auditors were enthusiastic in their praise of the young lady’s mastery of the language as well as in the subject matter of her essay. Miss Gavan is certainly to be congratulated' upon her success in the mastery of French, while her instructors cannot but be gratified with their pupil’s progress.
“‘Peaceful Conquests,’ by Miss L. Ducey, was the next number on the program, and right well was the subject handled by the young lady in her essay which required several minutes in its reading.
“‘Laurel Wreaths’ was an essay of especial merit by Miss M. Clifford, who presented in well chosen words many fine thoughts and good conclusions, and the same may be said of the production, ‘The Bravery of Innocence,’ by Miss A. Donnelly, both of which essays were met with the heartiest marks of approval from their hearers.
“In the production, ‘Commencement Traditions,’ Miss E. Balch presented a series of thoughts in a very original manner, and at times grew mildly sarcastic in her consideration of the kind advice tendered to ‘sweet girl graduates’ by unselfish editors, or by people whose admonitions about commencement time were right in line with those of the poor editor. She dwelt upon the characteristic lack of appreciation of the older generations in the matter of commencement trials, of the partings at that season, and said many good things in her essay
that could not but be appreciated, by anyone who has had a graduating experience.
“‘Songs without Words,’ was the subject of the excellent and extended essay by L. McNamara, who was followed by L. Van Horn with the essay, ‘Where the Brook and River Meet,’ which was one of the literary gems of the after-' noon, and was read with splendid effect by its ' composer.”
The same paper continues:
“ IN THE ART DEPARTMENT.
“A glance through the Art Department at St. Mary’s Academy shows a bewildering variety of art work in pencil, crayon, oils and watercolors, and all indicating the high cultivation afforded in the art department of that celebrated institution. The talents of the pupils and the efforts of the instructors are shown in many forms, portraits, landscape, flowers on china, etc., etc.; and it is surprising to what a high degree of proficiency even the youngest pupils in that department attain. The pupils of each year have before them the task of filling the large art hall with creditable specimens of their work, and they must sketch and paint from na-. ture and objects. The Academy authorities burn their own china for decorative purposes, and in every way afford all the means for ad-' vancement in art. Among those worthy of special note is Adelaide Gordon, of Elkhart, Ind., who received the gold medal for completion of the Art course. Particularly fine is the work of Mary Schiltz, of Fort Madison, Iowa,. who displays remarkable talent in crayon and pencil work. Of those who deserve special • mention in oil painting are Ida Bub and Gretchen Wehr, of Milwaukee; and Lena Henke, Galena, Ill. Lulu Sauter, Chicago and Edith Nicholas, of Gladstone, Mich., also excel in oil painting. In pencil work the excelling ones are Sylvia Brewer, of Michigan; Millicent Hurff and Jessie Robinson, of Illinois; Nellie Davis, of Leadville, and Catherine Hurley, of Pennsylvania. Minnie Piper, of Chicago; Irene Horner, Kansas City, young girls, excel in crayon work. Nellie Morse, Grinnel, Iowa; Maggie Hutchinson and Emma Wright have some very fine water-color work in this department; while the- china de'cor-ations by Agnes Regan, Victoria, Texas; Mary Burton, Kansas City; and Blanche Hellman, of Omaha, was greatly admired. It would take a long time to look through this department and do it justice either in seeing or in description.
“ EMBROIDERY AND FANCY WORK.
“In this department the abilities of a clever artist as well as the skill of the young lady pupils in the dantiest needlework, were alike exhibited in the bewildering fancies shown in de-signing and in the beauty and richness of the work designed. It is no wonder that admirers of fancy work thronged the room reserved for this display and were loth to leave it. The largest and most varied exhibition was by Blanche Hellman of Omaha, Neb., whose dis-
7x8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
play in silk embroidery work is extremely beautiful and well executed. A bird of paradise wrought in silk embroidery in all the richness of color of one of those birds was the work of Carrie Haight which attracted much attention as did also one of the same specimens of work by F. Burdick. A peacock in silk embroidery by Mary Anson, of Stevens Point, Mich.; a crane in the same class of work by Nellie Dunkin, of London, Ohio, and some flower work on a crape blackground, by Linnie Farwell of Chicago, were all greatly admired and deservedly so. These are only a few of the very beautiful articles exhibited, but a more extended notice is out of the question.”	*
ON THURSDAY
the distribution of Premiums took place, beginning at 10.30 a. m. The Honors were conferred by Very Rev. Father General, who expressed his pleasure at the excellence attained by the pupils in every way. The following was the
PROGRAMME:	-
“ Hochzeit’s Marsch ”...............P. Scarwenka
Pianos—Misses Gregori, Guise, Rend, M. Horner, Van
Horn, O’Brien, Reidinger and Flannery.
“ Ring Out, Wild Bells ”..................Chopin
Vocal Class.—Accompanied by Miss M.Rend.
• Distribution of Premiums, Junior Department.
“Air du Rossignol”.........................Masse
Miss H. Guise.
Distribution of Premiums, Preparatory Department.
Quintette from “ Martha ”................Flo tow
Miss Gavan, Guise, Moran, Dempsey, Barry.—Accompanied by Miss Van Horn.
Distribution of Premiums, Senior Department.
“ Rejoice Greatly” Aria from “ Messiah ”.Handel
Miss K. Gavan.—Accompanied by Miss H. Guise.
Distribution of Premiums, Senior Department.
“Rhapsodic,” No. 12........................Liszt
First Piano—Miss Guise; Second Piano, Miss Rend;
Third Piano, Miss Van Horn.
Grand Chorus—“Hear My Prayer”.......Mendelssohn
Vocal Class. .
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic Department.	'
Conferring Graduating Gold Medal, Conservatory of Music—Advanced Course.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals, Conservatory of Music—First Course.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals, Vocal Department. Conferring Graduating Gold Medal, Art Department. Distribution of Crowns and Honors in Senior, Preparatory and Junior Departments.
Valedictory.............................M. Rend
Closing Remarks.....................Rev. J. Cleary
“ Sturm Marsch ”...........................Liszt
Pianos—Misses Barry, Smith, Gavan, Davis, Donnelly,
Moran, Coll and Ducey.
The Valedictory was well read by Miss Rend; at its close Very Rev. Father General presented her with a gold Medallion of Pope Leo XIII which he brought from Rome, and which was blessed by the Holy Father.
Rev. Father Cleary of Kenosha, Wis., made the closing remarks, and it is to be hoped that the Rev. Father’s words will linger long in the hearts of St. Mary’s pupils who had the pleasure of hearing the wise counsel. Father Cleary’s eloquence is too well known to heed comment, and the beautiful address he delivered will long be remembered as a feature of the Commence-jnent exercises of June 1889.
The Music at Commencement.
Concert Day.—The opening chorus, “Peasants’ Wedding March,” by Sodermann, to which words were adapted for the occasion suitable to the sparkling, joyous music, was sung by the vocal class with a vim which augured well for the succeeding numbers. Miss Van Horn’s accompaniment, derived from the vocal score, added to its brightness.
o	_
To Miss L. Van Horn, as being the longest in the music department, was conceded the honor of opening the instrumental portion of the entertainment. “Robert le Diable,” from Meyerbeer’s famous opera, arranged by A. Fu-magelli, mostly for the left hand alone was her selection. Beginning sotto -voce up to the weird forest scene, and “Valse Infernale” delineated in wild metalic sounding harmonies leading one in stately grandeur to the well-known imploring song of “Robert’s Foster Sister,” thrilling in anguish which spoke in tones that needed not words, Miss Van Horn’s touch being sufficient. Then came the mutterings of the baffled spirit of evil—in lowest bass tones—which told his defeat, followed by rejoicing music in bravura style which showed Miss Van Horn’s admirable technic.
The quartette “Annie Laurie,” -harmonized for female voices by Dudley Buck, was very exact, and was sung without accompaniment by the Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran, and M. Barry, showing good training in the windings of this unique arrangement; their voices, blending in sweetness, gave a new charm to this most expressive song.
The next instrumental solo, an etude by Paganini—usually known in this country by the name of “Campanella”—transcribed by Liszt, was executed by Miss M. Rend. This etude requires a quick and imperceptible change from wrist to hand motion, during the chime of the small bells mingling with the lower tones of the larger, which kept a contest swing, until the sound waves seemed to sway even the listeners; onward they rolled fuller and deeper, when the largest bell opened its mighty throat and the full chime pealed forth harmoniously. In this piece Miss Rend showed to advantage the descriptive style, while her intelligent accompaniments to several vocal numbers proved her great technical ability.
The duett, “ Quis estHomo” was much admired. Miss Gavan took the soprano. Gifted with a fine voice, she has learned to use.it carefully in her register, and with persevering study has reached her. present point of Success. Miss
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
719
Moran’s alto, glided along without effort, her modest manner enhancing her rich voice. Miss H. Guise accompanied this beautiful duett on the piano in her own sympathetic manner, showing herself a true musician.
Miss Guise, of the advanced music course, played the last instrumental solo on the programme: “Toccata, and Fugue in D. Minor,” by J. Bach—Tausig’s arrangement. A Toccata, simply implies variety of touch; but this one demanded a perfect and sustained technic. The very first notes of the short adagio convinced the audience that she understood the “content” of this grand composition of the “master of fugue, who held within himself the music of all times.” The triplet octave passage introduced an allegro of unique beauty ending in a fortissimo, which in turn led to the “ Fugue,” increasing in power and brilliancy until all the parts move in one massive whole—here, and there a light passage peeping out in gleeful mirth only to be set aside by long skips—still bearing onward the fugal melody in fullest harmonies meeting in a mesto closed by a simple plagal cadence.
.“The Lord is Great,” from “Haydn’s Creation,” began by the “Archangels’” exultant trio—ably sustained by Misses Gavan, Guise and Moran. The full chorus catching up the lofty strain in impetuous imitative parts, above which soared the joyous angelic trio, when out burst the grand climax “The Lord is Great, and His Glory Lasts Forever.” This splendid effort of the vocal class closed the exercises of the first' day.
THURSDAY, JUNE 20.
At St. Mary’s, for years, the music played for the entrance of the pupils belonging to the various departments of the Academy has ever been noted for taste in delivery, and unison of execution. The “Hochzeit’s Marsch” formed no exception to those of the past. As usual, ■ the strongly marked marching rhythms were required for time stepping; but most of Schar-wenka’s compositions contain intricate, irregularaccents decidedly opposed to the march’s instinctive need. Therefore it took skill to phrase and combine his various types of irregularities with strict thematic form.
The subject, lyrical in spirit, meandered through these obstacles to rhythmical accentuation without the loss of a single melodic theme, which were enwreathed within a circlet of massive harmonies. This difficult test of careful study was truthfully rendered by the Misses F. Gregori, H. Guise, L. Van Horn, M. Rend, A. Reidinger, E. Flannery, O. O’Brien and M. Horner. . The chorus, “Ring Out, Wild Bells,” was
a gem. The words were adapted to Chopin’s celebrated “Marche Funebre,” the solo voices of the Misses Gavan and Guise being refined and effective; the humming pianissimo vocal accompaniment gave a ground-work of sweetest harmony to this emanation from the genius of Chopin, to which the vocal class did justice.
“Air du Rossignol,” from Victor Masse’s opera “Jeanette,” sung by Miss Guise, was melodious. Her clear, facile voice took at once the tones perfectly suited to the characteristic, bird-like trills, and gracefully rounded cadenzas, which critics expect and admire in voice culture. Miss Rend’s imitative accompaniment was exact and to the point.
It is difficult to reproduce Flotow’s “Martha,” a quintette so favorably known (yet it never wearies), without the contrast of mixed voices. Still it appeared as fresh as ever, losing none of its beauties, if one may judge by the marked attention of the audience. The vocalists were the Misses Gavan, Guise, Moran, Dempsey and Barry; Miss Van Horn accompanied in her piquant manner.
“Rejoice greatly, O Daughter of Zion”—aria from Handel’s “ Messiah ”—a solo which brought forth the full power and richness of Miss Kathleen Gavan’s highly cultivated voice. It is superfluous to speak of this world-renowned work of the “Master of Oratorio.” Every musician can bear testimony to the sustaining power required to sing his compositions, or render his melodious passages of grouped runs, besides perfect intonation of accidentals in the continual changes of key. The cadenza belonging to a more modern edition was a triumph and bore conviction. Miss Gavan is equally at home in the florid brilliant as in the oratorical style so congenial to her gifted taste.	■
The graduates in music—Misses H. Guise, M. Rend and L. Van Horn—took their seats at three separate pianos to play Liszt’s best Rhapsodic No. 12, so full of passionate fire and melancholy languor. Miss Rend commenced with the introductory mesto, Miss Van Horn answering the first motive and framing the second with light arpeggios, ending in a brilliant cadenza. Then a short tutti sinking into a charming solo, displaying to advantage Miss Guise’s deep pathetic feeling, broken into by a wild gypsy dance in alternate solos by Misses Rend and Van Horn, in which the tambourines and castanets clashed in a merry whirling tutti of enthusiastic sounds, diminishing to a point where Miss,Van Horn took up the thread with inimitable grace, and playfully trilling while enunciating the melody in the same part and closing by a pian
^20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
issimo run through the instrument. Miss Rend repeated the same theme in broader style, followed by Miss Guise in semi legato finishing in a soft chromatic cadenza; Miss Van Horn added a short rinforzando movement, making a slight pause. At this point Miss Rend joined in starting the grand finale, Miss Guise throwing in runs and trills; then the three dashed on, increasing in tempo and force; the basses rolling in contrary motion to the full-handed chords which fairly cut the air in heavy fortissimo. A few bars of the first majestic opening theme, in all its mournful loveliness; then arose a sudden sparkling cadence, and the young graduates went to their places, followed by applause which said plainly; “They deserve the gold medals awaiting them.”
The canto and chorus “ Hear my Prayer,” by Mendelssohn, was chosen to close the vocal numbers of the Commencement exercises. Miss Gavan, taking the canto of this expressive, ardent cry of the heart, mounted upwards in gradual crescendo; the chorus, with intelligent precision, joined in the powerful shout which rang through the hall at the words, “ Lord, Hear my Cry! ” After a tender interlude the last movement started forth, “ 0 for the Wings of a Dove,” in canon form the parts rising to another climax, diminishing imperceptibly to its prayerful end. Here again Miss Rend proved her appreciative accompaniment.
Liszt’s “Ungarischer Marsch” put in motion the retiring pupils and most welcome guests. The stirring strains were full of vigorous joy, showing the musical acquirements of the Misses Barrv^-, Gavan, Moran, Ducey, Donnelly, Smith, H. Coll and M. Davis, nearly all academic graduates. With this closed the Thirty-Fourth Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy.
. -----------------------------
Graduating Honors.
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
Graduating Honors were conferred on Misses E. Balch,Omaha, Neb.; I.Bub, Milwaukee, Wis.; M. Clifford, Chicago, Ill.; E. Coll, Philadelphia, Pa.; A. Donnelly, Michigan City,Ind.; L. Ducey, Denver, Colo.; K. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; F. Hertzog, Natchitoches, La.; L. Meehan, Milwaukee, Wis.; L. McNamara, Denver, Colo.; A. Reidinger, Marquette, Mich.; M. Rend, Chicago, Ill.; M. Smith, Reading, Pa.; L. Van Horn, Ft. Elliott, Texas.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Medal in the Advanced Course of Music was awarded to Miss H. Guise, Baltimore.
Graduating Medals in First Course of
Music were awarded to Miss M. Rend, Chicago, and Miss L. Van Horn, Ft. Elliott, Texas.
Graduating Medals in Vocal Music were awarded to Miss K. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; and Miss H. Guise, Baltimore.
Gold Medal for completion of Art course was awarded to Miss A. Gordon, Elkhart, Ind.
CROWNS OF HONOR.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY AND .	CORRECT DEPORTMENT.	'
Graduating Crowns were awarded to Misses E. Balch, I. Bub, E. Coll, M. Clifford, A. Donnelly, L. Ducey, K. Gavan, F. Hertzog, L. McNamara, L. Meehan, C. Moran, A. Reidinger, M. Rend, M. Smith and L. Van Horn.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns par excellence were awarded to Misses Prudhomme, Harlen, Burton, Moore, Marley, McCarthy, Beschameng, Morse and Butler.
Crowns of Honor—Misses Irwin, Healy, M. Gibson, N. Gibson, Ansbach, Ledwith, Zahm, Spurgeon, Barron, Connell, Ash, Bush, Dorsey, Fursman, Hutchinson, Nicholas, Hurff, Harmes, A. Keeney, Caren, C. Hurley, Rentfrow, Wright, Geer, Nester, Gordon, M. Horner. Hammond, I. Horner,0’Brien,Roberts, Flannery, M.Dempsey, Studebaker, Van Mourick and Koopman.
Honorably Mentioned—Misses Haight, Taylor, 'Schiltz.C. Keeney, Hubbard, Sauter,Violette, M. Dunkin, N. Dunkin, Rinn, Kasser and Anson.
First Honors—Misses Hellmann, K. Hurley, Linneen, Davis, Robinson, M. Beck, C. Beck, Haney, Piper, Morse, Quealey and Guise.
Honorably Mentioned—Misses M. De Mont-court, S. Saviers and J. Tress.
Second Honors—Misses Clarke, T. Balch. English, Fitzpatrick, Hurff, Moore and Wehr.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns par excellence were awarded to Misses Lauth, E. Burns, Thirds, Miller, Kloth, E. Dempsey, Patier, Regan, Sweeney, I. Schoellkopf and I. Stapleton.
' Crowns of Honor—Misses A. Wurzburg, N. Wurzburg, M. Smith, Dreyer, M, Schoellkopf, B. Davis, Patrick, Goke, M. McHugh and J. Smith.
Honorably Mentioned—but in consequence of not having been at St. Mary’s the required time, did not receive Crowns: Misses Erpeld-ing, Fosdick, Levy, L. Hamilton, K. Hamilton and L. Mestling.
First Honors—Misses Northam, Barry, Davis, Kelso, Burns, Reeves, Dolan and Scherrer.
Honorably Mentioned—Misses R; Campbell, Graves and G. Fosdick.
Second Honors—Misses O’Mara, McPhee and Cooper.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Crown par excellence—E. Burns.
Crowns of Honor—S. Smyth, K. Moore, G. Crandall and M. L. McHugh.
First Honors—M. McHugh, L. Ayer, S. Scherrer, F. Palmer.
Honorably Mentioned—M. Smyth, M. Hamilton and W. Winnans.