NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 27, 1891.
Vol. XXIV.
No. 41.
The Spirit of the American Constitution
BY J. SYLVESTER HUMMER.
Among the many deep and important problems that the mind of man encounters there is none more'difficult, none more defiant of human wisdom, than the problem of government. In all ages statesmen and philosophers have sought to body forth a state that should withstand the stormy winds and waves of ignorance and passion and the canker-worm of Time; but the history of ancient nations tells a mournful tale of instability and change—a rise, a short-lived glory, and a fall. The governments of long ago fluctuated between the two fatal cliffs of absolute despotism and unlimited democracy. They saw not the vale that lay between with its crystal waters and wealth of fruit and flowers. But experience has increased men’s knowledge; and as ;the world has grown in’ years the tendency has been to reconcile- the seemingly hostile principles—authority and liberty. To establish a strong, central power, and to secure the united action of a great body of men without the sacrifice of local independence, this is the grand ideal that modern civilization is striving to realize.	•	.
This harmonizing principle found its first , faint concept during the closing period of the Feudal Ages when royalty began a gradual downward course and the middle classes grew in wealth and power. The English clergy and = the barons, when at Runnymede they wrested the Great Charter from the fickle tyrant, but : gave expression to the universal leaning of the time. Yet their idea of a dual government was but vague and undeveloped. They saw it afar,
far off, as a glimmering star of hope, a mere Utopian possibility. Europe sowed the seed, but nourished poorly its tender growth. Across the ocean lay the land of destiny. On Columbia’s shores the all-wise Providence chose a few dependent colonies wherein the world should witness the development of a state transcending every other nation that time has seen—the fulfilment of the dream of centuries, the incarnation of all that was wise and permanent in the theories and experiments of former ages, the model of governments, the queen of nations— the United States.
Looking back to a period in the last century I behold a wonderful scene. The struggle for independence is over. The last drum-beat echoes in the distance, and the battle-clouds are scattered by the ocean winds. The proudest nation of the world is forced to lower its colors and acknowledge the*American colonies a free and sovereign people. Now the sphere of patriotism changes. The sword is laid aside, and the soldiers of the Revolution become the builders of a government. But in their eagerness to foster liberty they lose sight of national’unity. They hear not the warning voice of history; they think not of the fate of the federations of ancient Greece; they comprehend not the peerless plan of God for their development—that providential Constitution which is born with them is part of their very being, and moulds them into one people, one nation, one state. They form a “ League of Friendship ” which regards each state as separately sovereign, recognizes: no central authority and leaves the national government to act only upon the states and not upon the people. Congress is merely an instrument in the hands of the all-powerful states. In their name it can legislate,- levy taxes, declare war, arid make trea
646
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ties; but all its acts and laws depend for their enforcement upon the will of the states. Its vitality has only sufficient strength to show its actual weakness. Commerce, foreign and domestic, and the rights and duties of government and individuals are regulated by the states alone. Selfishness and jealousy soon manifest themselves in all their actions. European nations see their sad condition and scorn their proffered terms of friendship. Trade is unprotected, the public credit is ruined, the army has dwindled down to a mere handful of men, and society knows no peace, no rest. The bonds of the Union grow weaker and weaker. A sullen gloom hangs over the confederation; the murmur of discontent is stealing through its veins; beneath its foundation is heard the roar of anarchy and faction, like an earthquake eager for destruction; the tempest of adversity vents its fury on every side; the earth around begins to heave and shake; the immense structure totters,—God grant it may not fall!
The years move on and the picture changes. Grand is the scene we now behold! The" League of Friendship” is no more. In time the patriots saw the impending danger, and realized the weakness of the pillars on which rested their hopes. Not a moment did they lose. With heroic zeal they began their work of reconstruction. The feeble confederation quickly disappeared, and in its place rose up the Constitution,—that stately edifice whose equal the world had never seen, and which remains today the greatest of the works of man.
Out of a number of scattered states, with their antagonisms and jealousies, it constitutes a union, a strong central government, which acts directly on the people, and yet leaves the states to control their own local and domestic affairs. It divides the functions of government into three departments: the department of the Legislature, where the laws are made; the department of Justice, where the law£ are interpreted, and the department of the Executive, where the laws are enforced. These departments are placed in separate spheres, each independent of the others, each keeping its own motion and exercising its own peculiar powers, yet all blending in a common revolution around a central sun. Nowhere in the world can be found a system so complete. It has neither the extreme democracy of Athens nor the absolute centralism of Rome; neither the variable policies of France nor the checks and balances of Great Britain. It holds its course in the Golden Mean where alone is safety, strength and stability? It is the ideal government which long ago the
Angelic Doctor conceived by inspiration from Heaven. Through the whole fabric runs a framework of subordinated powers which holds the states together more strongly than ropes of steel. No single body can assume unlimited power. Tyranny is- impossible. Around each office the Constitution marks a circle beyond which the office cannot go. Every act done in excess of delegated authority is void and has no binding force. Herein lies the bulwark against despotism; herein lies the guarantee of perpetual life.	.
Government is established for the people, and by the people should its powers be exercised. In no country has this principle found fuller realization than in the United States. Here the ultimate sovereignty rests in the people. Every citizen has a voice in the affairs of the nation. At» frequent intervals the people are called together to look into the national situation, to pronounce judgment on the issues brought before them, and express their will in the choice of public officers. Out of the ranks of the people men noted for their wisdom and their merit are chosen to assume stations of honor in the country’s service; to the people they are responsible for their conduct; and when their term of service is over, they surrender their powers into the hands of'the people and resume their duties as private citizens. By the theory of the Constitution all men are equal. It recognizes no distinction of color, race or title. The lord of wealth and the humble toiler stand side by side. Both receive the same protection, obey the same laws, enjoy the same rights of suffrage, and hold the same positions of honor. The interests of all citizens are uniform: no one can interfere with the rights of others without at the same time endangering his own.
The exercise of authority must be conducive to the public welfare, be.cause the public welfare and private weal go hand in hand and vanish at the same point. This identity of interest renders intercourse among all classes thorough and easy, diffuses knowledge and new ideas, elevates man far above the lowly plane of selfish greed and jealousy, and inspires him* with the patriotic resolution to defend the Union against every foe, to fight, to suffer and to die, for home and country.
The crowning glory of the Constitution is the spirit of fraternity which permeates the whole sphere of its operations. The blessings of liberty and equality and the influence of Christianity have combined to instil into the heart of American citizens a love for their fellowmen, which enables them to avoid all discord,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	647.
and pursue their end in peace and unison. The Church is recognized as the special institution of God, placed on earth to minister to the soul of man, to supply his spiritual wants and lead him to his eternal home. As external ruling bodies, the Church and State are distinct and independent; but in the interior principles of unity, from which each receives its vitality and force, they are united and obey the same divine law. Together they labor to promote the welfare of the entire man; together they strive for the advancement of civilization; together they are destined to move in concord and harmony as long as America holds a place among the nations.
The results of the American system are truly wonderful. Every year brings new development, and prosperity smiles on every side. The Government moves along without jar or friction, and the people rest secure in the enjoyment of their rights. The voice of labor and industry fills the air with pleasing music; the merry shout of the yeoman tells of the happiness of rural life; the earth yields up its hidden treasures and dons its brightest garments; the ports of the whole world open to receive the fruits of American activity; our ships return laden with the products of every clime; the weary exile of oppression finds a home in the land of Freedom; sweet charity distributes its blessings among the poor and needy; art and science reveal their truths and beauties to the student mind; and over all Religion spreads a mellow glow like the aurora of the northern skies.
Such is the spirit of our Constitution; such is the monument that Columbia has reared to civilization. Behold it, O lovers of Liberty! Contemplate its greatness! Whatsolidity! What harmony! What grandeur! It towers like a majestic mountain, overlooking scenes of beauty and prosperity. Its foundation rests on the immutable basis of unity; its sides reflect the sunlight of Liberty, Morality and Religion; its crest points up to Heaven where is that infinite perfection, that Divine Idea, which human wisdom is striving to realize, but of which all human perfection is but the faintest shadow. Its strength withstands all trials and dangers. The centuries sweep on and mark their path with ruins of nations, it weakens not; storms burst forth and rage with awful might, it trembles not; the heavy thunders roll and the lightnings flash, but all in vain! Founded on the principles’of eternal truth, and stamped with the seal of God’s favor, it will ever stand impregnable, the home of freedom, the triumph of civilization, the pride of the world.	.
The Catholic Church in America.
BY J. B. SULLIVAN.
America has experienced a century of material progress—a century of unparalleled development. Thirteen struggling colonies have become a mighty nation. We behold the evidences of a smiling fortune upon every hand. Our population has increased in a marvellous ratio; mighty cities grace the land; commerce is cosmopolitan; our people loyal and industrious, frugal and progressive. These observations naturally suggest the query: Has our moral progress kept pace with our material growth? Have we, in our struggle for the acquisition of things earthly, overlooked the moral and the spiritual wants of man? No, far from it! Even in this sordid age we have not entirely cut aloof from the ties of moral and religious culture; and though scores of creeds contend for the religious fealty of our people they have the same general trend —the bettering of humanity.
It is our purpose to present briefly the growth and influence of Catholicity in the United States. A fact that it might be well to emphasize here is that Catholics who yield their fealty to the Faith must be good citizens and sturdy patriots; for those who are faithful to the Church are loyal to the State.
It is hardly necessary to note that the discovery of America was the outgrowth of Catholic genius and enterprise; still less to enlarge upon the fact that Catholic France and Spain had planted thriving settlements ere the colonizing spirit had fired the venturous Saxon.
The history of English Catholic settlements is the history of the Pilgrim Fathers of Rhode Island, and, indeed, of every colony which sought the exercise of God-given rights, denied at home, upon the rugged shores of an alien land. England’s ruling passion, from the sixteenth century on, seems to have been the persecution of the old Church. Thus it was that in 1632, Lord Baltimore, an English Catholic nobleman, asked and received a grant of land from his royal master, James I. It was his Lordship’s aim.to found a refuge where Catholics, persecuted by wellnigh every court in Europe, might build their altars and worship the Almighty as their consciences dictated. But ere the plan had been • matured the embryo colony was bereft of the guiding spirit of Lord Calvert, and it devolved upon his son to conduct the enterprise to a happy issue.	.
In the progress of time two small, weather
64S
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
beaten, storm-tossed barks sailed up the quiet waters of the Potomac and cast anchor near the present village of St. Mary’s. With grateful hearts these pious people embarked, erected an altar, and amid a glad Te Deum, chanted the solemn services of the Church. Thus was Maryland founded. Lowly of beginning, she pushed steadily onward, and soon reached the fore rank among American colonies; nor was it strange!
. Her people came with high resolves and holy purposes, and success could not but crown their labors. Significant it is that the religious freedom, so dearly prized by the settlers of Maryland, was freely offered to the persecuted and oppressed. Bancroft says:
“ Emigrants arrived from every clime, and the colonial legislature extended sympathies to many nations as well as to many sects. From France came Huguenots; from Germany, from Holland, from Sweeden, from Finland, I believe from Piedmont, the children of misfortune sought protection under the tolerant sceptre of the Roman Catholic.”
Liberal to a fault, many sought the favor of her hospitality only to repay it with the blackest ingratitude. How different the Puritan, alike self-exiled in search of freedom! tolerance was lost in the gloom of religious frenzy.
. Catholic Maryland was the. pioneer in civil and religious liberty in the United States. How her generosity was repaid is a matter of history. Soon the sceptre passed to other hands, and Maryland’s founders, who had braved the perils of the deep to plant a home three thousand miles from despotism, saw their religion proscribed and their ministry hunted down.
Priests were few, and bishops none; but zealous missionaries pressed forward far in the van of civilization, exploring and Christianizing. Father Padilla was martyred for the Faith by the savage tribes of the South; Marquette planted the cross amid the Illinois, and the patient spirit of Father Jogues subdued the fierce Hurons of theNorth. Farinthe pathless forests, untrodden, save by the moccasine.d foot of the red-man, the Jesuits and the Franciscans reared their rude altars to the Faith. There, ’neath heaven’s vaulted dome, the song bird carolled the responsive echo to the priest’s sonorous chant, and the giant oaks and mighty pines bowed reverently above the humble worshippers below. Thus did the priesthood of the grand old apostolic Church fulfil the Divine command: “Go, ye, teach all • nations.”
The infant Church had been gradually extending her domain and enlarging her sphere of usefulness. At the close of the year 1775 there numbered, perhaps, forty priests and fifty thousand Catholics within the present limits of the United States.....	. .	..	.
The revolution did much to soften the asperities of Protestant prejudice; but this was more from motives of policy than feelings of charity. America was upon the eve of a mighty struggle. She was about to sever political relations with a tyrannous and exacting mother, and it was well to conciliate Catholics, foreign and domestic. Intolerance for the nonce was forgotten in presence of a giant danger. This marks the dawn of religious liberty in. the United States. And yet, withal, while the Constitution provides that Congress shall make no law. respecting the establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, many states long retained the penal laws upon their statute books, yes, nigh unto the present hour. .
. The valiant conduct of Catholics during the dark period of the revolution deserves the eternal gratitude of the American people. As Washington himself observed, none were more valorous or patriotic, none more devoted or courageous.- Among Catholics there was no shirking of duty or shrinking from danger. Catholic sailors maintained colonial honor upon high seas, and the blood of Catholic soldiery dyed many a battlefield. When bigots so boldly flaunt the charge that Jesuits are the mercenaries of despotic power they should not be unmindful that Father Carroll was the chosen envoy of Protestant America to secure the aid, or, at least, the neutrality of Catholic Canada during the darkest period of our national life. It is with pride and pleasure that-we- point to the names of Barry and Moylan and Carroll of Carrollton—names at once suggestive of manly bravery and exalted patriotism—names that will be honored and revered until a. love for virtue and patriotism is no more.- We must not forget the aid from abroad. America^ heart goes forth in love and gratitude to her foreign Catholic allies. Nor were Catholics less, loyal.when fratricidal war rent this fair land in. twain In the army, in the navy, in the halls of legislation, everywhere did Catholics prove their fealty. Meagher and Rosecrans, Sheridan.and Sherman are names dear to.every American heart.
But we digress. The growings needs..of the Church impressed themselves upon the Holy See, and in 1789, by virtue of . a papal bull,-Father Carroll was named Bishop of Baltimore/and nine years after elevated to the archiepiscopal dignity. The new prelate entered upon his labors with characteristic zeal. His .diocese was' a continent; but soon the crude, unwieldy mass began to assume form. Organization-was perfected, and religion received a fresh impetus by the arrival of foreign priests.. Schools and col
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
649
leges were founded; then it was that Georgetown College, great in our day, had its inception. Church edifices reared their stately spires in silent homage .to the Deity; the clergy were increased; episcopates were established, and there was a general progress of the faith throughout the land. .
Volumes would be required to give even a passing glance at the accomplishments of Catholicism during the century just gone. ’ Suffice it to say a single bishop has become a great hierarchy; a few isolated priests a dauntless army; rude chapels have grown into massive churches, splendid basilicas and towering cathedrals. We have a vigorous and a well-conducted press, and a . Catholic population of well-nigh ten millions. Georgetown and Fordham in the East, and Notre Dame, the pride of the Catholic West, compare favorably with any educational institutions in this broad land.
Fleeting time has brought its sorrows and its joys. Whenever we have been made the victims of passion and lawlessness, we have won the sympathies of generous and kindly hearts. When bigotry sought, to compass our ruin through political alliances, the noblest in the land, irrespective of creed, flocked to Catholic defense. Men of thought and reflection groping, doubting and disbelieving within the maze of Protestantism’s barren theology, sought her teachings and found peace and comfort within the pale of the one true fold. .	'
But if Catholics would realize the hopes of the present and the promises of the future they must stand together and be true to themselves. The education of our youth is a vital question. The necessities of the hour demand more than mere secular instruction, and more than this is beyond the scope of the public schools. We are not hostile to the public school system; but we insist upon our right to educate the young in schools of our own choice. We ask no privileges —nothing but the free exercise of those Godgiven rights which are the heritage of every American. It is the aim of the Catholic Church to rear a generation of citizens who will not only be loyal to the flag, but faithful to their God. We are in fullest sympathy with the spirit of American institutions, and love our country with a patriot’s love. The allegiance webearthegrayhaired Sovereign upon the Tiber conflicts not in the least with our fealty to the State. “We reconcile religion with government, piety with social life”; and those who pretend to dread the encroachments of Catholicism do but conjure up senseless fears and idle fantasies.
The spirit of rancor and bigotry is giving way
to more cordial and Christian sentiments. Catholic talent and energy, so long fettered by the prejudice of the past, is rapidly vindicating itself. If America’s spiritual children of the Roman Pontiff prove but steadfast to the faith of their fathers, the future holds for them no problems they cannot solve, no difficulties they cannot overcome, and no contests in which they need fear defeat.
The Future of our Republic.
H. P. BRELSFORD.
The future holds for the human mind a subtle and mysterious charm. There seems to be in the soul of man an instinctive and insatiable longing to know the secrets of to-morrow, arid this longing has been in every age a stimulus to thought and to action. In the olden time this sentiment found expression in the mystical rites of the astrologer, or the weird incantations of the seer; but now the light of Christian intelligence has dissipated the darkness of super- . stition, and divination lies buried in the grave of the pagan priesthood—though its ghost still stalks in the silly mummeries of the charlatan. There is, however, a kind of prophecy that may be ventured without quackery or presumption, and such is the rational speculation of the philosopher; for if we study the history of our past and the trend of our present we may predict “ our probable future with reasonable certitude. From this point of view, what is to be the future of our Republic?	.
Let us first consider our destiny. God creates no useless forms. He has planted the germs of every state and laid the foundations of every people with the distinct purpose that every state and every people should work out a destiny. The American Republic has a destiny, and is chosen of God for the realization of a great purpose.	,
Greece and Rome, weakened by luxury and debilitated by excesses, were no longer able to lead the van of civilization; modem Europe, the offspring of the two, betrayed the weakness of its ancestry,, and hence it remained for the sturdy young giant of the New World, to spring forward, vigorous with the vitality of a new life, and to snatch the torch of Christian progress from the Old World’s nerveless grasp. Religion and science and art must seek a new champion, and Providence offered them America. It was to be the mission of the new land to complete and to develop the splendid promises of the
650	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Graeco-Roman civilization; to rival Greece in science and philosophy, and in law and jurisprudence to surpass stately Rome herself. It was to be the mission of America to teach the lesson of liberty and to adjust the complicated relations of the individual and society.
With this conception of the destiny of America we are prepared to go farther and to consider the future of our Republic—that is, to speculate upon the probability of America realizing her God-given mission. But when we contemplate our future we are appalled at the vast prospect spread out before us.
In the brief time allotted to me this evening it is impossible to consider our probable progress along every line, and so I have chosen to speak only of our probable political future; and we can predict this, of course, only by studying the political tendencies of our State.
Let us begin by a swift glance at the nature of our Government. The inspiring principle of the American Republic is liberty; not liberty misconceived; not license; but liberty with law, and law with liberty. The aim of our Constitution is to secure at once the authority of the State and the freedom of the individual—the sovereignty of the people without social despotism, and individual freedom without anarchy. In short, our Constitution aims at the fullest liberty possible for men, consistent with the interests of mankind.
The most notable and radical tendency in the State has been toward a misconception of the democratic idea. As I have said, the very breath of our national life is liberty. We Americans talk about freedom and dream about freedom, and yet, with all our hatred of kingly despotism, we submit to an oppression equally galling, deceived by the sweet sound of a name.
We are drifting toward the despotism of democracy. As Brownson says, the tendency is to interpret our state as a democracy, pure and simple, and to shift the function of Government from the people inseparably united to the soil, to the people as mere population—to the shapeless mob. The true democracy of the Constitution is what Lord Disraeli happily calls the territorial democracy. To this territorial democracy stand opposed two other democracies —the one individual or personal, the other social or humanitarian, each hostile to civilization and subversive of the State. Under the personal democracy, so-called, there can be no social rights or civil authority. The individualist iterates the sophistry of, Rousseau—that government originates in compact. He believes that man may act in harmony with the interests of his
fellow-man, or solely for his own selfish ends as his pleasure dictates. His idea of an excessive individual independence found a lasting lodgingplace in the slave-holding states, and state sovereignty and secession and civil war were the legitimate offspring of such a doctrine. The tendency of the Southern section was to overlook the social basis of the state, and to make all rights personal or individual. The Southern people believed in the right of might. Liberty, they said, belongs only to those who can assert it and maintain it. That the negro never won his freedom, they claimed, proved he had not the right to be free. And upon such a tottering foundation as this was reared the damnable superstruction of human slavery; and by such flimsy sophistries as these was the institution of servitude defended for two centuries. The tendency of the advocates of personal democracy in the South was to deny the unity of the race, and to repudiate the obligation of society to protect the helpless and the weak. But from the adherents of an extreme individualism we have little now to fear. The ulcerous doctrine of a personal democracy has been extirpated by the sword. Individualism met defeat in the golden wheat fields at Gettysburg and surrendered its pretensions under the apple tree at Appomatox.
At the North there has been and is the very opposite tendency—a tendency unduly to exalt the social element and to disregard the rights of individuals. Back of this tendency are the followers of the social democracy, the ultra humanitarians. The civil war that was the death blow to a personal democracy gave tc social democracy a new lease of life, and it-exists to-day a vigorous and aggressive yet insidious foe, and a menace to the state’s well-being. The humanitarian is carried away by a vague generality, and loses men in humanity. He “scorns all geographical lines, effaces all individualities and professes to plant his belief upon humanity alone.” Social democracy is more dangerous than personal democracy ever could have been, because it has the appearance of being more Christian, rpore philosophical and more philanthropic. The humanitarian is a radical and an extremist.
This tendency was manifest in the ultra abolitionist. He could appreciate the logic of only one point of view. The abolitionist was right in his abhorrence of the awful iniquity of slavery; but he was rash in his reasoning and precipitate in his methods. Blind to the authority of geographical boundaries and territorial partitions, dazzled by the glamour of a high resolve, he saw “humanity superior to individuals and to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
states and to laws”; he would cram morality down men’s throats, and force men to be better; he would crush inequality by injustice, and do good by doing evil.
The humanitarian to-day, whether in trousers or petticoats, appeals for woman suffrage; and behind the breastwork of a gauzy sentimentality pours forth fusilades of platitudes in defense of woman who needs no defense. Woman suffrage, I think, is the fitful phantom of an idle brain, the Will-o’-the-wisp of an abnormal fancy. Suffrage, I think, is a function for which woman was never intended, for which she is unfitted, and which, as a sex, she has never claimed.
Under the banner of humanitarianism march socialists and communists and anarchists and all that mob of blatant demagogues that wages a cowardly warfare against organized society and established law.
In the domain of government proper there is a disposition toward the centralization of power. The late war has had a tendency to exaggerate the central power of the general government. But the danger is not so much that the general government will trench upon the rights of the states as that the executive will usurp the functions of Congress and the judiciary. Urged by the exigency of the moment during the civil war Congress invested the President with almost despotic authority, and much of this power still lingers in traditionary force.
There has been upon the part of Congress— the chosen representatives of the people—a growing disposition to throw too much of the business of government into the hands of the executive, the embodiment of the centralized power. The patronage of the President, even in peace time, is so large that he has indirectly an almost supreme control over the legislative branches of government. But time presses, and I have space only to suggest the evils of unrestricted and unnaturalized immigration, and a corrupt and ignorant suffrage. Nor do I refrain from mentioning what seems to me the greatest menace of them all; and that is the national sin of venality that is weakening our nation politically as well as in every other way. The mercenary spirit permeates all our institutions; society is impregnated with it, and it has worked its insidious way into the very strongholds of legislation and of government. Still the future is not dark.
The press and the platform and the pulpit have warned us of the vicious tendencies in our state, and, knowing our weakness, we can guard against it. The vitality and recuperative powers
651
of the American Republic are marvellous. The civil war with all its passion, all its devastation, all its trials, all its terrors, all its tears, only proved our fathers had builded better than we knew. We have passed through the Red Sea—the sea of blood,—and under the guidance of the pillar in the cloud we are nearing the the promised land. The patriotism and genius of our people have proved competent for greater crises than any that now impend. If Providence has permitted the evils I have mentioned, it is only to prove our faith, and to temper our pride and to make us worthy of our future. And what a future!
- A continent awaits our peaceful conquest. Columbus gave a new world not to Castile and Leon, but to us; we are the heroes of the ages. Our heritage is a hemisphere, our possibilities as boundless as ambition. Under the sway of a true democracy, bound by the golden chains of a people’s will, shall be lands as various as the minds of men. In the far North, where a midnight sun gilds the crests of the ice-bound peaks and sunbeams waste their warmth upon the plains of trackless snow, Americans shall yet ply the a'rts of peace. In the farther South, where the witching moonlight lingers on the Aztec’s tower and lends a glamour to the ruined fanes of Sera, Americans again shall rear the cross; North and south and east and west, Americans all; a nation one, mighty and indissoluble.
St. Aloysius, Scorner of Honors.
BY THOMAS HENNESSY.
He was of noble birth, a prince to be;
The fullest graces lived within his breast,
And virtues rare whose wondrous beauty dressed
His soul as flow’rets dress the verdant lea;
His mind, detached from earth, from passions free, Soared as the lark on high to regions blessed, To lovely Paradise, where it might rest
And sing God’s praises for eternity.
Angelic Youth, too pure wert thou to stay
On sin-dark earth; the good God knew thy heart And took thee to Himself this happy day.
Lest Satan pierce our souls with poisoned dart.
Lead us, dear Saint, the way which thou hast trod That we may one day see with thee our God.
Holy Cross Seminary, June 21.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWWEIIWSIE.
Ebtrg Saturtag Surins Strut Stmt at N. 73. Snibtrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame June 27, 1891.
—The Alumni Oration, the Class Poem, the Valedictory and the list of premiums, with a full report of. the Commencement exercises at St. Mary’s Academy will appear in our next number, to be issued on the 4th prox.
—The Editor of the Scholastic left Notre Dame on Wednesday, the 24th inst., en route for France, where he will rejoin Very Rev. Father General Sorin. While we wish him a pleasant voyage and an agreeable sojourn in Europe, we most sincerely regret his departure at the present time, especially as his weighty editorial mantle has fallen on one who would much prefer instructing editors as to the manner in which a paper should be conducted to the more prosaic labor of actually conducting it. If our readers find the present issue less entertaining than usual, they may console themselves with the thought that our reign will be brief, and that, in the meantime, the principal delinquent, our travelling chief, is probably sea-sick.
graduate a lecture. It may be a heavy, philosophical essay on the illusions of youth in general, and the college-bred youth in particular, —a dissertation wherein the graduate is informed that the world is not on tiptoe, eagerly awaiting his appearance in order to load him with its prizes; or it.may be a humoristic effort in which the time-honored truism that “an education without a degree is better than a degree without an education” is harnessed to the venerable platitudes about “flowery diction,” “flowing periods,” “rhetorical flourishes,” and “bombastic nonsense.” - In either case, the average editor seems to see in the average graduate a conceited nincompoop who is thoroughly convinced that his abilities are exceptional and must command instant recognition. As a matter of fact, the average graduate believes nothing of the kind. His reading has taught him at least that life’s prizes are awarded only to the patiently industrious; and if he is full of hope and courage and a determination to win a fair share of those prizes, he has at the outset some of the elements of success. Of course there are some graduates just as there a good many editors, who think “they know it all”; but it is a question whether the oration of the crudest Bachelor contains half as much nonsense as does the annual editorial rodomontade on the graduate.
The Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement
—The most beautiful and touching incident of the Commencement exercises on Tuesday last was the reading of a cablegram just received from the venerable Founder of Notre Dame. The message was delivered to Rev. President Walsh whilst seated with the Rt. Rev. Bishops Spaldingand Grimes upon the stage, and at once the proceedings were interrupted that the loving greeting might be enjoyed by all. The message, as read by Rev. President Walsh, was as follows: “Neuilly-sur Seine.
“President Notre Dame:
"Hearty welcome to the Honorable Governor, Reverend clergy, all beloved friends, dear students.
“Sorin.”
Cheer upon cheer and loud huzzas rent the air when the reading was ended, all testifying in the most expressive manner to the sincerity of the cries and prayers that spontaneously sprang up of “Long live the venerated Founder of Notre Dame!”
—The average editor is apt, about this season of the year, to feel it incumbent upon him, in the interests of the world at large, to read the college
The scholastic year of 1890-91 has gone out in a blaze of glory. Seldom, if ever, in the history of the University, have the various functions incident to Commencement been performed in a manner more gratifying to the Faculty or more thoroughly satisfactory to the students and their friends. The serious work, earnest application, and sustained diligence that have marked the last two sessions have thus been fittingly crowned, and ’90-91 goes down in the records as a year well spent.
at st. Edward’s hall.
The final examinations in the different courses were begun on Friday, the 19th inst., and were concluded at noon on Monday. While the in-.mates of Sorin, Brownson, and Carroll Halls were still undergoing the trying ordeal, the more fortunate dwellers in St. Edward’s were displaying to an appreciative audience their proficiency in vocal and instrumental music, elocution, and the histrionic art. Their special closing exercises began at 10 a. m., on Monday, and proved most interesting. The efforts of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
very young folk are always viewed with a favoring eye, and their shortcomings evoke the most lenient criticism; but the bright little fellows to whom had been confided the task of upholding the honor of the Minim department stood in no need of partial judgment. They knew their business, and did it confidently and well. At the conclusion of a choice programme, whose various numbers were uniformly excellent, the premiums and certificates were distributed. Hundreds of handsome books, with bright covers, and, we are happy to add, brighter contents, were handed to the young prize-winners, many of whom had the happiness of presenting these evidences of earnest study to their gratified parents present in the audience. The Rev. President Walsh brought the exercises to a close by a brief speech, in the course of which he congratulated the Minims on the general excellence of their record during the year, admitting that theirs had unquestionably been the banner department—a statement which was greeted with vigorous applause.
MONDAY AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
Although a considerable number of visitors arrived on Friday and Saturday the Monday trains brought the main body; and in the course of the afternoon the grounds were thronged with groups exchanging joyous salutations, handshaking, recalling reminiscences of old times, inquiring as to the present residence of former students, and enjoying all the delightful converse of those whose college days were spent together and whose friendship is strengthened with each successive reunion beneath the gilded dome of Notre Dame. Family groups there were, also, mothers and sisters recounting to sons and ’ brothers the never-ending and never-wearisome story of home news, and basking in the happiness that comes with the contemplation, after months of absence, of the loved faces of near and dear ones. Nature was in sympathy with the prevailing spirit of gladness and flooded the atmosphere with brightest sunshine.
The boat-races which were to have taken place at three o’clock were dispensed with, owing to the sickness of some of the crew; but for this feature of the day an equally enjoyable one was substituted—a match-game of base-ball between nines composed respectively of present students and “old boys.” It was a spirited contest, and resulted in an even score on even innings. Mutual courtesy or mutual fear induced the players to call it a draw.
At six o’clock, the University Cornet Band gave an open-air concert, as they had done each
evening for the week previous, and delighted the hundreds of promenaders with the choicest numbers of their capacious repertory. The judgment of one of the old students, that the present Band eclipsed all those of former years; was unchallenged save by a reverend Alumnus from the East who years ago, in the seventies, had officiated as leader, and who maintains that his boys surpassed the musicians of to-day. In any case, the proficiency of the present organization is highly creditable to the individual members and to their energetic leader, Father Mohun, as well.
At 7.30 p. m., visitors and students had all assembled in Washington Hall whose seating capacity of twelve hundred was taxed to the utmost. Among the Rt. Reverend and Reverend Clergy present were Bishops Spalding, of Peoria, and Grimes, of New Zealand; Rev. Fathers A. A. Lambing, Wilkinsburg, Pa.; Chancellor Muldoon, Chicago; Dean Oechtering, Mishawaka; T. O’Sullivan, M. Van de Laar, H. McShane, N. J. Mooney, M. J. Byrne, E. Dunn, E. M. Griffin, J. Gillon, Chicago; L. Evers, New York; J. Din-nen, Crawsfordsville; J. Bleckmann, Michigan City; J. Crawley, Laporte; L. Baroux, Grand Rapids; Jas. Mahar, Midland; T. F. O’Gara, Wilmington; A.Seubert,Menasha; D.J.Spillard, P. Johannes, A. Zubowitcz, and V. Czyzewski, South Bend.	•
The programme of the evening’s exercises, which was given last week in our local columns, was a pleasing combination of oratory and song, and was prefaced by Schlepegrell’s fine overture, “Criterion,” splendidly interpreted by the University Orchestra. The Choral Union won generous applause by their exceptionally well-rendered vocal selections and glees. “The Tar’s Song” elicited from the audience so emphatic an encore that the Union had to respond, although the probable length of the programme led them to disregard similar requests after their other numbers. The Quartette ably sustained the reputation they had acquired during the year—that of being very little, if at all, inferior to professional concert singers.
The orations of Messrs. Hummer, Sullivan and Brelsford of the Graduating Class will be found entire in this issue, and will well repay attentive perusal. He who reads them even hurriedly will perceive that they are no mere haphazard collections of undigested ideas, but manly, thoughtful discourses,'evincing both wide reading and full assimilation of the soundest doctrines on the themes discussed. Of the delivery of Messrs. Brelsford and Hummer—winners of the oratorical medal in ’89 and ’90—it is unnecessary to say
654
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
more than that they were at their best. Mr. Sullivan’s manner displayed distinct improvement on his previous efforts in public, and, had his discourse been delivered in the oratorical contest this year, we believe that the oratory medal would have been his. No more telling points were made during the evening than some which he emphasized with the thorough earnestness that is his peculiarity as a speaker; and few students’ orations of the year have been so generously “punctuated” by the applause of the audience as “The Catholic Church in America.”
Mr. Geo. Clarke, ’83, is now, what Mr. Sullivan gives bright promise of soon becoming—an exeptionally effective speaker. We shall publish his Alumni Oration in our next issue, and need only remark here that his matter was as suggestive as his manner was graceful. The strong points in his discourse were brought out with the fullest elocutionary effect and were invariably applauded by his delighted hearers.
Of the sparkling address of the Right Rev. Bishop Spalding, we regret to say, we have no adequate report; and it would be unjust to the distinguished prelate to quote at random from our recollections of his eloquent effort. In fact, even a verbatim report would serve only to give an erroneous impression of the intellectual treat enjoyed by his audience on the 22d. More than any other orator whom we can at present recall, Bishop Spalding throws himself into his public utterances; and to read his orations in cold type, after having heard them vivified by his striking personality, is merely to gaze on the smouldering cinders after having viewed the magnificent conflagration of which they are the residue. Let it suffice to say that he spoke words of practical wisdom; pleaded for earnest endeavor after all that goes to make human life purer, sweeter, fuller and more Godlike; graphically touched some of the weak points in American character; and withal held his hearers’ closest attention for three quarters of an hour. We should add that the failure of Gov. Hovey to keep his. appointment as the orator of the evening left Bishop Spalding no time for preparation; and although the audience probably benefited by the substitution of speakers, the kindness of the Right Reverend prelate is highly appreciated by all at Notre Dame.
TUESDAY MORNING.
The closing exercises opened at 8.30 a. m. with “Home, Sweet Home!” by the University Quartette; and it is unnecessary to state that they entered fully into the spirit of that sweetest of songs. Mr. J. E. Berry’s Class Poem was
perhaps the most polished production that the promising young poet has yet given us; and it was read with all the effective graces of the trained elocutionist. - The poem, as well as Mr. C. T. Cavanagh’s Valedictory, will appear next week. This latter address was earnest and manly in tone, virile in style, and feelingly delivered. Mr. Cavanagh is a young man of an eminently practical turn of thought, and looks on the world which he and his classmates are ♦ about to enter with the eyes of one who profits by the experience of others. He paid a graceful tribute to his Alma Mater, and faltered as he uttered his last farewell to the home and companions of his youth.
The Valedictory being concluded, the Faculty took their seats upon the stage and the Rev. A. Morrissey,C.S.C.,Director of Studies, announced the awarding of Honors and
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on the Rev. Patrick Cronin, Buffalo, N. Y.; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.	*
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on the Rev. Arthur Barry O’Neill, Notre Dame, Ind.; Francis A. Quinn, Tolono, Ill.
The Degree of Master of Arts in honorem was conferred on the Rev. John Conway, St. Paul, Minn.; George E. Clarke, South Bend, Indiana; Francis H. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Homer P.Brelsford, Onarga, Illinois; Charles T. Cavanagh, Chicago, Ill.; Clement S. Burger, Lancaster, Pa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on Charles Paquette, Detroit, Mich.; J. Sylvester Hummer, Delphos, O.; Joseph St. Elmo Berry, Montrose, Col.; John B. Sullivan, Afton, Iowa.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Edward M. Hoover, Newry, Pa.; Charles Paquette, Detroit, Mich.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on Louis J. Herman, Evansville, Ind.; Wilbur P. Blackman, Winona, Minn.; Hugh O’Neill, Cresco, Iowa; John C. McWilliams, New Haven Conn.; Francis J. Vurpillat, Winamac, Ind.; Thomas J. McConlogue, Mason City, Iowa; Maurice J. Cassidy, South Bend, Ind.; Robin E. Dunbar, South Bend, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Music was conferred on Bryan H. Tivnen, Mattoon, Ill.; Clement S. Burger, Lancaster, Pa.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Frank Roper, Alamosa, Col.; Joseph Rebillot, Louisville, Ohio; William Ellwanger, Dubuque, Iowa; Joseph Delany, Newburg, N. Y.; Robert E. Frizzelle, Fort Smith, Arkansas; John T. Greene, Wapella, Ill.; Thomas B. Green, Kansas City, Mo.; JohnB. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.; Edward McCartney,South Bend,Ind.; John B. Newman,

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	655
Elgin, Ill.; Guy G. McAlister, Columbus, Ohio; Frederick A. Krembs, Stevens Point, Wisconsin; Otis Spencer, Denver, Colorado; Henry Treff, South Evanston, Illinois; Gustav Hahn, Jackson, Michigan.
CERTIFICATES OF TELEGRAPHY.
John T. Greene, Wapella, Ill.; John E. Tracy, Freeport, Ill.; Joseph G. Norton, West Superior, Wisconsin.
CLASS MEDALS AND PRIZES.* '
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to Charles T. Cavanagh, Chicago, Ill., closely contested by Clement S. Burger, Lancaster, Pa.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was awarded to Thomas Crumley, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to T. Hennessy, Notre Dame, Ind.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to Pierce A. Murphy, Vancouver Barracks, Washington.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was awarded to Edward J. Maurus, Seneca, Ill.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Medal in the Commercial Course was awarded to Robert Emmett Frizzelle,Fort Smith, Arkansas.
SPECIAL MEDALS.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by Mr. William P. Breen, Class of ’77, Ft. Wayne, Ind., was awarded to James J. Fitzgibbons, Newark, Ohio.
The Meehan Medal, for English Essays, was awarded to Joseph St. Elmo Berry, Montrose, Colorado.
The Mason Medal, for the student in Carroll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year, was awarded to Edward J. Ball, Plymouth, Ind.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall was awarded to Louis M. Sanford, New Castle, Ky.
The Elocution Medal in the Junior department was awarded to Ernest F. Du Brul, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Medal for Practical Mechanics was awarded to J. D. Carrey, St. Louis, Mo.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Alvin A. Ahlrichs, Cullman, Ala.
Medals in Christian Doctrine in the Senior department were awarded to Robert Emmett Frizzelle, Fort Smith, Ark.; E. Ahlrichs, Cullman, Alabama; M. J. Kelly, Minneapolis, Min.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in the
* The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal in the Senior Class of the Scientific Course, the medal in the Junior Class of the Classical Course, and the medal in the Freshman Class of the Scientific Course were not awarded.
Junior department was awarded to Michael A-Quinlan, Rockford, Illinois.
st. Edward’s hall.	.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Thomas J. Finnerty, Denver, Colo. Silver Medal awarded to John B. Marre, Little Rock, Arkansas.
The Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to Perley R. Stephens, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to Charles D. McPhee, Denver, Colo.
The Gold Medal for Letter Writing was awarded to Wesley Hamilton, Hyde Park, Ill.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[The “First Honor” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
BROWNSON HALL.	.
Thomas J. McConlogue, Joseph F. Rebillot, Joseph K. Combe, James A. Johnson, John Kearns, Raymond C. Langan, James A. McKee.
RENEWALS.
Edward J. Maurus, James J. McAuliff, Thos. H. Coady.
CARROLL HALL.
Thomas M. Brady, John T. Greene, Joseph C. Hagus, Harry A. Connolly.
RENEWALS.
W. E. Bates, M. Quinlan.
st. Edward’s hall.
Edmund F. Furthmann, Garfield J. Scherrer, Frederick J. Brown, Albert E. Loomis, Henry Mestling, Edward Mestling, Charles A. Furthmann, William W. Scherrer, Charles Kern, Geo. Zoehrlaut.
RENEWALS. -
Thomas D. Burns, Arthur Crawford, Lee J. Stone, James O’Neill, Francis Cornell, William Crawford, Carl Krollman, Jacob Maternes, Pablo Trujillo.
SECOND HONORS.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
BROWNSON HALL.
D. Philips, W. E. Stanton, H. Aarons.
CARROLL HALL.
John Dempsey.
st. Edward’s hall.
Arthur J. Lonergan, George Funke, William Crawford, Otto Brown, Wm. F. Girardin, Eugene M. Jonquet, Francis Croke, Wendall Hoffman, Clive Nichols, Wm. Fuller, Wm. Finnerty, Isaac Dow .Wilcox, Morris Levi.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least two. sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
BROWNSON HALL.
Emil Ahlrichs, Ben. Blameuser, Wm. A. Cor.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rell, Charles B. Dechant, Wm. A. Hauske, A. Karasynski, John M. Manly, Isaac N. Mitchell, John D. O’Shea, John B. Newman,Frank Powers, John F. Sullivan, John S. Weakland, Sam M. Scholfield.	-	'
CARROLL HALL.
Henry Treff, Jos. A. Brown, Chas. Falk, Ed; Ball, Chas. Teeter, James Tong, Eugene Smith, Frank Carney, Wm. Kennedy, C. J. Pope, C. A. Jackson, Walter Mattox, Geo. R. Gilbert, Philip Foley, William Ellwanger, Daniel Casey.
st. Edward’s hall.
Egbert C. Coon, Fred. W. Wolf, John M. Pel-lenz, George Lowry, Thomas P. Lowry, Fred. P. Ransome, Edward M. O’Connor, J. Cullen Russell, Theo. Lester Fossick, Louis R. Trankle, John H. Freeman, Eugene O. King, Walter H. Blumenthal, Frederick Higginson, Jacob Pieser, Walter Rose,- Frederick M. Griesheimer, Benjamin M. White, Martin A. Howell, Edgar Chapoton, Arthur Windmuller, Edward Langevin, Scott J. Donnell, Leslie R. Donnell, Edward H. Christ, Manuel S. Otero, Francis S. Cross, Robert F. McIntyre, Aaron S. Everest.
Personal. •
—Dr. Egan went East on Wednesday; he will return next week.	-
—The Rev. A. A. Lambing; of Wilkinsburg, Pa., gratified his host of friends at Notre Dame by remaining with us until the 26th.
—The Rev. F. Egan, O. P., attended the Commencement exercises and spent a few days as the guest of Very Rev. Father Corby. .
—Rev. P. O’Connell, C. S. C., is to leave shortly for his home in the Green, Isle which he has not visited for a number of years. Bonvoyage !
—Among the visitors during the past week we were pleased to note the venerable mother and the sister of Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., South Bend.
—Prof. A. F. Zahm, purposes going East to spend the summer at the seashore. The saline breezes of the Atlantic will, we hope, restore to him his old-time vigor.
—The Rev. Father Kirsch, Professor of Nat-. ural Sciences, is booked for a series of six lectures on Cytology at Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, under the auspices of the Brooklyn Institute for Arts and Science.
—Among the honored guests of the University at present is the well-known Passionist, Father Fidelis (James Kent Stone). The Community-is fortunate in having secured his services as preacher of the annual retreat. "	-	_
—Miss Nellie Kearns, of Chicago, who has spent the week at her old home, St. Mary’s,. must have been gratified during our Commencement exercises at the evidence given of the excellent standing in the University of her brother John.
—Mr. J. J. Byrne, of Toledo, the courteous gentleman and efficient operator, sent by Superintendent Wright', of the Western Union Telegraph Co., rendered valuable service by his correct and rapid dispatch of telegrams and reports during the Commencement.	’ .
—The University of .Ottawa has honored itself and shown commendable appreciation of Catholic genius by conferring on our esteemed Professor of English Literature the degree of LL. D. Dr. Egan can well sustain such honors, and the future holds in store for him manysimilar ones.
* —Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., is, we regret to say, very ill. He has been suffering for some days past from inflammatory rheumatism. The absence from the exercises on the 22d and 23d of the pleasant countenance of Notre Dame’s greatest Grecian was a subject of comment among all the alumni. We hope to announce his recovery next week.	.
—The honored Dean of the Law Department, Colonel Hoynes, should, experience singular gratification at the eminently successful results achieved in his school during .the session just terminated. Many of those who have this year enjoyed the. benefit of the Colonel’s deep erudition will, we feel assured, speedily attain a measure of success that will reflect notable credit on their efficient instructor.
—One of the old, familiar faces that proved a welcome sight at Commencement, was that of • M.r. John Lambin, of Chicago. The ruthless years are multiplying apace since “Jack” was a hero of the campus, and time has brought its burden of “too, too solid flesh”; but the twinkling eye and the merry peal of laughter remain unchanged and attest a youthfulness of heart that defies the onslaught of -the years.
—We regret to announce the contemplated departure for Europe of our eminent artist, Signor Luigi Gregori, and his accomplished daughter, Miss Fanny. Italia’s sunny skies may smile more graciously upon them than does our variable Indiana clime,, but not even southern hearts can shower upon our friends more genuine. affection than that which they have inspired’in all who have known them at Notre Dame.
—Especially popular in his student days must have been Mr. Wm. P. Breen, ’77, of Fort Wayne. There was no mistaking the ring of ; = genuine affection in the voices of the scores of . old students and professors who joyfully greeted his arrival on Monday last. Mr. B,reen’s personality is a winning one, and it is safe to say that even when he has won the highest distinction to which legal gentlemen aspire, and has become known to the world as Judge Breen, he will still be accosted at Notre Dame with the affectionate greeting: “Well, Billy, old fellow, how are you?”
—Among the old students and friends of the University who attended the Commencement
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	657
exercises we noticed J. B. Meagher, ’89; J. V. O’Donnel, ’89; J. M. Kelly, ’90;. M. E. Norton,-’88; J. K. Nash, ’72; F. Fehr, ’90; W. P. McPhee, ’90; A; Meehan,’90; R. Brownson,’90; H. Brownson, ’90; J. R. Lambin, ’77; W. P. Breen, ’77; C. Muller, ’83; F. Nester, ’89; J. Nester, ’86; J. Courtney, E. Crandall, ’89; S. F. Sugg, ’80; T. McGill, ’85; W. Rogers, G. Cooke, ’90; J. Cooke, 9°; J- J- Fitzgibbons, M. Welsh, ’69; Dr. H. Luhn, ’88; A: Riley, ’62; P. Paschel, ’87; C. Paschel, ’86; F. H. Dexter, ’85; W. Sullivan, ’85; J. Rose, J. Gibbons, ’65; Dr. H. Snee, South Bend; J. Mooney, ’89;' Mrs. Gifford, Louisville, Ky.; Mrs. Green, Chicago; Mrs. J. Greene, Ill.; Mr. P. Minor, Aurora, Mo.; Mrs. Pomeroy, Denver; Mrsi Scheiffel,Iowa; Mrs. Wolff, Chicago; Mrs. T. J. Fahnigan, St. Paul; Mrs. W. B. Booth, Mo.; Mrs. John F. Johnson, Logansport; Mr. Walsh, Fort Wayne; Mr. and Mrs. Brelsford, Onarga, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Cudahy, Misses, S. Parker, J. Cannon, T. Cannon, Tessia Cannon, M. Lynch, Chicago; C. Ward, Niles, Mich.; Mrs. M. D. Case, Mr. J. Byrne, Toleda, Ohio; Mn.andMrs. Kruchten, Brownsville, Ill.; Mr. J. Connolly, Mr. F. Boyer, Mr. and Mrs. Cavanagh, Mr^.and Mrs. Furthmann, Mrs. Schaack, Chicago; Mr. M. Finnerty, Mrs. .McPhee, Miss M. McPhee, Denver, Colo.; Mrs. J. O’Kane, Miss S. Murray, Cincinnati; Mr. Marshial, Ind.;,Mr. B. Muhler, ' Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mr. Rebillot, Ohio; Messrs.
J. Stanton, J; Koehl, Mestling, Steele, Young, ' Vurpillat, Donnell, Boland, Boyd, Collins, Cum-miskey, E. Adelsperger, S. Murdoch, Jacobs, Roger; Mr. and Mrs. Fossick, Miss Balch, Mrs. P. Boynlon,White, Sullivan, Freeman, Crawford, Arons, Everest; Mr: and Mrs. McConlogue,Iowa; . - E. Malady; Mrs.= F. Gavan, Miss Ki Gavan, . -Lafayette; Ind. .	.	. ■ .
„	. .Local Items.
. .—Ati.rcvoir!	' -
- —Broidllard! ■	'
■ •- —Home,sweet'home'!'- '	..
- —I say, Jim, where is DaHev'AX&i' .
’ —^-Thanks!.' No.' 17 is just .the thing.
’ —The Band concerts.were away up. . -	-
—Eleven weeks’ vacation—fine, isn’t it? • .—Some of . the professors now-go’fishing?
, : .—The Catalogues will be ready in a few days. - ' —By th’e way, Pete, how do you like your - new place? '-	•	■	-•	'
—You’re a good fellow, John, but you don’t—
.well, never mind.-
—The castings for the machinery of the . observatory have arrived.
’ . —“ Bessie ” is to be photographed, and Bennie
. bespeaks one of the cards. .	.
—The whip-poor-will and the bob-white are . te.rip.rits. of the college campus. .	.
• ; —No; F. J.,it-.was not proposed to give you
. a special-medal for second geometry.-
—The pictures of thr champion base-ball • - nine taken-by Father Kir>ch are very fine.
—We heartily applaud the action of the Faculty in honoring Doctors Cronin and Roche. '
—The cool weather during the Commencement week contributed greatly towards the pleasure of all.
— Great excitement prevailed during the progress of the last contest between Sorin and Brownson Halls.	■	.	•
—Messrs. Brady arid Du Brul are making things interesting in the abode of the Senior and Junior class men.
—We have almost enough for an orchestra yet. Guitar, piano and mouth orgari wake the resounding echoes.
—The young man from Arkansas did nobly, judging from the recognition he received on Commencement day.
—After returning from a fishing excusion: “What did you get?” “Only a whale or two, nothing to speak of.” ‘
—Our bearded -nimrod is reported to have said that when he sleeps he likes to pay attention to it2—and he does.	.
—We respectfully.submit that a linen duster ‘ and a pair of slippers form too abbreviated a costume even for night-walkers. -	*	.
—The remaining Minims and Juniors greatly enjoy bathing twice aday, although they, suffer considerably from sun-burnt backs.
—The “Beefer” still waves. Gradually, however, he is betraying human weaknesses which may possibly render him tolerable. .
—We hear that one of the Prefects of Sorin Hall is to distribute- a few hundred cigars prior to his departure.. He has a varied assortment.
—Sandford,-Du Brul and Fitz were exuberant in . their gratitude to Father French, and evidently did not regret their trips to the Seminay.
- —If the students are any more gratifiedby the
. arrival of vacation than are some Professors of our acquaintance; their bliss is simply ineffable.
• —That-street sprinkler did good work during the week; but let us' hope that it will pa'ss-two or three times a day, whilst the roads, are so dusty. '	'	- ■	• ” ■	• ■	-
—We learn that Father Kirsch has one hundred and forty-eight microscopes. He has apparently. “ seen ” the tuning-forks, and1 “-gone ohe':better.” .
—The Minims’ picnic oh the 20th inst.-was a grand success. Many members of the' Faculty visited them during the day and were handsomely cared for. ... -	-
—The Biological Laboratory at Cold Spring Harbor'will count as one of its students this summer E. Du Brul, who will accompany Rev. Father A. Kirsch.	.
—Mr: E. P. Murphy contemplates a hurried trip-to Cape May. His failing health demands such a change of climate, and we shall be glad to hear of-his recovery.	.
658	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—Notice.—All you fellows whom we missed in the hurry of Tuesday, please consider your hands well shaken, and accept our best wishes for a pleasant vacation.
—The local A. M. thoroughly appreciated the kindly plaudits that greeted the announcement of his Degree, and says that such a greeting was worth more than the sheepskin itself.
—The favorite song of the Sorin Hall men— “The Nightingale sighed, etc”—may be heard echoing through the rooms of the first flat. For copies of this choice melody applications should be made at once to Ernest.
—The Valedictory by Mr. Charles Cavanagh was one of the best—they are always doleful things, these leave-takings,—we have heard for many years. It was a bright class, that of ’91, and it leaves a good record. The Scholastic sends its best wishes after them.
—The Ave Maria of the 20th inst. contains a fine map of Notre Dame and an interesting accompanying sketch—“The Home of the Ave Maria.” How vexed the Editor of the Dublin Irish Catholic will be to see something in Our Lady’s Magazine that he cannot steal!
—Vox popidi was not vox judicum in some of the recent contests, judging from the surprised glances interchanged when the decisions were read. We side with the judges, and we were strongly tempted on Tuesday to accost our friends with the proverbial “ I told you so.”
—The boys of Sorin Hall celebrated their victory over the Brownsons by an impromptu concert last Sunday evening. The grand “vol-untario” on the “Ocarino” by Tivnen, the selection from Semiramide on the flute by Bennie, and the “ Pot-pourri ” by Du Brul were the attractive features.
—The Rev. J. J. French’s sermon on Sunday last was one of the most effective of the many excellent instructions which he has delivered duringthe year. We understand that he is shortly to give his series of conferences on Matrimony to Father Spillard’sjcongregation in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend.	*
—We hope the information given in the following stanza is as false as the concluding rhyme. It was inscribed on a postal card, dated “ Denver special, June 23d,” and was unsigned:
“ From the window Porter looked to see
The landscape rushing by;
It came along, he picked it up, He caught it with his eye.
Wrathfully jerking in his head, To dig for the stinging cinder— We dare not print the words he said When his hat flew out the winder! ”
—Hon. William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, Ind., has placed in the hands of Professor Hoynes a check for $55, the amount collected by him for the Lyons’ monument. Following are the names of the subscribers and the sums respectively paid by them: William P. Breen, $20; Charles Murdock, $10; Samuel Murdock, $10; Clement Hess, $10; M. V. Walsh, $5.
—At the annual review of the University Light Guards and Sorin Cadets, Col. William Hoynes commanding, C. T. Cavanaugh acting Adjutant, the following awards were made:
Pennant awarded Company “A” in competitive drill with Company “B.”
U. S. Flag awarded Sorin Cadets in competitive drill with Company “C,” H. L. G.
Gold Medal presented by Kempner & Schaeffer to best-drilled private in Company “A” was won by George Lancaster, Lexington, Ky.
Gold Medal presented by Moses Livingston & Sons for best-drilled private in Company “ B ” was won by Elmer Scherrer, Denver, Colo.
Silver Medal presented by Adler Bros, for best-drilled private in Company “C” was won by P. Wellington, St. Paul, Minn.
Silver Medals for best-drilled privates in Sorin Cadets were won by Masters Geo. Funke, Denver, Colo., and James O’Neill, New London, Connecticut.
—The Tercentenary of St. Aloysius was celebrated with much at Holy Cross Seminary. Solemn High Mass was sung at six o’clock by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, Fathers French and Boland being deacon and subdeacon respectively. The choir was up to its usual standard, as was evinced by their exquisite rendering of Batman’s Mass in F. At ten a. m. took place the closing exercises of the Seminary Literary Association. The programme was complimentary to Father Corby, and was very cordially appreciated by him as he took occasion to state in his commendatory and encouraging remarks on the singing and speaking of the young participants. The exercises were opened by the Quartette, who sang “Evening.” R. Marciniack then delivered “The Divine Revealment,” a piece in which the abilities of the young speaker were greatly handicapped. Mr. P. Quinn won for himself additional fame in the field of elocution by a moving description of “The Unknown Rider.” This was followed by a very amusing part song entitled “Jack and Jill.” Mr. J. O’Rourke then gave “The Last Banquet” in a vivid and intelligent manner. He was followed by this year’s winner of the Seminary prize for elocution, Mr. M. Donahoe. Thisyounggentleman selected for execution “ The Cumberland,” and his beautiful rendition of the stirring lyric elicited very hearty applause from the audience. The celebration so auspiciously begun was fittingly crowned in the evening by an illumination in the Seminary grounds. Nor was this all. The enchantment of the scene was heightened when the stillness of the evening hour was broken by songs and canticles in honor of the seminarians’ great patron. The concert programme was under the direction of Rev. J. Reuter, to whom all present offered cordial congratulations. 1890-91 has been one of the most satisfactory years in the history of the Seminary; and the efficient Rector, Rev. J. J.F rench has every reason to be gratified with the progress and deportment of his youthful aspirants to the priesthood.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	659
Examination Averages.
{No Average under 60 is published^ SORIN HALL.
A. Ahlrichs, 85; J. Brady, 91; B. Bachrach, 79; D.Cartier, 70; F. Chute, 79; A. Daniels, 64; E. DuBrul, 80; J. Fitzgibbon, 88; C. Gillon, 65; W. Hackett, 71; L. Lonergan, 85; P. Murphy, 95; J. McGrath, 70; F. Neef, 93; W. O’Brien, 88; O. Rothert, 83; E. Schaack,7i; O.SuIlivan.gi; C. Scherrer, 71; E. Scherrer, 75; R. Sinnott, 79; N. Sinnott, 87.
BROWNSON HALL.
H. Aarons, 78; E. Ahlrichs, 88; E. Blameuser, 92; W. Bell, 75; (L Brookfield, 70; E. Brown, 91; W. Correll, 81; J. Combe, 81; H. Carroll, 82; T. Coady, 61; E. Corrigan, 73; J. Crawley, 73; J. Cahill, 89; P. Crawley, 67; J. Chil-cote, 77; D. Conroy, 76; C. Dechant, 96; A. Dacy, 82; J. Doherty, 78; L. Davis, 78; J. Devanny, 73; W. Dunlap, 85; R.Frizelle.go; E. Field,66; T. Flannigan, 80; J. Flan-nigan, 88; P. Fleming, 81; E. Franks, 80; L. Gillon, 72; H. Grothaus, 81; R. Hawthorne, 77; W. Hennessy, 60; C. Heard, 92; W. Hauskee, 83; P. Houlihan, 97; L. Hubbard, 73; J. Johnson, 81; M. Joslyn, 96; P. Jacobs, 68; J. Kearns, 86; J. King, 90; A. Karasynski, 78; F. Keenan, 72; F. Krembs, 80; M. Kelly, 66; E. Kelly, 60; M. Kennedy, 64; K. Layton, 83; P. Lorie, 73; R. Langan, 79; A. Lancaster, 71; G. Lancaster, 90; M. McGrath, 63; J. McCabe, 86; J. Mug, 86; J. Manly, 87; I. Mitchell, 81; L. Monarch, 77; E. Maurus, 94; A. Magnus, 68; J. McAuliff, 85; H. Murphy, 88; G. McDonnell, 72; F. McKee, 79; J. McKee, 87; J. McGonigle, 70; E. McErlain, 84; F. Murphy, 82; J. McCallan, 79; F. Moshier, 64; J. Newman, 84; J. Norton, 91; J. O’Shea, 72; G. O’Brien,*89; S. O’Brien, 86; B. O’Kane, 83; F. Powers, 80; D. Phillips, go; C. Priestly, 80; L. Richardson, 64; J. Rebillot, 84; C. Rudd, 71; W. Roberts, 74; P. Ragan, 84; W. Stanton, 83; J. Sullivan, 86; S. Scholfield, 65; J. Smith, 78; L. Sanford, 89; R. Spalding, 81; E. Soran, 64; C. Singler, 83; J. Tracy, 94; V. Vurpillat, 82; E. Vidal, 74; S. Vital, 60; B. White, 71 ;H. Wood, 81; J. Weakland, 86; R. Whitehead, 67; W. Venn, 93; C. Zeitler, 94.
CARROLL HALL.
G. Anson, 65; J. Ayer, 81; O. Bergland, 74; T. Boland, 71; E. Ball, 92; E. Bates, 82; T. Brady, 62; W. Bachrach, 63; R. Browning, 75; R. Boyd, 79; J. Browne, 72; M. Blumenthal, 67; D. Casey, 82; E. Chassaing, 65; C. Cole, 72; F. Carney, 79; H. Coe, 70; W. Collman, 61; H. Connelly, 76; R. Connell, 68; E. Connors, 77; J. Coll, 60; F. Cummings, 69; C.Corry,69; G.Clark,85; E.Drumm,69; E.Dorsey,67; D. Davidson, 60; J. Delaney, 83; W. Dierkes, 89; P. Dolan, 64; H. Eagan, 70; P. Foley, 68; J. Farrell, 83; C. Falk, 69; Alfred Funke, 67; Arthur Funke, 63; C. Fleming, 80; P. Gibert, 60; G. Gilbert, 65; H. Gilbert, 72; M. Gibson, 65; J. Girsch, 65; W. Gerlach, 84; B. Gifford, 81; J. Greene, 77; O. Grund, 73; H. Des Garennes, 72; J. Hagus, 88; G. Hahn, 84; J. Hack, 67; P. Hake, 63; L. Hoerr, 61; M. Hannin, 75; L. Jackson, 76; E. Jewett, 64; F. Keogh, 72; J. Kearney, 79; C. Kaumeyer,63; L. Langevin, 72; A. Leonard, 78; M. Luther, 69; J. La Moure, 85; H. Mitchell, 83; E. Mitchell, 80; M. Molitor, 60; H. Martin, 86; W. Marr, 66; J. Miller, 71; J. Murphy, 84; J. Minor, 66; E. McCartney, 82; W. McDonnell, 82; A. McPhillips, 60; J. McPhillips, 68; W. Nichols, 71; A. Neef,69; T. O’Rourke, 83; R. Payne, 62; R. Palmer, 78; C. Pope, 84; M. Quinlan, 74; A. Ren-esch, 64; F. Roper,J 81; F. Roberts, 64; A. Regan, 74; J. Rend, 63; E. Shimp, 72; R. Slevin, 71; J. Scallen, 73; E. Smith, 81; V. Sullivan, 92; C.Scheiffele, 72; A. Suess, 63; L. Schillo, 66; H. Treff, 69; J. Tong, 78; C. Teeter, 70; D. Thornton, 70; L. Thome, 72; E. Tod, 67; P. Wellington, 64; E. Wolff, 91; A. Welch, 79; H. Yingst, 7c; C. Zoehr-laut, 68; G. Weinman, 83.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
W. Allen, 91; J. Ayres, 90; F. Brown, 95; O. Brown, 96; G. Bixby, 100; W. Blumenthal, 96; T. Burns, 90; S. Blake, 8$; W. Crawford, 95; A. Crawford, 97; F. Cornell, 97; B. Coon, 92; J. Curry, 80; W. Crandall, 82; E. Chapaton, 86; F. Croke, 92; F. Cross, 85; E. Crepeau, 80; O. Crepeau, 76; E. Christ, 90; J. Corry, 92; A. Coquillard, 89; J. Co-quillard, 88; C. Drant, 89; S. Donnell, 95; L. Donnell, 90; H. Durand, 94; E. Ezekiel, 98; A. Everest, 90; E. Furth-
man, 89; C. Furthman, 99; W. Fuller, 89; A. Fisher. 80; L. Fossick, 80; G. Funke, 83; T. Finnerty, 98; W. Finnerty, 89; J. Freeman, 95; B. Freeman, 92; E. Francis, 75; W. Girardin, 82; C. Girsch, 89; F. Griesheimer, 88; W. Gavin, 90; J. Healy, 75; W. Hoffman, 92; H. Hathaway, 92;'W. Hamilton, 95; F. Higginson, 90; M. Howell, 88; E. Jonquet, 79; H. Jones, 80; E. King, go; C. Krolhnan, go; G. Kinney, 76; E. Kuehl, 78; C. Kern, 7g; S. Keeler, 75; L. Loughran, 7o^H. Londoner, go; B. Loomis, 88; A. Lonergan, 8g; M. Levi, 85; J. Lonnsbery, 87; G. Lowrey, 88; T. Lowrey, go; E. Langevin, 76; G. Lee, g2; C. Langley, 8g; E. La Moure, 95; W. La Moure, g6; C. McPhee, 97; J. Matemes, 8g; R. McIntyre, 88; F. McPhillips, 80; E. Mestling, g2; H. Mestling, 8g; J. Marre, g8; K. MacLeod, go; J. McGinley, go; R. McCarthy, 84; C. Nichols, go; J. O’Neill, 100; M. Otero, 8g; E. O’Connor, 95; J. Pellenz, 100; W. Patier, 85; F. Platts, 97; A. Ronning, 98; F. Ransome, 90; F. Roesing, 95; W. Rose, 92; C. Russell, 88; P, Stephens, 97; G. Scherrer, 95; W. Scherrer, 98; L. Stone, go; F. Steele, 86; H. Thomas, 76; P. Trujillo, 94; L. Trankle, 99; H. Vorhang, 84; T. Wolf, 94; D. Wilcox, 94; B. White, 88; V. Washbourne, 94; A. Windmuller, 92; F. Warburton, 95; L. Young, 94; G. Zoehrlaut, 90.
[Erom the “ South Bend Tribune.”] Forty-Seventh Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame, with its imposing golden dome reflecting the sunlight with a brightness visible for many miles; its magnificent church, the admiration of all lovers of the beautiful; its numerous imposing buildings; its beautiful campus, luxuriant with the decorations of nature; its fine halls of sculpture and painting—Notre Dame, which in years past has been the scene of many triumphs both of Faculty and students and the admiration of hundreds and thousands of friends, is again the seat of fresh conquests and the centre of attraction for many visitors. -
Admirers of the great institution of learning are there from far and near. From the north and from the south, from the east and from the west, they have come to look upon the University and, as they look, be filled with wonder that such a magnificent and potent University could be founded and reared to such lofty heights in a half century. Little do they think, as they gaze, perhaps for the first time, of that cold November evening in the year 1842 when a young priest stood near a lowly log hut on the banks of the little St. Mary’s Lake, just west of the Church of the Sacred Heart, and viewed for the first time the field of his future labors, the place where in half a century a bright golden dome would be towering heavenward and looking down upon a score of handsome structures, the whole forming the glorious University of Notre Dame.
Doubtless few of these many visitors, if any at all, ever think of this; but those who have visited the place in previous years miss the face which saw the snow-covered ground on that November evening—it is the face of the venerable founder, Very Rev. Father General Sorin, who is now absent in France.
Among these visitors are many old students. They cannot overcome their love for their Alina Mater, and never a Commencement comes but
66o
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
many of them are present. Old faces may be missed among the students; but the same oldtime diversions are there, and the one time students drift out to the ball ground where they soon work up the enthusiasm of old.
To some of the older graduates, and even to the younger ones, numerous improvements are noticeable in many parts of the University. Since the great fire, years ago, the University has made rapid strides, and of late years several newbuildings have been added. Among the more recent ones are Sorin Hall, just south of the Church of the Sacred Heart; Science Hall, to the right of the drive approaching the main building, and nearby, the Institute of Technology. On the road leading to St. Mary’s is the new Manual Labor building, a large and attractive structure. South of Sorin Hall will be erected the Lemmonier Library. The beautiful drive to the main building, which takes the form of a heart, has been changed, the point of the heart being drawn down near the principal entrance to the grounds. On either side of this drive are splendid tennis courts.
All of -these changes and additions have been greatly admired by the old students and by the visitors, and all acquiesce in the improvements which have added so much to the appearance and the attractiveness of Notre Dame.
This the forty-seventh annual Commencement has, as stated, attracted many people from many places to witness the exercises. Among the events announced yesterday was the boat race between, the two four-oared shells—Montmorency and Yosemite. This did not take place, owing to the sickness of J..Combe,.No. 3, in the latter shell, who had not been able to keep up practice. Late in the afternoon a game of ball was played between, a nine composed of old students and one consisting of present students of the University. It was,a fairly good game, but only seven innings were played, the. score standing 5,to 5. ...	.	*
The great feature of the day was the exercises in Washington Hall. The doors of this pretty theatre .were thrown open about .7.30. o’clock, and it was but a short time before it was filled with the Faculty, students and visitors, among the latter being a number from the city. .
. The.singing both of the Choral Union and of the Quartette received hearty applause, as did the’excellent music rendered by the Orchestra -of the University.	.	.
The first oratorical number on the programme was that of Mr. J. Sylvester Hummer, ’91. He chose as subject for his oration “The Spirit of the Constitution.” Mr. Hummer appeared in class cap and gdwn, and was received with rapturous applause from the entire house. He treated his subject in a most practical way, and the strong ■ points of his .oration were set forth in a very forcible manner. Clothed in plain, smooth language, and delivered in a clear, distinct, well-articulated voice, the effort was attentively listened to and showed on the whole most careful
thought and great painstaking in preparation. At its close applause again greeted the speaker.
“The Catholic Church in America” was the subject selected by Mr. John B. Sullivan, ’91. Like Mr. Hummer, he was received with most hearty applause. Mr. Sullivan is a careful speaker as well as one of ease, and his sentences were clearly uttered and to the point. The carefulness in the preparation of his well chosen subject was evidenced by the strength of the language used and the force with which each necessary point was put. He was frequently interrupted by applause as the force of some particular phrase or sentence was felt, and at the conclusion he retired amid the plaudits of the auditors.
The next oration was that of Mr. Homer P. Brelsford, ’91. His subject was the American one of “The Future of Our Republic.” It is a subject which gave the speaker full scope for his powers of composition as well as oratory, and one to which he did justice. He dwelt with power upon the subject, and uttered many wholesome truths pertaining to the future of our great Republic, which were well put and deserving, and which received their full measure of appreciation from the audience. He spoke upon the Republic’s future from numerous standpoints, and each time pronounced facts of interest which manifested the attention paid in preparation. Like the other speakers, Mr. Brelsford retired from the stage under a shower of applause.	-
The oration next on the programme was the Alumni oration by Mr. George E. Clarke, ’83, who, besides being a graduate of Notre Dame, graduates this year in the law department of the University of Michigan. As a speaker he is well known, and has many times proved himself an orator of rare ability. ’	.
He was followed by an address by the Right Rev. J. L. Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria. Governor Hovey was to have been present and deliver the faculty oration; but, owing to sickness, could not. The Bishop mounting the stage met with an exceedingly warm reception. His address was a perfect one in every sense of the word. Not enough credit can be given its high character, nor justice done the mind from which it emanated.. It was a practical and potent talk to the young men especially, and it abounded in wholesome advice in gems of the rarest setting. Withal it was one of the finest efforts ever heard in Washington Hall, and an honor to the man whose mind conceived it.
The exercises on Tuesday began about 8.30 a. m. The singing was excellent. The. Class Poem by Mr. J. St. Elmo Berry was carefully written and well read, and showed Mr. Berry to be a writer of no small ability. This 'was followed by the valedictory by Mr. Charles T. Cavanagh. It was a fine piece of composition in Mr. Cavanagh’s usual good style. After this came the awarding of honors, conferring of degrees, etc. x	.