
I i
Do you want I to know what's going on at NOtre Dame? 
Subscribe to 


MAG AZ I  E  
You'll find:  
• the latest campus news and sports • national and campus entertainment  0 LY$30  

coverage 
• 
controversial campus issues A YEAR 

• 
what's happening on weekends 

• 
some off-the-wall college humor 


' 
Name:----------­

E • 
Address: ___________ 

I want a yearlong subscription . to Scholastic Magazine. 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Maga:zine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 137, NUMBER 13 FOUNDED 1867 FEBRUARY 8, 1996 
COVER STORY 

Faces in the Crowd 
With 20 candidates vying for the positions of a student bcx:ly president and vice president, it's easy to get lost. The following campaign interviews, commentaries and features will guide you through the long list of hopefuls andhelp you sort the winners from the losers. Scholastic endorsed the ticket that we feel will do the best job. After readingthis in depth coverage of the 1996 elections, you, too, should be able to make an informed decision: 
••c••················: ............. page 5 


Recruiting Hype 

With the intense competi­tion in collegiate football, therightrecruitcouldmean wiruµnganimportantgame later on. But has the hype crossed a dangerous line? 
...............................page14 

·isn't It Romantic? 

Tired of all those sappy romance movies? One of these "alternative" Val­entine's Day flicks is sure to get you in the holiday mood. 
.............................pa.ge 20 
FEATURFS 

BeyondtheBrea.kfastTable......................................4 
by Steve Myers 
RunningWith thePack ............................................. 8 
by J. Michelle Cox 
SophomoreLiteraryFestival...................................10 
by K. Alworth and]. Pagliocca 
1 Raking In the Chips .............................................. 16 
by Brian Hiro 
My,Bloody Valentines ........................ ! .................18 
by Justin Cole and Joe Marchal 
Sinatra: He's Playing Your Song.......................23 
by Stan Evans 
DEPARTMENTS 

From theEditor ........................................................... 2 Editorial....................................................................,.....3 Campus Watch ......................................................... 13 Splinters from the Press Box ................................... 17 OutofBounds ............................................... ;·..............22 Comics.........................................................................24 OnOtherCarnpuses.....................................................25 ComingDistractions...................................................26 W eekinDistortion ....................................................... 27 Final Word .................... '. ...... : ................................... 28 
----~~-----------~-~--·--------~---­



Taking Crayolas to the Ballot 
To be honest, politics bore me. Government, to me, represents committees and 
subcommittees and ad hoc committees designated to delegate and form task forces to 
discuss issues presented by constituents and learn to use empty words like these. A lot 
There seems to be a consensus among Americans thatpolitics is a phony game, played by 
professional handshakers who indulge themselves in promises they probably know 
nothing about. Politicians are criticized as insincere rather than admired and respected as 
volunteer representatives. Why is it like this? 
When Iwas ten years old, Democratic nominee Walter Mondale came to the gym ofmy small Catholic elementary school in Pittsburgh. Ourprincipal suggested a contest where each student would draw a picture of Mondale, and the winners would be allowed .to present theirpicture to him. I still clearly remember my drawing; using my crayons, Idrew his face to take up most of my paper and filled the background with an American flag, because, to me, the President of the United States epitomized the patriotism in the heart of every American. Midway through my drawing, I looked at the boy next to me and was aghast to see he had given Mondale glowing purple eyes and a large wart on his nose. I thought it was blasphemous, and feared for him when the principal saw it I couldn't believe anyone could feel anything but utmost respect and admiration for such a leader. 
Ironically, today I find myself following the party nominations with my own air of cynicism. The politicians are big names and photographed faces that I'll probably never meet. They are all anonymous to me, and certainly I to them. 
This past week, as I listened to each student candidate in interviews and at the debate, I found my interest renewed. On a local level, it is easier to see how these candidates can affect my life and to identify with theirplatforms. And while you may notfind my Crayola­representation of Mcinerney and Wolsfeld hanging on bulletins, I respect their issues and have faith in their competence as leaders. 
How we Conducted the Interviews 

Scholastic interviewed each ticket running for student government president and vice president, asking them the same 15 questions. Usually, we print the interviews of each ticket; however, due to the high number ofcandidates this year and lack of space in the magazine, we chose to print only the interviews of who we considered to be the five strongest candidates, and we only transcribed responses to four of the questions. These· interviews begin on page 5, while the others are summarized in an article which begins on page 8. We based our endorsement on a majority vote of the interviewers, and the endorsement and reasons behind it appear on the facing page. · 
Photographers Wanted ­Anyone interested in working for Scholastic as a photographer is encouraged to pick up an application in 303 LaFortune. Please sign up as soon as possible if interested. An informational seminar ;md training will be offered. 

Editor in Chief Applications 

Also, a reminder to anyone considering the position ofScholastic Editor in Chief, the applications are due Monday, February 12. 

Welcome 

Jenny Stachowiakwill be the new AdvertisingManagerfortherestofthe 1995-96year. Scholastic would like to offer her a warm welcome to the staff. 
Collette McKenna 
Executive Editor 

Cover Photos by Aaron Skalicky 
2 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 8, 1996 

Vote Mclnen1ey and Wolsfeld 
Scholastic endorses Ryan Mclnerney and Matt Wolsfeld for student body president and vice president. In a race chock-full of ideas and candidates, we feel that Mclnerney and W olsfeld best rep­resent the students' interests and have the best chances of accomplishing their goals. Mclnerney and Wolsfeld have gone be­yond the trivialities that have dominated recent student government campaigns. As Mclnemay noted in last Monday's debate, "I'm not going to drive you around in a golf cart, and I'm not going to get you an ATM machine." Instead, Mclnerney and Wolsfeld plan to work toward issues that mean something: including a student bill ofrights in Du Lac; requiring the administration to publicly announce any proposed rule changes; and establishing a student seat on the Board of Trustees. Coupled with these are other, more fea­sible, ideas that still hit at the heart of what we believe students really want: the option to come back to campus early from breaks, a Notre Dame on-line link that will provide students with up-to-the-minute DART in­formation, and allowing Notre Dame stu­dents 21 or over to have tailgaters (which is completely within thelimits of Indiana State Law). Mclnemey and Wolsfeld's responses to questions both in the debate and during their Scholastic interview indicated that these and their other ideas are well-re­searched, relevant and ultimately attain­able. And though it will no doubt be diffi­cult, we thinkifanyone can get things done, it is a pair like Mclnemey and Wolsfeld. First of all, they already have somewhat of a head start. While the other candidates are priiruµily concerned with gathering stu­dentopinion,MclnerneyandWolsfeldhave demonstrated that they already know what students want, and they're more concerned with vocalizing student opinion to the ad­ministration. . Inaddition,bothMclnemeyandWolsfeld know how things work at this university, from the administrative hierarchy to the division ofstudent offices and clubs. They also demonstrate awareness ofcurrentcam­pus issues. Mclnerney in particular has solid government experience as the student director of policy revisions, a student advo­catein StudentAffairs Hearings and amem­her of the judicial council. We feel this knowledge and experience, coupled with their ability to speak well, qualifies them to best represent the 1996-97 student body. 
We have chosen to endorse Mclnerney and W olsfeld after careful consideration of all the candidates and their platforms. Sev­eral other tickets also seemed capable and presented good ideas. Specifically, we felt Mike.Flood and Dave Mullin were strong contenders. As the station manager of WVFI, Flood has gained a working knowl­edgeofhowtheuniversityrunswhile trying to bring the station to FM status. In addi­tion, Flood and Mullin hit the mark with their platform's emphasis on increased fi­nancial aid. However, while working to­wards this goal does merit the attention of student government, we felt the rest oftheir platform lacked the vision demonstrated by Mclnerney and Wolsfeld. 
Seth Miller and Megan Murray, with their campus ·leadership, experience, also originally appeared to be strong contend­ers. However, their experience could be to their disadvantage, as both candidates seem entrenched in campus bureaucracy, con­centrating on committees, lacking original ideas and speaking in political rhetoric. 
On other tickets, no platforms stood out as original. Many echoed promises ofpre­vious years: amodquadATMmachine, the revival of Weekend Wheels, more con­certs, a better book fair and opening up Alumni/Senior Club. The fact that none of these ideas have yet been implemented may indicate inherent problems with them. 
And that brings us back to Mclnerney and Wolsfeld. We recognized a vision in their platform, a vision that we believe best reflects the interests of the student body. So vote Mclnemey and Wolsfeld. 

-Scholastic 


Beyond the Breakfast Table 
Inexperienced and joke candidates undermine the integrity ofstudent elections 
BY STEVE MYERSIn a nation of 255 million citizens, only seven serious candidates were running for the president ofthe United States at the beginning of the 1992 primary season. In stark contrast is this year's student body president/vice president race. From an undergraduate student body of 7,800 students, 10 pairs of candidates want to be our student government leaders. Our moth­ers should be proud that we are all so willing to volunteer our time for our school. Or should they? This is the second consecutive year to see a significant increase in the number ofcan­didatesforstudentbodypresident/vicepresi­dent. Most of this year's candidates feel the large number of candidates reflects posi­tively on JP and Dennis' administration. Seth Miller, for example, says the large number of candidates is "fantastic," and 
tickets is detrimental is a direct reflection of those who are offering their service to the school. For, contrary to Miller's assertion, there is surely not an abundance of quality candidates. Rather, this year has been marked by a large number of "why not?" candidates, who apparently think the only qualifications for student government are good self-esteem and acrewof close friends to facilitate their illusion. 
In their interviews with Scholastic, some candidates displayed an astounding lack of preparation and knowledge about student government and campus issues. Brian Klausner and Anthony Reid, for instance, cite their flexibility as a substitute for any concrete platform. The real irony of their campaign, though, is that they feel that they have "no weaknesses." 
Zarzaur and Mahan liken their platform to a game of darts, saying they hope to hit the bullseye a few times if they throw a hundred darts. One of these darts is includ-
Why do these people feel they are capable ofrunning student government? 

that it will ensure that thebest people will be elected. Others think it is the result of an especially outgoing class and a strong de­sire to serve peers. 
Only one of the candidates, Ryan Mcinerney, thinks thelargenumberoftick­ets is detrimental to the race. "I think it's absurd," he says. "It will be difficult to address issues, and it will make a debate in the traditional sense impossible." 
Thefactthatonlyonecandidatethinks 10 ing greens fees in tuition, clearly to the benefit of all the student body. 
Mike Eger, whose slogan "Bacon and Eggs" seems to amuse him enough tokeep repeating it, did not allow his formidable ignorance of student government keep him from running. When asked about the rela­tionship between student government and SUB, he confessed, "IfI knew more about it, I'd be able to answer that better." Eggs fortunately does not allow his inexperience to cloud his ambition. After all, he consid­ers himself a leader, because when going outwith friends, it is he who "picks a bar for the night." 
Everyoneis amused by a joke ticket; they lighten up the campaign and entertain those bored by candidates who take themselves too seriously. There can be only so many joke candidates, however, before the entire election becomes a joke. The punchline comes when whoever becomes elected is responsible for divvying up half a million dollars of funds. 
Even candidates who didn't waste the 'battery life of the interviewers' tape record­ers were less than impressive. Many had platforms consisting of a potpourri ofunfo­cusedideasorbuzzwordswithoutsubstance. One main difference between these tickets is where they want to place the new A 1M. 
More important, though; is the absence of vision frogi these tickets. · Howisen/ Nave, Glynn/Belton and Guillen/Hellmuth have a few interesting ideas, such as virtual reality, art exhibiti<;ms and a bowling alley, but their platforms lack unity and focus. 
The number of insubstantial candidates 
only hurts this year's election. The debate 
was merely a public hearing, with few is­
sues examined beyond the superficial level. 
In addition, the sheer number of candidates 
makes the election more of a popularity 
contest than ever. With strong support in 
one or two dorms, any candidate can swing 
the vote and make the run-off. 
The only question that remains is why. Why has campaigning for president of the studentbodyreachedepidem~cproportions? Why do these people feel they are capable of running student government? Junior Christian Dallavis thinks it has to do with 
4 

the variety of people who have held the office in the past three years. "They think they can do itbecause there have been three very different kinds of people and it doesn't seem like there's been any difference," he says. 
Others cite the Hungeling/Orsagh phe­nomenon. Hungeling and Orsagh ran for president/vice president when the current candidates were freshmen. No doubt they made an impression when they won the election on a platform of a Dead show and free football tickets. 
Well, if Dave Hungeling is part of the reason everyone is running, how does he feel about it? "Maybe Matt and I made it appear that anybody could run for it, win and be a leader," says Hungeling. 
He is quick to point out, though, that he does not think it takes a particularly out­standing individual to be president or vice president of the student body. "Student government is not really effective on any level that you can see it happen," he says. 
Wait-thatsoundssomewhatfamiliar... Mr. Eger alluded to this both in his inter­viewand in thedebate. "Whoeveris elected, life won't change in a major way," he says. 
"Yourlifewillnotchangeinanymajorway if you elect Eggs and Bacon," he added at the debate. 
Eggs has contributed to the campaign,. unintentionally providing us with an in-· sight. Ifit doesn't matter who is in student government, then why not vote for a ticket own self-respect. 
For those candidates who are running on legitimate platforms, but have discovered .in the last four days that running for student body president/vice president is more de­manding than they expected, they should keep in mind that this is only the beginning. 

Some candidates displayed an astounding lack ofpreparation and knowledge about student government and campus issues. 

that doesn't bother to come up with a plat­form or someone whose best asset is his clever word association with a breakfast food? 
If that is why some of these candidates wan~ us to vote for them, then the least they can do is be honest Don't tell us you want to put more money into An Tostal or make next Halloween the bitchin-est Halloween ever. Tell us the truth, that itdoesn't matter and you're just the pair for the job. If not to save the students' time, to preserve your Lackofpreparation, inexperience, inability to think on their feet and lack of original campaign platforms all portend a rough year up in the student government office. Remember Hungeling' s advice: "Be care­ful what you wish for, itjustmighthappen." Trust him. 
And although I don't expect this year's crowd to thin out, hopefully next year can­didates will ask themselves, "Why am I specially qualified to run student govern­ment? Why me?" Not, "Why not?" 0 



Mike Flood and Dave Mullin 
What one thing would you like to tell Monk about running this university? MF: I think respect for students is the priority on this campus. ... I think 'when he's dealing with students he hlmselfhas to respond to our comments ... It's good to play bookstore basketball for a week or two in the springtime but I think it's even better to work with us academically, intellectually, and not just raise money. DM: ... I think I would like to tell Monk that I ... think you could spend a little bit more time out meeting students, ... to kind of get more of a feeling of what's going on. What is your best strength and worst weakness as a pair of candidates?. · MF: [On strengths] Well, I think we, that we work well together. This past week we've really worked the hardest as far as having to sit down actually head-to-head and discuss issues. We have a sense of humor that keeps things light, and I think the best thing about us is we don't take ourselves too seriously, you know. We respect ... ourselves and what we can do and we're humble about what we can't do. DM: ... One of us is very conservative one ofus is very liberal.... I think we .both bring a different point of view into every issue we look at and I think that really helps out and makes sure all the bases get covered. MF; [On weaknesses] We're not very good-looking ...; DM: And ... I \\'.OUld say neitherofus have very much experience with student government ... we weren't class reps, haven't done a lot of work through the student government office before and things like that, but I think we can overcome them. 
What is your opinion about the possibility of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? Why? Would you follow up on the proposal currently pending? DM: ... Our feeling is that we would support some form of coresidentiality. We think it's good for the diversity 
and the quality of the student body .... The one thing we would be very wary of, though, is affecting adversely the current situation because we both thinkpart of the Notre Dame experience is the dorm experience ... I think we would like to see some form ofcampus remain single sex dorms, and give both options. How do you usually deal with conflict? among peers? with an authority figure? MF: ... I approach people with a very understanding and workable manner ... I don't try and change myself to fit theproblem,butlatleastacknowledge,youknowwithin bounds of reason, the differences of others, and I com­promise in what I have to do to get the job done.... DM: My favorite remedy for a conflict situation is humor ... Usually things calm down a little bit and then youcan talk about things a little bitwithnot as muchheat. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•FEBRUARY 8, 1996 
Mike Flood, Jr., AMST Norfolk, Nebraska 
• WVFI station manager 
Dave Mullin, Jr., ECON, GOVT Omaha, Nebraska 
• Mock Trial Treasurer 
Platform Highlights 
• 
Financial aid casework 

• 
$20,000 scholarship money 

• 
North Quad ATM 

• 
Financial Accountability 

• 
Safe and affordable off­campus transportation 





Ryan Mcinerney and Matt Wolsfeld 
Seth Miller, Jr., ECON Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
• 
South Quad Senator 

• 
Debit Card Ad-Hoc Comm. 

• 
Athl. Facilities Adv. Comm. 


Megan Murray, So., A & L Wheaton, Illinois 
• 
Sophomore Class President 

• 
Freshman Class Council 


Platform Highlights 

• 
Football ticket exchange 

• 
Maintain student section 

• 
Debit Card 

• 
Student forums 


• 
Improved gender relations _•Mod Quad ATM 

• 
lmpr. computer resources 




Seth Miller and Megan Murray 
What one thing would you like to tell Monk about running this university? SM: I think we need to foster a spirit ofcoopera­tion and bridge-building between the students and administration .... Fitness facilities are obvi­ously something really lacking for a university of 7500 students of which 75 percent are varsity 
letter winners ... I would say, "You know; the Athletic Department, the way they've been open and working with students is just one aspect and there's a good example of how students can build bridges with the administration and really connect and work with each other instead of this "we-they" philosophy .... What Is your best strength and worst weakness as a pair of candidates? MM: The lack ofcontinuity in student government has always been a problem. With me as a sophomore, I'llbe able to follow through on these issues ... SM: And I think we're different from the other tickets because we're the only ticket that both ofus have proven campus-wide leadership experience. We're really in touch with the issues at hand, we have a feeling ofwhat's realistic and what's not ... Somebody might say that our biggest weakness might also be our biggest strength. That we do come from different classes. Some people might say that's not conducive to communication .... 
What is your opinion about the possibility of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? Why? Would you follow-up on the proposal currently pending? MM: ... Wereally thinkthat genderrelations needs to be addressed and hopefully that would be my sphere that I deal with. And I think itdefinitely needs to discuss 24­hour space and set up atask force to discuss the issue. I don't think we are going to take a stand on it either way because it's not our decision. Ultimately we represent the student body. And I think right now that it's such a decisive issue that we really would need to have a task force investigate it to work with the administration to figure out all our options before we make a decision. SM: To answer your question about the current pro­posal, which we both have copies of, I think that it's a good proposal insofar that it's serving as a catalyst for dialogue and that's something that we really believe in. The more you talk, the better it gets ... 
How do you usually deal with conflict? among peers? ·with ail authority figure? 
MM: I'm really big on talking things out. I consider 
myself a really caring person. If there is a conflict, and 
people are upset, Ilike to find out why. I'm a big believer 
in compromise, how we can satisfy all sides. 
SM: ...If you bring a community together, you can come 
to a decision that all parties involved will be somewhat 
satisfied with. 
Ryan Mcinerney, Jr., FIN, CAPP Grand Rapids, Michigan 
• 
Student Dir., Policy Rev. 

• 
Student Advocate, Student Affairs Hearings 


Matt Wolsfeld, Jr., ACCT White Bear Lake, Minnesota 
Platform Highlights 
• 
Notre Dame on-line link 

• 
Student rights movement 

• 
Campuswide laundry delivery 

• 
Early return to campus 

• 
Student tailgaters 



What one thing would you like to tell Monk 
about running this university? 
RM: I think that there is extremely poor commu­
nication between the university ... and the student 
body. I think that if the communication lines 
were opened, things could become more effi­
cient and effective. 
MW: It's almost as if they are two separate 
components that don't interact enough. And it's important that they come together. RM: I think there's issues out there that the university would be willing to allow the student body to do but doesn'tknow if there's interest, and I think at the current time they don't put enough value on student input. What is your best strength and your worst weak­nesses as a pair of candidates? MW: Ilike the way we complement each other. We run the ski team together ... there's a lot of organization involved. Weboth can really rely on each other and value what each other have to say. RM: I think that our strengths and weaknesses comple­ment each other. Matt's a good motivator. Sometimes he lacks a little of the organizational skills that I have. We are both good at communicating to people and we 're both good listeners. Our worst weakness would have to be overindulgence ... when we do things we tend to do them to extremes. With the ski trip, I think we could have learned more delegation skills ... Weneed to learn to trust others with the work we think we should be doing ourselves. What is your opinion about the possibility of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? Why? Would you follow-up on the proposal currently pending? MW: I'm for it. My sister wentto Marquette University which has co-ed dorms and just seeing now how many different groups of friends she has ... versus here where ... there's a lot of separation. RM: I think with respect to the proposal that's pending, the administration needs to be careful of consequences. There's going to be an adjustment period no matter how bad guys or girls want to have co-ed dorms ... I am in favor of co-ed dorms. I just think it needs to be done right. There's no need to rush it ... 
How would you usually deal with conflict? among peers? with an authority figure? RM: I think that I can often be argumentative with authority figures. But I also think that students ... can't back down from conflict with administrators or authority figures especially when you understand what you're talking about and you truly believe in it. Conflict with peersI would deal with by stopping and letting everyone state what's on their mind ... MW: I'm similar ... it's actually possible to avoid alot of arguments by having real good communication lines. ... As long as both sides respect the other side and respect their arguments,_ it's real easy to come to a solution. 
6 



Tom Roderick and Kate McShane 
What one thing would you like to tell Monk about running this university? 
TR: I know alotofstudentsouttheredon'tfeellike they have a voice, and it's very important ... whether in student government or achieving goals like coresidentiality or the debit card, something out there that you don't just read about in the paper, that you can actually take a part in and have a say in it and achieve something ... KM: I don't think the student body understands some­times the actual power the student government has to influence the administration in their decisions. I think it has to be publicized that there are two councils, the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council, that we discuss issues that the students have told their student representatives ... Somehow this would get to Monk Malloy, and he would understand the students better. What is your best strength as a pair of candidates? TR: [On strengths] Another strong point for us is, me being offcampus and Kate being on campus, we've seen both sides of it. Between the two of us I think Kate and i' have a real good balance of what's going on in this university as a whole, not just what you see on campus on a daily basis. KM: One of the great things about our candidacy is we have two different levels of experience with student government He has been involved with dorm govern­ment and class government whereas I have been in­volved with student government, school government. 
TR: [On Weaknesses] Me being off-campus, that is a weakness that I don't get to see every­body all the time. It's hard to get the views from everybody, but I'm getting a view here, and Kate's getting a view there. What is your opinion about the possibility of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? Why? Would you follow up on the proposal that's currently pending? KM: There are so many benefits for co-residentiality but there are so many detriments to it as well. This proposal that we composed inCLC, itmay sound a little ridiculous ... but we think that we have to take baby steps to this issue. There's so much tradition at Notre Dame .... I definitely think that this proposal is the way to go because I think once the administration can see that it is desirable, that it does foster better gender relations, that they might start changing slowly. How do you usually deal with conflict? among peers? . with an authority figure? KM: It's best to address the issue, not in a confronta­tional way ... I feel the best way things are solved is when they're talked out rationally and calmly; The same with authority figures. · TR: I've always had most success going in and saying, "This is the problem I have, and these are the rational steps I want to go towards solving it." 
Tom Roderick, Jr., FIN Hamden, Maine 
• Soph. Class Council 
Kate McShane, Jr., FIN Rockville Centre, New York 
• 
Mod Quad Senator 

• 
Student Government Seer. 


Platform Highlights 
• 
"Shotgun" program 

• 
Book fair on WWW 

• 
Coffee shop in LaFortune 

• 
Commercial_ fast food in Lafortune 

• 
Universal parking pass 




Greg :Zarzaur and ·Ted Mahan 
What one thing would you like to tell Monk about running this university? GZ: At times the administration is a little distant from the students. Whether he published a monthly address in The Observer or in Scholastic, where we could maintain contact with Monk or with the administration as a whole 
' or just to be open to the.suggestions that Student Govern­ment makes, we are the voice of the students. I don't know what goes on right now, but I know what I'd like to accomplish ... What is your best strengt_h as a pair of candidates? What is your worst weakness as a pair ofcandidates? GZ: Ourstrengthisourabilitytoworktogether. Tedand I have known each other for a couple ofyears now ... and my thoughts and his thoughts, they coincide together ... TM: When it comes down to it, we both have a lot of respect for each other ... GZ: At times Ted and I can be dead set on an idea, and ... we are open to ideas ... but we are dead set on our platform.and that's the reason we made it so attainable ... I hate to go into something and not finish it. 
What is your opip.ion about the possibility of co-ed dorms at Notre Dame? Why? Would you follow up on the proposal currently pend­
ing? GZ: I think the ongoing discussion is good ... 
right now coresidentiality would be something hard for me to accept because I've enjoyed my dorm life. And I also harp on the fact that alumni continue to say 'I had a great time at Notre Dame' ... but I see coresidentiality as non-essential right now. How do you usually deal with ·conflict? Among peers? With an authority figure? GZ: I'm a talker-llike to talk things out... With peers, the greater the number ofpeople the better the resolution. As far as an authority figure ... I've learned the powerof compromising, sometimes I have to give a little more than the other side ... everyone gets something they want. TM: "I'm like Greg, I like to talk. I find I have more success, though, when I write someone -when I write aletter-seemsI can thinkitout a little more, collect my thoughts and present them inatone which might increase the chance of success. 

Greg Zarzaur, Jr., AMST Birmingham, Alabama 
• Sorin College Pres. 
Ted Mahan, Jr., Civ. Eng. San Antonio, Texas 
Platform Highlights 
• 
Hot Grab-N-Go 

• 
Tuition options 

• 
Debit card 

• 
Debart./COBA lounge 

• 
Golf cart taxi service 

• 
Weekend wheels by clubs 

• 
On-campus driving priv. 

• 
Night classes 



------r 
! 




I -,;;.-al-------------------­
• ­

specific items which are ·either unfeasible, BY J. MICHELLE Cox R11nn1ngout of student government's realm of re-Dancing. Gettingmoney. Goingto\ --~-• sponsibilityorofnointeresttothemajority 
concerts. Tailgating. All con-of students. tinue to be studentfavorites. And For example, HowisonandNave want to all can be found on thisyear'splatfonnsfor open up Alumni/Senior ciub to underage


w1·th 


student body president and-vice president students once a week for a dance club, but But the next student leaders will have to considering Indiana State law and the atti­provide much more than fun. tude of the administration, this idea seems With campaign posters adorning every unlikely. HowisenandNavealso''wantto spare inch of campus bulletin board space, focus on getting all the classes involved-the range of promises varies from preserv-sponsor class retreats and such," but this
Th·e 

ing student parking lots tocreating a student actually seems to fall undertheresponsiblity talent exhibition to improving drainage on of the respective class officers. ·campus.Despite the wide range ofissues, Similarly, Glynn and Belton want more however, some tickets seem to lack vision drainage on campus, but this does not seem while others, perhaps, present too many like an issue Student Government would 
Pack 

ideas. have much control over. 
Zarzaur and Mahan, for instance, use the Beyond their platforms, each group of metapho~ of a dartboard to describe their candidates brings a varying set of experi­campaign platfonn. ''We have a platform ences, a number of perceptions, different 
of many things. We're the type of candi-personalities and a spectrum of priorities 
T1,.e vnma,z•nz•ng

dates that will have a hundred darts to .1 ft I ~ and philosophies with them on the cam-throw, and we'rehopingtohitthe bullseye ·' paigntrail. Thesevariationsmaybeseenin a couple of times," explains '.l.amlur. candidates in the 
_ And then, ofcourse, there are the campus politicians whose main goal is to avoid election o+1996 
making campaign promises and simply do 'J whatthestudents want once inofffice. ''We don't have a traditional platfonn, but we Entirely new to this year's race are the would be realistic and flexible and listen to following platfonn proposals: Guillen/ students if we were in office. We don't Hellmuth's idea to build a bowlingalley on wantto be tied down to specificideas," says campus, Belton/Glymi's idea to enforce Brian Klaussnerofheand his running mate some aspects of Du Lac more stringently, Anthony Reid. andHowisen/Nave'sideatoinstallavirtual · 
reality station on campus. 
Ryan Guillen and Deborah Hellmuth··
The question on the mind of many stu­dents,ofcourse,is whatwould thesepeople the advice each respective · ticket would actually accomplish? Most of the candi­give Monk ifgiven the chance. dates recognize that student leaders in the While the most popular answer was that past have fallen short of their campaign he should listen more carefully to students, goals. While they havespecific ideas about give them more input and address their whythishasoccurredtoothers,somegroups concerns directly and promptly, some can­do not seem to have learned from the mis­didates,would give Monk different advice. takes ofthe past. as their platforms contain "rd tell him that financial aid really needs 
to be improved," says Howisen, whose 
Mike Eger (his running mate, Mike 
answer seems to overlap the Flood/Mullin
Bacon, Is In London), 
platform. Another unusual answer was 
Following in the campaign traditions of KevinOI~'s. Hesuggests, ''Therulesare the past few years are the Howisen/Nave too vague. Some policies need to be clari­quest tobring a concert {AlanisMorissette) fied, such as those on sexual assault." 
to campus and the Guillen/Hellmuth sug­In any election, the deciding factor with gestion to improve student seating at ath­voters is that one ticket must stand out as letic events. Transportation around campus superior to the other contenders. Inidenti­is another popular topic, with three plat­fying their best strength as a pair of candi­fonns including some kind of student-run dates, many groups cite their diversity and taxi service. balance. Reid's description of his and



SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 8, 1996 
Klaussner's group dynamic seems to sum up this sentiment for many of the candi­dates. "We kind of represent two different circles, and we bring them together. Our diversity offers balance," explains Reid. 
Others, though, admitthat diversity could also be considered their weakness. "We really are different people, and we some­times hold opposite opinions on certain issues," says Howisen. Also considered a weakness is inexperience, and while most of the candidates have been involved in some sort of extra­
wouldn't change it," says Belton. 
Interestingly, and disturbingly, the re­sponses to this question revealed that sev­eral tickets are unaware of the specifics of ongoingcampus issues and do notrepresent a unified front. While variationsin personal opinion are both acceptable and important, the next president and vice president of this student body will have to pool their talents, putting aside their personal differences. Moreover, the next student leaders must be well-informed of ongoing campus issues 
and have a working 

curricular activity on 
knowledge ofthe ad­campus, only Miller, ministration and the Murray and committees that Mcinerney have solid make decisions that student government affect Notre Dame experience. students. 
"Inexperience in In fact, however, this situation is defi­several candidates nitely my worst demonstrated no weakness," says knowledge of the Mike Eger. "But I specifics of the cur­consider myself rep-Brian Klaussner and Anthony Reid rently-pending pro­
resentative of the av­erage student and am plugged into what the majority of students want." 
Currently ofconcern for many students is the issue of co-residentiality. In addressing this question, ·many candidates both voice their personal opinions and exhibit a sense of responsibility to listen to what the major­ity of students want. . Eger/Bacon, Guillen/Hellmuth and Klaussner/Reid all seem to support the gen­eral idea of an option for co-ed dorms, mostly in an effort to improve gender rela­tions oncampus. Howisen/NaveandGlynn/ Belton, however, do not seem to believe that co•ed dorms are a good idea, citing logistical complications and tradition. "Right now we have the best of both envi­ronments -mixed genders in class and at the dining hall, and single-sex dorms -I 

posal on co-eel hous­ing, nor did they show a true understanding of the complexities of student government and its responsibilities. Eger, for instance, does not understand the division ofrespon­sibilities between student government and student union board. "IfIknew more about it, I might be able to answer the question better. I'm not really sure what the correla­tion is," he admits. 
One ofthe more taxing responsibilities of student leaders, of course, is working with a numberof people ina variety of situations. To their advantage is that all candidates seem to have healthy ways of dealing with conflict. Glynn pointed out, "Nobody wins an argument." And Guillen believes that, "You have to get both sides of the story." 
The story for now is that the candidates have to fight it out for the remainder of the campaign trail. As they hammer out their platforms and open themselves to the cam­pus conversation, it will become increas­inglyobvious who are the bestof thewould­be leaders. 
Students will have to sift through the stacks of posters and the many campaign spiels in order to determine not only the candidates who will do the most for them, but the candidates who will do the most for the school as a whole. 0 

¦ Sophomore Literary Festival 
' 

Bob Holman revitalizes poetry by voicing the written word in boistrous peiformances 
BY KRISTIN M. ALwoIITTIThe man on the stage had the audi­ence mesmerized. They lean for­ward, straining to hear him. His voice fluctuates from a gravelly whisper to a near shriek. "It's just you reading -the book is breathing," he finishes the poem in a whisper. The audience cheers and bursts into applause. ·This is not an uncommon reaction to poet Bob Holman, an Emmy award winner who has written six books of poetry. Notre Dame can lookforward to a similar reading when Holman performs with poet Miguel Algarin at the SophomoreLi.~rary Festival on Saturday. Both Holman and Algarin are members of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe in New York. The caf e consists of a group of poets who perform .works with a "street beat." The poetry presented integrates an aesthetic of Latino cultures. Holman was lured to the Nuyorican Po­

ets Cafe by the life he found there. "It was thriving, sprawling, sweaty. It was like life was in the spot, and poetry was alive there," he recalls. 
An experiencefrom Holman'schildhood sparked his fascination with poetry. "I showed a poem to my third~grade teacher; and she said, 'This is a great poem, Robert. Where did you copy it from?"' he relates. Since then, Holman has completed a wide array of works. "I have written lots of different kinds of poems, from tiny Chi­nese-influencedpoems to operatic raps," he says. "But! strive for clarity, precision and having fun without turning off the mind." 
Holman has toured theUnited States and Central America, appeared on MTV and worked on the St. Marks Poetry Project for years. He has also won three Emmy awards for his "Poetry Spots'.' series .which ran on WNYC-TY, and has published six books. Holmanis mostproud of his 1995 book The 
Cont'd on page 12 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 8, 1996 
¦ Sophomore Literary Festival 




Works1n 
Pro 

Canadian short story writers Alistair and ,Alex MacLeod will show how their family resemblance extends to their writing 

BY JII..LIAN MARIE PAGLIOCCAHis voice is like his father's. Except the rasp is less, thepauses greater. The sameness comes in the ear­nestness, the geniality, the accent. Little wonder their styles as Canadian short story writers echo one another as well. Alistair MacLeod was raised in a house on the shore of Inverness County, Nova Scotia, Canada. The landscape of Cape Breton Island has been an integral ingredi­ent for Alistair's literary success, as well as for his son Alex. Alex was raised in the same house as his father, with the same influence. Next week at the Sophomore Literary Festival, the father and son pair will evidence their similar influences as they take turns on center stage. Through much of his childhood, Alex, a graduate student in Notre Drune' s Creative Writing Program, was unaware of his father's celebrity. Once cognizant of · Alistair's reputation, Alex began to· study the slow, careful process which his father used incrafting each of his stories. Alex was awed by the diligent search for technical accuracy that made his father an acclaimed writer. When Alexbegantowrite headopted this practice as well as Alistair's affinity for lengthy sentences and his unwillingness to label a piece 'done.' "We are both long sentence-writers-even when Itry to write short sentences, I can't," confesses Alex. 
ess 

"And I have very few pieces that aren't 'works in progress."' 
When it comes to his son's writing, Alistair has taken a hands off approach, stating that h~ feels it's inappropriate and unnecessary to direct Alex's talent. "Alex does well on his own," says Alistair. "He's a very fine writer. I like [his work} very much." Alistair is content to be an occa­sional aid to Alex, but is wary of becoming an interference. "Like any parent, I simply encourage my children to follow their own dreams." The talent of his father has en­couraged Alex to keep his dreams modest. "Even in my craziest mind, I never hope to be as good as him," Alex admits. 
Undeniably, Alex has some enormous shoes to fill. His father's first major recog­nition dates back to 1976, when he pub­lished the collection, The Lost Salt Gift of Blood. Eventually to follow were As Birds Bring Forth the Sun and Island. All three have gained vast critical praise. Translated into six languages and nominated for the People's Choice Award for best book pub­lished in the United Kingdom in 1991, The Lost Salt Gift ofBlood continues to impress audiences worldwide. Alistair's work has also appeared in the anthologies Best American Short Stories and Best Ca­nadian Short Stories. . 
Perhaps most acclaimed by Canadian and American critics alike is one of his earliest stories entitled, 'The Boat" Writ­ten at Notre Dame while Alistair was work­ing on his Ph.D., it later appeared in The Lost Salt Gift ofBlood. Perhaps it is here at Notre Dame that Alex will create his mas­terpiece as well. He has already made a name for himself in the Canadian fiction circuit. 'Things are just starting to take off in the serious world," he says, grinning. His story, ''To Drown Beyond the Sea," won second prize in the prestigious National Books in Canada/Canadian Writer's Union Short Prose Competition. Also, ''The Road from the Water" which appeared in aCana­dian quarterly called Grain Magazine, _won that publication's grand prize. This led to thestory'snominationfor theJ oumey Prize, an award reserved for the best short story written by a developing Canadian writer. 
AfterreceivinghisPh.D.in 1968,Alistair began teaching to supplement his writing career. He still enjoys the luxury of being able to write without the pressure of having to depend upon it as his sole source of income. He has taughtEnglish and Creative 
Cont'd on page 12 


Cont'dfrompage 10 

Collect Call ofthe Wild, which proves that even though he is an "overworked poet," he "can still write the poem." 
One of Holman's recent projects is the PBS series The United States ofPoetry, a five-part series which reveals the nation through the words ofpoets. "I am a complete poetry addict," he says. "I am totallyinfluencedbythesignlsawoverthelaundromatthathadlost its 'w' and said 'Ash and Dry."' 
Holman reflected that his work is like being in a dream. "I never thought poetry would start to find its place ip our culture," he remarks in amazement. Holman believes there has been a move­ment to revitalize poetry, although "there is still a tendency to use the 'p' word like a dirty word." 
His frustration over the resistance to poetry is linked to his greatest fear. "I'm afraid I'll wake up one day anddiscoveritreally was Just a dream." Holman says his greatest hope is that one day, everyone will dance. "I think there is in humanity that ability to celebrate, and all of our activities sometimes getin the way of that" In Holman's opinion, language has the capacity to encompass human emotions and become a celebration of humanity. He relates, "Language is the essence of humanity, and poetry is the essence of language." 
As for his Notre Dameperformance, Holman does not elaborate on whether we can expect to see everyone dancing and celebrating. He simply warned, "Expect the unexpected." . 
Bob Holman will perform on February 10. 

SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 

...AND.BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Ln 277-7744 52577 US Rt.31 277-1024 
Cont' dfrom page 11 

Writing at the Universities of New Brunswick, Indiana and Notre Dame, in addition to his present post at the University ofWindsor. 
"My workwould be differentifI didn'thaveteaching torely on," he confesses. Alex would argue differently. He attributes his father's stylistic talent not only to the comfort of having an additional career, but also to his well-rounded lifestyle. Condemn­ing those writers who write fictionbased solely on speculation in sterile offices, Alex points to his father as one who actively seeks experiences outside of writing. "You have to be alive to be a writer," Alex pronounces with great emphasis. "My father has always been a great model of that_" 
Like his father, Alex is also a teacher. Currently instructing an introductory fiction class at Notre Dame, he has combined the lessons learned from his father with some ofhis own. DaveGriffith, 
11 oneofAlex's students from last semester, was an occasional writer 
l! 
before taking Alex's fiction writing class. After a bit of encourage­ment and some pointed advice from his teacher, Griffith was selected to perform at the Sophomore Literary Festival's student reading. "[Alex] taught me to be a perfectionist," explains Griffith. "He told us that there is real}.y no good literature, only good revisions." 

Striving for perfection, none of these three writers is willing to declare a story 'done' and ready for presentation. "I will be reading from a work that is currently in progress," said Alex, about the festival. And Alistair, though evasive, answered determinedly: "I'm still thinking about that [the Festival], but I'll be ready." O 
Alistair MacLeod will perform on February 12. Alex MacLeod and Dave Griffith will perform on February 13. 
12 


Attitude, Allegations and Innuendo 
"We believe in everything we stand for." 
-Student Body Presidential candidate Seth Miller 
"I stand for everything I believe." 
-the Gipp 
CAVEAT EMPTOR 

, Tisthe season for more dorm dances, . and everyone is rushing around for . last-minutepurchases: flowers, gag gifts, adate. But more often than not, most students arerushingaround trying tobuy,or find someone to buy, alcohol. Everyone, that is, except the men of Stanford Hall. Theseguysare going tohave what few have ever tried before -an alcohol-free SYR. Before you proceed to applaud or critique their efforts, keep in mind that most of the Stanford Studs had no idea what they were getting into when they bought their tickets. The rector of Stanford decided to keep things hush-hush so as not to generate too much opposition or jeopardize ticket sales. Estimated number in attendance on Satur­day? Eight. Therector, threeRAs and four guys who haven't read this column. 
' 


TRUE IRISHMEN 

Many students rushed to Senior Bar last Wednesday night to see an Irish band few have heard. about and even fewer have actually heard. Black 47 drew quite a crowd, which had to waitan extra two hours to hear the band play. While the crowd drankto pass the time away at Senior Bar, the band. was doing the same thing at the Saint Mary's Inn bar. The members of Black 47 apparently decided they weren't drunk enough to play and opted to remain at thebaruntil they were. Morepower to them -there were probably only two people therewho would havenoticedifthey messed up their lyrics, anyway. · 
ROCK THE VOTE 

Yes, the ever ineffectual elections for Student Body President/Vice President are here again as students run purely on popu­larityandabsurdcampaignpromises. Thank God Jerry Garcia is dead so that no one can promise to bring the Grateful Dead to cam­pus agaj.n. Here are some of the more memorablecampaignplatforms andquotes ·from thisyear'sbevyofpresidentialwanna­
bes. 
• Give the students what they really want 
.Klausner andReid apparently hadnoreal platform, so theirplatform was exactly that: they have no ideas but they're really .flex­ible. So what was one issue that they felt strongly about? They're really concerned that, askids, Halloween was suchan impor­tant holiday and now it's not. Neverletitbe said that the true voice ofNotre Dame isn't heard. 
•Stop whlle you're behind 
Here's a real winning duo. Unfortu­nately for Bacon, who is in London for the semester, Mike Eger has been the voice for the two candidates. Eger's idea of Notre Dame's purpose is"... to produce normal, functioning adults," whatever that means. His comment on the GLND/SMC issue? "It was Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve." Fr. Beauchamp, have you been brainwashing the students again? 
• First prize in the poster contest 
Probably the only thing worth noting about Howisen and Nave is their campaign poster. At the top of the poster, in large lettering, is the question, "What do you get when you cross a rocket scientist and a government major?" Underneath is a po­litically drab. answer and the perplexing picture of the boxing lizard seen above. Apparently, the answer to their question is a really bad artist. At least it's evident that 



{l µ 

this ticket didn't waste any money on cam­paign advertising. Something else of note: they listed Alanis Morissette as a campus concert hopeful. (Insert joke here.) 
• Beat that dead horse! 
Glynn and Belton joined the ranks ofthe many candidates who try torehash theever­present, but never debatable, issue of coresidentiality. However, they had an interesting new twist: waste thousands of dollars making onedorm coresidentialfor a one-year trial basis. Give it up, people. Water is wet, the sky is blue and Notre • Dame will never be coresidential. 
• .Give the students what they really 
want-Part2 
Zarzaur and Mahan, probably upset to see theirconcerns about Halloweenalready taken, decided another big issue amongst students was the greens fee on the golf course. Somehow they rationalized that all students would benefit from having greens fees added to tuition. Avid golfers, unite! It's about time all 10 of you were heard. 
• Was I thinking out loud again? 
Flood and Mullin are two candidates that' wouldn't mind the sale of cigarettes on campus-God bless ya'. Flood, however, made. a slight error when commenting on .the whole smoking issue. Although actu­ally referring to cigarettes,he unfortunately said he would love to see his running ma:te "smoke up" in his room. Freudian slip, Flood? 
Well, Gipp fans, are you glad to see that there is finally someone who likes Hallow­een as much as you do? Is another ticket going to triumph merely by promising to bringa really badband to campus? Person­ally, the Gipp will have to stealan ideafrom a forgotten movie (Brewster's Millions) and vote ''None of the above." . 


11',fo F-ii•itii.._____________________
1 





Who Wil/Sto 
The intense spotlight on .? recruiting has changed the face 

the e. 
ofcollege football 
BY T. RYAN KENNEDY 

missing puzzle piece On the morning of January 2, after · in a championship NotreDame's31-26losstoFlorida season or the savior _ State, Lou Holtz jolted college toacoach'sjob. What football by forecasting an aggressive air was once a two-way assault in 1996. "Are we going to throw it street, a private mat­more? Are we going to be in the shotgun terbetweencollegiate more? Yeah, I think so," asserted Holtz in coach and prospect, apressconference. Theimmediatereaction has become a distor­offans and the media to Holtz' s bold state-tion of the recruiting ment was that he only advocated the "Blar-process. It has be­ney Offense" in order to attract several top come a five-way col­recruits. lision course among In fact, Holtz had already experimented coach, prospect, par­withhisairassaultin theOrangeBowl. The ents, university and inexperienced Thomas Krug threw 24 therecruitinganalyst passes, and on a third down play, Holtz "A few years ago, 

craftilylinedupfivereceivers. While many if an all-state player OVERLOAD. These magazines are only a small sampllng of sources available to those Interested In recruiting. 
thought it was a clever trick to throw the from Pennsylvania Serninolesoffbalance,othersnotedthatthe committed to Notre Dame or Penn State, ninningjoke. Gerryneverproducedon the Irish were playing in front of a national you would have found that in the local field so the real season became recruiting television audience against a highly popu-paper, not in a California paper or any big season. The entire recruiting process was larteam. Nobetter time to impress potential magazine," saysESPN analystBeanoCook. totally magnified." recruits with ·a dis-" • ''Today, when a player WhileFaustthrewtherecruitingprocess playofaerialoffense. 'Afewyearsago,ifan commits,it'sapttobein into the spotlight at Notre Dame, Tom 
Whether or not all-sta.te player committed a national publication." Lemming, considered an expert recruiting 
Il 
Holtz actually had to Notre Dame, you would The so-called recrui~g analyst, has magnified the recruiting hype implemented the · • hypestartedgraduallym nationally. "There never was much hype passing attack in the havefound that in the local the 1970s. The godfather until 1979," recalls Lemming, who has Orange Bowl to im-paper. Today, when a player oftherecruitingpublica-been involved in the business for 17 years. press recruits is, to a commits ifs apt to be in a tion was Joe Terranova, "But now we're [recruiting analysts] be­degree, irrelevant. natio~lpublication." whoinhisfreetirnewould coming responsible for the hype. I don't 
And whether or not ------=--------putoutthetop-lOrecruit-knowifthat'sgoodorbad. It'sgoodforthe Holtz committed to an expanded air attack ing classes. "1978 was the first time I saw fans, especially in the South. But it also in 1996 to attract talent to South Bend it," says Lou Samogyi, associate editor of hypes up the kid." (coincidentally during the most crucial re-Blue & Gold Illustrated. "Sports Illus-Lemminggetshisrecruitinginformation cruiting period) is also a moot point The trated would publish it each year." firsthand: during the spring and the summer simple fact that the football world thought Recruiting hype, both nationally and at months, he travels throughout the country hemightbetemptingprospectsisevidence NotreDame, wasbroughtintothespotlight to meet.the top 500 high school players enough thattherecruitinghypehascrossed under Gerry Faust's reign of terror in the personally. Lemming has films of each a dangerous line. early 1980s. In 1981, Faust r_ecruited 13 -player and his information is enhanced by 

The college football recruiting process Parade All-Americas, something unheard the· on-line recruiting service of Joseph over the last 10 years has resembled some-of, even today. "No school ever recruited Tybor, a sports writer for the Chicago Tri­thing like the days leading up to NFL draft more than four or five Parade All-Ameri-bune. , day. After all, each recruit could be the cas," continues Samogyi. "It became a While perhaps well-intended, the work 
14 SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ FEB RU A RY 8 , 1 9 9 6 
of Lemming and his colleagues at Blue Chip Illustrated, SuperPrep and the Na~ tionalRecruitingAdvisormakesothermem­bers ofthemedia, including Cook, Samogyi and David Haugh of Irish Sports Report , grimace in disgust. According to many, recruiting analysts often add a negative twist to the recruiting process for coaches, university officials and the prospects them­selves. Printing inaccurate or even too much information about a prospect's de­sires and intentions could shatter the prospect's confidence or endanger his repu­tation and chance for success in college. The schools themselves have to decide whether or not to pursue a prospect after reading, sometimes inaccurately, that the · student is leaning towards another school. 
According to Haugh in the February edi­tion of/SR, the verbal commitment over the last few years has become "as definitive as the local weather forecast." This is prima­rily due to analysts pressuring prospects into an immediate answer. After all, the analyst needs to look "professional" and make his recruiting 900 numbers more al­luring. Haugh' s solution, a little farfetched but sensible, would be for the NCAA to somehow limit an analyst's contact with a particular prospect. If a prospect had time and space to make the right decision, the verbal commitment would be more mean­ingful and more definite. Thus, recruiting hype would be mitigated. 
Ironically, a defining moment of the re­cent problem with the verbal commitment had little to do with analysts and more to do with other media and coaches. It occurred in 1993 between then-high school kicker Scott Bentley and Notre Dame. According· 
' to a Sports Illustrated article, Bentley had verbally committed to Notre Dame. "'I'm your kicker,"' he had reportedly told Notre Dame's recruiting coordinator, Tony Yelovich, before visiting South Bend. But Bentley's trip to South Bend was miserable. He toured the. campus in a driving rain­storm; he felt pressured to drink at the bars; further, he claimed, Holtz treated him too much like a kicker, when he wanted to be treated like any other football player. 
The incident became uglier, when, ac­cording to SJ, Holtz chewed Bentley out for committing to Florida State. Bentley's supposed reply to Holtz was the same one prospects use today when they change alle­giance: '"I said there had been times Coach Y elovich put so much pressure on me that I told him what he wanted to hear."' And thereitwas. Theverbalcommitmentproved meaningless and bad blood boiled. Still worse, themedia,namelySports Illustrated, let the world know about an incident that should have been left between the coaches of. Notre Dame and Scott Bentley and his family. 
The reason for the Bentley episode and the negative effect of recruiting hype· in general is two-fold: the killer instinct of coaches toacquireaprospectandthemedia's needtohypeitup. Yearsago,anincidentof that nature would probably have· never occurred -if it had, it cer­tainly would have never been hyped by a national publication such as SI. 
Aside from the Bentley fiasco, Notre Dame has remained virtu­ally unaffected by the nation's in­creased recruiting hype in recent years. From Vinny Cerrato to Bob Chmiel,NotreDame's system has remained firm, fighting the hype that grips other big-name schools, tempting them to open their doors to anyone. Cerrato, presently di~ rector of player personnel for the San Francisco 49ers, is often cred-. ited with gathering the massive . display of talent Notre Dame un­leashed in the1ate 1980s and early 90s. 
"The most important thing to me was selling education, selling opportunities after graduation and winning the national championship," re­callsCerrato. Whenaskediftheadmissions policy gnawed at him at times and was · differentfrom the standardsof other schools, Cerrato took the middle ground: "The admission's guy has a job and you had to respect that. I had a job," says Cerrato. "I would present my case. He presented his · case. Now Tony Rice was one of the exceptions made by the admissions depart­ment. But these exceptions graduated in every instance. And one or two of them would even donate a scholarship to the university later on." 
IfanythingisindicativeofNotreDame's inclination to elude the recruiting hype, it is its tough-as-nails admissions department Randy Moss, the nation's most highly­touted prospect in 1995, was shunned by Notre Dame when he reportedly failed to send in his application on time. Within a week, Florida State had him signed. And although Notre Dame could have admitted him under Proposition 48, James Jackson was also rejected due to his low test scores. 
According to Cook, this does not make Notre·Dame special or immune from the recruiting hype. "You know, Holtz talks aboutthemystiqueofNotreDame. There's no mystique. They simply get the best football players. Notre Dame isno different from any other school in the way they recruit. They think they are and that's okay." 

Lemming, however, disagrees. "Notre Dame is set apart from everyone else," he says. "In fact all private schools are: the Stanfords, theNorthwestems and the Notre Dames all have higher standards. As a result the talent pool is shrinking yearly for Notre Dame. They're having a tough time recruiting this year. Thankfully, because of the work ofBob Chmiel and DaveRo~rts, they'll finish in the top 10." 
Notre Dame took its course in the nega­tivity of recruiting hype three years ago when the recruiting for Bentley took an ugly tum. Bqtcollege football still has a lot to learn and will be in a state of disarray for many years until the NCAA finds a reason­able solution. While men like Chmiel and Holtz have quelled the surging hype around campus, only one question remains: Is that four or five receivers you have out there, Coach Holtz? D 


m1•JHU•1111•e~,,.,d:...-------------------------­
1:; ' Notre Dame Football's Class o/2000 promises to patch some big holes 
i 
BY BRIAN HIRoStanding opposed to the widely-held beliefthatfootballrecruitingisover­hyped and overexposed is another, very different, point of view: the feeling among so-called recruitaholics thatrecruit­ing is the lifeblood of a college football program. As the logic goes, if Random State doesn't go out and get the top prep players, then losing seasons are sure to follow. And losing,ofcourse, makes alumni impatient and coaches insomniacs. I ForNotreDamerecruitaholics, last year's recruitingcampaign was thefootball equiva­I lent of Christmas morning. Blue chip after blue chip fell Notre Dame's way,-with the end result being the consensus number-one 

I) 
class in the nation -and one of the best

i 
ever, according to somerecruiting analysts. What could recruiting coordinator Bob Chmiel and the Irish coaching staff possi­bly do for an encore? Well, opinions vary, but most believe this year's crop provides an excellent complement to 1995' s "class­of-a-lifetime." 
The jewels of the incoming group appear to be tight end Dan O'Leary, wide receiver Raki Nelson and defensive linemen Jason 

Ii ChingandBradWilliams. O'Leary,a6'5", 235-pounder from St Ignatius in Clev~ land, fills a vital need for the Irish offense. With Leon Wallace graduating and Pete Chryplewicz entering his final yearofeligi­bility, the tight end position required re­stocking. Well, consider it restocked. Widely regarded as oneofthe two best tight ends in the nation, O'Leary has the good hands and blockingability necessary to step in and play right away. 
The same goes for Nelson (6' 1 ", 180), a SuperPrep and Blue Chip Illustrated All-American from Harrisburg, PA. Notre Dame's first blue-chip wide receiver pros­pectsinceDerrickMayes(excludingRandy Moss), Nelson's 4.4 speed will help the 

Irish stretch opposing de-------------ing to get a top pros­fenses, an element that was , , • • • h. peel .There was a missing last season despite ••• recruiting lS t _e briefglimmerofhope 
~y~s· heroics. Chingand li-'eblood oifa colleoe when a rumor began
Wilhams, Notre Dame's "J• · o to circulate that, be-only USA_Tod~ 1st-Team footballprooram.'' cause of a technical­All-Amencans m the class, 0 ity, All-Worldcomer both possess the bulk that------------Dwayne Goodrich 
the Irish lost along the de­fensive line when Paul Grasmanis' eligibil­ityexpired. Don'tbesurprisedifoneofthe two has a major, Minor-like impact on the Irish defense next year. 
NotreDamepickedafewmoreplumsoff the recruiting tree. Quarterback Eric Chappell from Montgomery, coveted by Steve Spurrier and Florida, is such a good athlete that he has been recruited as any­thing from a defensive end to a free safety. Arizona kicker Jim Sanson, also a baseball player, averaged 68 yards on kickoffs and may bring the stability to the kicking game that neither Kevin Kopka nor Scott Cengia could provide last season. And Tallahassee nativeJayVickers,aSuperPrepAll-Ameri­can stolen by Notre Damefrom underneath the nose of Florida State, will lend depth to the Irish offense at either tailback or wide receiver. 

Therecruitingprocesswasn'tall funand games, though. For the second straight year, it appears the Irish have struck out at theall-importantcomerbackposition,fail­
could not sign with Tennessee, his first choice, and was on his way to South Bend. But this rumor ­surprise -turned out to be nonsense and the hearts of recruitaholics everywheresank in their chests. 
False rumors and sunken hearts aside, Notre Dame looks as if it has filled some ' important needs, especially in thereceiving corps and on the defensive line. Pair the new recruits with last year's class and 1996 will be a year in which Coach Holtz and staff can sleep easy. D 
16 


SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX 
A roundup of the week in sports 
January 31 to February 6 
edited by Brian Hlro 
l 
I 
Men's Basketball Splits a Pair 
on the Road 

In acoupleoftough BigEastroadgames, the Irish showed their mettle, knocking off StJohn 's 86-83 in Madison Square Garden and hanging with eighth-ranked Georgetown for much of the first half be­fore falling 70-53. 
The win over the Red Stonn marked Notre Dame's first in the conference away from theJoyceCenter. The Irish watched a 19-pointsecond-halfleaddissipatebut held onbehindclutchfree-throw shooting. Ryan Hoover came up big with 26 points. 
The offense didn't show up against the Hoyas as the Irish shot just 38 percent from thefieldandmissed alleightthree-pointers. 
Two Road ;Losses Hurt Hockey 
Playqff Hopes 

Notre Dame returns home to face Michi­gan and Bowling Green this weekend after dropping a pair of important conference games, 5-3 to last-place Illinois-Chicago and 7-1 to first-place Michigan State. The loss to UIC was especially painful as the Irish surrendered a3-0 first-period lead. 
Notre Dame is currently eighth in the ,CCHA at.5-14-3. 
Women's Basketball Ranked For First Time in Five Years 

Despite a 73-62 loss at Rutgers, Notre Dame's frrst Big East road loss this season, the Irish entered the weekly AP poll at number24. Thewomen'steamhasnotbeen ranked since the 1990-91 campaign. 
Againstthe ScarletKnights,the Irishwere done in by poor shooting as they connected on justfour of22 shots from behind the arc. Beth Morgan and Mollie Peirick led Notre Dame with 14 points apiece. 
Men's Tennis Remains Unbeaten; 
Women Split in Kansas 

Notre Dame's 16th-ranked men's tennis teamwastaken toadecidingmatchbyBoise State but prevailed 4-3 behind senior cap­tain Mike Spi;ouse, who defeated BSU's Albin Polonyi, ranked 23rd in the country. Jakub Pietrowski also turned in an impres­sive performance at number-two singles, winning a tough three-set battle. 
The women's team, also. 16th in the na­tion, suffered its first loss of the season to Kansas after beating number 13 William & Mary 4-3. Freshmen Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco each won two singles matches over the weekend. 
We Are ND: Rest assured that no Domer took a longer road trip this past weekend than freshman basketball player Phil Hickey. Because of his much-publicized fear of flying, Hickey departed Friday morning by car for Saturday's clash with Georgetown in D.C. 
-Quote of the Week:."You had Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen here and now all of a sudden you bring Satari into this group. Only Satan turns into this little angel. And we're just floatin' on these clouds." -Bullsforward Dennis Rodman 
Dix'sPick: On Sunday, Notre Dame starts and finishes in surprising fashion, defeating the Red Storm ofSt John's for the second time, 77-71. Pat Garrity leads all scorers with 21 points. · 
Biro's Hunch: The Irish try to continue the momentum from their win over Manhattan, but the revenge factor working for St John's is too much to overcome. Despite a doubie­double from Garrity;the Red Stonn win 72-65 behind 23 from Felipe Lopez. 

Scholastic's irrepressible music critics assemble a Valentine's Day 

BY JUSTIN COLE AND JOE MARCHAL 
JC: Around this timeofyear,sappy love songs are often played ad nauseam in order to ply the affections of an unwilling other. Not only do we find this pastime cheesier than Velveeta, we believe it is even more repulsing once the glorious feast of St. Valentine arrives. 
JM: Inordertocombattheblues of unrequited love, as well as the throes of irrational lust, Justin and I put our bitter minds and twisted hearts ( or is that twisted minds and bitter hearts?) together to amass for you a sumptuous variety of cathar­tic tunes entitled "Crappy Valentine's Day To You, Too!" (Now available on vinyl, cassette and 8-track.) 
JC: We hope it will provoke the jilted lover to acts of self-destruc­tiverageand dash the morose hopes of the solitary soul. Browse the following selections and see ifyou can find the cure for your particular love malady. 
Note: Keeping in mind the sensi­tive,impressionablemindsofourreadership, the authors ofthis articlefelt compelled to edit the sometimes explicitly profane con­tent. All profanity has been replaced by more family friendly language, offset by brackets, that would make Tipper Gore proud. 
JC: Forall ofyou accustomed to drown­ing your sorrows in your beer mug on Valentine's Day, The Queers sympathize with your plight. "Noodlebrain" describes the way many Darners see their exes after 
18 
·putting a few back: Sittin' drinki.n' a brew, trying not to think ofyou. I think you suck, you acted like a [woman of ill-repute]... 
you're a noodlebrain and! hate you. We, of course, do not condone this misuse of alcohol -especially with our underage 
·readers. 
JM: Discarded one too many times by 
thoughtless admirers who seemed sweet enough the night before? Are your roman­tic encounters becoming a string of sadden­ing nightmares? You might ask, as Liz Phair does in "[Copulate] andRun": What­ever happened to a boyfriend, the ki.nd of guy who tries to win you over? You may even find yourself lowering your standardsand singingalong: I want a boyfriend. I want all that stupid o/' [poopy] like letters and sodas. 
~ 
JC: Planning to dump a dim­witted significant other? Why bother? Here's sound economic advice from Mr. T Experience­string them along instead! The song "Will you still love me when I don't love you?" offers a better alternative: I hate world.ng, it's so stupid ... If you really love me, honey,getanotherjobandsendme the money. This is easier if your 
· victimisn'tforeign, with exchange rates and all. 

JM: Sensitive guys to arms! Are you befuddled by the fact that you are once again alone? Jawbreaker's "Bad Scene, Everyone's Fault" may be the tonic you've been looking for: Why is it always like this? Either you're too mean or you're too nice. He said, 'I even cookedherbreak­fast.' How did you want those eggs, honey? Arsenic side up? 
~­

· JC: Is someone stalking you? Getting some unwanted attention? Fortunately, we're used to that-ourselves and suggest J Church's ':I Can't Be Nice To You": I 
won't write you a letter. I won't call you on 


playlist that proves love is .blind. -and .probably tone-deaf, too 
the phone ... still you won't leave me alone. 
As we all know, being nice only breeds obsession. 
JM: Can't stop hearing the nagging voice of that special someone? gotten completely under your skin? Let The Core's ''The Kiss" exor­cise those demons of love lost: Get it out, get your [fornicating] voice out of my head. I wish you were dead. It's much cheaper than therapy. 
JC: Did that oh-so handsome prince turn into a frog? Appear­ancesarenotalwayswhattheyseem, as Tuscadero tells us in "Dime A Dozen": / was young and naive, didn't figure it out. That she was only yourfriend/ had no doubt. It wasthebiggestmistakel evermade. But I made sure you paid, paid, paid. Um, exactly how much would it cost to turn him back into a frog? 
~ 

JM: Some manage to rise above all the pettiness of break-ups, however. reinforced ego and a confident stride ("I think I'm grand") you, too, can tell anyone what Catherine Wheel advises:· "Eat My Dust, You Insensitive [Coitus]." You de­serve better anyway. 
~ 

JC: For those men who have had a physical short-coming drive a wedge be­tween you and that special someone, know that The Beautiful South echoes your sen­timents in "Size": and/' m half his size, how comeit's him who gets to keep the prize? But lest you lament too long, their petty retort in "36-D": 36-D so what, isthatall thatyou'vegot? may help 
you get your head on straight 
~ 

JM: Searching for the words to release yourself from the death-grips of that big­boned gal? The Smiths sympathize with your plight and remii;id you: From the Ice-
Age to the Dole-Age, there is but one con­cern ... some girls are bigger than others! 
Remember, Valentine's chocolates are the last gift you want to give. 
~ 

·Jc: So, you finally dumped that bag on your hip? Feel bad? Don't Take acuefromBuck-O-Nine's"Sappy Love Song": So ifshe's cryin', you know you've done somethingright. And ifshe hates you, you'll sleep better at night. Just think ofit this way -it's honesty, not cruelty. 
~ 
JM: Have past relationships 
doneseverementaldamagetoyou? 
Sapped you of all romantic ener­
gies? Don't let them break your 
will when they say: With a face like 
this, you won't break any hearts. 
Follow Therapy?'s advice for re­covery and, let these words from "Screamager" become your man­tra: Screw that,forget about that, I don't wanna know about anything like that. 

So if you see silly love-lorn fools walking hand-in-hand across the quad and 
to feel the impending doom of Valentine's Day, feel free to scream any of these lyrics at the top of your lungs. · 
JC: We apologize for the crass language used by some ofthese artists, but love isn't always pretty. If, by chance, you find this compilation to be inaccessible and imperti­nent to you ... well, it probably wasn't for 
Enjoy your Valentine's Day and leave the rest of us to suffer in peace. 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ FEBRUARY 8, 1996. 
19 

j 


,,
" 


Presenting a list of videos that promises to make this Valentine's Day an affair to remember 


alentine's Day descends upon us this Wednesday, andformen acrossAmerica this signals the inevitable forced-watching ofsuch holi­day "classics" as Sleepless in Seattle, Love Storyand theever-unbearableAnAf­
fair to Remember. This 

year, however, save the roses, chocolates, etc. and surprise your significant other by renting anyofthe following movies, guaranteed to satis&the lusts ofany red-blooded romantic guyin anysituation. 
_BY____;;_Cl-rRIs M_YER____;s~-----­
For starters, tell your girlfriend to put back thatWhile You Were Sleeping box, and recom­mend instead Bitter Moon. Starring Hugh Grant ( that'll grab her) as a very boring, very married Englishman trying to rekindle the fire with his wife aboard aMediterranean cruise, the film starts heating up when he meets Peter Coyote, a paralyzed Ameri­can with awife who is sexuallyliberal, tosay the least Upon listening to hours ofthe couple's sexual misad­ventures, Grant eventually gets trapped in a moral dilemma of whether to go home to his prim and properwife (Kristen ScottThomas) orhave ago with the oversexedMimi (EmmanuelleSeigner). The film tendstolaginthemiddle,butdirectorRomanPolanski sends all notions of classical romance overboard early, buttressing the film with an opening hour filled with borderline-porno sex fetishes (the breakfast sceneis a sure-fire rewinder) and ademented psycho­
20 

logical torture ending (with a bonus twist) that will make you question the one you love. 
Of course if romance isn't your cup of tea, you can always do well with a bit of the ol' ultraviolerice. For instance, Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange is chock­full of the stuff men love. Malcolm McDowell's Alex and his Droogies repre­sent the future of male bonding, and though your girlfriend may not appreciate the harsh beginning, tell her to stay for the "Singin' in the Rain" showstopper (musicals always hook women). Following Alex's evolution from brutal thug to reformed citizen, A Clockwork Orange tells the nightmarish results ofacoming-of-agegoneawry. While audiences have been divided on the film's significance (statement on society or mere glorification of violence), it's a great date movie for the Valentine holiday -asweet-tartnoveltycelebrat­ing thebasic carnal lusts of man­kind drenched in a delicious Beethoven soundtrack. 
Yet sometimes the only way to enjoy each other's company is to get completely soused. Never fear, there are plenty of Holl ywood-does-drurikenness stories, from Leaving Las Ve­gas, now in theaters, to notable video titles such as The Lost Weekend and Clean and Sober. But the diamond-in-the-rough Ba,:flyisyourbestchoice. Star­ring Faye Dunaway (in her last great performance) and Mickey Rourke (in his only good one) the film examines the life of a drunken 
, writer (Rourke) and the fellow alkie that befriends him (Dunaway) at the bar. This semi-biographical screenplay by the late Charles Bukowski paints a picture of ro­manceon the rocks, and thepoignant drama with flashes ofhumormakes a good mix for the both of you. 
So if your romance has turned sour and if this is to be your last Valentine's Day to­gether, gooutwithabang. TheWarofthe Roses is a reliable flick to get the message across in a not-so-subtle way -right up to its uncompromising black ending. Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas bicker and 
TOUGH LOVERS: Emmanuelle Selgner, left, with Coyote In Bitter Moon. McDowell, top, does A C/ockwo;k Orange, while DeVlto referees Douglas and Turner's War of the Roses bottom. 
banter over the most prized possession a couplecanhave-largeNewEnglandreal estate-in this (sometimes literally) biting satire on stale romance. Danny DeVito's direction is crisp and focused, and the leads are note perfect To hint that all is not well in a more subtle way, rent I Spit on Your Grave. Possibly one ofthe worst films ever made, the premise is that a beautiful aspir­ing writer takes off into the secluded woods to work on her novel in peace and quiet To herdismay,however,sheencountersaroam­ing bunch of inbreds who spend the better halfofthe movie raping her. Ofcourse, this requires her not only to remain naked throughout the film, but also to exact vio­lent revenge on the group at the end ala Lorena Bobbit or with an ax to the skull. Not recommended for those with a weak stomach or I.Q. over five. 
But one film bound to send mixed signals is the notorious Russ Meyer (Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Killl) classic, Beyond the Valley ofthe Dolls. This 1970 non-sequel could be the perfect Valentine's Day movie for the both of you. Centering around an all-woman.'s rock band, the action takes place in Hollywood where the band encounters th~ ever-present vices of sex, drugs and rock and roll. Scripted by film critic Roger Ebert, the NC­17 rated BVD is crammed with swank Hollywood parties, groovy 70s funk, shady Holly­wood agents, pill-popping swingers and slinky topless 

bimbos. There's more trash here than an Ed Wood collection, but as far as finding the perfect alternative date movie, well ­Happy Valentine's Day. 
So this year, shelve Moonstruck, Love Affairand all thosecloyingromances Chris­tian Slater has done. Be wild, be brave and assert yourself in choosing this year's . Valentine's date movie. She might be shocked, surprised or even appalled-but, hey, in the immortal words ofRyan O'Neal and Ali MacOraw, love means never hav­ingtosayyou'resorry. Renting any of these movies should put that adage to the test 0 
Bitter Moon: B-; A Clockwork Orange: A-; Barfly. B; The War ofthe Roses: B; / Spit on Your Grave: F;Beyond the Valley of the Dolls: B+ 

22 


This Valentine's Day, let 01' Blue Eyes swoon and croon to your heart's content 
BY STAN EVANS Whenlookingforsomeroman_tic music to play when your sig­nificantotherstopsby, chances are you won't be grabbing for your copy of Frank Sinatra's Songs For Swingin' Lov­ers. Though Sinatra may seem outdated in 
today's college music scene, he is the 
into the despair of one's loss, offering one perfect catalyst for any relationship. Ever ofthe most disturbing lines Frank has ever since recording his first tune in 1939, he sung, S' cuse me while/disappear (the last has been either extolling the virtues oflove line he sang before his 1971 retirement). or warning of the heartbreak and torture Another dramatic cut from the same al­that comes when it goes bad. With a slight bum, "Guess I'll Hang My Tears Out to twist of his vocal cords, Sinatra can go Dry," offers some hope, as he real.ires that from making love sound sweet to turning crying won't solve his problems. Follow­it bitterly sour. Any way the music goes, ing the powerof these songs, "One For My here are some Valentine's Day sugges­Baby" finds 01' Blue Eyes filling his shot tions that will either reaffirm your existing glass with tears again, as he confides to the . emotions or 'restore the feelings that once bartender: We're drinking, my friend, to were. the end, ofa brief episode. Makeitonefor 
my baby, and one more for the road. Fi­
For the Lovers nally, "What'll I Do?" from 1962's All
Are you thinking about. that special someone who you've ·been see­ing since that last SYR? Do you needaspecial, "They're-playing-our-song" song for your next romantic encounter? A few of these titles may help you on your quest for true love: Romantic classics such as "Young at Heart" and "The Way You· Look Tonight" are sure to grab her atten­tion, having appeared in the recent roman­tic films It Could Happen to You and Fa­ther ofthe Bride, respectively. One of the most genteel songs of Sinatra's career, "Dindi"from 1967'sFrancisAlbertSinatra/ Antonio CarlosJobim is also one of his best This pairing with Brazilian composer/gui­tarist A.C. Jobim successfully mates the swaying bossa nova with the smooth vocals of the "Chairman" himself. Also likely to warm her fire is Sinatra's rendition of the 
I 
For the Lonely 
fyourlastfonnal wentbad,however, 
listening to Sinatra sing oflove gone 

wrong may alleviate some of the pain. These heartfelt ballads will make you see that the light at the end of the tunnel is not an oncoming car: Appearing on 1958's 
Only the Lonely,."Angel Eyes" digs deep 
Beatles' "Something" -often proclaimed to be "the greatest love song ever written." According to Sinatra, '"Something' says 'I Love You' without ever being explicit" Finally, "The Last Dance," a previously unreleased 1961 recording now available on The Reprise Collection, is the perfect slow dance closer for any SYR. As the night winds down, Sinatra pleads with his date to "save me the first dance in your dreams tonight" 
Alone, deals with the reality and grief of realizing you don't have the one you love anymore: What' ll I do, with just a photo­graph to tell my troubles to? In retrospect, Sinatra admitted that he wouldn't be able to sing at such an emotional level again. 
Listening toFrank Sinatra thisValentine's Day will bring about a new appreciation for the love you take for granted. If you're looking for that right moment to steal your first kiss or pop that ever important ques­tion, just tum on some Sinatra, and savor that moment forever. D 

L---'--------------'--­
-

-rw,c °"BAK3"D ---P01A10"3S 
-



BRUNO'S PIZZA 1111· Open for carryou·t and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. · and banquets. **2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 2610 Prairie Ave. 273-3890 288-3320 "All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our· pizza right to Notre Dame's and·Saint Mary's ca_mpuses.  

24 

ii 





=~jrJffl 
"1 

TWlnHIE 
(But make Sure Yau Test •ts LntelHQence FiratJ 

BY JOHN lNFRANcA 
. A Not So Entertaining (Spaceship) Enterprise 
Want some warp-speed fun? Then look 

no further than the Captain James T. Kirk 
Sing-a-Long Home Page. That's right, 
whenhe'snotgoingwherenomanhasgone 
before, he's singing what no man will want 
to hear. The site is dedicated to The Trans­
former Man, an album William Shatner 
recorded in 1968. It was created by Mark 
Meloon, a graduate student at the California 
Institute of Technology. The page even 
features sound clips that can be down­
loaded ('hope you have a sound card and 
great speakers). One of the most popular 
songs is "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds." 
In addition, Shatner even reads a bit of 
Hamlet. (Boy, this,guy's got talent) So if you want to sing-a-long with Capt Kirk, beam yourself over to http:// , www .ama.caltech.edu/users/mrm/ 
kirk.html. 
Personally,I'mabitannoyedthatShatner didn't do a duet album with David Hasselholf. 
. Don't Try This With Any Twinkie 
"bo not attempt this experiment without propersafetyequipmentincludingadequate · ventilation, respirators, fire extinguishers, SweetTartsandplentyofthoselittletagson mattresses that say 'Do notremove,"' states part of the disclaimer on a recent project by two Rice University scientists. The two students, Christopher Gouge and Todd Stadler, conducted a variety of experiments 
on the Twinkie, everyone's favorite cream­filled snack. The experiment is known as "Tests With Inorganic Noxious Kakes In Extreme Situations," or "The T.W.IN.K.I.E.S. Project" 
It involved seven tests, subjecting the golden cakes to fire, radiation, electricity and gravity. The radiation test, for which the aforementioned disclaimer was written, subjected the Twinkie to 10 minutes on high in a microwave. Unfortunately, the experiment was aborted after one minute and 13 seconds due to the emission of noxious fumes. 
An intelligence test pitted the Twinkie against a Rice University sophomore. The sophomore showed a considerable amoW1t ofconfusionattheprocedure,asking, ''Wait, you're testing to see if a Twinkie is intelli­gent?" Meanwhile, the Twinkie was rela­tively quiet and did not question the testing. Gouge and Stadler's conclusion was that "Twinkies are not sentient in any ways we can understand." For those interested, their results are posted on the World Wide Web at http://www.rice.edu/~gouge/ twinkies.html. 
. University Administra­tion Plagued by Prank Calls (From the university president's wife?) 
I'm sure at least a few ofyou have made prank telephone calls during your time here at Notre Dame. At Adelphi University, however, even administrators have gotten in on the act The university has had many problems recently with The Committee to Save Adelphi, a group which is trying to oust the school's president, Peter Diamandopoulos. The group has now ac­cused his wife, Maria Diamandopoulos, of leaving harassing messages on the voice mail at their union headquarters. Cathy Cleaver, a leader of the committee and the W1ion, received nine messages on the night of November 29. She has said that one was the sollild ofa toilet flushing, another was a vulgarwoman who called thegroup a "radi­cal, Nazi, sort of Karl Marx" organization. "I want you out of there, not President Diamandopoulos," the women also said. The union hired a voice analyst who con­cluded "with a high degree ofcertainty" that the voice was the Wliversitypresident' s wife. (In addition I've done some tests myself and the toilet flushing was done from a rest stop off ofthe New York Thru­way.) 
ThecommitteebecamesuspiciousofMrs. Diamandopoulos and hired a private inves­tigator. The detective foWld a copy of a message allegedly faxed by Mr. and Mrs. Diamandopoulos (I'm getting sick of typ­ing that name) to Boston University Presi­dentJohn Siber,anAdelphi trustee. Thefax read: "We both left a few choice, but well beneath our dignity, messageson theirvoice . mail this evening." According to Siber, the fax is "phony as a $3 bill." Meanwhile, Ms. Cleaver has asked for an investigation by the district attorney. 
Considering all the problems which plague American education, it is certainly nice to see that we still have mature, wise and composed leaders at the top of our institutes of higher education. 


mdiilil11iic•------,-----'-------------------:----­

C.omi.Ilg


D1stract1ons 
February 8 -February 15 
' 

Field, Court & Alley 
Swimming 

• ND vs. University of Connecticut. Rolf's. Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Hockey 

• 
ND vs. University of Michigan. JACC. Friday,.? p.m. 

• 
ND vs. Bowling Green. JACC. Saturday, 7 p.~. 


Basketball 

• ND men vs. St. John's. JACC. Sunday, 1 p.m; · 

Cultural Connection 
Lectures and Seminars 

• 
Readings, Sophomore Literary Festival. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Saturday and Sunday, 8 p.m. 

• 
Workshop, Sophomore Literary Festival, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, Sunday, 11 a.m. 

• 
Lecture, "How To Help a Friend With an Eating Problem." Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall, SMC. Thursday, 6 p.m. 

• 
Spanish Mass. Chapel, Stanford-Keenan Hall. Sunday, 


1:30 p.m. 


• Lecture, "Works by Phyllis Brams_on'. painter.~ Snits. Thurs­day, 7:30 p.m. 

Entertainment 

• 
Black History Month, Black Formal. Ballroom, LaFortune. Saturday, 9 p.m. Admission. . 

• 
Film, "Little Women." Carron Auditorium, SMC. Friday and Saturday, 7 and 9:30 p.m. 

• 
Film, "Get Shorty." Snits. Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 


I 
1,, 
p.m. . 
• 
Film, "How to Make an American Quilt." Cushing'. Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. and 10:30 p,m; Sunday, 2 p.m. 

• 
Comedy, "Chicago City Limits." O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. Saturday, 8 p.m. (Tickets:284-46_26) ; 

• 
Film, "Like Water for Chocolate," Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 



• Faculty Recital, Georgine Resick, soprano. Snits.. Sunday, 2p.m. 
• Exhibition Opening Reception, "Dante's lnf.erno," prints by Michael Mazur. Snite. 
' 



On the Silver Screen 
February 9 -February 15 
University Park West: 277-7336. 
• 
"Toy Story," G, 2:15, 4:45, 6:45, 9:10. 

• 
"Cry, the Beloved Country," PG-13, 2:00, 7:15. . • "Dead Man Walking," R, 1 :45, 4:20, 7:00, 9:40. 


• "Bio-Dome," PG-13, 4:45, 9:30. University Park East: 277-7336. 
• 
"Restoration," R, 1 :50, 4:15, 7:1 o, 9:40. 

• 
"White Squall," PG-13, 1 :40, 4:20, 7:00, 9:35. 

• 
"From Dusk Til Dawn," R, 2:20, 4:45, 7:20, 9:50. 

• 
"Eye For An Eye," R, 2:10, 4:35, 7:00, 9:15. 


· • "Heat," R, 1 :30, 4:50, 8:10. • "Jumanji," PG, 2:00, 5:00. 
• "Casino," R, 8:00. Movies 10: 254~9685. 
• 
"Grumpier Old.Men," PG-13, 1:10, 3:25, 5:40, 7:55, 10:10. 

• 
"Black Sheep," PG-13, 1 :05, 3:15, 5:25, 7:45, 9:55. 

• 
"Twelve Mo11keys," R, 1 :45, 4:35, 7:25, 10:15. 

• 
''Two If By Sea," R, 7:40, 10:15. 


., "Bridges of Madison County," PG-13, 12:45, 3:45, 7:20, 10:10. 
• 
"Sense and Sensibility," PG, 1:15, 4:15, 7:15, 10:05. •"Mr.Holland's Opus,"PG, 12:50, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00. 

• 
"Leaving Las Vegas," R, 1 :30, 4:20, 7:05, 9:50. 

• 
"Dunston Checks In," PG, 1 :00, 3:20, 5:30. 

• 
"Bed of Roses," PG, 12:55, 3:00, 5:10, 7:35, 9:45. 

• 
"Beautiful Girls," R, 1 :20, 4:05, 7:10, 9:40. 



26 






For 
Birds 
BY KEVIN FINNERTY Going home for Thanksgiving seemed simple enough: just board a plane in South Bend to Chicago's O'Hare Airport, wait a couple hours and get on plane heading to Albany, New York. I'd leave South Bend at 2:24 p.m., arrive in Albany at 7:31 p.m; I'd even be home in time for 90210. What could go wrong? In a word, everything. I got to the airport at 2 p.m., and gave myself approximately a half hour to board. That was when I was hit with my first shock: my plane, flight 4341, had already left. I was told that since I purchased my tickets, the schedule had changed. Out­standing. I must have looked like I was about to kill somebody as the person at the counter said, "Well, let me see what I can do for you." Within a couple minutes, he fished up a free ticket for a United Limo bus headed for O'Hare, and told me it should arrive a half-hour before my con­necting flight took off. To make up for the confusion, he graciously upgraded my re­turn flight to first-class. Quickly, I calmed down, assured that I would be home in time for Thanksgiving. Little did I know that the adventure was just beginning. The bus ride was going smoothly until we hit the city ofChicago. Since it was the day before Thanksgiving, every vehicle in Illinois was on the road, and they were all snarled in a horrible traffic jam in front of me. My stomach became very jittery as I realized that arriving before my connect­ing flight's departure of 4:35 p.m. was basically out of the question. I could do nothing as I listened to the radio's repeated traffic alerts. "It seems everyone is on the roadtonight!" theannouncerjoked. Thanks for the news flash. I'm glad he was able to . take some enjoyment from this mess. ' I watched as th~ time slowly ticked away: 4:05, 4:15, 4:25.• still no airport and lots of cars. At4:42, we finally arrived at 
\ 
the American Airlines terminal. I dashed in to look at the departure board, praying \that my flight had been delayed. No such 
luck. Now I was in trouble, for American had no other flights to Albany that night. I made my way through the ticket line, and explained my problem to the clerk. She punched a few keys on her computer, found a plane and told me to run to gate K6-B since "The plane leaves in four minutes." I took off. Coming from New York, I thought I had a good idea of what 'big' was. But nothing could prepare me for the monstrosity of 0 'Hare Airport. Dashing past all 20 gates of concourses E,F,G and H, with two increas­ingly heavy bags in tow, I was expecting to 

find a pot of gold rather than an airplane home. 
I finally got to the gate and handed the attendant my boarding pass, only to find out the plane was heading to LaGuardia. "But I need to get to Albany," I told her. She went through the computers, trying to figure out how to get me home. "It looks like you'll have to fly into LaGuardia, find yourself a way over to Kennedy, and wait for a plane thatleavesatl0:30." Icouldn'trespond. All I could think about was that I should already be on a flight home. 
I asked if there was anything else avail­able. Another few minutes of searching through the computer resulted in a flight on Northwest that left at 5:30 for Detroit, con­necting to Albany. I would be home by 9:45. 
Fine. At least I'd be home in timefor''Law and Order." Of course, I only had a few minutes to dash over to the other terminal, where I find the plane delayed until 6:05. I was assured that I would still be able to catch my connecting flight. I called home to let my parents know the situation, and thankfully my father picked up. He just asked what time I was getting home and didn't bother with any questions. 
As I boarded the plane, I was told that I would not have enough room for both my carry-ons and needed to check one. Seeing as how the plane was about to depart, I doubted that my bag would actually get on the plane. At the rate I was going, it would be par for the course that I'd never see that bag again. In fact, the bag was lost, and didn't show up until the next day. I arrived in Detroit and ran across the airport (again) to catch the flight to Albany. As luckwould have it, the 8:30 flight had been delayed until 9:50, and would not artjve until after 11:30.Imadethemistakeofaskingwhythe plane had been delayed. ''The original plane broke." Honest to God, that is the response I received. Is there any answer that could make a person more nervous to fly? 
Needless to say, I waited, and waited some more. I called home, updating my parents on yet another arrival time. This time my mother answered, who, as many mothers could be expected to be, was in an irrational panic. "I'll kill 'em," was all she could utter. I believe she had the whole airline industry in mind. 
Once I finally got on the plane, I contin­ued to wait. The de-icing process was apparently taking longer than the pilot thought. He joked that even though it was taking a long time, they were making "progress." Iwasn'tinalaughingmood. In eight and a halfhours of"air travel," I have made it from Chicago to Detroit. Driving would have gotten me at least to Pittsburgh. 
Aslwritethis,it's 11:30,I'msomewhere over western New York, and I'm missing Letterman. I should have been home four hours ago, but I must be satisfied with my Pepsi and bag ofpeanuts, the only food I've had since this disaster started. Hopefully, I willlandin timeto enjoyafun-filledThanks­giving with my family. If not, I hope the airport cafeteria offers a special on turkey.0 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staffof Scholastic Magazine. 

by Gretchen Gusich

Missing: Won1en Candidates 
Gretchen Gusich is a junior philosophy and German major who lives in Lewis Hall. 

WhenRyanO'Neill,ajuniorfromKeenan, asked me to run with him for student body office, I did not give the matter much consideration before declining. Neither he nor I have any experience with student government, so I thought it best to leave the job up to someone who knew whats/he was doing. The more thought I gave to running, however, the more attractive I found Ryan's offer. I consider myself somewhat of an idealistand the notion ofeffectingpositivechangeon this campus became more and more irresistable. I attended theinformationalmeetingfor those students interested in campaigning and signed our names to the preliminary candidate list. Nothing was official, but we certainly were on our way. Ryan's and my first concern was that we had not yet developed our platform. After all, how could one expect to be nominated for such an influential and prestigious position unless s/he were backed by a thoughtful and well-researched platform? We talked to our friends and classmates in order to get an idea ofthose issues which most concerned and interested them and then, putting our minds together, we came up with what we considered to be a respectable and worthwhile compilation. Ournextstep in the election process was collecting sign~tures on ourcampaign petition. This, ofcourse, required that we decide which of us would run for president and which for vice president. After little discussion, we both agreed that the student body would be open and receptive to a woman running for the top spot and, as such, our decision was easily made. We were pleased to hear the rumor that two other tickets had likewise chosen to have women vying for the officeofpresident-:--especially consid­ering that Notre Dame has never had a woman in that office. When we handed in our campaign petition, Ryan and I were told that we would need to submitan essay statingourplatform, sign up for mediainterviewsand take part in the presidential debates. Although we had given our platform a lot of time. and thought, we had done little in the way ofresearching it. As such, we decided to resign from therace, leaving thejobup to those students who had been more responsible in their efforts, having better developed and researched their plans for the upcoming year. 
As I am sure each of you does, I try very much to lead my life such that I have no regrets. I am careful to be both thoughtful and thorough in my decision­making in order to ensure that I make the best decision of which I am capable. Still, I cannot help but regret having withdrawn from this election. My reasons are twofold: 
First, the platforms upon which the majority ofthe candidates have based their campaigns are, politely stated, rather weak. Looking at the campaign post­ers, one might be lead to believe that the issues most importantto us are moreconveniently locatedATMs, better access to the bars or bowling(??). If these posters are an accurate account of our interests, I think that it is time to reevaluate our priorities. Although some of the candidates presented worth­whileproposals, few oftheplatformsprovidedorigi­nal or creative suggestions for change. 
Second, I was very disappointed to learn that the rumor that two women would be running for presi­dent was, in fact, just a rumor. Only three of the 20 students campaigning for office are women and, of those three, all arerunningforvicepresident. Itis my opinion that all three ofthese women are as strong of candidates, if not stronger, than their running mates. Furthermore, one even admitted to running for vice­president because she wanted her ticket to have a chance ofwinning. This late in the century, I would hope that Notre Dame would be open to equality of the sexes and encourage women to have as strong of roles as their male counterparts. 
This having been said, I hope to be proven wrong. I hope that the students elected into the position of president and vice president take their jobs more seriously than thatfor which Ihavegiven them credit. Perhaps they arebetterable to play thepolitical game than I and, after having been elected, will work diligently to effectchange in areas truly important to the. student body. Furthermore, I hope to have planted a seed in the mind ofsome underclasswoman who, this time next year, will be on the brink of bringing Notre Dame into the era of equality of the sexes. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• FEBRUARY 8, 1996 

Bo /UNBORN 
A ONE--MAN PLAY PRESENTED BY DAN FERRONE, N.D. CLASS OF '59 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8TH 
7PM. WASHINGTON HALL 
A freewill offering will be taken to support the Women's Care Center 
,_,.,#o,._c, 
. ._;-vJ 

~ Jus
Sponsored by: 

1' . -~ 
'r;--or ,:O '-'" Vitae 



0: Bob Hol b. 13:Student Readin February 10-15 
-Sp.m. Librarylluditorium 11 :Tobi 

Wol .15:Gwend 
Broo 
readlearneducate. 


Feb. 14:F:rances
readlearneducate. 


Sherwood 

Read. Learn. Educate.~~~~~~~~~~~ead.Learn.Educate.Read.Learn. 

ro<lp•o~1o•g-1no1atio~ 
US POSTAGE 


SUNDAYS 7.00 -8.30 PM WVFI 640 AM 
"WHAT WE CANNOT SPEAK ABOUT WE MUST PASS OVER IN SILENCE." LUDWIG WITTGENSTEIN TRACTATUS LOGICO-PH!LOSOPHOCUS ( I 9 I 8) 
LANGUAGE. POETRY.THOUGHT 
THIS WEEK'S GUEST PROFESSOR GRETCHEN REYDAMS-SCHILS PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
HOSTED BY 
STEVE JURAS 
This week on SportsTalk Derrick Mayes Sun, Feb 11, 6-7 pm 
0 . 

-1-¦ ­
0 
en O>:;:




·-.£: 0 
(I) >-"ti
::::, ... ­
... ¦I-(1)
+-• 



0 -?:: ~ :E 

+-<((1)(1)
Cl) +­
+-(I) ~ ·a. 
c~ (Oen

(0 la,,;; en (1) 
1,.. ::::, "C 
-a-C: c­
:, 0 0::::,
0 (I) 0 


~ .a >­
... 
C (1)
:::, ·-en (I) 0
0 


C (1)
::::,­
I-a. 












