Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moritums.
Vol. VXI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 30, 1883.
No. 42.-

The 39th Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, Wednesday and Thursday, June 20th and 21st, 1883.
Wednesday.
Never in the history of Notre Dame did a Commencement time find gathered such a large con-course of old and new friends as did this. In the order and harmony of the exercises, in the good order and decorum observed by the vast assemblage, in the propitiousness of the weather—in all that could in any way tend to make these concluding days of Notre Dame’s thirty-ninth year all that could be desired, there was nothing wanting. The honored guest and orator of the occasion was the Rt. Rev. John Watterson, D.D., Bishop of Columbus, who arrived on Tuesday, and was welcomed by the College authorities and students. Another distinguished visitor was the Rt. Rev. Father Benoit, Vicar-General of the diocese, and lately created a Monsignor, by our present Holy Father Leo XIII. There were many other honored guests, the mention of whose names we must defer to our “ Personal ” columns.
On Wednesday morning, the exercises were dutifully opened by the celebration of Solemn High Mass, called the “ Alumni Mass,” from the fact that it is said in behalf of the members of the Alumni Association. Rev. President Walsh was celebrant, with Rev. James J. Quinn, ’81, as deacon, and Rev. John P. Quinn, ’83, subdeacon. After the Mass, Bishop Watterson, laid the corner-stone of New Science Hall with imposing and appropriate ceremonies. The Bishop addressed the large audience that encircled the foundations, speaking in substance as follows:
« We assemble here.this morning to lay the corner-stone of a hall for Natural Sciences which form part of the complete course of a University education. It is objected against our holy Mother the Church that she is opposed to the progress of natural science, that natural sciences are opposed to religion, that the discoveries of science are doing away with the supposed superstitions of the ancient revelation. How does this opinion of the world compare with our actions this morning in laying the corner-stone of a home for Natural Science in this grand University of Notre Dame? We lay it in the shadow of yonder church, and here the students of Notre Dame can have the opportunities and means of perfecting themselves
in those physical studies which, instead of being opposed to religion, are auxiliaries to it, because they introduce us to the studies by which we attain our destiny. The course of an education in a Catholic university is intended to make intellectual and moral men, all the branches conspiring to this noble aim. The ancient classics of Greece and Rome tell the student of the necessity of a revelation, and history teaches of the doings of Almighty God with man, proclaims God’s goodness and mercy, and necessity of His Church. Natural philosophy places us in the very vestibule of theology, moral philosophy tells us of our relations with our fellow-men and our duties in the various walks of life. Heretofore, natural sciences have been taught in this University, but now thejr are to be taught with greater application than ever. The Church has no grand ceremonies for the dedication of such an edifice, yet she has a rite for the laying of a corner-stone, because she intends that everything should be made for the honor and glory of God. Here natural sciences are to receive diligent attention, for they tell us of the goodness and greatness of God, and teach us that everything should lead us to God. Some men do not recognize God in science because they do not see natural sciences as God intended. He wishes nature to lead us to Him, and if sciences are properly studied they will do their own towards bringing us to our future happiness.”
This new building was described in a previous number of the Scholastic. Its erection will redound to the credit of the University, as it will also be of material aid to the development and perfection of the scientific training of its youthful-inmates.
Soon after the ceremony, the meeting of the Alumni
was held, at which much important business was transacted. The following officers were elected for ’83-84:
Honorary President—Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.
President—Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, M. S., A. M., ’70, of Columbus, Ohio.
ist Vice-President—Rev. J. Dinnen, A. M., ’65, of Crawfordsville, Ind.
2D Vice-President—John G. Ewing, A. M., M. S., ’77, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Secretary—Timothy E. Howard, A. M., ’62, of South Bend, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Treasurer—Joseph A. Lyons, LL. D., ’62, of Notre Dame. •
Orator—William Hoynes, A. M., ’69, of Notre . Dame.
Alternate Orator—George F. Sugg, B. S., ’Si, of Chicago, Ill.
Poet—E. McNally, A. M., ’64, of Huntington, Indiana.
Alternate Poet—Eugene F. Arnold, A. M., ’S3, of Washington, D. C.
Historian—James F. Edwards, ’72, LL. M., of Toledo, Ohio.
At half-past one, immediately after the meeting of the Alumni, the members adjourned to the ■Juniors’ dining-room of the University, where the Annual Banquet was held. The hall had been tastefully and richly decorated for the occasion, and a choice mem was spread. V ery Rev. F ather Sorin presided, having at his right hand Monsignor Benoit, Vicar^General of the diocese of Ft. Wajme, and at his left Rev. President Walsh; on either side were Rev. Father Lambing, A. M., of Pittsburg, Pa.; Rev. Dennis Tighe, ’71, of Chicago; Rev. James Quinn, ’79, of Peoria; Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, ’70, of Columbus, and others of the Alumni, invited guests, and press representatives. After due justice had been done the sumptuous repast, Prof. E. A. McNally, ’65, of Huntington, Ind., acting as toast-master, read the following toasts:
Our Holy Father, Poee Leo XIII.—The spiritual Head of the Christian Republic. May he live long to guide the Nations in the way of Peace, Liberty and Truth.
Response by Very Rev. Father General Sorin.
The President of the United States.—May he always remain the Chief Magistrate of a free, united, and happy people.
Responded to by Prof. W. Hoynes, A. M.
The Press.—May it continue the friend of Morality, Justice and Truth.
• Response by Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
The University of Notre Dame.
Responded to by Charles J. Dodge, A. M., ’74.
Absent Friends.	.
Response by William P. Breen, ’75, Fort Wayne, Ind.
During the afternoon, the two Senior nines en-waged in a well-contested game of baseball for the championship. Many of the visitors evinced great interest in the game, applauding the many good plays made. The game was won by the “ Whites.”
Wednesday Evening, commencing at half-past seven, exercises were held in the hall of the Academy of Music. The afternoon trains had brought crowds of new visitors, and the large hall was completely filled.
The exercises were opened with music by the Orchestra of the University, after which the oration of the Alumni was delivered by Mr. John G. Ewing, as published . in our last issue. D. Saviers, of the Senior department, executed the flute solo performed at the Eiiglossian Entertainment on.Monday, and .of which-we. spoke in our reports of that occasion. This was followed by the rendi
tion of the celebrated Quarrel Scene in the Fourth Act of “Julius Caesar,” by Messrs. C. A. Tinley and G. E. Clarke, taking the parts of Brutus and Cassius respectively. Both of these gentlemen presented their parts very creditably, displaying great elocutionary and dramatic talent, and fine conception of the spirit of the characters.
Next came the Operetta entitled Une Fete Cham^etre^ produced by the Orpheonics, a musical organization in the University, under the direction of B. Anselm, C. S. C., Professor of Vocal Music. A grand chorus of sixty voices, supplemented by an orchestra of twenty-four pieces— the arrangement of B. Anselm—gave to the production a splendor and brilliancy which excited the enthusiasm of the audience. The different parts-of the piece were presented as follows:
The Gathering—“Away to Fields of Green ”....Chorus-
The Departure—“ Merrily over the Water ”... .J. Courtney The Arrival—“Up the Hills and Down the Dale” ChorusEchoes in the Wood—“Una voce poca fa”....Solo, by
F. Johnson.
The Swing—“ Under Shady Boughs”.. .Solo, by W. Devine Chorus.	■
The Walk—“ Lilybells and Roses ”.........Duet, by
W. Devine, J. Devine, R. Devereux, E. Wile.
On the Lawn—“Now the Sunny Leaves are Glancing,” .	Waltz Song. Full chorus.
A Jolly.Good Laugh—“Oh, I Love a Good Laugh. Ha! Ha I”-Duett, E. Wile, G. Schaefer, with full chorus.
The Skipping Rope—“ Over Cool and Velvet Mosses,” ..............................................Trio The Storm—“Oh, Hark! The Winds are Rising Now,”
Chorus.
The Rainbow—“ Look up! What Glory Crowns the Day!,r-Chorus.
The Angelus—“ lAve Maria] Guardian Dear! ”....Trio
Solo to the above by Joseph Courtney.
Breaking Away—“ Sunshine After Rain ”,_Duet, by W. Devine, F. Johnson, R. Devereux, E. Wile, G. Schaefer.
Chinoiserie—“Chang-li Kang-li Pet-chi-li!”..Chorus Homeward Bound—“ Good Night! Good Night!.. .Chorus
Masters F; Johnson, J; Devine, Geo. Schaefer, and E. Wile deserve special mention for the excellent rendition of their solos. The choruses were grand, and, all in all, the representation reflected credit upon the Orpheonic Society of ’S3 and their energetic and talented Director. The names of the members of the society appear in our local columns. •
After the operetta, the Premiums in the three Departments of the University were distributed, Rt. Rev. Mgr. Benoit presiding, assisted by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, and some distinguished visitors from among the audience. These occupied seats upon the stage, on the side of which tables were arranged containing a large and varied assortment of .books, designed as rewards of merit for the many classes in the College. When . the premiums were distributed, Mgr. Benoit made a few happy remarks, the Band played a march, ‘ and all retired.	•

THURSDAY.
At half-past eight o’clock, Thursday morning, the concluding1 exercises of' Commencement were "	-	o	—- -
held in the Music Hall. The stage had been tastefully fitted up, and the scenes set to represent a garden picture with fountains of living water,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	659
etc. The members of the Class of ’83 occupied seats upon the stage, and as the lifting of. the curtain revealed them to the gaze of their fellowstudents, they were greeted with, rounds of applause. The University Band - first executed an overture, and then Mr. William. H. Arnold, ’83, delivered the following
V ALEDICTORY.
The hour has come that marks the close of college life. That hour for which so many of us have yearned with fond anticipation of the joy we should feel at having completed the preparatory stage of life’s journey.
It has come with all its joys and pleasures and the realization of our fondest hopes; yet, like the coming of death, it fills our hearts with sadness. Like the fell destroyer of time, opening the door to a grander, a more glorious existence, or an eternity of misery, the close of school life opens to us the road to glory or the path of shame, a life of worth or an existence of worthlessness. Like death, too, the close of school life severs fond ties, and fast friendships. So we are sad, but not with regretful thoughts of neglected opportunities to do better, which are merged into* the history of by-gone days; not with remorseful memories of a wasted past; not at the coming, in the near future, of the bitter trials of life. No: for though there may be many hours of golden time which have carried in their hearts to eternity but a small record of our good deeds—though the flight of the joyous present may depress our spirits and shake our hearts reluctant to enter upon a life of activity and continuous struggle, still a deeper, holier sadness, “ a sorrow that is not akin to pain,” brings the mist of tears to our eyes.' ’Tis the thought that, with the beauty and brightness of this summer day, close our boyhood days at Notre Dame.
In this peaceful shrine of the lakes where we have felt the first pulsations of the heart in golden friendship; where the cares and trials of life have been swallowed up in the joyous indifference of youth; where all is peaceful, pure, and beautiful, here shall memory seek in after life its sweetest pictures, its dearest objects. Here we set the first milestone in the great journey of life, and turn our eyes towards the world whither our restless hearts are urging us.
We stand upon the mountain summit of. the present and view the beauties of the future, the landscape of the hereafter. From the fair valleys below comes the hum of busy life. The green fields bathed in the splendor of the sunlight; the waving trees which bend gracefully, swaying to and fro, rocked by the summer breeze; beautiful flowers blushing ’neath the soft caress of the butterfly’s kiss; silvery brooklets whose laughing.waters flashback the sun’s resplendent brightness, all come before us and form a picture of beauty that entrances, the soul. All nature seems smiling with gladness to welcome us. Our souls drink in the beauty of the scene, and our eager hearts long to possess the promised: land there spread before us.
Ere we go, our eyes turn back upon the past, the-quiet, peaceful, happy past, and our. hearts fal-	i
ter,—but ‘Uife is real, life is earnest,” and, with a mighty effort, we try to shake off the fetters of the heart and onward wend our way.
Here, in this lovely retreat, beneath the watchful eyes and tender care of our Blessed Mother, we lay aside the swaddling clothes of infancy and don the robes of manhood. Forth we go, from these classic halls, with hearts of tempered steel, to breast the charge of time. Like warriors of old on the eve of battle, we are eager for the fray. The battle of life has no terrors for us. No longer boys, but men, we meet the world.
We go forth into it as into a strange land. As yet we are ignorant of its ways and customs, but * still are prepared to do or die.
We are told by old warriors who have faced	-
the storms of years that our poetic dream of the future will harden into stern reality—that the hard-	'
ships of life, as unfolded to us by personal experience, will be found to be indeed battles for existence. But we go forth equipped for the fight— stout hearts and strong hands we have, ready to grapple with the difficulties which come in our .	1
way.,	_	.	;
We have the armor of. education to shield us.	.
Our knowledge shall be our power, and God our strength.	-
If life be a battle, then promotion comes to him who earns it. The crown of victory or the shackles of defeat are of our own making. Our	.
success or failure rests with ourselves.	'
We feel that, having done our duty at school, we shall reap here the reward of a satisfaction; if not, hereafter, the laurel, of the conqueror. ' And so,	.
conscious that our deeds shall receive the reward	;
they merit, we bid farewell to school and teach-	‘
ers, and start upon our way with a firm trust in	•
God to help us: in the fight, and an assurance of .	* ’
victory at its close.
Perhaps, when the morrow comes, and our hearts, weary of life’s struggle, thirst for. the waters of the past, sweet memories of college life, like laughing streams of God’s pure water, may quench our thirst. Gushing from the springs of memory, like joyous brooklets, old scenes will flow before us—and, like the music of the waves, will come, attuned to memory’s golden harp, the voices	.
of the past singing the sweet melodies of yore.
Qld faces, like pleasant dreams, before our waking	. <
eyes, will greet us. with their genial smiles, and. we	.	!
shall hear sweet words of greeting from the isle of the past in the river of Time.	.
Memory’s golden chain will ever bind the pres-	;
ent to the past. Though succeeding years may	, i
add links to the precious bond, its strength shall	I
never be-impaired. .	_ -	I
Wherever fickle fortune or changeful time	. !
may cast us upon the sea of life, though we be at	j
opposite ends, of the earth, golden memory, like	|
the rainbow of heaven which locks the world in its embrace, shall bind us to each other.	-	i
And now, dear Fathers and teachers, who have	. ;
borne the. weighty. responsibility pf training, our	-
66o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
minds and hearts in lessons of truth and purity; whose anxious hearts have ached through restless nights with thoughts of your charge; you, whose watchful eyes have fathomed our weaknesses and shortcomings, and, with gentle words, with mildness and Christian love, rebuked rebellious hearts— to you, each one and all, the Class of ’83 tender their deepest affection and gratitude.
Schoolmates! We have in friendly contest often rivalled each other in the glorious battle for knowledge. The tie of friendship which has been forged between us in this peaceful home, let us hope, may never be severed. •
Let not fare-well be a bitter word to mark our parting with pain, but an earnest wish from the bottom of our hearts, that God may be with us all, that we may all fare well in the struggle of life.	. .	.
We go forth equipped for a long struggle. Let us hope that the armor we have wrought in this college workshop may protect us in the contest of life. Let us hope we have so carefully and well prepared our charts that the snares of the enemy may not entrap us.' Let us hope that our minds have been so improved and tempered in this forge of mental and. religious preparation that in the tourney of life we may not be unhorsed by the skilful thrusts of false philosophy and pernicious doctrine.
Remember, we carry with us, as our standard, the banner of Notre Dame. Let it never be lowered to an adversary. Rather let our heart’s blood dye its sacred folds than dishonor drag it in the dust. From yonder dome the tender eyes and loving Heart of Mary will follow our pathway. She will be our help in time of need. She, the “ Seat of Wisdom,” will ever guide and direct us. Let us ever remember that her eyes, as well as those of her Divine Son, are always upon us—and oh! let us never dim them with tears of sadness.
Let us gauge our actions by the triple standard of truth, virtue and justice. With the sword of honor and the shield of Faith alone we shall win the fight.
'God and Right be our battle-cry, and Heaven the goal of our • ambition!. Then, when the shadows of life lengthen in the twilight of its close, our tear-dimmed eyes, blind to the things around us, will penetrate the misty shroud which encircles the future and we shall see from the summit of heavenly grandeur the same loving eyes that watch over us at Notre Dame, smiling a welcome to us, and her gentle hands will lead us through the dark, valley—while her lips shall move in prayer to her Divine Son to welcome the weary war ri orhomc.
And now, dear Notre Dame! Home of our hearts and peaceful refuge from the cares and storms of life, Farewell! Our hearts shall often rest in spirit beneath the shelter of thy Virgin-crowned ,dome. Dear Notre Dame, may thy . peerless fame ring out through all the length and breadth of this God-blessed land of liberty, and thy well-earned renown call down upon thee and thy venerable Founder the choicest blessings of
an . approving Heaven! Farewell, dear Home, F arewell!
The Valedictory was creditable alike to the mind and heart of the author and speaker, and was. well received by his fellow-students.
The Oration of the Day
was delivered by the Rt. Rev. John Watterson^ D. D., Bishop of Columbus. It was a masterly production, and delivered with great eloquence. We regret that the good Bishop had not prepared a manuscript and permitted us to publish it. However, we are happy to announce that he has promised to write it out for publication in pamphlet form, at an early date. For the following synopsis of the Oration we are indebted to the South-Bend Register:
The Bishop took as his. subject “ The bearing of sound philosophy and morals on the future literature of our country; a plea for the higher pursuits of metaphysical and ethical studies.”
For the last quarter of a century, a Catholic literature has been demanded in America; one that shall embrace all departments of Belles--Lettres—philosophy, poetry, history, etc. The? cravings of the American mind must be satisfied;. Reading for the millions must be provided, and! poison will be furnished if wholesome nourishment be denied. The new American literature must be a work of art, to gratify culture and taste. It cannot be the work of a lifetime nor of a century, but every age must supply some part. English is our mother tongue, and while England was truly our mother country, and the colonies her children, it was all well enough in a political way to be dependent on her kings and leaders; but those conditions are now broken, and we have changed all that. No longer are we dependent on England or any other country for our needs here. We have the energy for the annexation of Cuba, the construction of the Panama canal, the development of Alaska. So also we have the energy for the-development of a literature distinct from that of the-mother country, and of a dearer name—Catholic literature. The religion of a people affords a powerful influence on all productive minds. Pagan art and literature were inspired by religious belief. The Christian spirit is breathed all through the Divina Comoedia of' Dante, and Milton’s works would have been similarly influenced, had his mind not been blinded by the passion for pagan forms which overspread Europe at a time when it seemed all ripe for a Christian harvest. The’ natural and unavoidable development of Milton’s reasoning was the making a herd of the devil. Religion had lost its hold on letters. The Revolution of paganism which rose in Italy and France was completed in Germany. The images and glorious traditions of the Church were forced to give way abruptly to the fictions and corruptions of Grecian mythology. In the land of Martin Luther; literature and the fine arts stood for two hundred years just where the reformation found them, unfinished and neglected, like the Cathedral

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
661
at Cologne, with this difference that the latter is a monument to the former Catholicity of the land. The Church of England kept the nearest to Catholic truth and had more semblance of Catholic worship than any other reformed denomination, and while the old traditions were alive, her literature continued to show a remnant of Catholic influence. Shakespeare, though often too shockingly gross and immoral for any church, yet proved he was born and brought up a Catholic. In his writings, there is the clearest evidence of Catholic thought and feeling. The influence of the old faith still survived in the writings of the Elizabethan era. But the reformation at last worked out its inevitable result. The literature finally assimilated to the errors, of paganism, and even to-day is sensual, skeptical and pedantic. There is no religious feeling in Browning’s “ In Memoriam” while Tennyson’s “Queen Mary” is worse than a parody on history.
It remains for America to build up, stone by stone, the grand edifice of Catholic literature. Shall it be composed of the imperishable principles underlying all writings, and worthy of the glory and destiny of the American republic? What is .wanting to attain this eminence? Unquestionably, there are American writers who have won fame and striven to give a national cast to their works, but still there is a too striking resemblance in the offspring of English and American authors. _ The differences are mainly due to the different points of view, resulting from political, not religious education.
The Bishop then read some words of criticism on a few of the most noted American authors. Cooper he considered the most distinctively original; Prescott was as false and bigoted as Macauley in his history .of England; Bancroft, less English in his modes, had effected more injury, though his earlier volumes had been promising. He had degenerated into a mere scene painter, instead of being the Livy of American history, and was a pantheist, identifying God with nature; Hawthorne was thoroughly representative of the New World, but his theory of religious life and morals was wholly wrong. The most satisfactory was Longfellow, who was never so poetical as when treating of Catholic truth and traditions. In attempting to throw, a poetic glamour over Puritanism he had been, of course, unsuccessful.
To formalize the thoughts previously expressed, no literature, whether of the Old or New World, will approach the desired position, unless the spirit of true religion fill the minds of those destined to create.it. .. Neither Protestantism nor infidelity is siifficient. Protestantism is destructive, not creative. Whatever progress in art and literature its adherents have made has been in spite of, not an outgrowth of, its teachings. It has lost to its poets many sources of inspiration in departing from Catholic worship, for instance, in the abolition of the veneration of the Blessed Virgin, and pray- ers to the Saints. With no altar, no priesthood, no church, it has become an organization of lifeless forms and meaningless parade. .Meeting
houses are built, where men assemble to meet men, not a God in the Sacrament of His Love. ' The result is emotionalism and rationalism.
Paganism is superior to Protestantism, having corrupted rites, blit still in imitation ‘ of those, prescribed .by the great Jehovah Himself. All works of nature speak of a God, but how can they be interpreted without the key? Is there on * the earth anywhere a life by which man and nature, past, present and hereafter may be viewed in their true aspect? It is found in Catholic philosophy and morality, and nowhere else on God Almighty’s foot-stool, in the doctrine of the Sacraments taught by our holy Mother the Church. The Faith is ours and we shall gain the prize, though others outstrip us in the race, in wealth and numbers. Theology is the Queen of Sciences; ours is the only true one; others are made up of only partial truths, guesses, assumptions and grop-ings in the dark. Philosophy is the handmaid of religion; divorced from the Church, it falls below paganism, becoming deism, pantheism, utilitarian --ism, etc., and ending in unbelief. Minds wander thus forever, unless, subjecting themselves to divine truth, they have new vistas opened to them. We need a sound philosophy, moral and-mental, ’ practical and prospective, to guide us in politics, in morals, in law, and in the business of daily life. It will be looked for in vain outside of the holy Catholic Church.
Ancient eloquence has been often equalled since, as in Bousset, Massillon and Fenelon, but hot outside the Church. The so-called pulpit eloquence in the sects has degenerated to pretty lectures, philosophical essays, sensational harangues, without any of the' teaching of Christ. Unless Catholicity enter largely into the spirit of Amer- -ican authorship, a worthy literature will not be resulting. Some may say this hope of a Catholic literature in America is a day dream. But there is much to encourage us. The circumstances of the country are favorable, and there is no oppression as abroad. It may be that this country is doomed to be persecuted forever with false religions, yet we must do-our part and reap a reward by winning over hearts. A large proportion of the people are eager for the truth and desire to be instructed. Ignorance of Catholic doctrine and -practice is the life and soul of Protestantism. It would not live 24 hours as a system, were this ignorance taken away. The sects, broken and scattered, divide with infidelity the control of the people. Meanwhile, wre are united and are advancr ing in numbers and riches. Look at the progress of Notre Dame the past 25 years! All honor to what has been done the past 12 months! A new . step forward is the giving literary distinction, each year, to some Catholic author, and all honor, praise and glory to the University of Notre Dame, which.has been the first to take this step by the establishment of what has been appropriately called the Lcetare Medal, this year conferred upon Dr. John Gilmary Shea, of New York.
The better Catholics we are, the more we show in all things improved products of the mind, the
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC:
more we shall do for our country’s literary fame and the more for her lastins: 2.ood and honor. I plead for the higher studies of moral and mental philosophy in our schools and universities. It is needed in this hard race with the world. , The principles of morality have about disappeared from . the minds of men. Many newspapers and periodicals attest this fact. Most wisely did Leo XIII say, two years ago, “ What the world most needs to-day is a sound philosophy and a sound system of metaphysics.”
The oration was listened to with the deepest attention throughout, and met with the heartiest applause from the numerous attendance. On its conclusion, the Bishop, Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh and Vice-President Toohey occupied seats in the centie of the stage, and proceeded to the awardins: of Prizes arid Honors, arid the conferring of Degrees, o	o
•	X	.	-
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degrees conferred this year were as follows: The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on His Excellency, Don Luis Terrazas, Governor of Chihuahua, Mexico.
The Degree of Master of Arts, was conferred on Rev. James J. Quinn, Tolono, Illinois (Class of ’81) in course; Rev. A. A. Lambing, Pittsburg, Pa., and Eugene F. Arnold, Washington, D. C., in - honorem.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Michael E. Donohue, Springfield, Mass.; John J. Molloy, Germantown, Ky.; Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.; William J. O’Connor, Manchester, N. H.; William H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; Francis A. Quinn, Rev. John P. Quirin, Tolono, Ill.; John J. Burke, Notre Dame, Ind.	'
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on George F. Sugg (Class of ’81), Chicago, Illinois.
- The Degree of Bachelor of Science was • conferred on Robert" M. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio; Joseph P. O’Neill, U. S. Army; William J. McCarthy, Boonville, Mo.; Ferdinand E. Kuhn, - - Nashville, Tenn. -
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on James M. Howard, Valparaiso, Ind.; John C. Larkin, Pottsville, Pa.	.
DIPLOMAS.
Diplomas admitting to the Freshman Class were awarded to Joseph S. Courtney, W ashington, D. C.; Arthur P.’ Coll, Philadelphia, Pa.; Frank Wheatly, Maysville, Ky.; Charles Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.; Eugene Ynsarri, Bernalillo, New Mexico; William J. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Charles J. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis.; Louis Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa; James Smith, Circleville, Ohio; .Daniel G. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.; Vernon Burke, Saybrook, Ohio; William E. Ruger, Lafayette, Ind.; John H. Fendrich, Evansyille, Ind.; Joseph j.Brady, Versailles,Ill.; John M. Murphy, Wash— * ington, D. C.; Aaron Jones, South Bend, Ind.
Diplomas for Elocution were conferred on George E. Clarke, Cairo, Illinois; William J. McCarthy, Boonville, Mo.; Joseph P. O’Neill, Columbus, Ohio; James Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
Medical Certificates were awarded to Patrick F. McSweeny, Notre Dame, Ind.; William H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; James Delanev, Erie, Pa.	"
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to George Metz,- Nashville, Tenn.; John Fenton, Chesterton, Ind.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to Joseph S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.; William Whalen, Wilmington, Ill.; Charles J. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis.; Henry N. Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.; Daniel G. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.; Clarence A. Garrett, Wapello, Iowa; William T. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.; Louis A. Celia, Chicago, Ill.; Edwin C. Witwer, South Bend, Ind.; Michael A. Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa; Thomas Ashford, Homer, Neb.; Albert J. Peery, .Quapaw, Ind. Ter.; William Warren, Nashville, Tenn.; Nicholas J. Comerford, Minooka, Ill.; Frank H. Kengel, Detroit, Mich. .
CLASS MEDALS. .
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was , awarded to Neal H. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class*was awarded to Sydney. Dickerson, Denver, Col.
' SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Junior Class—Medal awarded to Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army. -
Sophomore Class—-Medal awarded to Henry P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
Freshman Class—Medal awarded to Wm. H. McCarthy, Alma, Ark.	'
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Medal was awarded, ex aquo, to Joseph S. Courtney, Washington, D. C. and William Whalen, Wilmington, Ill.
Medal for Proficiency in ‘Penmanship was awarded td Otis Spencer, Denver, Col.
Medal for Progress in Penmanship was awarded to John L. Hagerty, St. Louis, Mo.
PRIZE MEDALS^
. The Grand Gold Medal for Philosophy was awarded to Michael E. Donohue, Springfield, Mass.
The Grand Gold Medal for Essays (presented by Mr. John B. English, Columbus, Ohio.) was awarded to William -H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.	■ .	'	.
The Dwenger Gold?Medal for Christian .Doctrine was awarded to Thomas Ewing, Steele,'Lancaster, Ohio.	..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	663
DKi
The Grand Gold Mason' Medal in the Junior Department was awarded to William Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
This Medal was presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, to the student in the Junior department presenting the best record in studies and conduct during the year. It.was closely contested, and among the many competitors, special mention must be made of the following: James Smith, Henry -Hess, Moses L. Foote, Charles Ziegler, Daniel G. Taylor, John Halligan, Joseph Courtney, Albert A. Browne, Carlisle Mason, William Jeannot, George Shaeffer, Dickey Reach and Charles F. Porter.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Moses .Foote, Burlington, Iowa. ‘	.	.
The Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Eusjene Yrisarri, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Charles Kauffman, Cincinnati, Ohio.
■ The Gold Medal for German-was awarded to William J. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.
The Gold Medal for Philosophy of History was awarded to Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
The Gold Medal for Church History was awarded to Joseph P. O’Neill, Columbus, Ohio.	.
The Edwards Gold Medal for History was awarded to Amedeus Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to. A. A. Brown, M. L. Foote, Geo. Schaeffer, Michael Dolan, Fred Fishel, Harry Hess, John Halligan, Wm. Jeannot, Jos. Kahman, James Smith, Daniel G. Taylor, C. J. Ziegler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	’
' FiRST Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Wm. A. Welch, Rene V. Papin, Francis I. Otis, Wm. J. Walsh,' Chas. A. McGordon, J. F. A. Coad, Joseph E. Chaves, John A. Kelly.
SECOND HONOR SILVER MEDALS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to Francis Monaghan, C. L. Smith, Francis Godfrey, Wm. Ryan, Joseph Grever, Delano C. Sa-viers, Stuart Pillars.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. '
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to Charles Droste, W. F. Hanavin, Francis Ken-gel, Joseph Kelley, Wm. Bacon, James McGordon, Charles Porter, Henry Hibbeler, Daniel Mc-Cawley, Wm. Berthelet. ‘
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	'
Second Honor Silver Medals were awarded to Edwin E. Thomas, John P. Devereux, John McGrath, Joseph S. Beall, Louis E. Young, Wm. M. Masij Henry Dirksmeyer, Albert Roberts.
. GOLD MEDALS FOR ORATORY AND ELOCUTION.
' Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, A. M., Columbus, Ohio, was awarded to Charles A. Tinley, Covington, Kentucky.
Gold Medal for Progress, presented by Prof. J. A. Lyons, was awarded to Albert A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas.
The. Shea Medal for Proficiency was awarded to William S. Cleary, Covington, Ky.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal, presented by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, SuperiorGeneral, C. S. C., was awarded to Master John J. McGrath, Chicago, Ill.	.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal, presented by Rev. President Walsh, was awarded-to Benjamin B. Lindsey,Denver, Colorado. (Closely contested by George P. Costigan, Ouray, Colorado, and Francis P. Nester, Detroit, Michigan.)
FIRST HONOR GOLD MEDALS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to C. C. Kolars, Elmer A. Otis, H. W. Morse, W. J. McCarthy, James Solon, Albert Fl Zahm, James Delaney, Amadeus Coghlin, T. F. Flynn, Chas. Murdock, F.'E. Kiihn, Jos. P. O’Neill, A. J. Golonski, Eugene Yrisarri, John C. Larkin, W. J.
• O’Connor, James Conway, Jos. Farrell, S. G. Clements, Henry Noble, Samuel Murdock.
THIRD HONOR CERTIFICATES. •
[These Certificates are awarded to students who have attended the University courses for two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.] ~
. senior department.	*
Third Honor Certificates were awarded to Thos. Ashford, William E. Bowers, Joseph ’J. Brady, Arthur P. Coll, Thomas Carroll, William Campbell, Louis Kavanaugh, John Molloy, George Mc-Erlaine, Edward ’Mullen, Thomas McNamara, Jas. McNamara, Michael O’Dea,-William C. Orchard, Louis Pour, Randolph Parrott, John Rogers, Otis Spencer, William Whalen, James W. Magoffin, John M. Eisenhauer, George H. Smith, Thos. P. Fenlon.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Third Honor Certificates, were awarded to Frederick D. Curtis, Charles Cavaroc, Louis Cain, John R. Dorenburg, Francis Fehr, Charles Duffin, Andrew Eisenhauer,John Grothaus,J.L. Hagerty, Paul Hagen, Charles ^Kerndt, Michael Kelley, William T. Mug, John "McDonell, M. B.Mulkem, Benjamin Rothschild, D. L. Reach, William J. Schott, Anthony Schillo, George Seegers, Louis Shannon, John W. Violette, Alonzo W. Wilkinson, Willard Wright, Philip E. Warren.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Third Honor Certificates were awarded to Geo. P. Costigan, Edward D. Walsh, Benj.B. Lindsey, Chalmers A. Lindsey, Joseph A. Hopkins, Fred-
664
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ erick Stamm, George T. Stamm, James Warner, Joseph Shicker, Edward Schmauss, Chas. H. Spencer, J. M. Studebaker, Henry Schmitz, John Kraus, John Wright, AVm. P. McPhee, Wnj. H. Colwell, Irving Bunker, Geo. A. Landenwich, James Luther, Maurice Cummings, Edward Costigan, Albert J. Otis, Edward McGrath, Arthur Devine, Cecil Quinlan, Chas. Smith, Hubert J. Ackerman, Frederick Kellner, Edward Adams.
The Bishop then made a few remarks, announcing the close of the exercises and dismissing the audience. The Band struck up “ Home, Sweet Home!” amid the inspiring strains of which the assemblage dispersed, and ’83’3 Commencement was over.
The results of the June Examinations arc herewith given in the	.
o
Examination Averages.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Armijo, 82; T. Ashford, 90; R. Anderson, 95; H. Austin, 89; H. Brooks, 72; F. Black, 89; E. Bailey, 69; W. Bowers, 64; J. Brady, 87; M. Burns, 85: J. Burk, 79; V. Burk, 93; E. Buchanan, 87; J.- Banigan, 94; E. Cavanagh, 66; A. Coll, 88; J. Carroll, 63; C. Carroll, 84; T. Carroll, 73; W. Cleary, 99; A. Coghlin, 100; M. Coghlin, 78; J. Conway, 94; L. Celia, 90; W. Campbell, 74; S. Clements, 82; E. Chelini, 83; S. Crawford, 62; John Delaney, 62; M. Donohue, 100; H. Drover, 89; J. Delgado, 85; S. Dickerson, 97; J. Eisenhauer, 95; N. Ewing, 98; H. Fitzgerald, 97; T. Flynn, 95; J. Flynn, 76; E. FenIon, 95; T. Fenlon, 93; J. Fenton, 100; J. Farrell, too; F. Freeze, 76; J. Freeman, 84; F. Gallagher, S3; J. Gallagher, 73; AV. Gray, 98; J. Greyer, 94; A. Golonski, 96; J. Guthrie, 98; F. Godfrey, 69; M. Gooley, 80; A. Grout, 85; P. Galernean, 81; C. Garrett, 82; AV. Hofstetter, 70; Jno. Heffernan, 95; Jas^ Heffernan, 92; E. Harris, 73; A. Jones, 81; W. Johnston, 87; J. Kleiber, 86; J. Keller, 93; C. Kolars, 95; J. Kimmell, 68; A. Koehler, 70; F. Kuhn, 98; L. Kavanagh, 77;
• AV. Keegan, 65; C. Kaufman, 89; J. Larkin, 91; T. Lally, 92; W. Lally, So; J. Murphy, 81; AA^. J. McCarthy, 97; AV.'H. McCarthy, 92; G. Meyer, 68; J. McCabe, 72; F. Monoghan, 76; G. McErlaine, 92;. J. Marlett, 89; AV. Muhlke, 71; E. Mullen, 86; S. Murdock, 95; C. Murdock, 97; J. McIntyre, 99; J. Magoffin, 78; H. Morse, 92; T. McNamara', 82; J. McNamara, 77; T. Morris, 76; AAr. Martin, 68; G. Moross, 74; H. Noble, 80; J. Neeson, 69;:R. Newman, 87; E. Ott, 92; M. O’Dea, 85; AV. Orchard, 82; W. O’Connor, 96; J. O’Neill, 100; E. Otis, 100; T. O’Reilly, 91; H. Porter, 98; R. Parrot, 76; S. Pillars, 74; J. Peters, 81; f. Reid, 70; I. Rogers, 82; W. Ruger, 77; AV. Ryan, 69; E. Rudge, 83; T. Steele, 96; B.Scholfield, 63; O. Spencer, 78; C. Smith, 71; G. Smith, 89; C. Saviers, 98; J. Solon, 96; C. Tinley, 96; M. Thompson, 48;* F. Terrazas, 75; J. Twohig, 84;’ W. Veale, 65; E. Wit-wer, 96;' W. Whalen, 92; H. Whitman,'93; J.
AArarner, 61; G. AVall, 76; W. Warren, 83; F. AVheatly, 89; A. Wendel, 68; E. Yrisarri, 100; A. Zahm, 100; J. Zurbuch, 68.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
, D. Armijo, 37; B. Arnold, 81; A. Adler, 85; E. Arkins, 45; E. Bauerman, 44; F. Brice, 78; A. Browne, 93; W. Berthelet, 91; AAr. Bacon, 85; J. Bush, 71; AAr. Braunsdorf, 75; F. Curtis, 95; J. Crawford, 73; T. Cassily, 74; C. Cavaroc, 93; J. Courtney, 95; L. Cain, 96; C. Droste, 86; F. Danielson, 70; C. Dupke, 68; R. Devereux, 84; M. Dolan, 96; J. Dorenberg, Si; E. Dillon, 96; G. De Haven, 36; H. Dunn, 86; J. Dwenger, 79; C. Duffin, 90; J. Devine, 83; C. Darling, 72; M. Dennis, 63; C. Dennis, 67; R. Divine, 64; A. Eisenhauer, 75; M. Foote, 88; H. Foote, 86; F. Fehr, 83; J. Fendrich, 89; F. Fishel, 78; C. Foster, 92; H. Fisher, 45; L. Gibert, 94; E. Gerlach, 87; J. Grothaus, S3; AAr. Gandrup, 69; J. Hagerty, S9; J. Henry, 83; AV. Henry, 86; H. Hibbeler, 72; H. Hess, 92; J. Hermann, 66; J. Halligan, 93; AAr. Hanavin, 87; E. Holbrook, 94; P. Hagen, 87; F. Hagenbarth, 87; H. Hickey, 67; A. Howard, 79; J. Hetz, 39; AV. Hetz, 97; F. Handy, 775 F. Johnson, 71; AV. Jeannot, 87; J. Kahman, 91; F. Kengel, 86; J. Kelly, 84; M. Kelly, 43; C. Kerndt, 94; J. Livingston, 58; R. Leffingwell, 87; C. Ludwig, 90: D. McCawley, 84; AV. Mug, 98; F. McGrath, 62; J. McGrath, 72; C. Mason, 81; H. Metz, 78; J. McGordon, 77; J. McDonnell, 93; AV. Murphy, 87; AV. Mul-kern, 94; A. Major, 94; F. McGill, 74; O. Miller, 91; J. Nester, 86; D. O’Connor, 94; M. O’Connor, 81; J. O’Donnell, 93; P. Ohneck, 89; C. Porter, 93; C. Robb, 60; J. Rhodus, 75; B. Rothschild, Si; J. Ruppe, 83; F. Ryan, 60; J. Reach, 86; J. Ryan, 56; AAr. Schott, 87; A. Schillo, 88; J. Smith, 98; G. Seegers, 88; L. Shannon, 90; B. Stark, 84; G. Schaeffer, 97; J. Talbot, 82; D. Taylor, 96; A. Terrazas, 82; J. A^iolette, 80; A. AVarner, 89; J. Wagoner, 78; E. AArile, 90; A. Wilkinson, 83; AV. Wright, 93; T. AValsh, 89; B. AVallace, 755 F. Weber, 93; S. Waixel, 73; P. Warren, 91; P. Yrisarri, 84; C. Ziegler, 94.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. Ackerman, 85; E. Adams, 92; J. Anglin, So; J. Beall, 98; I. Bunker, 92; J. Chaves, 90; AV. Colwell, 90; C. Cain, 92; M. Cummings, 91; G. Costigan, 99; E. Costigan, 95; J. Coad, 85; J. Devereux, 92; AV. Devine, 89; A. Devine, So; C. Delaplane, 96; H. Dirksmeyer, 90; L. Dungan, 75; C. Fix, 80; H. Hynes, 82; G. Huestis, 85; J. Hopkins, 99; CrHarris, 98; P. Johnson, 99; J. A. Kelly, 87; J. Kraus, 91; F. Kellner, 79; P. Keefe, 78; B. Lindsey, -98; C'. Lindsey, 96; J. Luther, 96; G. Lare, 82; G. Landenwich, 80; W. Moss, 99; R. Morrison, 98; C. Metz, 92; C. McGordon, 94; J. J. McGrath, 98; AV. Masi, 96; W. McPhee, 99; J. McGrath, 89; E. McGrath,,90; AV. McGuire, 75; W. McNaughton, 80; F' McKey, 80; F. Mullen, 76; A. Mullen, 80; F. Nester, 98; F. Noonan, 90; L. Nusbaum, 70; F. Otis, 98; A. Otis, 89; R. Papin, 94; W. Prindiville, 96; D,. Prin-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	665
'diville, -9'5; Cecil Quinlan, 92; A. Roberts, 92; V. Rebori, '94; ’0. Sommer, 90; C. H. Spencer, ‘99; H. Schmitz, 90; J. M. Studebaker, 82; F. >Stamm, 29$; G. Stamm, 96; AV. Stange, 98; E. •Schmauss, 97; J. Schicker, 95; C. Smith, 85; A. ;StuaVe, 76; E. Thomas, 93; W. Thomlinson, 74; C. Thomlinson, 72; W. Walsh, 98; E. Walsh, 96; W. Welch, 98; J. Wright, 94; Jas. Warner, 82; F. Whitney, 88; E. Young, 82; C. Young, 75.
Personal.
—	T. P. Shanahan, of ’67, is a distinguished Physician and Surgeon in Chicago..
—	Rev. Dennis A. Tighe, of ’71, was present at the Commencement Exercises, and Was heartily welcomed.
—	Mark M. Foote, ’73, Burlington, Iowa-, sent the following telegram to the Secretary of the Alumni-: “Though absent, I am there in thought •te share the joys of all tile deaf old college boys.”
—John P. Lauth, ’68, Principal of Lauth’s -Academy, Chicago, closed a very successfid year, with appropriate exercises, on Wednesday last. Prof. Hoynes,‘of Notre Dame, delivered the closing address.
—Joseph F. Campbell (Com’l), of ’76, is an ^activefettsincss man at Sioux City, Iowa. He writes ’to 0&e of his former Professors and says he will ’“always be glad to see any familiar face from -Notre Dame.”
—Col. Elmer A. Otis, U. S. A., left with his family on last Friday for his new station at San Antonio, Texas. The boys, we are are glad to hear, will return in September, and we hope that the genial Colonel will often find time to renew his always welcome visits.
-—Very Rev. Father General Sorin, accompanied by Very Rev. Father Reze and Rev. President Walsh, left last Monday morning for. Canada, to visit the houses of the Order in that province. Father General and Father Walsh are expected to return to-nlotrow, and after a brief rest to start -for Salt Lake City.
—A most welcome visitor at the College this Week Was the Rt. Rev. Dr. Duhamel, Bishop of OltOwa, Canada. He was accompanied by the Rev. Father Michel, a popular and efficient priest of the diocese. We trust the venerable Bishop and his companion will visit us soon again and be enabled, to remain longer.
—Thomas P. Whyte, ’73, has returned to New. Yrork from Europe, where, during the past eight years, he has been studying medicine and perfecting himself for his chosen profession. Fie expects . to call here before September, while on his way to Qhigago, where he intends to settle. He regrets jhis inability to attend Commencement, and especially the loss of the pleasure of meeting many of his old friends of the Alumni.
—One of the most welcome visitors during Commencement was the Rev. Dennis A, Clarke,
’70, Editor of the Catholic Columbian, which position he has been obliged to relinquish for a time, owing to ill health. He was warmly greeted by many old friends who were rejoiced to learn of his recovery from his late severe illness. He left on Friday for Denver, Col., where he intends to pass the summer. A writer in the Columbian says:
“Some time previous to his departure, Father Clarke was made the recipient of a very flattering testimonial' from his brother priests of the diocese in the shape of a handsome purse of money. It was a spontaneous offering of good will and a token of the high estimation in which he is held by those who know him best. Always ready to sacrifice himself for others, it was an esteemed privilege for those benefitted by his labors to give expression to their gratitude. There was no call made upon anyone—a simple announcement of the merited honor elicited a most hearty response, which was even more flattering than the testimonial itself. The presentation was made without any formality, on the part of the donors who were only too well pleased at the opportunity of showing their appreciation of the unselfish labors of the recipient, though they grieved at the causes that had brought it around. Father Clarke has a host of well-wishers, who will be rejoiced to hear of his partial recovery, and whose prayers, we are sure, will be frequently offered for his complete restoration. Such useful men cannot be well spared, and few so useful as he. His years have been few, but full of hard labor in behalf of truth and religion. In fact, the labor has been too great for a weak frame like his to stand without breaking under the load. He bore his burden until exhausted nature gave way, and he was obliged to relinquish it for the time.”
We add our own to the wishes of his. many friends for a speedy and perfect recovery to health.
—Immediately after the examination of his classes, and before Commencement, Prof. A. C. Unsworth left Notre Dame for urgent business in Colorado first, and afterwards in England, his native country. A cultured scholar, and a gentleman, Prof. Unsworth has made many friends among *the Faculty and the students of ’82 and ’83. He came among us a stranger; he leaves us counting friends in every quarter of the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Prof. Unsworth is a graduate of Stonehurst College and. the University of London. He attended Oxford University for a while, but owing to prejudice on account of his religious belief he left Oxford and went to the University of London, where he took his degree. In his earlier years, he attended the celebrated Roxhall Academy, which vies with Eton for the patronage of the elite of England. After graduating, Prof. Unsworth taught for a while in the University of France, at Poitiers, whence he came to Notre Dame. It may be remarked that Prof. Unsworth’s • father had passed a successful examination at his Alma Mater, Oxford, but as he was a Catholic' he would not be given a degree. Such at that time was . the kind of liberty and equality recog- -nized in once Catholic England. These days of rigid exclusion have passed, however, and Catholics now attending Oxford are given a degree. The Unsworths are one. of the oldest Catholic families in England, having preserved their Faith through the period of the Reformation, and their estates by transferring them to the safekeeping of others. We wish the Professor a pleasant trip and a prosperous termination to his business transactions.
666	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
MV sewc.
Notre Dame, June 30, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is.called,to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends hathave heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all, .
Old Students should take it.
Terms, St.50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—-This number closes the sixteenth volume of the Scholastic, We are gratified to know that our efforts du ring the year, to make the paper pleasing to its readers have, in a great measure, been successful.
In more ways than one the Scholastic commends itself to the patronage of a large class of readers. Not only those who attend college, but the parents and friends of the students, all alike can find our little paper to posssess a special interest for them. We.may hope, therefore, to see it live and flourish more and more vigorously under the direction of our successors, aided and encour-' aged by an, ever-increasing number of friends.
In all probability, the first number of the next volume will, as usual, be issued early in August. Once more, we take leave of our friends, thanking them for past favors, and wishing them in return success and happiness.	-
—Among the numerous visitors in attendance at the Commencement exercises were the following: Jacob Wile, Esq., Miss Rose A. Wile, and Miss Bella Wile, Laporte;.Geo. F. Sugg, Chicago; Mrs. J. R. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. C. Seegers, Mr. Geo. Mason, Mrs. J. A. Rothschild, and Mrs. T. McGill, Chicago; Ill.; Mr. J. O’Connor, Galesbury, Ill.; Mrs. K. M. Porter, Marshall J. Porter; and Miss Petronilla Bellinger, Eau Claire, Wis.; Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Droste, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mr. J. P. Brice and Miss’ Maggie Brice, .Des Moines, Iowa; Frank Haney, and G. Wyant, and Clinton.F. Rose, Evansyille, Ind.; Chas. H. Brinkman, Terre Haute, Ind.; Geo. J.
Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. J. T. Mug, and J. B. Mug, Lafayette, I rid.; Mr. J. A. Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. C. Gerlach and Miss M. Gerlach, Portsmouth,.Ohio; Mr. A. Gerlach, Columbus, Ohio; Mr. J. M. O’Shea, Union, Mo.; Master Walter Dore, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. D. Wilkinson, Peru, Ind.; Miss L; Stark, Wellsboro, Ind.; Mr. G. Howard, Chicago, Ill.; Michael Walsh,Danville, Ill.; Mrs. M. Morgan, Chesterton, Ind.; Mrs. E. M. Curtiss, and Mrs. Dr. Kimball, Adrian, Mich.; Mrs. M. Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.; Mr. Jas. Hagerty, St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Warner, Nashville, Tenn.; Mr. J. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa; Mr. A. Hagen, Indianapolis,Ind.; Mr. D. Warren, Mr. J. Holland, Mrs. Schillo, and Miss Hummelsheim, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Miller, Burlington, Wis.; Mr. M. S. Foote, and Mr. John Frawley, Burlington, Iowa; Mr. Cavaroc,Chicago; T. H. Grever, and J. T. Homan, Cincinnati, Ohio; T. E. Scantlin, Miss Mary Scantlin, and Miss M. Single, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. A. C. Dennis, and George Dennis, New York City; C. C. Stowell, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. M. A. Murphy, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. T. Nester, and Miss Nester, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. M. Duffin, Sister’sville, W. Va.; Mrs. A. McCabe, Mr. and Mrs. H. McCabe, D. B. Quinlan, Mrs. L. Booth, Geo. Booth, Mr. and Mrs. W. Hooker, Chicago; Jos. V. Litot and Miss Mary Litot, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mrs. H. Livuler, Topeka, Kan.; Mrs. Jno. B.Ruger, Lafayette, Ind.; Jas. M. Howard, Valparaiso, Ind.; P. M. Guthrie, Carroll, Iowa; Mrs. O. P. Freese, and Miss Lizzie Kane, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Lizzie Kimmell, Ligonier, Ind.; Miss Rena Kimmell, Albion, Ind.; Mrs. M. Kerndt, Mrs. G. M. Kerndt, and Mrs. A. Urmusbach, Lansing, Iowa; Mrs. H. Sweet, Chicago, Ill.; Jos. Smith, Circleville, Ohio; T. F. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio; T. F. Kavanaugh, and W. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; H. Kitz, Indianapolis," Ind.; Miss A. Taylor, and Hon. J. G. Priest, St. Louis, Mb.; Mr. P. Armijo, Albuquerque, N. M.; Mrs. G. J. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.; John G. Ewing, and Miss Angela Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Thos; Hooley, O. Ludwig, F. Weigel, H. Klinke, and Miss L. Schcenlauk, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. C. Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.; F. W. Smith, Toledo, Ohio; Alfred Ausbrian, and A. Schiller, Chicago,-Ill.; C. R. Sutton, Boston, Mass.; F. Weisenburger, Toledo, Ohio; Chas. V. Cavanaugh, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mrs. H. T. Wilson, New -York, N. Y.; Tom. J. Deagen, Fort Way ne, Ind.; R. McCabe, and A.. Thomas, Chicago, Ill.; H. W. Haerly, Huntington, Ind.; W. P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Ind.; R. Golseri, Chicago, Ill.; Tliomas McGee, Fort,Wayne, Ind.; AvMorosse, Detroit, Mich.; P. A. Baart, Marshall, Mich.; Frank M. Bell, Lima, Ohio; Dr. Norton, Toledo, Ohio; J. T. Burns, Evansville, Ind.; W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; _C. McGrath, and J. M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.; J. H. Burns, Columbus, Ohio; Wm. A. Dolan, Atchison, Kan.; Miss Mary Wolf, Louisville, Ky.; Miss Mary Kuhn, Casper B. Kuhn, J. W. Warner, Mrs. Charles Warner, A. Warner and J. H. Warner, Nashville, Tenn.; Miss Mary Casey, Miss Mary Cochrane arid Miss
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Angela Dillon, Chicago, Ill.; John'A. Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. W. D. Johnston, East "Townsend, Ohio; Miss Mary A. Jeannot and Peter Jeannot, Muskegon, .Mich.; T. S. Drover and Miss L. Foster, Huntington, Ind.; Mrs. A. Garrett, Wapello, Iowa; Hon. P. T. Barry, Englewood, Ill.; Mrs. R. Devereux, St. Louis; Mrs. E. Seymour, and Mrs. A. W. Milbury, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. G. Stamm, and Miss Libbie Black, Milwaukee.
The Planet Neptune.
'Readers of the astrological predictions in Prof. Lyons’ Annual may have been somewhat surprised at their sudden failure in the month of June, after having been borne out to the letter during the preceding months. The drought predicted for this month and the early part of July has not only failed to occur, but the season has been wet and cold to an unusual degree. Now, this drought was predicted on the ground that Mars, the ruling planet of the year, passes through the sign Taurus at this time. Mars being of a hot and fiery nature, and Taurus one of the signs that govern the earth, it seemed inevitable that the earth should be parched up during his passage. But there is another planet, in Taurus, one whose discovery has been too recent to enable astrologers to familiarize themselves with his aspects and then* effects. In fact, some have argued that the great distance of Neptune would prevent his having any marked influence on terrestrial affairs. The great Raphael, among others, is' of this opinion. But its error is manifest. The distance would increase the planet’s power, just as the distance of the weight on the arm of a steel-yard balance does. Among the ancients, who knew nothing of Uranus and Neptune, Saturn was esteemed the most energetic of the planets. But astrology, like other sciences, is continually receiving additions to its store of facts. It seems evident, as the years bring their testimony one after another, that the name of -Neptune was not given to this planet by mere accident,—-that he * is potent in stirring up the waters of the earth, and sufficiently so to counteract the hot and dry planet Mars, even when, the latter is lord of the year. Moreover, he is a benefic planet, for it is undoubtedly by his influence that the catastrophe predicted to the European potentate on the 19th of this . month was averted. This catastrophe was signified by a conjunction of Saturn and Venus while Mercury was stationary. It may be remembered that rumors of Queen Victoria’s abdication were current about this time. The nine astrological bodies, as they are now known, may be classified as follows: :	'
Bcnefics: Neptune, Jupiter and Venus.
Malefics: Uranus, Saturn and Mars.
Variable according to aspect: Mercury, the Sun and Moon; or according to temperament thus:
Hot and dry: Mars, the Sun.	.
- Warm and moist: Jupiter, Venus. .
. Cold and dry: Uranus, Saturn.
Cold and moist: Neptune, the Moon. Intermediate; Mercury.	.
The asteroids are of trifling importance, as by their great number and scattered position they counteract each other’s influence to a great degree. If a large number of them, say fifty, should all happen to be in' aspect together, something fatal might occur, although we can hardly say what.
Neptune and Mars were in conjunction at midnight on the 26th, at the time when the present * cold, wet spell was at its maximum.
The Astrologer.
The Excursion Trip from Notre Dame to Denver, Colorado-
Denver, Col., June 26, 1883.
Editor of the “Scholastic”:	-
According to promise, I send you some notes of our excursion trip from Notre Dame to Colorado. Here we are, at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, having made the journey from South Bend to Denver without a single change of cars, and with o	o	7
all the comforts of a hotel from Chicago to Denver, without extra charge. Truly, wonders will never cease!
• The equipments of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway are certainly splendid,—Pullman palace cars, dining cars, and a corps of efficient and gentlemanly officials in every department. The track seems to be one of the best graded in the United States; with steel rails and palace cars, the travelling is smooth, and doesn’t shake one ~ down into a heap as on some roads in the East that J could mention. We are, therefore, not the least fatigued after our journey.
The Notre Dame special train, with the Pullman sleeping car engaged by Father Zahm for the Colorado students and others in this vicinity, left South Bend on Friday morning, at o’clock. The train being a special one, placed on the road by the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Company for the accommodation of the homeward bound students of Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy, we had it all to ourselves. There were about six or seven cars, and probably 300 or 350 passengers. Of course, there was a great deal of manceuvering through the immense piles of trunks that lay all around the depot, in order to get everything properly secured and checked, but this most disagreeable of all the evils following Commencement was finally disposed of, and we were off for Chicago. Right here I might as well remark that if some genius will invent a trunk that shall always turn up in its proper place and effectually resist the efforts of baggage slinging porters to knock it into smithereens, he will secure a fortune. .	-
. At Laporte, the Southern students changed cars, and at Chicago we parted with those from New and Old Mexico, after handshaking and adieus, with hopes expressed of a general meeting at the Universityin September. We found a number of old students and other friends awaiting our arrival in , Chicago, who were unable, bn account of business
(668	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•cares, to attend the Commencement exercises. Here the Pullman palace car of the Colorado students—a brand new one, and said to be the finest .ever turned out from the Detroit shops of the com--pany—was drawn b\- a special engine from the X. S. & M. S. to the C. B. & Q. road, where it was ■given the place of honor in the rear of a long train •of Pullman palace cars,—as far as possible away from dust and smoke, which, by the by, troubled ;us very little on our journey. The buffet of our .car was well supplied with a variety of lunching •.material, besides which a palace dining-car was attached to the train, so that there was no necessity to set off for meals. The cravings of the inner-snan were thus amply provided for, and the •officials showed us every kindness and attention. At lunch-time the porter fitted up tables in our •own car and served up the materials, so that we. were as snug as a bug in a rug. Too much praise cannot be accorded Rev. Father Zahm for his thoughtfulness and the excellence of the arrangements throughout.	,
The state-room of the car was fitted up as an office where he and his-assistants, Otis Spencer, and Hany Smith, met from'time to time and arranged matters for the comfort of the excursionists. The party consisted of Rev. Father Zahm, C. S. C., and his brother, Albert Zahm, A. B., Rev. D. A. (Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio, editor of The Cath-<olic Columbian, now enjoying a vacation, on a ihealth trip to Colorado; Mrs. C. D. McPhee and sons, of Denver, Colorado; Mrs. George Costigan and sons, of Ouray, Col.; Miss Lily^ Robinson, U. S. A., of Fort Laramie, Wyoming, and Miss Marion Morgan, U. S. A., of San Francisco, Cal.; Miss Lalie Chapin, of Denver; Miss Julia Lys-ier, of Chicago; Otis Spencer, Sydney Dickerson, Lynn Austin, A. Grout, Harry Smith,- T. Rhodus, Hugh Bush, Williard and John Wright, Benjamin and Chalmers Lindsey, Clarence Henderson, Henry Hickey, Frederick Danielson, of Denver, Wm. Masi, of Cheyenne, and your correspondent. Moses and Henry Foote, with other students from various parts of the Northwest, accompanied us to the stations nearest their respective homes. We formed, all together, a light-spirited and happy party. The weather was clear and delightfully pleasant during the two days we were en route, and with the exception of a trifling incident that I will presently mention, nothing occurred to mar the general enjoyment of this delightful trip, unless we except, perhaps, a little trouble occasioned one or two by the.careless checking and forwarding of trunks... If. elephants have the same-trouble with their trunks that we bipedal mortals. have some-' times on railway journeys, especially in the hands of baggage-smashers, then, your correspondent would not like to be an elephant. Shakspeare says
. “The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; -His legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure,” , and it seems Albert Zahm’s trunk was a trunk for necessity,-not for-flexure, for it went to pieces in the hands of the baggage-smashers, as we discovered-on our arrival in Denver.
y Just after crossing the Mississipi, we were met
by Messrs. Wm. W. Dodge, B. S., of ’74, and Mark M. S. Foote, B. A., of ’73, who were awaiting our party. They said the old Burlington boys from Notre Dame had heard of our coming—probably .through Mr. C. A. Dodge,. A. B., of ’74, who attended the Commencement exercises —and had arranged a grand surprise in the shape of a supper and cornet band serenade, but as one or two of the leading spirits in the cornet band affair had been called away by urgent business matters, the serenade fell through. About 9 p. m., after a delay of twenty minutes in Burlington, the bell for starting rang, and amid hearty “ Good-byes!” the train left the Burlington depot, and we shortly retired to our berths.
Heavy rains had fallen during the night, cooling the atmosphere and inducing sound sleep. All awoke refreshed and cheerful. The air was bright and balmy enough, but as we descended the slope of the Missouri Valley we found the country flooded by the heavy rains during the night. Whole hamlets lay bedded in water, and I could not help thinking of Venice and its water-streets, although there was in sooth nothing but the water to suggest a comparison. The railroad track, however, had escaped injury so far, and we kept on our way until we had crossed the Missouri at Plattsmouth, where we found telegraphic communication broken by the floods between that town and the State capital of Nebraska, Lincoln. Later on, it turned out that part of the track had been washed away at a place called Louisville, on the banks of the Missouri River. We reached Plattsmouth early on the morning of Saturday.
We were detained at Plattsmouth and Louisville for "about six hours while the track was repairing over the “ wash-out,” as they are called in that section of the country. The young people of the party enlivened the tedium of the stoppage in transitu by singing songs and declaiming speeches. Albert Zahm gave, by request that would not brook refusal, his inimitable personation of “ Sockery Setting a Hen,”—who, not being “so tall up and down as he was broad wide out all around,” stood on an up-ended empty barrel, fell in and got jammed. The personation brought down the house, or the car, rather, and the little folks thought Albert “ a real good fellow ” for being so funny and making them all laugh. His reputation pie-ceded him to Denver, and Albert is very popular here. Even little Charley McPhee—bright-faced, curly-headed Charley, who was such an immense favorite in the Music Hall at Notre Dame, where he was the privileged character and “ everybody’s pet,?’ and pretty little. Lalie Chapin, one of St. Mary’s bright Minims, contributed their fund to the general amusement,—the former by the Kindergarten song of “The Shoemaker”—“Tap, tap, tap; rat-tat-too, that’s the way to make a shoe”; the latter by declaiming a beautiful poetic piece, “ The Sanctuary Key.”	.
In the Missouri Valley the weather was warm and sultry, but as we entered Colorado and ascended the Rocky Mountain sloped the air became delightfully rare, cool, and pleasant. Immense green
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
prairies spread out on either side, as far as the eye could reach, with here and there immense droves of cattle and horses, the property of “ the grazing kings,” as they are called, grazing at leisure and roaming where they would, for there are no fences. Antelope, wild deer, jack rabbits, and prairie-dogs abound in these regions. The prairie-dog villages, generally circular in form, are seen upon every hand, and the nimble-footed antelope and deer skip over the plains at their own sweet will. The plains are dotted with flowering cacti of various colors.
Those of us who visited Colorado for the first time—among whom were the Rev. editor of The Catholic Columbian, Albert Zahm, and your correspondent, were surprised at the absence of habitations on the fertile prairie-lands. For my own part, I was taken completely by surprise. I had heard of Denver being approached by barren wastes of sand, and found fertile prairies. Fertile in soil, which is from eighteen inches to three feet deep, more than sufficient for agricultural purposes, but arid at certain seasons, owing to a want of rain. Now, however, that it is ascertained that abundance of water can be obtained by artesian wells, there need no longer be a want of water for grazing or agricultural purposes. Owing to - recent copious rains, the prairies are beautifully verdant this year, and the stock upon them are literally “ in clover.” We were expected in Denver at 7^ a. m. on Sunday. All along the route our approach was heralded by telegrams to the daily papers in Denver, and we found in the Rocky Mountain News each day a full account of our party and the probability of our reaching Denver on schedule time, notwithstanding the delay. Early on Sunday morning, therefore, a cavalcade of carriages awaited us at the Union Depot in Denver, but they and we were doomed to disappointment. Our train did not get in till i p. m. We reached Akron—about 255 miles from Denver—at 11 o’clock on Sunday morning, and got out for breakfast, the first meal for which we had to leave the train since our departure from Chicago. About a hundred miles from Denver, our party was gladdened by the presence of Mr. C. D. McPhee, one of Denver’s most prominent builders and lumber merchants, who came out to meet his wife and family, and on reaching the Union Depot and the end of onr journey, we were received by a large number of Notre Dame’s old students and the friends and relatives of the members of our party. Among the former was Mr. J. J. McGin-' nity, of ’70, to whose whole-souled generosity, and that of his senior partner, Mr. McPhee, our party, and your correspondent especially, are indebted for many favors since our arrival in the Queen City of the great Centennial State. The princely hospitality of Mr. McPhee will ever be held in grateful remembrance by the excursionists and healthseekers. His self-sacrificing exertions, and those of his amiable consort, for our comfort and entertainment can never be forgotten.
I would like to say something of this really, beautiful and progressive city—of its delightful
climate, its picturesque location at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, its really splendid public buildings for a new city,—but my letter is already too long. The broad streets, well watered with running streams of clear water on both sides, and the rows of trees lining them, as well as the architectural taste displayed in even the humblest residences, fronted with verdant grass-plots, remind one forcibly of Washington. But enough. I shall have more to say on Denver and Colorado in a future letter.
I understand it is Rev. Father Zahm’s intention to organize an excursion party, similar to that which we accompanied here, for the students returning to Notre Dame in September. He says he will make the coming arrangements for comfort and pleasure even more complete than those of the former party-; As he takes personal superintendence of the party and its members, it will save parents and guardians who can ill spare the time to accompany their children and wards to Notre Dame a great deal of trouble and expense, while making the trip a most enjoyable one, as I can personally testify. For the present, I am forced to draw my letter to an unwilling close.
Viator.
Local Items.
—“All things gone up!”
—The place looks deserted..
—Our friend John has gone to the sea-shore.
—John Boyle is the sole survivor of our local land-leaguers.
—About twenty-five boys still remain, but the number is diminishing.
—John Boyle and Albert Browne constitute our local Committee of Arrangements.
—The 18 remaining Princes enliven the surroundings by their cheerful, merry laughter.
—“The Knights of St. Edward” (St. Ceci-lians) carried off the honors of the Junior department.
—Our .friend John, before leaving, advised us-to say one word more about that cement walk. We can’t do it.
—The genial (?) rains make St. Edward’s Park the freshest and most beautiful spot at Notre Dame.
—The meeting of the Alumni was held in Cecilia Hall, which had been elaborately festooned for the occasion.
—Bros. Emmanuel, Leander^ Paul and Mar--cellinus, accompanied the students on- the difier-e"t trains as far as Chicago.
—Our item about J. Boyle seems to have been a little too previous.. He' has returned and will remain for a little while vet.
—The group photographs of the St. Cecilian and Philopatrian Associations are now ready, and may be had on application to Prof. Lyons. -
670	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—From, present prospects, Very Rev. Father General thinks he will be able to give his Princes the Centennial Parisian dinner early in September.
—J. Solon took his departure on Friday. He will return, and continue to add by his eloquent voice to the splendor of future Euglossian exercises.
—The officers of the L. S. & M. S. R.R. provided two special trains for the students going West, one on Thursday evening and the other on Friday morning.
—In Hew of the many pleasing entertainments given by the Euglossian Society during the past year, an appropriate motto for each member would be—Semper paratus.
—We are glad to see our venerable Father Neyron once more around. Though as yet somewhat weak owing to the severity of his late sickness, still he is improving very rapidly.
—Nothing but rain this past'week. We should not complain, as it was very good of it to hold over until after Commencement, but there’s too much of it. See the explanation given by the astrologer.
—John Boyle (Macbeth) left us on Tuesday. He has our best wishes for his future. We hope that he will be far more successful hereafter than he was in the newspaper business on Commencement day.'
. —The passage of the Denver delegation through the principal cities en route to Denver, seems to have attracted great attention, judging from the various press notices received. The special Pullman was a great feature of the occasion.
—The conditions required for .membership among the “ Knights of St. Edward ” are: ist, The applicant must be between the ages of 14 and 18; 2d, conduct must be “ unexceptionable.” For further information apply to the- President, Prof. Lyons.
—-The thanks of the students are due to the gentlemanly agents of the L.. S. & M. S. R.R.— Messrs. A. G. Amsden, Superintendent, and AV. P. Johnson, Gen’l. Pass. Agent—for the many kind courtesies extended them when leaving for their homes.	- .
—This wet weather caused one of our « stay-at-homes” the other day to ask for the loan of a pair of rubbers. After trying them, he said, in grateful accents, that they were too numerous for his feet. Morai:—Rain may dampen the corporal organism but it has not always the same effect upon the understanding!	.	.
. —Rt. Rev. Bishop Duhamel, of Ottawa, Canada, visited the Palace during his stay at Notre Dame. He expressed delight at. the perfect neatness and order observable in every room of . the building. St. Edward’s beautifully furnished Hall especially attracted his attention: he added that such elegantsurroundings could not fail.to teach of themselves, as well as to make the Minims contented and happy.	.
—One of the pleasing features of the Commencement exercises, was the presentation of ten beautiful gold medals, for field sports, given by the Directors, Bros. Emmanuel and Paul. The College parlor was selected as the place of presentation. After a neat little speech by G. E. Clarke, Miss Wile, of La Porte, pinned the medals on the following young gentlemen: F. Gallagher, M. T. Burns, E. Witwer, F. E. Kuhn, J. Guthrie, J. Heffernan, C. Garrett, Jas. Marlett, W. Ryan, and Frank Wheatley.	.
—Work on the Dome has been greatly advanced during the past two weeks, though the rains of this week have sadly interfered in that behalf. The galvanized iron cover of the brick work presents a fine appearance, and the iron frames have already reached the ellipse. With fine weather, there must be at least the form of a dome to greet the new arrivals next September. It would be too much to expect to have it completed by that time—but we may and do hope that before winter sets in, it will be ready to receive the statue of Our Lady to be placed thereon, with appropriate ceremonies, at the beginning of her own month in ’84.	-
—The Orpheonics of ’83: Director—Bro. Anselm, C. S. C.; Soprani—H. J. Ackerman, J. Chaves, G. Costigan, J. Devereux, W. Devine, W. Masi, C. Metz, W. McPhee, R. V. Papin, A. Roberts, E. Thomas, T. Wright, L. E. Young, B. Arnold, J. Crawford, C. Cavaroc, J. S. Courtney, J. Devine, W. Henry, F.. Johnson, H. Metz, W. Mulkern, A. Warner. Alti—C. Harris, J. Kraus, C. Lindsey, B. Lindsey, J. J. McGrath, R. Morrison, F. Otis, AI. Rebori, G. Stamm, W; Stange, E. Schmauss, A. Adler, R. Devereux, M. Kelly, J. Rhodus, F. Ryan, W. Schott, G. Schaefer, R. Wallace, E. AVile. ist Tenori—H. Dunn, E A. Dillon, M. Dolan, J. Fendrich, H. Foote, L. Gib-"ert, E. Gerlach, T. Livingston, I. Nester, M. Donohoe, S. Murdock. 2d Tenori—M. Foote, C. Porter, M. Burns, A. Coll, J. Gallagher, J. Guthrie, W. Jeannot, C. Kaufmann, F. Quinn, J. Larkin. Bassi—J. Ryan, A. Schillo, W. Arnold, J. Grever, J. Keller, F. Kuhn, J. Murphy, J. McIntyre, J. O’Neill, S. Pillars, J. Peters,'W. Ruger, M. Thompson, E. Witwer, Prof. Devoto.
_ The least return we can make to the Orpheonics of ’83, for the delight and pleasure, which they have given us on many an occasion during the year-just past, is to present their names. We might wish that they all would return to College, but this, in the case of many, is not to be expected. We may at least hope that the Orpheonics of’84 will rival if not surpass ’83.	■	. (Ed. Schol.) ■
u; —The South-Bend, Register has the following concerning the production of the Antigone:	.
“ The presentation of this noble drama last evening was most successful and inspiring. . It represented, too, a vast amount of labor in the committing of text, the preparation of costumes, scenery, etc., and in stage rehearsals much more than in ordinary plays. .. The text, as adopted, was perfectly committed. The characters were robed in Gre cian costumes of white,'trimmed with the Hellenic favor ite colors of red, blue, or saffron, which hung in gracefu folds.. The king and, his son wore also mantles of red with gold adornments. The soldiers had the picturesque suits of ancient warriors, with shields, helmets and spears. At
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	„
tendants were mostly dressed in blue. The chorus of old men made a superb appearance in their classic robes, san-dais, white beards and hair. All the costumes were designed by Signor Gregori, with suggestions from the Professor of Greek, and were made at the College. The stage groupings were pictures in themselves. The scene was the front of Creon’s palace. A fire burned on a heathen altar. As the chorus sang at intervals, the music was weird and fascinating. It was composed, by the way, by Anselm B. Nobels. The impersonation of the guard was perhaps the^ most vigorous. Antigone was well represented, indeed, as were Creon and Ismene. The leader of the chorus attracted much attention by his excellent acting and posing. The other parts were all succesfully handled. Altogether, it was a brilliant production, a work of untiring labor, a great credit to the University, and a delight to the large and cultured audience.”
—The Antigone of Sophocles was given in the original Greek on Tuesday evening, in the new Music Hall of Notre Dame University, by the Hellenists of 1883. The first thing noticeable, as one enters the hall, is its admirable adaptation to the purpose for which it is intended, a very exceptional feature in our public halls. The audience there upon the occasion was very large, many of our prominent citizens being present and a great number of visiting strangers. The Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, Ohio, honored the occasion with his presence. He looked every inch a prince of the Church, and his few words at the end of the play were very appropriate. The good Father Sorin was also present, and was warmly received by the students and his many friends.
The entertainment was opened by a dedication in verse to Bishop Watterson. Then followed an address by Mr. Geo. E. Clarke, which was good indeed. As to the play itself, the amount of labor that is required to merely memorize the Antigone is almost appalling. We once attempted to commit to memory the first book of the “ Illiad,” and found it a Herculean mental task. What must it be to memorize the Antigone? It was a noteworthy fact that from the beginning to the end of the; play there was not a slip, and, above all, the articulation and pronunciation was most admirable.......
In the presentation of their tragedy Tuesday evening, Mr. Albert F. Zahm as Creon was not so deliberate and dignified as we would expect in a king, and especially in such a matter. The guards ranted more than would become fighting-men, and more than circumstances would war-o ______*	,
rant. The singing of the chorus was indeed very fine and enjoyable. It is pleasant to praise. Taking the production as a whole, we have this pleasant duty. It was a.^grand success, a great credit to the University, and something of which its neighbors and . friends f are proud. Although the mass of the-large audience was unacquainted with the Greek text, this difficulty was .largely removed by the use of librettos.—South-Bend Times.
.	For the Dome.	-
Ann E. McDonald........................ $15.00
J?S. Smith.. i...;.....................  10.00
WABerthelet...........:.................  5.00
Mrs. P- Burns, Michigan City, Ind.........5.00
Saint JFlary's Acabemy.
Commencement at St. Mary’s.
The Twenty-Eighth Annual Commencement Exercises at St. Mary’s Academy began on Wednesday afternoon, at 3 o’clock, and were concluded. on Thursday morning. The weather was all that could be desired, brightening, the exercises and ceremonies by a cloudless day. The numerous visitors admired the picturesqueness and beauty so manifest at St. Mary’s at this charming season of the year. This naturally lovely spot has. been made lovelier still by all that natural taste and educated landscape gardening could do. The broad carriage-ways, the promenades, the foot-paths and by-ways are so completely lined with maples,’ elms, and other trees, that pupils and visitors can walk uncovered through all their lengths without a sun-frown. The lawns, flower-gardens and parterres have been made doubly attractive by the addition of many more rustic seats, fountains, statuary, and huge vases, laden with the richest offerings of flowers and foliage that Tune can-furnish. No one can visit St. Mary’s at this season of the year without being impressed by the beauty of • its surroundings. The rugged bluffs of the St. Joseph River, thickly covered with a growth of forest trees, and with huge rocks cropping out here and there, add picturesqueness to beauty. At the edge of these bluffs is the Chapel of Our Lady of Loreto, a unique architectural design. Near it are immense grape-arbors and grassy playgrounds, with broad walks, and everything so commodious there is ample room for all the pupils.
The exercises on Wednesday afternoon, took place in the hall of the Academy, in the presence of a large assemblage, among whom were many distinguished visitors. The-stage at the south end of the hall was arranged .with a tier of six seats on each side, reaching nearly to the ceiling. The sides were draped .with blue and white tarletan, • festooned with blooming syringia branches. Rich lace curtains fell in graceful folds from the ceiling cornice all the way around the stage. The seats were cushioned with crimson cloth, and the scores of elegantly-apparelled pupils. occupying them, made as pretty a picture as was ever seen at any graduating exercises. *	. .
Miss Caroline Sullivan’s playing of . Chopin’s grand Polonaise, Opus 22, was excellent. The spin. iato andante movement showed perfectly her refined appreciation of a style so difficult to conquer, the pure legato. ■ The Polonaise proper is. so well known to music artists and critics, that to say it was entrusted to the'young lady’s sympathetic per. formance is sufficient praise.
The essay by Miss Wright, “Man Never is but Always to be Blessed,” elaborated the truth that our aspirations fulfil their highest purpose, not by affording present enjoyment, but rather by expanding and exaltingJhe soul. '
“ Constancy, a Mark of Sterling -Virtue,” by
6^2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Miss Ryan, was an unpretentious but meritorious production; extolling that “perseverance which conquers all things,” and commending the steadfast adherence to duty, so necessary to the formation of the youthful character. ,
“ Parlar non vuoi,” a terzetto, for equal voices, brought out in relief the fresh young tones of Misses Fenlon, J. Reilly and A. Babcock.
Miss Maude Wiley’s graceful rhetoric and nicely-chosen language perfect!}7 demonstrated her theme—“ Life’s Claims: Life’s Aims.”
“Valse Caprice,” by Carl Tausig, one of his Viennese series, dedicated to Franz Liszt, introducing Strauss’ brilliant “ Man lebt nur einmal,” so full of odd humor and occasional passages of nonchalant “ dolce far niente,” expressive of a life of mundane-enjoyment, was rendered by Miss Mary Campbell. This young lady’s execution, made one forget the difficulties of her. subject; tier rendition being so apropos, that it was only when the sounds ceased we realized the skill of the player. ’ “ La Reconnaisance est la Memoire du Coeur” by Miss Lancaster, proved the justice of the young lady’s right to the exquisite Gold Medal, presented by. Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.
“Voices of June at St. Mary’s” demonstrated the truth of the beautiful French essay which preceded it, likewise that Miss Feehan’s intellectual attainments have not outstripped her appreciation of her Alma Matej-.
Miss Maude Wiley played Liszt’s Pesther Car-neval, known as the 9th Rhapsodic Hongroise. The main idea of all these Rhapsodies is alike, portraying gipsy melodies in the most fascinating style; this one demands unwearied strength throughout, and Miss Wiley sustained the passages of vigorous technical difficulty with a graceful man rier, which was much admired.
The spirited poem by Miss Dillon, “ The beauty of Self-Control,” was as admirable in its delivery as commendable in its composition; and the essay of Miss Fox, “ The Sacredness of Friendship,” formed a fitting -finale to the excellent literary display of the afternoon.
“ Ave Maria” soprano solo, trio • and chorus, by Falkenstein, began by a mezzo voce trio without accompaniment, the chorus taking up the sweet strain in the same style, but with ever-in-creasing sounds. The solo was chastely beautiful, and well adapted to Miss Reilly’s voice, sus-; tained by the members of the private Vocal Class.
Among- the invited guests was Miss Adele Geiser, of Chicago, a graduate m music at St.
■- Mary’s, of Class ’79; since then she has taken les-sons 15 months in Berlin and Paris. Her wonderful talent which she possessed when graduating in, the First Course with us has been well developed,, and her playing on Wednesday before the pupils .and a highly appreciative audience was a treat indeed, and a source of pleasure to her former teacher. Miss Geiser’s technique is superb, her repertory large, and she possesses all the simplicity belonging to a real artist. She loves music for its own worth, and. the pleasure it affords others, but is not ambitious of applause. The world cannot
spoil her, for she holds deep in her soul that mark of true genius—gratitude to her teachers at home and abroad, who have directed her Godgiven talent.
Thursday.
At eleven o’clock, a. m., the concluding exercises were presented according to the following
PROGRAMME: -
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
Kaiser March............................Wagner
Misses Fendrich, Campbell, Wiley, Barlow, Sullivan, . Donnelly, Reilly, and Gove.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Quintette Finale.................... .From Martha
Misses Reilly, Babcock, Fenlon, Ramsey, Fendrich.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS---PREPARATORY DEPART-
MENT.
Grand Polonaise..........................Liszt
Three Pianos: Misses Wiley, Campbell, and Sullivan.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Song—“ Forosetta”. .......................Arditi
Miss Reilly, accompanied by Miss Fendrich.
“ RECONCILIATION OF THE ELEMENTS.”
i^An Original Drama.')
THE JUNIORS AND MINIMS.
Morceau de Concert (Opus 27)........A. .Dreyschock
Miss Fendrich.
Recitation..........................Miss Murphy
Grand Chorus—“Hear My Prayer!”.......Mendelssohn Solo, Miss Reilly. Chorus, Vocal Class, Accompanied
by Miss Wiley
CONFERRING GRADUATING GOLD MEDALS—ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
CONFERRING GOLD MEDALS—CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
PRIZE MEDALS.
DISTRIBUTION OF CROWNS AND HONORS IN THE SENIOR, PREPARATORY, AND JUNIOR DEPARTMENTS.
Valedictory..........................Miss Clarke
Closing Remarks......Rt. Rev. J. A. Watterson, D. D. Divertissement March.F. Schubert
Misses Gove, Beal, Crawford, Keenan, Hunt, Fenlon, Shephard and /Kirkham.
At the time appointed, the grand entrance of the pupils to the hall began. The Rt. Rev. Bishop, clergy, and invited guests being assembled, Misses L; Fendrich, M. Campbell, M. Wiley, V. Barlow, C. Sullivan, C. Donnelly, J. Reilly and B. Gove, came forward arid, gracefully saluting the audience, took their places at' four fine new pianos, and Wagner’s “Kaiser March” with its full har-monies, burst forth. The effect was magnificent, sounding in the distance like a full orchestra. The “Quintette Finale,” from Flotow’s “Martha,” was delightfully sung by Misses J. Reilly, H. Ramsey, . C. Fenlon, A. Babcock, and ,L; Fendrich. This favorite number is too well known to. need description, but we must say the rendition sounded new to us,—the voices blending so correctly that lovers of harmony were satisfied, while the. melody ’ charmed their ears. The graduates in music, Misses M. Wiley, M. Campbell, and C. Sullivan, played Liszt’s brilliant Polonaise on three pianos. The cadenzas were divided between them; this little deviation brought out forcibly the equal technicality of each; while the ensemble "playing iri mas
।
i
!
t.
1
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sive chords, crisp and ringing in its unity and shaded brightness, proved these young ladies deserved their Gold Medals.
Forosettaf Tenino di Tarantella, by Luigi Arditi, was a good selection to show Miss Reilly’s great improvement in vocal culture. Sudden changes from pure legato to staccato are trying, especially when occurring in chromatic passages. Her bright and intelligent rendering of this aria was in strong contrast to the devotional sweetness of the beautiful Ave Maria of Wednesday. We congratulate the songstress, and hope to witness her further development in this emotional art next year.
The little drama of the Juniors and Minims, though somewhat compressed in space, since the wide expanse of the Universe is the legitimate claim of the dramatis personce'^ proved as sprightly and interesting as it is unique in its subject-master. Agnes English, Alice Sawyer and Lily Van Horn distinguished themselves in their respective roles. Jessie English as “Light,” and Marie Lindsey as “Dew Drop,” Mary Hetz as “Sunbeam,” Marion Morgan as “Air,” and Mary Otis as “ Steam”; also Elizabeth Considine, Philomena Ewing, Manuelita Chaves, and, in fine, all the little performers acted their parts well.
Miss Murphy recited a charming selection from “ Songs in the Night,” by the author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars,” and the satisfaction evinced by the audience was in unison with the judgment of her teachers who awarded to her the “ Barlow Medal in Elocution.”
Miss Laura G. Fendrich, who graduated in music last year, and who is now studying iii the “ Advanced Course,” played a “concert morceau” by A. Dreyschock—the one executed by this great virtuoso before the Philharmonic Society in London. The first movement is majestic, leading to a sweet, weeping solo, exquisitely tinted and tenderly delivered. The audience became entranced, and felt as it was passing there was a gradual change, but did not realize that the beautiful scene had vanished, until a grand crescendo, filled with mechanical difficulties of every kind, closed her masterly performance.	-
The vocal part of this day’s entertainment—and we may say its crowning triumph—was Mendelssohn’s hymn, “ Hear my Prayer!” canto and chorus. The canto was taken by Miss Reilly, who shone in this arduous undertaking beyond her pre- ceding efforts from the fact that she felt more the sustaining influence of her companions who filled the hall with rich harmonies, shading them down from forte to the faintest pianissimo^ The movement was slow and devotional, according to the ,sacred text ; the5 next was more’joyous, the parts more fugue-Xi)s.& in their combinations, rushing upward to the climax, when all softened down to the “ longing for heavenly' rest.”
It is said.that a “Valedictory” can never, con- ' tain any new idea.' That of Miss Clarke was an ■exception to the rule, and was a model of its kind.
The closing speech, by the Rt. Rev. John A. Watterson, D.' D., in classic elegance and beautiful .appropriateness could scarcely be surpassed. To
attempt a synopsis would be but to marthat which,, to do the effort justice, should be listened to, accompanied by the surroundings such as were presented on Thursday. Suffice it to say. the subject was “ The Poetry-of Religion,” and the labors of
- Very Rev. Father General in the establishment of Institutions like Notre Dame and St. Marv’s werer warmly eulogized.	*
F. Schubert’s “ Divertissement,” played by the * Misses Beal, Gove, Fenlon, Hunt, Keenan, Crawford, Shephard and Kirkham, was the charming; closing of this day’s exercises. They showed the degree of excellence required of would-be graduates to reach the standard demanded at St. Mary’s. -
Graduating Medals in the Academic Course were conferred on Miss Mary Clarke, .Columbus, Ohio; Miss Agnes Dillon,~Chenoa, Ill.; Miss Linda Fox, Chicago, Ill.; .Miss Mary Feehan, New York City; Miss Annie Ryan, Lockport, Ill.; Miss Maude Wiley, Lansing, Mich.; Miss Mary Wright, Elkhart, Ind.
Graduating Medals in the Conservatory of Music were conferred, on Miss Maude Wiley, Lansing, Mich.; Miss Mary Campbell, Washing- . -ton, Ind.; Miss Caroline Sullivan, Michigan City, Indiana.	'
After the exercises, an Alumnae Association was organized, and the following officers elected for the ensuing year:.	'	•
President—Miss Catharine Young, -72. ■ '
Vice-President—Miss Elizabeth Black, ’74-
Secretary—Miss Addie Walsh,’77.
Corresponding Sec.;—Miss Annie Clarke^ ’76.
Treasurer—Miss Angela Ewing, ’81.
Essayist—Miss Eleanor Keenan,’So.	'
Mistress of Toasts—Mrs. Sweet,’8i.' .
After the meeting, the Alumnae- Dinner was given, at which Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson presided. .	■
Among the many visitors present were the following: Mrs. Palmerton, ’63, Elkhart, Ind.; Mrs. Rodgers, ’73, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. Carroll, .’79, Paw Paw, Mich.; Mrs. Sweet, ’81, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Addie Walsh, ’77, Chicago, III.; Miss Mary Cochrane,*’73, Chicago, Ill.; Miss Eleanor Dennehy, ’76, Chicago;, Miss Minnie O’Connor, ’78, Chicago, III.; Miss Jennie Bennet, ’77, Paw PaWj.Mich.; Miss.^Nellie Keenan, ’So, Lindsay, Canada; Miss-Ida Reynolds,’76, Cassapblis; Miss t Angela. Ewing, ’81, Lancaster, Ohio; Miss Aii-*-gela Dillon, ’80, Chenoa, Ill.; Miss Addie Geiser, ’79, Chicago,Til.; Miss Annie Clarke, ’76, Columbus; Miss Catharine Young, ’72, Chicago, Ill.;' Miss Elizabeth Black,’74, Milwaukee, Wis.; Miss Elizabeth Tighe, Chicago, Ill.; and many former * • pupils, always welcome guests at St. Mary’s. ;	*
■	The Art Department. . .
The following is a catalogue of the Art work ©_ ©
674	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
on exhibition, executed in St. Luke’s Studio, during the scholastic year i882-’83:
Oil-paintings by the teachers—St. Magdalene, St. Catharine of Sienna, St. Francis’ Vision, St. Angela’s Life illuminated, portraits and panels.
Lustra-painting by the teachers—Table-cover, with rich fruit design, and several satin screens.
Kensington Art work—Fire-screens, mirrorframes, and antique lace spread.
By the recipients of Toner Art Medal ’83 and ’S3—Miss English, 6 pieces in oil, and Miss Fox, 8 pieces in oil.
Misses C. Campbell, 1st Class, 14; C. Lancaster, .5; H. Van Patten, 12; M. Beal, 7; C. Harrigan, 10; M. Clarke, 8; M. Heneberry, 10; P. Ewing, 6; V. Reilly, 9; L. Fendrich, 5; J. Spengler, 4; C. Donnelly, 5; V. Barlow, 6; M. H. Ryan, 4; M. A. Ryan, 3; E. Costigan, 3; E. Shickey, 3; L. Madole, 1; M. Hawkins, 7; E. Hawkins, 3; A. Heckard, 2; M. Stackerl, 2.
In Crayon studies the Misses H. Van Patten, 1; M. Dillon, 1; E. Shickey, 3; M. Otis, 1; C. Fehr, 1; A. Duffield, 1; A. Heckard, i; L. Van Horn, 1; G. Legnard, 2; H. Leach, 3; R. Evarts, 1; M. Halter, 4; L. Spotwood, 2; S. Dunne, 3; A. English, 3; E. Costigan, 3; M. Schmidt, 2.
In the China painting, by the Misses Fox, Campbell, Lancaster, Heneberry, Beal and Van Patten.
In embroidery painting, by the Misses Fendrich, Van Patten, Barlow, and M. Hawkins.
St. Luke’s Studio.
From the South-Bend Tribune.
None of St. Mary’s varied educational departments attract so much of the attention of the visitors as the Art Gallery, which contains the work of teachers and pupils in such great variety that the visitors can spend several hours there with pleasure and profit. There are specimens in oil and water-colors, Kensington painting, tapestry painting, Kensington work, examples in Limoges, Lustra, alto-relievo, painting on brass, plush, velvet, porcelain, and, indeed, through the whole range of the art. Some examples in portraiture are especially deserving of notice. Of the large number of panels, it would be difficult to decide which are the most meritorious, so well are they all executed. In too many art schools pupils are made copyists—that is, they are permitted to copy from other paintings or pictures instead of from nature direct. Here the flower-gardens, the groves, and the picturesque scenery about St. Mary’s grounds afford an endless variety of subjects, and the pupils are required to use them. The result is pictures of striking originality, which gives them a value as works of art that mere copies can never possess. Among some of the examples to be seen is a tapestry, one of two curtains for a portierre in the Chapel of Our Lady of Loreto. The base is rich with roses and lilies, the top has a most life-like representation of the passion vine and flower, and the centre is freighted with sheaves of wheat and bunches of luscious grapes. It is an exquisite work of art, and was executed'by the teachers. In strik-" ing contrast to it is a large spread of Brussel’s lace
made by the teachers. The three sections of lace are connected by two interstices of blue satin, and on this satin are some exquisite paintings of flowers. A splendid example of genuine Kensington work is a blue satin altar cloth, with perfect representations of water-lilies, leaves and flowers.
As showing the adaptability of the pupils, one 14-ycar old girl has painted from memory a corner of her father’s study. There is ri' section of shelf showing the books, a stand with a vase of flowers, a piece of curtain, and all executed with boldness and reality, which should make it a picture prized above all others in that girl’s home. Some ecclesiastical robes of white velvet arc covered with paintings of roses and other flowers, with a fidelity to nature that must be gratifying to the teachers. Perhaps the most unique example of art in the room is a dessert cloth of red satin, which is a fac-simile of one made and painted by Queen Victoria’s daughter, the Princess Beatrice, for her mother’s dining hall at Balmoral Castle. The border is filled with life-size paintings of pears, plums, grapes and other fruits, interspersed with leaves, lilies and other flowers. This also is the work of teachers, as is an elegant three-section screen, of plush Kensington work. One section bears a trailing arbutus, one wild roses, and the third lilacs. In the same style of art are several French beveled mirrors whose plush frames are rich with flowers. The examples in Limoges and in alto-relievo are as unique as they are beautiful. There are several landscapes by the teachers, notably Loch Lomond and Loch Katrine, which a Scotch gentleman present complimented very highly for their fidelity to nature.
St. Mary’s Academy, CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC, AND SCHOOL OF DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE. Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
In the Academy the course is thorough m the. Preparatory, Academic and Classical in ades.	’
The ins'itution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus. choice and extensive herbariums of .native and foreign plants, and a library of some thoiwands of volumes
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the 1 < gular course of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a laige Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms f'T harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and mactice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture. Chorus Singing and Harmony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe,drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through tiie Academic or Classical Course receive the Graduating Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given iu Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Maky’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ina.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ft. Wayne & Peimsy 1 vania
GREAT THROUGH LINE
TO ALL
Eastern Cities.
IS ENTIRELY
Free From Dust
In the Summer, '
Free From Snow
In the Winter.
AND IS THE
Only Road Ballasted with Broken Flint Stones.
HAS THE ONLY
Limited Express
11’0111 CHICAGO EAST.
FOUR EXPRESS TRAINS DAILY.
7.40 a.m. (except Sunday).	Limited Expess.
5.40 p.m. (daily).	5.00 p.m. (daily).
.	11.00 p.m. (daily).
C. W. ADAMS,
Assistant General Passenger Agent, Chicago, III.
E. A. FORD,	W. A. BALDWIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agt.	Manager.
PITTSBURGH, PAl.
FOR TUITION PURPOSES, THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative for Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT,
ocl-83	DENVER, COL.
Class of 1862.
JAMES M. HO WARD^ Attorney at Law,
Valparaiso, Indiana.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	’
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,	-
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED with the geography of this coun-
try will see BY EXAMINING THISMAPTHATTHE
CHICAGR,ROCK ISLAND APACIFICR’I Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union -Bepotswith all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Bay Coaches, Magnificent Horton Beelining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Lining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Bireet Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express ■Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage cheeked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
R. R. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pres. & Gen’l M'g'r, Genl Tkt. A Pass. Agt.
CHICAGO.
1
6^6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE rXIEEnSITY OF HOTEE DEME, LTD.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS, MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.	°	5
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of. the officers and Commercial Facultv of the Institution.
In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Re v. T. E.	C. S. C.s
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
V
On and after Sunday, May 27, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo. 8.00 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 3.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m.
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.2S p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.: Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m.
7.40 a.m Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, S.20 a.m. Chicago, 10.40 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.: Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.
' F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen'l M’ger, Cleveland.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table—Nov. IB, 1879.
	♦Mail	’Day Express.	’Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m	9 00 a. m	4 00 p.m	5 15 p.m.	9 10 pm
“ Mich. City -	9 25 “	11 13 *•	6 35 “	7 40 “	11 30 “
“ Niles		10 45 “	12 15 p.m	•8 05 “	9 00 “	12 48 am
“ Kalamazoo-	12 33 p. m	1 40	9 50 “	10 28 “	2 28 “
“ Jackson - - -	3 45 -	4 05 “		12 50 a.m	5 00 “
Ar. Detroit - -	6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 00 “
	‘Mail	‘Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -	7 t.O a. m	9 35 a m	5 55 p. m	9 50 p m.	810 p.m
“ Jackson 		10 20 •	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.m.	115 “
“ Kalamazoo -	1 15 p. tn	2 37	4 50 a. m	2 43 “	1 38 a.m
“ Niles - - - -	3 05 “	4 07 “	0 50 “	4 15	3 30 “
“ Mich. Citv - •	4 3o '•	5 20 “	8 08 “	5 30 “	4 55 “
Ar. Chicago - - -	(i 5’1 *•	7 40 “	10 35 “	8 00 “	7 30 “
Niles and Soritli		J5en<l Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 70 p.m “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 615 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “		♦GOING SOUTH. Lv Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 •	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaify.	tSaturday and Sunday excepted
0 W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard,	
G. P. & T. A.. Chicago, Ill.		Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G, L. Elliott. Agent. South Bend, Ind.