118	NOTRE TAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ HOC PIGNUS
VENERATIONIS ET GRATITUD1NIS
.	. . I. I. ET.. R. R. DIOMEDI FALGONIO ..
.	DELEGATO APOSTOLICO ..	..	.
IN FOEDERATIS STATIBUS AMERICAE SEPTENTRIONALIS
' ALUMNI	'
NOSTRAE DOMINAE UNIVERSITATIS.
HUMILITER OFFEREBANT.
Ullustrissime et Reverendissime:
Te laetis iuvenes, Praesul venerande, salutant Vocibus, et nostrae resonant concentibus aedes, Praesentique Patri domus arridere videtur. -Quod si festa dies agitur totumque per orbem ‘ Magnifico celebrat Sanctos Ecclesia ritu,
Nos, simul ac Nostrae Dominae praeesse videmus Pastorem, sacro diflusum lumine vultum
Miramurj miramur adhuc, Te Praeside, Romani.
Hie vinades qui. praeclaro decoratus honore,
Quique agndset oves nostra iri regione gubemans, Pontidcis Siunmi sapiens Legatus haberis.
Eniinet hie Domini servus Magniisque Sacerdos,
-	Creditur et Papae nobis adstare minister. . > .
, Cum natos jurat ingenuos memorare Parentem
. lam Tibi gaudemus meritas pefsolvere grates.
Carmina si claro minime sint Praesule digna, Forte Pii laudes‘pueros cantare licebit,	.
Ignoscesque tuum Papae coniiingerenomen..	:
Cliristus in terris docuit Deique ■
Spiritum Petro vigilare iussit:
Quid times ? Christi referet perennes
Sponsa triumphos.
Ut Pius quondam rabidas retundens
Hostium classes domuit precando, Alter et verbo placidus superbos Obruet hostes. ..	.
Impiae frustra fremuere gentes,
Pontifex Romae populum benignus Res sacras verae Fidei docebit
Carcere in ipso.	’ .
Improbi leges fabricant iniquas
Et domo frustra monachos repulsant:
Exsules nostra haec, patria relicta,
Terra recepit.
Ignis ut ardens utinam coruscas
Pontifex, sacro ut nitilans amore
Omnia in Christo renovare possis
Urbis et orbis!.	•-
. Nonne vir simplex; humilis refulges ? Nonne Franciscus patiens, modestus, Ad Deum verum valuit silendo Vertere mentes ?
v Nonne Francisci monachus Beati
. Hie vices Papae gerit, et supremas
. ludicat causas stabilisque firmat
; ‘ Munera pacis ?
. Cum Sacrae Grucis socios amicus Visitas, Nostrae Dominae favendo Exhibes summum decus, et beatos
' Reddis alumnos.
. Hie Dei legem veneramur omnes,
, Vera hbertas populi virescit, Et boni inter se sociare gaudent Foederecives. .
Hie Fides vivit pietasque floret,
- Hie bonas antes pueri.docentur, Atque divino colitur Redemptor
/ Ghristus amore.	>
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pulmonary Tuberculosis.
THOMAS J. SWANTZ, '04.
In treating the subject of pulmonary tuberculosis it is not my intention to be deeply scientific or at all exhaustive, but rather limit myself to a few plain facts, intended for the layman, or the public at large.	.	.	-
For choosing such a course, I find two reasons: first, the medical profession already has an abundance of information upon the subject, while unfortunately the public has not; yet it is plainly evident that in order to eliminate the disease the physician must have the intelligent co-operation of the public; and the latter, in order to do efficient work, should have at least an elementary knowledge of the cause and possible prevention of the disease; secondly, I have nothing to add to what has already been done in the line of original research. This at first sight mav seem rather a humiliating statement to make, yet if we only pause to consider the fact that such great and original men as Robert Koch, Alfred Hiller andFlugge, have unselfishly devoted the greater part of their lives to the study and investigation of this peculiar malady, there appears to be little room for doubt that the work has been well done; that the field has been thoroughlv harrowed and reharrowed, until now there is scarcely anything to do except to impress the facts, as they are, upon the mind of the public, to let each and every one judge for himself whether or not this dreadful scourge can and ought to be prevented. -	-
NATURE OF PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS.
Pulmonary tuberculosis, or, as it is more commonly called, consumption, is most prevalent in the highly civilized, or white countries, where it claims at' least ten out of every hundred deaths that occur, and at certain periods of life it is even more destructive. It probably destroys at least fifty per centum of European Britain, between the ages of twenty-five And thirty-five, and in; some cities on the continent its ravages are even greater. ’	•
This is not only true of the present time,
but of times dating back to antiquity. Its historv commences at the verv beginning of medicine, and in turning over • these pages of history, we are at once impressed with the fact that it must have been as extended in space as it has been in time. . No class of people has entirely escaped its ravages; for under proper conditions and environment, the Indian and the Negro are quite as susceptible to it as is his white brother. It seems to spare no rank, race, or color. It almost invariably attacks its victims in the very flower and bloom of youth, just when life is sweetest; just when hopes of future are brightest; and above all, when strong young manhood and womanhood is noblest and most purposefill. Who of us has not seen the pathetic , picture of a youth, the very embodiment of health and strength and manlv vigor, the pride of" his father, the very’ soul of his . mother, the idol of his companions, stricken ‘ -with this peculiar, wasting malady, and '	-
gradually fade away to a mere shadow, ... / to totter and to fall into a premature ,	:
grave? This is no mere word-picture but: an actual happening, and- a scene in which . t precious human lives, are the cost—a scene which is being enacted over and over again each day of our lives.
It is little wonder then that it has been ; -termed “the great white plague,” and less -wonder that it is the subject of so much . - -. thought and topic at the present day.	:
Science has pointed out to us that it is an infectious disease;' that is, it can be communicated from man to man; or, in plainer words,* it is a germ disease, and can therefore . / be placed in the category of preventable . ;; : diseases. In a later paragraph I'-hope to ; ty y render it clear just how to prevent it; but . -at present let us consider the germ of'con- : 1 sumption in order that we may be better .... able to wage a svstematic warfare against • - . it, once we know its habits, its likes and its dislikes.	'	-	..	■
THE GERM OF CONSUMPTION.	:	. . .5
By far the most important question that	j
concerned the investigators of the century , ; -just closed, was to discover, if possible, the .; ~ y real, primary causes of the disease. Although y*f y science had long suspected' that it was of _ an infectious. character,-yet little or no r.- ^y :
■i2o	AD TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
light was thrown on this branch of the subject until the year 1882, when Dr. Robert Koch, of Berlin, began his now famous investigations of its true origin.
Koch’s theory assumed that the malady was caused by an internal parasite, or what we now commonly call a microbe. He began his work carefullv, and in a series of painstaking experiments succeeded in demonstrating to the scientific world that the disease was really due to a germ. The process by which he accomplished this is a long and tedious one, and if I were to describe it here, it, would only tend to confuse rather than instruct the average reader. So let it suffice to say that Koch found the germ in the sputum or spit of a consumptive, and by special staining methods and with the aid of a good microscope he was able to detect the germ that caused the trouble. This germ was so constantly present in the sputum of consumptives that it soon led to the belief that there could be no pulmonary tuberculosis unless the germ was present, and if found absent there was no cause for alarm. This belief, has been verified, until now it has become a fixed law that there can be no pulmonary tuberculosis unless the germ is first found in the suspected sputum; and it is upon this principle that most of our leading physicians of the present day depend for a correct and absolute diagnosis of the . disease in its incipient stages, because the germs may be found in varying numbers in the sputum long before there are any external appearances of. having acquired it.
To mv mind there has been no discoverv in modern science, and more especially in the natural sciences, greater than that of Koch’s: for previous to this time, science had been fighting an enemv in the dark and was of necessity placed at a serious disadvantage; but the great work of Koch in pointing out so positively the true nature of the disease not only gave an impetus to the work of investigating this but also many other diseases whose origin had hitherto been obscure, were: sought for and found along similar - lines. In other words, modern preventive medicine and antiseptic surgery, as we know it to-day, had its real beginning with the investigations of Kocli in 1882;
. arid in order to get some idea of wb^t this
really means it should only be necessary to state that in the short period of twenty-two years that has since elapsed, the death rate from infectious diseases has been reduced to nearlv one half what it formerlv was, and in cities where sanitary science approaches more and more the ideal, even better results have been obtained.
Koch’s bacillus, as the germ has been called, is a small rod-like organism, which with the aid of the high magnifying power of the microscope, appears in red or blue stained preparations as very minute rods. It is about ten times as long- as it is broad, but one must not infer from this that it is verv long, for twentv-five thousand could be placed length-wise, end to end, within a single linear inch space, while two hundred and fifty thousand could be placed side by side in the same space and still there would be room to spare. Think of dividing a linear-inch into two hundred and fifty thousand pieces, and then you will have some conception of its almost infinitesimal size. To say that such a small creature is able to exist, to thrive as an individual, and cause so much havoc and ruin in the world, is simply beyond our understanding, and must ever remain a mystery. Yet we can not deny the fact that it does exist—a fact only made possible by. the modern microscope and by special staining methods. '	-
How is consumption acquired ? The question as to how do we acquire consumption should be an important one to each and every one of us, for at some period of life almost any one is prone to take the disease; and primarily I wish to say that with the possible exception of one other source—that of the milk from the cow—we acquire the disease through human sources; that is, we are contaminated by persons already infected with, the disease; and since it has been proved beyond a doubt that there can be no pulmonary tuberculosis without •the presence of the germ, the question at once resolves itself into how do we acquire the germ? .	. ..
This - may take place i through several channels, but for practical purposes it may be said to occur in two very common ways. The first and. most important : source of infectipri lies in the sputum. Each spit of a consumptive may contain thousands and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
even millions of the germs of tuberculosis. After a time when the sputum has become thoroughly dried and pulverized by being ground under foot, it may rise along with dust particles, float in the air, and in this wav the germs mav reach the lungs of another individual, where they only need a condition favorable to their multiplication and growth in order to make themselves manifest. Up to a very recent time this was thought to be the onlv direct source of infection, but latelv Fliigge has performed some experiments, which have been convincing enough to show that there is still another common mode of infection. He demonstrated that the very particles known as “the cough spray,” and which is a constant product of the cough of an invalid in the more advanced stages of consumption, can remain floating for some time, in the air and is capable oi infecting a healthy individual.
The reader may now ask why it is that so many escape the disease if this be the way it is transmitted; whv does evervone not take it? In the first place I wash it to be understood that the evidence for the statement is not based upon all those that escape the disease, blit upon those who are exposed to the infection and do not escape it. Take, for instance, the case of what is called “consumption in the family.” Here one member contracts the maladv; in a short time after, another, and still another, until not infrequently the entire family is exterminated. This serves to illustrate what. I mean when I say exposed to the infection, because, here in the family, the exposure has, by co-habitation, been the ideal one, a condition which does not exist in segregation. It is a noteworthy fact that in cases where a record has been kept, the great source of infection is from a relative. This, however, is not strictly true, because there are cases where non-relatives have contracted the disease by simply living as borders and roomers with the infected ones.
It should be obvious, therefore, that the farther away from the source of the disease germs, the less danger there is of being mfected. Then, too, even if . we do take in a few of the germs, once in a while, it does not necessarily need to follow that we always acquire the disease. Fortunately the
normal human tissues have the power to resist germs, within reasonable limits, and it is only when this resisting power is at a very low standard that they are able to make anj* progress at all. This - tendencj', or low resisting power, may be of two kinds: that which we inherit from either of our parents, or, it may be, an acquired tendency, where the ordinary organic vigor and stamina have been devitalized to such an extent that the body tissues are perfectly powerless to resist the germs in any great numbers, where even a few mav be enough to cause the disease. Such an individual should never expose himself to the infection a if he values life at all. The mere fact of his doing so would be trespassing upon dangerous ground. This can not be emphasized too strongly. Let such a person avoid all contact with consumptives; let him strive earnestly to bring his body vigor up to the normal, and then he will have nothing to fear. By this I do not mean that he should become an athlete, for statistics tell us that athletes acquire the disease more easily than thin, spare people of just the normal body vigor and strength. This, no doubt, is due to the fact that the muscles used most in vigorous exercise are constantly demanding that more blood and nourishment be brought to them, much to the detriment of the* internal organs, such as the liver and lungs. So that, while such an individual may have large, strong, over-■ developed muscles his illy nourished lungs .
are quite" likely to fall an easy prey to the -common enemy—consumption.
It is, therefore, advisable not to develop one part of the body at the expense of another. The most resistful tissues are those formed in everyday" life by moderate. habits, by plenty of sleep and good, wholesome food and by plenty of pure, fresh air. This state which approaches the ideal, as near as possible, is well exemplified in the simple life of the ordinary farmer who seems to be well-nigh immune from infectious diseases.
But, however laudable it mav be to fortifv the tissues so as to make them an undesirable soil for the growth of disease germs, I think it should be the . first duty of each and every one of ns to prevent the spread and multiplication of the germs, for in these
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
we should now recognize the true source of the malady. Therefore, if we are able to prevent infection, we must also prevent consumption.
THE PREVENTION OF TUBERCULOSIS.
The question of cardinal importance in the prevention of pulmonary tuberculosis must, of course, be to reduce the number of the germs. I am firm in the belief that if every tubercle bacillus could this minute be destroyed there would be no disease known as consumption; and while it is scarcely to be hoped that such an ideal state shall ever exist, it should not in the least deter us from striving toward that end. AVe must persevere, and if our efforts? are at all consistent there should be little room for doubt that in the end we will gain the upper hand. So that in ages to come it may exist only as a mere tradition. It may be to our age as leprosy was to the Middle Ages.
As to the methods of extermination the question will naturally be asked whether the bacillus tuberculosis can be destroyed by the same methods used to exterminate other disease germs. Fortunately, the bacillus is no more tenacious of life than many other pathogenic bacteria, for not only do strong mineral acids promptly kill it, but it yields, quite readily to the ordinary acidity of the normal stomach. Its vitality is quickly destroyed by being brought in contact with germicides in general, such as . bi-chloride of mercury, carbolic acid and sulphui* fumes.	‘
Sunshine is particularly fatal to it. This fact should be taken into account • and well remembered, for if properly used it may become the most potent factor of all in preventing the spread of the germs. Sunshine is the property'' of everyone. It belongs to the poor as well as to the rich. It may be - brought into the humblest cottage as well as the most elegant mansion. The only-requirement is that it should have a free access to the windows and doors of the home. For this reason there should.be no trees or vines allowed to grow so close to the ' house as to prevent the . entrance ot. direct sunlight into; as many . rooms as possible. Sunshine was' intended by nature to-be. a ; disinfectant,'-and we. should not . interfere -withinature in any way if :we wish
to keep both health and happiness. AAre must always remember that the germ of consumption is fungus in character; that is, it avoids sunlight and onfy thrives best in damp, moist, dark places. It rapidly loses its virulence as a disease producer if it can only be brought. in contact with sunlight.	*	.
Much can be done in preventing the disease bv instructing the afflicted one of the danger there lies in the. phlegm or sputum. AA7hile at first some may resent aiw advice upon the subject, still I think that after they begin to see that theyr are exposing those who are neai* and dear to them, theyr will adopt methods of personal precaution. The following are some of the more common precautions to be observed: first, above all when at home patients should not spit on the floor, but should spit into a cuspidor or a vessel partly^ filled with water to which an ounce solution of carbolic acid has been added. If the patient goes out .for a walk he should spit into small rags which have been torn into' small pieces for the occasion. These should be carefully! folded and burned immediately upon his return home; secondly, if he is obliged to cough a great deal, a handkerchief should be held over the mouth in order to prevent the cough from “spraying” the room. This form of spittle is now known to be a factor in the production of fresh cases of .the disease. The spittle upon handkerchiefs should never be allowed to become dried. Handkerchiefs should be frequently- changed; and before sending to the laundry they- ought to be soaked in lye water, or placed in boiling water for a period of at least ten minutes. This destroys the vitality;, of the germs and such handkerchiefs are perfectly safe to send to the laundry, or they mayr be disposed of on the regular wash day*.	.
Another precaution to be taken is that the sufferer should never, sleep in the same room with another person. .This also has been found to be a serious source of infection. The danger is all the more great if the room be at ? all stuffy dr. poorly ventilated. Windows should be left open, day and night. Even in.winter,the windows in the sleeping room should: be let down. .Some, may think ' they, will catch their? death ?of cold if. the

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
windows be open at all. This idea is false, and it should not take Ion sc to find out that it has just the opposite effect on people afflicted with lung diseases. The only precaution to be taken is, that the head should be well covered and plenty of bed-clothes placed conveniently at hand. Fresh air seems to have a beneficial effect both night and day, and many cases which have been considered absolutely hopeless by the drug treatment, have readily yielded to the fresh air method. It has alwavs been found to be a valuable aid and cure in the incipient stages of the disease.	-
Young children should never be allowed to play in rooms occupied by consumptives. It-has been shown by experiment that the dirt collected .from under the finger nails of children playing in such rooms is potent enough to cause the disease in another individual. And since it is not an infrequent occurrence for the child to put its fingers into its mouth, this can at once be counted -as a great source of infection, and should be prevented. Such a child may not take the disease and die at the usual time after having acquired the germ, for the growing tissues afford a formidable resistance to the progress of the disease, hence the child may reach the age of maturity before there are any apparent signs of consumption. Thus after having lain dormant al! through the growing- period and the years of adolescence, the germs mav become suddenlv virulent and cause the disease to break out in its typical form.
This will explain in some measure, why it is that so many young people die of consumption just after having passed the age of eighteen. The essential fact to be remembered is, that the growing tissues have a resisting power peculiar to themselves, and that when the tissues cease their rapid development, there is grave danger of the dormant disease breaking out which generallv results in death.
In conclusion I would like to impress upon the mind of the reader the urgent need .of a -united effort in the fight against tuber culosis. Special laws and special requirements pertaining to the prevention ot consumption should not only be asked for but demanded. Some may think that this ‘ would be an interference with personal
liberty and individual rights, so dear to'the heart of every true American, yet I think that if we give the matter just a little thought we shall find that personal right and liberty do not enter so deeply into the matter as it appears at first sight. Perhaps an example will best serve to illustrate the case exactly as it is. Let us suppose a man owns a house on a prairie, miles away from another habitation. I do not think there would be much said to him if he set fire to his place and burned it down. Most people would say that he had a perfect right to do as he pleased with his own property. But let us now take; the case of a man who sets fire to his property in the city where the houses are closely packed together. Would people say he had a right to do as he pleased with his own property? No, most assuredlv not; for this is a case that involves the personal rights of others as well as his own, and so it is in forming laws for the prevention and spread of diseases. Of course, any man has a right to spit whenever and wherever he pleases, but one with all the symptoms of consumption has no. right to become the unnecessarv source of infection to others. Most people do not understand what an amount of benefit is to be derived from the strict observance of an anti-spitting enactment. If they did they would not oppose it as they do. As a remedv for this I would suggest that the government should educate the public in the facts concerning pulmonary tuberculosis. Millions of dollars are annually appropriated and spent in pointing out how to prevent diseases in cattle, hogs, and sheep. Yet for the sake of a few millions of dollars yearly, which is but a paltry sum to a great nation like this, the masses, the very people that need the information, most, are left in ignorance of the funda- • mental principles underlying the prevention of this important disease.
A small leaflet containing the essentials of “how to prevent consumption,” could be printed by the government and placed at the disposal of the health officers of each countv. In this -wav information regarding the disease would be spread quickly and effectively, and in a very short time; the. results would doubtless: more than repay the trouble and the cost; for consumption
I24
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is a disease that marks its victims in the verv beginning of voun? manhood and womanhood, when working powers and earning capacity are at the highest, and should, if for no other reason, be checked by the government.
There is, however, another point which does not involve the government, but concerns each individual, it is the moral obligation which we owe to all mankind;
O	J
and that is to prevent as much as possible the spread and infection of consumption.
Varsity Verse.
RONDEAU.
pORSAKE me not, 0 Muse, so soon, I’ve need of thee, for 'tis a boon To court thee in thy cheerful hours, And keep thee company 'inongst the flowers.
Where earth and skv and midnight moon
Are all beheld, like the sun at noon
In dazzling splendor as in June— Forsake me not,
But let me, too, with thee commune
And share the jot’ of beauties strewn In fragrance sweet around thv bowers, Besprinkled daily by fresh showers, Lest I shall not my h’rics croon— Forsake me not.
D. J. O’C.
SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION.
‘ Some days are dark and cheery, yet • ■ The barber scraped his client.
The poet sad and weary dreamt Of William Cullen Bryant.
The maiden munching Huyler’s thought That Willie was a dear.
The ticket taker got the punch Upon his tender ear.
Beneath the twinkle of the moon
I saw the awful rout, -A porker drew a handkerchief And wiped his dainty snout.
• “Uneeda biscuit,” quoth the king, “Zuzu,” said the czar. -
It is the rails beneath the wheels That push along the car.
The printing press ran out of breath, The drummer beat his wife.
. A farmer ordered jelly beans	t
And ate them with a knife.
But even if Japan has guns And fires them off with gunners, Russia’s bound to beat them out
- v - Because she has the runners. J. S.
A Little Wanderer.
WESLEY J. DONAHUE.
Just a mite of a fellow lie stood on the comer trying to sell his papers. His tom clothing only half protected his shivering body from the cold, biting air, and every blast of wind threatened to blow him over. Under his arm was a pack of newspapers, the remnants of his day’s stock-in-trade, and as it was growing late and the holiday rush was over he looked at them dubiously, knowing that he was “stuck.”
Tired and disappointed, the waif wandered aimlesslv down a side street. He walked several blocks, and as he left the more thickly populated districts, the night grew darker and more lonesome. It was Christmas week. Through the windows on either side of the street flashed the light from joyful parlors and happy homes. Now and then a merry laugh would ring out, to echo and re-echo down the dark street.
Soon the snow began to fall, and with the wind blowing in his face wearied and discouraged him. But still he plodded on, heeding little the way he was taking, for all were the same to him, all were dark and gloomy. Not a soul had a kind look or an encouraging word for Him. Never since the old pedler, whom he called uncle, dieci, had he a single friend; no, not one. Then he remembered, that it was on just such a night as this that his uncle had died and left him all alone. And well the child recalled how just before the old man expired, almost in his death agony, he had called him to his side and vainlv tried to tell him something; a story in which the words “mother,” “father,” “good home” and “stolen” were repeated again-and again.
Often these words had set him thinkin sr who his .mother or father might be, and often he had pictured them; but to-night he had no heart for such dreams. So, as he saw the lights and heard the merrymaking, he thought how lonely he was; how happy everybody else was. With a sad heart he went on a little farther, then discouraged and tired he stopped at an open corridor and drew himself into it to avoid the cold.
NOEEE DAME SCHOLASl'IC.
Across the street in an upper story, a Christmas tree, gavlv lighted and prettilv decorated, seemed to look down at him. He thought how lovelv, how grand it was, and how happy was the child to whom it belonged. Long he sat and watched, noting every candle, every little trinket; and again he thought how happy, how very happy must be the child for whom the tree was made.
Up within the house, however, there was no child to love the tree, no childish laughter filled the room. The toys shone on no childish form; the candles dazzled and delighted no childish eyes. The only occupants of the room were a man and a woman; and though both were apparently engrossed in reading, one glance would show that their thoughts were far away.
“Eight years, Mary, eight years since we lost our little one,” said the man rising from his chair and going to the woman’s side.
“Yes, eight long, long years,” she replied, “and during all that time not a single word from our little darling. And yet I can’t help having the tree, sorrowful as are some of the memories it brings up. For I can see the little tot now as I held him in mv arms, blinking and laughing at the lights, or else
O	O O	O’
sitting on the floor gazing at his first Christmas tree. So ever since he was stolen from us I’ve had the tree as you know, thinking— thinking—that, perhaps, if God took our babv soon after he left us, Frank mav know we haven’t forgotten * him. But suppose he’s still living all alone in the world; suppose nobody cares for him? The man who stole our darling could have had no heart; and long ago he mav have tired of him; then maybe our little Frank is suffering without a friend.”
Silence followed, disturbed only by the, sobs of the heart-broken mother. Lower and lower burnt • the candles, fainter and fainter grew the shadows, and every candle, as it flickered and died out, cast a deeper gloom and sadness on those whose little one was gone.
Outside the snow had ceased to fall, but oh, it was bitter cold. Now and then a lone wagon or a carriage with its load of nightly merry-makers creaked and crunched
I25 on the pavement; otherwise all was still. The sheltering hall still held its occupant benumbed with cold, but with his eyes fixed on the tree. As the last candle blinked and flickered away, he rose to his feet, cast one last look at the window, then sadly and silently crept out into the cold and darkness of the night.
In Solitude.
EDWARD J. KENNY, ’07.
Silence is reigning supreme.
The- shadows . of approaching night are gently overspreading the earth.
The tops of the stately pines, and the summits of the mountains are gleaming with the smiles of departing day. The loftier eminences are clad in streaming silver.
All alone I stroll, feasting my eyes with the wonders of creation.
The clouds are expanded; some are as purple wings tipped with rays of gold; others resemble a chain of loftv mountains whose craggv summits overlook the vales below. Along their inaccessible sides appear pits and romantic caves.
I pause pensively.
Here without disturbance I survev mv. thoughts, and ponder on the secret intentions of my heart. .
The deadlv silence is now broken; mv attentive ear vaguelv catches the murmuring of a distant stream. '
The gentle breezes have gone to sleep. Not a single leaf is in motion.
The beasts of the field are now reclining on their grassy couch, and the village swain has departed to his pillow.
Silently I stray along.
Darkness is now at its height. The surroundings are rendered visible onlv bv the faint glimmer of the stars.
Meditating on the terrors that so often invade timorous minds, I muse:
Eternity, unlimited and vast!	‘
What man can. estimate thy depth of height, Or count the endless years that thou wilt last?-
Yet millions live and scorn thy endless night
I continue my walk, studying deeply the all-important science—“Know thyself.”
126
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 5, 1904.
Board of Editors.
THOMAS D. LYONS, ’04.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, '04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’04 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 HENRY M. KEMI’ER, ’05
JOHN F. SHEA, ’06	EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06
ROBERT R. CLARKE, L.'06	WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
—The retreat given for the benefit of the students of the University closed Tuesday morning when the students in a bodv received Holy Communion in the church. The University is indeed indebted to the Rev L. Sullivan, C. S. P., for the manner in which he conducted an event of such solemn moment to all true Catholics. Happily gifted alike in voice and manner, the speakei* drove home the great lessons of morality with a force which his listeners will not soon forget. It is indeed a spiritual privilege to all who ever consider life and its questions seriously to have had an opportunity to participate in such an occasion. A pointed reminder of the transient nature of the things of this world is necessary from time to time. A retreat, especially one such as has just been given at Notre Dame, can not fail to turn the mini to the awe-inspiring thoughts of eternity.	__________
—The millennium is probably at hand. Scientists have made a discovery which bids fair to revolutionize the present social system: Fatigue, it has been found, is largely a psychical phenomenon: a man is exhausted only when he thinks he is. In support of this theory it is urged that - soldiers who have sunk to the ground from exhaustion can by mere mental stimulus be roused to further effort without having been refreshed by either food or rest.
Bicyclists competing in the six-day races when about to fall from their saddles have, under the spur of friendly encouragement, taken heart and dashed on to victory.
Instances innumerable could be cited to prove the truth of this statement. Now if it can be placed in complete operation, it may do away entirely with the need of rest and food. The football coach under its regime would not allow his team to indulge in violent practice before a game, he would merely address a few inspiring-words to them every day. A few printed tracts bearing pithy sayings would amply replace a training table. Everything in the physical order could receive like treatment. The followers of John Alexander Dowie would probably become enthusiastic proselytes of the plan. The modern hobo, however, would have to be eliminated before anv eminent and lasting success could be attained. He would doubtless refuse persistently to be convinced that the “tired feeling” was nothing more than a theory.
—The belief which has heretofore obtained that the American play-going public can not appreciate high-class drama is seriously called into question at the present time. First came Mansfield’s great success- with Shaksperian revival, then Sir Henry Irving’s triumphant tour, and finally the recent achievements of Mr. Sothem and Miss Julia Marlowe. However, the taste of the better class of American* theatre-goers is not confined to Shaksperian productions. Those who had the pleasure last year of meeting Mr. Wm. Butler Yeats, the Irish poet, and of hearing his admirable lectures at the Universitv will learn with delight that dramatic critics are predicting a most successful season for his plays this year. Miss Margaret Wycherly, an English actress whose work, sav the critics, gives great promise, has bought the right to all Mr. Yeats’ work, and will appear only in his plays during this season. Miss Wycherly,/ it will be remembered, before taking up the Yeats’ dramas, took the part of “Everyman” in the morality play of that title. An opportunity to . see her iii one of Air. Yeats’ productions should not be neglected.	'	_
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
127
The Apostolic Delegate at Notre Dame.
As the acting President of the University, the Reverend James French, aptly put it, the University had been highly honored in the visits of Secretary Taft and Dom Gasquet, but the real red-letter season was the occasion of the coming of the Apostolic Delegate, the Most Reverend Diomede Falconio, D. D. Saturdajr afternoon the distinguished visitor, accompanied by Very Rev. Provincial Zahm and Rev. J. Burns of Holy Cross, Brookland, D. C., arrived at the university portals, whence he was conducted to the Main Building by a procession of the Faculty and students, headed by the band.
Archbishop Christie of Portland, who had preceded Mgr. Falconio, celebrated the open-
The officers of the Mass were as follows: Rev. Joseph Maguire, deacon; Rev. Joseph. Gallagher, subdeacon; Rev. J. Cavanaugh and Rev. J. Bums, deacons of honor : Rev. J. French, assistant priest; Rev. T. Corbett and Rev. T. Crumley acted as chaplains to Bishop Alerding, and Rev. S. Fitte, chaplain to Bishop Eis; Rev. Wm. Connor, assisted by Mr. C. Kennedy, was master of ceremonies.
Tuesdays afternoon the ceremonies were brought to a fitting close by Solemn Benediction, given by Most Reverend Archbishop Christie of Portland. The discourse was eloquently preached by Rev. D. O’Sullivan, C. S. P., who chose for his subject the necessity for temperance, a theme which he treated in a skilful and forceful manner.
Tuesday night a formal reception was tendered the most reverend visitor in
OX THE WAY TO THE PONTIFICAL MASS.
ing Mass for the students’ retreat on Sundav morning. The Monday following was marked by the arrival of the Rt. Reverend Bishop Alerding of Fort Wayne, and the Rt. Reverend Bishop Eis of Marquette, Wis. Tuesday morning the students received Communion at the Mass celebrated by the Rt. Reverend Bishop Alerding. The Pontifical High Mass, celebrated by the Apostolic Delegate, was preceded by a procession of the Faculty and students, headed by the University band. Members of the Faculty and upper classmen appeared in caps and gowns significant of their rank. The numerous clergy’-, the acolytes in their gorgeous robes, followed by the Rt. Rev. Bishops, and lastly by the Most Rev. Archbishop in the habit of the Franciscan Order, furnished an imposing spectacle.
Washington Hall. After a well-rendered overture bv the Notre Dame orchestra and a selection by the quartette, the Reverend Vice-President in a few well-chosen words welcomed the august guest,' and in behalf of the Faculty and students thanked him for the signal honor he had conferred on the University by his visit. Mr. Michael J. Shea very ably read the Latin poem welcoming Mgr. Falconio to Notre Dame. The most o o
reverend visitor replied with remarkable clearness and earnestness the following:
I beg to return my sincere thanks to the Superiors, ' Faculty* and students of Notre Danie for the beautiful reception tendered me as the representative of our Holy Father the Pope, in America. I assure you that our Holy Father will be glad to hear that the Catholics of the United States possess such an institution,—one which ranks among the very best
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
128
of the land. I may say that I am happy to be with you; for having read and heard of the progress you are making along intellectual lines, I have long had a desire to view with my own eyes the excellent institution which is accomplishing its great mission so faithfully and with such success.
Little more than fifty years ago the Bathers of the Holy- Cross selected this place for a purpose,—the most important purpose of the age,—the education of the young. And behold what they have accomplished in so short a time. When they came here they saw stretching before them a wilderness; to-dav our gaze rests on one of the fairest sights of Indiana, one of the most successful educational institutions of the United States. Where once was a trackless plain, now flourishes a beautiful college dedicated to religion, the sciences and the arts. I ask what evolution has brought about this remarkable change? To whom is due the glory of all that has been accomplished? The honor belongs to the energy, earnestness and zeal of a handful of men, moved by the spirit of God, laboring for the glory of God and the salvation of souls. It is for you, my dear students, those Fathers left their. beautiful country across the sea, and with their own hands builded this University, in order to fit you to cope with the wide world beyond -your college gates, o o	■
In this age, marked as it is, by the paradoxical spectacle of religious indifference and deep scientific research, the greatest problem is that of education; not the need of education—for all agree that educa. tion is necessary-—but what that education should consist of.	-
If education means the formation of the whole man, the training of heart and head, then that education must at the same time enlighten the riiind and control the passions and instil into the soul the great principles of morality and religion. .	,
In a Christian nation science and religion should go hand in hand to produce good and honest citizens, at the same time, true and zealous’ Christians, and for this reason I think that the opinion in this nation concerning education should be universal. Since God has been so good as to give you a chance to receive a Christian education endeavor to profit by the opportunity- by making good use-of your time—time, which if squandered is barren; but if- well used, enables you to lay- up treasures of art, learning and sturdy morality-. The great need of y-oung men in colleges to-day- is energy and. perseverance—energy- to train the mind, perseverance to check the passions.
. Let me recall to you as an instance of what these cd-factors of success,—energy- and perseverance—will achieve: the fact that Sixtus VI. was the son of a shepherd; that Lord Macauley- sprang from bumble origin, and that Andrew Jackson,.one of your own Presidents, was a; tailor. All; three men. came from the people. Let . these men be, an example to you'; always put. forth your best efforts and in the end contentment and success "will' be your reward. Aly dear friends,j I am glad to be with you to-night to see the great -work going oh in your midst, and I hope you will appreciate the .work done;for you by the good Fathers of;the Holy Cross. And now to show you my appreciation for this beautiful reception
tendered me I will give you the special benediction of our Holy Father Pius X. who, I assure you, has a most heartfelt regard for this institution.
The audience then knelt and received the Papal benediction; after which the Faculty and students were presented to the Most Reverend Delegate and - to Archbishop Christie of Portland.
The programme for the occasion was as follows:	.
Overture—“Odds and Ends”................Boettcher
University- Orchestra .
Quartette—“As a Free-Born Eagle”  ..........Shine
Mr. H. B. McCauley-	Air. E. P. Burke
Air. S. A. Sypniewski	Air. S. A. Gavin
Latin Address...............  Air.	Alichael J. Shea
Reply-........His Excellency-, the Apostolic Delegate
Presentation of the Faculty- and Upper Class
’	Alen to His Excellency
The Most Reverend Diomede Falconio was born September 20, 184-2, at Pescocostanzo, a parish in the-diocese of Monte Cassino in Abruzzi, in Italy. September 2, I860, he entered the Franciscan order, and upon the completion of his studies came to the United States where on January . 4, 1S66, he was ordained priest by . the Bishop of Buffalo. On July 17, 1892, he was consecrated Bishop of Lacedonia; on November 29, 1895, the Holy Father raised the Bishop of Lacedonia to the United Archiepiscopal See of Accerenza and Matera; In August, 1899, he was appointed Apostolic Delegate to Canada; On September 30,1902, he was • nominated Apostolic Delegate to the' United ' States. --------------------------------- ■
•	:	Athletic Notes;	•
NOTRE DAAIE, 6; TOLEDO A. A., 0.
Made confident by their easy victory over the crack Detroit A. A. eleven and with an uninterrupted string of victories extending back for over three years, the heavy Toledo athletic eleven trotted onto Cartier Field last Thursday anxious to have the game start, win their victory' and hurry back home. Two hours later the “Mud-Hens” walked slowlv off the field with the small end of a 6 to 0 game as their share of the festivities—a sader but wiser lot of football players.	; - ; < <
Coach Salmon had to shift his men about again, but those in the game were able to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
129
remain, not a substitute being used. Silver, who was acting Captain during the absence of Captain Shaughnessy, was shifted to end, and from the kick off until the encl played a star game. Not a yard was made around him, and finally the Toledo quarter-back gave it up as a bad job and kept away from his end of the line. Funk was kept at tackle and played another star game. Coad at quarter made a number of clever tackles and saved our goal line time after time. The little fellow bowled over the bier ones just as easily as he did the small ones. “Bud” Sheehan was a tower of strength at centre, completely out playing his man, blocking a kick and securing a fumble at a critical time. Guthrie was the best ground gainer for the Varsity, though Draper and Church did fairly well.
The first half found the Varsity on the defensive nearly all the time as our offense could not pierce the heavy Toledo line and end runs were not used. Our defense was tried out thoroughly and found not wanting. Nearly all the Ohioans’ gains were end runs; the line-stopping Tattersall and Wagner in their tracks. The second half was altogether a different storv. Following the kick-off Coad made a fine 40-yard run, and then Guthrie pounded the line for 20 more in three attempts. A bit of hard luck gave Ohio the ball, but Sheehan soon recovered it •on a fumble, and the Varsity swept their opponents off their feet until Guthrie had made the onlv score of the game; Funk kicked goal.
Greatly surprised but not discouraged Toledo came back strong and came very near tieing the score; a long end run bv Fassett and a "number of gains by Captain Tattersall bringing the ball to' our 6-yard line. Here they were stopped twice, and then a fumble resulted in a touchback. Draper punted out of danger, and Toledo had no further chance to score. Fassett and J. Tattersall did the best work for the Ohio
men who certainly have		a strong team. 0
Line up: Notre Dame Fansler -	L E	Toledo A. A. Hadding
Murphy	LT	Shepherd
Beacom	L G	Suek
Sheehan-	C .	Bfabeaker
Donovan	R G	Kause
Funk	R T	Marble
Silver	.	R E	Fassett
Coad	QB	B. Tattersall
Guthrie •	L H	Wagner
Church	R H	Kruse
Draper	F B	J. .Tattersall
Touchdown, Guthrie.	Goal, Funk.	Umpire. Dr. Chase
(Ann Arbor). Referee, Studebaker (De Pauw). Timekeepers, O’Connor (N. D.) and H. Lemphauser (Toledo). Time and place, Cartier Field, Notre Dame, Oct. 27, ’04.
«• *• *
It looks as though Coach Salmon will never get his full team together for a game. Healy, who has been laid up since the Wisconsin game, has reported for practice, and. Captain Shaughnessy has taken his arm out of the sling; but to offset this Draper sprained his ankle in practice last week and is now on crutches; McNernev’s -knee is still in bad shape, but he may be around for the Purdue game.
Carroll Hall and Benton Harbor had scored a touchdown and goal apiece in their game on Cartier Field last week, when, with two minutes to play and the ball on their ten-yard line in Carroll’s possession, . Benton Harbor decided they had to catch a train and left the field, and Referee Fansler had to give the game to Carroll. Kellv, . Mahoney and Diersson were stars for Carroll, but poor generalship was the principal factor in keeping Carroll from further scores. >	w	-
* * _
The Sporting Editor of the Purdue Expo- • nent in a recent article takes offence at the statement of a Chicago paper which gave Notre Dame the title of State Champions for the past three years. In reviewing the matter great stress was laid upon the tie game at Lafavette two vears ago. Let us follow the example of the Exponent and “review matters.” In 1901 Notre Dame won the State Championship by defeating Indiana and Purdue. In 1902 after defeating Indiana we were tied bv Purdue in the last minute of play. Not having been defeated, by all recognized rules of sport the championship remained with us. This rule has been applied to the Western, Eastern, and state championships before, so it needs no defense. Last year the terrible loss which Purdue suffered put them out of championship consideration, and as we
SCHOLASTIC.
loo	NOTRE DAME
kJ	*
defeated AVabash—the victors over Indiana— on Thanksgiving Dav, there is no one who can combat our rightful claim to the title of Champions of Indiana in 1901, 1902 and 1903.
November 12 has been set as the date for the Sorin-Corby game. As Brownson has no team in the field and this will be the one big game of the series a good-sized crowd should turn out. Dan O’Connor has a strong team behind him and will have the advantage of weight and experience; but “Eckie” Wagner has been drilling his men for speed hoping to offset Sorin’s advantage in this way. It is impossible to figure out Inter-Hall dope; but although Sorin looks the best at present, Corby has a habit of springing unpleasant surprises upon their opponents, ' and this year’s game should be hard-fought all the way through.
This afternoon’s game at Lawrence, Kan., with the University of Kansas, will be the second hard test for the Varsity. With Captain Shaughnessy, McNemey, Healy and Draper out of the game our chances for victory are not very bright; but still Coach Salmon hopes that the team, as he will send it into the game, will be able to do more than hold their own. Manager Daly has arranged the return trip so as to allow the boys to stop over at the Fair. Before leaving Thursday, Coach Salmon gave out the following as the line-up: Sheehan, C.; Beacom and Donovan, guards; Funk and Murphy, tackles;. Bracken and Fansler, ends; Silver, quarter-back; Church and Guthrie, half-backs; Waldorf, full-back.
Robert R. Clarke.
Death of Father Johannes.
With sincere sorrow and regret we heard of the death of the Reverend Peter Johannes, C. S. C., first pastor of St. Mary’s Roman Catholic church, South Bend, Indiana. He was an energetic and a useful man, whose amiable disposition had won for him the respect and love not only of his parishioners but of all who had the pleasure of knowing him. Apparently very healthy and vigorous he retired Wednesday evening, October 29, never again to be awakened; for his Master, seeing that his work rvas completed, took him to Himself. His exemplary life, his devotion to duty, stamp him as a . man worthy of that'final reward which comes to. aft. that walk in the right path.
Local Items.
—During the absence of Mr. Lvons the Scholastic was edited by Messrs. Shea and Quinlan. The editor wishes to express his appreciation of their work and to thank them for their willingness to oblige a friend.
—A new hymn-book has been issued by the University press for the special use of the students. Besides the hymns and psalms the book also contains the prayers for the Mass and instructions for receiving the Sacraments.
—With the completion of the new coal sheds -the efficiency of the power-plant has been much increased. In case of necessity eight thousand tons of coal can be kept in reserve—enough to supply the University for one year.
—The throwing of water has been largelv indulged in for the last few weeks m the vicinity of Sorin. - This is an art that requires little skill and less sense. Its great popularity’- among a certain few can easily be attributed to this fact.
—Students who make use of books in the library should take pains to return them to the same shelves from which they are procured. Neglecting to do this causes much annoyance to others who . are sometimes compelled to make a prolonged search for a desired volume.
—Hoxis Mox Mox ca hah an Indian chief paid a visit to the University last Thursday afternoon. Hoxis Alox was greatly pleased with the relics which have been so carefully gathered by Prof. Edwards. When asked, what he thought of the library, Hoxis Alox gave a grunt, and said, “Heap big wigwam.”
—Sorin Hall is mourning the loss of one of her most popular prefects. The transfer of Bro. Eugene to Cincinnati was unexpected and caused genuine sorrow among those over whom he had charge. Before leaving he was presented with a box of cigars by his friends of the second flat who wish him every success in the new field into which he enters.
—On October 19, the first Minim football team defeated the Niles’ Grammar School by a score of 24—9. Although outweighed by their opponents the Minims excelled in team work, holding them safely at all times. The work of Captain Brennan was especially meritorious. On the same afternoon the second team defeated the South Bend Regulars after a hard contest. The score; was 12-0.	- , -
'—The volunteer fire department has been, organized for the coming year, by Father Sammon who will act as chief. A successful playout was held Thursday morning, all
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the apparatus being in first-class condition. A tinge of realism was given to the drill by the daring of Mr. Carrigan who leapt from the second story' of Sorin Hall into a patent life net. This is not the first time that Joe has risked his life.
—The troubles that come to an earnest philosopher are many and varied, but when they assume the concrete form of an iron lamp-post he is indeed deserving of onr sympathy. Mr. R. Obinson recently wandered into this co-etemal path, and like many who have gone before, he encountered the lamppost. The result was striking, and Mr. R. Obinson is now engaged on an original manuscript to be entitled the “Extent of Space.”
—It frequently happens when a lecture is being delivered in Washington Hall, that some lose interest before the conclusion is reached. There is no great wrong- in falling to sleep at this point; in fact, it is the best thing to do; but it is decidediv annoving to those still interested, and discourteous to the speaker, to allow your emotions to be forcibly impressed on the rest of the audience. To this end it might be well for the Juniors to leave pocket knives and other such trinkets in the study-hall.
—Ramsdale Tufts, the smallest bov in the z	«z
Minims, has not vet fullv mastered the intricacies of his native tongue, and as a result often makes some amusing mistakes.
4	o
Here is one of them: Ramsdale recently had the pleasure of getting his hair cut, and it was in vain that he tried to hide a feeling of self-complacency. Hat in hand he approached a Senior from Sorin, and modestly called attention to his improved appearance. “Why! isn’t that fine,” said the Senior. “Where did you get that beautiful cut?” Bustling with importance, the youngster replied, “At the baker’s.”
—The Plodders, Sorin’s star football aggregation, took a trip to St. Edward’s Campus last -week, and, to use a popular expression, they put it all over the Minim stars. The game was fast and furious, the ball being for the most part in the territory of the Plodders. The weight of the Minims told heavily in the latter part of the game, and often it was the beautiful punting of McGlew that prevented a score on Sorin. Rempe and Roe, the famous Minim backs, were unable to make any gains, and often the aggressive Plodders broke through and downed the runner in his. tracks. .The Plodders made their score in the last few minutes of the game. Aided ‘ by a splendid interference McGlew circled Capt. Schneider’s end and ran seventy-five yards for a touch-. down. Shea kicked an easy. goal. After being repeatedly warned, Schneider was
iJ1 .
ordered out of the game for high tackling. Ramsdale Tufts was substituted for'him, and the game went on. Ramsdale was used for long gains by the Minims, and would have made a touchdown but for an unfortunate incident. As Ramsdale was hurdling o .
the goal posts a bystander yelled Baa! This surprised him so much that he dropped the ball and made a cross buck on centre. The Minims recovered the pigskin, and prepared for a last desperate rally, but' time was too short, and. the game was called with the ball on the Plodders’ twentyyard line. Echo’s of the game:
Ramsdale—It was a hard game to lose, and I felt real ba-a-d. .
Captain McGlew—It was a hard-fought game, and the best team won. Our defense was splendid.
Coach Alonzo Lally—I trained the team especially for this game. Thev were in the best of condition, and played their opponents to a standstill.
Vanderhammer — I shall never play again. The slugging was fearfi.il.
Capt. Schneider—If the rest were as good as me, we should have won.
Rempe—I was never so disappointed in my life. I was confident that we would win, but the game isover now.
Kinney—Hoot! I don’t know what to say.
The game was refereed by Prof. Rino who gave satisfaction to both sides.	.
Students Registered for the Fall Examinations, October 28-29.
.	SORIN HALL,	.
J. H. Bach, E. R. Batlie, R. Bracken, P. A. Beacom, Wm. N. Bosler, R. J. Burns, D. L, Callicrate, Robert R. Clarke, M. A. Campbell, Durant Church, J. L. Coontz, Ignacio Canedo, E. 0. Canedo, J. F. Cushing, T. B. Cosgrove, J. F. Carrigan, J. A. Dubbs, Wm. A. Draper, A. Duque, Wm. J. Donovan, C. L. Devine, H. J_Diebold, E. W. Enriquez, M. L: Fansler, B. S. Fahey, W. P. Feeley, H, P. Fisher, G. D. Fansler." A. S. Funk, E. F. Gruber, J. C. Gaul, C. C. Golden, H. J. Geoghegan, T. A. Hammer, T. M. Harris, J. D. Jordan, Wm. D. Jamieson, E. J. Kenney, C. J. Kennedy, A. A. Kotte, R. A. Kasper, J. T. Keeffe, A. E. Lally, T. D. Lyons, F. J. Loughran, J. H. Medrano, D. L. Murphy, J. A. Aloran, Henry J. McGlew, G. J. McFadden, Wm. A. McKearney, J. W. Mclnernv, L. McNemv,’ A. W. McFarland, F. G. Nieto, J. P. O’Shea, J. W. O’Neill, J. C. O'Neill, D. J. O’Connor, J. J. O’Connor, E. A. Opfergelt. J. P. Perez, C. E. Rush, S. F. Riordan, V. N; Rayneri, H. N. Roberts, N. Silver, F. J. Shaughnessy, A. T. Simon, J. F. Shea, M. J. Shea, L. J. Salmon, J. D. Sinnott, W. A. Stevens, C. J. Sheehan, . A. J. Stopper, F. Toba, R. A. Travino, G. L. Trevino, Thomas Tobin, M. J. Uhrich, A. P. Villanueva, L. S. Villanueva, J. R. Voigt, J. W. Wadden, T. J. Welch, ' B. M. Daly, S. J. Guerra.	%	-
CORBY HALL.	,
C. A. Althen, H. E. Altgelt, W. R. Abell, E. V: Bucher. C. R. Beam, G. D. Branen, A. Caparo, K. E. Casparis, C. E. Cole, J. L. Cahill, P. C. Cain, R. F. Conron, C. J. DuBrul, T. A. DuBrul, R. E. Dunn, H. P. Dowling, I. Del Rio, R. W. Donovan, R. J. Daschbach, A C. Dent, W. J. Emerson, E. P. Escher, W. J. Fransioli, J. E. . Franchere, F. T. Farrell, 0. A. Fox, J. C. Fanger, J. J-Flahertv, R. D. Grav, J. P. .Gallart, H. E. Gagen, D. J, Guthrie” T. J. Gehlert, C. J. Holliday, F. J. Hanzel, A..S.‘Hoff, G. A. Hermann, T. F. Healy, R. P. Hurst,
0
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
F. AV. Harbin, AV. L. Joyce, L. J. Keach, C. B. King, A. J. Kennedy, F. P. Kasper, H. AI. Kemper, DeAA7itt Knox, G. G. Knox, Charles Lunden de, J. D. Lynch, J. T. Lantry, AI. D. Alunoz, Gonzalo Munoz, I. C. Alunoz, J. S. Milner, Manuel Muriel, F. J. Murray, AI. J. Marquez, Hermilo Martinez, E. F. Aliller, R. C. Aladden, A. A. McNamara, T. P. McGannon, Palmer Alclntvre, F. B. McCarty,' C. A. McDonald, E. A. McDonald, F. A. McCarthy, W. H. McCarty, C. T. McDermont, C. H. McDermont, J. A. McCaffrey, C. Al. McDermott, J. F. O’Brien, K. P. O’Brien, S. A. O’Brien, A. A. O’Connell, AA7. E. Perce, Arturo Pino, J. F. Pohlman, F. J. Pryor, Louis Palomar, N. L. Roach, J. A. Roach, J. AV. Roach, Penrose Reed, B. A. Reisner, ' E. L. Rousseau, R. A. Railton, J. AV. Sheehan, Federico, Sarinana, E. H. Schwab, R. L. Saley, Eladio Suarez, E. A. Thompson, F. II. A’ogel, H.J. AVrape, AA7. J. AVinter, A. A. AA’inter, C. A. AVinter, L. E. AVagner, R. AV. AA’aldorf, John AVorden.	•
RBOWXSOX HALL.	‘
AV. P. Aguero, J. F. Ahern, S. Ansoatequi, R. E. Anderson, F. P. Byrne, H. S. Baker, J. F. Brogan, A. A. Brown, M. W. Bradwar', C. J. Burke, H. C. Broadman, J-.S- Bradv, D. A. Cullinan, L. F. Craig, AV. P. Colahah, J. L. Cruz, R. J. Carroll, AV. Carroll, F. Caceres, J. J. Corcoran, E. J. Condon, A. J. Cooke, S. A. Cohen, R. AA7. Coad, A. B. Donnelly, A. M. Duarte, F. L. Dupen, F. Derrick, A. J. Devaney, H. V. Donovan, AV. E. Dechant, R. L. Dinan C. AV. East, F. P. Ehrmann, A. AV. Esch, M. D. Falvey, J. A. Feldbausch, R. S. Feig, AI. H. Fox, P. M. Griffin, W. A. Gowrie, F. J. Gavagan, M. F. Genrich, T. E. Geene, J. F. Gottran, S. D. Gerrard, A. M. Geary, F. A. Hidalgo, J. J. Hannigan, O.. D. Hutzell, C. E: Haney, F. AA7. Hartzer, M. C. Hoban, T. L. Hudson, L. A. Hart, B. J. Houser, A. P. Ill, E. H. Jones, P. AV. Kelly, A. J, Kuhn, N. H. Koenig, J. AV. Kelly, M. J. Kenefick, T. J. Kenny, Moritz Kremps, F. J. Kuhn, J. J. Lynch, R. E. Lamb, J. C. Lawless, D. E. Lannan, Ludwig Mallmann, A. S. Morazzani, J.. P. Alurphy, E. J. Monaghan, D. L. Madden, J. B. Moran, T. 0. Maguire, H. E. Miller, L. B. McCabe, Lawrence McDonald, David McDonald, G. G. McLaughlin, C. A. McCann, M. J. McGuinness, Frank McGrath, E. L. McBride, F. G. Nugent, J. AA7. Nelson, S. AA7. Niedbalski, H. T. Nabers, Samuel O’Gorman, J. O’Leary, A. P. Oberst, J. J. Parker, T. J. Popp, J. C. Quinn, M. G. Rubio, Manuel G. Rubio, AA7. F. Robinson, G. A. Rowon, C. A. Reiss, R. J. Schmitt, F. A. Schmitz, Carlos Sanchez, T. J. Sloan, AA7. H. Stueve, A. F. Scott, F. H. Strauss, J. J. Scales, R. E. Scott, F. AA7. Seidel, Jacob Stuhlfaut, C. B.Tyler, _C. H. Terry, AA7. A. Talifero, Rafael Uhribe, C. A. Weinman, E. E. AVoolverton, Leo AVatts, B. H. AA7hite, E. G. Wunsch. F. A. Quiras, Kieron Cahill.
■	CARROLL HALL.	.
H. E. Adams, T. A. Byrne, H; A. Beers, T. P. Butler, J. F. Berteling, H. J. Bolin, F. M; Baumgartner, 0. F. . Bradway, A7. Barsatti, R. A. Beckmann, B. H. Babbitt, F. Brennen, M. Brennan, C. E. Clear, J. R. Clark, J. K. Corbett, E. J. Cullman, E. J. Connolly,- T. F. Creveling, M. G.'Clarke, H. St. Claire ' Conover, AA7: R. Casparis, S. A. Cressy, M; A. Cortina, A'.' G.' Drumm, H. O. DierssenjAV. Duncan, J:. F. Dirks, AA7. AA7. Duckett, M. F. Del Valle,' H. C. Engeldrum, C. D. Eden, R. J. Eberhart, G. :L Fitzgibbon, E. Ffossard,: B. M. Freudenstein, .
* J, McD. Fox, J./B.Gallart, L. F. Garrity, R. W. Harman,-A. L. Hunt, H. C.Higgins, S.H.Herr,R. R.Harrington, K. F. , Hickey, H. AA7. Hilton, AA7. A. Hartnett, J. P.
:	Halloran, AA1. J.Heyl, A. S..Hatinski, J..D. Hannah; J. E.
- -.Jennings, A.'X. Kamm, C. J.-Kelley,' J. F. Kyle, H. T.
Kuhn, J. E. Kinney, J. L. Kinney, C.. H, Kelley, A. R. Knauf, G. NJ Krost,E. L. Knight, - AV; H. Kasper; P. H. Lucas, J. . C.1,Lewis,; B. H. Lange, H;-Medrano, C. R. MinottijG. E. Martinelli;. D.. F. Mahoney, J. J. Martin, D._ A. Morrison, J. J. jMaroney, E.: L. MobneJq J- A.
’ . McCullough, C.:J. McFarland, G. ;Wr- McMami, H; AA7. McAleenan, E. L.-McDermbttJ. WjE. McMorran,-D. E.
?	McKindley, Jr M; McCaffrey, A.’ J. Nieto, J. T.. O’Mara,..
M. P. O’Connor, C. B. O’Connor, R. E. Paine, AA7. P. Powell, F. H. Peterman, R. 0. Probst, T. H. Riley, AA7. J. Riley, F. J. Roan, R. P. Ryan, E. Rothinghouse, R. G. Rubio, F. J. Ronin, AA7. C. Russell, B. A. Rousseau, T. B. Roberts, G. A. Rempe, R. R. Shenk, E. L; Symonds, C. A. Sorge, F. J. Sullivan, A. H. Schmitt, J. X. Sawyer, F. A. Schwartz, A. L. Sauerhering, H. R. Symonds, C. J. Timmins, G. C. Tillett, B. F. Thorward, AV. F. Upman, E. F. A7anderhoof, C. N. A7ernaza, G. E. AVashburn, L. A. AVilliams, C. H. AVessel, H. S. AVarren, L. J. AVelsh, R. B. AA7ilson, AA7. A. AA7hite, J. L. AA7eist, J. J. Yrisarri, R. F. Grande, A. L. Guerra.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
J. A. Boyle, A. J. Beriault, AA7. A. Bolger, D. P. Brennan, G. A. Buenger, E. P. Burke, T. E. Burke, J. J. Corbett, D. J. Cannon, R. H. Carolin, AV. A. Carey, AA7. P. Corcoran, AA’. B. Cunningham, T. A7. Donnelh*, AA7. J. Donahoe, J. A. Devers, P. J, Durcan, J. A. Donahue, J. J. Eckhert, P. J. Foik, E. P. Finnegan, G- J- Finnegan, P. P. Forrestal, J. J. Gorman, J. J. Galligan, Stanislaus Gorka, S. J. Gfuza, S. A. Gavin, AA7. J. Hennessej*, T. P. Hagerty, C. J. Hagerty, P. J. Haggerty, M. J. Hanyz, A. J. Heiser, G. J. Horworth, C.' D. Hagerty*, A. J. Hebert, P. X. Hebert, S. A. Hosinski, AA7.1. Jaskowiak, L [. Kelley, C. S. Landenberger, F. J. Lawler, AA7. C. Lawler, AA7. A. Lennertz, T. A. Lahey, C. C. Miltner, T. L. Mannion, M. A. Mathis, P. J. Miller, E. J. Misch, C.-J. Marshall, T. F. Mahar, AA7. J. Molonev, J. E. Moore, B. J. Molloy, F. J. McCauley, H. B. McCauley, J. E. McGinn, AV. A. McQuaid, F. J. McElhone, AA7. C. O’Brien, . AV. J. O’Donnell, C. L. O’Donnell, D. A. O’Shea, AA7 J. O’Shea, J. J. Quinlan, J. A. Quinlan, C. J. Roy, M. J. Riordan, A. A7. Rozewicz, T. E. Ryan, J. P. Ryan, J. A. Sheedy, AA7. A. Steiner, S. P. Szamecki, S. A. Sypinewski, L.- A. Syzbowicz, AA7. C. Sobolewski, J. M Toth, C. L. Tracy, F. J. Wenninger, A. J. AVeisbecker, F. J. Zerhusen.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
R. Barry, C. A: Bagby, C. H. Brenneck, E. P. Cleary, J. E. Clifford, J. J. Cunningham, J. V. Cunningham, F. T.
• Collier, L. A. Donahoe, R. AV. Dalton, J. F. Dempsey, A. A. Fiffe, AA7. P. Galligan, H. G. Hague, C. H. Johnson, G. J. Lechleitner, P. M. Molloy, AA7. A7. Murphy, A. S. Miller, L. A. Mangan, E. F. O’Flynn, M. Ortiz, Leo F. Powers, L. E. Power,. H. L. Papin, A7. A. Parish, E. A. Rush, L. F. Smith, E. J. Singeon, AA7. C. Schmitt, G. C. Sullivan, L. P. Van Rie, J. W. Wroble, G. R. AVhite, R. L. AVhite, J. Watkins, F. A. Zink, J. F. Duffey, M. M. Duffey.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
A. Arnold, F. N.. Burtt, M. M. Burtt, L. M. Brown, J. Brennen, A. A7. Byrnes, AV. N. Byrnes, R. S. Blakeslee, P. A7. Byrne, C. U. Brinkmann, L. R. Broderick," A. Cartier,. AV. E. Cotter, R..A: Connolly, J. R. Cahill, J. M. Comerford, G. L. Comerford, AV. Carroll, D. Carroll, AA7. Comstock, J. P. Dawson, F. P. Denniston, C. A. Duque, C. L. Dunfee, C. B. Drew, R. C. Follansbee, W. H. Grove, M? Garcia, N.. Gray, R. B. Gray, H. C. Gloeckler, C. Gering, C. AV. Greene, G..B. Goulden, E. H. Harrison, G. M. Harrison, C. H. Hilton, L. B: Heeb, Joseph VHirtenstein, H. E; Hickman, F. R. Hill, A. A. Hilton, C. R. Kranz, AA7. C. Kranz, D. A. Kranz, H. E. Kranz, E. E. 'Krause^ Edgar Koback, S. M. Kasper,. H; AA7.. Kesselhuth, J. _R. Kavanaugh, Josiah Little, R. E. Lawrence, C. M.'Louisell, J. L. Langdon, Samuel Langendorf, G. A. Milius, H. C. Mahoney, J. G. McNair, O. M; McGinnis, 'J. F. McClung, H. G. McDermont, T. R.~ O’Donnell; F. M. Olston, F. AA7. O’Reilly, J. V. Prada, F. M. Price, H. R. Pulver, E. F.' Peil, G. H. Parker, Benjamiii Roe, L. AA7. Rempe, AA7. P. RyariJ G. M:: Roberts, Chern* Reasoner, .Francis Schick, ;Enrique. Sarinana, -'Alfonso. Sarinana, C. J. Smith, H;“C.f Schneider, F. D. Smith, -L S. Tufts, J. R. Tufts, J. Ai Taylor, M. . A, Tello, R. A. Tello, . G. O.
’ A7ernaza, O. E. Veazey, J; A. Woods, C. R: Weber, J. H. Wessdl, H: J; AA7essell;’J.- C.'Wittenburg, E.' C. Yrisarri, C. E. Beilstein. -	'	.