
' 
_Notre D.ame's Student Magazine September 1, 1988 

What can you buy with twenty 
bucks these days? 
2 All "minor" sports passes 
26 hours and 40 1ninutes worth of fines at the reserve book room 
3.2 dinners at the dining hall 
27.2% of a season's football pass 

57.14 % of your ffmiscellaneous fee" 
·oR 

A subscription to Scholastic 
(your parents will love you) 
Please send_ years of Scholastic to: 
Name:---------------------:-­
Address:________________ City:________State:__Zip: _____ 
Please make checks payable to : 

Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _-years = $__ 




Scholastic 
·Ci)vei:t : · · · · \.;,:);}: . . ·. · ···• ;... 
'.ticelilt.'8$• /J·s•··•~~•···sJiio~/filrbegiris,~io~~~D~pie qoes.· Ji.at·iti: 'H¥es:.t? d§ ~est:;•£?ild;;gtom·aormi'.eriovatkms tothe t\VO new .. 
,.vomen'.s .hallsihere!~ a<l(j{)kat w·. . tl done sof.ir. ;> .·. 
b··.MikeWi~ber/P?ge(j>;; . ~ ... 
w~•itii};iit1:·•••ithe1~~ter1~nQf??•·qµ;;:to}~P~;~i~.••P
,:Jii;irnt'booridariCSlfr~tfni&~U 


Features 
Grand Sacred Station Nineteenth-century stained glass windows in Sacred Heart Church are being restored for the first time since they were installed over a century ago. by Maggie Sieger /Page 12 
We're Golden, Again The golden dome atop the Administration building is sporting a shiny new look this fall, complete with a new coat for Our Lady by Steffanie Keller / Page 14 

Sports 
To Build or Not to Build That is the question surrounding the football stadium, where years of sellout crowds have forced administrators to look into changing the House that Knute Built. by Kevin Boughal /Page 16 
Sportsweek A roundup of lesser-known varsity sports. /Page 19 
Disce'Quasi 
Vive QJasici 
Fouhded 1ssi 


Departments  Editorial Staff Sports: Kevin.Boughal  
Week in Distortion Mike Keegan probes the ol' question: "How Was Your Summer?" /Page 3 On Other Campuses A look at what's going on at other campuses /Page 4 Music Soul Asylum and other food for hipsters in the Midwest/ Page 5 Calendar What's going on at Notre Dame/St. Mary's, the region and Chicago/ Page 20  News:'AociyHilger · · News: Mike Wieber Copy: Joe Maloney> Features: Maggie Sieger [)apartment!;: Amy V/eber  
Final Word Amy Weber, Departments editor, writes about writing for Final Word /Page 22 Prodt11::tj<>n • :> •.. . i' • .. Life in Hell Systerris~anager: Matt Langie .... ··.•····.·• Ernie Pook's Co meek qiciphics Arts Manager: Vivienne ..PadiUa1--------------------------------------tPhoto Asst}.1anager: ()~~?~:Ray ·· · Editorial IISeen But Not Heard": Student Input and the Alcohol Policy /Page 23 Ad design: Ros Winner • · ·  
Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 nd printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available al $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in cholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre ame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are elcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic.  I II If  
opyright 1988 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.  

September 1, 1988 




Letters 
Dear Readers, 
Welcome to the pages of Scholastic magazine, a weekly student magazine that has been providing news, sports and features to the Notre Dame community since 1867. 
The Scholastic of today bears only a slight resemblance to its forebears. Once the only source of news and commentary on campus, the magazine has gone through many style, production and editorial changes, from the very literary to the vaguely spiritual. But let me clue you in to what really matters, which in a history of a publication usually means "the last few years." 
Scholastic was revived in 1985-6 as a bimonthly publication that covered issues relevant to the comm unity, particularly students, with a slightly different flair than you might find in the Observer. The magazine returned to its traditional weekly format at the beginning of the 1986-7 school year, a trend that continued last year. Therefore, this 121-year-old publica­tion, though it sounds strange, is young. 
As a young publication -not to mention a student publication -we're always open to change, particularly improvement. Last year, for example, we switched to a Macintosh-based desktop publishing system, abandoning our computer version of the Gutenberg printing press. We also made a switch to "glossy" covers, among other production changes, while examining issues such as minorities on campus, Counseling Center confidenti­ality and women on campus, along with the usual coverage of the sports teams, both on and off the field. 
For the upperclassmen who are used to seeing us on Thursday nights, there will be a few new things in Scholastic this year. "Ernie Pook's Comeek," a syndicated cartoon by Lyinda Barry, will now appear alongside "Life in Hell" in the back of the issue. "Life in Hell," by the way, will be examining the ups and downs of childhood in the coming issues. "Sportsweek," a weekly roundup of the lesser-known varsity teams, will also appear again this year, along with "On Other Campuses" and a weekly music column. In the coming weeks we will be expanding our calendar section to let you know about what's going on on and off campus during the weekends. 
As with the sports teams, graduation usually ends up taking away a lot of seasoned talent from activities. Scholastic also needs to fill the gaps. Even if you've never written for a publication, you can still give it a shot. And even if you have no inclination to see your name in print, you can do lots of other things. A publication needs business people, layout/design people, photographers, and even manage­rial types who come up with ideas (like, 


... Letten;•.to. sdh()IastiQ,Iririst b~·Jyped·•• ~cf}~&lridithe·•.writ6fis
..·narne; .address aridpli911e.number.• pnifersifystt1cle11t~sffguldinclt1clftheir.yeafi~ SSBOOl rd..CoJl~ge;. :F~~lllty 111e~pe~1§~~g1c1.msN~~•.tB.yir ?fr:~ipen~-\ AU ·. Jytt~rs. ·.must·· §§.slinecL. Nat1:1y§)'Yill• ~e ~~!hh~lq :~p~~;ryqU:eitin 9·tttairt .· 
instances. .' 
. .·. ·. . .• Scho1~1.tfofeseryes. th~ ~gllt '.tb 
·nw~g, graI11111~fis~l Qf.•spel#ni·7IT~rs 

say, this letter) and end up having to do it themselves. 
Ifyou have no desire to get anywhere near this or any other publication, you can still help us out by writing us letters. If you're pleased or offerided about what you see, let us I:rnow about it. We are as excited as you are about the new year and are committed to putting out a quality publica­tion that students at Notre Dame deserve. 
Sincerely, 
Terry Lynch 
Managing Editor 

WEEK IN DISTORTION/Mike Keegan 


So,dude,How was your 
SUITIITier? 
This is probably the most asked question on the Notre Dame campus since last year's "How was your spring break?" question. Being that it is on the lips of every student on campus, it is important to understand the various responses to this question and decide what can be learned from the answers students give. To do this, one must analyze the different conversations that people engage in after the "How was your summer?" question is asked. So let's listen in on our first conversation. Barney (with a cheezy grin and an "I­have-no-idea-who-you-are" look on his face): "So, dude how was your summer?" Fred (trying to act like he knows him): "Great, really fanatastic man." Barney (trying to sound sincere but failing badly): "Good." ----(ten second lull) Fred (with eyes frantically darting around trying to spot a familiar face): "How was yours?" Barney (respqnding with little interest or enthusiasm): "O.K., not bad." Fred (lying): "Gotrto go get a refill. See you around?" · Both people leave this short conversation thinking "Who was that guy and why does he care what I did this summer?" Basi­cally a superficial conversation with no point or direction. Talking to a wall would be as productive as this one. 
Laurel (sincere): "How was your summer Hardy?" Hardy (overly excited): "Really enlighten­ing." Laurel (intrigued by the response, yet a bit hesitant): "Oh yeah? Well what did you 

do?" Hardy (chin-up, thinking he is important): "I worked for an aeronautics physics firm researching the effects of O-Ring disinte-· gration caused by shuttle re-entry into the earth's atmosphere." Laurel (lost and scared): "Sounds great, but I really got. .. " Hardy (cutting him off in mid-sentence): "You see, we built replica space shuttle engines ... " 
This can be classified as the "Why-the­hell-did-I-ask-that-question" dilemma. Laurel now finds himself roped into a conversation about which he has absolutely no interest or understanding. Good advice would be to avoid science and engineering majors during the first two weeks back; after that, they will be buried in the library. Let's see what Spicoli and Pinnochio have to say. 
Spicoli (chilling): "How was you summer, Pinna?" Pinnochio (chicken-chest stuck out): "Cool man. I worked construction." Spicoli (knowing that he also worked construction): "So did I. What did you do?" Pinnochio (sounding cool): "Mainly I 
welded steel together and stuff like that, ya know. What did you do?" Spicoli (knowing that he was just a peon laborer but wanting to rival Pinnochio): "Well, I did some welding too, but mainly I shot grades for the foreman." Pinnochio (nose growing for he also was just a ditch digger): "Yeah pretty tough stuff. It's hard work being outside and all, but you know, I survived. No big deal." 
Here one has the old "Disguise-my­summer-job" interaction. This classifica­tion is typical of business majors who intern during the summer. When asked the "How-was-your-summer" question, the normal business major would respond with something along the lines of "I interned with Chemical Bank," or "I worked on the floor of the exchange for Salomon Broth­ers." I like the more accurate, concise versions myself, "pencil-pushers" or "mail­room clerks." 

I
One could go on forever, or at least a Ir 
Ii
long time, analyzing responses to this 

I 
important social question, but I think we all 

I
get the point I think it's time to move on 

I
to the next big question that will be on the I,:1
lips of all students at Notre Dame. What 

!f 
are you going to do for October break?II r· 
September 1, 1988 3 ii 
i 
J 




On Other Campuses 
... 



Dress Code Violation 
Weber State loses its shorts .... , and shirts, and socks. 4 
It seems the Weber State College football team will university where con­play its season opener without the comfort of its brand sumption of alcohol is new uniforms. Burglars made off with $2300 worth of prohibited and many the new uniforms (socks included) when they ran­other socially explicit sacked the team's locker room last week, reported The activities, including Chronicle of Higher Education. In trying to locate the dancing, are strongly thieves, the college is offering two passes for all its discouraged. Baylor 1988-89 football and basketball games to anyone with President Herbert H. information about the break-in, said Craig Nelson, Reynolds was quoted spokesman for Weber... A bit of advice Craig, if you as stating the star had ever want to see those uniforms again, you should not done enough "to ~~ really offer a reward! strengthen the moral fiber of this nation." Nelson, who 
atttended Baylor for two semesters in 1954, wears long 

hair and an earring, and has been married three times. Penn State footbali coach Joe Paterno has been the He said the snub "gets my red Irish hair up." object of much scrutiny since his deliverance of a brief · address at the Republican National Convention in support of Vice President George Bush's presidential Stanford University athletes have been given the con­nomination. "It's wrong for an academic institution to stitutional right to use illegal substances without scru­actually involve itself in partisan politics," said Penn tiny from the law or the NCAA. The College Press State student body President Seth Williams. The Service reported recently that Santa Clara County College Press Service quoted Paterno as responding " Superior Court Judge Conrad Rushing issued a perma­I'll be damned if I'll sit still while people who can't nent injunction in August allowing all Stanford ath­carry George Bush's shoes ridicule him." Paterno, letes to compete without participating in the NCAA's realizing the controversy that his speech would create drug-testing program. Rushing said that the NCAA's had second thoughts about giving it, "then I said that's program "invades student athletes' privacy" and "inter­ridiculous because I really want to do it. I have that feres with the athletes' right to treat themselves with kind of respect for Bush!" ... keep making statements appropriate over-the-counter medications as other like the last one Joe, and you might be damned! students do." 
Willie Nelson is having problems with his alma mater ... And if anyone cares, Something: Under the Bed is Baylor University. According to the Chronicle of Droolin~is no longer the number one read book on Higher Education, the university recently canceled a college campuses, according to the Chronicle of Higher planned concert because of the country singer's alleg­Education. edly immoral behavior. Baylor is a Baptist-affiliated 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 

MUSIC/Scott Sullivan 

Reigning in the Midwest 
Thank God for the Midwest. Although this su_mmer's drought 
stifled most middle American 

farmers, the music scene was anything but 
dried up. New albums from Soul Asylum, 
The Magnolias, the pear Daddies, and 
Full Fathom Five are fantastic. 
All but the Fathoms are Twin-Cities 
bands with roots that go about as deep as 
the late punk scene. Maturity has set in, 
however, and even Soul Asylum (formerly 
Loud Fast Rules) has settled down a bit. 
Heck, even The Replacements' Paul 
Westerberg is married now, so it's high 
time Soul Asylum emerged with their 
major label debut, Hang Time, on A&M 
Records: -These Minneapolis-bred dudes 
have been around since '85, but it was 
'86's Made To Be Broken that first 
brought forth lead singer and songwriter 
Dave Pirner's lyrical knack. That contin­
ued with While You Were Out in 1987 and 
his skill heightened on this past summer's 
Hang Time . The switch from Minneapo­
lis' Twin/Tone label to A&M made a big 
difference. Slick production at New 
York's Skyline Studios brought out 
Pirner's and guitarist Dan Murphy's 
complementary styles and solidified their 
music into the crisp, tight sound you 
experience at a live show. 
Soul Asylum's live shows are some of the 
best I've seen from anyone. At their record 
release bash at Minneapolis' First A venue 
club, they mixed Hang Time's new stuff 
with trusted oldies such as "Never Really 
Been," "Closer to the Stars" and covers of 
"Walk Like an Egyptian" and "Sexual 
Healing". See them live ifyou get the 
chance. They're an unpretentious, person-
September 1, 1988 
able bunch. 
These one-time punks have straightened out a bit, and I think they realize they can make some money (actual quantity has yet to be determined) by playing great rock and roll. They have not, thank God, sacrificed their music or their attitude. They haven't sold out, they have simply improved. Just because they made a couple of videos doesn't mean they're complete idiots; they're just playing the big label game. Their vids from Hang Time are "Sometime to Return" and "Cartoon", and just about the only place to view them are on MTV's 120 Minutes. Pirner even cut and combed his blond rat's nest of a coif. 
As for Hang Time, it is unadulterated rock and roll with some twists, the first being a song called "Endless Farewell". This is similar to a heavy metal love ballad with a touch of The Cars thrown in. It's odd, but okay. The other twist is "Twiddly Dee", a dirvish that follows in the coun­tryish path of "Never Really Been" from Made To Be Broken. It's a nonsensical delight "Sometime to Return" is Pirner's attempt at philosophy, and Murphy's "Cartoon" has catchy guitar throughout. My favorite is a ditty called "Ode". It's about a guy named Jud who wins the lottery but still hates everything and everybody. It's interesting, ifnothing else. Trust me, for those of you who haven't been graced by Pirner's lyrical genius, it's infectious. Slashing guitars, clever lyrics and the right attitude are hard to beat 
The Magnolias' second album,For Rent, on Twin/Tone is much like pre-Tim Replacements (some believe too much). After their Concrete Pillbox album For Rent offers much of the same guitar band 

rock with singer John Freeman providing a 
pleasantly grating post-pubescent voice. It 
works. "Walk a Circle", "Gangs in My 
Town", and "Illusion" are quality tunes as 
is "Halfway Down the Road". The 
Magnolias are wild live and play some Ted 
Nugent covers to keep things interesting. 
All in all, they're a straightforward guitar 
band with a future. 
Another pleasant surprise from the north 
(Austin, MN) is the Gear Daddies. Led by 
lead singer-songwriter Marty Zeller, the 
Gear Daddies sound like a country version 
of Lloyd Cole and the Commotion (only 
because of their steel guitar). Their debut 
offering, Let's Go Scare Al is out on local 
Gark Records, and is an endearing, mellow 
album. "Statue of Jesus" is my personal 
favorite on that one. The Daddies' live 
shows are great place to hang out, but if 
it's raucous slam dancing you're after, 

you 'II be disappointed. i' 
Finally, from Iowa City, Iowa, Full I I 
Fathom Five is a hidden gem. Their album I 
I is The Cry OfA Falling Nation on Link I 
I 
Records, and features an interesting cover 
of Jimi Hendrix's "Foxy Lady". You've 
got to take my word on this one. They 
have a distorted meshy sound that is 
addicting. "It Wasn't Jesus" and "The 
Order of the Space" are two good ones 
from the Fathoms. 
The Midwest has proven itself a great · place for a drought and is fast proving itself a musical hotbed to boot.II 
Scott Sullivan is a junior English major from Dubuque, Iowa. His music view will appear regularly in Scholastic. 
5 






ELIFT1 


A 
BY MIKE WIEBER 
s the sunlight reflected off 
the Dome this August, most 

I: 
\' -students saw an unfamiliar sight: the symbol, the hallmark, of their university was being held prisoner in a cage of scaffolding, awaiting an expensive facelift of pure gold leaf. As some of the students entered their halls, the fresh aroma of new carpeting and the scream of power drills greeted them, especially the new residents in Siegfried and Knott Halls. And, the familiar mud of North Dining Hall reminded the remaining students on North Quad that construction work on the cam­pus was far from complete. Probably the first thing to catch students eyes as they returned to campus this fall was the scaffolding surrounding the dome of the Ad­ministration Building. For the ad­venturous or bored parents, the new 

From mod quads to dorm renovations, the univer­sity has continued to build. Here's a look at what's new in campus construction 
stained glass windows on Sacred Heart Church may have diverted attention from building lofts or carrying rugs into hollow dorm rooms. However, some of the most amazing renovations may not be so visible to casual tourists or fresh­man families. 
This fall the "mod quad" wel­comed residents to Knott and Siegfried Hall from other parts of the campus, from off campus, and from all parts of the country. "We are opening the way the Pasqueril­las did. There will be graduate women on the fourth floor for the first year and undergraduates on the others. The university is trying to maintain the delicate balance in ratios of men and women, and class size-freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors," said Janice Poorman, rector of Knott Hall. 
"We've completed Knott and Siegfried at a cost of five million dollars each, but they are not fully occupied yet," said Don Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant. A bit of work remains, though, ac­cording to Poorman. 

"All of the sleeping areas are done, but the first floor chapel is not altogether completed. The landscaping is a problem because of the drought. Also, they are completing minor construction. They are still working on the electrical, security, and fire sys­tems, but the residents have been very tolerant," said Poorman. 
In order to keep up with the growing number of residents on the northern parts of the campus, North Dining Hall has been renovated and is now designed to hold approxi­mately 500 more students than its previous capacity of 1,800. "The reaction of students last Sunday night was 'Oh my God, I can't believe it.' I really thought it would blow the socks off every­body. We've heard all around good comments," said William Hickey, Director of University Food Serv­ices. 

I 

The renovation included massive -reconstruction in the dining areas, including adding carpeting and dividing the hall into several floors. "We crushed the sound with our new acoustical ceiling and carpet­ing. Also, with the new design, if you want to be alone, you can find a private space," said Hickey. 
However, anyone who lives on North Quad would agree that some construction remains. "E and F lines will open in the middle of October and everything will be totally completed on November 1," predicted Hickey. 
Besides the obvious benefits of expanded capacity and a pleasant atmosphere, Hickey foresees other advantages resulting from the recent work. "It's a scramble which permits you to goin any direction. Students don't necessarily have to wait in a build-up of students. No 
September 1, 1988 
more long lines while students wait for one another to get orange juice." 
Also, with the new serving ar­rangement, Hickey feels there will be more positive interaction be­tween the diners and the workers. "Taking the cooks out of the kitchen and putting them out in the students area will allow the workers to take personal pride in each operation: cooking, desserts, or whatever." 
Finally, A and F lines will now lead into the Blue and Gold rooms, respectively, which can be utilized for meetings or hall gatherings. "These rooms will be used for normal student food service but can be reserved after 6:30 until close in the evening," Hickey added. 
Facing the reconstructed dining hall are two renovated residence halls, namely Stanford and Keenan. Refurbished and redecorated, these halls are losing their long time stigma as two architecturally sterile and cold residence halls. 
Brother Viator Grzeskowiak, rector of Stanford Hall, explained the extensive improvements made to his hall and its brother dorm, Keenan. "We have had new carpet­ing and lighting installed in the cor­
f 
I 

I'ii 
I, 



i 
I 
11 
ridors, a new fire alarm system wired into the hall, new cloth put on the corridor walls, and work on the basement to bring it up to fire codes. In the rooms, we installed center lights, fire alarms, stucco ceilings, new tile on the floors, and new plugs. We also got rid of the metal doors and replaced them with wooden doors." 
Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, said student reac­tion to the work over the summer was positive in his hall as well. "All these girls were saying, What is this new hall?" 
He also explained that the com­mon area in the basement under­went a large amount of reconstruc­tion which had been initiated before summer. "We had already started renovation on the basement. We have a music practice room big enough for bands to practice, a library, a kitchen and conference room, a new food sales, and also lavatory facilities. We will have a directory at the bottom of the stairway for these rooms, too." 
At the base of North Quad, just south of the Clark Memorial Foun­tain, lies another example of expan­sion of the university facilities. The physics building is being enlarged to house more classrooms 

and research space. 
"We need research space because 
more grants have been given. Also, 
the university needs space for all 
classes," said Prof. Gerald Jones, 
Chairman of the Physics Depart­
ment. "It should be ready next Sep­
tember. We have been keeping on · schedule so far." 
Dedrick also added that this three story and basement addition will house the University's Hewlitt­Packard Computer that is currently maintained in the Administration B ui,lding and the library. 
Several other improvements were noted by Dedrick. "We rebuilt the crypt in Sacred Heart, totally redo­ing the lighting and decorating the. stairs. We also finished installing air conditioning in the church in June. And, the Registrar's Office is undergoing some changes right now." 
Currently, he added, certain class­room buildings are being expanded and upgraded. "The ventilation is being improved in the hallway between O'Shaughnessy Hall and the Snite Museum. Also, we are completing shell space on the north side of Stepan Chemistry and building chemistry lay-ups." 
So, don't just count the cracks in the sidewalks. Look up. Much is different than when we left in sum­mer. And, there are many changes yet to come, said Dedrick. "Next year it's Cavanaugh and Zahm and, maybe, Lewis." ¦ 
.. 




COMIN ATTR 

A new band building, a new 
R.O.T.C. build­ing, and a center for international studies all will be part of the future 
BY ANDY HILGER 

When one speaks of the tra­dition of Notre Dame, the football program is almost always the topicof conversation. The buildings thatinhabit the campus, however, have quite a tradition of their own. It is the job of the university to maintain this tradition while renovating the old and <level­oping new structures, according to the renovation p_olices Notre Dame has established. 
An immediate project is the development of a new band build­ing..This project is scheduled to begin in January of 1989. The construction site will be next to the recently built Loftus Athletic Center according to Donald Dedrick, the Director of the Physical Plant. 
A new ROTC building is sched­uled to be erected in the same vicinity as the proposed band building. Construction will begin in 
February, said Dedrick. Although the current ROTC building was rushed for practical reasons and re­sembles a wartime barracks, the proposed structure will be a "mod­em Notre Dame building," de­scribed Dedrick, and will be built of the brick common to many of the halls. 
The proposed band and ROTC buildings will be the initial two 
rl 
! 

structures on what is potentially a new academic quad, according to Dedrick. 
"It would be a goal to close off Juniper Road [from the JACC to Bulla Road, making it a private drive operated by the university]," said Dedrick. Whether or not this will be agreeable with South Bend is yet to be determined. South Bend Police were uncertain how the road would be patrolled with regard to speeding and drunk driving if it were to become a part of the Notre Dame campus. 
One more major project that the administration has disclosed in­volves the development of the Hesburgh International Peace Center. The plans are for a three 'r building village which will be built South of the University Club on Green Field. Joan Kroc, widow of the founder of McDonald's Restau­rants, contributed six million dollars to the project and broke ground in a ceremony last April. One func­

September1, 1988 



undergraduate donnitory has not 
been detennined, according to 
Reverend Patrick J. Sullivan, 
C.S.C., the rector of Holy Cross 
Hall. 
The other hall that had been scheduled for closure as w under­graduate dormitory was Carroll Hall. This status, however, has been changed according to Rever­end Michael B. Sullivan, C.S.C., the rector of Carroll Hall. "Carroll Hall will remain an undergraduate dorm indefinitely," said Sullivan. He pointed out that it was entirely different situation than Holy Cross in that Carroll Hall is owned by the University. 
Some students offered their 
~~~!.E!~~~~~~~~:!!:!.~:!!.::..~:!!.!!.~.:.=..:.:::.:...:=;;;,;__-----suggestions as to what could be tion of the Peace Center, which was 
Lyons, Morrissey, Farley, Breen-done to improve the campus as a initiated by the longtime president Phillips and Howard Halls. whole. "With regard to the new of the University Reverend Theo­· Meanwhile some more minor alcohol policy [of pennitting only dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be renovations will take place in Fisher one semi-formal per semester] we to house the Hesburgh Program in Hall and painting will be done in are still not left with many social Public Service, a concentration in much of Lewis Hall, particularly to alternatives," said sophomore Mark the College of Arts and Letters. It the lobbies and public areas, ac-Bellafante. "For this reason I will also contain the Institution for cording to Dedrick. believe that some kind of mini-mallInternational Peace Studies and the "We look at life safety, the as was proposed, would be quite Kellogg Center for International plumbing system, and the electrical beneficial," he continued. 
Studies. 

system" among other things, as the The proposal which Bellafante While Keenan and Stanford Halls top priorities in determining which alluded to was made in the Report were the major benefactors of dorms should be renovated, said of the Task Force on Whole Health renovations over this past summer, Dedrick. and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol.
Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls will be The future of some dorms remains It called for "investigating the feasi­the next to undergo remodelling. 

in doubt. Holy Cross Hall, which is bility for developing for commer­These dorms will be redone in owned by the Holy Cross Order and cial use a portion of the area imme­much the same way as Keenan and not the University of Notre Dame, diately surrounding campus." The Stanford at an estimated cost of was scheduled to be returned to the complex suggested in the report dollars. In addition to Keenan and Holy Cross Brothers after the 1987-"could include a variety of shops,Stanford, donnitories that have been 1988 academic year. It was an-restaurants, movie theaters, night involved in the residential renova­nounced midway through the year clubs and pubs." 
tion program which began in 1980 that the hall would remain open for Another recommendation of the include Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Holy at least one more year. When Holy Task Force Report dealt with Cross, Carroll, Fisher, Pangborn, Cross will in fact be dropped as an "funding for the construction of a 




major performing arts center." Dave Glenn, a program of liberal studies major, echoed this sentiment when he suggested "a drastic increase in the emphasis on per­forming arts." Relating to Glenn's .,I suggestion, sophomore Steve i Reddinger felt that it would be :1i beneficial to create "an outdoor stage, something like an amphithea­ter, for various performances and bands." 
A·suggestion made by Brother Bonaventure Scully, C.F.X, rector of the recently renovated Keenan Hall, involved renovating a building "with apartment style living in mind." 
Reflecting upon the remodelling 
that had taken place in his dorm as 
well as remodelling in general, 
Brother Scully stated, "Renovation 
is also looking in what direction 
you're going, not just new electric­
ity and new lights. We should slow 
down sometimes and look at what 
we have." 
Prior to renovations that Sacred Heart Church underwent, Reverend Daniel R. Jenky stated "These buildings are our history. They make this place beautiful. What we have to do is preserve the character of the buildings, but put them to everyday use through renovations." 
Along with preserving tradition through renovations, the job of the University is to build upon these traditions with the new structures 
that are waiting in the wings. ¦ Some holes are still visible In the North Dlnln Hall's renovation. 
September 1, 1988 11 
-. -, . .-----~ -------~-~~ 
\ ­
i
I • 
i ­


Grand Sacred Station 

Nineteenth-century stained glass j windows in Sacred Heart Church are being restored for the first time l since they were installed 
f we 've started calling the 
church 'Grand Sacred Station.' 

The workmen will be right in the middle of something and will have to stop for a funeral," said Father Daniel R. Jenk:y, rector of Sacred Heart Church. Restoration work on the 19th-century stained glass windows of Sacred Heart is the latest noisemaker in the ongoing renovation of the church. 

i:I. Stained glass up close (above) and from a distance (right) Is being restored. 
I 12
i -Scholastic 


Stained glass windows at the university's largest and most noticeable place of worship are being restored for the first time since being installed more than a century ago. 
"It's our goal to have the windows last for at least another 100 years," said Bernard Gruenke, Jr., president of Conrad Schmitt Studios, the company in charge of the three-year, $800,000 glass restoration 
' project. . 
The 42 windows were designed espe­cially for Sacred Heart during the mid­1800s by Carmelite nuns in Le Mans, France. Father Edward Sorin, Notre Dame founder, commissioned the windows, which were installed in time for Father Sorin's silver jubilee. "We've had repairs (to the glass done) before, but no large­scale restoration," said J enky. "Everything's being done, even the window frames." 
Jim Lyphout, assistant vice-president of business affairs for Notre Dame, said that the glass windows are insured as part of the overall insurance program of the univer­sity. "(Notre Dame) is insured for $650 million by Arkwright-Boston in Boston. $60 million is reserved for fine art, under which the glass and other art in the church are covered." But the insurance value of the windows pales in comparison to their actual value, Jenky said. ''The windows are priceless. If they were broken, what would we do? How could we replace them?" 


The glass in Sacred Heart is the largest and finest collection of 19th-century French stained glass in the world, accord­ing to Jenky. "We had already decided to restore the glass before we discovered how 
the (two world wars) the French people buried the stained glass from the Middle Ages to protect it. But, there was so much 19th-century glass, they didn't bother to bury it. So it was destroyed." 
Each window is removed from Sacred Heart and taken to Schmitt Studios' New Berlin, Wis. location for the long restora­tion process. "There are measurements, rubbings, pictures and other documentation that have to be made before we can begin work on the glass," said Gruenke. 
Once the documentation is completed, the glass is cleaned with a special chemical solution and work begins on restoring the broken, bowed and cracked pieces. "We want to make the glass as close to its original form, without changing it, as we can," Gruenke said. 
Each window is divided into five sections with the top section reserved for a scene from the Old Testament. The other panels depict the lives of saints, the Stations of the Cross and Heaven. "It's all antique, mouth-blown glass," said Gru­enke. "There are thousands of shades of colors because nothing was reproduced exactly." 
Lines and some painting are added to the glass to define its 144 life-size and 106 smaller figures. "Painting stained glass for shadows and added color was popular around the tum of the century," said Gruenke. "One hundred years ago, crafts­men couldn't fire the paint in the high temperatures we can now, so the paint is very delicate and flaking off. " 
Just as the restoration process has advanced since the windows were crafted, it is assumed the process will continue to advance in coming centuries. As an aid to future historians and restoration workers, the date of this work is being etched under the lead in each window and detailed records of all work are being kept. 
"Because, in the future, the methods of restoring stained glass may improve far beyond what we are able to do, none of our (repair) work is done directly on the glass," Gruenke said. 
For example, repainting is done on two millimeter thick slide glass. The slide is inserted over the original to give the appearance of a solid piece of glass. Protective layers of clear glass will be installed on each side of the stained glass to protect it from the wear and tear of what Jenky calls "bombardier pigeons and other everyday hazards." 
The initial restoration plan called for smaller panes of glass to be restored first, followed by the huge transom windows on the east and west sides of the church. 
"When we had the transoms examined, we found the (west window) was hanging by a thread," Jenky said. "It was held in place by its own weight. So, it was removed and work began on it immedi­ately." 
In order to complete renovations as quickly as possible on the inside of the church, Sacred Heart will be closed for a year after spring graduation. "It'll take us about three years," Gruenke said. "We started in December of 1987 and we're scheduled to finish in November of 

September 1, 1988 


We're 
Golden, 




Again 
The golden dome over the Administration Building is 

i. 
'I sporting a shiny new look this fall, complete with a new coat for Our Lady 
BY STEFFANIE KELLER 
Ntre Dame students returning to South Bend last week may have been surprised to see the golden 
dome above the Administration Building 
covered by scaffolding. After the first start 


of surprise, most probably remembered last spring when it was announced that the 
dome would be regilded for the first time in 
alfuost 30 years. 
The regilding began five weeks ago, according to John Dedrick, director of Notre Dame's Physical Plant. "We had planned (the regilding) since last fall," Dedrick said. ''The gold is imported from Germany, so it takes a long time to buy." 
Three employees of Conrad Schmitt Studios, a New Berlin, Wis. finn, are applying tissue-thin layers of 23-karat gold leaf to both the dome and the figure of the Blessed Mother. "For the first time in years, we cleaned the statue of Mary down to its cast iron plates," Dedrick said. ''The statue has been regilded before, but this was the first time in a while for the dome itself." 


Schmitt Studios is also responsible for restoring the stained glass windows in Sacred Heart Church. 
Scholastic 



said Ronald Gruenke, explaining that the workers need almost perfect weather to complete their job. The three man crew works atop a series of steel ladders that end midway up the dome. Above that point, they work on a maze of wood and steel scaffolding. 
Dedrick estimated that the entire job will cost $285,000. "About $68,000 of that is actual gold," said Dedrick. ''The gold leaf is more expensive than gold bullion because the process to make it so thin is very expensive." 
The dome was last regilded in 1961; the statue in 1971. This is the ninth time the dome has been regilded since it was rebuilt in 1882. 
The regilding was finished on Aug. 26, according to Dedrick. Workmen began to take down the scaffolding on Monday and now Mary's newly golden face looks down on the opening of yet another school year. 
Maggie Sieger also contributed to this story. 
-"The (golden primer) paint on the statue has built up to such a point that we felt it was necessary to strip the statue down to the cast metal," said Ronald Gruenke, a crafts­man from Schmitt Studios. He went on to say that the statue appeared not to have been stripped since the dome was placed upon the new Administration Building in 1882. An earlier Administration Building was destroyed in a fire in 1879. 
Beginning the regilding with the actual metal statue will result in more definition, said Dedrick. ''With binoculars, the folds of the robe and the details of the figure will be much more clear," he said. The statue consists of many metal plates that were cast and forged together in a manner similar to the Statue of Liberty, Gruenke said. 
Paint remover was used to remove the 

1 the old coats of gold leaf before the surface I . was sandblasted. Several coats of primer I were applied, followed by a varnish that I dries to a tacky surface within 24 hours, said I Bernard Gruenke, president of Schmitt I Studios. The gold leaf is applied in a manner I similar to hanging wallpaper, although much I more delicately, said Dedrick. 
"You first scrape the surface clean and then peel (the gold ribbon) off tissue paper­backed rolls," said Dedrick. The leaf being applied to the dome is 1/250 millimeter thick and comes on rolls 3 1/2 inches wide. More than 3,500 square feet of leaf is needed to cover the entire surface, which will be hand-buffed with cotton when the regilding is completed. 
"We'll be working as early as 4 a.m. 1,;!i ~~.g~~,{I~~ tlffi ®ffl!(!!~ ~~~~ ~~i,iP mii::l~t ~•~ ni~ and late at night when the wind is calmest," .·~ ~JlO~COM. ­
September 1, 1988 

. :~ 
' -: • • 'l ,. 
< _, 
OR NOTTO BUILD 
Notre Dame must decide whether or not The House that Knute Built should be ex­panded 
BY KEVIN BOUGHAL 
otre Dame's association with 
football has been a mixed bless­
ing. In one respect, the football program has been responsible for millions of dollars in contributions from alumni and 
N 
subway alumni. Th~ team's national notoriety has been a source of free public­ity for the university. 
On the negative side, it took many years for Notre Dame to get rid of its "football factory" reputation and become recognized as a leading educational institution. 
Academic reputation aside, football is once again at the center of a major contro­versy. The expansion that the university has undergonein the past 20 years has helped increase the number of alumni to over 80,000 people, all of whom want to attend home football games in the fall. 
Unfortunately, the football stadium cannot come close to holding the number of people who want tickets. When you add the alumni who want tickets and their families to the current student population, the professors, the season ticket holders; local special interest groups and the· subway alumni, one realizes that the football stadium's capacity of a little over 59,000 people is far less than adequate. 

· The university has beei{"talld~Ji' about the lack of space in the stadium for many years, but has had to put a new stadium on the back burner until after other, more important projects were completed. Basically there are two options to choose from. Either build a new stadium some­where on campus or add on new sections to the existing one. "We don't have any definite plans (for a stadium) afthe moment, but at some point in the future we will have to decide on something," said Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., the executive vice president of the University of Notre Dame. Whether a new stadium is built or the old one is added onto, Beauchamp does not expect the stadium to hold more than about 80,000 people. "If we add to the old stadium, we will want to keep the beauty of the stadium," said Beauchamp. "We will probably add an upper level that would partially overhang the lower level. We would add about 


15,000 seats making the capacity about 75,000 people. It would keep the same style with brick on the outside. Another thing that we have to keep in mind is: Would changing the appearance of the 
stadium affect the look of that area of the campus? We want to keep a uniformity in that area of the campus." 
For example, the J.A.C.C. is actually a structural marvel because the building is enormous but does not look as big as it really is from the outside, said Beauchamp. The Loftus Center is hidden in the trees so its ac.tnal .size i~ also concealed.. If either the final decision, said Beauchamp. Also, we can't forget the tradition of the stadium. 
Another important factor that will be considered in the final decision will be the parking area available. By adding another 15,000 seats to the stadium, an estimated 5,000 more cars would need places to park. Beauchamp added that the university is expanding onto Green Field which will take away part of the parking for the stadium. The International Studies building an­nounced last year is the first building that will be opened on Green Field but with few 
Should the decision be made that a new stadium is needed, there are several probable locations where it could be built. One likely site for a new stadium is near Moreau Seminary on the other side of Juniper Road. There would be a lot of room for parking and there are several large roads nearby to make the stadium easily accessible to spectators. 
If a stadium is built, it will probably be on the outskirts of the campus because there will be more room, said Beauchamp. "Of course," he added, "the best place to ~Ji.I!lJi. ~i ~tiiiiJiu.m •!¥·owld bi,; u.ir; ~t,i:.\ ~d!lf 
A:;M'ii\ 1t, rn~o, "Thi!!! tmI~i:illf!lidl~!~t!i-d ~ti!!id:i~lrl ~t~1,d~ li!'tt lh!!! f,ore~r,o,urid iittl,dl ,1;1'1ii:ii ,~rtr~r ~!~:!~ !!~ ~!"l th!lli b~.~k~Jfi!i.l~!!f!:L 
· ode of those buildings w~re ~ut on another  chance the university will grow in that  course. There is lots of room and it would  
part of the campus, they would look out of  direction.  be right on the main road." However, from  
place because of their size.  Beauchamp did not rule out the possibil­ the tone of his voice, the golf course does  
One of the major deciding factors on  ity that a parking garage could be built  not seem like a popular site for the  
whether the stadium will be enlarged or  either on campus or nearby. The University  stadium with everybody.  
started over will be the cost of such a  of Michigan uses a bus to take spectators  If the university goes through all the  
project. If it costs less to build a modem  to and from games because their parking  trouble of building a new stadium, they  
stadium than it does to add on to the old  facilities are several miles from the  would have to be sure that they did not  
one, than that will have to be considered in  stadium.  build it where they would have the same  
September 1, 1988  17  

-~---~-­

._ j • ---~Y'-'--'-h-~ • 

problems with traffic and parking. 
No people would appreciate a bigger stadium more than the people who have to decide who gets tickets and who does not. 
"The stadium has been sold out since the year before Ara Parseghian came to Notre Dame in the early 1960's," said Lawrence "B ubba" Cunningham, director ofpromo­tions for the athletic department and the person in charge of distributing football tickets. "But we don't have a game this year that we couldn't sell out 80,000 seats. 
It used to be you could show up to a game in a cub scout uniform and get in to see the game. We don't want to have to give away tickets, but we could really serve alumni and.some special interest groups with some more seats." 
"Ifwe had more seats, we wouldn't have to worry about ticket sales dropping because we could just increase the season ticket sales base," said Cunningham. 
It will be at least five years before the university gets around to even thinking about a new stadium, said Beauchamp. Many other things will have to be built before a stadium can be built. 

While the university is trying to decide what to do about the stadium, one reality does not change. Each year the classes get bigger and each year more students are graduating and becoming alumni, so each year more people want to came back to South Bend and participate in the traditions for which the University of Notre Dame 
has become famous. Ill 


BELIEVE IT OR NOT 
Some Statistics on the New Stadium 
lT might be interesting to del\'c 
into the commonplnce, everyday ac­tions that underlie the buihJing of anything as massh-e an<l complicate<l as the Notre Dame sta<lium. The finishe<l structure can be appreciated and admired, an<l conjectures made as to the enormity of the task that confronted the engineers an<l archi­tects and the contr:actor.s; but a sur­\'C!Y of some of the many deto.ils ac­tually reveals that the materials which were poured and hammcre<l and mortared into the .stadium exceed in 
quantity even the most exaggerated guess. 
Completed in. Four Months 
Ry far the most surprising feat is 
the rapid completion of the stadium. 
Although work wa.s begun Sept. 20, 
1929, labor on the foundations did 
not i;tart until April, 1930. For some 
three weeks forms were laid to hold 
th<! concrete, and on April 19, o. bat­
tery of mixers and pourers bego.n to 
lay the actuo.l foundo.tions. BJ· Sep­
tt!mber of 1930, a tittle more than 
four months Inter, the brick-work 
had been completed, seats had been 
erected, and the stadium was ready 
for the thousands of spectators. 
Sr"ts, Steel Work, and Brick 
The lieats in the stadium are .made ?r genuine California redwood, which 1:: practically indestructible, and not affected by . any kind of weather. 100,000 feet of it were used. If a table were to be made of all this v,:ootl, say a table 4 feet wide, it v,:ould stretch into the distance for 2~.000 foct.. At it could be accom­modated for meals 20,000 people, o.p­pr0;dmntely one third the attendance at 'the Navy game. Let us take the ;:.tee] that makes up the framework of the stadium. 400 tons of it, 20 car­loads, were used. Suppose we Wen! to make bullets of it, using two ounces for every bullet. We should finally ha\·e 6,400,000 bullets. Then, if we feed them steadily into a ma­chine gun which shoots 100 or them 
By James Carmody 
'l!l" 'l!l" 'l!l" 
a minute, we should be pressing the trigger for 44 Jays antl ten hours be­fore exhausting the suppl,-, In the same manner we can turn the brick that was used to still another use, much more practical. The 2,000,000 brick.,;; could be laid end to end, as is usual, to reach from the Atlministra• tion building to the waterfront at Cle,·eland,a m_atter of some 300 miles. 
Cement, Timber, und Sto11c JJ'o-rk 
Looking at the construction from the point of \'iew of the contractors, which means reckoning the finh•hed product as tons of this anti feet of that, involves a perusal of statements as to what actually went into the builriing. 45,000 feet of earth were moved in the grading and in the mak­ing of the foundations, and 75 car­loads of cement went into the mixer:-. The erection of the forms for the mixed concrete necessitated the u:=:e of 500,000 feet of rough lumber and planking. From the quarrie::: came 29 carloads of Indiana limestone to be used in the exterior fini:-hing antl the ornamental stone work. The nec­essary sand and gra\'el filled 500 cars, and even the iron bracketi. which hold the seats in pince came in carload lots. 
Th~ PresR Box 
Especially notable is: the press box. It provides what are said to be the finest accommodations: for broadcaKt­ing and reporting gamefl of any sta­dium in the country. There ie room for 2.50 persons, as Well ae neceesary radio equipment. The front or the box h1 entirel>' gla,;s-enclosed, and the section res-er.red for broadcaeting is 
o.bwlutel>· i;oundproor. 
So-me More Stu.tUJtic" 
The men, 500 of them, who actually built the structure, required a ton or!°°? ea.ch day to furnh:1h energy for their 1abori,. They drank 600 gallons 

of water each day as well. The 15, 000 cubic yards of concrete, if made into a tower of ten feet square would reach a height of five and one-half times that of the Woolworth building, usual basis of comparison. All these :::tatistics sen-e to show concretely the huge amounts of material and the correspondingly great amount of labor that went into the erc-ction of one of the finest stadia in America... 
Socl From Oltl Fie/ti in Se1r Stadiwn 
The method used to trnnsfer in­tact the sod of the olri field to the new :-:.tadium is unusua!lr interesting. The turf it.self is some thirtywfive rears old and is quite famous for its firmness and texture. It was first cut into ribbons, then rolled up like a carpet is rolled, and· finalh-trans­ported to it:-:. new location. • At the new statlium it was unrolled and tampe1l into place to form a perfect gridiron. 
Engi,u·f.'rs 111111 C:rneral Contractors 
The· O:.bom Engineering Company, general architecb. for the project, have dei--igned some 50 i:;tadia in all part:--of the country. Among their largest are Comiskey pnrk in Chicago, the Yankee stadium urn! the Polo Grounds in New York, and the sta­dia at the Uni\'ersities of Michigan, Indiana, Purdue, and Minnesota. The general contractor$ were Ralph Sol­Jitt and Sons of South Bent!, who cli­rectecl the actual builcling of the structure. 
Minor C,mtrucl.rJrlf 
The other compnnieK thllt purtici­patcd in the conl:ltruction were: 
GL•flrs,:e J!o1Tm11n It. Co,•••••••• .. nd ..nd grav,.a 
M"11rq1Jc"l.lc P-,rt!11nrl ~nl Cn•••••••••ttm1•01 
Olney). De•n Co., Chlcam•• rrlnfnrclng •t~.. 
Edward, Iron Wor!u. ••••••••••••••••••• 
•••.1lnJ,(1..Ural 11..t1:'I and rnlattllan1'f,u11 lro,n 
CL-ors,:, Bey,r ¦ •• , • , •.•••••••••••••••••rr,..lfin,r 
f½l.ith ~tl Clan Work!!•••.. ••••·••· .,rla,;JnK 
G:i;~~~~~~~/~i~i~;;~~.:::::::~~'.·?:.~: 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • .lumht.-r anl) fflB.Ji,tm "Uf•tille-• 
~~::tJ;~::rK~n:..,:~~~.~:::::::::~~~d•~:: 
18 
Scholastic 






soortsweek 
COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO 
MEN'S SOCCER The Irish will be shooting for their 100th win at home when they host Loyola on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium, marking the debut of Notre Dame in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference MCC). Loyola finished '87 with(a record of8-ll-3. Following the Loyola game, the Irish go o Easton, PA for the MET LIFE SOCCER tCLASSIC. Notre Dame takes on Maine 8-6-4 in '87) at 1 p.m. on Saturday and (hen faces host Lafayette (18-2-2 in '87) att3 p.m. on Sunday. Heading into its debut season in the MCC, the Irish are lead by senior forward BRUCE "TIGER" McCOURT, senior midfielder JOE STERNBERG, and senior orward RANDY MORRIS. They lead a feam that has earned a preseason ranking oftourth in the first Great Lakes Regional fPoll. MEN'S BASKETBALL Irish head coach DIGGER PHELPS announced last week that junior guards JAMERE JACKSON and JOE FREDRICK have been named co-captains of the 1988­89 team. They join sophomore TIM SINGLETON as the only returning ettermen at guard for Notre Dame in '88­l'89. Phelps also announced last week that ormer Irish captain JIM DOLAN has foined the Notre Dame coaching staff as ajgraduate assistant coach. Dolan, a 6'8", 230 pound forward for the Irish, spent the past year playing professional ball in England. He will be pursuing an MSA degree this fall. MEN'S GOLF GEORGE THOMAS, the new head golf coach, will have his first look at the Irish his week as they prepare for the Notre tDame Invitational on Sept. 25, to be held at  the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Thomas succeeds longtime men's coach NOEL O'SULLIVAN, who will serve as director of instruction at Burke Memorial while continuing his duties in the physical education department Thomas, the head PGA professional at Elcona Country Club in Elkhart, will be assisted by his son, JOE THOMAS, in the area of instruction. TOM HANLON, a member of Notre Dame's 1944 NCAA Championship team, will aid the elder Thomas in administrative matters. The Irish are led this season by co­captains DOUG GIORGIO and PAT MOHAN. Giorgio closed out last season with a 78.81 stroke average, second only to Mohan's average of77.29. WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL The Notre Dame women's volleyball team begins its 1988 season on Saturday, Sept 3 at home against Indiana in the J .A.C.C. Their next home game is Wednesday, Sept. 7 in theJACC against 1987 NCAA runner-up Stanford. Both games begin at 7:30 p.m. Head coach ART LAMBERT has high expectations for his team, which has racked up a combined 63-16 record the past two seasons. "Our top goal is to make the NCAA's, but for that to happen, we're going to have to make some improve­ments," said Lambert. The Irish are counting on seniors ZANETTE BENNETT, MARY KAY WALLER, MAUREEN SHEA, and WHITNEY SHEWMAN, along with junior KA THY CUNNINGHAM, to lead them to a third consecutive, 30-plus win season. WOMEN'S SOCCER The Notre Dame women's soccer team begins its inaugural season of varsity competition this week when it plays host to Indiana University-South Bend on Thurs­day, at Krause Stadium at 5 p.m. Head soccer coach DENNIS GRACE is  optimistic about the future of the women's team. "It's going to take time, but I think Notre Dame can field a very competitive women's soccer team in the next few years," said Grace. "The addition of NEIL SCHMIDT to our staff will really make the transition a smooth one for everyone. WOMEN'S GOLF The Notre Dame women's golf team will compete this weekend in the Irish Invita­tional, a 36-hole tournament marking the team's first varsity event. To be held at the University's Burke Memorial Golf Course on Sept. 3-4, the event will feature Purdue, Michigan, Creighton and Illinois State. Administrative assistant TOM HANLON worked with the women's golf club for the past three years. This year the club was elevated to a varsity sport and Hanlon said that he believes the team can compete on the varsity level. SAINT MARY'S SOCCER The Saint Mary's soccer team kicks off its 1988 season this Sunday, as they travel to Milwaukee to take on Marquette. Head coach TOM VAN METER is confident that this year's squad will improve upon last season's 6-8-2 mark. Returnees include senior co-captains ELLEN BOYLE and ANNE SZWEDA and juniors MOLLIE MEEHAN and CAROLINE KNOLL. SA.INF MARY'S TENNIS The Saint Mary's tennis squad begins its fall season on Sept 8, when it travels to face DePaul. They continue on the road the following day, when they take on Hillsdale. Head coach DEBBIE LAVERIE will be looking to duplicate the success of last fall's 13-1 mark. Key returnees include senior CHARLENE SZAJKO, junior JEN­NIFER BLOCK, and sophomore SARAH MAYER.  

September 1, 1988 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 


4:15 p.m. Army ROTC Awards Ceremony in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. The Department of Philosophy Year of Cultural Diversity Lecture "Varieties of Racism," by Anthony Appiah of Cornell University in the Hesburgh Library Lounge FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2 

7:30a.m.-8:00a.m. Open Meeting of Alcoholic Anonymous in Holy Cross Hall 

7:30p.m. & 9:30p.m. ND Communi­cation and Theatre Film "RADIO DAYS" directed by Woody Allen in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum 


SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 
_!~mlttPttI:Q~::::::I •••••+ 
::::::I:::::i:1::1:::::':::: ::•::::::::::::•ti 

7:30P.M. ND MEN'S VOLLEY­BALL VS. Indiana University, Bloomington in the Joyce ACC Pit 

8:00p.m. & 10:lSp.m. 'KNUTE ROCKNE ALL-AMERICAN'' in the Cushing Engineering Auditorium 
4:00p.m. SMC VOLLEYBALL vs. Lake Michigan College in the Angela Athletic Facility 
S:00p.m. ND Women's Soccer vs. Indiana University, South Bend in Moose Krause Stadium 
7:30p.m. ND Men's Soccer vs. Loyola in Moose Krause Sta­dium 

8:00p.m. & 10:lSp.m. "PRE­SIDIO" in the Cushing Engi­neering Auditorium 




South Bend/ Michiana Special Events 
MUSIC MARKET: gigantic tent sale for any music-related items on friday, September 2, and Saturday, September 3. at the Town and Country Shop­ping Center. Sponsored by the St. Joseph County Chapter of the American Red Cross. Call 234-0191 for further details. 
GEM & JEWELERY SHOW: 3:00p.m. to 8:00p.m. Friday, September 2, and l0a.m. to 7:00p.m Saturday, September 3, at the Century Center. Spon­sored by the Michiana Gem and Mineral Society. 
RIDE THE HAY: Hayrides at 6:00p.m. Saturday, September 3, at the Bendix Woods Co. Park. Sponsored by the St. Joseph Co. Parks Dept. For reservations and information, call 654-3155 
Art 
SOUTH BEND ART CENTER: "Women Artists in Indiana", at the Warner Gallery from Sep­tember 3 to October 8. Spon­sored by the Indiana Women's Caucus for Art and the South Bend Art Center 

Museums, 
Libraries, 

Nature Centers 
NORTHERN INDIANA HIS­TORI CAL SOCIETY MUSEUM: "Pretty Underthings" An exhibit on the history of lingerie. September, October, and November. 
KEE-BOON-ME-KA A FEST I­VAL: 1 0:00a. m. to 4:00p. m. Saturday, September 3 at St Patrick's County Park. Spon­sored by the Potawatomi In­dian Nation. Call 616-782-6323 for information. 


Music 
SHA NA NA: 8:00p.m. in the Plymouth High School Audito­rium. Call 1-936-6355 or 1­936-2810 for more informa­tion. 
CAPRICORN: 5-piece band at 7:30p.m. Saturday at the Potato Creek State Park. Sponsored by the Indiana State Parks and Potato Creek State Park. Call 
656-8186 for information. 

Theatre 
BUTTERFLIES ARE FREE: 
Through Saturday at 8:00 pm. Presented by Enchanted Hills Play­house, Syracuse; call 856-2328 
PLAIN AND FANCY: Friday and Saturday 8:00 pm, and 3:00 pm matinees Saturday and Sunday; Amish Acres; call 773-4188 for information 


September 1, 1988 

Final Word 



IWANTYOU! 

tudentBodyPresidentTomDoyleand Vice-President Mike Paese did it. 
Dan Gerlach did it. Pat Cooke did it. Football player John Foley did it. Don't worry, though. Monk's not going to punish them or anything, because Monk did it, too. (Geez, even though Foley is sitting out this year due to an injury, I can'tseeanyoneeven attempting to punish him. The guy is BIG.) Now before you let your imagination run wild and dial up the Archbishop to inform him of Monk's infraction, let me clear up a few things. Even though a joke starting out with, "What do Tom Doyle, John Foley and Monk Malloy all have in common?" could indeed be rather amusing, the punch line in this situation would beratherinnocent. They all filled this page of Scholastic magazine one time as official Final Word writers. You, too, could be a part of this dynasty. · 

I'm not saying it has to be innocent either. Doyouhaveagripe? Got a problem? Want to let the whole darned campus know how irritated you get when other students leave the salad dressing ladels on the wrong side of the pan? Or maybe that security guard who wouldn't let you through the main gate in your mobile to drop off your book bag has really got you boilin'. I wantto hear about it As Departments editor of Scholastic maga­zine, I have to fill this page each week with some interesting piece ofliterary excellence. Hey, this is your big chance. Don't you want to be famous? Don't you want your friends who are being anti-social at the dinner table Thursday night to be anti-social while they're reading YOUR column? 
It certainly doesn't have to be a com­plaint We all know nobody likes to hear a 

By Amy Weber Departments Editor 
whiner all of the time. But do you have a good story? Ifyour lifelong dream is to be a child's story book writer, this is where you want to start. I want a good, interest­ing piece of work. This space shan't be . used for silly little advertisements for your comer lemonade stand. But, hey, if you have something to say about Notre Dame, Kansas City, the emergence ofMTV's Julie Brown as ABC's top foreign corre­spondent, or maybe just life in general, I want to know. Ifyou 're a topical guru and 

think you can contribute something to this magazine on that topic, I want to know. Just make sure it makes sense and is relevant. 
Ifyou have a problem with Scholastic or something within the magazine, send your letter to my boss. Scholastic's editor is al­ways overjoyed with viewer mail. But if you write that kind of thing, I'm not going to look at it until you do ... when the magazine is delivered to the dining halls. I need some­thing to read up here in the office. I want to see something unique. -I want to see some­thing that is going to scream your name, and make me run right over to that phone to get your final approval on running your column. I want to see something that you think, or that you know, or that you saw. Something that no other publication has seen, or possibly ever will see. 


There are a few limitations. The plet~ora of words you submit must number between 500 and 800. I will need to snap a picture of you for lay-out purposes (so if you're running from the FBI, you need not apply), and final copy is subject to my discretion. That doesn't mean I'm going to rewrite your masterpiece, or any thing of the sort. What it does mean, is that I will do some clean-up work and than invite you to be my neighbor at computer terminal no. 3 while we review the changes I made. I make sure Scholastic readers can understand what you 're saying, and then you make sure I was sure of what you were saying. Pretty simple, huh? 
So give me a call, send me a letter. Help me keep my job. The number up here yonder is 239-7569 or239-5029. Ask for Amy Weber, that's me. I can't wait to hear from you. Write a Final Word for Scholastic. You'11 be mighty glad you did. II 
Amy Weber is a junior American studies major. Her column will not be appearing regularly. 
. ·­

----------~ -:•--~------::=;~ --7-,---+•. -~,~ , J-,',,_;:,,.'7'!::~'..-.....~.;;,',..~~~ ., ~)~,.,..•.._ __ -~,:__;_~.::--;:.:--!!'Z~"::_•'_ , __S:l_::~";.)-t -,::::_~ "'t~,:;,,t,•o'\: ,i;,;~•• '< ,_f,•¾ _'",, • • 

Editorial 



Seen but not heard 
Alcohol. We're all sick ofit. And we're sick of hearing about the way it used to be, or arguing about a technicality or consistency. Yet there is something wrong, and it has nothing to do with the changes or how the university will implement them. 
How the new policy came about is an issue. The essential question remains: Just how important was student input in the new alcohol policy? 
True, student opinion was solicited. But the task force was stacked against the students in the first place, and some of those students on the force held political or staff positions within the university which might have precluded them from voicing stronger objections. The student forums, held in every dorm, featured questions that gave the impression that a conclusion already had been reached before soliciting opinions, despite members of the task force's insistences to the contrary. 
Clearly, student opinion on the task force was just window dressing. 
Let's face it: There was really no choice but to make things tougher after the Bearman v, 
Notre Dame (1983) and Campbell v. Wabash College (1986) decisions, which essentially held universities liable for alcohol-related damages or injuries. More time and energy would have been saved had students been told about the changes sooner, if only for the mere benefit of 
trying to plan and create new social alternatives. Was student opinion needed? 
Yes and no. No because alcohol had to stop being served by the university. The task force wasn't needed to review the policy, because changing the policy was simply a matter of conforming to state law. The fact that the "from on high" proclamation in 1983 wound up on the nightly news via student protests might have had something to do with the appearance of a long, drawn out process examining an issue that had already been examined in the courts, without "student input." 
And yet student input was needed. A prime example of this was the new rule on alcohol advertising in publications. Without even touching on the question of whether or not banning alcohol ads would affect student alcohol consumption as much as the university's public image, the administration ignored their own goal of soliciting student input by not even talking to the Observer's editors before forcing a major policy change that significantly reduces the newspaper's advertising revenue. 
The one hall dance per semester rule, the rule requiring 70 percent compliance for a hall dance and the rule banning open containers in the halls during dances also point to just how scatterbrained the thinking in the post-policy era is. And that, in tum, leads to one conclusion: Student opinion was heard, but not listened to. 
Scholastic 

September 1, 1988 


,. ­
"__,",....

rc.11:.,.w;::c.•.,•
"iuiltttfl--'l.9t•1 
••1N11MOI-OON 
ADN7AU. 
liiptCNtSl 
11T ltlllllll'f
1.:r1.a.At11c._... 
Otflftld.lPfUMIII 
01 I\.IYIN 0#51 S-PA,&. 
•t'lt fttt,1.GII~ 


ntE IBP.EE /vlAlt{ suspec.TS we~e M'j COUSIN MA~t.~S, ~eNNErn WATFORD,,AND llt~T NEW 
So~, DEWi:~-SOMcffilNG-IN-SPANlSH. 
WE HAI> AN E'/11. /a\!JSTEP.~ GDINGON AT THE COAT ROOM· A 51:'lltl:T :ruvENILE-DfLltlQVENa WAS PVTTtr-1& CHEWED VP GUM IN THE 
VN!>ER.Af2MS OF EVl?P.~ONl:i COAT'S. WftAi 

WE EVEN I\AI> TO H/\VE A OISll/SSION 6Rollf A80VT IT' 6~ 511TING IN INDIAN SnfLE: ON il-\E FLOOR, AN[) AAIS\N'=, OVP. HANDS ABot/T ·01s P..E~ PEC.TIN(t Ont Ell peoPLE~ fR\VATE' PROPEltT~"ANP •'WI\IJ 611M IS INSUl.'TIN6'' 





~ELL FOR 
I 
E 


P.. ~RlE.F INWOouc.TlON TO 11\lS CM1Too,J Fog_ tllEOPH'fTt.~ A.llO A. RH\f.t>IAl--Cllo~c: FOR. 1\\oSE IJ){O HAUE~'T BEftJ PA~ulG I\TT£>,TTlol\l 
WHAT ARE. THE 

WILL "L.\l=E.INI-\ELL"
IN 1-\ELL"? 
oF 
Off£.NO tv\t:? 

'' 1..lf\:. l>l HE.1,,1,," lS A tJOT ,o "'ErJT10.J CAR.TOOtJ 7 C,l.lTE. 1..rrn..E COl-\lC AtJ6S: r AuE.J/\TION, STll.lP fuu.. Of' F<hJ, 
S~1,,f-~oA:rH 1.J G,
1-\81.R.tl-\eoJT, 1,,/\uGH), 

A1JO ·rn[::/).1,]Q FRI\/QL,11'1. 
!-\£AN•" GLfS,tJE~S
,t-==~=::::.=:.:.:-=.:.-=.';..~~--""!,__

o.=_ ou ~ IMP£,JOtiJ C, r-DOOM. 
Wr\0: $l'Al2. OF T~1S Ci\S?.t'COJ.J. DI STn.lC,IJ ISHING FE.t,rt!RES: 1'"10 Gi!oTeSQOE EAl1.S Bv,(:,::) E<je,5, co..,s,-o..JT T'-'J i'-rtt11•G. EM0T10>1AL STATE.: &rr<E.11., DE.P11.E~Sct>, tJ0l1.MAL.  l)JHO: RA&B\T 0N·1'KE·C:,o. DIS f INC,lllSH1>1(, FEATIIRE~: !3ASl<ALL.,, BIN\<'1 ,..., D2AG, EJ>110T101JAL $TATE: GEr-lE.11.ALL".) Ml<= FEO, OttASt0.JALL"> STEAMED.  WHO: 8120,HlRS, oR Lov(l!S', OR 80TH. OIST•.iGv1sH1>1(, fEATll~E~: FE,,Es, garH E.~ES o>.l SAMt Sioc o" HEAD. EllloTI0>lAL STATE; J,>lc~,.r.ABLE.  Wl-\0: NO D,.,,t ~EALL~ C.Al?ES'. D \ ST IIJGIII SH I llG FfAlu.l!ES: TA!-:E. A &ueSS. E "'O• 11,JJAL STATE: SOUE.LC.1-\E.O.  

WIL..L "THE. C.t-\.ARf\C.TE:RS IN "LIFE \N l·-H:.1,,1,," EVl:R ACHIEVE. H/:\f>P•tJESS? ...........

-o­
,. ­
., 
~ ~ 
.
.. 
<I 
~ 
:t> 
! r 





·r1
cli 


DID OU SIGN UP FOR 
SCHOLRSTIC? 
Departmental meetings begin next week: 
Sunday, September 4: Photography.....................7 :00pm 
Tuesday, September 6: 
Features..........................7:00pm News ...............................8:00pm 
Wednesday, September 7: Departments......................7 :30pm Sp o r ts...........................·.. 8 : 3 0 p m 
Thursday, September 8: 
Business..........................4:00pm 
Copy ..............................7:30pm 
Meetings will be held on the 3rd floor of LaFortune in the Scholastic office. 
everyone welcome 


--~-.......---,,. -.,..... 











