
1960 
~ 
1 1 
.. ~~fr,J~t~sent & Time Past 
' .\ . . ~:":~~--~--;. -~.:.: ~~ a_:~:-­
-. . . . . . . -· --. f~ ·~ 
1
°':-} '.r . .. • . -. -r-:r • 
-:--_ .. -. -· . . ----­
. -_.... · .. -· ------­
-~­


THE FLOATER ... BY BATES 
This shearling lined boot has fireside warmth with the added advantage of water repellency and feather lightness. Michiana $20.95 has the kind of weather that the Floater was designed for. Sizes l2 to 15 ... $22.95 Choose Black or Spanish Moss. 
BUY NOW ... PAY NEXT SUMMER 
PAY ONE-THIRD  PAY ONE-THIRD  PAY ONE-THIRD  
•  •  
in June  in JuZ,y  in August  

No interest or carrying charge added 
----~--­
A~~ 


· ILBER • 
---~....:::: 

amp11$~ho
......___

~ 
ON THE CAMPUS .. :NOTRE DAME 
Forgirlswho liketo 
fuss withoutanybother 
~ 
~ --I J ~­
/ 
1 
/ 

t!Y_/ 
I 

./4e,e's~ ~f:nce bebNeen fu~ingro.'-'=:'J..:.::.____, 
and bothering. Fussing is doing something you like. And bothering is doing something you don't like. l , i The Norelco Home Beauty Salon is for girls who love to 1! ,· 
fuss about the way they look. t · i ; ! There are 10 attachments to fuss with. You can get a fast, s 1 ' close, very gentle shave on your legs and your underarms. Or trim 
Ii ] : i 

the stray ends of your hairdo. Then change attachments and 1·; i · ; , .., .. fuss a little with your fingernails. "t 1i_ 11 


,_.i


-,~x 

Change again, and you can massage your scalp. j l ~ , ,;.' i ~-· _.-·., .., .-· Or your face. Or neck. Even apply a facial cream _ j ,,; ·· j
i'i: '/.. 

;~;-· -. to your face. ]'·, ff , ;''"'·· .A· ft:-·.:· ·, 
;..-~ The Home Beauty Salon. If you love to fuss, it's no · ·i f ~: , 1 {ir ,,M'~ fff_,.. ::
1 1

! -· ·. · · ; bother. And neither is the Lady Norelco. , -~~ J' ':: :l---_.·.-·,/,i_._,. · ·:, ;; ···.. ~.: It shaves your legs fast and close and j ·~ /-1'-j -. · ; ., ~.. .:. · . · ··: '. comfor~ably. Underarms, t~o. ·_-,. /{ll'.1(;k' ·-. · ' ··._ ~ __ ;._. · ~ And its shape was made Ju~t for you. ~· · ~ct-·f~f /l;lf;,k· . • ,~­. ... Sleek, modern, and attractive. • · '!/Jl.~i!/~ _,,, ·.
a· 1 

·· --·· :·-. · Be fussy. Choose Norelco. ~~ ~3/Jt,,· ~ ·-·· Al I -,, -:;': :o,s,,:,;dl
1rore1co®youcan'tgetanycloser. t:i -··'.
A •• :~-­

© 1969 North American Philips Corporation. 100 East 42nd Street. New York. N.Y. 10017. ~;_A--·Home Beauty Salon 25LS 
november 14, 1969 notre dame, indiana


scholastic 
volume 111, no. 8 

Letters 6 
Markings The Best of Intentions / Phil Kukielski ........................................ 8 The Week in Distortion .................................................................. 10 
Time Past & Time Present ................................................................................ 12 Ray Serafin and John Keys 
The Presidential Prerogative ............................................................................ 18 Thomas Payne 
From House Organs To Student Journals ........................................................ 20 Phil Kukielski 
Progress Is A Task ........ ..... ......... ........... ....... ..... .. ... ... ... . . . ...... ... .................. . .... ... 24 Carolyn Gatz 
Departments Perspectives ...................................................................................... 26 Movie Review .................................................................................... 29 Kuharich Quit, Devore Finished 2/7/0 & Ara Was Hired ........ 30 Movies ................................................................................................ 33 Football Picks .................................................................................. 33 
Last Word .......................................................................................... 34 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Executive Editor Philip Kukielski Managing Editor Michael Hendryx Art Directur Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editors Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier PJwtography Editor Gary Cosimini Copy Editor John Kwiecien Assistant Managing Editor Greg Stidham Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributing Editor Steve Novak Business Greg Naples Circulation Michael Malone Public Relatums James Murphy Faculty Ad1Mor Frank O'Malley 
Writers Marilyn Becker, Thomas Booker, Steve Brion, J. Gerald Burns, Kathy Callan, Michael Costello, Phil Glotzbach, Dennis Hand, John Knorr, Thomas Kronk, Tim Kuntz, James McConn, Tom Macken, Kevin Reilly, Marilyn Riordan, Walter Secada, Mark Seeburg, Martin Siravo, Joe St. Onge, John Stupp, Tom Ward Copy and Layout Robert Devita, Eileen Donoghue, VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Colleen Unger Business and Circulation William Pelletieri Photographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer 
The opinions expressed in the ScuOIASTJC are those of the authors and editors of the ScuoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the ScaoLAST1c is printed at Ave Maria ~. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REvmw). Please address all manuscripts to the ScHoLASnc, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material beromes the property of the ScHoLASTJc. 
The Scholastic 
Chemical Manufacturing 
Rohm and Haas Company 
Plastics, Fibers, Pharmaceuticals, and Chemicals for Agriculture, and the Processing Industries. 


Will Interview on 

NOVEMBER 17, 1969 
For positions of responsibility, diversity and strong future advancement possibilities. 
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FINANCE. 

Philadelphia headquarters. Plants and Offices throughout the U.S. and in 33 foreign countries. 
ROHMD iHAAS~ 
PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA 19105 

c.A 'Paulist 



{joes

'P'orwar-d 
. ..riotbaclQvatil 
Time never stands still -and 
neither does a Paulist. 
Issues are raised, conflicts ap­
pear and the world changes, but 
the Paulist is always part of the 
new . . . blending the best of 
the old with the hope and prom­
ise of the future. 
Because one of the major char­acteristics of the Paulist is his ability to cope with. and wel­come, change, he"s better able to meet the needs of modern man: he uses his own talents to work for Christ and is given the freedom to do so. 
If you·ve given thought to the priesthood, find out more about the order that never stands still. Write today for an illustrated brochure and a summary of our recent Renewal Chapter Guidelines. 
Write to: 
Vocation Director 

'Paulistth 

<pa erS 
Room 100 415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

Nov. 24, 1969 
,··· . .. . . ,··, . ·1 (--·
·1·· 
," 
111 
,I
_ .. I;: 1 1. 1. I.: :1 11 
Journalistic Lynching 
EDITOR: 
"Well ... he called her a filthy name," she 
said.... 
"A real filthy name," she said. "Oh, he was a 
brute, huge, with white teeth, what they call a 
'buck.' And he said, 'Bitch, drop your drawers,' 
and then he did it. She's such a lovely girl, too, 
really delicate with a complexion like straw­
berries and cream. You can't imagine anyone 
calling her a name like that." (p. 448.) 
The above quotation from Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man represents the sexual fantasy a white middle-aged liberal woman formulates in order to goad a black friend into making love to her in such a manner that she can absolve herself from guilt. Abstracted from its inci­dence in the book, though, it represents the classic black rape. Its elements: a woman of impeccable virtue, a black of insatiable lusts, a demeaning sexual encounter. The following paragraph appeared on the seventh page of the Observer for Wednesday, November 5, in con­nection with an article entitled "Big weekend marked by vandalism": 
A girl from St. Mary's College was sexually molested by a Negro in LaFortune Center around 
11:00 a.m. Saturday. 
I was stirrediiby that paragraph and that is why I am writing. My first reaction was brutal and murder­ous. After I had suppressed it, I thought: "Those Ne­groes are going too far. Think of all the liberal sym­pathy they are destroying by their actions." After reacting to my reactions, though, I discovered that my response was to an extremely racist hack theme sup­ported by no documentation. The elements of the theme: We hold St. Mary's girls to be paradigms of virtue. The antagonist is described as a "Negro" and not as young or old, male or female. The interaction is described as an undefined "sexual molestation." This is not journalism. The writer has re-created a racial myth in such vague terms that the· reader's response will most probably be the sum total of his hatred or fear of blacks. 
There is no documentation of the incident. No wit­nesses are mentioned. It is not even stated whether or not the girl herself reported the incident to Campus Security. I conjecture: at 11:00 on the rainy Saturday morning of the Homecoming game the student center should have been crowded with people who could have seen and helped the girl. The situation may have been different from the one I describe, but the writer of the article fails to make the necessary clarifications. Also, later in the article the writer mentions "John Kenny of Grace Tower reported his guitar stolen. He claims its value to be about $150." On the day the Observer arti­cle appeared, I learned from John Kenny's roommate that the guitar had been placed in Kenny's locker where it was later discovered. True, the author of the article states his authority in the opening line: "In an inter­view Monday, Arthur Pears, Director of Security, de­scribed the last weekend as being one of the worst this year in regards to vandalism and thefts." From what he has written, I can only imagine that he failed to re­check claims made by a man who was undoubtedly over­worked (this I infer from the number of incidents Mr. Pears elaborated) during a hectic weekend. 
A freshman with whom I discussed this article ex­pressed sarcastic surprise that the material in the quoted paragraph was not the subject of the headline. The entire tenor of the article seems directed at stir­ring racial antipathy. After the first line concerning vandalism and thefts, the author states: "He [PearsJ also claimed that an unusually large number of racial incidents occurred." The author proceeds to elaborate all of the incidents with racial overtones directly vio­lating the order both he and Mr. Pears had established. This emphasis is tremendously out of context beneath a headline concerning campus vandalism. A more ap­propriate headline might read: "Opportunities for the formation and propagation of racist attitudes on campus." 
Remove the amorphous "Negro" from the role of sexual molester and the situation remains the same ­the emotional content differs, though. Sexual molesta­tions of St. Mary's girls by Notre Dame students may have taken place (after all, the stereotype rates us "animals") but gone unmentioned because the girls realized that they would get little attention or sympa-thy. Reported incidents may have been suppressed and the violator considered in the light of the tensions that generated the sick action. Even with their con~ent, some of the sexual encounters that I have had with girls from St. Mary's, when observed objectively (irony withstanding), consisted of little more than mutual molestations. 
I must qualify my position, as the author of the Observer article failed to do. My article is no doubt guilty of racial misconceptions. I suffer, in this respect, from both my whiteness and my alienation from that whiteness. Also, I write in anger -anger at being manipulated and anger at seeing men deprived of their humanity. 
This Observer article and others that I have read 
concerning racial themes are so filled with destructive 
(and probably unintentional) racism that they repre­
sent a threat to the honesty of vision in our academic 
and social community. 
Charles Wordell 
Mais Ou Sont ... ? 

EDITOR: 
Today's student is supposedly better informed, en­

lightened. 
Assuming that Notre Dame's aim is still toward 

educating the "whole man," is it asking too much 
to have this objection include his appearance? 

The outward image of the Notre Dame man is seedy, sloppy and unkempt. My eyes, last Saturday (Oct. 15), beheld a stadium of slobs. Whatever happened to the grey-flanneled, V-neck-sweatered ND man of 20 years ago? Cannot cleanliness, neatness, good grooming be included in the life of the best-educated, intelligent man? 
As an old Saint Mary's girl, I yearn "for the snows of yesteryear." 
Marjorie R. Kerrigan 
Michigan City, Indiana 
Ominous Objection 

EDITOR: 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter I recently sent to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, President of your school. 
To somewhat identify myself: in the late fifties I was an Architecture student for a time but dropped out when I became confused and angry by the conflicts I began to perceive. 
Dear Sir: 
Where is your sense of proportion? 

You are handling and getting paid a lot of money to educate young people to become architects. And why? Only one in a million or so actually designs, to a large extent, the buildings of the cities. A few more help draw up the plans. What are you doing with all that money? 
WHY DON'T YOU EDUCATE YOUNG PEOPLE TO BECOME ARCHITECTS TO DESIGN, TO A LARGE EXTENT, THE HOUSES ORDINARY PEOPLE LIVE 
IN? Is the problem of limited space and income too much for you to solve interestingly? People need to be employed for at least another 
Nov. 24, 1969 
generation. Better it be at construction and peaceful 
production than most other things. The wodd certainly 
can't survive the kinds of warfare and destruction pos­
sible now. And there are many people with a good sense 
of design who with training and impetus could help 
their communities evolve indigenous arcpitecture. 
Whether politically left or right, architecture as a 
cultural influence will die completely when houses are 
produced in chemical factories. Subdivisions are a half 
measure. 
As a matter of fact I think the public has a right 
to know where your private investm1?nts are. 
Most of your rhetoric that I've heard sounds to me 
like petty squabbling children or half-sinister, power­
money-mad pedagogues leading the naive into stupidi­
ties. Surely now with the obvious threat of factory­
produced houses you can get together and flood the field 
with truly human-scale architects! 
A valuable ally might be the lumber companies ­
or, tree farmers. Why don't you talk realistically with 
them? You could talk with the mining and metals peo­
ple too since they need a substitute for war. 
Have you thought of advertising? It really works 
to educate large audiences, they say. 
Do or die, as I see it. Roger N. Spencer Hayward, Calif. 
War Fever 
EDITOR: 
Enclosed is copy of letter I have sent to Time. I hope you might be able to look further into the matter on campus. 
"I was alarmed to read 'Fever in Hanoi' .in the October 10 edition. As a student journalist at the U. of Notre Dame in 1967, I investigated university in­volvement in biological warfare research. The follow­ing is an excerpt from my report: 
Dr. George B. Craig [of the Biology Department] 
reported ... that he was contracted by the Fort 
Detrich U.S. Army Bjological Laboratories at 
Frederick, Maryland, from 1959 to 1963 for approx­
imately $60,000. The object of Dr. Craig's research 
was to understand the genetics of the Aedes aegypti 
mosquito and its ability to transmit disease. When 
asked what interest the Army may have had in his 
research, Dr. Craig replied that the mosquito could 
infect a human population with a virus known as 
dengue or breakbone fever. Dengue will make an 
individual "very sick," Dr. Craig said, inconve­
niencing him for about two weeks. No one ever dies 
from dengue, he reported. The mosquito can also 
transmit yellow fever and hemorrhagic fever and, 
according to Dr. Craig, has not been used in actual 
warfare (Notre Dame DIALOGUE, October 
1967) 
"I sincerely hope that you will investigate further into the possible causes of the dengue epidemic in Hanoi by contacting the Army Laboratories and Dr. Craig." 
Michael McCullough 
7 





The Best of Intentions 
YESTERDAY morning as I manfully downed my second cup of Huddle coffee killing time until my 10:10 class, I spied my old friend Hiram from New York standing by the cigarette counter. A casual wave attracted him to the booth where I was sitting and the coversation almost immediately turned to a particularly frustrating experience my friend had just undergone. It seems that immediately after arriving at school my friend had answered an ad on the ride board soliciting riders to the New York City vicinity over Thanksgiving. Amazed at his good fortune, my friend impetuously paid the $10 the driver was asking and congratulated himself for the forethought to solve his transportation problems early, thus avoiding the last minute rush. But, yesterday morning, on a premonition, Hiram once again tele­phoned his ride to confirm the arrangment. Hiram re­constructed the conversation something like this. 
Hiram: Hello, Dick, this is Hiram, the guy you're taking home over Thanksgiving. Dick: Oh yeah, howya doing', Hy. Gotta change in plans or somethin'? Hira?n: No, I was just calling to find out when you were plannin' to leave. Dick: Sorry, Hy, can't tell you right now, that's kinda a secret. 
Hiram,: What the hell you mean-a secret? I paid you my money and the deal's still on-so when are you leavin'? 

Dick: Listen, just calm down for a second. You've got to understand the position I'm in. As the driver I've got a lot of responsibility riding on my shoulders. There are a lot of things I still have to consider yet before I decide when we're going to leave. You know, traffic, the weather, class schedules. I just can't go runnin' off home any time the mood strikes me. Besides if I give you a time right now you won't be ready if I should decide to leave a little early. And if I am forced to leave a little later than expected I have to listen to your griping about disrupted plans the whole way home. 
Hiram: Yeah, and last time I heard a story like that my ride decided to quit school and take off for Texas. 
So tell me straight, when are we leaving or are we leav­ing at all? 
Dick: No need to cause a fuss, Hy. We're both Notre Dame men. Right? We've suffered through this place together; the snow, no dates and the dining hall. If you're a real man, you will trust me. Why, I've got four other guys riding with me and none of them have raised so much as a whisper of protest. 
Hiram: But, you still won't tell me when we're leaving. 
Dick: Lookit, if you keep calling like this I'm bound to get upset. When I get upset I can't work and until I finish what I have to do here in school I won't be able to leave. All I can propiise right now is I'll call you just as soon as I get all the final details arranged. Oh, by the way you weren't planning on bringing any baggage, were you? 
Hiram: Of course I was. You expect me to leave all my things here? 
Dick: Well, you see Bill, when we made the deal I didn't say anything about bringing baggage. I'm not at all sure that the car will make it with all that extra weight. 
Hirarn: That does it. I want my money back. 
Dick: Sorry, Hy, a deal is a deal. 
Hira:tn: Ok, if you want it that way. I get a bunch of my friends together and we'll camp on your doorstep until I either get a straight answer out of you or give me my money back. 
Dick: Do what you want, Hy, it's a free country but don't expect me to pay you any heed. And if you're thinking about starting any trouble I'm calling the police right after you hang up. 
Hirarn: One last question then Dick. 
Dick: Fire away. 
Hirarn: When was the last time you made it home. 
Dick: Funny you should ask that. I always had the best intentions you see. But, something always came up-at the last minute you understand. This time I promise you it will be different. Four years in Indiana without ever being home might sound rather bad, but honest Hiram I promise you ... 

~ 7'" REGISTERED 
k
...t."eepsa. 
DIAMOND RINGS 
..·.. 
When you know it's for keeps 

All your sharing, all your special memories have grown into a precious and enduring love. Happily, these cherished moments will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color, and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under "Jewelers." 
e® 
I 
I 
i 
R. K. M.UELLER, INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED 






Keepsake 
DIAMOND RINGS 
OMEGA-TISSOT-BULOVA ELGIN WATCHES AND RINGS 
* 

218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET CALL-233-4200-CALL 

~!f.~::~..000 

i};fa,;\, Jilt /;it~ _) ~ 
~?~!i~~~~!;~ny. Inc :::_g'.;'.:~:~~'.:_.t:::'.,~t¥)~;;::~~~:~~::~;;;;::~;f;:;'.tM;;~:1t;~{;~5i}_f~#____J 
I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I 
1 1
Please send new 20 page booklet, ''How To Plan Your Engagement and Wedding" 1 and new 12 page, full color folder, both for only 25c. Also, how can I obtain 1I the beautiful 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price? F-69 I 
I Nome---------------------I
I I
I Add•••'---------------------I 
I City-------------Co.-------I 
I I
I State---------------Zip_____ I 
I KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 13201 I
L _______________________________J 
Nov. 24, 1969 





The vVeek In Distortion 
One of the Lesser 12 

In the early fifties a young man named Herbert Marshall McLuhan began publishing a series of articles that would have led one to expect an ordinary scholarly career; articles like "Imagery in Hopkins's Late Poetry" or "The Themes of Fran~ois Mauriac's Therese." But that meek and mild-mannered Canadian looked for no ordinary scholarly career. He was out for money, fame, and power. He got all three and more when over­night he became MARSHALL Mc­LUHAN, superprophet of the me­dia. Oh wow. Well anyway he has a new book out, called 

It's designed by Harley Parker, the man who said "good taste is the last refuge of the witless." Harley Parker has relatively little taste himself. Samplers from new book of proph­ets: BLAST LSD: FORLORN STRATEGY OF CHEMICAL WAR­FARE AGAINST THE BOMBARD­MENT OF OUR SENSIBILITIES BY THE MAN-MADE ENVIRON­MENT. Or ... BLESS THE MARX­ISTS FOR THEIR DEVOTION TO THE REVOLUTION THAT TOOK PLACE IN OUR SERVICE EN­VIRONMENTS OVER A CENTURY AGO. And that's 

Selling the Stock 
It was revealed early this week that the annual Gilbert's half-price shirt sale has been subsidized by the University administration. Goaded to action by letters from outraged Alumni and still morale-broken by the repeal of the coat-and-tie rule for evening meals, several upper-echelon administrators resorted to subversive action. An anonymous high source has admitted that the shirt sale has been the first phase of an effort to improve the physical appearance of the Notre Dame man. 
When confronted with the accusa­tions, Executive Vice-President Joyce noted that, "As Executive Vice­President of this great University, the home of the Fighting Irish, I have no comment whatsoever." Father McCarragher then confirmed Father Joyce's statement. Mean­while, Father Hesburgh telegramed from Israel that "certain matters must remain the confidential mate­rial of the Board of Trustees." 
But speculation on campus could not be dampened so easily, especially when the news broke that the Book­store had slashed its record prices on "every major label." Glenn Mil­ler, Percy Faith and Boots Randolph were all available at the three-dollar reductions. 
But collusion was not confined to the Notre Dame campus. In Wash­ington, Strom Thurmond was seen outside the local Ben Franklin 5¢ and 10¢ Store peddling autographed photos of Clement Haynsworth. With every purchase, the customer received without charge, a full color photo of Uncle Strom's young wife. 
Odysseus 
Students musing over the current adventures of their iron-fisted, soft­spoken (but "crisply cool"), hard­line, liberal, folk-hero of a Univer­sity President might glance at Look magazine's November 18 issue for a three-page expose. The current phe­nomenon is Hesburgh's "jolting stiff­arm" to that other President's Civil 
The Scholastic 
Rights muddle, charging that the Federal Government has "acquiesced passively to prejudice" especially in enforcement of open-housing stat­utes. Hesburgh is offhandedly men­tioned in the company of such reli­gious activists as Becket, Richelieu, Ralph Abernathy, Martin Luther King, and, yes, even the prophet Amos (although he doesn't quite thunder in the Zionist tradition). 
The Sometime University Presi­dent blasts the value of present civil-rights legislation as "a Band­Aid on a cancer," and calls for a change in the government's pri­orities, noting that the kind of effort put into the space program could well be channeled to relieve the plight of "millions of human beings . . . condemned to substan­dard, unsanitary and dilapidated housing." Hesburgh confronts the future of the nation by posing what he considers to be the fundamental question facing society: "After af­fluence, what?'' Unless all Americans arm themselves to fight for the human dream, he sees only disaster. 
The President's "candor as proph­et to the Administration" is what distinguishes him as a moral leader today. "Do you know anyone else," November 15 (depending upon the persuasions of local participants). 

These actions were strongly en­couraged by both the VFW and Vet­erans Administration. The latter or­ganization mailed 100,000 Veterans Day kits to educators and commu­nity leaders. Each kit contained in­formation and an exhortation to counteract the influence of peace­protesters who are "able to attract the attention of the whole world, giving . . . a totally distorted pic­ture of our appreciation of their (American soldiers') sacrifices." 
In the same spirit, a Dallas-based organization sponsored advertise­ments in more than 100 newspapers supporting the administration and urging readers to clip and mail ( to the President) coupons indicating support for United States policy. 
Opinion of the pro-Nixonite was, perhaps, summarized by Senator Carl T. Curtis (R. Neb.) who as­serted, "I do not think that patriot­ism means that someone is just a square.... Both the New Mobiliza­tion Committee and the peace move­ment which it professes to lead are phony. They are both pro-Commu­nist and anti-American." 
of course, been sold. Apparently ad­vertisers are operating on the premise that if we can remember Chris Columbus, the second man to discover America, we \vill be inter­ested in the second man to land on the moon. 
The Chelsea Cheshire Dali 

Random House publishers have un­veiled their latest gift suggestion, guaranteed to satisfy all artistically inclined -yet hard-to-please ­parents (and/or girl (boy) friends). On sale shortly will be a new edition of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonder­land, illustrated by Salvador Dali. Each of the 2,500 copies is actually an art portfolio with large, un­bound, Mandeure-paper pages that fold insidE· a leather-spined box. Every chapter is illustrated by one­color heliogravure of a Dali print. To ensure that a purchase will be­come a collector's item, the copper printing plates have been destroyed. List price: $374.95. 
Santa: I want one little Dali. 
Love, MPOC 
Quotes 
asks an anonymous Notre Dame 

Deja Vu,
cleric, "who can have dinner with "The price of hating another 
the President and breakfast with the Pope?" Decidedly not, but even further, can you think of anyone who eats dinner before breakfast? 
Hawkspeak 
The "effete snobs" who favor a quick end to the Vietnam conflict were served notice this week that certain members of President Nixon's "silent majority" have intended to revamp their image. In demonstra­tions across the country, variously labeled "National Confidence Week," "Honor America Week," "Operation Speakout," and "Tell It To Hanoi," supporters of American foreign pol­icy proclaimed both their patriotism and their anger at the amount of space devoted in news media to anti­war protest. 
Leaders of the pro-war forces urged sympathizers to wear "I Love America" buttons, display flags, and to burn car headlights during the week of November 10-17. Demonstra­tions were to climax on either No­vember 11 (Veterans Day) or on human is loving oneself less." 

The major broadcast networks 
-Eldridge Cleaver

have again made plans for "live­continuous coverage" of next week's "Rumors of my death have been Apollo whatever-number-it-is moon­grossly exaggerated." -Paul Mc­shot. All the commercial time has, Cartney 

Nov. 24, 1969 

The decade: you may have noticed that it's almost over. Tlwse things you rerneniber so clearly are already in the history books. Three major elections and even more assassinations. Vietnam and blacks bringing Viet­nam to the cities; and Chicago in '68. The changes in rnores: beards, the pill, marijuana. The coming of the computer and the drifting apart of rural and urban America. Even a man on the moon, and bwlogical ex­periments to produce the exact kind of rnan we want to put on the 1noon; or on the earth. 
All that is for the world historian; the focus here is on Notre Danie through the 60's. Specifically, the qual­ity and style of tlie Notre Dame student's life. To see how we got here, and maybe even the why of it. To perhaps find some clues to our relationsh with this University. Maybe to elicit not only the where and why but also the who. 
But it doesn't have to be that serious a thesis. There is laughter, and irony, and insult looking back at the 60's because the story is one of people. The view here, then, is impressionistic: we'll leave the academic study of trends to the historian. 
0 UR preceding SCHOLASTIC editors cannot be accused of lacking a sense of history: the first feature of the decade's first issue announced that Richard M. Nixon had been chosen Patriot of the Year by Notre Dame's senior class. Which says something about where we've come when you keep in mind that that was the Old Nixon. 
But then '60 was a political year, even at du lac. Dwight Eisenhower came here to deliver a commence­ment speech, and the Democrats had their day when the Mock Convention nominated John F. Kennedy. That Eisenhower came to Notre Dame may have reflected the general low esteem held for the intellectual life in those days. 
In the South, those were the days of the sit-in and the freedom buses. Notre Dame student-body president Bruce Babbitt endorsed the integrationist goals in a letter sent to the SBP's of 30 southern universities. Stu­dents and alumni reacted by sending letters, ten of which the ScHOLASTIC printed. All of them protested the action; some were fairly vicious. For instance: "It seems to me a terrible shame that the 'supposed spokes­men and organs' of the student body are run by, it seems, agents of the local NAACP." 
In a similar vein, another student concluded that "I do not believe that Mr. Kresge's and Mr. Woolworth's successors in running the retail chain of stores are going to quake over losing South Bend's Negro trade. I, 
The Scholastic 

and I think, few other students, give two bits for what 
the NAACP is doing in the South Bend area...." 
Those students wrote those letters out of a Notre 

Dame experience in which the administration told the 
student when to go to bed and what time to get up in 
the morning. Curfew was 10 p.m., and all lights had to 
be out at 11 p.m. Just to make sure, the electricity was 
shut off. The student had to be present for morning 
check three times a week. According to the 1960 stu­
dent manual, "Although morning check does not require 
the student to attend any services in the hall chapel, 
such as Mass or morning prayer, it is an encouragement 
for him to do so." Certain specific areas of South Bend 
were off limits for all students. "Any student found 
within the out-of-bounds area without permission of the 
Dean of Students or his Rector is liable to grave 
penalty." 
So student energies had to be released in other ways, as a Saint Mary's woman pointed out in a letter to the SCHOLASTIC. "It is a widely established fact that when­ever any female over 12 and under 70 dares to venture onto your campus, she is subjected to a deluge of crass remarks and insulting inspection." Perhaps the only other viable outlet was the rider's board, the new pride of the Huddle, which probably would have offered the best escape except that students were not yet allowed to have their own cars. 
In September Fr. Hesburgh announced plans for 

a new memorial library, as soon as the money could be 
raised. Five SMC students were allowed to enroll here 
in an English course. And the student center was kept 
closed on football Saturdays in order to keep it clean 
for the Saturday-night victory dances 
All-night lights were allowed for November 8, elec­tion night. But the SCHOLASTIC cautioned the student body: "We only hope that the student body will show some restraint and not abuse this privilege." Maybe that meant that you shouldn't leave all your lights on at once; we can only speculate. Perhaps the discovery of what they were missing had something to do with the staging of the year's big social event: the Thanksgiving Corby Hall riot. 
Several hundred students took part in the demon­stration. "Indignant and frustrated, students demanded change. Corby was the butt of their attack because it epitomized all they detested: an old, crowded, run-down hall which housed the hated priests-disciplinarians." Individual students had various reasons for protesting. Some may have only been expressing disgust with a 2-8 football season, but the fact that Corby Hall was the object of the attack suggested the students' discontent with paternalism. 
THE impetus of the riot carried over into 1961 as 19 students, most of them Woodrow Wilson nominees, pro­duced an 80-page critique on student life. The students got no results meeting with an administrative commit­tee until they subtly threatened to send their report to the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations. 
The fall of '61 then began "year one of the new 
regime." No more compulsory attendance at religious 
services; no more lights-out; no more off-limits areas 
in South Bend. Fr. McCarragher was the new Vice­
President of Student Affairs and he stated that the most 
important regulation now was the rule which called 
for the suspension of any student for "any substantial 
external violation of the moral law." Fr. McCarragher 
explained that the moral law was to be interpreted 
broadly by the administration. 
The student manual no longer set a specific curfew­
that was now up to the dean of students. For all prac­
tical purposes the curfew remained midnight on week­
ends for upperclassmen. "There isn't much to do in 
South Bend after midnight anyway," commented Mc­
Carragher. 
THE twist and Barry Goldwater hit Notre Dame in 1962. A Student Senate resolution to ban the t\vist on campus narrowly missed passage. The Arizona senator's speech drew a standing-room-only crowd in the Engineering auditorium. That was one of the big events of the spring. "We would like to see Notre Dame have a daily paper," said the SCHOLASTIC, "but we can't help wondering if enough of significance aetually hap­pens on this campus to make such a project anything more than a 'venture in triviality.' For the plain fact is that at bottom, activities at Notre Dame, qespite their solemn trappings, rarely transcend the trival." 
This was also the year that the all-male student body was confronted with its unnatural state. The Student Senate toyed with the idea of integrating the ND and SMC sections at the football games and the administra­tion went as far as giving the OK to SMC cheerleaders. They both underestimated the self-righteousness of the student body, as expressed in a Zahm Hall resolution: "While the maidens of St. Mary's are certainly not un­welcome on the Notre Dame campus, there are certain areas in which the men of Notre Dame should main­tain their position. The football field is one of these areas." Even now the heart beats a little faster. Need­less to say, the idea had to be shelved. 

For their part, SMC's administration managed to further hamper relations between the schools. In No­vember the SCHOLASTIC had to announce the discontinu­ation of a weekly column written by two young ladies because SMC insisted on censoring it before publication. 
THE academic year of 1962-'63 brought "the winter of our discontent." Curfews at 10 and lights-out at 12 were reinstituted for freshmen because daily Mass at­tendance was down. John McCabe's SCHOLASTIC noted that "the attempt via directive of the Dean of Students to interpret moral behavior in terms of dress shirts and blue jeans probably ought to be abandoned." McCabe's magazine made a lot of other rash statements, too, like suggesting that the presidency of the University ,vas too big for any one man and that Fr. Hesburgh should become chancellor. 
What-the-student-body-was-coming-to did not go un-

Nov. 24, 1969 
noticed by one insightful alumnus. "This conduct man­ifests a frightful spirit of recalcitrance whose ultimate significance is a student attitude hostile to both Notre Dame and all she stands for. Would these unscrupulous delinquents advocate also the discontinuation of football at Notre Dame, the defamation of the name 'Fighting Irish,' the dismantling of the Golden Dome itself? \1/ould they abolish all traditions of Notre Dame to leave her but a soulless academic corporation, whose vital anim,us no longer sparks the dynamism of the Notre Dame Way of Life?" Specifically, the writer was concerned about undergraduates mounting t.he cement steps to enter the Administration Building. 
Student life got boosts with the opening of the new library, the installation of the Centrex phone system, and the announcement of the first foreign-study pro­gram to be held at Innsbruck. A sophomore student senator, John Gearen, initiated The 17oice, a weekly student government newspaper. But ABC-TV and Chi­cago's Conrad Hilton dealt blows to the collective cam­pus ego. ABC cancelled plans to film one of its "Hoote­nanny" shows on the ND campus because "there would not be enough girls present to give the audience the desired effect." And the Conrad Hilton refused to pro­vide accommodations for ND students on a trip to Chi­cago for "Friendly Week." The Hilton did admit SMC students on that trip. 
"Community," eventually to become the most over­worked word of the decade, became the focus of Kevin Hart's student body presidency. Hart believed that the key to community and the key to eventually gaining a relaxation of campus rules was the institution of a stay-hall system. Fr. Hesburgh vetoed the idea and defended his decision with reference to Abraham Lincoln's decision, against the unanimous advice of his cabinet, to issue the Emancipation Proclamation. Similarly, Hesburgh had refused stay hall despite the nearly universal urgings of his advisors. He spoke of moral courage. 
Hart didn't think it was all that noble a decision and he responded by helping to draw up a Declaration of Rights and Grievances. Later, Hart was to say bluntly that "It [t]:ie Declaration] was pretty blatantly a move to get student support so that we could get the administration's ear. We had been courteous and diplo­matic. Then it became an attempt to slug them over the head." 
SCHOLASTIC editor McCabe's offer to print the Dec­laration resulted in his forced resignation (see p. 20). An anonymous organization calling itself "The Group" then dittoed the Declaration and passed out the copies to the student body. The appearance of the Declaration elicited the "Easter Letter" from Fr. Hesburgh. The letter succeeded in focusing national attention on the crisis ; Connnonweal reacted particularly harshly to the administration's handling of the crisis. 
The situation seemingly quieted down by the fall of '63. Even if it hadn't, a November day in Dallas de­manded too much sorrow and introspection. 
NINETEEN sixty-four was another political year. Henry Cabot Lodge won the Republican Mock Conven­tion but Barry's Boys swept the real one. His running mate, William Miller, was a former chairman of the Notre Dame Blue Circle. George Wallace was here and a group of students walked out on his speech, singing protest folk songs on the way out. Folk music was still big on the campus; but the Beatles, with Paul very much alive, were the new wave. 
The honor system was inaugurated in the fall and the MSU band was beaten up in the climax to Hate State week. Ara Parseghian was new and "\Ve're Number One" was resurrected. SMC and Barat played their third and last annual flag football game in the stadium. ND students rooted loudly for Barat; the girls from across the road "on the whole were so mad that a gen­eral boycott of the Four Seasons Dance-with girls standing up their dates-was being advocated quite ser­iously." All this, as Free Speech hit Berkeley and LBJ insisted that American boys shouldn't fight an Asian war. 
In '65 LBJ escalated and so did the protests, with a new political group, Students for a Democratic Society, marching on Washington. Anti-picket pickets showed up for Notre Dame's annual Presidential Review of ROTC, but the rumored anti-war pickets never showed up themselves. Anyone with hair too long was liable to get his head shaven by the jocks, with a rector's blessings. 
Co-ex became a reality in the fall, on an experi­mental basis. The road to SMC was blacktopped in order to institute a shuttle bus service; co-ex students rode for free, but others had to pay fifteen cents ("even now the mind probably boggles"). But you still couldn't bring a woman to your room-from the student maual: "The student clearly sees that it is not fitting to enter­tain young ladies in a men's residence hall ... The most appropriate place for entertaining guests is the Student Center, the parlor of the University, where the atmo­sphere is conducive to relaxation and social gatherings." 
The Scholastic 


F 
~ 
-·:. -;·\·:t;.c-.:y-~ · 
\ 

Fr. Simons became the new Dean of Students and three halls-Dillon, Alumni, and Farley-launched an experiment in stay halls which was to prove that fresh­man "immaturity" and upper-class "sophistication" were not mutually exclusive qualities. In Farley, Lenny Joyce helped organize a symposium on the war in Viet­nam for October 15-the first such public discussion at Notre Dame. It drew 700 students. 
Lenny Joyce was perhaps the most controversial student of the decade. It is also conceivable that his activism effected more dramatic changes of student attitudes than any other influence. His notoriety began with a Farley fast-for-peace shortly before the war symposium. Just a small protest, but the national media got hold of it and all of a sudden there was Lenny on Huntley-Brinkley. After the fast, Joyce organized a Notre Dame Chapter of SDS. "We tried to get official Administration recognition from McCarragher," said Joyce in a SCHOLASTIC interview. "He said to do so he'd have to have a full membership list which both the FBI wanted and he wanted to give to them. We said no." 
One week before the 1966 SBP election, Joyce de­cided to run as a write-in candidate. The Dunn-Fish campaign had degenerated into an argument over triv­ialities like who could bring the Rolling Stones to campus. Said Joyce, "I felt a sort of personal outrage that that kind of political pornography could be ped­dled on campus." Joyce drew up his "17 Theses" and then ran for president as a candidate of the Popular Front party, an extraordinary coalition of the SDS and 

Nov. 24, 1969 
.-,-::. ' 
. , -_\ i 
the Joel Connelly-led YAF. By election time Dunn and Fish had appended the 17 Theses, in one form or an­other, to their own platforms. The right ,\.ing of the Popular Front deserted Joyce when it began to appear that he might actually win. As it was, after one week of nonfunded campaigning Lenny Joyce polled 30% of the campus vote--that in a year when seniors were still not allowed to vote. In one week he had changed the shape of student politics for the rest of the decade. 

BEFORE the academic year ended in June of '66, out­going SBP Minch Lewis pressed strongly for changes in the curfews. Three thousand flyers were printed up with a schedule for a mass boycott of curfew and contact of the national press-but it was never necessary to distribute the flyers. Fr. McCarragher agreed to meet with students to study the disciplinary system. The results came that fall as curfews were dropped for all upperclassmen, and off-campus students were allowed to have cars. In addition, other rules were eased tacitly: o-c students began to rent apartments and many halls eased restrictions against women and bo<?ze. 
Dillon and Morrissey were the first to institute suc­cessful community Masses, an outgrowing of the fact that Notre Dame possessed more clout in the Vatican than the local bishop. Throughout the campus, hall councils were formed based on the section system. In Morrissey, Fr. Burrell began the year by giving students the responsibilities of running their own hall. "I let 
them live their own lives and let them see I'm inter­
ested," he said, reflecting the new attitude that rectors 
should be counselors instead of disciplinarians. 
This was also the year of the national championship and the "game of the century" against Michigan State. A man in Chicago offered his grocery store and his wife for two tickets to the game. In fact, it was almost as hard to get into Spartan Stadium as it was to get into Washington Hall when Masters and Johnson (of Hmnan Se:mal Response fame) spoke on "The Physiology of Sex." The informative lecture came too late, however, to prevent the birth of Robert Sam Anson's Observer which took the place of The Voice. In '66-'67 Anson gave the campus a taste of at least semi-radical journalism. Commented Anson on his life with a daily paper: "In a way my decision to go to The Voice, now The Ob­server, was motivated in a sense by kindness to dumb animals." 
In January, 1967, Fr. Hesburgh announced a re­organization of the Board of Trustees: the Congregation of the Holy Cross was going to relinquish its sole power. The six clerical trustees elected six lay trustees to serve with them on the Board of Fellows; the Fellows then would eiect other laymen to a single Board of Trustees. 
Meanwhile Ramparts revealed the links between the CIA and the NSA, Vassar was integrating with Yale, and 2,000 irate Notre Dame students threatened to im­peach the entire Student Senate because it passed a motion favoring girl cheerleaders. 
Anti-war protesters began to grow in number and boldness. Lenny Joyce led 160 students and towns­people in a "March of Conscience" in downtown South Bend. Pickets also graced the annual ROTC Presidential Review; and 100 students picketed the Morris Inn in protest of General Westmoreland's being chosen Patriot of the Year. Westmoreland didn't appear himself, but he sent a letter claiming that his winning of the award "reflects a popular tendency on the part of the youth of America to stand firmly behind our nation's policy in Vietnam." Colonel John Stephens accepted the award for Westmoreland. On the way in, Stephens greeted a picket he knew with "Hello, Joe, it looks like some stu­dents need a little counseling." Later he complained that the protesters "were not acting in the traditions of Notre Dame spirit." Other observers, however, noted that the protesters possessed enough spirit to stand their ground against the barrage of snowballs thrown by nonparticipants. 
SuMMA was announced in the fall of '67, which even­
tually led tq the demise of SBP Chris Murphy. Murphy 
had been elected the prior spring on a moderate student 
power platform, narrowly defeating Action Student 
Party candidate Denny O'Dea (ASP was the bastard 
child of the original Popular Front). But Murphy ended 
up traveling the country to campaign for Summa­
"They gave Chris Murphy rides in a private jet, an 
expense account, weeks away from school-they gave 
him that and contacts with important people, and pub­
licity-they gave him all that-and they took away 
his throne." 
Fr. Riehle became the new Dean of Students, and publicly admitted that he wouldn't discipline anyone for drinking in his room. Anyone caught outside the room, however, would be disciplined-for stupidity, if nothing else. Antiseptic John Davidson spent a week on campus talking to students for ABC-TV's College Homecoming '67, and everyone ended up hoping that none of their home town friends saw the end product. Fr. James Kavanaugh chose Notre Dame to announce that he was getting out of the Church, and Lewis B. Hershey announced in Washington that students who interfered with the Selective Service System were get­ting into the Army. 
Denny O'Dea and Mary Perrone began the Free University with hopes of finding viable alternatives to structured academic courses. Fr. Hesburgh hinted that students were going to have to find some viable alter­natives to parietal hours because he would resign before he OK'd parietals. And in the "we-need-their minds-too' department, Bryn Mawr whipped Notre Dame in the GE College Bowl. 
The North Dining Hall opened 1968 on a masochistic note: food poisoning hit the freshman quad during January·s final exams. The Delphic Oracle, South Bend's new psychedelic night spot, lasted exactly six weeks before citizens demanded that this corrupting influence be shut down. So on a Saturday night the law brought a paddy wagon, a K-9 squad, narks, plain­clothesman, patrolmen, and a fire inspector to arrest the three student owners. When the students got out on bail the next morning they discovered that the charges against them were for violating city health and fire ordinances. 
Chris Murphy, finally ready for some semblance of a confrontation with the administration, called for a general assembly of students. In a preview of the up­coming election, students at the assembly enthusiasti­cally endorsed Richard Rossie's bill on student rights. In the election itself, Rossie swamped a thoroughly dis­credited Pat Dowd, but not until SCHOLASTIC editor Mike Mcinerney fired all his junior editors ( see p. 20). 
It was a political year nationally, too; and the Indiana Democratic primary lured Bobby Kennedy to Notre Dame and Gene McCarthy to South Bend. 
The Scholastic 

William Buckley, Jr., spoke in Stepan the night before Kennedy; only at this campus could both of them get standing ovations. The Notre Dame mock Republican convention nominated Mark Hatfield, one of the first and most persistent of LBJ's war critics. 
But by the end of June two of the most eloquent of the war critics had been silenced by assassins. 
SEPTEMBER, 1968: the Rossie-Luking-Cullen mani­festo: "Action must be our style." The freshman class, more than a little stunned by Rossie's style, led the move to recall the man who had the spring before won the SBP by the largest plurality ever. The actual balloting proved only to be a vote of confidence for Rossie. 
Pat O'Brien brought the Rock back to the fieldhouse and for days tape recorders blared tradition across the campus. Mechanistic sound reproduction also prevailed in the national election campaigns and at the Notre Dame mock election-despite the ScHOLASTic's refusal to endorse any of the major candidates, Triple H was elected by a narrow margin. 
The new Student Life Council made its first appear­ance and the bookstore sold all but one of its 25 copies of Roberts' Rules of Order. Much time was spent in trying to legislate a workable formula for the legislators and things moved slowly at first. First-semester seniors were awarded cars. 
SMC upperclasswomen slid out of curfew, but Barat was unable to slide out of Chicago. And the move for parietals, co-ex or co-ed, was on. 
In November representatives of Dow Chemical Co. and the CIA came to hold interviews with students as a part of the University's placement program. Fifty stu­dents rallied at the flagpole and marched to the Admin­istration Building's second floor where 200 students lived, sang and talked for three days in a vigil for peace. Amid discussions of tactics which ranged from nonintervention to a physical blockade of the office, an anonymous CIA recruiter entered the office where he stayed for nearly three hours. Students eff ecetively blocked the door, preventing the interviews and forcing the government agent to return to Chicago. 
The Afro-American society emerged as a prominent force on campus. Demands were made for increased black representation in the student body and in faculty and administrative positions. Tutors were demanded for black students who needed them. A quiet march and a show of signs-some questioning the absence of black running backs on the football team, others charging Notre Dame with racist attitudes, one blessing John Carlos and Tommie Smith-were held at the half of the Georgia Tech game to the hisses and jeers of many, students and visitors alike. 
The Convo Center, despite rumors that it would sink as soon as the ground thawed, opened in December to the sounds of "Moon River," "turtle heads" and the anguish of the awesome apparition, Lew Alcindor. The advantages of centrifugal force were completely ignored by planners who built an unbanked running track and there was one unnerving concert where, the speakers being aimed into the dome, each note struck three or four times, from different angles and at different times in one of the great sound boggles of the year. 
February witnessed the arrival of the NDLaw School Alumni and the seemingly genuine concern of poet Allen Ginsberg who mused aloud in Washington Hall, "I wonder if I'm being dirty enough?" It was the Por­nography (and Censorship) Conference. Andrew Noren brought "Kodak Ghost Poems." The Citizens for Decent Literature brought a complaint. The cops brought a warrant and mace. And students brought their patron cards and a desire for academic excellence. 
Shortly thereafter, the nation and then the campus received the enlightening "wee hours of the morn­ing," cease-and-desist-in fifteen declaration. The same fears felt in the presidential offices of universities across the country -fear of small group confrontation politics and fear of a conservative blacklash, both of ~hich might lead to the loss of the University -motivated the letter which was so widely embraced nationally and which led to a "No Nonsense" tag for ND. 
Phil McKenna won the SBP race on a community and dialogue platform which differed only slightly from the dialogue and community platform of John Mroz. 
The SLC began to boil and bubble and legislative decree fell into accord with custom. With a grin and a nod from the Trustees, parietal hours were instituted in the halls but a student chorus sang of both student responsibility and the hypocrisy of paternalism. 
The trustees per se became one of the first foci of the McKenna-Dedrick regime and threats of confronta­tion brought a promise of a forum, final exams and the summer of Apollo and Woodstock. 
IN 1969 when the standard of awareness is to be "mind-blown," we search for that one .word which pulls everything together. Spiro found "effete," Nixon blurted out "Vietnamization." And at Notre Dame it is crisis, whether rhetorical or real, personal, institu­tional, aesthetic, economic, moral or tactical: there has been one crisis after another. The Juggler was tripped, then allowed to get up, dust itself off and continue unflustered; the first shuttle bus crisis ( over 10 cent fares) faded as inflation eased the pain. Both the Uni­versity and Student Government were suddenly struck with insurmountable financial problems. The first has yet to be explained while the latter is due to un~on­trolled spending over the last four years. Resignations from key positions plagued governments and publica­tions both at ND and SMC. Paul McCartney died for awhile. 
But, amid the din and what has come to be called simple hassle, stand the monuments to two forces which, no matter what your political persuasions, must be reckoned with in the future. The Program for the Study and Practice of the Non-Violent Resolution of Human Conflict has attracted national attention to Notre Dame. The Moratorium brought to Notre Dame, maybe only for an afternoon, an ominous, confident silence most uncharacteristic of the decade. This week it is Washington and there is still a Thanksgiving and a Christmas allotted to the year. And the decade, which really didn't begin until 1963, shows no sign of mor­tality in 1970. 


Ray Serafin & John Keys 

Nov. 24, 1969 

I. 
" 
AMONG those things which are to be classed with sunny days in South Bend for rarity, is anything ap­pearing in Tinie magazine's "education" section which is fit for any use beyond being the substratum for canary hygiene, much less quotation in serious writing. Be that as it may, in its locally famous 1962 cover story on Fr. Hesburgh, Time printed a few sentences which present the central elements to be considered in any evaluation of the important and vital role which du­Lac's President has played in the past ten years of the University's development. 
Describing "A Spectacular Flowering" Time said: "As spring semester opened last week on the campus near South Bend, Notre Dame clearly reflected St. Augustine's 'ever old and ever new.' In Sacred Heart Church, young men in blue-and-gold jackets knelt in prayer as a priest pronounced the ancient greeting, Dominus vobiscum. Across the 1,100-acre campus, bull­dozers chewed the frozen earth, and riveters set steel beams a-rattling. Under construction: a geodesic-dome student center, a federally financed radiation labora­tory, a $3,000,000 computer center, a ten-story Ii-
The Scholastic 

brary big enough to seat half the student body (total: 6,467 men)." 
The "old" which Time refers to includes not only the traditional Latin liturgy, although that is perhaps the best suited symbol for the Notre Dame of Rockne and Fr. O'Hara, but also a whole way of life derived from the lives of priest-scholars who ran Notre Dame, which imparted a deep and meaningful spiritual orientation to the young men who came to study in their midst. The question is whether what Fr. Hesburgh has pro­vided to replace "the old" is worthy to succeed the heritage it has succeeded or whether the new order is simply a regime of bricks and mortar, a matter of bull­dozers, money and thirteen-story buildings. 
JTis important to establish at this point of the discus­sion that this is not a reactionary's lament for a dead past. The Notre Dame which Fr. Sorin founded died sometime during the Second vVorld War, and it was Fr. Hesburgh's particular genius to recognize this and to search for a replacement. He was the first to realize the need for a genuinely creative revival in the modern world of that tradition of Christian scholarship which had been on the wane for 300 years. And more than that, he saw that such a revival must not be confined to the inmates of Catholic institutions, but that it must take its place in the mainstream of American academic life. This was the end at Notre Dame of what has been called the ghetto mentality. _ . 
Such were the intentions. ·What has been the re­sult? To be sure, as far as such intention can be fulfilled by constructing the physical plant necessary, Fr. Hes­burgh has been blessed by an astounding success whose monuments are everywhere apparent. But however necessary such monuments be, they will not replace the Notre Dame of Fr. Sorin, and the question is what has? 

IN an 
insightful article printed in the May 16 edi­tion of the SCHOLASTICJ Professor E. A. Goerner of the Government Department provided the most valid com­mentary to date on that question. "What is happening at Notre Dame now is that we are answering that ques­tion in deed without having ever comprehensively posed it to ourselves. By default, we have in fact adopted, even when we sometimes say otherwise, the practice of making our change only after having conducted a sur­vey of what other big-time schools are doing and then finding some safe and slightly different combination of what our survey shows is being done elsewhere. We do that in starting new departments, in appointing faculty, in reshuffling curricula. That way of going about our affairs lets us congratulate ourselves on having done something unique and simultaneously bask in the comforting thought that we are securely lodged among the top fifty." 
It is apparent that during the past ten years, and in particular during the past five years, the seeds sown by pursuing such a policy have borne fruit. The so-
Nov. 24, 1969 
called "alienation of the modern multi-versity"-which is not so much a result of their size as ~t is a result of the sort of intellectual activity carried on in them ­has come to Notre Dame. ·with the cry of "community" on everyone's lips, community dissolves more and more into discord. With an increasing demand that classroom activity be more existentially meaningfui, students con­tinue to call courses irrelevant and seek relevance in drugs and ideological movements -symptoms of our time. 
IT has become customary in the student pres~ to blame this state of affairs on the confrontation between a re­actionary Administration, especially a reactionary President, and a progressive and enlightened student body. But this is manifestly untrue. It is true that Fr. Hesburgh has at times been a bit obtuse in matters of student discipline and a bit oversensitive to criticism in the student press (you will read about the SCHOLASTIC incident of 1963 on page 20); but on the \y'hole, once he has become convinced of the soundness of a particular reform, he has shown himself willing and even .anxious to effectuate it. 
The assumption of student enlightenment is similarly unfounded. Student po,ver has failed to be the panacea it was touted as, and aside from certain reforms enabling students more enjoyably to recreate them­selves, has accomplished little of any real significance. "Alienation," "lack of community" and the other evils which prompt so much discussion during SBP cam­paigns are l:!S prevalent as ever. 
THE source of Notre Dame's problems is not to be revealed in uncharitable censures of the character of the President, but rather in the model which he has chosen to follow. The modern university has been a source of political and spiritual disorder at least since the French Revolution, and no one should be shocked that the imi­tation of such a model would produce similar results at Notre Dame. It is true, of course, that in choosing to assume a place in the modern world, the University must run the risk of being infected with the diseases which beset modern man. 
However, the prudence of adopting in deed the "big­time" universities as the model for a renewed Notre Dame is seriously to be questioned. To quote Professor Goerner once again: "... The crisis in the big-time universities is of such gravity that the only apt com­parison is to the last days of the ancien regime. ·when considerable parts of any community, academic or civil, have been reduced to a rabble howling in the streets, one may reasonably wonder whether the patterns of life and government within which they were led to so un­happy a state ought to be regarded as the ?est of models for imitation." 
Thoma_s Payne 


~s,ucl no on,•woc1:~:a~~~~fif;ii1;~~~~;l,
of stuclentHs··•ho realizoedjust whaLt :eacsh
the MoAratoriur the coursTe, 
g, ATED calls the "best amateur boxingr nas been the case since their institu­

1ly wish to softP.n the blow of disillusionment that will surdn August said yrm were ion, the Bengals were organized, coached, and trained :orne. . . . to Grace Hall, the Park ~mder the guidance of Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano.
1,

More than :u1ytlung else, the Moratonum Day strucll' \he campus, and vou smile. . . . . . 
i.,.antic production of Sophocles' Antigone. _ • , , After a vigorous training program that: began with 
• o . . self knowmg thev nad -· · f h · 
For those who may not recall the play, 1t 1s the story of~ _' f • • "<,· ·_ • G he second semester, the fighters rom most oft e nine 
st 01

;_, • -·=----• ,. ·--· -· ... --···• ··=-•-·-..._•-···--' .... nP '\!OU • .1.ou .:n~\ .:lasses met in quarterfinals on Mor.day, March 13. 
0 
urv rVinners fought challengers on Wednesday, and the that :hampionship bouts appropriately enough took place ·witl::hat Friday-St. Patrick's Day. 
suit, In the 125 pound class, the first of the final bouts, Enteiewcomer Larry Broderick faced an aggressive Girdhari me. Sambvani; Broderick's height and reach were too much 

o do what they are doing. They must sp;~ ~;t·;;d-~hi 280 SlUdents arrived t°for the smaller Indian, who was decisioned. Two ex­
lemonstrate and they must continue their efforts to brinJJad ne\:·s la::~_ \VC:ek. due :hamps, senior Tony Karrat and. junior John McGrath =mmediate peace in Vietnam . becam,e irom their perspectit:omplet10n 01 the toW€ t · t' d d' · · I rt d · · 
135 I

:ight. The President and his ct'efenders have got to do what '3leven-story dormitory. T-ne in ,ne poun ,vision. n a sp ecis,on ioijg. The President cannot look three years in advance o(oe Grace Hall residents \llcGrath s reach proved a lesser advantage than Kar lecade in advance, but he must attempt the near impossibh~placerJ in HO fou:--man suat's experience. 140 pound Puerto R_ican Etienne Tott ,roiectin!! a Pl"ni'r,.tion nr morf" ahr>.:f,i. of hie; time. He ively tc 
1, boxei ry anc 
I , 
·very.~ anc 
TKC, 

,. b b 1~.. , --·~ ..... ~-"' u ~i-,c'-1a1 u1v1::,1V11 \,rt:dLeU Tor ouo Mc.
±rmu ,v v.muc:uu, v ._ unnor IO. n: he 177 riccupancy y O
JUlUUVL<-~ cto er . .: ,< 
• t Tl"'O\''" in•o the 1·ob which at the u ''i\ing it1 the three -0 vGrath and Bill Ragen, who had been de1eated by Laver_..
._emp . .. . .. ·on~~st c, . " h f . , ..
l 

wr rldna Haff oi one and with little time tc' te used are still troubled by ~nd Sc ae er r~soect1velv on \s\edn.esdav. M_cG~ath :. 
; "". . . , . ind Tom , . . . ::r by the end or the bodv's Got a Rwht ~o Live.' An-
and tram ass1stants the simple fact tnat batnrooms, m1ssmg rurn . . v "' 1 • • published at all is in itself remarkable. ,econd rocontinued construction in ,7e champion througr: o~e w~o r:~e~~ers ,asth s~rm~ h' d!'J(' O'Crl split deN 11 1\;" ew9 two-da'v feStl',a. Knows l e mco.
I . . f ~u~-le 10, s ·fgaft~uous.amount of talent and enerc
n p!anr.mg Aor l~ secon. 

Parentlv beaan to reahze the 11 1 a o s . I nax l'.P , wa t • . g . . . _ ::: 
· "' . . . . , -. 1ch 1s hberated at ~otre Dame t
effort. He recrmted semor Bill S1 mann w, s ,1asn etween se 1ors ge o Scn1r 11, w -use o . 
. . . . d . . hs1b I €1. · :1 · · lsolk music. Anvone present :Monda
· 

at sell mg d1ct1onanes urmg m~1mer a I in r_Y. was uf!Ct 1ous since winntln E • • th' . .
V • 

_ O R e~ ~:Iii~ ·no wasn t aware or IS IS certall
him a renutat10n as a supersales 1a ) n 11 ii e , .. , y a an d I i• ­magazine.· Siemann. in turn recr •. Jar t ti I .f , h tt mpts n a ' _rne"?ig'i\~mgu~nsn iacrosse ,earn: tnr~ 
_,_ _ _ ' . . . . ,,-·<; , 1rs I e in severa ar o a e · row) Mike Satanno, Dan Brouder, Matt Dwye of St. :l\Iary" girls on a co:11m1ss10n o,.:,1.. ,o Jf straight rights Driscoll in excellent shape coul(captain), Mike Roddy, Dan Carson (co-ca~ with the sales. O'Connor began to work clr h h d ' .r. S h' Ir 'h tain), Len Niessen, (second row) Ed Broderid the poetrv writing course then being taug'. natc_ t e spe~ . or accuracy 01 C ira 1• w O v'ls?b Noonan, _Frank Pielsticker, Jim_ Caver!~ 
V • • • 

Jnanimous dec1s1on. Mrke Cerre. Phil Feola. Tom Follett, Rick Manr
John 1Iattluas. and a consc10us effort was . . . , {third row) Tim McHugh, Brian Kelleher, Tor recruit interested freshman and sophomore At the conclusion of the title fights, awaras Kingston, Mike Pepek. Pete Metzger, Larr Tn the meantime elsewhere in the Univoresented to the winners of each division. Spouke, Bill Richtsmeier, Denny Doughe~y 
~ · · · · -· • S h . Marty Steon, Duncan MacIntosh, Jeff Pepir.
pomography conference was assuming prop:roph1es included best first year fighter, c oen, Mike Desmond, Craig O'Connor, (rear) Ne a catastrophy, )lr. Voor in South Bend stage~ighter, Schiralli; outstanding contribution to the BIS~ort, Jim Wachtt:1, a!1d Stan Kaminski. Oppo infamous raid and rumors about the rebeaouts Snyder and Karrat· most improved fighter srte, above, domina_ting a scramble for th1 
. . , ' . loose ball are captain Matt Dwyer {88), Pett began to circulate. \"\-'h:n the next _issue of tbuffy; and best losing fight. Ken Casey. B1II Rage~etzg~r:, Neil Short, Fr!3nk Pielsticker, anc went to press a question was raised by F-eived the sportsmanship trophy symbolizing the Rabbit. Noonan. Opposite, botton:i left, clul 
h 1 cr · , bl' her recrardim~ ' co-captain Dan Carson and an Oberlin player a 
C 15 0
arrag e:, l le ma,,,azme ~ pu .' 'ity which, along with true satisfaction for participa face-off; the Irish lost the first home gam1 
~,f ~ !"'~,...t,,.,.111~.,... T'\l"\OT"n ,1TT'1iTon h,r l?1£1h!>rr1 r.~r. 

"ALL THE NEWS that is fit to print; Goodnight Chet, IN 1960 student opinion was at once ignored and sup­Goodnight David; The World, The Hemisphere and The pressed. The SCHOLASTIC was the only news organ serv­Nation" -sibboleths of the sixties. It was in this ing the academic community and all copy was rigidly decade more than in any previous era that the news scrutinized by the Vice-President for Student Affairs. media emerged as a formidable force in American so­Press releases from the Public Information department ciety. But with this dramatic upsurge in influence and and reprints from the Alumnus comprised the bulk of the power of American news services came the gradual the copy. The only daily to appear was the Religious realization that the news reporters were approaching Bulletin., a forum that rivaled the Summa Theologica the importance of the news makers. McLuhan posed the for timeliness and controversy. Early to bed, early to question; and the coverage of the Kennedy-Nixon de­rise and effectively gagged, the 1960 Notre Dame jour­bates civil rights, the war and the Democrtic National nalist became a very dull boy. Convention Convention proved the point. In the sixties news was controversy and the media was irrevocably But as the next year began a crack in the dike ap­caught in the middle. peared that was to portend dramatic change. With 
At Notre Dame, as in the nation at large, the reper­the approval of the newly installed VP for Stu­cussions of this evolutionary movement sent shock trem­dent Affairs Father McCarragher, Professor Donald ors rippling through the community. What was hap­Costello became faculty advisor for the SCHOLASTIC. pening in the media became indicative of the traumatic Under a de facto agreement with editors Tom Weiss and metamorphosis the University was undergoing. As the Mike Zwettler, Costello defined his function as one of University moved from lamentable provincialism to a advisor and counsellor and abdicated his role as censor. burgeoning secularism so did the media. But this comfortable arrangement was not to last long. 
20 The Scholastic 
In November an art show was held at St. Mary's fea­turing the work of John Donne, an English artist. Among the works to be exhibited were two pencil nude sketches of Donne's wife. Word got out that the pic­tures were "improper, vulgar and suggestive" and the pictures were removed from the exhibit by St. Mary's president Sister Maria Renata. The ensuing feature story in the SCHOLASTIC complete with a picture of the censored work and a covering editorial precipitated re­action that reached across the Atlantic. The Superior General of the C.S.C., Father Christopher O'Toole, paid a visit to Notre Dame. With him he brought a file of past SCHOLASTICS he deemed objectionable and de­manded someone from F:·. McCarrager's office replace Costello as moderator. In the ensuing tangle of resigna­tions and reconciliations it was finally agreed that Cos­tello would remain on the SCHOLASTIC to be assisted in his duties by Vice-President for Student Affairs, Father Joseph Hoffman. While on the surface the situation haq. all the ear-markings of a crack-down, the practical re­sults of the confrontation guaranteed the spirit of the relationship Costello and the editors had worked out. Hoffman and Costello seldom disagreed and Hesburgh specifically endorsed the freedom of the student press in encouraging Costello to remain. 
DESPITE the tension of constant criticism the arrange­ment proceeded amicably until the winter of 1963. Edi­tors Weiss and Zwettler had been replaced by the triumvirate of John McCabe, Jack Ahern and Jim Wyrsch, who were intent on continuing the tradition of their predecessors. On February 22 an editorial appeared in the SCHOLASTIC suggesting that Hesburgh be removed from his post as president and be reinstated as chancellor. The rationale for this move was all too familiar to any student involved in fostering construc­tive change at Notre Dame: too much power at the top, a president absent for most of the year and the power block of C.S.C. in high administrative positions. (A situation that hasn't changed much in six years.) But, perhaps just as significantly the editors had slipped the editorial into the magazine without the knowledge of Costello and Hoffman. They later revealed to Costello that they were more afraid that the advisors would per­mit the editorial to be printed and thus become party to their actions than the possibility of a priori censor­ship. 
The lid was about to blow; but the occasion didn't present itself until the following month when the SCHOLASTIC printed a news story listing the Student Rights and Grievances passed by the student government. Among the proposals the Senate asked the adminis­tration to consider included: an end to curfew, senior cars, all night electricity, and the formation of a board consisting of equal voting representatives of the faculty, students and administration to consider issues of stu­dent life. From on high, the order came for strict con­trol. The SCHOLASTIC was to be a "news magazine" that does not belong exclusively to the students of Notre Dame, and "will not be a journal of opinoin, criticism or suggestion" except in regard to strictly student activ­ities. All the senior editors and Costello resigned in protest. Within a matter of hours the major wire services had picked up the story and banner headlines 
Nov. 24, 1969 
graced the South Bend Trib1.1,ne. The Committee of Senior Scholarship and Fellowship Winners condemned the denial of free speech, along with the American As­sociation of University Professors. 
In response to these actions, Hesburgh issued his now famous "winter of our discontent'· letter. The letter suggested that the dissent was attributable to a "certain amount of cabin fever" contracted over the long Indiana winter and affirmed his belief that student leaders should not be "wielders of pressure, except in their own domain." 
FINALLY the situation cooled, leaving a bitter after­taste in the mouth of students and administrators alike. But, the issue of censorship was never again seriously raised in reference to the SCHOLASTIC. Amidst all this controversy a second news organ made its appearance at Notre Dame, the Voice. Selected as editor was John Gearen, who in his senior year became Student Body President and a Rhodes Scholar. But th~ Voice, a weekly "events calendar" and closely alligned with Stu­dent Government, was to undergo a long process of maturation before ever seriously rivaling the preemi­nent position of the SCHOLASTIC. 
The years 1964-'65 saw the gradual development of the Voice and WSND to fill the gap left by the weekly SCHOLASTIC. WSND became the first college radio sta­tion to affiliate with "Group vV" and began to provide regular national news coverage for its listeners. By the end of its third year the Voice had tripled its advertising and in the words of the Dome "established itself as part of campus life." By the fall of '65, the Voice was beginning to take advantage of its newly acquired readership and initiated twice-weekly publica­






Jt'"_I)';"ffll•..·•.;tJBSlRfJRfl.,-:\-.
t' : -. , ---' -.. ;_ ' ', . '--. ---'.-~ ::._-, -­
i;-_VOL. -1. NO.. 1 UN1VERSlTY~Or= NOTRE' 0At,1E< . FEBRUARY9,-!967,
-~·-~ 

:,, Westmoreland Patriot PiCk; 
Award May End This Year \~-:_ COMMITTEE -·;· PRESENTATION ~--'~;_ t:REPORT DUE -'IN ABSENTIA' 
~!-;; ?-, . -•• • • ~
-·_ --.. -•• 

ij,,; ._:,-The, m'~tia, presentationof General William C. We~ore.; -__ ­~t-__the. Class ~£ 19G7's Patriot of the _ land, commander of Unit~ S-.stes 'k?~l'Year Award ti,'General,Willi:unC. Forces in VietNam;, -wai_,first_ft'.~-_ -Westmorel:md tnay-vi·ell betbelast cbolce:as ".Patriot:oi tbe-,Year"·f-,:-, '_sat;h :· ii11ard0 the U:nlversity e\'er_ • in the recenilv conduc:ro electioi:s ­

"Once you write it, you're going to live with it." 
tion. Editor Steve Feldhaus caused something of a stir that winter when the Voice printed a series of articles on the double academic standard for athletes. The story was picked up by national wire-services and rated top billing in the sport section of the W~hington Post. 
The 1967 Danie proclaimed the year of the "profes­sional" in student organizations. In the area of student publications, however, the professional came under re­peated and direct fire. As is the custom, out-going SCHOLASTIC editor John Twohey recommended a junior editor, Robert Sam Anson, to be his successor. But, for the first time in nearly everyone's recollection the faculty advisor, Frank O'Malley and Vice-President for Student Affairs, Fr. McCarragher vetoed the recommen­dation. The job instead went to junior Dan Murray. Anson, undeterr2d, remained with the SCHOLASTIC until the fall of '66 when he left the magazine to join forces with the struggling Voice. In fact, the Voice was suf­fering from such a credibility gap that Anson pro­nounced the Voice D.O.A. From the ashes of the Voice the Observer was born on November 3, 1966. 
tion decided most emphatically not to ignore the issue. Fr. Hesburgh decreed that a board of review would be established with two members each from the student body, faculty and the administration. The editors were given the choice of apologizing or facing expulsion. They apologized. But, one skirmish lost, the editors still had the hardware of war at their command: the news­paper. The next issue of the Observer printed some seven weeks later contained the premature release of the information that General \¥estmoreland had received the Patriot of the Year Award. For Jim Fish, then SPB, the Westmoreland action was the last in a series of tasteless offenses and, at a closed student government meeting, a five-man a priori editorial board was pre­posed. The ugly hydra of cenosorship again rose its head at Notre Dame but in an ironic turnabout from '63­censorship by students of student. Both the Observer and the SCHOLASTIC reacted vigorously. Censorship, re­gardless of the motivation or the group represented, was achieved and a post facto editorial board implimented. The arrival of the fall of 1967 marked the pro-

THE Observer was little more than a month old be­fore it ran into its first editorial scrape. An article "borrowed" from the Berkley Barb was printed to il­lustrate the ridiculousness of the Los Angeles Sexual Freedom League. Passing under the credit "Special to the Observer/' the article seemed innocent enough, even funny, except -it contained the word "screw." Anson himself explains it best. "It was past the midnight hour. Suddenly a vacancy in the paper became distressingly apparent. I had been reading the Berkley Barb that Lenny Joyce [see article on Student Life] brought back So I said where's the sex article. Thus the controversy was born. Everyone thought the Administration had enough sophistication to ignore it." 
Questions of sophistication aside, the Administra-
These stories covering the past decade at Notre Dame and St. Mary's were compiled with the help of John Twohey, former SCHOLASTIC editor; Howard Dooley; Professor Donald P. Costello, and countless others. We wish to espe­cially thank Mr. Thomas Payne, former asso­ciate editor for contributing his article on Father Hesburgh. The files of old SCHOLASTICS, Domes, and Observers we used in putting together the issue are fascinating, if sometimes depressing reading material. 
-The Editors 
The Scholastic 

literation of campus journalism on an unheard of scale. For once, the SCHOLASTIC and the Observer had more writers than they could put into print. Pat Collins, Observer editor, moved the Observer publication schedule a notch forward and it appeared under the door three times weekly. Columnists Tom Figel, Dennis Gallagher, Tom Breslin and Tom McKenna provided articulate professional commentary on the local and national level. Meanwhile, upstairs, the SCHOLASTIC could boast of a full seven junior editors. New publications sprang up. The abortive River City Review made a half-hearted at­tempt at radical journalism in the middle of corn country and flopped, while smaller papers like the Breen-Phillips Pacesetter met with moderate success. 
SECOND semester, two controversies were to shake the SCHOLASTIC. The January 12 issue of the maga­zine featured a cover story on the Notre Dame Family. The picture on the cover stirred up the proverbial tempest in a teapot. Traditionalists gasped at the obvi­ous parody of the Da Vinci Last Supper oil, but most students and faculty simply chuckled. In March, the campaign for Student Body President was into full swing and the editorial board of the SCHOLASTIC began to split widely over the prospective endorsement. The junior editors led by Messrs. Garreau, Henahan and McNamara favored Rossie while the editor Mike Mc­Inerney leaned toward candidate Pat Dowd. ·when endorsement time came, the junior editors were not jnvited to participate in the interviews. A secret meet­ing was held and the junior editors published a mani­festo in favor of Rossie under the SCHOLASTIC letterhead. As a result, all seven were fired. Mcinerny struggled through one issue without them·before finally accepting a reconciliation and passing the reins for next year to Bill Cullen. 
Moving to the publication year '68-9 we find the SCHOLASTIC embarking on new directions and the Observer struggling to find copy to fill a daily publica­tion. SCHOLASTIC editor Cullen has been accused of los­ing the student in a maze of rhetoric and pontification while the Observer's Bill Luking has been condemned for boring the student to death. Perhaps· neither charge is entirely justified. It was in '68 that both publica­tions came to realize that the limitations imposed by a volunteer staff, limited finances and an often uncon­cerned readership put their journalistic aspirations just beyond their grasp. The most significant development in publications last year was the inauguration of the student-teacher course evaluation booklet-a mammoth effort roundly praised by students, faculty and admin­istrators alike. 
For the media the sixties was a time of conflict and change, a time of see-saw battles between themselves and the administrations, a time of censorship and oc­casional irresponsibility, and of unnerving and regular identity crises. But despite it all, a radio station, a newspaper and a magazine have matured to a startling degree of sophistication. They have made the transition from house organs to platforms for responsible student expression. At least the sixties proved the task not to be Sisyphean; the seventies will tell whether it all was worthwhile. 

Phil Kukielski _ 

Nov. 24, 1969 



. ,_-­


~-,:, \ 
:! •• 
. ' 


~·,.... 


) 

The atomic 1960's open with a terrific thrust into unknown worlds. Saint Mary's too, though on a seem­ingly less cataclysm,ic scale, has words to conquer. (Static, student newspaper, Jan. 15, 1960) 
A professor at St. Mary's refused to reflect on the progress of the college through the 60's saying: "An assessment of progress will gloss the realities unless you realize the point from which the progress began." 
APPROACHING the 70's, the place is different than the threshold of the "atomic 60's" found it: three new build­ings and less formidable ecological transformations. John J. McGrath, lawyer, has replaced the "poet-presi­dent" Madeleva; Srs. Renata and Mary Grace each took a tum at ruling in between; the student body has rough­ly doubled; the curriculum has loosened and in loco parentis is dead -only its ghost stalks the corridors. 
Assessment means to hang neither black crepe nor golden tapestries from LeMans tower; a chronicle of the first years of the old decade molds the assessment. The source is the college newspaper, either Static or Crux, until both disappeared. 
}960: Sr. Madeleva ruled 1,140 students (740 resi­dents, the first figure includes Holy Cross religious) who characterized themselves: "Background: Catholic family and Catholic education, comfortably secure en­vironment.... Characteristics: Worried, busy, serious­minded, enthusiastic, restless, questioning, intellectually inquisitive. . . . Plans: working in a Pakistan mission, teaching English in Brazil, raising two or three pre­school children, helping husbands who are rising young executives, carrying justice and charity and compas­sion into the slums of large cities, study:ing on a Ful­bright scholarship in France, lending aid to the suffering in the baths of Lourdes...." Sr. Madeleva became the first president of a Catholic women's college to sup­port the oath of loyalty requirement for students accepting federal aid for education. Helen Hayes ap­peared with students in the production of "The Skin of Our Teeth," and Mary Carol Daly, daughter of the fa­mous Richard A., was a student. The college held a vocation symposium, and opened its first European Cen­ter for SMC students abroad: at Lourdes. Headline of the year: "Student Tells Feelings on Playing Role of Mary." An editorial queried, "It is worth it to be considered an intellectual?" "Should we young people 
The Scholastic 

be out solving the world's problems, fomenting revo­lutions against tyranny?"; and answered no. Among other things with ND, a mock political convention ap­peared on the schedule, but the newspaper decreed that it would endorse no candidate-preferring "not to take sides on the issue, but to present interesting sidelights in the political area." 

1961: 
CRUX took over as newspaper, when journal­ism dropped from the English Department; name chosen because of the rich symbolism of the cross as "the center of reality." Sr. Renata took the presidency, and three graduating seniors received national citations from the Pillsbury Co. as outstanding home economics graduates. Tom Dooley was a prominent hero. On rules changes at Notre Dame, a co-ed remarked, "Well, we've been waiting for years for ND to catch up with SMC. After all, when did we have enforced lights out or morning checks?" Student Council, which functioned under the Dean of Students, was praised editorially for having "opposed sanctions for improper 'cooperation' with the recent Notre Dame raid, and accepted the re­sponsibility of defining proper -and improper -con­duct in such circumstances for the students." The stop­light appeared at the crossing of Dixie Highway. The first rustlings that led to community government began: "the need of young men and women for special prepara­tion for the vocation of marriage and establishment of a Christian home in a world antagonistic to the realiza­tion of the Christian family can only be defined finally by the entire college community." 
1962: STUDENT Council attempted to extend its juris­diction, and the Tri-Council, representing students, faculty and administration began to consider matters prevalent to all three groups. "One of the most decisive student decisions in recent years" obliterated the uni­formed St. Mary's student, who had been wearing lovely blue suits since 1860. A Notre Dame grad student wrote, "Does such a thing as intellectual maturity exist at Saint Mary's?" and the great cheerleader controversy hit campus when ND reneged after the girls were chosen. Birth control came up as an issue.... 
1963: HEADLINE of the year: "Three Classes Plan Dances." There must have been a rash of thefts·, a col­umn began "Sin is a curious thing" and then elaborated on the theme. The college celebrated "Brotherhood Week" from Feb. 17-24. The Departments of Home Eco­nomics and Nutrition were eliminated from the cur­riculum. The Association of the Teaching Faculty adopted a constitution, and presented a variety show. The faculty seriously began to seek power in deter­mining academic policy and procedure. The debate club resolved that the U.S. should invade Cuba. 
ETC., etc., etc., until November, 1967, brought the announcement naming Msgr. John J. McGrath pres­ident to replace Sr. Mary Grace. From a convocation called to request that students not walk on the grass and that they wear mantillas in the chapels, SMC jumped to the famous McGrath statement that the college could 
Nov. 24, 1969 
no longer be concerned with the difference between 
"Wedgwood and plastic." Jubilation. 
The slow change that occurred during the following 

two years cannot be attributed solely to the new pres­
ident, but the situation was primed to move and 
McGrath could perhaps be called the right man at the 
right time -for a while. 
The structure at SMC, with students sitting on all 

student life and academic affairs committees and on the 
committees of the Board of Trustees, indicates a col­
lege capable of rapid change and experimentation. The 
elements that blur that vision and make the structure, 
in some ways a farce, can be attributed to the image 
and mentality of a women's college, particularly Cath­
olic, particularly Midwestern. 
The declining professor quoted at the beginning analyzed the strange mixture of progressive change and parochial reluctance to change as a product of the peculiar crisis that a college like St. Mary's has faced within the last decades: shrugging the convent-school aura. This process had not completed itself when the crisis assaulting all of American higher education erupted; between the two, the colleges like St. Mary's faced double trouble. The result is SMC today: loosened social regulations that can still impose shackles on students; an overabundance of committees, all mov­ing very fairly and very slowly; nebulous power struc­tures among faculty and students; academic reform attempting to keep pace with the revolution; and the · yet undecided question: "Is McGrath a dictator?" 
The famous Teacher Contracts Controversy of Feb­ruary, 1969, exploded the myth that SMC was moving enough to preserve contentment. The only student demonstration that emerged from the rampant rage of the week diagnosed the status quo with an Abbie Hoff­man-Andy Warhol sculpture attesting, "Changing this place is like trying to hatch a dinosaur egg; you have to sit on it a long while." 
In the area of Academics, the cooperation program with Notre Dame has freed St. Mary's to deepen itself, secure from diminishing the scope of education offered the student. Complementary courses at Notre Dame allow an SMC student to diversify her education, com­bining the best of a college and a university. The re­sult, as a faculty member put it, is that if "we lose in the new situation, it's our own fault." 
BASICALLY, the problems of St. Mary~s College are attitudinal -whether the label be parochialism, con­servatism, "old school" or any number of other catch phrases. The problem is that vast change requires a considerable amount of time -with constant pressure, a pressure seldom exerted with the force required. In 1965, the senior class requested and held a meeting with the President of the College to explain their thoughts on SMC education: the class president analyzed the situation in terms of the future, "Sister, this school isn't fit to send my dog to, much less my daughter." With such a beginning, progress is a task requiring more than a decade. But that's no excuse. 
Carolyn Gatz 
perspectives 

dr thomas carney/part two 
the rights of man & the rights of students 
This is the second of a two-part article on stu­dent power by Dr. Tlwmas Carney. This week Dr. Carney explores the part students should play in the control of the university. 
WHAT I SAID last week in the~e pages should make lI clear that I don't believe that violence has any place 011 the campus at Notre Dame or indeed, on any campus. I believe that here all problems can be solved. I believe that procedures are now available for solving problems without resorting to violence. 
THINK I should express my own op1mon as to what some of the rights of students should be, what some of the goals of the use of student power should be. I realize the difficulty in trying to do this. No group exists in a vacuum, nor can a group operate totally independently of any other group. The rights of students are inextricably bound up in the rights of the faculty and the administration. The fun­damental right of the student is the right to learn -to learn everything about everything if he is capable of doing so. Immediately, the problem of academic free­dom for the faculty arises. The right of the teacher is the right to teach what and how he sees fit. I shall speak about academic freedom in detail in the future. For the present, I shall simply express an opinion as to the solution of one part of the problem of the conflict between faculty and students. 
To state my conclusion first, it must be the respon­sibility of the faculty to decide what is taught and how it is taught. However, it is then the right of the student to react in whatever way his conscience will justify. The student might be wrong, but he still has the right to express his opinion. The difficulty arises, of course, in making a decision as to what considera­tion shall be given to the student judgment. I think 
·The Scholastic 

"These more recent rebels betray an inability to imagine the consequences of their own victory. For the smashing of idols is in itself such a preoccupa­tion that it is almost impossible for the iconoclast to look into the future when there will not be any idols left to smash. . . . The happiness of the rebel is as transient as the iconoclasm that produced it. When he has slain the dragon and rescued the beautiful maiden, there is usually nothing left for him to do but write his memoirs and dream of a time when the world was young.'' 
-Walter Lippmann, 1929 

considerable weight should be given. However, it is not the total answer. The judgment of a class should be considered as one piece of evidence to be presented to the jury. And the jury must be a jury composed of the teacher's peers. I am heartily in favor of the class­evaluation system, as long as it is recognized for what it is -the action of an important group of people but, nevertheless, only one reaction. In the beginning, class evaluations are apt to be popularity contests. However, as they become more accepted both by faculty and stu­dents, the value for both· increases -the professor receives valuable suggestions that he is more apt to take seriously with an established procedure, and the students become more responsible in their criticisms, recognizing the severe consequences of their judgment. I would, however, like to see an additional piece of in­formation collected, namely, a retrospective reaction to a teacher or a class. Therefore, for at least some years to come, I believe it would be advisable to collect stu­dent opinions immediately after being exposed to a course, and then a reaction of the same students to the same course two or three years after completion. 
DURING the past few years, a general demand has been made that students be allowed to make decisions on those issues that affect their lives. The thesis seems so obvious that it is unarguable. Of course, students should make their own decisions. Yet, I would modify the statement. Students should make decisions in areas in which they are capable of making them, and in areas where the consequences of the decisions do not in­fringe on the rights of others. Obviously, this does not mean that students should not have a voice in other decisions. It just means that they shouldn't make the decisions. 
I realize I am walking in where even fools might fear to tread when I talk about the ability of students to make decisions. I have commented many times be­fore in many places on the fact that today's student is more mature, more broadly steeped in knowledge, more sophisticated than those of past generations. For all of that, there are still things that students don't know. 
The most obvious area of student incompetence is, at least to me, in determining the financial policies of the University. No one can deny that the success or failure of many things affecting students' lives depend on having or not having money. Yet, I can see no posi­tive reason why students should have any voice in establishing financial direction. On the other hand, I can't see why information on investment policies should not be made available, either. 
0 NE of the reasons students have given for their desire to help make financial decisions has been a rather diffuse belief that proper mm,al considerations are not being given to these activities. The trustees have even been asked whether or not we are investing University funds in our own compan~es. It is a source of considerable irritation to me to have some of these young men try to give ti'le impression that it was only they who had suddenly and recently discovered that moral principles could also be applied to finance and other business activities. I am sure they belie;ve this. They become so sanctimonious that one is forced to be­lieve that, at puberty, they must have had stigmata instead of acne. 
Since I cannot, item by item, discuss each of the issues covered under the broad heading of student rights, I shall select only one more problem for com­ment, and I have chosen this problem because it will become, unexpectedly, controversial. I say unexpectedly because the logic of the proposal, considering the alter­natives, escapes me. 
At the open meeting of. the students with the Board of Trustees last year, considerable time was spent in discussing the possibility of student representation on the Board of Trustees. I expressed an opinion at that time that student .representation could not be effective -that any student of the board would, inevitably, be simply a part of a board decision and would not influ­ence such a decision. If our present procedures are working properly, the student on the board should not be able to bring to the group any information not con­sidered in the past. 
In reporting this meeting, the SCHOLASTIC said, "Yet never did the board consider avoiding the 'Uncle Tom' syndrome by admitting more than one or two student members; ..." With the lack of imagination for wJ,Jch I continue to blame the present activists, the writer avoided the chance of substituting "Uncle Ted" for "Uncle Tom," and thus gaining a few more p9ints ,vith the antiestablishmentarians. 
CONSIDER the alternatives proposed. If we were to avoid the tokenism of having only a few students on the board for the purpose of presenting views, then we should have enough students as voting members to be able to influence decisions by votes. I must admit to the accusation of the SCHOLASTIC. Such a proposal was never considered by me, mainly because I do not believe it is the business of the students to run the board. shall spell out in detail what I think the duties and responsibilities of the board are in a later article. I shall only say now that the board does not make de-
Nov. 24, 1969 
cisions on the day-to-day operation of the University. The board receives recommendations and approves or disapproves them, assuming that all pertinent evidence has been submitted and been considered by the proper University action group. The board, for example, did not decide to introduce the system of parietal hours. The board did approve the recommendation made to it by the Student Life Council. The Council itself was the body best qualified to hear testimony and to collect facts..The board will not be responsible for the day-to­day enforcement of the policies it approves. In the case of parietal hours, this responsibility is in· the hands of the halls. 
MY conclusion, therefore, is that there should not be student representation on the Board of Trustees. Knowing what the board does would, I think, convince more people that this conclusion is correct. If it is believed that the board is not getting sufficient informa­tion on subjects on which it does make decisions, then I think the solution is to increase the effectiveness of the University action groups to the point where proper procedures are in effect. 
I think a good analogy here is the proposal made by the students for the establishment of a student judicial system. The procedures outlined could only be regarded as tortuous, yet each was thought necessary to make sure that the right facts were collected, that the right evidence was considered, and, equally im­portant, that the decision was made at the right level. It seems to me that there is considerable misunder­standing of the role of the board, that too many people want to avoid the due process of normal university activities by making the board a body that does involve itself in the day-to-day activities. There has been criti­cism by some who believe that the administration is already making too many decisions. It doesn't make much sense to place the responsibility for such decisions one step further removed from the people affected by them. 
To sum up my feeling about this subject, I believe there are five groups that must be involved if a univer­sity is to become great: the administration, the alumni, the faculty, the students, and the trustees. Note I have listed these in alphabetical order, not necessarily in the order of decreasing or increasing importance. All have the right to be informed, all have the duty to inform, all have the right to express opinions and to object. However, each has duties and responsibilities and rights. To be interested in an activity or even to be affected by a decision is not enough to qualify any one group for responsibility. For example, it would be ridiculous to say I wanted sufficient members of the Board of Trustees on each hall council so that we could swing any vote. Yet, I would rationalize this by saying that decisions of hall councils affect my actions as a member of the board, that they determine what problems are presented to the board. Anything that affects Notre Dame affects me, either as a board member or as an 
alumnus. 
I have lived long enough to know that the only way to move forward with large institutions is to seek out competent people, to give them responsibility and au­thority, and to assure the fact that each group will be respected by the other. The difficulties we are in now are caused by the fact that we have not yet recog­nized that we can't make selfish decisions without inter­fering with the rights of others. 
"... clarity, alas, is not one of our goals. Confusion is mightier than the sword." 
-Abbie Hoffman 
If Notre Dame is to become great, we can't waste time and energy fighting little battles, particularly with each other. There are too many big causes to be pursued. And if Notre Dame is to become great, ener­gies and desires must be directed away from simply the fulfillment of personal ambition and the acquiring of publicity. 
I SUPPOSE as unlikely a way as any to close this article is to quote from the Haight-Ashbury Free Press. Under the by-line of Harry Happnin', a description was given in the recent issue of roughly August 21st (Vol­ume 2, No. 2) of the march in Berkeley for the People's Park. Harry had taken part in all previous demonstra­tions. So far, one man had been killed, another had lost his eyesight, countless injuries had taken place. Today he is describing a scene at a peaceful demonstra­tion of between 10,000 and 30,000 people, depending on the reporter. Harry's report says, "The truth is that People's Park was a lousy park. It was thrown together without much thought...." Then he says, "John Lennon was right. People's Park wasn't worth it. It wasn't and it isn't." A paragraph later he concludes: "There are major and minor causes in life and those who can't distinguish between them deserve everything that will happen to them -and quite a lot will. The thing that bugged me all day about the grandiose Peo­ple's Park march in Berkeley was that it was great theatre. 
"And not much else." 
Dr. Thomas Carney is a member of the Board of Trustees of the University and a Senior Vice-President of G. D. Searle & Co. A graduate of Nore Dame and a former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation., Dr. Carney has written a series of articles which will appear periodically in this section of the SCHOLASTIC. 
Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column available to a member of the University community to explore and comment upon contemporary issues. Views expressed here do not necessary reflect the editorial policy of the SCHOLASTIC. 
The Scholastic 



A Candy-Colored, Tangerine-Flaked, Streamlined Movie 
or 

How I Stopped Worrying and Learned to Love Haskell Wexler, Dennis Hopper, Peter Fonda, Robert Forster . .. and the bomb. · 
BE THAT as it may, well .... wow, baby trips ... gee whiz ... its freak-c;mt time at the flicks this week­end. So let's have the review ..... some people have hinted that this whole movement is a fairly modern conception, an orphan spawned under such bastard fathers as Rossellini, Kazan, and nursed to puberty by a select coterie of establishment faggots, like Mailer, Wolfe, Capote -in short, it's the nonfiction novel on the screen, it's the merging of artistic imagination with historical events, it's the objective event interpreted personally through characters who may or may not be historically connected with such an event. Let me use one such instance of reality-mongering to illustrate what I mean. In Alice's Restaurant, both Arlo and Pete Seeger visit Woodie Guthrie in a poignant hospital scene which is made even more astonishing when one remembers that two of the three characters are re­creating what each in real life went through in the not-too-distant past. Get the picture! 
At any rate, what may or may not have started as a purely literary creation (In Cold Blood, Armies Of The Night), has certainly struck its colors both liter­ally and figuratively in the cinema. In these films, the premium isn't on acting; rather the actors are out and shooting exactly what they feel in a free, easy style. In Easy Rider, the outside world is viewed from the inside of the characters and all judgments are made accordingly; regardless of your past associations, there is now a demand made on you, the viewer. I may disagree now with Captain America (Peter Fonda), but not while I was in the theater .... it's scarry, but it 
Nov. 24, 1969 
works. We're all armchair cameramen, _but in Medium Cool we've got to face something more than "objec­tive'' reporting or armchair television trances .... and Robert Forster isn't going to tell you how to do it ... . 
If the McLuhanistic-phrase, "Artists· are the anten­nae of their race ... " has any validity, then Haskell Wexler ( director of 1Wediurn Cool) must have had his radar set on at full power for a long time-almost six months before the Democratic Convention in Chi­cago, Wexler anticipated that his fictional ideas about a TV cameraman might reach some sort of climax in the presence of real, political/historical events. And he was right. Never has the role of the media reached such prominence as it did during the Chicago bloodbath, and unknown to most of its participants, Wexler fashioned a personal statement on the media's contro­versial role, in the person of a TV camera crew. ·what arose from the morass of political and historical feces. was a visually exciting, "fictional" documentary film 
-Medium Cool. 
Well, so what? Why not film a strict documentary? The answer lies with Wexler's answer -the framework . of "fiction" allows the artist freedom in expression, freedom in imagination-qualities which are usually lacking in most strict documentary films, most of which visually read like a day-old newspaper .... evidently· Wexler avoided this trap, and along with Easy Rider_, brought a fresh American approach, independent of the classical Hollywood conventions. 
-John Stuw 







I---~--,
Keep the Faith, Baby 

Kuharich Quit Dtevore Finished 2 /7 /o & Ara Was Hired 
This has been the worst decade in Notre Dame foot­
ball history. Given victories over Georgia Tech and Air 
Force in the next eight days, the Irish will have com­
piled a 62-33-4 record from 1960 to 1969. 
The decade is easily divided. The line of demarca­tion is named Ara Parseghian. Under the tutelage of Joe Kuharich and Hugh Devore, Notre Dame wallowed from 1960 to 1963 with a 14-25 mark. Then came Ara, whose teams are 46-8-4 to date. 
As 1960 started, the Irish coach was second-year­man Kuharich. His predecessor, Terry Brennan, had not won often enough by Notre Dame standards (32 wins, 18 losses) and it was hoped that after an initial campaign of 5-5, Kuharich would bring the Irish back to the glory days that they had enjoyed under Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy. Thus, Notre Dame entered the new decade, with great expectations, especially since the last two games of 1959 had seen the Irish beat good Iowa and USC teams. 
Prior to the start of the 1960 campaign the names Myron Pottios, Nick Buoniconti, Bob Scarpitto, Red Mack, George Sefcik and Angelo Dabiero were given as reasons why the Irish would be good. Although he had these fine players and many others on his roster during his four years as head coach, Kuharich could not con­sistently field eleven winners. When he left the job in 1963, it was generally felt that he had not been able to establish communication with his teams. While this may have been true it was more likely the combination of many serious injuries, academic problems, player cliques and costly omissions on the field, that led to his poor record. 
When ND beat California 21-7 in the first game of 1960, spirits rose. However, an injury to the inspira­tional leader of the team, Red Mack, spelled disaster. Injuries and mistakes led ND to its longest losing streak ever, eight games. Daryl Lamonica finally ral­lied the team as it upset a fine USC team, 17-0. Kuharich was 5-5 in each of his final two years. 
Kuharich ignored bright personnel prospects and 
resigned in mid-March, 1963. Hugh Devore was named 
interim coach as he had been in 1945. The hunt for a 
new coach was started. The move by Kuharich had 
caught the Administration by surprise; he had not been 
asked to quit. The '63 season proved to be rough. 
Wisconsin scored with 67 seconds left and won 13-9. 
Purdue won 7-6. ND surprised USC 17-14 and beat 
UCLA 27-12. Devore finished 2-7. Then. Ara Par­
seghian was hired in December. 
Critics of Kuharich had said that he was too pro­fessional in his approach to the college game. He ex­pected his players to think like pros, it was said, and he supposedly ignored that famous ND \Veapon, spirit. The SCHOLASTIC on March 22, 1963, had urged the hiring of a proven college coach. Ara Parseghian \Vas exactly that. 
Three thousand students turned out for a mid­February, 1964, rally at Sorin. They heard Ara promise "a well-coached, well-conditioned team that \vould win football games." They got one. 
As ND enters another decade, prospects for con­tinued success are great. It is safe to say· that Par­seghian has returned greatness to ND football in the last six years. Since the Irish always had the material, as evidenced by the fact that Kuharich recruited most of Parseghian's first two teams, one can assume that ND should continue to win. Whether ND will \Vin · National Championships is a matter of speculation. The schedule will get tougher because ND is committed to playing the best. The 1970 schedule proves this point. ­As Father Hesburgh said in another famous letter to the student body on November 28, 1964: ·' ... All I'm saying is that life goes on, the challenge remains and it will be a really dark and cold place if we ever lose the desire to be No. 1 in everything 1,ve do, or lack grace and style and humanity in doing it.'' Summarily of the '60's: After a disastrous start Notre Dame once again represents what is class in college football. The record says so. 
-Joe St. Onge 

Nov. 24, 1969 
Askthepeo~leinvolved with jobsforminoritygroups 

-about.tEtna. 
;~~ 
.•.·
'';, --:..t 
:-; 
·=··:· 
·.. ·r . ==·~ 

There's a lot more to be done. But we feel we've made a start. With a number ofpioneer programs for the disadvantaged. One teaches men to work computers. Another helps women learn office skills. Still another gets non-drivers qualified for licenses-and jobs. 
Some go to work for JEtna, but there are no strings attached. The important thing is we've prepared them for good jobs. 
We understand human needs like these. Our business may be selling insurance. But our concern is people. JEtna is the kind ofplace where you can do good and make good, too. 
Learn about A!:tna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office. 
OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
An Equal Opportunity Employer and a JOBS-participating company. 

LIFE&CASUALTY 
The Scholastic 

movies 


CINEMA '10: Medium. Cool with Robert Forster and Peter Bonerz. Haskell Wexler will be present at some of the screenings, watch for further information. Saturday and Sunday at Washfogton Hall, 2 and 8 p.m. ( see review, page 29.) 

football 

GRANADA:  Alice's Restaurant at  AVON: Funny  Girl is getting less  
1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, and 9:15.  humorous by the week.  At 8:15.  
COLFAX:  The  Comic. Not  recom­ 
STATE:  Easy  Rider  with  Peter  mended for weak stomachs. At 1:17,  
Fonda and Dennis Hopper. Call 233­ 3:13, 5:09, 7:05, and 9:01.  
1676.  -John Stupp  

Picks by Terry 


Notre Dame over Georgia Tech ­Once again riddled with injuries and laden with sophomores, Tech is sur­viving on emotion alone. In '67, emo­tion netted the Yellowjackets a 3-0 lead after 20 minutes. The final was 36-3. 
Ohio State over Purdue -Not even close, folks. By halftime, you'll be bored silly. ABC's Wild Card is a joker. 
Tennessee over Mississippi ­Having rebuilt an entire offensive backfield and most of his defense, Vol mentor Doug Dickey should be voted Coach of the Year. 
Nov. 24, 1969 
Auburn over Georgia -Plenty of bowl scouts at this one. Auburn is the stronger team, but playing in Athens is a nasty experience. 
Michigan over Iowa-Wolverines can be beaten on the ground, but Iowa's strength is in the air. 
Kansas State over Nebraska. ­By one touchdown. 
Michigan Stat.e over l'Uinnesota ­Impossible as it may seem, the mighty Spartans will struggle to beat Minnesota! State's backfield speed is the difference. 
Northwest.ern over Indiana -How have the Hoosiers reacted to last 
week's events? From here, they look crushed. 
Miami over Alabama -· Hurri­canes have waited a long time to catch the Tide in such disarray. The Bear will be upset, knife-twistingly, at home. 
Stanford over Air Force -Battle of two strong Western dudes who didn't quite make it. 
LAST \VEEK'S RECORD: 
7 Right, 2 Wrong, 1 Tie, .778 


SEASON RECORD: 
51 Right, 16 Wrong, 3 Ties, .761 
the last word 

THE carnage was piled high. Apocalypse. The bodies of revolutionaries and counterrevolutionaries stunk. And in the midst of the carnage lay the corpse of cul­ture, torn apart, on the one hand, by those who would protect it -yet squelched it -and, on the other hand, by those who would destroy it -and succeeded. 
The last ten years, the last twenty days, have told us about the next ten. In significant -yet insignificant -ways. And the university, for the first time in his­tory, has been at the center or society. Often, a micro­cosm of society. 
Tensions of the past month, the racial tensions in Alumni Hall, Senate deliberations on the budget -have thrust the explosives of the "real world" (as ROTC pro­fessors and businessmen are wont to call it) onto the campus. And it is no longer simply interpersonal strife that plagues the campus; it is also interracial strife. 
The Alumni Hall incident, despite its physical vio­lence, was less cosmic in scope than the tension within the Senate. Personal violence, personal racism are phenomena of the psyche. They are destructive but not oppressive. Pressure is released as it accumulates. It is not the stuff of revolutions. 
BUT the confrontation in the Student Senate mim­icked the apocalypse of America. The black man came to the government and asked for the finances to create and develop his own government, his own culture. To deny him the money would be oppressive and, in the context of history, immoral. 
The white avant-garde, represented by the Contem­porary Arts Festival, came to the same government and asked for the finances to propagate his own culture. Like the black man, he cannot place his faith in the past. But unlike the black man, he must place his faith in the ability of the future to emerge from the past. He does not want a new body, only a new skin: a snake, not a caterpillar. To deny him money is fatalistic, a denial of the worth and future of American culture. It is boorish and ignorant: ignorant of a vital method of ending racism, the liberal education designed to abolish prejudice. 
Yet given the self-imposed and ill-advised $15,000 ceiling on the Student Government debt -or the finan­cial limits of any government -the black man and the white artist are up against the same wall. But on different sides; pushing different ways. . . . The artist tries to break through the wall. The black man must break down the wall. When the wall falls, the fetus of revolution is born or aborts. 
In the horizon loom these questions: Can one nation, one government house two people, two cultures? Must not the spirit of the nation and the structure of the government emerge from the life-style of the peo­ple? And are there not two people -one black, one white -in this University and in this country? 
Can we avoid revolution, violent revolution? 
HUMAN life, human art becomes absurd in the face of revolution. The artist can use his technical ability to propagandize; or he can forsake his art and kill. But the moral and aesthetic distance required of an artist cannot be achieved in the midst of the passion of revo­lution. Moreover, the artist needs a culture, a tradition from which his art can emerge. But there is no culture in time of a revolution. There is only active conflict. Men live and die not according to their inner creativity but according to the masks of revolution that they wear. 
All the solutions are outlandish. Educators point to the university and say it is there that the black man and the white man can study both cultures, bring the forces within both cultures to consciousness and amalgamate the two cultures. Create out of the black and the white an American culture. But the black man is not buying; neither is the white man. And the lead­ers who are to transform American society are not appearing. 
The snake and the caterpillar have always shared the ground, have always crawled on their bellies. But the snake and the caterpillar are beginning to see that besides holding a common enemy, they are common enemies. Apocalypse. 
-Rich Moran 
At ease) men ... 


TOWNE AND KING SWEATERS 

are in good supply at Gilbert's Can1pus Shop 
Choose your favorite: 100% Alpaca cardi­gans and slip-overs, 100% virgin wool cable-stitch mock turtles, short sleeve or sleeveless styles ... all in the most wanted colors ... all with the quality that has made Towne and King the choice of uni­versity men everywhere. See them soon. 
BUY NO\V ... PAY NEXT SUwfMER: 
ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD 
in June in Jul)' in August 
no service or carrying charge 
I 
/ ...;:_:f 
~--­

...-~~ 



ILBER • ampu~ho
~--~ 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
Cricketeer presents the shaped blazer for young men making their mark 


Young men who only look ahead choose the most advanced styles to express their own 
creative tastes. This is it. The 6-button shaped double­breasted blazer with advanced body tracing, wide lapels, deep center vent, slanted flapped pockets and ticket pocket. Tailored in luxurious wool Saxony cloth in new deep color blazer stripings. Move ahead in Cricketeer. You'll make out better. 

CRICKETEER'» 
$59.50 

.! I 

.' //,'. THE OFF-CAMPUS STORE FOR MEN 






,.Rasmussen's 
130 WEST WASHINGTON 



