CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
Get what you need right now—or whenever you need it . . . and charge it the Campus Shop way.
PAY 1/3 IN JUNE
1/3 IN JULY . . . AND 1/3 IN AUGUST
No carrying charge
On the Campus—Notre Dame
PALM BEACH HAS THE PERFECT SUIT FOR YOUR SPRING VACATION—
SOUTHERN TRIP ... THE FAMOUS
PALM BEACH WASH 'N WEAR SUIT
$39.95
If you’ve never owned a Palm Beach wash ’n wear suit, you have a treat coming! They’re a breeze to wear ... a breeze to care for ... a “natural” for your spring vacation trip. One Palm Beach wash ’n wear suit and an extra pair of contrasting Palm Beach wash ’n wear slacks gives you almost a complete warmweather wardrobe . . . for travel . . . for sportswear ... for dress. Drop in to the Campus Shop soon and see our complete southern wardrobe collection.
On Campus Mk Shulman
(Author of “I TFos a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis.” etc.)
WHO WENT TO THE PROM—AND WHY
“Hello,” said the voice on the telephone. “This is Werther Sigafoos. I sit next to you in psych. I’m kind of dumpy and I always wear a sweat shirt.”
“I’m afraid I don’t remember you,” said Anna Livia Plurabelle.
“I’m the one whose lecture notes you’ve been borrowing for two years,” said Werther.
“Oh, yes!” said Anna Livia. “What do you wish, Walter?”
“Werther,” said Werther. “What I wish is to take you to the Junior Prom next April.”
“But this is November 27, Westnor,” said Anna Livia.
“Werther,” said Werther. “Yes, I know, but you are so round and beautiful that I was afraid you might have a date already.”
“As a matter of fact I do, Wingate,” said Anna Livia.
“Werther,” said Werther. “Oh, drat!”
AnnaLivia did not really have a date, but she was expecting to be asked by Stewart Stalwart, athletic and BMOC, handsome as Apollo, smooth as ivory, wearer of faultless tweeds, smoker of Marlboro cigarettes which even without his other achievements would stamp him as a man with know-how, with a pleasure-oriented palate. If you think flavor went out when filters came in, try a Marlboro. This one brims
with zest and zip and the good, mild taste so dear to those who smoke for the pure joy of it. Get yourself a pack of Marlboros and listen to your friends say, “There, by George, goes a smoker who knows a hawk from a handsaw.”
But I digress. Anna Livia waited and waited for Stewart Stalwart to ask her, but two days before the Prom, to everybody’s amazement, he asked Rose-of-
* * *
We hope you’ll be smoking Marlboros at your prom—or if you like mildness but you don’t like filters—Philip Morris— from the same makers.	>
Sharon Schwartz, a nondescript girl with pavement-colored hair and a briefcase.
Anna Livia immediately phoned Werther Sigafoos. “My Prom date has come down with a dread virus,” she said, “and I have decided to accept your invitation, Waldrop.”
“Werther” said Werther. “Oh, goody ganders!”
The next day Anna Livia received a phone call from Stewart Stalwart. “My Prom date has come down -with a dread ■virus,” he said. “Will you go with me?”
“Certainly,” she said and promptly phoned Werther and said, “I have come dowrn with a dread virus and cannot go to the Prom with you, Whipstitch.”
“Werther,” said Werther. “Oh, mice and rats!”
So Anna Livia wrent to the Prom with Stewart and wTho do you think they ran into? Rose-of-Sharon with Werther, that’s who!
Stewnrt had felt obliged to ask Rose-of-Sharon because she always did his homework, but she had weaseled out
because she really wanted to go with Werther with wiiom she felt a great oneness because they were both so dumpy. He fell wildly in love with her at the Prom, and today they are married and run a very successful five-minute auto w’ash in Newr Bern, N. C.
Anna Livia and Stewnrt are happy, too. They are still juniors and have not missed a prom in sixteen years.
© 1960 Max Shulman
THANKS
Editor:
My most appreciative thanks is ex- ' tended to you and your staff on the Scholastic. The excellent coverage and cooperation that you gave us during the * eighth annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament helped us make the students aware ' of the scope and prominence of the tournament on the national debating scene.
The layouts and articles 'which Roy Rubeli, and also Charles Rieck, gave us presented fully all details concerning the operation of the tournament, the participants in it. and pride that we have in , it.
Joel Haggard -e General Chairman 240 Pangborn
“THE PEOPLE”
Editor:
Anyone familiar with Denny Shaul’s political leanings knowTs of his tendency to defend the “liberal cause.” And yet ■in his most recent effort ’ (“Two Constitutions,” Scholastic, March 4) Mr. Shaul maintains that the “government is the people.” One would suppose, therefore, that any act of the government j should be regarded as an act of the < people. In this case, Mr. Shaul’s posi- ‘ tion creates a halo for any exercise of governmental authority which is favored s by the majority. What form of liberal- ■ ism is this?	;
Of course our “liberal” spokesman in- h sits that the government (or does he h mean the people in this case?) respect what he feels are the constitutional * rights of the individual. When the elected • representatives of the people decide that i students who accept federal loans must *; pledge allegiance to their country, Mr. Shaul’s “liberal” sense is shocked exceedingly.
However, when governmental author- * ity can be implemented to impose a “liberal” reform, Mr. Shaul cannot com- • prehend how the “government can say to the people” or “withhold from the **’ people.” Perhaps our “liberal” friend should clarify his thinking by asking a Washington bureaucrat to grant his ; business a reprieve from the unfair ** practices of legally-sanctioned union , monopolies. After all, this is a free ’ (Continued on page 24)	A
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Sendee and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.

4
The Scholastic


uXASkaMondb


The Notre Dame

.3
*
L

' ♦
4-
»*(
Vol. 101 No. 19
MARCH 18, 1960
3
-5
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors .
E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff
ROY RUBELI
Wade Clarke •	. , ;
Arthur Graham
Thomas Weiss features editor and staff
CHARLES RIECK
Francis Smith .
Thomas Sullivan ‘ William Sweeney • William Veeder . , sports editor and staff . THOMAS ROSE
William Cary . J. (Jay) Kilroy	,
copy editor and staff	. .
• WALTER RUDGE
George Casey /	?	.
Peter Geniesse '	.
\ Thomas Marciniak '	/. -
art editor
JERRY FLORENT / photographer	?.
WALTER DALY, Jr. business manager and staff
ROBERT HORN
Thomas Carey
Joseph Finnigan ..	,
circulation manager	J
LAWRENCE LEACH \


.3
3
J
-3
7.
• moderator '	-
REV. CHARLES CAREY, cs.c. d
news reporters
/ Philip Larrabee / John Ohala / ; Thomas, Schlereth William Sparks y,
sports reporters JohnBechtold Jerry Hewitt GeorgeVoris Thomas Walsh
adsalesmen

TAKING A CHANCE: The recent Mardi Gras ball initiated a new system of getting tickets for important events to the Notre Dame campus. It provided all those interested in purchasing a bid to the dance an equal opportunity to get one. Some won and some lost, but there was a certain amount of justice in the process known simply as “Lady Luck.” No one felt cheated when they failed to draw a bid, although they undoubtedly bemoaned their fate especially after asking a date to the big week end. This is a new way of handling such events, and to our mind a very good one. In fact, the system should be extended to cover almost all ticket and other sales which now require standing in line on the familiar “first-come-first-served” basis. This latter system is based on the premise that those who wait in line the longest are the most deserving. Obviously there is nothing wrong with this logic in a theoretical plane, but on a practical level it simply doesn’t hold true. Those who wait in line do not always get the tickets. Some hold places in line for others; students claim that they must keep an important appointment and are given early service; others walk in late and make their purchase because they “know someone.” This is how it has always been and this is the way it will continue to be. Sometimes such activity is rather minimal. At other times it is gross and even flagrant. No amount of policing will remedy the situation. It has been seen in the registration lines for parents’ rooms at graduation and will be seen again the next time dance bids are sold. The lottery system is not perfect, but it is more equitable. Let’s start using it and spare those who wait in line for nothing.
OFFICIAL NOTICE: Earlier this week the University announced that President Dwight Eisenhowei- will definitely address the 1960 Commencement exercises at Notre Dame. In February, the South Bend Tribune published a premature story based on the fact that the President had been invited, but his acceptance was still in doubt because of a previous committment to attend a reunion at West Point on June 5. The difficulies in his schedule were worked out and a letter of acceptance was received by Father Hesburgh on Monday. Certainly it is a great honor to have the President of the United States as a commencement speaker. Few schools have such an opportunity. Not only the President, but many other persons of importance in our own government as well as those of foreign countries will now be invited because of Mr. Eisenhower’s appearance. As a result the commencement this year will take on an added significance which will reflect quite favorably on the University. We should realize this fact and be appreciative of those who made such a visit possible.
AN ENLIGHTENED PROPOSAL: The Notre Dame Glee Club, which has been making a nation-wide name for itself in the past few years with its renditions of many familiar songs, is now preparing to go international. A proposed trip to Europe this summer for the songsters has been already mapped out on a tentative basis. All that remains now is the official go-ahead signal from the University, and this permission is merely a formality as the trip will be entirely financed by the tour service out of concert receipts. Not only this but the club will also be paid for each individual concert, of which they are guaranteed five a week. All in all, it promises to be a very rewarding and profitable trip, not only for the Glee Club, but for the University as a whole. Good luck clubbers and have a good time.
1500 AND NARY A FUSS: The Junior Parent-Son week end last Saturday and Sunday featured one major change from previous years. Because of the large increase in the response of parents this year, the week-end committee was faced with a most perplexing meal situation. With 1500 people expecting to attend the dinner Saturday evening, the committee could not hope to put the whole group in eithei- the North or either side of the South Dining Hall. Although it was decided to place 750 people on each side of the old Dining Hall, the problems were not over yet.
The big headache then was the problem of the speaker. Father Hesburgh declined to speak on both sides of the Dining Hall and this raised the problem of what would happen to the people on the “other” side. Junior Class President Chris Lund, in charge of the event, and his aides Don Rice, Chuck. Schuler and George Bott resolved to have Father Hesburgh give a few short remarks on the East side, explaining why he could not speak to both sides, and then move to the West side where he would give his actual address. The address was earned through the public address system to the other side. The dinner and the entire week end, with all its complexities and complications^ more than ever this year, came off without a hitch and President Lund and his co-workers are to be congratulated for giving their junior class the best parent-son week end ever.
—B. T. & T.
□BBQEBE SBEBB SBEBDEQ BBEEB □BEEBBEBEBEBEi □□□ EBEfflB BBQ SEES HEQ HBEB EEEE □□□EE
□BEEBE □□□BEE BEEBE BBSS □□□S EEC ESH EBQEB BSEEEEEDE □EBBE GHB SBC3QE BEBE
tflMSNVKDM
I	i *
i	Contents	I '
i	I *
j	At the Theaters_______ 17	Odds and Ends___________22	|
|	Back Page______________ 26	L. David Otte___________11	I	♦
|	Campus Scene ____________9	Our Cover ______________20	|	,
j	Commentary_______________5	Repercussions ___________4	|
|	Critical Horizons_____13	G. P. Scarpia___________17	|
|	Escape __________________7	Sports Picture _________21	|
5	s 4
KQDL KROSSWORD
No. 8
ACROSS
1. One-legged dance?
4. Boot, training, enemy, etc.
9.	Ate backwards
10.	Soap____
11.	Officer in line for getting the bird
13.	Jabbed
14.	Univ, at Ft. Worth (abbr.)
15.	Mal de’s last name
16.	Chat’s partner
17.	Patsy’s quarrel
19.	Ungirdled
20.	Submoron
23.	Made childish noises
24.	Get a fresh supply of males
25.	Like a Kool, obviously
26.	Discover
27.	When hot, it has wheels
28.	Has a midnight snack
32.	Had a midnight snadt
33.	Fiddled with the TV set
35.	Netherlands East Indies (abbr.)
36.	How you feel smoking Kools (2 words)
39. Worn away
41.	English male who sounds good for a lift
42.	Well, it’s about time!
DOWN
1.	Message in a fortune cooky
2.	Turk in the living room?
3.	WhattheBritish call a cigarette pack
4.	Even cooler than Kools
5.	GI mail address
6.	"Come up to the
of Kools
7.	Exact
8.	Greeted 11 Across
12. Over (poetic)
16.	On which windshields sit
17.	Don’t go away!
18.	Engaging jewelry
19.	Lionized guy
20.	Whipped
21.	Re-establish
22.	A kind of Willie
23.	Real fancy “new”
25. Not the opposite of prefab
27. Street of regret
creator of “Penguin Uand”
30.	Contemporary of Shakespeare
31.	Stuck up for
33.	African jaunt
34.	Put your cards on the table
37.	Compass point
38.	Little station
C1980. Brown * Williamson Tobacco Corp. .
KGDl
When your throat tells you its time for a change you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
°KGDL
V
7
4-
4-
7
<
*•-
i
The Scholastic
!
( A
■ r ■
*
regrets
by CHRIS FOLEY
w T T’S along about this time of year -■•when most all of us have the same thing on our musty little minds. Easter is coming, and with Easter comes Easter vacation, and with Easter vacation comes all sorts of things. Personally, though, I’m not looking forward to Eas-* ter vacation one bit. In fact, I wish , there wasn’t any vacation at all, because evei-y time I think about Easter vacation I am reminded of something that happened last Easter, something that I H would like very much to forget.
I shouldn’t actually be telling you this t story, because if the State Department ever finds out about it I may get a good ♦ deal more than a nasty letter to “Repercussions,” but I’m telling it in the hope ( that some one of you may learn from my experience and stay out of trouble while you’re away from the campus.
It all started about the first of April । last year down in Fort Lauderdale, i where I had gone to soak up a little sunshine. It happened that it was overcast 1	this one day,	however, so I decided to
1 * stop in at a	little cafe and wait until
;	the sun came	out, as it would be foolish
:	to go to the beach if the sun wasn’t out.
! As it turned out, however, the sun didn’t come out the whole day and be: fore you knew it it was night time already and you certainly can’t get a sun-| 4 tan at night. So I just stayed at this |	little cafe, as it was quite a cheerful
|	place and there were a lot of college
I people there.
Along about midnight I was in quite a friendly mood myself, and I struck up , a conversation with a guy and a girl who immediately informed me that they » were both seniors at Georgia Tech and « were in Florida on their honeymoon. | They certainly looked rather young to | be married, as he had quite a light beard L for a senior in college, and she had a | very young-looking face although she had one of the heaviest beards I have ever seen on a college girl.
THE QUESTION
Anyway, we had a long conversation about Notre Dame, Georgia Tech, football, birth control, and stuff like that. They told me that they were both engineers, the kind that has to do with
rockets and guided .missiles. I had always been interested in rocketry, and knew all about Sputnik and Vanguard, so we started to discuss the whole subject of guided missiles. At one point in the conversation the young husband, (his name was Stan Slump) got a puzzled look on his face and said to me, “You know, I just never could understand how after they shoot these rockets they get them to go where they want. How can they tell if it’s going to take off for the moon, or maybe Mars or Venus, or maybe just go in orbit anyplace it feels like?”
I smiled at his question, because I, too, had once been bothered by the same thing. “That’s an easy question, Stan,” I said to him. “Let me explain. You know of course that they send monkeys •up inside the rockets?”
“Of course,” he said.
“Well,” I replied, “it’s as easy as that. In every rocket there’s a little bitty steering wheel, and the monkey drives the rocket wherever Wernher von Braun tells him to.”
“Gosh,” Stan said, “I never knew that. You Notre Dame guys are really sharp!”
I was getting ready to acknowledge his compliment with becoming modesty when Stan’s little wife, Rotgut, broke in: “That is one of the stupidest statements I have ever heard in my life. Any imbecile knows that a monkey can’t drive a rocket!”
Stan obviously loved Rotgut very much and respected her opinion, so I gently tried to explain to her the fine points of rocketry.
“You see, Rotgut,” I said, “these aren’t just any old monkeys, they’re very special monkeys trained from birth under the strictest supervision to be rocket drivers. By the time they’re old enough to make their first solo they are all experts and the little fellows generously donate their lives to the further growth of science, as they hardly ever have enough fuel to come back from wherever they drive the rocket.”
“You moron!” she screamed at me. “Rockets are guided electronically as any jackass knows! The monkey is too stupid to dp anything but sit there!”
“Stupid? Now really, Rotgut, haven’t you ever seen a monkey ride a bicycle? I can’t ride a bicycle myself, but I’ve
seen lots of monkeys ride them.”
“You imbecile!!!” she shrieked at me.
THE ANSWER
Just then Stan, who had been quietly pondering both positions stood up and announced: “Now stop arguing, both of you. I personally feel that our friend from Notre Dame here is correct, but for Rotgut’s sake we shall find out for sure. Come on, Cape Canaveral is only 40 miles.”
Quick as a wink we were in Stan’s car and weaving down the highway. For the whole trip Rotgut kept making very nasty remarks about my theory and degrading my intelligence, but I kept silence although she was beginning to grate on my nerves. We finally got to Cape Canaveral and drove right up to where one of the biggest rockets was on the launching pad. It was decided that Rotgut would climb up into the rocket and if she found that there was a little bitty steering wheel in there then I would be vindicated, and if there wasn’t then I would admit that I was mistaken.
“This is an awful lot of trouble/’ she said, “just to prove that this stupid jackass from Notre Dame doesn’t know anything about guided missiles!”
Stan and I waited in a little cement house while Rotgut climbed up the scaffolding. We watched her climb inside the rocket. •
Then I did something I’ll regret to my dying day. I launched her. No countdown or nothing, I just launched her. Bang, whoosh, and that was it, she was on her way, and we watched her disappear into the midnight sky. I don’t know why I did it, it was just an im- -pulse I guess, but I just pressed that little button and away she went.
Right away I thought Stan would be mad; you know, his wife and all, but he just shrugged his shoulders and murmured “Win some, lose some.”
The newspapers said it was quite a successful launching, and that made me feel pretty proud, but actually the whole -thing bothers me sometimes. I look up in the sky sometimes and think about poor Rotgut, so young to be orbiting ; around up there, and I think that it was really a dirty trick I played on her. .
March 18, 1960
National Best Sellers Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore
• Advise and Consent Drury
• Devils Advocate West
Dear & Glorious Physician Caldwell
Exodus
Uris
Act One Hart
•
Grant Moves South Catton
•
Status Seekers Packard
•
The Armada Mattingly
•
Candidates 1960 Sevareid
•
The Uncertain Trumpet Taylor
•
Fuel for the Flame Waugh
•
You’li always find an excellent selection of Best Sellers on the Second Floor of the
•
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
ELECTRICAL & MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
NORDEN DIVISION
OF
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
will be on campus
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1960
To Meet Graduating Electrical and Mechanical Engineers Interested in Research & Development Engineering
(UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED)
Please Arrange in Advance Through Your Placement Office for Your Convenient Appointment with Norden Representatives
CHOICE OF LOCATIONS
NORDEN LABORATORIES
(White Plains, New York and Stamford, Connecticut)
Offers opportunity to do research and development engineering in diversified areas: Missile & Aircraft Guidance; Re-Entry Attitude Control Problems; Radar & Communications; Inertial & Stellar-Inertial Navigation; Data-Handling & Navigation-Stabilization Systems; Bomb Director Systems; and other electronic areas.
MILFORD DEPARTMENT (Milford, Connecticut)
Offers opportunity to engage in development and design engineering of advanced precision instrumentation for application in air and space vehicles and missile systems, including AllAttitude Stable Platforms, Ultra-Resolution Position Encoders, Ground Support Equipment.
Norden now has under construction a new midti-million dollar engineering research and manufacturing facility in Norwalk, Connecticut.
NORDEN DIVISION
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Descriptive Brochure Available upon Request

8
The Scholastic
Camfud Scum
SWINGING MASTERS OF COLLEGE JAZZ COMPETE IN NOTRE DAME'S FESTIVAL
Groups from Virtually Every Section of Country Appear; Finals Set for Tomorrow Evening in Fieldhouse at 8 p.m.
i Swinging improvisationists and masters of the musical idiom will be competing , under the auspicious gaze of five of the top jazz men in the nation this week end, during Notre Dame’s Collegiate Jazz * Festival 1960.
” Two-day swing. The Festival, which i is being held in the Fieldhouse, got un-' dei-way at 1 p.m. this afternoon. Tonight’s competition will run from 7 to f 11 p.m. and tomorrow’s competition from |	1 to 5 p.m. with the finals tomorrow
>. evening from 8 to 11 p.m.
Under the chairmanship of Jim Naughton, an AB senior from Painesville, Ohio, 26 college jazz groups, representing schools in virtually every section of the country, have been selected y to compete in this year’s Festival. Because of the enthusiastic response to ► last year’s Festival, which was confined to the Midwest, it was decided to expand T the event to a national basis this year.
The Festival was fortunate to obtain the services of five renowned men as judges. They are Frank Holzfeind, the owner of the Blue Note in Chicago; k Robert Share, the administrator of Berk-lee School of Music in Boston; Charles Suber, the publisher of Down Beat magazine; Willis Conover, the M.C. and a
THE IVYS FROM WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY
Modern impressionists renound for their vocal ingenuity
director of the Newport Jazz Festival; and Stan Kenton, more or less considered the father of the big band sound.
These men, famed in their own right, ■will be judging with many precise standards in mind. Quality in tone, balance, blend and rhythm will play an important part, as will precision, arrangements and instrumentation, along ■with personality and appearance.
Mechanical tryouts. Each jazz group, which includes dixieland and modem jazz, was selected on the basis of a tape which was submitted to the Festival officials. Of the more than 50 tapes sent in, 26 bands and combos will be here on campus this week end.
Competition started this afternoon at 1 p.m. with the N. U. Lab Band from Northwestern. Each group is allotted 20 minutes to display their talent before the judges and spectators.
The afternoon’s competition included groups from Oberlin College, the State University of Iowa, Nebraska University, Michigan State, the U.S. Air Force Academy, Bark College and Central Michigan University. Notre Dame’s own Lettermen, under the direction of Wally Jones also competed this afternoon.
Tonight combos from Purdue, Catho-
LATE BULLETIN
Mario J. Goglia, Dean of the School of Engineering, has resigned-effective July 1, 1960, it was announced by University officials yesterday. Mr. Goglia will assume the position of Dean of Faculties at Georgia Institute of Technology, according to Edwin D. Harrison, president of Georgia Tech. Goglia was a member of the Georgia school's faculty for 10 years before taking the Notre Dame position in July of 1958. During his short tenure here he has increased the amount of sponsored engineering research threefold, and has introduced the use of high speed computers in instruction and research. No successor to his post has been named at this time.
lie University, Wayne State, Kansas, and Randolph-Macon College of Virginia will compete in the preliminaries. Completing tonight’s trials will be the North Texas State College Lab Band and the UJW Quartet from the University of Minnesota.
Tomorrow afternoon the initial appearances of this year’s participants will be completed. The nucleus of last year’s winning, big band, Dave’s Combo, from Indiana will orientate tomorrow’s competition. The second place winners in the band and combo competition from last year will also be on the agenda. Respectively, they are the Ohio State Jazz Forum Big Band and The Bob Pierson Quartet of Detroit. Dartmouth, Cincinnati, Fairmont State and Detroit will also have combos appearing tomorrow. Completing the afternoon will be a band from Dayton, the Dixie Dynamoes and the Stan Baker Big Band comprised of college students from various schools in the Chicago area.
Saturday evening the finals will be held and the awards will be presented. Constituting the finals will be four combos and two bands. Winners will be selected at the end of the evening and the group and individual awards will be presented.
Much loot. This year’s prizes are estimated to be worth $5,000. The finest jazz group will receive a trophy from the Associated Booking Corp., while the best big band will be awarded an appearance at the Detroit Jazz Festival. The best combo will receive an engagement at the Blue Note in Chicago, while all of the winners will receive an arrangement through the faculty of the Berklee School of Music in Boston.
Saturday Evening Post will have a photographer here to obtain shots for a possible subject in their “Face of America” series. Also, several recording companies will be represented.
9
March 18, 1960
Award Sixteen Students Wilson Fellowships; ND Group Believed Eighth Largest in Winners
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships for graduate study during the 1960-61 school year went to a total of 16 Notre Dame students and two recent graduates who plan to prepare for college teaching careers.
Since the program was inaugurated in 1945, 66 fellowships have been awarded to students here, putting Notre Dame among the top ten schools in this regard; however, it is only since 1953 that Notre Dame has consistently ranked among the leading schools. This year’s group of winners is believed to be the eighth largest among the 1259 fellowship winners representing 355 colleges and universities in the United States and Canada.
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation at Princeton, N. J., is financed by a 1957 Ford Foundation grant of $24,500,000. Each award carries a basic stipend of $1500 plus family allowances and full costs for a year’s graduate study at any college or university in the country. The winners were selected from a total of 8800 applicants from 861 institutions.
Award winners from Notre Dame are the following: Bruce Babbitt, student body president and former AB senator from Flagstaff, Ariz. He has also been a hall senator and stay senator; Lawrence Bradley, third-year law student from Albany, N. Y.; Thomas Banchoff, AB-math major from Trenton, N. J., who is president of the Wranglers, Associate Editor of the Juggler, winner of the Borden prize for 1956-57;
Met. Star Comes to Campus Ending 1959-60 Artist Series
Metropolitan Opera will come to Notre Dame as Rosalind Elias, one of the country’s leading mezzo-sopranos, steps onto the stage in Washington Hall on March 25. Called the “Met’s youngest, prettiest leading singer,” Miss Elias’s performance will bring the 1959-60 Artist Series to a close.
Born in Lowell, Mass., Miss Elias was the youngest of thirteen children. After studying singing privately in high school, she entered the New England Conservatory and subsequently won three summer scholarships at Tanglewood. Later she toured with the New England Opera Company.
When Miss Elias entered the Metropolitan Opera “Auditions of the Air,” she failed to reach the finals only because she was signed on her first hearing! Her portrayal of Erika in the 1958 premiere of Vanessa finally established her as one of the leading mezzo-sopranos.
Tickets will be sold from Wednesday through Friday in the Washington Hall Box Office. On Wednesday the box office will be open from 4 to 6 pan., and on Friday it will be open from 4 until 9 pan.
in
David Christian, Liberal Arts senior from Lansing, Ill.; William Donnelly, Chicago, Ill.; AB majors Walter Farley of Akron, Ohio, and Michael Farrell, West Orange, N. J.; Robert Hollis, commerce senior from Aurora, Ill.; Larry Martin, history major from Toledo, Ohio, active in Blue Circle and NROTC.
Jim Merz, of Teaneck, N. J., 1959 Notre Dame graduate and former chairman of the YCS; David O’Brien, AB student from Pittsfield, Mass.; John O’Brien, from Cincinnati, Ohio, who is active in the Blue Circle and AROTC; Jim Rose, of the AB school, from Hamburg, N. Y., and frequent contributor to the Scholastic; Tom Scanlon, chairman of the Blue Circle, from Scranton, Penn.
Edward Thompson, of Kirkwood, Mo., and Associate Editor of the Scholastic; William Thrall, fifth-year engineering student from Grand Rapids, Mich.; Frank Tonini, Staten Island, N. Y., who graduated from Notre Dame two years ago; and James Yoch of Glendale, Mo., editor of the Juggler and president of the Bookmen.
Eisenhower's Trip Here Now Officially Confirmed
President Dwight D. Eisenhower will deliver the commencement address and receive an honorary degree at the University’s 115th annual commencement exercises on Sunday, June 5. The announcement was made by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
Time and place of the graduation ceremonies, the names of additional honorary degree recipients and details of the President’s visit will be announced in the near future, according to Father Hesburgh.
Lucked-out. Although it was erroneously reported on February 12, by several local news sources that the President’s acceptance “was made final late last week,” the information was incorrect. At that time, the University acknowledged the invitation had been extended, but described the story as “premature.” The acceptance, however, is now official.
Because of the critical time during which the commencement will occur, a major policy speech has been hinted at. The June 5 date will be just before the national Republican convention and after the summit conference in Paris and his trip to Russia.
Eisenhower will be the second American President to visit Notre Dame and become an honorary alumnus of the University. President Franklin D. Roosevelt was honored at a special Notre Dame convocation celebrating the independence of the Philippines on December 9, 1935. Eisenhower visited the University on September 15, 1952, during his campaign for the presidency.
LOUIE ARMSTRONG Ambassador Satch
Louie Armstrong to Entertain 4< Students with Concert April 2 '
On Saturday, April 2, Louie Armstrong and the world famous All Stars will swing onto the Notre Dame Campus. Opening his suitcase, “Ambassador Satch” will pull out his world famous * trumpet, stamp his foot and send pierc- v ing wails into the afternoon air. Two hours of unimaginable entertainment will have begun.
Armstrong, who was at the campus three years ago, filled the Fieldhouse with a capacity crowd and treated them 4, to a show that left no reason to doubt his popularity. Along with “Satch” will ¥ be the well-known Velma Middleton, whose singing style has made her name < a key word in many circles. His usual background group, the All Stars, will also be on campus. The show will include the usual run of Armstrong cracks, retorts and songs that have made him famous.	4
Tickets to the event, which will be sponsored by the student government social commission, will be on' sale Wednesday and Thursday, March 23-24 in the Fieldhouse box office. The time of the sales is yet to be announced. The <■ tickets will cost $1.50 apiece.
NOSTRA CULPA
Due to an unintentional, but unfortunate oversight, the SCHOLASTIC failed to mention the fact that * the General Chairman of the Junior Parent-Son Week End was the Junior Class President, Chris Lund from Mamaroneck, N. Y. English major Lund has also earned distinction as a member of the Wranglers, a campus discussion group, and the varsity swimming team.
The Scholastic
G. Mennen Williams to Address Convention;
£. OtU
* National Figures to
G. Mennen Williams, governor of the , state of Michigan, is among several nationally prominent political figures who , will appear here to deliver key speeches at the coming Mock Democratic Conven-tion on April 3-6.
Always a colorful political personality, Governor “Soapy” Williams, a member of the Mennen family of the Mennen , toiletry and cosmetic firm, has been elected six successive times on the Michi-| gan Democratic ticket beginning in 1948. His ever-present polka-dot bow tie j has been his trade mark with the electorate since the inception of his public k life.
' Present Mystery Play At St. Mary's College
► Actors from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and the entire South Bend re-k, gion will take their places this Wednesday evening as the lights dim and the A curtain rises on the medieval mystery play, “The Mystery of Mary.” Presented in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary’s College, the production will run from w March 23 through Sunday, March 27.
E. Martin Browne, English co-director ► of the coming production, is one of the world’s foremost authorities on medieval ’ miracle and mystery plays. He and his wife, a widely known English actress, * arrived here recently from New York City, where together they directed, for Union Theological Seminary, a medieval play which was enthusiastically reviewed A by the metropolitan critics.
“The Mystery of Mary,” one of the ♦ ■ most ambitious of all productions scheduled for Saint Mary’s this year, is part * of the 550-year-old Lincoln Cycle which Mr. Browne translated from middle to modern English a few months ago.
It had never been thus translated be-► fore, and Saint Mary’s audiences will be among the first in the world to see * this Browne version of a play which, because of its earlier archaic language ’ had been all but forgotten in dust-ridden archives.
The medieval mystery play, of which | the local production will be an outstand-r ing example, is the ancestor of all English-spoken drama. In its very simplest '• form, it was little more than a brief dramatic extension of a given medieval re-r ligious service. As such, it was staged in the church itself usually during the Christmas and Eastertides of nearly one thousand years ago.
* Jim Cooney, graduate of Notre Dame and a radio and TV announcer for WNDU and WNDU-TV, will play the male lead. A former actor in Carousel 1 and The Cherry Orchard, past St.
Mary’s presentations, he will enact the role of “Joseph.” Gaynell Bordes, of New Orleans, La., has been chosen to play the title role, while Aphrodite Pappas will play the important role of “Contemplation.”
Deliver Key Speeches
More recently, the 49-year-old governor has become a controversial figure due largely to the current fiscal problems of his home state. On a recent radio and television broadcast he announced his decision not to seek a seventh term as governor. In 1958 Governor Williams was the fifth-ranking vote-getter for the Democratic party.
Contact man. Under the direction of Bill Mapother and Larry Turner, the convention committee has been working to arrange for a number of notable politicos to speak at the affair. One potential speaker is Richard Daley of Chicago, second-term Democratic mayor of that city. Senator Lyndon Johnson of Texas, leading contender for the Democratic nomination, has also been contacted and is trying to secure a speaker for the Mock Convention.
Plans for the coming Convention are rapidly nearing completion; the entire affair will be run precisely as the Democratic National Convention is conducted. A total of 1521 delagates will crowd the Fieldhouse convention floor and the event has in the past packed the remaining space with spectators.
In addition to Notre Dame students, it is expected that approximately 400 St. Mary’s girls will participate in the convention as delegates and alternates.
Student strategists. Groups backing particular candidates for office have been formed solely through the initiative of members of the student body. All campaigns, strategy and rallies are being conducted by such campus groups as are formed for that specific purpose.
Convention officials assisting Turner and Mapother are: Marty Roach, delegation committee head; Tom O’Connell, house committee; John Boldin and Leo Gorman, publicity committee; and Mike Kelly and Bill Leser, campaign committee.
G. MENNEN WILLIAMS
IMPRESSIVE, INDEED
The faithful readers of this weekly harassment will no doubt be shocked, but I have high regard for the events that occurred at this week’s Senate meeting. It was not a sudden flaunting of activity, but instead reflected long - time working and thinking. The variety of areas covered indicates the extensive sphere in which the Senate operates.
Lawlor promised a
forum-like discussion by the student body president candidates, a long-needed idea. He said that informal “meet the faculty” sessions had been going on, and were being continued. Butler pointed out the newly installed exhaust system for the hot amphitheater, the new, large TV room in the basement of the Student Center, the forthcoming (April 1) Rider Roundup board, and the annual selection of the Center managers, which is soon to be.
SBP Babbitt, speaking for International Commissioner Ladner, said that the recent faculty-student-Pax Romana visitors’ discussion about theChurch and Latin America came off well and was decently attended. The Senate learned from Murphy that applications for next year’s concessions (summer storage student loan, cake, photo, and insurance) would be acceptable from March 25 to April 2.
Walsh gave a report on the infirmary committee, citing the low doctor to student ratio, the discouragingly long waits, and the fact that outsiders feel another doctor or a part-time psychiatrist would be beneficial. The consideration of the problem is not yet finished.
Walsh also presented the new library committee’s report which will be sent to the administration. It includes recommendations for the expansion of library hours to 1 or 2 a.m., free and open use of the stacks, a lounge area for study breaks, a soundproof typing room, and an inexpensive and quick photocopy service, among others.
A definite motion will be made next week regarding the distribution of the Mardi Gras funds. The scholarship improvement, the Charity Chest, the Student Center improvement, and the dis-tinguised speakers funds are all begging for the $30,006 that is available. It is hoped that a permanent policy and a statement of intentions, be given with the motion, something on which to base future allocations.
SBV-P Naughton read a letter being sent to the administrations of ND-SMC requesting tangible and specific moves to break down the stilted formality barrier that exists. It was a creditable accomplishment, and sound in tone.
SBV-P also confirmed that there WILL be a Collegiate Jazz Festival thig week end.
March 18, I960
11
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA
Unbelievable low Cos!
SPEND
Atony fours include college credit.
Orient
43-45 On»,«iSir
**" $998
Europe
60 Doy. $675
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $69* up and Around the World $1*98 up.
*2	Ask Your Travel Agent
3^2 St. Im.
■ •Bfticip 4, HA 7-2557 ” WORLD TRAVEL
LIFE
LOOKS
ARE YOU SUFFERING, FROM ITCHY PALMS ??	'
STUDENT DISCOUNT SERVICE saves you that paiN in He pain uheN you trade**® ____________ AT_____________
Reco Sporting Goods Nicola’s Pizza Eddie's Restaurant Simeri’s Cafe Louie’s Tuxedo Rental Sheehan TV Sales and Service William’s Furniture Store Portage Sunoco Service Station Rubin Cleaners Palais Royale Bowling Washington Shoe Repair Walgreen's Drug Store (Michigan and Colfax)
conventions, LIFE charges y contest” and in a nine-demands that the national
RON BLUBAUGH AT
For those who have an inclination toward the “finer” aspects of Eastern society, this week’s LIFE offers a real treat. In fact, it is quite a treat for those who aren’t so disposed. T The subject: “Coming Out.” If you’ve never been “Out,” the term refers to the process by which you get “In” with the New York society set. Like, you go to a Debutante Ball.
In the words of Peter Monroe Smith, greatgrandson of L. C. Smith, “You must be conservative and carefully groomed. This is what v-draws the line between real society and the new-rich and we will keep them out at all costs.” LIFE further characterizes the set as having “A look of suavity far beyond their years.” A * product of the proper “up-bringing,” these young people have long prepared for their role *•" in society. Peter Smith goes on to explain, “If c
I had gone to public school I’d just be a country bumpkin today.” Congratulations, Peter. You’ve made it. Have a White Owl.
FAR FROM THE FALSENESS
Away from the sham and falseness of New York society, LIFE views a “Lovely Land Too Far Away.” New Zealand is the land of the Kiwi, of the sheep rancher, and of nature in all its glory. A land of people who love the outdoors, it is reminiscent of the American West. Beautiful, yet strange “En •» Zed” has a Cavern of Glowworms, beaches with combers of 15 feet pounding a still swimable surf, and California imported trout. It is the picture of LIFE as it should be.
For those who like their religion with a lot of fire and thunder in it, Billy Graham is now campaigning in Africa. Speaking to crowds of 25,000 and larger, Graham is proving that his Protestant evangelicalism will catch on even in places that cannot understand him directly. Speaking through interpreters, the American preacher has already seen 20,000 Africans raise their hands in testimony of their willingness to accept his Christ.	<
FOR THE POLITICALLY MINDED
An editorial worth noting is featured this week. With the Notre Dame campus gearing itself for the Mock Convention, politics have been the subject * of discussion for weeks. Anticipating the big that the New Hampshire primary was a “beat point program for domestic considerations, it race symbolize more than the Madison Avenue approach of smiling faces and pretty wives. Continuing on the same theme, the magazine presents compilations of its recent field study on the absolutely astounding qualities that the U.S. voter wants in a President. He has to be ready to fight for his principles but he must be smart enough to avoid the fight; he must not be partisan but he must be vigorous and decisive. In short, he must be a “nice guy” with ideas. His personality and not his politics is crucial.
Then, too LIFE has more to offer. There is always the Hollywood movie strike and the various “situations” in which it leaves the participants; a picture of a mirror for the sake of interest; and still more. About where to buy the magazine, I was mistaken last week. No individual copies are on sale in the bookstore. It is subscription only. But at the student rates, you can’t find a better deal. Drop over there and look into it.—Adv.
* In order to acquaint the student body with the
i three-year law education a prospective lawyer faces, the Law School is sponsoring its forthcoming Undergraduate Law Day.
Tom Shaffer this week seeks to explain the purpose of the Law Day,
4 and the events that will compose it.
3
An Invitation to Inspect
j
by Tom Shaffer
I
■ L
DEAN JOSEPH O’MEARA will throw open the law school’s doors Wednesday, March 23, to Notre Dame undergraduates for a special day-long program designed to acquaint students interested in a legal career with the study of law.
The program will be open to all interested undergraduates. Father Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, has agreed to grant cancelled cuts to any student attending the law school program.
Undergraduate Law Day is the first in what its sponsors hope to make an annual open house at the Law School. A daylong program has been arranged to guide students through every phase of law school life: social, academic and extracurricular. The program will start at 8:45 a.m. and continue, with time out for lunch, until 4:30 p.m. All the functions will be in the Law building.
Notre Dame Law School uses two systems of class study during the three-year planned curriculum. The first, used only the first year, is the “case method” commonly used in U. S. law schools. Students study the written, published opinions of appellate courts of the state and federal systems of England and the English-speaking commonwealth nations.
Classes at Notre Dame are conducted in groups of about 30 students, with wide opportunity for discussion and argument. Students attending Undergraduate Law Day will participate in one of these “case method” classes.
During the second and third years the law student shifts from analytical case study to the “problem method,” a relatively recent innovation at Notre Dame and a system to some extent unique in the United States.
Problem method students continue to use text treatises, statutes and opinions of courts, but they concentrate primarily on written problems given them by law professors. They not only analyze the cases they study, but they apply them to the problem. Each problem is unique, presents new legal puzzles and is solved only by an exercise of legal, analogical, reasoning from the assigned materials.
Visiting Law Day students will also sit in on a problem method class.
The Law Day activities will include an introduction to the Law School’s four extracurricular activities.
Moot court participants will argue an appeal from a sentence of capital punishment before a panel of judges made up of Notre Dame law professors. The law school’s moot court program begins with first-year students, who are required to research, brief and argue an appeal from a make-believe trial
court decision.
The program continues through four moot court sessions during the second year, in which students participate voluntarily. The four winners of the second-year rounds complete the program in the fall of their third law school year by arguing an appeal before three federal judges. The law school traditionally invites a U. S. district court judge, a court of appeals judge and a justice of the United States Supreme Court for the moot court finals.
A short Gray’s Inn meeting will be staged for undergraduates. Gray’s Inn is an informal discussion group which meets monthly in the Pick-Oliver Hotel for casual discussion with experts on social problems related to law. Guests of the Inn this year have included a physician, a newspaperman, the police commissioner of Detroit and several Notre Dame professors.
The' associate editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, the law school’s quarterly law review, will explain the law review’s part in legal education and the use of materials in the law library during another afternoon session.
The Lawyer contains half student-written legal research projects and half articles by members of the practicing profession. It is entirely student-edited and managed. Approximately a fourth of each year’s first-year class is appointed to the staff in February for provisional research and writing projects.
Permanent appointments go to those who successfully complete the provisional program. Lawyer staff members spend from ten to forty hours a week compiling and polishing the law review’s contents.	'
Members of the Student Law Association, the law school’s social and student-government or-
ganization, will sponsor two coffee sessions for the undergraduates attending the Law Day activities. Law students will be available during the day in the law lounge for informal discussion of law school life.
Announcements on the Law Day functions will be.given' over WSND during the next several days. A complete schedule will be made available to students attending the program at the law school.
This article marks Tom Shaffer’s second appearance in the Scholastic. His first article, in contrast to this exposition, was a satire—“The Winterests.”
Tom Shaffer, a second-year law student, is slated for editorship of next year’s Lawyer, and he has contributed to many Catholic periodicals including Jubilee, Sign, and the Ave Maria.
March 18, 1960
13

WHEN LA
WE M
The Scholastic this week features the coming Mock Convention by presenting candid photographs and short accounts of events at the last two assemblies, 1952 and 1956. It is hoped that this layout will give an indication of the spirit that will enliven the campus during the local simulation of the national political conventions.
Senator Lyndon Johnson was the leading candidate in the early ballots in the 1956 Mock Convention with the eventual winner, Adlai Stevenson, trailing the Texan in early voting. During the fifth ballot, when the chairman of the Minnesota delegation was given the floor to read a telegram from Hubert Humphrey urging his supporters and the other delegates to support Stevenson, the shift began and Stevenson was nominated.
* * * *
In 1956, due perhaps, to the support of the New York delegation, which has a record of backing losers in the Mock Convention, their candidate, ex-president Truman, finished far behind the leaders, Stevenson and Johnson.
* * * *
Only once in its 20-year history has Notre Dame’s Mock Convention failed to pick the eventual nominee of the corresponding national convention. In 1948, meeting as Republicans, the students nominated Earl Warren and Arthur Vandenberg for president and vice-president over Eastern efforts to secure a second nomination for New York’s Governor Thomas Dewey failing.
OCKED
-4
*	by Mark Thompson
The Doric Horses lose their whitewash
Paul Harvey, nationally known newscaster for the American Broadcasting Company, opened both the 1952 and the 1956 conventions. On the second occasion, this provoked a bitter protest from William Slavick of the English Department. Slavick .asked why a “news commentator dear to the heart of Joe McCarthy and his ilk as well as all lovers of soggy rhetoric” was invited to address a Democratic convention. Slavick further stated that this choice indicated the lack of a “desire to bring American politics within the ken of Christian social ideals,” and accused Professor Bartholomew, moderator of the convention, of not being able to “restrain his own Republican zeal.”
I'
’’	Dwight Eisenhower gained the nomination in 1952
:	only after a bitter struggle broke out in the ranks
of the supporters of the late Senator Robei-t Taft. One wing of the Taft forces wanted to switch to Governor Warren of California as a last ditch effort
4 to block Eisenhower’s nomination; but the majority of the Taft men continued to support the Ohio Senator. Warren delivered many of his important votes f to Eisenhower on later ballots in return for the vice-presidential nomination.
* * * *
The unit rule had great influence on past Mock Conventions. In 1956 North Carolina used it to dominate the Southern states when they led the Dixie votes into the Johnson camp after giving early support to Senator Russell. The action backfired, however, and helped to solidify the support for Stevenson in northern states.
Samuel Johnson, U.D.? Why Suh!
T’WO students were standing at the Circle waiting for a ride downtown. A bright sun was shining in the dense sky causing the thin layer’ of day-old snow to turn to slush. When a dirt-splattered ’52 Ford hesitated as it pulled away from the stop sign at the gate the two ran over to it. Simultaneously three other riders slipped into the back seat and with a mild roar from the hopped-up engine under the hood the passengers started on their ride to town.
The driver speed-shifted into third, then let his arm rest on the gear shift lever as the motor settled down to a quiet purr.
“That painting was abominable,” said one of the two students in the front, seat in a strangely high-pitched, overex-
the spectator
by Joe Clark
pressive voice of a strong intellectual personality, “its color scheme was unbalanced. The whole canvas was simply a distraction.”
“Feelings don’t need to be attractive to have a beauty about them,” returned his more defensive-mannered companion.
The light suddenly turning red forced the small car to lurch to a stop. The forward forces caused a momentary interruption in the conversation of the two as they braced themselves. There was a silence until the light changed. Then the two began again, the light-boned critic continuing to keep one of his carefully cleaned hands against the dashboard in case of another sudden stop while his partner braced his thin figure against the arm rest on the door.
“You guys had a lousy basketball game last night I hear,” injected the driver in an expectant tone to nobody in particular. His eyes became brighter as they glanced down the street and his black corduroy jacket matched his long, greased black hair in accenting the slight touch of a harmless sarcasm in his tone.
In a short silence the one next to the door began to take on a look of wisdom.
“McCarthy couldn’t play last night and the team they were
against supposed to be about the best in the Mid West. . . .” His high-voiced friend took advantage of the pause to turn the conversation back to more elevated topics again and the young driver of the car drifted of necessity back into a passive concentration on the moving vehicles ahead. Traffic was light and he hardly stopped at the comer before he swung the car sharply to the right and down the avenue.
“Hey, careful, ’my hat,” shot out unexpectedly the voice of the heavily-built rider directly behind the driver. He took off his brown Alpine and carefully pushed out the one side that was smashed against the window during the turn with his large fingers.
“You just don’t hold your head up” poked the predominant figure in the middle of the seat. He carefully pulled the end of his good quality overcoat from under the third passenger on the seat who had slid over onto it going around the curve. The left turn at the base of the hill was taken a little slower but the well-built body on the left added a little extra force of his own and sent the two of them sliding into the third, compressing his slightly lighter frame against the door.
“See if you get a loan out of me when we get to Joers,” the central shape on the seat directed in his superior tone to his companion on the left.
“I’m turning right at this short-cut here and then going out to the airport. Where do you want off?” The driver’s naturally sensitive eyes followed after his inquiry around on the faces of the riders in his car. The engine purred softly as he deftly relaxed the efforts of its stepped up horsepower and began to slow down.
“Go over another block before you turn right,” reacted the commanding voice from the back., Vaguely impressed by his own insensitive suddenness he added in a somewhat less confident tone, “I want to make a stop at a store about a half block from that comer.”
The young driver was unconscious of the eyes focusing on him. His rough clothing and silent manner hardly seemed compatible with the small wedding band they noticed on his finger.
He considered for an instant the request but his obvious reverence for the college men had almost immediately set his mind.
He nodded — as they expected him to do — and continued on to the next intersection. The light was green and he started to make the comer. A dull, numbing lurch picked up the car and moved it into the far lane. The driver instinctively threw the wheel to the left to stop the spin and then quickly back to the right. Somewhere a deep thud came out and the frozen faces in the back seat appeared to be drained empty. They unconsciously threw their arms in confused, snatching circles. The lighter passengers in the front seat smashed into the arm of the driver as he fought to hold, the wildly pulling wheel. In the series of blurred images before them the passengers saw a car coming, then remembered the green streak grazing by. As the extended instant of motion slowly passed by, the car quietly returned to a more gentle nature and drifted smoothly into a parking place on the side of the street.
At the end of a relaxing pause the driver apologetically looked around to his passengers.
(Continued on page 18)
Q. P. £ca>iaia
Long and Dull
IT WAS a long, long week end, and as I dutifully listened to the South Bend Symphony’s tedious and frustrated attempt at a major symphony Sunday afternoon (they tried the Tchaikowsky Pat/ietique) I began to believe that it would never be over.
No reviewer worthy of his position enjoys leveling constant and severe criticism at a group of professional musicians sincerely interested in providing a community with the bread of its cultural banquet. He is obligated to maintain an objective balance when pointing up the good and the bad points of a performance. But when so little space is available to him he sometimes finds it impossible to properly treat both side of the performance picture and often sacrifices one element to fully develop the other. Ordinarily this situation should be avoided and a portrayal of the quintessence of a performance should be strived for. On some occasions, however’, the undesirable qualities of a concert so outnumber the desirable elements that the latter can be justifiably ignored. Such was the case with Sunday’s tiresome performance.
Throughout the program the orchestra constantly failed at any attempt at precision and left the listener many times wondering how they would ever end together; normally they didn’t. This is not something new with the South Bend Symphony (or unique for that matter), but never before in my experience has it been this blatant and totally distracting.
The guest soloist, Byron Janis, one of the nation’s very finest pianists both technically and interpretatively, played the Beethoven Concerto in C Minor (Number 3, Opus 37), and played it magnificently. Not only does this artist have a tremendous talent, but he has more courage and patience than most of his contemporaries: most of them would have walked out during or after the first movement. There was no telling when the orchestra might enter (several times they entered a full half beat late) and as far as dynamics and tempos were concerned each individual performer chose his own (indeed at one point the cellos, brasses and woodwinds played a game very much akin to tag and certainly not suited to Beethoven). Haymes conducted the entire concerto with his back to the cellos and bases (this did not make a perceptible difference) and the sweeping circular motions he used (so well suited to the purposeful conducting of Stokowski and Monteux) served to do nothing more than add one more distraction to the already hopelessly confused orchestral accompaniment.
The portions of the concerto in which the piano played alone were well worth the trip to O’Laughlin. The sections which required the orchestra will probably serve to shorten the purgatory of all who attended.
AT THE THEATER/
A Touch of Larceny (Avon: Mar. 17-23) moves very slowly to an unimportant climax. It involves James Mason in a plot to get money and the girl (Vera Miles) at the same time, leaving George Sanders stranded. Much too complicated to be explained here due to lack of space, the plot turns out nicely and they live miserably happy ever after. It’s as simple as that.
Entering its second week at the Colfax, Porgy and Bess appears to have come into its own despite all the misfortunes during production, like the set burning down and the continuous exchange of directors. The music is well-known and liked, and is the best ever to come out of George Gershwin’s talent. Sidney Poitier and Dorothy Dandridge play their roles with precision and, though their singing voices are dubbed, the effect is extremely smooth. Pearl Bailey adds a little of her personal spice to the role of Maria, making her more likeable, and Sammy Davis plays Sportin’ Life to the hilt. The score, the work of Andre Previn (who won on that count last year an Oscar for Gigi), certainly makes the best of the music and is bound for an award this year. Some people might find the movie a little slow in hatching a plot, and others will comment on the unnecessary length of the morbid wake scene, but even in spite of these drawbacks, the movie is well done and worth seeing. So it can be labeled the Movie of the Week.
Norman Krasna wrote a play not so long ago called “Who Was That Lady I Saw You With?” After a mild Broadway run, it was bought for the movies and is now- presented under the changed title of Who Was That Lady? (Granada: Mar. 17-30). This unbelievable farce, starring Tony Curtis, Janet Leigh, and Dean Martin, offers more complications than the Keystone Kops could handle. Curtis is caught ' by Miss Leigh (Mrs. Curtis onscreen and off) kissing a shapely student at the university where Curtis teaches. She promises divorce, he runs to Dean Martin — a TV writer — and a highly improbable plot takes form. It seems, so Martin’s story goes, that the innocently faithful assistant professor is really an undercover agent for the FBI and was kissing a foreign spy in the line of duty. How come the wife is convinced of this is puzzling, but she is, and Curtis and Martin go off searching for more spies — all in the line of duty. They are finally captured by real spies (male) and find themselves in the sub-basement of the Empire State Building. They mistake it for a Russian submarine and proceed to sink it. As it starts flooding, they intone “America the Beautiful,” and the result is a tear-jerking rendition of this patriotic classic. As all farces, this one straightens itself out in the end, leaving a trail of extremely candid witticisms. Most of these come from the well-liquored (onscreen or off — take your pick) mouth of Dean Martin—who also sings the title song.
Joining the murderous rash of biblical spectaculars, Walt Disney’s Buena Vista Productions has come up with The Big Fisherman (State: Mar. 17-30), a sort of portrait-in-depth of Saint Peter (born Simon Bar Jonah). The trouble with this is that the portrait is a little too deep, and pretty soon you may find yourself wading in neck-high plots and subplots. How Walt Disney can get so much color out of a regular mass-produced strip of celluloid is still a mystery to me, but he does. The movie has little else to offer, though, than expertly set up sets of Howard Keel (in the title role) arguing with the Lord about his eligibility for sainthood. From the diving the movie moves to the profane, and there we come upon Herbert Lom and Martha Hyer pawing over each other. It offers contrast, though. For that type of role, Martha gets our El Producto Award. Have an El Producto, Martha.
Showing at Washington Hall tomorrow is Journey to the Center of the Earth, another variation on a Jules Verne theme which offers Pat Boone and Diane Baker as kissin’ cousins and some expert photography.
Tony Wong
A much smaller audience returned to the auditorium after the intermission, perhaps in anticipation of the fiasco which was to follow. Tchaikowsky’s Pathetique Symphony (Number 6 in B Minor) is by no means easy to play. It is orchestrated heavily and lends itself to maudlin sentimentality when it is not approached intelligently Haymes’ approach was not even intelligible.
During the opening measures of the first movement I was unable to give my full attention to the orchestra’s efforts due to the circus that was taking place in the. audience. Most people semed content to rattle their programs in time with the music (perhaps in a vain attempt to keep the orchestra together) but two
sturdy children behind me used a great deal more imagination. One of them , merely alternated yawns with loud vuLgar sniffles, but the other played himself ' a game with his program, sending it crashing to the floor in the shape of an . airplane and chasing after it on all -fours. This and the drum solo in the third movement provided the comic relief so desperately needed in a desperate < performance.	.
The second movement survived with- ; out much trouble (except for the pizsi- . cato strings which never fail to give the ■ effect of a harp glissando) and was over quickly.	'	<;
The high point of the program was J the third movement after which the andi* ? S:
March 18, 1960
ence burst into spontaneous applause and began to leave. The applause can most likely be explained by one of the following three reasons: (A) Midway in the movement a rather tall, determined looking woman stalked onto the stage from the wings, ascended the orchestra platform and planted herself by the bass drum. After picking up her drumstick and nonchalantly scratching her hip, she let loose with one percussive outburst and fled the stage, leaving the audience in hysterics; (B) The orchestra managed to end the movement together — the first time this occured in the entire program; (C) Many thought the damn thing was finally over.
They played the fourth movement anyway, and it served as an encore for those who thought that the symphony is only three movements long.
The Overture to “Cosi fan tutte,” which opened the program served to do
—the antithesis NoDoz® could save your life, of perspicacity. Right? Worth knowing? Right!
Too often, driving a car is like reading a textbook. It can make you drowsy no matter how much sleep you get. But safe NoDoz fights this kind of “hypnosis.” Safe NoDoz alerts you with caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable.
So to keep perspicacious while you drive, study, and work—keep NoDoz handy.
The safe stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories;)
vsodents CONTEST
COME IN FOR DETAILS AND ENTRY BLANKS
TOOTHBRUSHES 39c 49c 69c
TOOTHPASTE 3H S3* eat S3t 98t
with PEPSODENT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
nothing more than just that — they had to begin somewhere.
* * *
The Ballad of Baby Doe performed by the New York City Opera Company prevented the week end from being a complete disappointment. Although consisting of two acts and eleven scenes, I never felt as I did during the symphony that the week end would nevei- end. I rather wished it could go on.
Mr. Douglas Moore’s music, light and lyrical, is modem only in orchestration while Mr. Latouche’s dramma is authentically American and historically interesting. The life of H. A. Tabor and his love for Baby Doe provided and interesting plot around which Mr. Douglas succeeded in weaving his fanciful music. Aria and accompanied recitative blended well and offered the principals a chance to display their respective talents.
The Augusta of Ruth Kobart was
PLUS 80 ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES
musically the most interesting. Her well-rounded tones, projection, and articulation were to be admired. Walter Cassel > as Horace Tabor exhibited some rich low ' tones as well as well-supported high , tones, but his middle register was a bit dry and not too exciting. The most dis- -aj appointing principal, vocally, was Baby ’ Doe, characterized by Jacquelynne ! Moody. Apart from her annoying vibrato, she simply could not project, not a) articulate, although she moved about the '< stage quite gracefully. One would per- ( haps enjoy her voice more in something by Herbert or Romberg.
The second act, particularly scenes four and five offered the most challenging vehicles for the singers. Augusta’s aria in scene four was for me the musical high-point of the evening, and the •' dramatic effects of scene five were quite 4 moving. ’
-------------
The Spectator
(Continued from page 16)	;
“You all right?” As if unconsciously >5 trying to fill the embarrassing silence of ; his still voiceless companions he hesitantly continued. . . “Never thought r that tire would blow. It was a good one ‘1 ’cause I just replaced the two front ones i a month ago.” Getting out to look he noticed the signs of a large puncture in . the center of the tread and then went $ back to his friends in the car.	<
“Sorry this hapened fellas. . .” The « two on the front seat jerked at the door I then stood silent on the sidewalk. The $ three in back moved nervously through ? the door and continued for a moment to . shake their heads. Then the central one reverted into his former composure. b.
“That’s okay. Anyway, thanks for the ride.” And his two companions followed | dully as he started for the store in the Y distance.	j
“Could we help you to fix it?” the <1 high-voiced, former occupant of the front seat finally managed to say. The I driver smiled sincerely and said that he could do it just as well himself, they J needn’t waste their time; so they turned around and walked quickly up the street. $ The driver got his keys and went to open j the trunk lid.	(
As he lifted it he glanced accidentally *?l up the street towards the two groups. ' His eyes following their retreat looked clear and bright. But their combination > with the sober expression on his features seemed to reflect a doubt.	;
Channel II Features
MONDAY
On Let’s Talk About Books, Bernard McElroy will discuss Freudian criticism with Mr. Ross Brackney.
TUESDAY
Robert Joyce and Charles Ladner will present the third of the Spirit of Thomism discussions. This week’s topic is Thomas’ thought on art. (6:30)
THURSDAY
Jerry Kriegshauser initiates a series of problems dealing with vocal music on his Musical Discourse program.
IS
The Scholastic
Foundation Committeemen to Begin '60 Drive; Toland Sets Goal of Full Student Participation
LUGGAGE
*


y
»

♦

• >
♦


Student Foundation Committeemen are prepared for a week of raw knuckles and sore feet in a concentrated effort to contact all students on campus during Student Foundation Week, March 20-26.
Getting familiar. The object of Student Foundation Week is to enlist 100 per cent support of the student body in the work of the Foundation, rather than to collect a large sum of money from the students. Said Bob Toland, chairman of the Foundation Committee, “We hope to familiarize the students with the goals of the new ten-year program and to impress them with the importance of the students’ own token donations in the realization of these goals.”
The money collected in this year’s drive will be allocated to the fund for the new library. “The students,” said Toland, “recognize the urgent need for the new library and for this reason we hope to surpass the record percentage (99.56%) of individual participation that has been achieved in the past.”
Acting in cooperation with the Hall Presidents’ Council and the individual hall councils, representatives of the Foundation Committee will personally visit each on-campus student next week to accept contributions and answer any questions about the work of the Foundation of the student drive.
Off-campus students have been mailed letters enclosing a student Foundation Week pamphlet and an addressed envelope for return of contributions to the committee.
Foundation Week serves as an orientation for the students to the work of the Foundation and also is used as a selling point to prospective donors. It is used as evidence that the Notre Dame students are actively interested in the growth of the school.
30% deficit. The Notre Dame Foundation is a channeling agency for all gifts to the University. It was organized in 1947 by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then University president and now head of the Foundation. The Foundation then set as its goal the collection of 25 million dollars by 1958 to finance the 30 per cent of the annual budget not covered by tuition, a faculty development program, and construction of much-needed buildings on campus.
The work of the Foundation’s first
thirteen years has come to fruition in the form of ten large buildings erected on campus. Also, the faculty development program has been strengthened by a 2.5 million dollar Ford Foundation Grant.
Assisting Toland in his duties as chairman is Joe Della Maria. Other committee members are: Jim Madden, Mike Sanderson, Joe Toland, Jim Crossin and Phil Allen.
Get a BETTER GRASP
on qour COURSES with... Barnes & Noble Educational Paperbacks
and
EVERYDAY HANDBOOKS
OVER 140 TITLES IN A WIDE RANGE OF SUBJECTS
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION ENGINEERING ENGLISH
including ETIQUETTE GOVERNMBMT HANDICRAFTS HISTORY LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY
JACK’S gr
327 S. MICHIGAN
AT 7-3009
Free Delivefy
POLITICAL SCIB4CE PSYCHOLOGY RECREATIONS SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
*
.1/
VSBSSHBMI
jIQIW
LBUKY ad BOOK SHOP
average price $1.50
Start Early—Buy Your
College Outlines Now At
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend
A Nonprofit Organization
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 18, 1960
19
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING YOUTH WORK farming, clerical work done by Brothers are In great need today in the U S and foreign
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
Notre Dame. Indiana
11 Dujarie Hall
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED JPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES I
INQUIRIES INVITED	I
0RfLWTURB0W
\pPTOMlTRIST
207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel)
Phone CE 4-5777
OUR COVER: Ken Witte’s tenorman
wails the signal that starts the second annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. This year’s festival, which will be bigger and better than before, will include many groups from schools throughout the nation, in
contrast to last year’s which was restricted to the Midwest. Such
names as Duke Ellington, Stan Kenton, Benny Goodman appear on the roster of advisors this season.
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
NORDEN LABORATORIES—Wed., Mar. 30, 1960.
All interview* are held at the Placement Office.
SAVE 20%
Use Your Student Discount Card At
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
Men who face wind and weather
choose the protection of...
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
Akin protection, that is. Old Spice refreshes and stimulates, guards against the loss of vital skin moisture. Feels great, too. Brisk, bracing, with that tangy Old Spice scent. It does seem to attract female admirers, but what red-blooded man needs protection against girls? 1.00 plustax	S M U L T O N
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
{
I
■t**'
> Gregory Sets Record P In Journal Mile Run
f For their final indoor appearance of the current season, the Irish spikemen » are sending a six-man delegation, headed । by distance star Ron Gregory, to the !, Cleveland Knights of Columbus Relays I tonight.
I , In last week’s two-night stand, the Notre Dame trackmen picked up one first, two seconds and a third, and Gregory continued his hobby of collecting gold medals and distance records.
His latest medal and record came last Saturday night in Milwaukee, when he stopped the watches at 4:10.7 in the 1 mile to set a new Milwaukee Journal Re-lays standard. This clocking is only .7 ' > seconds off his best effort ever, 4:10, which also stands as the Notre Dame rec-► ord for this race.
The same evening, he also anchored i, the Irish two-mile relay team of Dan Rorke, Chris Monahan, Dennis Johnston * and himself, which tied for second with Michigan State at 7:42.2. The night before, in Chicago, Gregory made up almost fifty yards in the final leg of the same race to give the quartet second place in 7:40.3.
Notre Dame also placed in the one-mile relay in Chicago, as the team of Jerry Fitzpatrick, Frank Hemphill, Terry Jones, and Steve Schwartz sped to a 3:21.8 clocking for a close third.
Friday night was a dismal one for senior co-captain Tom Reichert, who could only clear 13'6" in the pole vault, ► but on Saturday night in Milwaukee he equaled his lifetime best, scaling 14'4" — again tying the Notre Dame record. However, in a field that included Don ' Bragg and Bob Gutowski, this wasn’t high enough to place.
In addition to tonight’s baton-carrying in Cleveland, Gregory will continue on ‘ to Winnipeg, Manitoba with vaulter Glen Cividin for the Canadian National Championships. Cividin, who is a native Canadian, will compete in his specialty, ’ while Gregory will be pushing his mile record again.
MET CLUB CHAMPS
The Met Club, led by George Richvalski, Monty Stickles, Eddie Wojcik and Jack Schroeder, won the Campus Basketball Championship last Tuesday night by downing the Zahm-Red quintet, 41-34. The Met Club went through the whole season undefeated.
The New York area boys had a close call in the finals of the inter-dub League playoffs and won in the final seconds over the Columbus Club.
Zahm reached the campus finals by downing the Keenan Green eagers.
I960 KNIGHT-SPONSORED BENGALS
BEGIN THREE-NIGHT RUN MARCH 28
Billed as the “top on-campus attraction of the year,” the 1960 Bengal Bouts will take place March 28, 30 and April 1. For the fourteenth year the Knights of Columbus will sponsor them. Joe Hil-ger, a senior from Columbus,. Indiana, is the promoter. He is assisted by 50 other Knights. The fights are for the benefit of the Bengal Missions of the Holy Cross in East Pakistan and last
“NAPPY” NAPOLITANO
Force behind Bengals since 1932
year over $4000 was netted for these missions. The price for three nights of boxing is one dollar. Tickets can be purchased from the hall representatives of the K. of C. and in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Began with Rockne. Notre Dame boxing was started by Knute Rockne in 1923, and it has continued to gain in popularity since then. Despite the fact that nation-wide boxing has been losing its stature over the past decade, the Bengal Bouts have maintained a high reputation. The reputation is due to a man who has been teaching, training, and matching the boys since 1932. His name is Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano. Every day from 4 till 6 “Nappy” supervises the workouts of over 60 boys. He teaches the art of boxing, and it requires at least two months of careful preparation before anyone is allowed in the ring.
Of the 98 boys who signed up this year there will be 40 or 50 who will be ready to fight when the two months are up. These boys drill five days a week. A typical day is as follows: 2 miles of roadwork, half-hour of calisthenics, halfhour of instruction, half-hour of drills, and then more calisthenics.

Returning fighters. Several of last year’s champs and runner-ups are returning this year. There is Mike Morrow and runner-up Dick Morrissey in the 137- -pound division; Bill McCoy, 142-pound champ; Bob Fitzsimons and runner-up Sam Haffey at 147 pounds; Pat Arnoult, 152 pounds, Pat Hagood, 157 pounds; Joe Anderson, champ two years ago and -runner-up last year at 177 pounds; and junior heavyweight Leo Krzykowski. Three football players, Nick Buonicohti, Gene Viola and Bob Pietrzak, are also trying to get in the lineup.
Over the past years a Bengal Bout award has been presented to the “man who has done the most for boxing in the current year.” Among those who have received this award are Tony Zale, Barney Ross, Rocky Marciano, Chuck Davey, Kid Gavilan, Budd Schulberg, Rev. B. J. Shiel, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago, Carmen Basilio, Joe Boland and “Nappy” Napolitano. After Mr. Schulberg, the author of On the Waterfront, witnessed the bouts in 1955 he wrote in Sports Illustrated, that the Notre Dame fights are one of the best examples of amateur boxing he had ever seen.
A tradition has been built up in the springtime here. It is one where well-conditioned and determined fighters, satisfied spectators, and charitable Kngihts all contribute to bring about three nights of good, clean boxing. At least 10,000 people who see the fights each year will attest to this. There are no “dives” or legal battles over winnings. The winnings go straight to East Pakistan.	—George. Varis
SPARRING SESSION
Former champ Joe Anderson in training

March 18, 1960
ODDS and ENDS
Jerry West closed his brilliant college career last Saturday in the manner that has become his trademark. West led his West Virginia squad, down 59-51 at half to red hot St. Joseph’s of Philadelphia, in a come-from-behind 106-100 win. The win gave the Mountaineers third place in the Eastern Regional playoffs at Charlotte, N. C. They lost Friday night to NYU in a 82-81 overtime thriller. Against St. Joseph’s, West scored 37 points, 23 of these coming in the second half. He hit 12 fielders and was near perfect from the foul line with 13 of 14. To top off this great farewell performance. Jerry grabbed 16 rebounds. West, the all-around best, as he is often called, will lead the East squad against the West and Oscar Robertson in the all star game in New York’s Madison Square Garden March 26.
Cincinnati, California and Ohio State came through as expected in the regional playoffs last week. NYU joins this triumvirate by virtue of a 82-81 win over West Virginia and a 74-59 lacing of Duke. In the finals at San Francisco starting Friday night, NYU plays Ohio State and Cincinnati and California meet in a replay of last year’s great game which was won by the defensive-minded Bears, 64-58. The winners meet in the championship game Saturday night and the two semi-final losers will play for third place. . . .
—	o —
Michigan State is leading the over-all sports competition in the Big Ten this year. The Spartans won only the cross-country tide but showed good balance in finishing second in football, third in gymnastics, indoor track, hockey, and wrestling, fourth in swimming, tied for fourth in fencing, and eighth in basketball. The Spartans’ winning total of 67% is based on 10 points for a first place, nine for a second, eight for a third, etc. Michigan is second with 56 points and Iowa is third with 54% merit points. . . .
—	o —
Frank Radovich, Mr. Consistent, finished a wonderful career at Indiana this year. Frank is the seventh leading scorer of all time for the Hoosiers on the strength of 780 points in three seasons of varsity competition. In these three years, he had shooting averages of .434, .452 and .488. Frank was elected honorary captain of the Hoosiers this year as a reward for his fine work. . . .
— o —
Mike Graney has been selected to play for die West squad in the East-West All-Star game in Madison Square Garden March 26. Mike will be joined on the West squad by such standouts as Ralph Davis and Oscar Robertson of Cincinnati, Darral Imhoff of California and Horace Walker of Michigan State. George Smith of Cincinnati will coach die West squad.
Although Dave Slattery left Notre Dame’s athletic department to take a job with Washington recently, this has received little publicity and perhaps some of our readers were unaware of the fact Slattery will be the publicity director for the Redskins. . . .
22
Tennis Squad Places 4 Men On 1959 All-American Team
Four members of last season’s Notre Dame NCAA Championship tennis team are listed on the 1959 college All-American team. The Irish are represented by Maxwell Brown, Don Ralph, Bill Hein-becker, and Ron Schoenberg. Last year’s squad finished in a tie with Tulane for first place in the NCAA tennis tournament held last June at Evanston, Ill.
The team was chosen by the National Collegiate Tennis Coaches Association under the sponsorship of the Wheaties Sports Federation.
Brown, Notre Dame’s number one man throughout most of last year, was named to the first team, an advancement from the 1958 second team.
Player of the year on the squad was San Jose State’s colorful and unorthodox Whitney Reed, national intercollegiate champion.
Pressing Reed for the top honor was Tulane’s three-time All-American Ron Holmberg. Joining Brown, Reed, and Holmberg are two repeaters off last year’s first team: Donald Dell of Yale and Gerald Moss of Miami. Rounding out the select eight are newcomers Allen Fox and Norman Perry, sophomores from UCLA, and Tulane’s brilliant doubles player, Crawford Henry.
Ralph and Heinbecker, who both return to play on this year’s Irish team, were named to the second and third squads, respectively. Ralph, a junior from Bethesda, Maryland, is expected to take over Brown’s number one ranking on this year’s team. Heinbecker, also a junior from St. Louis, Mo., made the third team on the strength of his fine doubles play.
Cadet Lt. Colonel “Skip” Sullivan, Army ROTC, has this to say about Beetle sandwiches: “I never feel the need of a swagger stick to improve my military bearing when I’m fortified with a Beetle sandwich. Whether in peace or war, these durable little nutrients see me through every engagement. They’re strictly class number one in my personal T.O.&E. Follow me and try a Beetle sandwich.”
Interhall Swim Crown At Stake on Thursday
The interhall swimming championship will be decided next Thursday night at 7:30 p. m. in the Rockne Pool.
The meet will be supervised by the swimming coach, Dennis Stark. Those halls wishing to enter competition should submit a list of swimmers and divers to the Interhall office by Wednesday evening. Each swimmer is limited to three events and the entries in the diving must , also submit a list of the dives they will perform.
Medals will be awarded to individuals for 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in each event. List of events: 200-yd. medley relay: backstroke, breaststroke, butterfly, crawl; 200-yd. free style; 50-yd. free style; Diving—low board (2 required, 3 ; optional); 50-yd. butterfly; 100-yd. free style; 50-yd. backstroke; 50-yd. breaststroke; 200-yd. free style relay (four men, 50 yards each).
Sailing and Spring
Spring and sailing both arrive officially this coming week. March 21 marks the first day of spring as far as the calendar is concerned. And the sailing team opens its season this week end with a full slate of meets scheduled through May.
Those who are interested in sailing and in the Notre Dame sailing team are encouraged to attend the Thursday evening seminars currently being sponsored by the team. They are held in 118 Nieuwland at 7:30 p.m. and will continue through March 31.
Brunette and Kane Place In Four-1 Open Tourney
On March 11 and 12, four Notre Dame wrestlers traveled to Case Tech in Cleveland to participate in the Four-I open meet tournament. The Irish wrestlers represented in the tournament were Jim Brunette, Jim Kane, Dick Sapp and Gene McFadden. Brunette and Kane v wrestled to third and fourth places respectively.
On Friday, March 11, Sapp wrestled in the first match for the Irish, losing ( to John Babcock of Clarkson College by a score of 10-7. McFadden also lost his first match, falling to Leon Gridley of Oswego after eight minutes and 47 sec- n onds of action.
Kane, wrestling in the 177-pound class for the Irish, lost a 2-1 decision to Jer-gen Begala of Kent College in the Fri- , day night matches. However, Kane came back on Saturday afternoon to capture a 14-8 decision over Gil Mucher of Wheaton. In the final consolation match on Saturday night, Kane was edged by Don Manning of Edinboro, 3-2.
Brunette, like Kane, also lost his first match, but defeated his second opponent, Joe Kerner of Miami, by a score of 3-2. In the consolation match, Brunette won over his opponent from RPI by forfeit
The Scholastic
Kegler Scores Improve - As Season Progresses
F According to the plans of the Keglei* officers, the Kegler Leagues will continue ► bowling until the end of April. This will give a schedule of twenty-two weeks of competition. Since the second round of scheduled competition will end during > the week of March 20-26, the last three weeks of the season will match teams . according to their standings in their respective leagues.
f During the week of March 28-April 2, the lower division teams will have a chance for revenge against the top teams. The following week, the teams in the upper and lower divisions will battle among themselves, with the final week of the season being a head-to-head position battle.
As usual, the closing weeks of the season are bringing increasingly highei* scores in the leagues, and more bowlers are shooting high game scores. This week’s output seems to be one of the best of the year, led by Dan Halloran and ' his Brunswick Shop team in the Classic t League. Halloran rolled a 678 series while his team racked up a 1026 game and 2840 series, all three being the high actual scores for the year. Over in the Keglei' Red League, the Alley Cats showed the way for the handicap teams with 1001-1097-989—3087.
k	CLASSIC LEAGUE
Pabst Blue Ribbon .......... 56-20
Brunswick Shop ............. 52-24
Dan Halloran, 179-252-247—678; Bill Lieber, 180-196-216—592; Bob Miller, 220; Tom Schroeder, 215; Em Sharkey, 213.
KAMPUS KEGLER — RED Rochester Club ............ 47-21
. Beatniks ................... 45-23
* Dan Materna, 171-239-200—610; P. . Callahan, 253-158-170—581; B. Gatti, 218; D. Dvorak, 212; J. Hynds, 209; Tom Glavin, 203.
KAMPUS KEGLER — WHITE
. Sixty-Niners................. 54-10
Offbeats ................... 38-26
> Chuck LeRose, 192-189-181—562; J. Regan, 174-162-196—532; Ted Witt, 208; T. Lynch, 204.
KAMPUS KEGLER — BLUE
M Detroit Club “A” ............ 47-21
AIChE ...................... 42-22
> Pete Reilly, 164-207-184—555; Burke
Reilly, 165-178-213—556; Don Prairie, 208.
KAMPUS KEGLER — YELLOW
Lucky Strikes................49-19
Cleveland Club...............47-21
Em Sharkey, 203-213-179—595; Frank j Araneta, 218-145-201—564; Ken Sullivan, 208.
A KAMPUS KEGLER—GREEN Five Jokers..................40%-23%
Five Splits ................ 36-28
Met Club “B”...............36-28
Jim Lewis, 186-174-163—523; D. Akers, 201-167-169—537; D. Shivell, 187.
—ED SILLIMAN
Ninety Candidates Await Call For Spring Practice April I
Notre Dame’s football team will begin preparations for the 1960 fall practice sessions when Coach Joe Kuharich and his assistants invite approximately 90 candidates out for the first drills on April 1. Of these 90 candidates, there will be 24 or 25 returning lettermen from last year’s squad. Also returning for next season will be tackle Joe Sci-belli and center Dave Hurd, both of whom lettered the year before last.
Most of the players have already been working out for some period of time as a form of pre-spring practice. Prespring practice includes such workouts as handball, running and wrestling, which contribute to the conditioning of the players.
Spring practice consists of 20 afternoon sessions, terminating in the annual
DAVE HURD
Returns after year’s absence
Old-Timers’ game which will be played on May 14 this year. The sessions will be interrupted by the late Easter vacation. This late vacation is also the reason for the late Old-Timers’ clash.
Coach Bill Daddio stated that this year’s sessions will be conducted in the same manner as were the sessions last year. For the first few days of practice, Coach Kuharich and his assistants will concentrate on the conditioning of the players. Defense will be emphasized in the later sessions with special attention devoted to the halfbacks and pass defense.
The drills will last from about 4 pan. to 6 p.m. each afternoon and in this period the coaches will stress all of the fundamentals possible. Coach Daddio stated that a large number of candidates will be freshmen who have not yet had varsity experience and therefore must be thoroughly drilled in the new system. Several of these freshmen are expected to win positions on either of the first two units.
Spring Athletic Slate Commences In April
Now that the swimming, wrestling, fencing and track teams have finished their seasons, we move outside to get a whiff of that fresh spring air which somehow seems to be late in arriving here at Notre Dame. With this refreshing ozone comes the traditional spring sports of baseball, golf, tennis and track.
The baseball team under the able tutelage of the effervescent Jake Kline will open their schedule on April 8 with a game against state rival Indiana. The highlight of the spring as far as the baseball team goes is the annual trip to the Southland. Memphis State, Illinois, Arkansas and David Lipscomb are some of the teams the Irish will be meeting. The Irish nine returns to the Midwest to play Purdue on April 26 at Lafayette. Other top teams on the schedule include Northwestern, Michi gan, Wisconsin, Western Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio.
The golfers, under Rev. Geo. Holderith, C.S.C., open match play against Northern Illinois at Silver Lake, Ill. Iowa at Iowa City on May 2 will be another tough meet for the Irish linksmen. Michigan State hosts the Irish at East Lansing on May 16 on the course which will be the site of the Big Ten championships in June. The season concludes with the NCAA meet which this year is being held at Colorado Springs, Colo. Colorado College will host the meet on the beautiful Broadmoor Golf Club. The meet runs from June 19 to 27 inclusive.
The tennis team, minus standout Max Brown, opens play April 9 at Kalamazoo College. The team makes an Eastern trip during the Easter vacation period which includes matches with such schools as Yale, Harvard, the Merchant Marine Academy and Princeton. Other big meets in the tough schedule are against Indiana at Bloomington on May 3, a quadrangular meet involving Iowa, Northwestern and Ohio State plus the Fallonmen at Iowa City May 6-7, and a dual match at Notre Dame on May 16 against Michigan. The NCAA meet in June finishes the year’s activity for the netmen.
Last, but certainly not least, comes the track team. The cindermen paced by Ron Gregory and soaring Tom Reichert have meets with old rival Marquette at Milwaukee on May 21. The Central Collegiate Conference meet in Milwau-. kee on June 3 and the NCAA meet in June are other highlights. The Irish will also meet Army in a dual meet. Once again the trackmen will he coached by the very personable Alex Wilson.
Also we have a sort of unofficial sport in the spring appropriately known as spring football, a delightful pastime indulged in by about 90 young lads starting April 1.
March IS, 1960
21
24
campus character:
PSAMUEL PSYCHE
. A thinking man’s thinking man, Psamuel finds that thoughts come easiest when he is most comfortable.
That’s why he always wears Jockey brand T-shirts. He likes the way the fine combed cotton feels next to his skin. He likes the way the twin-stitched, nylon-reinforced collar keeps its shape. And he likes the full-proportioned body and extra long tail that never creeps.
You, too, will like yourself better when you enjoy the comfort of Jockey brand T-shirts. Your favorite campus store has them. $1.50
COOPER'S, INCORPORATED ■ KENOSHA, WIS.
T-shirts
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)	t
country where everyone is entitled to reap the just rewards of his enterprise. Or is the country simply “liberal”?
< William S. Bowman P.O. Box 16
Notre Dame, Indiana
LAUS	*
Editor:
In view of the article on the Junior ’ Parent-Son Week End which appeared in your issue of March 11, we believe that an additional comment is necessary.
We did have a chairman — Chris Lund — who certainly should be given a , great deal of credit for the planning and r negotiating with Fr. Hesburgh and the vice-presidents which was directly re- J sponsible for the success of our Week .. End.	'
From the comments we heard, few people went away dissatisfied; one of the major reasons being, that everyone was • able to attend the President’s dinner this I year.
Congratulations, Chris, we enjoyed * working with you.	4
Junior Parent-Son Week End Committee
DISSENT
Editor:	*
Catholics are often criticized for becoming Republicans or conservatives (for reaching hard for respectability and recognition) as soon as they get a little money or standing. It seems as if Notre Dame must now have a little endowment, and we’re sure of its standing.
The selection of Richard Nixon as patriot of the year (definitely lower case) could perhaps be rationalized if the administration or faculty had made the , decision. ’Tis hard to believe that N.D. * has changed so much in two years that A our seniors are cautious and complacent youths. It must take less time to get to j Frankie’s or the Blue Circle must be ' admitting more members.
Seniors should not select calculated lethargy, guarded comment on important j issues, or devious and backroom methods of achieving an end. That’s what you get with Nixon.
The early twenties are the time to < reach a pinnacle of liberalism, hope, op- j timism and belief in the meaning of patriotism, despite how conservative and I nebulous are our backgrounds or eventual ambitions. The pinnacle of patriotism at Notre Dame is Richard Nixon. The seniors, who might be forgiven for slipping into darkness, have begun in darkness.
Joe Bride (’58), City Desk Louisville
Courier-Journal	>
(ED: It might also be pointed out that । students of Notre Dame will in all prob- ■ability choose a wealthy Catholic of good standing, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, as their nominee at the upcoming Mock Convention. Perhaps the author’s gen-	\
eraUzations are not applicable in all	|
cases [lower or upper].)	I
The Scholastic I
To Take Applications For Center Positions
Applications are now being accepted > for two assistant managers and one labor crew foreman for the LaFortune Student Center. To be eligible for one of the assistant manager’s positions a stu-► dent must be a sophomore, have a satisfactory disciplinary record and have a r । “3” average. The foreman must also have at least one year’s experience > working in the Center.
Applications should contain the following information: college, average, activities and reasons for applying. They ■ ' may be addressed to the Manager, La-Fortune Student Center. Applications ► will be accepted until March 30.
, Those selected for the positions of as-sistant manager and labor crew foreman will assume their responsibilities when the job of running the Student Center is handed over to the new manager, a senior, on May 1. The experience which they gain will make one of them the logi-' cal choice for manager next year.
> The manager’s job is both demanding and rewarding. While working 20 hours a week for $1.20 an hour, he receives a great deal of business training and ex-M perience in organizing and directing activities.
Every function that takes place in the Center is arranged by the manager. It t is the manager’s responsibility to keep financial records, to promote activity in the Center and to provide sufficient funds for its operation.
Although they do not work as many hours as the manager, the assistant managers have many responsibilities and gain valuable experience meeting and T working with people. The assistant man-agers receive $1 an hour and usually work twelve hours a week. They handle much of the paper work as well as * other jobs which familiarize them with the Center and its policies.
The work crew, which is made up of ।	40 to 50 students, is run by the labor
crew foreman, who has much the same y responsibilities as the assistant man-
agers. The crew helps prepare the Center for dances, parties, etc. During dances and mixers they watch doors, check coats, and sell refreshments. Each member of the labor crew and the foreman receive $1 an hour for their work.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
NOMINATIONS NEEDED
Campus politicians optimistically dreaming of victory in the spring elections, which will be held on March 31, must submit their nomination forms to the student government office in the LaFortune Student Center or to room 125 Alumni by 6 p.m. on March 24. The forms may be procured at the student government office.
IMUfMKSS CANOE 1HK
We furnish everything far a thrilling vacation in famed Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food-all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe
trip planning kit, map, lists, rates.
(P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border Lukes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
NOT A SIGN OF A SLIP-UP!
Typing errors disappear like magic when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Never a trace of the word that was erased; errors can be flicked off" Corrasable’s special surface with an ordinary pencil eraser. Saves re-typing, time and money. And the sparkling new whiteness gives all typing a new brilliance. You can’t make a mistake getting
Eaton’s Corrasable. (Rhymes with erasable.)
Eaton's Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy and onion skin tveights. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
Made only by Eaton
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION • g • PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 18, 1960
Bach Pa^
good neighbors?
by D. EDWARD CHAPLIN
The writer of this week's “Back Page,” D. Edward Chaplin, is a senior history major from Clearfield, Pa. In addition to his contributions to the Scholastic he is vice president of the Central Pennsylvania club and treasurer of the Herodotians history club.
In this article Chaplin takes a further look into our Latin-American policy which was discussed last week in this space. He finds that all of the troubles with our southern neighbors are not caused by us.
THE RECENTLY concluded South-American tour of President Eisenhower has underscored the personal triumph of the Santa Claus from the north. But the whirlwind success of Eisenhower’s tourist diplomacy will only be shored up and maintained by a series of inter-American pocketbook conferences. Latin American “understanding and appreciation” of the United States will be found to increase only in proportion to the increase in loans (not gifts) received from us. Our former trickle to South America of $3.6 billion out of the 1946-1958 foreign aid total of $74 billion will now be expected to be substantially increased. Current facts, however, simply do not warrant substantial aid increases in the Americas. In fact, the political, economic and social conditions in South America, and the attitudes of our neighbors’ politicians toward us, make any loan increases further projections of an already unrealistic foreign aid policy.
WHO IS SHARING?
In the United States, in our recurring concern with implementation of the Good-Neighbor policy, we have sometimes forgotten that the term “neighbor” implies that there is a second party to the policy. Recently there has been a dangerous avoidance of appraisal of the concept of the Good-Neighbor policy which our neighbors “share.” I say dangerous, because the Latin-American concept of the economic aspects is that our life together should be an open U.S. checkbook. Tied in with this is the re-grettable corollary of blackmail which is threatened by the prospective Latin-American surrendering to Russia unless aid is forthcoming from the U. S.
What is needed before entering into Latin America’s conception of the Good-Neighbor policy is a clearing away of a popular misconception and myth about the nations we are dealing with. There was a time when one could believe that the essential difference betwen North Americans and Latin Americans was the different emphasis placed on national
26
and personal dignity . . . far more important to the Latin American than any monetary gain or practical advantage was the proper recognition of his dignidad. This is pure bunk. Dignity has long been abandoned in an insistent policy of mendicancy. In short, the Latin American has replaced his dignity, his devotion to principle, and a questionable appreciation of the values of a free society with the hardly praiseworthy substitute of mendicancy.
Shameless mendicancy for Eduardo Santos, formei- president of Colombia, was quite easily and cursorily stated. Said Santos of Latin-American mooching: “It is simply the extension of generally accepted modern principles such as taxation. If a man is taxed, and his money is used for a highway, he is not giving alms, but is contributing his due.” But Santos fails to realize that the U. S. taxpayer exercises authority along with the privilege and responsibility of paying taxes, that he has a right to determine what taxes he shall pay and for what purposes. The American taxpayer moreover, becomes justifiably angered when circumstances indicate expenditures to have been unwisely spent or squandered. Unfortunately, Colombians as well as Latin Americans in general, do not comprehend that under “generally accepted modem principles of taxation” it should be proper for the U.S-. House Ways and Means Committee to arrive in Colombia to determine the equity of proposed taxes to be levied on U.S. taxpayers for the benefit of Colombia. When a dictatorship milked Colombia of $200 million and diverted it from optimum national development aspirations, I fail to see why the U.S. taxpayer should feel that this is in accord with “generally accepted modem tax principles.”
Hernan Santo Cruz, permanent representative from Chile to the UN also parroted Santos in noting with “regret and resentment the meager allocation to Latin Americans of only $1 billion compared with the $40 billion Europe-Asia foreign aid total.” But as Louis J. Halle, former member of the State Department answered: “we still encounter the child’s reaction that if the other child is given a piece of candy, he should have one too.” Latin Americans would do well to remember that the billions poured into Europe under the Marshall Plan successfully shored up in a dire emergency the outer defenses of the United States and of the other 20 Latin-American republics as well. Yet our southern neighbors can momentarily judge our friendship for Europe to be 40 times as great as for them. Furthermore, investment in free Europe is a blue-chip
proposition in sharp contrast with the Latin-American loan investment situation. To the south of us we have a hodge-podge of democracies and dictator- 1 ships subject to change without notice. g The volatile temperament of the South American political leaders serves only to indicate the political immaturity and instability of the area.
MENDICANCY ILLUSTRATED
Mendicancy is again illustrated in the following examples. Virtually every Latin-American country that has protested our surplus disposal programs has in turn begged for surplus gifts, regardless of their original protests. In 1957 Mexico pleaded for com when it required a violation of U.S. law to make <■ public assistance available to a country subsequently claiming-to be loaded with foreign exchange and in the midst of prosperity. And when the com was 1 given (the grant was double the amount asked for), Mexicans simultaneously protested the “heavy interference by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” An- f other variation on this central theme of mendicancy is offered by Bolivia, in the three years from 1956-1958, Bolivian taxpayers contributed some $68 million in taxes to their government. At the same time, U.S. taxpayers provided Bolivia <• with $74 million, thus not only equalling but surpassing their Bolivian associates, t During this period the Bolivian Comptroller’s offices issued findings: “that | articles of prime necessity supplied un-	a
der the U.S. aid program had failed to	?
reach the proper and intended consignees.” Yet during this same period, the Bolivian government could issue withering blasts at our foreign policies of intervention and economic strangulation!
In conclusion, Latin-American political immaturity is clearly manifested in the failure of these countries’ domestic policies, and consequently, the “Colossus B ! of the North” becomes the convenient ( whipping boy for South American short- V comings. Economic progress in South America should not be dependent upon misappropriated U.S. foreign aid received in bad faith. Economic progress in South America lies, rather, in determinant political, economic and social fac- ‘J tors within the Latin-American states. j As long as the mercenary Latin-American viewpoint consists of an Ecuadorian diplomat’s “explanation” of the Nixon incident, namely, “our countries need less advice and more money from the U.S.,”	;
it is unlikely that Latin America will i accomplish the domestic social transformations so necessary to justify continual or increased U.S. foreign aid.
The Scholastic
Apparel
(0ft ^rorlatms
flip matt. X
Hamlet 1 jit.


Shakespeare’s wise words might well be kept in mind by young men today. To look your best longer, may we suggest our flattering British Tab collar. Under fastening holds collar neatly and comfortably in place. In line oxford and broadcloth. $5.00. Silk tie, $2.50.

Wherever you go ... you look better in an Arrow shirt
Look your best
in Arrow’s Tabber
A popular choice with the college man is this smart new collar style. Note the tab fastening under collar that guarantees lasting good looks. See us soon for your choice of collar styles, fine fabrics. Arrow shirts, $5.00.
All silk repp ties, $2.50.


^GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Northway Lanes, Muskegon, Michigan
Right down the alley
of Americas second largest telephone system
Never before has America known such sustained growth and expansion. New industries, new plants, new additions to old plants —each day reveals dramatic changes on the industrial horizon.
And to help provide the new and greater communications systems for this building boom is our daily work at General Telephone.
You’ll find a good example of what we mean in Muskegon, Michigan. Here Brunswick-Balke-Collender has just completed huge new facilities to keep up with the demand for its world-famous automatic pinsetters. In the same area, foundries, oil refineries and three new chemical plants are going round the clock.
And as Muskegon grows and prospers, its communications requirements become more complex and compelling. That’s why Gen Tel, in the past three years, has spent more than $36 million in its Michigan operating areas alone — improving, increasing, expanding its telephone services.
This is a typical example of how we strive-not only to meet today’s communication needs, but to answer the needs of tomorrow, too.
GENERAL	(__,
TELEPHONE & ELECTRONICS