x?z

^biUWe^dwic.
^)ISCE‘QU5SI- SEMPER. YIGTURtfS^^^	• QU5SI • CB^S • MORITUHUs.
VIVE- QUASI • CH®5'	.
Vol. XX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, AUGUST 14, 1886
No. 1. v
A Sketch, of Notre Dame.
Far-famed though Notre Dame may be, yet those alone who have visited its enchanting precincts can form an adequate idea of the grandeur of its architectural magnificence or of the indescribable beauty of its surroundings. The University with its Gothic spires and towering Dome, surmounted by the colossal statue of the Queen of Heaven, resplendent by day in their artistic gilt cover-o ing and by night made luminous by the grand crown and crescent of electric stars; the imposing church; the stately pile of buildings which surround the main structure; the spacious recreation grounds; the soft shades and inviting walks; the charming lakes and beau
tiful groves ; College park; gardens, and farm itself—all ranged with an
the the the
ar-
eye
to the beautiful as well as the useful— present a picture attractive in itself to the art-loving and the religious; all these, too, combined with the existence of well-ordered courses of study and a consci-
Very Rev. E. Sorix, C. S. C. Fournier of Notre Dame.
entious and kindly
care for the morals, the health and the intellectual Here we may be permitted to resume briefly-the
advancement of a numerous body of students, fur7
nish unquestionable evidence of the immense
advantages to be found in this spot, favored of first three college buildings, by way of
Heaven, to further the efforts of the young toward the attainment of that complete, mental,, moral and physical education which makes the true and perfect man.
We shall attempt in the following pages, with the aid of such illustrations as we have.been able to.procure, to give some idea of the beauty and greatness of our Alma Mater, and we may hope that what we here present to our readers will not be without its interest, as well as information, to many a one who has heard of, but-not seen, .Notre Dame. But our sketch, though necessarily brief, would still be very ; imperfect without at least a reference, to the past. For all this greatness is not : the work of one, .
two, or. ten years—it . is, under P ro vidence, the quiet, steady . growth of nearly -one half of a century, based at once upon the experience of . • the Christian ages
.	o - -
, and. the ready tact V which could adapt . that experience to . the needs of a new ' and rapidly developing country. To the first number of the last volume of ' the Scholastic we . must refer our readers for a detailed account of the past his--	..
tory of Notre Dame, ;: with its progress de- . picted by the illus- ;, V tratipnS; of buildings ; ?.
. in the olden rfimeZ
interesting narrative of the foundation and progress of our Alina Mater with a reproduction of the
2
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Introduction to the subject of our sketch.
In the year 1830, the tract of land now known as Notre Dame was purchased from the Government by the Very Rev. S. T. Badin, the first priest ever ordained in the United States. Father Badin, whose missionary field embraced the whole North-
First College Building. 1S44.
western territory, had become acquainted with the locality in his travels, and, admiring its beauty, determined to secure it for a future college. With this view he transferred it to the Bishop of Vincennes, who, to accomplish the design of the venerable protopriest, deeded it in 1842 to the Congregation of Holy Cross, a religious society organized in France by the Abbe Moreau for the instruction of youth.
Prior to the coming of Father Badin the place seems to have been consecrated to religion, being known to the Indian converts and the few Catholic settlers of the surrounding country as St. Mary’s of the Lake. It was made the headquarters of two zealous missionaries, the Rev. L. Deseille and Rev. B. Petit, who,'after converting many Indians to the faith, at last rested in the Lord, and their ashes now quietly repose under the church at Notre Dame.
The Congregation of Holy Cross took possession of Notre Dame in 1841; and Very Rev. E. Sorin, then the Superior of the Congregation in America, went to work, although his means were scanty, and began clearing the forest preparatory to building the College in order to fulfil the terms of the contract with the Bishop. The name of the place was changed from St. Mary’s to Notre Dame du Lac (Our Lady of the Lake), which, in the course of time, was changed or rather shortened to Notre Dame.
In the course of the two following years other members arrived from France, and after having erected some small buildings to the south of the lake, the little band found itself strong enough to undertake the building of the College, and on the 28th of August the corner-stone was laid with appropriate ceremonies. Before the winter set in, the building was under roof, and the next spring it was completed. In June, 1844, the'few students were removed from the farm-house to the new building, and in August the first Commencement exercises took place. Through the spontaneous kindness of the Hon. John D. Defrees, then a member of the Lesfislature, a charter giving the institution university privileges was granted and Notre Dame was fairly placed on its feet. By degrees the farm
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
3
was cleared, and the hand of labor grasping the hand of culture, the hum of industry was mingled with the voice of prayer.
The first President of the College was Very Rev. E. Sorin, with whom, in the early days of Notre Dame, were associated Rev. F. Cointet, who died in 1854, an^ Very Rev. A. Granger, who still resides at Notre Dame. Very Rev. Father Sorin held the office of President, from 1844to 1865, when he became Provincial of the Order in the United States and the increased cares of office obliged him to delegate to another the immediate direction of the College. During the administration of Father Sorin the foundations of Notre Dame were deeply and solidly laid. Save the bare land and the sympathy of the benevolent and charitable, the young community had in the beginning actually no means, except the blessing of Heaven, their own feeble strength, and, after a time, the tuition of a few students, which for many a year was a very small sum indeed. But faith and zeal did not go unre-
the 31st of May, 1866, this edifice was dedicated, and the statue blessed by Archbishop Spalding, assisted by five Bishops and a very great number of priests, in presence of the largest concourse of people ever gathered until then at Notre Dame.
On the 23d of April, 1S79, ^otre Dame was subjected to one of the severest of trials. Five of the University buildings, including the main one, were entirely destroyed by fire. The contents of the museums, libraries, class-rooms, study-halls,etc., were burned to ashes or irretrievably ruined. But the energy and recuperative powers of the Institution were equal to the emergency. While the fire still lingered among the smouldering ruins the work of preparing for the new building was begun, and during May and all the’ summer the work of constructing it was busily and uninterruptedly prosecuted. When September came arid the students returned they found on the site of the old building one of the largest and.most magnificent college edifices in the country. Since then the
Notre Dame Before the Fire. 1879.
warded. Little by little, every year was an improvement, on the last. Slowly the number of students crept up from one to one hundre i. These, spread over the country, became the best advertisement—and soon there were two hundred entrances, then three, four and five hundred, until the halls were overflowing.
The first college edifice was the central part of the old College building, and was thirty-six feet deep by eighty front, and four stories high. This continued unchanged until 1853, when two wings, each forty by sixty, were added. It was now thought that there would be room enough for at least a generation. But the error of this anticipation was-discovered in a very few years, and in 1S65, the old College building was, in the short space of two months, transformed into an imposing structure one hundred and sixty feet in length,' eighty in width, and six stories in height, and surmounted by a colossal statue of Notre Dame. On
needs of its progress have rendered necessary the construction of a wing on either side, and several large and imposing buildings in the vicinity. #
Thus we have hurried the reader through the career of our Alma Mater, from its humble beginning down to its present condition of prosperity and widely-extended influence. This grand seat of learning is now, and has been for some years, under the Presidency of the Rev. Thomas. E. Walsh, who is known as a man of unusual ability and a priest of thorough training, singularly amiable and full of zeal in his sacred calling, whose rare administrative ability and enterprising spirit have exercised a marked influence upon the progress and prosperity of the University.	-	-
We shall now proceed to describe. - in, detail Notre Dame and its treasures, prefacing our remarks with a beautiful poem written by our valued contributor, Miss Marion Muir, pn the occasion of her visit last Commencement.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame.
BY MARION MUIR.
She of the lake, who cradled Lancelot’s youth Among the wild glooms of the Northern sea,
Where flying films of fantasy and truth Were woven in the text of poesy,
A veiled Enchantress, versed in mystic spells, Sang to her charge upon the lonely moor,
Of Nature’s faith, mighty rune which tells More of the stern and strong than of the pure.
Thereafter, vanquished by that strength’s excess, Strained by the strife within he could not tame, Doomed in love’s name to life-long lonelessness, He sank, at last, a great soul quenched in shame.
But thou, white Queen. Our Lady of the Snows, Mother of hope, of wisdom and fair love,
Lift higher yet thy foster-sons than those That lived in legend like the gods above.
Before thy shrine Pelayo’s banner hung
* Beneath the midnight of Asturian shades, There dying Roland’s broken sword was flung, There thundered Bernard of the first Crusades.
There Valor’s past in sunken glory lies,
But here, behold! with regal gifts oppressed,
A new world’s peopled capitals arise, Rich in the matchless manhood of the West.
The mountain valleys, dark below their pines, The bare,"wide plain whereon the sun is free;
The groves of palm, the fields of fruited vines,
• The soft Pacific shores shall learn of thee.
And bid thee nurse, secure from deadly blight,
The golden chivalry, the arts sublime, The stainless growth of generous minds whose light
Like God’s own word shall save an evil time.
In gardens at thy feet the lily weaves
Iler vestal fragrance with thy children’s dreams. And the sweet breeze that stirs the forest leaves
Bears silver chimes across a land of streams.
A land of power, where the throbbing waves
Of inland seas are laden with the spoil Of broad Columbia’s cities, treasure-caves, And thousand harvests of her bounteous soil.
A land of promise, whose triumphant towers Sprang from the ash of scarce-extinguished fires, Where the waste maish was made to bloom with flowers And all whose being thrills with vast desires.
Farewell, to starry dome and frescoed hall,
Calm lake and winding walks, fair Notre Dame, And long future years of peace let fall
Their blessings on thy honored Founder’s name!
—June 23, j886.
The Notre Dame of To-Day.
A drive of twenty minutes north from South Bend—a pleasant and prospeious city, and one of the chief manufacturing centres of the country— brings the visitor into a broad and beautiful avenue, with its shady trees on each side forming a most delightful and refreshing arcade. This is the en-trance to the College grounds and opens in front of a group of magnificent buildings, any one of which would attract attention and be considered an adornment even in a large city. The avenue leading to the College is very nearly one mile long and is shaded on either side by stately maples. Just off the main road which intersects the avenue at the College gate are two pretty little buildings— the one on the east side is the Notre Dame Post Office—a favor obtained from the Government in the year 1S51 through the influence and good offices of the Hon. Henry Clay; the one on the west is the Porter’s Lodge. Passing up the avenue
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
the visitoi* sees in front of him the main building, the dimensions of which are 320x 155 f£et and five stories in height, surmounted by a magnificent gilt . Dome which forms the pedestal of a colossal statue
of the Blessed Virgin, the head of which is encircled by a crown of twelve electric stars, while at the feet twenty-four electric lights form a beautiful crescent. The height of the statue from the ground is 200 feet. There is no grander monument to God’s ever-Blesscd Mother in the New World, and it forms a most magnificent tribute of gratitude, on the part of the inmates of Notre Dame, to the Queen of Heaven, under whose protection this spot of earth has been placed since its foundation. This grand pyramid of Faith needs to be seen to be appreciated—the effects which it produces on the beholder with its far-reaching splendor by day and by night is a feeling of awe, of reverence and oi the power of that faith which from such humble beginnings has produced such magnificent results.
To the east of the main building are St. Edward’s Hall, surmounted by a cross the base of which rests on a large fresco (a genuine fresco) of the Guardian Angel; the College of Music, an exceedingly handsome structure —having much the appearance of an opera house; and
Science Flail, a building fully as large as the old col-lege and of pleasing architectural design.
Entrance to the
Farther east are smaller build-
ings, like the others, of cream-colored brick, with iron and stone trimmings; these are the gymnasiums for Seniors, Juniors and Minims.
West of the main building are the church, Manual Labor School, the residence of Verv Rev. Father Sorin, Founder of Notre Dame and Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose members conduct the University; while further west are the Professed House for the religious, the Seminary, and to the south lies the Farm, with its work-shops, a bake-house, large stables, etc. In
the distance west may be seen St. Mary’s Academy, a flourishing school for young ladies in charge of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
But our description of the buildings at Notre Dame necessarily involves a more specific reference to them severally, and we begin with what has been aptly styled “the crowning glory of Notre Dame,”
the church-.
A history almost like that of the College itself might be written of the Churchof the Sacred Heart, from the log building which Father Sorin found upon the banks of St. Mary’s Lake to the present Gothic structure, which has been pronounced worthy of any city in the Union. In the form of a Latin cross, it is 370 feet long and 114 feet wide at transepts, and is of cream-colored brick, with marble trimmings,in keeping with the other buildings.	The
foundation	was
commenced by Father Sorin on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, December 8, 1S6S, the very day Pius IX of happy memory opened the A atican Council. The interior is one of the grandest works of art the New World posses
College Grounds.
sists of a nave, aisles and
ses. The bell in its tower has a natjonal reputation, and is the largest in the United States, and one of the finest in the world; it also has a chime of 23 bells, the finest and largest but one in the country.
The church con-
chancel and seven apsidal chapels—which are all frescoed in the highest style of art. Its clustered columns are of a serpentine marble, with capitals of golden oak leaves, between which peep sculptured Cherubs. The frescoes are brilliant and truthful. The ceiling of the nave is covered with angels on a blue field studded with golden stars. No two are alike in attitude or ex-pression. Some scatter flowers on the worshippers; others chant, while others accompany them with instruments. On the spandrels of the architrave
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
are life-sized saints painted on gold. Among these may be mentioned St. Paul the Hermit, St. Mary Magdalene; St. Thomas of Aquin in the habit of a Dominican teaching, copied after the original preserved at Rome; St. Rose of Lima, first American saint; St. Bonaventura, SS. Agnes and Cecilia, all remarkable for their grace and beauty. The eight large panels of the vault formed by the intersection of the nave and transepts are ornamented with colossal figures of the four Evangelists and the Prophets Moses, David, Jcremias and Daniel, seated on clouds on a ground of gold mosaic. Between the windows are placed the Stations of the Cross, set in Gothic frames, elaborately ornamented with gilded gables and pinnacles. On the ceiling of the transepts are immense paintings from the life of the Blessed Virgin. On either side of the organ are two large mural paintings; the one on
Carmelite nuns of Le Mans after designs by the best artists, and are memorials from different individuals. The woodwork of the interior of the sacred edifice is oiled oak and polished walnut, sc- * lected and finely carved. The altar was at the Centennial Exhibition. It was made in Paris, and is of gold and gilded bronze, elegantly chased and richly enamelled. Under it are the bodies of two ' martyrs taken from a catacomb of the 2d century.
Before the altar arc burning continually nine lamps, filled with the purest olive oil, typical of the nine choirs of angels. All are fine works of art, but the middle one, called the Sanctuary Lamp, is magnificent. It is of gold, cloisonne enamelling and precious stones. The light is supported by three dragons; their eyes are of rose topazes; their heads of solid silver, surmounted by an egret of lilac and golden plumage; nine topazes and tur-
Interior of the Church. The Sanctuary.
the left is one of the most beaut'ful in the church. It represents the children of Israel in the desert attacked by serpents; Moses stands in the centre, pointing to the brazen serpent, inviting all to look up and be healed; many of the people are beyond human aid; others are on the ground, suffering the agonies of death; while a number, terrified by the cries and groans of the dying, eagerly look upon the sign that shall cause them to live. The exo	__
pressions are wonderfully lifelike. The fresco on the right represents Christ walking on the water; St. Peter, whose faith is failing, sinks beneath the wave; the rest of the Apostles are seen in an open boat in the background. The picture is a thanksgiving for the rescue of Very Rev. Father Sorin, • when in danger of being drowned on the steamer
IP Amerique. AH the stained-glass windows, 64 in number, are real gems of art. They were imported from France, and manufactured by the
quoises glitter amid their feathers; on the throat of each is a beautiful cornelian; on the back of the neck is a crest of malachite, and the quills of each wing are fastened with malachite and Indian garnet; between these figures are three blue and gold shields, representing scenes in the Nativity. Over the. Blessed Virgin’s altar is an oil-painting of Jesus and His Mother that was formerly suspended in the room where Pope Pius the Ninth died. On the head of the statue of Mary is a crown of solid gold, studded with precious stones and inlaid with pearls, presented by the Empress Eugenie, in 1866. A large crown suspended over this, the, gift of thirty persons, represents the fifteen Mysteries of the Rosary, on blue enamelled pictures,about which are the names of the contributors. The organ [see next -page} is of Gothic structure and rosewood finish, 40 feet high, 20 feet wide and £2 feet deep. The cross on the top is 60 feet from the ground-floor,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
It contains 2041 pipes from 1 inches to 1914 feet in length; it has two manuals and 36 stops. The builders were Derrick & Felgemacher, of Erie, Pa. It is blown by a water-motor. In the sacristy of the church are many valuable relics. Among them are pieces of the true Cross, Manger and garments [ of Our Lord; also pieces of the veil and girdle of I His Mother; a chalice and paten which were used, I and given, by Pope Pius the Ninth; a large crucifix, ; 7 feet high, and an ostensorium over 4 feet high, i both of beaten gold and silver, with figures, pre- s
sented by Napoleon the Third.
Returning now to the University, we enter the
MAIN BUILDING, wherein the libraries, museums, art galleries, class-rooms, study-halls, dormitories, lavatories, refectories, etc., are appropriately and conveniently arranged. On the first floor are the refectories, lavatories, trunk-rooms, armories, etc. The refectories are richly ornamented with mural paintings, representing many of the most celebrated churches and buildings in the world, and beautifully illustrating the progress of architecture. The lavatories are supplied with hot and cold water, and have all the customary accommodations. The armories contain about one hundred stand of arms, with bayonets, accoutrements, etc. These arms were procured from the State, and students of the Senior and Junior departments may make use of them, form companies, and learn to drill.
On the main floor the visitor finds himself surrounded by frescoes illustrating the life of Columbus, the work of Luigi Gregori, an Italian artist, who has been occupied for many years past in decorating the interiors of various buildings here. In the vestibule the life-size, full length figures of Columbus and Queen Isabella, from authentic portraits appear on the right and left,—a fitting introduction to the grand historic series which is to follow, and which begins in the hall itself with Columbus begging his bread at the door of the monastery 00 o	•
the Church.
whose truly noble inmates first recognized his worth, and brought his project before the notice of the queen. Opposite, we see the departure of the caravels on their adventurous journey, with Columbus kneeling to receive the blessing of the friendly monk to whom he owed so much. Next to this is, perhaps, the most striking picture of the series, though one of the smallest, representing the mutiny at sea, in which the crew are threatening the life of the gteat discoverer. The violence of the mutineers is made to contrast admirably with the
calm confidence of Columbus. Opposite, land has been discover cd, and the ringleaders of the mob are on their knees suing for pardon. Next a broad space is devoted to the scene at the landing, where the hero is planting the cross on the shore, surrounded by enthusiastic comrades and awe-stricken Indians. On the other side of the hall is the largest picture of all,showing Columbus, on his triumphant return, presenting the aborigines and productions of the New World to Ferdinand and Isabella, enthroned under a canopy erected in the open air, and surrounded bv numerous court officials and an apparently unlimited throng of spectators. After this transitory scene of splendor we see another proof of f o r t u n e’s i n cons ta n cy: Columbus in chains, the victim of successful treachery, while two Indians, amazed at the perfidy of the white man, appear to be his only friends.
Last scene of all, we have his death, receiving the blessings of religion, his chains hanging bv his bedside, above the chart of his discoveries. With these last two paintings on either hand, we find ourselves at the rotunda, on whose pavement of tiles we may stand and gaze upwards two hundred feet into the concavity of the Dome, soon to be decorated with appropriate designs by the same talented artist.
On the right-hand side of this hall, close to the main entrance,- is the suite of apartments occupied by President Walsh. In his. reception-room are to be found several gems of art, among others a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
crucifixion, undoubtedly the work of Vandyck. On the left-hand side of the hall is the public parlor, often literally crowded, spacious as it is, with visitors, on exhibition nights and during Commencement week. This room is decorated with
View from Juniors’ Campus.
portraits, chiefly those of former presidents of the University. Opposite to the end of the hall, across the rotunda, is the Students’ Office, where they procure their stationery and books, and may communicate by telephone or telegraph with distant friends. During business hours, this room is seldom without its throng. From the rotunda to the cast and west extend the halls to the study-rooms, with recitation-rooms on either side, airy and spacious, well lighted, and warmed, as are all the buildings, by steam-heating apparatus. In the story above are more recitation-rooms, private rooms occupied by teachers and others, two large dormitories over the study-rooms, and two finely-decorated apartments in which the Columbian and Cecilian Societies respectively hold their meetings. We have been able to secure an engraving of the Cecilian Society-room {see next pagcf and we give herewith an extract
man robes, and holding aloft an ancient hielodium. To the right and left of the main niche are two minor ones, in whose recesses rest “ St. Aloysius, Patron of Youth,” and a Guardian Angel guiding some happy child in the path of virtue. Two main points of attraction greet the eye— the portrait of Shakspeare, by Gregori, and the grand Cecilian organ. The portrait of Shakspeare, suspended immediately above this, is pronounced by all art critics as Luigi Grcgori’s masterpiece. Above this is seen the seal of the Society, a beautiful monogram and figure, expressing that
“ Beneath the rule of men entirely great, The pen is mightier than the sword.”
It is nicclv entwined with bending twigs and evergreens. On either side of the organ are hanging oil-paintings of Fathers Granger and Dillon, both of whom are identified with the history of Notre Dame. Neatly disposed near these paintings are two statuettes—one representing Minerva, the other Mars. The walls of the room are graced with huge gilt frames in which are enclosed the photos of all the St. Cecilians up to the present time; whilst almost hidden amidst the gracefully twining wreaths of roses and budding vines are panels containing busts of distinguished writers and speakers, among whom are Father Thomas Burke and Daniel O’Connell. Tastily disposed throughout the room are busts of Pope Pius IX, Daniel Webster, and Stephen A. Douglas; whilst to the left the “Father of his country” rests on a pedestal, holding the Declaration.
The work on the ceiling is truly a chef d'teuvre of decorative art. Surrounding an inner panel of great beauty are arranged, in graceful profusion, Gothic friezes and rosettes; whilst the inner panel itself is a heap of arabesques and fanciful flowers, fantastically turning and twisting all over the ceiling, among whose foldings sport chubby Cherubs and birds of brilliant plumage. The colors are exceedingly gorgeous, .but so nicely and artistically grouped as to defy any attempt at adverse criticism.
The Columbian room is painted in fresco, with full-length portraits of the benefactors of the University, a category, which includes characters as incongruous as those of Henry Clay and the late Emperor of the French, making a picturesque ensemble; on this floor there is also a museum of Indian relics and other curiosities. In the third story, the greater part of the front extension is occupied by a spacious hall, devoted to the purpose of a college library. Here, besides the usual formidable array of classics
from adescription which appeared in a previous number of the Scholastic, vol. xix, No. 2.
Cecilia Hall is a spacious apartment, about fifty by twenty feet, not taking into the reckoning a niche ten feet wide by fifteen high,beautifully arched, and extending several feet back into the wall behind the President’s chair. Two Gothic columns uphold the frescoed arch overhead, whilst between them, elevated on a pedestal, is a statue of St Cecilia attired in Ro-
S ection of Library.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and works of reference, may be found some curious old volumes dated from the century in which printing was invented, illuminated with initial letters painted by hand after the printing was finished. Quaint modern reproductions of mediaeval work will also interest the asthete. Our illustration (page c?), from a photograph taken several years ago, gives but a small portion of this magnificent hall with its various departments and sections. On this floor, and the next above, are also numerous private rooms and dormitories; a distinguishing feature of the upper floor being the school of drawing, for the art of drawing makes a prominent figure in the curriculum of the scientific course.
We may now ascend to the roof, if you have any desire to obtain an extensive view. If your nerves are steady, we may even scale the Dome itself, and the prospect is worth the climb. Northward lie
fowler. But the prairie chickens and ducks, that used to abound there, have been thinned out by the ruthlessness of hunters, and the process of drainage and fencing has robbed the region of its original charm. Northeast, the eye roves over the rolls'of Portage Prairie—the old “portage” of the Pottawotamie Indians, over which, by conveying their canoes from the waters of the St. Joseph to those of the Kankakee, they connected the navigation of the Great Lakes with that of the Mississippi.	’
From these views of the distant horizon, let us turn our eyes to what is going on more immediately beneath us. On the lake to the north, called St. Joseph’s Lake, we may witness the boat crews training for the coming regatta, (see illustration, ■page to.) The lake itself is a beautiful blue sheet of water, with an area of about 23 acres, surrounded
St. Cecilia Society-Room.
• the green hills of Michigan', with the St. Joseph River winding in a deep valley among them. The position of the city of Niles may be made out by the white houses of its suburbs gleaming through _______________________________o	o	o the surrounding shade trees. The greater part of the town lies hid in the valley of the river. Eastward stretch extensive woods, above which the smoke of the foundries of Elkhart may be seen rising. Southward, the view is more limited, a high range of bluffs beyond the river cutting it off, and causing the river itself to make.that remarkable deflection from which South Bend takes its name. The tips of the spires of Mishawaka may be discovered, by one who knows just where to look for them, rising above the woods a little east of south. On the bluffs above is a station erected by the Lake Coast Survey. West of south lies South Bend, mapped out beneath the eye of the spectator, and still further west stretch the Kankakee marshes, for so many years the paradise of the
by groves, and forms a most attractive feature in the College grounds. There is another lake to the westward called St. Mary’s Lake (see illus-tration^pagc 14)1 the area of which is about 24 acres. The southern and western shores contain beds of marl, which make it, perhaps, more interesting to the geologist, though less attractive to the lover of scenery. These two lakes, each with its peculiar interest, form the ■ finest feature in the landscape of Notre Dame. They are supplied entirely from springs, and their transparent waters wash shores of clean white sand and pebbles, and hide in the recesses multitudes of the finny tribe of every variety. They afford rare .sport to the pleasure-loving students both in winter and summer: bathing, boating, skating and fishing. Southeast, on the broad campus, a game of baseball, if it is a “ rec.” day, may be in progress (see page 22), and from your elevated position you may command a view of all the details of that attractive pastime.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But it is the intellectual aspect, i*athcr than the material,—the mental landscape, so to speak,— which will interest the visitor to the College as a college. And here he will find classic taste and scientific research—not the mere memorizing of the contents of learned tomes, but an active participation in the pursuits and aims of true study. The productions of the plays of Sophocles, with all their appropriate accessories on the stage, by the Greek students of this Univcrsitv, and still more, the intelligent interest which large audiences have unmistakably manifested in the representation, sufficiently attest the proficiency attained here in a living language, which, however its claims to notice may have been lately questioned by the superficial and soulless utilitarian, is not only among the most perfect and beautiful that the
bors are preserved in the herbarium and Museum. The geology of the Great Lake Basin, and the multifarious mineral specimens to be found in the neighborhood, open other interesting fields of science, which have been duly tilled, and the philosophical apparatus appears to have gathered no rust or dust from neglect. The courses of Law and Civil Engineering arc in active operation, and there is a preparatory course of medicine which has long been conducted under the care of an eminent and experienced practitioner. A commercial school here has always borne a good reputation among* business men, so that its graduates find no difficulty in obtaining employment, which is probably the best test of worth.
The Catholic religion is professed by the teachers and officers of the establishment, but non-Cath-
St. Joseph’s Lake.
world has ever known, but is especially dear to Christians, as being the language of the Gospel. Moreover, the fact of Greek being a living language is vividly presented to the mind of the student by the exchange of the productions of the Ave Maria press with those of Modern Greece, which arrive by every mail from the Orient. It is needless to speak of the perfection attained in the Latin language in an institution conducted by Fathers of the Catholic Church, among whom that classic tongue has never been allowed to die. The poetry in hexameter and the difficult Hora-tian measures, which from time to time appear in the periodicals here, bear witness that Notre Dame forms no exception to the rule in this respect.
Nor is science neglected. The flora and fauna of the fertile St. Joseph Valley give increasing occupation to the naturalist, the fruits of whose la-
olics have always availed themselves, in large numbers,of the educational advantages here offered. Our Blessed Mother, who gives her name to the University, smiles a welcome to all from her exalted position on the dome, and although no undue efforts are made to proselytize, yet the truths of the most ancient form of Christianity sink deep' into many an ingenuous heart. The sense of honor is scduously cultivated by the officers of the institution, as a ground of moral restraint and selfcommand on which all may meet on a common footing. The venerable founder of the house, himself a model of the punctilious courtesy which characterized the ancien regime, has always deemed .it his duty to cultivate the manners, no less than the morals, of those to whom he stands in loco parentis: and although he has long ago resigned J.	J	o	o o	o
the presidency into younger hands, his gentle in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
it
fluence is still felt, refining and elevating- wherever it extends; his presence inspires an affectionate reverence, and the membry of his teachings will long survive his earthly career. Hence the absence of rudeness has always been a marked feature at Notre Dame. The disgracefid practice of “hazing” is absolutely unknown. The newcomer finds himself surrounded at once by kindly faces and hearts, disposed to believe everything good of him, unless his own deeds force them reluctantly into the opposite conviction. The students are divided into departments, not according- to the course of study each pursues, but according to the more natural distinction of age; each department
influences has also been found to have most beneficial results in promoting attention to solid work.
But now let us descend from the roof of the College and inspect the other buildings on the premises. And first is
SCIENCE HALL, a little to the northeast of the main building.
“Science Hall at Notre Dame is a large and imposing structure, in the Romanesque style of architecture. It is 131 feet long by 104 broad, and contains upward of thirty large, well lighted and well ventilated rooms. Planned only after a careful study of the best scientific institutions in the country and Europe—which were specially visited
having its own campus and gymnasium, its own study-halls, recreation rooms and dormitories. In the recitation-rooms, however, distinctions of age are levelled, and merit alone gives the pupil his standing. The practice of going to and from recitations and other college exercises in silence and ranks has always prevailed, and contributes much to the reign of order. In the classical and scion-tific courses the highest proficiency is required to obtain the academic degrees; the mere fact of a student having attended class regularly does not entitle him to a diploma; the examination to be passed is something more than a mere formality, and the unpleasant process, known to college men as “ plucking,” takes place quite often enough to inspire a salutary awe. The removal of distracting
for the purpose by Rev. Father Zahm, the director, —the Notre Dame Science Hall embodies as far as possible the more desirable features of the institutions, visited, and these are incorporated in such a manner as to form a harmonious and economic whole.
The School of Mechanical Engineering occupies the basement and consists of a large central room or hall—50x46—flanked on either side by a number of laboratories and workshops, about twelve in all, all for the mechanic arts. To the left on entering is the wood-workers’ room—33x24—devoted chiefly to model and pattern making, cabinet work and general carpentry in connection with the department. Next to this is the spacious Metallurgical Laboratory of the School of Mines—5X x x9
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—with its various equipments for assaying of ores, etc. The large and handsome furnaces in this room are a gift from Mr. T. D. Wood, a mining operator in Idaho. At the further end of the building, to the left, is the boiler-room, furnished with a Wheeler & Tappen steam-pump, a Babcock & Wilcox non-explosive boiler for steam-heating, and furnishing the power for electric lighting apparatus, lathes, pumps, and other machinery. To the right of the boiler-room are the dynamo-electric machine and engine rooms—20x19 and 17x19 respectively —both of which connect directly with the extensive Laboratory of Mechanical Engineering—52X-33x19. This is one of the largest and most important departments of Science Hall; it is fully equipped with machinery of the latest and most approved pattern—large lathes, planers, drill presses and all the various minor devices and appliances usually found in a first-class machine shop.
“ Connecting with the School of Mechanical Engineering is a large, airy, well-lighted room devoted to electrical engineering. Among a number of other things here we noticed a 100 light Edision dynamo presented to the Notre Dame Science Hall by the Edison Electric Light Company. This furnishes light for the Academy of Music, close by, and for the various laboratories, lecture-rooms and cabinets of Science Hall. It is also used for experimental work when very strong currents are required. Besides the Edison, there is a Vandepoel dynamo of smaller size, and one of the Maxim type, which supply electric currents for ordinary work in the physical and chemical laboratories and lecture-rooms. The power for running these dynamos is generated by an Armington & Sims-highspeed automatic engine, donated to Science Hall by the Armington & Sims Engine Co., of Providence, R. I.
“Ascending to the first floor, we were shown through two suites of rooms for the professors, the lower part of the large Museum, and the cabinets, laboratories and lecture-rooms for the various branches of physics and chemistry. The rooms are all large and high-ceiled, splendidly lighted and ventilated, with wainscoting and furniture of clear-grained, soft wood, unpainted, but finished in oil and shellac varnish. Each room seems to be a model of its kind, liberally supplied with all the apparatus for successful classwork. The second floor, containing the upper part of the grand Museum, with a large open area in the centre, is reached by a broad stairway branching right and left. This part of the Museum is divided off into a number of alcoves, after the style of those in the British Museum, we believe. The ceiling of the second story is even more lofty than that of the first; and besides the ample light from the large side windows, both floors here receive additional light from a large central skylight in the roof. Besides the Museum, the lecture-rooms and laboratories for the Natural Sciences are located on the second floor. These various laboratories, like those of physics and chemistry on the first floor, are thoroughly equipped with all the neccessary apparatus for every branch of work. AV e found the
laboratory for microscopical work specially interesting. Adjoining this laboratory is the Biological Lecture-room, capable of seating 100 students, and well supplied with charts, casts, and physical apparatus.
“Descending to the first floor by another route, we are led through a long, low, dark corridor in the rear of one of the lecture-rooms. This leads to the Photographic Laboratory—a long, narrow room, lighted by a single window, and liberally supplied with the necessary photographic apparatus and chemicals for* practical photography. Here such students as desire it may acquire a knowledge of the photographic art, so useful to the traveller, the scientist, and the sketch-writer. On the shelves were a number of very fine negatives of groups, some of the college buildings and grounds, taken the day before our visit. Retracing our steps through the low ante-room, or corridor, we are led in turn through the Physical and Chemical lecture rooms and laboratories. These occupy seven large and handsome rooms on the first floor, equipped in first-class style. The seats in the Physical Lecture-room rise one above the other, in amphitheatre form, permitting an unobstructed view of the experiments going on at the lecturer’s platform. This room will seat about xoo students. Adjoining it is the large Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry, lighted and ventilated from two sides, with high ceiling and numerous large windows. The Chemical store-room, 19x8, connects with the Laboratory and lectureroom.
“ Next is the splendid Chemical Cabinet, 33x24, occupying the north wing of the building. This room derives no little beauty from a semicircular front projection twenty-four feet wide. An exact counterpart of this room, on the south side of the building, is devoted to the Physical Cabinet. Both apartments are handsomely furnished with large cases, tabled cabinets, etc., all of home manufacture and finish, we are told. Adjoining the Physical Cabinet is the Physical Laboratory, 41x19, which on the opposite side connects with the Physical lecture-room, 37x19, large enough for the accommodation of 100 students, and conveniently opening into the grand Musuem. The entrance for o	O
students into both these rooms is through a wide corridor on the south side of the building, a similar corridor on the north side affording entrance to the classes in Natural Science.
“One feature of the building is that the laboratories and lecture-rooms on the first and second floors connect with each other and with the Museum, an arrangement specially advantageous to both students and professors for accessibility to specimens and apparatus. The chief portals are so arranged that the various classes can enter or leave then* rooms without interfering with one another. There are no stoves or gas-pipes; the entire building, like all the other college buildings at Notre Dame, is heated with steam, and each apartment lighted independently of the others by the Edison incandescent electric light, which has proved highly satisfactory.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“ In the various courses, practical work is insisted upon before everything else. The general principles taught in the lectures are supplemented with practical tests in the laboratories, where the student is taught, under the direction of experienced professors, to examine and verify for himself—to put in practice what he has learned from lectures and text-books.”
Just east of the main building is the magnificent COLLEGE OF MUSIC.
This edifice is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and over 100 in height. (see illustration, 'page z/.) The first floor is divided into recreation and reading rooms, the north end being for the Juniors and the south for the Seniors. These rooms are sup
plied with swings, turning-poles, horizontal bars, and many other of the modern appliances that provide the means for all the various forms of gymnastic exercises. The north half is for the use of the Juniors, whose campus surrounds it, while the south half is set apart for the Seniors.
Just north of the Gymnasium and Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park, and on the north side of this, facing south, is the noted
st. Edward’s hall,
a building four stories high, and 100 feet in length by 50 in width. This is for the exclusive use of pupils under 13 years of age. It is entirely separate from the University, though under the same general management. The build-
Minims’ Study Hall.
plied with newspapers, periodicals, billiard-tables, together with easy-chairs, lounges, appropriate hangings, and all the furniture requisite for physical as well as mental recreation. There are also side rooms for baseball and boat-club uniforms, etc. The second and third floors at the north end are appropriately divided into music-rooms, and instrumental music of all kinds is there taught. The Exhibition Hall occupies the remainder of the building. In it are given the more formal lectures, as well as concerts and dramatic entertainments. Fully furnished • with the scenes, accessories and decorations appropriate to such uses, and capable of accommodating over 1,200 persons, ' it ranks as one of the largest and most attractive college halls in the country.
Directly east of the Music Hall is
THE GYMNASIUM,
which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in width and is two stories in height. It is abundantly sup-
ing is new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested by experience as useful or desirable. It is appropriately divided into study-halls, classrooms, society-rooms, dormitories, etc. The recreation hall is just east of it, while further east and north of it lies the play-ground, which consists of a fine, level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary gymnastic apparatus.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their complete separation from the larger students. , The elegant and commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall—which we have mentioned—affording ample accommodation for over one hundred students, is wholly devoted to their use. It is heated throughout by steam, lighted by the Edison Incandescent Light, and its lavatories are supplied with hot and cold water. The ceilings in the study-hall, class-rooms, and sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large and numerous, affording abun-
O	J	o
J4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
dant light and ventilation. The study-hall (see illustration, fage 13} commands a charming view from each of its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower-caskets, etc.
Seminary.
Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this bright, beautiful hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome park, which, with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to the hap.. piness of the Minims.
The pupils are ur der the immediate direction of competent and experienced teachers—Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross—so that while they
have every possible advantage to aid them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom, as they would under the care of their mothers.
THE INFIRMARY
adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In dimensions it is 100x45 feet, and three stories high. The General Office occupies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the floor above are kept in readiness for the reception of students who at any time become too ill to attend class and discharge their customary duties. The regular physican of the University and the Sisters in charge minister to the sick in all cases.
THE PRINTING OFFICE
is just north of the main building. .It contains three large steam-power presses, a smaller press, a folding-machine, a mailing department, two composing rooms, and all the accessories of a first-class printing establishment. The Ave Maria and the Scholastic, as well as all the other publications which year after year issue from Notre Dame, are printed here. .
Between the Printing Office and the Infirmary is THE STEAM-HOUSE,
from which rises the great chimney so conspicuous in the vicinity. This building is provided with double furnaces of the largest size—furnaces that sometimes consume 35 tons of coal in a day. It has, too, a full supply of engines and other machinery. On the second floor .are bath-rooms for the students. South of, and connecting with it, is an annex which contains the engine and plant recently placed there by the Edison Electric Light Company.
Leaving the College buildings, and directing our steps northward along the edge of a beautiful
View from North Shore of St. Mary’s Lake.
[7b the extreme right is th? old farm house, the very first College.]
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
orchard and kitchen garden, we reach the banks of St. Joseph’s Lake and soon come to the
NOVITIATE,
a stately structure, about one hundred and fifty feet in length by eighty feet in width and three full stories in height. Here the candidates for the Congregation of Holy Cross are carefully trained and formed for the religious life and the duties which, in accordance with the end of their establishment, the members of the Order have to fulfil.
Almost directly opposite is the
PROFESSED HOUSE
for the religious of Holy Cross. This building, or rather series of buildings connected together, stands midway between the two lakes upon an eminence which was former!}' an island in the midst of a large sheet of water—when some thirty or more years ago there was but one lake. For a long time, even after the improvements made by skilful drainage, it was known as “the Island”; but a ■ few years ago a name was given to it, to immortalize the career and active service of good old Bro. Vincent—the oldest living member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the best part of whose life has been given to the service of Notre Dame— and it is now known as “ Mt. St. Vincent.” Here reside the members of the Order whose duties do not require their constant presence at the University.
A little to the southwest lies a charming grove, O O	'
in the midst of which stands the
.	SEMINARY
for the complete training of those destined to the ecclesiastical state in the Community, (see illustration, page 14.^ The building is spacious and can accommodate a large number; but the chief beauty is the chapel,painted by Prof. J. Ackerman—an artist of no ordinary merit. The grounds are extensive and very tastefully laid out and decorated.
As we leave the Seminary grounds and turn eastward towards the University, our. path-lies along the shore of St. Mary’s Lake, on the opposite bank of which we see the barns, stables, and numerous small buildings that constitute the “home centre” of the great farm.
Our path has now led us to the foot of a little hill, and we are agreeably surprised, as we are brought face to face with a facsimile representation of the Grotto of Lourdes, beautifullysculptured out of the side of the declivity. The rocks are there portrayed, while underneath is the gurgling fountain. To one side, lifted on high, is a beautiful statue of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception, encased in an octagonal frame, the sides of which are of glass, supported by stone pillars. At .a little distance is the kneeling figure of Bernadette, in her quaint, pleasing Breton dress, praying to the Virgin of the Apparitions.
To the right of this lovely spot is a square, three-story building—the residence of Very Rev. Father General Sorin and his assistants. -A peculiar interest, as well as importance, attaches, to this Structure from the fact that it is the Mother-House of the entire Congregation of Holy Cross—the great centre whence issue those directions that regulate
the affairs of the Order extended over the world.
Such is Notre Dame, with its attractive natural scenery, its cultivated acres, its pleasant grounds, its commodious buildings—with all the advantages, that can be desired to train and direct the powers of heart, body and mind—with all the requisites to ; present the realization of the true home of Religion and Science. May the band of devoted religious, to whose care and direction all the workings of this home have been entrusted, continue to grow and flourish, and in the future, as in the'past, be a power in the Church and a benefactor to society! And may the venerable Superior, who laid the first foundation of this vast structure, and who, during the whole of its career, has presided over and directed its destinies with the perfecting wisdom of advancing years—may he live long in health and strength, and blessed of Heaven to-continue for many years yet to come the grand and noble work which he inaugurated, and carried on so successfully, and which he has lived to see wonderfully develop into such vast proportions! Long live Notre Dame, its venerable Founder, and the noble army of Holy Cross!
The University of Notre Dame and the adjoining Academy of St. Mary’s, together with the imposing buildings and beautiful grounds that surround them, could in themselves furnish material for an interesting description, but must be referred to only in a passing manner. The impressions of your correspondent, however, as he approached the grand Institution in the evening, after leaving the train, are so vivid and so inspiring that he cannot refrain from giving them expression. Away in the distance for miles around can be seen the gleam of the electric lights illuminating the statue of Our Lady which surmounts the Dome of the main building of the Institution. Passing along the straight avenue, lined with tall trees, O	O	'	5	'
which for nearly a mile stretches forth in front of the College, the effect of this beautiful display becomes more and more striking, until upon approaching the immediate vicinity of the building . it becomes almost rapturous. Two hundred feet from the ground, at the summit of the Rotunda, stands the graceful statue, and the light thrown upon it is so clear and bright that the chaste delineation of form and the mild and pure expres- ' sion of feature which it conveys are distinctly.pictured. Surrounding the head is a brilliant halo, ' consisting of thirteen gems of sparkling electnc lights, and. under the feet is formed from twentyseven electric lights the figure of a crescent, or halfmoon. As the contingent of. delegates arriv-. ing in carriages from the depot drew up in front of the portals of the University, the merry chimes ' pealed forth a.glad ■ welcome. The whole main building and its contingent accessories were made refulgent with the dazzling-brightness of hundreds of electric lights, and the scenes- of introductions and merry greetings that transpired were in the . strictest sense enlivening.—From the (t Catholic Universe's” report of the Convention. .	' - :
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Panic, August 14, 1886.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essavs, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.^o per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—With the present number, the Scholastic begins its Twentieth Volume. It will be the aim of the editors during the coming year not only to maintain the general excellence which has made our little college paper such a favorite in the past, but also to try and make it more worthy of a greatly extended patronage. We invite all our subscribers of last year to inform us of their intention to renew their subscriptions.
—We hope that our readers will be pleased with the illustrated sketch of Notre Dame which we present in this number. The engravings, for the most part, have been made from photographs, and all represent this “Educational city of the West” to some extent as it really is. Lack of space and time have necessitated the omission of a detailed description of many of the buildings, but we may hope that the whole will be found to possess a general interest, and give a fair idea of our Alma Mater. We have printed a very large edition of this number, so as to be able to supply all desiring extra copies.
—Many interesting articles have been crowded out of this number owing to the lengthy report, which could not be curtailed without marring: its interest. There will, however, be another issue of the Scholastic next week, when these, together with other matters connected with the Uni-versify, will appear. We may here briefly state, for the benefit and pleasure of the “old boys,” that our College Faculty ■will continue the same for the coming • year. Besides this, they will find, on their return in September, many improvements made in the buildings and premises. The Dome has been beautifully gilded, iron steps have been placed at the entrances to the study-halls, and
music hall, an extension has been added to the gymnasium and many other new features, internal and external, have been introduced which we cannot now enumerate, but which will contribute in no slight degree to their convenience and advancement during the coming year.
o	O J
—It is with pleasure that we devote such a large portion of this issue to the report of the proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Convention of the C. T. A. U. of America. The addresses of such a large and influential body of men from the ranks of the Catholic clergy and laity of the United States assembled together, that by common counsel and encouragement measures might be devised for most effectively combating one of the greatest evils that can afflict society, as well as the individual; the expression of the action taken by them in the past, and the resolutions proposed for the future,—in a word, the proceedings of each session of .such an assembly deliberating for so noble a cause have not merely a local interest, but commend themselves to the attention of all who have at heart the welfare of government, the preservation of the social order and the salvation of the individual man. We are especially pleased to be able to present our readers with a synopsis of the eloquent sermon of Rev. Father Conaty, the Vice-President of the Union, which will be found embodied in the account of the proceedings of the Convention.
The Sixteenth Annual Convention of the C. T. A. LT. of America held at Notre Dame, Ind., Aug-. 4 and 5.
The week just passed will be a memorable one in the annals of Notre Dame, as recording the great event of the Sixteenth Annual Convention of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America. At the Convention held last year at New Flaven, Conn., the invitation extended by the authorities of the University was accepted and it was decided that the place of meeting for the following year should be here at Notre Dame. Accordingly, Wednesday and Thursday, Aug. 4th and 5th, found gathered together in the quiet precincts of this home of learning a large and distinguished body of men— clerical and lay—representatives of societies, with an aggregate membership of upwards of 50,000, all pledged to the grand cause of Total Abstinence and seeking to extend its benefits to their fellowman. The authorities took pleasure and felt honored in extending the hospitalities of the Institution to the delegates on the occasion, and did all in their power to make their stay at Notre Dame a pleasant one. How well they succeeded is best expressed by the guests themselves—who, in convention assembled, were pleased to pronounce their appreciation of the means provided by the University for their entertainment and the facilities furnished for the carrying on of the work of the Convention.
A marked feature of this Convention was the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
large number of clergymen present as Delegates, far exceeding that of any previous Convention and furnishing renewed evidence of the increasing interest taken in the success and extension of the Total Abstinence movement. The visiting prelates were Most Rev. Archbishop Elder, of Cincinnati, Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland— who, however, to the regret of all, was prevented by illness from attending the sessions of the Convention—and Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland, of St. Paul, who had been detained, but arrived in time to take part in the proceedings of the second day.
Carroll, of Providence, R. I.; W. J. Power, of Philadelphia; James F. Ryan, Wisconsin; J. J. Dillon, Chicago; W. A. Manning, Ohio; T. B. Catherwood, Savannah, Georgia. Walter Harrigan, of South Bend, was appointed sergeant-at-arms.	.	-
The Convention then adjourned until 2 p. m., the delegates repairing to the Church of the Sacred Heart, where Pontifical High Mass was celebrated by His Grace Most Rev. Archbishop Elder, of Cincinnati, assisted bv Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., as assistant priest; Rev. J. Elcock, of Philadel-
■ College of Music, Notre Dame.
[The Sessions of the Convention were held in this bnildingi\
Letters of congratulation and encouragement were received from many other prelates. The sessions were held in Washington Hall of the College of Music, were all public and well attended. We subjoin a detailed report of the proeedings.
* * • * .
The opening session of the Sixteenth Annual Convention of the C. T. A. U. of America, was held in Music Hall, Notre Dame, on Wednesday, August 4, at 8.30 a. m. After prayer by the President, Rev. J. M. Cleary, D. H. Mulvihill, of the Pennsylvania Union, and John F. Bannan, of Providence, R. I., were elected secretaries, lifter the reading of the order of business, the committee •on credentials was appointed as follows: John J. 'Xppnard, of Springfield, Mass., Chairman; Thomas
phia, and Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pittsburg, as deacons of honor; Rev. D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., of South Bend, and Rev. E. P. Lorigan, of Kenosha, as deacon and subdeacon of the Mass; Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Master of Ceremonies. The music was Concon^s Mass, very well rendered by the choir of St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend. During the Offertory, Rev. M. P. Fallize, C. S. C., of South Bend, sang Cherubini’s Ave Maria with good taste and expression.
THE SERMON
was preached by Rev. Thos. J. Conaty, of Worcester, h'Pass., Vice-President of the Union. He preached from the text “ Take thou courage and show thyself a man ”—III Kings, ii, 2—and spoke substantially as follows:	_
t8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
May it please your Grace, Brother Delegates, •Dearly’ Beloved Brethren :—I congratulate you upon this auspicious opening of your 16th Annual Convention in this University7 city of the West. I congratulate you upon the splendid organization which you represent, which sends you here to look into one another’s faces, to meet the friendly7 smiles and kind words of brethren, to consult as to the means and methods best adapted to promote the ends of your Union. You come to raise again yom- voice in no uncertain tones against a giant evil, warning men of its closeness to their doors, and showing them the means by’ which to protect themselves from its ravages. Brother Delegates, all men agree that Intemperance is a great evil. All men agree that this evil is in o	o	e
every7 community, but not all seem to realize that no one can claim that for him it has no dangers, or for them there is no need of interest. Intemperance erects in our midst a monument, in the presence of which all the monuments of men pale into insignificance. It is not granite, nor marble, nor bronze, but it is crime committed by7 it; poverty7 and destitution wrought by7 it; jails, lunatic asylums, orphan homes filled by7 it; faith ruined, religion robbed, homes shattered, communities paralyzed, men degraded, souls lost. Look at it, this monument of Intemperance, as, Babel-like, it fills the earth and raises itself against Heaven, threatening the destruction of God Himself. Yes, Brother Delegates, Intemperance is a scourge, a plague, a foulness in society, destroying more men than Asiatic pestilence or the horrors of war. It wages an unceasing, an unrelenting war upon man, and a ceaseless, unrelenting force must meet it and attempt its destruction. Intemperance is a monsterfiend, threatening man, the home, society, and the Church. The home and society must unite for protection, while the Church blesses and aids the union, which is but a co-operator in her work. What greater enemy7 has man,—a being created by7 God for God, endowed by7 God with all the faculties necessary7 to know the good and the true, to love the beautiful, to enjoy life in its best gifts, and, by7 fidelity7 to truth, to purchase the inheritance . of God ? Intemperance clutches the mind and renders it unfit to .know the truth. It weakens the will, and renders it unable to follow the good. It makes the man ordinarily intelligent a babbling fool; it makes the man ordinarily7 pure of speech and reverent of manner, obscene and blasphemous; it makes the man ordinarily7 obedient to law and reason, a violator of all law and the most unreasonable of men. It wastes man’s energy7 by-which his daily bread is earned; it paralyzes industry, and makes improvidence and beggary. In a word, it takes man, whom. God made little less than the angels, and degrades him beneath the brute.
Intemperance is truly7 the enemy of man. But man lives not for himself alone: lie is a social being. At his. advent into the world, he finds himself in the home. He is child'and -parent. Home! home!—bow sweet the memories.evoked, how fender the affections there formed!. How,like the ivy7,'the traditions that are. lasting cling around
it! Home, which is but heaven in miniature, a \ little kingdom wherein are learned the first lessons
of manhood, where is found man’s first happiness!	I
As the home, so the State. Home is the nursery | of true citizens and brave soldiers. To enjoy7 and possess home, good laws are demanded; to protect	;
and defend home, true courage and bravery7 arc	;
needed. Yes, indeed, the strength of nationality,	'
the vigor of citizenship, the bulwark of country7	■ J
are all in the homes of the land whence go forth	'
men with intelligence and morality7 to shape the laws that govern them, to observe the laws made for them, and to avert the dangers that threaten . them. Intemperance is the great enemy, the great curse of the home. The traveller who has visited scenes of devastation wrought by7 tempest and torrent has seen the wrecks of homes laid waste even in the midst of bounteous, beauteous nature and busy, prosperous industry. He has seen the roof torn from many a cottage by7 cruel war; villages ’ depopulated by giant famines; peasantry7 scattered by7 the iron rule of despotic land laws. But I torrent and tempest, war and famine—aye, even ’ the iniquities of tyrants, all combined, have not strewn along the highways of life such wrecks of homes as those caused by Intemperance. War and famine and tyrant were agents outside the home for its destruction; Intemperance uses the family itself as the instrument by7 which to destroy7 the home. How many parents sworn to defend the home have been led by7 Intemperance to . destroy it! How many7 children sent by God ‘ as angels of the hearth have been changed to demons! Never until the great reckoning day will
O	O J
man know what a curse Intemperance is to the home.
If this nursery7 of the State, this source of true manhood, this .mould of character, produce bad men or weak men, the State is endangered thereby. For man finds himself in society face to face with duties as well as rights. On him devolves the duty7 of giving to the State his best intelligence to shape its laws, his greatest activity to develop the resources of nature, his entire being to contribute to his own happiness and the welfare of his fellowmen. How can the intemperate man fulfil these duties with an intellect dulled, an activity wasted on evil, an unhappy life? Is he not rather a danger j where he should be a protection, a burden where : he should be an assistance, a destroyer where he should be a preserver? Intemperance forces the State to increased expenditures for poor-houses, asylums, and jails, where the wretches ruined by drink and the childhood uncared for, as a result of drink, may be housed and nourished. Society, then, has an interest in any organization against the demon of Intemperance, and no man can say it does not affect him, for. what injures the body politic injures every member.	,	.
What shall we say of the Church? Placed on earth to save men;, planted hear the home to assist it in the formation of the good man and the true citizen, where does it meet with difficulties ? where does it find the greatest—yes, the mostinsurmounta-bleobstacle? In Intemperance, which neutralizes its,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. . io L S
efforts, paralyzes its energy, disgraces its garments. It alone defies God, renders the Blood of Jesus Christ valueless, places a barrier between sin and grace which not even the almighty power of God can remove, for it destroys the will; and God, who made us without bur will, does not save us unless in our co-operation. The strong words of the Plenary Council of Baltimore tell us the cry of agony from the heart of the Church against this plague.
This is an age of organization. On every side men band together for mutual relief, for political ambition and for good or evil designs. Did ever men have greater reason for organization than that given by the dangers of Intemperance? Shall we not band together to battle the giant, to defend our homes and our manhood against their arch-enemy? Our Union, based upon the great cardinal principle of Temperance, urges men to the Gospel counsel of Total Abstinence, and bids them enter the ranks of the Temperance Crusaders, and save the Holy Land from a tyranny worse than that of the Moslem. This Union is Catholic, and in the warfare against evil, it teaches not to rely upon man, but upon God. It gathers you to the altar; it encircles you with the network of the divine economy; it opens to you the treasures of Heaven; it strengthens you with the Blood of the Saviour; it warns you against the heretical teachings of sectaries who make a religion of Temperance. It tells you that Temperance is not the moral code, but only one of the many virtues you should practise; that the pledge is not a charm, but an aid; that it is not cowardice, but true courage. Men may sneer at you, call you hypocrites and fanatics. These names are not new; this scorn is as old as virtue. All men who labpr against an evil, all men who denounce a great wrong, all men who struggle for the renovation of society must expect the hatreds of men whose lives are not in sympathy with them.
Brother Delegates, we are on hallowed ground, beneath these shades of. learning, within the walls of the great University whence go forth men armed for the battle of life—educators, teachers, reformers. May we not catch inspiration from these surroundings? Are you not educators, teachers, apostles, commissioned to educate and evangelize, spreading the gospel of total abstinence everywhere? Reform is the want of the hour—reform in politics, reform in State, reform in public life. You are reformers, not self-constituted, but under the guidance of the only true reformers, to whom alone the Saviour said: “ Go, teach all nations.” To vou society may look for relief in her contest against political dishonesty and impurity. To you labor in its great battle should extend a friendly hand, for Temperance is labor’s best friend.
May your deliberations here be blessed by God and men! May the Church find in them assistance in her great work! Be men; have courage. Be true, to your principles . and you wal be men. Character, which is the badge of manhood, will be built, upon solid foundations. Be unflinching in your.fight against the saloon which threatens your
home. Have no compact with Belial, have no ah >	: ? ,
liance with evil. Intemperance is a curse: woo.it : not. Intemperance is a plague: shun it. The saloon -that breeds it is the nursery of evil: raise your hand; • against it. Cling closely to the Church, frequent	'N?
the Sacraments and have recourse to prayer. And -your life in Temperance will pass in God’s love, and :	.
when you pass away to God, men will say: “ He had courage: he was a true man.”	'
- ■
After Mass a parade of the visiting societies took place in the presence of an immense throng. Rev. M. P. Fallize acted as Grand Marshal, and . with the Cecilia Band of South Bend at their head, the St. Michael Pioneer Corps of Philadelphia, the St. Jo-eph Society and St. Anthony Cadets of Kalamazoo, the St. Joseph Society, St. Cecilia, and Cadets of South Bend, marched in procession through the College grounds. The fine appearance of the Pioneer Corps attracted the attention of all, and the military precision with which the various movements of marching and counter-marching were executed elicited universal admiration..
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The C. T. A. U. and others interested in the . cause assembled in goodly numbers at Music Hall/' at 2 p.m., and, after the opening prayer, the worthy :	>
President, Rev. James M. Cleary, of Kenosha,, Wis., made his annual report, which contained, valuable statistics, words of cheer, and good sug-J	'	O	_O	' -
gestions as to the future progress of the work. The report will appear in our next number.
The reading of the report was frequently interrupted by approving applause, and very hearty was the applause at its close.	.	-
•After the report had been read, the reports of the various societies in the United States and Do-	-
minion of Canada were given by representatives ■. ■ from the different sections, and from almost every	<
direction came tidings of advancement in the great
__	o	.
cause of Total Abstinence. The reports were in- -tcresting, contained many valuable points, and ,	-
were very frequently applauded.
Rev. President Cleary then introduced Mayor Loughman, of South Bend, who made an address .	,
of welcome, which was well received. .	. . . .' ; ‘Y
A motion was made that the delegates from	..
Connecticut and New York be allowed to castthe : Y full vote of those States, even in the absence.of the .. - . general delegates from those States. After remarks,' .	.
the motion was unanimously adopted. The follow/	..	• <
ing auditing committee was appointed by the chair:. . I . Dr. H. Rodman, Louisville; James' B. Stimpson, -Alabama; W. A. Wallace, Chicago; John John-sonj Indiana; D. C. Connolly, Scranton, Pa- One	;-’/.i//’
member from each union was directed to be se- 'L lected from the subordinate unions, to act as com-mittee on constitutional amendments and another - ~ J on resolutions. . Those of detached societies were ■ /UY’ ' directed to be selected alternately for the: two • ’•?/// // committees. This was accordingly done. The .	:
President announced that the delegates had invited to take lunch at St.. Mary’^Academ^^^^ ■ Thursday at i p.-m. Worcester; Mass./Jnrougi/ ^
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
its representative, invited the National C. T. A. U. Convention to meet there next year. A Philadelphia representative set forth the advantages and .claims of Philadelphia. He promised to entertain from 800 to 1000 delegates. Savannah’s claims were also presented, as was that of Columbus, Ohio. Montgomery, Ala., extended a cordial invitation for the meeting there. The time for further invitations was, on motion, declared to have expired.
An announcement was made by the President that a solemn Requiem Mass for the deceased members would be celebrated at 8 a. m. Thursday.
The Convention then adjourned until after Mass on Thursday.
EVENING EXERCISES.
The delegates having partaken of supper in the University ref ecto ry, the time until 8. o’clock was taken up in social converse or looking about the beautiful grounds under the radiance of electrical illumination. Elbel’s Orchestra, of South Bend, put in appearance about 7.30 o’clock, and when the large audience assembled in Music Hall at 8 o’clock, the exercises were opened with a delightful selection by that fine body of musicians.
Father Conaty, of Worcester, Mass., called the . meeting to order in the enforced absence of the President, Father Cleary, and in very complimentary terms introduced Very Reverend Father General Sorin, whom he called the “Patriarch of the West.” The venerable Father stepped forward amid great applause and made a brief and interesting address, recounting his early experiences in founding Notre Dame, and in conclusion bidding all welcome.
Archbishop Elder, of Cincinnati, was then introduced, and was very cordially received as the eminent friend of the cause of Total Abstinence. He spoke of the pleasure he felt in being present at the Convention, after which he dwelt at length upon the relations of the Catholic total abstinence societies to the Church. He remarked that the Total Abstinence movement would be a power for good in the Church. He alluded to the duty of a citizen in politics and the responsibility of the right of franchise; setting forth the practical application of the counsel of the Holy Father in his Encyclical on the Christian Constitution of States.
Father McCoy, of Worcester, Mass., was next introduced, and made a telling speech; then came an address from Father Elcock, of Philadelphia, whose remarks were most forcible and pointed. Mn M. J. Dooner, President of the Savannah, Ga., Union, was then called upon, and made a few brief remarks which were roundly applauded. Father Corrigan, of Hoboken, N. J., was then called on and made a rousing speech that took the crowd by storm. Father Corrigan knows how to please an audience. Mr. J. G. Fennessy, of Boston, next made a brief and telling address, and was followed by Mr. H. J. Desmond, of Milwaukee, who made quite a lengthy speech. T. B. Catherwood, of Savannah, Ga., gave an account of the Temperance work in Georgia. Rev. John Shanley, of St. Paul, made a few remarks that; were applauded most generously. The condition of the Temperance
cause in St. Paul and Minneapolis was dwelt upon by the reverend gentleman. Rev. Father Weich-man, of Anderson, was then called out, after which Mr. John H. Campbell, of Philadelphia, closed the speech-making with a short and telling address.
Thanks were returned to the audience by the Vice-President for the kind attention given to the exercises of the evening, and then the audience dispersed to the music of Elbel’s orchestra.
THURSDAY MORNING, at half-past eight o’clock, solemn Mass of Requiem for the deceased members of the Union was celebrated by Rev. J. D. Bowles, of Fremont, Ohio, assisted by Rev. J. A. Fanning, of Ohio, Ill., and Rev. R. F. Hannigan, of Philadelphia, as deacon and subdeacon. Most Rev. Archbishop Elder was present in the sanctuary.
At 10 o’clock the Convention re-assembled in Music Hall. Father Cleary being unwell, VicePresident Conaty presided.
Father Conaty took occasion to call attention to a matter of some interest to Catholics generally, viz., the entire absence of Catholic chaplains from the service of the army and navy. He had been lately told by John Boyle O’Reilly, of Boston, that the commander of the man-of-war Wabash had said he had a ship all Catholic with no chaplain of their own faith. Father Conaty urged that something be done to supply this deficiency, entreating Congress if necessary to secure the appointment of some Catholic chaplains. There is just one Catholic chaplain in the army and none in the navy, while the percentage of Catholics in both arms of the government service was very large. The matter was referred to the executive council of the union.
-On motion of Mr. J. H. Desmond, of Milwaukee, it was ordered that arrangements be made for the reading, at future Conventions, of three papers on the practical methods of Temperance work.
The Treasurer, Rev. J. D. Bowles,' of Ohio, presented his annual report, showing a balance in the treasury of $210.
After an animated discussion, it was decided to hold the next Annual Convention in Philadelphia, on the first Wednesday of August, 1887. Right Rev. John Ireland, D. D., Bishop of St. Paul, entered the Convention, and was received with great applause. The Bishop made an encouraging address. After transaction of routine business the Convention adjourned to St. Mary’s Academy, where they partook of an excellent banquet, served by the Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy -Cross. The delegates- afterwards visited the many attractions of St. Mary’s, and were all highly pleased with the visit.
AFTERNOON,
At 3 o’clock, the Convention re-assembled, and the Auditory Committee, the Committees on Constitutional Amendments and on Resolutions made their reports. '
. The last-named Committee through its chairman, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., reported the following:
RESOLUTIONS.
We, the members of the Catholic Total Abstinence
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
2i
Union of America, assembled at Notre Dame University, Indiana, in our Sixteenth Annual Convention give as reason for our presence here and for our existence as an organization, a hatred of Intemperance and a determination to use all the means at our command to destroy the evil.
We once more affirm our conviction that the abuse of intoxicating liquors is subversive of morality, destructive of manhood, inimical to education and religion, productive of crime, poverty, misery and wretchedness,—in short, debasing in all its effects and deplorable in all its results.
Desiring as we do to see Catholics throughout our beloved Republic take the honorable and leading rank in sobriety, morality and good citizenship to which the teaching of our Holy Mother the Church so constantly directs them, we are persuaded that total abstinence and absolute freedom from all participation in the liquor traffic will powerfully aid in realizing this blessed consummation.
Resolved, That we are deeply grateful to the Fathers of the Council of Baltimore for their words of approval and encouragement. Their injunctions it shall always be our earnest effort to obey, and our fondest hope is that we shall never cease to deserve their cordial support. Their direction and co-operation shall always be to us the pledge and assurance that we are laboring in the proper spirit and with the proper methods to do the good work which they, even more than we, have at heart to see perfected.
We are of opinion that the indiscriminate sale of strong drink is an evil not less grievous than common drunkenness itself in the guilt and responsibility which it entails. It is, therefore, to us a sincere cause of congratulation and rejoicing that the Fathers of the Council, in the light of the divine Wisdom by which they were guided, and in the exercise of a most solicitous regard for the welfare, morality, religious faith and happiness of the people, so unmistakably and emphatically placed the ban and seal of disapproval upon the liquor traffic, and directed Catholics to a higher plane of labor and a nobler sphere of Christian manliness and civil usefulness than the demoralizing avocations of saloon-keeping and liquor-dealing.
Resolved, That as in the seed is the hope of the barest, and in the young of our people is the promise of tomorrow’s temperance work, we recommend the formation and support of boys’ organizations. The study of the best means whereby they may be brought together, and held by cords of common interest, should be a marked feature of our work.
Resolved, That we deeply deplore the way in which the laws relative to the selling- of intoxicating drinks on Sundays, to minors, and to those addicted to drunkenness, are defiantly violated, and we earnestly exhort all the people of our land to show their true American spirit in their zeal for the observance of order and their heartfelt abhorrence of social crime by doing all in their power to co-operate with us in enforcing the said laws in all their rigor and integrity.
Resolved, That, to carry out the spirit of the recent Papal Encyclical on the “ Christian Constitution of States,” we should exact a high standard of character in those public servants who are elected as our representatives, and especially should we endeavor to range Catholics everywhere in the front ranks of all reform movements aiming to secure that pure state of political morality, which is the safeguard of a people’s liberties.
Resolved, That we extend to the Irish people our heartfelt sympathies in their struggle for constitutional rights and wish them God-speed.
Resolved, That our thanks go forth to the press of the country for the unfailing support it has given our cause.
Resolved, That we have learned, with sincere regret, the death, since our last annual Convention, of Rev. Father Mulholland, who was for many years an energetic and efficient officer of our Union.
Resolved, That we tender our sincere thanks to the Very Rev. Superior and the Fathers of Notre Dame University for the kindly and generous treatment received at their hands, to Most Rev. Archbishop Elder and Bishop Gilmour for their presence and support, to Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland for his constantand powerful aid, to thegood Sisters for the substantial entertainment furnished us, and to-all. who have furthered the pleasant success of this Convention.
The Resolutions were unanimously adopted.
A Committee on Transportation to Convention was appointed; Rev. A. A. Lambing, of Pennsylvania, J. G. Fennessy, of Boston, and H. J. Maguire, of Chicago, were appointed as the Committee for the ensuing year.
Archbishop Elder and Bishop Ireland again visited the Convention, and made strong addresses.
Bishop Irel2\.nd
in his address said that he wished to be known as most heartily in sympathy with the Total Abstinence cause. Intemperance had been an evil to the Catholic Church. Too many Catholics were in the saloon business and too many of that faith were indulgers in strong drink. These National Total Abstinence Conventions had shown to the world that the Catholic Church was opposed to the liquor traffic and was on the side of Temperance. The movement toward securing the approval of the Total Abstinence cause by the Third PlenaryCouncil, at Baltimore, began at the National C. T. A. U. Convention at Chicago. The highest approbation had been extended by the Church to the Total Abstinence movement. The clergy of the Church should now be identified with the cause for which they were here assembled. Those who say that the C. T. A. U. Convention was going too far in Total Abstinence, could well be reminded that if that were true the highest authorities in the Church were going too far. When the Papal ablegate, M..Straniero, had lately visited St. Paul, he at once expressed the deepest interest in the Total Abstinence movement, and said it was looked upon at Rome as the great one for the salvation of souls. Moreover, though there was no limitation of nationality about this union, it was the duty of Irishmen, in and out of it, to show the world the Irishman was capable of self-government. A new era for the Irish race was dawning, and that for which an Irishman scarcely even dared to hope was about to open up before them in all the glory of full realization. The hope of Ireland was in America, therefore we must show to the American people that the Irish race was worthy of their confidence. The best way to do that was to become teetotalers and place themselves under the standard of law and order. That the Irish people, in this country were not identified with the recent disturbances in the great centres of our country might well be ascribed to the Temperance work among them. © - ’
The Bishop then indorsed the lecture feature of the Total Abstinence Union, and favored sending out these lecturers—first-class men—who should be supplied with the highest order of Tern-, perance literature. This would bring about more good in one year than other means.would accomplish in ten. There was no difficulty in securing the money; many would give hundreds and even thousands of dollars, if proper effort was made. A fund of $7,000 should be had. He would help to raise that money himself [loud applause], and was here to bring about the plans as detailed. Tie wanted the entire credit for all this work to perch on the banners of the Total Abstinence Union. Let-
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
every effort be made to lessen the evils of Intemperance. Let every man become a model of a good citizen. There was not enough care used in the exercise of the ballot. They must learn to ignore party lines and vote for true men. Too many total abstainers pay too little attention to the way in which they cast their votes, and thereby their influence was cast in favor of the liquor traffic. They must vote for true, manly representatives of law, order and sobriety. They should do all in their power to restrict the abuses of the liquor traffic. It would not do to be teetotalers at home and in favor of Intemperance abroad. They could not be teetotalers
Father Cleary has now been elected for the fourth time; the Vice-President has served several terms; the Treasurer has had his ninth election, while the Secretary is now on his seventh term in that office. All returned their thanks, and gave assurances of their great interest in the work and their intention to do their full duty. Each election of an officer provoked loud applause from the delegates, which is a sufficient assurance of the high standing of the various officers in the eves of the delegates.
The various delegations were then called upon to select their Provincial Vice-Presidents, and a
The Seniors’ Campus.
as individuals and their influence be cast in favor of Intemperance as citizens. Especially did he urge that the proposed lecture and literary bureau feature of the Union should be entered into at once.
When Bishop Ireland closed, there was long continued applause, and a unanimous rising vote of thanks was tendered to the Right Reverend speaker.
The delegates then proceeded to the election of officers for the ensuing year. On motion the Secretary, or Assistant-Secretary, was authorized to cast the unanimous vote of the Convention for the’reelection of all the old officers of the Union. The following are the officers elected: Rev. J. M. Cleary, of Kenosha, Wis., President; Rev. T. J. Conaty, of Worcester, Mass., Vice-President; Rev. J. D. Bowles, of Fremont, Ohio, Treasurer; Philip A. Nolan, of Philadelphia, Secretary.
recess was given for that purpose. The following were selected for the various provinces: Balt-more—M.J.Dooner, of Savannah; Boston—Jeri-miah G. Fennessy, of Boston; Chicago—Hugh J. McGuire, of Chicago; Milwaukee—H. J. Desmond, of Milwaukee; Philadelphia—Daniel M. Campbell, of Scranton, Pa.; New York—Robert Wilson, of New York City.
Father Cotter, of Winona, Minn., here stepped forward and recounted the great work he had performed in the cause of Total Abstinence. He had held seventy-three meetings, principally in Ohio, Indiana,New York, Minnesota, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Massachusetts. He reported that the net results for the past year were 22,732 pledges over and above all renewals. He had remained in the work much longer than he had expected on account of the great amount of
rrn NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	23
labor that was to be performed, and because there were none to volunteer to relieve him. He found universal encouragement in the effort. The people wanted lecturers and total abstinence literature. They wanted the lecturer to be an organizer, and only a faithful effort on the part of the Union was needed to make the ’ work a grand success. He suggested that where one night was devoted to a lecture, two nights should be given to organ-ization. The work of the lecturer should be not only to show the evils of Intemperance, but to put the Union and its work in a proper light before the people. There was no better way than to send out lecturers as missionaries. He thanked the Convention most heartily for the interest it had shown in the cause.
A unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Father Cotter.
The Convention then adjourned to meet at Philadelphia the first Wednesday in August, 1887.
Local Items-
—Temperance is the word.
—Fennessy got a base hit.
—Hurrah for Philadelphia!
—Success to the noble cause.
—Worcester is a good second.
—Father Hannigan takes the cake.
—Another Scholastic next week.
—Philadelphia came nobly to the front.
—How do you like the pictorial number?
—The Convention was a pronounced success.
—If you give us a little substantial boom, we shall get some more illustiations.
—Two or three light showers were very agree-able incidentals to the Convention.
— Our friend John maintains a studied reserve. Wonder if he has gone to the sea-shore.
—The continual dry weather takes nothing from the brilliancy of the beautiful flowers in St. Edward’s Park.
—Prof. John P. Lauth,’68, Principal of Lauth’s Academy, Chicago, was a welcome visitor to the College last week.
—The list of delegates to the Convention, the letters received, and items relating to St. Mary’s Academy will appear next week.
—Rev. Father O’Brien, of Kalamazoo, Mich., arrived on Wednesday with a delegation two hundredstrong. Good for Kalamazoo!
—The Curator of the Cabinet of Natural History returns thanks to friends at St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, for valuable specimens received.
—When the train bearing the Pioneer Corps was leaving the depot in South Bend, the Boys gave three rousing cheers for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
—Bro. Simon’s men have been busy rooting up sand burrs from the northeast corner of the Jun
iors’ campus and covering the whole with a layer of earth.
—Among the welcome visitors last week was ©
Rev. L. I. Brancheau, of Newport, Mich., who spent a few days at Notre Dame visiting relatives and friends.
—Truly Philadelphia is the city of Brotherly Love. We are sure that the Convention to be held there next year will be the grandest ever held by the Union.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Ryan, of Buffalo, was just about to board the train to attend the Convention when unexpected and urgent business obliged him to remain at home.
—All regretted that Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour,, of Cleveland, though present at Notre Dame, was prevented by illness from attending the sessions of the C. T. A. Union.
—The associated press did not give the Notre Dame meeting of the C. T. A. societies any adequate notice. Special correspondents must come high.—Miltvaukee Citizen.
©
—Carpenters are at work vaulting the ceiling of the gymnasium with beautiful woodwork. This will be finished in shellac and varnished the walls will he frescoed a light cream color, with a wainscotting of terra cotta.
©
—His Grace of Cincinnati, Most Rev. Mgr. Elder, expressed in the highest terms his appreciation of the valuable collection in the Ecclesiastical Museum, and gave his blessing to all interesting themselves in the work.
—The wooden steps which heretofore led to the front entrances of the study-halls and the Music Hall, have been replaced by handsome iron structures, both useful and ornamental. The canine pillars are an attractive feature.
—Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., was one of the most welcome of vacation visitors. He was warmly greeted by his old friends, all of whom regretted that circumstances prevented him from prolonging his stay. We hope he will visit us soon again.
—Mr. M. I. J. Griffin, of the I. C. B.U. Journal, of Philadelphia, was the guest of the Director of the Historical Department during the Convention. Mr. Griffin availed himself of the opportunity to examine the many old books and pamphlets in the Library.
—Thursday evening the delegates and the Boys of the Pioneer Corps gave an impromptu concert in one of the parlors of the University. The songs sung by Rev. P. Corrigan, of Jersey City, Mr. Wilson, of New York, and Messrs. Reilly, Madden and Nugent, of Philadelphia, were particularly admired.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Ireland was so much pleased with Gregori’s portrait of Mgr. Cretin, the first Bishop of St. Paul, which he saw in the Bishop’s Gallery, that he ordered a similar one to be painted for the Episcopal residence in St. Paul. He also ordered a portrait of Mgr. Grace, the second incumbent of the See.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Among the press reports of the Convention, that of the South Bend Tinies was the most complete. This enterprising journal gave a detailed account of the proceedings of each session and published the President’s report in full. The InterOcean, of Chicago, also gave an extended report of the proceedings of both days.
—The biennial retreat of the priests of the diocese of Ft. Wayne will begin here on Monday next. The sermons will be preached in the Church of the Sacred Heart. After the retreat, a Synod will be held, presided over by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, when the formal promulgation of the decrees of the Plenary Council .will be made.
—Before leaving the University, the members of the Junior Pioneer Corps, of Philadelphia, presented a complete uniform of their organization to . Prof. Edwards for himself as a souvenir of their visit to Notre Dame. The Captain generously gave his own uniform and sword and the Company Standard as a contribution to the Historical Museum.
—Among the visiting clergymen at the Convention was the Rev. S. S. Mattingly, of the Staff of the Catholic Columbian, and Rector of St. James’s Church, McConnellsville, Ohio. Father Mattingly is a genial gentleman, an accomplished journalist and a learned and zealous priest. He made many friends during his visit, which we hope he will find time to repeat soon and often. .
—On Friday evening, the members of St. Michael’s Pioneer Corps were entertained in the Juniors’ reception-rooms. Rev. Father Regan and Prof. Edwards acted as hosts. Prof. Paul presided at the piano and Bro. Lawrence served a collation to the guests. The Boys, to the regret of all, took their departure Saturday noon. Before leaving the College portals, they sang with great feeling “The Good-Bye at the Door”; and while the carriages rolled down the grand avenue they broke forth into “ Home Again.”
—The General Chapter of the entire Congre-- gation of Holy Cross will open at Notre Dame tomorrow (Sunday), Aug.15, and will, it is expected, continue its sessions for ten days. This General Chapter, which meets every, six years, is composed of the Very Rev. Superior-General and his assistants, together with representatives of the provinces of the Order throughout the world. ■ The meeting is always an important event in the life of . the Community, the history of the Order being carefully scrutinized and regulations made for its future conduct. .	.	. J . . .... -
—Bro. Frederick - and a capable , assistant have been actively engaged for the past few weeks in the work of.gilding; the grand Dome on the M ain Building. More than one half is at: the. present. writing completed, and a few days more will see the vyhole work accomplished. Eyen as it is, the glistening Dome in the light of the orb of day presents a most brilliant spectacle to the: travellers on our
■. 'raiLroads' as they draw near to; South' Bend, aiid to the Jobserver £'verywhere ‘for •miles around. The;
’ desigmwas indeed, happily5 conceived and is Being' most artistically executed. . . ‘	= .
—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., of the Faculty of the University, left last Wednesday for Austin, Texas, where he will be engaged in parochial duties. Father Toohey, during his stay at Notre Dame, proved himself an affable and efficient officer and professor, and his departure, which was universally, regretted, has left a va’cancy which it will be hard to fill. But, no doubt, his new sphere of action will give occasion for the exercise to greater advantage of the manifold accomplishments with
’ which he is gifted. His numerous friends wish him God-speed and success.
—President Walsh and his co-laborers at Notre Dame have given the visiting delegates a very ' high opinion of their abilities as entertainers. The large number of delegates were taken care of in fine style and without any apparent extra effort. They were magnificently and gracefully entertained, and reluctantly departed from the grand institution of learning, the extent of which was beyond the most sanguine expectations of the visiting delegates. We feel sure that no member of the Convention would regret coming back to hospitable and beautiful Notre Dame next year.—South Bend Times.	.
—The Junior Pioneer Corps of St. Michael’s Parish, Philadelphia, delighted all at Notre Dame by their gentlemanly behavior and truly Christian deportment. In the exhibition drills which they gave both here and at St. Mary’s they showed remarkable proficiency in the execution of the various foot movements and manual of arms. They presented a fine appearance in their brilliant Zouave uniforms and gleaming battle axes. Their pastor and parents may well feel proud of the representatives that they sent to the West. The organization is composed of the following young gentlemen:
Commissioned:—-Thos. Downey, Captain; J. Black, 1st Lieutenant; J. McQuaid, 2d Lieutenant. Non-Commissioned:- J. H. Smith, 1st Sergeant; J. Mulherron, 2d Sergeant; J. McConn, 3d Sergeant. Privates :—J. M. Ryder, Jos. Dailey, Ed. Dooley, J. McKeever, W. Fay, E. Stapleton, W. Bannon, Thos. Bannon, J. McKoe, F. McKoe, E. Worthington, H. .McCaffray, J. Madden, J. Broukin, W. Smith, J. Smith, M. Quinn, W. Ruhl, J. Rodgers, J. Nugent, Thos. Shea, J. Riley, J. McGrath, M. Kelly, J. Murphy, C. Harbisson.	-	.	.
—Two very interesting games of baseball were ; played on Thursday. ■ and Friday afternoons, last | week, between the visiting Pioneer Cadets of Phila-	5
.delphia and the “Atlantics ” of Notre Dame. Both games, were well contested, and were witnessed by a large crowd. The first, game resulted in favor of the “Atlantics,” with the following , Score by .Innings:—1 2 -3' 4. 5 6 7 8 9
Atlantics:—1 0-2 .0' 1 3 1 2 *=10
. .	. Cadets :—o p . o f o ; i 5 1 o 0=7 .
. The. second .game, on Fridayjwas even more close and exciting, both clubs putting in some very fine work.. The following is the	,
Score by. Innings :—1 234 56789
.	Cadets:—i . o 3 o ;o 2 ; 0 1 1=8
;	Atlaxtics:-o o 1 1 11 01 0=5	.
Messrs. Daly, Smith,.McKee, and Shea of the visitors, and Rose, Becerra and Murphy of the ; home'team, deserve,particular mention for their < effective work both at the Bai: and in the field?	i