Mn Ideal Gift for or by an 1\. D. Man
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame
WALDEMAR GURIAN, Editor
THOMAS T. McAVOY, FRANK O’MALLEY, Managing Editors
Typical articles of vital and lasting interest:
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
BACKGROUNDS OF MODERN CULTURE
H. Butterfield,
Mary Bromage,
M. A. Fitzsimons,
The Tragic Element in Modern International Conflict De Valera’s Formula for Irish Nationhood
Britain and the Middle East: 1944-1950
Hannah Arendt, Alfred Cobban, Alois Dcmpf,
The Imperialist Character
An Age of Revolutionary Wars: Historical Parallels
The Significance of Medieval Intellectual Culture
Waldemar Gurian,
From Lenin to Stalin
Stephen Kertesz,
Hans Morgenthau,
Interplay of Soviet and Western Politics in Post War Hungary
World-Politics in the Mid-Twentieth Century
Robert M. Hutchins, The Theory of State: Edmund Burke
Robert Strausz-Hupc, U. S. Foreign Policy and the Balance of Power
N. S. Timasheff,
The Strength and Weakness of the Soviet Union
Hans Kohn, Yves Simon, Eric Voegelin. Luigi Sturzo,
Romanticism and the Rise of German Na ionalism
The Secret Sources of the Racist Ideology
The Formation of the Marxian Revolutionary Idea
The Philosophic Background of Christian Democracy
AMERICAN
CIVILIZATION
RELIGIOUS APPROACHES TO MODERN SOCIETY
Aaron I. Abell,
Origins of Catholic Social Reform in the United States
Robert B. Dishman,
Mr. Justice White and the Rule of Reason
Peter F. Drucker,
A Key to American Politics: Calhoun’s Pluralism
I. M. Bochenski.
Jean Danielou, Otto Karrcr,
On Soviet Philosophy
Marxist History and Sacred History
Newman and the Spiritual Crisis of the Occident
Thomas T. McAvoy,
The Catholic Minority in American Culture
Robert McCloskey,
American Conservatism and the Democratic Tradition
John U. Nef,	The University of Chicago and the World, 1929-1951
Clinton Rossiter,
The Political Philosophy of Franklin D. Roosevelt
Marshall Smelscr,
The Jacobin Phrenzy: Federalism and the Menace of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity
Jacques Maritain, Frank O’Malley, Josef Pieper,
Heinrich Rommen.
Leo R. Ward,
The Person and the Common Good
The Wasteland of William Blake
The Serial Meaning of Leisure in the Modern World
Church and State
Humanism and the Religious Question
WALTER LIPPMANN says: “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.”
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK
To the Editors of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS Notre Dame, Indiana
Please enter my subscription to THE REVIEW OF POLITICS for.......... year(s), at $4.00 per year.
Name ...............................................................
Street..............................................................
City...........................   Zone...;.. State..................
□ Check enclosed	□ Please bill me
The Scholastic
Some fellows
may stick io the
Editor:
...but everybody else wants
Van Heusen’s
new short round collar shirt
Van Ron
Van Heusen’s new round collar lets you make the rounds from campus to city—and no change needed. Yes, the Van Ron is the perfect all-day, all-evening, all-occasion shirt. Its smart short round collar sets off anv tie, wows any girl with its natural look, flatters your face with its perfect fit. Van Heusen’s new Van Ron comes in white, colors and stripes . . . single and French cuffs ... broadcloth and that old college favorite, oxford.
$3.95 and $4.50
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Oct. 31, 1952
As an alumnus of the Scholastic staff I am always reluctant to write “a letter to the Editor.” But for the good of the University, and the Foundation program which is one of my responsibilities, I must call your attention to a slightly misconstrued story in the Oct. 24 issue, page 15, on the building program.
In 1948, the University, through the newly organized Foundation, launched a 10-year, $25,000,000 program, of which some needed buildings were a part. At the end of Father John Cavanaugh’s term of office, four years along on this 10-year program, the University had, -through generous benefactions and the annual giving of alumni and friends, secured $10,000,000 — about $8,000,000 in gifts and $2,000,000 in government and industrial grants for research.
It is probably not unreasonable for the students who were conscious of the “Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund,” last year, which was an intensive effort to finance the utilities program described in your story, to think that it marked the end of something. It was the end of Father Cavanaugh’s presidency and leadership of the Foundation program as president, but it was only the beginning of the 10-year program. .
And the 10-year program is only the beginning of a continuous development program which Notre Dame, like all colleges and universities, particularly the private schools, must have to give to the students the progress and the quality of education they assume when they enroll here.
Buildings are only a part of the long- -range program, which includes funds for special faculty such as visiting lecturers, funds for learned publications and the expansion of the several libraries, funds for additional scholarships and fellowships to help students meet the necessary rising costs, and funds for the general endowment, which at Notre Dame is extremely low for the nature of our school.	'
It would be a constructive contribution to our program, as the students can interpret it to parents and friends, if you would correct this impression of a program “ended.” In the bright lexicon of fund-raising, there is no such word as end.	’
James E. Armstrong,	,
Executive Vice-Chairman ?
Notre Dame Foundation '

WIBli Mike Chatter

EATON'S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing mistakes can be erased without smear, smudge or smooich
You're all hit and no errors with this wonder paperl You're the classroom precisionist, the faculty pride. Just make like a magician: with a quick flick of your pencil eraser your mistakes vanish without smudge or scar — type over erasures without leaving a clue. Use Eaton's Corrasable Bond and the papers you turn in will be precise, proud and perfect (that never hurt anybody's grades!)
Available in 100-sheei packets and boxes of 500 sheets in coiled weights ioi all youx needs.
FIND THIS HARD TO BELIEVE?
Come in foi a demonstration or to make your own test.
only Eaton makes Corrasable Bond
Notre Dame Bookstore
The big news this week seems to be about the old-timers at the station who have gone on to bigger and better things this year. For instance, the old team of “Chazz and Jack” is together again, now working for our favorite uncle’s Marine Corps. Not much room there for Randy Cornball, though. Tom Finn was up before Saturday’s game with N. C. to report on things at WSPD in Toledo, and Lamont McLaughlin is still nearby, at WHOT in South Bend. The Army has “Edward R.” Klein in the M. P. division. And I understand that Vince Doyle- is still with WJVA.
WNDU, as all other campus activities has a faculty moderator. In our case it is the University’s Director of Radio, Mr. Jerome A. Fallon. Mr. Fallon has been the moderator of WNDU for the past three years, the years of greatest expansion for the station. Mr. Fallon’s job with the station is not one of day to day managing, but rather one of suggesting and inaugurating long range policies and plans, helping us in our relations with the University in its various departments, and lending a helping hand whenever the students on the station let it get away with them.
Mr. Fallon’s position as Director of Radio entails more than WNDU. He is the supervisor of all broadcasting on the campus. Included in this is the production of programs that go outside the campus on various stations in the state, as the “Dateline — Notre Dame” series. These shows for other stations are mostly educational.
Going into the radio business after graduation looks better- and better all the time. Last week when Stevenson came out to the campus I, had a chance to watch the professional pressmen in action behind the scenes. On the bus they were all served breakfast while they went from the station to the campus, and I understand that more potent refreshments are served when the hour grows a little later. No work seems to be involved. They are given mimeographed copies of everything the governor will say or do hours before he does it. And they say that Eisenhower’s train is even easier on the troops. I put my bid in for one ticket on the next tour.
“Goodnight all.”
—Bryan Coughlin
4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
found power and confusion. But with most of us resigned to the fact that neither Ike nor Adlai is going to keep us out of the draft, we have noted a slight hint of seriousness about this election business.
The Week, however, will continue to support Pogo to the bitter end.
Lyon's Roar	'
Top of the Week
The Student Trip . . .
Gad, What Drama
Betty Davis may win a few more Oscars, and The Chicago Tribune may keep on telling us that Marilyn Monroe is a great, great “actress;” but we of Walsh hall feel that it will be several decades
before we witness anything to equal the dramatic performance of that talented young man who pushed a peanut from Walsh to Sorin last Saturday with his nose.
This event, which was the first attraction of the fourth
floor Walsh concert and lecture series,
had been announced via some well-word
stately old chateau have been pulling off such capers to the enjoyment of all. It makes all our visitors think we’re genuine college boys exhibiting genuine collegiate craziness. And for all we know, that might be a good thing for everyone concerned.
Men of Sorin, men of Walsh, we salute you! The whole campus wait in frantic anticipation for whatever exhibitions you might have in store for the next home game.
Enee-menee-miny-mo
Despite the recent activities of Senator Joe McCarthy, some people don’t think the country has really gone to the dogs and will go to the polls next Tuesday. A lot of us who have finally reached that votable age are bubbling over with an uncomfortable mixture of new-
What to do with a nickel when thirst arrives
As we sit punching out this nonsense, the men of Lyons hall are throwing a big banquet of some description in Zig-gy’s Grand Ballroom. Secret word has reached us that the principal speaker for the evening will be General George, the sweet little white-haired mart who directs all operations in the West dining hall.
Munching loudly on their Sunday evening frankfurters, the boys make a soulstirring picture in their tuxedos, stiff shirts and what-not. While we’re at it, we might as well salute the’ men of Lyons too.
With such goings-on, a body’s liable to think this a college, or something.
Bottom of the Week
_____to Cleveland, a city somewhere in Ohio.
ed bulletins and summoned a huge audience. Donations from cheering passer-bys amounted to a well-earned $6.71. Al Gazoortz, All-American half-back from the South Bend College of Commerce, acted as official referee. Rumor has it, however, that Al was in reality one of those jesting chaps from the fourth floor of Walsh and that perhaps he was a bit lenient in umpiring the feat. Contributions of Vaseline or other soothing medications would be appreciated by the performer, as well as his
somso uNOtt Mnwotmr or no eoc**cou commnv »v
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
nose.	-
The Week sends you its Academy Award (a large jar of Skippy peanut butter) for a fine performance, lads.
Go Sorin!
From all reports the Sorin student trip was a great success too. With official student trip badges dangling from their manly chests, the great horde marched noisily to the stadium, leaving in their wake a trampled assortment of small children and old ladies. In the process of their trek, they spelled out S-O-R-I-N in unison, no less than 58 times. A few cynics from other upperclass halls claim that even without the cheers and badges there would be no difficulty in detecting from whence this group came.
However, nobody is sneering at the Sorinites. For years the inmates of the
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
“Rosie's.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Oct. 31, 1952
Placement News
OCTOBER 31
ST. MARY’S SIDING (4:01 p.m.)—The inevitable tardy few will be running to catch up with the Student Trip Special, as the train gathers steam for Cleveland, the Navy game, and three days of freedom.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:15 and 8:35 p.m.)—In what was once a John Steinbeck story, Viva Zapata!, Marlon Brando (on screen for the full 113 minutes) portrays the life and death of a Mexican patriot.
CARTER HOTEL, CLEVELAND (9 p.im till everybody drops) — If the troops on the trip remember to bring their ID cards and a buck, a rare-type pep rally is in store for them — with dancing, refreshments, and stout and staunch Irish alumnus Jack Lavelle as emcee.
RIVER PARK (Halloween show)—Abbott & Costello in Who Done It and Claude Rains in the Invisible Man. Recommended for dates.
PALACE (through Nov. 5)—Marilyn Monroe tries to lure Cary Grant from Ginger Rogers in the appropriately titled Monkey Business (B). The minority who don’t like Marilyn might still enjoy the comedy. The co-pic is Wae From Walla Walla with none other than Judy Canova.
NOVEMBER 1
CLEVELAND’S MUNICIPAL STADIUM (1:30 EST)—Backed by the cheers of the student trippers, the Fighting Irish hope to churn up some rough sea for Navy’s midshipmen. WNDU and WSBT will carry the game back to the stay-at-homes beginning at 12:30 CST.
CARTER HOTEL, CLEVELAND—The Saturday night victory dance moves with the game this week. The trippers will be hoping their blind dates aren’t really.
WASHINGTON HALL (6:40 and 8:25 p.m.)—For the men still on campus:	in Rome, a comedy with Van Johnson and Paul
Douglas.
NOVEMBER 2 t
WASHINGTON HALL (2 p.m.)—Deservedly or not, When in Rome is back for an encore.
RIVER PARK (three days)—The Will Rogers Story, well-portrayed by W. R. Jr., and something called The Lion and the Horse (B), starring Black Knight (as the horse) and Steve Cochran. We’re not sure about the lion.
NOVEMBER 5
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.)—Third foreign film in the Department of Modern Languages’ current series is The Magic Horse, an hour-long color cartoon in Russian.
AVON (through Nov. 18)—Mario Lanza sings good and loud — or at least loud — in Because You’re Mine.
In the interest of students concerned with gaining employment by the Federal Government, arrangements have been completed for a student group meeting with Mr. Maurice R. McGowan, representative from the Sixth U. S. Civil Service Region, in order to discuss career opportunities in Federal service. This meeting will be held at 1 p.m. on Nov. 4, in the Law Building Auditorium.
At this time complete information concerning opportunities as junior scientists and engineers, junior agricultural assistants, junior management assistants, and junior- professional assistants in such fields as contract negotiation, psychology, statistics, economics, accounting, and the social sciences will be presented.
Career Opportunities
Applications from interested students will be accepted so that the examining program may be completed and arrangements made for successful competitors to be interviewed. Upperclassmen are invited to attend this meeting to learn of these career opportunities and the necessary course requirements. Appointments are made to trainee positions in the various fields, those appointed being eligible for promotion to higher grade scientific, technical, and administrative positions upon completion of training.
Further information on this group discussion may be secured from the Placement Office in the basement of the Main Building. That office also announces the schedule for interviews between undergraduates finishing in January, 1953, and representatives of national concerns.
Engineers Favored
Wednesday, Nov. 5, a McDonnell Aircraft Corporation representative from St. Louis, Mo., will interview M.S. and B.S. aeronautical, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers; B.S. mathematicians and physicists for airplane engineering, helicopter engineering and the missile engineering divisions.
The Inland Steel Co. of East Chicago, Ind., will be seeking chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical engineers and accounting majors. Varied work is offered B.S. and. M.S. mechanical, electrical, chemical, and aeronautical engineers by the Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company. The same firm is also looking for qualified M.S. and Ph.D. metallurgists, (Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 October 31, 1952 No. 6
The Election: Here's Mud in the Public Eye
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO .................News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ................Features
JOHN F. SAND......................Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass'L Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ..............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bennet, Tom Bosse. Bill Burnett, Dick Callaghan, Irv Carrig, Joe Casser-ella, Bill Copeland, Doug Cole, Pat DiPasquali, Frank Donlon, Carroll Dowden, Fred Eckart, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Bob Gorman, Dick Hairsine. Tom Hartzell, Joe Leaser, Karl Martersteck, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan. Jim O’Shea, Dick Rupp, Jerry Shea, Dave Schlaak, Ray Schlitzer, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Lou Bourjaily, Tom Caplet, John Cywin-iski. Bob Ettlebrick. Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Don Swiegowski, Walt Touhy, Tom Welly. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Malison, John Slavich.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick. Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson.
The editor hasn’t been around for many presidential election campaigns, but it is his inexperienced opinion that, contrary to expectations, this has been a campaign worthy of a Lower East Side aiderman election, but not of the election of the President of the United States. This can be said here without defaulting the Scholastc’s promise of impartiality, for we believe both sides arc equally responsible for turning the campaign into a poolhall name-calling contest interspersed with the most pious of platitudes.
After the conventions we felt, and sincerely believe that it was a majority opinion, that, with men like Eisenhower and Stevenson representing the major parties, the nation couldn’t lose, no matter which way the election went. It was believed that this would be a campaign largely devoid of McCarthyisms and Trumanisms. But that which was to be a great crusade on one side and a sober discussion of issues on the other degenerated quickly into the great insult on one side and a fiery castigation of personalities on the other. And
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: The significance of this week’s cover picture is obvious: one of the two men pictured will lead the nation for the next four years. To help our readers decide how to cast their all-important vote, this week we present arguments for both candidates, written by distinguished professors, which you will find beginning on page 18. — Photos: courtesy South Bend Tribune.
the frequency of biblical quotations makes us wonder sometimes whether it’s Ike vs. Adlai or Isaiah vs. King David.
And then there is that All-American of the 1952 political gridirons, the candidates’ financial report. It seems rather naive in the first place to believe that our underpaid public servants would not have some sort of private campaign and office fund. In the second place, it is downright ridiculous to bandy personal, very personal, financial facts back and forth until it appears that the only way to settle the issue is income tax returns at ten paces.
In all fairness, bowing to the candidate-worshippers on both sides, we must say that by and large the principals have handled the platitude end, leaving the poolhall tactics to others. However, while particular speeches may be made without the foreknowledge of the candidate, we scarcely believe that any generalized tactics are carried out without his knowledge.. Foreknowledge does not necessarily imply approval, but it certainly implies very little'disapproval.
So, just four days before the election, judging from' speeches alone, we find ourselves dangerously close to the “I Go Pogo” stage. Judging from their abilities, achievements, and personalities, we still think the nation can’t lose next Tuesday. But, particularly because of these known abilities, achievements, and personalities, we are very disgusted that we don’t know just what the nation can gain.
Oct. 31, 1952
"Helps people of
many nations understand each other,"
says ANDRE MAUROIS
Author, lecturer;
Member of the French Academy
"I congratulate you on excellent international work. You have helped people of many languages and nations to understand each other. You also gave them good reasons to believe in mankind, in freedom and in themselves."
Each month, Reader’s Digest editors comb through more publications than any one person could read in two years, and select whatever seems of outstanding interest.
Each article is carefully condensed to preserve both its content-and. .flavor. The wide, range , of subjects . stimulates ; new interests, encourages a further search for knowledge.
In a real way, Reader’s Digest helps continue the education of millions of readers in America and all over the world.
★ ★ ★
In November Reader’s Digest, you’ll want to read Meaning of the Hiss Case—Senator Nixon’s inside story of the famous case;
How to Argue—Stuart Chase describes a proven technique for winning arguments; 13-page book condensation: Postmarked Moscow—Mrs. Alan Kirk’s (wife of our ex-Ambassador) story of life in Moscow today.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates 3 Months for $8.75—
One Month, $3.50 Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO. Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
MEDICO
4^ finest Mndko ever made. I Eaquiute Burgundy finish !
■ MEDICO V.F.O.—*2 With NEW NYLON BIT. •, Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof! It Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite!	i
MEDICO MEDALIST—f 1.5|	H
When filter turns brown—in Medico ! 1 Pipes or Cigarette Holders-throw j
it away, with nicotine, juices, flakes, tars it has trapped. Insert a fresh filter for cooler, cleaner and dryer smoking
Imported Briar. <
Bbx tf 10
B Wide variety of styles and u're*.
| - Write Medico Pines. Inc_ N.V. 22. for Booklet 0
^memcb'c^wehe s smut wiBas-ji
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 6
OCTOBER 31, 1952
Election, Poll Results Give Ike 6-4 Edge
Irish Trippers Depart For Cleveland Today
This afternoon some 1100 students and band members leave the campus— some for the invasion of Cleveland for the Irish-Middy contest tomorrow.
Armed with their student trip tickets and box lunches to fortify them on the journey, the 625 regular student trippers will arrive at Union Station in Cleveland about 10 o’clock EST tonight.
Another 600 students traveling by other means will join forces with the’ first group at a pep rally staged by the Cleveland Club in the Carter Hotel at 10 p.m.
Emceeing the rally will be Jack La-valle, former N.D. star and presently a prominent pro-football scout.
Tomorrow being a Holyday of obligation, the trippers will attend a special Mass at St. John’s Cathedral on Superior street. The time will be announced on the train. A Sunday Mass for the students will also be celebrated at the Cathedral.
Tomorrow afternoon the campus fans will witness the' gridiron struggle from the 50 yard line in Cleveland’s Municipal Stadium. The Irish will take the field prepared to duplicate last year’s feat at Baltimore by sinking the Navy again.
A Victory Dance at the Carter Hotel will be held after the game under the auspices of the Cleveland Club. Tickets will be available at the door for those who have' not procured them. Admission price is $2.50.
Dance dates have been procured from four Cleveland schools for a large segment of the trippers. Permissions for 3 a.m. check-in after the dance, and for 1 a.m. tonight have' been given by University officials.
Sunday afternoon at 4 p.m. the exodus from Cleveland will start, and the special train will pull into South Bend about 9 p.m., climaxing the 1952 student trip.
John Reidy and Joe McDade, Election Engineers
Only 2 Wards Adlai's In ND Mock Balloting
Notre Dame went 6 to 4 for Eisenhower.
Tallies from the Academy of Political Science’s Mock Election last Monday and Tuesday gave the Republican presidential candidate 2,128, or 61 percent, of the total 3,465 votes cast, while Democratic candidate Stevenson’s total was 1,337 votes, or 39 per cent.
The Scholastic’s pre-election presidential poll revealed the same trend toward Eisenhower with 1,093 of its 1,735 votes (63 per cent) cast for Ike, and 640 (37 per cent) tallied for Adlai.
Equal distribution of Eisenhower’s majority pulling power from all corners of the campus was illustrated by the fact that only two wards—Vetville and University employees—went majority-wise for Stevenson in the Mock Election.
The Democratic candidate carried
Vetville with a slim 94-91 majority, and the University employees group, 60-35.
Badin Hall was the only ward which came to a voting deadlock. It had 59 votes for Eisenhower and 59 for Stevenson.
According to an authentic voting system, the Academy of Political Science had organized the campus into an electoral college — with individual halls set up as wards, and each floor of the respective halls representing a precinct.
Scholastic made a somewhat more extensive study of the pre-election situation in tabulating the strength of the respective candidates according to States. Eisenhower won all states except Alabama, Arkansas, Iowa, Massachusetts, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mex-(Continued on page 33.)
Oct. 31, 1952
9
Applications for Dec. 4 Deferment Exam Must Bear Tomorrow's Midnight Postmark
Selective Service officials have reminded college students that the deadline for submitting applications for the December 4 Selective Service College Qualification Test is tomorrow, midnight, and that applications post-marked after that time cannot be considered. Local draft boards have an adequate supply of test application blanks on hand for drafts eligible students.
Students are to mail their completed applications to Educational Testing Service of Princeton, New Jersey.
To be eligible to apply for the college deferment test, a student must: intend to request deferment as a student; be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and must not have previously taken the Selective Service College Qualification Test.
Another test will be held April 23, 1953, but General' Hershey emphasized that increasing manpower demands make it important that each draft-eligible student who has not taken the test do so as soon as possible.
Students whose academic year will end in January, 1953, have been urged to take the December test so they will have a test score in their cover sheets before the end of their academic year, at which time their boards will reopen and reconsider- their cases to determine whether they should be deferred as students.
The present criteria for deferment as an undergraduate student are either a satisfactory score (70) on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or specified rank in class (upper half of the Freshman class, upper two-thirds of the Sophomore class, or upper three-fourths of the Junior class.)
Students accepted for admission or attending a graduate school prior to July 1, 1951, satisfy the criteria if their work is satisfactory. Graduate students admitted or attending after that date must have been in the upper half of their classes during their senior year or make a score of 75 or better on the test. It is not mandatory for local boards to follow the criteria.
General Hershey has emphasized many times that the criteria are a flexible yard stick and that the standards may be anytime necessity for manpower demands.
The two forthcoming administrations of the College Qualification Test represent the eighth and ninth testing dates of the program. In the first series of
tests, 64 per cent of the students achieved a score of 70 or better. In the second series 58 per cent of the students made 70 or better. The tests in all three series are equivalent in difficulty.
Use of tests by the Selective Service System, along with class standing, was originally based on recommendations of the six Scientific Advisory Committees appointed in 1948 by General Hershey. The Committees’ report presented by Dr. M. H. Trytten, chairman, was made in the Fall of 1950. After a subcommittee had prepared general specifications for a suitable test of scholastic aptitude, Educational Testing Service was designated as the testing agency to carry out the construction of the test and its nation-wide administration.
Press Club Elects Officers;
Fr. Reedy Named Chaplain
At the last meeting of the Press Club, the following club officers were elected: Dick Daley, president; Phil Bolin, vice-president; Bob Zier, secre-
DICK DALEY
To Become Better Acquainted
tary; Pat Carrico, treasurer. Rev. John L. Reedy, C.S.C., was elected chaplain for the club.
The Press Club is a social organization composed of Junior and Senior journalism majors. The main purpose of the club is to enable the juniors and seniors to become better acquainted.
A banquet has been tentatively planned for sometime in Spring.
Elections for Rhodes Scholars Listed Soon
Elections to Rhodes Scholarships, tenable at the University of Oxford, will be held in all states during December, 1952. Eligible candidates are reminded that all applications must be in the hands of the secretary of his state committee not later than Nov. 1.
The value of a Rhodes Scholarship is at present £500 per year. Scholars who qualify under the G.I. Bill of Rights or other military educational funds may expect the same benefits at Oxford as at an American university. An election to a Rhodes Scholarship is for two years in the first instance, with a possible third year if the scholar’s record at Oxford and plan of study warrant such an award.
A candidate may apply either to the state in which he resides or in the state in which he may have received at least two years of his college education. Preliminary selections will be made by state committees on Dec. 10, and final selections made by district committees on Dec. 13, 1952.
To be eligible for election, a candidate must be a male citizen of the United States, with at least five years’ domicile, and be between the ages of 19 and 25 by Oct. 1, 1953. He must have completed at least his sophomore year by the time of application and have received official endorsement of his university.
Application blanks may be obtained in this state by writing to Dean B. K. Trippet, Office of the Dean, Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind.
Talk on Conversions Slated Soon by Fr. John A. O’Brien
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D. will give a talk Thursday, Nov. 20, open to the student body at 6 p.m. in Room 101 Law Building.
Father O’Brien’s topic will be “How to Win Converts.”
He is the author of numerous books, including White Harvest, Winning Converts, and Sharing the Faith, and is most famous for his Faith of Millions, which has sold over- 300,000 copies. It has been translated into several foreign languages.
Father O’Brien, who has many years experience in dealing with nonCatholics, will explain the results of 25 years of research on his subject. The purpose of his address will be to inform the students on how to influence non-Catholics in directing them towards the faith.
10
The Scholastic
ND Grad Hufnagel Nationally Acclaimed
Doctor Charles A. Hufnagel, an eminent heart surgeon and 1937 Notre Dame graduate, has for the first time in medical history successfully fitted a patient with an artificial aortic valve.
According to a story in the current TIME magazine, the pioneering surgery performed by Dr. Hufnagel and his associates transformed a desperately ill young woman into a vigorous hopeful person free from the anginal pain she had suffered for months.
Rheumatic fever, which Doctor Huf-nagel’s patient had contracted years ago, had damaged her heart’s aortic valve. The 2% hour operation at Georgetown University Medical Center climaxed five years of painstaking work by Dr. Hufnagel and his colleagues.
According to Dr. Hufnagel there are thousands of cases of aorta damage in the United States each year. Doctor Hufnagel is hopeful that this new operation will help many of them.
Dr. Hufnagel, who now resides in Falls Church, Virginia, is a native of Richmond, Indiana. A former instructor in surgery at the Harvard Medical School, he now is professor of surgical research at the Georgetown University Medical School. Dr. Hufnagel was honored as one of the nation’s ten outstanding youngmen of 1948 by the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce.
BILL HANK, COACH LEN SOMMER, AL DE CRANE Should an FEPC Be Established?
Debaters Begin Elimination Rounds on FEPC; Plan Four Major Tourneys Before Christmas
Appoint Higgins, Costango Chairmen of '53 Senior Ball
Chairmen for the 1953 Senior Ball who were chosen recently are General Chairman George Higgins and Business Manager Joseph Costango.
This new system of choosing only two chairmen is being employed this year to prevent duplication and more fully outline duties. Higgins has experience with both Sophomore Cotillion and Junior Prom; he was also chairman of the Junior class-sponsored Victory dance after the SMU game last year. Costango is currently business manager, and is familiar with this type of work.
The selection was made by a committee composed of Don Mulvihill, Jim Brett, Hugh Braun, and Bob O’Neill — all leading candidates for class president in last Spring’s election; and Al Marx, Joe Barren, and Ernie Bartell, the student senators from the Colleges of Science, Engineering, and Commerce, respectively. Joe O’Neil, off-campus representative, and Tom Field, Arts and Letters senator, were unable to attend the meeting.
The Debate Team began its annual elimination tournament last Wednesday in Room 327 Main Building, according to Debate Coach Leonard Sommer.
The debates concern this year’s collegiate topic, the establishment of a Fair Employment Practices Commission.
The tournament will continue every night, Monday through Thursday, until each of the 25 new teams receives the opportunity to participate in a full one-hour debate.
The decisions, based upon platform appearances, speaking ability, speech content and refutation, will be determined by Professor Sommer, Al DeCrane, Debate Team president, and Bill Hank, vice-president.
“A lost decision does not necessarily finish the individual as far as we are concerned,” Sommer says. “The purpose of this tournament is to season- our new men and to aid in picking the outstanding teams.”
Eight of the best new men will be selected from this group to attend the University of Illinois’ Navy Pier Extension Tournament next December 13. This tournament, attended by approximately twenty of the midwest’s outstanding speech schools, consists of six rounds of
debate.
Last Tuesday evening Father Edward Keller, C.S.C., noted economist, addressed the team on the intricacies of the Fair Employment Practices Law. He pointed out the importance such a program assumes, especially in an election year. In introducing Fathei- Keller, DeCrane said: “It is not often we are privileged with the presence of such a distinguished guest and in the name of all the team members, I should like to thank Father Keller for his help.”	.
In addition to the Navy Pier Frosh-Soph Tournament, the Irish speakers will attend three major tournaments before Christmas vacation. On Nov. 14 and 15 Purdue will be host at their University Conference. On the same day, Nov. 15, four other speakers will journey to Richmond, Ind., for the Earlham College Invitational Tournament.
On Nov. 21 and 22 the action switches to Bradley University’s Invitational Tournament, a traditional “winner” for the Irish. In the past two years, 16 Notre Dame men have won approximately fifty awards at this tournament.
After Christmas the action swings to the big nation-wide tournaments held throughout the country. ■
Oct. 31, 1952
11
Should Dance Managers Be Picked And Paid?
Editor's Note—This Fall the student body in general found out for the first time that the Saturday night dance manager has received $25 a week for the past three years, ivith an assistant receiving $15. This realization and the announcement of Senate plans for this year has caused much discussion.
The Scholastic declined to comment editorially on this situation, because it is rather late to worry about the past three years, and because we don’t think the present solution is very far out of line, except perhaps that the manager’s pay is a little high. Hoiv-ever, regardless of the magazine’s views, we are glad to print both sides of the question, which follow.
PRO
By TOM REEDY
This year, as you have probably noticed, the Student Senate has been attempting to bring to the student’s eye many things which have previously been generally unpublicized and unknown to the student body. Since our purpose is to serve you and your interests, we think you should know as much as possible of our operation and will take every opportunity to bring pertinent matters to your attention. One of the considerations, perhaps the first in logical sequence, concerns the Student Senate weekly Saturday night dances.
Recognizing the need for action, the Senate confirmed at the first meeting my appointment of two men we felt would do an outstanding job as comanagers of the Senate dances. One, a senior, had experience at last year’s dances and the other co-chairman, a junior, will seiwe as a basis for continuity, something we sorely lacked this year. The Senate was also concerned with the salary paid the previous managers and felt that it was too high. With this in mind, the Senate voted the co-managers salaries of $15 apiece for each dance on a temporary basis, subject to future confirmation or revocation.
The functions of the co-managers are to draw up the weekly contacts with the band, contract for the place at which the dance is to be held, arrange bus transportation for St. Mary’s and secure disciplinary approval. In addition to this, posters must be drawn up and posted, records must be kept (a weekly accounting is made to the
Senate), and new innovations must be dreamed up and promoted to give the dances a different twist every week. Besides managing the “coke,” hatcheck and ticket activities at the dance, the co-chairmen must be in attendance every Saturday night on which a dance is held and clear the Drill Hall the Sunday morning following the dance.
The foregoing paragraphs have been devoted to a presentation of the facts surrounding the situation. Now, as this is a “Pro and Con,” permit me to discuss briefly the “Pro” with you.
Undoubtedly, the question will arise as it did in the Senate “Why pay the managers if you don’t pay the class dance chairmen?” Our decision was based on the fact that the class dance chairman and his committee manage one dance every year while the managers handle one dance every week. The principle that we derived was that a class dance is a “project” while the weekly Saturday night dances are an out and out job.
Others will ask “Why wasn’t this job thrown open to the student body?” This Fall it was imperative that we obtain our managers very quickly, and so for the sake of expediency the position continued this year as an appointive one.
“Why not let different clubs run the dances each week?” We feel that the nature of the job is such that the simplest and most direct plan will prove most successful. The present plan establishes responsibility, insures success and provides for continued successes through cumulative experience.
CON
By JOE CONWELL
How would you like to be chairman of the victory dances? And how would you like to be paid for the job as well? The chairmanships of the Junior Prom, Senior Prom, Sophomore Cotillion, etc., are coveted posts, but there is no financial remuneration for the efforts joined to them. You might ask, “How does one go about getting such a job as Victory Dance chairman — a job offering a leading role in student affairs, a considerable amount of prestige, and cash? Your question would be vain, I fear, since this “job” is by appointment of the president of the student senate. Traditionally this position has gone, unnoticed by most of us, to the student council president or to one of his associates on the Senate.
Most of us are familial- with this I issue. We learned for the first time this fall that this has been the policy for a number of years, that some one has been profiting from an appointment that the average Joe Blow never even knew existed, much less had an opportunity of securing for himself.
It would seem to be a sorry situation when our student government finds no i one who would be willing to serve as chairman of the victory dances and thus finds it necessary to appoint a paid chairman from a group which is already top-heavy with extra-curricular activities. But, is this the truth of the situation? Is appointment necessary?
Is payment necessary? I think not! In reality, there are many who are willing and capable of organizing a worthwhile dance, and who would enjoy taking a leading role in student affairs without being prompted by financial payment.
What role did you have in selecting the victory dance chairman or his assistant? Or better yet, what chance did you have in securing one of these jobs yourself? None! Last year, we renovated our student government. However, as we see, there are still some musty comers to be sw'ept clean. We cannot criticize those individuals holding these now-coveted appointments. Nor can we be too critical of the Student Senate president for continuing the policy of past years: its continuation was probably a matter of expediency, for September saw time short and the need for dances great. ’
However, must this situation con- | tinue? Must our treasury face this drain ad infinitum? Must able men be continually overlooked in favor of a member of the Student Senate whom the Senate president picks at his own discretion. No longer is this policy a matter of expediency! And to quote	J
an oft-used — and sometimes abused—	i
phrase: “It’s time for a change.”	।
There are various alternatives which can be employed in this change:
By way of example: Why not permit campus organizations to sponsor the victory dances at a nominal profit. The Student Senate could determine the best plans submitted from the standpoints of originality and economy, thus continually insuring new and fresher dance approaches at reasonable rates. ;
After discontinuing the policy of a 1 paid chairman — one of the many rea- j sons why we were assessed a dollar at | the beginning of this semester — let us	I
look for the best of all possible plans	|
for appointing or electing the victory dance chairman. Let us find a plan that gives all students a chance, that considers ability above friendship, that has some semblance of democracy. How about it, Senate?
The Scholastic
12
Recording Star June Valli Visits at WNDU
Senate Announces Nomination Deadline Of Nov. 9 For Blue Circle's *Who's Who*
WNDU was visited by Miss June Valli of RCA Victor recording fame Tuesday. Miss Valli appeared as part of the publicity campaign for her latest record release, “Why Don’t You Believe Me.” She appeared on the station’s popular record feature “Daily Express” on which all the latest record releases are played.
Miss Valli, who has starred on radio and television, besides her records, visited the campus before going to WNDU to be interviewed. After- visiting with Bill Ryan and other station personnel and talking with them about the radio set-up here at Notre Dame, she was interviewed on the air by Dave Pfaff.
The singing star mentioned how she got her start in radio and television, and remarked on the common interest she has with the station in their mutual relations with Lucky Strike. She is the female vocalist with the Lucky Strike Hit Parade on both radio and television.
Miss Valli is considered by the RCA representatives who came with her to be one of RCA’s biggest finds of the year, and the fastest rising star on their recording staff. Her third record, “Strange Sensation,” coupled with “So Madly in Love,” was her largest seller. It was one of Victor’s biggest hits of the year.
June was born in the Bronx, where she was working as a bookkeeper when she was discovered. Abe Burrows heard her sing at a wedding for two of her friends and got her on the Arthur Godfrey Talent Scout show a couple of weeks later. By winning the contest she obtained a nine-month contract to sing on Dumont’s give-away show, “Stop the Music.” Guest spots on many TV and radio shows led to her “discovery” by Manny Sachs, RCA’s artist’s department head, who signed her to an exclusive recording contract with his company.
Recently, she has been heard and seen on Lucky Strike’s Hit Parade on both radio and television. She says that she considers this contract her “biggest break” so far.
CORRECTION
When the Scholastic listed the names of the new hall presidents in the issue of Oct. 24, Pat Mulrooney was erroneously named as Zahm Hall president. Dick Lewis is the man who was elected to that position.
The Student Senate, in conjunction with the Blue Circle, has announced that this year’s nominations for the Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities
must be in to Jack Bradshaw, chairman
Commerce Ball Features Johnny Long Next Friday
A week from tonight Commerce men and their dates will attend the first annual Commerce Balk Johnny Long and his “Shanty Town” melody makers will supply the rhythms from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the Palais Royale Ballroom.
Saturday afternoon 600 of the dancegoers will attend the Oklahoma-Notre Dame game in a special reserved section at the Stadium.
Since this weekend has been set aside as Decoration Weekend, an added
NORB KRAFT
Commerce Ball A "Must”
attraction will be the as yet unknown tableaus staged by the various halls on the campus.
Norb Kraft is the general chairman for the affair, and is assisted by Dick Harvey, the blind date manager; Bill Unger, has arranged for room reservations and decorations; Bob Kosydar will handle the business end of the affair; Ernie Bartell is publicity man.
The ball is a result of planning by the newly-formed Commerce Activities Council since early last March. A survey taken at that time showed that the ball was a “must” in the opinion of commerce students. The Council hopes it will become an annual affair in future years.
of the Blue Circle Who’s Who Committee before .November 9. The announcement was made by Bradshaw at the last meeting of the Blue Circle.
It was also at this meeting that the new rules for the nomination and election of candidates for this honor were discussed. The new plan is a result of the investigation made into the matter last year by a committee of the Blue Circle at the request of the Student Senate.
Signs announcing the opening of nominations and the letters to all deans and department heads containing the same information have been sent out, according to Bradshaw. One of the new twists in this year’s campaign is the fact that Juniors are no longer* eligible for nomination—only Seniors and graduate students may achieve this honor.
The voting system for the final selection has also been set up on a new basis. Once the nominations are in, the Blue Circle committee—composed of chairman Bradshaw, Senior Al DeCrane and Junior Pat O’Malley—will draw up a list of the names and prepare the ballots for the election committee.
The election committee will consist of junior representatives from eleven campus organizations—this makes the Who’s Who elections comparable to the method of choosing the Dome Award winners. These eleven campus groups are: The Scholastic, The Lawyer, the Student Senate, the Blue Circle, The Wranglers, Commerce Forum, WNDU, Engineering Advisory Board, Athletic managers, Science School’s Student Leader, and the YCS. These men will meet and will be given the list of nominees.
After careful study of the list they will be asked to tabulate on their ballot the 30 men whom they feel are most qualified for the honor—the 30 students with the greatest number of votes will make the list, and hence will be entitled to the benefits offered by the Who’s Who national organization.
While the system of voting has been substantially changed, the previously adopted method of nomination will be followed. The nominations may be made by any student or faculty member. The selection must be made in letter form to the Chairman of the Who’s Who Committee, 310 Alumni Hall, before Nov. 10, 1952. The letter, which should contain at least three of the nominee’s qualifications (activities), must be signed. It is from these letters that the nomination list to be presented to the electoral body will be constructed.
Oct. 31, 1952
RON MAZZOLI LEADS THE SORINITES
The Old Reviewing Stand Had Something New to Offer
Sorin Cavaliers Add to Weekend Atmosphere With New Twist: '245th Annual Student Trip'
By PAT CARRICO
It was a perfect weekend. The rally, the Cotillion, the game, and Sorin Hall’s “245th” annual student trip all blended together to make it a lively one.
Weekenders around here have accustomed themselves to the usual effrontery which the Sorinites hand out from the old “reviewing stand” every Saturday, but last weekend they found something different. A crew of about 75 hall members staged an impromptu pep rally that had all the color of the real thing — complete with a cheerleader, megaphone, echo cheer with the Walsh men, and the added attraction — a peanut pushing contest.
An estimated, crowd of 125 spectators stood by.while the old front porch on Sorin let loose with chants like “Go Sorin. Beat Walsh” and several cheers which included “He’s a Man” for Father Sorin.
Enraged by the challenge which the Sorin men., were chanting, an aggregation of Walsh residents began answering the cheers. One brave Walsh man pushed a peanut down the sidewalk from his -hall to Sorin with his nose after losing a bet.
The members of both halls finally
shook hands and joined together for the actual “trip” after the Walsh men, in the name of Al Gazortz, had staged an unsuccessful bid to out-shout the Sorinites. The entourage first stopped in front of the statue of Fathei* Sorin which faces the Circle and again gave out with “He’s a Man.”
After making the rounds from the statue to the circle, and then to the Stadium, the group paused momentarily underneath the stands to let off steam once more before entering the student section. Here they had to part with 250-odd spectators who had fallen into the ranks during the course of the trip.
When the trippers emerged from the ramp into the student section, complete with official Sorin Hall badges bearing “student trip” markings and a banner with “245th Annual Sorin Student Trip” written across it, they were greeted with assorted cheers from the student body.
Together with approximately 54,000 other football fans, the local student trippers settled down into the stands to cheer on the Irish to their impressive win over North Carolina.
Like we mentioned before — it was a perfect weekend; and it’s guys like the Sorin men who make ’em that way.
ND Has 124 Foreign Students, Only I Gael
Thirty-one foreign countries are represented at Notre Dame by 124 undergraduate and graduate students according to figures released recently by the Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., foreign student advisor at the University.
China has the largest representation of any foreign nation with seventeen students enrolled at Notre Dame, many of them taking graduate work in the College of Science. Fourteeen Canadians are studying at the University while Mexico and India with twelve and eleven students respectively are among the larger foreign contingents. A number of the foreign students are in the United States on an exchange basis with American scholars studying in their home countries.
Notre Dame can boast at least one native Irishman among its students. Christopher Cunningham, born in County Donegal, is taking graduate work in civil engineering as an exchange student. “It was slightly confusing to me when I first arrived to hear about the Irish of Notre Dame and still be the only real Irishman here,” Cunningham said, “but when I learned about American football, it began to make sense.”
Two of Notre Dame’s foreign students are virtually men without a country, and registered with the University as “stateless” men. Ants Toonis Piip, an electrical engineering student, escaped from Communist-ruled Estonia through Sweden and Germany. Zbigniew Monan Rociszewski, an organic chemistry student, fled from Red dominated Poland.
Other nations represented at Notre Dame include: Austria, Australia, Argentina, Bolivia, Columbia, Costa Rica, .Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Gold Coast, Greece, Guatemala, England, Indonesia, Philippine Islands, Italy, Japan, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.
SOUTH BEND LIBRARY FACILITIES
Facilities of the South Bend library are available to Notre Dame students. This library has a business annex which is useful for commerce students; it also has a well-stocked fiction department.
An application for a public library card can be secured at the Director’s office in the University Library. After it is filled out and signed by the Prefect of Discipline or the student’s hall rector, a card will be issued upon the payment of $1.
14
The Scholastic
Ticket Sale For Senior Trip Begins Tuesday
Tuesday is the opening day of ticket sales for the Senior excursion to East Lansing, and the' Mich. State-Notre Dame gridiron battle on Nov. 15.
Ducats will be available on Tuesday and Wednesday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the basement of the Dining Hall. All seniors must show their ID cards when procuring tickets which will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis.
For $8.7-5 the uppercrust can get the round-trip train token, plus a pass for the game. The train ticket alone will cost $5.15. No football ducat will be sold without the purchase of a train pass. This is mandatory since at least 300 students must make the trip if there is to be a special train and reduced rate.
The Dining’ Hall will open a station at 7 a.m. on the morning of Nov. 15 so the trippers can promptly depart with the team at 8 from the Eddy St. siding. Transportation from the Circle to Eddy St. will be provided and game passes will be distributed as each pass-senger boards the train. Destination East Lansing will be reached at approximately 11:30 a.m., EST.
Since no dance or mixer is scheduled to follow the contest, the train will return to Notre Dame the same day. If, however, a student should not return with the train, his ticket becomes void.
All those taking the outing, regardless of age, must secure written permission from their parents to cut classes. The letters must be in the Rector’s office by Friday, Nov. 14. Off-campus students must submit their permissions to the Prefect of Discipline'.
Clowning Confusion of 'Comedy' Cops Audience Success for Director Tumpane
By GERRY VOIT
Last Thursday night the University Theater opened its 1952-53 season at Washington Hall with a lighthearted and successful farce.
The Comedy of Errors, by William Shakespeare, was mainly concerned with two sets of twins, mixed with a few twists of fate, and flavored with a liberal amount of confusion. Stirred well undei’ the direction of Mr. John Tumpane, these ingredients turned into a production that was lively enough to make even the most sombre spectator just a bit giddy.
Undoubtedly, the most energetic person in the entire cast was Jerry Godwin, alias Dromio of Ephesus. He was literally all over the stage in one position or another, and left the opening night audience wondering if he would last through the balance of the performances. He spoiled an otherwise fine Job, however, by indulging in a bit of that theatrical sin of scene stealing.
Doug Cole and Jim Nichols, who collaborated on the parts of the twin brothers Antipholus, did a good Job of adding to the general confusion, as did Dick Lewis, the second Dromio. Mary Jo Bujarski who played the quiet and shy Luciana did give the ND men a bit of a thrill in the love scene with Antipholus of Syracuse; it seemed more than a few lads were envious of Jim Nichols for that minute.
The female lead, Adriana, one that required a touch of charm and gusto, was
handled in a very refreshing manner by Sylvia Schneider. Her voice had the power’ needed for the ‘old hall;’ in fact, when she first shouted for Dromio she almost lifted us out of our seats. As for the rest of the roles, they were well cast and adequately handled but hardly outstanding.
You can’t give all the credit to the people on the stage, though. Mr. Tumpane did a fine job with a cast that was almost entirely new to ND audiences. He kept the action light and well paced, with only an occasional lapse into dullness. The technical direction .by Mr. Michael Casey showed his experience with the Old Vic theatre group of London. He becomes a welcome addition to the Student Theatre.
As for the plot, it was a rather incidental thing in which Shakespeare placed two sets of identical twins, who weren’t aware of each others’ existence, in a series of improbable incidents. One pair from Syracuse traveled to Ephesus where they became tangled up with their counterparts. For three whole acts, wit, humor, and low comedy continued at a delightful and fairly steady pace, with plenty of puns, bumps, and a garden or so of vegetables.
The ending we’ll leave to the sentimentalists who insist that everyone be matched up and happy, but to many it was just a bit too convenient to escape comment.
WASHINGTON HAU HOSTS ‘COMEDY OF ERRORS’ “A Lighthearted And Successful Farce"
Oct. -31, 1952
15
U.S. Atomic Energy Group Lauds Contributions Of Lobund's Atomic Research Department
Scientists at the University of Notre Dame are making significant contributions in four phases of basic atomic research according to the semi-annual report of the United States Atomic Energy Commission.
One of the participating institutions affiliated with the Argonne National Laboratory, Notre Dame has research contracts with the Atomic Energy Commission in four of the Commission’s seven basic fields of investigation for studies in chemistry, physics, biology, and medicine. .
Doctor James A. Reyniers, research professor, of bacteriology and founderdirector of Notre Dame’s famous germ-free life laboratories, is directing a study of the effects of radiation on germ free rats. Working under contract to the Office of Naval Research, Dr. Reyniers and his associates are seeking to determine whether atomic victims die of radiation or from bacteria entering the body after exposure. Controlled experiments with germ-free animals exposed to X-ray are expected to provide both basic and applied data for further radiation studies.
Physicists Study Electrons
In Notre Dame’s physics department, Doctor Bernard Waldman is engaged in basic research on the properties of electrons and their inter-action with atomic nuclei. An electrostatic generator used in the Notre Dame experiments is the second such “atom-smasher” built on the Notre Dame campus. Nuclear research began at Notre Dame in 1937 with the first generator, one of ten in the United States at that time.
Protection against atomic radiation in both its destructive and commercial application is being studied by the Rev. C. S. Bachofer, C.S.C., assistant professor of biology at Notre Dame. With elementary virus life as his “guinea pigs,’’ Father Bachofer is continuing basic research which he began at the Argonne National Laboratory in 1949, seeking to determine the exact effect of radiation on living organisms with a view to establishing the principles of protection.
Large Chem Project
One of Notre Dame’s largest projects for the AEC is being carried on in the chemistry department where a staff of nine faculty members, 18 graduate students and five research associates are working in radiation chemistry and allied fields. Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry, is formally designated as project director by the AEC.
Included among the equipment of the chemistry project’s laboratories are three mass spectrometers, two radio-cobait sources and a 2,000,000 volt Van de Graaff generator used to investigate the chemical problems fundamental to the field of atomic energy.
The research is concerned with establishing the fundamental background of utilization of such radiation chemistry in industrial applications.
Architect Association Convenes Here Today
Today and tomorrow, twelve Midwestern universities and colleges will be represented at the annual regional meeting of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture on the Notre Dame campus.
The two-day sessions will be concerned with an exchange of ideas on architectural education, planning of the college curriculum, and the relationship of architectural work and design. Student architects of Notre Dame will feature an exhibition of their work. Host to the visitors will be Professor Francesco Montana, Head of the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame.
A student trip sponsored by the student chapter of the American Institute of Architecture will be conducted Nov. 21 for the purpose of interviewing senior members of this organization. Approximately 40 members of the chapter will attend the convention.
Buildings to be toured include the Abbey of St. Augustine, The Three Houses by Bruce Goff, and The Farnsworth House, designed by Mies Van Der Rohe. Arrangements for a chartered bus and other details will be handled by Guy V. Prisco, president of the student chapter.
Something new in the contest field will be a competition open to Notre Dame and Catholic University students for the design of a named project. Each year the five-week period before Christmas will be set aside for the project which, this year, will be on the design of a small parish church. Awards will include the Franklin X. McCormick Award, a plaque for the school having the most winners, and 750 other prizes.
The senior division is drawing plans to remodel Corby chapel. Third year students are designing a local shopping center as an answer to a typical community problem. Class C of the sophomore division is mapping a state highway patrol station.
Gurian Announces November Lecture of Dr. Linsey Rogers
Dr. Linsey Rogers, famed political writer and Burgess Professor of Public Law at Columbia University, will lecture at Notre Dame in early November, Committee on International Relations Chairman Dr. Waldemar Gurian announced recently.
The writings of Dr. Rogers are among the foremost in the field of Political Science. Outstanding among his contributions is the highly regarded classic The American Senate.
Dr. Rogers’ most recent work is The Polluters. Though not as widely circulated as his previous publications, it has been greeted with enthusiasm by his colleagues.
Public service has dominated Dr. Rogers’ career. Upon completion of his education at Johns Hopkins University, where he received a Ph.D. and LL.D., he served Gov. Alfred E. Smith in the important post of Policy Advisor.
On the international scene Dr. Rogers held the office of Deputy Director of the International Labor Office. While in Europe Dr. Rogers toured the major universities speaking on present day political problems and their respective solutions.
Modern Languages Schedule Third in Foreign Film Series
The Magic Horse, third in a series of six feature-length foreign films, will be shown next Wednesday evening in the Engineering Auditorium,- starting at 7:30. This picture is billed as “a thoroughly delightful animated color cartoon, based on an old Russian folk tale,” and is expected to draw a large turnout.
Both foreign films previously shown this semester were very well received, and if this is in any way an indication of the general student reaction to the current series of pictures, the success of the program is assured.
Sponsored by the Department of Modern Languages, these films are offered primarily for their educational value to the modern language student; however, since they also provide a means of entertainment, the showings are open to other interested persons insofar as the seating capacity pennits.
Following is the schedule of remaining films to be shown this semester: Nov. 5, The Magic Horse (Russian) ; Nov. 19, The General and the Senorita (Spanish); Dec. 10, Somewhere in Berlin (German); and Jan. 7, Under the Paris Sky (French). Each picture has a foreign language sound track, with subtitles in English.
16
The Scholastic
Moonbeams
Photos By BOB HUDDLESTON
The
of Jimmy Palmer and orchestra.
from two cotillion goers.
Fi-om an Indian Summer setting, a “Carolina Moon" beamed approval upon 400 Notre Dame men and their dates as they danced away the hours of the annual Sophomore Cotillion last Friday night. And when the last strains of Jimmy Palmer’s music faded through the lavish decorations in the Palais Royale, cotillion-goers mingled for one last moment, then departed — taking with them memories of a “moon-glow” unsurpassed in Notre Dame dance history.
year's social whirl gets underway as the sophs glide to the danceable music
LEFT: Left to right: Mike Culligan, Julie Dieden, Fred Thomas and Mary Jo Arnold in a heated discussion concerning—well, what’s your guess? RIGHT: Some of the troops take time out for a coke. LOWER LEFT: Sitting one out. LOWER RIGHT:
And what’s yours? Jimmy Palmer takes a request
*

By DR. EDWARD J. CRONIN
he Case for Stevenson

I am going to vote for Governor Stevenson because, as a teacher, I must choose the man who speaks to the minds, and not to the passions of the people. For all of my teaching life I have been trying to do with my students what Governor Stevenson has been trying to do with the American electorate: I have been trying to make them think; and to make them think, I have been constantly teaching them—as well as myself— that they must see things as they are; that they must understand before they criticize; that they must beware of easy answers, catch phrases, slogans, prejudice and cant-all easy substitutes for think
ing; and that when they have done these things, they must not think their task done, for the task of thinking is never done. I have always tried to make myself and my students see the question in front of them, to talk sense about it, and to communicate that sense to others with dignity and charm. I respect my students’ intelligence—that is why I am a teacher; I believe they can learn; that they would rather have the difficult truth than the easy lie; and I believe, finally, that I can learn from them, for they too have minds. These, I believe, are the principles of Gov. Stevenson’s approach to the American people. And this
is why I shall vote for him.
In his first major speech as a candidate, on the night of his nomination in Chicago, Gov. Stevenson made a statement unique for a man seeking public office. He said in that speech that he considered the campaign ahead as a wonderful opportunity for the American people to learn about their government and their country by a rational discussion of the issues. He felt, if the campaign were carried on at this level, that no mattei’ who won in November, the American people would be a wiser and a greater people because they would have been seeking the truth. He invited his oppon
18
The Scholastic
ent at this time to share the burdens of this great debate so that, when the people came to make their decision, they would make it on the grounds of reason reached through mature deliberation. Despite the temptations to talk down, to yell at mobs rather than speak to people, to employ the short cut to the emotions rather than take the long and difficult path to the mind, Gov. Stevenson has been true to the high ideal he set forth in that speech. So he has gone about the country talking sense and realizing the ideal of a campaign in a republic of free and intelligent citizens. An intelligent man, he is addressing a jury of his peers.
The Stevenson Record
And why, despite all the temptations to demagoguery, has Gov. Stevenson maintained his integrity? Because, simply, there is no substitute for knowledge and experience. When a man does not know, .when he is a beginner in some highly complex activity, he is at the mercy of those who do know; he is in constant surprise at terms, and ideas, and facts he did not even know existed. He must, if he wishes to continue in this activity without either knowledge or experience, catch at opinions and rely upon what is often contradictory advice. He is, in short, not the master but the slave. But when one does know and has experience, then he is the master; he is in control. Gov. Stevenson’s experience in American political life is long and honorable. He has worked in the department of Agriculture, he has been an assistant secretary of the Navy, he has been active in the United Nations, and he has most recently been a highly successful governor of one of the most important states of the union where, as chief executive, he has had the training and faced the problems that so well prepare a man for the presidency.
The Value of Experience
And what result of all this experience do we see now in the campaigner, Adlai Stevenson? The knowledge he has obtained from this rich and varied experience has made him speak with authority because he knows whereof he speaks; he knows the terms and the definitions, he is familiar with the ideas and he is at home with the facts of American life, and this knowledge has given him sureness and this sureness has given him courage. That is why he is again unique in American political life, for, armed with this knowledge, he has dared to define patriotism to the American Legion, he has refused to call the Taft-Hartley act a “slave law” in Detroit, and he has insisted in the South that there can be no second class citizens in America. He knows, by experience and by reason, that America is among the family of nations, and he has not, like his opponent, been
an isolationist in the midwest and an internationalist in the east. Knowledge of the truth has made him free from fear and double talk.
“We Have Still Far to Go”
But Gov. Stevenson’s knowledge is not just of isolated or particular issues. He has, even more important, a deep and intimate knowledge of the great American past. Like a man of true vision, he can see America today in light of America yesterday. And unlike the Republican prophets of gloom, and like, I am sure, the great majority of his fellow citizens, he can say that what he sees is good. Without making his campaign a campaign against Herbert Hoover, he has reminded the American people that twenty years ago their country was sunk in a depression, spiritual as well as economic, but that by a humane and courageous
DR. CRONIN
Dr. Edward J. Cronin, assistant professor in the English Department and General Program of Liberal Education at Notre Dame for the past four years, is a graduate of Notre Dame and former instructor in the English Department of the University of Minnesota. While at Minnesota, Dr. Cronin conducted a course entitled The Humanities and served as faculty moderator for the Neiv-man Club.
philosophy of government their country is today the most prosperous and vigorous on the face of the earth. This humane and courageous philosophy of government, the ungrateful and shortsighted of this time, with their knack for slogans and short cuts, call “Socialistic.” But Gov. Stevenson does not answer catchwords with equally empty catchwords. He bids us to examine with him
the true function of government in a democratic society that has been pledged, from its beginning, to promote the general welfare. And then, instead of conjuring up the image of a greedy, grasping bureaucracy that would turn Americans into either slaves or machines, he shows us an ennobling and exciting, and —because we too believe it—a convincing picture of our national government. And. it is a government, actually a philosophy of government, that. would make the American citizen still more free, still more vigorous, because it would cooperate with him in releasing his fullest energies. Surely, if faith in what the American people have done and can do is a requisite for one who would he their leader, Gov. Stevenson has that faith. But he is not content. Unlike the men of small hope and great fear who cry that we have gone too far, that, even, we must go back, Gov. Stevenson says that we have still far to go, that we will never be able to say, “Now—we have done enough.”-Because he, like his party, has a heart as well as a head, and he realizes, as do all men of sympathy and imagination, that there are—and always will be— too many who are ill fed, ill housed, ill clothed; too many who through no fault of their own, are among the unfortunate of the earth—he realizes all this too well ever to say that the American dream has been dreamed out. And he urges every power of man, including the government he has chosen for himself, to right these wrongs. It will be an evil day when Socialism is defined as conscience in government.
A Republican Inquiry
But just as President Roosevelt was the leader in bringing America out of domestic chaos, so I hope Adlai Stevenson will be our leader in the days ahead when we must face the problems of war and peace. I received a piece of campaign literature the other- day from my Republican Congressman, Mr. “Shep” Crumpacker. He asked me, in glowing red letters—which in Democratic literature would be cause for suspicion—if I were tired of war and corruption? Well, unless Mr. Crumpacker is going to repeal original sin, I am afraid I shall have to expect some imperfection among men in office. But tired of war? Who isn’t? And yet, ahi I to expect that merely by electing Mr. Crumpacker—or any number of men—that Korea will vanish? That is the implication in Mr. Crumpacker’s question. But whether he knows it or not, things—such things—are not that easy. And if Mr. Crumpacker does know it, he is a hypocrite; and if he does not, he is a fool. In either case, he spoke to me as if I were a fool.
What, then, is Mr. Stevenson’s answer to Korea and to the whole problem
(Continued on page 30)
Oct. 31, 1952
19
i
I The Case of Eisenhower
s J
|	By DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW
I	One of the axioms of practical po-
j	litical science is that there should he
i	periodic changes in the administration of
|	government. The principle of this is rec-
i	ognized in the long-overdue Twenty-
।	Second Amendment and even in Can-
non Law limiting the tenure of superiors.
|	There is nothing new or spectacular in
the observation that it is time for a . change, but the philosophy underlies the Republican version of all of the major j	issues.
i	Foreign Policy
In foreign policy the Democratic party has simply given up, bankrupt for ideas.
I	It has been mildly amusing to observe
I	that Stevenson and Truman (not to men-
tion Acheson) have recently asked Eisenhower to publicize any ideas he might have for the-Korean situation. Admittedly, they have none. If anything stands out in the years that the Democrats have been in power, it is the abject failure of their foreign policy. A foreign policy is supposed to bring about and maintain an honorable peace. Three wars under three Democratic presidents would hardly seem to add up to success. The futility of our participation in two World Wars and the crass ineptitude of our failure in the post-World War II situation have received adequate treatment via the printed word. Our muddling into the Korean debacle is a classic example of Jack of statesmanship. The
Acheson statement of January, 1950, voicing America’s intention of withdrawing from the Asiatic mainland was an open invitation to the June, 1950 outbreak. The fakery of United Nations sanction, introduced after our active intervention, is borne out by the casualty figures. Today, the administration, with “a bear by the tail,” does not have any answer except stalemate. (An outstanding football coach recently observed that Americans do not like ties.) The obvious advantage to Russia in an unending drain of American casualties and treasure and tying down a goodly portion of our military potential needs no elaboration. And with it all our administration does not know what to do next. It got us involved
20
The Scholastic
and does not have the answer to “What now, little man?” In such a situation of zero-zero, a change must be for the better and the Republicans will have the psychological advantage of not having a vested interest in past mistakes in foreign policy.
While we cannot expect our officials to be soothsayers, nevertheless when, repeatedly, they have been proved wrong by later events (after countless numbers of persons had urged a different course of action at the time, later proved to be correct) these officials seem a bit out of character in posing as statesmen and as the only ones properly capable of caring for America’s destiny. If anything, the exact opposite is true. They have had their chance and they have failed. It’s time to try somebody else. It's time to change.
Communism
In the matter of communism, there is no denying that this administration has codied communists and communist sympathizers. The record proves it. On this record there is the Amerasia case with stolen documents from the War, Navy, and State Departments, OWI, FCC and OSS. For this a State Department employee was fined §500. There is also the case of William Remington of the Commerce Department, and the famous Alger Hiss case (which, incidentally, included the Stevenson deposition), to mention only two. Yet the State Department’s Loyalty Board, in all of the cases it has considered, has not found anyone “guilty.” This administration has used every effort to forestall investigation and possible conviction of the men in our governmental organization. These “red herring” efforts are also a matter of record, as are the examples of Democratic coddling of communists from the 1933 recognition onward. Certainly- an administration that has allowed this to go on, that has resisted efforts at ‘hous-cleaning,” whose only “answers” have been protestations of innocence, involuntary prosecutions conducted undei- duress, and a Korean war with casualties of 500 to 1,000 American boys a week needs to be replaced. Here again the Democrats labor under the psychological disadvantage of defending past errors. We need a change. Have you ever known or know of a Republican who was a Communist?
Mink Coats, Too
Then there is the issue of corruption. The members of a party long in power are inclined to lose perspective. They have been in so long that they assume a proprietary interest in office to the extent that the symbolic deep freezer and mink coat come to seem a rightful part of the perquisites of office. The litany of “cases” runs the gamut of T. Lamar
Caudle, former assistant Attorney General, Harry Vaughn, the President’s military aide, William Boyle, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, James P. Finnegan, Internal Revenue Collector, Loretta Young of mink coat fame, Donald Dawson, Truman’s patronage boss, and others. The corruption, moreover, has extended beyond individuals to corruption of constitutional principles, to judicial corruption through packed courts, to the allembracing corruption of intellectual dishonesty. Here, as with communists, there prevails the attitude of assumed innocence and resistance to any investigatory activity, as witness Truman’s “my house is always clean” statement. Here
D2. BARTHOLOMEW
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew has had a long record of achievements in the field of political science since he received his AB at Notre Dame in 1929. Besides his regular duties of professor, Dr. Bartholomew has served as political commentator at radio station WSBT in South Bend, originator and director of the Washington tours of the Department of Political Science and originator of the Notre Dame quadrennial mock political convention.	.
again the first step in a remedy is change. Returning to our first premise, any administration needs a periodic check. Now and’ then we need someone to audit the books. Applicable here is Lord Acton’s observation that “all power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely.”
“Bigger and Bigger Government”
There are other points in the case for the Republicans this election year of 1952. Eisenhower will find the Republican-Southern conservative coalition cooperative. He will be able to get things
done. Under Stevenson, such cooperation is doubtful. Eisenhower is at least mildly favorable to states rights as envisioned by our Constitution, while Stevenson does violence to Jeffersonian philosophy with his advocacy of bigger and bigger government. Too, Stevenson has not indicated even an intention to try to “do better” fiscalwise, while Eisenhower has made specific suggestions on budget reduction. Also, Stevenson’s embracing of the ultra-liberals is most disquieting.
The experts say that for histoneal reasons and other-wise the greatest issue that favors the Democrats is prosperity. The term requires definition and there is real question if the sort of thing we are living through can be called a sound prosperity, even by cynical materialists in their more honest moods. This is a prosperity based on a war economy and our inflationary, half-priced dollars. As the government’s own economists admit, when defense spending stops or even slackens, we are due for a “recession.” We are kidding ourselves with a spendingspree premised on future taxation. Our children’s children to the “ ‘steenth” generation will be paying the bill, if we survive as a state.
From another angle, just what kind of real prosperity do we have? Inflation has decreased to an appalling extent the value of the dollar in terms of what it will buy—the only real consideration. In point of purchasing power, the average family’s bank deposits, life insurance, U- S- Bonds, etc., actually decreased by more than §1,000 from 1945 to 1951. What kind of prosperity is it when young people cannot buy a house unless they are able to raise §2,000 to S3,000 in cash for a down payment and unless they mortgage their future for §10,000 to. §12,000? Today the average American pays 31% of all he earns in taxes—federal, state, and local. What kind of prosperity is it- that requires the federal government to spend in the years since 1946 almost a hundred billion dollars more than had been spent by the federal government in total in all the years from 1789 to 1941? A few more years of such “prosperity” and we are lost. What kind of prosperity is it when the federal government must go steadily further into debt despite the greatest peacetime tax load in history? A' day of reckoning is coming as surely as Judgment Day. Governments are very much like families and individuals—they cannot live indefinitely on borrowed funds. While governments can, through economic quackery, postpone the inevitable, that day of reckoning eventually arrives as it did in mid-1920 Germany. What kind of thinking is it that calls this prosperity?
The stock statement that is offered by way of justifying our tremendous ex-
(Continued on page 30)	-
Oct. 31, 1952
21
How Short Fame . . .
What is the Notre Dame man coming to? Last Saturday there was an attempt by a young Walshite to push a peanut with his nose from Walsh hall to the Main Building. He failed, giving up the battle with the peanut when only between Walsh and Sorin.
Seeing this rather dizzy type of contest called to mind a situation about a year ago. It was in May of 1951, with the weather much like it was last weekend, that one Gene Bergin crawled out of Lyons hall headed for the Main Building. Gene had made a bet that he could crawl on his knees from his room on the first floor of Lyons to the third floor of the Main Building. He was allowed no padding on his knees and was forced to kneel straight (no slouching) all the way.
One hour and 35 minutes after setting out from Lyons, he reached the top of the marble steps in the Main Building and collected his prize. Bergin got twenty dollars for his effort and temporary notoriety. We don’t know what the reward would have been had the Walsh peanut-pusher made his goal. However, when we saw him give up, the thought came to mind that Notre Dame men are getting soft. They just can’t take it like they once could.
Iron-man Bergin, if any of the more nostalgic would like to see that old contestant, is now the captain of a chow line in the East dining hall. Bergin, a senior who is philosophical about the way fame has deserted him, says, “Oh, well.”
For Philologists . . .
Fanatically non-partisan though we are, Once Over Lightly finds itself on Mr. Stevenson’s side in the pronunciation controversy. A week or so ago, Mr. Stevenson gave a talk on campus during which he pronounced the word encyclical as en-sigh-click-cal. From the nature of the comments outside the Drill Hall after the speech, it seemed that a number of the less erudite were a bit contemptuous of Mr. Stevenson for pronouncing the word that way. We looked up encyclical in Webster's Collegiate and found that it can be pronounced either en-sigh-click-cal or en-sick-lick-cal with the former the first pronunciation given and therefore the preferred. We just thought we’d let you know.
Wonder if that fellow in Sorin who
checks on everything we write will investigate this too.
“The Play’s the Thing”. . .
According to our watches, it was only 10:30 p. m. Now this was worth noting, for we had only walked into Washington Hall a little over two hours earlier. Yet in those two hours we had seen a complete play, and had enough time left between acts for a quick cigarette.
“What’s so remarkable about that?” you say.
There is our whole point of view. It isn’t remarkable at all; in fact, it’s the usual thing. Most plays have to be staged in two or two and a half hours, including intermissions, to hold their audience. Obviously, then, you should be able to read a play in a shorter time, even possibly at a single sitting.
This element of time may interest certain groups on campus. Some students honestly don’t have time to sit down and read a novel. Others haven’t the patience to stay with any story that is longer than fifty pages. Possibly even a few may enjoy something besides the usual Post short stories. They’re the ones who should try reading a play or two. Remember, Broadway isn’t making money merely on the personalities of its actors; the story has a bit to do with the success.
Now that you have read this far, you probably have these two questions in mind:
(a)	How will I know what to read? The answer is obvious. Go back to the word “Broadway” that we used above and think of some of the outstanding plays of the last few years. We think that just about everyone will remember Mister Roberts or Death of a Salesman. Try reading one of these for a start.
(b)	Where can I pick up a copy of a play? To settle this one you don’t have to go any further than the ND library. Believe it or not they do have plays back in those files, and there are more coming all the time.
For those who are still confused, the library is the rather large building between Howard and St. Mary’s Take.
Jack Dilenschneider
Walt Werner
Gerry Voit
Srad cNotes
Happy Halloween! Tonight the gala dance of the G.S.A. will be held in the Vets’ Rec Hall. Postcards were sent to G.S.A. members and posters have been on the various bulletin boards for two weeks now. If these things have escaped your notice there’s still a possibility that a ticket may be available.
Lou Glunz and Art Raymond, co-chairmen of the dance committee guarantee the success of this event. They’ve gone to no end of trouble to assure your enjoyment this evening. Other members who served on this committee are Tony Verbiscar and Joe Kelly. Tickets were distributed by the departmental representative to the G.S.A., namely Bob Kane, Ed O’Connor, Walt Gray, and Cliff Barker. Larry Monaco saw to the printing.
Special thanks go to Lou Glunz and his associates who have gone around measuring lonesome males who have as yet been unable to make contact with members of the warmer sex hereabouts. Dates were arranged for these men from Lou’s extensive list of romantic interests.
Again, special thanks to Ed Cocho-ran and his aides who provided the magnificent decorations for the ballroom. The word has it that Cochoran, himself, designed the pumpkin faces for the jack o’lanterns you’ll find on each table. The arrangement of orange and black streamers about the hall is another Glunz innovation. To Art Raymond goes the credit for the corn stalks. Larry Monaco spent all day today winding the victrola so there’ll be music aplenty.
Bob Shaver of the Biology department is now organizing an ’ inter-de-partmental basketball league. All departments that are interested in entering a team in the league should elect a team captain, who can contact Bob any weekday at the University extension 212.
At a recent executive meeting a tentative schedule of events for the remainder of the semester, between now and Christmas, was outlined. These events are, namely, a Thanksgiving dance and two meetings, one each for November and December. Nomination of candidates for the various executive offices of the G.S.A. is scheduled for the November meeting. The election of officers will take place at the December meeting.
Have a good time at the dance and don’t be too hard on Lou if he doesn’t fix you up with the girl of your dreams.—Joe Kelly
22
The Scholastic
First of all, I’d like to clear up the glaring typographical error in last week’s column lest I go down in posterity as an advocate of both cynicism and immaturity. It seems that a little prefix, carelessly attached to a key word of the final sentence, was of such a nature as to turn what would have been a punch line into a contradiction of all that had been said before.
According to the way the column read, I wound up a discussion of cynicism by saying that there was “unfortunately” a sure cure for it — the complete maturation of the victim. Of course, the adverb was intended to be “fortunately.” Yet it is such things as this that help to keep columnists awake at nights. Any skilled linotype operator's or proofreaders in the crowd?
(The following is solely a personal observation. The fact that I am on the editorial staff of the Scholastic has no bearing whatever on the stand of our publication concerning the issues treated here.)
Next Tuesday afternoon is a big day in the life of the United States. For the average citizen, it will be one of the 11 or 12 times in his life when he can help decide who is to be the next President of the U. S. For most of us collegians who can vote, it will be the first time.
I personally am going to cast my ballot for Gov. Adlai Stevenson. I think Stevenson is better equipped for the Presidency by virtue of his outstanding political record as governor of Illinois, as a member of administrative departments in Washington, as well as by his work on the United Nations. Moreover, his seems to be the type of personality that can rise above any situation or emergency. His eloquence and intellectual honesty stand out in sharp relief to the bluntness and ambiguity of his opponent.
In a recent interview with Stevenson, I was particularly impressed by his sincerity, humility, and dignity. I admire his courage — the mannei- in which he stated his views on the Tidelands oil issue although he knew that he might lose the Texas electoral vote because of it — the manner in which he has told labor, farm, and veterans groups that he would not allow them special privileges.
In short, Stevenson is a natural for the office that sought him; Ike, at best, though he is trying hard, is still on the doubtful list.
. . . For the National Collegiate Election Choice
Results of the Associated Collegiate Press national election poll were released last weekend to convention delegates in New York, in whose number news editor Pat Carrico and I were included. So this column is courtesy of the ACP.
The ACP National Poll of Student Opinion asked students from all parts of the country: Which candidate do you want to win the presidential election? The results show a large majority for Eisenhower, with the General garnering 57 per cent of the total number of students polled. Stevenson received 33 per cent, nine per cent were undecided, and “others” were named by one per cent.
(A pai-tial straw vote of collegiate editors taken at the convention showed that they do not agree with their stu
dent colleagues. Forty-one editors named Stevenson as their choice, 29 liked Ike, including myself, and two were undecided.)
Despite Eisenhower’s popularity, there are almost as many Democrats as there are Republicans. Thirty-two per cent of those polled claimed to be Democrats, 36 per cent Republicans and 30 per cent independents.
Only on some of the southern campuses does Stevenson have a majority. In Texas, though, students call themselves Democrats but favor Ike. This same tendency is apparent in Oklahoma.
Most students (56 per cent) say they agree with their parents in choice of candidates. Nineteen per cent say they disagree, and 23 per cent are not sure.
It seems impossible to tell which party a person leans toward from the candidate he favors. There is the (Continued on page 31)
Oct. 31, 1952
23
Senators Review Hall Council, Decorations
The Student Senate, at its meeting last Monday evening, was given a report by Vice-President Floyd Blair on the organization of the new Hall Council System. Blair announced that Jack Ryan, of Badin Hall, has been elected Council Secretary.
The senate then considered the spending limit for decoration of the halls for Decoration Weekend. It was decided to limit the decorations to the value of twenty-five dollars, to equalize the competition of the smaller halls with the larger ones. This §25 may be realized through either the contribution by students of the halls, or by spending the hall’s $25 apportionment from the Senate.
The Senate also reserved the dates for this year’s Bengal Bouts, which will be sponsored by the South Bend Knights of Columbus. The bouts will be held on March 10, 11, 12, 14, and 17, with the semi-finals on March 14 and 17. The Bengal Bouts are held each year for the benefit of Catholic missionaries in India.
During the treasurer’s report, returns were announced on the Mixer held in the Drill Hall for St. Mary’s. Fran Meaney, Blue Circle member who managed the affair, reported that a profit of about $65 had been made, and that the Mixer had been a social success. Some 1300 attended the affair, approximately 350 of whom were from St. Mary’s. Senate extended its thanks to Meaney, and tentatively approved of similar mixers to be held occasionally in the future.
Hugh Brown, manager of the Student Trip to Cleveland, was requested to secure approximately six students to handle the sleeping arrangements in the Cleveland Public Auditorium. Discipline on the trip will be the responsibility of the Senate, which will also assume possible damage claims resulting from the trip.
Schedule November Concert For ND Secretarial Choir
The newest addition to the musical activities on campus, the Notre Dame Secretarial Choir, has begun its second, year of practice, under the directorship of Mr. Charles A. Biondo, violin instructor in the Music Department. The group, composed of girls working in the various offices and in the library, has scheduled its first concert for Tuesday, November 11, at 8 p.m. The concert will be part of the benefit show for underprivileged children, sponsored
24
by the Clay Township Lions Club and the Clay Township Volunteer Fire Department. The show will be held in the new ultra-modern Washington-Clay High School at Cleveland and Lily Roads in South Bend. Plans are also under way for a number of concerts to be given on campus throughout the year.
Several new members have joined the group, and all other girls on campus interested in singing will be welcomed. They may contact Mr. Biondo, Ext. 536, or Margaret Chung, President of the Choir, Ext. 271.
Their repertoire will include many of the numbers performed in their two concerts last year, with old favorites, popular tunes, and selections from the choral works of Handel, Brahms, and other classical composers.
'Sex-Character Education,' By Father O'Brien, Published
Sex-Character Education, a book which parents have been wanting for years to enable them to explain in a simple, reverent manner the facts of life to the young, has just been published jointly by the MacMillan Company and Our Sunday Visitor.
Written by Rev. Dr. John A. O’Brien, noted author and University of Notre Dame professor, with the assistance of a dozen outstanding experts, the volume embodies the latest techniques for the presentation of ’the pertinent facts of sex from the time at which children begin to ask about birth until they are ready for marriage.
In spite of complete agreement among all authorities that sex education must not be left to chance, points out the author, three out of every four parents fail to give their children any information on this important subject.
The volume shows how sex instruction, instead of being a cold intellectual lesson in biology, can be made a warm emotional experience that aids moral development and brings parents and children closer together.
Assisting Dr. O’Brien are a dozen specialists, including Margaret Culkin Banning, Father Daniel A. Lord, S.J., Esther- Emerson Sweeney, Dr. Paul Po-pence, Ruth Hawthorne Fay and Edward B. Lyman of Fordham University.
Father Keller and The Christophers contribute four model conversations on various aspects of sex, which might take place between parents and their children.
Sex-Character Education, says Professor John J. Kane, “is the most authoritative and important work ever published on this subject. It is a ‘must’ book for parents, teachers, clergy, social workers, as well as for adolescent boys and girls
and all preparing for marriage.” The MacMillan Company is publishing the work in cloth covers ($2.75) and Our Sunday Visitor in paper covers ($1.50) to bring it within the reach of all.
NameTrue Moderator Of Speaker's Bureau
In two weeks of recent activity the Speaker’s Bureau has acquired a new faculty moderator, scheduled a discussion with Barat College of Lake Forest, Illinois, and planned a club dinner for next Wednesday evening.
G. Herbert True, assistant professor of advertising in the College of Commerce, has been secured as this year’s faculty moderator. Professor True brings with him a tremendous wealth of practical experience, for he has been connected with radio, television, newspapers, and other associated businesses.
More recently, he has been engaged in television work in the Chicago area with both CBS and NBC, receiving the NBC-TV scholarship in 1951.
Professor True received his M.S. degree in journalism at Northwestern this year and has also just completed a TV Research Scholarship and Graduate Assistantship at Northwestern University. In 1944, the new moderator gained his B.A. degree from the University of Oklahoma.
A leader in the development of TV dictionary handbooks and other related material, Professor True has also been connected with such popular programs as the Comedy Hour and the Red Skelton Show.
Also among his past experiences is a background of dramatic work in the St. Louis vicinity, service with USO shows during the war years, and a term as master of ceremonies for Tex Beneke’s Navy Gremlins Dance Band of 1944-46.
The plan for this year is to give every member an opportunity to deliver talks both before his fellow club members and unfamiliar- groups.
Barat College has been the first school to set a definite date to hold a discussion with the Notre Dame crew. Saturday, December 13th, has been agreed upon by both schools as the date and Lake Forest set as the site of the conference. The Speaker’s Bureau will be guests of the girls’ college for a Saturday night social function.
Alice McGill, chairwoman of the NFCCS Forensic Committee at Barat College, is making the arrangements for the weekend.
This Wednesday evening the men of the Speaker’s Bureau will gather for dinner, in order that both new and old members may become better acquainted.
The Scholastic
Irish Turn Big Gunson Midshipmen
Varsity Soccer Team Student Trippers to See Best Post-War Novy In the Making at ND Eleven Clash With Notre Dame at Cleveland
It is quite possible, that in the near future, there will appear on Notre Dame’s fields of combat another group of athletes, the Soccer players. Coach Maxwell states that a new, revitalized Soccer team is in the offing and should be ready to roll by next fall in varsity competition.
There was a fine Soccer outfit until about three years ago. This club was bolstered considerably by the presence of several superb South American players and some vets who were quite adept at the game. They competed with the Big Ten schools and their arch-rival, University of Chicago. For the most part, ND made a representative showing, while compiling an enviable record. However, interest soon dwindled, the sport drifted into oblivion.
A different situation exists now, though. Coach Maxwell says the boys show a lot of spirit and are eager to display their talents. He has about 30 can-
(Continued on Page 32.)
By TOM WELLY
Cleveland, Ohio, will be the scene tomorrow as Notre Dame and Navy renew their pigskin series which has continued unbroken since its beginning in 1927. Navy will be attempting to break a six
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offense) NOTRE DAME	NAVY
Penza .......LE______ Gurski c. Varrichione ....LT___ Fullam
Seaman ......LG...............Pertel Schrader ................C.. Olsen
Alessand’i c. RG„........ Aronis Bush ....................RT. Leach
Hunter ......RE.....J. Anderson Carey ..............QB.... Schoderbeck
Heap ........LHB....... Fisher
Lattner......RHB........  Smith
Worden _______FB........ Franco
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 EST
game Irish win streak in the series which is recognized as one of the most colorful rivalries in the gridiron world. The Middies have compiled their best record since' the war years this season as they have defeated Yale, Cornell, and William and Mary. Only a loss to powerful Maryland and a tie with Penn mar the fine Navy record.
Saturday’s battle brings together the two schools with the “killer schedules.’’ Athletic Director Capt. Ian C. Eddy has compiled a schedule which pits the Middies against the nation’s best. This year’s Navy team appears to be an even match for any of its highly regarded opponents.
Coach Eddie Erdlatz greeted 19 returning lettermen from last year’s squad which was defeated by the Irish, 19-0. Erdlatz features the T-formation in an attack which is both diversified and successful. However Navy’s strong-
LINEBACKER TONY CORRENTI, DEFENSIVE MENACE, SET TO STOP IRISH OFFENSE
Top-Flight Middie Backer-up is One of the Mainstays in Navy’s Rock-ribbed Defensive wall
Oct. 31, 1*52
25
FRANK ADORNEY
Navy Speedster Ready to Sail
est asset is a rock ribbed defense which ranks among the nation’s leaders.
Although the Middies run small, only two men on the roster scaling as high as 210, nevertheless they are as streamlined an outfit as has represented the Academy for many years. Typical of the excellent material on this year’s edition of the Middies is the three men who share the quarterback slot.
Middies Loaded With Quarterbacks
Coach Erdelatz can call on John Easter, Bob Cameron or Steve Schoder-beck to run the offensive platoon. Raster is the Toledo, Ohio boy who ran back the highly publicized 101 yard intercepted pass against Army while Cameron is the same lad whose booming punts featured last year’s Navy-Notre Dame game. However it is Steve Scho-derbeck who will be over center in the T attack when the Midshipmen take the field at the Municipal Stadium tomorrow. Schoderbeck has earned the assignment on his tremendous effort in the Navy-Penn tie of last week. He ripped the Penn line to shreds with his vicious running and directed the attack with high efficiency.
At the' half-back posts for the Navy will be Dean Smith at 160 and elusive Don Fisher, 170. These two boys are the fastest backs on a squad known for its speed. Fans will also get a look at Frank Brady and Frank Adorney who spell the Middie first team halfbacks. Power runner, Fred Franco returns for his third year at starting fullback. He has carried the ball 179 times for 673 yards over the two year span for a healthy four yards per carry. He carries the brunt of Navy’s powerful rushing attack. Defensive star, Jack Wilner should also see action when the Middies
have the ball. Ned Snyder, also listed as a fullback, has a sensational record as an extra point specialist, converting 29 out of 30 attempts since the start of last season.
Gurski Leads Team
Paving the way for the many talented backs of the Naval Acvademy will be a top flight line led by Captain John Gurski. Gurski, the third end in foul' years to lead the team, is an outstanding two-way performer. He is a definite choice for sectional honors for his defensive play and is the' team’s leading pass receiver. At the other flank will be either Bob Hempel or Herb Tiede. Both boys are monogram winners and are regarded as equally competent performers. Hempel was a Little All-American star in 1948 while playing for Wharton Junior College in Texas while Tiede is the team’s “strong man” who also excels as a varsity wrestler.
Tackle' was the position hit hardest by graduation with the loss of Fritz Darts and Bill Bryson. Davis was on the Irish’s All-opponent team of 1951. In their places are a pair of ex-Plebes who have functioned exceptionally well in the games played by Navy thus far
CAPT. JOHN GURSKI
Pass-Catching End Leads Middies
this season. They are Hugh Webster, 190 and Jack Perkins, 205. Webster is of the rough and ready variety of tackles and should cause many anxious moments far the Irish backs. Jack Perkins is the converted full-back who scored the initial touchdown in last year’s 42-7 rout of Army. After his switch to tackle in the spring drills Perkins made such a fine showing that he nailed down the. starting left tackle position. Letter-winner Frank Dorsey and Len Anton the heaviest men on the
FRED FRANCO
Powerful Fullback Among the Best
team at 210 will be ready for considerable duty on both offense and defense.
Alex Aronis 180 pounds of dynamite will lead the guards in tomorrow’s action. He' is regarded by Line Coach Hover Hobbs as one of the finest prospects to come up in recent years. Aronis, a lightning blockei- will team with two time monogram winner Joe Pertel in attempting to open up the Notre Dame defensive line. Behind these boys are defensive line backers, Tony Cov-renti and Bob Lowell. Both Lowell and Correnti are veterans with considerable experience.
The center position offers an agreeable situation for any te'am. Returning are three lettermen, Tel Kukowski, Charles. Sieber and Joe Pertel. However Dick Olson, a converted tackle, seems to have taken command of the starting position. Olson’s development at offensive center- leaves the other three boys for defensive duty. Backing up Olson on the offensive platoon is Dick Dutnell, an outstanding member of last year’s undefeated plebe squad.
Following their excellent performance against the nation’s top teams, the Midshipmen should be ready to give the Irish an exceedingly interesting afternoon. The identical 7-7 ties with Penn stamps the game as a close, evenly matched contest.
Irish Outclass Tarheels, 34-14
The Fighting Irish put on their best offensive show of the season last week when they trimmed North Carolina, 3414. Joe Heap had his finest day as an N.D. back as he amassed 230 yards through the Tarheel team. Tom Me Hugh, working in relief for Neil Worden came into his own by running for (Continued on Page 27)
26
The Scholastic
'Big Three' Win Again As Iowa Upsets OSU
By BOB FROLICHER
Notre Dame’s five remaining opponents survived last Saturday’s clashes which featured one tie and two of the major upsets of the week.
The Irish’s next opponent, Navy, battled powerful Pennsylvania to a 7-7 tie in a game which was marked by fumbles, intercepted passes, and bad breaks.
Petin drew first blood after several threats in the first quarter. A fumble by the Middies’ Don Fisher on Navy’s own three yd. line set the stage for the first tally. Penn took advantage and drove over two plays later. Steve Scho-derbeck, up from the J.V. squad, virtually ran and passed Navy on their only touchdown drive. After pounding the Penn defenses for large gains, Scho-derbeck flipped a 33 yd. T.D. pass to fullback Fred Franco for the score.
Sooners Romp to Fourth Straight
Oklahoma, Notre Dame’s next home opponent, romped over their fourth straight foe, downing Kansas State, 496 and moved closer to successfully defending their Big Seven crown.
Halfback Billy Vessels, who chalked up 139 yards in 15 carries, led the Oklahoma team after a slow start. Kansas State’s only score came on a pass in the fourth period. The notable thing about the Sooner offense is that they have scored 49 points in three of their last four games, have racked up a total of 210 points in five games, and extrapoint kickers Jim McPhail and Buddy Leake have yet to miss a try for point after touchdown, converting 30 in a row.
Iowa made their homecoming a happy
one by pulling the Big Ten upset of the week by turning back Ohio State, 8-0 and dampen any possible bowl hopes of the Buckeyes. The Hawkeyes picked up their first two points midway in the second quarter after a 56 yd. punt by Binky Broder was fumbled by Ohio State’s Doug Goodsell, who recovered in his own end zone.
The only touchdown of the game came in the fourth period after Iowa returned a punt to the Buckeyes 35. A pass from Bobby Stearns to Bert Breitz-man and an end run by Broder moved the ball to the 12. After pounding their way inches from the goal, it took the Haweyes four plays to score. The conversion failed.
Spartans Hand Penn State First Defeat
Michigan State, the No. 1 team in the country, strengthened their hold by handing Penn State their first defeat of the year, 34-7. Tom Yewcic led the Spartan attack, tossing three touchdown passes. Two of them came in the second quarter on 45 and 56-yard tosses to ends Doug Bobo and Ellis Duckett respectively. The other TD came on a 61-yard pass to Don McAuliffe.
Halfback Billy Wells scored the third tally in the third period on a 26 yd. reverse around end. Willie Thrower, the Spartans second-string quarterback ended the scoring late in the game’ by hurling a 26 yd. pass to Leroy Bolden.
Southern California, which closes the season for the Irish, dumped favored and previously unbeaten California, 100 in a game which could have much effect on the Pacific Coast Conference.
All the Trojans scoring took place in the first stanza. Jim Sears took a Golden Bear punt on a dead run deep in his own territory, headed straight up the middle then swerved off to the side,
going all the way without a Golden Bear laying a hand on him.
A field goal by Sam Tsakalakis tallied the Trojans final three points. After California held USC on their own four, Tsakalakis’ slight-angle boot was good.
Irish vs. Tarheels
(Continued from page 26) the climaxing two Irish touchdowns. These two were not alone in the laurel taking performances as Sam Palumbo, John Lattner and many others contributed considerably to the Irish cause.
Worden climaxed a quick opening drive by bulling over from the eight, and Bob Arrix converted to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. This was short-lived however as Carolina capitalized on a fumble and a pass from Marshall Newman to Tom Adler to score their initial touchdown. Adler converted and it was a new ball game. The tie was- not broken until the closing seconds of the first half when the Irish drove 78 yards to score on a perfect pass play from Ralph Guglielmi to Art Hunter. Arrix again converted.
Joe Heap broke the game open in the second half by returning the initial kickoff 84 yards with excellent blocking paving the way. Arrix again added the point making it 21-7.	•
The final touchdowns scored by the Irish featured McHugh and Paul Reynolds as they ripped through the Tarheel forwards for substantial gains. McHugh climaxed both drives with his touchdown runs. Arrix made it four out of five as he kicked the Irish into a 34-7 lead. Marshall Newman, the Tarheel Quarterback finished the day’s scoring as he passed to Gene Walser from 17 yards out. Adler added the final point with the scoreboard reading Notre Dame, 34; North Carolina, 14.
END ART HUNTER GRABS SHORT PASS AGAINST TARHEELS JOHNNY LATTNER (14> OFF ON ANOTHER JAUNT
Irish Stalwart Key Performer in 34-14 Victory	Tackle Joe Bush (73) Paves the Way With Key Block
Oct. 31, 1952
27
Off-Campus in First After Tie With Morrissey; B-P, Cavanaugh Deadlocked for Eastern Title
Off Campus pulled what might be tabbed another major upset in the western league by battling Coach Woe-pel’s powerful Morrissey eleven to a 0-0 tie.
In the first half the ball continuously changed hands with neither team being able to penetrate the opponents’ toughened defenses. The loss of quarterback Pat Galvin greatly hampered the deceptive running attack of Morrissey.
The second half opened with a fury, indicating that both teams were out to win, knowing the importance of the outcome. Off-Campus staged the first rally combining the running of its Jim Pudlowski and Don Yaor. The backs with the one-two pass punch efforts of Marty Veith’s team were in vain, however. After the Off-Campus eleven battled their way to the three, the Morrissey defense stiffened, and the attack faltered.
After punting the ball back and forth during the rest of the second half, Morrissey took possession of the ball with time running short. End Bendel was switched to tailback in the spread formation, and Morrissey started their only sustained drive of the day. They worked their way down to the Off Campus 10-yard line where a last-minute desperation pass to fullback Mike Fox in the end zone fell short.
By virtue of the tie, Off-Campus took over undisputed possession of first place in their division. Should Off-Campus tie St. Ed’s in the replay of their disputed game, Veith’s forces would still earn the right to represent the western league in the title game, nosing out Dillon by finishing with a 3-0-1 record while Dillon ended up with a 2-1-0.
Dillon 12, St. Ed’s 0.
A first quarter touchdown pass from Bob Chickey to Mike McLaughlin and a last period nin by Vic Eaton enabled powerful Dillon to whitewash a hard-fighting St. Ed’s eleven 12-0. Despite the triumph, it looks as if the Dillon-ites will have to settle for second place in the Western division since they were edged a week previous by Marty Veith’s Off-Campus squad.
Dillon, however, proved that they were one of the best campus teams in the past few years as they scored on the first play from scrimmage against St. Ed’s via a 30-yard pass from Chickey. Two other Dillon touchdowns were called back before Eaton
28
took a pitchout from Chickey and climaxed a 65-yard march in the final quarter by striking paydirt.
The Dillonites worked smoothly out of theii- single-wing formation, but even more effective was their defense which held the Saints to a minus yards on the ground.
Breen-Phillips 21, Zahm 0.
By virtue of each winning a key game last week, Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh tied for first place in the Eastern section of the Interhall football league. The two played off this week to see which club would represent the East league in the annual championship game.
Breen-Phillips took the measure of a determined but undermanned Zahm team by a 21-0 count. The winners tallied the very first time they had the ball, driving 60 yards to paydirt after the kickoff. “Goose” McMullen took a short pass in the end zone for the first of his three touchdowns.
McMullen’s other scores also came on pass receptions. Just before the half Dick Rust threw a long floater to him to put Breen-Phillips in front, 14-0.
A pass interference penalty set up the last B-P six pointer. The infraction put the ball on the Zahm ten from where Mr. McMullen ended the touchdown making for the day by nabbing a flat pass and scampering over the goal.
John Raub contributed two points to the victors’ cause in the first period when he tackled a Zahm halfback in the end zone for a safety.
Cavanaugh 6, Farley 0.
Undefeated Cavanaugh kept pace with Breen-Phillips by scoring a last-minute 6-0 victory over an underdog Farley eleven. Farley, though winless, displayed its usual stone-wall defense that stopped the favorites at almost every turn.
With three and a half minutes left in the game, Farley elected to gamble a fourth down pass on their own 30-yard line. It was incomplete, and Cavanaugh took over. Four plays later, Cavanaugh halfback Tex Tyson spurted to the right, stopped and tossed a strike to Tom Murray, who gathered the ball in on the 15 and romped, untouched, into the end zone.
Farley had stopped Cavanaugh cold on the six-yard line early in the first period. A Farley pass from center was bad, and Cavanaugh recovered on the
Farley 25. The drive went as far as the one but the fine Farley forward wall aided by a five-yard penalty rose to the occasion and took over on downs.
The game was so evenly contested and hard fought that there was really little to choose between the two teams. Linebackers Brad Bailie and Dick Kaufman, guard John Broderick and end Ron Casey were particularly outstanding in the Farley defense. However it was the pass that again proved Farley’s nemesis as it had in the previous week’s loss to B-P.
Irish Harriers Lose To Marquette, 27-28
Notre Dame’s cross-country harriers lost a close 27-28 decision to Marquette’s cindermen last Saturday, despite the fact that they placed five distance runners in the first nine. It was the second straight loss for Coach Alex Wilson’s thin-clads in as many starts.
Leading the parade of cross-countrymen was Notre Dame’s Jack Alexander, whose winning time of 20:10.7 was the brightest spot in the otherwise drab morning for the Irish. Following Alexander was Allen, Barrs and Robbins of the Hilltoppers, with George Helfenstein, Bill Lenihan and John O’Connor placing fifth, sixth and seventh for the Wilsonmen.
What hurt the Irish harriers most was the loss of Al Schoenig, former national interscholastic 1000-yard champ, who was sidelined with a bad foot. Schoenig’s replacement, Dick O’Keefe, ran remarkably well, however, placing 11th with a time of 23:07.
Coach Wilson was very optimistic even in defeat as he thought his team had greatly improved since their first meet with Wheaton. He also felt sure that his cindermen would take Marquette in the Central Collegiates which get underway in the middle of November.
Tomorrow the winged-feet of the Irish will run after their first win of the season as they oppose Michigan State in their second successive home engagement.
The following are the first 13 places in last Saturday’s meet: 1st, Alexander, ND, 20:10.7; 2nd, Allen, Marquette, 20:13; 3rd, Barrs, Marquette, 20:35; 4th, Robbins, Marquette, 20:44; 5th, Helfenstein, ND, 20:59; 6th, Lenihan, ND, 21:08; 7th, O’Connor, ND, 21:32.5; 8th, Weiss, Marquette, 21.37; 9th, Snyder, ND, 22:05; 10th, Walter, Marquette, 22:18; 11th, O’Keefe, ND, 23:07; 12th, DeSchriver, ND, 23:22; 13th, Fortier, Marquette, 23:37.5.
The Scholastic
Morrissey Cops Twin Bill; Gains Hall Baseball Crown
By virtue of successive wins over Lyons Hall, Oct. 19, Morrissey’s baseballers captured the interhall diamond crown of 1952. Scene of the doubleheader was Cartier Field.
Featuring Morrissey’s 2-1 victory in the thrilling five-inning opener was Jack Sasko’s fourth-inning circuit clout which proved to be the winning tally. Stellar hurling by Morrissey’s Jack Castner and Lyons’ Don Peters accounted for the low-scoring contest.
In the second five-ininng fray, Lyons held the upper hand, leading 5-1 going into the top of the fifth. But in the top of the fifth, the Morrissey batsmen, led by Maury Cicciarelli’s three-run homer, pushed over eight big runs. Lyons countered with two runs in the bottom of the fifth cutting the margin to 9-7, but the rally was squelched by brilliant relief twirling on the part of Jack Castner. Cicciarelli was the winning hurler.
Both teams displayed a well-drilled defense, but Morrissey’s power at the plate was the deciding factor of the two-game series.
Medals were awarded to the members of the winning team.
By Jack Sand
the longest and closest m
NED SNYDER
Navy Kicking Specialist
against the Irish tomorrow
Track Squad Starts Practice Minus Several 1952 Stalwarts
On November 1 the call will go out for all Notre Dame trackmen to report at the cinder path and show what they can do. At that time Coach Alex Wilson will begin to form his squad for the coming indoor year. Because of the freshmen ineligibility rule brought into effect this year. Mr. Wilson will not be able to use any of the first year men but must shape his varsity from last year’s team.
This is going to present difficulties, not only because of the large group of good frosh runners on campus, but also because of the loss of many senior lettermen from last year. Foremost among the graduated cindermen was Captain Paul Ewing, along with Hugh Wilcox, Con Tetrault, John Mohar, and Ben Almaguer. These boys were mainstays of the team in ’51 with Ewing doing the sprinting, Wilcox high jumping and running the quarter mile, Tetrault and Mohar the mile and Almaguer the long two-mile run.
Their loss will be felt, and with no freshmen help, Mr. Wilson has the difficult task of putting out a team comparable to that of ’51. However, with a good bunch of hurdlers and pole vaulters as a basis, he hopes to get the squad in top form for its first .meet Feb. 7.
When Two Defenses Meet . . .
Tomorrow afternoon two of the stoutest defenses in intercollegiate football will collide head-on at Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, and the big question to be answered is who will crack first, the Irish or the Middies? Both teams will enter the contest with identical records of three victories, one loss, and one tie apiece, with Navy having only 59 points scored against them this season and Notre Dame just 60. These two figures are a definite indication of how hard-fought the game is going to be, especially since the Terrier-Goat series is one of gridiron history. Although the Irish have a wide advantage in the victory column with 20 triumphs, as compared to Navy’s four, and one tie, the traditional series has been decided by two touchdowns or less in 16 of the 25 times the two have met, with 10 of the contests being won by seven points or under.
Offensively, Navy uses much of the same variations from the “T” as do the Irish. Last week they employed the split “T” effectively in tying Penn, and also worked out of the old Notre Dame box. Coach Eddie Erdlatz also experimented with the spread formation, which he might possibly use , with the hope of scaling the gigantic
defensive wall and penetrating Notre Dame’s porous outfield which has let six touchdown passes fly through its empty arms.
Coach Erdlatz will also have on hand another potential weapon in the person of Ned Snyder, Navy’s fine extra-point specialist. Snyder, who hails from Lafayette, Ind., kicked 18 out of 19 points .aftertouchdown last fall, and so far this season has booted 11 straight through the uprights, including two field goals.
The Irish will certainly have their fill of extra-point artists this fall, since next week Oklahoma’s unbeaten Sooners come to town with a fellow named Buddy Leake who so far this season has kicked 25 consecutive points.
Picking the Tar Out of the Tarheels
Last weekend against North Carolina the Irish fumbled six times to increase their season’s total to a phenomenal 28. Their opponents, however, have only recovered 13, while the alert Irish defense has come up with 17 of 24 fumbles by the opposition. Dave Flood is the leading pilferer with four recoveries. . . . Marshall Newman, 18-year-old Tarheel quarterback, can be ranked with Pitt’s Rudy Mattioli as the best passer we’ve seen this year. Despite the fact that he was being constantly rushed Newman flipped a pair of touchdown passes, having a third dropped in the end zone. . . . Once again last Saturday the most important touchdown was engineered by Ralph Guglielmi, when he fired a bullet pass to Art Hunter in the closing seconds of the first half. A week previous he did it against Purdue on a long shot to Johnny Lattner. . . . While Guglielmi has been leading the desperation scores, fullback Neil Worden has been picking up those first downs when they were most needed. Worden also leads the team in points scored with 24.	'
Prediction of the Week
Headline of Saturday’s Tribune t IRISH SINK NAVY, 21-7.
Oct. 31, 1952
29
The Case for Stevenson
(Continued from Page 19)
of Communist aggression? He has no easy answer, no comforting answer, although, in campaign time, an easy and a comforting answer might be expedient. But those of us who have listened to Gov. Stevenson’s discussions of this whole great problem have derived comfort in proportion to our faith in ourselves and in America. For speaking calmly, rationally, he has reminded us that the fight against Communism is, and will for a long time be, a continuing fight; that an easy evasion now would mean only a more difficult and terrifying facing up later. He has warned us against the twin dangers of cowardice and rashness; he has refused to lure our votes with an easy answer, and has, in fact, told us that if we believe anyone has an easy, safe, painless answer, then surely to vote for that man. He has promised us only, that if he is elected, we shall continue to fight communism at home and abroad; by sacrifice and courage, and patience, and that we shall be equal to the fight only as long as we think it worth fighting. But again, Gov. Stevenson has shown his faith in the American people, and in all those who love freedom, by believing that the fight is being won and shall eventually be won completely. He has not flattered us, he has complimented us.
“Faith in America”
And so it has been whenever Gov. Stevenson has spoken on the questions that are so important to us all. It has been said, by some with dismay and by others with a perverted kind of hope, that he is speaking over the heads of the voters. Well that, as I see it, is the
Clothiers	Tailors
Uniforms
Suits Flannels Tweeds Homespuns
Special offering to Notre Dame Men —15 to 25% Discount on Choice Trousers and Suit Coats.
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc 115%-H7!4 Main St., Upstairs

most important issue of all in this campaign: what will appeal to the American electorate, what will convince them? Will they finally vote for a man who talks sense, who analyzes issues, who asks them to share the demanding responsibility of the democratic form of government; who in short, takes for granted that the American people are mature? Or will they succumb to confusion, double talk and soap operas? As a teacher, as a man whose duty it is to hold up for imitation, the life of reason, I am praying that America will pass this exam. But like Gov. Stevenson, I too have faith in America. I think we’ll make it.
The Case for Eisenhower
(Continued from page 21)
penditures is that the world we live in requires it. The obvious answer to this is given rather unconsciously by the Democrats themselves. They have been in power for twenty years, all of the good things are to be credited to them (they say), so therefore the world in which we live, a world of Communist domination, a world that requires unconscionable spending must be a world of the Democrats’ own making.
The materialistic cries of “You never had it so good” and “Don’t let them take it away from you” are disturbing. Just which persons “never had it so good?” Ask the hundreds of students who will leave this campus come June, bound for military service instead of for a career in constructive pursuits, as was the accepted thing a very few years ago, if they have it better than their forebears. Ask those who must leave school for a conscript army before completing their
Topcoats Gabardines Tweeds All Styles
education how they feel about it? Ask the parents of Curt Kiesling, as fine a Notre Dame man as ever graced this campus, and who died on a ridge in Korea, if they never had it so good, and if they want more of the same. The parents of over 120,000 casualties in Korea could be asked the same question, not to mention the parents of more than a half million casualties of World War II, the benefits, if any, of which were lightly tossed away at Yalta, Teheran, and Potsdam.
An administration that speaks unceasingly of the “Hoover depression” but that did not find a “solution” until the war economy of the late thirties, that threatens the very structure of our government with coddled communists, slinking socialism, contemptible corruption, and a “prosperity” bathed in blood, needs at the very least public chastisement rather than the scandal of endorsement. When there is so much “security,” why do we feel so insecure? It’s time to change.
Campus Square Dance Club Holds Bi-Weekly Sessions
The Westernaires, campus square dance club, has reorganized this year and is now holding biweekly dances in conjunction with St. Mary’s College.
All 56 members are well acquainted with the basic dance steps and are now learning the more complicated patterns involved.
Purpose of the Westernaires is to acquaint the public with square dancing. Through learning the basic steps, members will gain a great deal of enjoyment from square dancing.
Anyone interested in joining the club may contact Al King at 225 Sorin, or Tom Stubler at 353 Dillon.
Companies Offer Awards To Notre Dame Engineers
Two major corporations have awarded scholarships to the University of Notre Dame, Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean of the College of Engineering, announced recently.
The first, a fellowship in chemical engineering, is to be awarded to a graduate student selected by the University’s scholarship board and by E. I. DuPont de Nemours Company of Wilmington, Del. The other grant is to be awarded by Douglas Aircraft Company of Santa Monica, Calif. The winner is to be selected from among worthy senior students in the departments of aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineering. The student must, in turn, have his qualifications approved by the Douglas Scholarship Board.
30
The Scholastic
Schedule Freshman Counsel On Placement Results Soon
Mi-. Edward Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, recently stated that the counselling of students concerning the placement test would soon get under way. All freshmen are urged to observe the following remarks in regard to these tests:
The time schedule, which is presently being worked out, will be posted on the bulletin board of each hall respectively. Students are not to inquire about test results until notified. When his name does appear on the soliciting list, the student should go to the place designated as soon as possible, and express which night he would prefer to be interviewed, and the most convenient time on that night.
In past years freshmen had been grouped by their college; this year they will be called by alphabetical order. The reason for this is to get students from different colleges acquainted with each other.
If any student at the present time is having trouble with a specific subject or- subjects, he should go to the dean of his particular college, and in turn will be referred to the Department of Guidance.'
Mr. Quinn said that the tests this • year are practically the same, and in some cases better than last year’s.
Students May Nominate Chairman For Mardi Gras
A general chairman for the 1953 Mardi Gras will be elected by the Student Senate in the near future. Any student is eligible to nominate, but all candidates must be seniors.
All nominations must be accompanied by a letter giving the candidate’s previous experience and general qualifications, and must be sent or delivered to Don Carbone, 126 Alumni, by noon Nov. 7. Seniors with previous Mardi Gras committee experience are automatically nominated.
After nominations are completed, a special screening committee will meet Nov. 7 to review the nominees and submit the names of three to six candidates to the Senate fox- final selection. This committee will consist of six seniors, one each from the NFCCS Council, the Blue Circle; the senior class officers, and the three top clubs in last year’s carnival.
Along with the candidates’ names, the committee will submit its views on theix-qualifications.
After the general chaixman is selected, the committee, enlarged by the addition, of another member of the NFCCS Council and the Blue Circle and by an officer from each of the under
classes, will choose foux- othex- men to assist the general chairmen.
These 16 men will then constitute the Mardi Gras executive committee and will draw up complete plans for the pre-lenten festivities.
Semi-Finals of Annual Breen Oratory Contest Listed Soon
The semi-finals of the Breen Oratorical Contest will be held Nov. 26, according to Prof. Leonard Sommer, director- of forensics. Tentative plans call fox- the finals to be held Dec. 10.
The contest is an annual affair open to all Notre Dame students. Only previous winners, Junior Bill Fagan and Senior- Al DeCrane, are ineligible. All those interested and those desiring further information may obtain it from Professor Sommer at 328 Main Building.
=NABICHT BROS.=
OPEN
|	12 Noon to 8:00 P. M.
SUNDAY FAMILY DINNERS 1415 LINCOLN W*T WEST	PHONE 2-3130
Private Dining Room for Special Parties.

2 FOR 1 RATES
NOW IN EFFECT
Yes, two can learn for the price of one at this famous studio. Offer good for a limited time only, so don’t delay. Call 2-3339 for information.
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne	2-3339
Beating the Bush
(Continued from page 23)
graduate student at the University of California who says he will vote for Stevenson but calls himself “a Taft Republican.” And a coed at Regis College, Massachusetts, is in the same boat.
Seniors and graduate students, while they still favor Ike, give him a much smaller majority than do other students.
Perhaps the dilemma of those students still undecided is best summed up by a sophomore at Northeast Miscouri State Teachers college. He says he’s a Democrat, Republican, and independent. And he adds ruefully, “Either- candidate will probably send my friends and myself to the ax-my.” —Bob Finney.
Oct. 31, 1952
31
WAVAV.W’iVAWW
to read
3
g
114 E. LaSalle Ave.
mvmw
iWM
R g R
I
Next to Aquinas Book Shop Phone 3-7007
I
g
faster and with more comprehension.
See Bill Gaudreau in 225 Walsh or Bill Fleming in 141 Fisher from 7 to 8 p.m. Monday thru Friday or visit
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
Cut Your Study Time in Half!
Have more time for learning, earning and fun, by learning
All Day Voting Scheduled for Freshman Elections Tuesday
Elections for Freshman class officers will be held Tuesday, Nov. 11, in the Dining Hall.
Nominations for these offices must be submitted to Ray Korzan, chairman of the election committee in 208 Walsh, on or before Tuesday, Nov. 4.
Nominations should be made in writing, and backed up by twenty signatures in support of the nomination. Each freshman may sign as many petitions in support of different candidates as he wishes, and his signature does not require him to vote for the nominee.
Any freshman with a clean disciplinary record is eligible for any of the offices.
Polls will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. Nov. 11. Freshmen must present identification cards to vote, and all votes must be registered in person. No absentee balloting will be allowed.
The Blue Circle, which is sponsoring the election, stressed the importance of these elections to the freshmen since these officers will organize the social, religious, and athletic functions of the class, and the presidbnt-elect will serve in the Student Senate.

0..,

Notre Dame Students
Portrait Specials
To Lecture on Arabic World
Louis Massignon, a profound scholar of Arabic communication and of present day political and social problems in the Moslem world, will lecture in the Rockne Lounge at 4:00 o’clock Nov. 3.
The subject of his talk will be “Al Hallaj and the Arabic World.”
Special No. 1 3 5x7 French Gray $9.50
6 Black and White
proofs to choose from
A Special value from
South Bend's leading
photographers
Special No. 2 6 5x7 French Gray I 8x10 French Gray both for $15.00
McDonald Studio
;	116 W. Colfax
Phone 4-8891
Soccer
(Continued from page 25.) didates from which to pick the first eleven and urges anyone else interested in playing to contact him at the Rockne pool on weekdays about 3:30 p.m.
The remaining part of this season will be devoted mainly to getting straightened around for Spring practice and the big year next fall. There may be a clash with Culver Military Academy and one or two others but not much action is scheduled this year.
With varsity competition on the docket for next season, Coach Maxwell envisions several games with the Big Ten rivals and Chicago University. Purdue is one of the prospective opponents, and the others are being approached.
All that remains now is Student Senate approval for next year, and the Soccer lads will be ready to go.
32
The Scholastic
ENGINEER’S BALL
Co-chairmen Bob Wagner and Jerry Candella have completed plans for the annual Engineers Ball, to be held Nov. 28 at the Indiana Club.
Tickets, priced at $4.50, will go on sale from hall representatives and in the Dining Hall on Nov. 10. Don Gels and the Lettermen will provide music for the dance. Football tickets for the Southern California game will be made available to the engineers and their dates at a later date.
mechanical engineers. Research-minded Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. chemists will have the opportunity to talk to a representative from the Shell. Oil Company. B.S. and M.S. electrical and mechanical engineers will speak with Philco Corporation representatives.
The Consumers Power Company, operating over a wide Michigan area, will send a man to talk with B.S. electrical, mechanical, and civil engineers. Chemists with all three degrees and chemical engineers with the first two are
sought after by the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Those interested and qualified for the above interviews should stop in at the Placement Bureau at once for company information and application forms. The bureau advises signing up on the schedule as soon as possible.
There will be no advance interview schedule for afternoon individual conferences with Mr. McGowan of the Civil Service Commission.
Mock Election
(Continued from page 9.)
ico, New Hampshire, North Dakota, and Utah. Florida, Kentucky, Louisiana, and Wyoming ended in deadlocks.
Also listed according to hall tabula-
tions are:	ELECTION		POLL	
Hall	Ike	Adlai	Ike	Adlai
Alumni 			 156	115	93	65
Badin 			 59	59	56	33
Breen-Phillips ...		 179	82	60	27
Cavanaugh 			 211	79	157	67
Dillon 			 226	143	122	78
Farley 				 167	103	96	45
Fisher 			 83	48	22	23
Howard 			 98	80	37	38
Lyons 			 119	56	86	66
Morrissey 			 199	94	109	50
Sorin 				 64	57	38	20
St. Edward’s 			 79	59	27	29
Walsh 			 102	77	63	38
Zahm 			 198	103	127	61
Vetville 			 91	94		
Employees 			 35	60		....
The Official and Miniature University of Notre Dame Rings
NOW
is the time to consider ordering your official Notre Dame class ring if you want it in time for Christmas.
Placement
(Continued from page 6.) physical chemists, and physicists for Rsearch.
Interviewed on Thursday by the Bell Aircraft Corporation, Buffalo, N. Y., and Fort Worth, Texas, will be B.S. physicists and mathematicians, aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers for airplane, helicopter, missile, rocket, and other work. The same day, Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. physical chemists and physicists, and chemical, electrical, and mechanical engineers will be sought after by the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company, AEC plants at Oak Ridge, Tenn., and Paducah, Ky.
Also scheduled foi- interviews are B.S. chemical, civil, mechanical, and electrical engineers and accounting majors by the Columbia Gas System Service Corporation, a natural gas utility with operations in several eastern and mid-westem states.
On the agenda for Friday will be interviews by a Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation representative from Clifton, N. J., with B.S. electrical and
NOW
the Notre Dame miniature affords you the ideal Christmas gift for your sweetheart at a reasonable price. In addition to this the Notre Dame Bookstore has a complete line of quality collegiate and costume jewelry.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Oct. 31, 1952
By Paul Zalecki
Except for this column, I seldom know what articles are going to appear in the Scholastic. So, when it comes out on Friday, it is usually fairly new to me. Last week’s issue had three items which especially interested me and upon which I would like to comment. I shall take them in the order that they appeared in the magazine.
The first of these to gain my attention was Pat Shanahan’s letter on fogginess. I liked it, mainly because it helped con’ firm some suspicions of my own on the difficulties of sociology. During the two semesters I took the course, my main problem was trying to learn the definitions of terms, sometimes easy, sometimes difficult, but always numerous.
I remember one instance in particular when I had all kinds of trouble memorizing the definition of crowd and of such related words as mob and audience. I can honestly say however, that the time was not wasted. To this day, without consulting any dictionary or other reference, 1 know that a crowd is a large group of people who are not only in physical, but also in psychological contiguity with one another.
An Impressing Feature
Enough of sociology. One feature story which impressed me was the brief writeup entitled “Republican or Democrat?” For an article of its size, I thought it was one of the better summaries I had seen thus far on the relative fortes and weaknesses of the two major candidates. It was a rather mature piece of writing.
Then, after reading one article which amused me, and another which impressed me, I came across a third which puzzled me. That one was a two page, four cartoon spread on “Machine Football and the Student.” With quite a bit of interest I read about the evolution of machine football and its current evils. In fact I read it a couple of times. And right now I would like to go on record as saying that, as a student, I am against being victimized by a machine.
Three years in the liberal arts college, in addition to trying to teach me how to think, has given me a contemptuous connotation for the term machine. Whenever the word came up in a class, it usually was meant to be a symbol for all the modern day forces which are stifling the intellectual activities of men. Maybe the engineers think that machines are
wonderful, but I have been told that they are the cause of a lot of trouble. And now I read that, because of machine football, the student “. . . has become the pawn of outside pressure groups. . .”
Though I do not like this situation, my trouble is that, personally, I like football. I enjoy walking to the stadium four times a year, taking my seat on the 35 yard line and seeing the team play. I have a difficult time feeling that I am being victimized, except when I go home after a Notre Dame defeat and suffer a little razzing from one of the hometown pressure groups.
Evil of Machine Football
A little confused, I tried to figure out what exactly has caused this evil of the machine. The story hinted that it arose from the profits of big time football. I could not see, however, where eliminating the huge dollar-paying crowds would help the game. To do so probably would kill it.
Somewhat perplexed, I put the article aside and resolved to think about it no more that day. On Saturday, I went to the game with my roommate, who had not read the story and so did not have any doubts or misgivings. The afternoon was great. The first thing I came across was the men from Sorin who were on their annual student trip. Bedecked with signs and posters, they added a lot of color to the pregame festivities.
In addition to the game itself, another thing I liked was the spontaneous cheer which arose from the senior section of the stands, “We want another one, just like the other one.”
After the game, I returned to my room quite satisfied, relaxed a bit, and, in due time, picked up the Scholastic to re-read about machine football. I was puzzled again. It was difficult to admit that a lot of bad practices have soiled the good aspects of the game and have given rise to this monster, machine football.
Wondering where it came from, I felt that its origin was due to a little hypocrisy on the part of some educational institutions in the United States. It seems that in many places football is looked upon as a lucrative undertaking which, nevertheless, has to be apologized for among intellectual spheres. It is an attitude which tends to regard football, if not bad, well then, not good from the very start.
A Dangerous Outlook
Such an outlook is dangerous. It is quite tempting to misuse something which, after all, is only tolerated. If football is accepted merely for its profits and prestige, then there is nothing wrong in turning it into a machine, as it were, and obtaining the most use—or should I say abuse—out of it. Machine football to a certain extent, has arisen because of a two-faced attitude which seeks the games’s advantages and yet apologizes for its crowd- and money-drawing power.
I do not think that Notre Dame is guilty of this sin. As long as I can remember, Notre Dame has never apologized for winning games, for encouraging football, and for making it a prominent part of school life here. The University’s approach to the game has been a healthy one, which precludes machine tactics because it considers football good, not bad.
In addition, I doubt if I will ever have to apologize for Notre Dame’s policy towards football, except when I try to explain to my friends why I can not get them tickets for, the Michigan State game.
I may be wrong but it appears as if the University recognizes that sports, football and the like, actually are one of the few things that youth can excel at. Physical perfection, in other words, is an attribute of youth. College students certainly are not the most educated or intellectually developed people in the world. At this stage of their lives, sports are among the few fields in which they can receive recognition.
An attack upon football, consequently, is an indirect attack upon college men. It is no wonder, then, that a couple of students who were concerned about the current evils in the game wrote of the perplexing position of the student under such conditions. It does not make comfortable reading.
34
The Scholastic
Meet
Arrow Underwear
cant be beat for comfort
Arrow Shorts 1.45 up Arrow Undershirts l.OG up
ARROW
»»--------------->-
__SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS—
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
128 W. WASHINGTON
Aquinas
Library and BookShop
YOUR
Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
110 E. LASALLE ST.
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD
made us famous for
our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Oct. 31, 1952
35
CHESTERFIELD
FIRST PREMIUM
OUfiLITY Mm
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
Kf#G-SlZE
5 CM
LIGGETT S, MYERS TOBACCO CO.
LIGGETT S MYERS TOBACCO CO.
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR CHESTERFIELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE ’EM
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
OTHER KING-SIZE
CIGARETTE
*
tGAR£TTE5
OF BETTER QUALITY &
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY
BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very little more.



Buy CH ESTE RFI ELD-^r^ Milder
Copyriflhl ]?52, Liggett & Myees Toiacco Co.