Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 4, 1888.	. No. 20.
Jonathan Swift.
BY C. P. NEILL, ’89.
In the main aisle of the great cathedral of Dublin there stands a black, gloomy marble sepulchre bearing this inscription:
Hie Depositum est corpus Jonathan Swift, S. T. P., Hujus ecclesise cathedralis Decani;
Ubi steva indignatio Ulterius cor lacerare nequit.
Abi, Viator,
Et imitare, si poteris, Strenuum pro virili libertatis vindicem.
j Obiit anno (1745)
Mensis (Octobris), Die (19) zEtatis anno (78).
These narrow walls contain what was once the earthly prison of the haughty, restless, and ambitious spirit of the “Great Dean of St. Patrick’s.” But that spirit has long since passed to its judgment, and now, truly, the heart of Jonathan Swift has found a resting-iplace where “ steva indignatio ” may not penetrate. Swift’s life, from beginning to end, was a gloomy tragedy, to which the closing years of madness were but a fitting climax. In the inscription on his tomb, composed by himself, he has left us, in |a few grand, but bitter, words, the history of his life struggle against the vices and follies of mankind, against the oppression of men worthy of freedom; and in one line he tells of the anguish suffered, and the peace so long sought, and found at last in c eath;	-
Swift seemed predestined for misery. His misfortunes began before his birth; for his father had died seven months before, leaving the mother in such impoverished circumstances as to be almost
wholly reliant upon the charity of her kinsmen. At the age of one year the first episode in his singularlife occurred: he was carried away to England by his too-affectionate nurse, and was only restored to his mother after five years. After his return to his mother he attended a neighboring school, where he conducted himself, as his biographer informs us, much after the fashion of other boys of his age. But even then the sense of his dependent station began to be galling to his spirit, and the iron of indigence entered his soul.
A youth of fifteen, he entered Trinity College, Dublin, and here the predominant traits of his character began to display themselves. During his college life, he was distinguished principally for contempt of rules, neglect of studies, and defiance of authority. As a natural outcome, he failed to secure his degree at the end of his course; but it was subsequently granted him, -propter misericordiam. His college days were far from happy. Even then a close observer of character, a despiser of the selfish foibles of humanity, and a haughty, over-sensitive spirit, writhing under the sense of his indigence and dependent station, he grew reckless, dissipated, and restive under restraint. His disposition grained him few friends amongst his fellow-students and his professors. He was regarded as frivolous and dissipated,but “it was bitterness they took for frolic.”	.
With a proud, rebellious spirit that had never submitted to authority, with a will that had never known restraint, he left the college walls, an embittered and disgraced student, to accept a position in an aristocratic English household. Amongst the English relatives of Swift’s mother was the wife of Sir William Temple; and after leaving college the young man was granted the position of amanuensis to his noble relative.
In Temple’s house Swift was treated as a menial,
3o6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
allowed for his services the princely sum of £20 per annum, and graciously permitted to eat at the upper servants’ tabic. As evidenced by his college career, Swift had neither inherited nor cultivated that docility of spirit necessary to enable him to submit gracefully to the humiliating surroundings of his present position. He could not brook a sharp word, or even a cold look, from his superior, and neither of these was wanting to wound his haughty, sensitive nature.
With the intermissions when his rage drove him away, he remained at Temple’s ten long, weary years—and what years they must have been to Swift! Forced by necessity to remain in his disagreeable position, stung by the arrogance of his superior, enraged by the sneers of the liveried menials of- the servants’ hall, his only alternative was to stifle his rage, swallow his scorn, and maintain a sullen silence. Time and again he left the service of Temple only to be compelled by circumstances to return and feign a humility and a penitence that were strangers to his nature. During the years he spent in this service, Swift was brought into contact with the many personages of rank, title and influence, who visited the house of Sir William. He had labored hard since leaving college to atone for his former loss of time. He was now fully conscious of his own powers, and, if he compared them with those of his master’s guests only to find theirs the inferior, is it strange that he chafed to find that the blind goddess debarred him from attaining positions for which his ambition prompted him to strive, and to which he seemed entitled by his talents? After having viewed the little, great men of the kingdom; after having peered through the flimsj7 veil of aristocracy that shields their mediocrity from contempt, is it strange that he rebelled against the monstrous injustice which places birth above talents, blood above merits? Is it to be wondered at that, having seen the hypocrisy, the shams, the follies and the vices of society, he ever after assailed it with bitterest irony and scathing satire, and determined thenceforth to be “ sircnuum -pro virili- libertaiis vin~ dicem?
Such was the school in which Swift’s character was formed. It was the harsh experience of these years that warped his nature, changed his very Blood to gall, and turned him furiously against his kind. In viewing the life of this man, we cannot dwell too long upon this period of. his youth, nor note too closely its unfortunate influence upon his character; for it was then that his character was molded, and the current of his future life was set.
In an atmosphere poisoned by envy and malice	j
he was nourished and matured. From his earliest	<
days all the unhappiness that is begotten by de-	j
pendent station, all the heart-aches that arrogant	f
and condescending charity can give, and all the	|
bitterness that unkindness can engender, had fallen	f
to his lot. His education had been received at the	|
hands of an uncle whose charity was of the kind	f
that bears a bitter sting. At Temple’s he was made	t
to feel that his position was a kindness shown him	<
by the great man to his pauper kinsman. He met	£
with arrogance and haughty condescension on the	>
part of his master, and sneers and taunts from the	<
wearers of his master’s livery. A steady stream	’
of scorn and petty malice trickled, like molten lead,	j
upon the spirit of the morbidly sensitive youth	i
until it dried up the springs of human kindness,	:
and roused all the latent germs of anger, scorn,
revenge and cynicism.	'
Swift writhed helplessly under these insults, and maintained a disdainful silence. He brooded over them until his secret rage almost consumed his very soul. If he submitted with calmness, it was the calm that bodes the tempest. His secret broodings gnawed at his heart until at last he broke forth in rage and fury against all human kind. He was alone, terribly alone. Wordsworth has thus described that all-pervading sense of relief which follows an unburdening to some sympathetic heart:
“ To me, alone, there came a thought of grief; A timely utterance gave that thought relief, And I again am strong.”
But this solace came not to Swift. There was no sympathetic ear to listen; no kindly voice to cheer and counsel; no guiding influence to turn his thoughts to better things. In silence and alone he suffered—alone with his wounded spirit, his injured pride and the mocking voice of the tempter counselling him to cherish malice and to seek revenge. With no voice to direct his lonely broodings, no hand to guide his wayward steps, Swift was tossed about, and driven by the storms of passion like a rudderless ship before the fury of the wind and waves. And is it strange that “his was a cankered genius”? Ten years of such treatment,—ten years of ambitious hopes and successive disappointments, ten years of continued insults and humiliations,— would have distorted a character far more prone to docility and gentleness.
Swift at last began to see that his position at Temple’s, so degradingto his pride, was in no way likely to enable him to gratify his ambitious hopes of preferment. Daily experience began to show the hollowness of the flattering promises that had
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
so long fed his hopes. He resolved at length to enter a new fields and, in keeping with the inconsistency that marked his whole life, he chose the Anglican ministry. Truly, this savors of the grotesque. He, the least qualified of all men; he ' who prized earthly distinction above all things; he, whose restless spirit acknowledged no superior, and brooked no restraint; he, who had nurtured and cultivated hatred of his fellow-man until it had permeated every fibre of his being, clothes himself in the garb of religion to preach humility, patience and good-will to his fellow-man. Swift had already determined to devote his life to the cause of human wretchedness, and he seems to have had a sincere conviction that his war against the vices and injustices of man could best be carried on in his new position; but there was so much of ambition, and so little of humility and charity in. his breast, that he was totally unfit for the life he chose.
Swift left Temple’s house, and was ordained in his new calling; but Temple, not slow to realize his value, soon made overtures to him to induce him to return. Swift finally consented. He remained with Temple until the latter’s death, which occurred some four years later. Swift’s nature was not less sensitive to kindness than it was to ill treatment. After his return to Temple’s service he was treated as an esteemed and trusted friend, and he so far forgot his: former ill usage at the hands of his patron that when Temple died, Swift declared that “with him died all that was good and amiable amongst men.” But though he softened towards Temple, his heart was none the less misanthropic, and his experience during the years that followed the death of his old patron only added fuel to his hatred and cynicism.
Swift, having prepared his patron’s works for publication, and having dedicated them to the king, spent some time at court, hoping that now some of the many promises of political preferment made him during Temple’s lifetime would be fulfilled. But naught awaited him except neglect and disappointment. ^Despairing of success in this direction, he went to Ireland as chaplain and secretary to one of the llords-Jnstices, rejoicing in a promise of the appointment to the first good living that might fall vacant. The first good living was, however, given to another, and Swift was compelled to be satisfied with a petty living at Larocar, in the diocese of Meath.
(to be continued.)
There are few things from which we need pray more earnestly to be delivered than from the consequences of our idle words.”-—Christian Reid.
A Buined Wreath.
I wove me a crown of flowers fair,
Roses and lilacs and pansies rare, Lily-buds (pure as the breath of prayer), And pinks from a sunny hollow.
I cast my chaplet, round and sweet, Low at Our Blessed Mother’s feet,— Ah! little I dreamed of the wreck completej And the ruin swift to follow!
For lo! in the night, some loathsome thing;
( Cruel of beak, and foul of wing,)
Crept to my fragrant offering, And spread its slime o’er the flowers;
And black and fetid my blossoms lay,—
When the dawn flush’d up from a new, sad day,— O sweet, sweet Mother! I blush to say Who stole the bloom from Thy flowers!
E. C. D.
Success-	-
“ Nothing succeeds like success.”
As we gaze through the lenses of progression, we see throughout the ages of the universe no permanent progress, no lasting accomplishments, no enduring fabrics reared, except they be tested by stern material weapons. Kites rise against, not with-,-the wind; so no man ever worked his way anywhere in a dead calm.
In human progress there are qualities which we must possess. First among these is courage. The being who enters the doorway of a nineteenthcentury life without this element in his make-up is wrecked upon the shoals of his own destiny. The child in its attempt to walk finds itself battling with the force of gravitation. Each failure to stand alone induces another trial, till by the very action, of the failure the muscles have strengthened, and he strides away in triumph. It is this pluck, this	-
tenacity of purpose and perseverance, that wins the	-	.
battles of life, whether fought in the field, in the	:
mart, or in the forum. “ It is the half a neck nearer that shows the blood and wins the race;
the one march more that wins the battle; the one march more that wins the campaign; five minutes more of unyielding courage that wins the fight.”	L-.l
In the vocabulary of such men as Napoleon, Alexander, Hannibal and the Scipios, there was no such word as “fail.” Impossibilities, so called, they laughed to scorn. “Impossible!” exclaims .	- L .
Mirabeau on a certain occasion, “talk not to me ;	.
of that blockhead of a word!” Before such men mountainsappear as molehills, and obstacles that Y-Y-^YYS
308
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
seem unconquerable are not only trampled over, but are converted into helps and instruments of success.
The young; man who goes forth into the world with an unimpeachable character, and the word success in his heart, can never suffer defeat. The blows which he receives from his antagonist will bound back from such a character, and all the injury inflicted will be upon him who gives them. In every emergency it is the man of character who is sought. Those lacking this beautiful jewel may, for a time, meet with success; but when the crisis comes, when government is threatened, when society is menaced, when it is a special honor to be prominent, character is scrutinized, and the one who is spotless is chosen to lead. At such times brilliant reputations fade as the meteor fades, and their possessors find that reputation is one thing and character quite another.
Never does self-reliance shine with greater lustre than when tried, or when the dark clouds of calumny threaten to overwhelm it. Men see their road to power through exertions of their own capabilities. Napoleon has said that even in war the moral is to the physical as ten to one. We may say that Washington, Lincoln and Grant owed their greatness as much to the esteem in which a great nation held its high and noble character as to their genius—“a boon from Heaven, kept unsullied only through conflict.” The value of courage to success is never known till the want of it is felt. It can be developed only as it is brought into use; and, like the muscles of the body, it weakens through inactivity.* “ The brightest crowns,” says a learned doctor, “that are worn in heaven have been tried, and smelted, and polished, and glorified through the furnace of tribulation.” '
The rivalry between Athens and Sparta enabled Greece to reach heights which subsequent nations have failed to surpass. The great civil war in our own country has placed a value upon freedom never known before, and cemented our Union into one mighty, enduring fabric. The disastrous defeat of the Union forces at the first battle of Bull Run was of more value to the Union than would have been the victory at that time. It aroused the sleeping North into a realization that there was a foe to meet. It stimulated the manufacture of arms, and made every loyal soldier appeal for the defense of his very life and home. France was shaken to the core by the throes of revolutionary struggle. The clouds that overhung her vine-clad hills were so formidable that no statesman of the day could fathom their blackness. All the threats that
coiled and tightened about the throat of the nation was but the heralding of what France is to-day. Had England never been oppressed by the Romans, we might look elsewhere than to London for the centre of the world; and, again, had England never oppressed America, we might look for a different national air.
Thus it is that success is never attained without trials and tribulations. Lincoln, reared in a log cabin, and Garfield, the canal boy, are striking examples to prove that poverty and difficulties are no barriers to those who are determined to succeed. Peter Cooper, the philanthropist, failed in making hats, failed as a cabinet maker, a locomotive builder, and a grocer, but each failure served only to broaden his mind and strengthen his determination. More examples are not wanting to show that no man was ever successful without contending against great odds. From these examples we are taught that
“ If thou canst plan a noble deed,	-
And never flag till it succeed, Though in the strife thy heart should bleed, Whatever obstacles control,
Thine hour •will come—go on, true soul I Thou’lt win the prize,
Thou’lt reach the goal.”
“ Not in vain the beacons—
Forward! forward let us range!
Let the great world spin forever
Down the ringing grooves of change.”
S. J. Craft,
Pope Sixtus V.
About one hundred miles below Ancona, on a crest of the Apennines, in one of the least frequented parts of that classic land, with the blue waters of the Adriatic spread out before it, and the highest mountains of Umbria towering in the distance, stands the castellated hamlet of Grottamare. There Felice Peretti, the future Pope, was born in 1521. His father was a humble gardener, who had to struggle all his life against the direst poverty; and the mother, in order to find bread for the children, was obliged to take service with a wealthy neighbor. The young Felice was himself for a time a swineherd on the neighboring hills. It was only after a long and earnest appeal that the father permitted his child to go to school; for the family, he said, stood in need of his help. Very soon, by his attention to his lessons, the youth attracted the notice of a Franciscan. Friar who used often to visit the school, and who was particularly struck by his earnestness, as well as by his talents and piety. At twelve years; through the influence of his good
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jr
309
friend, he became an inmate of the neighboring Franciscan monastery at Montalto, and he brought with him to the cloister the love of discipline and the devotedjness to study which had characterized his earlier j^ears. Promoted to the priesthood, he soon ranked among the most fervent preachers of the age. It was no small tribute to his eloquence and piety that when he preached in Rome all that were most distinguished in its schools and re-hgious hous'es gathered around his pulpit, foremost among thejm being St. Ignatius of Loyola, St. Philip Neri, and Cardinal Ghislieri, afterwards Pope and honored on our altars as St. Pius V.
At every stage of his eventful career he was remarkable for three things: that is, for his love of books, and bf the fine arts, and of building. On /	|	7	O
the third day of the conclave, after the death of Pope Gregory XIII, Cardinal Peretti was proclaimed Pope, and took the name of Sixtus V. His Pontificate, though short—for it lasted only five years,—was nevertheless one of the most brilliant that adorn the annals of the Church. It has been truly said of him that he held in his firm hand the balance of European power. He saved religion in France, and with it saved the French monarchy. He dealt a death-blow to Lutheranism in Germany. He strove to consolidate the kingdom of Poland as a bulwark of civilization, and of Europe against the Ottoman incursions and against the Russian power. He banished public crime from the Papal States, rooted out the lawless bands of banditti that made life and industry insecure, and reformed the whole administration of justice.
. The material aspect of the city of Rome was renewed with an unrivalled magnificence. The genius of Michael Angelo had devised the wondrous dome to crown the noblest church in Christendom. Twenty years had now elapsed since his death, and no one -had dared to take in hand the task of erecting it. Public opinion was beginning to entertain a fixed idea that nothing short of a miracle could achieve this work. It was achieved, however, by the indomitable will of Sixtus V. He built .the Vatican Library; and one of the most distinguished Italians of the present day has not hesitated to write of this great work that “to it Italy owes the most splendid of her glories, and the preservation and recovery of the classic arts and culture, and not unfrequently her priority in all kinds of literature and science.” Several quarters of the city were badly provided with water. He spanned the Campagna with an aqueduct, resting on tiers of arches, and extending over more than twenty miles, and brought an inexhaustible
supply, which has ever proved a blessing, especially to the poorer citizens. He erected the magnificent obelisk which adorns the piazza of St.-Peter’s—it had once stood in Nero’s circus, but was cast down during the incursions of the barbarians. Many times men had devised schemes for re-erecting it, but had given up their proj’ects in despair. Even Michael Angelo declared such an undertaking to be impracticable. That was not the age of electricity and steam, nevertheless Sixtus V decreed that the work should be commenced. Very soon the salvos of cannon from St. Angelo’s and the enthusiastic cheers from an immense concourse of people announced that the enterprise was happily accomplished. Thus, every day new works were planned, streets were marked out, churches built, monuments erected.
Of the Emperor Augustus it was said that he found Rome a city of brick, and that he left it a city of marble. Something similar might be repeated of this great Pope. Shortly after the death of Sixtus V, a Benedictine Abbot thus wrote from the Eternal City: “ I am here after an absence of ten years, and do not recognize the city, so new does all appear to me to be: monuments, streets, piazzas, fountains, aqueducts, obelisks and other wonders, all the works of Sixtus V. If I were a poet, I would say that at the imperious sound of the trumpet of that magnanimous Pope the wakened limbs of the half-buried and gigantic body which spreads over the Latin Campagna had been summoned to life, and that, thanks to the power of his fervent and exuberant spirit, a new Rome had arisen from the ashes of the old.” Such were the great deeds of the Sovereign Pontiff, whose early days were spent tending swine on the coast of the Adriatic. How grand the lesson! how noble ■ the encouragement and incentive to the youthful student as he seeks to prepare and fit himself for the proper fulfilment of life’s duties!	*
Art, Music and. Literature.
—The Stoughton Musical Society has just celebrated its one hundred and first birthday at Randolph, Mass. It is one of the oldest musical organizations in the United States, and many noted New England musicians have belonged to it.
—A Chinese official recently discovered in Japan a copy of Hwang Kan’s “Confucian Analects” over 1,200 years old, with all the ancient commen-tatory notes. This work has disappeared in China . for 700 or 800 years, and as the whole history of the present copy is known, the Chinese Govern
3io	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ment has directed its Minister in Japan to borrow it, in order that a careful!}' corrected copy may be taken.
—“The Ahb6 Constantin,” which is now being produced in New York, was built on the basis of a novel by Ludovic Halevy which has reached its ninetv-fourth edition. The play was brought out at the Gvmnase Theatre in Paris, where it is still presented, and where it attracts crowds. Mr. Clint m Stuart has adapted it for the American stage, and put much original work into his adaptation. The pi ce is compri.-eJ in three acts an I it introduces twelve characters, the chief of which is the Abb6 Constantin.
—A well-known Parisian portrait painter lived once, before his fame came, in a common lodging house at an altitude of seven stories. Fearing he could not induce the public to come so high, he put up a placard on the basement of the house: « Portraits taken here. Only ten francs. Studio on third floor.” On reaching the third floor, a placard,“Ten franc portraits; the studio has been removed to the fifth floor,” would greet the eye. After much panting and puffing the picture seeker was greeted with “Ten franc portraits; the studio has, owing to rebuilding of the premises, been temporarily removed to the seventh floor.” The customer did not mind suffering more after he had reached that period of ascent, and the artist got his patron.
—Mendelssohn wrote of Jenny Lind, whose death, at a ripe old age, occurred some time ago: “I have never in my life met so noble, so true and so real an art nature. I have never found natural gifts, study and sympathetic warmth united in such a degree; and although one or the other quality may have appeared more prominently in this or the other case, 1 do not believe that they have ever been found united in such potency.” Moscheles, who met her in Berlin in 1845, and heard her sing in the opera which Meyerbeer wrote for her, wrote: “Jenny Lind has fairly enchanted me; she is unique in her way, and her song with two concer-tante flutes is, perhaps, the most incredible feat in the way of bravura singing that can possibly be heard. How lucky I was to find her at home! What a glorious singer she is, and so unpretentious withal!” Her execution was marvellous, and her trill peculiarly brilliant. The pathos which she could infuse into a simple ballad, especially the melancholy Swedish songs which she introduced into the concert room, will be the longest recollection, however, of those who heard her sing.
—There has been an amusing discussion lately in Paris on the subject of hissing at theatres. It is interesting to note that an attempt made in the last century to put a stop to the practice proved a disastrous failure. The edict had hardly gone forth, under the auspices of the Chief of the Police, when a first performance came off. A gentleman who was addicted notoriously to hostile demonstrations was “sandwiched,” by way of precaution, between two agents of the law, and soon the curtain rose. Every eye was directed toward the inveterate de?
linquent; but, to the general surprise, he sat still without making a sign. Ere long, however, he began to yawn, and soon the two policemen took to yawning in sympathy. Their neighbors unconsciously followed suit; the contagion spread, and in a short time pit, boxes, and galleries were yawning as they had never yawned before. Even the actors, with their gaze fixed on the public, could not resist the example set them: and the unlucky author had the misfortune of hearing his mo>.t telling “hits” launched forth amid a perfect chorus of yawns. The embargo against hissing was promptly removed, it having been found by experience that a return to the old system was infinitely preferable to the new one inaugurated by the irrepressible Chevalier de la -M<>rliere, who made a perfect specialty of his demonstrations again-t new plays at the Come.lie Fran^iise, and hail particularly distinguished himself bv the uproar he created at the first appearance of Voltaire’s “Tancrede.” —St. James' Gazette.
Scientific Notes.
—And now the Electrical Review says that the lightningrod isarelicof superstition( !),and that the day will come when a lightning rod on a house will be regarded in the same light as a horseshoe over a door.
—Prof. Asa Gray, the eminent botanist, Professor of Botany at Harvard College for many years, and the author of many botanical works, died of paralysis at his residence in Cambridge, Mass., on the 30th ult. He was 77 years of age.
—This is the age of ship canals. Italy is proposing to cut a canal, navigable for large crafts, across one of the narrowest parts of the peninsula —the instep, so to speak, of the boot. At present vessels trading between the Gulf of Santa Eufemia, on the western coast, and the Gulf of Squillacio, on the eastern coast, have to pass through the Strait of Messina—a considerable voyage, although the distance by land across the peninsula is not more than sixty miles. ■
—A curious fashion of boring through wet sand is being practised in eastern Europe. A row of iron pipes is driven through the yielding sand, and a freezing mixture, generally chloride of magnesium cooled by expansion of ammonia, is then passed through the pipes, returning by means of smaller tubes contained within the larger ones. By the mixture the wet sand is frozen for a considerable distance round the pipes, and is then easily excavated and the pit shaft built. The same plan was recently adopted in making a tunnel under the city of Stockholm. '
—Type made from paper is the latest novelty. A process has been patented in England by which large type, used for printing placards, can be-made from pulp. Such letters are at present cut on wood. The pulp is dessicated and reduced to a powdered, or comminuted state, after which it is thoroughly mixed with a water-proofing liquid or

I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3”
material—such as a paraffin oil or a drying linseed oil, for instance. The mixture is then dried and subsequently pulverized. In its pulverized state it is introduced intjo a mould of the requisite construction to produce the desired article, type or block, and then subjected to pressure to consolidate it, and heat to render tacky or adhesive the water-proofing material. Finallly, the type is cooled while in the mould, so as to cause it to retain its shape and solidity.
—In somp remarkable mathematical observations by M. Hermite, concerning the number of stars, he shows that the total number visible to the naked eye of an observer of average visual power does not exceed six thousand; and of these the southern hemisphere contains somewhat the larger number. In order tojsee this number of stars, the night must be moonles^, the sky cloudless, and the atmosphere pure, and here the power of the unaided eye stops; an opera glass will bring out twenty thousand, while a small telescope will bring out at least one hundred anil fifty thousand, and the most powerful telescopes yet constructed will show more than one hundred millions. M. Hermite concludes from his various observations that the light emitted by all the stars upon the whole surface of the globe is equal to on'e-tenth of the light of the full moon.
College Gossip.
—Charles A. Dana, Editor of the N. I. Sun, has been electejdaregentof theUniversity of New York.
—The Catholics of Scranton, Pa., held a meeting on January 24, and decided to build a College. $10,000 were subscribed at once. Work will be commenced in the Spring.—Richmond Visitor.
— Harvard is not the only college which indulges in the pleasure of “ suping,” it would seem. Johns Hopkins University has furnished all the supes for the Booth and Barrett exhibition in Baltimore the past week.— Crimson.
—Students of Greek will remember that “the crocodile moves its upper jaw” in “ Arnold’s Greek Prose.” This, however, needs confirmation, though Mr. Poulton avers, in Wz/z<re,that the gecko moves its upper jaw when in the act of biting.
—Instructor (sternly):—“Mr. Freshly, this is the third time that you have handed in only three pages of written matter, while the rest of the class handin five.” Freshly, ’91:—“Yes, sir; but (struck wjth a bright idea) I use ever so much thicker paper!”—Harvard Lampoon.
—Swarthmore College has just received from the sons bf the late Edward Stabler, of Sandy Spring, Md., a gift of the foundry of their father, with all its' appliances and patterns. The property will become a part of the foundry of the department of engineering and mechanical arts at the college.
fa?—H. J. Furber Jr., is a young man, not yet 20, who is preparing to found a great university in Chicago after that of Heidelberg. Hei will devote $1,000,000 a§ an inducement for other citizens
to join in the movement. He is a graduate of the late Chicago University, and is now in Berlin studying philosophy under German masters. His father is a wealthy insurance and real-estate man, residing, when at home, in the late Kenwood, now a part of the city.— Chicago Tribune.
—When England was plunged in the darkness of ignorance and barbarism, when education, refinement and civilization were to her empty names, Ireland—much maligned Ireland—was the recog-•	o
nized centre of civilization, specially distinguished as the seat of cultured intellect and the favored home of learning, and justly famous as the repository of all that was grand and beautiful in the arts and sciences. The records of the past, and the crumbling ruins of Lismore, Armagh and Clon-macnoise, attest this, and speak in their dreary desolation of the literary and scientific glory of Catholic Ireland. Even in distant, and now prosperous and enlightened lands, the traveller beholds monuments erected to Irish piety, Irish genius, and Irish worth.—Rev. T. Conaty.
—A meeting of Catholic citizens of Baltimore was recently held in aid of the American Catholic University. Cardinal Gibbons presided, and the rector, the Rt. Rev. Bishop Keane, of Richmond, explained the mission of the University. In the course of his remarks, Bishop Keanesaid,two ladies in Baltimore had contributed $10,000, and would give a sufficient sum yearly, and leave $40,000 by will to endow a Divinity chair. Bishop Ireland said that he had raised $50,000 for the university in Chicago. The Catholics of that city wanted the university there, and offered to build it; but the capital of the nation is the place for it. Bishop Ireland expressed his confidence in the liberality of the American people. The Polish congregation of Baltimore have, as a body, sent a promise, written in Latin, to give all they can. The German Catholic clergy have promised to give liberally—probably from $100 to $500 each.
—Father Finlay, the author of the papers in the new Irish periodical, The Lyceum, on the George theories and their relation to Catholic theology, is Professor of Dogmatic Theology at Woodstock, Md., where his lectures are received with great satisfaction. He came from the Irish province last September, at the special invitation of Father Fulton, the Provincial of Maryland and New York, to fill one of the chairs of theology at Woodstock. He is quite young for a professor of theology—not more than thirty-seven,—of medium height, features fine and regular and clear cut. His two papers are certainly fair, and full expositions of the theologians who have been eminent on the subject. The conclusions of Father Finlay (he has gone about his work in so comprehensive a way, and shows so much moderation and judgment) will be almost decisive of the question to be solved. His papers are too learned for popular reading, containing so many untranslated extracts; but they are the mine from which others will dig the ore and crush it, and get the gold out of it, and mint and mill it into current coin.—Freeman's journal.
312
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^ublislRb rbcrg 5aturtan fcurintj Errnt Einit at N. J3. fflni&crsita
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, February 4, 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;	'
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
G. H. Craig, ’88, P.VD. Brownson, ’88, J. A. Burns, ’88, Chas. P. Neill, ’89.
—We fully appreciate the motives of a kind critic, and, in the same generous spirit, we beg to state that a little more cultivation of the critical art is all that is needed to convince our friend that criticism does not consist in sarcasm, which, with the exception of punning, is the lowest order of wit.
—The enthusiasm aroused by the prospect of seeing eclipse of the moon, on the 28th ult., was seriously damped by the cloudy state of the sky at moonrise. As the orb of night appeared above the clouds, a small remnant of the shadow was observable on her upper limb. It soon passed away, however, and the night was one of the most serene on record.
—The semi-annual examinations concluded last Wednesday noon, and it is with pleasure we state that their results have given the greatest satisfaction to the authorities of the University. The general averages, published elsewhere in this number, will serve to show the earnestness with which the stqdents have performed the work of the sesr
sion just completed, and how well, as a whole, they realize the grand object for which they have entered college.
—It has long been our conviction that the Nezv York Sun, by reason of its literary excellence, its complete and succinct presentation of the news of the day, and the eminent satisfaction which it is calculated to give to a large and varied class of readers, stands first among the large number of daily papers published in the United States. We therefore heartily endorse the following, from the Boston Pilot, and commend it to the attention of all our readers:	.
“ Rochester, N. y., Jan., 1SS8.
“ Editor of the Pilot:—I have a son in college in Europe, and I want him to have an American daily paper. What is the best daily in the country?	Respectfullv yours,
'	“ S. M. T.”
“ The N. T. Sun is the best daily paper in America, and, therefore, in the world. Every line in The Sun is well written and well condensed. It is edited with large ability and unswerving principle. Send him The Sun, and there will be no fear of the boy ceasing to be an American.”
—Very Rev. Father General honored the Minims with a delightful visit last Friday. The joyful faces and the deafening applause that greeted his appearance as he entered the hall, proved, as no words could, the joy all felt at seeing him after his long absence. He expressed his extreme delight at seeing so many happy faces, all the picture of health. In all his travels of over Sooo miles, he had never seen such a lot of bright, beautiful-looking boys as his one hundred and twenty princes. And he will love them more than ever now after his visit to Bethlehem which is still fragrant with the breath of the Divine Child. He related several interesting facts in connection with his trip through the Holy Land and Egypt; but much as he enjoyed the trip—the crowning one of the fortyseven he has made over the Atlantic—still he was often homesick, and longed to be at Notre Dame. It is only what may be expected; for, as was remarked by those who noticed the inexpressible joy of the venerable Founder on his return, “Father General is a well-proportioned man; his heart is in keeping with his large, symmetrical body.”
* *
On Monday next, the 6th inst., the Minims will give an entertainment, in St. Edward’s-Hall, in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the birthday of their venerated patron. While these favorite “ princes ” profit by the privilege of giving this annual celebration, the older portion, of our little, college world will unite with them-m heart
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
< 
and spirit, arid profer their sincere wishes that the revered Founder of Notre Dame may live to celebrate many another such happy anniversary.
Relation of Poetry to Morality.
Poetry is fittingly styled the “Art Divine.” Channing says it is the breathing, or expression, of that sentiment, or principle, which is deepest and best in human nature; of that thirst of aspiration of the mind for something purer, nobler, lovelier; something more powerful, lofty and thrilling than ordinary and ijeal life affords. Coleridge believes it to be the blossom and fragrance of all human
i	45	.
knowledge, thought's and passions; while Sidney , calls the music of poetry the music of the spheres.
The music of the spheres! What a charming thought! A music so soft, so low, so ethereal, so thrilling, that to the myth-loving Greeks none but the gods could hear and enjoy those notes which the sweetest compositions of man could not rival. “With thoughts that glow and words that burn,” poetry makes all things new, sweeps away earthly barriers, invests inanimate objects with an ideal being, manifests to us an outward creation with all its brilliant splendors, and aims in common with that principle of morality which seeks to spiritualize human nature, to gratify a divine instinct for a more powerful and joyful existence.
Morality consists in the conformity of an act to the divine law, and depends on the quality of an intention. Dryden says that the moral is the first business of the poet; anc if poetry does seek to ennoble and spiritualize our nature and reveal to us things ideal, far above the wearisome, dusty, trodden paths of common life, it has in view the same results as Christianity. P aetry is naturally allied with our best affections, and, even when characterized by licentiousness, often breaks forth with thoughts true to what is good in nan, proving that poetic genius cannot be wholly separated from honor and virtue.
Poetry is one of the greatest means to the refinement and elevation of society by arousing in the mind a consciousness of its affiliation with the pure and the noble. The life of to-day is not so prosaic as some would imagine; but it takes the eye of genius to discover in it what is poetic. The operations of the affections e nd the passions, innocent infancy, youth with all ts.warm companionship and love, woman with all her loveliness and purity—all these suggest the poe :ical to the gifted mind. And, after all, the ideal in which the poets revel is nothing but the concentration-of life’s diverging beauties and ethereal essence which produces more refined
3*3
mental enjoyment. All these peculiar properties of poetry tend, therefore, to morality by diverting the mind from debasing, material grossness and exalting it to higher aspirations.
How wonderfully does the literature of all ages testify to the soft and gentle influence of poetry! Down the corridors of time there comes to us the musical voice of that grand old Grecian bard who, . centuries ago, could fire the Hellenic youth or calm the war-loving and “ loud-shouting” Greeks. Homer, wandering from land to land, from clime to clime, could inspire his listeners and infuse into them more loyalty, love, and respect for their Olympian gods than all the priests of Apollo. Virgil, too, revealed to the Romans a better idea of Hades than any hoary seer or venerable soothsayer. This is an age of scientific improvement and so-called progress evinced by an increasing number of inventions ostensibly for man’s social and moral welfare; but it seems to us that Homer and Virgil, Dante and Milton have done more for the amelioration of humanity than all our boasted discoveries for which men have racked their brains, and afterwards, having fallen into materialism, have denied their God.
It is, moreover, a noticeable fact that, when civilization first sheds its benign rays on a rough and barbarous nation, the literature of the country bursts forth in poetry and song, showing that poetry is always nourished where a true and enlightened advance is made by the people.
Poetry is true. It has been urged by “practical ” men that it does harm by portraying false and illusive images. But in turning over the pages of history, science and philosophy, more glaring, more injurious and more vicious errors may be found than poetry ever dreamt of. Poetic fictions often express sublime truths which unveil the greatest mysteries. The Scriptures, indeed, while not written in verse or metre, contain the richest of poetic thought and feeling.
We have endeavored to show the striking influence of poetry on morality. _ The philosopher may exercise a higher function, but it is the poet who reaches the minds and touches the hearts of millions. We esteem the philanthropist, we admire the warrior, we respect the philosopher; but we love the poet who speaks to us in a simple, yet superior, tongue.	.	;	•
Let it remain, therefore, for some to «bring down philosophy from heaven to earth,” but let poetic genius be given the task of raising the mndi from earth to heaven.	:
Geo. H. Craig, ’88,	■

314	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Some Observations.
The period of rest and relaxation, known as examination week, has given us leisure to observe some of the many phases of character, which in the busy rush of class days are entirely overlooked. Characters are as varied as natures, and their peculiarities furnish us food for musing in every frame of mind. The contemplation of the various phases of character can rouse up every feeling, from envy and emulation, to pity and disgust. But every student of human nature has often observed that those characteristics which are worthy of emulation are generally so deeply hidden that they escape our notice; whilst, unfortunately, those that excite our wrath shine forth with all the gorgeousness of a paste diamond. Nowhere is this more noticeable than in boarding-school life; for here the meek and humble student who sticks by his books and attends strictly to his own duties, always remains in obscurity; whilst the much-washing dude the conceited man, and his neighbor, the man of gall, rapidly rise to fame (?). We have no desire for fame, but we do hate to get snowed under just because we are studious, humble and utterly lacking in cheek.
We can stand the man of gall, because he allow-eth no man to sit upon him, kicketh much, and often becomes a public benefactor. So let the man of gall remain; but as for the much ire-producing, conceited one, let him be cast into “exterior darkness” where he may no longer vex our “envy.” But we find solace in the reflection that when, the conceited one has seen a few more years of life, it will dawn upon him that he is not of half as much importance to his neighbors as he fondly fancied, and then the recollection of his conceit will be relegated to its place amongst the dispelled illusions of childhood. ■
Another peculiarity of many natures is their inconsistency. . A striking instance of this occurred lately near at home. One of my neighbors plays the accordeon. A few days ago, the spirit of music took possession of another one, and soon the soft and dulcet tones of a fish-horn began to be wafted along by the breezes that blow in the upper corridor. Straightway up arose the accordeon man, and- insisted that the noise (he actually called it noise) be discontinued, as it disturbed the neighbors. The fish-horn ho longer disturbs our nocturnal repose; but the voice of the melancholy accordeon is still attuned to “ Pop goes the Weasel,” : O consistency!
Another feature of prominence in most characters is ambition. The ambitions that animate the youthful mind are many and ludicrous. Formerly the ambition of every boy was to be a street-car driver, a clown, or a dime-novel hero. But, alas, • how changed is the beau-ideal of the plastic mind of youth! Long before they have laid aside their tin-horn, and forsaken the hobby-horse, the rising generation turn their backs upon the glory that surrounds the gore-drinking cowboy of the boundless plains and the bold buccaneer of the Spanish main and turn all their energies towards acquiring the trade mark of the new brand of “tuffs.” This new style, “ tuff,” who has dethroned the cowboy and the pirate, is a city-bred chap who affects an indifference to everything pertaining to the Sunday school, imbibes of the ardent, plays poker, smokes bad cigars, defiles his mouth with profanity, and longs to be a sport. The contemplation of this phase of character always makes one long for the good old days when the clown and pirate were the limits that bounded the ambition of every youthful breast.	O. B. Server.
Books and Periodicals.
—February Wide Aivake has come, bright with pictures and full of enteitainment and wisdom for young folks. One series of papers alone is enough to make the fortune of a magazine—“The Children of the White House,” by Mrs. Upton, a familiar sketch of the children of John Adams with many curious portraits and relics. “About Rosa Bonheur,” by Henry Bacon, is accompanied by copies of several of her pictures with a portrait of the artist herself in her studio. « My Uncle Flori-mond,” by Sidney Luska, comes to its third instalment. Mrs. Sherwood takes “Those Cousins of Mabel’s” to Richfield Springs. Olive Risley Seward visits the Great Wall of China. Oscar Fay Adams occupies himself with yE-op, the storyteller. And many more. The number is very rich, varied and interesting.
— The Art Amateur for February gives a delightful colored portrait study of a little girl, by Ellen Welby; decorations for a plate (La France roses), a lamp (sun-flowers), and a fi.-h-plate; a striking study of orchids, by Victor Dangon; numerous models for wood-carving, embroidery designs for a cushion and a chalice veil, and a page of monograms in Q. Articles of special practical interest are those on animal painting (dogs), stilllife painting (fish), painting in water-colors, woodcarving and church embroidery. Mrs. Wheeler tells how one may become an artist with the needle; Mr. Shugio discourses on Japanese sword-guards; Theodore Child and “Greta” gossip about art in

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	315
Paris and Boston, and « Montezuma’s” Note Book is filled, as usual, with p:quant paragraphs. An article on beds is profusely illustrated, as is the one on dogs. The Moran and Buhot etching exhibitions are reviewed, and all the minor depirtments of this excellent magazine are ably sustained.
—An essay by James Russell Lowell, on Walter Savage Landor, is one of the many features of the February Century. It is accompanied by a frontispiece portrait of Landor, a collection of his before unpublished letters to Miss Mary B wle, revealing his interesting personality, and his opinions on art, politics, etc. Mr. Kennan’s series, receives a notable addition in the study of “A Russian Political Prison,” a terribly pathetic description written from personal investigation and inquiry. This series not only helps one understand the Russian situation, but it is likely to take a deep hold of the reader. Theodore Roosevelt writes, also in a popular vein, of “Ranch Life in the Far West,” with intimate knowledge of his subject, which is largely the cowboy. His article tells just the things one wishes to know of the subject, and is fully and vigorously illustrated by Frederic Remington, who himself has h id experience as a cow-boy. Mr. Roosevelt says, in conclusion: “The present form of stock-raising on the plains is doomed, and can hardly outlast the present century.” “ Pictorial Art on the Stage” is a subject upon which Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Blash-field throw much curious light, the theme being treated from an artistic point of view, with pijturo by Mr. Biashfield and much entertaining information withal.
Local Items.
—What is your average?
—Begin the new session well.
—The ice crop has been harvested.
—The surprises were many and dolorous.
—It wasn’t a /zzz-horn that was seen last Tuesday.
—A new porter’s bell has been put in the main building.
—Several sleigh-riding parties were out last Tuesday.
—The recent thaw does not seem to affect the skating rink.
—The Junior baseball supper has been postponed until this (Saturday) evening.
—The drawing for the new tin-horn will take place some evening next week.
—“ Chippie Row,” is the title given to the line of wall seats from “Sag” to “Dutch.”
—A large party of school children from South Bend visited the University last Saturday.
—The members of the Law department will give another public debate in a few weeks. .
—It has been suggested that a Junior boat club be organized to be ready when navigation opens.
—There was the usual number of applications for the Infirmary as the examinations progressed,
—The excellent sleighing for the past few weeks has attracted numerous visitors from neighboring towns.
—“Oh, they never saw anybody before”! Oh yes, we did; we saw a white horse and a------but it’s a “ chestnut.”
—It is very gratifying to note the excellent standi no- of the students of the collegiate courses in the recent examinations.	.
—Mr. A. P. Gibbs has returned, to resume his law studies, after a prolonged absence caused by the serious illness of his mother.
—The singing by the students’ choir last Sun- . day was a pleasant variation. The congregation welcomes an occasional change.
—The usual bustle attending the death of the old and the birth of the new session made itself quite sensible during the week.
—Those who are wont to frequent the Law room should bear in mind that the cleanliness of the apartment is to be respected.
—The sixth violin class has made such rapid progress during the past session that it has been thought advisable to unite it with the fifth class.
—The boys are celebrating a great many anniversaries at present. Among the amenities of life none are more pleasant than these little celebrations.
—Mr. P. P. Prudhomme, of Louisiana, has been called home. He left yesterday' morning, accompanied by Mr. Matthews, whose home is in Georgia. The latter will return in March.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, Ind., visited the University last Sunday to p ty his respects to Very Rev. Father General Soiin, C. S. C. Mr. Wile is always welcome at Notre Dame, where he has many friends.
—Carpenters are busily engaged in the interior of the addition to the church. It is expected that the windows will soon be placed, the frescoing finished, and the church opened from end to end in the early part of Spring.
—It is to be hoped that our societies will wake up, and do some work during the second term at least. We except the Law organization from this reproach, however, as against it, in this respect, nothing can be said.
—The semi-annual examinations closed Tuesday' morning. In the afternoon, the students gathered in Washington Hall where the marks and averages were read by Rev. President Walsh. The general averages of the different departments are published in another column of our paper.
—During his European tour, Rev. Father Zahm purchased a large number of instruments for the Science Hall. The addition of these to the apparatus already used in the department of sciences will give the University’ one of the finest equipments in the country. The articles procured will be here in a few days.
316	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The following non-commissioned officers have been appointed for Company “ B,” Hoynes’ Light Guards: ist Sergeant, C. Inderrieden; 2d Sergeant, D.Tewksbury; 3d Sergeant, AV. McKenzie; 4th Sergeant, J. Cooney; 5th Sergeant,I. Casey, ist Corporal, C. Cavanagh; 2d Corporal, J. Flynn; 3d Corporal, D. Cartier; 4th Corporal, T. Darragh.
—The Herold des Glaubens,of St. Louis, speaks as follows of the Scholastic Annual:
^rofciTor 2i)on§ Ijat and} bicfcS 3al)r ivicDer cincn tenter IjcrgcftcUt, n?eid)cr nur	werten fawn, ©ic
SugfmttHii.q ift OfibFd), bcr uortrcfflid). ®aitfd)c2cFcr ndrb nanicntlidjbicau&tjcjcidjnctgrFdjricbcncMlciFcFhjjC “ Rambles in the Tyrol” intcrcnircn, n?eld)c ter ^eber eiiicS amcri-fanifdjcn gtutenten an ter Unincruhit Snnbbnid cutFtammt. o —The outlook for our baseball teams for the coming season is certainly flattering. Along with most of the material composing last session’s nines, the accession of Messrs. Brady, Goke, and Nird-linger—the first a speedy twirlerfrom the vicinity of Detroit, the second a crack fielder, and the third a heavy hitter and fleet base-runner who has played against the Wolverine “sluggers”—will make the nines for the coming season among the strongest the college has ever had.
—The Pansophical Society held their regular meeting last Tuesday evening. It being the first anniversary of the organization, Mr. R. C. Newton read an essay on “Anniversaries.” Mr. Houck’s essay on the “Amenities and Vicissitudes of Life” was an able production. Then followed a discussion on the tariff question, which was participated in by Messrs. Craig, Neill, Craft and Ewing. Mr. Mulkern delivered a comic declamation, entitled “Where the Great Potato Vegetates.” By request, Mr. Jewett sang “ Kathleen Mavourneen.”
—The thirteenth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening for the purpose of reorganizing for the second session. The officers are as follows: Rev. T. E.Walsh, C. S. C.,Director; Rev. J. Zahm, C.S.C., Assistant Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Pion. President; Bros. Philemon, Marcellinus and Lawrence, Promoters; M. O'Kane, ist Vice-President; W. McPhee, 2d Vice President; W. Devine, Treasurer; R. Adelsperger, Recording Secretary; D. Caitier, Corresponding Secretary; T. Lane, ist Censor; J. McGrath, 2d Censor; J. McGurk, Historian; T. Darragh, Librarian; W. Blake,Sergeant-at-Arms; L.Scherrer, ist Charge d' Affaires ‘ W. McKenzie, 2d Charge d'Affaires. The association will hold during the session several Moot-courts under the supervision of Prof. W. Hoynes, Principal of the Law department. Rev. M. J. Regan and Prof. A. J. Stace will act as general critics.
—An entertainment, which had been gotten up by the College Glee Club for the purpose of raising funds to provide a suitable outfit for our Rugby football association, was given last Thursday even-♦ ing in Washington Hall. It proved a big success, both financially and in every other wise. The exercises consisted chiefly of vocal music, orchestral selections, and humorous representations of character. A quartet, composed of Messrs. H. and F.
Jewett, Paschel, and Hull, rendered s^me pleasing songs, while Johnson, Maier, Melady,and Desimoni were each tendered encores for their several efforts as vocalists or as personators. Mr. Johnson especially distinguished himself. Mr. Barne’s speech, barring political allusions, was a store-house of good things. Messrs. Cartier, Tivnen, Norton, Mithen, Orr, Fisher, and Reedy, also did well. The young gentlemen and above all, Bro. Paul, by whose untiring labor the success of the entertainment was chiefly assured, certainly deserve credit for their disinterested efforts.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Autograph of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, presented by Dr. Richard H. Clarke. Curious old portmanteau used by Bishop Brute when visiting his diocese, received from the effects of the late Father Neyron. Early numbers of the Catholic Mirror and the Catholic Citizen, sent by Sister M. Ambrose. Miniature of Rt. Rev. Bishop Foley; Golden Jubilee portrait of Father Damen, S. J., presented by Bro. William. “Documentary History of the State of New York,” by E. B. O’Callaghan, M. D., Albany, 1850; documents relating to the Colonial History of the State of New York, procured in Holland, England and France by John Romeyn Brodhead, and edited by E. B. O’Callaghan, M. D., LL. D., 14 vols.; “ History of Maryland, 1600 to 1880,” by Thos. J. Scharf, 3 vols.; “ History of Racine and Kenosha Counties, Wis.”; “History of the Church of Christ,” by William Gahan, O. S. A., Philadelphia, 1833; Jubilee of Mt. St. Mary’s College; Holy Bible from the Latin Vulgate and first published by the English College at Douay, 1609, printed in 1750; Douay Testament, -Philadelphia, 1828; letters from Paris on the “ Causes and Consequences of the French Revolution,” by W. C. Somerville, Baltimore, 1822; “History of Virginia,” by J. E. Cooke; “History of Oregon,” b}^ William Barrows; “ History of Maryland,” by W. H. Browne; “History of Kentucky,” by N. S. Shaler; “History of Michigan,” by T. M. Cooley; “ History of Kansas,” bj' L. W. Spring; “ History of California,” by J. Royce; Lee’s Glossary of Liturgical and Ecclesiastical Terms, London, 1877; Curwin’s Journal and Letters from 1775-84; “History of Scotland,” by Gilbert Stuart, 2 vols., Dublin, 1732; “ Burke on the French Revolution,” “ History of the Viceroys of Ireland,” by J. Gilbert; “History of the English Universities,” from the German of V. A. Huber, edited by Francis W. Newman, 3 vols.; London, 1843. Lot of early Catholic papers, presented by Mrs. Henry Cooney.
Examination Averages.
(ffo Average under 60 is published^)
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. Akin, 92: T. Brady, 79; A. Beckman, 73; P. Burke, 91; J- Burke, 81; D. Barrett, 84; H. Barnes, 65; N. Beckwith, 66; J. Bombeck, 90; R. 'Bronson, 84; G. Ball, 82; H. Barnard, 76; E. Blessington, 86; F. Bernhart, 75; J. Burns, 94; C. Bush, 82; P. Brownson, 98; D. Brewer, 90; E.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3^-1
Britt, 85; F. Baca, 80; E. Burns, 67; AV. Boland, 85; J- Cosgrove, So; S. Campbell, 82; E. Clark, 79; J. Cassidy, 68; E. Chacon, 75; J. Cusack, 74; M. Crane, 81; G. Craig, 90; G. Cartier, 71; L. Chute, 86; J. Cullen; 61; F. Coady, 77; E. Coady, 67; J. Clark, 85; D. Donahue, 89; J. Donelson, 85; T. Dempsey, 60; C. Desimone, 72; E. Decker, 66; M. Dore, 85; E. Ewing, 82; S. Eyanson, 77; A. Fitzharris, 71; A. Finckh, 82; M. Fenton, 81; R. Frain, 77; J. Fisher, 79; F. Fehr, 78; T. Griffin, 91; T. Goebel, 92; J. Gallardo, 74; J. Giesler, 87; J. Garrity, 74; F. Henderson, 90; H. Higgins, 85; G. Hobart, 76; J. Heinemann, 97; M. Howard, 73; S. Hummer, 94; B. Hughes, 76; H. Hull, 72; E. Howard, 71; G. Houck, 87; J. Jennings, 78;
Johnson, 84; J. Kelly, 69; F. Kelly, 81; J. Keating, 79; E.Kehoe, 87; M. Kerwin, 84; O. Jackson, 68;
C. Larkin, 7
VV. Larkin, 92: J. Lappin, 84; A.
Leonard, 85; H. Luhn, 91; A. Larkin, 86; A. Longmire, 72; J. Langan, So; L. Lander, 62; V. Martin, 69; W. McDermott,89; J. McDermott, 86; W. Mathews, S3; C. Metzger, 79; M.Mulkern, 91; J. Meagher, 91; L. Meagher, So; J. Mackey, 89; F. Major, 73; W. Munroe, 93; V. Morrison, 95; W. Morrison, 82; J. Maloney, 79; J. Mithen, 68; H. McAllister, 86; M. McCart, Si; H. Mack, 83; J. McAuliff, 82; J. McGrath, 74; E. Melady, 81;
T. McKeon
____________, F. Mattes, 81; J. Nations, 75; Andrew Nichojl, 71; Alfred Nicholl, 74; F. Nester, 84; K. Newton, 81; J. Norton, 83; C. Neill.
92; R. Newtonl88; P. Nelson, 76; S. Nirdlinger, 67; R. O’Harai 77; T. O’Regan, 91; J. O’Shea, 67; J. O’Donnell, 75; R. Pallock, 81; P. Paschel, 61; P. Prudhomme, 72; E. Prudhomme, 85; H.
Prichard, 1 Plato, 85;
. Preston, 85; R. Quigley, 82; A. .oper, 67; M. Rosenthal, 78; W.
Rochford, 90; M. Reynolds, 71; F. Rodriguez, 77; O. Rothert, 80; A. Rudd, 83; D. Reedy, 83;
W. Scholfield, 75; J. Sullivan, 82
E. Stephenson, 92; F. Suing, 78
1; F. Springer, 82; W. Silver, 72
C. Stubbs, 93;
AV. Short, 83;
E. Sawkins, 90
R. Silver, 70; C. Spencer, 91; H. Smith, 87; M.
Smith, 90; W.
Tiernan, 86; B. Tivnen, 88; R.
Velasco, 77; J. Wall, 70; F. Woods, 88; J. Welch, 76; P. Wagoner, 85; I. Waixel, 79; F. Wilkin, 79; J. Wilson, 72; J. Whelan, 77; H. Wright, 77; E. Zeigenfelder, 67; W. Louisell, 78; A. Pares,
2; B. Owens, 79.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Adelsperger,gi; R. Adams, 70; J. Anfenger, 79; W. Allen, 83; E. Berry, 91; C. Bombeck, 84; H. Bronson, 88; R. Boyd, 87; B. Bachrach, 76; M. Beaudry, 82; R. Boldrick, 86; AV. Blake, 86; C. Burger, 96; F. Benner, 60; E. Brannick, 83; J. Bray, 61 ;-H. Bray, 71; AV. Brown,>73; J. Brady, 92; J. Cunningham,81; H. Cauthorn,S5; E. Campbell, So; G. Carlton, 84; J. Cooney, 84; F. Crotty, 88; J. Connors, 90; H. Carroll, 87; R. Case, 94; J. Coad, 83; L. Chacon, 88; F. Connors, 69; G. Connelly, 74; C. Cavanagh, 91; J. Cooke, 79; L. Ciarcoschi, 84; F. Carney, 85; J. Casey, 77; A. Mayer, 66; D. Cartier, 84; W. Cartier, 90; F. Chute, 78; J: L. Dougherty, 86; Jno. Dougherty,
84; J. Delaney, 76; F. Duffield, 86; A. Daniels, 78; E. Doss, 85; L. Davis, 85; W. Devine, 82; . F. Darragh, 71; L. Ebner, S2; G. Elder, 82; C. Fitzgerald, 88; H. Figge, 79; T. Falvey, So; S. Fleming, 93; P. Fleming, So; C. Fleming, So; AV. French, 60; J. Flynn, 86; F. Flynn, 83; G. Freeman, Si; G. Frei, 81; E. Grossman, 88; C. Goodman, 64; F. Gray, 91; R. Graham, S3; J. Greene, 88; T. Greene, 92; G. Gale, 66; F. Gonzales, 74; G. Giersch, 74; M. Girten, 87; R. Gar-rabrant, 60; E. Grever, 83; F. Garrity, 76; W. Hayes, So; P. Houlihan, 84; J. Henry, S4; L. Hoffman, 76; F. Hagen, 80; J. Howard, 66; R. Healy, 86; P. Healy, 79; E. Heller, 60; R. Hall, 89; J. Hampton, S3; L. Hoerr, 67; F. Huber, 60; E. Hillas, 65; J. Hackett, 77; E. Hughes, 80; AV. Hartman, 78; A. Hake, 83; R. Inderrieden, 60; ' C. Inderrieden, 84; W. Johnson, 83; E. Jewett, So; T. Johns, 79; G. Jackson, 75; AV. Josseyln, 74; J. Kinsella, 84; A. Kutsche, 85; F. Kellner, 82; H. Kahn, 60; L. Kehoe, Si; F. Lane, 89; AV. Lahey, 84; H. Leonaid, So; G. Monaghan, S4; AV. Merkle, 79; AV. Martin, 90; R. Munroe, 85; V. McGuire, 96; James McIntosh, 87; H. Mallay, 84; AV. Mallay, So; E. McIvers, 85; W. McPhee, 92; H. Miner, 92; E. McCartney, 87; J. Mooney, 89; J. Moncada, 68; J. Martin, 70; John McIntosh, 82; J. McGurk, 71; J. McCormick, 95; J. McGrath, 87; J. Mulqueen, 81; J. McKenzie, 83; J. McNulty, 75; J. McMahon, 85; F. Neef, 90; T. Noud, 78; AV. O’Neill, 91; W. O’Brien, 91; M. O’Kane, 90; B. O’Kane, 79; C. Oaks, 68; C. Priestly, 79; C. Paquette, 92; F. Powers, 89; F. Prichard, 64; E. Pecheux, 75; F. Pfau, 89; F. Peck, 78; J. Peck, 92; M. Quinlan, 90; E. Roth-83; L. Riordan, 88; J. Reinhard, 96; E. Ryan, 69; I. Rose, 76; S. Rose, 76; C. Ramsey, 84; W. Rowsey, 84; L. Reidinger, 87; C. Schillo, 82; F. Schillo, 94; B. Stephens, 86; R. Spalding, 75; F. Schenk, 94; R. Sullivan, 84; C. Senn, 84; A. Sullivan, 77; L. Scherrer, 91; C. Scherrer, 72; A. Schloss, 79; H. Silver, 86; F. Simpson, 79 F. Smith, 76; J. Talbot, 96; D. Tewksbury, S6; L. Thome, 86; F. Wile, 96; H. AVageman, 82; T. Wade, 77; W. Welch, 84; W. Walsh, 87; R. Weldon, 83; J. Wright, 83; T. AVilbanks, 75.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Ayer, 86; H. Bachrach, 75; S. Bachrach, go; A. Bachrach, 85; F. Bloomhuff, 75; M. Blumenthal, 82; P.Beckham, 65; J. Barbour, 79; G.Black, 86; L. Black, 89; S. Blake, 78; F. Beerman, 82; B. Bates, 90; T. Burns, So; J. Bradley, 93; C. Connor, 92; W. Connor, 85; E. Conners; 93; S. Collins, 91; H. Connelly, 90; AV. Cummings, 90; R. Clendenin, 90; C. Carlile, 89; J. Cudahy, 85; A. Cohn, 88; J. Crane, So; W. Creedon, So; A. Campbell, 88; F. Cornell, So; AV. Durand, 90; J-Dunn, So; F. Dunn, 79; Jesse Dungan, So; Jas. Dungan, 82; L. Doss, 85; L. Dempsey, 86; J. Dempsey, 90; F. Dempsey, 80; H. Dench, 76; M. , Elkin, 92; E. Elkin, 90; G. Franche, 80; C. Franche, 90; J. Flannery, 85; F. Falvey, So; E. Falvey, 83; E.Firkel,S2; C. Grant, 89; O. Griffin, 76; A. Greene, 78; F. Garber, 75; R. Hinds, 86;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. Harlan, So; J. Hagus, 85; M. Howard, So; W. Hamilton, 79; J. Healy, 7S; W. Halthusen, 93; V. Jaramillo, So; H. Johns, 79; F. Kerwin, 70; W. Kutsche, 79; V. Kehoe, 90; C. Koester, 93; P. Keefe, 76; H. Kinsella, 90; J. Kane, So; C. Kaye, S3; A.Lonergan,70; H.Lonergan,90; H. Mooney, 93; IL Marx, S3; A. Morgen week, So; J. Maternes, 79; L. Mayer, 89; G. Mayer, 94; C. McPhee, SS; B. Mott, So; J. Marre, So; A. Marre, 82; A. Neef, 91; T. Neenan, 87; W. Nichols, 90; J. O’Neill, 94; H. Oppenheimer, 86; J. O’Mara, 90; J. Perry, 70; L. Paul, 90; C. Paul, S6; H. Plautz, 79; F. Parker, SS; D. Quill, So; F. Rogers, 95; D. Rick-secker, 82; G. Sweet, 86; E. Savage, So; J.Seery, 90; F. Smith, 93; E. Smith, 86; L. Stone, So; P. Stephens, 79; R. Spier, 90; C. Taft, 86; P. Trujillo, 76; T. Tomkins, 90; D. Thornton, 79; Wal. Williamson, 92; Wm. Williamson, So; J. Walsh, 92; A. Welch, 90; W. Walsh, 90: A. Wiikowsky, 79; S.Wiikowsky, 80; W. Willien,8S; W.Wilson, 79; W. Young, So; H. Zieman, 90.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of tho^e students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Akin, Albright. Brennan, Brady, Beckman, P. Burke, J. Burke, Barrett, Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck, R. Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Biessington, Bernhart, J. Burns, Brownson, Brewer, Becker, Britt Baca, E. Burns. Boland, Brelsford, Craft, Cosgrove, Campbell, E. Clarke, Cassidy, Chacon. Cusack, Crane, Craig, Cartier, Chute, Cullen, T. Coady, E. Coady, J. Clarke, Donelson, Dempsey, Desimoni, Decker, Dore, Dulaney, Ewing. Eyanson, Fhzharris, A. Finckh, Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Franklin, Fleming, Griffin, Goebel, Gallardo, Geisler, Garrity, Gibbs, Goke, Henderson, Higgins, Hobart Heinemann, M. Howard, Hummer, Hughes, Hull, E. Howard, Houck, Hepburn, Jennings, A. Joyce, Jacobs, F. Jewett, H. Jewett Johnson, Jackson, J. Kelly, F. Kelly, Keating, Kehoe, Kerwin, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Leonard, Luhn, A. Longmire, Langan, Martin, W. McDermott, J. McDermott Metzger, Mulkern, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, McWilliams, Mackey, Major, Munroe, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Maloney, Mithen, Maier, McAllister, McCart Mack, McAuliff, McGrath, Melady, McCune, Mattes, Nations, Andrew N choll, Alfred Nicholl, Nester, R. Newton. K. Newton. Norton, Neill, Nelson, Nirdlinger, O’Hara, O’Regan, O’Donnell. O’Shea, Orr, Owens, Pollock, Paschel, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Pares, Plato, O’Brien, Rosenthal, Rochford, Reynolds, Rodriguez, Rothert, Rudd, D. Reedy, Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Stephenson, Suing, Sawkins, Springer, W. Silver. R Silver, Spencer, H. Smith, M. Smith, Tiernan, Tivnen, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, Wagoner, Waixel, White, Wilkin, Wilson, Whelan, Wright, Zeigenfelder.	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Anfenger. Allen, Berry, Bombeck. Bronson, Boyd, Bachrach, Beaudry, Bolderick, Blake, Burger, Benner, Brannick, H. Bray, Brown, Brady, J. Bray Cunningham. Cauthorn, Campbell, Carleton, J. Connors, Cooney, Crotty, Carroll, Case, Coad, Chacon, F. Connors. Connelly, Cavanagh, Ciarcoschi, Carney, Chute, C<>ok, Casey, J. Doherty, J. S. Doherty, Delaney. Duffield, Daniels, Doss, Davis, Devine, Darragh, Ebner. Elder, Fitz. gerald, Figge, Falvey, S. Fleming, P. .Fleming, C. Flein-inL J- Flynn, F. Fh nn, Freeman, Frei, French, Grossman, . Gray. Graham, J. Greene, T. Greene, Gale, Gonzales, Gir-■ ten/Girsch, Grever, Garrity, Hayes, Houlihan, . Henry, Hagan, Howard, R. Healy, P; Healy. Heller, Hall, Hamp-. . ton, Hoerr, Hillas, Hackett, Hughes, Hartman, Hake, Hoff
man, Huber, C. Inderrieden. R. Inderrieden, Johnson, Jewett, Jackson, Johns, Kinsella, Kutsche, Kehoe, Kellner, Kohn. Lane, Lahey, Leona d, Monaghan, Merkle, W. Martin, Mayer, McGuire, James McIntosh, John McIntosh, H. Mallay, W. Mallay, McIvers. McPhee, Miner, McCartney, Mooney, McGurk, McCormick, McGrath. Mulqueen, McKenzie. McNulty, McMahon, Munroe, Moncada, J. Martin, Neef, Noud, O'Neili, W. O’Brien, M. O’Kane, B.-O Kane, Priestly, Paquette, Power-, Pccheux, Pl'au, Perkins, F. Peck, J. Peck. Prichard, Quinlan, Roth, Rierdon, Reinhard, 1. Rose, 8. Rose, Rowsey, Reidinger, Ryan, Ramsey, F. Schillo, C. Schillo, Stephens. R. >palding, Shenk, Senn, A. Sullivan R. Sullivan, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Silver, Simpson, Schloss, Smith, Talbot. Thome, D. Tewksbury, Wile. Wagvman, Wade, Welch, Walsh, Wright, Wilbanks, Wood, Weldon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, H. Bachrach. S. Bachrach, A. Bachrach, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Beckham, Barbour, G. Black, L. Black, Blake, Beerman, Bates, Burns. Bradley, C. Connor, W. Connor, E. Conners, Collins, Cummings, Connelly, Clendenin, Carlile, Cohn. W. L reedon, F. Creedon, Crane, Carpenter, Cornell, Cudahy, Campbell, Durand, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, Jessie Dungan, Jas. Dungan. D -ss, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench. M. Elkin, E. Elkin, G. Franche, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, E. Firkel, Grant, Griffin, Greene, Gerber, Hinds, Hai lan, Ha-gus, Howard, Hamilton, Healy, Halthusen, Johns, Jaramillo, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kehoe, Keeler. Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, Kane, Kaye, A. Lonergan, H. Lonergan, Marx, Moonev, Morgenweck, Maternes, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, J. Marre, A. Marre, Miner, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O’Neill, Oppenheimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plantz, Parker, Pierce, Quill, Rogers, Ricks cker, Sweet, Savage, Seerey, F. Smith. E. Smith, Stone, Speir, Stephens, Storey, Taft, Trujillo, Tomkins, Thornton, Wm. Williamson, W. Williamson. J. Walsh, Welch. W. Walsh, H. Witkowsky, S. Wiikowsky, Willien, Wilson, Young, Zieman.	.
The Pope to the President.
[On receiving a copy of the United States Constitution^ Oh! offering bright from a Nation grand— The written law of a people brave,—
Where peace and freedom march hand in hand, Where the banners of law and religion wave.
Beautiful gift from beyond the tide—	-
It touches my heart with a tender spell—
From a land exultant in freedom’s pride, Where sixty millions of freemen dwell.
Land of light, where the Church is safe; , Glorious land, where the faith is free,	.
Where the President ruler—the tiniest waif— Are all consecrated to liberty.
From every clime of this sun-bright world, I honor the gifts of the bond and free, Where the flag of the Cross is in faith unfurled, I welcome the message of Jubilee.
Pray, tell your ruler that papal tears .	.
And prayers shall mingle for his fair land;
That the Pontiff, laden with cares and years, Extends his blessing with outstretched hand.
Oh! whi-per my blessing to that rich clime Where the flow’rs of freedom spontaneous spring;
Where the bells of the true and faithful chime The.songs of hope which the angels sing. .
. —Charles J. Beattie in “lutefrOcean'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint fflary's Academy,
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Miss Eva Qnealey, of the Junior department, wears the politeness badge this week.
—Professor Hoynes, of the University, was a welcome visitor at the German examinations.
—In honor of Very Rev. Father General’s re
turn, all the young ladies’ names are on the “Roll
of Honor.”
—A letter from Stella Saviers, of Columbus, Ohio, brings the pleasing intelligence that her health has so much improved that she will be able to return to St. Mark’s very soon.
—Very neatly executed pieces of copying on the Type-Writer are on exhibition in the parlor. They are the work of the Misses Kron, M. Desmond, and K. Desmond, E. Blaine, M. Beck, M. Coll and B. Haney. |
—The examination in Phonography was held last week. All did well; but those who excelled in reporting were the Misses Spier, Kearns, L. Ducey, M. Desmond, and K. Desmond. The three last, having taken but one session, deserve special mention. J
—The examinations in the Graduating class, as well as in the’French and German classes, took place last week. The young ladies are grateful for the kind encouragement given them by the presence of several of the Rev. clergy from Notre Dame. Both teachers and pupils extend special thanks to Rev. Fathers Fitte, Kirsch, Toohey, Stoffel and Saulnier.
—The examination of the pupils who take private lessons in elocution proved the session to have been remarkably successful in this important and popular branch. The names of those who distinguished themselves are as follows: In the Senior department, the Misses Carmien, L. Meehan, Hertzog, . Bub, Fenton, McCormick, Claggett, Hoffman, Wehr and Daube; in the Junior department, the Misses Newman, Farwell and Dryer. The selections wfere of a superior order—from the best authors, and many of them difficult to interpret appreciatively, but the young elocutionists were equal to the task.
—In accordance with the sentiments of all, was the welcome to Very Rev. Father General on his return from Rome and the Holy Land. On his arrival at St. Mary’s, the members of the Community and the pupils assembled in the Chapel of Our Lady of Loreto, where, as Very Rev. Father entered the sanctuary! the' choir beautifully expressed in the words of the “ Sit nomen Domini,” the feelings of all. After a prayer of thanksgiving for his safe return, and a few words of greeting, he, accompanied by Rev. Fathers Zahm and Saulnier, visited the Convent and the Novitiate.
The pupils!’ welcome was in'the form of a little entertainment given Thursday afternoon, Jan. 26.
Besides Very Rev. Father General, there were present Rev. Fathers Grander, Walsh, Fitte, Zahm and Saulnier; Professors Ewing and Paul of the University. Theprogramme was well carried out, and was as f< Hows:
Marche Charhcteristique..................Schubert
Piano—M. Rend, L.Van Horn. Harp—Mis< Dillon. Welcome Chorus (Arranged i'or the Occasion) Vocal Class Address of Welcome...................Mi-s	K. Gavan
Harp Solo ...............................Godfroid
Miss M. Dillon.
Cavatina from “ L’Africaine ”.............Meyerbeer
Miss K. Gavan.
Compliment Francis...............Miss	M. F. Murphy
Left Hand and Arpeggio Etude..........llubcnstcin
Miss H. Guise.
Willkommen............................ .Miss E. Horn
Song from “Mignon’’........................Thomas
Miss H. Guise.
LES DEUX ROSIERES.
(Opera Comique en une Acte.) Welcome from the Princesses.
Vocal Solo...............................Benedict
Miss M. F. Murphy.
Te Deum.............................  Haydn-Schad
Miss Horn.
Chorus.............................-......Donizetti
Vocal Class.
“ Marche Militaire”......................Schubert
Piano—E. Flannery, O. O'Brien. Harp—Miss Dillon '
Very Rev. Father General thanked the young ladies for the pleasure they had afforded him, and spoke in high praise of their efforts, particularly of their singing. The Rev. President of the University then gave a few words of commendation, which jyere endorsed by Rev. Father Zahm.
Ruins.
The chronicles of early centuries have handed down to us many records which inform us of the glory or shame, the prosperity or adversity of. a nation; but history is no less enshrined in the ruins which cover many a land, telling us in unmistakable language of the piety as well as of the ingenuity of its ancient inhabitants.
It is true, the hand of Time has pressed heavily on the noblest monuments of her once proud days, leaving but a wreck of their former magnificence;. but “a land without ruins, is a land without memories; a land without memories, is a land without history.” Let us examine and see what we may glean of the-past from the ruins that remain to us. Here stands an old castle, with its ivy-mantled walls. In by-gone days it played an important part in its country’s history; but what has become:' of its massive columns? What of its high tower -from which the chieftain surveyed his wide do ;, main ? Where are the lords and vassals? -They are . a-one. and their names live only in ancient archives.'. 1 The night owl has. found herself a home in the’ halls which were once made merry .with music. arid^J
5

32°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
song, while the sheep seek refuge within th:e crumbling walls, or, as the poet says—
“ On its lofty crest the wild bird’s nest. In its halls the sheep good shelter find: And the ivy shades where a hundred glades Were hung when the owners in sleep reclined.”
Well can we imagine the feelings of the poor exile on returning to his native land after years of absence. The old familiar places have grown strange. Hushed into silence are the voices of his o
boyhood years. Time has left only ruins, and he can but sigh at what is, and what has been. The vicissitudes of time, however, are not the only causes of the many ruins which we now behold. Old abbeys and religious houses, that for centuries yet to come would have withstood its ravages, were laid in ruins by the fell hand of persecution and tyranny; and though nothing but ruins mark the spot where they once stood, each remaining stone in its shrine of moss is a voice eloquent, indeed, which tells of the piety and industry of those earnest followers of the Crucified.
Poetry, painting and romance delight in depicting the charms of ruins: each heart feels that “a land covered with roses may be fair to see; but twine a few sad cypress leaves around a country’s brow, and, be that country bleak and bare, it becomes beautiful in its consecrated coronet of sorrow.”
To a truly patriotic man, the ruins of his country are dear; they tell the story of wrong and oppression more vividly than words can paint it, and are a lasting monument to the cruelty of the oppressor. But of all the lessons they teach, none should be better learned than thesublime truth, that mutability is the attendant of all things earthly, and nothing remains unchanged but God, the Unchangeable. There are other ruins, but the picture is too sad; itde-picts the wreck of character, the ruin of God’s image in the soul. Pitiful, indeed, are the ravages made by sin in the soul. Once its fell touch has polluted the fair temple of the Holy Spirit, the beauties crumble, and, standing in the light of God’s justice, the tottering columns grow darker and darker, until to dust the body returns. But let us rather think of the day approaching when we will be outside the influence of both time and sin; when the temple of our bodj' will be purified, and when we will be in mansions everlasting.	■
Frances Hertzog,
'	First Senior Class.
One who allows the troubles of the outer world, to disturb his interior is like one who opens the doors and windows of his house during a storm.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, COR-	i
RECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF	I
RULES. ’	|
I
____	I
SENIOR DEPARTAIENT.	‘	|
Par	Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree,	Arpin,	Brady,	|
Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer,	|
Beschameng. Bourne, Bray, Butler, Bates, Beck, Blacklock,	I
Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Conners, Clore, M. Coll, E.	i
Coll, Campeau, Campagne, H. Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, Dunkin, Daube, English, Early, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, Fenton, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Gordon, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Hep-bourne, Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Kron, Keyes,* Koester, Latta, Leonard, Loonie, M. F. Murphy, L Meehan, N. Meehan, N. McCarthy, McCormick, McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, C. McFadden, J. McFadden, Mitchell, Marley, Neff, L. Nicholas, E. Nicholas, O’Brien, Papin, Piper, Prudhomme, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Rend, Riedinger, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rannells, Reen, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, M. Smith, B. Smith, Sloman, Spier, Studebaker, Trask, Thompson, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Wehr, Young, Zahm.	•
JUNIOR DEPARTAIENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Balch,* Blaine,* Burdick, Butler,* E. Burns,* M. Burns, Campbell,Crane,* Churchill,* Davis,* Dempsey,* Dolan* Dryer,* Farwell,* Foster* Fritz, Hake,* Hagus, Hull, Hughes,* Kloth,* Knauer,* Lewis,. Longmire,* Lauth,* Miller,* McCune* Morse, Mercer,* Newman* Papin, Pugsley* Quealey,* Reed, Rose, Rhinehart,* Rogers,* Stapleton,* A. Wurzburg,* N. Wurzburg.*
MINIM DEPARTAIENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Burns, O’Mara,* F. Palmer,* A. Papin,* L. Reeves, S. Smith, E. Treniper.*
Those marked * drew for Politeness Badge.
Class Honors.
LANGUAGE COURSE.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss M. F. Murphy.	.
2D Div.—Misses Beschameng, Snowhook, Van Horn.
2D Class—Miss Gavan.
3D Class, ist Div.—Misses Campeau, McEwen, McCarthy, Marley, Studebaker.
2D Div.^-Misses Balch, G. Regan, Barry, Kron, Prudhomme, Campagne. Promoted to this division—Misses Fenton, Spier.
4TH Class—Misses Barth, McCormick, M. Desmond, K. Desmond, N. Dempsey, Flannery, Sheehan, Latta, Burton, Horner, R.hinehart, Arpin, Hepburn, Waterbury, Van Mourick, Brewer, Pugsley, Wagner, Doian, Davis.
5th Class—Miss A. Papin.
geraian.
Advanced Course—-Miss E. Horn.
ist Class—Misses L Bub, O. Hoffman, L. Trask, A.
Beschameng, L. Henke. .	.
2d Class—Misses T. Hinz, F. Moore, M. Hummer.
3d Class—Misses Wiesenbach, Burton, Piper, Ducey, Wehr, E. Balch, Quealey, Sloman.
4TH Class—Misses Thompson, Davis, Neff, M. Horner, M. Smith, Quill, Daube,‘Leonard, Fritz,-Dryer,, Miller, Kohler, Andree.	.	,	.
5TH Class—Misses K. Hurley, G. Lauth, C. Hurley, Heffron, B. Morse, O’Brien, I. Horner, Bourne. .
' 3D Div.—Misses M. Kennedy," Foster, Kloth, Connors, Crane, Rogers,-Lewis.-	;	...	-