Shop . Quality
On Famous-Make
SUITS . . . TOPCOATS . . . SPORTCOATS
Our finest quality, famous-make corduroy and worsted suits, topcoats and sportcoats now at savings of one-fourth to one-third. Take this opportunity to get the clothing you need — charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERTS
^(jiiinpiis^ho^y
: On the Campus—Notre Dame .
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
Get your clothing needs now during the Campus Shop Quality Sale and save up to one-third . . . charge it the Campus Shop way! Pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August. No interest or carrying charge, of course. Use this convenient way to make all of your clothing purchases. .
HOME OF AMERICA'S MOST FAMOUS NAMES IN MEN'S CLOTHING
On Campus WShuhan
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
THE ENGINEERS HAVE HAIRY EARS
Today in this age of technology when engineering graduates are wooed and courted by all of America’s great industries, how do you account for the fact that Rimbaud Sigafoos, who finished at the very top of his class at M.I.T., turned down hundreds of attractive job offers to accept employment as a machinery wiper at the Acme Ice Company at a salary of $20 a week with a twelve-hour day, a seven-day week, and only fifteen minutes for lunch?
I know what you are thinking: “Cher-chez la femme!” You are thinking that Mr. Acme, head of the Acme Ice Company, has a beautiful daughter with whom Rimbaud is madly in love and he took the job only to be near her.
Friends, you are wrong. It is true that Mr. Acme does have a daughter, a large, torpid lass named Clavdia who spends all her waking hours scooping marzipan out of a bucket and staring at a television set which has not worked in
some years. Rimbaud has not the slightest interest in Clavdia: nor, indeed, does any other man, excepting possibly John Ringling North.
So how come Rimbaud keeps working for the Acme Ice Company? Can it be that they provide him with free Marlboro Cigarettes, and all day long he is able to settle
back, make himself comfortable and enjoy the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste?
No, friends, no. Rimbaud is not allowed to smoke on the job and when he finishes his long, miserable day he has to buy his own Marlboros, even as you and I, in order to settle back and enjoy that choice tobacco, that smooth, mellow flavor, that incomparable filter, that pack or box.
Any time, any clime, you get a lot to like with a Marlboro— and with Marlboro’s newest partner in pleasure, the unhl-tered, king-size, brand-new Philip Morris Commander. Get aboard!
Well, friends, you might as well give up because you’ll never in a million years guess why Rimbaud works for the Acme Ice Company. The reason is simply this: Rimbaud is a seal 1
He started as a performing seal in vaudeville. One night on the way to the Ed Sullivan show, he took the wrong subway. All night the poor mammal rode the B.M.T., seeking a helping hand. Finally a kindly brakeman named Ernest Thompson Sigafoos rescued the hapless Rimbaud.
He took Rimbaud home and raised him as his own, and Rimbaud, to show his appreciation, studied hard and got excellent marks and finished a distinguished academic career as valedictorian of M.I.T.
Rimbaud never complained to his kindly foster father, but through all those years of grammar school and high school and college, he darn near died of the
heat! A seal, you must remember, is by nature a denizen of the Arctic, so you can imagine how poor Rimbaud must have suffered in subtropical New York and Boston, especially in those tight Ivy League suits.
But todajr at the Acme Ice Company, Rimbaud has finally found a temperature to his liking. He is very happy and sends greetings to his many friends.
© 1961 Max Shulman
Attack
Editor:
In the matter of all-night lights, etc., there are three factors which invalidate your adverse judgment of the Administration: Original Sin, present living facilities, and the idea of formation.
Because of Original Sin, we are all inclined to do wrong. Let’s face this-fact and not equate “individual re-*^ sponsibility” with license. We have a serious responsibility to avoid an occasion of laxity and license and this is exactly what all-night lights would prove to be. Regardless of all pious protestations to the contrary, a great number of students would use all-night lights to turn night into day. There would be an increase in absenteeism, tardiness, and disorder with a corresponding decrease in morning Mass at-c tendance. Since I am a student watchman, I speak from experience. And, after all, the lights are out for only five and a half hours. I’m sure you will agree with me that we all need a minimum of five hours of sleep a night. Why not take it when it’s supposed to be taken — at night?
Since Notre Dame, regrettably, does not have facilities which many other-schools enjoy, all-night lights would be^ most unfair to the considerable number of students who would like to sleep at night. I am speaking here of the paper-thin partitions, the common corridors and bathroom facilities and the use of the first floor as a dormitory. Why should the Administration allow the night-owls among us to disturb the serious and conscientious students. I can admit that, at times, there is a need _ for some extra study time but you are® attacking the problem from the wrong angle. Instead of crying out for all-night lights, you should press for student study lounges in each hall where a student could do some extra studying with a minimum of disorder when the infrequent need should arise.
The most potent argument against (Continued on page 21)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC_ is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, _ Box 185, . Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
u The Notre Dame

Vol. 102 No. 12
JANUARY 13, 1961
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief .	.
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
• ROY RUBELI .
news editor .
THOMAS WEISS
; John McCabe
features editor
THOMAS SULLIVAN
.	*	-	William Gorman
.	Andrew Griffin	.
'	Thomas Hoobler
® 57-' sports editor
JAMES KILROY ;
7' • William Cary ; ' John Bechtold \
. copy editor
:	THOMAS MARCINIAK
'	. Gene Dombkowski
\ 77 ' Philip Larrabee
® executive assistant .
WILLIAMVEEDER ,
:	art editor
DENNIS LUCZAK	j
. Thomas Hanson 7’7.
photographer	.
-7 / WALTER DALY, Jr.
a business manager '	7
”, JOSEPH FINNIGAN
Robert Buckley \
circulation manager ;7 JAMES HICKEY ;
moderator
7 > 77 f REV.: CHARLES CAREY, c.
7 news staff •_ 7
77777 Joseph Caspar \ ; 7
777,77 Frank Cuiffo ; ’’ '7'1 -*7’7'v < Richard D’Amico 77;
La wrence Kavanaugh Ralph Kent 7',. 7.;7 7 Thomas Scheuring 77 : Steve Stapp ■ 7y 77 Steve.-. Stuecheii y777?7
sports staff	7\
RobertChiappinelli ThbmasWalsh '
s.c.
NAACP? One of the paradoxes of this campus is contrast between the intense social and political concern in a small segment of the student body, and the general unawareness of this concern’s existence. Case in point is the problem of race relations. There is at least one organization, YCS, actively working in this field with great success, at least for its members. But, in the last four years, the only successful effort to catch campus-wide notice was the student demonstration of last May, sympathizing with the nationally publicized Sit-In movement. What seems to have been responsible for this upsurge in campus interest was the affiliation with a national group. This incident may lead one to wonder whether national recognition is not a handy instrument at one’s disposal for attracting students into campus organizations or at least into familiarity with them. In this line of thought, and restricting ourselves to the race problem, the suggestion that a Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP can be made. Through its position as the leading national group interested in race problems it could ease the problem of familiarizing the campus with those groups of students interested in race relations. As the leading disseminator of information in these fields it could perform an invaluable service in the political education of the student body.
FOOTBALL AGAIN: In a recent letter to Sports Illustrated (Jan. 9, 1961), Father Hesburgh summarized well the Administration’s attitude towards intercollegiate football at Notre Dame, recast for this age of intellectual excellence. Stressing his opinion • that uniform academic standards can coexist with a first-rate football reputation, Father Hesburgh implied that, for an indeterminate future, Notre Dame will be involved in football on the Big 10 level. Opinion in the student body, however, is divided on this issue, so crucial for campus football history. There are those feeling that the recruiting system, weakened severely by the policy of past years, can be rebuilt quickly enough to turn out teams that match the quality of the Leahy era. But there are those that feel any such resurgence is impossible. These maintain that a recruiting system compatible with the academic requirements of the university must be of an unapproachable size, for it is only by a careful nation-wide search that the ideal football player described by Father Hesburgh can be recruited in large numbers. Further, they feel that Notre Dame’s academic prestige is insufficient to attract quantity. They point out that Yale with its academic and athletic traditions is unable, for all its efforts, to produce consistent Big 10 material. Then there is a third group that wonders whether it is worth all the effort to begin with. This group, at least, can be answered by pointing out that the cementing of tire Notre Dame community, done extravagantly at times perhaps, is partially accomplished by the liturgy of a football week end. Unfortunately only experiment can provide answers for all the groups.
NEW FRONTIERS: We wish to offer our congratulations and support to the ambitious project that the Modern Language Club has undertaken for next semester. Their studying and evaluating of a Student Peace Corps program will benefit themselves, the University and the country. This will soon become a widely discussed topic in congressional circles and it is important that the legislators have sufficient concrete facts in the form of reports and surveys to devise an effective program. Since the Peace Corps will involve college students it is important that our opinions be accurately and effectively presented. Too often, programs which were brilliant in their conception have failed because they did not meet the needs of those who were involved. It would be disastrous to let this be the fate of the Peace Corps. Another benefit of this project is the example it provides of student-faculty relations at their best. Seeing the impetus and support that William Grupp, head of the Modern Languages department, has already provided, we only wish that there could be more instances of it.
NEW FACES: It is with pride and a bit of awe that wre welcome Dr. George Shuster to Notre Dame’s faculty and administration. As the initiator of special research projects, some examples of which Fr. Hesburgh mentioned in a recent radio talk, the new assistant to the president, is faced with a challenging and ambitious task. But in view of Dr. Shuster’s numerous contributions to the betterment of mankind, contributions	'
which have delt with national as well as academic matters, we are confident of the tremendous success which he will achieve. In our estimation, his arrival will prove to be as significant as the recent Ford Foundation grant of $6 million. Certainly it is another sign of Notre Dame’s growing academic excellence that Fr. Hesburgh has been able to interest so em-minent a person to join us in our quest. Dr. Shuster, we are honored.
—R&R
5

GETTING DOWN TO CASES .. .WITH AN ELECTRONIC COMPUTER
A young lawyer may spend many years searching through the countless volumes in a law library before he ever gets a chance to plead a case. His job is to research the cases which may provide legal precedent. It’s a very necessary but tedious task.
Recently it was demonstrated that an IBM computer could accomplish electronic retrieval of statutory law. Nearly 2,000 statutes pertaining to a specific area of the law were stored in the computer’s memory. In response to inquiries, the computer searched its memory at electronic speed and on instructions pointed out either citations or the full text of relevant statutes. This was accomplished in minutes. It might have taken a young lawyer the entire day.
Putting computers to work in unusual ways is not new at IBM. Computers are now doing remarkable jobs in interesting and important areas of business, industry, science and government.
If you are interested in a company that offers you an exciting career with virtually unlimited growth potential, then you should investigate IBM. Positions are open in research, development, programming and manufacturing. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss any one of these fields with you. Your placement office can give you further information and arrange for an appointment. Or you may write, outlining your background and interests, to: Manager of Technical Employment, IBM Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.
©
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
IBM will interview March 2.
IBM
o
The Scholastic
•a fine romance
September 23, 1960 Dearest Winnie,
— It’s no fun being back at school away from you. Jiminee — but who could have guessed that summer would end so quickly? I still can taste your last kiss and, gosh Winnie, those things you said at the station will keep me awful happy all semester. I am glad that you think that our love will last forever, because I sure do.
I was awful sorry that you had to go away for three weeks with that friend —of your family . . . but we made up for it, didn’t we? Those picnics we went on were swell, even if your brother did have to come; and so was that hayride — though it would have been an awful lot better if you’d been able to stay awake.
Golly, Winnie, I miss you an awful lot. And I just can’t wait to see you. I though maybe you’d like to come out here for a visit. I know you think foot-ball is great and there is going to be a swell dance the week end of the Pitt game. I know this is awful early to invite you, but I want you to save this ’specially for us. We’ll have an awful good time. I’ll make the arrangements and you write back real soon and say that you’ll come. Boy oh boy, I can hardly wait.
I love only you, 0	Boob.
October 18, 1960.
My dearest Boob,
You’ll never know the way I felt when I received your sweet letter. You were so nice all summer and your invitation was so sweet. I don’t know how to say this, Boob sweet, for hurting you is the furthest thing from my mind. But I am pulled in two directions at the same time; and I can’t find words to express 0 the sweet emotion that my heart feels for you, my sweet. I want you to know that I’ll remember my love for you forever.
But I can’t accept your sweet invitation, Boob dear, because I’ve fallen in love with another . . . though remember that I’ll never forget my love for you. His name is Boqeford Rich. ... I met him in Apothacary Science Class last week. There are just so many’ nice things about him that I prickle every
। January 13, 1961
i I
II
time I think of his sweet name. He’s captain of the ouija team and just the life of the party. He’s so sweet ... I just know you’d like him.
Sorry I can’t come, sweet. Please write soon.
With love, your “ex,” Winsome Lossome.
October 20, 1960. Dear Lotta,
Wow, it just doesn’t seem possible that we’re back in school already. But I guess we are. Gee, Lotta, it’s funny how time can fly so fast. The summer came and went about as quick as a beer burp, and all the things I wanted to do I didn’t. I was just telling myself yesterday that it seems like it was just yesterday that we went out together. So then I decided to write.
Yes, by gollyroo, we’re all here at Notre Dame — having a ball. What with all that football and the good times, we are having more fun than I ever thought I could. And talking about good times. I wrote to ask you to be my date on the week end of November 5. It’s homecoming and should be a great time. Gosh, but I’ll be disappointed if you can’t come.
Answer soon, Boob.
October 26, 1960. Dear Boob,
It was certainly a surprise to hear from you. Particularly since I haven’t seen you since New Year’s Eve . . . 1958. And I didn’t for a minute think it funny when you locked me in the janitor’s closet that night. It wouldn’t have been half so bad had you locked yourself in instead. But you are now forgiven, you sweet thing, for having extended so kind an invitation to see your campus. You know that I so enjoy a funsy college week end.
But I can’t come. Perhaps, dear Boob, you didn’t hear — but Marty Mung and I have been engaged for almost a month. (You remember Marty, he’s the one who let me out of the janitor’s closet after tying you up in those dirty mops. He’s a stitch.) But you are still a darling . . . and you’ll always be “my Boob” to me.
Thank you so much, Lotta Bull.
October 28, 1960. Deal- Bar,
The phones to Saint Mary’s have been busy and the only way to get through is to write. I am sorry that your parents had to come down last week end and break our date . . . but your father was the cutest guy at the Victory Dance.
I tried to call you eleven times last week but you weren’t in. Your roomie said that you are busy this week end too. Gee, those teachers are nasty: assigning a theme on a football week end!
I hope that you get it done, though, cause there is a swell dance this Friday and I just happen to have a ticket. All the guys have dates and it’s sure going to be a swell time.
Remember that SMC girls just won’t let an ND guy down, and anyway you promised me a date.
Your lover, B. E. Lover
November 3,1960. Dear Boob,
Gee, but it was swell of you to write. I just love getting mail from you — you’re so cute. And thank you for the invitation. I’d just die to go with you, and I know I promised you a date — but, really, I can’t make it. I’ve got a very important quiz coming up in my Modem Dance course, and a Young Daughters of Rich Fathers Club meeting the same night. And anyway, Boob, I think I might be campused. But if you want a real nice date, my best friend, Men-y Fang Loanout, isn’t busy and I’m sure she’d love to go. She’s real swell, has a great personality, and all the girls just love her. Write soon — and be sure to ask me out again — if just for the heck of it.
Yours in SMC, Barbarian Breakheart.
November 4, 1960.
Carousel Ticket Chairman:
My girl has suddenly gotten very sick and I can’t go to the dance. I wondered if I could maybe sell the ticket back to you since it all happened so quickly . . .
r
KNIGHTS HOLD ‘FANTASY’
BALL TONIGHT
Bill Henry to Provide Musical Background
“Winter Fantasy” the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Ball to be presented Friday, January 13 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. will host approximately 100 couples at the South Bend Columbus Hall. Those attending the only off-campus and administration-sanctioned dance with late permissions will be entertained by Bill Henry and his orchestra.
General Chairman, Don Veckerelli of Bridgeport, Conn, and a senior sociology major brings sophomore Ellen Lefcourt of St. Mary’s College as queen to this semiformal event. Miss Lefcourt, an English major from Hartford, Indiana, complements the blue and gold theme that will prevail Friday night. As an added feature corsages will be given the girls.
Backing up Veckerelli in this en-deavor are Mike Hart, executive chairman and junior commerce major from Montreal, Canada; Brace Prangle, activities chairman and senior commerce student from Park Ridge, Illinois; Don Dietz, tickets chairman hailing from Lawton, Michigan; Edward Agnew, co-chairman of publicity from Chicago; Pete McGovern, decorations head and senior Liberal Arts student from New York City; Bill Mullaney, business manager from Belhel, Conn.; and Mike Wick, co-chairman of publicity and senior engineer from Detroit, Michigan.
The dance chairman, previously Knight membership-insurance head, announced that though this is an off-campus dance the usual 2 a.m. and car permissions are available through regular channels. Owing to the time of
ELLEN LEFCOURT
One Knight’s “Winter Fantasy”
year, the nature of the affair, and the present regulations the registered automobiles may be used from Friday noon to Saturday noon only. An official dance list will be submitted to the Vice President of Student Affairs not later than 4 p.m. Thursday, January 12, 1961.
Tom Medland, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame chapter, has announced that the proceeds from “Winter Fantasy” will go toward the Catholic Action Committee and the various other projects now on the agenda for the 1960-1961 year. Limited to active Knights, ball attendance has been severely restricted forcing the present arrangements. Decorations will be simple but appropriate, following the school color theme.
Graduate Fellowships Offered by University
The Notre Dame Graduate School will offer 24 first-year fellowships for the year 1961-1962, consisting of a stipend of $1500 and remission of the tuition fee of $1000.
Sixteen University fellowships are available to students of exceptional ability for the first year of graduate study in the department of English, philosophy, history, political science, economics, sociology, the Mediaeval Institute and mathematics.
Eight Arthur J. Schmitt Fellowships are available for the first year of graduate study in biology, chemistry, mathematics, physics, chemical engineering, engineering science, mechanical engi' neering and metallurgical engineering.
Scores of the Graduate Record Examinations, namely the Graduate Aptitude Test and the appropriate Advanced Test, are required.
Assistantships going. First-year assistantships with a basic stipend of $1600 and a remission of tuition, plus supplementary scholarships up to $500 for academic excellence, are available in nearly all the departments. Recipients may carry a maximum of three-quarters of a full study program. Twelve hours of service a week for the department, or a maximum of six hours of teaching, is required.
The deadline for completing applications for fellowships and assistantships is Feb. 15.
Full-tuition University scholarships are available to approximately thirty ■ in the humanities and social science fields.
The University of Notre Dame participates in the N.D.E.A. Fellowships Program in several departments, in the N.D.E.A. Loan programs, in the NSF Cooperative Graduate Fellowship Program and the Program of Summer Fellowships for Graduate Teaching Assistants. Further information on all fellowships is available from the Graduate Dean’s office in the Main Building.
University Seeks New 'Common1 Frosh Year
During the past two months a committee has been at work on an idea that may revolutionize Notre Dame’s^ entire freshman academic program. The committee, headed by Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., Vice-President for Academic Affairs, has been looking into the possibility of putting all freshmen on a “common” program — that is, all freshmen in all colleges would take the same subjects.
Leo M. Corbaci, administrative assistant for academic affairs, a member of the committee, is quick to point out that, no definite conclusions have been^' reached, and that the whole idea could be dropped at any time. “Even if we did put in a common freshman program,” he said, “it wouldn’t be until 1963 or 1964.”
So far, the committee has contacted Michigan State, Harvard, Princeton and Stanford schools which employ a common freshman program; and they plan to study the curriculums at these schools thoroughly before making any stated’ ments.
Exactly what benefits would accrue from such a program, aside from simplification of administrative procedures, is still not worthy of comment from the Committee’s point of view. The difficulties of putting the plan into operation are many and obvious, and the resolution of such problems as conflicting college requirements and the revamping of the various major programs has^l not even begun to be considered.
4
Visiting Dean to Discuss Architectural Education
“Architectural Education” will be the topic of an address given tonight by Samuel T. Hurst, Dean of the School of Architecture and the Arts at Auburn University. Sponsored by the Depart-^) ment of Architecture here as the fourth of a year-long lecture series, the talk will be given in the Donors Lounge of the Morris Inn at 8 p.m. this evening and will be open to the public. Suitcoats will be worn.
Dean Hurst, from Fort Valley, Georgia, earned the Bachelor of Architecture degree and the Institute’s student medal for excellence at Georgia Institute of Technology, graduating in 1942. He received the Master of Archi-|~) tecture degree from Harvard in 1948 and taught architecture at Tulane University and at Georgia Institute of Technology until 1955.
Former, secretary and education committee chairman of the Georgia chapter of the American Institute of Architects, Hurst selves as a director of the Auburn Foundation for Architecture, and a member of the Auburn City Planning Commission.
o
The Scholastic
8
Galeries to Feature Work of Wilfredo Lam; Describes Cuban Artist as Abstract Surrealist
More than forty paintings, drawings, and prints by celebrated Cuban artist Wilfredo Lam are now being exhibited at the University’s O’Shaughnessy Hall .art gallery daily from 1 to 5 p.m. 'through January 29.
This is the first one-man show in the United States for Lam, who has been characterized as an abstract surrealist.
THE PLAYERS RETURN
Players Inc., a touring theatrical company from the Catholic University in Washington, will present Shakespeare’s comedy, “The Mer-9 chant of Venice,” tonight at 8:30 p.m. and a Greek tragedy, “The Oresteia,” Saturday night at 8:30 p.m. in Washington Hall.
Notre Dame graduates Richard Robison and William Deseta play leading roles in both productions.
The company was formed in 1954 in Stratford, Ont., and appears here on its 12th annual tour. $............-.........................
'Continuity' Theme Keynotes Revamping of Campus Press
Located near the pool hall and to the east end of the LaFortune Student Center is the Campus Press, a unit of student employment relatively unknown to the students of Notre Dame. The expressed purpose of the Press is to aid ^the ND student with quick, inexpensive printing.
Presently, the Campus Press offers printed material in the form of posters, flyers, membership cards and such. It also handles many hall newspapers and some small mimeograph work. Plans for the future include, relieving the Mimeograph Office of many of its burdens and personalizing stationery for — interested students.
* Under its manager Jim Kolb, the Campus Press has embarked on a program of expansion saturated with a mode of optimism. With the cooperation of the Press’ advisor, Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., Kolb has set stress upon “continuity.” As Kolb expressed it, “the only way the press can gain popularity and efficiency is to compile a list of annual customers, thereby establishing continuity of assurance.”
With his theme of continuity in mind, ® and with a subtle reminder in the form of a sign over his desk, “Don’t Panic,” Kolb has purchased one new letter press this semester, and ,hopes to add a new offset press next semester. Since one drawback for the Campus Press has been its inefficiency with large projects, the addition of this new press and the thought of another one next semester will, as Kolb explains, “increase our quantity quota and enlarge our ver— satility.”
January 13, 1961
A zoo of abstraction. His work bristles with weird symbolism. Pipe stem legs poke up from oversized feet. Death-mask eyes peer out from tiny, round, horned Miro heads. Strange, dim ghosts float behind figures that are part bird, part animal, part human and sometimes part plant.
The show includes works loaned by the artist himself, by the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim Museum in New York, and by private collectors, principally Joseph Cantor of Indianapolis. It covers works dated from 1942 to 1959. The media used include gouache, oil, ink and pastel, and there are several lithographs.
Cuba to Paris. Born in Cuba in 1902 of Negro and Chinese parentage, Lam often chooses Cuban native themes. He has lived for extended periods in Madrid, Paris, New York, Mexico, and more recently in Italy, returning occasionally to Havana. In earlier years Lam was encouraged, perhaps influenced, by Matisse, Picasso, and Breton. He has exhibited widely in spite of the fact that this is his first one-man show in the United States.
Along with the exhibition, the gallery is offering a catalogue containing 26 reproductions of Lam’s work, including one color reproduction, and an introduction on Lam by James Johnson Sweeney, former director of both the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim Museum.
ND President to Appear On Education Program
On the CBS Television Network, Sunday, Jan. 15 from 5 to 6 p.m., Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, ■will discuss the problems of education in modern America as part of the Anti-Defamation League’s report on the growth of our school system. Participating in the event, and also receiving the annual American Democratic Legacy awards of this B’nai B’rith organization will be Nathan Pusey, President of Harvard University, and Abram Sachar, President of Brandeis University. Father Hesburgh, on behalf of the University, will also accept an American Democratic Legacy award.
The program, entiled “A Question of Chairs: Challenge of American Education,” will study the three-century struggle of elementary, secondary and higher learning, under the direction of Henry Schultz, National Chairman of the AntiDefamation League. Attempting to throw light on the hazards facing today’s educators by focusing attention on the activities of men like Horace Mann and Thaddeus Stevens, the discussion will present special glimpses into past and present teaching methods.
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER
Emminent grad returns
Dr. Shuster Appointed Presidential Assistant
Dr. George N. Shuster, former president of Hunter College, has accepted an appointment here as professor of English and assistant to the president, it was announced early this week.
At commencement exercises last June, Shuster was awarded the Laetare Medal, Notre Dame’s highest award of honor, presented annually to an outstanding American Catholic layman since 1883. At that time Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. said that Shuster “exemplifies the intellectual leadership that Catholic laymen must assert more effectively in the arts, sciences and professions.”
In his new position, Father Hesburgh said, Dr. Shuster will be responsible for special research projects being planned in the fields of the humanities and social sciences at Notre Dame.
Shuster is presently the U. S. representative on the executive board of the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization. He is trustee and consultant for the Carnegie Endowment for Intel-national Peace, the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, and the Institute of International Education.
A graduate of Notre Dame’s class of 1915, Shuster earned his master’s degree here five years later, studying French literature. For several years he was head of the English department here and was managing editor of Ave Maria magazine. One of the earliest contributors to Commonweal, the lay-edited Catholic weekly magazine, Shuster served as its managing editor [from 1929 to 1937.
He spent two years studying in Germany before World War II and returned to receive his doctorate from Columbia University. Appointed academic dean and acting president of Hunter College, he became president in 1940.
9
College Students Offered European Summer Tour
Eight groups, each composed of from twenty to thirty American college students, will conduct a seven-week summer course of study and pleasure in one of eight European cities this June and July. Aimed at serious students interested in a short summer to absorb the language, culture, and civilization of some foreign country, “Classrooms Abroad” will teach seminars in Berlin and Tubingen in Germany, Vienna in Austria, Besangon, Grenoble and Pau in France and Madrid, and Santander in Spain.
Knowledge of a foreign tongue is not required and further information concerning “Classrooms Abroad” may be obtained by contacting the tour directors from Yale, Danison, Haverford, Queens, Georgia, Cornell, Massachusetts, or Dr. Hirschbach, 4171 University Station, Minneapolis 14, Minnesota.
ND Professor Publishes Work on French Future
The towering figure of Charles DeGaulle and his impact on the future of France is analyzed in The Fifth Republic, a political study of modern France, recently published by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Dr. Ferdinand Hermens, veteran professor of political science at Notre Dame, is the author of the book which assays the reason for France’s political instability. Prof. Hermens is a specialist in comparative government and the relationship between politics and ethics.
“The threat of revolution in France created new forces, in the army as well as in the country, which it has not been easy to control,” Hermens writes. “General DeGaulle has tried to do so, and has acted decisively for this purpose. However, in order to solve a short-run problem, he has concentrated power in his person to such an extent that the prospects of a truly institutional solution, which is imperative in the long run, seem to recede farther into the background.”
The future stability of France depends, in his opinion, on transition from such “charismatic” leadership to the institutional. He contends that democratic elections and the development of a party system that will function at all times for the general welfare can help accomplish this change.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874

NABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
Valentine’s day is the time to deflate super-egos, let down your hair, unstuff shirts or, if you’re the gentle type, wax sentimental. In any case, we make it easy to do something, for our gift and card departments have a world of fun and favors you may select for this sweetheart of the day.
ADDRESSES REQUIRED
Foreign students at Notre Dame are reminded that all aliens living in the United States on January 1 are required by law to register their addresses by January 31. They may fulfill this obligation by obtaining an address report card at any post office, including the Notre Dame branch. The card must be filled out and handed in person to the postal derk.
~Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
--------------‘9
The Scholastic
10
Vice Admiral Hyman George Rickover -has been announced as the winner of the annual Patriot of the Year Award. In announcing the winner of the Nov. 10 election, John McNamara, the general chairman of the Washington Day Exercises, expressed the committee’s gratitude for the active participation of January 13, 1961
the senior class. This year over 70 per cent of the seniors voted, with an even greater percentage of the on-campus seniors casting their ballot.
Admiral Rickover, winner by a decisive majority, has enjoyed a distinguished career in the service. Among (Continued on page 15)
R
11
When Shelly Manne leads his Western caravan into Mardi Gras’ N.D. Fieldhouse come the eleventh afternoon in February, the nation’s most honored jazz percussionist will at last be visible east of the Rocky Mountains.
Shelly first copped Down Beat’s drum chair from his early idol and late friend Dave Tough in 1947 and has relinquished his seat only twice during the fourteen years of his virtual reign when Gene Krupa received the popular nod in 1952 and the brilliant Max Roach edged his perennial antagonist in 1955.
Around the year 1939, some 10 years after the crude Chinese cymbal had given way to the sonorous, majestic Zildjian and the “high hat cymbal” (a pair of cymbals .facing each other and made to meet through pedal control) had removed the archaic foot-cymbal, Kenny Clarke in the Teddy Hill band was experimenting with the idea of transferring the essence of the rhythmic beat from the bass drum to the top cymbal as an escape from the obtrusive pounding of a four-to-the-bar rhythm. Just as Clarke had begun what Jo Jones of the Basie band had oft-times
. . . ticket sales for the concert will be held tuesday evening, January 17, in the rathskeller bar between seven and nine-thirty p.m. each student will be limited to four tickets.
previously explored, it was Max Roach citing Kenny as his major influence, who brought this style to the highest degree of perfection. In the Jones-Clarke-Roach tradition we find the basic inspiration for tracing today’s drummers.
Shelly Manne, while giving Jones and Roach their due, cannot overlook the great help given to him by little Dave Tough whom he replaced in the Joe Marsala band when Tough left to join the legendary Benny Goodman Combos of the early 1940’s. After several other big-band jobs, Shelly served three and one-half years in the Coast Guard while Roach and Clarke carried on at the more important New York spots that housed the other true innovators of the day: Gillespie, Parker and Monk. Stationed in New York part of the time, Manne, too, would join them whenever possible, and though his appearances were few, he did manage to record with Gillespie, Coleman Hawkins and Ben Webstei- (names Webster as the man who gave him his first real break in jazz on 52nd St.).
Soon after his discharge he joined Stan Kenton for an association which made him famous. Shelly took the next three Kenton national tours before finally settling in California in 1951. During the next four years, which will prove to be the most precious years jazz has known to the present day, Shelly played with the host of West Coasters in and out of the Howard Rumsey Lighthouse group and teamed with Shorty Rogers in 1954 for a series of recordings now detached from the catalogue. Pacific Records turned into World (Continued on page 15)
12
The Scholastic
e
artist series: juilliard string quartet



The Juilliard String Quartet, which will perioral in Washington Hall on January 17, was founded in 1946 by William Schuman, president of the Juilliard School of Music, with the aid of the Julliard Foundation, in order that the school might have a first-rate 0 quartet-in-residence. Since then, the group has taken a place among the foremost chamber music ensembles of our time, as witness such press comments as “a marvel of technical precision” and “a gift of interpretation that was remarkable” which have greeted the quartet wherever their far-ranging tours of the United States, Canada, Europe and the Middle East have brought them.
The quartet, comprising Robert Mann and Isidore Cohen, violinists; Raphael gs Hillyer, violist, and Claus Adam, cellist, v is mater of a repertory of over 135 works, a repertory which for richness and diversity is second to none and ranges from Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert to the European masters of this century — Bartok, Ravel, Schoenberg and Webern — and such American composers as Sessions, Piston and Carter. Their recordings for Columbia and RCA Victor of Schoenberg, Bartok, Mozart, and Haydn, among others, have : 0 elicited the most enthusiastic response 3 January 13, 1961
from critics and the general public alike. One of their most important contributions to the phonographic literature is their devotion to the youngei- American composers — Peter Mennin, Benjamin Lees and living Fine, to name only a few.
In addition to their great following in America, the Julliards have become favorites in Europe as well, ever since their first history-making trip there in 1955, on which occasion they played 76 concerts and recorded 67 tapes for broadcast, while covering a total distance of over 15,000 miles. Accorded the signal honor of being invited to perform at Budapest’s Bartok Festival in 1958, the Juilliards caused such enthusiastic response that, as Times magazine reported, “the audience yelled so loudly for encores that the quartet gave an additional concert for students who almost dismantled the hall with their enthusiasm.”
The Juilliard Quartet is unique in the great range of its activities. Based at the Juilliard School in New York, the group gives classes in ensemble playing, participates in discussions and student workshops, while also giving individual instruction. Their concerts at the school, which frequently included
works by student composers, are highlights of Juilliard’s musical life.
The quartet’s members feel that their way of conducting their professional lives is the most stimulating and rewarding that is possible. While working with students, they are able to see their own art in a different and possibly more intense light than the routine of perpetual touring could afford. By coming into actual contact with aspiring performers, a mutually gratifying relationship is created. Too few people realize that even the most accomplished of performers must constantly re-evaluate his art. An artist’s thinking should hot, the quartet feels, remain static, but must always be enriched by new ideas and experiences.
Aside from their duties at Juilliard, the quartet also teaches and performs at the Aspen School of Music in Colorado during the summer.
In addition to appearances at many of the great European festivals — Salzburg, Vienna, Berlin, Budapest, Edinburgh — the Juilliard has also appeared at such American festivals as those of Tanglewood, Ojai and the first InterAmerican Music Festival in Washington, D. C.
13
Critic-at-Large
The January artistic scene promises much on all sides. The present gallery display, the first U. S. A. museum one-man show of the Cuban contemporary painter, Wilfredo Lam, is probably the most controversial exhibition to be housed in O’Shaughnessy this year. Lam’s style developed largely from the influence of Picasso and a group of Paris surrealists with whom he became acquainted in 1938.
His paintings are basically sensual in subject matter and his use of color varies from the subtle gray-green shadings of Satan (1942) to the striking and provocative extremes of Jungle (1943). To say that Lam succeeds in what he is attempting to do is to assume that you know just what that is. I do not. But nonetheless he does accomplish something and should not be missed.
The fine Juilliard String Quartet makes its seasonal appearance in Washington Hall on the seventeenth of this month and should have no trouble filling the auditorium. This group continues to enjoy a well-deserved world standing as one of the finest ensembles of its kind and we are indeed fortunate to have them appear year after year. The following excerpt is from the publicity release on the quartet provided by the Colbert; La Berge Concert Management Association:
“Since its Town Hall debut in 1947, the Juilliard String Quartet has been celebrated much the world over, has cultivated a large and heterogeneous repertoire and moved quietly and swiftly to the head of the class of chamber music ensembles. Virtuosos these players are, and top rank stylists, too.” With these words the New York Herald Tribune describes the success of this American quartet, now recognized, according to the New York Times as “one of the finest chamber music groups in the world.”
Repeatedly invited for European tours, the Juilliard Quartet engagements have included the major Festivals at Edinburgh, Salzburg, Vienna, Berlin, Brussels, Budapest, Warsaw. The enthusiasm for the Quartet was unanimous.
“The Juilliard Quartet received an ovation from the audience the kind of which is usually reserved for violin virtuosos or tenors. Vienna, the city of chamber music bows to America. This music has never been heard with such perfection.” (Austria). “The greatest tour de force of quartet playing in my entire experience. It is almost an impertinence to praise them. These four aces lifted Festival music-making to a new peak.” (England). “These brilliant cultural ambassadors performed works of enormous difficulty and played like magicians.” (Italy). “As we listen to the Juilliard Quartet’s Haydn and Beethoven it seems as if the quintessence of the classical European tradition returns to us from America.” (Germany).
(Continued on page 15)
14
At the Theaters •
Once again, fast on the heels of the last upside-down year before 6009, your friendly neighborhood reviewer- comes, laden with mixed tidings about the movie offerings.
The Avon is still in its rut of not opening Saturday afternoons, so nothing could be obtained there. It is a good guess, however, that they will continue to parade BB in Come Dance with Me,” which is all right if you don’t mind seeing scores of transvestites (see Webster). If that isn’t enough, you might like to know that Henri Vidal, who plays BB’s husband on screen, died of a heart attack shortly after shooting was completed. Enough of that.
After having Jerry Lewis in as CinderFella, the Colfax now brings Song Without End, the story of Franz Liszt. In the title role, Dirk Bogarde is more than adequate and has some of the quality of the perfectionist that was Liszt. He spent days practicing piano for the role, and the shots of his playing are indeed realistic. Capucine, the French discovery, plays the Russian princess Carolyne, whose love affair with Liszt is the main theme of the movie. The music is, naturally, excellent, and the whole production is in very good taste. Genevieve Page, Patricia Morison, Ivan Desny, and Martita Hunt offer very good support.
Following this, and starting January 20th, the Colfax becomes Rome of old for Ben-Hur. What more can be said about this?
Well, due to the many requests from our wonderful little damsels across the Great Divide (and they really are wonderful, too — just ask Lovin’ Joe Pichler or Mort the Marine Keough), the benevolent management of the Granada has brought to the Bend that half-breed hero of the Old West: Elvis. The movie is called Flaming Star and graces the Granada’s screen for only one week (January 12-18). At least let us all hope they don’t hold it over. Elvis is, of course, that dynamic star of stage, screen, television, Uncle Samsville, and is currently featured in Confidential magazine for one of his overseas efforts. Elvis plays a half-breed, but instead of the usual baddie halfbreed he plays it straight. I don’t know about anyone else, but I’m for a Congressional Act to redraft him.	_	-
But all is not lost for the Granada. Starting the 19th (if Elvis isn’t held over) and running to the 25th is The Wackiest Ship in the Army. Of course, even a good picture has to have something to make our SMC friends happy. This one doesn’t have Elvis, but it does have Ricky Nelson. But let’s not dwell on its bad points. It also has Jack Lemmon, and he’s as funny as usual in this type of picture. All in all, it’s high above what the Granada has been showing for the past few weeks. For example, who could have said that uniting Bob Hope and Lucille Ball would turn out to be so miserable?
Foi- a while, as a breather after showing Swiss Family Robinson, the State pulls its head above mediocre waters and presents The Sundowners until the 19th. Shot on location in the most beautiful parts of Australia, it tells the story of Robert Mitchum, a drifter, and his family. Even the sleep-dazed Mitchum is influenced by good performances. Demorah Kerr plays his wife, and does a vei-y credible job of it. Peter Ustinov is a supposedly-titled foreigner who is madly in love with a local tavern notable, played by England’s Glynis Johns. There is in this movie a little bit for everyone, so don’t miss it if you can. Even for students of language, The Sundowners unearths the intriguing if irritating Aussie accent.
Starting the 20th and running until the 26th at the State, are a pair of goodies, Debra Paget and Terry Moore, starring in Why Must I Die? Also along for the ride are Robert Hutton and Mary Castle in The Jailbreakers. In the first of these two gems, poor Terry is in all kinds of trouble for something she really didn’t do but that Debra Paget really did so. Confusing? In fact, she’s in so much trouble that she is scheduled to take a trip to Way-Outsville thanks to electricity (which costs less today, you know). Whether or not it comes out all right in the end I cannot tell „
.	The Scholastic
because it will ruin it for all of you who want to waste your money by going. And then there’s The Jailbreakers, starring Robert Hutton and Mary Castle. What more can be said?
For all of you who weren’t here at i the start of 1959, I want to say that the \ turn of this month marks my second anniversary, during which time, I have been constantly hammering away at too 0many movies. Thanks are due at this time to my many contributors, mainly the A.B.U.H. Research Institute and Kenny and Waxie’s Drive-In Shuttle Service. Editor and censor wiling, I shall continue till the end of May.
Tony Wong.
Patriot of the Year
(Continued from page 11)
© his many notable achievements was his outstanding service in connection with the development of the atomic bomb as assistant director of operations, Manhattan Disti-ict, for which he received the Oak Leaf Cluster' on his Commendation Ribbon. Twice recipient of the Legion of Merit, Admiral Rickover received the Medal of Honor — Army and Navy Union in 1958. Presently in ! charge of the naval nuclear propulsion Q division and chief of naval reactors, the vice admiral will be awarded the Navy’s highest peace-time decoration, the Distinguished Service medal on Jan. 17, the sixth anniversary of the recent voyage of the atomic submarine Nautilus.
Along with being one of the greatest contributors to the advancement of nuclear powered ships in the country, the vice admiral has an intense interest 0 in American education. In his book Education and Freedom, he has attempted to correct, what he sees as, a decided deficiency in the educational processes in this country. In his book he calls for a vigorous demand for higher standards in American education, ; the foundation of our national security.
The admiral will speak to the student body on Wednesday, Feb. 22. While final arrangements for his visit have V not been completed, it is certain that in addition to his address at the annual convocation he will be a guest at a dinner for student leaders given by the president of the University. At the । ceremonies, Admiral Rickover will be given the citation and the senior class will present the flag to the University which will be flown for the first time on June 4, Commencement Day for the class of 1961.
' “The Patriot of the Year Award,” © won last year by Richard Nixon, was established in 1954 as part of the annual Washington Day Exercises held at the University since their institution i by the Veiy Rev. Edward Sorin, founder f of Notre Dame. The award is presented i	each year to an American who has
;	contributed to his country’s welfare in
his own particular capacity and whose 4 whole life and career “exemplify the American ideals of justice, personal in-t 0 tegrity and service to country.” te January 13, 1961
Shelly Manne and Friends
(Continued from page 12)
Pacific and Contemporary records signed just about everyone in sight. He formed his first group in 1955, the year he was named Metronome’s “Musician of the Year.” Shelly Manne, at 35, found himself the idol of a jazz public which was giving West Coast jazz its greatest support. His own kinetic energy and a series of recordings under the heading “Shelly Manne and his Men” have been most instrumental in slowing down the inevitable decline of the elusive West Coast sound. (Hear Shelly and His Men: Andre Previn and Jeroy Vinne-gar on one of the best selling albums of all-time, My Fair Lady or the absorbing Shelly Manne and Russ Freeman where Shelly showed how melodic drums could be, perhaps taking up where Max Roach had apparently left off, though Roach had advised Shelly to “buy a horn” if he wants to play melody. Both LP’s are on Contemporary Records.)
The quintets Manne has led as his permanent group have been vehicles for some of the most uninhibited free-blowing sessions in recent years, adding to what has become one of the most demanding of work schedules a constant outlet for his playing. His group can be heard to its most recent advantage on a series of four live recordings made at San Francisco’s Blackhawk in July of 1960. Particular attention must be paid to his work underlining Monty Budwig’s bass solo on Poinciana which is the epitome of swing and taste. Shelly is by far the most wide-awake, alert, and most happiest of drummers. A supreme technician and student of the percussion, for sheer drive and pulsation, for split-second ability to propel a soloist, Manne’s only rival would be Philly Joe Jones. The Blackhawk album (Contemporary M-3577) volume one, leaves one breathless in the wake of the sheer force of the group. It comes
Critic-at-Large
(Continued from page 14)
“Their ensemble is sensational in its homogeneity of sound, the clarity of attacks, its balance and the variety of interpretations.” (France). “Budapest audiences reserved their loudest cheers for the Juilliard Quartet. The audience yelled so loudly for encores that the quartet gave an additional concert for students, who almost dismantled the hall with enthusiasm.” (Time Magazine reporting on the Budapest Festival).
The dramatic situation ranges from one extreme to the other. On the thir
highly recommended. But, what with studio calls, his many diverse record dates (he has even recorded of late with Sonny Rollins and Ornette Coleman and both of these, as well, are’on Contemporary Records) and his work on TV and movies (his latest picture, “The Proper Time,” featured a sound track by Manne which was well received at the San Francisco Inter-national Film Festival in November), Shelly has had many personnel changes within his group. Currently working with him at his latest venture, his own club aptly-dubbed the “Manne-Hole” on Cahuenga Blvd, in Los Angeles, one can find Jack Sheldon, trumpet; Russ Freeman, piano; Chuck Berghofer, bass; Richie Kamuca, tenor saxophone. This should be the swinging unit Shelly will bring to Notre Dame.
Freeman has long been California’s most inventive pianist and should provide some memorable moments. He has been associated with Shelly for the last six years in one capacity or another and can be heard at his best as composerarranger-pianist on no less than six collaborations with Chet Baker; five in the defunct Pacific catalogue, though these may still be found, and a Columbia L.P. with strings. His is a highly individualistic approach which comes as a logical extension of Bud Powell, not without traces of Art Tatum and Horace Silver. Kamuca and Sheldon have long been found in and around Los Angeles, either with Kenton or a Shorty Rogers “band of the month” while Berghofer is the youngest member and a new name outside of Los Angeles.
For drumming nothing short of superb and a quintet blowing some of the most eclectic, unabashed jazz in the country, may I suggest Shelly Manne and His Friends in concert the afternoon of February 11 at 1 pan.
teenth and fourteenth (the release dates of this issue) the Catholic University Players will deliver Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice and The Oresteia of Aeschylus respectively. At the end of the month the Saint Mary’s Drama Department gives us Rodgers and Hammerstein’s King and I with Norman Ornellas in the leading role. If the. excellence of their first production is indicative, this should prove well worth while.
John S. Oliver
15
For Notre Dame Men
NOTRE DAME'S JOHN ZAHM
By Ralph E. Weber Publication Date: February 15
210 pp.
$5.00
The vital story of a vital man! Father John Zahm, graduate of Notre Dame and priest of the Holy Cross community, was at various times in his career a scientist, an administrator, an apologist for true science and true religion, and Provincial of Holy Cross in this country. But above all, he was a promoter of the University of Notre Dame. More than any other single man, John Zahm exerted a decisive influence in the molding of this university into a respected institute of learning and a powerhouse of Catholic intellectual effort. Mr. Weber has skillfully woven together a fascinating account of a dynamic priest, the impact of whose presence is still being felt at Notre Dame.
*
The University of Notre Dame Press is dedicated to a publishing program that will reflect the best in Catholic intellectual endeavor. We urge you to consult a copy of the 1961 Spring Catalog for a complete listing of current and contemplated works.
1
One example of the direction toward which the University Press is aiming might be the International Studies Series. Two new titles to be published this Spring are:
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE CONTROL OF ATOMIC ENERGY
By Joseph Nogee
AMERICAN DIPLOMACY SINCE THE SECOND WORLD WAR
By Stephen D. Kertesz, ed.
4
Other popular titles in the series currently available:
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD and
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR
Both edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940
By Albert N. Tarulis
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925
Edited and translated by Boleslaw ~ Szczesniak

OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
I
<5
1
16
The Scholastic,

VICTORY EVEN IN DEFEAT
The SCHOLASTIC sports staff would like to congratulate Coach John Jordan and his Notre Dame basketball team for their fine effort against North Carolina last > week end.
Although the Irish came out on the short end of the score, they obviously proved to all who saw the game that they were every bit as good as the fifth-ranked Tar Heels.
The Jordanmen have embarked on the second half of their 1960-61 3 schedule and we want to wish them the best of luck. Surely, if they repeat the kind of basketball demonstrated against the Tar Heels, they should have no trouble.
Kane and Churnetski Return; * ND Wrestlers Await Chicago
Notre Danie’s wrestling team returns to action on January 28 when they host the University of Chicago at the Fieldhouse. This will be the first match for the Irish since before the holidays.
Coach Tom Fallon hopes the return of two key grapplers will start the Irish back on the victory trail. Captain Jim Kane will return to action after being sidelined with a leg injury for most of the season. 157-pound John Churnetski will start after being out with a i‘ib injury sustained in the opening match of the season.
Notre Dame has been handicapped this season by injuries to top men at weights in which there are not many replacements. After finishing second in a quadrangular at Purdue, this weak> ness became apparent as the grapplers lost three out of their next four meets.
123-pound sophomore Dick Martin has looked very good so far for the Irish. Another sophomore, Dave Ames, has shown considerable form in the early matches.
These few spots have been the only bright ones in a disappointing season for the Fallonmen. However, with only two returning monogram winners and _ many injuries, Coach Fallon feels the team has done very well and should improve as the season progresses.
After the Chicago match, the Irish will have only two more home matches. In Februaiy the wrestlers will travel to Wheaton for the Wheaton Invitational Tourney which annually brings together the top teams in this area. The 4-1 Tourney at Case Tech in Cleveland during the second week in March will conclude the season for the Irish.
3
January 13, 1961
ND HOOPSTERS INITIATE HOME STAND AGAINST RUGGED DETROIT TOMORROW
Notre Dame’s basketball forces, trailing an unhappy 5-7 record in their wake, will meet the talented University of Detroit team tomorrow night in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Dave De-Busschere, the country’s ninth leading scorer last year, and Charlie North, a rugged forward, have combined theii-talents to lead the Titans to national prominence.
Titan powerhouse. Any team could use a breather after a scuffle with a club of Detroit’s caliber, but the Irish won’t
JOHNNY JORDAN
get one. This coming Tuesday night Notre Dame will be host to Coach Ray Meyer’s De Paul Demons. Once again, little Howie Cari will be at the head of an excellent De Paul cast. Teaming ■with Carl at guard will be Bill Haig. This pair furnishes Coach Meyer with one of the most highly regarded backcourts in the nation.
December 16 marked the, beginning of a very trying period for Coach Johnny Jordan’s boys. That night in Los Angeles, a swift UCLA group bided its time while Notre Dame’s starters chalked up numerous fouls, and then hurried to a 85-54 triumph after the exit of many of Notre Dame’s key operatives. John Dearie, with 13 points, led the somewhat curtailed Irish attack.
The following night the story was about the same. Personal fouls again hampered the attack, and the University of Southern California streaked to an easy 93-63 win. Armand Reo topped the Notre Dame scoreboard with 13 points.
On December 20, the highly ranked Indiana five had quite a battle before subduing the Irish, 74-69. John Dearie hit for 14 points and John Tully and Ed Schnurr followed him closely with 12 apiece.
Purdue extended the losing streak through a fourth game, as they posted a 78-58 win ovei- the boys from South Bend. Armand Reo fired home 21 points. The following night, December 28, John Dearie scored 20 points in leading his mates to a 69-66 win over Illinois.
North western then gave itself a. New Year’s Eve present with a 59-56 win at Evanston. Ed Schnurr tallied 12 points in vain.
In the first game after the Christmas vacation, Notre Dame whipped visiting Butler 72-56. Armand Reo was high man again with 20 points.
Tar Heels. The stage was then set for last Saturday night’s meeting with the North Carolina Tar Heels. Boasting such stars as York Larese and Doug Moe, Coach Frank McGuire’s boys had been ranked in the top ten consistently and were numbered five in one poll at the time of the Notre Dame meeting.
Starting rapidly, the Irish had soon treated themselves to a 10 point lead. At this point the veteran Tar Heels began to munch away at the lead. By halftime they were in the red- by only a basket, 32-30.
The second half found the Irish showing the way for the most part. With under two minutes left they enjoyed a three point lead. Then things began to happen. York Larese was fouled in the act of shooting. A technical foul was added on, and Larese sank all three of his shots.
Because of the technical, North Carolina was awarded the ball. They stalled until the closing seconds. One second showed on the clock as Jim Hudock tipped in a rebound to give his team a 72-70 victory. Crosby, Reo and Dearie played an outstanding game for the Irish.	—Bob Chiappinelli
ARMAND REO
17
Dillon, Stanford Lead Interhall Hoop League
When the final whistle is blown in the Dillon Black vs. Cavanaugh Black contest on January 18, first semester competition will come to a close. A total of 78 of the scheduled 148 league games will have been played in the eight different leagues. While the season is still relatively young, several things have become evident.
Like their football brothers, the Dillon Black quintet is a top notch group. Under the tutelage of bespeckled Michael “Spike” McAdams, the Dillonites have shown a balanced attack. Leading the Dillon parade is football end Bill Ford. Ford, a former basketball star at Benton Harbor-St. Joseph in Michigan, has been the key to the Dillon success. Max Burnell and Bill Clements, two other gridders, also play for the Dillon squad.
Another fine squad is the Pangbom aggregate which features football tackle George Williams and retired quarterback Tom Jorling.
Among the underclassmen, the freshmen show their usual enthusiasm. Typical of this is Stanford Hall which has five teams entered in the league. Topping this is Breen-Phillips with a team entered in each of the eight different divisions.
CARY CALLS 'EM
Tonight
Auburn over Florida Texas over Baylor Kentucky over LSU LaSalle over Manhattan Southern California over Washington
Tomorrow
Bradley over North Texas State California over UCLA Cincinnati over Tulsa Marquette over Creighton Utah over Denver
Wichita over Drake Duke over Maryland Portland over Gonzaga St. Louis over Houston Iowa over Michigan State Purdue over Minnesota St. Bonaventure over Niagara Wake Forest over North Carolina
State Ohio State over Northwestern North Carolina over Virginia St. John’s over St. Francis (N.Y.) Temple over Muhlenberg Villanova over West Virginia
Game of the Week Notre Dame over Detroit
Upset of the Week
DePaul over Louisville
Last Week’s Results 21 right, four wrong, 84 per cent
Totals to Date 40 right, ten wrong, 80 per cent
FENCING LEADERS
Successful in opener
Victorious Irish Fencers Engage Capable Falcons
Notre Dame’s fencing team, victorious in their first two encounters of the 1961 campaign, travel to Iowa City tomorrow for contests with the hosting Hawkeyes and a tough Air Force Academy team. The Hawkeyes have one of their top fencing units in the last decade while the Irish can well remember the rugged competition provided by the Falcons last year at Notre Dame.
Coach Walter Langford’s men opened the season resoundingly last Saturday as they edged out a strong Fenn College team, 16-11, and then waltzed to an easy victory over Indiana Tech, 22-5.
Leading the Irish successes were Cocaptain Mike Curtin and Tom Dwyer. Dwyer was successful in five straight matches in the foil division. Curtin also shone in the foil division as his only setback in five tries was at the hands of Fenn ace Dave Sealey. Sealey had quite a struggle on his hands before clinching a 5-3 victory.
In the sabre division, Larry Keough and Rudy Ehrensing were the Green frontrunners as each won three out of four encounters.
Miguel Fernandez, a relative newcomer to the fencing scene this season, did very well in the epee division as he also clinched three of four contests.
Keough was featured in the most exciting battle in the epee division. Meeting Fenn’s strong sabre man, Tony Pezone, Keough gave him a tough battle before falling to a 5-4 defeat. Rudy Ehrensing’s lone defeat was also by a close 5-4 margin.
The Fenn team proved to be much stronger than the Langfordmen had anticipated. Indiana Tech was not so capable however as they could muster strength enough to capture only five points. The visiting engineers won two events in the foil and epee divisions while picking up a lone point in the tough sabre matches.
Swimmers Prepare For Powerful Wildcat Squad
With two wins safely tucked away the Notre Dame swimming team meets its toughest opponent of the young season tomorrow at Evanston when they invade the den of the Northwestern Wildcats. The Northwestern meeting will be a crucial date for the Irish mermen.
Leading the way for Northwestern is Tom Hickerson. It will be up to the Irish to make sure that Hickerson anc Co. are sufficiently contained so thai the Notre Dame swimmers can capture their third straight win of the season.
In beating Miami of Ohio and Centra] Michigan the Irish tankers continued tc show improvement over last season when they compiled a 7-3 record. Under the patient reign of Coach Dennis Stark, the swimmers have made steady progress in the three years that the team has been entered in varsity competition.
A fine team effort has been responsible for the two wins. Among the toj performers have been Captain Gent Witchger- and his brother Dave. Gent is a freestyler and Dave swims the breaststroke.
Three sophomores have been impressive in freestyle competition. They art John Clark, Bill Vasu and John MacLeod.
A pleasant surprise has occurred ir the diving competition where Tom Weber, a junior from Waukesha, Wise, has done a good job.
KAMPUS KEGLERS
Led by Chuck LeRose, the Notrt Dame varsity bowling team won an easy 7-4 victory ovei- St. Joseph’s at the Notre Dame lanes last Sunday. LeRost was a picture of consistency as ht bowled games of 201, 192, 203, 181 ant 201 for a 978 series, his highest of tht season. Ted Nekic, three-year veterai of the team, posted the highest score ol the day with a 234.
The first half of the Midwestern In tercollegiate Bowling Conference seasor came to a close with this match, anc the Irish, with a 36 and 19 record were firmly entrenched in first place. Loyok of Chicago remained five points behinc in second place. Individually, sopho more Bill Lieber of the Notre Damt squad, leads with a 189 average, witl Captain Dan Halloran and LeRose dost behind.
The next match for the Irish will b< on February 12 when they host DePaul winners of the MIBC the past tw< years. All are welcome to see the ac tion and admission is free.
The scores:
Notre Dame—
955 789 951 760 881 4331 St. Joseph’s—
850 857 844 830 767 4141
18
The Scholastk
HOCKEY: FASTEST GROWING SPORT
St. Paul’s John Bailey (4) at right, high-sticked by a Muskegon opponent, re* taliates. Said Bailey, “A hockey player has no damn business having any teeth.”
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
Part I of a two-part series on hockey. Next week: the amateurs from grade school to college, and the future of hockey at Notre Dame.
The roughest, fastest game in the world: this brief but immeasurably descriptive definition of ice hockey is the key to the popularity which has made the game the most rapidly growing spectator and participant sport in the world.
Hockey is a game of slashing speed, of sudden violence, and of constant action. To the body contact of football, it adds the speed of players skating at 20 miles an hour, and the added perils of flailing sticks, flashing blades, and a three-inch hard rubber disc traveling at speeds upwards of 100 miles per hour.
The excitement which such a game can generate for the spectator is matchless. Since hockey is the only game in which teams can substitute players “on the fly” or without stopping the game, the action continues virtually uninterrupted.
The speed of the game contributes greatly to its excitement: two or three goals in a matter of seconds is a not uncommon occurrence. The physical belting and the fighting add the final elements in raising the excitement and suspense of hockey to a constant pitch unachieved by any other sport. Any spectator who has seen a well-played professional or amateur game will admit that it tops anything he has ever seen, and most return again and again to see more of the same.
As a result, attendance in the National Hockey League and othei- established professional leagues is booming, and new professional circuits are being organized throughout the nation, exposing even southern areas to the game for the first time; the reaction has been tremendously enthusiastic.
In addition to enjoying the excitement of the game, however, more and more spectators are beginning to appreciate the fact that hockey is more than a rough game played by two teams of three forwards, two defensemen, and a goaltender. They are coming to realize that hockey is a game of great technical skill, and are developing a knowledge of the fine points of the game: forechecking and backcheck-ing, passing, plays, ragging the puck, poke checking, deking, and great goal play.
Despite the fact that amateurs are gaining in skill and poise each season, the men who play the game for a living are	(Continued on page 20)
January 13, 1961
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
SPECTRUM BOOKS
Goals for Americans
The President’s Commission Report
The Secretary of State The American Assembly
INFORMATION PLEASE 1961 ALMANAC $1.35
BANTAM
Yankee from Olympus Oliver Wendell Holmes
Brave New World Revisited Aldous Huxley
The War Lover John Hershey
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students •
Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.)
Special Price $5.50
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
19
Hockey
(Continued from page 19) unquestionably those with the greatest technical facility.
Some of hockey’s greats of the fifties are among the decade’s most memorable and greatest athletes: Bill Durnan, Maurice “Rocket” Richard, Jacques Plante, Gordie Howe, Doug Harvey, Jean Beliveau, Terry Sawchuk, “Boom Boom” Geoffrion, and others.
Why do these men run the risk of
This
Grand Tour of Europe can be yours... next summer!
England ... the Continent... touring capital cities, hamlets . . . traveling through beautiful countryside, quaint villages and passing landmarks . . . enjoying good fellowship ... laughter, conversation and song! And it’s all yours when you choose one of the American Express 1961 Student Tours of Europe! Groups are small, led by distinguished leaders from prominent colleges. Itineraries cover England, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, The Rivieras and France. There are 12 departures in all, timed to fit in with your summer vacation; ranging in duration from 47 to 62 days ... by ship leaving New York duringJune and July.. .startingas low as $1402.50. And with American Express handling all the details, there’s ample time for full sight-seeing and leisure, too!
Other European Escorted Tours from $776.60 and up. MEMBER: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service or simply mail the coupon.

American Express Travel Service, Sales Division 65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.
Dear Sin Please send me literature on Student Tours of Europe □
European Escorted Tours—1961 □
Name,
Address.
City.
.Zone______State.
serious injury for less than spectacular g salaries? Some say for money, all say 1 for the love of the game.	II
St. Paul’s “Jarrin’ John” Bailey, a g massive wing with a greying crew cut g and a booming slap shot, says “I love I the game, but I play for money, too. | Hockey has been real good to me. I I left home when I was sixteen to play | hockey, and I’ve been playing for a | living for fifteen years now. At 31, I i still expect to play three or four more* years.”	|
In a game where shoulder separations | and broken legs are common, and | stiches come so frequently that several | NHL players are members of the “1000 t Stitch Club,” one gets the impression | that the love of the game is the more I important of the two.	|
Asked if the Rangers took good care | of him, rookie goalie Jack McCartan | said “They pay my salary and that’s all!” And Jacques (The Cat) Marcotte,^ the Saints’ cat-quick net minder, asked I why he played, replied “I just love the | game, that’s all. Once you start playing | hockey, you can never stop.”	g
Critics of the game variously accuse g hockey’s frequent fights of being fraud- I ulent and unnecessary. A quick look at some of the injuries incurred in these § battles would convince skeptics that | they are not frauds.	I
But the reason for them is more com- w plex. Fighting is regarded basicly as a | self-defensive measure. Bailey, who can 1 fight equally well with his stick oi- his i fists and frequently does so, told me I “You can’t take anything from anybody. | If you do they’ll all take advantage of | you and run you right out of the | league.”	t
Though the physical punishment of g the game is gruelling, the pressure on g the pros is even more telling; among A them, the pressure on the goalie is by I far the greatest. Any goal scored on his S team is ultimately and inevitably held ® against him: his team’s last line of de- 8 fense has been severed, and in their E nearsightedness the spectators can see | only the goalie and the puck in the goal i behind him.	|
Jacques Plante of Montreal and g Jacques Marcotte of St. Paul (both of 1 whom now wear masks — Plante has e had 150 stitches in his face and Mar- S cotte nearly lost an eye) agree that 8 even more than being hit by an unseen 8 puck, the goalie fears the moment when, S prostrate on the ice, he sees the puck 8 hit the twine behind him.	1
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST	1
CONTACT LENSES	1
Inquiries Invited	|
EYES EXAMINED	|
GLASSES FITTED	|
OPTICAL REPAIRS I
1 to 24-Hour Service	1
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477 I
The Scholastics
20
Letters
(Continued from page 4) all-night lights is the Notre Dame tradition of formation. The University, recognizing that the undergraduate is still in his formative years, has always had as its primary goal the moral and spiritual formation of the student. Allnight lights, besides providing an opportunity for wrongdoing and disorderli-ness in the halls, would result in a greatly decreased attendance at morning Mass. We might just as well turn our chapels into game rooms or libraries and ape the secularistic schools completely. Notre Dame’s mark of distinction is not simply its abundance of spiritual facilities with its ever-available priests and chapels. This is merely a passive matter. Notre Dame’s raison d’etre is the veiy positive and active ^idea of the moral formation of youth by direct encouragement, discipline, and the removal of any impediments which would tend to frustrate this first goal of the University.
For those of you who feel you are completely mature and beyond formative influence, are rankled by University discipline, and want more “individual responsibility,” I suggest that you press for off-campus accomodations. This is ^the only just solution to the problem.
Francis Miceli
(Ed. note: Amazed at your heretical notion of the purpose and goal of a university we hasten to recommend Cardinal Newman.)
Support
Editor:
At last! The Scholastic seems to be taking steps to fulfill what most students *feel is its chief responsibility — to express student opinion and criticism with intelligence, accuracy, and courage. This significant improvement has been noted and appreciated by all who sincerely wish to see Notre Dame achieve the true excellence to which she aspires.
Kevin Hart Zahm Hall President
^Editor:
Though we did not take part in the “Student Demonstration,” we wish to make it cleai- to 11 voters in the student Senate that we do completely endorse and commend the editorial appearing in the Dec. 9 Scholastic.
If we did not participate, it was because we do want excellence, and certainly, at that time, that was not the crowd’s end.
Kenneth Marty
'	Jerry Brinker
Phil Lattavo Mike Blake
Editor:
At last someone has had the courage to print the truth. Your editorial, “A Parting Thought,” points out quite adequately that a good percentage of the student body is discontent — but not because of the poor showing on the gridiron.
January 13, 1961
The editorial does, however, leave several questions unanswered. Perhaps, we are better students than our predecessors, but how can the presence of certain individuals who walk this campus be explained?
Why is there “now no choice for the student except Notre Dame?” Given time, perhaps, the Administration will change its approach to the students. In the meantime is the student to miss the “leisure necessary for intellectual growth?” Is he to be stifled by regulations and directives at every turn?
Robert M. Carlton
Cinematic Excellence
Editor:
Now that we’ve all taken the Legion of Decency Pledge “to promote . . . what is morally and artistically good in motion pictures” and to choose films that are “morally and culturally inspiring,” what are the chances of getting the managers of Washington Hall to adhere to these principles? Such childish tripe as Flame Over India, Dog of Flanders, Lost World, etc. are about as un-artistic and un-inspiring as movies come.
The Basement of Morrissey Editor:
Tony Wong said in his movie column that “things reach a new low when the only thing available at Washington Hall is Dog of Flanders.” I disagree. Things have even gotten lower. We have gone from the sublime (Dog of Flanders) to the ridiculous (The Lost World) to the sublimely ridiculous (Pollyanna). He also said that this could “be a reflection on the regular Wash-Hallers.” Speaking as a veteran “regular Wash-Haller” who would like to be doing something else on a Saturday night but can’t af-
Not this: a student who	This! Perspicacious ...
studies drowsily no matter	sharp! NoDoz keeps you
how much sleep he gels.	awake and alert—safely!
If you find studying sometimes soporific (and who doesn’t?) the word to remember is NoDoz®. NoDoz alerts you with a safe and accurate
amount of caffeine—the same refreshing stimulant in coffee and tea. Yet non-habit-forming NoDoz is faster, handier, more reliable. f So to keep perspicacious during study and '
exams—and while driving, too— always keep NoDoz in proximity.
The sate stay awake tablet—available everywhere. Another fine product of Grove Laboratories.
ford it, I agree that it is an insult, both to the regulars and to the casual movie goer.
This is excellence?
Jerry Carrier
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOB OVER 38 YEABS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Part* of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEL’S SURPLUS SALES SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
kWTURBOW \ppTOMTmrr
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES inquiries invited I
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington—Phone CE {-STH
I
21
I L 4-f-watch in the west.
Today in the West, people consider Soviet propaganda as whimsical. To reassure ourselves in such a way is harmful, for propaganda to the Soviets is a serious, essential affair.
Due to the rise of democracy in the 20th century, the world has been introduced into an age of politics, in which public opinion determines events even more than labor or the military — a fact which seems better understood by the Soviets than by the leaders of the free world. They have seen that where democracy reigns, government gives considerable weight to public opinion. The West fails to realize that, in the present antagonism between the free and the Soviet worlds, political warfare is as decisive as the military front.
The West makes another mistake when it believes that the seriousness of communism can be gauged by the strength of its parties. The West fails to realize that communism moves ahead not as much by the conviction of its members as by the confusion of its opponents. Communist parties are merely gadflies. The main effort of the Kremlin is to pervert or weaken the situation into which it places these parties. The Soviets have always won power with factions very much in the minority, in tottering, undermined, societies.
The propaganda of the communist party aims not an enrolling party members but at, independent of any social doctrine, disseminating views that more or less openly serve Soviet foreign policy.
PROPAGANDA IN ALL
The more thoroughly infiltrated areas are international press pages and book and film reviews. The propaganda role of reviewers is important because their opinion encourages many readers to read works supporting the Soviet line and to ignore unfavorable ones. A further manipulation of the press is “letter brigades.” Fabricated correspondence exerts a strong influence on the policy of newspapers that honestly believe that they “must keep in tune with their readers.” Education and even churches are highly infiltrated, because of the importance of shaping minds.
Soviet diplomacy is not diplomacy in the usual sense of the term. Every form of exchange between Communist
22
and free countries, whether diplomatic, cultural, commercial, technical, or athletic, is conceived and worked out with propaganda in mind. The purpose of Soviet diplomacy is to charm and lull to sleep political or financial circles in countries they wish to undermine.
The organized visits of delegations and prominent persons whom they invite to the countries they dominate provide a considerable propaganda advantage to the Soviets. Under the guise of information and good-will tours, an enormous machine of hoax and perversion is hidden. The rose-colored view of a somber, totalitarian world that is taken in these “returns” has become standard.
The simplest and unfortunately the most effective means used by Soviet propaganda is simply vulgar demagogy. The Soviets have made the impossible real. They are able to simultaneously kindle contradictory discontents, stirring up prejudices most contrary to the internationalist and antisocial it professes.
The lack of preparation by democracies in both knowledge of the facts and in the art of discussion makes it possible for the Soviets to flood the free world with fallacies painstakingly thought up, with views apparently plausible but actually playing into the hands of the Soviets.
The West is made to believe that we are faced with a conflict between “two blocs” on a national and economic basis, that the Soviets are bristling with missiles because they are afraid, that the West shuts itself up in a negative attitude, that the most serious problem of the modern age is atomic energy and not Soviet dictatorship, that a billion communists cannot be ignored, that the success of communism results from social injustice, and that the remedy for the Soviet threat is to aid underdeveloped countries and not underdeveloped minds.
The very survival of the West is at stake. We only resist in the military front, but it is not in this sphere that the contest will be decided; it will be decided in the sphere of propaganda, where the West is inactive. The West has not sufficiently realized that the seeds of propaganda have yielded the Soviets an extraordinary harvest of territorial and strategic advantages that could be obtained up to this time, only by use of arms. Almost all theii’ conquests have been achieved not at the point of the
bayonet but through political warfare. | China and Czechoslovakia succumbed be- | cause of ideological contamination. All £ the Middle-Eastern countries have been^ lured into the neutralist camp solely by*| the charms of propaganda, coupled with |g political undermining. Military strength and economic aid are not enough by themselves. The West has to prepare g for the war that consequently becomes crucial, the war of minds.	?,i
HESITATION THE GOAL |
An atomic war is likely to be won or^ lost in the first quarter hour. The mo- If ment the Kremlin is convinced that the r Western leaders, bound by a restive and h weak-willed public opinion, will hesitate a quarter of an hour before starting g; reprisals, it will rush to the attack. And g the hesitancy will either continue and with resulting enslavement, or it will dissipate and there will be butchery. In any case disaster will have been brought & on by the fact that Soviet propaganda^ was able to cause wavering in our be- g havior.	B
The West’s chances for recovery in this g war of minds is excellent if we refuse §■ to let ourselves be further intimidated jf by the Soviet propaganda and infiltration machine. As soon as the method to use propaganda as a machine in itself is understood, as soon as the will to put it to use is acquired, any group of men with(^t adequate means can make it useful. p
Counterpropaganda has not hadg desirable effectiveness up to now, be-B cause it has been absurdly insufficient K compared to the communist propaganda^ opposing it. The member governments fe of the free world can provide a weapon® for political resistance in the form of an g international organization for ideological p resistance to all forms of Soviet propa-^ ganda. This organization would con- B stitute a melting pot of ideas, a center ofS] awareness, an arsenal of arguments, a® school for friends in the common struggled on the front of freedom.	®
The West must act without evasion, g without letting itself be stopped by any B kind of formalism. We must react quick-B ly and vigorously, bringing into play theg greatest economic authorities, the surest® political skills, the widest material® means.	O
We must have a watch in the West. 11
The Scholastic&

“IT’S HERE-IF YOU WANT TO WORK FOR IT”
Even before Ron Spetrino received his engineering degree from Case he had good job offers from six companies.
He joined The Ohio Bell Telephone Company —his reason: “I was convinced an engineer could go further here—if he was willing to work for it.”
As soon as Ron got his feet on the ground in telephone engineering, he was tapped for a tough assignment. The job—to engineer switching equipment modifications needed to prepare Cleveland for nationwide customer dialing of long distance calls.
Ron wrapped it up in five months, and found he had earned a shot at another tough assignment. In this job Ron helped engineer a completely new long distance switching center for Cleveland. This switching center connected Cleveland with the nationwide customer dialing network. It was about a year later that Ron put the finishing
touches on the specs for this $1,600,000 project.
Today, as a Supervising Engineer, Ron heads a staff of five engineers and is responsible for telephone switching in much of the greater Cleveland area, r-’
He supervises the design and purchase of $3 million worth of equipment a year. And even more important, he is charged with developing the technical and managerial skills of his staff.
Ron knows what he’s talking about when he says, “In this business you have to do more than a good job. We expect a man to be a self-developer. We expect him to take responsibility from his first day on the job and think for himself. You don’t get ahead around here by just doing time.”
If you want a job in which you’re given every chance to prove yourself, and real responsibility right from the start—you’ll want to see your Placement Office for further information.
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelligent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
0
th
AVALANCHE HUNTER Rod Triplett of the Ski Patrol at Squaw Valley Lodge, site of the '60 Winter Olympics, actually kicks loose small avalanches before they become big ones. Triplett is a Camel smoker. He says no other cigarette comes close to Camels for real satisfaction every time he lights up.







CAMEL
He goes for Camel's mildness and rich flavor. . How about you? If you're smoking more these days, but enjoying it less— change to Camels. Start to really enjoy smoking again

The best tobacco makes the best smoke