
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	355
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LITERARY— NEWS WEEKLY PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
ILLUSTRATED
©fere ©uagi temper Uicturug :	©uas>i Crag JHorituruS
VOL. LVIL	DECEMBER 15, 1925.	No. 12
INDEX	page
Frontispiece _____________________________________________ 356
The Crib (A Poem) __________________________Charles Phillips 356
The Week_______________________________________J. A. With&ij 357
Campus Opinion______________1_____________________________ 360
Musical and Theatrical Notes___________________A. L. Meyers 366
Editorial ________________________________________________ 368
Santa Claus at Notre Dame_______________Francis A. Klein, ’26 370
Lost Kingdom (A Poem)___________________Francis C. Miller, ’27 371
The Joys of Christmas___________Frederic Heneghan, C.S.C., ’26 372
Christmas Bell (A Poem) ___________________________P. J. C. 373
Seventeen to One____________________________John Shouse, '26 374
Christmas Song (A Poem) __________________Cornelius Shea,’2% 376
Sport News _________________________________J- P- McNamara 377
Safety Valve _____________________________________________ 384
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. A cceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
356
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

'J
(glorp to (gob in ttje ^ig^t; anti on (gartij
^rare to 5Qen of Ooob Will
g i
c
3
3
r
§ 3
§ § g S
g
3
How
warm,
®be Crib
hoiv bright, 0 Babe divine,
Thy crib before the altar lies!— Yet cold and bleak a bed was thine
’Neath Bethlehem’s wintry skies!
1
So teas my heart, bleak, cold and drear, A sorry qylace of woe and sin
Until—the angels singing near!—
You entered soft within!
—CH. PH.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	• 357
The end is in sight. And as usual, the end means a new beginning. For months and months we have been looking forward to the end of classes, the end of routine, the end of all those things which make college life a glorious mixture of joys and sorrows. But the end means the beginning of Christman vacation, the beginning of a new year, and, eventually, the beginning again of the same beloved grind. And so it goes.
Not everything which has happened during the past week has been tinged "with the Christmas spirit. The Band gave a concert, and they, played no Noel hymns. But what they did play was ambitious and singularly successful. So exuberant did the organization become that soloists had little chance. It was a Band night—another step forward in the process which has been originally labelled the renaissance of music at Notre Dame. The Glee Club was to have had a campus concert before Christmas but, somehow plans didn’t materialize and we were denied the joys of another exhibition of artistry. Word comes, however, that the Glee Club members have been officially photographed and thus preserved to posterity.
The ending of the football season created a sudden dearth of publicity material. Hence the unheralded appearance of little personal notices in papers large and small, .daily and weekly, published in town and city and even (whisper it) countryside. Notre Dame has not a Publicity Director for nothing. Several modest students were amazed during the past week by the reception of clippings from home-town papers—clippings which set forth in faultless English the achievements of stalwart sons at Notre Dame. It was a beautiful idea; it gave, presumably, a new sort of thrill. The fact that it looked like plugging oneself for an onslaught on
society during the holiday is but a minor and necessary evil.
Also, the Connecticut Valley Club was organized, thus effectively snatching from the Akron Club the distinction, of being the “baby” of the campus. And the Knights of Columbus made themselves famous by discovering that Father Mooney, in addition to being Director of Off-Campus students, sponsor of the Players Club, and four or five other things, is a past Grand Kngiht and a speaker as well. He was the answer to the four hundred and sixty-seven question marks which appeared on the bulletins announcing their last meeting.
At the latest check-up, ten separate and distinct Christmas dances were being offered in as many cities of the country. A man with ambition and a railroad pass might profitably spend the next three weeks in attending them all. And at that he might miss one or two which spring into being at the last minute. Even the LaSalle County Club, with the smallest membership of any campus organization, is offering an evening’s entertainment.
Bring on your Christmas issues I We have, and so has the Juggler. The Santa Maria was threatening. Thus is solved the problem of what to read on the train home. For your back there’s the brilliantly gold and blue pillow-top; for your vest a new “last chance” for senior pins; for your correspondent and your landlady (if you’re a Day Student and have one) there’s an attractive card at the nearest Bengal Mission shop. Those concessions so unobtrusively granted diming October have spring- out into the open during the last few days: there are so many things to buy that the annual condition of “broke but happy” seems about to be repeated.
Thanks: the same to you.	—J. a. w.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
358
PROM COMMITTEES ANNOUNCED
William Daily, President of the Junior Class, has made public his committee selections for the Junior Prom which will be held February 12. The members of the committees met with President Daily on Thursday evening and discussed arrangements for the class dance. The committees follow:
General Chairman, Daniel Cunningham.
Arrangements: Lawrence H. Hennessey, chairman; Joseph Della Maria, M. A. Henry, W. W. Smith, and Charles McDermott.
Tickets: Thomas Green, chairman; Robert Shields, John D. Murphy, Arthur Hohmann, Edwin L. Ryan, and Paul Butler.
Music: James W. Coleman, chairman; Jack Curtis, Thomas Nash, Edward McLaughlin and John Howard.
Reception: Don Ryan, chairman; John J. Reidy, James T. Quinn, Richard L. Halpin, and Charles Riley.
Decorations: Lester C. Grady, chairman; Don Laskey, Tobias Gish, James G. Cowles and Patrick Canny.
Favors: James A. Jones, chairman; Hugh F. McCaffery, Joseph L. Sweeney, John Hogan and Joseph Vergara.
Publicity: Mark Nevils, chairman; Donald J. Wilkins, William E. Carter, A. J. Diebold and Raymond Hunt.
President Daily has also announced the members of the Junior Class who are to serve on the Pin Committee. They are the following:
Marc Fiehrer, chairman; Frank McKinley and Russell Voyer.
CLASSES RESUMED JANUARY 5
Official announcement has been made by Rev. Leigh Hubbell, C.S.C., Director of Studies, that the Christmas vacation will begin this Friday at 4:30 o’clock. Classes will be resumed at 8:10 on the morning of Tuesday, January 5, 1926. This announcement is made to off-set rumors that have been persistent on the campus. The usual “double-cuts” will be marked against those who find occasion to extend their vacation by going home earlier or returning later than prescribed by the calendar.
PLAN NEW DINING HALL
As a sequel to the announcement by Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University, that no steps would be taken toward the construction of a football stadium until dormitory and other building facilities had been taken care of, tentative plans have been formulated for a new dining hall on the campus.
Dr. Ralph Adams Cram, architect, with offices in Boston, Massachusetts, spent some time on the campus during the latter part of last week. In company with the building committee of the University, he went over the entire grounds in search of an appropriate spot for the dining hall. When final choice of site is made, plans will be drawn for the building.
The personnel of the building committee is as follows: the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University; the Rev. George Finnigan, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University; the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, Prefect of Discipline; Rev. John McGinn, C.S.C., and Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C.

NEW WELL IS COMPLETED
The rapid fall of the water level in St. Joseph lake will probably come to an end now. If plans worked out to this end materialize as expected, in the course of time the lake may even rise to its old level.
In the last few years the lake has fallen with alarming rapidity due to the large quantity of water taken from it for use by the University. It is estimated that at present 450 gallons per minute are taken from the lake.
Recently a well was drilled behind Moreau Seminary near Eddy St. With the aid of a Worthington suction pump this well now yields 500 gallons per minute. This amount of water is now being pumped into St. Joseph lake through an old drainage system which has been brought back into use for the purpose. Thus at present there is an increase of 50 gallons of water per minute in the lake. This is not enough to show a noticeable increase in the lake for a long time, but at least it will bring to an end the heretofore rapid drying-up of this feature of the University.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	359
BUSY WEEK FOR K. OF C.
Council 1477 put in a busy week. The fireworks started last Tuesday night at the regular meeting. The usual business was disposed of in a hurry and the Grand Knight got down to a discussion of plans for the coming initiation. The Lecturer sprang his little surprise when he introduced Father “Vince” Mooney as the speaker of the evening. Few of the members were aware of the fact that the worthy Director of Off-Campus Students had been Grand Knight of Notre Dame Council several years back. Father Mooney’s stories of the days when the Council was in its infancy proved very entertaining. Minced ham sandwiches and coffee completed the evening.
On Friday night the first degree was exemplified for a class of 60 candidates. The second and third degrees were put on Sunday afternoon in the Knights of Columbus home in South Bend. Everyone who was present reports a very successful initiation. Hizzoner, the goat, was in rare form and performed nobly.
The ceremony was followed by a banquet at the College Inn. “Pat” Manion acted as toastmaster, and his stories—well, you know “Pat.” Professor Charles Phillips told of the work of the Knights of Columbus in Mexico, and in doing so he automatically qualified for a position on a mythical team of “All American After Dinner Speakers.” The Glee Club Quartet sang a few numbers. District Deputy Peak, Father Gallagan, and Grand Knight Ed. Doran of South Bend Council, addressed a few words of welcome to the newly initiated members.
‘swwsws.*.’
AL RYAN RESIGNS
Alfred Ryan, ’20, Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Graduate Manager of Athletics, and Editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, has resigned his position and will sever his connection with the University on the last day of this year.
Mr. Ryan will become affiliated with the Motor Discount Corporation of South Bend at the beginning of the new year. No successor has, as yet, been appointed.
S. A. C. HAS MEETING
The Student Activities Council, for the first time in several weeks, met Thursday, December 3, and considered two matters of importance.
The first of these was the invitation extended the Council to send a delegate to the general student assembly, which met at Princeton University December 8 and 9. The purpose of this assembly was to get the attitude of the students of the country, through their delegates, on the question of the World Court. The consensus of opinion is to be framed in a resolution and sent to the President of the United States, as expressive of collegiate views on this question. Inasmuch as the S. A. C. boasts no member qualified to carry to this assembly the views of the Notre Dame student-body on the World Court, the invitation was declined by the S. A. C.
The other matter considered was the question of the Senior Lawyers’ vote. The Law course requires five years to complete. Are the Law students “Seniors” when they reach their fourth year, or are they “Seniors” only when they are in their final year? Also, what is their status when it comes to senior matters,—voting, wearing of the pin and the like? The matter was not definitely settled by the S. A. C. Final decision will be rendered by the faculty.
ROWLEYS EXPRESS GRATITUDE
The parents of Edwin Rowley, of San Antonio, Texas, Notre Dame Senior, who died as a result of an accident on the Dixie Highway, have written to the University authorities, to express their thanks for the messages of sympathy sent to them after the? death of their son.
Mr. and Mrs. Rowley are especially grateful to: “The Senior Class,” “The Mechanical Engineers of ’26,” “Notre Dame Friends,” and “School Friends,” for their floral expressions of condolence. They are also grateful to the Notre Dame men of the Class of ’25 who acted as honorary pallbearers at the funeral. These men were: Joseph A. Menger, Leonard M. Hess. William V. Dielmann, Jr., Michael A. Needham, and John W. Snakard.
360
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Campus Opinion
V-	-	--------
Question: Do you think the Christmas vacation ought to be shortened and, .consequently, the Easter vacation lengthened?
Where Asked: Main Building.
Jack Curtis, ’27, Day.
No. I do not think Christmas vacation should be shortened. This year examinations are over just before Christmas and the much needed rest will not have a deleterious effect on the student.
Gordon Bennett, ’27, Day.
In either event we’ll get the same number of days off. It makes no difference to me when we get them. If both vacations could be lengthened everyone would be pleased.
Harry M. Biedka, ’27, Day.
It is immaterial to me. For those who live at a distance a long Christmas vacation is .much- better. I’ll take just as much off as I can get.
Joe Dunn, ’27, Walsh.
I like the vacations just as they are. All schools have their vacations during the Christmas holidays at about the same time, so I’d hate to see this changed. But the spring “rest” comes for some a week before Easter and for others two weeks after. Wherever you are “get togethers” help to make the holidays a success.
Louis Conroy, ’27, Day.
Easter vacation should be lengthened. We need time then to recuperate from the effects of a weary Indiana winter and the long grind of “heavy” duties. As it is now Easter vacation is of little value to one living'any distance from school.
The road running north and south in front of the Library was temporarily clsoed this week while workmen were digging ditches and laying a 24-inch tile to connect the west campus buildings with the sewer. Traffic using this road was forced to make a short detour.
ERSKINE HEADS TRUSTEES AGAIN
Mr. A. R. Erskine, of South Bend, President of the Studebaker Corporation of America, was re-elected for a term of six years, to the presidency of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University, at the annual meeting of that body held in the university parlors recently.
Mr. Fred Fisher, of Detroit, President of the Fisher Auto Body Corporation, was elected to fill the chair left vacant by the death of the late Max Pam. Mr. Solon 0. Richardson, Jr., Vice-President of the Lib-bey Glass Works, of Toledo, was re-elected to membership for a term of six years.
Mr. Byron Kanaley, of Chicago, and Mr. Daniel P. Murphy, of Rockaway, New Jersey, elected last June by the Alumni Association of Notre Dame, took their seats at the meeting, thereby completing the alumni personnel of six members.
The entire personnel of the board consists of: President A. R. Erskine, and the Messrs. Edward Hurley, Francis Reitz, William P. Breen, Miles W. O’Brien, Janies D. Callery, Warren A. Cartier, Clement C. Mk-chell, Angus D. McDonald, Solon 0. Richardson, Jr., Byron V. Kanaley, and Daniel P. Murphy.
LOCAL MEN HONORED
Brother Barnabas, Executive Secretary of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus, was recently elected Vice-President of next year’s International Rotary Conference of Boys Workers, to be held in Chicago, sometime during the early part of December. Professor Hoyer, Head of the Department of Boy Guidance at the University, was elected as a member of the Programs Committee.
Thirty-three members of the Boy Guidance Department, Professor Hoyer, Brother Barnabas, and Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., Head of the School of Education, were present at the International Rotary Conference at which time the selection of Professor Hoyer, and Brother Barnabas took place. There were more than 1,400 boy guidance workers at the conference held at the Edgewater Beach Hotel.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC •	361
BEG YOUR PARDON!
In the last issue of the Scholastic, it was erroneously stated that the Smoger Company was constructing Lyons Hall, the third of the Freshman dormitories. By way of correction, the Scholastic wishes to state that Christman Brothers are building Lyons Hall and that the Smoger Company is now completing Morrissey Hall, the second of the new buildings.
■V
A. I. E. E. MEETS WEDNESDAY
The University of Notre Dame Branch, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held its regular bi-monthly meeting Wednesday, December 9, in the Engineering Building. President Carl Rogge presided.
Malcolm Knaus, a Senior Electrical Engineer, discussed the “Theory of Electricity.” Mr. Knaus was complimented for the manner in which he delivered his message, and for his excellent treatment of the subject.
Dr. Caparo’s conception of the fourth dimension was extremely interesting, though it almost overtaxed the mental ^capabilities of the majority of his audience.

EXAM SYSTEM CHANGED
The University Council met last Wednesday noon and decided that the semester and not the quarter shall be the unit for instruction.
Reports given out after the gathering were to the effect that the Council had decided that the recent quarterly quizzes, which were an experiment, had justified themselves. Hereafter, however, the student shall pass, fail or be conditioned at the semester tests which will cover the entire half year and if the student fails, he will be obliged to repeat the entire half year’s work.
The chief reason advocated for the change that a student could not do justice to himself in so short time as a quarter; especially was this found to be true in the case of foreign languages.
The quarterly quizzes will be continued and will be held during the class hour. A tabulation of these quarterly marks will be
made. The purpose of these quizzes will be “to inform students and their parents of the progress being made by the individual student and to determine which students should be placed on probation for the remainder of the semester.”
When the two-hour semester exams come’ in February, a student who had been on probation and whose work had been unsatisfactory at the quarter, will have had time to improve his status. This is the main theory upon which the University Council based its approval of the new system.
FATHER WALSH DINNER GUEST
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University, was the honored guest at a dinner and reception sponsored by the members of the Knights of Columbus Foundation of Boy Guidance Workers at the Turkish Room of the Oliver Hotel, Thursday evening, December 3.
Father Walsh praised the department highly for the work it had accomplished and told of the obstacles it had overcome while in its embryo state. Brother Barnabas, F.S.C., and Professor R. A. Hoyer, both spoke of the type of “boys” that were enrolled in the Boy Guidance Course. Professor Hoyer stressed especially the impression that the members of the department made at the recent International Rotaiy Conference of Boy Workers.
Al Kirk, who was toastmaster during the evening, called on the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, who spoke of his special interest in the department due to his affiliation with the Boy Scout camps of Notre Dame.
Student speakers were: Eugene McVeigh, who dwelt on the American students in boy guidance courses; J. W. McGowan, who spoke on the Canadian boy guidance student and his interest in the boys work problem; Duncan McDonald, in behalf of the class of ’27, and D. J. Culhane, in behalf of the class of ’26.
Guests at the dinner, besides the speakers were Edward Doran, Grand Knight of the South Bend Council of Knights, and Arthur Bidwell, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council of Knights of Columbus.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
352
DANCING ? PLENTY!
Big dances, small dances, formal dances, informal dances, dinner dances, supper dances, $2.00, $5.00.'... take your choice I ’Twill be a rare bird who can’t find one to suit his fancy.
The Chez Pierre has been secured by the Chicago-Notre Dame Club for its annual Yuletide Formal, which is to take place Monday, December 28. Dancing will be from 9:30 till 3 to the rhythm furnished by the noted Chez Pierre orchestra. Appropriate favors will be given instead of the usual programs. Two hundred and fifty couples are expected to be present. Subscriptions will be four dollars.
The Grand Rapids Club is to hold forth in the Pantlind Hotel on January 2. Music by Dietrich. Tickets in exchange for two dollars. Keith Circuit entertainers and Grand Rapids residents will supply song and dance features.
The committee in charge includes the following: Gladstone McDermott, chairman; Vincent Ducey, Vincent Stace, Leo Walsh, Earl Leach.
Governor “Al” Smith of New York, Rupert Mills, only man to win 12 monograms at Notre Dame, and Hugh O’Donnell, ex-President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will be the chief guests of honor at the New Jersey Club Dance, to be held Tuesday, December 22, in the Newark Athletic Club ballroom. Music will be furnished by Bennie Krueger’s Orchestra. Committees in charge are: Arrangements, William E. Carter; Bids, John Purcell; Programs, James Silver; Decorations, Edmund Burke; Hall, Joseph Nulty and Harold Robertson; Patrons, Carleton Riley and Jerry Froelich.
The Union Club of Cleveland, December 30, Ev. Jones’ orchestra, Subscription $5.00, Formal, 10-3—and the story of the Cleveland Club dance is told. Tickets may be had from John J. Reidy of Walsh Hall.
John Gallagher is the general chairman in charge of the affair. The committee chairmen are: Martin Daly, ballroom; John Butler, music; Gerald McDermott, publicity ; Miles Ryan, decoration; John Reidy, tickets; Rcbert Andrews, programs.
The members of the Keystone Club of Notre Dame 'will be hosts at a formal dance Saturday evening, January 2, at the Pittsburgh Field Club. The orchestra has not so far been signed.
Vincent Soisson, ’26, of Connellsville is chairman of the Finance Committee, which is made up of the other committee chairman: A. J. Diebold, Jr., ’27, Jack Sheedy, ’28, and Geo. J. Schill, ’27, President of the Club and an ex-officio member of the committee.
Music and entertainment will be under “Wid” Lawler, ’28, Jack Sheedy, ’28, Frank Hegarty, ’28, and Bob O’Brien, ’27. The floor committee will be under A. J. Diebold; assisted by “Turk” Meinert, ’28, John McSorley, ’28, and Ferd Diebold, ’29.
All members of the Club will act on the Reception Committee. The President, the Vice-President, George Stadler of Erie, the Secretary, Tom Conroy of New Kensington, and the Treasurer, Edward Abel of New Castle, are leading their aid as a general committee on arrangements.
The subscription will be five dollars a couple with four bids to each member attending the dance. The members of the Notre Dame Association of Western Pennsylvania have been invited and a great number have signified their intention of attending.
Sixty couples are expected to attend the Akron-Notre Dame t Club formal supper dance at the Akron City Club Tuesday, December 29. Subscriptions will be five dollars.
Committee chairmen are: Forest Swartz, Glenn Smith, Charles McGuchin, and Ted Ley. The patron and patronesses: Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Swartz, Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Burke.
<*
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
363
“Sax” Smith’s orchestra will furnish the music for the Christmas dance to be given
.	by the Rochester Club of Notre Dame, De;	cember 29, at the Hotel Rochester.
;	The committee in charge is composed of
;	Gilbert Schaefer, Philip Doell, John Bren-
nan, Gerard Smith, Victor Yawman, Arthur
। e	Hohmann, Paul Hahn, Donald Corbett,
''	Samuel Prinzi.
i	__
•	The LaSalle County (Illinois) Notre Dame
:	Club will be found in the Kaskaskia Hotel
,	ballroom, LaSalle, swaying to the syncopa-
>	* tion of an orchestra the name of which is |	veiled in mystery.
I	The committee in charge of arrangements
■	includes George Hartnett, Francis “Lev/”
Cody and Gail Gurnett.
>	And the patrons and patronesses: Mr.
f * and Mrs. Walter Duncan and Mr. and Mrs.
James Cahill.
'	The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Toledo
L	is to sponsor a formal supper dance in the
; •	Woman’s Building, Toledo,	on December
|	30. Fred Seymour and Associate Players
I	will supply the harmony.	Subscription,
I :	$5.00.
Ii	The Metropolitan Club will play, as its
j * combination, (1) the Plaza Hotel; (2) December 28; (3) Ben Bernie’s Orchestra; (4) Formality.
“WAY DOWN EAST” A SUCCESS
Reports indicate that the performance of D. W. Griffith’s “Way Down East,” which was given for the benefit of the Bengal Missions was a financial success. The total receipts were $193.30, and the expenses amounted to $21.80. The remainder, $172.50, was given to the general fund of the Missions.
The Notre Dame unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade wishes now to acknowledge its debt of gratitude to those whose aid made the success of the venture possible. To Father Carey go the first thanks, for it was he that secured the film at a greatly reduced price and arranged for
its presentation. The students who disposed of the tickets in the various halls are also o be thanked for their share in this commendable work. The music was furnished by the Big 5 Orchestra, and for this the unit is also very grateful.
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER DIES
Mr. Edmond H. Moore of Youngstown, Ohio, commencement speaker at Notre Dame last June, died Sunday night, December 6, a few minutes after he had been suddenly stricken with an attack of acute indigestion. He was buried in Youngstown last Thursday, December 10.
Mr. Moore, a member of the law firm of Moore, Barnum arid Hammond, was known as one of the ablest and most prominent lawyers in Ohio. At the age of 29 he was mayor of Youngstown and subsequently held other offices of public trust. From 1912 until his death, Mr. Moore was a Democratic national committeeman for Ohio. In that capacity he exercised wide influence at the national conventions of the Democratic party.
In recognition of his outstanding ability, Notre Dame conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws on Mr. Moore last June.
GIVES BRONZE TABLETS
The bronze tablets, recently placed in the memorial entrance to Sacred Heart Church, are the gift of Mr. Alfred Berchem of the American Art Bronze Company, 4921 West Lake Street, Chicago. On these tablets are the names of Notre Dame men who died in the World War.
DOME WANTS SNAPS
The Dome is looking for snapshopts! For the best collection the editors will give one free copy of their production, the 1925 annual. All entries must be submitted by January 15.
Needless to say, these entries must bear some relation to Notre Dame life. It will be useless to send in a picture of the Gopher Center baseball team or of the Eskimos at play.
THE NOTRE-DAME SCHOLASTIC
: i
364
A CAMPUS CHRISTMAS
“So long, Mac! Merry Christmas and have a good time!”
“G’bye, Tom! Same to you!”
Tom goes into the Rector’s office, writes his name in a book and after his first inscription writes the word “Home.” He walks out of the hall and a few seconds later he bellows, “Hold that car!” He is now certain of seventeen days unalloyed pleasure. “Mac?” Well, he is going to stay at Notre Dame this Christmas. He lives •either in Maine or in California and it would be hardly worth his time to go home. Besides, he 'will appreciate the trip home in June all the more.
“Mac” has his choice of occupation for the holidays. He can get a job in South Bend at some store or at the Post Office. If he wants to work on the campus he can work for his meals in the Refectory or he •can work by the hour at the power house. If he works in the Refectory he has much time on his hands between meals. This time he can spend in South Bend at the shows or, if he is—er, not enjoying wealth, he can have free enjoyment with stick and chalk in the “Rec” Room of either Brownson or Carroll Hall.
Last year, one of the “stay heres” had a night job in town. He got off duty at about midnight or one o’clock. He then came out to school, went to bed and awoke later in the day just in time to “make” the pre-per-formance number of the Palace organ. He was not troubled with slow moving mornings.
So it goes until Christmas Eve. Somehow or other it becomes known that there is to be a midnight mass at St. Mary’s and that all Notre Dame students are invited to attend it. “Mac” and his fellow “stay heres” go over.
After the midnight mass there is the return to school and then to bed. Later in the morning they get up and at noon (for those who eat in the Refectory) there is the Christmas dinner. The rest of Christmas week is spent at the various occupations. Even though it is Christmas week, the boil->ers must be kept going and the South Bend
merchants must prepare for taking inventories.
On New Year’s there is another big feed for those working in the Refectory. Then follow a few days—this time it will be four —until the following is heard:
“Hell-o-Mack!” (Hand shake) “Happy New Year! What kind of a time did you have?”	'
“Great, Tom! What kind of a time did you have?”
“Wonderful! The first night I got home—You know what follows.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB ORGANIZES
Plans for the rejuvenation of the old New England Club have been made as a result of the recent gathering of students from the New England district. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, has given permission to the club to hold a dance sometime after Christmas. Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, a resident of Boston, has voiced his approval of the organization of the club.
The new organization will be called the Connecticut Valley Club of Notre Dame, according to reports, and will consider a dance within the holidays as a steppingstone to its permanent organization on the campus. Due to the short time in which arrangements for the dance could be made, Wilfred Wagner, elected by the recent gathering to arrange details for the affair, has left everything in the hands of the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley.
The latter organization has considered: the Kimball Hotel, at Springfield, Mass; the Nonotuk Hotel, at Holyoke, Mass.; and the Bond Hotel, at Hartford, Conn., as probable places for the dance. Definite selection of the time and place for the dance' will be made known to each student from the Connecticut Valley.
The Right Rev. Thomas Broderick, Bishop of the Diocese of Nigera, Africa, visited the campus recently as the guest of the University authorities.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CHRISTMAS JUGGLER BRINGS CHEER
The Christmas Juggler, wealing a new raccoon coat, appeared on the campus last night. The spirit of Christmas is the predominating characteristic of the Funny Fellow’s Yuletide visit. There is Christmas in the art work, and Christmas in the written humor which results in the best carried-out theme of any effort in the Juggler’s happy career.
The cover of a book does not always portray the real contents of the pages, but after one sees this Christmas cover by McElroy he is sure to open the issue with high expectations. Nor will he be unpleasantly surprised for the art work and written humor within are filled with the jollity and cleverness of the season. James Quigley offers several of the best drawings that he has ever published. Two new names grace the space below art work in the persons of Ralph Clemens and John E. Sonn-halter.
With this issue two men take residence on the staff. George Byrne has-busied.him-, self in an effort to make pleasing illustrations for many issues and he is added to the art staff. Otis Winchester, a Freshman, has proven an able assistant to business manager Don Wilkins and is awarded a place on the business staff.
The monthly prizes for the Fighting Irish number were presented to Leo McIntyre for the best written humor and to N. Loti for the best art contributions.
NO CHANGES AFTER JANUARY 20
Undergraduates who are contemplating a change of colleges within the University, must act before January 20 of the new year. This request is made in order that the Director of Studies office may have time in which to note the proper changes in its files. No changes will be accepted after the date given above.
Father Hubbell, Director of Studies, asks that all those, considering a change of course, confer with their parents and with a faculty advisor concerning the move. He says, in this regard, that no change will be allowed without the written consent of the student’s parents.
365
PROBATION LIST POSTED
The Director of Studies’ Office has compiled and posted-a list of students on probation:—those students who have unsatisfactory marks in a third of their total number of classes for the first quarter.
Each student on probation has received a friendly letter of warning encouraging him to concentrate on his work, and, if he deems it advisable, to consult with his dean. A more interesting phase of the letter is that which follows:
“In order that every opportunity may be given you to concentrate on study, no student placed on probation may continue with varsity athletics, debating, glee’club, band, orchestra, dramatics, oratory or publications. Nor may any student on probation serve as president or secretary of the S. A. C., the K. of C.’s., the Scribblers, or any other campus club or organization. If you are connected with any of the above activities, or acting as president or secretary of any organization, you are hereby notified to submit your resignation.”
HARPER OWNS RANCH
Jesse C. Harper, predecessor to K. K. Rockne as coach of the Notre Dame football team, has written to the University authorities, to congratulate the team and its followers on their attitude and action in view of the recent reception at Lincoln, when the University football team met the football representatives of the University of Nebraska.
Harper is now part owner of the Ranch of the Alamos, at Silka, Clark County,.Kan-, sas. He is enjoying the best of health, and wishes to be remembered to all his friends. Harper was the one, it will be remembered, who started the shift in Notre Dame football.
LEWIS CAREY FACULTY MEMBER
The most recent addition to the faculty of the College of Commerce of the University is that of Mr. Lewis Carey. Mr*. Carey is, at present, teaching Marketing- I, (Economic History). He will receive his Ph. D. from Northwestern University next June.
366	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSICAL AND THEATRICAL NOTES
The first concert of the year was given by the Notre Dame Band in Washington Hall, Thursday night, December 10. The program was as follows:
1.	(a) March—“Washington Post”________Sousa '	(b) March—“Heads Up” _Klohr
Band.
2.	Flute Solo—“Celebrated Serenade”_Titi ■	G. T. McDermott
3.	Feist’s All-Hit Medley_Sciaccia
Band
*	4. Trombone Solo—“White Rose” -Engels-LaBedz
Norbert Engels
5. Selection—“Il Trovatore” ____________Verdi
Band
'	PART II.
1.	Varsity quartet ______________Selections
2.	(a) “Collegiate” ___________________Bonx
'	(b) “Let Me Linger”_________________Baer
,	Band
3.	Ray McGrath and His Banjo	'
4.	Song—“Down the Line” __________Casasanta
'	Alfred Meyers
5.	Overture—“Fountain of Youth”________King
’	Band
6.	Victory March_______________________Shea
'	Band
'	The program was exceptionally well given,
and every number was enthusiastically received by the audience. The Band played in its finest style, with a precision and range ,	of expression that would have done credit to
a Sousa organization. By far, the best number played by the Band was the “Fountain
.	of Youth” overture, which displayed a pro;	fessional finish.
Other of the Band selections worthy of i	particular mention were the “H Trovatore”
■	selection and the “All-Hit Medley” of popu-
?	lar songs, which had to be repeated at the
J	insistence of the audience.
■	Mr. Joseph Casasanta, the director of the
;	Band, and the conductor of the concert, can-
j	not be praised too highly for the splendid
•	performance of the organization.
I	Solo numbers included: Ray McGrath and
r	His Banjo, both of whom (or which) cre-
.	ated a sensation in the rendering of “blue”
melodies. It was with reluctance that the
.	audience finally let Mr. McGrath go.
Gladstone McDermott played a flute solo and was extremely well received. Norbert Engels and Vic LaBedz played their joint t & /
J
composition, “White Rose,” and more than deserved the encore they were given.	«
The Varsity Quartet sang several num-	1
bers which decidedly pleased the audience;	!
and Alfred Meyers sang Joe Casasanta’s new Notre Dame march, “Down the Line,” accompanied by the Band, and was called back for a repetition of the number.	•
The concert closed with the playing and singing of the Victory March. It is to be hoped that the first Band concert of the year will not be also the last one.
«
The Band and a triple quartet, selected from the Glee Club, will leave for Chicago Wednesday, to make a trial record of the Victory March and the Hike Song for the Victor Co. and their new Orthophonic. Notre Dame will be the second University in the	•
country to be accorded the honor of having its band reproduced on the records. Illinois was first.
The Glee Club will hold a “get-acquaint-	t
ed” smoker in the Carroll Recreation Room at eight o’clock to-night. A program has been arranged which will include as speakers, Father J. Hugh O’Donnell, Father John Devers, Dr. J. Lewis Browne, and Joseph Casasanta. It is probable that Father Mat-	t
thew Walsh, tbe President of the University will be able to attend and address the members of the club. Professor “Pat” Manion of the Law School will be toastmaster.
Other entertainers during the evening will be Joe Prelli, Carl Bontempo, Jesse	t
Wood and Art Denchfield. The affair has been directed by a committee headed by Claude Pitsenberger, Vice-President of the Club.
Our Chicago Supplement
If you’re hunting for a good show in Chicago, you can take your choice of the following :
SERIOUS DRAMA
“What Price Glory” at the Studebaker.	«
The best play of the late World War that has ever been written. Some sterling acting by Louis Wolheim, of “movie” fame,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	367
and William Boyd, as the hard-boiled sergeant.
‘'Rain” at the Harris. Jeanne Eagels as Sadie Thompson in the classic of the South Seas. Her performance alone is enough to make one go to the play again and again.
“The Dove?’ at the Blackstone. David Belasco’s glorious melodrama which presents Holbrook Blinn as another of his famous good “Bad Men,” and Judith Anderson as the singing girl of the Mexican Inn. Don’t miss this as it is one of the best you’ll ever see.
COMEDY AND THE LIKE
“The Kiss in a Taxi” at the Adelphi. At last we have an Al Woods comedy that is really worth seeing. Arthur Byron and Janet Becher in a French farce that is excellent.
“Charm” at the Playhouse. A clever little comedy about a book of etiquette. Well done and amusing, but it won’t be revived fifty years from now.
MUSICAL COMEDY
“The Student Prince” at the Great Northern. If you want to see just how good a musical show can be, buy a ticket for this. It is recommended without qualification as the best musical show to be seen today.
“The Music Box Revue” at the Illinois. The best and cleverest of the Music Box series of revues. Fannie Brice, Bobby Clark, and Grace Moore offer the best that can be had.
“Castles in The Air” at the Olympic. \Vivienne Segal and Bernard Granville in a new musical comedy that seems to be the sensation of Chicago. Clever music, good dancing, and the star to look at and listen to. What more can one ask for?
“Kid Boots” at the Woods. Eddie Cantor and Mary Eaton in a Ziegfield special which is going like a million in Chicago after a year or so of New York life. —a. L. m.
ROCHESTER CLUB PLANS DANCE
A pre-holiday stag dinner was held by the Rochester Club of Notre Dame in the Morningside Apartments on Thursday evening, December 10. Toastmaster Gilbert Schaefer, President of the Club, called upon each
of the 24 members present for a short talk and each responded.
Final plans were made for the dinner dance to be given at the Hotel Rochester on December 29. Members of the Club, not living in Rochester, will be the guests of resident members on the night of the dance.
LIBRARY NOTES .
The following books have been placed on the Library shelves:
Kirkes’ Hand-Book of Physiology—W. Baker.
History of Mexico: Being a Popular History of the Mexican People—H. Bancroft.
Friendship of Christ—Rev. R. H. Benson.
Paradoxes of Catholisicm—Rev. R. H. Benson.
Lord of The World—Rev. R. H. Benson.
Mexico The Wonderland of The South—W. Carson.
Ocean Steamships—F. Chadwick.
Spell of Spain—K. Clark.
Chess Openings, Ancient and Modern—E. Free-borough.
Chess Players’ Manual—G. H. D. Gossip.
Cuba and Porto Rico With The Other Islands of The West Indies—R. T. Hill.
Dictionary of Electrical Words, Terms and Phrases.
—E. J. Houston.
Edgar Allan Poe—J. A. Joyce.
Complete Chess Guide—F. Lee.
Cuba and Her People of To-day—F. Lindsay.
History of Peru—C. R. Markham.
Joan of Arc—J. A. Mooney.
Text-Book of Modern Spanish as Now Written and Spoken—M. M. Ramsey.
Cuba, Old and New—A. G. Robinson.
Cathedrals of Southern Spain—C. Rudy.
Chess Players’ Handbook—H. Staunton.
Practical Golf—W. J. Travis.
Cuba Past and Present—A. Verrill.
Sermons- For Sundays and Feasts of The Year— J. B. M. Vianny.
Chile and Her People of To-day—N. 0. Winter.
Early History of Cuba—I. A. Wright.
Physiology of Muscular Exercise—F. A. Bainbridge.
Legends, Tales and Poems (2 copies)—G. A. Bec-quer.
French Revolution—Hillaire Belloc.
Century of Carpet and Rug Making in America— Bigelow-Hartford Carpet Co.
Architecture—A. M. Brooks.
Un Servilon y un Liberalito (2 copies)—Fernan Caballero.
Theory of Beauty—E. F. Carritt.
Adventures of Tom Sawyer—S. L. Clemens.
Pedagogy of Physical Training—C. W. Crampton.
Antonio Pollaiuolo—Maud Cruttwell.
El Gran Galecto (2 copies)—Jose Echegaray.
Electron Theory—E. E. d’Albe Fourier.
368
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SHnt ®ras Jlhfinturas
THE STAFF
W. R. Dooley, - - -A. J. Diebold, Jr.
J. A. Breig - - - News Editor W. H. Layne - - Literary Editor F. A. O’Toole, Ass’t Literary Editor
Editor-in-Chief - Business Mgr.
J. P. McNamara - Sports Editor J. A. Withey - - - - The Week A. L. Meyers - Music and Dramatics
NEWS
Klein O’Donnell
AV. A. Biser H. A. Bowlus L. A. Carton
D.
R. L. Novak J. T. Cullinan
ADVERTISING AND
R. S. Fr.EMAN J. F. Harrigan H. J. Kelley
M. Meinert, Jr.
J. A. WlTHEY D. M. Meinert, Jr. J. P. Hilger
AV. J. COYNR F. J. Pendergast
CIRCULATION
G. J. Smith V. J. Snell C. B. AVilhelmy
- - Local Adv. Mgr.
• - Foreign Adv. Mgr. Local Circulation Mgr. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
G. J.
W. F.
Cash Craig
H. J. Noon A. B. Obryan C. G. Schnur
MERRY CHRISTMAS AND SO FORTH
It is the season of peace and good-Avill when Ave forget our troubles, our lesser animosities and try to love one another as Ave are expected. Most of us will go home in a day or two to spend a couple of weeks checking up on our Christmas presents, and enjoying the coffee and rolls with mother, dad and the rest of the family. They will be very proud of us, but not any more than they should be. We have the brains, and they might as well knoAv it now as later on.
We are quite Avell pleased Avith ourselves, and Ave expect members of the teaching staff and disciplinary department are quit0 ready to give a rising vote of approval to our intelligencia and morals. We have had a very pleasant year so far. At Notre Dame a Freshman is not required to wear a green cap and a Senior is not expected to wear a big head. Sophomores are at the age of sophistication, and Juniors are getting on in years. There is a considerable crowd of us here, housed according to age and capacity for self-government. There are no class fights, chiefly because there are no girls on the campus to watch the show, and also because most of the fighters are on the football squad and get ‘fed up’ enough from September to Thanksgiving for the rest of the year.
We have a variety of what you would call
polite amusements, such as picture shows— good, better and middling,—concerts, lectures, pep meetings, inspirational oratory, and Swiss yodling. The students amuse themselves according to their natural bent without molestation. Thus the Scribblers hold meetings and hear one another’s poetry; the Boy Guidance people talk about ‘boy material’, ‘boy reactions,’ ‘boy psychology’ and seem to have discovered American youth; the lawyers have a magazine, the chemists have another. They are the intellectual blood makers. The Juggler furnishes candy and nuts. The Scholastic is expected to observe the proprieties and receive suggestions from faculty and students on how not to be dead.
We go to toAvn by way of the street car which stops at the post office, which Ave refer to as our ‘front door.’ There is considerable talk about a Shelter Station and an extension of the line around Eddy Street, but by the time that is accomplished we will have air service, and so the enterprise will be wasted.
The Student Activities Council functions as a sort of intermediary body between us and the administration. Thus, if we want a trip to New York to see the Army game, we see the S. A. C.; the S. A. C. sees the administration, and we see the game with Northwestern in Chicago. The men who
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
369-
compose this council have to smooth the fur on the faculty and to smooth the fur on the students. And they keep the peace amazingly well. They are the right sort, we should say.
All said, we students who belong in the Notre Dame unit of college education are rather well satisfied with ourselves. Of course, we are not perfect, but neithei’ is the faculty. We have a warm place in our hearts for the school, not only at Christmas when everybody is expected to “ring out the slander and the spite” but every day of the year when we are normal. Though, of course, we can not in reason be always normal.
’ We quit where we began. In this season of peace and good-will, when we review again the scenes and events of the coming of the Great Giver, we wish the men who teach and govern us, whose thought is of us and for us, and the students with whom we live and in whose company we have had a wealth of pleasure and great comfort, A Merry Christmas!
PROHIBITION AND THE POPE
America’s leading humorists are "the prohibitionists. Connoisseurs of comedy revel in the spoken and written screeds of the Anti-Saloon league and its satellite organizations. The latest example of this authentic if unconscious humor is the appeal to Pope Pius XI recently made by one Clinton N. Howard, chairman of a committee of so-called law-enforcement groups. Mr. Howard’s ultimatum stated that many Catholics were opposed to the Eighteenth Amendment and intimated that the Holy Father should whip the American faithful into line with Andrew Volstead, Wayne B. Wheeler, and William H. Anderson.
Father Burke of the National Catholic Welfare Conference has already politely but vigorously shown the lack of logic in Mr. Howard’s frantic plea. Anyone but a reformer could see the incongruity of it all. On the one hand is the successor of St. Peter, ruling millions of spiritual subjects with the accumulative wisdom of twenty centuries. Mere externals such as the majestic buildings of the Vatican, the brilliantly garbed Papal guards, and the Cardi
nals who act as ministers of state indicate that the head of the Catholic Church is more than an ordinary ruler. We may prescind from the divine authority of the Pope; his wisdom, his great influence, his-very surroundings should win him everyone’s respect.
Contrasted with this papal dignity we-have Mr. Howard and his cohorts of the Anti-Saloon league. These village zealots represent the most virulent phase of that petty Puritan tyranny which peers through keyholes and leads raids on hapless homebrewers. Such men can hardly stampede the Holy Father into joining Mr. Yellow-ley’s mopping-up squad.
The duties of his office deprive the Pope of the average man’s share of mundane merriment. But Pius XI has a modern sense of humor and we are certain that Mr. Howard’s letter provided one bright spot in a gloomy and evil world.
THE BAND
With the concert in Washington Hall last Thurdsay evening, the University Band completed a highly successful and altogether commendable pre-holiday season. Its playing at this concert was a fitting climax to its musical efforts up to the present.
Looking back at the many public appearances of the Band since the opening of the term, it is pleasing to note the universal satisfaction the organization gave on all oc-ca.tions.
Much of the Band’s success this year has been due to Mr. Casasanta’s able direction and leadership. But the spirit of the members of the Band themselves,—their unselfishness and willingness to work, has also contributed largely to this, success. Their cooperation and energy moulded it into a real organization, into a group of musicians of which Notre Dame can very justly be-proud. Because of this, one no longer hears snickers when the football team and the Band come on the field together, as was common “in the old days.”
With these points in mind, it is with pleasure that congratulations are extended-the Band for its past efforts, together with the hope that it will surpass itself, if possible, in future appearances.
370	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Santa Claus At Notre Dame
FRANCIS A. KLEIN,’26
A playlet in half an act and one scene, 'which, like a professor’s mind, never '	changes.
Scene—Notre Dame.
Time—Shortly before Christmas. Characters—Santa Claus.
'	A College Student.
{The rising purtain discloses a typical college student/s room, in a typical college dorm, furnished with the usual decrepit ■	wardrobe, table, chairs, bed and similar
(	articles. College student is discovered
[horrors!] lying fidly clad on the bed, despite the lateness of the hour. He is placid’	ly smoking a cigarette and thinking out
;	loud. A copy of the “RIVER OF BLOOD”,
'	fallen from his listless hand, shoivs what
’	his recent occupation has been.)
:	College Student {to himself) — Well,
!■	it’s Christmas again. Glad of it. Best time
J	of the year. ’Sfunny how time jumps
around. First it’s here, then it’s some place
j	else. But Christmas,—ummm, vacation and
i-,	turkey and presents and home... Golly 1 it’s
"	a great time all right. And in one li’l week
L	I check out of this place. Oh, baby! One
|-	li’l week!
f’	{He takes a long drag at the cigarette,
■	exhales, and at the same time hums a popu-
.	Lar song with the zvord “Baby” predomi-
nent. Heavy knocking is heard at the door.
■	C. S. without phanging position, shouts:
“Come in—if you dare!” Door opens, re-<	vealing a rotund, beivhiskered individual,
very merry and very carmine as to ears and ;	nose, dressed in an outlandish suit of red,
*	and with a heavy, a very heavy pack
’	heaved over one shoulder. He enters.)
:	C. S. {sitting bolt upright)—Painted
eats! Who in — are you?
Santa Claus—Sh-h-h! I’m Santa Claus. Don’t wake the children. Are we alone?
{He deposits sack on floor and then clambers on top of the C. S.’s trunk, where he sits swinging his feet and adjusting his whiskers, the glue of which irritates his skin.)
C. S. {somewhat recovered)—So you’re Santa, are you? Well, what a funny animal you turned out to be! Sure, we’re alone; the prefect went to roost hours ago; I hope he swallows his Adam’s apple someday and dies of cholera morbus. So those stories about you weren’t the bunk after all, huh? What did you bring me this year, [skeptically], another hobby-horse, or a piece of that new shelter station? Say, that’s a K. 0. of a nose you’ve got; how much did it cost you a drink? Watcha got in the sack? Candy?
{He rolls off the bed to investigate, but Santa forstalls him by slipping off the trunk. He tears a generous gap in his red pants in the operation but succeeds in reaching the pack first.)
Santa {breathing heavily)—Wait a minute, my boy; I’ve got to find out about you first. Have you been a good boy this year? Written home more or less regularly? Didn’t ask for money in every letter? Studied hard? Kept awake in classes? Paid back—
C. S. {heatedly)—Say, you, whatcha take me for? I’m a student, not a. scholarship hound. You can keep your old presents.
Santa {soothingly)—Now, now, my lad, don’t get peeved; I have to follow the book, don’t I? Stop your belly-aching and see what I’ve got for you. {He opens the sack. C. S. clears eyes and is all attention.)
Santa—Here’s a nice new calendar for you, look! It’s got all the days and months of the year in it, and a lot of nice pictures of the buildings you look at every day. And here’s a pencil for you; you can use it to cross off the free days. And here’s a football review, brand new. You’ve seen most of the games or read about them in the papers, of course, but you need a review to convince the folks. What’s that? Sure, you can look at it. {hands it to him.)
C. S. {delightedly turning the pages) — Gee, Santa, this is the bunny’s buttons! Got anything else?
Santa {with muffled voipe from depths of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the sack)—Sure, lots more. Here’s a Juggler,—cover by McElroy. And here are two new books by a guy named Rockne. He’ll be famous some day, believe me. Here’s a pillow-top, all gilded and blued to beat the band. Pretty nifty, what? And here’s some cards—
C. S.—Never use ’em, Santa : I roll my own.
Santa (indignantly)—Idiot! These are Bengalese cards; you don’t play with them, you give them away.
C. S. (crushed)— Oh!
Santa (relenting)—Here’s a Pan for you—
C. S. (bewildered,)—A pan? What the dickens....
Santa (patientkj)—Yep, you know, that magazine which Phillips puts out.
C. S. (recovered)—Oh!
Santa—And here’s a crinkly subscription for the Dome for you, properly filled out and signed.
C. S. (all adrift)—A dome? I’ve got one dome now, Santa!
Santa (with vast pity)—Sure you have, but you need another. You’ll get this one
371
about next May; my Brownies are working at it now.
C. S. (weakly)—All right if you say so, Santa.
Santa (turning sack upside down)—And that’s all. I’m glad Christmas comes but once a year; it wears me out. Got a cigarette?
C. S. (lost in rapt contemplation of his gifts)—Ehl
Santa—I say, got a smoke?
C. S.—Oh! Sure, on my table there.
Santa (lighting up)—Well, so long till next year. I’m off to St. Mary’s. ’Bye (He eases out.)
C. S.—Lucky bum! But I haven’t any kick coming; he left me plenty of things. I’ll need a truck to cart it all home.
(Next morning. C. S. discovered nibbing sleep from eyes and then staring starkly at beivildering array of gifts strewed about.)
C. S.—My gosh! Where did all this junk come from? Waddle I do with it? (Espies slip of paper under door) What’s this? A bill? And for this collection of—of— Oh Lord! (He faints.)
(Curtain)
LOST KINGDOM
The World had a king, Red-cheeked and mild, Eyes tinted amber, Rose-lipped, a child.
Rich princess and savants,
Youthful and old, Came out of the East
With frankincense and gold.
But some lambs strayed On that Chrsitmas night, And the child-shepherd cries At their bitter plight.
—FRANCIS C. MILLER,’27
372	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Joys of Christmas
FREDERIC HENEGHAN, C.S.C., ’26
THERE is much time and many words wasted -nowadays in lamenting the evils of the age— “a favorite indoor sport of indoor minds.” And at this time of the year it is customary to rail against the pagan spirit of the modern Christmas: Santa Claus is a pagan gnome whose story should not be fostered in the hearts of children; gift-giving is the offspring of a materialistic age—no one of this corrupt generation ever gives another a gift if he does not expect to profit by an exchange; the great feast itself has been debauched by feasting, reveling, and dancing,—has degenerated into a mere occasion on which it is a time-honored custom to serve turkey, cranberries, and plum-pudding.
A rather sweeping indictment, is it not? It smacks to me of Jansenism; it might have come from one of those gloomy-faced ascetics whom Teresa of Avila dislikes so much. And it is not exaggerated. It is almost a quotation from a recent magazine, with an idea or two from one of last year’s output. The men who say such things must possess perfect confidence in their own righteousness and infallibility to thus constitute themselves judges of their fellowmen. It takes courage of a certain kind to flay the public and accuse them generally of making “the Christmas season a time of profitable bartering,” the customary exchange of gifts “a traffic of arch-hypocrisy.” Possibly that last charge may have some fundaMer^ turn in re if applied to those citizens with whom money is as plentiful as water; but in that case profit as an object is absurd.
Why, before we can become aware of it these zealots may petition an amendment to the Constitution to prohibit the eating of turkey, the use of holly, sleigh rides, dances, —yea, even the coming of Santa Claus. They may go so far as to forbid the age-old greeting “Merry Chrsitmas” on the grounds that it savors of frivolity; they may force us to stay indoors all day and read the Bible.
0, what is Christmas but a day of rejoicing, a 'day on which happiness simply bursts from our hearts and all the world seems lovable. Joyful feasting is the spirit of the day and should not be frowned upon. Somewhere in her liturgy the Church says, “Of all the feasts celebrate this one.” Surely this does not limit us to pious sentiments and to church-going. Happiness and holiness are not inimical, but when separated they run to extremes. Is not the spirit of Christmas expressed perfectly in the song of the angels, “Gloria in excelsis Deo?” That song was written in heaven and expresses the joy of the angelic choirs at the conception of the Son of Man. The Church sings: “The root of Jesse hath budded, a star hath arisen out of Jacob; a virgin hath bore the Saviour.” Surely here is cause for human gladness. And the message the angel of the Lord brought to the lonely shepherds is, “Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy.”
To most men this Christmas joy is not sinful, nor pagan, nor unchristian. There is an immeasureable distance between pagan reveling and Christian feasting: in the halls of the former men drunkenly lift their cups and shout, “Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die;” at the table of the latter perhaps a child sings out to the happy circle around him:
“God rest you merry gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay
For Jesus Christ our Saviour Was born on Christmas Day.”
That is why we can rejoice, that is why we do rejoice,—“For, this day is born to you a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord, in the city of David.” These are the “good tidings” which the angel brought down to us. But how are tidings to be received, if not with laughter and with feasting? It is not man’s wont when he is joyful to shut bimself in a cell and to spend the day in pious meditation and thanksgiving.
To be sure, this exuberant joy is not
&
0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
373
wholly selfish, not godless. There is in it .a vital element of thankfulness, though it may not appear, may not be felt, until the very dawn of Christmas Morn. A Catholic may not experience it until he kneels in .adoration at the Midnight Mass; then the world, its joys and cares, gifts, revels,—all is forgotten; then, like the kings and shepherds of Bethlehem, we adore the Christ Child who is born again in the bread and wine and laid in the crib of the priest’s hands. Here- is the moment of supreme, purest, keenest joy that colours all our Christmas preparation, that blesses with •divine sanction all that has gone before. The holy mass, grandest of mysteries, sanctifies the whole day and lends a beautiful touch to everything about us. If, till then, we have forgotten it, at the moment of the consecration we realize that all our giving has been for Him, that all our love of others takes its strength from His. If this tribute
is somewhat belated, still it is sure to come; and its tardiness is altogether human.
Then, despite the opinions of self-conscious pessimists, I think our Christmas is still holy and Christian, blessed with happy customs and associated irrevocably with the spirit of giving. I would prefer to judge all men by those around me, and to think that they give gifts not with “an appraising eye on the return,” but in a spirit of generous love and honest affection. For the gifts we give, is not the love-gleam in a mother’s eyes sufficient reward?—a father’s happy smile, a sister’s impetuous hug, or the gruff thanks of a brother? A fatted turkey (if the family can afford one) is in perfect keeping with the spirit of the feast. A large fragrant pine tree covered with lights and tinsel breathes the very life of Yuletide. And, last of all, if Santa Claus is not a Christian, then he ought to be, for he has all the virtues of a saint.
CHRISTMAS BELL
Age clings to memory, youth to hope, As out across the years we grope. And griefs lie strewn along the past, But dreams are in the future cast. Yet, God be praised for winter old Or Summer and its cloth of gold! Or old or young, our pulses swell To hear your chiming, Christmas bell!
Age brings the crowning of the snow, And makes the mounds where down below Are folded hands that once we clasped, And feet, now very still that passed. In songless days or summer growing Along the way our feet are going.
But, thanks be to God, we hear you tell The Tale of Comfort, Christmas bell!
Age dims the. eye and halts the breath, And opens up the door for death.
But we have hope when fades the light That day will issue out of night;
That where the tardy snow drifts cling We’ll hear the heart beats of the spring. Thanks for the hope that all is well, Dear riming, chiming Christmas bell!
—p. J. ci
I
;	374	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
J I
“Seventeen to One”
JOHN SHOUSE, ’26
AS Jimmy Fields slipped down the rail, around the Bradlely barn and into the lane that leads down to his boss’ stable, he little thought that he was an hour and thirty minutes early. “Big Bill” Jerkins, the trainer in whose employment Jimmy had been exercising horses since his entrance into the game three month ago, had promised the kid his first mount. He was to take the stride on Fin-day in the seventh race of the “getaway” day at the Latonia. “Big Bill” had broken the news to the Kid the night before, after Joe Downs, the boy who had been piloting the Perkin’s mounts for the past season, received a broken collar bone when Easter Bells ran -wide at the turn in the last race and threw the boy against the fence.
The Kid strode down the lane, his head bubbling with joy. He recognized the voice of Old John Green.
“Boy w’at yo’ doin’ here at this hour of de mor’nin? Lawd son, mistah Perkins tole yo’ to jog Polly Oliver at haf’ past five an’ here yo’ come at four o’clock. Wot yo’ doin’ dancin’ all nite at one of dem road houses ?”
The Kid smiled at the thought of being so early. But sleep did not enter his thoughts now, and so he told Old John the story of his first mount on the anniversary of the third month of his work on the track. Old John smiled and with a chuckle said:
“Dat’ mail* sho’ am ready boy, an’ I kno’ yo’ gona win dat race.”
“What race is dat, Jim ?”
“The seventh John. It’s my only chance before we go to New Orleans.” He was going to say more about it, but Old John cut him short and in a half whisper:
“Yo’ say dat’s de las’ race yo’ an’ Finday ar’ in?” “0 Lawd.”
Jimmy could not figure the looks on the old nigger’s face and was urging him to tell him what the trouble was when Bill Hays turned the corner of the stable and asked to borrow a shank. Old John, still shaky from his apparent shock, called down
to one of the stable boys who appeared in. a moment swinging a small strap.
“Much oblige, John. I’ll bring it back in a few minutes, can’t take that stud out without a twitch and two shanks, guess we’ll have to take him off the track, too mean, can’t handle him a’ tall.”
“Good mornin’ Mr. Perkins,” and the heavy figure of the trainer appeared just around the corner of the jockey room, “just borrowed a shank of yours to take my stud up to Tom Young’s.”
“Help yourself, Bill, help yourself,” came the jovial reply from the big man who turned into his stable and strode down to the feed stall where Jimmy and Old John stood talking in a whisper:
“Yas sur, I done hear dat Gallager boy say to dat fella’ wot got in dat jam at New Orleans las’ winter, how dat race done ben fixed an’ aint no chance fo’ him to lose.”
“An’ Lawd, I done hear Barry Jones tell his boss as how he’d show’ly be under dat wire fust no matter wat’ ’appened.” “Hany won’t do no boy like yo‘ no harm, but I’se ’fraid of dem oder fella’s.”
“Boy what are you doing up so early,” came the rumbling voice of “Big Bill” Perkins. “Bet you didn’t sleep a wink last night and here you’ve got to ride a mile and a quarter race? Well what the—what are you lookin to pale about—What? Have you been drinking?”
“No sir, Mr. Perkins,” came the strained remark from the meek Jimmy who only a few minutes ago, flushed with pride and anxiety, had thrown out his chest and strolled down the lane into his boss’ stable.
“Well, if I ever hear of you touching a drop, you’ll never put a leg over a horse of mine.” “Well, I can’t see why you are so white. Feel sick?”
“No sir,” came again the meek answer.
“Well, what the devil is the matter then ?” He was going to question the boy further when little George White turned out of the gap on Eager Cissy, the Fenton crack. Jim-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
375
.my took advantage of his opportunity and when the conversation began between the big trainer and the diminutive exercise boy, he slipped down to the far end of the stable and pretended to be fixing his saddle.
The Kid hurried through his work and at eight-thirty was sitting at the boarding house opposite the track on Race street reading how Earle Sande had again won by a nose in a thrilling stretch ride, when the name “Fields” caught his eye. Sure enough, there it was; “Jimmy” Fields. He grabbed the paper and hurriedly read how Joe Downs had been hurt, and that if Bill Perkins sent any more horses to the post this season they would probably be ridden by Jimmy Fields, his exercise boy.
The Kid’s hopes were rising above control when the words of Old John passed through his mind; “dat Gallager boy, Harry Jones.” He quickly rose from his seat and slipping out the back way crossed Fifth street, turned into the track gate and hur-, ried down to his boss’ stable. But Old John had just ridden to town with Mr. Perkins to bring back some liniment for the cut that Easter Bells had received, when he took the unfortunate route toward the fence. Well, he would wait. And again came his old thoughts.
It was his first and last chance before the winter meets began, two months before he could possibly get up. And then there was that possibility that his stable would winter in Kentucky, which meant that there would be no racing for him until next April. Well, there was one thing sure: he was green and light, but if Finday had the punch and could get away on top the outsiders on this 8 to 1 shot he would cash. And then too, Old John had said, that the mare was ready.
He summed up all the good qualities of himself and horse together with all the good breaks and in the end came to the conclusion that the race might go to his mount. He trudged around the track talking to first one person, then another and, as Old John had not returned by eleven o’clock he again crossed Race street and seated himself on the boarding house steps, shaded by the vines that almost completely ran around the porch.. The thought of the race' continually
ran through his mind. It wasn’t exactly fear that moved the Kid to think so much about the message that Old John had secretly given to him but it was his curiosity.
The crowd was large especially for the last day of a thirty-one day meeting and here was that usual pushing and jamming and shouting as the horses thundered down the stretch and under the wire. Then came the rush for the pay windows. They were running to suit the crowd for the favorites were having their day, and as the winner of ths sixth race flashed under the wire another less than even money shot was paid off.
The stable boys and touts who hang on to the last were beginning to weary after five straight horses had paid less than even money. As the supposed getaway horse in the sixth had finished out of the money even the trainers began to wonder at the thought of getting hands for the jump South. Fields had weighed in at twelvethirty and sat wearily in the jock room the rest of the afternoon. Once in a while some trainer would put up his hard luck story of how his horse was held at the post, or some down-hearted jockey would wail out his woes of how he had to almost carry that nog to get as close as he did, and if he would get a decent mount once in a while he could lead a list of riders too.
The first call sounded, and as the valets filed down to the paddock to saddle, insiders and saps began plunging to make or break. Those ahead wanted more and those in the hole were trying to get even. From over the sounds of the squirming crowd came the cry from the ticket sellers:
“Come on boys, it’s your last chance, step lively, gentlemen, have your money ready, get change at the Change Booth.” ’
At the sound of the warning bell, that it was five minutes before post-time, the congestion multiplied. Men and women struggled toward the lines to the machines. Green caps raced up to the sellers and spelled off their numbers. The boys were put up and in a moment the horses were slowly passing the stands. The crowd had plunged on the favorite in hopes that it would repeat. Horses quoted at four and five to one now
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
376
stood to pay as high as ten and twelve should they be home in front.
As they passed the stands there came the usual “bring him home Kid,” and get him down in front boys, etc., to the horse and rider to whom they had pinned their last dollars and hopes. There were eight horses in the race. Spanish Rose with Gallager in the saddle, had the post position, and at the end of the file came “Bill” Perkin’s Fin day with his apprentice boy Fields, up. Past the stands and to the post in perfect step and all seemed set for a flying start when Finday broke and jammed the other horses into a bunch. Down came the whip of the assistant starter on the legs of the brightened little mare and again she lunged. But as the starter again drew the whip there came faintly:	.
“Don’t hit her Mister Reid, that won’t do her no good.”
“Don’t tell me what to do, you brat, I’ll set you down for six months. Get her up there.”
The trembling filly fretted up the barrier and at the go was almost half turned around. She wheeled and tore down the stretch after the flying leaders. The kid’s heartsank. His only-chance was to get off in front and they had been left at the post. She was running gamely and at the first turn had moved into fourth place but the
handicap was too great, she had pushed into third at the head of the stretch but she was still four lengths behind the pace setters and as they rounded the turn, the boy felt her weaken, out brace and then come again. She had closed two lengths on the leaders but there was only a sixteenth to -go and Finday as well as the two horses in front, was tiring badly. As they came to the end of the stand the boy made his last call and the filly responded gamely, but what happened at the moment Jimmy Fields did not see. The two horses in front were running a dead heat and as they passed the seventyyard-pole the Gallager boy crowded and knocked both horses off their stride. As they wabbled in their saddles there came a frenzied yell as the outsider had come in the last few strides and crossed the line in front by the margin of a head.
The little filly came back full of run and Jimmy with a heart full of joy slipped from his saddle and made for the scales.
“What the H—; Oh, I thought so, take your hands off that boy Mr. Perkins, you’re weigh’in him in eleven pounds too light.”
“Well, he’ll look pretty light to the boys when they hang up those ticket dividends on that board.”
Just then came a howl and—“Seventeen to One.”
CHRISTMAS SONG
In ermine robes the dark trees gleam And once again in beauty seem To softly echo angel songs , That kill forever earthly wrongs.
So ages pass to this far day
And love again wakes up to play
I hear a child cry in the night— I wonder why it cries—poor mite!
—CORNELIUS SHEA, ’28.
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	377
The Scholastic All-Campus Teams

FIRST TEAM • SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM
Left end_____________Carroll (Howard)	Carroll (Carroll)	Cain (Soph)
Left tackle__________Sexton (Sorin)	Shultz (Soph)	Cohen (Badin)
Left guard __________Riley (Soph)	Doyle (Day)	Curray (Day)
Center---------------Hugger (Frosh)	Coogan (Carroll)	Rihu (Day)
Right guard__________Lavelle (Badin)	Abrott (Corby)	Glynn (Sorin)
Right tackle___"... _Norman (Brownson)	Repetti (Frosh)	Conley (Soph)
Right end__________...Harvey (Day)	Andrews (Badin)	Hogan (Frosh)
Quarter______________Purcell (Soph)	Elder (Frosh)	Goulet (Corby)
Left half____________Sheridan (Corby)	Smith (Day)	W. Sullivan (Sorin)
Right half___________,__________McDonald (Badin) Reidy (Walsh) Wanek (Frosh) Full back ___________Gish (Badin)	Murphy (Sorin)	Mooney (Brownson)
HONORABLE MENTION
McKinney, (Soph) ; Joe Sullivan, (Walsh) ; Tobin, (Frosh) ; Conlin, (Sorin) ; Norton, (Soph) ; McCarthy, (Soph) ; J. Murphy, (Carroll) ; Murphy, (Soph) ; Griffin, (Soph); Brown, (Soph) ; Weppner, (Brownson).
Now that everyone is pro-posing as to the next turn the Grange-r twist will take, the Scholastic feels that the time has come when it can well afford to sneak forth with its annual All-Campus Selection, with the hope that it may miss some of the wrath that usually follows in the wake of such audacity. Then too, the time is ripe because with the Christmas vacation upon us the editor can afford to leave the campus and absent himself therefrom until the storm blows over.
Somehow, we had always imagined that picking these all-all affairs was a simple operation. Well, it turned out to be as simple as making the usher believe you really did intend to drop a nickle in the Sunday collection box when you can’t even locate a penny. We had been told that all that was needed was a list of names, a ouija board, and a head start. It wasn’t hard to get the list of eligibles, but when we tried to put the ouija board into operation, the contraption was as stumped as we
were and couldn’t figure out who was who. But you can’t blame it very much.
Competition was keen in every department of the sport and the stars were as numerous as ancient bulletins on the Main Building Board. So there was nothing left to be done but to fare forth and interview the rectors of the various halls. Due to their efficient co-operation the SCHOLASTIC is able to give forth this mythical eleven. The heads of the various halls took a keen interest in the leagues this season and were a material help toward the final selection. So if your roommate isn’t listed, blame it on the Rectors’ (This in view of the adage that the blame should be shifted to someone else’s shoulders if possible.)
It might be appropriate to mention that the caliber of players in the Inter-Hall circuits this year was far better than ever before. The interest in both leagues was kept at a high pitch and every game was worth watching. To differentiate between the relative merits of the various
378	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
players is a super-human task. It will be noted in the above elevens that the difference between the first and second teams is so slight as to be almost inappreciable. There are some who will contend that if a game were held the second team might triumph over the first selection which shows the ahnost-even balance between the two. Some times it was necessary to resort to the weighing of the little details about the game in an effort to place the men. It must be remembered then, that it should be considered a real honor to be mentioned on any of the three combines.
Since this is a mythical team we have taken the liberty to shift the players around to various positions. Sometimes this was done with the idea that the man would fit in better at that point to which he has been assigned, but as a rule it was recorded to in order to give a man a rating on the team to which he belonged, as in the case where two men were so evenly matched that to pick one for the first team and the other for the second, would have been unjust. This we believed to be the best course in the case in such instances. The teams were not picked with the idea of their playing together but rather as honorary organizations.
Another feature that must be taken into consideration is this: In many instances men who had rare ability have been kept off the teams because they appeared in but a few games while those selected went through the entire season. We have in mind the case of a half-back who displayed a great deal of stellar stuff in the one game in which he cavorted; but others were preferred before him because of their showing throughout every game of the season.
We believe that the combinations picked contain the best on the campus this fall. They would be strong foes and the keen competition makes mention on any of these a real honor. It has been hard to select the players. A thousand and one considerations have entered into the task. A great many of the authorities on Inter-Hall football have been invoked and their words find an expression here. The hall squads have been combed and re-combed around the hot
stove league in an effort to put forth the best selection possible. Coaches, rectors, players, and fans have been talked to. So it is that the Scholastic feels quite sure that it makes no mistake in announcing* these teams. There is bound to be dissention. That is the aftermath of a great, season, and connotes a real live wire interest in intra-mural sports. Therefore, it is asked of you that you be a bit merciful in consideration of the difficulties to be met in picking an All-Campus eleven. There are many who deserve a word of credit who are not included here perhaps, but these are the best in the two circuits and should receive the honor of being mentioned as such.
TRACK SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
Track fans at Notre Dame were greatly elated at the announcement of the schedule-arranged for the squad this season. Last year only one home meet was held, that being with Illinois indoors. A meet scheduled with Michigan State was called off on account of the condition of the track.
Coach Rockne has booked five home meets, four of them to be held out-of-doors in the spring. Several additional meets are being-considered but the schedule at present is as follows:
Jan. 23.—Northwestern, here.
Feb. 13—Illinois-, there.
Feb. 27.—Illinois Relays.
Mar. 6 Wisconsin, here.
April 3—Texas Relays.
April 10—Georgia Tech Relays (Tentative)
April 17—Ohio and Kansas Relays.
April 24—Drake and' Penn Relays.
May 1—Illinois, here.
May 8—Iowa, here.
May 15—Michigan State, there.
May 22—Indiana State Meet, Bloomington.
June 12—National Collegiate Meet, Chicago.
A dual with Ohio Weselyan is still under consideration, to be held at Notre Dame. Notre Dame will not participate in the Western Conference Meet this year as the Big Ten have ruled that none but members of the conference shall participate.
The squad has been working out daily in the apparatus room of the Gym awaiting-needed repairs on the track. Intensive work will begin after the holidays.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
. 379
MINNESOTA MAULED: 36-14
The Taylor-made men were rent. That’s the story. When Jim Coleman moved the trigger that ended the evening’s enjoyment for the Gold and Blue backers Keogan’s keen netters were leading the Minnesota ■quintet by a 36 to 14 score. Notre Dame simply was “on” and that was enough. Displaying a clever passing game that sent the Gophers scurrying for cover, the Fight- . ing Irish flashed a great game in both of the halves.
Vince McNally’s crew completely outclassed their Big Ten opponents in every department of the game. It was a smart, rifle-pass, under the basket assault that brought victory to the home team. The .showing made was the greatest made by Notre Dame net-snipers since last year’s sensational showing against Illinois and in this case the team gives great promise of being able to maintain the high standard well into the season. There was coordination, class and accuracy as the five Fenians played the hardwood game in the manner that Rockne’s grid men perform.
Coach Taylor’s men drew the first scoring blood. But they were outdistanced within a few minutes by Nyikos and Crowe and never again threatened. Clem Crowe was the outstanding man in relation to hoop-connecting. He counted four times times from the floor and duplicated that figure on free throws which made a total of twelve points contributed by this worthy to the cause in the melee.
Notre Dame had little trouble in working the ball down the floor but experienced quite a bit of difficulty in disturbing the meshes after working the ball down into the easy scoring position. Their tries from the floor repeatedly failed to count. Notwithstanding this Johnnie Nyikos managed to navigate the draperies some four times from the floor and tossed in a free throw to make it a good measure and nine points as his total for the game. Captain McNally found the basket four times.
By far the best showing of the evening was made by Conroy. This gentleman’s • clever foot work was one of the greatest things in its line that has been viewed here
in some time. And while speaking of guards, we can’t afford to forget “Buckie” Dahman, who is filling Noble Kizer’s shoes in great shape. These two gave a little show all their own at the expense of Wolden, the Gopher center, that was well received because it was clever. Johnnie Victoryn, a relief forward, displayed a fine brand of ball in the short time he was in the game and should be heard from to a great extent as the season progresses.
Racey, the Gopher captain, was by far the best man for the Northerners. Nydahl also played a fine game and dropped in one “that you read about”from past the center of the floor.
Box score:
Notre Dame (36)	FG. FT.		FM.	PF.	TP.
McNally (C.) rf			4	0	0	3	8
Victoryn, If.			0	0	1	0	0
Crowe, If.			4	4	0	0	12
Ley, If. 			0.	0	0	0	0
Nyikos, c. 			4	1	2	3	9
Moore, c.			0	0	0	2	0
Dahman, rg.	91	0	0	3	4
Besten, rg.			0	0	0	0	0
Conroy, 1g.			1	1	0	0	3
Voedisch’, 1g.			0	0	0	0	0
Totals 			15	6	3	11	36
Minnesota (14)	FG.	FT. FM.		PF.'	TP.
Racey (C.) rf.			3	0	2	2	6
Hartupee, If.-lg. 			0	0	0	0	0
Nydahl, If.-rg.			2	1	1	0	5
Sundberg, If.			0	0	0	1	0
H. Wolden, c.			0	2	5	2	2
Mason, rg.-lf.			0	0	1	1	0
Stark, rg. 			0	0	0	0	0
Wright, 1g.			0	1	0	1	1
Totals 5	4	9	7	14
Referee—Schommer (Chicago). Umpire—Maloney (Notre Dame.)
M’NALLY LEADS NET SQUAD
“A captain I A captain I Who has a captain?” Such was the wail of the varsity hardwood hounds until the boys went into a secret session, and “Vince” McNally emerged from the election den receiving the hand shakes. Vince was one of the big guns of the outfit last year, his inimitable floor work ability being one of the outstanding features of coach Keogan’s performers. He has spirit, fight, personality, and rare ability as a drapery artist.	.

380	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HEARDEN AND EDWARDS LEAD IRISH
“Red wins,” quoth the official counter of ballots as he discovered the outcome of the election to determine who should lead the
Irish on to victory during the pigskin session of ’26. After all the little pieces of paper had been collected and scrutinized, it was found that “Red” Hearden and “Red” Edwards each had their names on an equal number. It was then decided that both men should alternate in piloting the team. So it seems that another color will be added ot the two we already fly, meaning that from now on it’s Gold, and Blue... and Red • And don’t forget the Red, either. It stands for Fight, Irish Fight. ,
“Red” Hearden is the lad who was so conspicuous for the excellent interference which he consistently gave his fellow "backs. “I’ve got that man,” was his motto, and he always had him. Frequently he had another also; once we saw him get three. Not a little ground was gained by this sterling back, and he figured often as a point getter.
For coolness and strategy there are few who can equal “Red” Edwards. Even in the most adverse of situations he is as calm
and collected as an ice man making his. morning rounds. He is skillful in discovering the weaknesses of opponents and directing his attack towards them. His position at quarter is an ideal one for the captain of a team.
COLD STORAGE FOR ARMOUR
“Fifty-three to twenty-six’” that was the final word of the initial contest for the Irish, basketeers as they swept everything from their path with a keen passing attack which completely bewildered Armour Tech last Monday evening. More than two thousand, persons were on hand to see Coach Keogan’s shooting stars perform. There didn’t seem to be one bit of disappointment in the fray when all was said and done. The efficient organization, as exemplified especially in the-passing department was above par for this time of the season. The squad seems to have covered quite a bit of ground in the short time that they have been at work and, if we can judge from this first game, Notre-Dame has a big season in the drapery sport just ahead. It is quite true that the visitors’ defense was lax and on the whole Armour should have looked better if we are to judge the power of the team. But there was spirit, accuracy,—both in guarding and in hoop-sniping, and plenty of zest in the curtain raiser. On the whole it was a very creditable bow for the Gold and Blue .
Clem Crowe and Johnnie Nyikos locked horns for the scoring honors, each counted thirteen tallies. Clem displayed a flash back to his former stellar tossing and specialized in rather long shots at the basket. His eye had the spot marked without a doubt, and he led the offense of the second half. The guarding was the best part of the evening’s setto however. Conroy showed the class of a veteran and Dahman also starred. At the start of the second period Keogan pulled a “Rockne” and sent in an entirely new combination. This second assortment played a good game of ball against the foe and gained ground. The best floor game of the evening was turned in by Captain McNally who seems to have hit his old stride. For Ar-
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
381
mour Tech Danziger and	McClaren were
the outstanding stars.	
Of course, little can be	told from this
fray but the spirit shown by the students,	
the sportsmanship, the class presented by	
the Varsity all point to	a big hardwood
season. It was a great ;	start on a tough
schedule of games.	
The summary:	
'	NOTRE DAME	(53)
G.	FT. FTM. PF. TP.
Crowe, rf.	5	3	1	1	13
Mock, rf. 	0	0	110
Ley, rf.	0	0	0	0	0
Purcell, rf.	0	0	0	0	0
McNally, If. 	3	2	0	2	8
Victoryn, If. 	2	0	0	3	4
Moore, c. 	1	0	112
Nyikos, c. 	6	1	0	4 13
Enright, c. 	0	0	110
Conroy, rg.	3	1117
Voedisch, rg. 	0	0	0	0	0
Dahman, 1g.	2	2	116
Besten, 1g. 	0	0	110
—	- - » ■ - —— ■
Totals 	22	9	6	16	53
ARMOUR TECH. (26)	
G.	FT. FTM. PF. TP.
Danziger, rf. 	2	2	116
Downs, rf.	0	0	0	0	0
McClaren, If.	1	6	2	4	8
Eisenberg, If.	0	0	0	10
Helgren. If.	3	2	10	8
Brockman, c. 	1	0	112
Augustine, rg.	0	0	0	2	0
Morgan, rg. 	1	0	10	2
Kuffel, 1g.	0	0	110
Hofer, 1g. 	0	0	2	0	0
—		 	 	 	
Totals	1	8	10	9	10	26
Referee, Kearns, DePaul;	Umpire, Warren,
South Bend.	
TWO BOUTS BETWEEN HALVES
With a view toward entertaining the 2,500 that attended the game at the Gym last Monday evening, Charley Springer arranged to have four members of his boxingsquad engage in a little fisticuffing between halves of the game.
The first match was between Guy Loran-ger of Detroit and “Spike” McAdams of Chicago, both men weighing 120 pounds. The men appeared evenly matched, with Loranger as the aggressor. No decision was given after three fast rounds.
The next match promised to be a thriller but proved a flop. Manuel Garcia of the Philippine Islands and Benny Di Pasquale, welterweight champ of the University, “Charlestoned” for three rounds. These men both are exceptionally clever in the ring but for unaccountable reasons appeared to be afraid to mix it up much in the Monday evening encounter.
Coach Springer refereed the matches. During the week he issued a call to all candidates for the freshmen and varsity candidates for the team.
The
SOUTH BEND
NEWS-TIMES
has grown more than 10,000 in circulation during the last 5 years
Notre Dame men have played a leading part in its growth.
f
382
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Pride of Possession
Buy skates that are worthy of the kind of skating you want to do. Skates that you’ll be proud of. There is no finer skate made than Alfred’s famous tubular skate and shoe outfit. See the improved racing and hockey models at your best dealer. ALFRED JOHNSON SKATE CO., CHICAGO NOT CONNECTED WITH NESTOR JOHNSON MFG. CO., OR ANY FIRM OF A SIMILAR NAME
Champion of tho World
For Beginners-ALFRED’S FLASH-Lower Priced
PUCK MEN AT WORK
With the advent of King-Winter preparations are being made for a banner hockey season. Although official practice will not begin until after the Christmas holidays several of Tom Lieb’s skaters have been working out daily in the Gym in an effort to get in shape for what promises to be the busiest hockey season in the history of the sport at Notre Dame.
Arrangements are being made to schedule three games to be played in Boston. One of these will undoubtedly be with Boston College, which for several years has developed great hockey teams. If the plans for these games are completed it will be the most extensive tour ever taken by a Notre Dame hockey team.
It is evident that a wealth of first class material will answer the call for men. Each position appears well taken care of with such men as Boeringer and Hicock at defense, Holland and “Pinky” Martin alternating at center and Murphy and “Red” Smith taking care of the There is a possibility that Smith, because of football injuries, will not be out at the start of the season. Stadel and McSorley, two of last years Freshmen, give promise of developing into a pair of fast skating wing men.
Hopes are held out that the season will be cold enough to allow the scheduling of at least two games at home so the student body may be given an opportunity to see how Notre Dame plays the “fastest sport.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	383

What the Well-Dressed College Man is Wearing
During wet weather the predominating college style is Frog Brand Slickers.
Count them on the campus. They keep one high and dry during drizzly wet weather, not too cumbersome when the sun appears unexpectedly, and they look well—always.
No student’s expense allowance ever suffered from the purchase of a Frog Brand Slicker, and yet it will save many dollars in the protection of good clothing.
The old-fashioned raincoats are “passe,” be up-to-date like your classmates, get a Frog Brand Slicker today....
Genuine Oiled Slickers
Sawyer’s Frog Brand Slickers are the genuine oiled slickers. The product of 85 years experience. In two colors for men—yellow and olive, and four colors for women, red green, blue and coral.
All progressive college clothiers carry Frog Brand Slickers, if your dealer is temporarily out of stock send his name to H. M. Sawyer and Son, East Cambridge, Mass. .

SAWYERS
•384	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Xi
STEINFIELD’S
FOR CLEANING AND PRESSING
Ask Those Who Know
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED ON WASHINGTON AVENUE ABOVE THE CAR STATION
S. R. EDWARDS, M. D.
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
209 NORTH MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND
TELEPHONE L-2122
Smith’s Cafeteria
111 EAST JEFFERSON BLVD.
EXTENDS
Merry Christmas
AND A
Happy New Year
TO ITS
Friends at Notre Dame
THE SAFETY VALVE
THE NIGHT OF THE BIG WIND
The Entire Student Body: How are you? And Merry Christmas! And were you Way Down East of Way Down Town on Bengalese Baby Night? Between ourselves, not since our return from the great Virgil-Dante tour have we seen anything to compare with the Big Storm. Wasn’t it a whale?
Let us refresh your memory, as they say.
Blinding snow. Whistling wind (wh-e-e-e-e-). Perfectly good trees blown down (crash-sh-sh). Thunder (B-r-r-r-r). Inks’- darkness. Centaurs belching fire. Guns going- off (bang-g-g). Bottles uncorking (punk-k-k-k). Simon of Troy and Adamo of Brecia mutually reproaching each other. Day Dogs scurrying to the contemplated Shelter Station.
Then came the great exodus.
The storm was at its height. And the men of Sorin, blinded with terror, rushed madly out to save the Homecoming bunting that still floated proudly from the front porch of their venerable hall. It was a colorful contribution, as they say, to the old N. D. fighting spirit, and a neat complement to the beloved Rector.
Corby, second to none, followed to a man, prepared to take a hand in case of fire.
Freshmen and Sophomores rushed to the Latin Quarter to close the windows and pull down the shudders.
Howard, Badin, Brownson, and Carroll followed in quick succession to enter the Bloody Fray.
The young men from Moreau—usually so conservative—rushed home to see if the storm had’nt blown the water out of the new well. It hadn’t.
The Student Welfare Department tried to stem the tide and to get the Entire Body to return to its seats. But the brave effort went out in vain, as they say.
And now it seems fitting, as an act of justice to the E.S.B. after it put its hands down into its pants’ pockets'for its small change, in order to help the Bengalese Baby Department of the Boyology Course,—it seems fitting to give the denouement of the climax, as the boys say in short-story.
Very good.
Here’s what happened. Sanderson—that evil man—was put to memorizing all the prepositions in A. Rhodius, which is equivalent to a life sentence. Miss Gish, who was really more sinned against than sinning, as they say, was joined in wedlock to High Holler. Mr. Phillips says this is a splendid bit of symbolism, but not before we beat him to it. The young man who seemed destined to give Miss Gish the grand smack before the final fade-away was ruled out in favor of Mr. Holler for reasons which the committee on discipline does not see fit to publish. It was suggested that the young ladies who appeared at the big dance of those stuck-up cousins of Miss Gish be advised to put on more heavier clothing. The other actors were sent back to Mr. Griffith with best wishes for their bon voyage, as they say.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	385
Plan now for a marvellous low cost trip to Europe $170 and up, round trip
SIT DOWN and plan your vacation trip to Europe, NOW. Tourist III Cabin costs astonishingly little—little, if any, more than a vacation spent at home.
Last year thousands of students traveled by the United States Lines ships and this year will certainly show further big increase in bookings. For these ships are setting new standards
of comfort. Clean, airy staterooms, inviting public rooms, the best of food, exclusive deck space and daily concerts all contribute to a delightful voyage.
Get all the facts now from your local steamship agent, or write to the address below for complete illustrated literature and suggested tours. Make reservations well in advance.
United States Lines
386
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Williams
means an easy shave
THE wetness in Williams lather quickly drives the oil-film from each hair, softening it thoroughly for easy cutting. And the mildness of this powerful lather leaves the face cool, glovesmooth, as refreshed as after a massage. The large-size tube of Williams ShavingCream is 35c; double-size 50c, containing twice as much cream.
ALWAYS INSIST ON WILLIAMS
