‘Tdindoft/\(btre ‘Dame,....
(Pride.
T[?hat comes to your mind?
‘Tradition
E?(cedence
EthanoL
EtfianoC.
EthanoL.
Eau du Lac
you're a Domer... smedd^e one.
(From the people who brought you Calvin Klein's "Repression.")
CONTENTS
SARCASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S HUMOR MAGAZINE
ThisfJspepTOi |ooi ^ls$ue is only a joke. Repeat^
been ahi dcttidl is-
ENTERTAINMENT
4 Steve Miller - Marked for Death
20 WVFI Starts Playing Good Music
NEWS
5	Course Evaluations
6	Fraternity Row Under the Dome
11 Man of the Year
13 O’Hara Commission Tapes
22 Pangborn Goes Coed (Yeah, right!)
CAMPUSDREAMS
8 A Day in the Life
24 All About ND fashions

death
threats and letter
ihgfthe|bgseffl hOpdeyeryohe can tgkWgpkeHj

SPORTS
17 Notre Dame’s Championship Keg Softball Team
19 Irish Bar Golfers go to NCAAs
DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Rant
3	Letters to the Editor
12 On Our Campus
14 ND is Hell
«:
Co nt ri b u to rs:	Doyle,
Margaret Ke.hnyJake Frost;N ick Spangler, Pele McGiincud
Clary, George Long, Chris Blanford, MattTay!or,JeffJotz,lanMitchelL SpecialthankstoTTjeDomeforcom-putera&istan^j^
■ x > >■

i
V:', Vol. 133, No. 22 : ?.?■ " .Aprll2,1992	■ ^5: :
{? :>;VHoQchie Coochie La La La \' ;;; . < Hoochie Coochie .	. A.
<:77-:a>'(Have wernenhoned - A ; ■ • ■
EDITOR IN CHIEF ;. ■	'	; • 7'
Anal (L Rectal 7. ? . ■, :
MANAGING EDITOR : :
Halp^pcriidaAh.	;;> A. ..yA, ■
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Bratty Spoiled ; '< . . • ' A. newseditor7 . 77'	777.
Target CanHe? A‘A ••■/,•. A : /A Ay A SPORTS EDITOR ’ : A; y7‘ ■ •' llohn Mauls Tots y'A'' ’ A A A: A A"" A.'
Campus life editor fi- 7 :5z a AlizardBitHerBait ■■ A-yy' \; y
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR .AyA i A. y : Dizzy/Whiner :'A :"AA-.-,. - 77 :;'A . '
DEPARTMENTSEDITOR .; A 7 ;• Ay ; ' pike B. Low I n ' A	■ ■ ; A-A : A '.' A
PHOTOGRAPHY 7 . 7 A-:"’AAA'AaAA / Editor: Paul “Spider” Webby >. ': Ay A;... Assistant: Richard “Dick” Dangler; 7A 7:
C’RAPRlCSARTSMAte
Jeanne^	A.i;:A-A-A
SYSTEMS MANAGER A 77.7 . A . yy' .KeyidyHb’s a” Hardman, y:Ay
ADVeRTISINGMANAGER:	; AyrA
Shaved i 7" 77.'7 A' A, Ay. y A. '• ?■ ~:y.-
BUSINESS MANAGER y<: :7;77'7': Hbtpy.Ecker;-. " yA fy \.y.v-y
plSTRIBUTiON MANAGER A T a77'A .GirlCtom^^ yyA y -a -A
EDITOR'S RANT
Pearls Before Swine
In this issue the decidated, hardworking, underpaid, loyal, courteous, kind, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverent staff of Sarcastic have again slaved away to produce a compilation of hard hittin ’ facts —America’s finest collegiate publication. Have I mentioned that this is our 125th year yet? Well it is, and that’s old, let me tell you.
How Old?
We’re older than you! We’re older than your parents! We’re older than your grandfather! We’reolderthananyoneyouknow! If Sarcastic were a dog, we’d be 875 years old! (That’s no puppy!) And this is our 125th anniversary — when The Absurder turns 50 years old, we’ll still be one hundred years older then they are! Nyah, nyah, nyah! .125 years! Man, we’re old!
In This Issue
In this issue of Sarcastic we interview the head of Notre Dame Food Services, who gives a candid explanation for the recent absence of Noodles Kiigel from the dining hall: “Some boys from the FDA came in and wanted to take the stuff to the lab. Something about it being toxic.” Plus, we talk to the registar, the man who runs the new trouble-free DART system, who asks us to “Please make a request.”
Also, we visit with the fine folks over at Career and Placement who beg us: “Go to grad school. There are no jobs. Please don’t tell the juniors.”
Lastly, we speak with an architectural critic, who examines the new DeBartolo “McMob quad”classroom building. “Fantastic! Yes ... I see it! Fivegianthalf-pintmilkcartons, a sheet cake and a stick of butter! Genius! ”
Sarcastic is publishedone a year, usually on or about April 3 (unless something Happens to mate us late, life, say if the entire computer system crashes or something; not thatthat would happen or anything), at the‘University of UmpireDame,fh^trcDame, 19^46556andprintedatHhe Tapers, Inc, Milford 19^4GS42. ^suSscriplum. rate,not that you're inUrtsLed, is f2G.00/yearandfoe%issucs, iftfiey Happen to fo lying aroundthe offer, are fl 25/copy.	opinons c^presscdinSarcasticart usually
those ofmomg lunatics and do not necessarily resemble those of the sane, or even the entire editorial board ofSarcastic and not, defmitelynot, the 'University of9/ptn 'Dame, its administration,faculty, or students. 'Editorials signedS orcas tic represent divine revelation, tofo oleyedunguestionmgly. Manuscripts are welcome, especially when accompanied by cash. All unsolicited materials are moc^d and ridiculed before being thrown away.
Copyright 199ZSareaslU magarinc, Ailrighis reserved. 9{fproductionis your ljodgit>cn right, and we encourage you to reproduce whenever you feel life it, in tfie Catholic contest of marriage. Stop reading this annoying tiny type andread the magazine, you.
Be One of The Few
It’s not that we need staff members or anything; I don ’ t want you to think that, not even for a second. Stop thinking that! But if we were, hypothetically, interested in hiring people, we might just lower our standards low enough to accept your appl i-cation. Not that we desperately need help, mind you; it’s not like that! It’s just that... well, we want to involve you, the reader, in an ongoing dialog (not dialogue) on matters of interest to the campus community. Yeah, that’s it. Pleeeese work for us! We’ll be your best friends!
Anal N. Rectal His Editorship
.C6rrection:.In the last issue of Sarcas- A tic, due to ^typographical error/a quote, was erroneously attributed to university/ President Father Bed “Bunk”: BigjbOyA: What Bigboy actually said was:“We’re forming a task force to study that.” ConiA trary to what was reported,; Bigboy did not say “Bow down and worship hie,"orI: will.destroy you yea verily, for I am the master of all space,time and being.”; Nor did he begin gnawing on human flesh. Sarcastic is very, very sorry. We don’t know, what we were thinking., A / AA 77
2
SARCASTIC
Dear Editor:
Back, you scandal-mongering carrion birds! Keep your self righteous monopolistic publication away from me! Or let me write a column! I am not a crook!
Abrasively Public, Mitch Melvin HPC Member
Dear Editor:
On behalf of S.U.B., I would like to thank everone who attended last night’s concert at the JACC. Both of you.
I Love Mimes!
Losin’ Money HPC Chief
Dear Editor:
My roommate and I went to the concert last night at the JACC. We would like our money back.
Joe Domer
Typical Guy
JUNK MAIL
Dear Editor:
You ran a rude, offensive cartoon last week that was an insult to the reading public and a violation of the standards of deceny. Do it again.
We Luvs the Funnies, Your readership
Dear Editor:
Let’s all make the Notre Dame family the loving, supportive community we know it can be! How about a big group hug?
WeluvND, Student Government
Dear Editor:
I think Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s have a wonderful, supportive and understanding relationship. Please don’t let it change.
We love the Dome, Domer Gal
Dear Editor:
Anyone have the number for Dominos?
Hungrily, HPC
Dear Editor:
Hello, hello! Do you remeber me? Do you miss me? Does anyone care or ever listen to anything I say? I don’t have any trouble to cause now that I’m at home and there is no one worth picking on here. Won’t anyone listen to me?
IAM
Small Tamales No Longer at ND Letters to Jsrautic must & engraved upon tfe fincsl-quality cotton rag paper and include ad rdevtnl biographical information about tfa writer, up to andincludirg: yourname, address, favorite color, shoe sire and a note from your mother. Then, and only then, widwe even thinfal out pub listing your Humite missive; after all, wt'rc Susy people.
We re just kjdding! Actually we'd love to Hear from you. ‘V^cgt t so little mail we even enjoy opening those overdue noticesfrom tie library. Send us a postcard, callus, shout an insult at us from across the quad, whatever! ^e just want an occasional acfyiowltgcmenl that somebody is actually reading this stuff!
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor Sarcastic La fortune Center tytn Dame, 46556
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite ! 1!
I APRIL 2,1992
__________MUSIC CRITIQUE_________
i STEVE MILLER - MARKED FOR DEATH
By Scrumpy Jack
j .
II -
I -
I •
I hear you’ve been having trouble with pigs and ponies and music and I thought I could help you with the last third of that list. Why is it that students here at Notre Mom arc completly out of touch with college music? Well, firstof all, this here ain’t quite a college or a university. What we have here is the biggest high school in the whole country. Everyone’s favorite bands and songs are their favorite bands and songs from high school. Gimme abreak. If you look in the back pages otRollingStone for the charts and then look at the lop ten college albums and then look at the record collection of your roommate I bet you’ll
not find one of them. Unless of course he/ she/it owns U2’s Achtung Baby which is probably unplayed and /or not as good as The Joshua Tree or “Sunday Bloody Sunday.” Man, you guys have got to get out more.
She's got a way of talkin’
I don’t know why it is
But she sounds like every other Domer She’s gotaway of drinkin ’—I don ’ t know why it is, but every night she gets Soooo wasted. Geez, shave that back hair, wax thatmoustache, buy anewalbum. Every Domer guy’s a joker, a toker, and a midnite stroker, but that’s not my problem. Do any of you know who J Mascis is? The “music critic” for The Obliterator is also a sports writer—go figure—and the only time he reviewed a college album he was looking for remixes of a song by a New Kid dropout. I’ve never been so ashamed in all my life. Quick quiz — when’s the last time you listened to anything new other than “I’m Too Sexy?” Never. Go take your “Brown-Eyed Girls” and your “Only The Good Die Young”s and go back home to visit your old high school teachers.
Or will you be here for Easter to see Steve Miller on his Lost Causes tour? I’d rather see Mr. Bungle play “Squeeze Me Macaroni” 10,000 times than have my money stolen by theCultandLenny Kravitz ever again. You got it — it’s a vicious circle. Wouldn’t you believe it—it’s just my luck—you’re in high school again. No recess. Today I am a pud, but my hair’s getting good in the back and I’d probably rather be John Belushi than Billy Joel. Please don’t play us a song, 0 Piano Man, and it’d probably be better if Catholic girls didn’t start at all. Only the good die young and Billy Joel and Steve Miller are both still alive. Heard any good cover bands lately? Ofcourseyou have—this school’s band scene reflects the tastes of you huddled masses yearning to getdrunk. It’s a sad day
when the most radical new albums you own are Nevermind by Nirvana of which you’ve only heard the first track and Metallica which sucks as a watered-down version of a good band gone soft for losers like you. University. Of Notre Dame please.
It’s educational.
11’s all a joke real 1 y. I don ’ t sec what this has to do with anything. You can’t play with your guardian angel hanging over you all the time. But enough of my yakkin’ — It’s only April Fool’s — isn’t it?
We came to pottie. '
Scrumpy Jack is a freelance columnist who would like to shake hands with Fabulous' and have a great sandwitch every nowand then. Two nostrils. Kids, your Santa’s dead.	.
SARCASTIC
_______COURSE EVALUATIONS_______
HIST 449 — ImaginingNature: 1492-1992 — Crunch,Barry Presentation: This course answers the probing question on all Notre Dame students ’ minds: Is nature imagined and constructed, or discovered? It is especially concerned with the effect of European technologies upon our leafy-green friends as well.as what our buddies from across the Atlantic imagined our foliage to be like over here in the great New World.
Reading: Course packet consisting of some dumb articles that nobody really reads (so don’t waste your money). Some other books about people who had a profound effect on nature like Mr. Greenjeans, Jack (of Jack and the Beanstalk fame) and the Jolly Green Giant. -
Organization: Thecourse struck me as quite disorganized. Itwas supposed' to be centered around a 45-minute lecture and a 30-minute class discussion, but if we were supposed to be observing nature and it rained or snowed (you never can predict South Pole, I mean, South Bend weather!) the whole syllabus got messed up! Plus, one day, Mr. Crunch cancelled a class that had been scheduled for a test because the clouds were “so cool.” Comment: Through this course I gained a greater appreciation of nature. The grading wasn’t too hard; after all, how can you be penalized for the way you imagine nature? Being Joe Domer, though, I felt out of place taking a class with.all of the granolas rather than all of the other stuffy Accounting majors like usual. Cross-listed with GEOS 101 — the science for non-scientists.
PLS 672 — Deep Thoughts — Smalley, Stuart
Presentation: This course is designed for Program of Liberal Studies majors ONLY and PLS majors are the only students allowed into the course because they are the only students at the university thataredeep enough to handle the philosophical nature of the course. All the other idiots would be lost before they even finished looking at the syllabus. In Deep Thoughts, the students are encouraged to share their thoughts, since none of their Non-PLS friends can ever comprehend their carefully contemplated tidbits of knowledge. It is this course that allows PLS majors to vent their frustrations about the commoners at the university, and it is expected to become the Core Course of the truly intelligent! Reading: Every book ever published by a dead white male.
Organization: This course has no set organization because the thoughts of the students are the backbone of the story. We may discuss one topic for five minutes and another for five hours. There is also no restriction on class time; class continues until we have nothing earth-shattering left to share with one another. Comments: This course is my favorite ever! It is so refreshing to j ust be able to sit and converse with other students who share the same intellectual capacity as I. There are no insipid and lazy American Studies majors to lower the intellectual value of our deep thoughts.
MATH 001—Advanced Addition and Subtraction—Rogers, Fred
Presentation: Because the class was fairly large (the football
APRIL 2, 1992
team, the basketball team, the softball and golf teams), it was hard for Mr. Rogers to get to know us all personally; he just referred to the class as a whole as his “neighbors.” Whenever the classwork started to seem too demanding and heavy, he held special seminars on changing your sweater and your shoes. There were frequent field trips to the Land of Make-Believe.
Reading: There was no reading—this is a math class! There was no text; the teacher passed out handouts and pencils. All of the course work was completed in class.
Organization: There was an open-ended schedule. The class decided what it wanted to study at the beginning of each class depending on the students’ mood.
Comments: Not a very demanding class, although attendance is required. ButMr. Rogers givesoutlollipops as arcward foraright answer!
ENGL313—All Kinds of Literary Traditions—Shakespeare, Joe
Presentation: This course serves as a comprehensive study of every genre of literature ever written. Rather than spending three semesters in British Literary Traditions I, British Lit II and American Literary Traditions, learn the content of three courses in one! During class, the professor usually lectures while the students dutifully take notes or sleep. Because of his famous last name, the prof expects his words to be considered literary genius; just keep in mind that he really isn’t related to Bill.
Reading: Every major work ever written since the beginning of time, save the Bible. Expect to spend at leat S300 on anthologies, complete works and course packets.. Get an extra job before registering.
Organization: Straight lecture; thereistoomuchmaterialforany kind of interaction between professor and students. Bring a pillow.
Comment: CliffNotes in lecture form. Allandall,apooridcafor a course, yet it is better to get all three courses over with as one rather than wasting three separate semesters. If you like to gloss over literature, this course is for you.
ARHI169 — Understanding Museums — Warhol, Andy Presentation: Back on sabbatical from the recently dead, Warhol instructs students on the merits of museum-going. Learn about floor plans, guidebooks and art appreciation. See what happens when a bone is stolen from a dinosaur skeleton at the Museum of Natural History; learn about shock treatments first-hand at the Museum of Science; compare the aesthetic quality of Van Gogh’s pictures before and after he cut off his ear.
Reading: The only reading necessary is that of the various guidebooks from different museums.
Organization: One lecture per week coupled with one museum trip each week.
Comment: This course was great, especially because of the prof. I strongly recommend that everyone rush to take this before the prof returns to his heavenly home above the clouds. □
5
SOMETHIN G NEWSY
Alumni and Dillon agree to end feuding and join Lambda Lambda Lambda
By Artie Fufkin and Percy Shelley
In an effort to match the outbreak of world peace around them, Alumni and Dillon Halls have decided to drop their long feud over who acts more like a fraternity and have accepted an offer to become the latest chapter of Lambda Lambda Lambda. Despite the previous de facto banning of social organizations, the university administration viewed the situation in a new light. “It’s not a huge step,” one administrator commented.
“You see, the elements of being a fraternity arc already there,” said Alumni Hall president Tad L Crew. “We’re relatively obnoxious, which helps, we drink a lot, and we imagine we get laid more than Persian rugs in Bagdhad. Oh, and we dress cool, too. That’s key.”
“Besides,” said Spiffy Tules, Dillon Hall President “living in a dorm is about as cool as being an underclassman, eating at North Dining Hall, or shopping at J.C. Penny. I’m glad Alumni came to their senses.”
When asked if they will nom inatc a sister sorority,both presidents screamed, “Walsh, of course! Duh!!”
Mary Margaret Plaidkilt, Walsh Hall president, shivered with excitement. “Oh. My. God. I can’t believe it. We’ll be Lambdas. Husband heaven! And I was getting so sick of all that Morrissey/Lyons stuff! Oookies! Do you think my bangs are too long? In a week, they’ll be too long. WantaHo-Ho?”
Despite the fact that Walsh is technically anillegitimatesisterinthepresitgiousSouth Quad family, several indoctrination brainwashing weekends are currently being planned for the spring.
For example, the J.Crew catalogue and out-of-season clothes exchange will be held on the lawn/playground in between the former dorms. “This is another * sweet’ facet to our union,” said Mr. Tules. “Say it’s chilly, as South Bend often is in May, and you need the chartruse pullover, it’s just a call a way. Or if you simply have to have the patchwork colors shirt for a night atBridget’s, spring of 89’scataloguecould be lying on Steve’s desk, and you wouldn’t even know it. Helping people, that’s what
reason I chose to come to Nowhereland, Indiana was the absence of such bastions of conformity as fraternities and sororities. Those were meant to be escapes that other schools had to put up with, not us. I was hoping the chapter would be established somewhere off-campus. Ifwe’re ever going to be a sociall y stable school, we need the space to | attract broad-minded people. r .	, .	.	. .	(	Yet this move raises the stakes a
Some future Lambdas enjoy cruising the Bend	St patrick>s Day may
this is all about.” Other events planned for the union include roadtrips to Michigan, Indiana, and Valparaiso to perfect that fra-temity/sorority way of life. Also, the Lambda? will be provided with their very own section at all home football games. “What I’m really excited about is the Chicago-Lambda Alum program we’ll be starting,” said Tad. “When we graduate, we’ll help find housing forall Lambs in the Winnetka/ Northbrook area, and try to land everyone a job at Arthur Andersen. That way, we won’t even have to think about the real world and we can still go to mass together. The Lambda lifestyle will live ad infinitum!”
Ms. Plaidkiltsummcd up theday’s emotions well. “Finally we get to show those other chick dorms who's queen around here. This is definitely getting the old bold font on my resume!.”
However, not everyone is tickled pink about the idea. Michael Patrick Dennis O’Brien, president of Campus Alliance Against Uppity Dorms had a mixed a reaction. “In a way, I suppose it’s for the best. We can collect all of those people in one place, so as to easily avoid them. A large
witness some IRA-style random hits, if you know what I mean. Also, we’re going to secretly replace all of their Steve Miller albums with Mojo Nixon and Frank Zappa. So instead of ‘Jungle Love’ it’s ‘Debbie Gibson is Pregnant with My Two-Headed Love Child' or 'Catholic Girls’ blasting out their windows. We won’t live this down.”
And so it goes.	□
Editor's Note: Space constraints prohibit these authors from including more rash generalizatons about the members of these dormitories.- Apologies are made for neglecting theirfine abilities in a wide range of sports and drinking games.
SARCASTIC
I’m only 5’2”, but I can topple giants.
Catholic
Some call me sexy, but I’m more than that.
Upperclass
I don’t sweat, I perspire.
Irish
DomerWear™ only at Notre Dame only “on the campus
-University of Notre Dame “Irish” beret (pl 8) University of Notre Dame football ringbelt (p 1'1) ■ University of Notre Dame skate boots (p43) . University of Notre Dame trousermane (p36) Aoife Flynn is a student in the College of Business. Her number is 283-6092. She needs a life.
I never used to drink.
Catholic
I played Dungeons & Dragons in high school.
Upperclass
I am completely inept with the opposite sex.
Irish
DomerWear™ only at Notre Dame only “on the campus
The boots are R.O.T.C. issued.
The hair is a creation of University Hairstylist.
Theblazerdoesnotfitwell.
He is not drinking soda pop.
Mike O'Verdress is a student in the College of Arts and • Leisure.
His number is 283-7823. He needs a date.
APRIL 2,1992
7
CAMPUS DREAMS
A Day In the Life
By Vlad Drac
It was a typical mid-February South Bend day. I woke to the caress of the warm, Indiana sun on my face and sat up in my bed, briefly previewing in my mind what lay ahead of me for the day.
“Morning, Pete! Have a good sleep ?” my roommate beckoned from across our more than spacious chamber in the heart of Morrissey.
“It was superb to say the least, Michelle. How did your test go this morning ?” I asked as I rubbed my eyes and stumbled toward the medicine cabinet. “I think I did really well, thanks,” she said. “Chemistry wasn ’ t my strongest subject in high school, but since the class sizes here at Notre Dame are so darn small, all that time my professor can afford to spend with me has really paid off.”
“You5 ve said a mouthful,” I mumbled to her as I washed my face. I really felt good on this particular morning. But, then again, what couldn't I feel good about on any morning at Notre Dame ?
After a shower in our recently remodeled unisex bathroom, I threw on a clean pair of black leather pants and strapped on my dusty cowboy boots. As I threw on my “George Bush is Satan” t-shirt, I truly thanked God that I had come to Notre Dame, a place where no one would harrass me for wearing whatever I pleased. Nobody here seemed to be hung up about anything. Everyone just wanted to be an individual and we all accepted each other for it.
I was taken aback (but not for long however) when I stepped out on to South Quad and saw a crowd of at least fifteen hundred students scattered around several tables and packed in front of a stage that had been set up between Howard and South Dining Hall. I noticed that the tables were covered with jewlery, pottery, and statu
8
ettes from all over the world.
When a man stepped up to the microphone on stage and bellowed, “Up next, straight from South Africa, Ladysmith Black Mambazo” I figured out what all the commotion was about. ItwasNotre Dame’s annual Cultural Awareness Festival, an eventof gigantic proportions and one which the students had been talking about for weeks. My fellow Black, White, Asian, Native American and Hispanic brothers and sisters laughed and talked together as the musicians readied themselves on stage. I couldn’t help but look towards the glistening Golden Dome as I thanked all those who made Notre Dame the culturally diverse campus that I loved so dearly.
After purchasing an ebony necklace at the festival, I strolled down South Quad toward O’Shaughnessy Hall. Suddenly, I was nudged from behind. “Pete! How’s it going! ” It was Jeff Hutton, a friend of mine from Students for the Environment, the only student organization on campus bigger than the marching band. “Did you hear about the protest march goin’ down in front of the Dome tomorrow ?” Jeff inquired.
“No, I didn’t. What’s it about? Is the administration hasseling SUFR again ?”
“No,” he replied.’They know that the student body will not tolerate any such harrassment. This time they’re trying to cut funding for GLND/SMC, and everybody is just plain furious. Are you in ?”
“Need you ask?” I replied. Just like everyone else at Notre Dame, I was not going to tolerate the senseless persecution of my homosexual brethren. “I’ll be there.”
“Rats! This means I have to miss the USC game,” I thought to myself. But then I remembered: I had donated all my tickets to the annual Dillon Hall Tickets-for-the-Homeless Drive. This thought erased my fleeting disappointment. “Goshdang!” I thought. “What am I doing thinking about football when sexual freedom is at stake!” I was embarrassed.
After sitting through an enthrallling astrophysics class with Professor Sagan, I meandered over to South Dining Hall and ate a most scrumptious lunch. The dining hall workers, I remember on that day, were even nicer than their usual selves and provided service with a big smile. The filet mignon was beyond delectable, the Chardonnay was, as usual, pleascnt. The chefs, as always, sang the Victory March with unbridled enthusiasm as they cooked.
At the table, my friends and I talked of the big show at the J ACC that was set for that and the next night: a double bill of Dinosaur, Jr. and Mr.B ungle. “Those crazy college kids and the their m usic! ” m y mom would say.
“She’d much rather have us listening to Billy Joel, Garth Brooks or even Dcpcche Mode,” I told my friends.
“What kind of lame school does she think this is ?” my friends replied. “This is Notre Dame, dammit!” They could say that again. We at Notre Dame never settle for less. Especially when it comes to music.
As I walked back to my room that day, I remember breathing in the fresh Indiana air and thinking how awful it would be if it (the air that is) had for some reason been violated by some filthy, factory-produced stench. I don’t know how I would have handled it. I thanked heavens for South Bend’s clean air.
Back at my room, as I drifted off into sleep, Michelle read to mesomething about how some colleges and universities still had single-sex dorms, which caused tension between the genders and massive testosterone backups. “Thank God we don’t have to deal with that at Notre Dame,” I thought with a sigh of relief. I’m'sure that no such colleges exist, though, I reasoned. After all, you can never believe what you read in The Observer.	□
VladDrac is a leading sophomore who sits upon the unshakable throne of fortitude.
SARCASTIC
The Absurder
VOL. QKG NO.15342	THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1992
THE INDEPENDENT WASTEOFTREES SER VING NOTREDAME ANDSAINTM ARY'S
Crowd Pleaser.
Howie Mandel’s many fans pack Stepan Center during his recent performance. Don’t look for me in there, I was at the library studying with everyone else.
Scientist Gives Dull Speech
Extra Special to The Absurder
(Room 331 Cushing, Notre Dame (AP) -(naw just kidding)
This guy from Washington, or was he a pcrfessor? No, he was a perfessor because he had a white coat on. Well, anyway, he gave this really neato speech and physical demo on the Electromagnetic Effects of Zeta Rays being Transmutated in Green Jello in Cushing yesterday, so I went. Well, I didn’t want to go, but I figure if I want to be a journalist like my editor, I should. But I’m not an engineer, so I couldn’t make out
APRIL 2.1992
all the words on my tape recorder. But he was really nice, and kute, and he looked like he made a bundle. But he had a German accent so forget it He kept shouting “Achtung Ach Bicht Nicht!!” or sump’n.
Well, he shot the stuff through the Jello and I guess it worked. But I fell asleep until the goop exploded and I got it on my shoe. I hope they pay me back for that. Now I have this stuff on my shoo and it don’t even ’ match. But, to sum up, I think it worked. Zeta rays go through green Jello, so when you’re at Emst&Young next year, bring that up at the office Christmas party and
you’ll look really really on the ball. I’m gettin tired so I’ll stop now. Read me next week when I get to go to the Dome and write "A Day in the Life of the Monkster."
APRoundupBriefs:
president Bush; shot
Worldwide Destruction Starts Tdfri'oK ?
.row .
' Pope Say's Birth ConU-oi OK M;.	'
Life Discovered Oh Mars: They Hath / Steve Urkle Too! T ’ j? :?• >	i
No;Clintbn R^velatidnsTodayr?'''
9
BLINDSIDE COLUMN
We R Independent
Hi. It’s me again, but with a new hairstyle. You like? I thought so. Now, before you flip over to sports and disregard, my views, let me just say I’m not going to splather you with my conservative Indiana Republican I wish-I-was-Marilyn Qualye speech for the 39th time, but only the 4th time as the Big Cheese of the Big Oh (even though Marilyn has great hair and nice big horse teeth and she ain’t into that PC gunk that I mention every 5 seconds). That might seem like a run-on sentence but it ain’t.
Moning Slant
Big Cheese
Iguesslcouldtalkabouttheevilnessofcondomsandthoseunderl8. Why, they shouldn’t even think about touching a condom until they’re at least 35. If they had a condom in school then they might start havin sexual thoughts and that’s not right. AIDS, that’s the ticket. That’s how we do things here in the Hoosier state and that‘s how it goes for you, too, even if you are from California. Today, let’s talk INDEPENDENCE. See, we here at The Absurder are on the radical side even if we don’tappear so because we have something that no one else has - INDEPENDENCE. That’s why we’re the INDEPENDENT daily serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s silly! Such a stong word on our banner means we can do whatever we want, even taunt the administration. We’ll investigate and uncover the dark and seemy side of the golden dome, although usually we like to congratulate a really neato group like Young Republicans for a job well done and then tell everyone else that they’re really apathetic and should be more like them. Why, it’s justnot nice to say bad things about the administrators who provide us with large sums of money and office space and review our spending policies and even censor us once in a while. COOPS! That didn’t sound very INDEPENDENT did it? Well, disregard that man behind the curtain and listen, will ya? Bullet’s change thesubjectandtalkaboutsomethinglknow all about - me! I like journalism cause you get to write a lot but it doesn’t have to make sense like an English paper and everyone gets to know you after a while. I really like newspapers because, contrary to popular belief, CNN and the New York Times are not going to swallow them all up. I hate ihatTedTumer (not just cause he’s married to JaneFonda) and boy do I hate New York because they think Indiana is part of Canada and they sure don’t like Dan Qualye. Shame! What else can I persuade you to believe in? Oh, campus news. That’s our goal - to tell you everything that never goes on around here. But we like it when you call us up and tell us what’s going on. That makes it easy. But these views are mine, not The Absurder’s, even though they probably are both. I belter stop now or else we’ll have to cut that story on God quad women’s floor hockey that you need to make it thorugh the next 24 hours until we meet again, in the rose-colored world of me and my fellow power position buds. Sec you on Tuesday!
The views expressed in the blindside column are those of the author, but we at The Absurder all pretty much agree with them.
Insecurity Beat
April 14, 1992	■W	?
;3:42 a.m. -Some kid called.upthisgirl inS^ 4ew8-thihgsJn 4he-phohe after a oight at Q ; claimed to' bb: '’Jimmy Hi-ho" or someth ing.: But I seen it imake
Irisbcurity beat before he gf^uate^
not'putting:	5	j •< •. ■ <;;; • VL: f
Hi p.m? Notre'Dame Gecunty-responded; to ;2:putgQjng;st^	campusjpubli^^
reighwasirHhetf^
were; found swillihg so me • Night T rain; and quizz^
•ptherpn: Render Studied
" finished it, Jhen bashed"them over'the-hbad withHt; kids; bhouldnft d^
•bonTyguTead Dula^
<bambth^:Weib^
Tagaiobh Bluel^^
Td.like;topebtRi^ and you; carf top/<<:.:;	j ??; ■
.j^arcO^W
Jmales wrestling^	physical injury ogcuibd:
.bui brbjst^	: men tally-har’nied^
■becamevisibly excite^
t^: tdes:ptMaich?^Ai( hail
Lost
I lost my sense of coolness that I had in high school somewhere between Orientation and yesterday. If found call Binky, X8888.
I lost my Barn Jacket in Jeff’s room, but he’s holding it ransom to prove he broke parietals with me. Sick, huh? If you know or live near Jeff, give him a clue and me a call.
Tickets	.	. .
Free, I said free, tix to see El Presidente George Bush at MY GRADUATION. Had 16, but no family will come now. Bad, bad, even if this paper says it’s good, good. Come over to Turtle Creek 5/17 for selections from Diaries of Mario M. Cuomo, viewing of Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, and serious swillin'.
Persona!
No one gives two dookies about whatever the Lizard King and Clam woman have to say 111
Top Ten Spring Break Quotes from Titzhangin, Mexico 10) Is that a mayonnaise stain? Ewwww!!!!
9) Was that low tide or... Oh no! Open that %$#&* window !l!
8) Wait, I think I'm sitting on someone’s snorkel!
7) Now that we’re on break, can I tell you I’m in GLAND/ SMAK?
6) That’s no tequila worm, I used that last night!
5) Jinkies! My Funderwear™ melted. Damn Titzhangin humidity!
4) If we're out of lotion, then what’s that you're spreading on my back?
3) Skeezix, right turn, you dork!
2) How was your time with Conchita last night? Hey, what's that festering canker on your lip?
1) Skeezix, left turn, you dork!
10
SARCASTIC
SNOOZE STORY
Burtchaell Named Notre
Dame Man of the Year
Former provost praised for his caring attitude and
personal concern for his students
by Knoss E. Personality
Former university provost Fr. James Burtchaell, was named the university’s Man of the Year last week, said university president Edward A. Malloy, on the basis of his caring and personal concern for his students. Fr. Burtchaellaccepted theaward with pleasure, saying, “This is one of the
phone number so we could call him at any time.”
Another student, a member of GLND/ SMC (pronounced Gland Smack) said, “Fr. Burtchaell was always kind to me whenever I went to him for counseling. He invariably greeted me warmly and invited me into his room. But I never interpreted it in a sexual manner until he showed me
was needed between the faculty and students. “I make sure to get in touch with my students’ feelings, and I try to stay in close, personal contact with them even after their graduation from the university.”
Whilea membcrof the faculty, Burtchaell could be spotted all over the campus. He especially enjoyed “hanging out” at LaFortune with various groups of students.
greatest honors ever bestowed upon me. My students here at the University of Notre Dame mean so much to me; I have always tried to involve myself in all aspects of their lives.”
Malloy told an anonymous source at The Observer, Notre Dame’s independent waste of trees, that B urtchaell was unanimously chosen, despi te his recently marred reputation at the university, due to allegations of sexual harassment by some of his students last semester. However, he will not be reinstated to the faculty of the university.
Last December, the National Catholic Reporter stated that “During the 1989-90 academic year, several students, independent of one another, confided to a priest in the theology department that they had been sexually harassed or abused by Burtchaell.” Shortly afterward, Burtchaell resigned from the university.
Burtchaell will return to Notre Dame April 1 to
One student commented, “I agree that something should be done about Fr. Burtchaell, yet I don’t think he should resign. The man has a problem, but he is still a good teacher. I took his class, and he really seemed to care about me. He invited • us over all the time, and he gave us his
accept his award.
his subscription to Adam & Eve magazine. Maybe I should have thought twice about his intentions.”
Burtchaell was unavailable for comment on his resignation, yet he will return to the Notre Dame campus on April 1, 1992 to receive the award. Hedidsay, though, that he thought a great deal more interaction
He once said that one of his dreams was to have a weekly spot deejaying a show on Notre Dame’s alternative radio station, WVFI. Burtchaell named Van Halen’s hit “Hot for Teacher” and The Police’s “Don’t Stand So Close to Me” as two of his favorite songs of the 1980’s.
Burtchaell’s involvement with the University of Notre Dame began in 1951asastudentofphilosophy. His freshman year roommate was rendered speechless upon hearing the news of Burtchaell’s resignation. “I guess I should have turned out the lights when I changed my clothes,” he quietly said.
Yet the allegations against Burtchaell were not considered serious enough to refuse him the Man of the Year Award. One committee member who voted for Burtchaell said, “He may have abused the students’ trust, but he was there for
them in his own way. He truly cared, which is the most important criteria for the recipient of the award. I cannot condemn him for his actions when so many professors only know their students as ID numbers or a grade point average. He was concerned with the person inside the student not the student inside the pcrson.”Q

APRIL 2,1992
11
ON OUR CAMPUS
HPC Gluttony Results in Death
HPC member chokes on pizza slice
Salty Bighead, a member of the Hall President's Council, was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Joseph’s Hospital after a meeting/foodfest in Morrissey. “Well, I’m not that surprised,” said Jenny Prude, another HPC member. “It’s very competitive at our meetings. Everyone fights over the food until it runs out. I saw Sally reach for that sixth piece, and I knew he was in trouble. He had the other five in his mouth! So much for an agenda. We didn’t even get to the Way-Cool Alcohol Story of the Week (“Cindy, didn’t you get soo-o-o-o wasted with Biff at Commons?”) or Check out my new Haircut/Shirt (“I got it in Chicago”) portions. Plus they cancelled dessert in respect for him, but that was a close 3-2 vote with 13 abstentions. Next week is quiche in Knott. What are they thinking? I don’t even like quiche!” Ina related story, HPC is up for an award nomination for student money well spent, but SUB is expected to clinch the honor.
Name Diversity at Notre Dame
USA Today surveys returned
In USA Today's study concerning the University of Notre Dame, some interesting statistics were revealed. Below are a few of the less publicized ones. (Sorry, no more cute graphics available).
*	89% are from Illinois or Massachusetts
*	99% attended every football game in 1991
*	1% went on a lascivious adventure to another state besides
Michigan on a school night during their four years
*	77% will return to visit within one year
*	92% had at least two cute nicknames to distinguish them from others with the same name
*	62% of those nicknames were Lush or Meat
Anti-Domer stress management offered
In response to increasing friction between the Domer-fried breed and everyone else at Notre Dame, a stress management center has been established in Theodore’s by University Counseling. At the center, campus members at their wit’s end can orally vent their complaints and receive acceptance and loving from fellow sufferers. “I thought I was the only one who got hives when I interacted with them,” said Tennessee Jack, a LaForlune frequenter. “I know I’m not now. With my medication and counseling, I should be able to leave LaForlune and go back to class real soon.” Ata recent session, one female student told of her addicition. “My name’s Suzy, I’m from Chicago, and I’m a Domer. I’ve made great progress with this terrible addiction, though. I’ve overcome denial, and even had an original thought or two in the past month. Just last week I... I... (cries) threw out my plaid flannel Notre Dame bookstore pants. Gosh this is hard. I’m also working on not going back to Bridget’s. Thank you.” Special 6-hour sessions are held immediately following school breaks when many students experience diversity, and longing, at their friends’ schools. The group hopes to gain university recognition in time for their candlelight demonstration against An Tostal.
Pre-laws admit reasons/abandon profession In a shocking disclosure last week, the 6,000 member Pre-Law Society came face to face with their actual intentions and renounced the law profession in favor of the real world. As part of the ceremony^ each pre-law had to fill out and sign a statement reading: “I, state your name, a pre-law student, admit that the reasons I chose this career path were lack of original alternative and the dual opportunity to make large amounts of money and still help people. I agree to continue my Goyernmcnt/PLS major and enter the job market upon graduation. Lord knows there’s a few too many lawyers in a recession.” An anonymous officer of the pre-law program was in shock. "Let’s just hope the pre-meds don’t hear about this,” she said.	□
Edited by Vernon Dupree
12
SARCASTIC
NEWS-LIKE STORY
‘The Dead SUD/T&C Scrolls
It is only recently that campus organizations such as SUB (Student Union Bored) and HPC (Hall Presidents’ Cookout) have come under intense criticism for their actions. As a public service, we at Sarcastic would like to present, for the first time, the O’Hara’s Commission’s findings on these two organizations. The following excerpts from official transcripts of actual meetings have never been made public until now. Sarcastic owes special thanks to Mr. Oliver Stone for his contribution to this report and his expertise in distorting relevant facts. Sarcastic’s official policy is to withhold the names of the parties involved unless anyone really wants to know who they are.	•
SUB, September 11,1991,7:04 p.m.:
Person A: (missing portion)... then she says, “You mean there are sixty-eight more of those?”
(General laughter and guffawing)
Person B: Good one, A. OK, guys, we need to pick some acts for the upcoming year. Any suggestions?
Person A: Don Knotts!
Person C: Bart Simpson!
Person Q: Long Dong Silver!
Person D: Erik Estrada!
PerosnE: Public Enemy!
Person T: RexRakow!
Person F: Doug Henning and his World of Illusion!
PcrosnA: Luke Perry. He’s dreamy...
Person C: Mimes!
Person B: Ooooh, those are good... but, uh ... will the students think any of those dudes are ... you know ... fresh?
Person A: Definitely.
PerosnD: Oh yeah.
Person E: No problem.
(Missing portion)
Person A: I move to adjourn. If we leave now, we can make it over to the HPC meeting before the fifth course.
Person B: Adjourned.
HPC, Decembers, 1991,7:30 p.m.
President A: (unidentifiable noises) ... is really (unintelligible) good grub!
President B: (unintelligible)... almost as good as Trough Night last week...
(Loud, retching noises)
PresidentC: Ooohhhhh ... unngghhhh ... sorry, guys.
President A: Don’t worry about it C. Are you gonna finish that?
(Rest of tape missing)
APRIL 2,1992	.
SUB, January 25,1992,8:15 p.m.
Person A: Well, I’ve never heard of them, but it seems we’re getting the Mulch and Lanny Kermits.
Person B: How much do they want?
Person A: Ummm... I’m not quite sure, do you think I should’ve asked?
(Slightly uncomfortable pause)
Person B: Naaaahhhh.
HPC, February 2,1992,11:55 p.m.
PresidentC (on the phone): Yeah, Papa John’s? ThisistheHPC. The usual. And if you skimp on the cheese this time, tell Papa J that we’ll take our business elsewhere. He’ll have a hard time putting his kids through school without us ... Yeah, you better apologize, buster ... (unintelligble)
President A: It’s good to be president. (Loud, belching noises)
SUB, March 15,1992,8:34 p.m.
Person A: (unintelligble) ... then he says, “Is that a banana in your pocket, or are you just happy to hear my confession?”
(General laughter and guffawing)
Person B: Tonight, people, we need some slogans for AnTostal. Let’s get pumped! Remember, we want to make this the wildest, nuttiest, sesquisentennialist AnTostal that ever existed. Here’s my idea: AnTostal: Because it’s very fun and you'll like it.
Person A: That’s good, but how about: AnTostal: Better than a mild case of diarrhea.
Person C: Or, AnTostal: See how we’ re spending your money.
Person D: Too Honest AnTostal: Where apathy meets mud.
Person A: AnTostal: Not nearly as painful as groin pull.
Perosn B: That’s stupid. IKnow! AnTostal:In the redbutnotyet dead.
Person C: AnTostal: We do it for our resume. What's your excuse?
Person B: Well, I think we have a lot of fine ideas. We’ll meet again next week, but I think we’ve worked hoard enough for one night. Anyone hungry?
(End of tape)
13
A/D zHeLL
3ocK
jezxk\ -lovin’,
i'e4- 0-9.Q Ci'nen^o/i't
(kip cup. v'^et be Su.rgi‘ca((^ rc'tV\o<Jejk
Deqcl	pot-^nnokin
’, C(ul 2l3-
- Vol V^SwagoiA - c^riy/l^, S’anAe^S'fock - Sportn’ Gtw.cH'et'W^laAT. riAj - ujeajvih.*) Cam.e^ 5ynok«\v;, ac O<xS-Ar<- ^Cu'^OA. - s+ru.nA^i^/
%9 }JCM ~h>ixcv\Q^ n-xoHxe^ but
Chea^'	CX^ha
- bo<A^ a(wu5 (^ins^
a
0
KMe	t^San
- IW^
nla-7^ /oo^


p^-hroAi2 in1, o (gAnic-
a nQ st. - li^ rncuiKfin^ nnajor - de^pisi n •• • •
JriVe.	h'Vcrw^'s ^6	{xr
'Mac	ih
their
a^et^'cS
S-f.mulM	^rgo-^
Cell-bfblo^ piduw?*.
prc7lopla5(i>A
- ex4u$-Roe cor\
/'optcs: G^lfv\c^Tt
XRS y/AD; bm\aJ
THANK YOU NOTRE DAME
for your support and patronage over our first decade of serving you the best of Italian cuisine.
artd» 6
jfr -
IX '
r
i -
"The Italian Ristorante"
1412 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46617
To show our appreciation, just for you*, APRIL ’92 is our $4.00 PASTA FESTIVAL!!
(*administators, alumni, faculty & students)
Just show your Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID when you order (sorry one time only), and enjoy a Parisi's dream dinner of Italy's favorite pastas:

*Cappeletti	*Pasta All Aglio
*Fettuccine Alfredo .	E Olio
*Linguini	*Ravioli
*Mostaccioli	*Spaghetti
*Pasta con Ricotta	*Tortellini

OPEN FOR DINNER: -
TUESDAY-SUNDAY: 4PM TO 11PM
NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH:
MONDAY-FRIDAY: 11AM-2PM
PARISI'S a Notre Dame neighbor in more ways than one, offering an exclusive view of your skyline and a fine dining opportunity of Calibrian cuisine in an ambiance made for you.
GRAZIE! Roberto Parisi, owner/host
For reservations or banquet information:
Phone 232-4244 or FAX 232-4257
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 titles)
16
SARCASTIC
Wolfbane
Distributed by Tribune Media Services
.UJB at the movies
FMTSM
Thursday, April 2 8 PM & 10:30 PM
BUGS/
Friday, April 3
Saturday, April 4 8 PM & 10:30 PM