• 2
>&^HE SCHOLASTIC has often been embarrassed because of its limitations. And so it is not surprising that it finds it-se|f inadequate to express what it feels at this holy season of Christ's birth. Thus, it begs to be allowed to summarize its sentiments in one word—the Word Made Flesh. May It express that for which the SCHOLASTIC cannot find phrasing and may It come with all Its power and beauty and purity to all the faculty, the students and their relatives.
^he cNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
IltBllilllllllillHlIllltlllllllllHIIttlllltlllllllllllltllllllllllUllllllliaillllltlilllllllttHllllliUllllillltUllllllll

THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS -	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor JAMES F. McCarthy -	-	- Feature Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI -	-	-	-	- The Crow’s Nest
ARTHUR MOSHER, -RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART -	-	-	-	- The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL
RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. ' -	- Faculty Advisor
M. E. VARGA -	-	-	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
At the University of Kansas, an assistant in a psychology laboratory, strapped six electrodes to the front, sides, and back of his head to record the fluctuations of his brain while he received a kiss. The experiment indicated that the brain is affected only slightly during a kiss . . . No comment, only that out in Lawrence girls must not kiss the way they do in South Bend.
★
Nurse: I think that he’s regaining consciousness.
Doctor: He just tried to blow the foam off his medicine.
Queen’s Journal
From Syracuse University we hear that one of the professors there has compared the four years of college life to Shakespeare’s plays.
Freshman Year—“Comedy of Errors.”
Sophomore Year—“Much Ado About Nothing.”
Junior Year—“As You Like It.”
Senior Year—“All’s Well That Ends Well.”
He: How about a little kiss, honey?
She: No, I can’t; my lips are chapped.
He: Oh well, one more chap won’t hurt.
Utah State Student Life
★
Sure Signs That Shoe Rationing Is Over
An ad in the Tulane Hulabuloo: “Will the girl who left her shoes in the Hulabuloo office please come and claim them?”
From the Southern Cal Daily Trojan: “Lost—one pair men’s shoes in front of Sigma Nu House. Reward.”
The girl probably just wished to be comfy, but the lad just couldn’t stop to pick up his footwear!
Prof: Doakes, were you ever a Boy Scout?
Stude: Yes, until I was sixteen. Then I became a girl scout.
Siena News
From the Creightonian we hear about the freshman girl in religion class who remarked that as a result of war casualties there will be more women than men in the country.
“No there won’t,” replied the instructor. “During wartime, God always sees that more boy babies are born than girld.”
“But Father, we can’t marry those babies,” was the despondent reply.
A trifle fussier than St. Mary’s girls, we fear.
. *
An ad in the Miami Student reads—
Wanted: One blonde—5' 4"—110 Pounds—Object Date.
How come the weight limit? Is he dating her in an Austin? Freshman—I don’t know.
Sophomore—Pm not prepared.
Junior—I don’t remember.
Senior—I don’t believe I could add anything to what has already been said.	Ball State News
A Concluding Note
And the girl said when, she left the party hurriedly, “I’m losing my punch.”	• Butler Collegian
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 86
DECEMBER 21. 1945
No. 6
Three From Notre Dome
Going to NFCCS Meet
The Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., and two students on the campus, Frank Grimaldi and Jerry Wayno, will attend the national council meeting of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, to be held at Webster College near St. Louis on Dec. 28 and 29.
The national executive secretary of NFCCS has asked Father Cunningham to attend the meeting to act as advisor to the committee for the establishment of national commissions in the organization. The Federation is made up of Catholic colleges and universities throughout the United States. The nation is divided into regions which include colleges in designated areas. Regions are made up of a varying number of schools. Notre Dame is a member of the Fort Wayne Region which is made up of six institutions in southern Michigan and northern Indiana. The purpose of the federation is to unite—through the regional set-ups and the national organ — the various phases of Catholic activity on the Catholic campuses throughout the country.
An effort is being made to re-activate the local council of NFCCS on the Notre Dame campus. At the St. Louis meeting, as president of the veterans club, Jerry Wayno will attempt to obtain the national commission on Veterans Affairs for Notre Dame. Grimaldi will serve as the senior delegate for the Fort Wayne • Region.
The Student Council
The Student Council announced the appointment of John St. Germain, Alumni hall representative, as chairman of the Student Activities committee at a meeting on Dec. 14. All campus activities that pertain to the general student body, such as dances, must be approved by the activities committee of the Student Council. John Cauley was selected by Charles Bartlett, president of the Council, to take charge of the cheer leaders.
The Student Council holds weekly meetings every Wednesday at 5:15 p.m. in Room 1 of the Law Building.
Fr. Connerton named Administrator of New C.S.C. College; Fr. Thornton is Registrar
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., has assumed his new duties as Registrar at Notre Dame, succeeding the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., who left Notre Dame last week for Wilkes-Barre, Pa., where he will act as administrator of King’s College, a new school being established by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Rev. Tames W. Connerton. C.S.C.
Father Thornton, a native of Birmingham, Ala., was stationed at Sacred Heart parish, New Orleans, for three months preceding his appointment as Registrar. For a year prior to that he acted as secretary to the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., present Bishop of Buffalo, and former Military Ordinary of -New York.
After receiving a Bachelor of Science in Commerce degree from Notre Dame in 1929, Father Thornton held a position with the Guaranty Trust Company of New York City. He began his studies for the priesthood in September 1938, and was ordained in June 1944. Shortly after, he was named secretary to Bishop O’Hara. In his new post, he will have charge of affairs concerned with the admission of new students to Notre Dame.
Father Connerton will handle the organization of King’s College, which will offer a regular arts and letters curriculum. The school is being founded at the request of church officials in the East, and Father Connerton will become its first president when organization work is completed.
The new college, named in honor of Christ the King, will reside temporarily in the downtown district of Wilkes-Barre, in quarters vacated by the Business Department of Bucknell Junior College. The building became diocesan property about a year ago. It is hoped that in time it will occupy its own campus in Kingston, a pleasant suburb about 6 miles from Wilkes-Barre.
Father Connerton, bom in Binghamton, N. Y., majored in English while a student at Notre Dame and was graduated in 1920 with a Bachelor of Literature degree. He took one year of graduate work at Notre Dame which he followed up with further research at the Catholic University of America. He was ordained in 1926. In addition to being Registrar, a position he held since 1941, Father Connerton was superior of Moreau. Seminary from 1931 to 1937, and master of novices from 1937 to 1938 at St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana. He was especially noted for the major role he played in the reintroduction of Gregorian music into church services throughout the Middle West.
—J. Tinkle
MASS CLUB CALENDAR
Friday Evening. Dec. 21—Vigilary Preparation for the Fourth Sunday of Advent — 7:15. Cavanaugh Hall Chapel.
Saturday Morning, Dec. 22 — Dialogue Mass of Saturday — 6:50 sharp. B.V.M. Chapel. Sacred Heart Church.
AU students invited to participate in these meetings.
5
VETS COMMUNION BREAKFAST
By TED HANEY
Strange things were happening last Sunday morning. At 7:30, a small corps of men could be seen rushing through the halls of Baden, Sorin, Walsh, Dillon the halls of Badin, Sorin, Walsh, Dillon and Alumni, seemingly like SS troops bent on a fiendish mission. There was a common pattern to their movements. They would descend upon a room, burst in upon an innocently slumbering gentleman back from the wars, snap on his light, open his window from top to bottom, tear the bed clothes from his shivering, huddled figure, and stand back awaiting signs of life. If he did not move, they would shake him unmercifully, as the first sergeant shakes the unwary yardbird. Eyes would hardly be open, when the intruder would snap, “Hit the deck. Vet’s Mass at eight sharp!”
The Church began to enfold the hurrying, half-awake figures in great numbers as Father J. Hugh O’Donnell started for the Altar in the rose-colored vestments of Laetare Sunday. When he turned to sing the first “Dominus Vobiscum,” the whole congregation answered as one man, “Et cum spiritu tuo.” That was only the beginning and probably to their own. surprise, they carried on from there and sang the whole “Mass of the Angels” which so many had learned from the Sisters back in grade school.
Father William Craddick delivered the sermon for the occasion, stressing the great role of charity, to give to others for the love of Christ. They had learned to give of themselves in the Service, now they were giving to their fallen comrades in Service, the perfect Christmas Gift of Mass and Communion.
The dawn patrol had done its work well. At Communion time, some 420 Vets approached the rail to receive the King of Peace. Once more there was that common thrill of corporate union with Christ, men strong together, with the strength of Christ.
Shortly after Mass they were together again, this time in the West dining hall, standing before tables that were decked with table cloths, linen napkins, and plates to make the occasion really memorable. (Mr. Ford deserved a box of cigars for this gesture. The Vets saw that he got them too!)
Everyone was feeling expansive by the time Chairman Jerry Wayno stepped to the mike to introduce the President of the University. Father O’Donnell congratulated the Vets upon the way that they had responded to an old Notre Dame tradition. His main point was a discussion of compulsory military con
scription, a matter which he explained to the Vets in the background of philosophical and sociological implications. He urged them to give their serious thought and attention to this matter, and delivered to them the results of his own serious reflections.
The Vice President, Father John Cavanaugh, next added the lighter touch by recounting a selection of anecdotes in his own inimitable way. Father Theodore Hesburgh, Chaplain of the Vets Club, concluded the speaking program by congratulating the co-chairmen, Matt Sied--lecki and Bill Braun, upon the splendid work which they and their commando staff had accomplished. He also told the Club the text of the Christmas Card which they were sending to the parents of all deceased Notre Dame Vets: “Several hundred Veterans of Notre Dame are offering Mass and receiving Communion in a body this month, and every month thereafter, as long as there are Vets at Notre Dame, for your dear deceased Veteran. We pray that at Christmas time, the Prince of Peace may fill your hearts with the fullness of His Peace which your son so valiantly earned by his supreme sacrifice.”
Other guests at the breakfast were Father John J. Lane, Director of Veterans’ Affairs, Counsellor Mr. Edward Quinn, and Grand Knight Mr. Peter Niemeth.
BARBER SHOP NOTE
The Notre Dame Barber Shop in Badin Hall will be closed Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of Christmas week.
A wish for a Happy Christmas is extended by . . . BILL, the Barber
FOR JOURNALISTS
An important reorganization meeting of the University Press Club will be held at 7:30 in room 116 of the Main Building on Wednesday evening. January 2. This club is made up in the main of students who are on The SCHOLASTIC staff, but all who are interested in journalism are invited to attend.
Arrangements are being made to have a man prominent in the field of journalism as a speaker for the evening. Plans are being formed for a weekly meeting of the club on Friday nights at which coffee and donuts will be served and speakers will appear on special occasions.
N.D. Publicity
Director Resigns
J. Walter Kennedy, Notre Dame’s publicity director since July, 1943, has left his position here to become vice-president of the Scholastic Sports Institute, Ltd., of New York City. He signed a two-year contract and has assumed his new duties on Dec. 15, with offices in New York.	-
The newly-organized Scholastic Sports Institute is headed by G. Herbert McCracken, for many years head football coach at Lafayette College, and at present vice-president of Scholastic Publications. The Institute will offer a new and authoritative service to those responsible for maintaining high standards in interscholastic athletics.
Mr. Kennedy is a native of Stamford, Conn., where he received his early education. He was graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in journalism. After a two-year term as athletic director and football coach at St. Basil’s Preparatory School in Connecticut, he became associated with the Macmillan Publishing company of New York City, and was special representative of the firm in educational and promotional work for five years.
During these years he also was closely associated with athletics as a football official, and was for four years the president of the Stamford, Conn., baseball league. He and his wife have two children.
When the Scholastic went to press, the University had not appointed a new publicity director.
Dr. Ovid M. Ray Joins
Department of Biology
Capt. Ovid M. Ray, at present on terminal leave from the Air Corps, AUS, has been appointed Assistant Professor of Biology. Prior to his military service as aviation physiologist, Dr. Ray was Assistant Professor of Zoology at North* Dakota State College at Fargo. He received his training (A.B. and M.A. degrees) at Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa, and his doctorate (Ph.D.) at the University of Iowa, at Iowa City.
His scientific interests lie in the fields of animal physiology and biochemistry and are attested by his published contributions dealing with different types of radiation and their effects on enzyme production and activation during embryonic growth and development. Dr. Ray is a member of several scientific societies and of Sigma Xi, as well as the American Society of Zoologists.
6
Three ROTC Officers
To Get Discharges
The NROTC unit will lose three more officers shortly after Christmas. The officers claiming their discharges are: Lieut. D. H. Doub, Lieut. C. R. Tomlin and Lieut, (jg) W. H. Lemm.
Lieut Doub was commissioned in April, 1943, at Princeton University where he attended indoctrination school and later taught Ordnance and Gunnery. His next assignment was that of instructor in the Gunnery Department of the former Midshipman School. In November, Lieut. Doub was transferred to the officer’s roster for the NROTC unit. His duties since that time have included: head of the ordnance department, education service officer, and member of the academic board. Mr. Doub possesses 43 points. His intentions after receiving his coveted “ruptured duck” is to return to his prewar profession which was that of teachei-at Marquette School in South Bend.
Lieut. C. R. Tomlin, who will relinquish his duties of disciplinary officer, first lieut., drill officer, 1st battalion officer, and member of the academic board, has accumulated a total of 43% points. He received his commission in October, 1942, at Princeton University, and from there proceeded to Norfolk, Va., where he was assigned to an LST. He has also served as aide to the executive officer at the Camp Bradford Amphibious Training Base and was stationed on the USS. Myles C. Knox, a destroyer. He first reported to Notre Dame, Jan. 1, 1945, and was a battalion commander and parade officer for the midshipman unit. Mr. Tomlin will return to his home town of Atlanta, Ga., after receiving his discharge and will start a chain of stores featuring self-service laundry machines.
Lieut. (jg) W. H. Lemm has had one of the most exciting and dangerous jobs in the U. S. Navy. Previous to his reporting at Notre Dame Mr. Lemm was a PT boat commander in the South Pacific. He is the proud possessor of 43 points. Lieut. Lemm was commissioned July 1, 1943. He has been an instructor in Seamanship and Navigation for both the midshipman school and the NROTC unit.
Attend Engineering Meet
Professor Raymond Schubmehl, assist-ane dean of the College of Engineering, and Professor W. L. Shilts, head of the Department of Civil Engineering, attended the annual meeting of the Indiana Engineering Council at Indianapolis on Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. The program included addresses by the Honorable Ralph F. Gates, governor of Indiana; R. H. Tyndall, mayor of Indianapolis; and various prominent engineers.
Most Yule-tide Customs Originated in Germany, N.D. Archivist Relates
By DAVE DAVIES
Christmas brings to mind the fact that most of our cherished traditions have originated in Europe. Germany has provided a rich source for many yuletide customs. Mindful of this, I paid a visit to Mrs. Haas, the gracious and scholarly assistant in the archives of the University library. Mrs. Haas was born and received her early education in Bavaria, the Catholic stronghold of Germany, and so she is especially familiar with Catholic practices at Christmas. An accomplished folklorist, she made the time speed by quickly as she related story after story.
The spirit of Christmas comes early with the Feast of Saint Nicholas on December 6th. (Prior to his death in the year 343, Saint Nicholas was a Bishop in Asia Minor.) On this day all the children of the community have one foot in heaven, for it is the day when the ruddy old Saint, dressed in full episcopal attire, with crozier in hand, comes to catechize them on what they have learned in the village school. If the answers are satisfactory, and it would seem that all of them usually are, the Saint rewards the children with glazed fruits, candy, gilded nuts, and other sweet things which fill his bag. At the Saint’s side stands Ruprecht, his much-feared servant. He is a hideous creature who roams the streets in search of bad children. A heavy chain drags at his feet. But he has few if any children to carry away.
The most important day of the entire celebrations is Christmas Eve. During the day, youngsters travel from church to church visiting cribs. For them Christmas Eve must be a day of infinite length. In the late afternoon their noses are pressed against the frosty windows and their eyes are eagerly scanning the sky for some glimpse of the Christ Child ’ making His journey to earth.
Although the Christmas tree is set up about December 10th, the children are not allowed to see its shining glory until Christmas Eve. It is kept in a locked room. About five o’clock in the evening the mother enters the room and shortly after rings a small bell to indicate that the Christ-Child had already come and gone on His mission of giving gifts. If a child is unusually alert, he might just catch sight of the Holy Child as He disappears through a window. The presents, which are never wrapped, are stored beneath the tree. It is customary for each person to receive a large plate of oranges, candy, and nuts which will last him fqr several weeks.
Blooming trees were used before pine trees. Ordinarily they were put in a heated but rarely used room about December’ 1st so as to blossom on Christmas Day. The origin of the pine tree may be Swedish, but this is not certain. Tradition has it that a Swedish officer during the Thirty Years’ War was wounded at Leipzig, and at Christmas time in .gratitude for his recovery put up a tree in the church (1632). It is recorded that Christmas trees were already in vogue at Strassbourg as early as 1605 but that no lights were used. In England, the “burning bush” was introduced by Prince Albert, the German consort of Queen Victoria, in 1840. Ger-man immigrants popularized it in America.
Like good Catholics everywhere, the Bavarians avail themselves of the privileges of the “jejunium gaudiosum” on Christmas Eve—the joyous fast. Center of the meal is the traditional carp. And for an interesting entree, a devilled egg with a tomato slice on top is served. Therein lies a hoary superstition. The egg is supposed to resemble a highly poisonous mushroom but due to the holiness of the night its effect cannot work. And so evil is foiled and good luck and health ensues.
At midnight on Christmas Eve, all an- ■ imals in the stables receive the gift of speech in honor of the part the ox and the ass played in the crib of Bethlehem. On the stroke of twelve, they kneel and adore the Christ-Child and speak to one another of an ancient honor. But only a virtuous soul, free from mortal stain, can hear and understand them. It is on this night that all ghosts and evil spirits lose their power.
Christmas Day is marked by the visiting of friends and relatives. Dinner boards groan under huge burdens of food —pigs’ heads, roast geese, Lebkuchen colored and sugar-frosted Spengerle, and best of all, Pfeffemiisse!
Commerce Forum
The regular meeting of the Commerce Forum was held on Tuesday evening, Dec. 18. Bill Schmid, the speaker for the evening, gave a paper on “Chain Store Organization.” He tried to show the overall, rather than the individual, evils of the chain store organizations.
The speech was an effort to present all sides of the picture—the chain stores, the independent retailer, and especially the middlemen, which includes all who earn their livelihood by serving others engaged in the field of distribution.
7
'"Variety Show" Scores Big Success
Jack Gariepy. Bob Olcese and Jack Fitzpatrick
Billy Hassett, Frank Gilhooley and Tom Potter
Old Washington Hall rocked with rhythm and quaked with laughter, on Thursday and Friday nights, Dec. 13th and 14th, as Frank Kowalski and Jack Galloway presented their all-student “Variety Show” before two enthusiastic crowds which filled the ancient auditorium to near capacity.
Chief attraction of the show was the 14-piece Cavaliers Orchestra which provided a backdrop for the individual acts and presented some smooth arrangements of currently popular tunes. Up front for the Cavaliers were sax-players Pat Wagner, Joe Newman, Ronald Mur-ter, Jack Gariepy, and Jim Butler, and trombonists Jack Fitzpatrick and Bill McBride. The rhythm section was composed of Bob Waterbury, Ben Smith, Joe Kenny, and Maurice Tessin; Bob Olcese, Tom Balenti, and Jim McCoone blew “dem golden trumpets.”
Individual acts were chiefly vocalists, but plenty of variety was presented in this department. Leading off was Joe Flood, red-headed pride of Rochester. Leo Murphy and Bob Lundquist presented varying versions of swooner-crooning, with Murphy injecting some
humor into his act. Frank Gilhooley, Billy Hassett and Tom Potter—in mop wigs and flashy print skirts—presented an Andrew Sisters routine that had the crowds howling. Jack Galloway sang a “queered-up” song, and Johnny McGuire stole the show with his charming Irish tenor voice, especially on Friday night when a sizable delegation of St. Mary’s girls were in the audience.
The outstanding individual performance was turned in by Ray Chamberlin, who presented a 15-minute routine that made a terrific hit with the receptive audiences. His act was built around a Jimmy Durante take-off, and was loaded down with comical impersonations of well-known performers.
Emcee for the show was Frank Kowalski who, with Galloway, organized and produced the entire show. Behind-the-scene laurels go to stage directors Mark Smith, Jim Brisbois, and Dick Brose, who did a commendable job with the setting and the lighting. John Trave and Mario Santarossa made posters publicizing the affair, and did a most successful job, as the very large turnouts for the performances indicated.
Notre Dame Publishes
First of Miracle Plays
From the Ave Maria Press has come a modern adaptation of a mediaeval Miracle Play. It is the first of a series to be published under the group title “Miracles of Notre Dame Series.” They are under the editorship of Mr. Earl F. Langwell, head of the Department of Modern Languages. The first play is titled “Mother of All.” Originally French, these plays were very popular some 600 years ago, and were an excellent method of teaching the average layman of the day the chief truths and beliefs of his Church.
Forerunners of modern drama, these plays had to be entertaining to be instructive, and thus are even today beautiful examples of early theatre. After the old classical tragedy had died out at about 50 B.C., drama, on the whole, was on the decline. Comedy degenerated into vulgarity, and then disappeared under the ban of the Church. During the middle ages the new drama was born. Here the Church, which had dealt the death blow to the last of the Roman Drama, now carefully fostered the growth of this new phase of the Theatre. The Miracle Plays originated in the Liturgy of Religion. Tenebrae, and the Monastic Chanting of the Office are good examples.
The Notre Dame Plays are all original translations from the French. The first one, “Mother of All” is a Christmas play, one of few in our literature. As originally presented in the 14th Century, the plot jumps from place to place, as in Shakespeare, but was adapted to meet the demands of modern presentation. It was written by Sister Mary Clarice, S.N.D., of the Sisters of Notre Dame of Toledo. The play was translated by the graduate students of the Department of Modern Languages.
8
Rifle and Pistol Team Blazing Way to Glory
Economic Round Table Holds Co-ed Meeting
The Notre Dame Pistol and Rifle teams under the direction of Lt. Cmdr. M. A. Censale are enjoying a highly successful season. The rifle team has amassed six victories and one forfeit. Yale University, with a margin of four points, and North Carolina, with a margin of one point, claim the only defeats handed the Notre Dame squad.
The leading marksmen of this season’s rifle team are Capt. Ed Soergel, monogram winner of the past season, and D. A. Wooley. Following closely behind is Biscomb, a letter man in both pistol and rifle, while Carrol, Swanson, Trent, and Foley are challenging the supremacy of the leaders.
The pistol team has also chalked up its share of victories, garnering three wins and one forfeit against one defeat for their impressive record. Biscomb claims top honors for the pistol team, while Koxys, Fitzpatrick, Bruda, Be-lavic, and Trent follow in that order. Fitzpatrick, captain of the team, has the highest average, but has fired in only five matches.
The team fires its matches on the rifle range which is located in the Notre Dame Stadium. CGM Alvin Putnam, USN, is in charge of the range and is present to give the team members helpful advice as to how to improve their scoring records. Lt. Cmdr. M. A. Censale arranges the matches and acts as witness when matches are fired, as well as instructing the team. The matches are fired at the home base and the scores are then mailed to the opposing team.
The men on both the pistol and rifle squads may win minor sports letters. To do this the men on both the pistol and rifle squads must participate in at least 75 percent of the matches fired and must be one of the five highest scorers in 50 percent of the matches. In addition, the members of the rifle squad must obtain scores of 160 or better in the Wm. Randolph Hearst Trophy Match, and the members of the pistol team must obtain scores of 150 or more in the Naval ROTC Trophy Match.
RIFLE TEAM
Date	Opponent
Dec. 29....... Rice Institute
Jan. 12....... Harvard University
Jan. 26....... Holy Cross University
Feb. 16....... Coast Guard Academy
Feb. 26....... University of Texas
PISTOL TEAM
Date	Opponent
Dec. 29....... Rice Institute
Jan. 26....... Holy Cross University
Feb. 9........ University of Michigan
Mar. 9........ Univ, of Washington
Notre Dame’s Economic Round Table played host to a group of St. Mary’s College students on Wednesday evening, December 12, at a dinner-meeting in the Hotel Morningside in downtown South Bend.
Greetings of welcome were extended to the girls and Mrs William H. Downey, wife of Professor Downey, moderator of the Club, by Club President Paul Ragan, commerce senior from Indianapolis. Ragan introduced Ralph Hayman, pre-law student from Philadelphia, who was the chairman for the occasion.
After dinner Hayman spoke briefly on the Economic Round Table aims and procedure for the benefit of the guests. The Round Table meets weekly to hear an address delivered by a member or a guest speakei- on current topics of national and international import. Customarily an open discussion is conducted after the speech during which the subject is further analyzed and developed by inquiries, comments, and opinions directed toward the speaker for solution by him. In this way the members work toward enriched knowledge of our own and world affairs, a broader base for personal judgment and opinion, and finally the application of Catholic
Seated: Mrs. Wm. Downey, Patricia O'Toole, John Dee, Mary Lou Mulvihill, Jarnos Coleman, Marilyn Herrmann, Charles Bartlett, Dorothy Coughlan. John Castelli. Mary Ann Lynch, Prof. Wm. Downey. Standing: Dorothy Zabrecky, Ralph Hayman. Jean Horechy, Robert Rossiter. Susan Laughlin, Carl Karey, Joann Higgins, Frank Grimaldi, Betty Gartland, Paul Ragan, Pat Nolan, Club Secretary, is not shown.	Photo by Wally Kunkle
thought and principles to problems of our times.
The chairman presented Charles Bartlett, political science senior from Cuba City, Wis., as the speaker for the evening. Bartlett chose “The German War Trials” as his topic.
“The passing of the world from an age of localized military combat into an era of total war in which no man, woman or child, military or civilian, is immune to the ravages of an aggression which finds expression in indiscriminate bombing, concentration camps, calculated race-extermination, and unannounced invasion, • makes it imperative,” Bartlett said, “that effective legal machinery be instituted to halt such aggressive tactics in the future.” This, he stated, is the basic philosophy of the four-power trial courts before which the indicted Germans stand in Nurenburg.
Points answered by Bartlett in the ensuing discussion ranged from future history’s verdict on the means taken to set the precedents, the legal question of “ex post facto” law involved in war trials, such trials as a weapon of vengeance, and the adjudication of war-born cases in local and national courts where such crimes are perpetrated.
9
N. D. 65; Wisconsin 57
Notre Dame hung up its third straight victory of the current basketball season Saturday night at the University fieldhouse by defeating a smooth, experienced Wisconsin five, 65-51. Paced by Leo Klier and Vince Boryla, who between them scored 47 points, the Irish decisively defeated the Badgers after* a nip and tuck first half, and for the first time this season lived up to their pre-season praises.
For the first half it was anybody’s ball game, with the lead changing hands several times. Wisconsin scored first, but Boryla countered with a long one and went on-to score the first seven points for his team. The teams left the court at halftime with the score 31-28 in favor of Notre Dame.
The opening minutes of the last half gave promise of a hairbreadth finish, but midway in the stanza with Wisconsin leading 42-41, Boryla opened up with a series of brilliant shots from the pivot post plus two free throws to put Elmer Ripley’s boys ahead 51-42. From then on, there was no stopping the Irish as the talent laden squad literally exploded.
Bob Cook, Wisconsin’s one-hand specialist, was high man for the night with 26 points. Klier was close behind with 12 field goals and one free toss as for 25 points. Boryla had 22 points on 9 field goals and foui* foul shots.
In addition to the deadly play of Boryla in the pivot and the phenomenal one-hand shots of Klier, Johnny Dee played an outstanding floor game and Capt. Billy Hassett contributed 10 points, Gil-hooley 3, and George Ratterman 2.
Boryla (left) and Klier are pictured getting four of the forty-seven.
January 1—Irish sport scene is calm as the new year is ushered in. But before the next 364 days elapse, many startling events will have transpired. Frank Dancewicz, Frank Syzmanski, and Bob Kelly star in East-West game in San Francisco.
January 2—Purdue basketball’ team avenges earlier defeat by Notre Dame by winning 44-32 in a game played at Purdue. It was only the second defeat in eight starts for the 1944-45 Irish quintet.
January 6—Great Lakes noses cut Notre Dame eagers, 59-58. Dee scores 25 points.
January 8—25th Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet for football team held at Indiana Club. Commander James Crowley principal speaker.
January 9—Hugh Burns named to succeed “Scrapiron” Young as Head Trainer.
January 10—Notre Dame five downs Iowa Seahawks 49-44 for seventh victory.
January 16—Marquette becomes victim number 8 for Irish as Hassett leads team to a 79-56 victory.
January 19—John Donnelly, newly appointed Athletic Business Manager, confronted with first problem—an inquiring “Scholastic” reporter.
January 20 — Crowe’s eagers “get back” at Bluejackets from Great Lakes with 55-51 decision in fieldhouse.
January 27—Kentucky falls before
Splinters from
By PAUL
uaan
Presenting a Review of the I94j f
Irish onslaught, 59-58, in overtime game | at Louisville.	I
February 2 — DePaul downs Notre , Dame 56-52 in Chicago Stadium match.
February 3 — Indoor track season opens as “Doc” Handy’s boys run over < Western Michigan, 70-34. Team shows , balance more than individual stardom.
Irish even jip Stadium results for week-end with 56-37 rout of Northwestern. Second stringers started and led after first 15 minutes.	j
February 10—18,120 see Notre Dame i outscore New York U. in Madison Square Garden, 66-60. Ratterman and • Boryla score 24 points each.	J
Irish trackmen win three quarter mile relay and shot put events at Michigan Relays.	:
February 14 — NROTC basketball ' team wins campus championship and : then swamps Midshipmen team, 52-27 i in fieldhouse preliminary game. Varsity ; hoopsters trip Iowa Seahawks, 51-38.	।
February 16—Finals of campus Novice Boxing tournament held.	'
February 17—Irish defeat Marquette / in game played in Milwaukee.
February 27 — Northwestern drops । game to Irish in fieldhouse.	■
r
March 6—Irish close successful basketball season with victory over Detroit s in fieldhouse. Boryla breaks all existing ( Notre Dame scoring records. Hugh De- | vore succeeds Ed McKeever as acting ’ Head Football Coach and Director of ; Athletics, McKeever goes to Cornell | University.	|
March 10—Indoor trackmen lose Cen- 4 tral Collegiate title to Drake University.
March 14 — Adam Walsh, assistant football coach, accepts position as Head Coach of Cleveland Rams of National Pro League. Devore names Ronzani to coaching staff.
Coach Jake Kline welcomes 70-odd candidates to opening baseball practice j session. Three lettermen return.	I
Seven monogram winners named for • basketball, Boryla, Dee, Ratterman, Gil-hooley, Hassett, and Kartholl.
March 17—Irish mile-relay team of Jones, Schirmer, Provost, and O’Neill take first place at Chicago Relays.
March 20—54 report for opening of
10
k3
k Press Box
IL WEYHAUCH
: 1945 Notre Dame Sports Events
f
1
| spring football under* direction of Hugh < Devore.
■ March 21—Publicity Department re-( reases basketball statistics. Boryla tops scorers with 322 points. Billy Hassett t named to ARGOSY All-American team.
Clem Crowe leaves Notre Dame to assume duties as Head Football Coach at the University of Iowa.
March 27—Indoor track season ends J as Irish finish eighth at Purdue Relays. I Tennis and outdoor trackmen begin I practice.
I April 2—Ken Stilley and Harry Ja-, cunski added to coaching staff.
April 8 — Football “Veterans” beat
Varsity 19 to 6 in practice game.
April 10—Frank Gilhooley named as i captain of baseball team.
' April 21—Baseball season opens as : Camp Atterbury is downed 11 to 6.
April 22—Baseball team noses out ■ Wakeman Hospital nine, 6 to 5.
I April 27—Michigan nine downs Irish 6 to 1 in opening home game.
' Finals in Bengal Bouts held in field-• house.
i
April 28 — Track and tennis teams open season with victories. Netters down ’ Western Michigan 8-1 while runners , smother Illinois Tech, 73-48.
ond straight from N. D., 3-0 despite five hit pitching by Jack Barrett.
Golfers whip Purdue, 17%-6%.
Illinois track team subdues Irish, 68% to 53%.
May 21—Strong Michigan golf team wins from Notre Dame 19-5, but tennis squad defeats Wayne, 7-2.
May 25—Irish nine takes Ohio State, 3-1.	.
May 26—Ohio State drops another to N. D. ball team, 10-8.
Golf team defeats Wayne.
Track team edges out Western Michigan.
May 31—Irish nine drops 5-4 decision to Iowa Pre-Flight.
June 2—Golf team- beats Baer Field, 23-4.
Great Lakes wins. Central Collegiate track meet. Joe Kelly defends his shot put title with toss of 50'4". Bill O’Neil named 1946 track captain. '
Langford’s tennis men down Pardue, 5-3.
(Continued on page 16)
I i
>
I t
Michigan sweeps two game baseball series with 12-4 victory.
May 1—Stewart hurls five hit shutout victory over Western Michigan.
May 5—Baseball team runs up 26-10 victory over Northwestern, 4-0.
May 6—Iowa Pre-Flight takes triangular track meet with Irish second.
Michigan downs tennis team 9-0 on indoor courts which proved too tricky for our racquet wielders.
Western Michigan and Irish tie on diamond, 2-2.
May 11—Tennis team takes triangular meet from Northwestern and Wisconsin.
May 12 — Michigan again downs Klinemen, 12-3.
Irish tennis squad blanks Indiana 7-0 while golf team downs Wisconsin.
May 18—Western Michigan slugs out 13 to 6 win over Irish baseball team.
Netmen down Northwestern 9-0.
. May 19—Western Michigan takes sec-
mm cotMK... mkwan $ mmumi
Purdue Boilermakers Meet Fighting Irish in Notre Dame Fieldhouse Tomorrow Night
By DAVE WARNER
Coach Ward “Piggy” Lambert, now well into his 29th year as basketball coach at Purdue, leads his Boilermakers to the N.D. Fieldhouse tomorrow night where they tangle with Elmer Ripley’s high riding Irish quintet in what promises to be a great pre-holiday game for the Hoosier cash customers as well as for the students who will be spending the holidays at Notre Dame. This game, the first of a home-and-home series, marks the last of Notre Dame’s current five-game home stand. The Irish courtmen play no games after tomorrow night until Jan. 2, when Coach Ripley and his cage squad will hit the road to Lafayette, Ind., to play the return engagement with Purdue. Then they are back at the fieldhouse again on Jan. 5 against Ray Meyer’s Blue Demons of De Paul, who recently won their own invitational tournament in Chicago. Incidentally, the Notre Dame-DePaul game looms as one of the nation’s outstanding court clashes, but more about this in a later issue.
Lambert has an all-time, all-game record at Purdue of 364 games won and 145 lost for a percentage of .715. Last year his Purdue team had one of its most disastrous seasons, finishing up with 9 wins and 11 setbacks. But during his 29-year reign, Lambert has earned the reputation and respect of fellow coui-t mentors for producing clever, sharp-shooting, smartly-coached quintets. And this season’s Purdue team is upholding that reputation, for in four games the Boilermakers are undefeated, winning from Indiana State 48-37, Camp Atterbury 51-44, University of Louisville 55-51, and finally getting a close call from but beating Washington U. of St. Louis 32-28. In their two games last season Notre Dame and Purdue split even, the Irish taking the first 49-47 and Purdue coming back strong to win the second 44-32. So far this season both clubs have played a single common foe, that being Camp Atterbury. Ripley’s boys trimmed the soldiers 56-37 while Purdue was hard pressed to win from Atterbury 51-44 with a terrible second half rally. Lambert, however, started his second team against the Attaboys and did not insert his varsity until Purdue was losing 15-0.
Included among Lambert’s latest hardwood production are six lettermen: five are holdovers from last year’s outfit plus the returning ex-serviceman, Floyd Lawson, who played in 1942. The holdover lettermen include Capt. Myrwin “Red” Anderson, midget forward and the team’s leading scorer with an even 50 points
12
in the first four games; Paul Hoffman, all-Big Ten forward last year; Dean Trump, center; Charlie Haag; and Johnny Hinga. To bolster these lettermen Lambert has as reserves the five members of the Bosse, Evansville, high school quintet, which has won the state title for the past two seasons—Norris Caudell, Julius Ritter, Norman McCool, Jack Matthews, and Gene Whitehead. Marvin Fifer, a Muncie freshman, looks very impressive in practice drills and Lambert plans to start him at one of the guard posts against the Irish. The starting forwards for Purdue will be Capt. “Red” Anderson and Paul Hoffman. Julius Ritter from Evansville Bosse will handle the pivot assignment, and Marvin Fifer and Lloyd Lawson will handle the guard positions.
Elmer Ripley will start the same five which started all the home games this season. Up front will be Leo Klier, who is once again bidding for an All-American berth. In the first three games the Washington, Ind., senior has amassed a total of 63 points for a 21.5-points-per-game average. Teaming up with Klier will be Johnny Dee, the Chicago ball hawk, who has not yet hit his consistent scoring stride. Against Wisconsin the “Scooter” turned in one of the most sensational floor games of his court career, stealing the ball on numerous occasions

jMerrp (Cijristmas anb WWP ^ear to all!
SOUTH BEND FLOR4L COMPANY 112 S. Michigan Street
■C	MSXm,	Mo. ^»r,.	kL'Ka. tk*. MAtkk. MAtkk. W.tkk.	M.«. tk.
from the rangy Badger guards. Boryla, who has returned to his 1944 scoring form, will be at center and Capt. Hassett and Frank Gilhooley the guards. Dick Kluck, the blond Czech who last year captained St. Philip’s High School to the basketball championship of Chicago, made his debut in the Wisconsin game.
Welcomes the new students at Notre Dame.
Our food will please you.
120 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.
Seven days a week
rosh froth
By Ed Caso and Ed Piedmont
ODE TO THE DINING HALL
Me molars is nicked; me bicuspids is bent;
Me jawbone is lame to de ears;
But dem chops what you give us shows never a dent—
That sheep must-a lived eighty years.
CAMPUS QUIPS
We think that Jerry Kavanaugh had the right idea when he remarked, “What they need around South Bend is a good detour.”
Confucius (the student prefers to keep his real name a secret) says: “In dining hall, bum steer not always mean bad advice.” How true!
“Harpo” O’Connor (explaining to his girl): “R. 0. nothing! This is a Notre Dame band uniform.”
Tom Lynch obviously knew what he was talking about last week in the subzero weather when he said, “Many are cold, but few are frozen.”
Jack Shafer has a hard job keeping the local damsels away from his roomie, “Luscious” Hathaway, due to the latter’s curly “blond” hair.
If anybody isn’t feeling too well, just drop up to see Dick Dolan, the hypochondriac kid. He has a remedy for every disease known to mankind, and a few others besides.
She frowned on him and called him Mr. Because in fun he merely Kr.
So out of spite,
The following night, The naughty Mr. Kr. Sr.
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Greetings Gates,
In three days I shall be home. Just think, there’ll be girls, food, girls, presents, girls (or did I say that before?). Speaking of girls, the oddest thing happened to me when I was home. As I was sitting in the local soda palace, this babe places herself in the next booth. Thinking to try out the big city line I learned in South Bend, I went up to her and said, “Bebe, you look like Helen Black.” She must have been up to the line because she snappily replied, “I don’t look good in white, either.” Now she is writing me steadily.
Goom-bye, hey, for a few weeks, Your pal,
A. D. F.
Jqnnis ©jristmas	to all!

Reason’s Gratings to all at ^otre Bame
inoim £nGBflvio6 coimna
jUerrp Cljrtotmatf I
to all at Notre Dame
SONNEBORN'S Spo/d Simp
CHRISTMAS
This peacetime Christmas will bring many pleasant offerings to us. It will mean the return of some of our buddies from the war, and unsupervised parties where everything flows freely, even the conversation. Personally I don’t believe the rumor that the dining hall is flooded with requests for the recipes used there. Just think of it! At home we can eat the turkey stuffing without fear of the trots. De Galan has already asked Santa Claus for an asbestos stomach; Stalmazek wants a toupe; Mosher has asked for a new dictionary, a copy of the Thesaurus, and an autograph of Schopenhauer. Frank Ruggerio wants a little bungalow; Leo Murphy wants piano lessons, and Bob Finnegan wants a copy of Esquire. Bob Welch is begging for some new saddle shoes.
❖
OBSERVATION
It seems to a great many people that Art Mosher would be completely inarticulate were he deprived of his dictionary
Traditionally
The place where ;\Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your biends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
By JACK STEWART
and library card. The dictionary is his key to the polysyllables that he flowers his writings with, and the library card opens to him the minds of others so that he may display a very unacademic knowledge of them. His motto might well be, “Writing for the sake of Pedantry.” Rather than express his own thoughts, if any, he prefers to quote, quote, quote. The results are prolix and turgid. The opinion is that the effect of his scrib-blings amount to an unnecessary exhibition of vocabulary. Why not return to the planet, Art? Some of us more retarded fellows want our reading done with ease.
❖
MORE VARIETIES
From the evident success of the last show everyone agrees that they should be more frequent. Even though Tom Potter was given a dressing down to keep his dress down, those who saw the opening night know that Betty Grable has no competition there. Why not charge admission, to the outside, for these
BOOKS
"THE BEST FROM YANK" THE MARRIAGE OF JOSEPHINE THE BLACK ROSE CASS TIMBERLANE NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST THE HISTORY OF WORLD WAR R "BEDSIDE BOOK OF FAMOUS
FRENCH STORIES"
New Novels for your winter
NEWS CENTER « CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St.
“In the J. M. S. Building"
14
shows? The money 'could go to make some improvements in Washington Hall.
STOLEN FROM "ESQUIRE"
Chaplain: Army officer' who works to beat hell.
Pink elephants: beasts of bourbon.
Kleptomaniac: one who helps himself because he can’t help himself.
ST. MARY'S
Nothing doing there.
PODIATRY IN VERSE
There was a young man from Montrose Who could tickle himself with his toes.
He could do it so neat
He fell in love with his feet, And he called them Myrtle and Rose.
❖
FAUX PAS
It was unfortunate that President Jerry Wayno of the Vet’s Club had to set himself up as spokesman for that organization without having had a meeting to see how they felt about it. I don’t believe the veterans were any dominating force in the “strike.” It was just a spontaneous uprising with no one group nor any one individual serving as instigator.
❖
Heureux Noel.—De Gaulle.
The firm of PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc. wishes all their Notre Dame friends
^appp Holfoap Reason
Naval Ball, Weekend on February First
The Naval Ball, the big weekend for the Notre Dame NROTC, V-12, and V-5 trainees, has been scheduled for Feb. 1 at the Palais Royale. As the Navy training programs prepare to go on inactive status, the committees planning the Tenth Naval Ball intend that this last Ball shall be the biggest and the best— a high promise in view of gala affairs of previous semesters.
The general chairman is Paul Doyle, who also heads the business committee. Ably assisting Doyle and his executive chairman, Stan Leher, are four committees: Decorations, headed by Pete Gay-dos; Tickets and Finance, under George Muller; the Band Committee, directed by Charles Morrow; and Roy Arnholt’s Publicity and Program Committee.
Plans for the Ball will probably remain under the “tentative” heading until after Christmas leave, when more definite information can be had on the number of men expecting to attend. Meanwhile, the committees are going ahead as rapidly as possible. The Decorations Committee reports that an extensive Navy theme will be used.
With the time and place definitely set, and with Doyle’s promise of a good band and a full weekend, the unit is looking ahead to the Navy’s social farewell to Notre Dame—the Tenth Naval Ball.
hern (liliristnias
Ijappu anil prnspmnis
Wear
THE BOOKSTORE
15
Review of 1945
(Continued from page 11)
June 6*—Barrett pitches Irish to 1-0 victory over Great Lakes. Beats Dennis Galehouse in pitching duel. McGurk’s hit wins game.
June 8—Baseball team defeats Northwestern.
June 9—Golf season ends. Trackmen close season after NCAA meet.
June 17—Baseball season ends as Great Lakes obtains revenge for earlier defeat.
June-September—Baseball team operates on informal basis playing nearby military posts. Football summer practice held. Frank Syzmanski resigns as team captain in August as a result of previous signing of pro contract. Frank Dancewicz named captain.
September 29—1945 football season opens with 7-0 victory over favored Illinois as freshman Phil Colella runs 76 yards for touchdown on first play of game.
October 6—Devore’s youthful grid-ders take second straight, beat Georgia Tech 40-7.
October 13—Reserves see plenty of action as Irish easily beat Dartmouth 34-0 in Stadium. Dancewicz to Colella pass scores opening play.
October 20—Pittsburgh flattened by Notre Dame, 39-9.
October 27—Final home game of season, Iowa drubbed, 56-0.
November 3—Last second touchdown attempt fails. Irish tie Navy, 6-6 in Cleveland.
November 5 — John Mastrangelo is named lineman of the Week by Associated Press.
November 10—Gallant Irish fall before vaunted Army powerhouse 48-0 before 75,000 in Yankee Stadium, N. Y.
November 17 — Students and band follow team to Northwestern to see Irish win 34-7, after early N. U. scoring threats failed to materialize.
November 24 — Tulane stops Irish cold during first half but fall apart in second as Notre Dame wins, 32-6.
December 1 — Season ends in backward style as highly-keyed Great Lakes upsets Notre Dame at training station, 39-7.
December 4—2 6th Testimonial banquet held for football squad in dining hall. John Lavelle, Director of Athletics of New York C. Y. O., principal speaker.
16
It’s idler's for ^RROfRS
OH TNI COKNEK... HICNI6M $ MSHM6HM
Don’t let this picture fool you
We don’t guarantee that the gals will be magnetically attracted to your Arrow Tie.
But here’s what you can be sure of: Eyepleasing colors. Patterns you’ll go for. Plus a special lining that resists wrinkles.
See these attractive ties at your Arrow Dealer’s.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
December 8—Basketball season opens with victory over Camp Atterbury. Billy Hassett captain of team.
December 11 — Quintet wins hard-earned decision over Chanute Field as Klier leads way with 22 points.
December 12 — Summary of AllAmerican nominations finds honors for Irish going to Frank Dancewicz, John Mastrangelo.
December IS — Wisconsin drops 6551 game to Irish in fieldhouse. Klier hits for 25 points, Boryla 22.
December 16 — Finis — Scholastic deadline.
Fr. Bolger Expresses Views Concerning Atom
Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics, urged that atomic energy be made available to all in a talk before the Knights of Columbus at a luncheon in the Oliver Hotel last week.
“Once an international control board for security of the atom bomb is established, I can see no reason why the atomic bomb cannot be given to all nations, including those just defeated in World War II,” he declared.
Father Bolger said that such a step is
being discussed by the United States, Russia, and Great Britain in atomic energy talks in Moscow. He added that the establishment of such a board "would be a move in the right direction.”
The Magnuson bill, which would give federal support to natural scientific research, is being supported by scientists, who oppose the Kilgore bill, Father Bolger said.
“Naturally, this would mean natural scientific research of the atom bomb,” the Physics Department head declared. “The fundamental scientific principles are already known. The industrial ‘knowhow’ is another matter and one in which science and scientists are not concerned.”
RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING KEEP GENERAL ELECTRIC YEARS AHEAD
YOUR FUTURE IN ELECTRONICS
Electronics, always just around the comer before the war, is now full grown. During the war itself, it was almost a million-dollar-a-day business at General Electric. Now G.E. has begun construction of “Electronics Park’’ near Syracuse, New York. Laid out like a college campus, this plant will have every modem facility for the design, development, and manufacture of'electronics products. The men who work there will be part of one of the greatest industries to turn from war to peace.
Radar has its first peacetime appli
cation in the G-E “Electronic Navigator,” an instrument that tells a ship’s pilot, not only his own position, but that of the ships, buoys, lighthouses, land, and other objects around him, making possible a safe course even in darkness, rain, fog, or smoke.
By 1950 the nine television stations operating throughout the country wall have become 150, predict G-E engineers. The maintenance of these stations affords great opportunity to men with a knowledge of basic principles of electrical engineering, electronics, and radar.
Th* best investment in the world i> in this country’s future. Keep all the Bonds you Boy.
GENERAL ® ELECTRIC
17
OUT OF MY WAY, BUB!
The bird that said the age of chivalry is dead wasn’t just chopping his teeth. Last week at a sorority dance in one of the Elkhart hotels, a group of five girls and five ROTCees were merrily zooming down the elevator when a cable broke and the elevator went zooming even more merrily until it struck bottom, and bounced to a screeching halt. The five ROTCees, with polite cries of “Excuse me, please!” and “Pardon me!” nearly maimed the fair sex in their eagerness to crawl out of the elevator.
❖
BROTHER, CAN YOU SPARE A DIME?
Payday Saturday, broke on Monday! To you men who are in dire need of financial help, here is the solution to your problem. Just breeze up to the Disbursing Officer and tell him your story—as one of the trainees did:
“Sir, I’m buying a bond a month, hav-
/fy -Almost
ing six bucks taken out for insurance, I donated a dollar to the War fund, a dollar to Navy relief, shelled out five
skins for a black C.P.O. shirt, all of my clothes are at Ziker’s, my watch needs repairing, and I need a haircut so badly that the other day some character put a leash on me. Besides that, Winterrowd has been hounding me for the last month, mother’s birthday is tomorrow, Christmas is a few days off, I owe my roommate six dollars and two bus tokens, and I have to buy a train ticket home. May I have an advance on my next month’s pay? Yes sir . . . yes sir ... no sir . . . no . . . no . . . not the whip. . . . Aaaaaa-eeeeee!” Thud!
JUST BETWEEN YOU 'N' ME ...
It happened in a history class. Professor Gurian was discussing famous personalities of the twentieth century and asked his class, “Now gentlemen, who is the most famous Austrian of our time?” Don Campbell yawned and said, “Hedy Lamarr, who else?”
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661*
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
•
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
Est
1900
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
KEEP ALIVE THE MEMORY OF
YOUR ALMA MATER
Own a distinctive oil painting of Notre Dame. Size ll"xl4". S30.00.
MISS C. F. MAKIELSKI 623 J. M.S. Building South Bend
THE STAMP SHOP Everything for the STAMP COLLECTOR
501 Pythian Bldg.
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street
Evenings by Appointment
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St, Phone 3-3111.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
♦ *
Prompt Lens or Frame Repar service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
SOUTHnSeHORE
18
We nominate Al D’Alonzo as the most indifferent man on the campus. Al is the kind of a guy who seeks a speck in his pudding and doesn’t give a hoot whether it’s a fly or a raisin.
For the title of the most considerate man on the campus, we would like to nominate one of the profs who dismissed his class saying, “Men, I’m letting you out ten minutes early. Please leave quietly so as not to wake any of the other classes!”
Some men can’t even open their mouths without putting their foot in it. We hear that Dick Zawlocki was whispering sweet nothings to his O.A.O. and said to her, “Darling, you’re the only girl that I have ever kissed—and by far the prettiest.” Take it slow, Dick, take it slow!
❖
THERE'LL BE SOME CHANGES MADE...
After a great deal of consideration, this columnist has decided that the present P.T. is by far too strenuous and should be discarded,. Instead, each man should be required to follow this sug; gested program:
1.	Upon awakening, briskly wiggle the toes to and fro, or fro and to, if you are left handed.
2.	Lighting a cigarette, lightly draw on it and alternately inhale and exhale, first through the left nostril and then through the right.
3.	Whirling on one foot, wave the right arm ovei’ the head, shouting “Hurrah! Hurrah!”
*4. Repeat the last exercise, - shouting, “Hotsy totsy, I’m a ROTCee!”
5. Climb back into the sack and with eyes closed, count sheep double-timing over the obstacle course. No slide rules may be used!
* This exercise to he done only hy first classmen.
♦
AND TO ALL A GOOD NIGHT . . .
In keeping with the spirit of the holiday season, this column would like to extend to al its readers sincere wishes . for a full stocking the morn of the 25th and in addition would like to leave you with the thought that one swallow doesn’t make a summer, but it can sure raise dickens with a New Year’s resolution. MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR!
Prof fo Speak in Chicago
Dr. William H. Bennett, associate professor of linguistics at the University, will read one of nine papers to be presented at the annual meeting of the Linguistic Society of America on Dec. 28 at the Stevens hotel in Chicago.
The title of Dr. Bennett’s paper will be “The Cause of the West Germanic Consonant Lengthening.”
aAead o*
SINCE the war ended, thousands upon thousands of new telephones have been produced and installed.
Hundreds of miles of telephone cable have rolled out of Western Electric plants to provide more circuits for you.
Central office switchboards and other equipment are being manufactured with all possible speed.
Much of this equipment is extremely complex—not only to make but also to fit into the Bell System network. Naturally shortages caused by four years of war cannot be made up for overnight.	.
Supplying materials and equipment for the Bell System’s $2,000,000,000 construction program promises record peacetime volume and a level of employment at Western Electric higher than in the years immediately preceding the war.
Buy all the Victory Bonds you can—and keep them!
Western Electric SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM
19