The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
December 4
19 3 1
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru, Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
Have You Tried WHAT?
The Robertson Grill and Tea Room
Dancing each Wednesday 12-2. Saturday 6-8 o’clock
Moderate Prices :::	Quality Food
Sixth Floor
Gift Shop in Connection With Grill
ROBERTSON’S
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria HIE.Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
EXPERT SHOE REBUILDING and HAT RENOVATING
CALLED FOR AND DELIVERED
Phone 2-2228
Washington Shoe Repair Co. 116 W. Washington Street South Bend, Ind.
December i, 19 JI
One
OFFICIAL
Notre Dame Jewelry
Now on Sale at
211 Walsh Hall
Edward J. Kelly, Campus Concessionaire
Complete display of
Rings, Compacts, Hand-Bags, Cigarette Cases, etc.
All jewelry on display nightly between six-thirty and seven-thirty. A note under the door will send a salesman to your room.	- ' -	- • -	- : -
Ask Any Woman This Question
Could you love a man who was bald? The answer will be an emphatic no! Now during college days is the time to watch your hair especially if you have
—DANDRUFF —FALLING HAIR —BALD SPOTS —DRY HAIR
These conditions, if not corrected early, usually result in the one thing which ruins a man’s attractiveness . . . BALDNESS.
The Florida’s special scalp treatments for men will correct this condition quickly and inexpensively.
You’ll find scores of “he men” visiting the Florida regularly. Phone 3-8710 now for full particulars.
Florida Beauty Shop
Monroe at Michigan	Phone 3-8710
0. A. CLARK’S Restaurant 104-106 N. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST AND MOST RELIABLE EATING HOUSE.
♦ ♦ ♦
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
♦ ♦ ♦ For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
♦ ♦ *
WE HAVE NO KEY
SURPLUS STOCK
Men's High Grade
Florsheim J10 Oxfords
$4.85
Tan calf—Built-in arch support.
ENDICOTT-JOHNSON Men's Oxfords $1.95
GIL-BRO'S
330 S. Michigan St. -
Two
The Scholastic
They Guide the Destinies of The University
.	• The Board of Lay Trustees
Seated (left to right) Very Rev. J. A. Burns, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.; A. R. Erskine, chairman; Byron V. Kanaleg, and C. C. Mitchell. Standing (left to right) Matthew J. Carney, John F. Cushing, Frank,Walker, George M. Anson, Miles O’Brien, Edward J. Doyle, C. Roy McCanna, Bro. Ephrcm, C.S.C., treasurer.
December 4, 19 Al
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub-	I g	I I g ■ Entered as second-dass
lished weekly at the Univers- I MA	I	AM Al	matter at Notre Dame. In-
ity of Notre Dame. Manu- ■	I	IVIQSwIV diana. Acceptance for mailscripts may be addressed to —TT.	.	„	.	ing at special rate of postage.
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Monturus section nos, October s. 1917. cations Office, Main Building.	*	F 0 p £ D 1 8 6 7	■	’	authorized June 25. 1913.
NEIL C. HURLEY....................................Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN..........................Managing	Editor
Associate
WILLIAM W. CORR MYRON CRAWFORD MYRO NCRAWFORD
Editors
LESLIE RADDATZ
LESLIE RADDATZ WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.........News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL_Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA THOMAS HILS BERNARD COUSINO ROY SCHOLZ MITCHELL TACKLEY JOHN McELLIGOTT JAMES McCRALEY MAURICE GARLAND THOMAS FOLEY
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY..............The	Week
JOHN PICK..............College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN.......Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY..................Campus	Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON.....Features Editor
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.................Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS.......Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JAMES E. McFEELY	JOSEPH KURTH
JOSEPH BORDA WILLIAM O'GRADY WILLIAM DREUX	JOHN LYNCH
EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass't. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER. JR-....Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass'S Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.......JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY. —Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
DECEMBER 4, 1931.
Number 9.
SUMM ARY
COMING EVENTS
o o o
NEWS
Cast is chosen for campus play------------------ -5
Editor McCabe announces appearance of Scrip----- 6
“The American College Man” is the title of Professor
Charles Phillips’ address to freshmen_________ 7
Football team is welcomed by 2,500 students----- 8
FEATURES
Miss Lawrence does most of work on assignments
involving library work__________________________10
Pastor M. Villiaflor demonstrates the art of making-vestments ______________________________________11
There is quite a bit of difference between the Notre Dame of today and that of 1854__________________14
American colleges are becoming more and more popular with foreign students______________________15
EDITORIALS “Hunk” Anderson — A Trip for the “Theatre”--------19
SPORTS
All-Opponent team is picked by the Scholastic----- 5 Army tramples Notre Dame, 12-0, in startling upset— 20 Coach Keogan’s cage squad opens season with Kala-
mazoo team tonight______________________________20
All-Interhall team is selected; two teams named with honorable mention list____________________________23
o o o
FRIDAY, December 4—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, 6:30 n. m., Publications office; news and sports staffs, 7:00 p. m., Room 222, Main building.— Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Kalamazoo College at 8:00 p. m., Notre Dame gymnasium.—Concert orchestra practice at 6:30 p. m., Washington hall.
SATURDAY, December 5—Movie, Washington hall, 6:30 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, December 6—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.	.
MONDAY, December- 7—French club meetings, 6:30 p. m., Room 1, Main building.—Academy of Science meeting, 8:00 p. m., Room 102, Science hall.
TUESDAY, December 8—Feast of the Immaculate Conception; no classes.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Adrian College, at 8:00 p. m., Notre Dame gymnasium.—Concert orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., Washington hall. — Economics Seminar, 7:30 p. m., Lawbuilding.
WEDNESDAY, December 9—Scribblers’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Howard hall “rec.”—Breen medal tryouts, 4:00 p. m., Washington hall.—Perpetual Adoration begins in Sacred Heart Church.
THURSDAY, December 10—Spectators’ meeting, 7:30 p. m., Law building.—Breen Medal tryouts, 4:00 p. m., Washington hall.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
Ever since the days when Arch Hurley used to pound out his weekly contribution to posterity for this same space we have had a desire to try our hand at it. Not that we think there could be anyone who could do quite as well as Arch—he was just about the swellest columnist who ever commented on local customs and various habits. But there’s a certain satisfaction in having the very first page, even if it is handed down from Paul Hallinan, the latest of a long line of our predecessors, whose retirement from the lists this issue marks. We intend to make the most of it.
plumber arrived (with his tools), pushed aside someone who looked like Mike Crawford and who was trying to set fire to the wall with a candle, and stuffed a piece of rag into a hole the size of a thumb. Then he pushed a bucket underneath to catch the drip, gave one and all a large mental birdie, and left (with his tools). All this at one-thirty in the A. M.
And if you think that story is bad, you should have heard the one Dick Hanley of the Wildcats told to an eager radio public one evening, concerning the doings of a high school coach.
/ A shoulda been with us Friday night!” If we hear that again we shall have to take steps to put away, for good, the fledgling sophisticates who rode to New York on George Rohrs’ special, and managed to get from there into the very depths of Harlem. We are naturally receptive, and listen very well, but when the talk has to do with the unmatched audacity of running out on hotel bills, and introducing roommates as Paul Host to a believing gathering in a night club (when everyone knows that Paul never goes to night clubs), we are forced to gag. There’s a meek little guy down at the other end of the hall who made the trip and who hasn’t said a word about it yet, and we can’t help but treat him with a new respect and imagine that his silence covers material for a round of good, meaty novels.	'
E XCEPT for the breaking of a water pipe in Sorin sub last year, there hasn’t been much real excitement around here since Chemistry Hall got itself all black with a measly little fire. So the boys of Walsh’s fourth floor welcomed eagerly a break in a pipe up. there, formed a bucket brigade, and persuaded the authorities that there was every danger of the crumbling of water-weakened walls. While help was being fetched in the person of a seminary plumber, some tried to enlarge the hole in the pipe and ethers woke up residents to meet the emergency. The
I HIS is the season of spots before the eyes and all over the body, and waking from nightmarish sleep, and of blazing buttocks, but only for the men who just spent nine weeks getting eyes like Jim Harriss’ and legs like Norm Greeney’s. The monogram men for this year are stunting on new wings for the delectation of the old campaigners, and are already having experiences with deadly birdshot that looks strangely like hardwood. Ben Alexander is even now looking less like a bird of prey, and Joe McKean has actually stopped giving us his usual brand of joke. We overheard Ed Krause saying, “Yes, sir.” Perhaps there is a great deal of good in the initiation, after all.
T HAT portion of this weekly which some years ago put its nose high in the air and got itself a separate editor and a green jacket, has not made its appearance so far this year. There are various rumors concerning Scrip’s delay. One has it that the editor is too up to his ears in the overwhelming work of keeping up with Prof. Staunton; another says that the submitted stories haven’t the usual degree of morbidness necessary to classify them as art. We have a suspicion that the editor is waiting until he gets his new play finished—he is gathering material now. And then the fact that his temperament was upset by certain of the childish officers of the Soph class may have something to do with it.
December 4,1931
Five
All-Opponent Team Is Selected
GLEE CLUB SINGS IN COLLEGIATE CONTEST
40 N. D, Vocalists Participate In State-wide Contest.
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Indianapolis, Indiana, December 3. —Forty members of the University Glee club took part in an intercollegiate contest for such organizations of Indiana sponsored by the Publix corporation at the Circle theater in Indianapolis this week. The Notre Dame Glee club sang at the theater Wednesday, under the direction of Prof. Casasanta.
The theater conducted the contest in connection with the showing of “T o u c h d o w n,” a motion picture adapted from “Stadium” by Frank Wallace, a Notre Dame alumnus. The competition was limited to glee clubs of Indiana colleges and universities.
Besides Notre Dame, six other schools were represented at the contest. The first singing took place last Friday, Nov. 27. Each glee club was given a day in which the requisite number of four performances had to be given. To the winner of the contests, a prize of $1,000 will be given. Results will be announced next week.
The following program was presented by the University Glee club. It contains an element of classic, Latin hymn, humor, and college songs.
J. “Night March” ....................Kountz
2.	“Benedictus"... .Father .4. J. Hope, C.S.C.
3.	“In Old Nassau”................Murchison
4.	“Hike, Notre Dame”.............Casasanta
5.	“On Down the Line”.............Casasanta
6.	“There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea"..................arranged by Lake
“Victory March” ....................Shea
8. “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By” .....................Casasanta
Montana Club Banquets
Fifteen members of the Montana club and their guests attended a turkey dinner Thanksgiving evening. Three turkeys were furnished by C. A. Brown of Miles City, Montana. Arrangements were made by Edward L. Sherman and Arthur Cline, Secretary.
Scholastic Selects All-Star Eleven;
Trojans and Army Each Place Three
Cast Chosen By Kelly For Campus Play
By John E. Ryan
The University theater is in active preparation for the initial presentation of the season, “Gold in the Hills.”
Professor Frank Kelly
“. . . Watch out for Jack Dalton”
Rehearsal is in ordei* and the cast of the play, both among the directors of the affair and among the student body, enthusiastically await the first night.
The cast has been selected, and includes Miss F. Theresa Chissholm, of the faculty of St. Mary’s College, and Mrs. Norbert Engels and Miss Charlotte Mourer, both of South Bend. Miss Chissholm will make her first appearance in Washington hall in this play, while Mrs. Engels and Miss Mourer are remembered as having taken part in previous productions.
John Leddy, a senior in the College of Law, reutrns after several years of (Continued on Page 9)
Notre Dame Players Assist In Selection; N. U., Pitt, Navy, and Drake Men Named.
By James S. Kearns
Scholastic Sports Editor (Copyright. 1931. by the Scholastic)
Scholastic’s All-Opponent Football Team
L. E__________Briley (Drake)
L. T____Riley (Northwestern)
L. G___Baker (So. California)
C______Daugherty (Pittsburgh)
R. G_______Underwood	(Navy)
R. T_____________Price	(Army)
R. E______________King	(Army)
Q.	B___Mohler (So. California) i
L. H___Rentner (Northwestern) i
R.	H___________Stecker	(Army)	;
F. B___Shaver (So. California)
The selection of an all-opposition football team is one of the most time honored of postmortems on any grid season. Like many similar customs, it is anything but a simple undertaking. This year, however, we have tried to make the selection more accurate and more complete by seeking a bit of help from the members of the Notre Dame squad. After all, they are easily the best qualified to pass on the ability of their opponents.
In looking over the ranks of prospects for the first team, several names were quite evident stand-outs. With these men there was no problem; ' they were simply too good to be left off. For the other positions we have tried to pick those players who were most outstanding on the day they faced Notre Dame. In all cases we have tried to temper our own press box guessing with the first-hand opinion of the Fighting Irish who exchanged tackles and stiff arms with the men in question.
Starting with the ends, Johnny Briley of Drake was the unanimous
(Continued on Page 29)
The Scholastic
Six	•
MONOGRAM CLUB INITIATION HOLDS
INTEREST OF ATHLETES THIS WEEN
REVIEW OUT NEXT WEEK
1931 Edition Is Dedicated To Knute K. Rockne.
Football Men Who Earned Letters During Past Season Are the “Victims”
It’s not insanity that’s been sweeping the campus since Monday, but rather these Monogram club boys have been having their fun at the expense of the athletes who have just won their letters by virtue of their performances in the recent football season.
There has been no official report concerning the number of men undergoing the treatment, but the yellow ties which mark off the candidates for Nordy Hoffman’s club are exceedingly numerous. When questioned concerning the number of fellows who were being initiated, officials declared that they were only working on those whom they were sure of and that those that escaped the rubdown this time would “get theirs” when Spring rolls around.
The inquiring reporter wasn’t allowed behind the closed portals of the gymnasium during the course of the initiation, but reports that emanate from the lads who took the cure seem to indicate that the quality of mercy hasn’t any relation whatsoever to the gentle rain from heaven.
“Scrip” to he Published Next Week
Scrip, Notre Dame’s student literary quarterly publication, will be released next week, according to the plans of John F. Stoeckley, graduate manager of publications.
This is the first issue of Scrip of the current school year. It is being edited by Joseph A. McCabe of North Attleboro, Mass. The quality of the contributions usually contained in the magazine has been high, several of the stories written last year having been placed in O’Brien’s anthology of the best American short stories.
In reference to student contributions, Mr. McCabe said:
“There has been considerable discussion about the probability of Scrip making its appearance this year. The editor has no doubt but that this is good for the magazine; it awakens interest in minds when no interest— and little else—existed before; and
In truth, it would seem that a candidate for the Monogram club earns the letter in the week of tlie initiation without consideration for the battering he took during the course of such a stiff football schedule. And the worst hasn’t come to pass. If our informer is correct a bit of fancy roadwork will be in order for the Saturday evening workout.
Then, too, the early morning ablutions which take place upon the shores of ice-cold lake St. Mary’s are not to be listed with those things pleasant to perform. As yet there has been no report as to the reaction of the president’s friend upon the receipt of the bit of yellow citrus fruit—which donation was ordered by one of the taskmasters.
These initiations to which the candidates are subjected are the sole remaining vestige of the “real college life.” And it won’t be very long before the boys are full fledged members. The most strenuous sessions will be held Saturday night and Sunday afternoon, if our infoxmer knows anything about the whole affair.
it arouses the exciting possibility of selling a few copies: something deemed a little fantastic to dream on heretofore. But the delay in the appearance of the magazine has not been wholly in order to arouse this discussion; it must be ascribed rather to the maintenance of an old tradition relevant to Scrip: namely, that the editor, or his friends, must supply the contents of the magazine.”
Openings In Orchestra
Openings for students who play wind instruments exist at the present time in the University orchestra, according to an announcement Thursday by Professor Richard Seidel. Applicants are requested to report at any of the regular rehearsals, held each Tuesday and Friday at 6:30 p. m. in Music hall.
The Rockne Memorial Edition of the Official Football Review will appear on the campus Monday, Dec. 14, according to Joseph Petritz, editor of the popular- campus publication.
“This year’s edition promises to surpass all others,” said Petritz this week. He has edited two previous issues of the football yearbook. “A host of nationally known men in all fields of endeavor- as well as a brilliant array of campus scribes have co-operated in making this book a memorial to the man who made the Revieiv possible, stand head and shoulders above all previous efforts.”
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Jesse C. Harper, director of athletics; Heartley W. Anderson, coach; and Captain Tommy Yan- and James E. Ai'mstrong, alumni secretai-y, head the list of men on the campus who are contributing articles. In addition, Neil C. Hurley, Scholastic editor; Robert E. Gonnan, Juggler editor; John A. Kiener, director of public relations; James McFeely, Walter Kennedy, George Belting, William Corr, J. A. McElligott, and Edward Brennan have contributed.
Rice and Ward Write Features
Grantland Rice, Arch Ward, Warren Brown, Christy Walsh, Bill Cunningham, Alan Gould, George Kirksey, Gordon Mackay, Jack Elder, Irving Vaughan, Harry MacNamara, Harry Cross, George Trevor, Francis Wallace, Lawrence Perry, and Bert McGrane are famous sports writers whose articles give the Revieiv a list of authorities unsurpassed in the history of Notre Dame publications.
Ted Husing of the Columbia Broadcasting System and Pat Flanagan of Station WBBM, Chicago, have both written special articles fox- the book. Exclusive drawings have been submitted by Werner- Laufer and Feg Murray, nationally known sports cartoonists. Frank E. Hering, chairman of publicity fox' the Rockne Memorial field house committee, and Paul D. Hoffman, vice-president of the Studebaker Corporation of America, which has just announced its new Rockne six, complete the list of writers who appear in the pages of the book.
December k, 1931
Seven
SEMINAR HEARS PAPER
O*Shaughnessy Compares Life of Two Civilizations.
A comparison of living in a Mexican town, and in an average town of the United States, was given by James O’Shaughnessy in his paper “Living in the Machine Age,” read Tuesday at the weekly meeting of the Economics seminar. O’Shaughnessy not only discussed the ways of living, but the amusements and appreciations of the two towns, and criticized them.
“In this paper I am not quarrelling with the machine as such,” O’Shaughnessy read, “I am airing some of the most obvious of the injurious complications which it has brought, and comparing them to the simplicity of a practically'machineless civilization. A great deal of the manufacturing, advertising, and retailing in this country is based on things that people do not need and in many cases do not want. In Mexico the people produce only what they actually need. They satisfy only their real ■wants, but they develop their arts and crafts to a higher degree of beauty and perfection. One small village of craftsmen in Mexico produces more real beauty than all of the factories in the United States.
“The people of this country are forgetting how to play. The machine has so complicated our working hours, that we demand complicated entertainment in our leisure hours. The Mexicans rest and play whenever they can by celebrating a fiesta. Their lives are simple, and their play also being simple is a part of their lives. They do not have to be driven to enjoy themselves, as we do.
“The Mexican’s sense of economic security is saving him the grief that •we are now enduring.”
Following the reading of the paper the matter was discussed by the class, and the problems which it presented were given consideration.
John Witliff will present a paper on advertising at the meeting of the class, December 8.
Xmas Cards Ready For Sale
Kelly and Oliver Powers, holders of the Christmas card concession, announce this week that their stock has been completed and that they are now prepared to take orders.
Salesmen will call at rooms of all campus students, or they may be reached at Sorin hall.
“WE AMERICAN COLLEGE MAN” TOPIC OF FIFTH OF CONVOCATION SERIES
Professor Phillips Believes Average Notre Dame Student Typifies Real Example
Professor Charles Phillips, of the Department of English, presented the fifth of a series of Freshman lectures in Washington hall, Wednesday afternoon. The topic of his address was “The American College Man.”
“The man ■who has living ideals, who knows he has a soul and knows how to take care of it, the man who has character,” explained Professor Phillips, “is the real representative of the American student today.”
Professor Phillips went on to show how the average Notre Dame man typified this example of the American student. “The student cannot enjoy God unless he first enjoys man, and the main object and chief aim of the University of Notre Dame is: fiirst, to teach a man how to deal with the fellows with whom he comes in contact, and then, subsequently, to teach him how to associate ■with God and understand Him.”
“A clean mind, a clean heart, and a clean manner of living,” were the phrases used to describe his first impression of the real Notre Dame man by Professor Phillips. “Uppermost in his mind is the desire to satisfy his people at home and then to satisfy himself.”
Some men may come from clean, good homes, but fall down with a change in environment, he pointed out, but there is no chance for that at Notre Dame.
No man or young man should go to a college, particularly to one like Notre Dame, with the sole idea of majoring in athletics, but, rather,
Father Nieuwland Attends Science Meeting
Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., of the chemistry department of the University, is attending the 47th annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science, which is being held Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week at Butler university, Indianapolis. Two other Notre Dame men, William L. Engles of the biology department, and Thomas H.
with a two-fold purpose, to better his physical and also his mental and moral condition. To emphasize this, Professor Phillips quoted Chesterton and Rockne. Perhaps the latter’s opinion that a college man should have “intestinal fortitude or guts” is the best definition that can be given.
Professor Phillips then cautioned his audience to be “satisfied with what you have, but not with what you are. The man who has courage to break away from his cronies when he knows he has studies to complete is a real man, and is worthy to be called a Notre Dame man.”
The speaker has spent five years in the great war before -coming to Notre Dame, and was under great emotional discouragement because of the horrors he had witnessed while a soldier. Upon coming to the University he found here the cream of America’s young manhood developing into real men, and his somewhat pessimistic attitude was changed to one of optimism. Professor Phillips concluded his talk by saying: “Ideals are man’s most cherished possession.”
Professor Phillips is well qualified to speak on such a topic for he has seen life at its worst and at its best. He is the author of several books, and has traveled quite extensively. At present he is connected with the English department at Notre Dame.
Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was in charge of arrangements for the occasion.
Vaughn, also of the chemistry department, are in attendance.
Father Nieuwland will speak on the subject, “Monovinylacetylene;” Mr. Vaughn will discuss “Automatic Alarm Devices for Use in Gas Absorption;” and Mr. Engles will have as his topic, “A Record of the Extinct Deer, Odocoileus Dolichopsis.”
Eight
The Scholastic
STUDENTS WELCOME
DEFEATED GR1DDERS
March In Body To Union Station to Greet Team’s Arrival.
When the members of the football team arrived at South Bend from New York Monday morning, they were greeted by a crowd of over 2500 cheering students and townspeople who proved as quick to cheer them in defeat as to laud them in victory.
The students marched en masse from the campus to the Union station in South Bend, to gather below the platform and greet the team with cheers. Yell leader Joe Kennedy led cheers for the team, for Yarr, Schwartz and “Hunk.”
No Speeches Made
Yarr led the team to the platform railing and greeted the crowd with a wave of the hand. There was little ceremony for it was a broken-hearted team that had to acknowledge a second defeat. There were no speeches. The crowd broke into a roar at the first sight of the team, and crowded around the station entrances for a nearer view.
The cabs which were provided for the team became the center of cheering knots of students who murmured words of encouragement and praise to the individual members of the squad as they clambered into the waiting vehicles.
Cabs Take Team to Campus
The team was bundled into cabs which led a cheering procession through South Bend to the campus three miles away. The line of march was north oh Michigan street to LaSalle, east to Notre Dame avenue, and thence north to the campus.
All along the route the crowd cheered lustily as they followed the cabs and University band through the streets. Hundred's marched, while many commandeered autos and wagons bound in the general direction of the campus.
In front of the postoffice the student body was again assembled, where Kennedy led cheers for the graduating members of the team, and the band closed the ceremonies with the famous Notre Dame Victory March.
Ex-Editor, on Way to Texas, Visits Campus
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of last year’s Scholastic, visited the campus this week enroute to Texas, w’here he is to begin work on a local newspaper.
Emil L. Telfel
“. . . The Scholastic surpasses all previous issues."
While in South Bend, the “Judge” stopped over to the Publications office, where this year’s staff were putting out the present edition.
“The Scholastic this year is great,” commented Telfel. “It surpasses by far all previous issues. My highest congratulations to the editors.”
Emil talked about the added features that the paper is running this year, and praised the make-up men for excellent typographical style.
He expects to return this way for Christmas, and will once again stop on the campus for a few days.
Foreign Relations Club Meets
There was a meeting of the Foreign Relations club last Wednesday evening in the Journalism room of the .library.
The relation of the United States to the China-Japan situation was discussed by the members.
The Minnesota club held a meeting last Sunday morning in the basement of Walsh hall. Final plans for the special train home were discussed, and last minute preparations for the Christmas dance were announced.
SPECTATORS HEAR ROLFS
Cather’s Trend From Naturalism to Idyllism Discussed.
At the last meeting of the Spectators, Daniel J. Rolfs, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke on the subject, “Is Willa Cather Retrogressive in Her Later Works?” He traced the development of Miss Cather’s genius in her twenty-year career, from her first novel of importance, Alexander’s Bridge, to her latest, pointing out her transition from the naturalism of My Antonia to the idyllism of Death Comes for the Archbishop. Refuting the accusation of critics who say that Miss Cather has reached an easy-chair stage in which she writes in her library, well stocked with historical books, the speaker pointed out incidents from the so-called idyllic novels to show that Miss Cather has not sacrificed naturalism to serenity, or action to poetic diction.
Idyllism Fits Cather
His final contention was that not only has Miss Cather found a style most becoming to her ability as a writer, but also she is filling a need in modern literature by offering inspiring, poetic prose to offset the overworked, and much mangled, sordid realism of such writers as Anderson and Hemmingway who, he claimed, slaughtered rhetoric to fatten ideas.
In the discussion that followed, the questions were raised: Has the sordid its place in good literature? Does .the serenity of action, and almost saintliness of the characters in Shadows on the Rock detract from the novel’s naturalism? How can Miss Cather produce as great art using unfamiliar material as she can using material which living has made her own?
Most of the spectators agreed that Miss Cather is not retrogressive but progressive in her art; and many admitted that they would welcome more Cather novels written in this recently developed style of one of America’s best writers.
Scientists Hear Dr, Bonine
The Academy of Science held an open meeting last Tuesday evening in the Law building.
Dr. Bonine, eminent eye specialist of Niles, Michigan, was the speaker of the evening.
December 4, 1931
Nine
ROCKNE PORTRAIT OUT
Photo-Color Studios In New York Issue Photograph.
The Photo-color studios of New York have issued a new colored portrait of Knute Rockne, which they have made to be featured with the motion picture, “The Spirit of Notre Dame.”
Several hundred extra copies of the picture were made for distribution on the Notre Dame campus, and can be procured from the company by writing to them at 220 West 42nd street. ‘
They also announce a special service to Notre Dame men that will enable them to present photographs, hand-colored, as Christmas presents. Prices for this work vary from ten to five dollars.
A salesman has been appointed on the campus who will handle the work, and will begin a canvass of the rooms immediately.
All that is necessary to have a photograph enlarged to a fourteen by seventeen inch portrait and colored is a clear original of any kind, including snap-shots or other reproductions.
KELLY SELECTS CAST
(Continued from Pase 5)
inactivity along these lines, to play the part of Jack Dalton. With Leddy come other familiar figures from past years: William Walsh who played Antonio in the commencement play of last year, Virgilius Phillips who made a hit as Petruchio in “The Taming of the Shrew,” and Roger Bierne, whose “Malvolio” was one of the outstanding performances of last year.
Other veterans of campus plays who will participate are James O’Shaughnessy, Joseph McCabe, William Corr, and James Carmody.
The play, written by Frank Davis, is one of the best of recent melodramas. The satire has been well done, and should afford a fine background for the theater’s first attempt of the current year. The melodrama will be presented on Sunday and Monday, December 13 and 14.
Do you know that the shortest distance across the United States is from Raleigh, N. C. to San Diego, California ?	'
Dome Staff Picks Cover For Year Book
Something new, unique, and startling is promised in the way of a cover for the Dome this year, according to Leslie Raddatz, editor of the annual publication, when he made known this week that plans were
Leslie Raddatz
Who approved new cover for year-book.
completed for that important feature of the yearbook.
Arthur Becvar, art editor of the Dome, will essay the task of making the cover the most attractive of its kind in recent years. Becvar has an enviable reputation on the campus as an artist, all of which leads one to believe the Dome cover will be in capable hands.
All the proofs of undergraduates’ photographs are in the Walsh basement, and those who have not as yet procured them are urged to do so at their earliest convenience. The Dome photographer has been busy all week taking pictures of the faculty, today being the last day for the individual sittings.
Pre-registration Notice!
Pre-registration for the second semester for all juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters will begin immediately after the Christmas vacation, according to an announcement made by Father Miltner, dean of the college.
The exact day and place of registration will .be announced at a later date. The printed list of elective subjects will be posted conspicuously in the general offices and on the University bulletin boards within a few days.
STUDENT ROCKNE DRIVE CONTINUED UNTIL XMAS
Early Response of Students Is Slow,
Since all the campus residence halls have as yet not been canvassed, the student drive for the Rockne Memorial fund, sponsored by the S. A. C. and the Blue Circle, will continue until the Christmas recess.
Because of the unsettled condition of the campus during the Thanksgiving holidays the drive got under way with only a moderate amount of success. A more intensive campaign will be staged, however, within the coming fortnight.
John Kramer, president of the Students Activities council, announced this week that the drive would be continued until the Christmas vacation. Every effort is to be expended in making the drive a success, according to Kramer. The halls will all be covered by a group of able collectors, with an S. A. C. man in charge of three Blue Circle representatives.
It is planned to keep the campus posted daily with the progress of the drive, by erecting a giant thermometer in a central location, so that each hall will know where it stands in comparison with other halls.
Last night a meeting of the Students’ council was held to decide the future of the continued campaign. As the Scholastic went to press, the committee had not decided just which plan was likely to bring the best results.
Hurley At Press Meeting
Neil C. Hurley, editor of the Scholastic, left yesterday to attend the National Scholastic Press association in Chicago, which will be in progress until this Saturday.
The convention will be held at the Palmer House, where discussions on newspaper work in the collegiate journalism field will take place.
A committee has been organized at the University of Oregon to record the activities of all students on the campus. Its purpose is to encourage scholarship and wide student participation in activities.
Ten
The Scholastic
Students Get Assignments— Miss Lawrence Does the Work
CHOOSE DEBATE SUBJECT
Government Control of Basic Industries To Be Asked.
A figure walks up those regular stone steps, and naively in the door. Once inside, the fellow looks around with an expression as that on the face of the common cow. Having heard something of a card index where one can reach the sources of all knowledge, he gazes vacantly around to see where such a thing might be hidden. If the index in back of the desk doesn’t happen to meet his eye at once, he takes a drink from the fountain, and finally wanders rather aimlessly towards the desk.
Once there, he stands and ponders a moment, then goes towards the door of the reference room. Frightened by the deadly hush in this forbidding sanctum of knowledge, he goes back and looks at the paintings around the walls in the file room. Suddenly he realizes that this is his goal. After looking for the card of the book needed, and finding that all the copies are out, he returns, nothing daunted, to find another that would do just as well.
As his brow begins to stream from exasperating toil, a girl in a blue dress appears at his side and asks him if she can be of any help. After gasping what he wants and waiting for a few moments, he is soon walking out the door, still with a dazed expression on his face, but the required book under his arm.
Who is he? He’s merely Fred Freshman. And she? Miss Lawrence, the warder of the desk. “Warder” leads one to vision some harsh looking female with a raspy voice. Miss Lawrence isn’t. As all who know her will agree, she is a “pal.” It seems hard to believe that the young lady has been behind that desk for nearly seven years, but it’s true.
Oh well, if you want biographical details: She was born at a very early age, and led the usual life of any young girl. Miss Lawrence is an A.B. (B.A. if you’re from the East), having gained her degree from Indiana several years ago. I won’t tell you any more because she wouldn’t tell me. Also, I won’t tell you her
first name, because she is

Lawrence to you, and you.
Miss Lawrence has several
Miss
criti-
cisms about the students and their
use of the library, but they are all constructive. First, as any good librarian should, and as any lover of books would, she decries the class of vandals who tear pages from texts, especially reference books. Her main
complaint is that so few men seem to have any idea of how the library should be used.
It causes Miss Lawrence to chuckle more than a little as she watches men who have duties to do. Her expression for the duties of men who worry about until they can get something out of the stacks to take to their room instead of doing the duties in the reference room is rather apt. She calls them “typewriter duties.”
In the time that she has been behind that desk our librarian has noted a great increase in the use and intelligent use of the library. Her rough statistics prove that the day when some men never entered the library until their senior year- when the necessity for a thesis compelled ' them to is rapidly passing.
The most popular of the small amount of fiction in the library she finds are Wallace’s mystery stories. Of course a few other of the finer books get a fair play, but the detective ficiton, regardless of how poor it is, is in constant demand. There are some books in the library that haven’t been disturbed since the day of their interment, but fiction is constantly going out or coming in.
Lately Miss Lawrence has compiled a list of the more popular novels in the library to save students the trouble of looking through countless index cards to find reading material for lighter moments. Miss Lawrence is like that. She is the one person on the campus, who, regardless of how much her own work must be put aside, is ready to help anyone in any way she is able. Hence the tenninology— a “pal”.
“Resolved that the United States should adopt a compulsory nationwide plan of control and distribution in major basic industries,” will be the topic argued by Notre Dame students during the coming debating season which begins early in February.
About 80 students were present at a meeting held this noon at 12:30 o’clock in the auditorium of the Law school. Tryouts for the teams will be held in the near future. Members of the four classes are eligible, and all students interested in debating are asked to report to Mr. William Coyne, this year’s debating coach, before the end of next week.
The question chosen by the department is being debated in all the leading universities and colleges in the country at the present time. The plan was advocated by Stewart Chase in the June issue of Harpers and also by Charles Beard in the July Forum. The timeliness of the topic along with the general interest attached to it had much to do with its choice.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS HEAR WESTINGHOUSE OFFICIAL SPEAK
Mr. O. P. Cleaver, an illuminating engineer of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing company, spoke before the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Monday evening, November 30. His paper discussed the development of illuminating art, illumination as a branch of engineering, and modem tendencies in lighting.
Edwin Kenefake, a sophomore, presented the only student paper. His topic was “Neon Tube Signs as Used in Advertising.”
Fifteen practicing engineers were guests of the branch, and after the meeting extended their congratulations to Chairman Hugh Ball for the splendid work being done by the local branch.
At the close of the meeting refreshments were served. Seventy-five members were in attendance.
December U, 1931
Eleven
GRADES ARE REPORTED
Frosh Grades To Be Sent To Various High Schools.
A plan whereby all high schools belonging to the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools will receive a report of the first semester records of their graduates who are freshmen here at the University is to be put into practice this year.
In the past the Office of the Director of Studies has received scattered requests from high schools for such reports, and it has always provided them. This year will mark the first time all freshmen graduates are reported. Such action not local to Notre Dame, but being done in conjunction with other colleges and universities of the Association.
According to the Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, transcripts of the scholastic records of every freshman who has come from a school belonging to the Association will be sent to the school at the end of the first semester each year. Every third year duplicates of these records will be sent to the central office of the Association.
This office will then make a general tabulation showing the relative degree of success of the students from all the secondary schools of the Association in all the colleges belonging to it. The new system, it is expected, will prove of much help in coordinating the wrork of high schools and colleges.
PARIS EDITOR, FORMER STUDENT, AWARE OF
CAMPUS CHANGES
Mr. Louis P. Hari, ’16, spent last week-end as a visitor to the campus in the company of Prof. J. M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism.
Since his graduation from Notre Dame, Mr. Hari has been connected with several publications. At present he is the Associate Editor of the Paris edition of the New York Tribune.
He is much interested in the development of Notre Dame. The changes in the campus surprised him greatly. He was also impressed with civic improvements in South Bend.
Mr. Hari, who recently contributed three articles to Commonweal, was a member of the first graduating class in the School of Journalism in 1916.
The Art of Vestments As Exemplified by Villaflor
“A gift of Napoleon III, as emperor of all France.”
With these words a set of vestments of striking beauty was displayed. The complete set of vestments is in one color, gold, its work-
manship and general appearance entirely befitting its royal origin.
The robes and vestments with accompanying garments are made of gold cloth heavily embroidered in gold thread. So heavy are some of the embroidered patterns and symbols that they stand out an inch or more from their background, and seem almost as if made of golden metal held by some magic thread to the foundation material.
Japanese, and Turkish vestments followed, each piece bearing what seemed the most beautiful embroidery possible, work that was a symbol of perfection and loveliness.
These are a few of the great collection of old embroideries in the Sacred Heart church, and the speaker is Pastor M. Villaflor, a man who has exhibited embroideries at world expositions, who is even now working on exhibits for the 1933 Chicago world fair, and whose work is a part of Notre Dame’s valuable collection.
He was born and received his early education in the Philippines where he taught art for a while,
Twenty-seven Answer Call to Breen Medal Contest
Twenty-seven students, members of the various classes at the University, turned out for the first meeting of contestants in the Breen Medal Oratorical contest, Wednesday, in Room 409, Main building.
The contest for oratory is held annually, the award being given by the late William P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. The preliminaries will be held on the afternoons of December
later coming to the United States where he completed his education at Notre Dame. To learn more of the fine arts of embroidery and sacred paintings he travelled around the world, circling it twice in his search for knowledge.
Arriving- back in America, Pastor Villaflor studied and taught art in several widespread places. During this time he met President Roosevelt. Previously while in the Philippines he had met President Taft.
At present his work consists mainly of vestments and altar work. In his little room he labors for long hours designing and making vestments; all kinds of them—plain, and fancy, large, and small. So wide spread is his fame as a vestment maker that his work is sent to almost every state in the Union.
With tender care he removes the pillow, which is to be exhibited at the World’s Fair in Chicago, from its covering and displayed it. Made of a heavy silk, for which he had “combed the markets of the world,” with a beautiful embroidered rose which stands out about a half inch from the silk, the pillow is a work of art. The stitches are as fine as possible while the colors blend to make it haromnize to the last detail.
His paintings are as beautiful as his embroidery work. In his room was a partly finished painting depicting the Blessed Trinity, a picture which is to be placed on the back of a vestment.
In all the chapels of Notre Dame some work of Villaflor’s may be seen, and whether it is a vestment or just a book cover each one stands by itself, a masterpiece of silk, thread, and oil.
9, 10, and 11, in Washington hall at 4 o’clock. The finals will take place either on December 15 or 16.
Each year the winner of the contest is sent to Indianapolis to compete in the state meet. Last year Notre Dame’s representative placed third, and in the two previous years was first. Mr. William Coyne, of the Speech Department, has charge of the contest.
Twelve
The Scholastic
p=====^=====^^========================^=
A Man About the Campus** Arthur Himbert
GERMAN MOVIE SHOWN IN WASHINGTON HALL
By Bryan Degnan
One casual moment may project the greatness of a few campus figures, but a whole month was needed to shape the destiny of Arthur L. Himbert, the renowned matador of Walsh. It was the month spent in the pesthouse during his sophomore year that fashioned the career of this aspiring newsy.
His companions were Bob Darling and Dan Hanley. The cases were Scarlet fever. Get three former Brownson men together under normal conditions and you’ll faint under the pressure of lurid tales. But with three former Brownson men in a fever—well . . .
Famed As Matador
Darling and Hanley were good as matadors go. But when the usual campus chatter began to pale Himbert exhibited his potentialities. His two competitors assumed a sweet smile of resignation. Just now Walsh hall is wearing that same smile.
Perhaps an ability to give rare touches to vocal shots swerved Art into his present position as president of the Press club. At any rate the newcomer has certainly launched a promising year. The rejuvenation of this hitherto latent organization is an achievement. Several newspaper celebrities have been guests of the club this year and with the' burst of regular activity an interest in things journalistic has been fostered.
Lives In Rock Island
Whether Rock Island, Illinois, will some day swell the stream with the boast of another Pegler or Brown on the journalistic horizon is merely a matter of conjecture, but at present the yen of Mr. Himbert is toward that consuming and all too rancid newspaper racket.
His inclinations veer to the side of sports. Preferably the aspirant would fling his winged invectives from sunny California. Merely a craving for the country.
At present the Walsh King finds his major in journalism under Dr. Cooney intensely interesting. Studies, we hear, actually occupy a bit of his time. H’m, a man about the classrooms too. Treading your way into 332 may bring you back to back with the artist, dozing gracefully over a philosophy text.
Then again, you may find him prowling among the annals of American literature, especially the contemporary works in which he admits a profound interest. Sax Rohmer takes his lighter moments. When in the
Art Himbert
Worries over room-mate’s hair, writes stories and tells them.
mood he lolls about listening to good music, drops in on an occasional bridge game, or, as in moments of inspiration, assumes his favorite and well carved notch among the punsters.
Fears for Room-Mate’s Hair
Probably the most intense brainvexing problem confronting the Walsh peer this winter is the creeping of frost into the hitherto dandy-ish black of his room-mate’s hair. “Ah, the pity of it,” sighs Art. “Dutch” Uhl-meyer, by the way, is the gray one, and the proud one if you believe his apparent unconcern. Oh, you don’t! Well, perhaps then, he has a reason for applying the old sage and sulphur so assiduously. .
But to return once again to the eternal pastime, behold the artist, the complete yarnster. Neither the fact that he drifted about picking up the finer points of his hobby, nor the fact that he has exerted himself in strenuous competition can account for his proficiency. No, not even a first-year suicide schedule in Brownson. It’s something under the palate.' This year his prestige in the proverbial bull session has reached the apex prophecied by Dan Hanley, and in the dens of Walsh!—a veritable Madrid for matadors.
Travelogue of Rhine District Presented By German Club.
The screen travelogue, “Let’s Go Along The Rhine,” was shown in Washington hall on the evening of December 1. Officers of the German club booked the film for the entertainment of the club members and other students of the University who w’ished to attend.
About two hundred and fifty spectators sat back in their seats and took an imaginary trip from the lower Rhine to the upper or, as the Germans would say “von Basel nach Dusseldorf.” It was the first German film the club has offered to its members. The text was in German and English.
German singers and a German band added interest to the film with -their synchronized songs and music. This aspect of the travelogue is the reason why the film lacked so much as even one “dry spot.” They put reality into the scenes.
The scenery was predominantly picturesque. Partially ruined castles reared their battlements above the terraced hills all along the banks of the Rhine. The irregularity and elaborateness of the architecture in the cities were strikingly in contrast with the features of modem architecture, which are simplicity and regularity. The cathedrals, especially that of Cologne, were well photographed and impressed the on-looker with their immensity and elaborateness.
Typical country scenes of Germany were also depicted. Near the journey’s end windmills became noticeable in the landscape.
Grand Rapids Plans Dance
The annual Christmas dance of the Grand Rapids club will be held on December 26, at the Pantland hotel. Mike Falk and his Collegians from Detroit have been engaged for the affair.
Novel favors’ and programs have been selected by the committees, and for the information of the members it is announced that bids to the dance are $2.50 per couple.
December 4,19 JI
Thirteen
ARTICLE BY PROFESSOR CAIN RECEIVES PRAISE
Evils of Prosecution Assailed In Critical Treatise.
Considerable comment has been received on an article ‘written by Professor William M. Cain, assistant in the Notre Dame College of Law, in the November issue of the Lawyer. In this article Mr. Cain assails prosecutors who turn to persecution.
The article has created no little interest in the legal field. Several comments have been received, and a review of the article appeared in a recent issue of a local newspaper. The theme of the work is to show that trial judges and prosecutors in the American courts can do much to speed justice, guarantee fair trials, and curb the number of reversals in the “courts of last resort.”
Care Needed in Submitting Evidence
This can be done, Professor Cain points out, by exercising care, scrupulousness, and legal talents in the submission of evidence, and in the final arguments of the jury. A number of specific cases from the files prove the case of Prof. Cain.
He also writes that the burden of proving a man’s guilt rests with the state, and it must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. Followers of court trials often wonder whether the doctrine of reasonable doubt is held sacred by twelve tired and nettled jurymen who would be willing to vote in any direction just to get the case completed. !
Prosecutors Become Persecutors
Professor Cain then endeavors to show his readers why justice is delayed and often defeated by pointing out that overzealous prosecutors become persecutors, and how they will resort to any artifice to win their case. He states that courts are often to blame for permitting the prosecutors to take such liberties.
The use of dramatics, rising with gusto, and the practice of the human element of appeal are then described by the writer as means of the lawyer ot sway a jury. Causes of delay in court trials are also reviewed.
Prof. Cain concludes by saying that this county is singularly free from the ills of injustice as compared with many other places in the Supreme court reports.
MUSIC AND DRAMA j
By John E. Ryan
As an optimistic sign in the present lowly state of the theater, we have noticed a surprising increase on the campus of interest in plays. This growing desire of students to know more about the theatre is expressed by the number of people who return from each successive week-end talking about . the plays they have seen. Whether in New York or in Chicago, students go to the theater.
A sign no less favorable is the critical analysis with which they see a play. Considering the obvious fact that students, by virtue of their inability to see a great many plays each season, might be expected to accept without criticism anything that is run out on the stage, it is a fine thing that they do not submit placidly to whatever a producer chooses to give them. They decide for themselves what is good, and very often their judgment is confirmed by the opinions of veteran critics.
Whether this is a situation common to the majority of American universities, we are unable to say. But the trend in one university may be taken, without too broad an assumption, to be indicative, we suspect, of a tendency which bids well for the return of a decent, artistic theater in the future. More than that, it points to the time when the American audience will no longer sit through a play barren of meaning for the mere delight of wondering what the stage manager will show in the next scene.
The undergraduate appreciates ar-
Dean Konop At Indiana Bar Association Meeting
Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law, attended the special meeting of the committees on education of the Indiana Bar association. The committee met in Indianapolis at the Columbia Club building on Saturday, November 28. Mr. Konop, a member of the committee, represented the University of Notre Dame.
Matters considered by the committee included the recent rules of State
tistic settings, the fine points of showmanship in the theater, but he looks to O’Neill, if for nothing else, foi- a vivifying force. If Eugene O’Neill succeeds in making the theater a living, moving being, he will find in our colleges a sympathetic audience. After all, Hamlet was a man, and any artificiality in the presentation of “Hamlet” detracts from our enjoyment of the play.
Advertisers realize the importance of the collegiate field in their effoi-t to make the country “air conscious,” or “radio conscious,” and it is scarcely to be thought that producers cannot borrow the idea from them. When the American undergraduate becomes “play conscious,” we shall see more good drama than we have known for many a year. For the collegiate world, whatever may be said of its follies, matures rapidly, and once matured, sets the standard of criticism for its time. It is a fertile field for drama, and it remains only for producers to realize the importance of the field, before it is too late.
But to come back to St. Joe county, have you noticed the quality of radio programs of the past few Sundays? Last Sunday afternoon, for instance, the Philadelphia Symphony was on the air with “Rigoletto,” in a concert broadcast internationally. Following that, Beniamino Gigli gave a thirtyminute recital on a chain program that will not soon be outdone. Broadcasting lost none of the power nor delicacy of his voice, and the selection of numbers was one of the best we have lately heard.
Supreme Court for examining applicants for admission to the Bar. The report of the committee will be made by Chairman Benjamin L. Long to the winter meeting of the Indiana Bar association.
Dean Konop will address Professor Buckley’s class on Administration of Labor Laws, December 7 at 8 a. m. Mr. Konop was a member of the Industrial commission of Wisconsin for six years.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
These Were the Days When The N. D. Man Pioneered
Perhaps our alma mater is enjoying her most fruitful and flourishing era; perhaps harkening back and regretfully longing for the sacred bygone days is absurd. But our parklike campus with all its beauty, dot-tedly enhanced by stately edifices, sorely lacks the romance of Notre Dame during the even fifties and thrilling sixties. What romance? But let’s check this curiosity by a journey into the past with the ghost of Washington hall.
N. D. Back in ’54
So this is Notre Dame in 1854 ? Look! Ninety-three students slowly, silently sauntering into the refectory. Hushed, soundless, save for their scraping tread. ’Tis not a natural silence but once manufactured by a catalogic regulation — “Excepting recreation periods an inviolable silence must be kept by all students.” The refectory portals swallows the men in threes and fours until the final student slips lazily through the door. Splintery, battered and amateurishly carved tables, ninety-three varieties of eating utensils—another rule of catalogue: “each student is required to furnish his own knives, forks and spoons”—clankey tin plates and cups—now if that’s not romance! How different from the easy, monotonous, boring uniformity of today!
Before we could leave this place the clear voice of a young man was heard. This was the reader of the day. For at each meal some religious, scientific or fictionary article was read — it curtailed all student talk. Chunks and chunks of romance! —and all these rules, regulations and prohibitions were in the catalogus.
We meandered to Saint Joseph’s laks. How strange it seemed bare of its arborial border! Just an enormous curving pond, brazingly
Interhall Debating Opens Monday
James B. O’Shaughnessy, chairman of interhall debating,, announces this week that the coaches have met with their hall debating teams, and have been working for several weeks. The turnouts for the teams have been most satisfactory, and regular teams have almost been picked.
haughty with its millions of silvery reflection where was the lofty church tower bending, angling and squirming in its watery mirror? Gone or yet to come? But we were snapped from our aesthetic contemplativeness entire student body.
“Some simple soul hath wagered a pretty penny against the team,” we conjectured, “and is getting the lake,” —But no, they all had towels—soap too. We moved closer. Ninety-three students with rolled-up trousers, soaping, sudding and scrubbing away the pedestial dirt—a few more chunks of romance for you. “Now if we only had a ritual like that”—but we got no further with our musing. Our ghostly comrade presented a thin grey pamphlet—the catalogue!
Pocket Money Tabooed
Skipping the preface and history, we fingered on to “University Regulations.” Startled, amazed and surprised would hardly describe our mental reactions to this awe-inspiring list of rules. To begin with— “Students are forbidden to smoke tobacco and to have any pocket money.” Please, a moment’s dwelling here.
Consider the simple, wholesome life of these students wisely stripped of the vain luxuries of the world 'which only multiply the chances of losing true happiness. Never need they worry; never need they cry in pain for a match or “smoke”—this tantalizing pleasure was happily denied them. Yes, their life was simplicity itself—romantic simplicity.
But why should we go on with this tale, harping on the betterments of that blessed era and grieving about our present condition void of such romance? Come, Ghost of Washington hall, let’s be moving ahead again! We wrould return to those cool November days of thirty-one.
The debates between the halls will begin Monday, and will continue on regular schedules for about two weeks. Prominent members of the faculty will be the judges at the debates. The trophy to be given to the winners is the traditional Wrangler trophy.
KREPS, TESKE SPEAK AT BOOKMEN MEETING
Discussion Follows Reading of Critical Papers.
“One of the reasons for Sigrid Undset’s popularity among her countrymen is the fact that she chooses to portray the great but impecunious middle-class,” said Kenneth Kreps in his appreciative treatment of the life and works of Miss Undset at the meeting of the BOOKMEN last Monday evening.
After making this general comment Kreps went on at some length showing more specifically hod she won respect for her thinking along conservative lines, and her supreme interest in the relation of the individual to the race through marriage and parenthood.
Following the discussion attendant, upon Krep’s paper, Lloyd Teske reviewed Agnes Repplier’s recent biography, Mere Marie of the Ursulines. He said that while the biography of the French nun wTas capably handled much of the appeal of the book lay in the stimulating digressions that Miss Repplier allowed to creep into the course of her narrative. Later Teske pointed out that the book had an additional value of supplying a background for Willa Cather’s popular work, Shadow on the Rock.
Samuel Hyde, Edward Riley, and George Eichler, ■whose applications had been accepted at the previous meeting, sat in on the .discussion, and were informally initiated into the activities of the club.
Detroiters Plan Dance
At the annual meeting of the Detroit club the final preparations for the annual Christmas dance were announced.
The affair is to be held at the Tuller hotel on the evening of December 29, with Miner’s Melodians furnishing the music. Bids are four dollars a couple.
Villagers to Meet Monday
Definite plans for the annual Christmas dance will be formulated at the regular monthly meeting of the Villagers’ club, Monday, December 7, at the Oldenburg inn.
Members are requested to meet at the K. of C. hall at 6 p. m. •
December 4,19J1
Fifteen
CHICAGO CLUB FORMAL TO BE AT DRAKE DEC. 28
Ostrander and Duffy Chairmen of Christmas Dance.
Plans for the annual Christmas formal of the Chicago Club to be held in Chicago, December 28, were revealed yesterday by Joel Ostrander and Tom Duffy, chairmen in charge of the affair.
The club has decided to have the dance in the main dining room and Avenue of Palms at the Drake hotel, scene of several collegiate functions.
Tweet Hogan and Jack Chapman, well known not only to Chicago music fans, but also to a vast number of Notre Dame men, are furnishing the music for the annual party.
Admission is only by invitation but members of the club wishing to invite guests may do so by making arrangements with the chairmen. They may be seen at any time for invitations.
Favors have not been definitely decided upon but will be of some type favorable to the occasion.
Ticket sale on the campus ends December 17, according to the chairman. Until then tickets may be procured for four dollars. The tickets on sale in Chicago are five dollars.
Last Year’s “Dome” on Sale
A limited number of copies of the 1931 Dame are now available at the Publications office at a reduced price. This profusely illustrated volume of 500 pages, bound in black and silver, contains a complete record of the past scholastic year, and is particularly interesting to first year students at the University. Those not familiar with the 1931 Dome may examine a copy at the Publications office,. 232 Main building.
ECONOMICS NOTICE!
The department of economics made the following announcement regarding theses of seniors majoring in economics :
The subject must be selected and approved before December 15, 1931. The first draft is due February 15, 1932, and the final copy must be presented not later than March 15, 1932. Those writing theses will please consult with the member of the faculty within whose field their theses subject falls.
The Boys from Across the Water Like Our Systems
Special to the Scholastic by N.S.F.A. Service.
Due to the ceaseless efforts of the Institute of International Education there is now a 'migration of students to American colleges rivaling the ancient migrations of scholars to Greek and Roman centers of learning. Although the student pilgrimages are facilitated by the Institute, the urge lies with the students, in their enthusiasm and desire for adventure.
Charles D. Hurrey, general secretary of the Committee for Friendly Relations Among Foreign Students, recently said “War and post war experiences revealed something in American civilization that the youth of Europe are determined to study at close range. They discovered that our population is made up of adventurous people from everywhere; that the highest achievement is possible for the humblest citizen; great industrial and business leaders came as immigrants from Europe and by their toil and thrift, won fame and fortune; humble farmer boys have worked their way to the presidency of the nation. Opportunities of education are open to all, irrespective of social or economic status; moreover, thousands
Philosophy Majors Must Report on December 16
Students of the senior class who are majoring in Philosophy are requested to report to the office of the dean of the College of Letters on Wednesday, December 16, according to an announcement made this week by Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
At this time copies of the comprehensive examination for philosophy majors will be ready for distribution. This examination will cover all the prescribed subjects in the course and also such subjects taken as electives by the student.
The examination will be oral, and will be conducted by a board of three members of the department of philosophy of the University. Failure to pass this test will exclude the student from graduation with the 1932 class next June.	•
of American students were known to be earning their expenses while studying; by such activity they did not lose the respect of their fellows, in fact, many of them enhanced then- prestige by such conduct.
Not a few European students are coming here, therefore, to study student organizations, club-houses, social unions, and various schemes of selfhelp. They are interested also in problems of immigration and the assimilation of other peoples. The American’s capacity for mass production, high wages, and industrial management has captured the imagination of engineering students; some are here also to study our technique in business and education. Research in the field of sociology and political science is a favorite study for a considerable number. Here the European student finds a people unfettered by traditions, eager to explore new fields and methods, willing to try anything, at least once, youthful in spirit, optimistic, students of the future more than of the past; those are features of our civilization that are most alluring to progressive students in ancient Europe.
Half of Students at Minnesota Hold Jobs to Defray Expenses
By N. S. F. A. Service.
More than half the students at the University of Minnesota earn all or part of their college expenses, according to a study just completed by James G. Umstattd, assistant professor of education at that university, who will write about the young workers in his book, “Student Self-Support,” to be published by the University of Minnesota Press. Dr. Umstattd found a law student cutting hair in a campus barber shop, a miner looking after a paper route, and engineer employed as a soda-jerker, and a “Home Ec” girl as a switchboard operator. Employed students get just as good grades as those who do not work, and they take just as much in-eterest in athletics and campus activities, it has been discovered. .
Sixteen
The Scholastic
PLANS NOW BEING MADE FOR BOXING TOURNEY
Campus Opinions
TESTIMONIAL BANQUET TO BE GIVEN MONDAY
Scholastic SponsorsContest For Benefit of Mission.
By Billy Magarrall
Preliminary plans are slowly getting under way for the proposed boxing tournament sponsored by the Scholastic for the Bengal Mission fund in its series of minor sports programs throughout the •winter. Definite plans have not entirely been arranged, but each w’eek information will be given in the Scholastic as the plans progress.
It is planned to hold a preliminary tournament during the period between the return from the Christmas recess and the semester examinations. This preliminary tournament will enable the sponsors to determine the relative merits of the entrants so that satisfactory pairings may be made, allowing each man an even chance.
It is understood that many are already in preparation for this event, which is urgently suggested that they continue since physical training is so necessary if success is to be attained. To many this may appear somewhat early but we feel the medal awards are going to be worthy of the success which early preparation is almost certain to bring.
Chemists and Pharmacy Clubs Hold Joint Meetin'?
A joint meeting of the Chemists’ and the Pharmacy clubs was held Wednesday evening, December 2, in Chemistry hall.
Joseph Toussaint, president of the Chemists’ club, and Stanley Czapal-ski, president of the Pharmacy club, called the meeting to order. Mr. Toussaint introduced Dr. H. D. Hinton, of the department of chemistry, as the principal speaker, and Messrs. Hamilton and Killian of the club.
Dr. Hinton’s topic was “The Value of a Scientific Education.” Messrs. Hamilton and Killian, senior chemical engineers, demonstrated the direct method for the recovery of ammonia from coal tar gases in the byproduct industry. The apparatus used was .a miniature industrial process.
Mr. Czapalski presided for the remainder of the meeting and introduced Mr. Jane, a senior pharmacist, who discussed the ‘Relation of Chemistry to Pharmacy.”
Question: “What do you think of the minor sports program as sponsored by the Scholastic?”
Lucien Kempf, Corby hall, junior: “I think it is a good idea. It creates interest among the students and gives them a chance to get out and to engage in some active exercise. A league in handball, for example, should be organized and sponsored by one of the departments and carried through to a finish. If the program was carried on in a definite, organized way, better results would be obtained. Rockne was an advocate of such a plan, so I believe a program of this kind would meet with success if managed properly.”
Edward McKeever, Howard hall, junior: “I think that a program of minor sports would help to occupy one’s time. Handball, for instance, is an excellent example. Games of this kind would be a diversion from the amount of indoor work that the average student does. The proposed Rockne Memorial fieldhouse would afford ample facilities for such activities.”
J. William Gosselin, Howard hall, senior: “I think that a minor sports program of the type now being sponsored by the Scholastic is a good plan. I believe that some kind of award should be given to the winners of the first three places. They would be an incentive for active participation in the various events on the program. These awards could be financed out of the University athletic fund.”
Orville E. Ockuly, Corby hall, senior: “I am in favor of an organized minor sports program because if carried out, desirable results would be obtained. In the past, however, such programs that had been initiated came to naught, but under the more efficient management now promised, I believe they should be successful.”
Jack Cooper, Walsh hall, senior: “Neil Hurley and his assistants have, by their minor sports program, fulfilled a need which xhas long been clamoring for attention. Notre Dame is in the main a school of athletes, and any extra branch of endeavor opened is a decided boon to fellows lacking varsity ability.”
St. Joe Valley Club to Sponsor Annual Football Dinner.
The twelfth civic testimonial banquet for the football team and the coaching staff of the University of Notre Dame, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joe Valley, will be held in the east wing of the University dining halls on Monday night, December 7, at 7:00 o’clock.
Brown To Be Toastmaster
A. Harold Weber, general chairman in charge of affairs, expects 1,000 persons to attend the banquet. Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, will act as toastmaster. The principal speakers for the evening will be the Hon. H. L. Mackey, mayor of Philadelphia, and the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame.
Among the guests will be several prominent coaches. Those who have already accepted invitations are: Judge Walter Steffen of Carnegie Tech, “Dick” Hanley of Northwestern, “Jimmy” Crowley of Michigan State, Major Ralph Sasse of the Army, Noble Kizer of Purdue, and possibly “Chick” Meehan of New York university. Members of the Faculty Board of Athletics and the Board-of Lay Trustees will be present, as well as. several prominent sports writers and members of the local press.
. Band Will Be There
The Notre Dame band under the direction of Prof. Joseph Casasanta will provide the musical part of the program. The entire program will be broadcast from the Tribune station in South Bend.
W. F. Sheehan, “Herb” Jones, and -James E. Armstrong are in charge of ethe local sale of tickets. The alloted number was already half sold on Wednesday, December 2. Any graduate who wishes to attend the banquet may do so. It is a stag affair. Tickets may be obtained at the Alumni office; the price is three dollars a plate.
The Amherst “Lord Jeff,” monthly humorous publication of Amherst College, has been banned for the remainder of tile year because of a drawing published in the November issue.
December 4,
Seventeen
COLLEGE PARADE
Our “Bad Boy”
Sinclair Lewis, the “he who got slapped” of the famous Lewis versus Dreiser fiasco, made the statement in a speech before the Brooklyn Academy of Music that “current fiction is far superior to that of the ’90s.” And he further announced that “fiction tells us about people and makes them live. History is wooden, merely the march of dates.”
Such statements, falling from the lips of the famous Nobel prize winner, are unusual and bizarre, but not astounding. Lewis has fallen so completely into the habit of making startling and wierd statements that they have long since lost their originality and have degenerated into commonplace absurdities.
But overlooking this mannerism of his entirely, the novelist seems in this case to have overstepped his mark. That current fiction is far superior to that of an earlier period may be true, but for a modern writer to make such an assertion imputes a certain amount of egoism and self praise. That simply isn’t cricket. And as for history being wooden—that, too, is debatable. Isn’t fiction, at least a great body of it, dependent upon historical facts for its basis ? Carlyle said, “History is a recitation of the lives of great men.” A great deal of our modern literary output is founded upon such biographical material and is, if not technically fiction, closely akin to it in style and interest.
And Other Animals?
Incidentally, Harvard does not allow in its dormitories, either “women or dogs.”
Even Then
It’s interesting, too, to know that in 1884, the football season at Yale netted the school $3,500. Of this amount, $25 was used for training purposes.
Slightly Contradictory
The Columbia Spectator recently used the word “sex” six times in calling attention to the fact that the word “sex” had never been printed in its columns.
Contrast
“Young men at college have very little need of pocket money, and parents are advised to entrust their funds to some member of the faculty who will attend to the payment of student bills. By this course one of the strongest temptations of the young to vice will be avoided,” according to a notice under “Expenses” in a Northwestern university catalog for 1858-59. In spite of the reckless spending of money in those days, the senior class was composed of the overwhelming number of five students, while the sophomores numbered two. Entrance requirements and examinations are given as Greek, Latin and Mathematics, and the school year was divided into three terms, with a winter vacation of five weeks.
Amusing
Some of the rules for freshmen of Harvard University in 1734 were:
“No freshman shall wear his hat in the college yard except when it rains or snows, or be on horseback, or hath both hands full.”
“No freshman shall use lying or equivocation to escape going on an errand.”
“Freshmen may wear their hats at dinner and supper except when they receive their commons of bread and beer.”
Cosmopolitans
The first international collegiate radio debate is to take place next month, when orators from Harvard and Oxford universities will exchange arguments over 3,000 miles of ocean.
League Jr.
Delegates have been summoned from a dozen New England colleges for a Student Disarmament Conference to be held Dec. 3-5 under the auspices of the Fellowship of Reconciliation and the League of Nations Association at Boston. Among the colleges and universities that will be represented by approximately eight or ten delegates each are Boston, Emerson, Harvard, Northeastern, Radcliffe, Simmons, Smith, Technology, Tufts, Wellesley, and Wheaton.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Weep for old Armbo—old Armbo is dead And another rules these columns in his stead. His bulk was might and his wit was sharp, (Though over-concerned in his being well-fed) And if we can picture him twanging a harp And floating around as angelic as love, Why—there’s another Divine Carmody above I
Quick Winks
(The first to solve the above anagram will be awarded a concession on the Army week-end “stories”.)
The interior of the special going to New York . . . You remember Rudy’s “My Song” scene with the Barrymore colt in the Scandals? Well, he’s got another one now . . , only it’s with Ike Terry . . . The inebriate at the game who insisted on cheering for Harvard . . . Julie Acers climbing onto the special at Toledo . . . The dance (?) at the McAlpin . . . and everybody who wasn’t there . . . Murnane now appearing with one girl . . . evidently feels she can give up the duenna protection . . . Missed Ed Rhatigan on the week-end . . . Chicago is a great town in its way eh, Ed, lad? . . . Tom Mahaffey’s extravagant eye . . . Tom says it isn’t football, its the bunk—and other bad puns . . . Laurie Vejar’s monkey hat . . . also Mahaffey’s pinch hitting act at the Inn Sunday eve . . . night after someone had said good-bye to someone in Indianapolis, too, after seven years . . . which brings to mind Jim Kirby . . . wonder how he is getting along . . . The interior of the special coming from New York . . .
Wink Ginks
Who is the Prominent who is leaving soon because he would Step Out? . . . and who are the footbrawlers that will be glad? . . . What are the names of the student and the instructor- who go calling on alternate evenings on the same girl? . . . Who is the pigskin chaser who learned his lesson for a ten-spot in New York? . . . and who was the lad that said naughty things to a lass from Oklahoma last November the Twenty-Ach? . . . Who are the members of the bucket brigade in Walsh? . . . What monogram man took away an unlettered student’s steady in Chicago? . . . Who is the student who buys all his cigarettes at the Oliver, because of the attraction there? . . . Who is the Stool Pigeon?
Lemmonier says: Three more weeks till Christmas— Sincerely,
Old Thumbnose.
Birdie Whispers
O’Shaugnessy! what are you trying to do . . . look masterful and strong and he-mannish in front of the gals? . . . we wish you’d at least leave those cords at home when you visit the Inn . . . Spectators! w’hy don’t you pay that bill and give that poor local jewelry merchant a rest? . . . he’s done nothing but chase you for the last month now . . . Bernhardt! how did you enjoy making the fudge . . . we’ll bet you look just too grand in an apron . . . Higgins! why didn’t you keep that telephone date yourself after you made it? . . . Phil seemed to think it was pretty nice ... St. Mary’s! why are you running three class dances within ten days . . . and shortly before our Prom?
Why were there so many checks on the signals last Saturday? . . . And the St. M. chippie we saw downtown Wednesday . . . She’s s’posed to be campused ... at least that’s what she told Len ... or was it someone that looked like her . . . Sageman’s girl two-timing him with six other fellows . . . Jerry Shine’s uncle caught in bed Sunday morning of U. S. C. week-end on check-up . . . shouldn’t sleep so late, unc . . .
Two hub caps and a fender torn on Buick touring . . . another car reported in the ditch . . . All the helpful assistants during the flood in Walsh Monday about midnight . . . and the guy with the cider jug in his hand . . . Schereschewsky of Haavahd would go big out here . . . Shields and his partner-in-crime fixing up 320 Morrissey . . . Boys falling asleep at Mass in Rochester- . . . The party they’re all talking about at the prohibition agent’s house in the big town . . .
We heard of a funny embarrassing moment that occurred Thanksgiving in Mishawaka. but we won’t tell about it . . . And then Sunday, John (you-know-what) McNeil having a nice date at the Inn when his girl arrived ... A Mount Vernon boy’s U. S. C. resume that evening . . . Moon Mullins spending several bucks to call a gal out-of-town and then not even getting an answer to his letter . . . Bill (Detective) Corr let that gal from the Woods keep the autographed football . . . must’ve been a case of love at first sight . . . Powers and Powers, Inc., making millions at fifty percent on each order . . . Ask Mahaffey about the latest scar he’s got . . . and he and Christman will have Casasanta on their trail soon. . . . Oh, well, that’s enough for this week . . . gotta study Torts ... by the way, there’s a clue for you, Bill.
—The Stool Pigeon.
December 4,19.J1
Nineteen
EDITOR*/ PAGE
A TRIP FOR THE THEATRE
The University Theatre, one of the major organizations at Notre Dame, will in another week open its 1931 dramatic season. Professor Frank Kelly has chosen for the first presentation a melodrama of the old school that is publicized as an exceedingly different production from the customary Washington hall offerings.
As usual, when the Scholastic editorially comments on the Theatre, the question of a trip for the players is invariably mentioned. We believe this is justifiable since the Glee Club, the Band, and similar organizations, have met with stupendous success on their triumphal tours of the East and Middle West.
The Theatre, possessing the talent to stage a brilliant production, would reflect creditable prestige upon the University.
The Scholastic is not advocating that the present melodrama be sent on the road, for it would seem that something more representative of the splendid acting on the Notre Dame stage could be chosen. But the Theatre has presented several worth-while Shakespeare productions, together with a few modern dramas, any of which would bring favorable comment to Notre Dame should they be played in metropolitan show houses for brief one or two-night stands.
The prospect of a trip if the play scores a campus hit would prove an incentive to the players themselves and would in all probability raise the prestige of the activity among the undergraduates. Its expenses would be naught, for the “gate” at the theatres would sufficiently cover, travelling expenditures.
Other large universities, notably Princeton, Yale, and Chicago, are famous for their travelling groups of players, who tour the country during various vacation periods.
Notre Dame, with its ambitious little theatrical group on the campus, might well follow suit.
“HUNK” ANDERSON
Respected by his thirty-eight regulars, admired by all Notre Dame students, “Hunk” Anderson has wound up his first year as leader of the Fighting Irish.
It wasn’t a glorious year from the. standpoint of victories. The royal family of football were dethroned quite decisively on two occasions, and rebuked severely once again, when Trojans, Wildcats and Mules balked the Notre Dame advance.
Stepping into the most dangerous position in the sporting world, “Hunk” has stood on the football “spot” for the entire season. Notre Dame has no alibis at its conclusion. The team did their share; Anderson did his.
Malicious rumors that have circulated on the outside by the customary football “nuts,” veiled newspaper insinuations, and pussy-footing columnists have indicated that Anderson is not the man for the job because of those two heartbreaking defeats.
Here on the campus we smile good-naturedly when such comment is made. For Anderson, to us, has made good. He is senior coach in his own right. That is complete undergraduate opinion.
Last year it was generally admitted that “Hunk” was a great line-coach. He proved this season that he is probably the best of the young head coaches in the country, and unquestionably one of the best of the veteran grid mentors.
It took nerve to follow Knute Rockne, to face a nine-game “suicide schedule,” to mould a backfield into shape that was continually being
“Hunk” has lost two football games, but Rockne, too, lost an occasional game. Most coaches would be proud to run through a schedule like Notre Dame’s and suffer but two defeats. There’s no cause for undue excitement.
Anderson is senior coach at Notre Dame because the entire University has confidence in his ability. And that is one reason why the undergraduates hope he will continue in his present capacity.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Army Tramples Notre Dame 12-0
Stecker Leads Cadets In Startling Triumph Over Blue and Gold Eleven
CAGERS OPEN SEASON WITH KAZOO TONIGHT
West Point Team Thrills 80,000 By Outplaying Favored N. D. Squad on Muddy Field.
By Edmund L. Moriarty
Special dispatch from a Staff Correspondent.
Yankee Stadium, November 28.— The Army mule, unmindful of his low station in life, proved to be a most stubborn beast before the mighty Ramblers of Notre Dame, and secured a place for himself even higher than that attained by the famous Trojan horse of Southern California. The great Trojan avalanche proved their superiority only after sixty minutes of hard fighting, but the gold-helmeted West Pointers secured their sweet revenge in comparatively easy fashion, and buried the vaunted Notre Dame attack with a brand of football that comes only from an inspired combination.
It w’as Army’s day throughout, and seldom, if at all, was this a matter of question. While the Cadets were completely bottling up the heralded Notre Dame attack, they managed to slip in two touchdowns to insure a complete rout of the men from South Bend. Time after time, Army forwards knifed their way through the great Notre Dame line, to spill the green-shirted ball carriers for losses and rush the passers in such a way as to demoralize any team. On defense the Kaydets presented an impregnable wall, and every play in the Rambler’s bag of tricks was stopped with a viciousness and determination that characterized the Army play the whole afternoon.
Perhaps the outstanding figure of the dismal afternoon was Ray Stecker of the Army. It was Stecker who caught a pass thrown by Travis Brown and scampered 33 yards to the
Fighting Irish five-yard line before he was brought down. From this point Kilday had little difficulty in carrying it over to make the score, Army 6, Notre Dame 0. It was Stecker who found an opening in the
Jim Harriss
Who played every minute of the last two games.
Notre Dame line and converted it into the second Army touchdown with a brilliant 66-yard run. The play came after one of Marchy Schwartz’ passes was intercepted by Brown and completely stunned the 80,000 spectators who had braved the elements to witness this game. It began innocently enough when Stecker crashed through the middle of the line, found himself in the clear, and with a brilliant cut-back from the side of the field as he was about to be tackled by Melinkovich, he completed his goalward march almost completely surrounded by Army blockers. It was one of the prettiest runs of the year to watch, and brought back memories of the fa-(Continued on Page 28)
Coach Keogan Sees Good Year For Veteran Quintet.
By T. Edward Carejr
Notre Dame inaugurates the 193132 basketball season tonight when the Kalamazoo team invades the local court. The Fighting Irish have practically the same team, with the exception of one man, which won thirteen victories on its difficult twenty game schedule last year. Coach George Keogan says, “Kalamazoo always has a srtong team, winning their conference championship for the last two years, and generally gives us plenty of competition. It should be a good opening game.” Notre Dame won last season’s contest, 2615.
In the starting lineup Notre Dame will have Newbold and Norb Crowe at forwards, DeCook at center, and Baldwin and Burns at guards. All are veterans and all but Baldwin are seniors. Honorary Captain Joe Gavin is the only member of last year’s team who is gone.
Coach Keogan’s efforts to build a team for the future are seen in his second team. While members of the first team are practically all seniors, the second team is predominantly sophomores. Davis and Schumacher will be at forwards for the second-stringers, with Alberts alternating if he is off the hospital list in time for the game; Voegele will jump center, with Johnson and Leo Crowe, another of that famous Notre Dame basketball family, at guards. All but Schumaker and Johnson are sophomores.
Others who may see action if the competition warrants it are: Ang-sten, Tobin, Monnat, O’Connor, and possibly Ed Krause if he can get in shape during the six days elapsing between the close of the football season and the opening of the basketball season.

December 4,19-li
Twenty-one
WITH THE CAMERAMAN AT U.S.C. GAME
Banas Cracks Trojan Defense Near Goal Line.
Including Fathers Cavanaugh and O’Donnell, and Messrs. Erskine and Cermak
Jaskwhich Stopped After a 28-yard Punt Return
TROJANS TOPPLE N. D. FROM GRIDIRON THRONE
U. S. C Stages Thrilling Rally To Take 16-14 Decision.
Although the score stood 16-14 in favor of the Trojans when Howard Jones’ boys and the Irish finally ceased hostilities, there was no reason for any great weeping and gnashing of teeth on the part of the Notre Dame backers. A victory by a great eleven demanded applause—not alibis.
There was a touch of glory in the defeat of the Fighting Irish even if it was a bit overshadowed by the publicity which the Californians won after such a fighting finish.
The Trojans seemed ready to plow through the Notre Dame line all day if their exhibition in the first quarter could have been taken as a criterion of their strength. The fumble near the goal line in their first drive down the field seemed to turn the tide in favor of Notre Dame, who then proceeded to do a bit of ballcarrying themselves and place the westerners on the' def ensive.
Notre Dame behaved like a team of championship caliber in their two touchdown drives. Then, too, the pail- of splendid kicks which Jaskwhich shot over the bars after each of those scoring gestures occasioned an avalanche of praise from the outstanding scribes in the press box who had watched the other great teams of the year.
But the Trojans were not to be denied. Facing a score which seemed impossible to equal or surpass, they started out in that fourth quarter, and within fifteen minutes defeated an outfit which, after the game, Howard Jones labelled as one of the “greatest football teams in the nation.”
Who was to blame for the defeat of the Irish? No one. It was just one of those things. And the Notre Dame backers, after they saw their hopes of a national championship had been blasted, were glad to know that the bunch of brilliant gridders had done it.
When the Notre Dame boys gather around the stove for the discussion in the good old winter time, they can easily come to this conclusion—it was just one of those things.
(Continued on Pajre 31)
Twenty-two	The Scholastic
All-Interhall Teams Are Picked
Walsh Leads in Selections for First Eleven; Two St. Ed’s Men Named
TRACK SQUAD PREPARES FOR INDOOR SCHEDULE
By Irving B. Halper
Strength of Squad Uncertain; Field Events Weak.
“Scholastic’s” All-Interhall Football Teams—1931
FIRST TEAM	POS.	SECOND TEAM
Sandura (Lyons) _____________L. E-----Carpenter (St. Edward’s)
Janc (Walsh) ________________R. E---------------Mikes (Walsh)
Coughlin (Badin) _____________L. T-------Murphy (Off-Campus)
McCann (Walsh)_______________R. T------------Huisking (Lyons)
Viviano (Brownson)___________L. G-------------Foss (Freshman)
O’Brien (St. Edward’s)_______R. G-------------BRESSON (Walsh)
Andrews (St. Edward’s)_________C---------------Danes (Alumni)
Conti (Badin)________________Q. B------------Crawford (Walsh)
Carney (Lyons)_______________L.H Shinkowitz (St. Edward’s)
Law (Walsh)__________________R. H----------Ackerman (Alumni)
McCarthy (Walsh)_____________F. B-------Newbold (St. Edward’s)
Honorable Mention— Ends: Morrow (Morrissey), Richard (St. Edward’s), Rigney (Dillon), and Scanlon (St. Edward’s); Tackles: Crowe and Jahr (St. Edward’s), Dooling (Off-Campus), Beaudin (Alumni), and Fitzpatrick (Lyons); Guards: Lynch (Carroll), O’Neil (Morrisey), Molinari (Sophomore), and Miller (St. Edward’s); Centers: Bloemart (Corby), Kelley (Lyons), Scott (Freshman), and Moran (Dillon) ; Quarterbacks: Nigro (Off-Campus), Devlin (Corby), Morley-(Brownson), Piontek (St. Edward’s); Halfbacks: DeLea (Sophomore), O’Brien (Brownson), Murphy (Walsh), English (Freshman), Conley (Morrissey), Seidle (Badin), Moloney (St. Edward’s), and Gough (Badin); Fullbacks: Pahlman (Lyons), Rog (Carroll), Brantfort (Howard), and Kieple (Morrissey).
At the present time newspapers throughout the country are busily engaged in selecting their All-American elevens. The Scholastic is concerned more with the selection of an All-Interhall team. So for your satisfaction the Scholastic presents the 1931 All-Interhall team.
Fourteen teams engaged in competition for the crown, which was finally won by St. Edward’s, who downed Walsh, 12 to 6, in the final game. One team, Howard, didn’t play enough to allow one to find any outstanding men in their lineup, with the possible exception of Brantfort, fullback.
At the start of the season it was generally conceded that Sandura of Lyons, and Mikes and Janc of Walsh were the outstanding ends in the
league. However, before the season was long under way, both of the wing men on St. Edward’s, Carpenter and Rickard, showed enough ability to make them considered when it came to picking any all-star eleven. Sandura and Janc were finally picked after much deliberation because they were candidly thought to be the best of the ends. Other outstanding ends were Rigney of Dillon, Scanlon of Badin, and Morrow of Morrissey.
McCann of Walsh, Coughlin of Badin, Huisking of Lyons, and Murphy and Dooling of Off-Campus were the best of the tackles. Huisking at times showed himself to be the best, but his indifference in other games kept him from the first team. McCann was a tower of strength on de-
(Continued on Page 27)
The first steps in the building of Notre Dame’s 1932 indoor track team were taken early this week when Coach John P. Nicholson issued a call for candidates.
The work from now till Christmas will be of a very easy nature, and aimed primarily at the strengthening of the runners. The schedule, though not completed as yet, will be ready for publication at an early date. The first meet will not be until after the semester.
At this early date, prospects seem to point to a strong representation in the running events with most of the weakness coming in the field events. Captain Bill McCormick looms as the most dependable man on the harrier squad for the short dashes. Dilling and Gough will understudy the Blue and Gold leader.
In the quarter and the half mile events, Alex Wilson, entering his third year of Notre Dame competition, is the outstanding candidate. Kelly and MacBeth, both lettermen, will be back to run in the quarter and possibly on the one-mile relay. Rudy Obergfall, sophomore star, is another 440 artist who will be heard from.
In the half-mile, Wilson and Obergfall will probably repeat, with Joe Young, another sophomore, as a strong contender for first place. Young may be out of the mile, however, as he has shown much promise in the longer event.
Still another sophomore, Eddie King, seems to be a standout in the field of milers. His performances as a freshman point to a successful career for him in varsity competition.
Gene Howery, holder of the Notre Dame two-mile record, will be competing in his favorite event for the third season. Bowers and Ewing are the other leaders in the two mile field.
The pole vault this year finds Nich-(Continued on Page 30)
December 4,1931
Twenty-three
1931 Season Adds New Chapter To History of N. D. Grid Success
RESERVES TIE DAYTON IN CHARITY TUT, (Mi
When Summerfelt of the Army intercepted Frank Labome’s final forward pass in the semi-dusk of Yankee stadium last week,' he marked “finis” on the first chapter of a new Notre Dame football era. This first year of the period after Rockne was a marked success. •
SEASON’S STATISTICS 1931
N. D. OPP.
First downs________ 128	44
Yds. from scrimmage 2810 763
Passes attempted___ 92	90
Passes completed __ 20	22
Passes intercepted_ 15	12
Yds. gained on passes 358 291
Number of punts____ 82	97
Ave. yds. of punts_.38.79 38.37
Fumbles______________ 26	31
Fumbles rec’d (own) 11	15
Fumbles rec’d (opp.) 16	15
Yds. lost on penalties 555 215
A record of six wins, two defeats, and one tie is a worthy entry in any school’s gridiron annals. Winning streaks are very limited affairs at best, and Notre Dame’s three-year record of twenty consecutive victories and twenty-five triumphs in twentyeight starts, is a notable one.
This year’s showing brings the totals for all time Blue and Gold football activities to 260 wins, 50 losses, and 18 ties. For the fourteen years of the post-war era, the records show 113 wins, 14 losses, and 5 ties. Four of the five tie games have been of the scoreless variety.
A summary of the nine game season discloses that Notre Dame out-gained her opponents over three and one-half yards to one. In the matter of first downs, the Fighting Irish were just about three times as successful as the combined opposition.
Only in the matter of forward passes did the opposing offensive surpass that of Notre Dame. 22% of the tosses of the Rambler backs found their marks, while the opponents airmen scored 24% of their shots. Notre Dame backs led in interceptions, however, 15 to 12, and the yardage on successful passes was 358 to 291 in favor of the Blue and Gold.
Leading in the figures for punting distance and sharing the honors in the fumble division, the Notre Dame
supremacy was marked definitely by the total penalties. The Ramblers lost slightly more than twice the ground sacrificed by their rivals for infractions of the rules.
For the second consecutive year, Marchy Schwartz led the individual scorers of the Notre Dame squad. The southern ace chalked up 30 markers to top his understudy, Mike Koken, by a single point. Melinko-vich and Jaskwhich were next in line.
Eight of Jaskwhich’s 20 points came as the result of successful conversions after touchdowns. Mike Koken led this department with five successful kicks in six attempts. Emmett Murphy booted seven out of nine through the uprights, and Jaskwhich scored on eight out of fourteen.
The laurel wreath for the longest touchdown jaunt goes to Joe Sheeket-ski for his 71-yard trip in the opener with Indiana. Schwartz copped second honors with a 58-yard effort through the Carnegie Skibos.
Ray Stecker of the Army made the longest single gain against the Notre Dame team with his 68-yard run for the second kaydet touchdown last week. The stunning last quarter rally of the U. S. C. Trojans was easily the bright or dark—depending on the viewpoint—spot in the opponent’s offensive activities. The Army upset may have been more surprising, but that is to be doubted: Army was never 14 points in arrears.
Individual Point Scoring
1931			
	T.D. P.A.T.		TOT.
Schwartz	5	0	30
Koken	4	5	29
Melinkovich	4	0	24
Jaskwhich	2	8	20
Leahy	3	0	18
Sheeketski	3	0	18
Murphy	1	7	13
Cronin	2	0	12
Leonard	2	0	12
Banas	2	0	12
Host	2	0	12
Laborne	1	1	7
Gorman	1	0	6
Ross (Drake)	Safety		2
	—	—	—
Totals	32	21	215
Dilling Scores For Reserves;
Flyers Count On Pass.
The Notre Dame Reserves and the University of Dayton battled away to a 6-6 tie at the U. D. stadium in Dayton, Ohio, last Saturday in a field of mud. A crowd of 10,000 witnessed the tussle, the proceeds of which were donated for unemployment relief.
Displaying surprisingly excellent football for the condition of the field, both teams scored in a sensational manner in the second quarter, and then fought themselves out as the battle raged between the two twentyyard lines for the rest of the game.
Notre Dame scored first, when Dillings dashed off left tackle and then swept around wide for 47 yards and a touchdown behind great interference. However, once out in the open, he had to use all his natural speed to get away, straight-arming several would-be Dayton tacklers.
The Flyers evened the count later in the same period when Fitzsimmons passed to Feam for 25 yards, the receiver running the remaining 12 yards to a touchdown, in spite of two Ramblers who clung to his heels. Both attempts at conversions were blocked.
Dayton threatened again in the third quarter when a series of passes and plunges placed the ball on the seven-yard line. But Armstrong, a guard, was caught holding, and the locals were penalized 15 yards. They failed to make it up.
Mahaffey and Rascher sparkled on defense for the Gold and Blue, while Christman, Acers, and Dilling were the main offensive threats. Captain Zierlof of Dayton played his usual steady game at tackle.
Lineup and Summary:
Notre Dame “B”	Dayton
Bierne ............L.	E...........  Colan
Leding ............L.	T............ Meyer
Chapman ...........L.	G............ Bauer
Witucki ............C............. Cleary
MahaiTey ..........R.	G........ Busciglio
Cousino ...........R.	T.......... Zierolf
Rascher ...........R-	E............ Payne
Christman .........Q.	B........... Jordan
Acers .............L.	H....... Fitzsimmons
Tobin .............R.	H............ Fearn
Grunderman ........F. B......... McFaddon
Score by quarters:
Notre Dame “B”..........0 6 0 0—6
Dayton .................0 S 0 0—6
Touchdowns: Dilling (Notre Dame “B") : Fearn (Dayton).
Camels are never parched or toasted!
Folks who smoke really fresh cigarettes made from choice sun-ripened tobaccos never have to give a thought to their throats.
That’s because such fresh cigarettes retain natural moisture — and are gratefully smooth, cool, throatfriendly, mild.
Camels are the fresh cigarette — everyone knows that now—they’re blended from the finest Turkish and mild Domestic tobaccos that money and skill can buy.
We would never dream of parching or toasting
these choice sun-ripened tobaccos—that would only drive off or destroy the natural moisture that makes Camels fresh in nature’s own mild way.
The Camel Humidor Pack protects a fine cigarette fresh with natural moisture — it could do little or nothing to freshen a cigarette that is dried-out or factory-stale.
If you smoke for pleasure, see for yourself what freshness means in mildness and flavor —switch to Camels for just one day—then leave them, if you can!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY Winston-Salem, N. C.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company’s Coast-to-Coast Radio Programs
CAMEL QUARTER HOUR, Morton Downey, Tony prince alhert quarter hour.Alice Joy,“Old
Wons, and Cainel Orchestra, direction Jacques Renard, every night except Sunday, Columbia Broadcasting System
Hunch,” and Prince Albert Orchestra, direc* tion Paul Van Loan, every night except Sun* day, N.B.C. Red Network
See local paper for time
See local paper for time
Iamiis
Made FRESH •Kept FRESH
Don’t remove the moisture-proof wrapping from your package of Camels after you open it. The Camel Humidor Pack is protection against perfume and powder odors, dust and germs. In offices and homes, even in the dry atmosphere of artificial heat, the Camel Humidor Pack delivers fresh Camels and keeps them right until the last one has been smoked
© 1931. K. J, Reynolds Tobacco Company
CAMEL HUMIDOR
PACK
FRESH
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriabty
AUF WIEDERSEHEN
The passing of the football season is probably welcomed by many, but it leaves behind many regrets and sentimentalities which are not easily forgotten. To many coaches and players it is a godsend, for it means
IF YOU'RE HAVING YOUR FORTUNE
TOLD
And the Cards Say You’re Going on a Long Journey
Phone the South Shore Line ticket agent, 3-3111, and have him. make ‘ reservations f 6 r you. He’ll probably arrange it so you can have a ' few hours between trains, to ■ look around Chi-cago—and you won’t o b j e c t to that. ,
50U™nS»R[
Every hour on-the-hour to
Michigan City, Gary, Hammond, - ; -•
Chicago.	?y;
that worries, strenuous drills and nerve-racking games are at an end, for another season at least.
There is always a feeling of sadness though, and this comes when the all too sudden realization dawns upon us, that many of the familiar figures will be missing when another campaign is begun. Each year’s graduation takes its toll, and to the public in general, the old men are forgotten. To those who have been in close contact with these men though, it is impossible to forget, and memories of their deeds on the field and the campus comes to take a permanent resting place in our hearts. This is why such a depression pervades as each successive season is concluded.	'
Captain Tommy Yarr, Marchy Schwartz, Al Culver, Nordy Hoffman, Bart Cronin, Bernie Leahy and George Kozac are the men of this year’s team who have played their last game for Notre Dame. Most of these men have played together for three years and have been close associates in everything. Football was just a means for making the bonds of friendship stronger and they will be missed, not only for their playing ability, but also because they were fine fellows and close to their nonplaying associates on the campus.
There is little more to say. No more will their names ring out in packed stadiums, cheering them on to greater heights. Their day is done as far as college football is concerned. In a few more years they will undoubtedly be listed among the business men of the country, and perhaps will be referred to occasionally as former Notre Dame football players. Their departure from the campus carries with it a much deeper significance, however, and deeds they have done, and done so well, will never be forgotten.
So ’tis here that we bid them farewell, and such a farewell as wishes success and good fortune in their every undertaking. So it is. We’re here today and gone tomorrow, but what a satisfaction there is for those who have accomplished something and in doing so have cemented the bonds of friendship for all time. So long fellows! Good luck to all of you!
WE CAN TAKE IT
Certainly, if anyone is to feel downhearted over the two defeats in the Southern California and Army games, it is the faculty and student body on our own campus. The rebound from these two stunning losses is noticeable to a degree that it has brought out the poor losers and set the good losers on some sort of a pinnacle. We are thankful that Notre Dame men are of this latter class. They proved their real worth by taking the two defeats on the chin, instead of making the campus a mecca for “blues singers.” The only cries we have heard are from those of the motley hypocrites who ride the “gravy train” to victory, but who soon run for cover when disaster is impending.
Everyone of good sense on the campus realizes that Notre Dame could not go on winning forever, and that these defeats will do more good than a record of fifty straight wins could accomplish. It was a generally accepted thought, that the real Notre Dame spirit was dwindling as each victory was set down in the. record books. We needed something to wake us up; to throw us off the high horse we were riding; and to get back the spirit which is truly Notre Dame.	-
Already a return of the old is to be noticed. The fine display of loyalty to the team on Monday was a striking example of this, and we feel sure that this is only a beginning. Best of all though, it proved that ' Notre Dame men really are men, and are not to be classed with the fickle public. We can take it. They can’t.
COMMENT
In glancing over two prominent. newspaper selections for All-Ameri-. can honors, we find the name of Ernie Pinckert of Southern Cal, at one of the halves. Pinckert must be a , good boy to justify this selection, but he certainly failed to show anything in the game here. This, of course,!' could not be judged as an example, of his real ability because he was probably too busy thinking up harsh statements to make about the Notre' Dame team after the game was over. -A good sport can always have a lot of faults which may be overlooked7 because of this redeeming quality, but a poor sport—well! We have known cases of people being nomi-.t nated for oblivion.	‘
December 4,19J1
Twenty-seven
ALL-INTERHALL SELECTED
(Continued from Page 23)
fense and played a good offensive game while Coughlin was probably the best tackle in the league. His play throughout the year was above average and he was the one who supplied the “pepper” in Badin’s line. Murphy, captain of the Daydogs, was another outstanding tackle as were his teammate Dooling, Crowe, and Jahr of St. Edward’s, Beaudin of Alumni and Fitzpatrick of Lyons.
Viviano of Brownson was the only freshman to be selected for any position on the first team, and he was placed at guard. Playing on a team that didn’t win a game, his work was so good that it was apparent that he was the best guard in the league. O’Brien, who in a uniform brings back memories of Bert Metzger, was placed as Viviano’s running mate. Bresson of Walsh, Foss of Freshman, Lynch of Carroll, O’Neil of Morrissey, Molinari of Sophomore, and Miller of St. Edward’s were not far behind the first string guards in ability.
Andrews of St. Edward’s was given the pivot position over all other
centers. His play was great and as a good center should, he was always in the thick of play, supplying a lot of the power that .made St.. Edward’s line as strong as it was. Danes of Alumni, and Scott of Freshman were two centers that shone throughout the year. Scott will bear watching when Spring practice rolls around. Bloemmart of Corby, Kelley of Lyons, Moran of Dillon were also good.
No All-Interhall team would be complete without Badin’s Spike Conti. Although he did little in calling signals, Spike was the outstanding man at his position. Crawford of Walsh was undoubtedly a smarter signal barker, but his ability to pack the ball didn’t compare with Conti’s. Nigro of Off-Campus, small though he was, played a stellar game for the Daydogs. Devlin of Corby, Piontek of St. Edward’s, and Morley of Dillon were other good quarterbacks.
For the third time, Law of Walsh was given a post at halfback. He was a good passer, and plays a fine all-around game. Carney of Lyons was placed at the other half. It was he that drop-kicked the field goal
that gave Lyons victory over Morrissey this year. Incidentally, Carney’s goal was just a few yards short of the longest drop-kick in collegiate circles this year. Ackerman of Alumni, and Shinkowitz of St. Edward’s were other flashy backs, who compared well with Law and Carney but were not quite their equal as all-around players. DeLea of Sophomore, English of Freshman, and O’Brien of Brownson will have to be watched in the future. All three were freshmen, and lack of experience was their only liability. Mur. phy of Walsh, Conley of Morrissey, and Moloney of St. Edward’s were the best of the remaining upperclass backs.
McCarthy of Walsh was given the fullback preference over Newbold of St. Edward’s, Pahlman of Lyons, and Rog of Carroll because it was felt that he was the better all-around player. Newbold and Rog were better line crashers, Pahlman was a better passer, and Brantfort a better defensive man, but when it came to putting all these together it meant that McCarthy was the logical choice. Kieple of Morrissey was another fullback that bore a lot of his team’s attack.
STARTS TO-MORROW
OUT OF THE AIR - ONTO THE
Last Times To-day “FRANKENSTEIN” Its Terrifying
SCREEN AND INTO THE HEARTS OF MILLIONS
SETH PARKER
Radio’s loveable character, inspired by goodness and born out of fellowship and honesty, whose kindly wisdom, sayin’s and songs have endeared him to the American people.
IN
"Way Back Home"
RKO RADIO PICTURE
SETH PARKER played by PHILLIPS H. LORD, himself, with the group of famous characters including Ma Parker, Liz, Mary Lucy, Runaway Rosie, Captain, Robbie, Cephus, Rufe Turner and all the loved characters you know so well.
-PALACE
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING— -	NORB CROWE
ARMY TRAMPLES N. D., 12.0
(Continued from Page 20)
mous “Red” Cagle who used to cavort in similar fashion for the Army.
From a long line of basketball playing boys comes Norbert J. Crowe, the Shadeland, Ind., youth who was chosen last Spring to act as captain on Notre Dame’s 1932 basketball quintet.
Quiet and unassuming to the greatest degree, Crowe, to whom Les Gage gave honorable mention on his All-American basketball team two years ago bears his laurels without the least show of ostentation. He has won two monograms in his two seasons of competition, and now, as captain of Coach George Keogan’s players, he is all primed for his most successful year.
Playing at his post at forward during the past two years, Crowe has struck fear into the heart of Notre Dame opponents whenever he entered the game. His speedy footwork and dead eye for the basket have gained him an enviable reputation among those who know the game.
A member of the family which is composed of 12 children, Norb has been preceded at Notre Dame by three of his brothers, all of whom have been associated with basketball. Frank, ■who graduated in 1929, was chosen on the All-Western in his last year and was adjudged one of the trickiest boys in court togs in his day. Another brother, Leo, is now a sophomore guard with the varsity. All in all, these boys who live just a few miles out of Lafayette, Ind., are quite adept at this game of basketball.
While in attendance at Jefferson High school in Lafayette, Norb was engaged in football, basketball, and track. During his last two years there, he captained the hoopsters.
And from big Bill Schrader, who rooms next to Crowe in Badin, comes the information that Norb was always ashamed to wear his high school sweater because of the great number of stripes which were displayed there. Jefferson is one of those schools that believes in combining the whole works — that is, stripes for every sport are placed upon one sweater which is awarded the athlete.
Although Crowe is at present in the College of Commerce, he has his eye on a coaching job which he hopes to obtain following his graduation.
When the time begins to drag in
Shadeland, Norb likes nothing better than to hie himself out into the country—he does not have to go far —to do a mite of rabbit hunting with his trusty old flintlock.
But in spite of his avowed love for
Captain Norb Crowe
Who leads eagers as per an old Crowe custom.
the open air and the hunting business, Crowe finds diversion in another direction. Information again emanates from Bill Schrader when he tells us that Norb is already combing his hair for the Butler game in Indianapolis , when' he will work out under the eyes of that “inspiration” who used to collect her mail in Attica, Ind. (There is such a place as Attica after all!)
Nevertheless, if such is the “inspiration” for the whirlwind demonstrations which Norb puts on for the benefit , of the Notre Dame opponents, the Irish backers should be greatly in favor of the arrangement. It certainly does not retard the flying heels of this Mr. Crowe. ,
In addition to his job of waiting on table in the Dining hall, Crowe boasts the distinction of serving as coach of the St. Edward’s team which recently copped the interhall football honors.
History is the favorite study of this lad who weighs only 150. pounds and measures five feet ten inches— yes, in his stocking feet.
The only real opportunity for a Notre Dame score came in the dwindling moments of the first half. Aided by a penalty and a bit of fine running by Brancheau, Notre Dame had the ball on Army’s fourteen-yard line. Four plays at the line just fell short of a first down, giving the ball to the Army, and Notre Dame’s big chance was gone.
The whole Army team played like a pack of demons, w’hile Notre Dame appeared listless and worn out from the terrific battle with Southern California. Marchy Schwartz, though stopped for the most part, kept the faint spark of life in the Notre Dame attack going until the very last few minutes when he was removed from the game. His punting, in more cases than one, kept the Blue and Gold in the running, and with a little more help from his blockers, he might have broken away or been more effective with his passing. Jim Harriss was a tower of strength in the line. Tom Yarr, Hoffman and Kurth all fought desperately to stave off the cadet attack.
Lineups:
(12)	Notre Dame (0)
King...............L.	E............ Kosky
Price ...........L.	T........... Krause
Summerfelt ......L. G............ Harriss
Evans ............C................. Yarr
Trice ...........R.	G........... Hoffman
Suarez ..........R. T.............. Kurth
Kopcsak .........R.	E............ Mahony
Carver ..........Q.	B........ Jaskwhich
Stecker .........L.	H........... Schwartz
Brown ...........R.	H............. Cronin
Kilday .......   F.	B............ Banas
Score by periods:
Army .................6 0 0 6—12
Notre Dame ...........0 0 0 0— 0
Touchdowns—Kilday. Stecker.
Substitutions—Army: Jabionsky for Trice. Trice for Jablonsky, Lankenau for King. Jablonsky for Trice, Simenson for Suarez. Notre Dame: Greeney for Hoffman, Bran-cheau for Cronin, Melinkovich for Banas. Murphy for Jaskwhich, Host for Kosky, Mill-heam for Brancheau, Culver for Krause, Kozak for Culver, Kosky for Host. Hoffman for Greeney. DeVore for Mahony, Banas for Melinkovich, Jaskwhich for Murphy. Melinkovich for Banas, Mahony for DeVore, Sheeketski for Millheam, Wunsch for Hoffman, LaBorne for Sehwartz. Leahy for Melinkovich, Vejar for Jaskwhich.
Referee—Ed Thorp, De La Salle. Umpire— William Crowley, Bowdoin. Linesman—Tom McCabe, Holy Cross. Field judge—A. W. Palmer, Colby. Time of periods—15 minutes.
Captain Crowe and his company have been practicing for many weeks this fall, and are all set now to show the Notre .Dame fans and opponents : that thpy .are to be reckoned with in this basketball business during the next three months.
December 4,1931
Twenty-nine
Where Eating is a Real Pleasure
Varesio’s
Restaurant
EXTRAORDINARY
Spaghetti with chicken and mushrooms
Chicken
en casserole
Steak
with mushrooms
Fresh vegetables served with meats
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Fixed price dinner or a la carte
* « * *
Phone Niles-1387 for
Reservations
Varesio’s
1202 So. Third St.
Niles, Michigan
On the Old Dixie Highway, Next to the Mushroom Farm
PICK ALL-OPPONENT TEAM
(Continued from Page 5)
choice of all those who included wingmen in their ballots. The fiery Bulldog leader had everything that a good end should have, both offensively and defensively.
The other end post goes to Dick King of the Army. It was only after a prolonged weighing of his merits against those of Arbelbide of Southern California, and Fencl of Northwestern, that he was given the decision. In the opinion of the Notre Dame tackles on that side of the line, King was out in front of his rivals by a slight margin.
Riley of Northwestern, and Price of the Army get the call at tackles. The kaydet leader was a unanimous choice for first place at his position. MacMurdo, of Pitt, was undoubtedly deserving of a place on any honor squad but with only two tackle positions to fill we were unable to place him. Riley was rated by Fighting Irish linemen as a shade ahead of the Panther star. The husky Wildcat was a defensive demon throughout the season and even the mud and slush of Soldier Field failed to dim his brilliance. Marvil, of Northwestern, and Quatse, of Pittsburgh, were close behind the three leaders in the balloting.
Again at guard, one man was well ahead of the field. Johnny Baker, Howard Jones’ blocking, tackling, place-kicking dervish, has no superior in the business of guard play. A stand-out in a line such as the Tro-
SPECIAL!
SHOE REPAIRING
HATS CLEANED
Patronize a Left Hander
ALEX SHOE HOSPITAL
118 West Washington Street
jans boasted must be more than a little above the ordinary. As his running mate we have picked Underwood of the Navy. The midshipman has an enviable reputation for hard, efficient line-play among the men who faced him in the tilt at Baltimore. His closest rival for first honors was Trice, Army guard.
There was no argument for a pivot man. Ralph Daugherty of Pittsburgh is a natural. The Pitt center stood the wear and tear of a bruising, hard-driving Notre Dame line for three and one-half periods and was still handing out plenty of opposition and punishment when his substitute arrived on the field. His passing was flawless.
Selection of a field general for this mythical eleven was comparatively easy. When a man can drive a team to overcome a 14-point Notre Dame lead in one quarter to win the game, and can kick, pass, block, and carry the ball with the best of them, he can make any man’s grid club. There was only one Orv Mohler in the ranks of Notre Dame opponents (echo answers “Hallelujah!”) and he gets the job.
Probably the stiffest opposition that Mohler had for his place was from his running mate, Gus Shaver. Shaver can’t crowd Mohler out of a berth— no one could—but he can make one of his own. The all-opponent fullback: Mr. Gaius Shaver. Luch of Pitt, Perina of Penn, and Kavel of Carnegie Tech crowded the Sunkist smasher to the limit’ for his job and (Continued on Page 31)
Half Sales (Whitecap) $1.00 Leather or rubber heels 50c
Shines That Shine
Thirty
The Scholastic
TRACK MEN PRACTICE
(Continued from Page 22)
olson’s squad without the services of two of its steadiest performers, Johnston and Fishleigh. Slattery, a monogram winner of two years ago, is the leading candidate among the vaulters. Bob Darling is the only veteran remaining for the high-jump event. Gough and Laurie Vejar are the leading broad jumpers of the squad.
Bill DuPuy, the fourth sophomore of promise, is easily the outstanding
APPAREL ClflS
GIFTS men and boys appreciate are gifts to wear
Say “Merry Christmas” with a gift from South Bend's leading store for Notre Dame Men
Wool Sweaters	Notre Dame—
Golf Hose	Pins
Neckwear	Rings
Handkerchiefs	Compacts
Shirts	Lockets
Pajamas	Watch Charms
Belt Sets	Watch Bands
Wallets	Knives
Dress Sets	Cigarette Cases
Gloves ’	.	Buckles
Brush Sets	■»> 1 Pennants
Tie Racks	Robes
' Mufflers.	^|l	-	Bracelets
hurdler. While not. at his best in in? door competition, -DuPuy should be a consistent winner during the season.
The weight events find Chauncey Brantfort the only veteran returning to the fold. The ability of Marty Brill and Nordy Hoffman, aces in the division for three years, will be sorely missed.
The schedule will probably be completed at the Big Ten meet in Chicago tomorrow, and will be released soon.	•
NOTRE DAME MEN NAMED ON ALL-WESTERN TEAM
Harper Picks Five Fighting Irish On First Team.
Announcement of his All- Western selections was made this morning by J. C. Harper, member of the AllAmerica Board of Football.’ Mr. Harper, who is athletic director at Notre Dame, placed five Blue and Gold players on his first team, and one on the second.
Captain Tommy Yarr was named captain of the mythical eleven and placed at center. Krause, Hoffmann, and Kosky were other Notre Dame linemen to gain first team berths. Marchmont Schwartz, the backfield sensation of the country, was placed at left half.
Completing the first team were Moss, Purdue; Munn, Minnesota; Riley and Rentner, Northwestern; Cramer, Ohio State; and Hewitt, Michigan. Joe Kurth of Notre Dame was given a tackle position on the second team.
Seven of Notre Dame’s opponents were named by Tad Jones on his allEastern honor list this week.
NOTICE!
All interhall football equipment must be returned immediately to the Physical Education building. Men charged with the equipment will be held responsible for its return.
F. Clarence Tomasi, Interhall Equipment Mgr.
All Gifts neatly boxed for lending.
£i^inqAbm&
Downtown and on the campus
t 8
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
< DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building.
South Bend, Ind.

1
December 4,19-31
Thirty-one
U. s. C. TOPPLES U. N. D.
(Continued from Page 21)
Take a look at the boys who -played in this, the. most brilliant football game of the year — have you forgotten:
Notre Dame	S. California
Kosky .............L.	E......... Sparling
Culver ............L.	T.;..........’Brown
Harriss ...........L.	G........ Rosenberg
Yarr (c) ...........C.......Williamson (c)
Hoffman ...........R.	G.......... Stevens
Kurth .............R.	T............ Smith
Devore ............R.	E........ Arbelbide
Jaskwhich .........Q.	B........... Shaver
Schwartz ..........L.	H.......... Mallory
Sheeketski ........R.	H......... Pinckert
Banas .............F.	B........... Musick
Touchdowns—Banas, Schwartz, Shaver (2).
Points after touchdown—Jaskwhich (2) : Baker.
Field goal—Baker.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Krause for Culver, Brancheau for Sheeketski, Host for Kosky. Kozak for Kurth, Mahoney for Devore. Wursch for Hoffman. Leahy for Banas. Leonard for Leahy, Murphy for Jaskwhich, Mil-hcam for Sheeketski.
Southern California—Mohler for Shaver. Erskine for Smith. Clark for Mallory, Baker for Rosenberg, Hall for Brown, Palmer for Arbelbide, Griffith for Mohler.
Referee—Birch (Earlham). Umpire—Gillett (Oregon). Field judge—Barker (Chicago). Head linesman—Wyatt (Missouri).
Coaches—Heartly Anderson (Notre Dame). Howard Jones (Southern California).
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Dec. 4—Kalamazoo here.
Dec. 8—Adrian here.
Dec. 12—Indiana here.
Dec. 15—Purdue here.
Dec. 21—Northwestern here.
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 5—St. Thomas (St. Paul) here.
Jan. 9—Michigan State at E. Lansing.
Jan. 12—Marquette here.
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Jan. 23—Pittsburgh here.
Feb. 1—Iowa here.
Feb. 6—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Feb. 10—Syracuse here.
Feb. 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis.
Feb. 23—Michigan State here.
Feb. 27—Army here.
Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 11—Butler here.
A glance through the records of Splinters’ forecasts for the season reveals a total of 114 wins, 19 losses and six ties. This makes an average of .858 for the season. Now that the football season is over, and the results of his forecasts rather pleasing, he has a mind to go in for guessing the number of beans in a jar.
ALL-OPPONENT TEAM
(Continued from Page 29)
showed enough against Notre Dame to merit a deal of honor in their own right.
We left the halfbacks till last because we believe that they are two of the brightest units in this constellation. Ray Stecker and Pug Rentner! Two of the finest ball toters in the country, smart, big. fast, they had everything. Neither of them needs a eulogy.
We will concede, however, that men of the calibre of Reider and Heller of Pitt, Olson of Northwestern, Lindstrom and Lansrud of Drake, Pinckert of Southern California, and Opasik and Saluski of Indiana are deserving of consideration. They received a full share of it but the solution to the problem eventually worked itself back to the inevitable: Rentner and Stecker.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary: no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock, 548 Dun Building, Buffalo, N. Y.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and -
SODA GRILL
' DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Holiday Excursion Rates
Premier Coach Lines
SPECIAL ROUND-TRIP RATES to NEW YORK—PITTSBURG BUFFALO—•ST. LOUIS And Other Points.
. See Campus Representative
JACK LAMBERT
No. 7 Corby Hall
Or when in town PREMIER BUS STATION
217 W. Jefferson Blvd. Phone 3-5500
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
On Down the Line
George L. Miller 103 North Main St. South Bend, Indiana
V
$90 Imported Burberry Overcoats
2 for $35
$70 Scheyer tailored Suits
2 for $35
$70 genuine Harris Tweed
2 for $35
Any two Suits, Topcoats or Overcoats in the Store
2 for $35
Two students can split the cost
V
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
JOE SAVOLDI lost his first match out of a hundred when he was defeated by Strangler Lewis . . . RICHARD BENNETT, the movie star, was a prizefighter before he entered the movies . . . LOU GEHRIG, the Yt>i-kee baseball player, hasn’t miss'ed playing in a major league game in six years . . . UTAH and TULANE universities are the only undefeated and untied teams in the country . . . HOBART COLLEGE recently WON a game . . . Sometimes the man does bite the DOG . . .
V
A BASEBALL TEAM in Fort Worth, Texas won a game without a right fielder when the pitcher held the opposing team to one hit . . . ALABAMA PITTS, the triple threat star of Sing Sing, is high point man in the prison league . . . The game between NOTRE DAME and U. S. C. was the fourth game played between the two schools to be decided by a point or two . . . JOHN McGRAW, the manager of the New York Giants, plays bridge for a nickel a point . . .
V
The NEW YORK RANGERS hockey team broke a jinx of three years standing when they defeated the Boston Bruins, 2-1 . . . The first three grid games on the 1931 MISSOURI COLLEGE ATHLETIC UNION left every team with a .000 standing, all the games were ties . . . JESSE HILL, star half of U. S. C., in 1929, in his first big league baseball game his first time at bat, poled out a homerun to break up the ball game . . . LA CAMARGO is the biggest money winner of all times in the racing history of France . . .
V
CONNIE MACK is the only manager in, who has been in the American league ever since its start . . . YALE’S football coaches have accepted a challenge to play the staff of Harvard’s coaches ... In KNOXVILLE, TENN., Gordon Powers shot at two birds over head, killed both, caught one in his hand, and the other fell at his feet . . . CAPTAIN PRICE, Army’s great tackle, played through the Notre Dame game last week with his sleeves ROLLED UP ... And it was snowing . . .
Let’s smoke a MAN’S SMOKE!
WHEN .the girls begin to cut corners in our cars and do back
somersaults in our planes and borrow
our cigarettes— then it’s time to take to a pipe!
Call it the last stronghold of masculine defence—or the one pet diversion our little friends keep their fingers off. Call it what you will—
Her smoke— a cigarette!
there’s something
downright satisfying, understanding, companionable about a friendly, mellow, MASCU-
LINE pipe! It’s a real man’s smoke!
And a pipe’s at its best when you fill it up with Edgeworth. There’s a rare, mellow flavor to the Edgeworth blend of fine hurleys that
simply can’t be touched. It’s cut long—to give you
A pipe's a man’s smoke
a cool, slow-burning smoke. And
you’ll find it the favorite with smokers in 42 out of 54 colleges.
You can get Edgeworth wherever good tobacconists sell smokes. But if you’ve never tried it, we’d like the fun of treating you to that first satisfying pipeful. Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15^ pocket package to #1.50 pound humidor tin.
t
♦ Reader interest—that’s what makes the Scholastic a real medium for your advertising to Notre Dame! News, features, sports—everything of interest to the student fills the pages of this weekly. Let our representative show you how economically you can contact more than 3,000 students—Phone. 3-1121.
THE SCHOLASTIC
ADMINISTRATION BLDG.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Ttlb UNlVtUNbUX blbKMI -LEMWIER LI2RARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
all kind of times... it helps a whole lot!
«T GREW up with tobacco. Mostly I smoke A cigarettes now—but I’ve smoked plenty of cigars, and pipes, too. And I never got anything but good from tobacco in any form—pipe, cigar, or cigarette—and that goes for every smoker I ever heard about.	*
“Why, I remember as a boy, way back, how the old folks in the fall used to pick and cure tobacco bom a little patch they'd -raised, and save out' the best for their own smoking. And my father fought all through the war, and lived to be ninety.
“He'd certainly5 appreciate what we get today, though. Just think about these CHESTERFIELDS
of mine—line tobaccos from all over the world, and cured and blended just so; you couldn’t get -anything purer, or milder. Cleanest factories you ever saw, too—never a hand touching the. cigarettes ... everything up to date.
“A big improvement over the old ways . . . reckon that’s why I like CHESTERFIELDS so much. I notice most of-my friends get a lot of pleasure but of them; too.*
. “But what I started out to say was, you can always depend on tobacco, no matter how things are going. Probably there was never anything in the world that meant so much to so many people, and cost .
- so little, as tobacco—whatever way they smoke it. ; J
“Yes, sir—I'll stand up for tobacco as long as l can strike a match!’’
^NOTE. In the seetiens where Ithua grows nd where people hww tohua, Chester-■ field is nsttallj the largest-scUinr cigarette. - ;.	- - t . t- • - s .
> I ' UGGETT a Mms TOBACCO CO.
