8
RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
SPRING STARTS MONDAY! These commerce men lift ’em lightly as they walk by Notre Dame’s Edward S. Hurlev Commerce College. Left to right: John Bodolay, Springfield, Mass.; John B. Morgan, West Roxbury, Mass.; and Matthew B. O’Donnell, Portsmouth, N. H. Now is the time to choose your spring wardrobe. See our fine selection of sport coats —checks, plaids, tweeds, and solids ($25 up).' Try on our dubonnet, 4-patch pocketed corduroy sport coats ($19.95 ). In slacks, don’t fail to see our snappy Bedford cords (15.95), Botany gabardines $18.50), and light flannels ($13.95).-
for
“Campus Clotbes”
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
106-108 MAIN	13 0 -13 2 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Architecture Trouble? '
Editor:
Mr. Vierhile seems to be one of the mass who still play games and pretend they are living in some entirely different period, instead of living and feeling for himself and trying to analyze the problem at hand. In the case of the Children’s Hospital function is sought rather than ostentation. It is for crippled children and there is one level and open to the light and air. Should this building be otherwise? Should it look like the Lincoln Memorial? No! Logic doesn’t require an applied style. The critic is obviously uninformed regarding planning and cannot recognize a straightforward approach to it.
The critic and many people still prefer the escapism of imitation architecture at the expense of convenience, function and economy. Expose man to a strange new painting or unfamiliar music and ask for a reaction—usually what you get is an evasion. Modern man, put into a spot where he can’t function on canned opinion, tends to get lost. He has no confidence in his taste or judgment— he is regimented.
The Architects Club — Robert Jones, Edward Denning, William Ruoff, Bernard Mayotte
Whatever Vierhile’s remarks were, they were positively not evasive. He said the new hospital is the ugliest looking building in northern Indiana — next to the court house in South Bend. The architects say it’s functional, but nowhere do they deny that it’s ugly.—Editor.
Married Students Grateful
Editor:
Through the Scholastic the Married Students Welfare Council wishes to express its gratitude for the $1500 realized from the students Mardi Gras. Our first thanks goes to John Dempsey, chairman of the Student Relief Campaign and secondly to John Moorehead, chairman of the Mardi Gras. Our thanks also to the Knights of Columbus, particularly John Noonan, grand knight, and Maurice Casey, who so graciously took charge of the various booths and the awarding of the television set.
We are indeed grateful and encouraged by such actions among our fellow students.
In order to clarify any misunderstanding which might arise in the future we would like it known that this is the Mar
ried Students Welfare Fund, which includes ail married students. We make this point in order to reassure all the married students at Notre Dame that this is their fund. In the past, since it has been referred to as the Vetville Maternity Fund, some of the down town married students were of the opinion that this fund was exclusively for married students living in Vetville.
In regard to a comment in the Browser’s Column as to what has happened to the Married Students Welfare Fund (not Vetville Maternity Fund), we would like to mention that Father Alfred Mendez has informed us that he has given out, previous to the Mardi Gras, close to $400. Besides this direct financial help, the Council, through its committee on housing, has found 32 apartments for married students, and eight jobs.
There remains one last misunderstanding to be cleared up. The Married Students Welfare Council knew nothing of the disagreement between the Student Council and the Rebel Club. The Student Council has proved its interest in our work, and anything the Rebels would have been willing to do for us we would gladly have appreciated.
John H. Begert, Chairmn, Married Students Welfare Council
Thanks From Student Relief
Editor:
The Student Relief Committee wishes to thank the entire student body for its co-operation and support in the campaign just ended. Acknowledgement is particularly due the Scholastic, Station WND, the Blue Circle, and Gene Hull and his orchestra. An appreciative nod here is also given to the officers and members of the various campus clubs who worked so selflessly and effectively to make the Mardi Gras Carnival a success.
In addition, our best wishes go to the merchants, newspapers and radio stations in South Bend who, almost without exception, gave generously of their time and resources.
Finally, we wish to express our appreciation to Fathers Murphy, Kehoe and Barry, without whose aid, encouragement and advice our efforts would have availed nothing.
John P. Dempsey, Chairman, The Student Relief Committee
A 'Norm of Criticism*
Editor:
Neither do I consider the Juggler a work of perfection, but, Mr. Halpin, you have, simply, demonstrated an obvious conceit, an intellectual pride, which your
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alumi^ num shank and genuine imported briar bowl.:
Offer Limited to USA—Expires Jone 30.1949
SmDNUUTmwn Get you-DANA PIPE Send to
50*
with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTOIE
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings . . . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! ’
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet. If you appear to have the qualifications for success, our manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.	,
THE MUTUAL UFE INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
Nassau Street SBlv New York 5, N.Y
FIRST IN JM AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET ADDRESS DEFT. 7
NAME_________________________AGE___
Annwroo	—	_
- - — -
March 18, 1949
3
review certainly does not justify. You have casually become an absolute norm of criticism, the same norm adopted by the anti-Christian press everywhere. You have adjudged the Juggler on one basis —the modem doctrine of leveling man’s mind into an automaton.
What is most tragic is your completely unconcealed superficiality. First, you say the Juggler is good because it has a pretty cover. End of statement. Then, again, in your criticism of the stories, few could know what you mean by “force” and “perception,” or in your judgment of the poetry, by “attractive” or “impressionable,” and one wonders what is the “real force” of Intruder in the Dust. One also wonders what is so insignificant about George' Murphy’s poetry.
What are “heavy reading,” “heavy writing,” “writing for writing’s sake?” In this trite accusation, you most fully demonstrate this conceit. Mr. Halpin, are you so all-fired certain that you have a “clear concept of ideas?” Just what is being dug for, “bigger and grander,” and not being said? I consider your unqualified judgment of these works most presumptuous and unjust.
On the other hand, Mr. Gorman’s editorial—if you had seen it—is a direct contradiction of the activistic spirit that pervades much of your magazine’s ranting, and also, quite accidentally, contra
dicts your recent review of You Too Can Change the World. It is written in the spirit of Guardini and Hildebrand and the apocalyptic French writers—I could ask if you are even familiar with them.
The plain horror of modern education could neither be condemned nor remedied in such brief space—it is only in that respect that the symposium seems “deficient,” etc. It is written in the same spirit, and essentially claims for you the education that you have not gotten— the education Maritain suggests in Education at the Crossroads.
You have neither reviewed nor criticized the Juggler (and it can be criticized) ; you have merely barked as the dog of the public.
Gregory Despot Box 87
In answer to Mr. Despot’s question I freely admit my ignorance of the French writers mentioned or implied.
In answer to his criticism I can but say that I wrote what I thought—honestly and with as much clarity as possible. Mr. Despot’s confusion is confusing to me and I can only protest that it was not intended.
Scholastic is and will continue to be, a magazine by the students for the students. So this review written by one of
them, was written for them. We hope most of them thought more highly of it than Mr. Despot.
Greg Halpin
A New Proposal
Editor:
As I understand it the purpose of student government is to supplement the school in the development of capable leadership. Father John J. Cavanaugh said, “Today’s need is for well trained leaders in industry, in all the professions and in statecraft.” Cardinal Newman said, “It is not the way to learn to swim in troubled waters by never having gone into them.”
Are we acepting our obligation to society when we give only 24 men an opportunity to serve on our Student Council? If it is of value for 24 to develop their ability to address a group on an issue, to learn parliamentary procedure, to give and take in committee work, to realize the effort necessary to make democracy alive, then would it not be desirable for more to have this opportunity?
This lower house could be composed not only benefit individuals, but would also provide a better council and a more democratic one with the addition of a lower house.
This lower house could be composed (Continued on Page 25)
4
patch pockets on our
CORDUROY SPORT COATS
The Ayrstar original
22.95
Brand new! . . . smart looking, and much-talked-about 4-pocketed sport coat. Ayrstar tailored this jacket for us ... to fit perfectly . . . and comfortably ... of fine pin-wale corduroy that will take a lot of hard wear—and keep its good looks. Seafoam green or Oyster grey.
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: RICHARD COLEMAN —232 ZAHM HALL
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
4
The Scholastic
BROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
That Council Again
Things are moving at such a rapid pace in the Student Council that we believe as much space as this magazine can afford should be given over to them. For that purpose we are taking part of this column to discuss a few facts pertinent to the situation.
We have been in rather constant contact with representatives of that body all through these big weeks in its history. We have heard of goings-on in the sessions of the committee that drafted the new constitution and have marvelled.
Concerning this new constitution. As we write this it is still in the embryonic stages. It is a raw, unsanctioned thing. But it is also a new thing, a document with strength and hope. And so it is important and a step in the right direction.
Generally speaking this new constitution is designed to give the Council (and thereby the student body) new authority and new responsibilities (the two are synonymous). It takes certain functions of student activity out of the hands of
ND RING FOUND IN OKLAHOMA
A Notre Dame ring bearing the inscription “F P R-44" has caused much scratching of heads and raising of eyebrows during the past month out in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Glen M. Taylor, an employee of the National Supply Co., in Tulsa, found the ring inside the company parking lot early in February. A complete check of the company files failed to reveal the owner.
After a futile check with the local ND alumni group, the ring was turned over to the Tulsa Police De--partment, where it is still gathering dust. Unlike the Chicago Tribune, we don't have $25,000 in prizes to offer for solutions . . . but any clues in the “Mystery of the ND Ring" will be greatly appreciated.
the Office of Student Welfare and places them on the Council’s doorstep. This is a fine thing and it has been done with a cooperative spirit on both sides. It means a greater freedom, a greater power in student government. It means a greater burden, too, on the Council. They will have more to say and more to do. They will have to work harder and more carefully. There is, or will be, big things at stake in this new move.
For one thing there will be money at stake. Under the new constitution the Council will have more financial responsibility toward student affairs. And, even more important, it means that the University has finally seen fit to put the students on their feet and let them take a few steps on their own. This means more leadership, more government by the students of their own affairs.
It also means the council and its president, Kevin Harrigan, have a big job to do if this new constitution goes through. They cannot fail. The students cannot fail them. If they do, student government here will return to the dark ages.
Here and There
A food committee set up by the Student Council is meeting these days with the office of Student Welfare in an attempt to get some answers to oft-asked questions. We can only wish them the greatest of success but they’ll pardon us, I’m sure, if we remain rather pessimistic concerning their chances.
We have heard many complaints prematurely registered against the Senior Ball. Present plans call for it to be held in the Drill Hall on May 20. The undoubtedly conscientious objectors claim that the Navy barn is no place to hold a dance of the Ball’s stature. We, on the other hand, are all for giving Mr. Costello and fellow workers a chance to prove their point that a good decoration committee and much elbow grease can turn the place into a nice setting. Let’s hope so. Humors for a band heavily favor a repeat performance by Sunny
Dunham. A better band for dancing would be hard to find.
Here’s an ND tradition we’d like to see revived. We are speaking of that old one whereby seniors graduating in June had their exams moved up a week. This gives them a chance to clear themselves out of school gracefully and really enjoying that last week-end. It also means a softening of the blow delivered those who flunk and have to come back. It’s rather embarrassing to have parents and friends travel many a mile only to receive the news that Johnny has gone down in Sociology 32 and won’t get his degree.
Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12; Thurs. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
408 Platt Bldg.	Ph. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
CAMHNG NIK
IN WIKMESS C0||^
In Superior Wilderness Quetieo Lake Region
Complete entitling service *3-5* a day with Gna-man alaminnm eaaoea. Food, year choice eatra.
Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main La and 2* log cabins. Modern bath room facilities. American Plan rates S8.M and ap.
1|UMRNfe$$ ITT^s^g,
a.Y.MNNi$OTA MMUBM
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
March 18, 1949
5
WWNNMWNNNWMWNNNNWNN&
Rose & Katz for ARROW
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
Alberts
813-817 S. Michigan Street
CAMPUS CHOICE
ARROW GORDON
OXFORDS $3.95
Only Arrow oxfords have all these features:
•	Perfect fitting Arrow collars
•	Mitoga shape for trimness
•	Sanforized label
•	Anchored buttons
•	Crisp, long-wearing Gordon oxford cloth.
See your Arrow dealer for Gordon oxfords today!
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
f UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adler’s
for
Arrow
ONTK MKNMN $ MflMMDN
6
The Scholastic
floifie, Shame
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 90 March 18. 1949 No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK
Associate Editors
JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR ______________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN.____________Features
HARRY MONAHAN___________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT._______Assistant Sports
JOHN WALKER.______________.. Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN.______________Librarian
L. A. KYSER________________Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_________Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_________Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN_Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated _ pollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Marquette’s Sammy Sauceda — reputed to have appeared more often in the Notre Dame Dome than in the
Marquette annual — makes his third ap-
pearance in the Scholastic this year. The strained expressions of the players more than convey the rigors suffered following the unpredictable Irish eagers through another successful, if hectic season. They lost the ones
tfiey were favored to win and won those
they were supposed to lose and kept the final outcome in doubt down to the last
second of play. For more on the basketball season see page 18.	*
—Photo by Ferstel
LEARN TO
DANCE!
RATES
Now in Effect!
. . . two can learn to dance for the cost of one the exclusive GEORGE DAVIS way and save 50 percent!
George Davis' sensational method has turned out thousands of polished, graceful dancers . . . the kind you see dancing continuously and having a world of fun! Put yourself in the hands of one of our talented and understand-
ing experts. You'll soon be dancing the Polka, Foxtrot, Jitterbug, Rumba or any other dance in just a few interesting and enjoyable hours! Phone 4-0801 or come in for FREE interesting analysis lesson!
* Join our new dance club. Have a grand time while you practice the latest steps and make new friends.
Phone 4-0801


TLLIOS
345 Lincoln Way West
March 18, 1949
7
than ever...
in beauty
in precision
parker
new
arKer
NEW . . . FOTO-FILL FILLER . . . VISIBLE INK SUPPLY... PLI-GLASS RESERVOIR... PLATHEN-IUM-TIPPED POINT . . . “AERO-METRIC CONTROL” ... 9 OTHER IMPORTANT ADVANCES
YOU’VE never owned such a pen! It’s the famous Parker “51” made new and different in 14 important ways.
The new Foto-fill filler, for example, makes filling the New “51” extra fast and easy. You know it’s filled—you can see the ink supply ... a bigger, longer-lasting supply. You’ll never have to worry about this pen going dry in the middle ot an exam!
What’s more, the New “51” has “Aerometric control.” It’s safeguarded against leaking even at jet plane altitudes.
And that’s only the beginning. There’s lots more for you to see and try in the New “51”. Stop in at your Parker dealer’s today and ask him to show it to you. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
Copr. 1949 by The Parker Pen Company
8
The Scholastic
Notte ^bante
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 20 MARCH 18,1949
Aquinas Lecture Features Labor-Business Mediator
the third address of
M. V. DiSalle
Mayor Michael V. DiSalle of Toledo, nationally known for his efforts to secure harmony between labor and management, will giv this year’s Aquinas Lecture Series in the Drill Hall, March 25, at 8:15 p. m. His topic will be “Toledo’s Plan for Labor Peace.”
DiSalle has served as chair-of the Labor -Management-Citizens Committee in Toledo since it was first inaugurated by him in 1945. This group
is endeavoring to bring about amicable settlement of industrial disputes by means of fact-finding, voluntary mediation, and arbitration. Careful recognition is given not only to the rights of labor and management but also to the joint responsibility of both for the community welfare.
Mayor DiSalle has a considerable record of public service. He has served as assistant district counsel for the Home Owner’s Loan Association and as a member of the Ohio legislature in 1937 and 1938. He was at one time the assistant city law director of Toledo and since 1942 has been on the city council.
Mayor DiSalle gave the address at the January exercises here and at that time received an honorary LL.D..
THINGS ARE A LITTLE FOULED UP
“Scholastic" had a hard time this week. A 56-page issue of the Alumnus forced the Ave Maria Press to cut us down to 28 pages — this in a week when we had a six-page basketball review and more advertising than we knew what to do with. Consequently you'll find the news coverage skimpy and the EditoriaL Week, Entertainment, Music, Books, Radio, and Names Make News columns left out altogether. We'll get back to normal next Friday.
Constitution Approved After 4-Hour Session; Faces Ratification By Entire Student Body
The proposed new constitution for student government at Notre Dame encountered its first rigorous test Monday night as it went before the Student Council for final approval. After a tedious four-hour debate on the provisions of the document, it was finally ratified by the Council.
But even after passing this first obstacle, the constitution must be ratified again, according to Bob Campbell, chairman of the constitutional committee. He has called a special meeting for Tuesday, March 22, for further discussion of the constitution, its by-laws and procedures. This special session, which will render final approval of the document before it goes before the student body for ratification, will be attended by the four class presidents, council members, representatives from each floor of each hall, and four off-campus representatives. When the constitution passes this conclave, it will be in its final form and ready for the student voters. The meeting will be at 7:30 p. m. in the Law Building.
Under the provisions of the new document, (which appears on Page 11 of today’s Scholastic), the “Student Council” will be no more. In its stead will be a “Student Senate,” a complete change from the present system. Council members say the change is directed toward bringing about better representatives and a stronger student government.
Committee Set-Up Outlined
In accord with the new constitution, old Council members and the constitutional committee feel the need for a committee set-up to work with the Student Senate. “In this way,” Bob Campbell said, “better results can be had from the constitution itself.” Council members have recommended a program of five special committees, which would have to be adopted by the new Student Senate.
The Service Committee, according to the recommendations, would be composed of a chairman and vice-chairman, who are both members of the Senate. Its principal function would be to exercise administrative supervision over all campus-wide student activities, such as elec
tions, hall decorations, pep rallies, or grievances. Membership of the committee would consist of the chairman and vice-chairman of the Blue Circle, a representative of each resident hall, two off-campus representatives, and a member of the YCS group.
The Social Committee, organized to supervise and coordinate all social func-
Maruui
BOB CAMPBELL
Constitution Committee Chairman
tions of Notre Dame student groups, would also be headed by a chairman and vice-chairman who are members of the Senate. Committeemen would include a representative from each of the geographical clubs, YCS, the Band, Glee Club, and a student ambassador to St. Mary’s College.
Forums. Lectures, Discussions
The Educational Committee, like all the rest, has chairmen and members appointed by the Senate. Its job will be the supervising and coordinating of all educational and academic activities such as forums, student-sponsored lectures, discussions and field trips. Under this committee also, will be responsibility for the exercising of such national programs as the NFCCS and the National Student
(Continued on Page 12)
March 18, 1949
9
LU. Symphony Orchestra Set for Drill Hall Concert
Notre Dame will play host to Indiana University’s Symphony Orchestra the night of March 24 at 8 p. m. in the Drill Hall. Approximately seventy musicians will compose the group’s personnel when it appears here.
Under the direction of Ernst Hoffman, former conductor of the Houston Symphony Orchestra, the symphony has risen from the ranks of average school orchestras to a state of near-professional artistry, according to many critics. Hoffman states that the organization is much improved even over last year because of more volume in the strings and a bass section of greater skill.
Featured as soprano soloist when the orchestra appears will be Josephine Antoine, now on the faculty of the university. Miss Antoine has sung on numerous occasions with the Metropolitan Opera. However, she is not the only performer to have been associated with a renowned institution; previous to his assumption of control over the Houston Symphony Mr. Hoffman was for eleven years conductor of the Breslau Opera and Philharmonic Orchestra in Germany.
Good Neighbor Policy
Tom Giordano (left) and Art Bottie (right), co-chairmen of the Met Club's Easter Dance, prevail upon Miss Anne Byrne, Brooklyn-born concert-pianist who appeared in Washington Hall last week.
to attend their shindig, scheduled for the Marine Grill of the Hotel McAlpin on April 18. Met prexy Don Begley looks on in the background.
—Photo by Hipp
Mexico Draws Pupils ............ .............................
For Summer Session Maritain to Give Two Talks Here Next Week
Saludos amigos I The third annual summer session at Mexico City College will be open again this year to students of Notre Dame and all interested persons with a background in Spanish studies.
The college will be open this summer for a six- and ten-week session. Both sessions begin on June 15. The six-week session will end July 27 while the ten-week course closes August 23. Tuition will be §60 and $100. Veterans under the G.I. Bill 346 may use their veteran privileges at the college. Board and room will be about $15 a week and reservations should be made in advance through Mexico City College. The trip should be less expensive this year since the rate of exchange on the Mexican peso has decreased.
Professor Walter Langford, head of the Department of Modern Languages, advised all who could to attend the session. “Residence in a foreign land is in itself a truly broadening and valuable experience for young college students,” said Mr. Langford. Many excursions and side trips will be taken by those at the College to see the cultural and social side of Mexico.
Those interested in applying for the session should contact Mr. Langford.
10
Dr. Jacques Maritain, often referred to as the outstanding Catholic philosopher of our times, will deliver two talks in Washington Hall, Wednesday, in conjunction with the Mediaeval Institute Lecture Series and the banquet honoring the tenth anniversary of the Review of Politics. Both addresses will be free and open to the public.
The internationally renowned scholar, at present a member of the faculty of Princeton University, will consider the subject of “Human Rights” Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in a program sponsored by the Mediaeval Institute.
That evening, at 6 o’clock, Dr. Maritain will attend the dinner tendered by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, in honor of the Review's birthday. Other guests will include Dr. Waldemar Gurian, the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Professor Francis J. O’Malley, other members of the staff, and regular contributors to the magazine. In all about fifty persons will be present at the affair, slated for the faculty dining rooms.
Then, at 8 p. m., Dr. Maritain will return to Washington Hall to speak on
“Conscience and Morality.” The Thomis-tic philosopher, who has served on the staff of the Catholic Institute of Paris and the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada, and at one time was French Ambassador to the Vatican, will be the first speaker in a series of addresses scheduled for the campus during the Review’s anniversary year.
Second on this commemorative program will be a talk by Professor Philip E. Mosely, professor of international relations and acting director of the Russian Institute at Columbia University, who will visit the University next Friday. His topic will be “Basic Factors in the Soviet-American Conflict;” and the lecture, slated for 7:45 p. m. in the Law Building Auditorium, will be attended by the graduate faculty and students of the Departments of History, Political Science, Economics and Sociology.
Dr. Mosely, who has represented this country at many international conferences, is considered an expert on Russian affairs. He has had many dealings with Andrei Vishinsky, elevated to the post of foreign minister of the USSR, in recent Soviet shake-ups.
The Scholastic
The Student Council Constitution
/Is a service to its readers and to the Student Council, Scholastic prints the Council’s new constitution this week. Read it over carefully; the student body must ratify the constitution before it goes into effect. Register your suggestions and criticisms with your hall, co’-lege, or off-campus representative.
ARTICLE I	— NAME
The name of this organization shall be the Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame.
ARTICLE II	—PURPOSE
Sec. I—It shall act as the official representative of the student body to make its views articulate and to care for its best interests with the administration and faculty, with other educational institutions and associations, with the public in general and with any other agency.
Sec. II—It shall supervise and coordinate the extracurricular activities cf the general student body and of student organizations under its jurisdiction and shall direct them when necessary. It shall serve as a link between the faculty and the students, integrating the activities of the latter under its jurisdiction with those of the university administration and teaching staff and fostering mutual cooperation and understanding.
ARTICLE III	—POWER
Sec. I—The Student Senate shall be empowered to carry out all the provisions and necessary implications of this constitution and its by-laws, to make such regulations as it considers necessary to attain this end, and to apply such sanctions as it considers just for infractions of its rules and regulations.
Sec. II—This power is derived immediately from the student body and ultimately from the university administration : the right of self-government which the administration grants to the student body is vested by the students in the Senate which it selects to represent it.
Sec. Ill—Any sudent or group of students shall have a right to a hearing before the Senate on any question over which the Senate has jurisdiction. Arrangements for hearings will be made in accordance with appropriate provisions in the regulations.
ARTICLE IV—MEMBERSHIP
Sec. I—(a) The Senate shall be composed of the four officers of the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior classes.
- ■(b) Four representatives at large chosen from the Senior Class and/or Law School, including at least one representative from the Senior Class and one from the Law School.
March 18, 1949
(c) A Stay Council of four members chosen from the existing Senate to hold office in the succeeding academic year to serve as a basis of the succeeding Senate.
Sec. II—(a) The Senate shall elect from its members a President, VicePresident, Secretary, and Treasurer. These officers shall constitute the Executive Council.
(b) The President of the Senate shall be a senior, or a student in Law School.
Sec. Ill—Any member of the Senate may be removed from office in the Senate and in his class by the other members for serious neglect of duty or for any other cause they consider serious enough to warrant such action. A vote of at least two-thirds of the full membership of the Senate shall be necessary for removal.
ARTICLE V	—MEETINGS
Sec. I—Regular open meetings shall be held weekly at a time agreed upon by the members of the Senate unless the president shall otherwise direct.
Sec. II—Two-thirds of the actual membership of the Senate shall consti-• tute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business.
Sec. Ill—Special meetings, open or closed, may be called at the discretion of the President of the Senate.
Sec. IV—Failure to attend three scheduled meetings without valid excuse shall be considered just grounds for removal of a member of the Senate and also his removal from a class office.
ARTICLE VI	— AMENDMENTS
Sec. I—This constitution may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the full membership of the Senate, the proposed amendment having been submitted in writing and read at a scheduled meeting at least one week prior to the date set for voting on it.
Sec. II—Within a week of approving an amendment the Senate shall notify the student body by publishing such amendment.
BY-LAWS
ARTICLE I	—ELECTIONS
Sec. I—A declaration of intended candidacy must be filed with the Secretary of the Senate at least two weeks prior to the date of elections. Candidates not found acceptable under provisions of Section II will be so notified.
Sec. II—Candidates for Senate membership must have no disciplinary record, must possess a minimum general average of 80% and must be able to serve for one full academic year.
Sec. Ill—Election of all members except freshmen and Stay Council shall take place on the first Tuesday in May.
These members shall not take office until the following academic year.
Sec. IV—The freshman members shall be elected by the members of the freshman class in November on a date to be announced by the Senate.
Sec. V—The members of the respective classes shall be eligible to elect their respective class officers and all students shall be eligible to vote for the four members-at-large.
Sec. VI—In the elections outlined in Sections 3 and 4 a plurality vote of those voting shall be sufficient to elect.
Sec. VII—The Stay Council shall be elected by the members of the Senate at the last meeting of the academic year.
ARTICLE II	— DUTIES OF THE OFFICERS
Sec. I—The President of the Student Senate shall organize and preside at the meetings of the Senate, direct its activities, and perform all the other activities which his office implies. The'President shall not act individually for the majority of the Senate unless the majority of the Senate or of the Executive Council so agrees.
Sec. II—The Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President in his absence and shall supervise the administrative procedure of student government.
Sec. Ill—The Secretary shall be responsible for all correspondence and for keeping all records except accounts of the Senate.
Sec. IV—The Treasurer shall be the custodian of all funds and keep the accounts of the Senate; he shall act as chairman of the Audit Committee through which the Senate examines the financial status of all organizations under its jurisdiction. He shall be assisted by an auditor appointed by the President of the Senate and reimbursed for his services. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds upon the direction of the majority of the Senate.
Sec. V—The Executive Council, in an emergency, shall have full powers of the Senate.
ARTICLE III—INTERPRETATION
Sec. I—Any disagreement over the interpretation of the Constitution and ByLaws shall be settled by a 2/3 vote of a quorum present at the meeting in which the disagreement is discussed.
Sec. II—Disagreements on Parliamentary Law shall be referred to Roberts Rules.
ARTICLE IV —FUNCTIONS OF THE SENATE
Sec. I—The Student Senate shall authorize and supervise all extra-curricular functions which are not under direct supervision of the University administration.
11
Sec. II—It shall authorize all student organizations and it shall regulate their extra-curricular activities. It shall approve the constitutions of the organizations, inspect their books, sanction their schedule of meetings and social functions, both on and off campus, and determine the regulations that shall be maintained in the conduct of these functions.
Sec. Ill—It shall possess the right to circulate notices and to express its views in the officially recognized student news publication or to publish notices therein when such action appears necessary for the efficient performance of its duties.
Sec. IV—(a) It shall, when it believes such action warranted, investigate infractions of its regulations and exercise appropriate sanctions.
(b)	Sanctions which the Senate is empowered to exercise are:
1.	Revocation of organization charters;
2.	Suspension of organization charters ;
3.	Withdrawal of permissions granted by the Senate;
4.	Suspension of individual rights exercised under this Constitution;
5.	Recommendation for disciplinary censure by the University Administration.
(c)	Sanctions shall be levied by a 2/3 vote of the Senate.
Sec. V—To execute these functions the President of the Student Senate shall appoint committees. The chairmanship of these committees shall reside in the Senate members. All members in good standing of the student body shall be eligible for these committees.
Art. VI—By-Laws may be adopted, amended, or repealed at any scheduled meeting by a 2/3 vote of the full membership of the Student Senate.
Constitution
(Continued from Page 9)
Association. Membership would consist of the presidents of the International Affairs Club, the Aesculapians, the InterAmerican Action Club, the various branches of national professional clubs, and YCS.
The Religious Committee would have as its primary job the supervision and coordination of student-sponsored religious programs with the Prefect of Religion.
The Publicity Committee, composed of the editors of all student publications plus the manager of WND, would serve in an advisory capacity on matters of publicity.
These committee set-ups are Council regulations recommended for the pro-
12
Ferstel
"MONSIGNOR'S HOUR"— Pageantry in the Vatican Art Gallery
FROM THE BALCONY RAIL
Campus Actors Present Rewarding Program
The University Theater dealt its customers three cards last Monday and Tuesday nights in Washington Hall, and its followers found they held a winning hand. With its debut forgotten, the campus dramatic group has now traversed the chasm between failure and success and is ready to come into its own spotlight of fame.
Which of the three one-act plays was most successful is a matter of personal opinion. We found Lady Gregory’s minor classic, The Rising of the Moon, to be the most rewarding. The story of an escaping Irish revolutionist who talks his captor into allowing him to escape is an idealistic playlet and is often better read than rendered. The Washington Hall version, however, succeeded in capturing Lady Gregory’s lyrical impact with great beauty. Jack Powell was a wonderful choice for the ballad-singing escape role. Maurice Mahon, as the police sergeant, was excellent and deserves special commendation for his melodious buttery brogue.
The second play, Kenneth Sawyer Goodman’s Dust of the Road, was a
posed Senate. They are not written into the constitution, but will have to be adopted by the new Student Senate when it is elected in the spring. According to members of the present Council, one of the best points of this committee idea is that “it is not restricted, but is open to include any new organizations that may arise.”—Vic Dorr
sombre and rather uninteresting tale of rural life after the Civil War. A mysterious tramp pays a visit to an avaricious couple on Christmas Eve, and admonishes them for their sins. He finally identifies himself as Judas and explains that he receives one day a year in which to do penance for his sin. Stephen Hauser, as Judas, possessed a deeply resonant voice and admirably achieved a convincing characterization. Jean Richard, as the wife, performed creditably, especially in the early part of the play, but Lawrence Lopina was weak as the farmer.
Emmet Lavery’s Monsignor's Hour was the main entree but was the least liked by this reviewer. A story of the Pope’s humanity and his quest for world peace, it was set in the Vatican Art Gallery, perhaps ten or fifteen years from now. A large cast was uniformly good, but the play failed them.
It, as well as Dust of the Road, violated the cardinal rule of art: its primary purpose is entertainment. Both were too moralistic and didactic in approach. Lady Gregory’s play also taught a lesson, but she subordinated it to the story, whereas both Goodman and Lavery reversed the order to the detriment of their respective pieces.
Francis J. Hanley directed the plays well and with interesting variety. The scenery was kept to a practical and tasteful minimum while Jim Beymer’s fine lighting added tone and dramatic emphasis to the staging.—Ken Thoren
The Scholastic
The Bulletin Board
This Week
Debaters Leave on Tourney
Four members of the Irish debate team left yesterday for the Delta Sigma Rho speech tournament at the University of Wisconsin. The ND entry, consisting of Tom Ninneman, John Gallagher, Bill Rich and Austin Hogan, will tangle with the “best of the Mid-West,” representing Michigan, Northwestern, Minnesota and almost fifty other universities.
Next Week
Film Classic Returns
Break out the superlatives! The Informer, one of the most highly publicized and loudly applauded motion pictures of all time, will be Thursday night’s offering on the Department of Journalism’s film classics program. Victor McLaglen is at his greatest in this symbolic old film, slated for the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., for ticket holders only.
Lectures on Accounting
Accounting and income tax systems will be the subject of the Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures Monday and Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium. Staff members from the Chicago offices of Murphy, Lanier and Quinn, Ceitified Public Accountants, will present the program, which will be attended by junior and senior accounting majors. Professor James Dincolo, head of the ND Department of Accounting, will preside as chairman.
Law Head to Talk Here
Frank E. Holman, President of the American Bar Association, will address ND Law students Tuesday at 1:15 p.m. in the auditorium of the Law Building. Mr. Holman, a graduate of Oxford University, in England, stalled practice in 1911 and has been a frequent contributor to the A.B.A. Journal for many years.
Cavanaugh Concerts
Record concert programs in the basement reading room of Cavanaugh Hall will include: Monday—Grieg’s Concerto in A Minor and Lalo’s Symphony Es-pagnole; Tuesday — Warsaw Concerto, by Addinsell, and Shostakovitch’s Symphony No. 1; Wednesday—Concerto in D Major for Violin, and Brandenburg Concertos Nos. 2 and 3, by Brahms and
Bach, respectively; Thursday — Tschai-kowsky’s Romeo and Juliet Overture, and Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, by Brahms. All concerts begin at 12:30 p.m.
Iowa vs. Notre Dame
Nile Kinnick and the iron men of Iowa roll over the 1939 Irish in Thursday afternoon’s edition of the great sport film series sponsored by the Student Council. Showings are slated at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
Hatchets and Arrowheads
A valuable collection of early American Indian implements and weapons will be displayed at the meeting of the Sociology Seminar Tuesday night at 7:30 in Room 101 of the Law Building. Mr. Chester H. Bragg, South Bend business man and a recognized authority on pre-Columbian inhabitants of the Michiana area, will address the group on “North American Prehistory.”
Also . . .
The concert program of the Indiana University orchestra; a lecture by Mayor Di Salle, of Toledo; and two talks in Washington Hall by. Jacques Maritain . . . for further details of these, see the news pages of the Scholastic.
Last Week
German Educator Speaks
Dr. Walter Hallstein, former Rector of the University of Frankfurt, delivered a lecture in the Rockne Memorial Lounge on “German Universities and German Re-education.” At the present time, Dr. Hallstein is chairman of the standing committee of universities in the American Zone of Occupation in Germany.
Broderick Addresses Engineers
Professor John J. Broderick, Jr., Assistant Dean of the College of Law, addressed the local chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on the topic of “Law and Engineering.” A discussion period followed the talk.
Opportunity
Jobs . . .
According to the U. S. Civil Service Commission, a number of engineering
positions in Federal agencies around Washington, D. C., still remain to be filled by qualified applicants. Salaries vary from $2 974 to $5,905, depending on amount of education and experience. Application for all but the lowest-paying jobs must be made, before June 30, to the Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Several other positions in engineering work at Wright Field have been announced. Application blanks and further information concerning these openings, which carry a yearly salary of $2,974, should be obtained from the Executive Secretary, Board of U. S. Civil Service Examiners, Headquarters, Air Materiel Command, MCACXB, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.
University Scholarships
ND scholarship students who wish to renew their awards for next year and other students wishing to apply for financial assistance prizes for 1949-50 should contact the Committee on Scholarships and Prizes before May 1, according to an announcement from the Rev. John Burke, C.S.C., committee chairman. The forms which must be filled out may be obtained from the office of the Business Manager in the Main Building. Full details of the scholarships offered are contained in the General Bulletin of the University.
Marine Commissions
College students are eligible to become second lieutenants in the regular Marine Corps or the Marine Reserve upon the completion of only two six-week summer periods of active duty. Any unmarried student over 17 years of age, pursuing courses leading to a baccalaureate degree in any major subject, can join the program. During the first training period the applicants, who must not be members of any military organization except the Naval Militia, serve as Coi-porals at $90 per month; during the second they are made Sergeants and receive $100 per month. Full details may be obtained by writing Captain W. E. Haverty, Room 104 Post Office Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.
March 18, 1949
13
HUFWANTH-MtN
WUPWINTB)-Mm
Frafta»M2> Taku •
HELF WANTED-MtN
Hakuta, s»4 IMu ■
NHP WANTU'MEN
ESTIMATOR
and
echanical engineer
3CCELLENT OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCEMENT.
ftSTANT FOR THE PLANNING DEPT. MANAGER OF A VERY AGGRESSIVE WEST UBURBAN CHICAGO PLANT.
DIE CUTTING PRESSMAN CARDBOARD
MEHLE CYLINDERS
KOHL INDUSTRIES
4220 W. SCHUBERT A Lbeny 3*4200
ENGINEERS DESIGNERS DRAFTSMEN
d at once, for a permanent poelt'c' tuatnoua. ingenious man wltn some
production processes in mgs« vire forming wits ttloc machinery.
CHEMISTS
OR
HEMICAL ENG - recent graduates not ef ace. Must oe aeie nnvatcn examination.
B. tear. 8 oar week. Startln witn us for men with de axtnl laboratories. Fla: wetion of Chicago. )RESS MBJ 303 T
—— HF(P WANIF**M0t
RMnuxiw and Ttedm
ENGINEER-Saies Hepresentatlve-are an engineer or technically t man, particularly one who has I* Ing or experience with highway construction cr paving materials desire to become connected for work with a national firm that h est rating, we suggest you write Inr vour Qualifications, past exp etc. if possible, uso sens recen shot. man 25 to 35, cr t is Will arrange personal in cation nils reaulrements. tress MDM 3b TYlbune.
DRAFTSMEN CHECKERS Mechanical Experienced in Piping, Plate Work and Light Steel for Power Stations.
SARGENT & LUNDY ENGR5 222 W. ADA
Structural-Architectural Experience in Rower Plante or tndustrirl Buildingt ADDRESS MBL 285 TRIBUNE
CAMERON CAI1 CC. 24'J N. AbhLAND
HAyn'-ir*?’. 1-8920
DRAFTING INSTRUCTOR Architectural Tr Instruct colege su« dents. Days Calendar year Good ' opportunity
CHICAGO TECHNICAL COLLEGE
nTaiawrK
GRAND AV. Afi
S
WEEK
ILTT
DIG.
Hl
ATIO
RAM
JECT
RYO
DIE AND TOOL
APPRENTICE. tQgh school grtdulP wkt» has majored in machine rbsg.
CHICAGO DIE
4001 WRTGf
FIELD
established Ce.
, so must latest StosM rt. Prefer yrs. field ivm«t ft desert* Future eosld' home cnet.1
ENGINEERS
Insurance company has gs for marine or stationary r t operating engineers with i operating experience, t :tors cf boilers, engine electrical machinery ust be high sc/od gr ate age, experience, her qualifications, ss MEM 28 Tribune
BRING DRAFTS
vetoed steel tanks and strue&u Must be able to calculate van cess, head design, baffle and s support. M.E. or C.E. desirabl dll consider man with 2 year: ceerter education.
INHLCO tNC.
323.W. 25
OPENINGS FOR
DESIGN ENGINEERS
Ds.diGNnH>opportur4ty lor young man to gain experience, advancement with company producing permanent point ef sale displays. Knowledge cf lettering, rendering, wool construction desirable. Convenient location. Pleasant working' conditions. State age. background Address TEM 60 Tribune
Structural-Architectural Experience in Power- Plants or Industrial Buildings Address MAG 53 Tribune
2000 S. Mlehlnn
CAlda-et 5*62C;
DRAFTSMAN
Wlft (OS. Cftlsvtec enperlew., lor
ENGINEERING DRAFTS
SOME COLLEGE TRATKTN-Excellent opportunity for vounc vita some experience to start t Jarre national reel firm. v voive work on vie Doard, detail trforclng steel. Good advancem' prospects.
ADDFESS MBT 599 TRD
*• htv« several immediate pealags for design or <tevel-psem engineers. Mechanical nd electrical eannsers wim anslderable experience tn oe-Ign of Instruments cr control referred. Excellent epportun-Ues wlthleadlat msmaaeturer 1 auternauOeomrols; Attract Ive salary. 1/rauon: Minna*

jonr’ca
DIESEL Chief Engineer to supervise maintenance, operation, and repair of diesel generating plants using various type engines. Must be capable to aasume full responsibility. Must be capable administrator and instructor of largo group cf diesel operators. Work eon* dltlons include subsistence and
ENGINEERS
Ecclleot opportunlHe, tor (ndnat.. chtnled, nectanied er setilsrttcal eatlneers Dmlopnent of sxtda noter compound., ohumU, Ur-eootdaor moraftewrW
hi4-.< cslles? er eq4-.«n-. trtlnlnf. Apr?/ by Liar only, gaunt quillllcv lions.
R. C. WEBOLDT CO
ENGJNEIJ^
and all of them made possible through profits!
In the last eight years, International Harvester has increased the number of its employes in the United States from 60,000 to 90,000.
This means that 30,000 new jobs have been created—good jobs at good pay for junior executives, engineers, draftsmen, technicians, among many others. And every one of these jobs carries with it plenty of chance for advancement.
This great progress in jobmaking has been made possible by the profits which over the last 20 years the company has plowed back into the business. That is why we like to say PROFITS MEAN PROGRESS for everyone.
For example:
During the eight year period in which our force was increased from 60,000 to 90,000 employes, the average straighttime hourly earnings of our non-salaried factory employes have increased 92.6 per cent.
Customers have benefited from the fact that our margin of profit on sales today is two-fifths less than in 1941.
And our stockholders have had a fair return on the savings they have invested in our company. Dividends on common stock this year are 4.65% on the book value, as compared with 4% in 1941.
In 1948, the company had profits, after taxes, of 4.7 cents from each dollar of sales.
We know it is our continuing ability to earn a reasonable profit that has made it possible for International Harvester in the past year to serve more people— customers, employes and stockholders—in greater measure than ever before. Profits mean progress for everyone.
We hope to be able to continue to make a reasonable profit with each succeeding year in the future—to keep right on creating more and more jobs at good pay for young men entering industry, just as we have done in the past.
INTERNATIONAL
MTtXHATlOWAi. NMVtSnte
HARVESTER
14
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Tony Zale Accepts Bengal Bout Bid
Chicago, Cleveland Draw Irish Track Men
By JIM HOWARD
Two of the top flight midwest invitational track meets will be the scenes for Notre Dame participation tonight and tomorrow. Selected individual performers and a few crack relay combos will run tonight at the Cleveland Knights of Columbus games, and tomorrow in the famed Chicago Daily News Relays.
Captain Bill Leonard has received bids for the 1000-yard run in both contests, and the Irish mile relay foursome will also appear in the two classic board battles. Hurdler Bill Fleming will definitely compete in the Cleveland races, but his invitation to the Chicago meet has been delayed because of the unusually large field already engaged. Only 14 of the nation’s best barrier runners are sought for the obstacle races.
The pole vault is another doubtful slot for the Irish. Jim Miller will in all probability vault in the Cleveland, but may be forced from the Chicago clash by the same system which hampers Fleming.
The competition in each event is the best the nation has to offer. Leonard will face such great performers as Browning Ross of Villanova, Gerry Kar-ver, formerly of Penn State, and Phil Thigpen of Seton Hall.
The mile relay quartet will tangle with the best the Big Nine has to offer, in addition to Michigan State and other university teams. The Irish foursome, selected from Steve Provost, Paul Schwetschenau, Ray Sobota, Bob Smith, Pat Kenny and Leonard, has been unable to equal the times of last season, and has consistently failed to win the title in any of the top flight relays they competed in, with the exception of the Michigan A.A.U. meet.
The hurdle field which Fleming, the tall junior from Providence, R. I., must face boasts the superior material. Har-. rison Dillard, one of the nation’s best timber toppers, leads the group which also contains Ed Dugger, formerly of Tufts, and Jim Gehrdes, of Penn State.
TONY ZALE Bengal Overseer
Golfers1 Schedule Starts Spring Swing on April 8
The 1949 Notre Dame golf team is preparing for its first dual match with Washington University at St. Louis, April 18. The entire squad has been working out in the Walsh Hall basement since January, but Rev. George C. Holderith, C.S.C., the Irish coach, will have his boys out on the golf course as soon as weather permits.
The six-man team, picked by intersquad matches, includes such outstanding candidates as seniors George Stuhr, the captain, Jack Quinn, and Bill Breen; juniors Bob Rolfs, Paul Hudak, Ray Burian, Art Aquilla and Maurice White; and sophomores Preston Murphy and Tommy Veech. Rolfs won the 1948 university championship by carding a 289 in the 72-hole medal play.
The 1949 schedule:
April 18—Washington at St. Louis
April 23—Wisconsin, here
April 25—Purdue, here
April 30—Indiana at Bloomington
May 7—Northwestern at Evanston May 14—St. Ambrose, here May 16—Michigan State, here May 20—Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament at Lafayette
May 23—Minnesota at Minneapolis May 26—Detroit, here
Former Fistic Champ Will Receive Award
By TIM BUTZ
Tony Zale, the man of steel and former middleweight champion of the world, has been announced as the honorary referee of the 1949 Bengal Bouts. The Gary, Ind., battler who has twice held the middleweight crown, will make two appearances at Notre Dame.
On Monday, March 28, Zale will be presented with the first annual Bengal Bout Award. The plaque is sponsored by the Bengal Bout committee of the Knights of Columbus and will be given each year “to the man in boxing who has contributed the most to the youth of America by example and competitive spirit.”
Tony will return for the finals on Sat-
BENGAL TICKET SALES
Students are reminded that unreserved general admission tickets will go on sale Monday at the special student price of 25 cents for each of the three preliminary nights and 50 cents for each of the last two nights. Students who do not purchase their tickets from the four ticket offices on campus (Dining Hall Basement. K of C office in Walsh hall, the Huddle and the Breen-Phillips athletic office) will have to pay regular price at the gate. No student tickets will be sold at the fieldhouse on the nights of the fights.
urday, April 2, to handle his honorary refereeing duties.
Zale has been one of the outstanding figures in the boxing world since he first won his title by knocking out Al Hostak in 1940. Before enlisting in the Navy in April, 1942, Tony successfully defended his championship three times.
After discharge in December, 1945, Zale began training to defend his crown again. In warm-up bouts for the 1946 date with “Rocky” Graziano, Zale knocked out all five of his opponents.
The memorable September scrap with
March 18, 1949
15
Graziano ended suddenly in the sixth round when Zale, after taking plenty of Graziano’s punishment, knocked out the Brooklyn bad boy. As a result of this sensational victory and his fine example, Tony received the Edward J. Neil trophy as “the outstanding boxer of 1946.”
The second Zale-Zraziano bout came off in Chicago in the summer of 1947 with Tony losing the crown on a fifthround knockout. Displaying the courageous qualities that have made him a model of rthe country’s youth, Zale regained the middleweight toga by belting Graziano out in their third meeting.
Last fall, Marcel Cerdan, the Frenchman, relieved Zale of his title for the second time. Now pending is a return match with Cerdan scheduled for June.
Zale’s appearance will highlight the first night’s action. Trainer Dominic Napolitano reports that the 70 candidates are rapidly rounding into form.
Ticket sales have been heavy through the past two weeks. The special five-night reserved seat ticket offered to students for $1.50 has proved particularly popular. Almost all of the 1000 placed on sale have been sold.
Keglers Stop Valparaiso; Prepare to Meet DePaul
The Kampus Keglers checked into the second station on the c omeback trail last Sunday with a 3-2 victory over Val-parariso in their bowling bags. Again this week it was Tom Simon who showed the boys the way with a husky 914 total and 185 average. In marked contrast to their dismal show against Valpariso earlier in the year, last Sunday’s match found the Keglers with a distinct edge in total pins—4396 to 4196, high series— 906 to 888, and in single scoring where Tom Simon took the honors.
As a special feature of last Sunday’s meet, the Notre Dame all-stars, a team composed of outstanding men from the Kampus Keglers, met a team of Valparaiso all-stars. Although the Irish lost, 11-9, Bud Polmer (Vetville) took high-scoring honors with 226.
The next chance for the Keglers to avenge a past defeat comes March 26, when they run up against powerful DePaul, to whom they dropped their first match 3-2. Also in the future is a tentative trip to Champaign to take on the Illini.—Bill Riley
PHOTO CREDITS
New photos appearing in the basketball review section were taken by the following photographers: group shot of team, Kunkle; St. Louis game, Ferstel; N. Y. U. game. International News Photos; individual player shots. Murphy.
Frank Says It'll Be 'Dreary, Cold Winter'; Frowns On Bowl Games For Notre Dame
By RALPH WRIGHT
“People are getting so they don’t believe me, but this time it’s true. Gentlemen, it’ll be a dreary, cold winter.”
Coach Frank Leahy, who has never been called an optimist, was talking about his Notre Dame football team that opened spring practice yesterday afternoon. “We lost seven regulars from last season including four excellent blockers in the line,” he said, “and you need good blocking in the line to hold onto that ball.” Mr. Leahy has long contended that the team holding the ball most of the game usually wins the game.
Confronted with the question of Notre Dame playing a bowl game to finance a new fieldhouse, the Irish coach showed no desire to engage in a post-season affair even “if somebody would want us.” Nor did Coach Leahy believe the school administration would change its policy on bowl games.
As opposing coaches may have feared, Mr. Leahy has no idea of abandoning his famous double quarterback plays that proved quite baffling on occasions last fall. The coach said that the rules committees have declared two men under the center to be legal so long as the ball is not handed off forward. But he wants to know who will be the other quarterback to work the plays with Bob Williams.
“Bob Williams will be fine, especially later in the season,” he said, “but the No. 2 quarterback job seems to be wide open.”
Fullbacks Switch to Guard
The departure of Marty Wendell and Bill Fischer creates a guard problem, too, and Coach Leahy is working on that. He said that freshman fullback Dan Mo-dak would switch to guard along with reserve fullback Fred Wallner. Of the returning lettermen at this position, he had great praise for 180-pound Bob Lally whom he called “one of the greatest players I have ever seen for his weight.”
The tackle shortage brings more woes, but no changes are contemplated. His failure to mention any difficulties at the ends or center is obviously due to the likes of Leon Hart and Jerry Groom. Coach Leahy did say that Hart would not leave his end post any more because it is more “natural” to him. And he debunked the rumor that Bill Flynn might move from end to guard.
As for the running backs, Mr. Leahy just reeled off the names and looked quite contented. No worries there.
The schedule is something else though. The coach said, “They all look tough from where we see them.” He singled out North Carolina, Southern Methodist, Michigan State and Tulane (he’s heard the Green Wave may be one of the country’s best). Though he has seen the fabulous Messrs. Charley Justice and Doak Walker only in the movies, he termed them “great.”
“It’s not a question of whether we’ll lose any of these games, but a question of how many of them we’ll lose and whether we will be humiliated. I hope none beats us by 35-0 or more.”
If the situation is normal, the picture isn’t as dark as the artist Leahy paints it. One thing is certain and that’s that Coach Frank Leahy will mold a winning team with the same method he has always used.
“We’ll pay the price of victory on the practice field,” he asserted.
KEGLER SCHEDULE FOR MARCH 20
Gold League
Prop & Wing vs. Off-Campus; Pittsburgh vs. Syrian-Lebanese; Cleveland vs. Architects; Texas vs. Chemists; Met Club vs. Inter-American; Columbus vs. Aero; Rockford vs. A.S.M.E.; Detroit vs. Italian; Philadelphia vs. Fox River Valley.
Blue League
Vetville vs. Rochester; Toledo vs. St. Louis; New England vs. Metallurgy; Generation vs. Utica; Kentucky vs. Buffalo; Central New York vs. Minnesota; Youngstown vs. New Jersey; K of C vs. Indianapolis; Kansas City vs. Chemical Engineering.
Wily Senior Managers Cop Net Title From Shot Frosh
In the wake of the St. Louis-Notre Dame game last Monday, the final playoffs of the managers round robin cage tourney took place. The final game pitted the junior and senior managers against the freshmen. The old-timers won handily, 33-18. The high scorer of the event was Ray Zaleski, manager of minor sports, who connected for 13 points.
The wily seniors made the frosh whip the sophomores first, then without giving • them time to recuperate began the second game, and utilized the fast break to completely dominate the scoring.
16
The Scholastic
Cage Final Features Farley, Chern. Eng'rs.
Pre-season favorite, the Farley frosh, lived up to the predictions and battled their way into the finals, but they meet a dark-horse Chemical Engineer quintet who came out of the tourney melee to win a spot in the title battle.
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Harry Monahan
Dillon’s eagers threatened to derail the 'Farley five in their quarter-final contest. Dillon held its own going into the final quarter tied 31-31 with the frosh, thanks to the center play of Ray Petr-zelka. But Farley’s George, Ostrowski and Fink proved too deadly in the closing minutes and edged the Dillonites, 45-41. West Virginia was the Farley quintet’s semi-finals victim, 45-36.
In a tourney that featured upsets as a matter of course, the Chemical Engineers steered a rocky course to wallop Toledo, 31-23 in the quarter-finals and to dump the Breen-Phillips’ five in the last minute of play, 34-33. Holloway’s brilliant rebound work during the Breen-Phillips game and six straight baskets in the closing ten minutes gave the Engineers their win.
Farley and the Chemical Engineers met yesterday to decide the campus cage championship, but results could not be obtained before press time. Next week’s Scholastic will contain a complete report of the title battle.—Rudy Unger
LEONARD, SMITH, SCHWETSCHENAU, PROVOST: Four to Go
Literature by Leahy
As it has to many another burdened Arts and Letters student, outside reading may soon descend upon phy ed majors. Later this month Prentice-Hall will release the latest addition to the list of books on football techniques and training — Coach Frank Leahy’s “Notre Dame T-Formation.” As a successful user of the “T”, Coach Leahy will analyze the system and explain the sequence in several basic plays. It will be particularly appreciated on the college level — plenty of pictures; many from the camera of the Scholastic’s ace shutter-bug, Jim Ferstel.
Musings at Halftime
We regret that we were unable to secure a picture of Mr. and Mrs. Kevin O’Shea for- this week’s basketball revue. Our photographers could not make the necessai-y arrangements in time — they must have been tod busy writing poetry.
With the O’Sheas’ permission we would still like to get the picture for use in a later issue. . . . Defenders of the Central Collegiate conference be at ease. The latest development is a plan to hold the indoor meet in the Chicago fieldhouse with Loyola as host school. We erred last week in calling Butler a non-con-ference team. It is a very active member of the conference, but the Butler fieldhouse becomes an emergency ward for 15,000 victims of “Hoosier Hysteria” on the week-end the 3-C indoor meet is usually run.	.
Did anyone see the representative from U.S.C. who was on campus last week renewing the West Coast grid series with Notre Dame? A Los Angeles sportscaster said he was here. He also said Father Cavanaugh was in New York completing arrangements for the renewal of the Army series. . . .
Jim Howard, our track writer, was saved from the wrath of the track team only by the fact that he can outrun the whole squad. Jim erroneously labelled the recent Irish endeavor at the 3-C indoor meet as the worst defeat Notre Dame had ever suffered in that meet. A check of the record revealed that the ’35 squad came in an unhappy fifth and the ’40 tracksters also brought back third place honors. . . . Two frosh ably represented Notre Dame at the recent Central A.A.U. meet at the University of Chicago fieldhouse. Benny Almaguer took second place in the two-mile run aind Bill Bransom finished second in the 70-yard dash behind former world’s record holder Bill Hauden.
More Fieldhouse Trouble
The Notre Dame fieldhouse claimed another victim thi§ week. Pete Koblosh, number one choice to handle shortstop duties for Jake Kline, suffered an ankle separation and may be lost for the whole season. Promising sophomore trackster Vai Muscato was injured a couple of weeks ago in a similar accident. The trackmen have been especially critical of the hazardous condition of the fieldhouse track. And now two varsity . teams have lost key men because of the unstable footing.
March 18, 1949
17
Left to right, seated: Assistant Coach Tom Foley, R. Giedlin, J. Loftus, J. Fritsch, captain Paul Gordon, E. Kenny, J. O'Halloran,
J. Halligan, R. Kaufmann, L. Barnhorst, coach Ed Krause, J. Brennan, J. Foley, K. O'Shea, N. Fichtel and R. Kluck.
NETMEN EQUAL’47-’48 RECORD
Despite Injuries to Five Regulars, Irish Win 17, Lose 7
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame’s basketbailers finished the 1948-49 season like they began it, by losing a tough ball game to one of the best teams in the country. And, throughout the year, the Irish never did pull a real upset, unless it was in that second DePaul battle. They lost the big ones, but took everything else; so they wound up with a record of 17 wins and 7 losses, a fine mark considering the amazing streak of bad luck that continually plagued the squad.
Coaches Ed Krause and Tom Foley probably would like to hamstring the man who originated that “luck of the Irish” saying. They lost John Brennan, potentially the highest scorer, for the last 14 games; Kevin O’Shea got fouled up with his old knee trouble after the western trip; Captain Paul Gordon missed three games with an injured shoulder; Leo Bamhorst played with a bad back and a broken finger; and John Foley had his nose broken. Yet, despite all the ill fate, ND managed to win five in a row early in the season and had a six-game skein broken in the finale.
The Irish dropped a heartbreaker right at the start when Burdette Thurlby tossed in a two-pointer in the overtime to give Illinois a 59-58 win. That night Kevin O’Shea’s fadeaway one-handers were good for 20 points, but blond Bill Erickson and Dike Eddleman were hitting, too. The Illini went on to snare the Big Nine title and a high national ranking.
18
O’Shea continued his hot pace though, and ND started to roll. Northwestern, Wisconsin, Penn and Navy were easy. But it took a free toss by Leo Barnhorst to squeak past Purdue, 51-50, in the opening night of the Hoosier Classic at Butler Fieldhouse. On the second night of the Classic, firewagon Indiana ended the victory splurge, 50-47.	1
Weary Cagers Fall to DePaul
Then the Irishmen went west. They trampled Southern * Methodist at Dallas and St. Mary’s in San Francisco’s Cow Palace. However, the weatherman halted the team on the	!
way home, and the snowbound cagers were in no shape for	i
the big Fieldhouse tilt with DePaul.
Ray Meyer’s nasty Blue Demons were ready to take advantage of the weary Irish — the Krausemen were routed, 59-38.	j
Still, they came back fighting to edge redhot Butler, 60-58, in the thriller-diller of the season. Little Marty O’Connor flipped in a one-hander in the final few seconds for the clincher. The students went berserk, and Mr. Krause envisioned a future star in the young soph forward.
After that, Barnhorst started to take over. Denver came	;
to town, Vince Boryla and the Nuggets, and the ex-Notre	1
Dame All-American learned a few tricks from Barney. The	i
The Scholastic
HMii
nuaafiii
OiiktiiiBfi
Indianapolis ace potted 20 points while holding Vince to one field goal. ND won, 49-46.
Wildcats. Butler Reap Revenge
Meanwhile, Kentucky’s extra-vicious Wildcats were waiting for the Irish in Louisville. They got revenge for last year’s upset with a little to spare, though ND’s 24-point loss wasn’t as had as many of the defeats Coach Adolph Rupp’s miracle five gave out. On the way back, Butler, too, was waiting to settle a score. The sharpshooting Bulldogs pulled away in the second half, and the Krausemen lost two consecutive games for the only time during the year.
Michigan State and Marquette had nothing like Butler’s Buckshot O’Brien. The Irish pum-meled the Spartans and Hilltoppers, Jimmy O’Halloran finding the bucket for 22 markers at Milwaukee.
St. Louis spoiled the winning ways by zipping through, around and over (Ed Macauley, that is) the Irish at Kiel Auditorium. After a great first half, Coach Krause’s specially-devised zone defense fell apart, and the Bills won, 61-44. Then good old Marquette came along again, and the Irish were off on their six-game string of triumphs.
Coach Krause took his boys to Chicago Stadium again where DePaul was favored to beat them. However, this time the Irish were exceptionally hot at the charity line, and they took the Demons, 54-49, in what might have been their finest game. Possibly a little overconfident in their next one, the Irish found out they had no reason to be as they just edged Michigan State, 43-41, at East Lansing.
s
Eastern Jaunt a Success
The eastern trip was the usual success. Close to 12,000 fans saw the midwesterners bump Can-isius, 59-51, at Buffalo. At halftime, the Buffalo Club of Notre Dame presented a trophy to Barnhorst as the most valuable player on the team.
Notre Dame has had a habit of reaching its peak in Madison Square Garden and this season was no exception. The Irish roared from behind to spill New York U.’s Violets, 71-66. Barney
Northwestern's outfaked Wildcats are left behind (above) as O'Shea goes in far a lay
gave the big city scribes something to remember by looping in 21 tallies. O’Halloran had a big 16, and O’Shea bagged three last-quarter fielders that iced the decision.
Back in the midwest, ND made the final trip to Chicago a success. They defeated Northwestern, 59-56, but it wasn’t as easy as the first time. They set the stage for a big finish.
If ND could win over mighty St. Louis, it could beat last season’s mark and pick up all kinds of prestige. They tried hard, harder than they had all season long. But the Billikens were uncanny the first half, and Barnhorst left the contest with five fouls early in the second. At one time, the visitors’ lead was chopped to 56-50, but fight couldn’t match the Hickey barrelroll offense. St. Louis won again, 68-59.
It was a tough one to lose for a team that hadn’t had a break all season. Still, there was no reason for any of the players to hang their heads. The teams that beat Notre Dame — Kentucky, St. Louis (2), Illinois, DePaul, Butler and
March 18, 1949
Bamhorst and O'Shea gang up on a Penn Quaker (left): O'Shea trios to outreach Louis (right); and Barnhorst hooks a shot over Marquette (below).
Indiana — were among the best in the land. The Irish had equalled the won-lost record of the strong 1947-48 club, and they easily made it 26 successive years that Notre Dame has had a winning ball team.
And people still liked to watch the Irish play. The 188,780 folks who watched them perform set a new school record; ND established attendance marks at Buffalo, Louisville, St. Louis, Dallas, San Francisco and Chicago (opening night Stadium mark).
Coach Krause can also point with pride to his squad’s Chicago Stadium shows. Of all colleges that played in the big Windy City sports arena, ND had the best record — 4 wins, no losses.
Barney Misses Record
The 1948-49 campaign was the last for an all-time Notre Dame great, Leo Barnhorst. By fouling out of the St. Louis game with over 15 minutes to go, the star forward lost a chance to set a new school three-year scoring record. He finished with 778 points compared to 780 compiled by All-America Johnny Moir in the late ’30’s; he topped the scorers for the second straight year, this time with 283. Barney was a tremendous rebounder, a good shot with either hand and a deft ball handler. To top everything off, he broke another school mark by starting in 72 consecutive games. His omission from any All-America mention reveals the unfairness of the many all-star selections.
Speedy Jimmy O’Halloran was another senior who did a fine job. Jim boasted the best field goal and free throw percentages and finished second only to Barnhorst in scoring. Always a tough drive-in man, the little Chicagoan developed into a real threat when he started hitting from far out. Much of the credit for the late-season success belongs to O’Halloran.
Rough-and-ready Paul Gordon came through with some great ballhawking and defensive play in his fourth season of ball for ND. Paul was always in there fighting and, when his overhead set shot was clicking, he could rack up the points, too, just like he did in the St. Louis fray when he made 22.
Long John Brennan, John Foley, Frank Kaufmann, Dick Kluck and Jack Loftus were other- seniors on the squad. Brennan could have been one of the highest scoring players in Notre Dame history; he led the scoring in 1946-47, but was put out with injuries the last two seasons. Foley was a valuable replacement for Brennan; fans will especially recall his fine play in the Garden. Coach Krause used Kaufmann when
Gordon Charges Past and Over Two Shrinking N.Y.U. Violets.
(
I
i
things were a little rough, and Frank always knew what to do. Kluck has been a valuable sub the last few years; his rebounding was the big factor in that Irish rally in the last game. Though he didn’t get too much chance to play, Loftus filled in nicely for O’Shea on several occasions.
Kevin Heads Returnees
Of the returnees for next year, O’Shea, of course, was the standout. He started out like a house afire, but his old knee injuries caught up with him again. He’s incomparable at his best and looked good even on the off days. Aggressive and a nice jump shot, Marty O’Connor looked best among the newcomers. But they all deserve a lot of credit, especially the boys who played little and practiced hard for over five months. In the future, Notre Dame fans will probably hear more from Dick Giedlin, Jim Fritsch, Neal Fichtel, Ralph Hinger, Gene Kenny and Tom Johnson.
Gordon Drives Painfully in Against Illinois (left), and Bamhorst Tries a Tip-in Against St Louis (right).
Leo Barnhorst, Paul Gordon Top Netmen
LEO BARNHORST . . . received an award from the Buffalo Club as the most valuable player for the 1948-1949 season . . . uses his 6’3”, 208-pound frame to excellent advantage under both backboards . . . defensive standout as well as great on offense . . . held Vince Boryla of Denver, one of leading collegiate scorers, to five points in Irish victory over the Pioneers . . . played in seventy-two consecutive games since returning from the service in 1946 . . . led Irish scoring for the past two seasons . . . captained Cathedral High quintet in hometown Indianapolis and won all-state honors in 1942.
PAUL GORDON . . . three^time monogram winner and captain of this year’s squad ... defensive genius of the squad, Paul is noted for his close and efficient guarding of the opponent’s scoring star ... a driving, aggressive player, he ranked fourth in scoring last season with 160 points ... a product of Mt. St. Joseph’s in Baltimore, he was named all-state in both basketball and hockey in 1942, 1943 and 1944 . . . Paul also played on the state champion baseball team his junior and senior years, the state championship hockey team in 1944 and the conference champions basketball team in 1943 and ’44.
NOTRE DAME INDIVIDUAL SCORING (Final)
Player	Pos.	Games	FGA	FG	. Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct.	PF	TP
Leo Barnhorst 			 F	24	318	113	.356	91	57	.626	81	283
Jim O’Halloran 			 F	24	213	82	.385	106	78	.736	66	242
Kevin O’Shea			 G	22	268	. 85	.317	99	62	.626	67	232
Paul Gordon (c) 			 G	21	217	64	.295	79	54	.684	59	182
John Brennan 			 C	11	137	40	.292	60	41	.683	42	121
John Foley 			 C	24	146	44	.301	47	31	.659	65	119
Frank Kaufmann 			 F	22	76	21	.279	26	18	.689	45	60
Dick Kluck 			 F	18	62	17	.274	16	7	.438	22	41
Marty O’Connor 			 F	20	41	11	.270	16	11	.688	16	33
John Loftus			 G	16	25	4	.160	2	1	.500	8	9
Neal Fichtel 			 C	11	7	2	.286	3	3	1.000	6	.7
Dick Giedlin 			 G	15	26	3	.115	1	0	.000	3	6
Ralph Hinger			 F	2	2	1	.500	2	2	1.000	2	4
Jim Fritsch			 F	6	3	0	.000	4	4	1.000	4	4
Gene Kenny 			 G	4	5	1	.200	0	0	.000	1	2
NOTRE DAME TOTALS			24	1546	488	.316	552	369	.667	487	1345
OPPONENTS’ TOTALS 			24	1787	485	.271	548	340	.620	442	1310
SCORES
Notre Dame 58; Illinois 59 (overtime)
Notre Dame 55; Northwestern 44
Notre Dame 60; Wisconsin 54
Notre Dame 55; Pennsylvania 42
Notre Dame 70; Navy 62
Notre Dame 51; Purdue 50
Notre Dame 47; Indiana 50
Notre Dame 58; Southern Methodist 45
Notre Dame 70; St. Mary’s 66
Notre Dame 38; DePaul 59	’
Notre Dame 60; Butler 58
Notre Dame 49; Denver 46
Won 17
Notre Dame 38; Kentucky 62
Notre Dame 54; Butler 68
Notre Dame 63; Michigan State 47
Notre Dame 71; Marquette 64
Notre Dame 44; St. Louis 61
Notre Dame 59; Marquette 42
Notre Dame 54; DePaul 49
Notre Dame 43; Michigan State 41
Notre Dame 59; Canisius 51
Notre Dame 71; New York University 66
Notre Dame 59; Northwestern 56
Notre Dame 59; St. Louis 68
Lost 7
21
March 18, 1949
Irish Luck — Good and Bad
JOHN BRENNAN . . . the hard luck player of the squad . . . John suffered injuries which sidelined him for a large part of the past two seasons . . . although appearing in only nine games during 1947-1948 season, he tallied 116 points for a 13-point average . . . had best year as a freshman when he poured 289 points through the hoops ... is a sparkling rebound man and alert on defensive . . . takes honors off the court as a pre-medical student . . . hails from Bedford, Indiana, where he won all jstate recognition while playing for Bedford high school in 1943, just prior to his entrance into the Army Air Force.
JOHN FOLEY . . . filling in for the injured John Brennan for the past two seasons he performed admirably . . . took third highest scoring honors by pumping in 208 points during the 1947-1948 campaign ... a determined, hustling ballplayer, John came through with many vital points in close games . . . first played at Notre Dame with the freshman cage team of 1942 . . . entered Army for three years and returned in 1946 . . . a native of Worcester, Mass., he captained the St. John’s high school basketball and baseball teams in his senior year ... led basketball team of St. John’s to the New England Catholic high school championship and was named All-New England center in both his junior and senior years . . . won letters in football, basketball and baseball . . . his number one rooter is Mrs. Foley, whom he married last summer.
RICHARD GIEDLIN . . . one of the up and coming sophs ... a set-shot artist, this husky left-hander gives great promise for future years . . . hails from Trenton, New Jersey, where he received all-state ranking his junior and senior years in baseball and in his final three years in basketball while playing for Catholic high school.. . captained basketball team in his senior year . . . much sought-after for his baseball abilities Dick has received offers from 15 major league clubs but will receive his degree before venturing into the play-for-pay ranks.
FRANCIS KAUFMANN . . . this 6’2^” rugged German from Chicago has been one of the leading subs for the past two seasons ... He played basketball at St. Ignatius high school and was co-captain in his senior year and won two letters in basketball and two in track ... his greatest thrill came when he sank five field goals out of six attempts in the Denver game... Frank, who was married last August, is a political science major in the Arts and Letters college, and has no definite plans for the future ... he is quite a trumpeter, having played in his high school orchestra and he also likes to collect autographs of famous people . . . Frank won his monogram last season.
22
The Scholastic
Followed these N D Cagers
RICHARD KLUCK . . . another one of the many from Chicago, Dick played ball for four years at St. Phillip’s high and he was captain of the team in his junior and senior years ... In his senior year his team won the city title and Dick was named all-city . . . his high school letters include two in baseball and one in basketball... he would like to play professional baseball if he gets the chance . . . also has eyes on law school while currently majoring in political science ... likes to look back to 1946 when he pitched Notre Dame to a 4-1 win over Great Lakes . . . Dick is also a jazz fan . . . last year he played in 14 games and was ninth highest scorer on the team.
MARTIN O’CONNOR . . . one of the most promising members of last year’s freshman team, this 5’10^” forward became an outstanding member of this year’s varsity . . . the thrill of the season for Marty was the sinking of that winning basket against Butler . . . Marty was an all-around athlete in Kewanee high school where he won twelve letters in five sports ... he was captain of the basketball and golf teams and won all-state honors in football and basketball his senior year . . . His school won the Northwest Illinois conference in all sports and Marty was allconference in all except track . . . Marty is in the Arts and Letters college majoring in speech and has ambitions along the legal lines.
JAMES O’HALLORAN . . . also from the Windy City comes the “mighty might,” Jim O’Halloran. He attended Leo high school where he was a mainstay on the basketball team for four years, winning that many letters ... this is his second year as an Irish starter and he has already won two monograms ... his high school team captured the city title in both his junior and senior years and the National Catholic championship in his junior year ... Jim is in the College of Commerce and expects to graduate in June ... is thinking about playing for money ... he is married and he is justly proud of his six-month-old son, Jim, Jr. . . . Jim served three years in the Army.
KEVIN O’SHEA . . . Kev rates as one of the best courtmen to play basketball for Notre Dame . . . All-American honors have come to him ever since he started playing college ball ... he hails from San Francisco, California, where he attended St. Ignatius high school and captained the basketball team in his senior year ... he was all-city in his junior and senior years . . . last season he ranked as second highest scorer on the team and was outstanding all year . . . his knee injury backfired on him again this year and handicapped his floor game ... he has one more year of eligibility left here ... he is also one of the trickiest ball players in college ranks today . . . Kev is another one of the married players ... he served in the Coast Guard during the war.	.
March 18, 1949
23
Ladner Named for Project By Dr. Robert Oppenheimer
Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner, professor of History at Notre Dame, has been ap
pointed an associate member of the In
stitute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N. J., for the year 1949-50. The appoint
ment was announced
Dr. G. B. Ladner
by Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, director of the Institute.
This honor is bestowed annually on a select group of scholars in the sciences and humanities to enable them to continue higher research in specialized fields.
Dr. Ladner, who will be on leave of absence from Notre Dame in order to accept the honor, will join such prominent men as Dr. Albert Einstein, the world-famed physicist, and Dr. Oppenheimer, well known atomic energy expert.
Dr. Ladner’s project at the Institute will consist of writing a book entitled “Ref oimation: The Influence of An Early Christian Idea on Mediaeval and Renaissance Civilization.” It will trace and integrate the effects of reform movements in Christian society from St. Augustine to about 1500 A.D.
Dr. Ladner served on the staff of the University of Toronto before coming to the University of Notre Dame in 1946.
Riotous SMC Play Wows Big Crowds
St. Mary’s did it again last Thursday and Friday nights when they presented their annual variety show before jammed, ND infiltrated houses of howling entertainment-seekers. The show, unimaginatively entitled Through the Days, was a fast-paced, riotous comedy revue, sparked with clever songs, biting lyrics and a talented cast.
The colorful show spared few in its satiric wake. Notre Dame and its inhabitants were accorded an abundance of caustic swats. The “typical” tea-dance goers received a thorough going over, from a yo-yo playing letter man to the Arthur Murray type parasite. In one skit a frilled up miss interrupted a catsession and was asked where she was going in the middle of the week. She answered with finality, “Oh, I date a Commerce man.” Rosie’s emporium and the gay night life of South Bend got a rough and hilarious lacing in another skit.
The large chorus sang well and with
WND Polls Students;
New Director Named
A new program director and the results of a campus favorite-programs survey stepped up activities at WND this week.
Bob Nourie from Pittsburgh, Pa., and Alumni Hall took over the office of program director. Part of his work is already cut out for him since the results of the survey made on the campus have been tabulated and student program preferences will be acknowledged.
The poll showed “Requestfully Yours” as the over-all favorite. Only a few months old, the program now receives between 30 and 40 telephone requests nightly. Calls are received on Extension 361, and as many requests as possible are played by genial Jack Hines between 8 and 9. All requests that cannot be played are tabulated along with those that were actually aired. WND record purchases are gauged by the program as well as the ranking of the tunes played on the weekly “Campus Hit Parade” on Thursday night.
The door-to-door check of what the average Notre Dame student listens to on his campus radio station listed an afternoon all-music shows as another favorite. The show runs from' 1 to 7 p.m. daily and is relayed by WND’s carrier current transmitter from station WTRC-FM in Elkhart.
great clarity. Miss Marjorie Ann Russ and Miss Shirley Klocke took individual honors. The former stopped the show with her rendition of a varsity man’s lament of “I Got A Way With Women.”
The settings were simple but attractive. The songs sparkled with wit while the dialogue was so loaded with humor that many of the jokes were drowned out by appreciative laughter. Miss Kay Motta, as general chairman, and Miss Jean Murphy, as director, were responsible for the musical and are entitled to the lion’s share of its success.
As always, this annual revue cried out for a larger audience. It seems too bad that it couldn’t be transplanted to our campus stage for the enjoyment of the ND enrollment. Why it couldn’t be presented here for a charity, say, such as the Married Veterans’ Maternity Fund, is a moot question. Although parochial in some respects it would, nonetheless, be enjoyed by all who seek and rarely find a snappy, tuneful, and staccatopaced musical revue.—Ken Thoren
Clubs
Chicago Awards Wash. Trip
A pre-Easter meeting of the Chicago Club will be held Wednesday, March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Movies will be shown, and nominations will be accepted for the May 4 election of officers.
All members of the Chicago area who attend this meeting will be eligible for a prize — Dr. Bartholomew’s six-day . Easter trip to Washington. The winner will be named at the close of the meeting.
Met Club Makes Music
The Met Club will sponsor an Easter Dance on April 18 at New York’s Hotel McAlpin. Co-chairmen Tom Giordano and Art Bottie announced that the informal affair will be held in the hotel’s “Grill Room” with Harry Arnold’s orchestra providing the music.
The bids, priced at $3.60, tax included, are being sold by the various Met Club Hall representatives.
Powers Heads Pittsburgh
At its March 9 meeting, the old Western Pennsylvania-Pittsburgh Club dropped its old monicker and decided to refer to itself in the future as the Pittsburgh Club. The new constitution, under which the name was changed, permits men to enter the club only if they live in districts within a 75-mile radius of “The Iron and Steel City.”
Officers elected at the meeting were Bernie Powers, president; Bill Powers, vice-president; Frank Zapualla, secretary; Dick Marshall, treasurer, and Bob Slocum, publicity director.
Summer Workshop to Study Student Guidance Problems
A Workshop in Guidance to study problems and construct needed programs of guidance in schools has been scheduled to be held here from June 28 to July 26. The workshop’s program will be designed to aid teachers in elementary and secondary schools, guidance workers, counselors and class sponsors, research workers in guidance and curriculum, supervisors and principals.
The workshop will feature individual and group work on guidance problems and projects. It will include general seminars for discussion of character development, counseling technique, measurements and evaluation of abilities, religious formation, and similar questions.
24
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
of one member elected by each floor of each resident hall, aff-campus represented by a ratio to campus students, and one representative from each Club recognized by the Council.
The lower house might handle special interest groups activities, and those functions and regulations which affect the student committee as a whole, and could function somewhat as follows: upper house refers matters within these fields to lower house which will create a committee to investigate the idea, and to make recommendations on their findings. These recommendations will then be voted upon by the lower house. Recommendations, decision of lower house, and findings of the committee will then be submitted to the upper house for final action.
... I do not believe that a lower house is any panacea, but it might be a step in the right direction.
We students should give our new constitution mature thought, and instruct our representatives to make it as democratic as is prudently possible.
George C. Witteried, Jr. 126 Howard
smartest numbers in town

It’s
Adler’s
for
l^a n Heusen
Look to
GILBERT'S 813-817 S. Michigan Street
for ARROWS
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
You always get
a bright "hello’ when you wear a
Van Heusen striped shirt! Van Heusen stripes are -smarter than ever this Spring—in crisp college-bred colors on white and toned backgrounds! Boasting, naturally, Van Heusen tailoring, Van Heusen Comfort Contour collar styling, tug-proof pearl buttons, and laboratory tested fabrics. J new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Call at your dealer’s today. $3.65 to $4.95.
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Van Heusetf
the world’s smartest PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1. N.Y.
March 18, 1949
25
PRODUCING METALLIC TITANIUM FOR INDUSTRIAL EVALUATION
Du Pont group research developed a pilot plant with daily capacity of 100 pounds
Du Pont research has just made available to industry what may become one of America’s key structural materials, titanium metal. Midway in density between aluminum and iron and with an especially high melting point, silvery-white titanium offers an extraordinary combination of strength, lightness, corrosion resistance and hardness.
Titanium is the ninth most common element. But it has been slow in coming into its own as a metal because of the difficulty of separating it in pure form from its ores.
Men pictured on this page were members of titanium research team. E. L. Anderson, A.B.Ch., Brigham Young '40; J. B. Sutton, Ph.D.Phys.Ch., West Virginia ’35; A. R. Conklin, M.S.Phys.Ch., Georgia ’40, are shown inspecting 300 lbs. of Du Pont titanium metal sponge.
Du Pont scientists first began to probe the possibilities of metallic titanium in the course of their long experience with the titanium oxide pigments. Their research was interrupted by World War II. Meanwhile, the U.S. Bureau of Mines laboratories succeeded in producing the metal for research purposes.
After the war, Du Pont scientists developed a process for the production of ductile titanium metal that can be scaled up to meet commercial demands. The research team that mastered the complex problem consisted of chemical engineers specializing in design and production, as well as chemists and a metallurgist. In September 1948, a pilot plant was opened with a daily capacity of 100 pounds. Titanium metal is now being produced in sponge and ingot form. Samples are available to industrial and college laboratories with research projects in related fields. Studies of methods for forming, machining and alloying are under way.
Exhaustive studies will be necessary before the many possibilities of titanium metal can be known. Because of its high ratio of strength to weight, early uses may be in airplane power plants and structural parts. Its hardness and rust-resistance recommend it for railroad transportation equipment, marine power plants and propellers, and food packaging equipment. Its high melting point suggests use in pistons, and its resistance to electric currents points to electronics. Titanium wire may be used for springs and titanium sheet for such highly stressed parts as microphone diaphragms.
Your Opportunity in Research
The commercial development of titanium metal is a typical example of Du Pont research in action. However, the Pigments Department, which worked out the process, is but one of the ten Du Pont manufacturing departments. Each conducts continuous research. Each is operated much like a separate company. Within these "companies”— whose interests range from heavy
C. M. Olson, Ph.D.Phys.Ch., Chicago '36, and C. H. Winter, Jr., B.S.Ch.E., Virginia Polytechnic Institute ’40, removing 100-lb. titanium ingot from furnace in heat-treating study.
chemicals to plastics and textile fibers—college trained men and women work in congenial groups where they have every opportunity to display individual talent and capabilities. Who knows what their contributions will mean in the future to science and the world!
R. C. Reidinger, B.S.Ch.E., Princeton ’47, and T. D. McKinley, B.S.Ch., Worcester Polytechnic Institute ’35, making a test of the hardness of ingots of Du Pont titanium metal.
THIS BOOKLET WILL HELP YOU
PLAN YOUR CAREER
Send for your personal copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” Describes opportunities for men and women with many types of training. Explains how
individual ability is recognized and rewarded under the group system of operation. Address: 2518 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
R£G.u.s.pATOFf
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
. . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WRITE TODAY l o' ‘The Du Poni Comocny and *he College Graduate
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
26
The Scholastic
Open Every
Evening 'til 9
L
"BOLD LOOK” SHIRTS
Regularly 3.95
$065
illiHfNIK BOLD LOOK
White, Aqua, Wine, Maize, Bamboo, Pink, Blue, Tan, Gray.
OLD LOOK shirts at a saving! A ffood selection of colors—all sizes. Of fine sanforized 1 % shrinkage broadcloth with half-inch border on collar and cuffs.
GILBERTS
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
March 18, 1949
27