Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 22, 1883.	No. 3.
Sordid.
“ When poverty enters the door, Love flies out of the window.”—Old • Adage. ■	’ -	'
“Stamping done here.”—Miss Minx, the Millinek.
" I. ' '
Eros, the lord alike of gods and men,
Ruler of courts, of cottages and camps, Who that hath felt his power can think again Of stamps?
ir.
He favors not alone the rich and great,
He warms the pauper’s heart—illumes the tramp’s; He yields no precedence to wealth or state, Or stamps.
in.
The naked negro, panting at the line, *
Loves: no restraint his glowing fervor damps: Nought doth he care for store of mint, or mine, Or stamps.
' xv.
What, then, this Poverty that drives Love back— Defies his darts—extinguishes his lamps?
. Is it mere lack of worldly pelf—mere lack Of stamps?
v.
No; to repel him is the miser’s lot:
’Tis avarice love’s energy that cramps.
Yes; ’tis a Poverty of Soul, and not Of stamps.
VI.
Spread—spread thine iridescent wings, O Love!
Fly from these mercenary Mrs. Gamps;
And seek a maiden with a soul above
‘ Mere stamps I
'	Arthur.
* Pope. We always cheerfully give credit, especially when there is not the ghost of a chance of our plagiarisms’ escaping detection.
From.the “Bookies’.’ to Notre Dame-
Editors of the “Scholastic”:
I have already given you a brief account of our trip from Notre Dame to the “ Rockies,”—as the backbone of the American continent, with its various ramifications, is familiarly called. It could hardly be understood that an excursion party would remain there, so I suppose that at least a few bf your readers expect to see something about our return.
In my . first letter I believe I promised’a description of Denver, the “ Queen City of the Plains,” but now, that we are back at our desks, I find it difficult, for want of time, to keep my promise,— so I hope you will hold me excused on that score. I shall remark in passing, however, that the Union Depot in Denver is not only one of the finest and most commodious buildings of its kind in the United States, but also—what is better—that in all its'departments the management could hardly be excelled. Here is concentrated the business of the C. B. & Q., the Union Pacific, Denver & Rio Grande, the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fd and other roads centerings in Denver. No matter by what route you enter or leave, your wants are attended to with courteous attention. It seemed, over and above all, that the Notre Dame party were more or less privileged persons, and wherever they went they were always well received.	’
Notre Dame University is well known and highly thought of in Denver and throughout the Great West. Wherever you go you find old students or alumni of the institution, always glad to see and converse with anyone from Notre Dame. So many are they, and so general the kindly feeling’s entertained for their Alma Mater-—with all o	e
her faults and failings, for like everything human or earthly she is not without weak points and drawbacks, as we know—that' a gentleman ' remarked to me a student leaving Notre Dame possessed this advantage over many others, that wherever he went he met others from the same college, who, if he was what he should be, were always glad of his fellowship. “ In this respect,” added the gentleman,—who, by the way, was not a student at Notre Dame, and, I believe, has never even visited it,—“ I think those who graduate at your place possess a decided advantage over the students of smaller or less significant institutions”; the truth of which I leave the reader to determine.
Prominent among the old students of Notre Dame met with in Denver were Mr. J. J. McGin-nity, of the firm of McPhee & McGinnity, lumber merchants and builders, whose place of business, a block of manufactories and store-houses,’with lumber yards occupying several acres—a railway switch running through it—can be seen from the Union Depot, in the heart of the city; Mr. A. J. .O’Reilly, General Western Agent of the Hannibal & St. Joseph Railway; Mr..George Crosby, General Agent of. the C<B. & Q. Railway; Prof.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Joseph F. Smith, of the Brinker Institute; Mr. W. N. Babcock, General Western Ao-ent of the Chicago & Northwestern R. R. Co., Eugene H. Teats of Buena Vista, a successful miner, and Mr. Louis H. Scott, American Consul at Chihuahua, Mexico. The two latter gentlemen were only visiting the city for a few days, guests at the St. James Hotel.
As the time appointed for returning to the College drew near (the 5th of September) the members of our former party, with many others who had since made up their minds to attend classes at Notre Dame, began to draw into the city. They came from almost every direction,—from Lander and Cheyenne on the north, in Wyoming, to Pueblo, in the South. Ouray, Telluride, Buena Vista, Crested Butte, sent their quotas to swell the throng of students, parents, professors. People in the East have little idea of the difficulties and inconveniences that often beset the path of the Western student bound collegeward. Taking the case of Mrs. Amoretti, for instance, who with her son—now a Minim at Notre Dame—had to stage one hundred and fifty miles to Green River before striking railway travel, thence to Denver, by rail, and from there twelve hundred miles to Notre Dame! Or Judge Costigan, of Telluride, who with his sons, Edward and George, had a stage jog of sixty-five miles before reaching Montrose, 353 miles from Denver! The southern people were a unit in praise of the officers of the “ Scenic Route of America”—the Denver & Rio Grande Railway, and especially of its gentlemanly and accommodating General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Mr. F. C. Nims. Similar testimony comes from other quarters. Mr. Perceval Lowell, General Passenger and Ticket Agent of the C. B. & Q., Messrs. P. S. Eustis, of the Burlington & Missouri, Geo. Crosby, of the C. B. & Q., our genial and esteemed friend, A. J. O’Reilly, of the Hannibal & St. Joseph, and Mr. Geo. Ady, General Western Agent of the Union Pacific, are spoken of in terms of highest praise. Taken all in all, I think a finer class of men than those engaged in manipulating affairs on the iron bands over which our party travelled, cannot be found in any business or profession.
_ On the evening of the 5th inst. a novel sight was witnessed at the Union Depot in Denver. A Pullman Palace car on one of the side tracks was surrounded by a concourse of persons, drawn thither by a large strip of bunting bearing the announcement: “Students for Notre Dame University.” Besides the students were their fathers and mothers, sisters and brothers, and other friends, come to see them off for their college home. Many old-time students also were there, altogether forming a large throng of the elite of the city and adjacent parts. A rather ludicrous feature was the burro of the three Scherrer brothers, with a bale of hay, on its way to the baggage car, causing a shout of merriment. Said burro, with his two older brethren, now browseth contentedly on the verdant grass-plots around the College. He Js a sportive cuss, and it takes a Rocky Mountain boy to hold a place on his back. Ye uninitiated “ Ten
derfoot ” is “ bucked ” off without ceremony, finding terrafirma in a puddle or wherever else ye playful burro chooseth to carry him. A “ bucking ” bronco or burro is a rare sight in the East—as this part of the “West” is called in the region of the “ Rockies ”—and when witnessed is a whole menagerie in itself. If you don’t believe me ask Bro. Philip, who has had ocular demonstration of the fact.
Well, to resume the thread of my narrative, on the evening of Friday our Pullman palace car was in place, at the rear of the 9.30 train on the main track of the C. B. & Q. The large concourse of ladies and gentlemen, relatives and old students, waiting to see the excursionists off, drew no little attention. A long train of lunch-baskets disappearing within the car gave us the appearance of a picnic party, and I am sure that if it were not for the bunting, now tacked to the side of the car, we would have been taken for such. The time for starting now drew near; in a moment we would be off, and after good-byes, handshaking, and wellwishes all round, we were “ outward bound.” A parting cheer was given, and the throng at the depot was “ lost to sight, though to memory dear.”,
The lunch-baskets were soon stowed in the buffet, berths got ready, and all “turned in,”—the students to dream, no doubt, of home, of college life, and the joyful return in June with hard-earned honors and gold medals—of which the Colorado boys always manage to secure a fair share.
Among the ladies who accompanied the party were Mrs. M. P.Lindsey, of Denver, Mrs. Amoretti of Lander, Wyoming Ter., Mrs. G. B. Cole, and Miss Bailey, of Denver, Miss L. Chapin, M. Lindsey, with others whose names I did not get. Mrs. Cole, a lady of liberal education and fine culture, is well known in literary and art circles in Denver as a connoisseur in art and a pleasing writer. Although independent of pen-work, her frequent contributions to the Daily Netos, editorial and under noms de plume, are read with pleasure arid interest by its thousands of readers. I need only cite “ By-and-By’s ” interview with the antiquated deities in the “ Garden of the Gods,” at Manitou,—the Delos of the Denverians,—and the recent able . article on the past and present of France, as instances of her humor, her versatility, and the deep knowledge of books and events that characterize a logical mind and a close observer.
Nothing particular marked the course of our homeward journey until we reached the Mississippi, when Ed Arkins, apd, I believe, Willard and John Wright, took it into their heads to play a trick upon somebody by dropping a sealed bottle into the river, with a note to the effect, of our being shipwrecked'on a desert island, and asking the finder to come to our relief. Where that bottle shall be picked up ’twere hard to tell—it may go to Cairo, or, jpossibly, the waters of the Big Muddy will float it out to sea, to fool some credulous skipper.	-
At Fairmont, Neb., Mr. Alfred B. Christian joined us,—;“ the only ‘ Christian ’ in. the party,” observed a wag,—an “A. B. Christian,”—and on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35
reaching Galesburg, Ill., we found Father Zahm’s other car, from Chihuahua, Mexico, awaiting us on a side-track. The Mexican hidalgos, chaperoned by Mr. A. F. Zahm, and A. J. O’Reilly, were no doubt glad to see us, for we had been detained several hours behind schedule time on account of a meeting of the Grand Army of the Republic in Nebraska, which we passed in close proximity, and several of whose members our train had to accommodate at various stations.
We stopped 20 minutes at Burlington, Iowa. Although behind time, several old students were on the look-out for us. At Chicago a special engine, telegraphed for by Father Zahm, was detailed to pull us from the C. B. & Q. to the L. S. & M. S. The further detention of half an hour here did not put us in the best of humor, as we wished to reach the College before nightfall: but that was not to be. The locks on Chicago’s Little Muddy were open, and we had to wait. Here it was that “ Brandt,” the spicy correspondent of the Denver Daily Nezus, heard some of the Queen City boys ventilate their opinions—John Wright and Willie McPhee on the navigation of the Platte, and Arkins’s motion to vote Chicago “ a card of condolence for not having a c mountain to her name.’ ” At Chicago we were joined by Prof. Unsworth, who had left Denver a few days before us, on a mysterious and important mission. Our information is not positive, but we fear the learned and genial Professor left his heart behind him in Denver, where during vacation he made many friends in the best circles of society.
Father Zahm telegraphed to Notre Dame to have “ supper for 80,” but it was not without misgivings that your correspondent passed Laporte, famous for its good table. The lateness of the hour seemed ominous.. It was just 12 o’clock when we pulled up abreast of Studebaker’s wagon-works at the South Bend station, and it was some balm to a disappointed stomach to find sixteen of the finest rigs in town awaiting us. We packed into them, and were soon at the College. As we ascended the brow of the hill at East South Bend we saw that we were not forgotten; the College was in a blaze of light,—the numerous electric lamps lighting up the broad avenue, with its border of maples, and diffusing their brilliancy afar. Sure enough, Father Zahm’s telegram for supper failed to- reach, but a bounteous lunch was soon improvised, and the way we got outside of it would terrify a stingy boarding-house keeper.
So here we are, gentle reader. If we had one of Joe Riley’s bucking broncos to add} to the burro menagerie on the Campus we think we should be happy. Sydney Dickerson may delve into science and speculate upon the superficial oxidation'of the radical bismuthal, or, like the Coloradian he is, the distinctions between ferrous sulphate and auric chloride, with a view to the utilization of the immense golden deposits in the Platte or Cherry Creek,—Otis Spencer descant upon jurisprudence and the intricacies of the Lex Scripta and Lex non Script a in their relations with people whose code may be described as Lax, non Lex, but for ourselves
we prefer a field day with a good dinner to mark its divisions—such a day, for instance, as the 13th of October, which ought to come twice a year.
In conclusion, I need only add that Father Zahm deserves great credit ,for his management of the “ picnic.”. Everything went off pleasantly, and if he can only succeed in having St. Edward’s Day come twice a year, I think we shall be content for the present.
One of ’Em.
Carminum Voluptas.
Quid video, comites? Fortassis lumina caecam Decipiunt mentem! Video, non cernere possum Perbene: Quae domus hiec tanto splendore coruscans?
Musarum sedes; tu seis-quod tendimus omnes In satyrum choreis circumdare tempora lauro. Tempus adest quo judicium mentemque paremus Ad gignendum aliquod majus quam fecimus ante. Tempore jam longo in mentem mihi verierat istud Consilium; perago lente sed Anna voluntas Ingentes sternit moles superatque labores Difficiles; nil est obstans; non ardua possunt Disturbare pedes: Musis servire placebit. . . . Non studeo versare dolos, exempla dabantur Anno prreterito; frustra conatus et ipse Pieridum rursus celsam contingere arenam . . Nitor: delectant validas discrimina mentes. Discipulus novus es: primum penetralia sacra Intras; praecipitis cursu vis scandere montis Culmina: si verbis animum propellere possem 1
Hie natura juvat studium refovetque poetas. Quid lacus iste sonans subito cum murmure fausto Significat? Manuum plausus miscentur, etardens Certamen: “ Nautae validis incumbite remis.” -Hie nemoris pennata cohors modulamina cantat. Nos juvenes vacuo quaeremus tempore ludos • Per silvas per agros quoqumque videntur amaena.
At studio vires precibus pedibusque Mariae Invenimus: Suit assidue, fluit unda laborum. Anni per spatium semper labor acriter instat, Fructus erit dulcis: solatia digna dabuntur. ’	'
Novitius.
• Poetry.
True poetry has a beautiful alliance with the best affections of man. Milton says that of “all the gifts of intellect bestowed upon man, poetical intellect is the most transcendent;” it calls forth the purest, sublimest feelings of which we are capable. The enthusiasm awakened by an acute perception struggles within the deepest recesses of the mind, till, no longer to be confined, it bursts forth the beautiful creation—as the flower, after maturing itself within its calyx-like prison, flings off its envelope and expands to- the light and heat of the genial sun—so break forth the feelings, ardent and intense, from their mystic realms, the freed spirit of the,mind. In the deepest recesses of the human soul is the genius of poetry nourished; it receives here its immortal vigor, and plumes the wing for
36	THE NO TRE DA ME SCHOLA STIC.
heavenly flight; it lies within the soul apparently dormant, till its energies are quickened, then the voice of the soul is heard, the golden harp resounds, and, entrancing and entranced, the heart’s chords vibrate- to the melody—the Promethean 'fire of genius lights up with its thousand scintillating beams and gives a form and a figure to the " wild and beautiful ideal. Poetry is the great as-similator, the mighty magician that creates new affinities, reconciles discordants, and blends seeming incongruities into one bright and beautiful o	o	o
whole. It refines and exalts the mind, and renders it peculiarly-sensitive to the beauties of religion; its venerated solemnities, its sublimity of representation open a world to our view, a heaven of glory and delight, on which the rapt soul may dwell without fear of its pleasures palling or satiating; it is this, and this only, that has power to fill the aching void within the heart—those restless desires, those longings for a happiness which this world’s cold and hollow-hearted pleasures cannot give; what are they, but the immortal germ, or living principle, which is to be unfolded when we “have doffed this frail vestment of decay,” “ have shuffled off this'mortal coil ? ” Poetry flings a sunshine over those* pursuits which necessarily for a time engross us. The lambent light of the ideal plays around the real—it serves, indeed, the purpose of a refiner in this age, when science is pursued- not merely as a source of intellectual gratification, but as a means of gratifying the material epicurean pleasures of man—it inspires us with a love for the beautiful in nature, by calling our attention in the most euphonious manner to it. This world abounds in themes for poetic creation: from the freckled flower that lifts its velvet petals to the sun,: to those mysterious worlds that gem the mighty canopy—all is poetry, and should be religion; for who can look upon the minuteness, and, at ’the same time, the profundity, the infinity of nature^ without contemplating the vast realities of a Supreme Being through these His maiiifesta-tions.
Let us turn to mind, and here the power is seen1 and* felt in the greatest degree—virtue and innocence inspire the lay, and their results image forth such pure and tender pleasures that our hearts glow in the contemplation; it reverses the . picture—-it lifts the mantle, and shows us passion /desolating'the'shrine with its deadly Upas breath. ‘Shudderingly we turn aside, and our eye wanders over another leaf in the book of nature: an image ‘is presented which annihilates time and distance "'and-carries'us back in imagination to ;tlie sunny *. days of childhood. The golden links, the severed ' lies-are all reunited, and bn every side start up the "ong-lost companion “ whom the veil of the tomb” have long since' hidden from our' eyes;. again we "rove with them through the dark, green * woods, and wreath the bright garland from nature’s ^ar-' terre—-we seem almost to! inhale the balmy air that "'still floats'around our'early home. These sweet '’reminiscences, called up by the spirit bf poetry, /'pass 'away,* or give place to'others,* But they have lighted up* the * sterile ’ * waste with' flowers1 whose
odors still linger round us, in the remembrance of the vision thus created. Who'can compute the mighty effort required in the production of a single poem? The sculptured remains of the by-gone classic beauty of Greece point out to us the genius resplendent of the blind old man of Scio. The organic eye was shrouded with the pall of darkness, but the eye of the mind shone clearly and brightly; its power breathed an intellectual halo that made the land of the Illiad the birth-place of the arts, the seat of literature. ’Tis true, poetry has been prostituted, and made the pander of bad passions; but when she thus stoops from her lofty pedestal she dims the fire of her genius; but even in her degradation there will now and then issue forth a strain of purity, a moral sentiment, a rebuke, that show all is not dark within. If poetry wakes the reminiscence, it also looks into the future—the brightness of its prophecies helps faith to lay hold upon it. I have dwelt long on the inspired and the inspirers, but there is yet another. Imagination unfurls her wing, and I find myself entering a lofty cathedral pile. Enter with me, and as the waving incense floats through its majestic aisles and bears aloft upon its vapory wreaths the deep-toned aspiration and the swelling strain, while all around seem to betoken the presence of the Most High, bear witness with me that here “ God hath indeed set His seal.” Symbols are here presented to the eye which rive the veil of the mind. The senses are the avenues which lead to the mind, and, when acted upon, they form food or ideas for it. The tendency and effect of this action no one can doubt who has once entered with proper dispositions the meanest temple erected to Catholicity. Here, for a while at least, the wearied spirit flings aside its heritage of woes, and, forgetful of the warring turmoils of this mundane sphere, reposes itself: at the footstool of the Invisible Creator. How many a gifted genius has drunk his inspiration from this hallowed fount, have quaffed here the pure Castilian draught, the breathing marbles, the living canvass, the deep and thrilling music of Catholic Italy testify. Strange hands have rifled these august rites for themes for many of their noblest lays, and thus own, though they intend it not, the inspiration. ' May we ever seek through, and in our holy faith, the true inspiration of poetic excellence^ for in it will* we find the all of beauty, holiness and truth to which our fondest hopes aspire.
'	* M. Y. H.
Art,'Music, and. Literature.
11
—Professor Ferrario has been awarded the prize for the best design for the facade proposed to be built for the Cathedral of Milan.
—A bust of Daguerre, the inventor of photography, was recently unveiled in his native village, Cor-meilles, near Paris,-where he-lived from 1787 to ,1798.	‘
"An operaj entitled “ L’Alcalde'kle Yalames,” byjMr. Benjamin-Godard; a rising- young- French
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	&
musician, is to be produced at Antwerp during the coming winter.
—Mr. Eugene. d’Albert, the youthful pianist, has been invited to compose a symphony, for the Birmingham musical festival in 1885, and to personally conduct its performance.
—A copy of Sterling Maxwell’s “ Life of Don John of Austria,” a perfectly-preserved number of the celebrated limited sumptuous edition of 115 copies, was sold recently for $125.
—A brother of the khedive is printing a biography of printed books, manuscripts, periodical literature, etc., relating to the antiquities, history and political and social life of Egypt, from the earliest times to the present.
—Dr. Ginsburg has published his report on the alleged MSS. of Deuteronomy, which he declares to be a forgery. This is the conclusion at which M. Clermont-Ganneau had already arrived, with a tenth of Dr. Ginsburg’s elaborate examination.
—The. Royal Virgilian Academy of Science and Art of Mantua has published a Virgil album, commemorative of the nineteenth centenary of the poet’s birth. This album contains, among other writings, a discourse by Tulio Massarani; a letter from Terenzio Mamiani; verses by Giacomo Zanella in honor of Virgil; and Mr. Tennyson's ode, translated by Massarani. The volume contains besides some interesting historical monuments.
—Quincy Ward’s statue of Washington is nearly ready for casting. The figure is of colossal size. It is designed to stand in front of the United States Sub-Treasury in Wall-street, New York. It represents Washington just after he had taken the oath of office as the first President, which he did on the balcony of the old Federal Building, which occupied the same site. The pose is easy, natural, yet very dignified. The right arm is extended, and the left hand is placed on the hilt of his sword.
—M. Gounod is busily engaged upon the work which is to be performed at the Birmingham festival of 1885. It is entitled “ Death and Life,” and will be in two parts. The first part, “ Death,” will be a species of reqiiiem. The second, “ Life,” will be a description of the new Jerusalem, taken from the “ Apocalypse,” and in it the motifs used the first section will be repeated, but developed in such a way as to express the joy of the souls of the saved in the heavenly Jerusalem of saints.
—The trustees of the British Museum have received from Pekin some typographical curiosities in the shape of eight volumes containing portions of two Chinese works printed during the thirteenth century. These books are printed from wooden blocks, on ordinary Chinese paper, much discolored by age. The volumes have evidently been carefully preserved, and at one time belonged to the library of a Chinese prince, who, in consequence of a political intrigue, was in i860 condemned to die. Hence the dispersion of his library.
—An archaeological discovery of some importance has been made by M. Morel in the environs
of Nyons, in the department of the Drome. Ina.; field which he has had dug up there has. been foundj a Roman apartment containing a number, of; antiquities. The apartment is about two yards, beneath. the leveLof the ground, and is covered;with tiles, all of which, with the exception of one, aret broken. Among the other articles discovered are. fragments of columns, chapiters, and other pieces of architectural work, innumerable vases in black, and red ware, pieces of bronze, some nails, boxwood, hair-pins, and broken millstones of very fine-stones, like that of razor bones.	.
—The librarian of the Bibliotheca Laurentiana of Florence has made a discovery that he thinks important. He has unearthed a manuscript containing many pen and pencil designs of ornamental and architectural objects, and also an admirably-written text treating of the manner of measuring distant objects, of fortifying towns, preparing artillery, and giving form and proportion to daggers. The finder has little doubt that the author of this work is Benvenuto Cellini, because, beside the nature of the studies, the diction, and the designs, the words “ Cell. Flor.” are to be read in the book, showing that we have to do with the rough sketch of an unknown work by the great Florentine goldsmith.
—The extent of the literary activity of the Polish author Kraszewski—the Polish Goethe, so-called—at present under arrest in Berlin for con- ’ spiracy, is almost incredible; his versatility phenomenal. He was the founder of the Wilna Athenceum of which magazine he published sixty-six volumes during the ten years from 1S41 to 1851, almost every third article in them being from his own pen. Then, and in fact until, the time of his recent arrest, he furnished interesting, and important correspondence to nearly all the prominent Polish magazines, beside pouring out as from a cornucopia tales of every description, pieces of poetry, comedies, literary essays, journeys, translations, juveniles, ethnographical, historical and philosophical treatises, etc. The aggregate of his writings exceeds seven hundred volumes in number. It may safely be said that Kraszewski has written more, or at any rate as much, as all the modern Polish authors together. In addition to this, he has frequently delivered public lectures, is an excellent draftsman in crayon and chalk, has illustrated many of his own works, paints in oil, aquarelle, and on porcelain, makes woodcuts, plays the piano with more than ordinary proficiency, and has published quite a uumber of musical compositions of his own.
—One of the greatest curiosities in the world, the model of the Palais Royal as it appeared forty years ago, has just been obtained for the museum of the Hotel Carnavalet, in Paris. Its history is somewhat remarkable, and is as follows: In 1843, when Queen Victoria visited France for the first time, her majesty expressed the greatest regret at having been prevented from extending her journey to Paris, declaring that to see the Palais Royal had always been her most cherished dream. Louis
38	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Philippe thereupon ordered an exact model of the famous building made, size three b\r five metres, designing, when completed, to present it to the Queen. The commission was given to Regnard, with the royal command that the original be reproduced as nearly as possible. • Unfortunately, while artistic work proceeded but slowly, that of the revolution hastened to its conclusion, and the half-finished model was left upon the artist’s hands. He, however, completed it con amore, and, refusing to part with'it during his life, it became the property of his family after his death, which occurred a few months ago. The most scrupulous imitation of the place, with all its peculiarities, its shops and loungers, its gaming-houses and restaurants, all fitted up with their requisite surroundings, make -it one of the most, remarkable works of the kind ever produced. The toilets of the shopkeeper’s wives and those of their fair customers are all imitated to the life. It is reported that the Queen has made overtures for its possession.—Home Journal.
Scientific Notes.
—The largest object glass in use is the 26-inch lens at Washington, with a focal length of 33 feet. Its light gathering power is 16,000 times that of the unaided eye.
—A number of electric clocks are to be set up in different parts of Nice. They will be connected bjr a wire with the chateau, so that the meridian gun will be fired at the exact hour.
—A. German chemist has patented a new process for manufacturing a substitute for gutta-percha. It is claimed that the product is produced much cheaper and cannot be detected from the real article. It is said to wear equally as well.
—M. Paul Trasenter, of Liege, gives the pro-duction-of coal in the world in 1882 as follows, in metrical tons:—Great Britain, 158,800,000; United States, 88,100,000; Germany, 65,400,000; France, 20,800,000; Belgium, 17,500,000; Austro-Hungary, 18,00,0000.	'
—Workmen have discovered a subterranean forest seven feet "below the surface of the ground, near the mouth of the Savage River, in Chazy, Clinton County. Many of the trees are declared to be in an admirable state of preservation. One of them is a large oak, over forty feet in length.
—P. Roblet, a Roman Catholic Missionary, stationed in Madagascar, has. collected materials for a new map of the province of Imerina. He has ascended the Tsiafajiivrna, or “ cloud-capped mountain,” the highest peak of Ankararta, and of the whole island, and determined its highest at 8,633 feet.	-
. —M. l’Abbe F. Moigno has been elected a member of the commission formed by the Institut International four la Conservation et le Perfection-nement des Poids et Mesures. This commission is chargee de consulter les savants de tous les fays sur la meilleure solution a donner au double, frob-
leme de Vunijication du fremier meridien, et de Vheure ou de temfs.
—The volta prize of $6,000 will be awarded by the Academies of Sciences, Paris, in December, 1887, under the decree of June 11, 1882, for the discovery or invention of whatever shall render electricity applicable economically to one of the following objects: Heat, light, chemical action, mechanical force, the transmission of messages, or the treatment of sick persons.
—Mr. F. Varley has devised a new form of electric lamp. His carbons are made of twisted hemp, fibres soaked in ozokerite and carbonized in a crucible filled with some hydrocarbon vapor. This carbonized hemp is flexible; it can be wound on a reel and moved out by clock-work. The arc between the poles is said to be so saturated with incandescent carbon that the resistance is much reduced and the light of greater area.
—Prof. Ewing, of Tokio, Japan, has devised a new seismometer with much ingenuity. It is well known that an ordinary pendulum with its centre of gravity below the centre of suspension is in stable equilibrium. An inverted pendulum with a pivotted supporting rod is unstable. By placing such a pendulum below an ordinary one, and connecting the bobs, so that any horizontal displacement is common to both, the equilibrium of the jointed system is.rendered neutral, and an exceedingly sensitive earthquake measurer is obtained.
—The Academy of the “Nuovi Lincei,” before which an eminent English mathematician has lately been reading a paper, is the oldest scientific society in the world. Founded in 1603 by Prince Frederigo Cesi, of Acqua Sparta, it was revived by Pope Benedict XIV. Among the earliest of its members was Galileo Galilei, and among the most recent Padre Secchi. Pius' IX erected the society into a Pontifical Academy, and Leo XIII takes especial interest in its work, and has invited it to celebrate during this month the tercentenary of the Gregorian reforms of the calendar.
—Anti-vivisectionists will perhaps be astonished to hear that the very first to practise vivisection for medical purposes was Bishop Theodore, of Cervia, in 1264, the confessor of Pope Innocent IV. The Bishop, a pupil of the illustrious physician Ugo of Lucca, and himself a skilled surgeon, was specially struck by the large number of soldiers who died in war from the effects of simple injuries to the intestines. He made experiments of two living animals with a view to. the sewing up of the wounded intestine, in which he fully succeeded, with exceedingly valuable results for subsequent military surgery.
—The kola nut, largely used in tropical Africa to make an invigorating beverage, was subjected some months ago to careful analysis, and is found to be richer in caffeine than the best coffee, while containing also the same active principle as cacao. Negroes are said not to touch coffee when they can obtain this nut. It is said bya Dr. Daniell to be growing into an important article of commerce in the Soudan, and, it is thought, will soon find its
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39
way into European countries. Samples have been sent to London medical men for experiment and to planters for agricultural purposes. It is believed to aid digestion and to render people capable of withstanding the depression consequent upon prolonged labor. Others claim for it the power to relieve mental'depression, and to not only subdue the craving for alcohol, but prevent its intoxicating effects.
College Gossip.

—Oberlin College has established a chair of Political Economy and International Law, and has called to fill it Mr. James Monroe, formerly United States Minister to Brazil.
—It is said that the sum of thirty thousand dollars and one-hundred and sixty acres of land have been pledged by the people of Mitchell to establish the University of Dakota.
—Dr. Charles Kendall Adams, Professor of History in Michigan University, has, after some consideration, declined the chancellorship of Nebraska University, which was tendered him early in July last.
—Professors for eleven different chairs or departments in colleges, polytechnics, schools and other institutions of higher learning have recently been chosen from the alumni of the University of Virginia.—Badger.
—Madame Chaudesaigues has founded a travelling scholarship for students of architecture at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, at Paris. The winner is bound to spend two years in Italy. It will be awarded this year for the first time.
—A newspaper says Boston has a colored man named Yale College. When he shall have a large family, imagine Mrs. College standing on the front porch and yelling to her offspring: “Now, see heah, Dartmouf, how many times mus’ yo’ po’ mudder tell you to frow dat baseball ’way an’'Stay in de house an’ larn your A. B. C.’s? Cornell, quit dabblin’ in dat watah, an’ come, heah dis install.’ An’ you, Vassar, yo’ de worse nigger in de pack. Take dat chewin’ gum out bb yo’ motif, or I’ll choke yo’ till yo’re brack in de. face 1 ”—Ex.
—Mrs. Anandaibal Joshee, the wife of a Brahmin employe of the Government in India, has come to America to study, medicine in the Women’s Medical College in Philadelphia. The women in the harems are not permitted either to see or to touch a strange man, and when they are ill there is nobody of skill to minister to their wants. Hence the . necessity for a woman physician. Mrs. Joshee says that, contrary to conjecture, she does not become unclean and lose her high caste by crossing the sea. Arrangements are to be. made to enable her to cook her own food, and thus escape the penalty of losing caste by eating from dishes that have he^q toycliecl by. persons who are not of her caste.
—France has discovered the way to bring the young people to their studies and keep them there. It has a law compelling every youth to serve five years in the aimy; unless he has a college degree or can pass a certain examination. If he has this he is let off with one year’s military service. The young men of the present generation, it is said, hate to go into the army. It is astonishing to see the shifts often had recourse to in order to escape or postpone the dreaded service. Young men who have not the slightest taste for medicine will follow the five years’ course at the Paris Medical School that they-may serve their term in the military hospital rather than in the ranks. Clerks, who were idle dunces at school, will study every evening after work in order to pass the examination which reduces this service from five years to one year. In fact, it is shown that the intellectual level of the country is being gradually raised by this special preparation for the military examination. Well, these young men,' especially after they have taken -their dose at the barracks, are not likely to grow enthusiastic over the probabilities of a serious campaign full of danger and unlimited in duration. The present military system means peace.—Home Journal.
The master of a certain school in a village in Spain bore the reputation of being a very clever calculator; but upon one occasion he almost forfeited his reputation.
The rector of the parish and the alcalde, on a certain occasion, paid a visit to the school to inspect the progress of the children. A little rogue of whom no question had been asked, and who had therefore missed the opportunity for distinguishing himself, which he greatly desired, made up his mind to question since he was not questioned.
“ Master,” he said, “ will you do me the kindness to answer me something?”
“ Ask whatever you please,” replied the master; “you know I always tell you to ask about anything that you do not know. He who asks makes no mistakes.”	- . . .
“ My father is three times my age. Will the time ever come when he will be double mine?”
“ That is not a question,” said the master, “ it is a joke. To bring that about the clock must stop for your father and continue to go on for you.”
“ But it is quite possible,” continued the child.
“Silence, impertinent little fellow!” cried the angry master^ who only spared the rod out of respect to the visitors. These gentlemen looked with little approbation upon a lad who tried to puzzle the best calculator in Biscay, and obstinately maintained a proposition which appeared to them as absurd as it did to the master.
“ I will - prove,” said the child, “ that what I say is true. I am twelve years old, my father is thirty-six. In twelve years I shall be twenty-four and my father forty-eight. Consequently my father, who is now three times my age, will then only be its double.”
The master became whiter than the walls of his room, and the visitors burst into peals of . laughter.
4°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 22, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former, students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 fer Annum. ■ Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few. copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The .Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
Consecration of Bt. Bev. P. W- Bibrdan, D. D. Coadjutor Archbishop of San Francisco.
Last Sunday morning the solemn and imposing ceremony of the elevation of a priest to the sublime dignity of the episcopate took place in the city of Chicago. It was a ceremony in which many at Notre Dame took a special pride and interest, from the fact that he who was then to receive the plenitude of the priesthood was one of Notre Dame’s brightest and most-gifted sons—Patrick W. Riordan, of ’58. As stated in our columns a few weeks ago, Bishop Riordan, after completing his preparatory studies in the city of Chicago, entered the University of Notre Dame, where he completed- his collegiate education. He then entered the University of Louvain, in Belgium, and there finished his theological studies. His subsequent career has.been already noted.
The ceremony was held in St. James’ Church, of which the newly-appointed Bishop had been the efficient arid well-beloved pastor. Archbishop Feehan was the consecrating prekite, assisted by Bishops Ireland and Cfiatard. A large number of Bishops and priests from all parts were present in
the sanctuary. Very Rev. Father Sorin, who was President of the College when Bishop Riordan was a student, and is now Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross, Fathers Corby and Cooney, C. S. C., classmates of the Bishop, and Father Walsh, C. S. C., the President of the University, were present to testify the pleasure and pride of Notre Dame—the Bishop’s Alma Mater. .
The sermon was delivered by Bishop Spalding, of Peoria, and was most appropriate to the occasion:—“Dear brethren,” said he, “when Christ Jesus had finished His personal work and was about to reascend to the Father, He spoke to the apostles who were crathered around Him, and to the discio	*	e
pies, these words: ‘Go ye, therefore, teaching all nations, and baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost; for behold, I am with you at all times, even to the consummation of the world.’ ”	.
Bishop Spalding, speaking from this- text, stated earnestly and forcibly the objective points of the Christian religion, dwelling upon the idea that religion is the highest and the deepest fact which is revealed to the human conscience. Enlarging upon these ideas, the Bishop spoke with eloquence and impressiveness for some time. He then said he had only consented to preach on the earnest solicitation of his friend, the newly-consecrated Bishop, and wished to dwell for a few moments oh his personal knowledge of his friend’s qualities and his fitness for the important trust given him. “ He ■ who to-day,” said Bishop Spalding, “ is selected from the choir of his fellow-priests and brought out in isolation to receive and to hold this important office in our Church, and to perform the arduous duties devolving upon him, has been associated with my life in the most intimate and tendei manner. Otherwise I, who stand here before you, and who have repeatedly refused to speak on this occasion, desiring to yield the place to one more worthy, would not have encroached so far upon the time allotted to this ceremony. I met him in a foreign land,,and found him full of enthusiasm, lofty in sentiment, always earnest, always true. .So I found him at first, and so for five years he proved ever to be true, independent, sincere, ever at work with untiring zeal, and ■ necessarily widely known among his fellows, yet never seeking praise, even of those who were his superiors. And since then he has always been associated in the thoughts with which my mind has gone out to look at the Church in this country.”
Bishop Spalding then spoke of the new field of labor waiting the zealous efforts of the newly-consecrated dignitary of the Church—on tfie slope of . the Pacific Ocean, where he would raise up his voice, like the voice of God, placed there to speak God’s utterances. When he thought of these things he felt young again, like one whose life is renewed, like one who has had a fair vision, and opening his eyes finds it realized. “I feel in my heart,” said the reverend speaker, with,much feeling, “ that he will do a great work for God. God will uphold him, arid use his abilities,'augmented by his enthusiastic zeal, to accomplish a great work;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
and will crown his earnest efforts with the benisons of peace and joy everlasting.”
The Bishop spoke at some length on the duties and trials of the episcopate, and then, referring again directly to the newly-consecrated, said: “I feel confident that this young and vigorous Bishop who has to-day been received into the great hierarchy of the Church will be able to teach holiness to others, and prove an honor to -himself and the Church.”
With some further rhention of Bishop Riordan’s future work, directly and generally, Bishop Spalding closed his address. The words of praise spoken bn the occasion will be heartily endorsed by Bishop Riordan’s numerous friends, and all are confident that the marked success which has attended his efforts thus far will be continued with even greater distinction in the new and extensive sphere of action to which he has been called. That the most sanguine expectations maybe realized in his behalf is the heartfelt wish of his friends at Notre Dame.
“De Omni Re Scibile et Quibusdam Aliis.”
Ten weeks have slipped quickly by, and again we are in Notre Dame. One by one, old students return, shake hands with acquaintances, survey with critical eye the innumerable novi (elegantly rendered by “the new fellows”), swagger around the boundless acres of the University, make hurried visits to the new rooms, “ where they are received with enthusiastic welcome,” and then, after performing the mysterious rite of “ entering,” are lost among their scholastic brethren in the mazes of the study-hall.
There is one characteristic that gives delightful piquancy to the returning student, and that is his tendency to indulge in vacation reminiscences. Many a youth whose powers lie concealed, unnoticed, and perhaps unknown through the ten months of a scholastic year, develops the most remarkable prowess during the ten short weeks of a summer vacation. One youth of anything but Herculanean build relates how, at some indefinite time and place, he met a stranger who disputed his word, and whom he then and there felled to the earth, before the astonished bystanders could explain that the stranger was Jno. L. Sullivan. Another, with Gothic joints and Corinthian brow, harrows up our feelings by enumerating the myriad maidens, of all ages and degrees, who surrendered themselves hopeless victims to the fascination of his smile; while a third, of hitherto irreproachable character, tells us' wildly-exciting tales, in which operas, baseball games and theatres play a prominent part. Nor are reminiscences, good or bad, confined alone to students. Some of our genial Professors who have breathed the-invigorating air of Pike’s Peak give to all inquiring listeners, reminiscences of Colorado before which the tales of Marco Polo become dull and commonplace.	.
Yet one cannot but think that the reminiscences which are the truest and the best are ridver told.
Many a fellow, perhaps1 at' the cost- of mortifying experience, has learned’ some-familiar truths* he might have gathered in a less expensive7 way.’ Many, perhaps, have suffered from that peculiar disease which furnishes ah endless theme:for the poet and the novelist; which often brings mental disquiet and loss of self-complacency, but leaves the victim’s appetite in all its native vigor unimpaired.	'
After relating his adventures, the returning student naturally looks about him for the- changes that the summer vacation may have wrought.7 Science Hall is slowly building; the Dome is nearly finished; and—and the* Graduates have private rooms. The last statement is a very simple one, but there seems to hover about it sonie hidden ambiguity which throws the average scholastic mind into a state of hopeless confusion. The Class of ’84, we hear, are suspected of being “ stuckup.” ; If this remark is merely a reflection oh the authorities for “sticking” the aforesaid Class “way up”in'the third story, why, let it pass; but if anyone’by this mysterious phrase (which, we presume, is a Norwegian idiom) means for a moment to imply that' the illustrious savants who compose that Class are proud or vainglorious, it is only just that the Scholastic, knowing all things, and battling ever for the truth, should come- to their defense. With what proof is this impious slander supported ? Do’ not the men of that illustrious Class mingle freelv with their fellow-students in the yard and the refectory ? Do they not eat with conscientious rapidity and tireless perseverance our Alma, Mater's generous fare? And when, a meal discussed,they stroll around the Campus or the lake, have they ever been known to refuse cigars, of even cigarette^; from their admiring friends? Indeed; our College Brutus, now a Scientific Graduate, has thus paraphrased his famous lines:	_
“ When Marcus Brutus grows so imbecile As to refuse tobacco from his friends, Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts -Dash him to pieces! ”
But why pile Ossa on Pelion to refute a proofless slander? The Class of ’84 need no defense, and if they did, they could probably defend themselves.
As the year progresses, the Athletic and Literary Societies begin to reorganize for the’session; In the Boat Club, crews are already chosen; and practising for the October race begun. The greatest interest pervades college circles, not as to the result—for that can be guessed at—but as to the accident that shall opportunely prevent the race. Nearly all the standard accidents have been exhausted during the past two years, and we are anxiously hoping for some good, original, unique ex- ' cuse to be ready for St. Edward’s Day. .
Baseball has already begun, and the “ Upper Ten” are cultivating a taste for the ha'tjorial sport. For their greater convenience, they’keep a “special reporter” in one of the palatial rooms of their flat who will, rid doubt, celebrate their achieve^ ments on the ball field. The Eugiossians, we pre
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sume, will be on deck on the 13th; last year their star was poor Cleary, whose sudden death so deeply shocked and grieved the hundreds of us who knew him as a brilliant student, a warm-hearted friend, a leal comrade within the walls , of Notre -Dame.
Moore A. Non.
Personal.
—N. S. Mitchell, ’72, is one of the prominent lawyers of Chicago.
—James Crowley, of ’71, is a prosperous merchant at Ottumwa, Iowa.
—Oliver J. Tong (Com’l), ’73, is with the Imperial Fire Insurance Co., Chicago.
—Joseph Ruppe (Com’l),’8t,‘is an enterprising clerk in his father’s store at Hanlan, Mich.
—F. Rosa'(Com’l,),’75, is Gen’l Salesman for the well-known firm, John V. Farrell & Co., Chicago.
—J. L. Morgan, of ’81, is in business at Marco, Ind. He says that he will be here sure for the next Commencement and bring twelve of the “ old boys.” ' —Moses M. Foote, student of last year, is now located at Kewana. Ill. He is connected with the Hextum Steam Heater Co., and has bright prospects for the future.
■—Among the welcome visitors of the past week were Rev. G. F. Emblen, Wheeling, W. Va.; Mr. Eugene F. Arnold, of ’78, Washington, D. C.; Miss Willems and P. H. Hoyne, of Chicago.
—M. F. Healy, of ’82, was a welcome visitor at the College this week. He was on his way to Harvard to continue his legal studies. His former fellow-students and all his many friends here wish him success in his career.
—Frank AV. Bloom, of ’81, is waiting for the great age of 21, the attainment of which will permit of his admission to the bar. He is with the firm of Reills & Niblack, Vincennes, Ind., continuing his studies practically as well as theoretically, and doing well.
—A welcome visitor the past week was Mrs. Wm. Cole, of Denver, Col., who came to place her son Willie in the Minim department of the University. Mrs. Cole is a gifted and accomplished writer, and one whose literary productions are always read with pleasure and profit.
—It was a pleasant surprise, last Saturday morning, to see the genial face of our esteemed friend, Mr. P. V. Hickey, of the Catholic Reviews He was on his way to Chicago to attend the consecration of Bishop Riordan, and a meeting of the Colonization Society. Mr. Hickey is always a welcome visitor at Notre Dame, where he has numerous friends and admirers. .	:	-
—Mrs. John Woll and Mrs. Tillie Titus, of Logansport, and Mfes Emma. Flinn, of South Bend, accompanied by Mr. Alfred B? Miller, editor of the South Bend Tribune, visited Notre Dame on Thursday of last week, and spent the afternoon inspecting the Church, University, and
other buildings. The ladies expressed themselves greatly delighted with all they saw, and especially with the wonders of art which so please every visitor- here.
—Mrs. M.‘ Henebery, of Peoria, Ill., visited Notre Dame on Monday. She was accompanied by her daughter Lucy, and Mr. M. Bergen and wife. Miss Henebery, an estimable young lady, was returning to St. Mary’s to resume her studies. Mrs. Bergen is affectionately remembered by former pupils of the -Academy as Statia Henebery. Her husband, Mr. Bergen, who is connected with the First National Bank of Peoria, is deservedly regarded as one of the most respected and populai young men in that place.
—The following items concerning old students, A. O’Reilly, of ’68, and G. Crosby, of ’74, taken from The Official Railway Guide, will be read with interest:	.
“ Mr. A. J. O’Reilly, whose time and efforts are devoted to looking after the interests of the “ old reliable Quincy route ” to all points East, has his office at No. 428 Larimer street, is one of the most popular agents stationed in Denver. He is thoroughly posted in all the details of his office; is courteous, obliging, energetic, is blessed with a nature which ever looks on the bright side of life, and consequently has already increased the popularity of his road to a marked degree.
“ Mr. George H. Crosby, General Freight Agent of the Kansas City, St. Joe and Council Bluffs Railway, has been appointed General Agent of the Burlington at Denver, in place of Mr. E. J. Swords, who-succeeds Mr. Crosby as General Freight Agent of the Council Bluffs road at St. Joseph. The change was .made at Mr. Crosby’s own request, his health having become impaired, and he thinks the mountain air of Denver will do him good. Mr. Crosby has already gathered around him a large number of friends, and has impressed everybody as being a thorough railroad man.”
Local Items.
—Hail, noble 400!
—Get ready for field-day!
—The Juniors have but one Foote.
—Prof. Lyons went to Chicago last Thursday.
—There is at least one Christian among the Seniors!
—Baseball is now quite popular with all the students.	'
—Seats in the Senior study-hall are now at a premium.
—Have your mail matter addressed to Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The Law Class of ’84 is the largest ever taught at Notre Dame. .
‘ —-The Minims had “ rec.” on the 20th, in honor of Cecil’s birthday.
—It is rumored that a class in Portuguese is about to be started. .	-
—The want of the western wing becomes daily more and more felt.
----The Courses of Christian Doctrine will be reorganized to-morrow. ,
—Who is Phili-p Freelance, anyhow? They say he lives in Goshen. *
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Fire Department has been reorganized, with B. Charles as chief.
—The Thespians have reorganized. The report will appear next week.
—John Boyle’s absence is very much regretted by our local Land Leaguers.
—The watering-cart, the ingenious invention of B. Ferdinand, supplies a long-felt want.
—Regrets would be less keen, had the two-cent postal law gone into effect some months ago.
—Now is the time to begin working for the Grand Gold Medal for English Essay-writing.
—Hopkins, of Denver, Col., and Banagher, of Rhode Island, are thus far the champion bicyclists.
—Lost.—A bunch of keys. The finder will confer a favor by leaving them at the printing-office.
—Prof. Gregori has begun work on his painting in the Columbus series. The subject is “ The Mutiny.” '
—The fourth story of the College, which has been recently fitted up, is now one of the, finest in the building.
—The Cabinet of Curiosities has been transferred to the quarters formerly occupied by the Vocal department.
—It is not lawful to send transient papers in the mails unless the postage is fully prepaid. Those interested should take note of this.
—B. Augustus, the director of the tailoring establishment, has received a new supply of goods suitable for fall and winter garments. Call and see him.
—The attendance this year promises to be the largest in the history of the College. At present there are fifty more students than this time last year.
—Prof. Lyons’ Elocution Class is largely attended this year, and in consequence • the cry of John Maynard and fire once more resounds through । the. halls.
—The confraternities will be reorganized .tomorrow night. It is confidently expected that the good work done in the past will not be interrupted ' | but continued.
p	—A number of distinguished lecturers have been
>	engaged to take part in the course of lectures which
will soon be inaugurated. Their names will be published in a future issue.
' —The Euglossians will occupy the boards on the 13th, appearing in “The Lost Heir.” This is a new drama, adapted from the French, and is now to be produced for the first time,,
—The Curator of the ?Museum gratefully acknowledges the receipt of an interesting collection of specimens donated to the Cabinet of Mineralogy by Mr. J. V. Larkin, of Pottsville, Pa.
—St. Edward’s Park looks blooming. In spite of the long-continued drought, the flowers are rich and beautiful, and bespeak the care, attention and skill of the excellent gardener entrusted with their keeping.	'
—The crews are active. The splashing of oars and the gentle voice of the coxswain, borne on the
breeze, betoken earnest preparations for the 13th. It is to be hoped that no untoward accident will mar the race.
—The Curator of the Museum is indebted to Mr. Harry Whitman for valuable assistance given in copying the plans of Science Hall. As an architectural and mechanical draughts-man, Harry does excellent work.
—The South Bend Tribune of Wednesday contains the eloquent address of Prof. T. E. Howard, delivered on the occasion of the celebration of the bi-centenary of Sobieski. We shall give it to our readers in our next number. .
—A pleasant sociable was given by the Senior Crescent Club on Wednesday evening last. The Elbel orchestra was in attendance and discoursed choice music. * President Walsh, members of the Faculty, and others were present.
—The Band and Orchestra have been reorganized and are preparing for the celebration of St. Edward’s Day. The Orpheonics, too, are busy at work, and we may expect that the charms of music will not be wanting to lend interest to the day’s festivities.
—The second regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held Sept. 18. Masters J. T. Cleary and Carlisle Mason were elected members. Masters F. Curtis, R. Devereux, E. Holbrook,'C. Cavaroc, T. Taylor and P. Yrisarri gave recitations, o
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin met with a painful accident through the capsizing of his buggy whilst returning from the depot at South Bend, on Sunday night. The Very Rev. Father was somewhat bruised, and in consequence confined to his room for several days. We are happy to say he has now quite recovered.
—The beautiful story of “Joseph Haydn,” which appeared in the pages of the Ave Maria, is now being published in book form by Prof. J. A. Lyons, and will be ready by November 15th. At the same time a new drama will be published. This latter is entitled “ The Malediction,” and is an excellent drama, specially adapted for colleges and schools.
—On seeing our new quarters at the Printing-Office, a visitor exclaimed: “ What a fine sanctum you have now! Yes, very pleasant; in close prox-’ imity to the coal shed, the butcher shop, and a patent engine room. Just the place to write poems on placid lakes, meandering rivers, rippling rills, majestic peaks, pierian springs, etc.,”—or words to that effect.
—The first regular meeting of the Baseball Association was held Thursday, September 13th. The election of officers resulted as follows: Bros. Paul and Emmanuel, Directors; Prof. F. B. Devoto, President; F. Gallagher, Treasurer; W. Bailey, Corresponding Secretary; C. Murdock,Recording Secretary; J. Guthrie, and F. Wheatley, Captains.
—Prof. Ackerman’s paintings which adorn the walls of the Senior refectory appear to great advantage. Among the subjects on which the Pro
44
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
fessor is now engaged are the “ Abbey of Sligo,’,’ “the Round Towers and Ancient Cross of Glon-macnoise,” “ The Baptistery at Florence.” These art productions form a prominent and pleasing feature of the large hall.
—At the 2d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, held Sept. 19, new members were elected as follows: E. Wile, T. Casserly, J. Devine, J. Mulkh'ern. Essays were read by C. Porter and W. Mug. Declamations were delivered bj’- D. Taylor and C. Dexter. Public readers are D. Taylor, Jos. Courtney, G. Schaeffer, W. Schott, J. Hagenbarth.
—We have been shown bj- Rev. Father Zahm three large photographs (32x28 in.), of the City, Cathedral and Plaza of Chihuahua, Mexico, presented him during the vacation by Sr. Frederico . Terrazas, of ’83. The photograph of the grand old Cathedral—as the Chihuahuans call it— gives an excellent idea of what is, without question, one of the most imposing ecclesiastical structures in America.
—On the afternoon of the 16th, a game of base-ball was played on the Senior Campus between a nine of Mexicans, captained by F. Delgado, and one from the States, captained by F. Burke. The U. S. Club won the game by a score of 7 to 6. Both batteries - worked .hard, but received no support in the field. Guthrieja, Garretto and Witwerna, whose long residence in the States fully acquainted them with the game, played well, and handled the bat effectively.	*
—Lisle Hopkins has had a splendid bicycle sent him from his home in Pueblo, Colorado. It looks like a six-story and attic affair, and tops everything in the wheel line around the College. Bicycles are few this year—the two or three dozen “ wheels ” that did active duty here two years ago are conspicuous by their absence. It is true that at present the roads are badly cut by the heavy wagons conveying building materials, but we hope to see a revival in the “ wheel ” line of out-door sports.
—The following are the names of the crews chosen for the race on the 13th:
Evangeline,
Minnehaha,
C; A. Garrett, stroke;
E; V. Chelini, 5th ;
X- Bannigan, 4th;
T. W. Guthrie, 3d;
G. W. Wall, 2d;
H; A. Steis, bow;
Gapt. and cox-- C. A. Tinley.
J. E. Rudge, stroke:
F. W. Gallagher, 5th;
J. Goulding, 4th;
C. Murdock, 3d;
C. D. Saviers, 2d;
A. P. Col i, bow;
Capt. and cox. J. A. McIntyre.
—The Curator of the Cabinet of Curios, Prof.
J-F--Edwards, returns thanks to Mr. Stoll, of the Senior department, for the donation of a pistol used by his grandfather in the war of 1812; to Master Dorenberg for a pipe of quaint manufacture;' to B. Chrysostom for three large and beautiful Japanese pictures, representing birds, trees, etc., made from sea-shells; also for a collection of Japanese curios, and collection of California sea mosses artistically arranged; and to Master Thompson Cleary for a number of antique coins.
—We were shown, a few. days ago, a fine collection of large-sized photographs presented to Father Zahm by Mr. F. C. Nims, Gen. Pass, and Ticket Agent of the Denver & Rio Grande R.R. The photographs in question are by the celebrated artist Jackson, of Denver, and are said to be the largest and finest works of the kind ever produced. They embrace some of the most interesting views of Colorado scenery, and are indeed a valuable contribution to the art collections of the College. Father Zahm purposes having them appropriately framed and put on exhibition in a few days, when all will have an opportunity of seeing them.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Thomas Academy was called to order Wednesday, Sept. 19th, Rev. F. Fitte presiding. The following officers were elected: Directors, Very Rev. E. Sorin, and Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; Promoter, Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C.; Moderators, Rev. Fathers Fitte and Toohey, C. S. C.; President, T. E. Steele; Vice-Presidents, W. E. Bailey and F. J. Gallagher; Recording Secretary, J. A. McIntyre; Corresponding Secretary, W. W. Gray, Jr.; Treasurer, N. H. Ewing; Censors, E. A. Otis and'E. Mason; Sergeant-at-Arms, J. Solon. The Rev. Moderator then made a few well-chosen remarks, pertaining to the object for which the Society was organized, and the meeting adjourned.
—A special meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held on Sept, the 11 th, in St. Edward’s Hall, for the purpose of electing officers for the coming session. The result of the voting is as follows .’.Right Rev. Joseph Dwenger, and Very Rev. Father General Sorin, C.'S. C., Honorary Directors; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev.J. A. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter; B. Francis Regis, C. S. C., General Critic; B. Lindsey, 1st Vice-President; C. West, 2d Vice-Presi-; dent; C. Drown, Corresponding Secretary; C. Brown, Recording Secretary; R. Morrison, Treasurer; L. Young, 1st Censor; J. M. Studebaker, 2d Censor; W. A. Welch, 1st Librarian; F. Mullen, 2d Librarian; W. McPhee, 1st Monitor; J. Kraus, 2d Monitor; J. P. Devereux, Sergeant-at-Arms; W. Stange, 1st Marshal; C. Spencer, 2d Marshal. The proceedings closed with a speech from the President.
—The members of the “Western contingent” wish to express their thanks to the railroad officials who made their recent trip to college so pleasant and enjoyable. They are under special obligations to Messrs. Perceval Lowell, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent of the-C. B. & Q. Ry.; W. F. White, Gen’l Passrand Ticket Agent of the A. T.& S.F. Ry.; P. S. Eustis, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent of the B. & M. Ry.; S. K. Hooper, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent of the Hannibal & St. Joe Ry.; F. C. Nims, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent of the D. & R. G.Ry.; W-P-Johnson, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent of the L. S. & M. S. R.R.; Mr. King, Assistant Gen’l. Pasis, and Ticket Agent of the Mexicano, and Mr. Jewitt; Gen’l Supt. of the Pullman Palace Car Co. For carrying out the arrangements made and for seeing to the comfort
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the students while en route, special thanks are due to Messrs.. A. J. O’Reilly and.H.;B. Keeler, both former students of Notre Dame, and now representatives of the two “Grand Trunk Lines of the West,” viz.,'the C. B. & Q., and the A. T. & S. F.R’ys.
Boll' of -Honor.
[The following list includes;the.names=of.those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
- SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. T. Anchando, Ancheta, Agilera, .Bani^an, Bow-ers, Burns, Brosseau, Barron, Buchanan, .Becerra, Bailey,. J. Burke, V. Burke, F. Burke, Brown, J. Carroll, C. Car-roll, Coll, Carbajal, Cussen, Callan, Cass, Cartier, JnoJ Cusack, Jas. Cusack, Crawford,1 Creel, Celia, Conway,: T. Carroll, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, .Callaghan, Campbell, De Groot, De Wolf, Donohue, Dolan, Delaney, Eisen-' hauer, Ewing, Fogerty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon,; Fitzgerald, Gonsor, Goulding, Gonzales, Guthrie, Geizer, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, Garret, Galarnean, J. Gallagher, Hyde, Henderson, Howard, Hoffstetter, Hopkins, Hellebush, Johnston, Kerndt, Kimmel, Kaufman, Kolars,. Lucas, Larkin, Long, Meyer, McErlaine, McCarthy; Mahon, McCabe. McKinnery, Mathers, Mason, Marquez; C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Middendorf, McIntyre, Neeson, O’Connell, G. O’Brien, E. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, H. Paschel; C. Paschel, Pour, H. Porter,* Rudge, Rogers, Reach, Shea, Stull, Stover, Steis, Spangler, Shields, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, Smith, Tinley, F. Urango, J. Urango, Veale, C. Warner, Wilson, Whalen, Wagoner, Warren, J. Warner, Wheatley, Wall, Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Aikins,'Arnold, Anchando, Arkins, Barchulze, W. Berthelet, Barela, Brown, Baur, D. Barclay,' E. Chirhart, A. Chirhart, J. Courtney, J. Crawford, -Chaves, Cavaroc, Cartier, Cleary, Clarke, Curtis, Costi-<ran, J. Dwenger, Dorenberg, Diederick, .Dexter, Devine, Eisenhauer, Fierro, Fehr, Fendrich,* Frain, Gerlach, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Halligan, Huestis, E. Howard, B. Henry. W. Henry, A. Howard, Holman, Hopkins, Houlihan, Johnson, King, J. Kelly. M. Kelly, Letcher, G. Lewis, Loscher, R. Lewis, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Menig, Mason, Mug,* Mahon, J. McGordon C. Mc-Gordon, Moye, J. McDonald,- Muller, Marcott, Matias, Metz, Murphy, S. O?Brien, P. O’Donnell, C. Porter, E. . Porter, Pohl, Rogers, Regan, Rothschild, Reynaids, Ryan, Ruppe, Schaeffer, Shea, Smith, Sedberry, Schmauss, L. Scheuerman, M. Scheuerman, Schott, Stumer, Talbot, D. Taylor, T. Taylor, Tarrant, Urango, Warner, Wagoner, Wabrausheck, -Weber; Wright, ‘Williamson; Yrisarri.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Amoretti,.H. Addington, J. Addington, Boos, Bunker, Butterfield, ■ Brown, Crawford,. Curtis, Crotty, Cole, Cummings, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, Devine, Devereux, Drown, Dungan, Ernest, Fitzgerald," Garrity, Gonzales, Grunsfeld, Kraus, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Keefe, Landenwich, Lowenstein,- Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Morrison, J. McGrath,' E-. McGrath; F-.'Mullen; A. Mullen, McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Meehan, Otis, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, R. Papin, V. Papin; W. Prindiville, Rhuderhouser, Studebaker, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, L_ Scherrer, Stange, W. Spencer, Steele, Stewart, Schmitz, Schoneman, Sokup, Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson, La Tourette, Thomas, West, Welch, Wright, Weston, L. Young. B. O’Kane, Nester.
* Omitted by mistake last week.
For the Dome.
St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind.............. $100.00
A Generous Friend.......................... 50.00
' Thos. Conlan, Neenah,’Wis...;............. 10.00
Saint Hary's Academy.
. One Mile West of'Notre Dame University.
—Among the esteemed guests of the Academy, we note Mrs. Cole, of Denver, Colorado.
—The honor of a visit from Prof. Unsworth, of the University, was enjoyed on Wednesday.
—To St. Mary’s has fallen the hpnor of making the alb and donating the rochet used at the consecration of Bishop Riordan. . On the ..sleeves of the alb was the real “ point, applique’’ made at St. Mary’s by a Sister of Holy Cross.
—Cordial felicitations and hearty wishes for their future happiness are extended to Dr. E. A. Chapo-ton and his accomplished-bride, Martha M. Shetland Chapoton, Class:of ’72. -May the current of their lives-flow peacefully, and may theirs prove the perfection of a true Christian home. Joy attend the happy couple! This is the-earnest prayer of the former teachers, of the bride.
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne, en route for Chicago to attend the.consecration of..the new Bishop of San Francisco, passed;a..,few hours at St. Mary’s. He .imparted .the. Papal. Benediction directly after Mass, celebrated by Father General, on Friday, the I4th inst. The. day is one-among . the most memorable, and beloved.in the calendar of the Congresfatiom-beincr that of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross..
—Miss Etta-Rosing, Class-?8i,-of Hyde Park; Miss Anna McGrath,, and the Misses-Maggie and ■ Mary Quill, of Chicago; Miss Vion,:St; Louis, Mo.; Mr. Owen Sheekey, Falls.City, Pa.; Airs. L. Boland, Newark,N. J.; Mr. Geo. Munger, Chicago; Mr. D. Hunt, Avoca, Iowa; Mrs. John Black, Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. P. H. Fitzpatrick, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. E. Horn, Columbus, Ohio; Mrs. B. Allen, Grand Rapids; Mr. T. C. Johns, Mrs. A. C. Johns, Nankin, Mich., and , Mrs.. Carney were among the visitors last week.
—On the. 22d page of the twenty-eight Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy we read as follows : “ Gold '• Medal for gmod conduct in the o
Junior Department^presented by Mr. Mi Hackett, Watertown^Wis.-, awarded Miss Manuelita Chaves, Belen, New' Mexico.” Mrs. Filipe Chaves, the mother of the happy recipient of this distinguished honor, to attest her .warm appreciation -and gratitude to the. Superiors for the award made in favor of an only and beloved- daughter, has presented to the Prefect of Studies-; an Etruscan gold cross of most beautiful-workmanship in leaves :and flowers. The manner.-in .which.this valuable gift is to be appropriated will continue-the beneficent conquest which it so aptly commemorates. It is to constitute a standing prize, to be drawn for every month by those young ladies in the Senior department who shall distinguish themselves for “exquisite manners,” to use the expression of lips revered. Something more complete even than common 'attention to the ordinary’ rules ;of: politeness,- .-which is ex
46	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
acted by rule, is here implied. It is the -perfection of refined manners, shown in an undeviating, exact, delicate, and heartfelt attention to whatever belongs, not only to correct, but to accomplished deportment. To attain this enviable and praiseworthy standard must be the aim of every one who aspires to win and wear the charming Etruscan gold cross.
The Beauty of Self-Control.
A wild summer tempest was raging:— The heavens were hidden from sight, And the roses that opened in beauty
That morn, at the dawn of the light,
Were bowing their meek, gracious foreheads,
And the rain-drops, like tears from bright eyes, From the hearts of the just-opened rosebuds
Seemed to murmur complaint to the skies;
The lilacs and dark rhododendrons, • Syringas, and maples, and ferns
Were hurled by the ruthless tornado Now upward, now downward, by turns.
The birds in their fright ceased their warbling, And fled to their coverts of rest,
Unconscious that bolts of the tempest
Might shatter their deftly-wrought nest;
The hay-maker’s mound of green clover, The foam on the dark, rushing tide
Were tossed at the will of the tempest, The orchards were shorn of their pride ;
The forests, majestic and mighty,
Were swayed like the waves of the deep, And the loftiest trees were uprooted—
Borne on in the merciless sweep.
But ’mid the dark trees of the wild-wood,
Laid low with the wreck on the plain, .	1
Upreared like the form of a giant, „ ’Mid thunders, and lightning, and rain,
Stood an Elm that the rage of the storm fiend Bent down till its leaves swept the sod;
The tempest passed on, and the Elm tree
Uplifted its boughs green and broad.	_
Above arched the bright bow of promise;
The rain-drops, in brilliant array,
Caught the sunbeams. The Elm, like a monarch, Stood crowned in the glory of day...
Methought, as I gazed on its beauty, ' And thrilled with a sense of delight At the view of its strength and its grandeur, At the view of the wreck and the blight
That lay in the valley before me, Methought, in the depths of my soul:
How. like is this Elm in its triumph
To steadfast, to grand Self-Control? .
The tempest of Life is before us,	..
. And buffet its fury we must;
But who shall endure like the Elm tree?
Who never be false to her trust?	;
' Is it she who will yield to the promptings. That surely must lead her astray? i .
Is it she who regards not the future,’ And lives not, save but for the day?
Ah, no! Like the garden in ruins, When the tempest in thunders passed by, The soul that lives not for the future, Like the blossom, is born but to die.
But she who will yield with submission When duty, when wisdom demand, Will rise from the blast of the tempest,—
’Tis she who in triumph will stand. -
Our wishes, our wills and our impulse, All these must be curbed and subdued;
We must live as though earth did not claim us, With faith’s golden precepts imbued,—
Aye! The storms and the rage of this earth-life Must serve'but to strengthen our trust,
And though overwhelmed by the darkness, Throughout all, we must feel “ God is just."
His Will we must love as our duty, We must shrine that sweet Will in our souls:
We shall know then, beyond Death’s dark waters. The glory of true Self-Control.
Agnes Dillon, Class ’83.
Boll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SFNIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Adderly,'Allen, A. Babcock,’.C. Babcock, Billings, Bruhn, Beal, Black, Call, Campbell, Carney, Cummings, Dunne, Duffield, Dowling, Dungan, Fendrich, Frederick, Fitzpatrick, Fogerty, Gove, Alice Gordon, Ginz, Gage, Gavan, Heckard, Hunt, Hale, Hack, Horn, Hart, Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Kearney, Kearsey, King, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, Munger, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, L. Priestman, M. Priestman, Papin, Quill, J. Reilly, Russell, Reynaid, Ramsey, Ryan, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Schmaltz, Sear, Spotwood, Stackerl,- Todd, Williams, Weckler, Wilson. 2d Tablet—Misses Addie Gordon, Holt, M. Vandebogart.	.	*
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
. Misses Barry, Bailey, Brown, Chaves, Campeau, Dillon, Dodge, Eldred, Fehr, Halsey, S. Jackson, E. Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Naylor, Papin, Richmond, Roddin, Schmidt, Scott, Steumer, Sheekey, Snowhook, Turpie. 2d Tablet.—Misses Allen, Best, Cummings, Lord, Lucas, Murphy, Malboeuf.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Chapin, L. Johns, V. Johns, Schmauss, Lindsey, Reynolds, M. Paul, G. Papin, Van Fleet.	*
Sacred Heart Academy, Ogden, Utah-
The Academy divides its instructions 'into three departments—primary, preparatory and academic —each being as thorough and complete as similar courses in Eastern colleges. In the primary department the little ones are taught the elementary lessons, that form the groundwork on which the accomplished scholar must build. Finished in the studies of this department, the child is admitted to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC..
’Wao^wsassastawassK^
the preparatory course, where Grammar, Geography and the various common school studies are learned by them. The academic department is, of course, the crowning glory of the Academy. Graduating from the preparatory school, the pupil has but just begun to catch a glimpse of the knowledge that makes one eminently fitted to work out successfully the problem of existence. Four years’ instruction is then given in the academic department in the higher branches of learning, that deal with the mysteries, glories and. sciences of the universe, together with the languages, both ancient and modern.
But while the solid studies, and those more generally designated as useful, form a large part of the teachings of the good Sisters, they do not forget the branches of learning that materially elevate the tone of society, and give it a charm and culture not otherwise obtainable. Therefore, the Academy is prepared to instruct its pupils in, the charms of music and the beauties of art.
These branches are placed before the pupils and taught to them in a manner that makes them take an active interest, and in place of turning out mechanical players, each year the Academy has sent forth pupils inspired with the genius of music. Another feature of the institution that must commend it to parents, is the instruction in needle-work and household duties, to the use of which may at any time be called the daughters of the rich, and kept the families of the poor.
A department for boys under 12 years of age is carried bn, and the little fellows who attended last year seemed to take great pleasure in advancing, so as to win the esteem of their good teachers, who _________________________ o	• rule alone by kindness. To further incite the pupils to advancement, prizes and medals are offered each year, and competition engendered that has proved to be of incalculable benefit in' getting dilatory pupils interested in their classes. Situated as the Academy is, bn. one of the highest and most sightly blocks of Ogden, the health of pupils cannot be otherwise than good, and perhaps no other school can make as good a show in that particular. While the peculiar advantages the pupil gains here come from the fact that the air is dry, the climate salubrious and the water pure, everything that can be done in the way of sanitary regulations calculated to promote the health is carefully attended to. In fact, there is no other institution in Ogden of which the citizens should be so proud as the Sacred Heart Academy. Its beautiful grounds, its splendid buildings, its thorough instruction, and the untiring labor of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, all conspire to commend it to us. The examination so successfully testing the capacity of each student, and which was passed by all so creditably last year, promises to be exceeded this year in the only manner that it can be—in numbers.—Ogden Pilot.'
Young lady, writing a love letter for the kitchenmaid: “That’s about enough now, isn’t it?” Kitchen-maid: “ One thing more, miss; just say; please excuse bad spellin’ and writin’.”
ARNOLD a LANDVOIGT, (E. E. Arnold, class of ’78.) Attorneys-at-Law, 131 0 Street, South East, Washington, D. C. Practice in the District Courts, and Court of Claims, before the Executive Departments and Committees of Congress. Special attention given to securing Patents, Pensions, and to Claims of all kinds.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution atNotre ' Danie, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primarybranches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	.
Board and Tuition—§125, per Session of Five Months. .
Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.	-
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
' Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C-, ' " Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAPTHATTHE
C0ICAGB,BOCKI8LillD&PACIFICR'Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the west by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Blufls, Leavenworth, Atchison. Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Reclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Richmond, Norfolk, Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, N ashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneap- . olis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express -Trains.	.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less sdvan-tages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN, Vice-Pns. AOca'lM’g'r,	GenlTkt. *Psm. Agb
CHICAGO;
48	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the mirERsm of wire dsjue, m.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS,	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves, to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more thorough business training than can be obtained in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses the best systems of teaching are adopted and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President. For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E.	C. S. C.,
' Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
L S. O. S. Railway.
On and.after Sunday,.May 27, 18S3, trains will leave South Bend, as .follows:	'
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and, St Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00. p.m. '
11.23 a.m.rMail, .over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., . Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m4; Cleveland, 7.65 alm. ; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20. pirn.,. Special.New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m.' Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3.55 a.m. • '	*
6.21 p.m. Limited;Express. ,,Arrives at.Toledo, 10.2S p.m.; Cleveland, 1,35 a.m.;-Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.55 a.m.-Pacific Express. :.Arrives.at Laporte, 5.50 a.m. Chicago, 8.20 a.m. r
7.40 a.m Limited Express. • Arrives at Laporte, 8.20 a.m. Chicago, 1040 a.ni. “	.
1.30 p.m.; Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.;'Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
4.35 p.m; Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 p.m.; Chicago, 8.00 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W.: CARY, jGenb Ticket Agt.; Cleveland. .
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup; W. Div., Chicago.
W- I*-JOHNSON, Gen’L Pass. Agent, Chicago.
’ ’ P. P. WRltiHTj ^Gen’CSiip.', Cleveland.
,	TOHN NEWELL,* Gen’l M’ger, Cleve’ind.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879,
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
In. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10;45 “ 12 33p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 18 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1180 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ . Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo -• “ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City • - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	950 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 7 80 “
NJ Iles and Sontli Bend Uivlsion.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 70 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	615 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 ••	455 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. . ^Saturday and Sunday excepted O W. Ruggles,	H. B. Ledyard, G. P. Jb T. A.. Chicago, Ill.	Gen'l Manager, Detroit. Mich. > 		 " - ... r G. L. Elliott. Agent, South Bend, Ind.	