South Bend’s Largest Stock of McGregor Sportswear

WHITE as
WINTER SNOW!
Austinized
TELO WEAVE
Sport Shirt
$5.50
In South-Bend
TAXI FREE To Gilbert’s
(JT yourself in this McGregor beauty and really look your best at work or play. Smoothly styled, perfectly fitting, it goes over big with or without a tie. And it's Austinized—that means Sanforized, Vat-dyed with the Crown Test Green Light for complete, unquestioned washability!
^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
Unsigned letters will not be printed, although names will be withheld on request. Contributors are asked to be as brief as possible.
Let*s Get Acquainted
364 Cavanaugh To the Editor:
I read with interest the article in the current issue of the Scholastic in which Sports Editor Joe Cheney writes of Coach Leahy’s “secret practice sessions,” pro and con. I had to concede that both Leahy’s arguments for and Cheney’s arguments against such proceedings had merit. However, when I read Cheney’s closing lines “Notre Dame is a great place to be from—would it be without a winning Fighting Irish team?”, I literally saw red!
I’ll not attempt to tell you old Notre Dame men my opinion of Notre Dame’s spirit, since I’m a mere freshman who started that same class over three years ago. I’ll just let it be brought out in the open for those who may have missed Editor Cheney’s original statement. I think N. D. would always be the greatest place to be from, even if we participated in nothing more than intercollegiate billiards! What do you think?
John B. Frankel.
FREE...
FREE...
Smokes and handy Cigarette Case to every N. D. man who registers
at our store.
Any $5.00 Pipe or $5.00 in Books to every 50th N. D. man who registers.
Offer extended to October 19th
CIGAR STORE on the	. Main Street Side	NEWS CENTER on the Washington Street Side
Open until 11 P. M.	Open until 9:30 P. M.
BRUGGNER’S
MAIN AND WASHINGTON
October 8, 1946 Dear Sir-
In the October 4 issue of Scholastic, I read with relish and admiration a let-from one, name withheld, on the attitude and conduct of the personnel employed in the cafeteria, Huddle, library offices, and other so-called public service establishments.
It seems peculiar to me that this aforementioned group has not followed the trend of the times and organized. This coterie could band under the name of “Scowlers Club.” From my observations I can suggest the following requisites for membership in this group:
1.	Never . . . smile or give forth any signs of good cheer and friendliness.
2.	Never say: “Please,” “Thank you,” “Good morning,” or “Hello.”
3.	Always give the customer the impression that you are doing him a favor.
3.	Always be on the lookout for an opportunity to explode a sarcastic remark or to create a scene with the customer.
5. Always attend to your own personal matters first, such as: filing fingernails, combing hair, engaging in trivial conversation, etc.—then, if possible, and spare time pennits, wait on a customer, providing, of (Continued on Page 34)
126 N. Michigan
The
unable to
of the Cross
tions
on a
tured m
of the CROSS
Enables practice
of devotions any-
.	Church and when
where. anytime, m Chu attend. Each of the i
numbered
“ k'Ids indicate proper medal.	Unique	beads	be
The indulgences may prayers. Th	* under the usual
gained on it C	ent to carry.
1 conditions. Ught. c	Catholics
1	devoH
hailing
aid. See these now
$6.95 each
3
Nationally Advertised
FOUNTAIN PENS and PENCILS
SHEAFFER EVERSHARP WATERMAN
PARKER WEAREVER
Largest Selection in South Bend
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. Main
Across from the Court House
LUGGAGE by...
OSHKOSH GLADIATOR VAL-A-PAK INDESTRUCTO
BILLFOLDS by ...
BUXTON ROLFS PRINCE GARDNER
PIPES by...
DUNHILL CUSTOM BILT SPORTSMAN JACK OF LONDON KAYWOODIES
HansA RlNTZSCH
138 N. Michigan
THE WEEIC John A. O'Connor
The opera. came to South Bend last week, a backwoods company performing in Verdi’s “Il Trovatore.” Among the vultures for culture who packed the steam room at John Adams High School were Dillon Hall’s McNulty and Osborne, and George Bresnahan, as well as Signor Dante Mercurie. The local journal called it a thrilling performance; actually it reeked. The chorus looked like it had been drafted from the sharpies that hung around Walgreen’s corner and the heroine had a voice like a powersaw. Verdi’s long-cold body must have been whirling at about 500 r.p.m. in its earthen house.
Wyman’s windows were plastered with pix of last year’s All-Americans as approving of their current selections of fall fashions. John Mastrangelo’s grinning face beamed from one of the posters under a dinky hat array. The idea was to convince the girls that if they are to make a hit with Saturday’s heroes, they should follow Wyman’s advice on autumn styles. If this practice of endorsement of ladies toggery and feminine items catches on throughout the nation we may expect to flip open a copy of Seventeen or Madamoiselle and find: “Does your underarm odor give you away? Glenn Davis says: It never gives me away because I use Mum. I can sneak around end without anyone even noticing little me. Try it.” Or from the pages of the Ladies Home Journal-. “Tom Potter, Notre Dame’s fighting linesman, says this about Drene: My hair, what there is left of it, always holds its bright, glistening sheen after I use Drene. I wouldn’t be without it for the world!”
❖
Among the parents, friends and guests to visit the campus over last-weekend was the mother of George Strohmeyer, Irish center, who came all the way up from McAlen, Texas, to see son Georgie maul the Purdue Boilermakers. George didn’t know Mom was in the stands until it was all over. Uncle Frank Leahy was responsible for the surprise.
❖
A fat, bouncing baby daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Florence, last week. Harry, who hails from Brooklyn, has forgotten all about the failing of those Bums and is making great plan • for the young lady, named Joan.
❖
Word comes to us from the West Coast that St. Mary’s College, the fighting Irish of the Pacific slopes, tangled with the California U. frat boys in a head
busting party. Seems the Gaels, numbering about 75 and armed with shillelaghs, were ambuscaded by the alert Cal gents when they attempted to paint the great concrete “C” on the Cal campus a daring Bed and Blue, which are the St. Mary’s colors. In the tussle which ensued several cars were dumped over or wrecked, fists flew, missiles were thrown, and blood poured like borscht in the streets o'f Leningrad. The Berkeley cops broke it up, but not until after- the St. Mary’s lads, outnumbered about 10 to 1, were corralled and huge “C’s” clipped in their hairdos. Such shenanigans! California followed the riot by upsetting the Gaels on the gridiron, 20-13, with luckless Paul Crowe, St. Mary’s sprint star, tripping over an official in an attempt to get at a surefire touchdown pass. Last year, Crowe, out in the clear, dropped a TD toss against UCLA that lost the game. Anbody feeling low, just remember Crowe.
During the game at Great Lakes last Saturday, in which the N. D. Bees routed the Sailor varsity, the father of the Brennan boys, Terry and Jim, was in the stands, watching the fray and listening to the broadcast of the Irish-Purdue clash here. At the same moment that Mr. Brennan saw son Jimmy scamper 70 yards to tally against Great Lakes, he heard son Terry score against the Boilermakers.
In last week’s issue of Life, the editors knock themselves out alluding to the ability of Bill Stern as a football broadcaster, citing the Illinois game as an example of his flawless technique. For those of us who remember the Illini broadcast, we recall the announcing job as badly botched. The article says “he never fumbled for a name.” That’s foul! Stern wrestled with Signaigo’s monicker till it threw him two falls out of three. He called Czarobski “Czarabobski” and credited Jack Zilly with the 83 yard run turned in by Sitko. He said Lujack faked to Mello on the beginning of that memorable jaunt, but pictures prove that it was the left half who faked in through the line, while Mello, number- 65, led Sitko around left end. Stern had his tongue tied in knots half the game. He gets too excited.
❖
Good news came last week when it was learned that Red Couch, burly Irish guard aspirant last Spring, is now totally recovered from back injuries, and will be able to resume his grid career.
A
Built like a Sherman tank, Couch at 225 is a vicious playbuster who loves to hit ’em . hard and specializes at backing up the line. Since his injury last Spring Couch has laid off all athletics and may even follow his physicians advice to abstain from grid wars until after the first of the year. Coach McArdle should be happy to have another bruiser to bolster the middle of the Irish forward wall.
Campus radios focused on the Firestone Hour last Monday evening to hear the lilting voice of Christopher Lynch, Irish songthrush. The Gaelic tenor, successor to the Great John McCormack, is a welcome and sweet addition to the artists of radioland. Plans are under way to request Lynch to sing the Notre Dame Victory March on his program the week of the Army game.
The California Club, at the chowfest last evening, selected Stan Stone, Glendale’s gift to the world, as the sunny state’s representative to pump in the icy waters of St. Joseph lake come bleak December.
Lastly, a note to St. Mary’s co-eds: Among the lovelies who adorned the campus over the Purdue game weekend were three chicks out of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, that’s somewhere in southern Indian.' These lassies, just as rich and,
in this case, prettier than the frails from across the highway, report that down there in the other St. Mary’s the girls have to have a written request from their parents before they can date. So you see, there’s always someone worse off than you. Regimentation did not end with the defeat of Hitlerite Germany.
Servers Club Holds Opening Meeting
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University was elected Honorary President of the Servers Club by unanimous vote at the meeting held in the sacristy of the Church on October 2nd.
This was the first meeting of the year for the club, and plans were formed for the coming year. The Servers Club is an organization of all those Notre Dame students who serve mass during the week in the hall chapels and in the basement of the church, and in the main church on Sunday. The group is under the guidance of Brother Boniface, C.S.C., the Church sacristan.
At the meeting Frank Salierno, President of the Club, appointed a committee to revise the old constitution. Meetings will be held once a month, with the next meeting on Wednesday October 16th at 7:15 to ratify the revised constitution.
—Gerard Hekker
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
TRY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED. PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
The first thing
your college and social acquaintances see is the way you are dressed ....
Is your suit clean? Are your pants pressed? Are you neat?
In order to make an appearance that will be remembered have your clothes come from experienced and reliable tailors and clothiers.
For your approval and selection we, offer more than 500 patterns from which to choose shetlands, tweeds, flannels, coverts, worsted and unfinished worsteds tailored to your measure . . . styled and fitted by experienced people.
Suits, top coats, sport coats, trousers — $50 upwards.
Also the home of Adler Rochester ready-to-wear suits and coats — $50 to $75.
PARKER-WINTERROWD,
115% - 117% North Main Street
North of Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND 'S OLDEST T __—-------—-------------
DADADE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
fullback for a MGM publicity stunt. We doubt that even the nag would have helped the way that “Big Moose” Connor, “Little Moose” Fischer, and “Clopper” Mastrangelo ripped through the Boilermaker line.
ON THE HOME FRONT ...
The Purdue game last Saturday was better than the Pitt game in all but one respect—the weather. But it didn’t rain too much and the sun did come out . . . there wasn’t as much “Drop the Hankie” game by the referees this week. Last Saturday they used that red handkerchief more often than a guy with hay fever. . . . Fred “The Foot” Earley made the longest runs of the day, from the ND bench to the ten-yard line. That’s a total of 560 yards for seven round trips—the best average on the team. Fred was also high scorei* of the game with seven points. . . . The cheering section was improved, but why do the cheerleaders have to lead a cheer at the precise moment that the PA is giving forth other scores? . . . And why doesn’t the band play the Victory March after a TD and play the Hike Song and the Irish Backs during the game? It’s disconcerting to heai-4,000 students chanting one song while the Little Boy Blues are puffing away on another.
The Sorin Hall Sophisticates started the social ball rolling last week with a banquet at the LaSalle, featuring songs and stories by Father Gene Burke, Corby’s own George M. Cohan. Father Burke’s appearance at the keyboard has given rise to a new paraphrase on the old Army song:
“Take down that Kamm’s bottle, mother, Your son’s in the C.S.C.”
Father Burke also delivered a great sermon last Sunday on the founding of Notre Dame. Had the pleasure of sitting behind Tom Potter at the 10:10. When Father Burke remarked, “Where Notre Dame is known, there is known the Golden Dome,” Potter turned brick-red from the collar up—reminded us of a beautiful sunset over Lake Michigan.
Last week’s Scholastic carried a story on the ND Dining Hall, stating that despite the present shortage, meat at a pound a serving continued to be served! Loyalty’s a great thing, Frank, but let’s not allow it to distort the truth.
❖
ON FOREIGN FIELDS .. .
The latest word from Vassar College is that their charter, authorizing the granting of degrees only to women, will remain unchanged despite the presence of male veteran students. As if they cared!	.
Quoted from the Auburn Plainsman, we have this item:
NOTES ON REGISTRATION
(By W. Shakespeare)
Mercy o’ me, what a multitude we have!
—King Henry VIII: Act V, Sc. 3 From the foui‘ corners of the earth they come.—Merchant of Venice: Act II, Sc. 7 What! Will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?—Macbeth: Act IV, Sc. 1 How poor are they, that have not patience!—Othello: Act II, Sc. 3
From a survey of college publications throughout the country, we have compiled the following table showing the ratio of men to women this year:
Northwestern	2-1
Kansas U.	3-1
Michigan State	3-1
Minnesota	3-1
Ohio State	3-1
Auburn	4-1
Purdue	4-1
Notre Dame	4500-0	(&X* %	!!)
Last week the Purdue	football	squad
had its pictures taken with a horse at
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties:
Service Uniforms Expertly Dyed
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
And from Boston U. we hear that a professor had his wife as a student in one of his classes. Heh, heh!
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS . . .
Underwear—something that creeps up on you.
Collection—church function in which many people take only a passing interest. Modern girl—one who rouges in haste and repaints at leisure.
Silence—the only successful substitute for brains.
VA REPRESENTATIVE HERE
Hull W. Chester, contact representative of the Veteran's Administration, will be in Room 14 of the Administration Building each Tuesday from 8 a. m. to 4:30 p. m. to handle and give advice on questions concerning disability compensation, National Service Life Insurance, G. I. Loans, out-patient treatment and hospitalization.
6
Football
NEWS & PICTURES
... every Sunday
/
Here’s big news for sport fans! It’s news about an 8-PAGE FOOTBALL SECTION in The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY during the 1946 football season.
This bigger and better sports section will give you a complete coverage of college, prep school and pro football. It will be cram-packed with action and diagrammed pictures, scores and stories.
Be sure to get The Chicago Sun EVERY SUNDAY and see the big 8-page football section, with stories by Warren Brown and a staff of noted sports writers.
CHICAGO SUNDAY SUN
7
THE ROW DflfflE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper J^icturus l^ivc Quasi Oras Morilurus
Founded 1867
tfltllilllttlllitlltlllllillHIIIIIttllilllMlllllllliOlilKttlllilMIIIIIHIinill
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber	H. Smith'Keel
<«it«tiiiiiuii it utt until
James Clemens_________________News Editor
Frank Keenan_________Associate News Editor
Joe Cheney____________________Sports Editor
Joe Wilcox.Feature Editor Jim Ferstel_____________Photographic Editor
Frank Cacciapagilia_____Assoc. Photo Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock_______________________Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
The "Scholastic" pictures were taken by Dave Cowden.
Cover by Frank Cacciapaglia of Purdue game, the massed bands and Fred Snite's iron lung trailer in foreground.’

A Kick - - -
At the last meeting of the Student Council the Vets Club submitted a request to hold a dance the night of the pep rally before the Northwestern game. The request was refused. It is questionable whether the SC acted in the interest of the student body in refusing.
It has been the policy of the SC this semester to promote all victory dances itself. This is justified on the grounds that it avoids the confusion of having the 35 campus organizations continually applying for permission to sponsor the dances, that it is easier for the Council to run the dances itself, and that the profit derived from the dances is returned to the students in the form of other activities.
The Council is designed to exist as an administrative body, and we do not believe that it is its function to promote Student Council’s insistence on running the dances, but when it refuses a campus money to carry on its proper duties is the Student Council justified in its stand. We would be willing to overlook the dances, but when it refuses a campus club permission to hold a dance for no other reason, apparently, than to stifle competition with its own affairs, it is time for the Council to withdraw from the field altogether.
We suggest that the Council adopt a plan whereby all dances can be alloted fairly to the campus organizations who desire to sponsor them.
- - -and A Pat
It is not often that the Scholastic is in the happy position of being able to extend to the Student Council the hearty congratulations of the student body. We feel that although just begun, the price investigation committee under representative Bob Uhl is indicative of a business-like trend. In an effort to gain the confidence of the entire student body for this venture we intend to pass on the information as the investigation proceeds.
This investigation is not simple, it demands that no element be overlooked. It is simple to obtain a list of prices from the various places downtown and in the local concessions, but to interview the necessary people such as Mr. Ford, the Administration authorities, and what OPA officials there are left in town, takes time and endless patience. Mr. Uhl’s list of comparative prices covers only a few of the items to be taken into consideration, but they show that a difference of from 5% to 50% in price on articles is to be expected. This presents the question “why?”
The committee’s proposals and suggestions to the SC and the Administration have not, of course, as yet been formed due to the insufficiency of facts and interviews, but when the recommendations are finally submitted they will be of interest to all campus citizens.
—H. Smith Keel
Cheers, Not Jeers
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________________Faculty Advisor
Tom Gargan, John Denniston________________Circulation
M. E. Varga Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS
Action football shots on Pages 18 and 19 were made by Jim Ferstel. The picture of Clashmore Mike and the elephant is the work of Frank Cacciapaglia. While Mike and the cheer leaders was snapped by Jack Evans who is also responsible for the Detroit Club picture on Page 24. Wally Kunkle photographed the Sorin Hall Party on Page 16.
IltllliatllllllllllltllltllllttllltlllllllllllllBItlltlllltllllllllllllKllltKIIIIK
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., "420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8
A situation has existed at rallies and games this year which, although intended as praise of the team in general and a player in particular, has placed the team and Notre Dame in an unfavorable light. A wrought-up alumnus has written concerning the matter, and since he covers it thoroughly—from the ordinary spectator’s viewpoint as well as our own —portions of his letter are printed herewith :
“Allow me to make a suggestion . . . on a matter which I think is both necessary and urgent. As an Alumnus and a football fan of long standing, I am very sensitive to criticism of the Notre Dame student body, especially where such criticism has no basis in fact.
• “At games ... whenever a particularly big Notre Dame man makes a tackle which is at all noticeable, a large group of the Notre Dame student body seems to break out in what sounds like a healthy series of boos. I thought it was such
myself . . . until a student tipped me off that they were shouting “Moose” as a sort of kidding tribute to the popular big player. Strangers do not know that, however, and you can’t go around explaining to everyone in the stands. After the last game, for example, three of my Notre Dame friends, rather three of my synthetic alumni friends, came around to me in high indignation asking me why it is that our Notre Dame students boo their own players. One of them quoted the jibes which have been going around his own office since the beginning of the season. Now you can’t deny the charge that Notre Dame plays dirty, they say, ‘since even your own students boo the Notre Dame players right on their own field after some of their tackles. You can’t deny that because we have heard it ourselves.’
“I submit to you that something ought to be done about the matter, and quickly,
(Continued on Page 29)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing; at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88. NO. 5
OCTOBER 18. 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
SC Plans Party, Opens Price Query
The Student Council committee for the investigation of high prices under the chairmanship of Cavanaugh Hall Representative Bob Uhl has begun its collection of facts. The comparison made between the downtown prices and the local concessions is as follows:
Downtown		Campus
Commodity	Price	Price
6 oz. Cheezit Crackers	$ .14	$ .20
Nobility Cookies	.44	.45
8 oz. Ritz Crackers	.17	.25
Malteds & Milkshakes	.15 & .20 .25	
1 lb. Hi-Ho Crackers	.26	.35
Sundaes	.20	.25
Sodas	.15	.20
1 carton cigarettes	1.39	1.50
Cigarettes	.15*	•1711
- '*or 2 for 29c;	^straight)	
Although this is just a start, Mr. Uhl said that his committee is doing everything in its power to collect data relative to the campus consumer. The stores selected 'downtown for listings are those ordinarily frequented by students.
The Chairman outlined his proposed plans for interviews with Mr. David Ford, the Administration officials, and the collection of more comparisons. As soon as all articles have been dealt with, proposals and suggestions will .be made to the administration through the Student Council.—H. Smith Keel.
SELL ARMY TICKETS MONDAY NIGHT; TWO PRICE SCHEDULES ANNOUNCED
Final details of the official student trip to the Army game were announced this week by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline.
There ■will be two types of trip: Type “A” and Type “B.”
Trip “A” ■will cost $37.50 and for this price the student receives a round-trip railroad ticket valid in a first class coach on any New York Central train between New York City and South Bend. It also includes the cost of Friday night dinner enroute to New York and the cost of the game ticket.
Council Limits Sponsorship of Grid Season Open Dances
It was made clear in the last meeting of the Student Council that no club or other student organization on the campus, except the Council, would be permitted to sponsor open dances during the football season. Fred Hoover, publicity director for the Council, defined open dances as those to which all students are invited.
In connection with this statement of policy, it was also moved and carried by the Council that henceforth Victory dances will be held not only after home games, but also when the team plays at another school.
During the meeting several other issues were discussed. Among these were the acceptance and approval of club constitutions and programs for the semester. All but two of the proposed activities were passed upon, and action on one was reserved for a later date. One was a dance to be held by one of the clubs over the Christmas holidays, and the
Trip “B’ will cost $30.75 and for this price the student receives a railroad ticket valid only for the special train returning at 11:59 P.M. (EST) on Saturday night, Nov. 9. It also ineludes the price of a game ticket, plus dinner on the Friday night train and breakfast on the return trip. However, Trip “B” will only be carried out if 300 students or more indicate preference to return on that special train.
Residence hall students who plan to (Continued on Page 29)
other was a dinner to be given by the same organization at Hallowe’en. However, this latter event would conflict ■with the proposed Council activity, and the request was withdrawn.
Also brought to the Council members’ attention was the request of Jerry Feeney, member of the Stay Council, to accept his resignation as chairman of the Blue Circle honorary society.
Jerry’s resignation was accepted, and Council President Bill Pelling appointed Bob Uhl to succeed him. Rules governing the Blue Circle state that the chairman must be a member of the Student Council.
One of the social highlights of the fall semester, if the plans are approved by the Administration, will be a Hallowe’en dance to be given by the Council on October 30. The price of admission would be fifty cents per couple.
Some of the features of this event would be candy, doughnuts, cider, a band, and all the traditional Hallowe’en trimmings. However, nothing is as yet definite on it.
It was further announced at the meeting that all men who are running for any class office must submit their names to the Student Council by Friday, October 25, for approval. The time of the elections will be announced next week.
Fred Hoover also asserted that Lieutenant General Hugh J Drum, commanding officer of the New York State Guard, had been contacted by the Council in order to ascertain whether it would be possible to obtain the use of certain State Guard armories in the vicinity of New York City for housing a number of Notre Dame students attending the Army game on November 9.	’
9
Laundry Fights Back to Normal Service
Shortly after school opened in September, Chuck Tierney of 416 Walsh hall walked into.the Badin hall dry cleaning shop for the first time, eased up to the counter. A clerk approached, took Chuck’s soiled blue suit, and said sprightly, '‘Come back in seven days.”
Last week, Tierney, a slightly disillusioned young man, walked into the same basement and asked the cashier for the fifth time, “Is my blue suit back yet?” Slowly, the cashier fingered through the long, crowded clothes rack, turned to her customer and said apologetically, “Not yet. Try again Monday, will you?”
Other Notre Dame men met with the same fate. An explanation was clearly in order. Two days after school opened in September, the St. Michael’s cleaning department was flooded with over 3,000 dirty garments, a month’s work in normal times. By the end of September the pile of dirty garments had reached landslide proportions. The dry cleaners reached for their bromo seltzer.
Housed in a building not much bigger than a pocket handkerchief, six men tried to wash and press their way out of an avalanche of suits, sweaters, scanties and what-have-you. Their efforts were praiseworthy; their results questionable. They promised seven-day service, gave twenty; then gave up.
St. Michael’s laundry was in no better shape. Serving 3900 regular students and the religious community as well, the laundry had 111,000 dirty garments dumped into its lap the first week of operation. Last semester the weekly laundry was only 67,850 pieces. To meet the emergency, eighty persons were rushed into service. They tried desperately to keep the week’s wash on the line, finally threw in the towel. They managed, however, to keep paths clear to the door and coke machines.
Fletcher Daniels, a quiet, mild, easygoing Southerner from Chattanooga, Tenn., also found the situation a little confusing. Last week he noticed a classmate wearing a very familiar plaid shirt. With open-mouthed astonishment, Fletch recognized his laundry-mark on the garment. Investigating further, he confirmed his suspicions when the classmate’s face turned a fire-truck red. Blushingly, the classmate told that he had received the wrong laundry, forgot to return the shirt.
, But this week the harvest moon brought light upon the clouded situation. Mr. Gerald Hoar, manager of the Notre Dame laundry and cleaning plants, announced that the rush period was about 10'
over and service would soon be back to normal. Mr. Hoar urged students to send only their minimum requirements to the dry cleaners. With student cooperation he hoped to resume at least seven-day dry cleaning service within two weeks. The laundry, too, was going over the hump. Mr. Hoar stated that St. Michael’s was now prepared to give one-week laundry service and that enough linen had been purchased by the university to take care of all present student demands.
Nevertheless, at week’s end, Chuck Tierney, 416 Walsh, was still waiting for his blue suit, was still moaning, “I’ve been taken to the cleaners.”
—Bob Vierhile
Powerhouse Coal Pile Blazes On and On
Chicago burned for some five days. Nobody can say that the heat wasn’t on there. But you ain’t heard nutting yet. Here, at Notre Dame, we have a coal pile which has been burning for two and a half months, which is what we would call a hot story. Day and night, our coal pile gives off smoke and a nauseating, sulphuric stench. But where there is smoke, for once, there’s little fire.
Viewed at a distance, the pile, located beside the power plant, might give the impression of its being a half-active, undersized volcano. We wonder if it isn’t a publicity plug to-make Notre Dame’s lakes and woods take on the added distinction of being a miniature Yellowstone.
But Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., chief engineer at the power plant and fire chief as well, describes the fire as “nothing out of the ordinary.” This sort of thing can and does happen elsewhere. Similarly caused fires have burned in mines for generations. Nor, for that matter, is it new to Notre Dame; only two years ago another such fire burned for several months.
The present fire has been burning since August 1, when a heavy rain started it. Bain, in that case, was a fuel instead of an extinguisher. Coal, it seems, burns better when wet. A high sulphur content, which the cheaper Indiana coal now burned by the University has, is another important factor in making it smoulder and smell.
As for getting the thing out, it’s easier said than done. According to Brother Borromeo, ithese things have -to expire at their leisure. But it doesn’t matter much, because it will have been used up in about three weeks. In the meantime, the fact that the coal has been packed tight by a bulldozer cuts tonnage loss to a minimum.	—Harold Imbus
Notre Dame NFCCS Regional Meet Host
The Notre Dame Council of the NFCCS will be host tomorrow to student delegates from five colleges of the Michigan area who will gather for a regional council meeting in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. A total of forty delegates and observers—representing campus activity leaders in the functions of the Federation—will discuss plans for increased regional activities and set the date and agenda for the regional congress to be held during the current school year.
Colleges sending delegates to the meet tomorrow are: St. Joseph’s of Collegeville, Ind.; St. Francis of Fort Wayne; Nazareth College in Kalamazoo; Aquinas in Grand Rapids; and St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. These six schools comprise the Ft. Wayne Region of NFCCS (the National Federation of Catholic College Students).
George Igel and Frank Grimaldi will be the two official Notre Dame delegates to the council and Pat O’Meara will serve as Regional president.
The most important aspect of the regional council meeting tomorrow will be the reports of the regional commissions. There are nine commissions in the Ft. Wayne region and Notre Dame holds the chairmanship of three—Veterans Affairs, International Relations and Catholic Action. After the commission chairmen have reported their regional activity, their units will be approved or voted out of future action. The chief function of regional council meetings are to reorganize and stimulate the commissions into more activity. Other commissions in the Ft. Wayne Region besides the three centered at Notre Dame are: Family and Rural Life, Missions, Press, Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, Interracial Affairs, and Mariology.
Clergy who will sit in on the meeting will include Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., regional chaplain, and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of the Vets Club at Notre Dame and the guiding hand of the Veteran’s Affairs commission functioning here.
An all afternoon and evening program is planned for the NFCCS delegates, with a social following the afternoon business sessions.
LITURGY STUDY SUNDAY
Students interested in the history. art, and study of church liturgy are invited to attend the first meeting of the Campus Liturgy Club in the Cavanaugh Reading Room on Sunday, Oct. 20, at 10 a. m.
Wal Fry Mah Hide, They Got Lena The Hyena At Noder Dame, Too!
Expected to make a bid to the U.N. in the near future is the never-never land of Lower Slobovia, which has a white Christmas 365 days a year, but exports very little for export. Last week, under the sponsorship of Al Capp and his satirical strip, L’il Abner, Lower S. did export a product to the U. S. One Lena, the Hyena, the “ogliest woman in the world,” took ship, freighted and
crated, for Dogpatch, U.S.A., and tha hospitality of Mammy Yokum and complication with L’il Abner and Sadie Hawkins Day.
Lena has been stirring the warm American heart for some time now, since she first appeared last spring. When it came to a showdown the first time, Capp, apparently unable to draw anything as horrible as Lena was supposed to be, failed to produce, left a blank space labeled CENSORED. This time, perhaps crowded by public pressure, the U. S. will get a good look at the face that may sink more ships than the atom, bomb.
But Capp gave the whole country a chance to imagine what she looked like. And so, all over the country, people have been flooding “The Committee” (Boris Karloff, Frank Sinatra, and surrealist Salvador Dali), with drawings, etchings, oil paintings of the gal of their nights mares. Local papers have been conducting contests of their own, selecting the most gruesome Lenas and frightening small readers with half page spreads of her.
Monday the U. S. will know the awful truth. Lena will appear- in Capp’s strip as the winning cartoonist submitted her, and the whole country will know what killed centenarian Clark Rasputingable, who lay down his life for his fiend. Then everybody can unbate his bated breath.
Notre Dame, seldom left out of anything famous or infamous, has produced its own Lena via Badin Hall’s Don Rigoni. The accompanying monstrosity is Lena as Rigoni sees her; the Scholastic disclaims any responsibility for-ensuing insanity, fits, or mayhem.
Don, who is a fugitive from Lockport, Ilinois, and an architecture sophomore, claims Lena is the best reincarnation he can think of for an English girl he used to go with. Puffing on his Austrian peasants pipe, Don says she is also his reaction against all womankind. Perhaps the fact that Don, while rated only a sophomore, has enough hours to be a full-fledged junior has something to do with this misanthropic outburst against unsuspecting humanity.
Whether the Rigoni Lena will win, neither we nor Rigoni know; but we’ll bet a moldy corpse to a well-ripened deceased cat that she has a pretty good chance. She looked so bad to us that we were thinking of sending her over to St. Mary’s as a token of good will.
K of C to Honor Patron In Year's First Breakfast
Commemorating the discovery of America and other discoveries made by Christopher Columbus, the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus will celebrate theii- first Communion Breakfast of the school year this coming Sunday, October 20th.
Len Aull, chairman of the Catholic Activity committee, who is in charge of the arrangements has announced that the Mass will be celebrated in the Dillon Hall chapel at 8:00 and that the breakfast will take place in the West Dining Hall beginning at 9:00. The Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, will celebrate the Mass while the Rev. A. McDowell, C.S.C., of the department of Religion will be the principal speaker at the breakfast. The theme of this initial Communion- breakfast for the Knights will center about Columbus who serves as the patron of their order.
All members of the Knights of Columbus who are attending school at the university are urged to take part in this program, and chairman Aull and his assistants have further added that there will be no charge levied upon those who reside off campus since all expenses will be met by the Notre Dame council.
First Degrees Initiated At Next Knight Meeting
All K of C affairs are subordinated to the forthcoming first-degree initiation of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, to be held Tuesday night, in the council clubrooms in the basement of Walsh Hall. Grand Knight James D. Sullivan has limited candidates for this initiation to thirty-five, with two more first-degree initiations in the offing before the big second-and third-degree exemplifications, scheduled for early December.
Leonard Aull, Chairman of the Catholic Activities Committee of the Council, is at present completing arrangements for the first K. of C. Communion Breakfast of the semester on Sunday, October 20th. Details will be announced at the Tuesday business meeting which will precede the initiation ceremonies.
Still heading the agenda for November is the KC Vaudeville, a hardy perennial at Notre Dame. Entries are coming* in with increasing regularity, and it would be best to hasten your entry if you would like to enter the talent competition. Jack Galloway is the man to see, or anyone in the council chambers can convey your intentions to Jack if you will make these intentions known.
£11
NATION'S PRESS DENOUNCES TRIAL OF ARCHBISHOP STEPIN AC BY TITO
Notre Dame was not the only source of bitter denunciation of the arrest, trial, and conviction of Yugoslavia’s Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac by Tito’s communist regime. Nor was it confined to Catholic circles.
The nation’s secular press, shocked by this climax to an already imposing series of Tito outrages, took up the burden of decrying this latest “travesty on justice.”
Samples of the editorial comment:
“AD ID TIMES,” Oct. 13, 1946:
No one in or out of Yugoslavia can have been surprised by the conviction of Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac in a Zagreb court on fourteen charges of collaboration with the Axis Powers and with anti-Tito rebels. . . . The surprise lay in the comparatively light sentence of sixteen years’ imprisonment. . . . This was clearly a political trial, of such a nature, as Acting Secretary of State Dean Acheson said on Friday, as to cause “concern and deep worry” in this country. The political trial is as definite a procedure in Communist and Communist-dominated nations as an election is in democratic nations. It always looks beyond the question of immediate guilt or innocence. . . . General Mikhailovitch was convicted and shot as part of a campaign to prove that American and British wartime policy in Yugoslavia had been reactionary. . . . Archbishop Step-inatz has been convicted and will be imprisoned as part of a campaign against his Church, which is guilty of unfriendliness toward communism and which for historic reasons can hardly help nourishing the spirit of Croatian patriotism. . .
New York “Times,” Oct. 3, 1946:
•“The propaganda trial of Archbishop Stepinac in Zagreb has no more relation to justice than that of General Mikhailovitch. . . . The Communist dictatorship will not tolerate among the masses any influence it cannot digest and use for its own nutriment. It will acknowledge no control over men’s minds other than its own. The Catholic Church, especially powerful among the Croats, is the strongest bulwark against communism in Yugoslavia today. Therefore it must .be crushed. Murders of priests by the secret police have failed to crush it. The trial of Archbishop Stepinac is the ■heaviest weapon against the church Tito has yet rolled out. If the lessons of religious history mean anything, he is merely making a martyr, whose spirit and influence he cannot kill.”
12
“Time” Magazine, Sept. 30, 1946:
“Marshall Tito struck directly at the only organized force left in Yugoslavia with the powei- to criticize his dictatorship (the Catholic Church). . . . Archbishop Stepinac (had) lashed out at the Nazi ‘master race’ idea. ... He was just as fearless in condemning Communist outrages. . . . The Archbishop had become the only spokesman for the Yugoslavs, rendered voiceless and helpless by the OZNA (Tito’s secret police). People knelt when Stepinac passed through the streets.”
“Reader's Digest, October, 1946:
(From the Book Section: “Yugoslavia’s Tragic Lesson to the World” by Bogdan Raditsa.)
“The chief source of resistance to the Tito regime in Yugoslavia is religion. Hence the war conducted by that regime against the church. . . . But the clergy and theii' congregations are not intimidated. In Zagreb I saw a procession of people coming into the city from a shrine of the Virgin Mary. With them was Archbishop Stepinets (Stepinac), who had just been released from a three-week arrest by the Partisans. He came along in the procession in the midst of 20,000 who tumultuously shouted: “Long live Stepinets! Long live Christ the King!”
Virtually all Yugoslavs belong either to the Roman Catholic Church or to the Eastern Orthodox Church. And in the .Serbian East, as in the Croatian and Slovenian West, it is religion that stands staunchest against communist domination.”
Father Young, Former Moreau Choir Director, Dies at 44
Rev. James H. Young, C.S.C., age 44, former director of the Moreau Seminary choir at the University of Notre Dame, died on October 8 at St. Joseph’s hospital after an illness of .three years.
Father Young was born August 6, 1902 in Perham, Minn., and was ordained on June 24, 1936. From 1936 to 1938 he taught and studied at Notre Dame, and during that time he also directed the Moreau Seminary choir. He studied at Columbia University from 1939 to 1943 and at the same time taught the Gregorian liturgical chant at the Pope Pius X School of Liturgical Music at the Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York City;
Father Young is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. George M. Young, of Perham; and two sisters, Mrs. Mary
VETERANS NEWS
All you veterans who have troubles may not know that there is another place on campus in addition to Father Lane’s office that is designed to help you out with your difficulties. So if you have been “checkless” for a while or if there are some other problems bothering you about veteran’s administrative papers, here is a little tip for you.
Instead of flooding the mails with letters headed Indianapolis way or sitting around grumbling among yourselves, drop over to Room 14 in the Main Building. Here you will find the U. S. Veteran’s Administration Guidance Center and here you will find advisors to help you with your problems. The Guidance center wants to help and may be able to straighten your problem out without too much delay.
But let us get down to the present problems that are facing the veteran on our campus. You guessed it—it’s about the many boys who are roaming around with long faces due to the lack of a certain little green piece of paper from the United States Treasury.
All veterans who, after completing their registration with Father Lane’s office, went over to the Naval Administration Building and talked to the representatives of the Veteran’s Administration from Indianapolis should have received their- subsistence allowance checks for the month of September either on the first of October or very soon thereafter. Now, if you have gone through the prescribed procedure and still haven’t received your check, here is what you are advised to do. Write your name and your claim number on a piece of paper and take it to the Guidance Center, Room 14, Main Building, and give it to the receptionist there. Then the Center will be able to either get your check for you or find out why you haven’t already received it. But for you veterans who have not followed the prescribed procedure and did not talk to the representatives from Indianapolis, your checks may not come to you until November the first or later.—John V. Hupf.
Rice, of Perham, and Mrs. Pauline Eades, of San Diego, California.
Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart church on the Notre Dame campus last Saturday morning. Rev. James Doll, C.S.C., a cousin of Father Young, was celebrant of the funeral mass. Rev. Alfred Schlitzer, C.S.C., a member of the Notre Dame faculty, was deacon; Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., Superior of Holy Cross seminary at Notre Dame, was subdeacon; and Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., was master of ceremonies.
SONS OF SORIN FLOCK TO LASALLE FOR BANQUET FUN AND FELLOWSHIP
Following close on the heels of the Badin Banqueteers, Sorin Hall made its official entry as a member of the knife and fork league on October 9. Headed by its rector, Father Forrestal, and two popular prefects, Father Sheedy and Father Sweeney, the Sorin Herd numbering over 100 strong took over the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel and into the space of three hours crammed one of the most enjoyable times your rocking chair reporter has ever had the pleasure to witness.
The schedule of events started off conventionally enough with a turkey dinner; then the boys sat back and relaxed, alternating puffs on their LaFendrichs with quaffs of Mishawaka brew. There was a touch of the melodramatic astir as the M.C., Phil “Monetti” Luppi rose to deliver those first words, and very careful he was to sound those vowels to indicate he is a speech major.
First speaker introduced was Father Forrestal who lauded the Sons of Sorin for their spirit and effort in promoting such a splendid banquet. Right behind him followed Notre Dame’s new president and guest speaker for the evening, Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Father Cavanaugh, likewise, praised Serin’s spirit and hinted that its world famous porch probably had much to do with it. Next came another guest speaker, Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., an ex-rector of Sorin, and acclaimed by many as being worth the price of admission alone.
Sorinites gather in the Bronze Room of the LaSalle.- At the speaker's table are left to right, “Harp" Dougherty, Marty Brutz, Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C.. rector; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,' University president; Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Robert Sweeney. C.S.C., executive assistant to the president.
Father- Burke laid bare his bag of anecdotes, witticisms, yarns, jokes and songs. Teeing off with his Irish jokes he swung into Italian dialect and finished off with his self-composed ditties.
In a raffle for an “ND” blanket conducted by Bill Hassett assisted by Henry Lim, Larry Gallo came off the winner. Music throughout was solidly supplied by the Sorin Sextet “Lease Breakers” more professionally known as the “Cavaliers.” Composing this unit were: John Clark, piano; Roy Lang, trombone; Jack Guion, trumpet; Bob Shaeffer, clarinet; Tom Voss, drums, and Joe Edmond, bass. Lou Almasi turned in a commendable job with the flicker making very certain to remove all disturbing objects in the neighborhood of the target.
By popular request the “Loop” finished off with a vocal rendition of “Love Letters” after which the committee comprising Matt Pinter, chairman; Bill Siebert, vice-chairman; Fred Naegele, program director; Pat Weishapl, publicity; and the money hustlers Frank Gilhooley, Harp Dougherty, Marty Brutz and Pat McCarthy came in for a sincere vote of thanks.—Dave Warner.
Air Corps Vets Swell Regrouped Flying Club
The reorganized Flying Club of Notre Dame held its initial meeting last Thursday, a week ago, in the Engineering building.
In other years the students interested in aviation did not have the numerical strength available in this, the first full year after the war’s end. Many of the Vets who had been in the Air Corps would naturally like to keep on flying because of the opportunities offered in the field of aviation.
William Baska was chosen president pro-tem until a board of officers could be elected after the club is a little more settled. With the number of returning Air Corps veterans joining the club as well as other men interested in flying, the “birdmen” think they will have a well rounded organization and will do nicely in the future.
Grad S+udes to Hear of European Situation
Father Louis Putz, C. S. C., who has just returned from an extensive tour of Europe has accepted an invitation to address the graduate students and their guests at a smoker and social to be held in the faculty dining hall on the second floor of the university cafeteria building, Friday evening, October 25, at 8:00. This is the first in a seines of lectures being sponsored by the Graduate Students Association, an organization initiated and supported by the graduate students themselves. Father Putz’s topic will be European Observations—1946.
e,	*
The event is open to graduate students, faculty members and their ladies. Cider and doughnuts will be served in keeping with the harvest season, and admission is free. A large turnout is expected because of the interest that has been created upon Father Putz’s return with first-hand information on the political, social, and intellectual setting in Europe today.
Father Philip S. Moore, C;S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, has consented to inaugurate the lecture series with a short talk on the ideals of the Graduate School and on the aims of the Graduate Students Association. After this, Father Putz will be introduced and will recount some of his significant observations while in France, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and Czechoslovakia. He attended youth congresses in Prague and Freibourg.
Of special interest will be what he has to say of what he saw while in the Russian zone in Germany and Czechoslovakia and in Berlin. A question and discussion period will follow. Tom Cosgrove is chairman in charge of arrangements, which are being nicely facilitated by cooperation and authorization from the Dean’s office.
13

Every Friday afternoon, about 4 o’clock, an event of cardinal significance takes place on the Notre Dame campus: the Scholastic rolls off the presses. No sooner is this slick newsmagazine into the hands of the students than Charlemagne and calculus are forgotten, ND campus news replaces Thompson’s account of the coming of the white man, and Maritain waits while we thumb to the latest info on Army tickets.
Scholastic in hand, avid readers run smack into light poles, fall down steps. Hefty footballers, mulling over some collegiate
subtlety, miss blocks and go rolling in loud laughter over some late-dawning excerpt from the joke column. Philosophy profs, despairing over stacks of sophomorish essays, light up with glowing faith again as they muse over the poignant prose of these budding journalists.
But before the campus mag gets into the hands of the student, a lot of hustle and headaches have gone in between its flashy covers. So let’s go behind the scenes and follow the newsstory from its amoebic origin in the fertile mind of some editor until it pops out of the finished page on Friday afternoon.
We’ll begin with a sports story, Moe Pflug, freshman cub reporter, is sent out by Joe Cheney the sports editor to find out what kind of a team ND will field this fall. Pflug makes his way to Coach Leahy’s office just in time to avert a suicide. The lacri-mose Leahy, standing on a box, is preparing to hang himself. All around, huge tear-filled handkerchiefs in hand, are the assistant coaches, sobbing in unison, “We only got 42 lettermen (sob) and a couple of newcomers like Connor (sob) and Sitko, and we’ll never be able to win another game against that representative schedule. Oh unhappy day!” But on learning that Pflug is only a student reporter the athletic rings down the curtain on their hari-kari act and shoo him away with the halfhearted opinion that we might win half our remaining games.
Seeing how most stories are concocted over the weekends while ND students lounge in their sacks or strut their stuff, bow ties and all, on Michigan Ave., the editorial staff grinds away while others play. Joe Wilcox, feature editor, sends Pflug over to St. Mary’s to check the talent at a tea dance. Pflug, without a ticket, finds that getting into the Rock is like navigating between Scylla and Charydbis, but being an enterprising youngster tries the well-worn “I’ve got a date with Suzie Mae.” Three hours later Pflug comes out with his story: out of 150
I
I


Marguerite Varga (top) who does a man-sized job oi selling advertising and handling the manifold problems of rates and space, ponders something with the help of circulation managers Tom Gargan and John Denniston. They're in charge of keeping the magazine sliding under your door every Friday afternoon.
The editors go into high gear (center) as they undertake their Sunday night labors on the next issue. Left to right, the editorial staff of the campus journal: Jim Clemens, news editor; Frank Keen-' an. associate news editor; Joe Cheney, sports editor; John Defant. editor-in-chief; Ted Weber and H. Smith Keel, associate editors; and with his foot on one of the battered old wastebaskets. Joe Wilcox, feature editor.
On the production end. at the Ave^ Maria Press (bottom) lino-. typist Bill Seeger sets copy as the iron, monster pours out the metal slugs that are soon to register the impressions of the week at Notre Dame.
14

to-
I
i j girls present there were 298 twisted stocking-seams in the crowd. I	Meanwhile the rest of the staff is busy fluttering through
reams of back copy, complaint letters, news from foreign campuses. Lou Almasi and Tom Higgins are. knocking themselves out over- joke columns from the Auburn Plainsman and the UCLA Daily Bruin. And Bill Lyman is culling the gems from the gravel in the carload of student contributions.
Back to Pflug. News Editor Jim Clemens sends him over to the equipment office to find out if it’s true ND has got in some new football uniforms. Pflug walks in the wrong door at McAllister’s toggery tabernacle and promptly gets his head bit off just below the collar-bone. With vicious airedale ferocity Mac blasts away at poor Pflug until he finds out he didn’t want a clean towel, just a story, so he sends him away with a no, no new uniforms.
By the time Sunday evening rolls around a goodly part of the news is in, so the editorial high command, led by Editor ! John Defant and his associates Keel and Weber, meet in the basement editorial offices under Cavanaugh Hall and hash over the copy. It’s just like in the movies: cigarette smoke fills the air, paper strewn everywhere, typewriters clicking away, copy 1' boys hurrying by, and general bedlam. Here the magazine is planned and space alotted for time copy and last minute stuff, pictures from photogs Ferstel and Cacciapaglia selected, and everything made in readiness.
Monday morning sees the office of the moderator open for business. Across the desk of Father Laskowski, C.S.C., magazine moderator, flow tears from harried editors, in return flow encouragements to go even further all-out in journalistic endeavor, and the doors to his room do more swinging than a frontrow Earl Carroll chorus. Busiest wheel in the office is pint-sized M. E. Varga. Marguerite, also known as “the Mag,” handles all advertising, subscriptions, off-campus mailing and circulation, and in addition plays a saucy hostess to the hundreds of char-' acters who barge in with complaints and suggestions. She is assisted by John Denniston, Tom Gargan (who sees that everybody gets a copy), Jim Klockenkemper (he takes care of the morgue), and Jerry Olwell, who helps get ads when he isn’t thinking up ways of irking the authorities over the shoi-tage of Army tickets.
With the rush of last-minute news stories and the hubbub of rewriting by Stock and Snyder, the Scholastic goes to the composing room over at the Ave Maria Press building, where compositors set it up and it proceeds from there under the careful
Weber and Defant (top) supply the layout and Orville Platt and * Joe Guentert make up the pages of the “Scholastic" in the Composing Room of the Ave Maria Press. After each individual page is made up a proof is taken and checked for typographical errors by proofreader Brother Finbarr.
After all corrections have been made in the pages, they are imposed into 16-page forms (center) by Joe Guentert and Orville Platt and away they go to the Press Room.
And the presses roll! Ed Jankowski watches as Conrad Hinz (bottom) feeds the huge printing press as it pours forth the printed forms. Other machines take care of the folding and cutting, while the "Scholastic" color cover is printed on another press.
P
IS
eye of Defant and Weber. Proof-reading, re-set, and proofing 1 again, last minute news phoned in to Marguerite’s desk, rushed	I
over to the press. Cuts arrive from downtown, and the format	|
is ready about Wednesday night for the first run.	|
Over at the Ave Maria they put out the Alumnus, Review I of Politics the Ave Maria, and several other publications besides j handling the headaches of the Scholastic.	'
All day Thursday the presses hum and the magazine slips off the flatbed rollers The cover is printed on a vertical press, and together they are clipped once the pages are folded and cut. The mailing room prepares the copies that go to outside subscribers, and the delivery room trucks the finished product away. The circulation department takes it right up to the student’s door.
But no sooner is the mag out than the complaints begin to come in. There’s the portly freshman, chomping on a pork-chop bone, who comes stomping into the offices mumbling “Why don’t youse complain about da food here if youse is a free press? Why can’t we have more grits and turnip greens like we all have down home in Kaintuck?” Then there’s the would-be anarchist, bomb in hand, who pokes his head in the door to scream “Yer all ascared of the big wheels. Ya sell Tribunes for 4 cents but ya won’t sell the New Masses.” Then there’s always the guy who wants his girl’s picture in the next issue, but she turns out to be even more icky than some of the pips we’ve shown before, so another friend is lost.
No rest for the staff. One mag off the presses, bolt your aspirins, line up for a quick sniff of benzedrine, and let’s roll ’em for next week.—John A. O’Connor
Now almost finished, your “Scholastic" passes on to the stapling machine (top) which gathers the body and the cover and staples them together. Supervising this process are, left to right. Brothers Linus, Methodius, and Juvian. From here it passes on to the trimmer and finally the “Scholastic" is ready for YOU.
Of special interest to off-campus students and subscribers is the mailing room (bottom). Here Brother Valery runs the addres-sograph while Brother Louis places the addressed copies in their boxes for delivery to all points.
Russia Seeking Destruction of United States—Budenz
“The destruction of the United States is the goal of Soviet Russia,” so stated Louis F. Budenz, former editor of the Communist Daily Worker, and more recently an instructor in Economics here at Notre Dame, in a radio address given over station WJR, Detroit, Sunday night, October 13.	\
Budenz, who recently renounced C6m-munism and returned to the Catholic Church, openly charged Russia tvith wanting a third world war in the hope of destroying the United States and Great Britain. He stated in effect that “the American Communists are as much a fifth column for Russia as the Quislings were for Nazi Germany. They; take
their orders from a man who is an agent of the Kremlin, but who never shows his face and is unknown to the average Communist.” He further asserted he would disclose this man’s name to “any official agency” but would prefer to do so under oath.
Currently- a member of the faculty at Fordham University, Budenz plans many more speeches against Communism now that the year of silence, imposed upon him by the Catholic Church when he returned to the fold, is over.
Improvements Welcomed At Second Victory Hop
Last Saturday evening following the Purdue game the second Notre Dame Victory dance was held in the Navy Drill
Hall and was a definite success according to the Student Council and by all the attending couples.
Thanks to Bill Felling, chairman of the committee this week, improvements over the previous week’s dance were very noticeable. The lighting, the floor space and the refreshment area are instances, as well as the ample amount of wax on the cement floor which made dancing a little easier.
The music was supplied by Ray Winters and his orchestra, supported by two very able vocalists, Phillys Hall and Chick Wilk. The crowd attending was not as large as that of the week before; however this was considered most feasible by everyone there as it helped to-provide more space for dancing.
16
Operation Crossroads
By Dr. Milton Burton
Exclusive to the "SCHOLASTIC"
(Dr. Milton Burton was born in Stapleton, N. Y., in 1902. He obtained both his undergraduate and his graduate training at New York University, from ivhich he received his Ph.D. in 1925. Folloiving a ten year interlude in industry he returned to academic zvork in 1935. Between 1935 and 1942 he ivas connected with Neiv York University except for periods of study at Cornell, California, and North Carolina. In 1942 he assumed charge of radiation chemistry research in the atomic energy project, first at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago and in 1945 at Clinton Laboratories, Oak Ridge, Tenn. Dr. Burton was appointed Professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame in November 1945 but remained on leave until this term. He recently returned from the atomic bomb test at Bikini, and is still connected with the atomic energy project as a consultant and as an editor of the Plutonium Project ^Record.)
The atomic bomb annihilates cities and pop ations but can armor-plated ships survive its force and what changes should be made to provide against the idiocy of an atomic war? The executive branch of our government apparently did not want a theoretical answer. They decided on a test. Ultimately, a fleet (Joint Task Force 1) composed of about 100 vessels and about 45,000 personnel converged on Bikini atoll in the South Pacific in the summer of this year.
When the American public spends $75 million merely to destroy things, it feels it has certain rights to information and insists on exercise of those rights. Consequently, personnel at the atomic bomb test at Bikini toward the end included not only working participants but also non-participating American observers, newsmen, and official observers of foreign nations.
The weakness of those wonderfully contrived tests was that those whose function it was to inform the public of this and other nations of their outcome came insufficiently informed for their task. Worst of all was the fact that they completely misinterpreted the project from the very beginning. What was in actuality a limited test, they thought to be a demonstration—a. demonstration of the violence that would come to a recalcitrant world if it did not obey the altruistic admonishments (an exclusively
American notion) or bow to the awful threats (certainly the Russian notion) of the United States.
The reports which reached this country and the Russian government must have reflected a basic misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. The audience at Bikini was so scared by expectation of the impossible that it neglected to understand the magnitude of the terror unfolded on Able-day.
On the morning of July 1, 1946 the entire task force except target vessels was outside Bikini lagoon. The nearest ship was 14 miles away. The U.S.S. Haven, from which our group viewed the blast, was 18 miles away. Even at that distance the instantaneous brightness which accompanied the bomb burst at about 9:05 a.m., far exceeded the intensity of the tropical sun. Perhaps because of the distance, the magnificent, thick, writhing, bright, dense, and highly colored mushroom-shaped cloud seemed so awe-inspiring and terrible. It was a real shock to feel and hear the blast one minute and 27 seconds after we first saw it. That man could produce such majesty of force is unbelievable to one who has not observed it.
The smoke and flames and damage in the lagoon might have seemed relatively meagre and anticlimatic after such a show. We returned to a relatively peaceful harbor. The water was quiet and unchanged, the palm fronds (four miles off the target) still waved gently in the breeze. The wide empty spaces
were soothing and perhaps distracted inexpert attention from twisted superstructures and ' fire-control towers, smashed smoke-stacks and fan-tails.. The Independence (beautiful carrier) was a burning sieve. The target ship Nevada, badly missed by the bomb, had its fan-tail flattened as by a giant hand. The Sakawa went down by the stem. Some smaller ships had disappeared. The Pensacola and the Salt Lake City were a shambles. The Nagato was even more badly damaged than it had been by our naval bombardment during the war. All over the area there were fires. Hatches designed to protect occupants of various compartments had been blown in with their frames by the blast. Asbestos was blown off engine room pipes in the target area; had steam been up the resultant explosions would have made the actuality of Able-day look like a church picnic.
Gromyko announced (for Russia) that the dangers to world peace of the atomic energy situation had been greatly overrated.
Baker-day, three weeks later, provided another, and new, kind of show. A radioactive fountain a half-mile wide was produced by an atomic blast 25 feet below the water. The mighty Arkansas and many other vessels disappeared; their fates are not yet known because spots of the lagoon are still too dangerously radioactive for complete exploration.
This is the story as of today. The name Operation Crossroads had been selected by Vice-Admiral Blandy in command of JTF-1. Apparently, he saw a significance in these tests which the atomic scientists have repeatedly proclaimed. Perhaps, yet another test—a real demonstration—will be needed to inform the world of the actuality of the Crossroads at which it now stands. We can only hope that the next demonstration of atomic force is not incidental to a new war. Perhaps, if we act quickly and determinedly we can avert the fate which world anarchy holds in store.
Rubber Formula Discovered At N. D.
The basic formula for synthetic rubber was discovered in 1920 by the University of Notre Dame’s famous scientist, the late Father Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., in the Notre Dame Chemical Laboratories. Father Nieuwland also was a famous botanist. He founded The American Midland Naturalist, a leading periodical of its kind, which has been published at Notre Dame since 1909.
17
Pep Panelli (67) drives 17 yards for a first down on the Purdue 13 yard line. Seconds later he broke through to the Boilermaker one. Jim Martin (left). ND. end, drives in to block out Jim Walley (76), Purdue quarterback. No. 98 is Purdue tackle Sam Nevills.
Football and the Fighting Irish at Notre Dame
There is a particular way of life peculiar to each college campus that reveals the character of the school.
At Notre Dame, there is a rugged masculine tradition, built upon a solid spiritual and intellectual purpose. Living the Notre Dame way of life makes Notre Dame live in her sons. The inevitable result is a vital and binding loyalty that begets teamwork. This is especially true on the fields of friendly combat, the natural outlet for, and manifestation of school spirit. Clothe this spirit with the wholesome and healthy American youth on the campus of this particular university, and you have that elusive and priceless heritage, the Spirit of Notre Dame. And in no other instance is it better exemplified than in the great American game of football.
There is something natural about sports at Notre Dame—as natural as are sports at West Point and at Annapolis; they are a symbol and a measure of the physical excellence of youth. They typify the American way of life regarding physical development much better than would compulsory military training, as Elmer Layden pointed out to the sports world in his postwar plan for youth training. Furthermore, there are no fraternities, no sororities, nor smug cliques which tend to destroy unity of interest, or erect social barriers on this
18	‘
campus. There is, rather, a common bond, born of family loyalty and inspiration—a household undivided. Indeed, it is part of the Notre Dame tradition that players sitting on the sidelines cheer loudest for their teammates in the fray. It matters little what individual does the scoring; it is important only that Notre Dame triumph.
And why is Notre Dame invariably successful? The answer is largely due to the definition of the word itself. For, at Notre Dame, success means to do one’s best. It is a passion here to play hard—harder than the opposition—and to stop at nothing short of perfection. That is why Notre Dame and athletics have become synonymous in the sense that, they spell success. And the praise heaped upon her by sports lovers throughout the world is a praise born of courage, tenacity, leadership, endurance, and an inspiration that only the strong of heart possess.
Nor is it by any mere accident that we are called the Fighting Irish. True, in the beginning, it was a term of derision, scornfully heaped upon us in a faroff day by those who, possibly, were less truly American than they cared to admit. But we accepted the name as a challenge and, through the years, have
. (Continued on Page 25)
Notre Dame’s band lacked in
What
OT
9
i
ND's S+un+s Match Purdue's Marching
The University of Purdue may have
been slightly disappointed in the showing of its varsity football team, but it can certainly be proud of its fine marching band. The Purdue musicians are all members of the R. 0. T. C. and exhibited some fancy military tactics be tween the halves last Saturday. In fact, the Notre Dame band could learn a few lessons in collective marching from tin khaki clad horn footers of Lafayette.
t t ( a
c c fi a ii b o
military precision they made up for in musical quality and originality. The “Circus Time” show was the best halftime entertainment seen here in many
years. Mr. H. Lee Hope deserves much ’ credit for a well-planned, fast moving performance. Ralph Thorson, the “Forgotten Irishman” from Chatfield, Minnesota, was the main attraction under . the Big Top, while the horses and * elephants made a big hit with everyone, including Clashmore Mike who showed • signs of both bewilderment and jealousy.
The Army game is next on the band’s list and the only trip on the schedule this year. Since November 9th is three weeks away, Mr. Hope will have ample
time for rehearsal.
—Roy Lang
ii
f.
Clatt (69) powers his way through tl s Purdu quarter. Hoffman (48). Purdue end. bnsl.es of: and Mastrangelo (75) trap Nevills (98).
Army, Irish, Texas In That Order By AP
The nation’s sports writers, balloting in the Associated Press’ weekly poll on the rankings of the country’s football teams, not only put Blanchard, Davis & Co., back on their old stand, but dropped Texas to third behind our Fighting Irish.
Altogether, 139 writers named their choices for the leading 10 teams in the country and 63 of them showed, by their first-place nominations, that Army was again at the top. Based on a point-scoring system of 10 points for a first-place ballot, 9 for second, 8 for third, and so on, Army piled up 1,267% points as a result of its 20 to 13 win over Michigan.
Michigan dropped only one slot by losing to Army with UCLA moving up to fourth place.
Standings of the first 10 teams:
ier j md •* ne, red •
sv.
d’s ule
ree pie
1.	Army (63) ........ 1,267%
2.	Notre Dame (31) .. 1,193%
3.	Texas (38) ...... 1,170
4.	U.C.L.A. (5) ...... 763
5.	Michigan .......... 542
6.	Pennsylvania	(2) .. 502
7.	Alabama ........... 470
8.	Georgia ........... 356
9.	Tennessee .......... 336
10.	Northwestern	..... 203%
i tl a Purdue defense for four yards in the second bn sl.es off a block by Swistowicz. Fallon (68) ).
The Forgotten Irishman yells, “Sic 'im!" and Clashmore Mike, heeding the call to brittle, sinks his teeth into a luckless pachyderm from the band's circus spectacle.
"B" TEAM SINKS GREAT LAKES 40-0 AS SLOVAK ROMPS FOR THREE SCORES
Proving that the Fighting Irish are abysmally deep in unsung talent, Notre Dame’s “B” squad invaded Great Lakes last Saturday and shellacked the Sailor varsity 40 to 0 in the rain and cold.
Emil Slovak, built along jeep lines but packing Mack truck power, led the Bees with three touchdown gallops, but the Irish line, loaded with such potent personalities as Luke Higgins, Marty Brutz, and Austin McNichols, so mangled the gob forwards that they were rendered a tattered mass, and afforded but slushy resistance to the parade of ND seatbacks.
Gerry Begley, cool as a popsicle and handling the team well, piloted the visitors into position for the first tally by firing one of his tracers to Jimmy Brennan on the Sailor 33. From there little Emil took over, bulling and high-stepping his way to a TD. In the second quarter Jimmy Brennan hugged the hogskin in close and took off like that comet that passed here last week, going all the way on a 70 yard tour. Again Emil Slovak stepped to the fore, ramming his way from the 13 to TD-land and score number three. Before the first half ended Charley Wise crashed over center from the 4 yard line for touchdown number four and a 27 to 0 lead.
While the backs were scampering their
way to glory, the Notre Dame line was chewing the Sailors up and stifling every attempt on the part of the salties to get within range of the ND goal. Big man up front was Ted “The Bull” Budynkie-wicz, whose house-wrecker tactics caved in the seamen’s line. Bull’s fierce and aggressive play may give him that long-awaited break with the varsity regulars that comes only to a fighting few in the talent-heavy Leahy line. Big John Glaab another Irish tackle, hit some of the sailors so hard they thought they were drawing heavy sea duty. Glaab did some peachy kicking-off and followed his boots by sprints downfield to smack the runner down before he could get started. A standout, too, was massive Emil Ciechan-owicz, timber-tall Irish tackle, who soared like a redwood over the shrub-sized linemen and refused to budge for yardage-bound enemy backs.
In the third period Tommy Owens, blond halfback from Atlanta, hightailed it around end for a neat 35 yard run that netted touchdown number five and 33 to 0. Finally Emil Slovak, who pound for pound hits harder than any man on the entire ND roster, scored the last TD on a 70 yard open-field dash that called a halt to the rout at 40 to 0.
Besides Begley, Brennan, Slovak, (Continued on Page 25)
19
By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
1944: Army 59; Notre Dame 0
1945: Army 48; Notre Dame 0
A combination of beans and bacon exploded last Saturday afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium and the result was a 49 to 6 victory over punctured Purdue. We missed the score (as usual) by guessing 55 to 0. We’re getting closer though. But please don’t mention those Cardinals! Every previous year we have rooted for the under-dog, but this year we felt that the St. Louis fans didn’t deserve the World Series Championship because of their failure to support their winning team, not only this year but every year.
Our vote for the hero is divided between Harry “The Cat” Brecheen and Enos “Country” Slaughter. Ted Williams will find it hard to grab off his reported asking salary, $80,000, next season
To get back to Saturday’s explosion, the “Met” Club voted George Connor the “player of the week” and he well deserves the $25 bond that he will receive. John Panelli was runner-up in the voting.
The Fighting Irish looked good against Purdue but their pass defense will have to be stressed more before Blanchard and Davis meet them head on in Yankee Stadium on November 9th. Coach Leahy is lucky in having a first team which can take all the fight out of the other team and then substitute a complete fresh team to score on the worn out opponents. The first and second teams are the best balanced teams in the country, bar none.
1944: Army 59; Notre Dame 0
1945: Army 48; Notre Dame 0
JUST WONDERING
How the football players are able to eat those bacon and bean lunches at noon and go out and run, tackle, and block as hard as they do in the afternoon is a mystery to the whole student body. Why can’t the training tables be made available again? Is it because of shortages? The players need a decent meal before trotting out to Cartier Field. The players are losing too much weight. Ask them! Ask the coaches!
SHAVINGS FROM THE SPLINTERS
I never heard our National Anthem played any better than when the Pur
20
due and Notre Dame bands combined their musical talents last Saturday . . . Mr. Hope deserves a great hand for the show he gave us between halves. . . . Jim Mello was hit four times before finally falling to the ground on his jaunt in the opening quarter. . . . The play that looked good against Purdue was when Lu jack and Brennan entered the game together in the middle of the second period and scored immediately on a Lu-jack to Brennan pass play. . . . The score might have been higher if Coach Leahy hadn’t put the cover on all passes towards the end of the first half. . . . John Galvin’s tossing for Purdue looked good as his receivers flooded the area and were able to make his bullet passes look as they really were. . . . Wonder if the officials missed a clipping penalty against Purdue on the ND 5-yard line when Galvin made his brilliant 52-yard run to score Purdue’s only TD. He would have scored anyway. . . . Army needed Blanchard last Saturday afternoon to beat a strong Michigan team. We picked Michigan IF Blanchard wasn’t in tip-top shape. . . . For a football player to earn a monogram sweater he must play at least 60 minutes during the season. Have you watched the way the boys sweat out the clock waiting patiently for their names to be called by the Head Coach? Looking at the Yellow Banana, we see Iowa beating Indiana and Columbia losing to Army, but not too badly.
1944: Army 59; Notre Dame 0
1945: Army 48; Notr.e Dame 0
Harriers Top Badgers; Purdue Saturday Foe
Victorious over Wisconsin in its first meet of the season last Friday, the Notre Dame cross-country team will seek its second straight victory of the season here tomorrow when it encounters the Purdue harriers. The meet will start at 11 a.m. with the start and finish of the three and one-half mile run in Cartier Field.
Coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy announced early in the week that the same seven men who participated in the Wisconsin engagement will compete against the Boilermakers. Several other candidates have shown some good form, but Coach Handy decided to use the same personnel for at least this meet. The Irish starters
will be: Bill Tully, Bob Mitchell, Jim Murphy, Neil Styers, Louis Tracy, John Lyons and Gerald Johnson.
Notre Dame opened its season with a 24 to 31 victory over Wisconsin on the latter’s home course. Don Gehrmann of the Badgers set a course and meet record when he traveled the three-mile course in 14:44.8. Summary: Won by Gehrmann (W); Murphy (ND), 2nd; Styers (ND), 3rd; Tully (ND), 4th; Tracy (ND), 5th; Kammer (W), 6th; Munson (W), 7th; Smith (W), 8th; Lev-erenz (W), 9th; and Mitchell (ND), 10th.
Once-Defeated Iowa Primed to Upset ND
While most of the campus is talking of the beating Notre Dame will give Army when these two teams meet in Yankee Stadium on November 9th, the University of Iowa football team is planning another victory over the Irish. Last year was the first time that Notre Dame had been able to come out on top with the Hawkeyes.
It all started back in 1921 when Iowa defeated Notre Dame 10 to 7. The Irish traveled up to Iowa City in 1939 and lost another one 7 to 6. Elmer Layden was out for revenge when a weak Iowa team dropped down to see him in 1940 and upset Elmer’s plans by tossing a 7 to 0 loss on his hands. But last year the jinx was broken to the tune of 56 to 0 in favor of Hugh Devore and his team of youngsters.
This year Dr. Eddie Anderson is back as head football coach after spending three years as a captain in the Army Medical Corps. He didn’t like last year’s score anymore than Notre Dame men liked the two big-score defeats that Army handed Notre Dame. Iowa has a tough outfit this year with many of their pre-war stars back aiming at another upset. So far this season, Iowa has only lost one game 14 to 7, and that was to a strong Michigan eleven. Comparative scores mean absolutely nothing this year but take a look at the Michigan-Army score, 20-13, the Iowa-Michigan score, 14-7, and you will see that Iowa isn’t going to be any push-over.
Among the pre-war players back are: Bob Liddy and Roger Kane, guards; Dick Woodward, Duke Curran, Henry Terrell and Jim Hudson, halfbacks; Bill Gallagher and Dick Hoerner, fullbacks; and Sam Vacanti, quarterback. Among the newcomers, are: Tony Guzowski and Bob Phillips, ends; Jason Loving and Dave Williams, tackles; Ray Carlson, guard; Dick Laster, center; Bill Peterson, quarterback, and Del Bartels, Bob Smith, Bob Reynolds, and John Tedore, halfbacks.
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
THREE GAMES
								Zalejski 	0		0	0	3		20		6.8
				co		8		Simmons 	0		0	0	9		59		6.6
		co			8	3 ©	© Md ©	McGurk 	0		0	0	4		7		1.8
		s K,	©		rT Mm ©	as		Gompers		 1		0	6	4		37		9.3
	co §		©	as §	„ S a	© ©	"8 §	Tripucka 	0 Ashbaugh   0		0 0	0	1 0	2		-6 -10		-6.0 -5.0
Players	£			£	as		as	Agnone	0		0	0	4		14		3.5
Lujack 		11	406	36.9	0	0	0	0	J. Brennan	0		0	0	1		1		1.0
T. Brennan _	0	0	0.0	4	42	2	12	Zilly 	1		0	6	0		0		0.0
Livingstone _	0	0	0.0	5	83	1	21	Skoglund	1		0	6	0		0		0.0
Ashbaugh —	0	0	0.0	1	2	0	0	Earley 		 0		12	12	0			0		0.0
Mello		0	0	0.0	1	10 .	0	0	—		— —	— 			—		—
Cowhig		0	0	0.0	4	57	0	0	Totals	16		12	108	180			909		5.1
Swistowicz	0	0	0.0	0	0	1	23								
Clatt 		0	0	0.0	0	0	1	29				©				«A
Ratterman	 Tripucka		2 2	41 90	20.5 45.0	0 0	0 0	0 0	0 0		omplt		s ^5	© ©	,s e e	Si CQ MA	ain on J
	—	1'	—	—	—	—	—			***	CO	co	as	x		
Totals 		15	537	35.8	15	194	5	85	co	co © co	i £	£	00 ©		x x	© 00
								co Players	j?	so e a.	§ Q a,	a, £	1	MA £		
				©			Lujack 		35	17	1	4	.486	360	0	0	1	12
	co Si	‘co		T			Tripucka		4	1	0	0	.250	19	0	0	0	0
	s ©	$		a o		©	Ratterman _	5	0	1	0	.000	0	0	0	1	1
			co	co		fe a	T. Brennan	0	0	0	0	.000	0	3	41	0	0
	©	.8 2				©	Zilly	0	0	0	0	.000	0	4	81	0	0
Players	© Eh	Po To	© cu	£	© £	9	Swistowicz _	0	0	0	0	.000	0	- 2	61	0	0
Panelli 		1	0	6	16	139	8.7	Martin 		0	0	0	0	.000	0	3	30	0	0
T. Brennan		4	0	24	27	134	5.0	Ashbaugh -	0	0	0	0	.000	0	1	29	0	0
Mello		4	0	24	22	138	6.3	Sitko	,		0	0	0	0	.000	0	1	34	0	0
Sitko 		0	0	0	10	116	11.6	Skoglund		0	0	0	0	.000	0	1	12	1	7
Cowhig		0	0	0	12	35	3.0	Mello		0	0	0	0	.000	0	2	40	0	0
Swistowicz		0	0	0	21	72	3.4	Cowhig		0	0	0	O'	.000	0	1	27	0	0
Clatt 		2	0	12	15	48	3.2	Livingstone	0	0	0	0	.000	0	1	24	0	0
Lujack 	.	0	0	0	6	8	1.3	Strohmeyer	0	0	0	0	.000	0	0	0	2	18
Livingstone		2	0	12	18	69	3.9		—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—
Smith 		0	0	0	5	28	5.6	Totals 		44	18	2	4	.409	379	19	379	5	38
Lyons Whoops It Up for Morrisey Fray
On the eve of her first game, Lyons Hall gave a rally for her stalwart lads, her interhall football team.
Chanting, “Go Lyons, beat Morrissey,” the Lyonmen, led by their marching and concert band, paraded in the quadrangle before the rally proper began. Several perturbed next door neighbors sallied forth from their studies at this raucous outburst and, as the caravan swung around in front of Morrissey on the march back to Lyons vociferously asserted their rights and grievances, to wit: they thought it very bad taste on the part of Lyons to come out and make such an uproar when honest, God-fearing men were studying, and anyways, what were they doing on their sidewalk? They should get off immediately. This dictum,
distasteful to Lyons, was contested, and amid jostling and pushing they were able to shove away through the jeering throng . . . and stay on the sidewalk.
The rally led off with cheers directed by Art Brady and Dick “Idiot” Smullen. The Lyons Hall song, a parody on “When Irish Eyes are Smiling,” “When Lyons Hall is Winning” was melodiously slaughtered by the local “We Hate Fred Waring” club. The team was then introduced, and the Coach, Raymond (Rocky Jibralta) Chamberlain, gave a short talk. The substance of his tirade was that his lads would be lucky to get through the season without losing at least three or four of their two games. However, his club—a. good representative organization—would be in there fighting all the time.
Father Kelly, rector and principal speaker, asked for the prayers of the students so that there would be a minimum of injuries in interhall competition.
During and after the serving of refreshments, doughnuts and cider, Bob Olcese’s “Sundry-Six” provided listening ■ fare. The munching and music continued until eleven when a dummy representing Morrissey was hung at half mast on the flagpole accompanied by the dolorous notes of Taps.
In this, the first manifestation of interhall rivalry, since the return of Notre Dame to peace time status, interhall football was given a rousing start. Although the Lyons-Morrissey game was not the. first to be played, it was the one that attracted most attention. The rally was the brain child of Father O’Connell, second floor prefect, who was ably assisted by Jesse Fitzpatrick, Joe Piedmont, Ed Caso, and Danny Fessia.
The next day, spurred on by the spirit of their hallmates and the largest crowd so far to witness an interhall game, the ‘Lyons’ roared to a 14-0 victory.
—Laurence McDermott
21
IMICIiriM
By BOB LEANDER
To the denizens of the local football emporium, L. S. means more than fine tobacco. It stands for the local Gazelle Boys, Livingstone and Sitko, who reign as the fleetest of Coach Frank Leahy’s thundering herd, if not now, at least when they are performing unhampered by splints, tape and crutches.
Red Sitko was forced to miss entirely last week’s clash with the likewise in-jury-ridden Purdue Boilermakers and Bob Livingstone saw action for only one play, a punt return which gave him the ball long enough to pick up a leg injury. Thus was completed the shelving of Notre Dame’s first string half backs.
However, their concurrent brilliance and injury are not the first parallels in their respective gridiron careers. Both men played here in 1942 prior to entering Service. Bob won a monogram with the Varsity, while Red played Freshman ball. Both were Hoosier born and bred, Sitko residing in Fort Wayne, and Livingstone in near-by Hammond. Each was a member of the All-State Football squad in his senior year of high school.
Bob Livingstone
Similarly, they captained their teams in that year. But here the stories turn. One goes east; the other travels west.
Bob Livingstone tramped off with the infantry, spending three years in the CBI theater. He was discharged last
Rak JUuteqAioMe Smit "Red" Sitka
February as a tech sergeant, having participated in two major battles and having walked approximately seven times around the world at his own conservative estimation. All this milage was to reap a sorry harvest during spring practice. Bob was plagued with blisters, torn leg muscles and just plain aching feet. Always an adept breakaway runner, he found it difficult to recover the form that had sent him across pay dirt so many times before. It was limited to a momentary flash, and then a sudden charley horse or similar ailment.

Gradually, under a routine which combined arduous practice sessions, heat treatments and Hughie Burns’ patent medicines, the Livingstone legs responded and until his unfortunate somersault last Saturday, Bob was fast attracting the sports scribes rave notices. He scored the first Irish touchdown of the season when he dented the Illini forward wall with a two yard hurdle over left tackle. Following that ice-breaking escapade Bob carried the mail eighteen times for an average trip of almost four yards, which is consistent toting in anybody’s league.
But as we’ve said the other half of our story ventured west. Red Sitko donned the Navy’s, bell-bottom blues, in which costume he enjoyed—to a greater or lesser degree—the hospitality of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Norman (Okla.) N.T.S. and St. Mary’s Pre-Flight. While at the Lakes in ’43,
Red operated from the right half slot on the Gob’s vaunted eleven, the same team which in the closing seconds of their last game handed the Fighting Irish a 19-14 defeat, thereby distinguishing themselves as the only team in the ’ country to conquer Frank Leahy’s 1943 edition.
Sitko later played ball at Norman and St. Mary’s but after 37 months service he returned to the campus to resume
Emil “Red" Sitko
studies and athletic competition. Nor did he waste any time displaying his wares. The Old Timer-Varsity game provided the first indication of things to come. And come they did.
Red picked the Illinois game to rip off the most beautiful piece of broken field running they’ve seen for many a moon in Memorial Stadium. Julie Rykovich, himself a former Irish grid-der, finally pulled Red down after an-83 yard jaunt. Against Pitt the stubby seatback’s efforts were doomed like his colleague, Livingstone’s, a week later. On his second thrust into the Panther secondary, a blood vessel ruptured in his leg and the chance of another Sitko Saturday was put on ice for a time at least.
In case you think this report published under the auspices of the St. Joseph County Safety Council and the Lumberman’s Mutual, let us add that there has been no handwriting erased from the walls of West Point. Red Sitko and Bob Livingstone will be on deck November 9, have no fear—unless you are from the Army.
22
ARMY, N. D.'s NOV. 9 FOE, WINS THRILLER FROM MICHIGAN, 20-13
Da world ees know how greata man Ees Angelo Bertelli;
An’ now w’en Angelo ees gone, Ees come da great Panelli!
Mighty Michigan, three deep in reserves and hopped up to 100 proof in upset spirit had everything but speed Saturday afternoon at Ann Arbor where almighty Army sent them the way of all Cadet opponents in the past two years— to defeat, 20-13, before a record throng of 87,000.
The Cadet first team, angling for its third straight unbeaten season, had to play the entire game to make the Wolverines taste defeat. Here at Notre Dame ■ the game was received with mixed feelings and the question: “Can the Irish do it Nov. 9?”
Michigan was pointing for Army since the start of the season. Only a few basic plays were used in the Wolverine’s earlier contests, no matter how tight the score might be. Thus it was no surprise to Michigan partisans when the Maize and Blue pushed over the first TD in the opening minutes of the first quarter on a 12-yard pass from Bob Chappius to Howard Yerges. Army may have been surprised,- but not for long. As the first quarter drew, to an end, Cadet Glenn “Junior” Davis found a loophole in Michigan’s drifting four-four, eight man line defense, and scooted 58 yards to tie the ‘ score.
Late in the second period, Cadet Davis took the situation in hand again and tossed a pass to Folsom for Army TD No. 2.	•
Michigan turned on the power at the opening of the second half. Behind 13-7, the Wolverines initiated an 82-yard sustained drive that ended 15 plays later with a tie score of 13 all.
Now it was time for Cadet Blanchard to take over and he did. In fact he took over two tacklers besides the ball in an eight yard scoring smash that followed an Army drive of 75 yards in the fourth period to put the Cadets in front 20-13. But Michigan wasn’t to be counted out yet. In the waning minutes of the game, the Wolverines pushed to the Anny ten yard line only to be foiled by two 15 yard penalties and loss of the ball as the final gun sounded.
Michigan’s plight did prove a few things, however. First of all, the Wol- . ve'rine’s defense of a four man line with four backer-uppers drifting in and out of the line did baffle the Cadets for a while. Second, Army has three potential pass tossers in Blanchard, Davis and the much-underrated Arnold Tucker. Finally, it showed that Michigan with all of its trick plays, fancy defenses and cap
able reserves, still lacked speed—an essential factor for any team who plans on beating Army this year.
Army continued to prove that with Blanchard and Davis it is as invincible in football as Joe Louis is in boxing.
Can the Irish prove that this statement is wrong? We hope so Nov. 9!
BEAT ARMY!
Da Greata Race
(Reprinted from Arch Ward’s IN the wake of the news in the Chicago TRIBUNE.)
O, I am feel so awful proud, For see da football game
Da greata team of Illinois Ees play weeth Notre Dame.
An’ Notre Dame ees winna da game, I am so glad she do;
For I ees bat one hondrad doll’—
An’ now me gotta two!
But my heart say dat she weel ween— Dese fightin’ Ireeshman—
For Ireeshman ees pretta good
For help Italian.
Clashmore Mike, in a quieter mood, wins the affection of two lovely Purdue cheerleaders. What's all this propaganda about "a dog's life"?
W’en dere ees need for hold da line, Some push ’em uppa Joe,
Ees come agen Italian, Da great Mastrangelo!
But Seetko, um-m-m! ees bast of all, My goodness how ees ran;
I nevra see een all my life So queeck Italian.
Whas dat you say? No ’Talyman?
I no can ondrastan’
How eena one can run so fast Eef no Italian.
You say ees true? So beeg surprise!
But taka dese from me: ’
Eef Seetko no Italian— H’ees good enough to be!
•	—Owen Lir
SPORTS WRITERS
There will be a meeting of all the "Scholastic" sports writers at 11:00 Saturday morning in the Scholastic office of the Main Building. Those unable to attend are asked to call at 426 Walsh Hall.
Sports Editor
23
Clubs1 Pic Schedule for "Dome" Released
The Editors of the Dome have released the second and final listing of the schedule for pictures of the various campus organizations. All clubs not listed herein or in the schedule which was published in last week’s Scholastic are requested to contact Jerry Olwell of 338 Howard Hall so that arrangements can be made for a photograph. The Dome Editors wish to emphasize the following procedure for all clubs to follow:
1.	Be on time.
2.	Club presidents should notify all club members to be present at the place appointed.
3.	Secretaries should submit to the Dome Editors a short history of the club, stating its purpose and other pertinent data as soon as possible.
In the Engineering Auditorium
Club	Time and Date
EVERYBODY'S BUDDY 00
St. Louis ......... Wed.,	Oct. 30, 12:20
Philadelphia.......Wed., Oct. 30, 12:30
Cleveland ......  Thurs.,	Oct. 31, 12:20
Chicago ......... Thurs.,	Oct. 31, 12:30
Buffalo ........... Mon.,	Nov. 4, 12:20
Indianapolis ......... Mon.,	Nov. 4, 12:30
Central Illinois.....Tues., Nov. 5, 12:20
Cincinnati.........Tues.,	Nov.	5,	12:30
Detroit.............Wed.,	Nov.	6,	12:20
Potomac ............Wed.,	Nov.	6,	12:30
Bi? wheels from the Motor City — members of the Detroit Club look up from Bosie's food Ion? enough to pose for a “Scholastic" photographer. With proceeds from their summer boat trip the club last Thursday staged a banquet complete with meat and cee-gars.
Washington, DC .... Thurs., Nov. 7, 12:20 New York Met.....Thurs., Nov. 7, 12:30 Knights of Col....Mon., Nov. 11, 12:20 Aero ............. Mon.,	Nov.	11, 12:30
Chern. Engineers .. Tues., Nov. 12, 12:20 Inter-American .... Tues., Nov. 12, 12:30 Elec. Engineers...Wed., Nov. 13,12:20 La Raza...........Wed.,	Nov.	13,12:30
Polish...........Thurs.,	Nov.	14, 12:20
Pittsburgh.......Thurs., Nov. 14, 12:30
Architects........ Fri., Nov. 15, 12:20
Wranglers..........Fri., Nov. 15, 12:30
.Bookmen ........ Mon.,	Nov. 18, 12:20
Monogram.......... Mon., Nov. 18, 12:30
Propeller.........Tues., Nov. 19, 12:20
. Com. Forum......Tues., Nov. 19, 12:30
Olean............. Wed., Nov. 20, 12:20
Press..............Wed., Nov. 20, 12:30
Aesculapians.... Thurs., Nov. 21, 12:20 Oklahoma........ Thurs., Nov. 21, 12:30
In the Rockne Memorial Lounge California ...... Fri.,	Nov. 22, 12:20
Civil Engineers...Fri.,	Nov. 22,	12:30
Meeh. Engineers .... Tues.,	Nov. 26,12:20
N.F.C.C.S.......Tues.,	Nov. 26,	12:30
Debate..........Wed.,	Nov. 27,	12:20
In Washington Hall Studios Radio Club....... Mon.,	Dec. 2, 12:20
In the Law Library
Law Club ........ Mon.,	Nov. 25, 12:20
To be Arranged By Special Appointment The Veterans
The Married Veterans
The Servers
The Flying Irishmen
The Glee Club The Band
The Symphony
The Moreau Choir
4.000,000 VOLT GENERATOR
One of the few electrostatic generators, commonly known as atom smashers, in the United States is at the University of Notre Dame. It is capable of producing more than 4,000,000 volts of electricity for atom smashing experiments.
24
"B" TEAM SINKS GREAT LAKES (Continued from Page 19)
Leous and Poulos in the ND backfield there were two promising lads named lannacello and McGee. lannacello, who hits like an infuriated loco bull, churned the enemy tacklers under with his 232 pounds rolling on massive legs, while McGee, a tricky stepper from down Texas way, scurried in and out of the opposing tacklers like a prairie jackrabbit. Both of these boys bear watching.
Up front Gillespie played a ferocious game and proved that, like many other Bee man on the field that day, the heart and ability is there, and a break with the varsity is all they’re asking.
Playing a whale of a game for Great Lakes was Mike Davlin, end, formerly a Notre Dame letterman in 1945. They could have used ten more Mikes.
FIGHTING IRISH AT N. D.
(Continued from Page 18) carried it with such grace that today it has become a badge of honor, a symbol of the finest qualities in competitive sport, regardless of the blood strains in the Notre Dame personnel from that day down to the present hour. Fortunately, by some strange fate, it has evolved into a shining example of the rich contribution made to American life by all those whose roots were lodged in an alien soil
★ You are ★ cordially ★ invited ★ to dine ★ at the
Established 1901
in the long dim past. And, for this very reason, there is hardly another campus so deeply American as is the home of the Fighting Irish. Indeed, there is hardly a better example of this very truth than the Norse immigrant Knute Rockne, who gave so generously of his talents and himself to the American game of football.
In this broad, inclusive, sense, the term Fighting Irish has become an adequate yardstick to measure the courageous and indomitable spirit of all American boys who tread the storied paths of Notre Dame. It is an inspiration that deepens with time and glows brightest in the hour of conflict.
"Peace and the Soviet" Heads Politics Review
Jacques Maritain on the question of the person and the common good, N. S. Timasheff on the Soviet and the Peace, and Richard Pattee on our diplomatic relations with Argentina during the war, headline the October issue of the Review
of Politics, published at Notre Dame this week. Other articles of special interest include a discussion of current English politics by Bernard Wall, an appreciation of the problems of reconstruction in Germany by Wilhelm Roepke, and a criticism of the United Nations by Quincy Wright.
Maintain, the French ambassador to the Vatican, has placed great importance on personality in his writings against totalitarianism, and in this article, prepared especially for the Revieiv, he answers the critics of his earlier writings on the topic. The article was translated by Professor John J. Fitzgerald, of the Department of Philosophy.
Professor Timasheff, of Fordham University, in his article “The Soviet Union and World Peace” charges that Russia has been following a policy of deliberate aggression since the seige of Stalingrad. The United States and England began to resist this policy only on the question of Trieste. Timasheff insists that only a policy of firmness against this aggression can assure permanent peace.
cussmw wwumy
45 Years of Service
OLD FRIENDS OF THE UNIVERSITY
116 N. Michigan St. *
Open from 8:00 to 8:00
Weekly listings of jobs and business oppor-
tunities in U. S. at 25c, (plus 3c for mail-, ing) per section as follows: West,
Mid West, East, South. Listings
for both men and women.
All states $1. Listings
are current, mailed promptly on receipt of pay^^^H
F^ This
service ■ s
offered by ?he
t i o n a I bi-monthly sold
by subscription, or on seiecf
newsstands at 30c a copy 5pe-
F^ cial students rate $2.50. 12 is
opportunities
25
At A<H&l 0^.
§
J
Virgin Wool
Gabardine Slacks
zsf w ^=4$ . ***
r* ' V $ £ .
tw.	... •„. *■
Fellows, if you’re looking for slacks — Don’t miss seeing the fine worsted Gabardines. Pleated and zipper fronts.
ON THE CORNEK... MKHIOMI $ WSWN6T0N
26
COMMUNISM AND CAMPUS CLUBS:
This past week our Vets Club, representing the entire student body, took action against that so-called trial of Archbishop Stepinac in Yugoslavia. Many telegrams and letters were dispatched to various statesmen representing both our state department and the United Nations Conference. We often read in the papers how students of foreign Universities protest to this or that. Usually their voices are heard and respected because they “stick together.” Here is one time when we Catholic students of the United States should stick together. We should raise our voices in protest to this Godless Red Regime of Tito, who is persisting in his persecution of all Religion. What can each club do? Well, each geographical club can dispatch, immediately, telegrams and letters to their congressmen. Express your disgust of what was said to be a fair trial. If every club, and there are 40 some odd, acts today I feel we will see some results. I’ll be glad to cooperate with all club presidents who wish to take this action. I have a form telegram and letter which could be very valuable. See me at 338 Howard Hall.
CLUB NEWS:
The Connecticut Club, which is well on its way to a fine semester of activities, voted me an honorary membership for the small part I took in helping organize the club with'Duane Hull. I am sorry to say I must decline this honor due to the pressing duties my work puts on me. However I’ll be only too glad to help them in the future, as that is my job. . . Room 103 of the Law Building was the scene recently of rapid reorganization of the St. Louis Club. This group consisting of some fifty members enjoyed their first meeting of this semester. Elections were accomplished and the new officers are John Huckstep, President; W. J. Lucas, Vice Prexy; Bill Guyol, Secretary; and Morty Lucas, Treasurer. On the social schedule a huge formal dance will be held in conjunction with the Alumni Club at one of the finest ballrooms in St. Louis during the Christmas Holidays. Also at this meeting a motion regarding the purchase of several hundred tickets for the SLU-N.D. basketball tilt to be held 1 in St. Louis, Jan. 3, was well received. Future meetings are to be held every other Monday night at 7:30 P.M., in the
Law Building. . . Thanks Don Ratch-ford. . . The Washington DC Club, and incidentally that is not the official name of this Club as the members haven’t decided as to what they will call it, held a meeting last week. Mr. and Mrs. J. V. Hinkle were present. It is to this club that I proposed the idea of each geographical club writing to their congressmen concerning Tito’s regime. If
The drawings appearing on Man About Town and Campus Clubs were done by Miss Weda Yap of New York. Miss Yap, an ardent follower of all Notre Dame activities, is a professional illustrator very active in Catholic literary circles. We wish to thank Miss Weda Yap.
the club liked the idea and gave me a vote of confidence I told them I would present it to all the clubs. They did and the idea appears at the beginning of this column. . . The Dynamic Detroit Club on October 7, elected Lou Jansen, secretary to replace the position vacated by Gene Syzmanski, who did not return to school this semester. On October 10, this club had a fine dinner at Rosie’s. The Detroit Club informed
The UPTOWN Restaurant
POPULAR NEW EATING PLACE
* Cordially invites Notre Dame Students to try our FAMOUS DINNERS
e
120 SOUTH MAIN STREET (Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A. M. to 7:30 P. M., Seven Days a Week
South Bend BOOK HEADQUARTERS
BOOKS	FOUNTAIN PENS
STATIONERY	RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
The BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
me that the gals who visited our campus for that Pitt game wanted to thank Mike Weinberg and me for the help we gave them in arranging their stay here.
❖
CLUB OF THE WEEK:
Sometimes a club stands out and deserves a special line or two. This week the Toledo, Ohio, Club gets my vote. This club cooperated with their Alumni' Club on two occasions during this past summer and had two fine affairs. The first was the Campus Club’s summer semi-fonnal. Michael Hoeflinger and George (Press Agent) Korhumel worked as co-chairmen for this dance. The other Notre Dame activity in Toledo this past summer was a banquet given in honor
BLOCK BROTHERS
The Diamond House of South Bend
•
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
BLOCK BROS.
COR MICHIGAN 4 WASHINGTON
27

of Coach Frank Leahy. The Alumni gave this one with the help of the students. Bernard English, John Hunst, Robert Schramm and Karl Spring and the whole Alumni made this a truly fine Notre Dame affair. Alumnus Joseph Tillman also aided the planning. Mr. Tillman is what we call an N. D. man extra-ordinary. He now has THREE sons here at school. Frank Leahy w^-in Toledo for a conference of football coaches. Incidentally while there Mr. Leahy and another coach divided Ohio up into a north and south and played against each othei' with two high school star-studded teams. Mr. Leahy’s team won, and seems to be doing O.K. now.
MORE CLUBOSSIP:
The Central Illinois Club, which sets a good example on how to conduct a club meeting, played host last week to James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association. Mr. Armstrong spoke to the club on cooperation between Campus Clubs and Alumni Clubs. Incidentally we are still awaiting that publication which will come out monthly under the “Ulini.”. . . Thanks to Bill Butler for covering the Illinois Club. . . . The Buffalo Club inaugurated the school year with a meeting on Oct. 9, at which time the officers for the coming year were chosen. Jack Shine, chairman of the highly successful summer dance, was selected as President. Other officers are Don Colgrove, Vice President; Jack La-Vigne, Secretary; and Jake Jacobi, Treasurer. Nick Willett, former president of the club, will act as publicity director for the club and will work with this department. Two highlights sparked this meeting, the first of which was the presence of George Saltarelli, who stayed up late enough to attend this meeting. He usually sacks up early it is said. The other highlight was the nominating of Jack Madden for Vice-President by a friend of his who wasn’t a member of the club, but rather just a visitor that night. The next meeting of the Buffalo Club will be held in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial, October 23rd. Movies and refreshments will highlight this get-together. The photo that will appear in the 1947 Dome, representing this club will be taken that night.
The boys from down Philly way have also gotten on the ball and are rolling. Art Coughlan was elected President and helping him will be Henry O’Neill, Jerry McFarland, Frank Vit-tori, Frank Callahan and Jules Cattie. This past Wednesday the Philly Club held a highly successful dinner at Rosie’s. Half a hundred were present and many are now wearing elbow pads for future protection. The next meeting of the Philly Club will be Oct. 23 at
7:15 P.M., in Room 22 of the Engineering Building. . . The Cleveland Club had a meeting and their future plans included a Halloween Party, Communion Breakfast, Skating Party, and a gala Christmas Party. This club has started something that each club should copy. The Clevelanders have a “Good Will” committee which takes care of marriages, deaths, or any other occasions. Cards and flowers are sent out by this committee. . . . The Philly Club would like the whole student body to remember the deceased fathers of two of their members. Both Gus Cifelli and Joe Prall lost their fathers this past week. . . . The Cleveland Club will meet this Monday in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. The Dome picture will be taken that night.
IN 1935
THE FAMOUS SPALDING lAST-Bltr BASKET BALL .. FIRST WITH COACHES AND PLAYERS ALIKE
SETS TNt WC tM SPORTS con i9KAASE«wiMhiiios.iNc.KEa.as.M:on<.
official
NF-104

SPALDING
Top flitE
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
28
Many Interesting Exhibits In Science Hall Museum
Among the many points of interest on the campus not to be overlooked by both new and old students, is the museum in Science Hall, where there are many choice specimens and collections of scientific value. A recent additional attraction is a special exhibit of uranium minerals, the essential material of atomic bombs; one specimen came out of the • mine purchased by the government whose original owner presented this valuable specimen to Dr. Knowles Smith, in charge of the museum and who arranged this display. In his accompanying description of these minerals, he states that they are barred from the U. S. mails.
Other special exhibits of educational value and of interest to all students, will be displayed from time to time
of the trip, and indicate their preference to trip “A” or “B” with the rector of their hall on Monday night between 7:30 and 8:30. Off-campus students must do the same in the auditorium of the Law B.uilding from 5 to 6, and 7 to 8 o’clock, Monday night. All students under 21 years of age must have written permissions from parents by Nov. 2nd.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore- train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
There will be no classes Friday afternoon or Saturday. Two special trains for New York will leave at 2:15 (CST) Friday afternoon, Nov. 8, and arrive at approximately 7:30 (EST) Saturday morning. Game time is 1:30 P.M.
Complete details of the trip, have been published on the bulletin boards.
—Ed. Snyder
CHEERS, NOT JEERS
(Continued from Page 8)
to save our Notre Dame reputation from being blackened by our own students without realizing what they are doing. Here’s hoping that the S.A.C. and the Scholastic and the Veterans start a vigorous campaign on the matter before we are further disgraced on the occasion of the next Notre Dame game.”
It is not our intention to take the student body to task for cheering the team, no matter how it is done. There is, in fact, a desire to say to hell with the spectators—we cheer our team as we wish. But other considerations enter into the matter.
Rooters for the opposing team are always prone to level an accusing finger at the Notre Dame team. Human nature being what it is, enemy fans attribute defeat to anything but the superlative playing which brings it about. We have no obligation to supporters of opponents, but we do owe something to the multitude of subway alumni who are as rabid about the Fighting Irish as we. We have the duty of refraining from any action which' reflects unfavorably on the University of their adoption. Even more important, we must support the team in every possible way by eschewing any situation which tends to create animosity toward it. And, above all, the love we have for the University of Our Lady demands that we abstain from actions, innocent though they may be, which engender undeserved animus or opprdbium.
ARMY TRIP
(Continued from Page 9) attend the game must deposit the cost
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY... FAMOUS ADDRiSS
29
History Department Plans Discussions
“The Notion of the State” in the various periods of history will be the theme of the new series of discussions sponsored during the year by the Department of History. These discussions are intended primarily for students majoring in History but are open to the faculty and the students of other departments of the University. The first discussion on the Notion of the State in Ancient Times will take place Tuesday evening, October 22, at 8 P. M. in the lounge room of the, Rockne Memorial with Messrs. Waldemar Gurian and Anton H. Chroust leading the discussion, and Fr. Gerald T. Phelan, the Director of the Mediaeval Institute, as chairman.
The discussions will continue each month throughout the year with Messrs. Ladner and Corbett leading the November discussion on the Mediaeval period, Messers. Nutting and Fitzsimons on the early Modern period, Messrs. Shanahan and Brown on the later Modern period, Father Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and Mr. Abell on the American history phase, and Messrs. Downey and Langford on the problem in Latin America.
The discussion will be begun by the two chosen members of the history faculty after which the meeting will be open
to all of the students and other faculty members. Dr. Gurian is an authority in the field of political theory and Dr. Chroust, who has joined the faculty from the Harvard Law School, is an authority on ancient legal and philosophical theory.
Last semester when this series was begun, discussions were on the problem of the relations between Church and State in the various periods of history. These discussions were found so profitable by other students as well as by the historians that the new series has been worked out for this school year.
Harrs, New Cartoonist, Comes From ETO and LI
This week the Scholastic features a new cartoonist. He’s Will Harrs, of Queen’s Village, Long Island, and Alumni Hall, who has returned to Notre Dame after three years of service with the Anny, part of it with the Infantry in the E.T.O.
Will likes to draw anything, but prefers to do straight cartoons, sports, and the fairer sex. He says he’s full of ideas and promises to do a lot of work this year.
A junior in the college of Commerce, Will plans to be a business executive. Outside of cartooning, his interests run to music. He likes low-down Harlem jive best.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
You trust its quality
30
Bill Lyman
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1903
Jan. 31: Freshmen, who had eagerly gone into the concert in Washington Hall Monday, eagerly came out. The attraction had been the Boston Ladies Symphony Orchestra, but the ladies did not turn out as attractive as the freshmen had expected. . . . Feb. 28: Classes were of course suspended in observance of Washington's birthday. . . . Mar. 21: Louie Wagner, one of the schools’s most talented actors, was acclaimed last week for his sterling performance on the Washington Hall stage. Because he played Lady Macbeth so successfully, he was two weeks writing regrets to the hundreds of invitations he received to the Sophomore Cotillion. . . . Mar. 28: Kalamazoo, Greencastle, Watertown, Dennison, and of course Beloit were announced as among the baseball teams the varsity would have to face this season. . . . Aug. 3: The proposal to build a new hall to replace the old and weatherbeaten St. Edward’s was dropped again this year. . . . Nov. 28: The Ohio Medics took a 35 to 0 defeat from the varsity football team. So many of the visitors were carried off the field in critical condition that the doctors on the field were forced to stop the game to help care for the injured doctors on the side lines.
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT
My Pin-up Giri
She has no gorgeous wealth of golden hair,
No rainbow robes of silks to please the eye,
She shuns the blazing splendor and white glare
Of all that might extol and glorify; She lives within a cottage far removed
From all the worldly luxuries that thrill,
But in that simple divelling she is loved, And one Child bows submissive to her will.
The beauty that is hers is from within, A beauty that no other creature knoxos. Her heart has never felt the taint of sin, And all her thoughts are spotless as the snows;
And with one noble task her life is blest: . She feeds the Christ Child at her virgin breast.
T. E. B.
J
A Meaty Story
I’m a slow eater, and the other day as I was just finishing dinner, I was caught in the on-rush of the dining hall “White Coats.” Before I knew what was happening to me, I was being pushed down a long chute with the rest of the garbage into a huge concrete mixer. There the garbage and I were mixed and mixed until I fell unconscious. The next thing I remember was the sharp pain of a fork in my side and a big hungry football player shouting, “Ah, MYSTERY BALLS!”
—Kane Keirnan, Alumni.
Prelude to Packing
Oh, I’m not worried, Mr. Murray won’t remember my face.—Crazy Jack, Lyons.
Father, how about taking a chance on my football pool?
—W. J. Zupancic, Badin
Agreed
A knew I was getting clipped when I paid $1 for a haircut, and it got my lather up a little when I had to shell out $.50 for a shave, but when those N. D. barbers charged me $.75 for a shampoo, I thought that was really nibbing it in.
—John McKinley, Cavanaugh.
Sounds Logical
The large turn out of holy souls at Notre Dame must be due to MASS production.—Dave Cowdin, St. Edward’s.
Gee! I Don't Know
Is Armistice Day a holiday here at N. D.? ’Tis the Monday following the Army game and would indeed be a splendid weekend for all concerned.—Unknown.
See. Mr. Lee?
It may seem a funny urge, But I’d like to see the game When the Army and Navy merge To get beaten by Notre Dame.
Charles Kasberg, Dillon.
Invitation
Our society herewith extends an invitation to Don Lee (address unknown) to a Lake Party in his honor following the ^rmy game.—Badin Bog-Trotters
LACES	POLISH
Quick Convenient
Service
— AT —
PAUL'S SHOE
REPAIR SHOP
Located at the
OLD EXPRESS OFFICE on Campus
Send or mail all contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
31
Avau^out^o^v
KILROY « GISMO
mann. . . . Rumor has it that Brinks Armored cars are to escort the gals to and from the “Rock” for all future affairs. . . . Hal Tehan has an unusual whim. He likes to see his gal at the oddest hours and claims that she will DRIVE out to see him whenever he wants to. . . . Frank Curran munching on a hamburg, and glad he could get some part of a steak.
OUR TOWN:
SALLIES IN OUR ALLEY:
With about 30,000 extra people in SB Saturday nite, Kil and I found that covering our down-town beat was like playing against Army. Seeking some sort of solid nourishment, we ventured to the Uptown Cafe and there to our glee we found that “Pork Chops” were playing the main role for the evening. John Byerly, who is part time there, couldn’t even offer us the T of T-bone. Since it was Victory Night we decided to take out some stock in the local brewing companies.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus — E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
AESCULAPIAN'S PRESENT:
Second of a series of lectures
SPEAKER: LEO F. KUNTZ. Ph.D.
SUBJECT:
PSYCHIATRY
Non members are cordially invited to attend! ’
OCTOBER 31
7.30 P.M.
BIOLOGY BUILDING AMPHITHEATRE
As we entered one of the local establishments we were greeted by that personable chap, John Moorehead. After battling past a crowd, twelve deep, we were sadly turned away by a local gestapo agent. We then hit the Oliver lobby where the local belles were selling chances. It cost us about four bits to find out the name of two or three of them. But to no avail; we had three chances and were still stag. . . . Noel Digby with that beautiful missus of his at the game. That man has taste. . . . Lines at the Palais reminding us of chow lines of the past . . . But then they are not of the past, are they? . . . Mr. Mitchell, mgr. of the Palace theatre, telling our movie reviewer that he can’t come in. Mitchell doesn’t know that one of our staff is a personal friend of the owner. Owww, it’s gonnei- hoit! . . . Bill Polling doing a fine job on the Victory Dances, under rough circumstances. . . . Duane Hull pumping on his horn over in Mishawaka. ... Jim Bark playing host to his sister and other friends. . . . And one of them was a knock-out. . . . Dean McCarthy entertaining at the Hoff-
In front of Walgreens, South Bend’s meeting place of the schools. South Bendites lounge around these nice Indian Summer nites, just as the drug store cowboys do in the larger towns or the country philosophers do in smaller towns. . . . They talk knowingly of racing, baseball, night clubs and football, but they never become so engrossed in their chattel- that they take their eyes off the pedestrian wave that passes by. ... Now and then one splits away from his fellows, holds a whispered conversation with a friend who has given an almost imperceptible nod. ... Or another drifts away across the street to Hooks where a dazzling lass awaits him. . . . South Bendites are just like Broadwayites or Small Town folks, only around here their eyes are a little sharper, their “savvy” more pronounced, their alertness at a higher tension. . . . But in matters of reserve, reluctance to talk freely with strangers, the city slickers and country folks are identical.
FOOD INCORPORATED:
Discussing the food situation the other nite we came across the best answer for' the problem. One student observed that we ND men are all vegetarians at heart and with this in mind we can aid
Dr. Kuntz to Deliver Talk on Psychiatry
Last night, the first in a series of lectures to be sponsored by the Pre-meds was delivered by John D. Mizelle, Associate Professor of Biology on the subject of Shock.
The second lecture of the series will be given on Thursday, October 31 in the Biology Building Amphitheatre on the subject of Psychiatry. Dr. Leo F. Kuntz,’ who will deliver the lecture, is aptly qualified to speak on this subject. Dr. Kuntz is head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame and is teaching the Psychology of the Abnormal. This lecture should be interesting to all students of the University, and it is the policy of the Aesculapians to invite interested non-members to these lectures.
32
Mr. Ford. You see, Mr. Ford, being vegetarians we will merely take a gastronomic shortcut. The cows will eat all the green vegetables necessary to a balanced diet . . . and then all we have to do is to eat the cows. OK, Mr. Ford?
FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
President Truman’s statement of a few months ago that “our people are now earning more money than ever before,” has a lot of married Vets on a treasure hunt. They are looking for this excess “moola.” That ninety per, just doesn’t seem to carry you and the missus very far whether you ride, walk, or are just being pushed. He must have confused sober statement with an old gag that goes, “Me and the boss make $500 a week
between us ... he gets $475.” Millions of fixed salary people aren’t earning more . . . maybe the President spoke from notes on the back of an old letter from Phil Murray. . . . By “fixed salary people” you could include the monthly check gang.
❖
US MODERNS:
Rumor has it that Kaiser & Co. have a new spun glass car. Here’s a tip for the local Studie plant. I can see it now ... a nice new all glass Studebaker passes a 60-foot bus at Main and Colfax. ... A loud crash. . . . The local police are on the spot in a few moments fully equipped . . . with broom and dust-pan ... I guess they’d be one advantage however ... no towing charges.
IATKT TUNES
Five Minutes More
South America Take It Away Central Avenue Boogie
Rumors Are Flying Ole Buttermilk Sky
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
CAREER IN PLASTICS
TheStoryof JIM PYLE
IN 1935 Jim Pyle received his B.A. degree in chemistry from the University of British Columbia. ...
In 1943 he was appointed director of the General Electric Plastics Laboratories. . . .-
Eight years to travel from college senior to leadership in the laboratories of the world’s largest plastics molder—the record suggests that perhaps Jim has found in his test tubes some secret formula for success.
Jim’s friends say, however, that the secret is merely a compound of two very simple elements: he was well prepared before he came to G.E., and he has worked energetically and imaginatively since accepting his G-E assignment.
For the college student interested in plastics, Jim recommends as a preparation “a solid grounding in the fundamentals of chemistry, physics and mathematics.” His own preparation for research comprised two years in biochemistry, two more years in synthetic organic chemistry and a final year in the chemistry of lignin.
At G.E. Jim found that the Company’s processing of resins could be improved and improved it. He was placed in charge of development of laminate plastics—and worked out a new line in less than a year. He helped develop new types of plastics materials, new chemical products, synthetic fibers, synthetic rubbers, and ion exchange resins—each of them a milestone of his career in plastics.
Next Io schools and the U.S. Government, General Electric is the foremost employer of college engineering graduates.
One of Jim’s special studies in college was an investigation of carbohydrate metabolism
Today for G.E., he directs research in new plastics materials for the home
GENERAL O ELECTRIC
33
LETTERS (Continued from Page 3) course, that he has been waiting for at least ten minutes . . .
Name Withheld
P.S. Please withhold my name, as some day I may become desperate enough to patronize the Huddle.
Regrettably, there is no such astronomy course offered at school. Since there is a manifest interest in the subject, we suggest an astronomy course be considered which would be open to students of all the various schools.
Shooting for the moon? We say it’s better to shoot for the moon before it
starts shooting forward Driscoll Robert J Bates John D. Schirack R. G. Surkamp
us.
Kenneth J. Bayley
Paul McCarthy Richard J. Kloecker Don Ratchford
Sunday, Oct. 6, 1946.
Dear Editor:
Maybe Orson Wells wasn’t so fictional with his invasion from Mars, but just a little ahead of the time. Not that we are sharpening our pitchforks for ah interplanetary struggle, but the weird world of Buck Rogers and his stratoline companions, previewed in the comic pages these last years, is being somewhat fulfilled today according to the commentators. Planetary trips did not come in with the atom bomb, but from scientific predictions, they are only a few chemical compoundings away.
It occurs that for years before the discovery of nuclear fission there was a comprehensive study of atoms and their splitting in the classrooms. The colleges provided the trained scientists, who were able to unleash the atom’s energy.
Similarly, if inter-planetary communication and travel are being looked into by scientists, then the potentialities of such a world should be recognized before visitors from Mars and other planets are dropping in unexpectedly. A college, of all places, should be one of the first to instill knowledge of the situation. Most colleges have been and are doing this in astronomy classes, giving their students knowledge of a field which should see the next scientific advancements.
As a Duck
Water
—so will you take to Arrow Sports Shirts.
And speaking of water, for your convenience and economy, most Arrow Sports Shirts are washable. Just chuck ’em in the laundry bag with your Arrow shirts and shorts.
Stop around today, we may have just the right Arrow Sports Shirt to flatter your informality.
Mm MB... WOMM ( asMBM ---ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS-----
Another Headquarters for Arrow
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
Here you are a guest before you are a customer
34
The Men's Corner'
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
HOME OF
NATIONALLY ACCEPTED
MERCHANDISE
MTIK (MNEK... MKNI6AN ( MMMM
and
ARROW PRODUCTS
The average guy is a football hero
... touch football, that is!
We know you’ll be a soft touch for the toft touch of an Arrow sports shirt.
We have some new. Autumn plaids and bright solid colors that will ecstacize you.
Whether you go for touch football or a stroll through the woods, nothins can do more for your appearance than having your torso tucked into a warm and comfortable Arrow sports shirt.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • SPORTS SHIRTS • HANDKERCHIEFS
35
Copyright 1946. Deem & Mw Tobacco Co.