
Paid Advertisement 
********************************************************* 
A Letter From Dave Miklos 
Senior Class President Calls For More Participation In Student Government 
Student government is in a period of revitalization. A new student body president, student body vice president and senators have been elected, and we are all aware of the class elections that approach. Stu­dents have a new vision; all are confident that they can make a positive difference, and they will. What most students are not aware of is how student government will benefit the leaders. My experience in class office has contributed to my personality, speaking skills, maturity and career opportunities. Plus, I even learned how to balance my check book. 
I am David Miklos, and I am presently senior class president. I manage a $10,000 budget, and yet l have never taken a business course. But I have lots of help; my fellow officers, Melissa Moody, Ed La Hood and Fred Nelson, work together with me to achieve one goal: CLASS UNITY. We organize dances, trips, par­ties and world-record attempts, but we also realize the importance of service projects, fund raisers and great publicity. We try to provide an extracurricular opportunity. Luckily, there are plenty of seniors who enjoy and participate in the senior class activities. Students identify with their class, and most underclass­men meet new friends through these activities. Are you interested in my job? I hope sol 
I want to encourage all underclassmen to participate in student government. My specialty is class government, but as a result of my presidential office, I am a senator and am involved in almost all aspects of student government. I had a lot of experience before being elected class president. I believe that experi­ence is important, but not a necessity, e.g. Mike Switek and Don Montanaro. So why don't you come up to the second floor of LaFortune and get involved, or call your elected leaders and ask how you can help. The class officers rely heavily on their advisory councils and committees, and student government and the Stu­dent Activities Board must involve more underclassmen. 
Earlier, I p-romised to tell you how I have benefitted. I have developed confidence in public speaking and group leadership. I am dependent upon the assistance of my friends, and as a result I have learned to work with people: I must accept financial and moral responsibility for all events that the senior class spon­sors, and I know that these responsibilities have made me more inature. Finally, it is amazing how much importance schools and employers olace on a student government position. I am a science pre-profesional major, and next year I will attend medical school at either the University of Pennsylvania or Duke Univer­sity. I have· done well academically, but I believe that my student government experience set me apart from the rest of the qualified applicants. Frustration and disappointments exist, but are far exceeded by the personal growth and benefit that your involvement in student government will yield. But even more _importantly, I know that student government needs your support and involvement to be successful. Please 
get involved! 
I would like to thank Mike Switek and Don Montanaro for the opportunity to publish this plea. It is the responsibility of every student organization to educate and involve the underclassmen. I am offering my experience tci all underclassmen. I am available in the senior class office most every afternoon, and I hope to see you all. Thanks for being concerned. · 
David B. Miklos Senior Class President 

~********************************************************~ 
Contents 
March 5, 1987 Vol. 128, No. 17



Scholastic 


A Literary Tradition Worth Meeting 
8 
The Sophomore Literary Festival was established in 1968 by a student with big dreams and a tiny budget. 
The all-time roster includes some of the biggest names in literature: Kurt Vonnegut, Norman Mailer, Tennessee Williams and others. 

Prose, Poetry And Postmodernism 
11 
This year's · festival features an eclectic blend of talented authors whose works span various subjects 
and genres: Russell Banks, Celia Gilbert, David Black, Irini Spanidou, Carolyn Forche, Janette Turner Hospi­tal, Bob Shacochis and Walter Abish. 

Departments 
4/ Week in Distortion: In Search of Fun 
5/ On Other Campuses: Money Makes World Go 'Round 
14/ Calendar 
22/ Music: Hits America is Missing 
23/ Movies: Tainted Love 
24/ Final Word: Gone But Not Forgotten 


News 
6/ Curran Comes to Campus By Kathleen McKernan 
Controversial theologian Father Charles Cur­ran will teach at Notre Dame this summer for a theology MA program. 

Sports 

16/ The Best of Both Worlds By Rose Pietrzak 
As one of college basketball's "great indepen­dents," Notre Dame enjoys the competitiveness of a conference without the limitations. 
19/ Scoreboard: ND to Host Hockey Tournament 
20/ All in the Family By Marc Parker 
Strong performances from the two Radke sis­ters helped the Saint Mary's basketball team to a successful season. 
Cover illustration by Jim Gallagher 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate is $18.76/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholaatic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. C 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permiuion ia prohibited.. 


Scholastic 

Vol. 128 March 5, 1987 No. 17 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor: Keith Harrison· 
General Manager: Phil Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 
Sports: Larry Burke Departments: Cathy Coffey News: Frank Lipa News: Kathleen McKernan Student Life: Greg Miller Copy Chief: Aimee Starin Student Life: Bob Winn 
Production 

Production Manager: . Matt Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: A.llan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek 
Administration 
Controller: Pete Cespedes . Circul~tion: Mike Hoban 
Editorial Assistants 
Sports: Ed Jordanich News: Steffanie Keller Sports: Phil Wolf 
Issue No. 17 Staff 

Layout: Photography: Mary Faith Feeney Marc Parker Teresa Gianoli Justin Smith Kris Malaker 
Copy:

Sue Serrato 

Sara Harty 

Bob White 

Bob White 

McKernan Is Named Scholastic Editor For 1987-88 

Before that, McKernan served as Scholastic assistant sports editor. 
During  her  freshman  year, she  
was  a  sportswriter  for  The  
Observer.  

"A lot of people seem to think that since we're losing a lot of seniors this year, we'll be losing some of our high quality," McKernan said. "But we have a young, ambitious staff and we will definitely be a force on this campus next year." 
One area of the magazine 

Kathleen McKernan, a sopho­which McKernan said she would more English major from Albu­like to improve is advertising. querque, NM, has been elected "I'd like to work on increasing Scholastic editor for 1987-88. She the number of ads in Scholastic. will assume her duties on April 
"In addition, I'd like to work

2. 
on improving our relationship 

McKernan is presently news with Saint Mary's by increasing editor at Scholastic, a position the number of Saint Mary's stu­she has held since January. dents on the staff." 

Do you have a complaint, comment or opinion? 
11!111!1'11.,,...,.........,"Pi'fllill!l!~~"""8!'a 

Tell the worldl Write a letter to 

Scholastic. 
Address .111 letters to: 
Editor Scholastic Magazine LaFortune Student Center Notre Dc1me, Indiana 46556 







In Search Of Fun 
Spring Break Fever causes students' thoughts to wander from books and the 'brar to beaches, bars and bathing suits 
By Michael Q. Keegan 

I 
t is an epidemic that surfaces about this time 
each year. You begin to feel sluggish. Classes 

and homework are optional. You become irra­tional. Every time you go to the mirror you look pas­tier, until eventually your skin is as white as a baby's butt. You feel this sudden urge to rush out to a tan­ning salon. You wonder what possible disease could cause you to look so horrid? Of course, it is Spring Break Fever. 
Presently, this particular illness is sweeping across college campuses nationwide. The uncontrollable urge to escape campus life and venture into a new dimension of fun and fantasy. The insatiable need to lie barely clothed on a beach while three thousand others suck down brewskis and fling frisbees around you. The untamed feeling of body surfing and wear­ing clothes that would be an eyesore at any other time of the year. The "I don't care" attitude: "I don't care about sleep, I don't care about eating, I don't care about responsibility, all I care about is going to bars, lying in the sun, tanning and loving it." 
It all seems too good. In only a few weeks, we, the students. of Notre Dame, are going to exchange our winter coats for skimpy bikinis and banana ham­mocks. Some of us will wander the beaches in search of the perfect spot to sunbathe. Some of us will roam the strips in search of a real bar. Some of us will cruise the avenues in search of a garbage can. But whatever we do, we will do it because we want to. We will be in search of fun, not grades. 
However, there are a few essential things you must do before heading for the golden beaches of 
America. First, you must buy a pair of mirror-lensed 
sunglasses. This type of sunglasses serves one useful purpose, in addition to keeping the glaring sun out of your eyes. They allow you to scope other people. Hey, let's face it, when you walk onto the beach, you're fair game. Other people are checking you o~t, so you might as well join in on the fun. With mirror-lensed glasses, no one can tell at whom or at what you are staring. 
Second, do yourself a favor and buy some Alka­Selzer. If you have to ask why, don't go on spring break. You are in for too big a shock. Third, don't tell anyone that you're going to send them a postcard. If you forget to send it, life will not be pleasant 



l~i!!~~,~!f
;1,at~i,i~tif'~,, 
:bikinis and banana hammocks/?:_:\ ... 
; .. ,,...·.: :.·.••;.••;:'.·:····<··:·:·.: '·········'·······'·······'': .·,:···;.:·.;.;:·:•;:,...·.:,. · ..: ..:..... ,·,·..;.·.,:·:·· 
when you arrive back at school. You don't want bruises spoiling your perfect tan. Finally, don't keep telling your friends who aren't going on spring break about your upcoming adventure. They don't want to hear it. If you persist in talking about where you're going, you might get there sooner than you think. 
In addition to planning the trip, there are five gol­den rules to follow while on spring break. Never sun­bathe naked, for obvious reasons. Never eat 
McDonald's within the first four hours of your twenty-four hour road trip, unless you plan on keep­ing your windows open for the rest of the trip. Never bring enough money, that way you'll be forced to find some girl or guy to pay for your drinks. Who knows what that may lead to? Always drink too much, (what the hell -someone else is pay­ing for it). And finally, always exaggerate your stories when you get back. Who cares, your friends will-never know. II 

Money Makes The World Go 'Round 
Edited by Mike Farnan 

The almighty buck leads to coed protest, the push for a student board member, and banking woes at Brown 
Gaining seats on the governing boards of 
their schools is the aim of students at Harvard, Ala­bama State and all Ohio public colleges, reports the College Press Service. The main reason for this push for power seems to be money related. As tuition and other college costs escalate, some students feel they should have more of a say in the running of their schools and in the quality of education offered to them. 
The practice of electing students to the board was common in the sixties, but faded in the seventies and is just now being revived. "Students are analyzing their roles much more and want to be part of the decision making on their campuses," said Shelly Wil­sey of the United States Student Association, a national lobbying group for student government associations. "They think the colleges are there to serve them, so they should have a major role." 

Two women's colleges will go coed, 
reported the Chronicle of Higher Education. Goucher College in Maryland admitted its first male student this semester and in Massachusetts, Wheaton College trustees voted "in principle" to start admit­ting men in the fall of 1988. Students of the 152 year-old college for women are wearing armbands, staging protests and writing letters in an attempt to persuade Wheaton's 25 trustees to change their minds before the final vote in May. College officials say the choice was forced on them by a 20 percent decline in applications and a "diminishing number of high­school students who are interested in a women's col­lege." 


Dartmouth is the recipient of a $500,000 
gift, and ten years ahead of schedule, reported the Chronicle of Higher Education. Ninety-one years ago Sylvester Waterhouse told officials of New Hampshire's member of the Ivy League that he wanted to make a contribution. "The smallness of my means does not permit me to bestow a large gift," he wrote. "Yet even a little sum, if well invested, will in time become an important endowment." He gave Dartmouth $5,000, and stipulated that it be invested and left untouched until it reached a value of $500,000. He projected that his gift would grow to that size by 1996. 
Officials of the college reported that dividends and interest has brought the book value of the Water­house fund up to $500,000 ten years early, so they made the public acknowledgement which the donor would not permit during his lifetime. The fund's market value is estimated at more than $1 million. 

A much vandalized statue has been 
recovered by Princeton University_ According to the College Press Service, the New Jersey university has decided toJ reclaim its statue of William Earl Dodge, founder of the Christian Student Movement, from a museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Apparently disdainful of Dodge's strict version of proper student behavior, students have vandalized the statue regu­larly since the 1920's. In 1965, Princeton loaned it to the museum in Stockbridge for ten years, and allowed it to remain there after 1975 for fear stu­dents would vandalize it again. The statue will at last return to the campus, to be re-erected in a newly renovated campus gym. 

$25,000 was mistakenly credited. to his 
account by Providence's Citizen's Bank, and Brown University student Philip Stratos spent $13,000 of it before the bank discovered the error._ According to the College Press Service, Stratos said he assumed his parents, who live in Greece, had wired the money to him. Authorities say he has until the end of Febru­ary to repay the bank or risk facing criminal charges. 

News 


urran Co es To Campus 
By Kathleen McKernan 

Controversial theologian Father Charles Curran will teach at Notre Dame this summer for a theology MA program 

Last August, through a letter signed by Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger, the Vatican told 
Father Charles Curran that he was "neither suitable nor eligible" to teach theology at the Vatican­0chartered Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. This summer, Curran will teach a course in social ethics in Notre Dame's Summer Programs in Theology and Liturgical Studies. 
Two years ago, Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the Notre Dame theology department, con­tracted Curran to teach the week­long mini course. At that time, Curran was writing on sexual eth­ics but not teaching on the subject. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh explained the University's reasons for allowing Curran to teach at Notre Dame this summer: "It's all very simple. Call us old-fashioned, but we believe in keeping con tracts." · 
Not only does the University believe in keeping contracts, but according to members of the theology department, it also believes in maintaining an atmo­sphere of academic freedom. McBrien has said that Curran's difficulty stems from the fact that Catholic University is Vatican­chartered, unlike Notre Dame or any other Catholic university in the United States. In fact, Curran has taught at Notre Dame's sum­mer session before. 
"(Curran) has been here before, in 1983," said F. Ellen Weaver, assistant chairman of the theology department and director of the 


summer program. "The class he offered was excellent. It was very well received. We wanted him back. 
"He is one of the best people we could get," Weaver said. "We've made an effort to invite the best people. We want the ones who are the real scholars in their field. The summer session gives us the opportunity to invite the best. 

"Furthermore," Weaver said, 
"Curran does not disagree with Church teaching. He faces the fact that certain questions are open to debate. He is very careful in what he presents. He presents Church teaching, and he presents his beliefs." 
In an interview with Scholastic last fall, McBrien said those who attack Curran for his beliefs are in error. "They say you can't have 


Scholastic 



someone who's supposed to be teaching Catholic theology and doesn't believe in it. That isn't Curran's situation. He believes in everything. He just doesn't agree with the conservative interpreta­tion of this or that minor point." 
Curran wili teach the same course he taught in 1983, in the field of Catholic social ethics. The course description in the summer program guide reads: "This course will discuss Catholic social ethics with special emphasis on the American scene. Both methodolog­ical and substantive issues will be discussed. The presentations will develop the material by tracing the historical development. Special attention will be given to recent pastoral letters of the United States bishops on peace and the economy." 
The course he will teach is not scheduled to deal with issues that have caused Church controversy in the past. Weaver said, "He hasn't taught in the field of sexual ethics for more than 10 years." 
"Sure there will be some

Others at Notre Dame disagree that Curran can teach Catholic ~tatic," Hesburgh said, anticipat­theology in good faith. Father mg reaction from within and from outside Notre Dame. "But we're a 

Matthew Miceli, associate profes­sor of theology, said in an inter­view with Scholastic last fall, "He shouldn't label himself a Catholic theologian on a Catholic faculty, representing the Catholic Church, when he doesn't believe the Church's teachings. 
"He is teaching contrary to the ordinary teaching of the Church and, to my mind, that has no place at a Catholic university," Miceli added. 
university, we can stand that." 
"There are two primary goals in the theology department," Weaver said. "No. 1: academic excellence· No. 2: service to the Church. W; have always seen our MA program as in the service of the Church. We're right up front in doing something for the Church." And, as far as the theology department is concerned, inviting Curran to the University fits within those goals. Ill 

I: 
Student Life 



Aliterary 

radition 
orth 
eeting 
By Bud Luepke 

In 1968 one 'naive' student's dream became a reality, sparking the yearly Sophomore Literary Festival tradition 


Notre Dame sophomore Col­leen Martin was selected last May to organize the 20th annual 
Sophomore Literary Festival, which began on Sunday and con­tinues through Saturday. After a lot of research and many invita­tions, Martin is now in charge of a $16,000 budget as well as the itineraries of eight authors for seven days. 
Why did she do it? "I thought it would be fun to meet the authors," Martin said. 
Martin's answer borders on 
naivete, as if someone forgot to 
tell her that the SLF is an annual 
"Notre Dame moment" with an 
international reputation. Doesn't 
Martin recognize the obvious 
audacity of a bunch of sophomores 
hosting acclaimed authors? 
But that audacity has been the basis for the festi val, ever since its inception in 1968. That year, then-sophomore John Mroz and a committee of 11 students had a $2. 72 bank account and a $20,000 idea. The $2. 72 was money left over from a two-day symposium on William Faulkner, which had been organized a year earlier by then-sophomore J. Richard Rossi. 
Mroz's idea was to expand Rossi's 
event into a week-long literary festival featuring some of the nation's premier authors. 
"Of course it couldn't be done," said Donald Costello, chairman of the American studies department, who was closely involved with the beginning of the festi val. "That's the beauty of naive sophomores," Costello said. "They were too naive to know it couldn't work." 
Mroz, who Costello described as a "real operator," was deter­mined to make his idea work. Father Charles Sheedy, then-dean of the College of Arts and Letters, helped Mroz find a way. Sheedy had read Joseph Heller's "Catch 22" and had written a fan letter to Heller before the book had even been reviewed. Heller 
remembered that letter. When Sheedy wrote Heller to invite him to Mroz's festi val, he not only agreed to come -on the condition his son be given an autographed Notre Dame football -but also offered valuable advice for sign­ing up more authors. 


Student Life 

By the time Mroz had finished, he had a roster that today could be a reading list for a 300-level 
English  course:  Joseph  Heller,  
Kurt  Vonnegut,  Norman  Mailer,  
Ralph  Ellison,  Wright  Morris,  
Granviile  Hicks  and  William  
Buckley.  

Because Mroz had only $2. 72 in his bank account, he had to find a way to pay for the appearances of tliese distinguished authors. The University, which just had begun a $52 million fund raiser, forbade Mroz to appeal to alumni. Yet administrators were so impressed with the roster Mroz had assem­bled that they gave him $2,000. For the rest, Mroz went to the stu­dent body. Approximately 2,000 undergraduates became "patrons" by contributing a dollar or more. A film series organized by Mroz and his council brought in another $4,000. Paid admission for the world premier of Norman Mailer's film "Beyond the Law" netted an additional $5,000. 
Once the financial problems were overcome, the first SLF the festival's first day, President Lyndon Johnson announced that he would not be running for re­election. Four days later, Bobby Kennedy came to campus and 
. spoke from the same podium that Buckley had used the night before. The next day, Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. 

proved to be highly successful. It was also a crucial week in the history of the United States. On 


Granville Hicks, in his account of the festival in the May 4, 1968, issue of the Saturday Review, wrote about how the King assassi­nation affected black author Ralph Ellison. "We all wondered whether Ralph Eliison would come; none 
of us would have blamed if him he hadn't," wrote Hicks. But Ellison did come. "His face, always gen­tle and often sad, was gentler and sadder than ever," Hicks wrote. 

Costello remembered the first SLF with a smile. "It was a warmer, friendlier era," he said. "We didn't know we were begin­ning anything. We were just faculty and students who were simply interested in the literary arts. We were friends together." 
Hicks drew this conclusion about that first SLF: "In a week remarkable for confusion and disaster, the festivar offered glim­mers of hope." 
The success of the 1968 SLF endowed its progeny with a strong tradition. That festival has become the ideal to which subsequent fes­tivals aspire. But can the success of that first festi val ever be matched? 
"Today's festivals have a dif­ferent focus," Costello said. "The 

Student Li-fe 




big boys have been here already. The festival is usu,ally younger now." 
William O'Rourke, an English professor and a writer who has worked closely with the festi val since he came to Notre Dame in 1982, said that festivals are bound to vary simply because of dif­ferent organizers and different authors. But O'Rourke added, "The literary climate was different in the late sixties. Literary lights were perhaps stronger than they are today." 
The 20 years that have passed since the first festival have pro­duced a whole generation brought up on many forms of entertain­ment besides reading, according to O'Rourke. "The time spent read­ing is limited. TV acts as a thief of time," he said. 
O'Rourke also said that because best sellers are not necessarily written by the best writers, most students are not aware of who the best writers . are. "It is the rare exception for a freshman or a sophomore to be aware of contemporary (critically acc)aimed) authors," he said. 
Just how students decide which authors to bring to campus is "always mysterious," O'Rourke said. Martin. said she began with "a lot of anthologies." She read the books of those authors she liked and wrote letters to those 

writers. Martin and her committee invited about 60 authors, includ­ing John Updike, Walker Percy and Philip Roth. 
But SLF brings more than authors to Notre Dame. The fes­tival ultimately provides a setting for some important and interesting literary history. The many stories told about past festivals attest to this. 
Kurt Vonnegut, for instance, who stood silently in a corner wearing dark sunglasses at a post­reading party, supposedly used that experience as an inspiration for a character in his novel "Breakfast of Champions." 
Tennessee Williams, before his 
reading at Washington Hall, 
poured himself a glass of wine and 
toasted first to Our Lady and then 
to Notre Dame's homosexual com­
munity. 
Author Richard Brautigan gave his last reading before his suicide at the 1983 SLF, according to O'Rourke. "It is odd reflecting on the melancholy he showed when he was here," O'Rourke added. 
Greg Miller, 1985 SLF chair­man, said John Irving had reserva­tions about coming to the 1985 festival. "Irving wrote us. back saying he could come but that we might not want him," Miller said. In his letter, Irving wrote that he supported abortion and would read sections from his book "The Cider House Rules" which describe abortion. In addition, Irving said that he would contribute his royal­ties to a pro-choice organization. After the reply, Miller had second thoughts, but decided to have Irv­ing ·come. 
"We weren't going to deny the tradition of the literary f es ti val or hold back an author just because 
he was going to read about abor­tion, which if you can't do at a university, you really can't do anywhere," Miller said. 
The folklore and tradition behind the literary festival distin­guishes this year's festival as an important literary event even before it starts. 
But, of course, it also will be fun to meet the authors. II 
Scholastic 


' 

Student Life 


rose, 
oetry 
nd Postmodernisrn 
By Greg Miller 

Young writers, first-timers and experimentalists comprise the guest list of Sophomore Literary Festival 1987 

The following eight authors will add their names this week to the dis­tinguished guest list of the Sopho­more Literary Festival, now in its twentieth year. 
Russell Banks 
The fiction of Russell Banks is experimental, witty, original, and complex. Banks uses his fiction to tell more than a story and to challenge the very conventions of fiction itself. Chapter one of "Hamil­ton Stark," for example, is titled "By Way of an Introduction to the Novel, This or Any." 
Banks, using the techniques of post-modern fic­tion, explores a wide range of themes and settings in his stories. From the islands of the Caribbean to the small towns of New England, Banks examines the themes of love, sex, racial tension, personal identity, isolation, and despair. In the exploration of these themes, Banks creates memorable characters, like the Guinea Pig Lady in "Trailerpark." 
Banks teaches at Princeton University and has written nine books of fiction. "Continental Drift," his most recent novel, earned him a Pulitzer Prize nomination. 
Celia Gilbert 

Gilbert's poetry is striking for its clarity and con­trol. Yet her spare verse evokes a myriad of emotions and images. The opening lines of "Narcissi in Winter," the first poem in "Bonfire," are an example of this: "They open their purses / and out fall stars." 
Most of Gilbert's poetry is short and moves quickly, with a clear sense of rhythm and a tight form. Her subjects, like "Portrait of My Mother on Her Wedding Day," are often simple and even 



·Student Life 


domestic but rarely lai: se into sentimentality or over­blown nostalgia. The emotions are real and a fine sensitivity is present. 
Gilbert's one long poem, "Lot's Wife," winner of a Pushcart Prize, is perhaps her most impressive. In a mix of myth and reality, Gilbert fuses God's wrath leashed on Sodom and Gomorrah with the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
David Black 

Black is the story editor of "Hill Street Blues" and a contributing editor to Rolling Stone magazine. He has written over 150 stories and articles for dozens of 
magazines and has published eight books of fiction and non-fiction. "The Plague Years," a study of the AIDS crisis, and "Peep Show," a novel, were both published in 1986. 
Black has tackled a wide range of issues in his non-fiction writing. In addition to a study of the AIDS crisis, he has written an award-winning book on the capture and conviction oLthe murderer of a 30-year-old violinist at the Metropolitan Opera House ("Murder at the Met"). Black's fiction, which is highly detailed -at times journalistic -often comi­cal and sexually direct, has also received recognition. "Like Father" was listed by Anne Tyler as one of the seven best novels of 1978. 
lrini Spanidou 

Spanidou, who was born and grew up in Greece, 
12 


] 
'j 
JanetteTurnerHospital 

l l 
came to the United States to study in 1964 and has lived here sine~. She was determined to become not just a writer, but a writer in the American tradition. This determination, however, held her back from producing the striking fiction she is now known for. Then, five years ago, Spanidou said, "I decided that I simply would have to be me." 
With this decision Spanidou returned to Greece in her fiction and has just published "God's Snake," a remarkably compelling and sensitive first novel. This first-person chronicle of the early life of Anna, a young girl whose father is a Greek military officer is highly autobiographical: Spanidou's father was an Army major in the Greek army. The novel traces, especially through Anna's relationship with her father, the development of Anna's understanding of herself, her sexuality and her artistic sensibility. 
Carolyn Forche' 
Porche writes in her poem "Message" (from the 1983 collection "The Country Between Us"): 
You will fight and fighting, you will die. I will live and living cry out until my voice is gone to its hollow of earth, where with our hands and by the lives we have chosen we will dig deep into our deaths. 
These lines clearly emerge from the two years that 
Scholastic 


Student Life 

Forche spent m El Salvador (1978 to 1981). This experience has given character to much of her pub­lished work since. Forche's poetry is political and is committed to revealing the injustice, despair, and terror that she experienced while in El Salvador. 
Not all of her poetry has political overtones, though. Her first collection of poetry, "Gathering the Tribes," deals primarily with the theme ·of kinship , expressed in the family, the community, and sex­ual relationships. Perhaps the most moving poem (as committed, in its own way, as the political poems) is "Kalaloch," a beautifully erotic, Sapphic poem which at once marks the power and distinction of Forche's voice. 
Janette Turner Hospital 
Hospital's third and most recent novel, published last September, is "Borderline," a title which refers to both her life and her fiction. Hospital, who was born in Melbourne, Australia but now divides her time between Ontario and Boston, has said, "I am very conscious of being at ease in many countries and belonging nowhere. All my writing reflects this." 
Like the characters in her earlier novels ("The Ivory Swing" and "The Tiger in the Tiger Pit"), the figures in "Borderline" live morally, culturaily and geographically on the edge. "Borderline" is a highly metaphorical, symbolic, anrl, at times, complex novel. 
Bob Shacochis 

When Shacochis's collection of short stories "Easy in the Islands" was published in 1985, it won that year's American Book A ward for First Fiction. Most of the nine stories in "Easy in the Islands" are set in the Caribbean, where Shacochis spent time in the Peace Corps. The Caribbean provides. his fiction debut with not merely a setting, but with an exotic and intriguing background out of which many of his themes and characters emerge. 
Shacochis is in the process of completing his first novel, "Swimming in the Volcano." This novel also has a Carib bean setting and the protagonist is based on a character from some of the stories in "Easy in the Islands." 
Walter Abish 

Abish, born in Vienna, became an American in 1960 and began publishing fiction in 1970. His first full-length work, "Alphabetical Africa" (1974), 
March 5, 1987 

' > • ,. ", ' • 
•,:, l ,~~,-"~"' .t::~"-"'-.J::t.,1_1'..:;::,J..,."--"'-''Li..:.c.::.J~ ~.,Jc~,.;,~,. 
. DAVID BLACK 

M 5 WA~ YOUNG DOCTOR ON THE BRINK OFTHE 21ST CENTURY 
MEDICINE 
MA 

marked him as one of America's most innovative experimental writers. This novel, like most of Abish's works, is about language. Abish's fiction is self-reflexive and self-referential. It challenges and explores the meaning, status, and relevance of words. 
The structure of "Alphabetical Africa," for exam­ple, revolves around sophisticated word::,lay. The first chapter of the book uses only words beginning with "A," the second with words beginning with "A" and "B," and so on up to "Z," where he finally can employ all the possibilities of language. But Abish does not stop here. He then descend~ through the alphabet, eliminating letters until the final chapter, like the first, is composed entirely of words beginning with "A." 
Abish's latest and most famous novel, "How Ger­man Is It," is much more "conventional." The novel was just listed as one of the 20 best American post­war novels published in England. In this work Abish moves beyond a mechanical, playful approach to language to an exploration of life in the "New Ger­many." II 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
i 
THURSDAY "Hermeneutics and the Social SPORTS:
! 
Sciences" Hockey:I Agnes Heller ACHA Play-offs
FILM: ACC .
"The Dead Zone" Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium Engineering Auditorium Room 283 6 and 9 p.m. 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.50 4:15 p.m. 
THEATER: SPORTS: THEATER: "To Dance" Men!s Basketball: "To Dance" See Thursday 
vs. Miami (Fla.) O'Laughlin Auditorium ACC 7:30 p.m. EST March 5-7 LECTURES: 
8:10 p.m. "Metabolic Engineering: LECTURES: Approaches Through Traditional Philip King FRIDAY and Artificial Intelligence "Archeology In Israel: Methods" The Last Half Century" FILM: Room 356 Fitzpatrick CCE "Stand By Me" 3:30 p.m. 8p.m. Engineering Auditorium 

7, 9, 11 p.m. $1.50
"Underdevelopment and SATURDAY Africa's Triple Heritage: "After Hours" Indigenous, Islamic, and Annenberg Auditorium FILM: Christian Constraints" 7:30, 9:30 p.m. $1.50 "Stand By Me" Ali Mazrui Engineering Auditorium csc HALL EVENTS: 7, 9, 11 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. Pasquerilla East SYR $1.50 
p

.. 
biwtitMMli &A&MAMAAAAAA i Hf fMttMf-E& A 
All tlmeis me~ti-. 
H'.i;t .. ····•·· , !: > .. 
Dion Payton's 43rd 
:• ::.:•, .: N • .' 
· Blues Band StreetNi~eci #!lyguri 
.....•.•. >/Kingstoh Mines• Cab't1°etMe~r.o< 
/ : ; 2548 N. Halsted 
'~tilltiit:;;
373b N)Clark . 
. . . . . . .. . . . . . . ' . ,

:~~d1Li'tit 'i:p':i'Af>.·,
:~nc(i a.iii:·. ······· •.••_.The DukeTumatoP .. <<< .''Fcirbiclderi Brcia<lv,liy'f.··•· 
•Biddy Mulligan's .. Gaalig~t 9abaret . 7644 N. Sheridan
•.~i:!lt1E~t~i~!s:t:..•·•·•····•··.• it:'E:~9tispe . '/ 
March··~•a(B p:iri. •z..fa/cli li;6 at g;~p I,;
'.~ii'auitt' •· •• 
•$17;50ii9;50 ..
··• "J'fff11~ VanesJk])~vi~
l[~f~t::~~!t9:mt.,..·•E'':, ··. Biddy MuUigan's · :March 8 a,t 6;30 p;mi •• : 7644 N. Sheridan 
;:!!t~r1~~!h.~•·······
ff~iiika·Kfell~' 
.M~f=frio;i].at sj,:~: : · ····· · 
$21':so:2.i:sCJ'' · ,, 

f~j~~~lt~fil"r 
~S6iSea.Is < 
li!.r,.!~~1~~;9fPrm:.,,· 
, .. , ,:;..,-,:.:-.,,,,;

lil!!i~lfi•JJ' 
14 Scholastic 
Compiled By Charlie Buckley and Ace Corsetto 
SPORTS: Hockey: ACHA Play-offs ACC 

THEATER: "To Dance" See Thursday 
LENTEN: First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation Corby Hall Chapel 9 a.m. 
HALL EVENTS: Flanner SYR Fisher SYR 
SUNDAY 
THEATER: "To Dance" ND /SMC Theater O'Laughlin Auditorium 
3:10 p.m. 
ART: The Wisdom-Reilly Collection Opening/reception Snite Museum 2-4 p.m. 

Michiana 
•·· oJth·~~h•J~i 
[~&f~ttts~~:
M~i:As,~t:~.·p;' 
tJ~b1iia11aArea. ;IUS)3~~rvisid
}7.()() ?vii~~~i,y.ll ..
M~~hi8.~·· . 
:iieaa.ii:· ·, 
•~Ah Anieiic 

:fJ~4\~:It~.L. 
•~Death.Before• 

~:~Q}fj~§aii.a·•
''Little,Sllol)··o 

.~~-ii!i.. 
MUSIC: Brian Lamb Recital Annenberg Auditorium 3 p.m. 
SPORTS: WWF Superstars of Wrestling ACC 
7:30 p.m. $9 and $12 
MONDAY 
THEATER: "Love, Sex and the IRS" St. Edward's Hall Players Washington Hall 8 p.m. $1.60 
FILM: "The Man Who Knew Too Much" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
"M,, 
Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. $1.60 
TUESDAY 
THEATER: "Love, Sex and the IRS" See Monday 
FILM: "Sans Soleil" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30 p.m. $1.50 
WEDNESDAY 
LENTEN: Lenten Reflection Lady Chapel 7p.m. 
THEATER: "Love, Sex and the IRS" See Monday 
:tfrfokii1;s:'f()••1'H.ESE i'vti-!Ts MAY];T:
BE PURCHASED THROUGH::,·· ..... 
• :Ticket~~t~?(312)659-1212 
····•Jicketrqil:(31.2) .TIC~K~'l'S·,•i << 
·•• •• H~t'l'i:,c..~?.<>tli:, H~lf7:pd~El '/d.~y of.:;;:H~;~:fifJi:::ill:f~z~atep;.·.• TheaterTix:>(312)' 853,.0505 
Curtain Call:· 24:..iiourinformation :>:.~fr2t~11fr~1¥ail~~.J{~edll\e~j.•·• 
>. 'Ja.m Ctirtcert,Line:·.tJr complete coJ1certJnforrnation (312) 666-666 
..
4; A4MS9##f¥MMFA 

. ,., 
'.'Hoosiers.!! ...•...•. ··• .··, > ...••·;f+:so; 4:15,7';9:30 a~dll,:4f J:,m,,. 
·i••·•··••·..;[tth!:tl~~;1;;0·.~.~J';i~4~'I>-~-•.•.·••,•.•••;:••1)•·•· 
· · · · 1':Nightrn1'te on Elm Stre1it,m.u , / •• .·• 
< 
1:45; 3:45, .5:46, 7:46, 9:46 and 11:45 p.ni.i 
;;~ill~f;~(tv•••··,··• ?:<•· 

·.l:so, 4:so; 71\nd 9:so.p,iti;.··•• 
•iqrocqdile DundeeJI . ,··• <ir, s; I>, 7,:SO, 11nd 9:41> B·m; • 
iY3t1~fJift~;tf~t;.,ff1!t•••.·•..•••••· •o: 
l:S0,.8:30;,l>:30, 7:30 ~nd 9:30 p.m;; ''Radio Daysu . . < . . •. 1:30, .s:so; 6:~6, i:.30 ~11d:9:SO p,ril;... !'Soinel{i~4ofWonderful't · · 2;4;30(7and 9:I5·p.m:• >·•' 
"Mona Lilia'' .· • · } . . •· • • 
1:45, 3:45'. 5:45, 7:45 and;9:45 p:in.S 

•.•.·, ··•·• ucritical, <:::011ditionH .• ·• • ... 
.. A,ili~i~J:~~~,~~~st1·~~,;':t'
<·<•:.•ts 


Sports 

The Best Of oth Worlds 
by Rose Pietrzak 
As one of college basketball's ..great independents," Notre Dame enjoys the competitiveness of a conference without the limitations 
Being independent isn't as easy as it seems. Notre _Dame, one of the Midwest's "great independents," has experi­enced bumps in the lonely road of non~conf erence play, but also has enjoyed the freedom and Dexibil­ity. That freedom is not in jeo­pardy, but it does face some con­straints. 
The Notre Dame men's basket­ball team is now in the final year of a three-year contract with Day­ton, DePaul and Marquette for round-robin play in men's basket­ball. Much talk about a conference including these four teams has done little more than raise more questions, however. 
The Irish (20-7 overall and ranked No. 20 in the country) are 4-1 against the great independents this season, with two wins over Marquette, and one win over both DePaul and Dayton. The only Notre Dame loss in the round­robin play was 59-54 against the Blue Demons in the Rosemont Horizon. 
DePaul, currently ranked No. 5 in the nation, is 4-1 against the independents and 25-2 overall. Marquette (I 5-11) and Dayton (13-13) both are 1-4 in round­robin play. Notre Dame plays at Dayton on Saturday, while the Blue Demons play host to the War­riors. 
16 
Last season, Notre Dame had a 5-I record against the indepen­dents, followed by Marquette at 3-3 and Dayton and DePaul, both 2-4. The Irish and the Blue Demons both went to the NCAA Tournament, while the Flyers and the Warriors played in the NIT. 

E 
~ 
la 
~ 

Players like DePaul's Dallas Comegys add to the intensity of the great independents' rivalry. 
The contract was drawn pri­marily to enhance the teams' chances for bids in the NCAA Tournament. Also, the home­and-home series provided for in the contract can overcome some problems in scheduling. Confer­ence teams usually begin their inter-conference play in January and February, which makes scheduling games in those months difficult for independents. Notre Dame probably will extend the contract with the other great independents and still reap the benefits of an open schedule. 
"Based on the competitiveness of our four teams in the NCAA and NIT the last few years, I don't think there's any question that our round-robin series helped showcase what those four could do," Irish head coach Digger Phelps said. "We want to create the same type of atmosphere and intensity that the Big East created when it put Georgetown, St John's, Villanova, Syracuse and Boston College together and had them play twice a year." 
"I love a conference," Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Cor­rigan said. "It's a great thing, the same schools playing each other and developing rivalries. Whether or not this fits Notre Dame is alto­gether different. We can exist as an independent, we've proven that. Challenging teams play us 
; Sch.ola,.ic 


year after year. There is no reason why we should necessarily be in a conference. Right now we like the fact that we have a conference spirit without a formal confer­ence." 
Corrigan, former assistant 

commissioner in the Atlantic Coast 
Conference, said the conference 
issue is always being discussed at 
Notre Dame. Each year, Corrigan, 
Phelps, Associate Athletic Director 
Roger Valdiserri and University 
Executive Vice President Father 
Edmund Joyce meet to review the 
options. "Nothing is forever," 
Corrigan said. "It's crazy not to 
think of changes." 
But in a hypothetical eight­

team conference, Notre Dame 
would be scheduled automatically 
for 14 conference games. Over the 
years, the Irish have enjoyed 
extensive network and cable telev­
ision coverage as an independent, 
and a conference could limit the 
amount of·media attention -and 
revenue -received. Notre Dame is 
currently viewed in a number of 
big-city markets. and also is telev­
ised on cable "superstations." 
"DePaul and Notre Dame would have to give up a great deal," DePaul Athletic Director Bill Bradshaw said. "Both schools have excellent television coverage in the Midwest. One of our largest concerns is that we have fairly good visibility and we want that to continue. A conference might prohibit our fl~xibility. 
"The conference with Notre Dame, Dayton and Marquette is not a new idea," Bradshaw said. "There has been much speculation about a possible conference. We're the only area of the country and the only group of schools that is not in a conference. I am an advo­cate of conferences, but they must be set up properly. A quality conference can be one of the best things for a school." 
March 5, 1987 
Sports 

Bradshaw stressed some of the do not have the exposure of Notre most prominent problems with Dame and DePaul, and such a building a conference. The conference could add a much­differences that lead to the prob­needed boost to their programs, lems are solvable, but the solutions not only to their revenues, but also 
would need time, effort and funds. to their confidence. 
"I really hope someday the four schools will be joined by two oth­"A conference must be ers to form a conference," Mar­

worthwhile to go into," Bradshaw quette Athletic Director Hank
said. "Dissimilar problems, sports Raymonds said. "Notre Dame is
and staffs already account for over 
. ~'\ .. 
content m its pos1t10n. I can

half of the difficulties. In a conference you must ally yourself understand that, but it could with schools with similar attitudes change. We want a TV package toward academics, athletics, goals and we are concerned about our and commitments. You must look non-revenue sports. We can't stand at every aspect before you enter still." into something lasting." 
"Everyone has been extremely 

On the other hand, schools :mch pleased with the result of the as Dayton and Marquette are pro­round-robin competition," Dayton moting the building of a confer­Athletic Director Tom Frericks 
ence. The Flyers and the Warriors said. "It created a new spirit of 
~~~~.~~~'{!!/••· 

,.ht:Greatlnije~~ndeot~•··•lrj:•.. ~8J.·•·'.· 
,;:.. ·. . : :. _. .. ,:.··. . ·, :.....··. , ....::·........ ···· .. ' .·:.·.,.... 
..••.•n•.•·•.·•·u·•·•.·...a·.•·.•r'.•.·•..•yt. / · /i3••·· ·D••·.:c••p·•···a···u•····•·1'.8.0•• >D•••··A•·"YT<o••··N•·•·6·••4:· ' . ,,, .. ,:.:.,::>: .,. .· .....: ..:. . .. , •. .. ·. i. . . .. . .. . ·....'"'"••,..• ···•·•·
... .... .. .
:·}i~~~~v·•··• ··.\o pij~gf;§~~i&9tfip.~/si>i.· 
. . . .·J~11t1Jtr:• .·.. ·y7· Mi~9yffif64fp~;tob ~f 
...•, ...•.i•'.}·1···.·•·.r.'.J1.:.•~.•.•··Y,·?, 

1; ··•·27· .;,t19f*gpf\rvt#6?,)~iytfo{st·····
··· >• NOTRE. DAME ss: Ni~rqHitte 
48•·•· 
1 · •· EebI"iihry'.i' ·.... ti. DD:.••·•~.·e•.·.·····•.·•.·Pp.··.aA.·u.:.•.tJ.1•.~.•8····~8···.:..,:a.·.·•.;Mr.A·'..D······.•R.·ayQ}.0.·.nE'.•T·······•.'...•.·T<E········:·.7'.•.
·•· ·C>f;b: •. u 65 ..··6·.•.} 

·•:~.J~.::t~t~f!~}i~:;:~t62i,..,.f 
....•. n;i,: EborJ~rYT ·;23, l!N3.tr~'i))a~e7i; Mj\f<.QU'ETTE: 66ii 
·;·:···· ·:·.:·:·:· ···:··:··· : .. · ,.....,.... ········ ····. 
···•· ·........··· . · March ·:{1.<7; tNpfre'Parr¥:at:JpayJ6h);;•:!···, ..·i~ttrch,.• ·····••7 :1,;.tyt~l"C!M~ti:~.At,J?:t~~M!:·•::, •••...·• +,·•>··•.· ·•.: :t:,t. 
Sports 
competition for our players and for our fans and we will continue to act in concert in promoting our expanded association." For now, though, all four schools have decided that they will continue to research and discuss the confer­ence matter, without establishing a definite timetable for changing the current format. 
Men's basketball is not the only sport affected by the independent status of Notre Dame, however. Most of the Irish varsity sports belong to one conference or another. But these conferences do not all contain the same teams. 
For example, the Irish women's volleyball team plays in the North Star Conference with eight other teams, including DePaul and Day­ton. Three other women's teams 
Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
is accepting applications for: Managing Editor 

(basketball, cross-country and tennis) are members of the North Star Conference; but this year's NSC in women's basketball included only the four great independents, because five former NSC teams -Butler, Detroit, Evansville, Loyola and Xavier ­joined St. Louis and Oral Roberts in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference last year. The Irish hockey team is winding up its first year in a new four-team league called the American Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Joining a conference on all lev­els of competition could be detri­mental to the progress of some sports, while rushing the develop­ment of others. Some schools do not have certain sports at the var­sity level and other sports are not 
Business Manager 

Applications are due by 5 p.m. Tuesday, March 10. 
Production Manager Photography Manager Graphic Arts Manager Sports Editor News Editor Student Life Editor 
Departments Editor Copy Chief Systems Manager Advertising Manager Controller · 

Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, March 13. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Kathleen McKernan for information: 
Scholastic Office, 3rd floor LaFortune, 239-7569. 
Help us Carry the load 
offered at all. Competing against these schools in other sports would still leave scheduling problems. These disadvantages must be taken into account. 
"We would need to upgrade our non-revenue sports, increase our scholarships and facilities and strengthen our program overall," Bradshaw said. "The degree to which we lack in some of these areas is glaring. We would have to develop these areas before we could seriously compete at that level." 
As far as men's basketball is concerned, Notre Dame probably will remain an independent. But change is always a possibility and Notre Dame will look to the future. and keep up with the changes. II 

Scoreboard 

ND To Host Hockey Tournament 
HOCKEY -The Irish (9-I 8-1) will host the American Collegiate Hockey Association tournament this Friday and Saturday. Notre Dame will face-off against top-seeded Lake Forest at 9 p.m. The winner will meet the winner of Friday's 6 p.m. contest between Michigan-Dearborn and Kent State. 
On Saturday, the two losing teams will play in the consolation game at 5 p.m. and the championship matchup will take place at 8 p.m. 
Last weekend the Irish traveled to Alabama-Huntsville where they routed Hawthorne 7-1 and lost a close overtime game to Huntsville, 3-2. 
Junior captain MIKE McNEILL had a hat trick in the first game. TIM KEUHL, BRUCE GUAY, PAT FOLEY, and BOB BILTON added single goals for the Irish. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Last weekend the Irish split a pair of matches, losing to Ohio State (6-3) and beating Ohio (6-3). 
Junior captain DAN WALSH won his sin­gles match, and the doubles teams of TIM CARR-DAVE REITER and MIKE WALLACE-SEAN O'BRIEN turned in vic­tories against Ohio State. 
TRACK -This weekend, coach JOE PIANE's Irish travel to Cambridge, MA for the IC4A Championships. Notre Dame is sending 23 athletes out east for the competition which will include qualifiers from 121 schools. Pianc's squad has yet to qualify anyone for the NCAA championship to be held in Oklahoma City, OK on March I3-14. 
Led by Scholastic athlete of the week GLENN WATSON, sprinter TIM BROWN, and All-American ROBERT NOBLES, the Irish cruised to easy wins over Marquette and DcPaul in a three-way meet last weekend. 
MEN'S FENCING -Notre Dame won the Great Lakes Championships last weekend and qualified six fencers for the· NCAA Cham­pionships, March 16-I 8 at Notre Dame. 
Foilists YEHUDA KOVACS and CHARLES HIGGS-COULTHARD will lead the Irish contingent to the NCAAs. Sabrcmcn KEVIN STOUTERMIRE and GEOFF ROSSI will join the cpec duo of TIM VAUGHN and TODD GRIFFEE in representing Notre Dame on its home turf. 

March 5, 1987 
WOMEN'S FENCING The Irish women captured the Great L;il(;es team title for the second consecutive ye:ir last weekend, quali­fying four fencers for the NCAA Champion­ships. 
All-American MOLLY SULLIVAN, sophomore JANICE HYNES, freshman ANNE BARREDA and sophomore KRISTIN KRALICEK will represent Notre Dame at the NCAA Championships. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -A solid sixth-place finish ended the women's season at the Midwest Independent Championships last weekend at Notre Dame. 
Led by Scholastic athlete of the week SUZANNE De VINE, AMY DARLINGTON, BARBARA BYRNE, and KATHY QUIRK, the Irish placed 25 swimmers in top JO posi­tions through the 20 events. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS -After difficult condi­tions at the Texas-Tyler Invitational last weekend, the Irish will get ready-for their Hilton Head, SC trip ove~ spring break. 
Bright spots for the Irish were MICHELLE DASSO, who won the No. I consolation singles final, and TAMMY SCHMIDT, who won the No. 4 consolation singles final. NATALIE ILLIG and RESA KELLY won the No. 3 consolation final in doubles. 
WRESTLING -Severr·Irish wrestlers will go to Cedar Falls, IA for the NCAA Western. Regionals this weekend. Qualifications for the National Championships at Maryland on March 19-21 will be on the line. 
DA VE CARLIN (126 lbs.), captain JERRY DURSO (134 lbs.), PAT BOYD (142 lbs.), RON WISNIEWSKI (I 50 lbs.), MIKE SHEETS (150 lbs.), CHRIS GENESER (167 lbs.), and DA VE HELMER (I 77 lbs.) will travel to Cedar Falls. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -Notre Dame won two games on the road last week. The Irish beat Marquette handily, 77-53, and downed Wisconsin, 80-70. 
Point guard MA):lY GAVIN set a school record with 17 assists in the game against the Warriors, and junior SANDY BOTHAM closed within two points of reaching the 1,000-point mark in her career. 
Notre Dame will travel to Dayton Saturday to play the Lady Flyers for second-place honors in the North Star Conference. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
SUZANNE DEVINE 
DeVine, a senior co-captain from Ann Arbor, MI, turned in an exctllent perfor­mance at last weekend's Women's Midwest Independent Swimming and Diving Championships held at Notre Dame. She finished in the top JO in six different events in the 12-team meet. Her outing included an eighth-place finish in the 200-yard Individual Medley, a fourth-place finish in the JOO-yard Butterfly, and a seventh-place finish in the 200-yard But­terfly. De Vine also took a second place finish as anchor in the 800-yard Freestyle Relay and a third place finish as anchor in the 400-yard freestyle relay. A sixth place finish as part of the 400-yard medley relay team rounded out De Vine's scoring for the meet. 

GLENN WATSON 
This Irish hurdler ended a productive indoor track regular season by narrowly m1ssmg the NCAA qualifying standard (:07.26) at last weekend's meet against Marquette and DcPauI. Watson's time of (:07.29) in the 60­yard high l,urcjles sends him into this weekend's IC4A Championships looking for a berth in the NCAA Championships Mar~h 13-14 in Oklahoma City. Watson, a South Bend native came to Notre Dame after a high school career in which he was named to Indiana's all-state team for all hurdle events as a senior. 


Sports 
All in the Family 
By Marc Parker 
Strong performances from the two Radke sisters helped the Saint Mary's basketball team to a successful season 
Julie and Tammye Radke's basketball careers started small. While they were in grade school, their father set up a 'Nerf hoop' to introduce them to the game. They loved it from the start, and have been playing basketball ever since. "Their father started them off right," Saint Mary's coach Marv Wood said. "He taught them the funda­mentals and encouraged their play." 
Their father's guidance, along with some excellent coaching at St. Joseph's (Michigan) High School, helped the Radkes develop into talented college players. And this season the performance of fresh­man Julie and junior Tammye helped Saint Mary's to a 12-8 record. 
Although Wood's squad had only one senior, it played at a level that would reflect a more experi­ing role at guard, right alongside Radkes) are both good ball enced team. And the success that her older sister. handlers and they're very unself­the Belles enjoyed this season ish." Wood added. "They read
The addition of Julie added

directly coincided with the arrival defenses well and they're gutsy
strength and versatility to the
of the second Radke sister -fresh­defenders and rebounders."
Belles' lineup. Her abilities seem 
man Julie. It didn't take long for to mirror those of her sister and In a South Bend Tribune arti­Julie to step in and assume a start-team co-captain Tammye. "(The cle, Wood described his backcourt 


Sports 


as "a.coach's dream. They can do so many things and they do them well," Wood said. "They're unique. They are excellent perime­ter shooters and their range is as good as any I've seen at the college level." This consistent perimeter shooting opened up the Belles' inside game, and the addition of some freshman height this season allowed Saint Mary's to take advantage of the situation. 
Julie said her transition to the college game was smoother because she was being reunited 
1 with her older sister. "It definitely helped a lot," she said. "Somehow it's differelit when you're playing with your relation. We played together in high school, but also all the time while we were growing up. It's instincts, I guess." 
Tammye, is the leader of the team both on the court and off. "Being a co-captain," she said, "I try to set a good example for the younger players and help us win." 
March 5, 1987 
"She has a great rapport with everyone," Wood said. "She is experienced and everyone looks to her for support." 
Most importantly, the Radke sisters are a part of the key ele­ment in this young squad's success -team unity. "There is a lot of togetherness on this team." Wood said. "The girls like each other. They get along both on and off the court." 
"The way Tammye and I play with confidence, and the way we work together with with each other kind of rubs off on the rest of the team," Julie said. "We're very confident in each other and I think that helps the team overall." 
Increased unity helped rally the Belles from a disappointing 8-13 record last year. Wood set three goals at the beginning of this sea­son. "First, we wanted to have a winning season," he said. "Second, we wanted to win a tournament. And finally, we wanted to make the (NAIA) district playoffs." Saint Mary's accomplished two of those goals by having a winning season and nailing down a district playoff spot. 
The Belles have improved con­sistently since the beginning of the season. A perfect example of this improvement occurred in the first round of the district playoffs when Saint Mary's avenged an ear­lier loss to Manchester. But the Belles's successful season came to an end two days later with a loss to 
Indiana/Purdue University at Indianapolis in the second round. 

With all but one player return­ing for the Belles next season, there is no indication of. a drop­off in quality for the future. "We can be really good next year." Tammye said. "We have some really good freshmen and our future looks pretty bright." II 


Hits America Is Missing 
The latest releases by Kate Bush and U840 deserve more attention than American audiences are giving them 
By Don Seymour 


Kate Bush is a British pop phenomenon. Like a minia­ture Madonna, she has topped the British charts con­sistently for the last decade. All six of her albums, including her greatest hits compilation The Whole Story, have reached the British Top Ten; yet she is best known in this country for the duet she sings on Peter Gabriel's So. When pressed, most people would only be able to name one of her own songs, "Running Up That Hill," which was a minor hit here last year. 
Why has Bush escaped Ameri­can attention so successfully? Well, the comparison to Madonna is not really fair to either woman. More accurately, she is one of the most original pop musicians of our time. Her brand of eclectic music does not fit in American Top 40 for­mats; 13 year-old girls would not like it. 
America is missing out. "Wuth­ering Heights," the number one sensation from 1977, begins the album. Bush has done a new vocal for the song and it is now more breathtaking than ever. Other highlights include the three singles from her most recent studio album Hounds of Love. "Running Up That Hill," "Cloudbusting" and "Hounds of Love" feature lush synths and distant, driving drums. 
t .'\ I L Ii II .'i H 

r II I. \\' 11 0 I f. ~-r ('I I: r 
Along with "Experiment IV," the only new song here, these are the most accessible and slick of Bush's work. 
Undoubtedly, there is some odd material on this album. "The Dreaming" is an exercise in disso­nance that was not even successful on the British charts. "Army Drea­mers" features tinkling guitar and a basso continua, like some demented modern Bach. And "Sat in Your Lap" is Bush at her shril­lest. 
The Wl\ole Story is not a must­have album, but for those who are interested, it is a .wildly fresh sound, and a glimpse into a truly eccentric personality. 
By now, UB40 has totally erased the boundaries between reggae and pop. Hailing from Eng­land, not Jamaica, the band has sold more albums than Bob Mar­ley. Rat in the Kitchen, their latest, is possibly their strongest album of originals yet. Carrying a strong social message reminiscent of the early Clash, the album may turn off many wealthy Americans. 
The band is outraged at the situation in South Africa. In the jacket of each album is a postcard addressed to South African President P. W. Botha expressing strong disapproval of his policies. However, South Africa is not the only target of their criticism. They are also gravely concerned with social conditions in Great Britain and the plight of the disinherited. 
" The Elevator" is a scathing condemnation of the way the Brit­ish system works. And "Tell It Like It Is," a kind of reggae-rap, is a call for honesty about the true situation in Britain. "Rat in the 
Kitchen"  and  "Sing  Our  Own  
cige >Je,m1  .  
·.·.•.:,.• •.·..•.•.;;·•·!.•·•.•.;....:.•.t.·e,·a1....•.•.;.•b·.·.h...•.•.•.••.•.'.·.e.••.·.·.·••··.·.•.·.ti...;.•···•.•.•.•·;•·.·.:·.•••···••••e•.:.·:.·•~.•.••·.·.•.rl.·.••.·.·.·•.·.::.·..um,,ma ~•~i:j,yi,.~cilt~tX: ::·:::-_;;..:".:­ 
Song"  are  already  UB40 classics.  

And "Looking Down at My Reflection" and "Watchdogs" are perfect examples of how the band has blended reggae and pop. 
This is music that deserves a chance. It's surprising that it has been overlooked since its release in early autumn of last year. In the past decade, reggae has had an immense influence on pop. It's a valid musical form that demands some appreciation, and UB40 is one of the hest practitioners. Check them out. II 
Sch61astic 

Tainted Love 


'Sid and Nancy' and 'Black Widow' add ominous twists to the traditional love theme, with varying results 
By Alex Peltzer 


Sid and Nancy 
This is a classic example of a movie that's overdone. In trying to tell a story of a deadly but true love in the ruthless punk rock environment, director Alex Cox beats the theme of "Sid and Nancy" to a pulp and ends up with a bloody mess. 
It's not the violence or the crudeness of the film th~t is-' objec­tionable. The punk stene·, sur­rounding Sid Vicious and the Sex Pistols was probably both of these, and Cox does a remarkable job recreating this environment. A few of the concert and party scenes and the "My Way" clip are fun looks at the early days of punk. The romance that grows between Sid and Nancy adds the theme that even !ove is possible in this unlikely environment. 
When Cox tries to show how deadly and tragic their intense romance could be, the film grows out of proportion. With at least a full half hour of scenes of Sid and Nancy de~perately doping up with heroine and living like dried-up addicts in New York, any positive image of Sid Vicious is destroyed. Finally, when Nancy kills herself by bleeding to death and Sid dies 
March 5, 1987 
of a drug overdose, all hopes they had of "going 0 1Jt in a blaze of glory" die with them. 

The probler I here is that without the posI ;ive image there is no tragedy. TJ ,e audience comes away from thr! film thinking, so what, Sid Vkious was a nothing, an obscure dope addict. Punk rock followers would know better 

Theresa Russell play& a woman suspected of 
marrying and murdering wealthy men in 
"Wack Widow." 
but this film seems to ignore Vicious' importance. With fewer drug scenes and more clips of the early Sid Vicious, the influential pioneer of punk rock, the movie would have better conveyed the tragedy of his, and Nancy's, life. 
Black Widow 
A psychological thriller has to be clever and tightly done to work right. "Black Widow" is this and much more, which makes it one of the most entertaining psycho thrillers of late. 
Like many a good Hitchcock flick, "Widow" has a twisting, conmvmg plot that is never predictable. Everything fits together like a _!igsaw puzzle, but the audience is never allowed to see the puzzle's box top until the end. Sometimes it b~comes a little farfetched, but hey, this is the movies. 
What really sets this film apart are the two stars. Debra Winger is the loner federal agent, obsessed with tracking down a serial murd­erer. Theresa Russell is the femme fatale that Winger suspects of mar­rying rich men and cleverly killing them to inherit their money. 
The twist comes when it becomes apparent that despite her initial contempt for Russell, Winger reluctantly comes to admire her for the glamour and appeal that her own lifestyle lacks. The eerie relationship that grows between them adds a Hitchcockian irony to the plot. 
For Russell, this movie could be a landmark. While she has delivered excellent performances in other films -"The -Razor's Edge" for instance -the films have gone nowhere. Her haunting, deceptively fake air fits this plot perfectly and may finally give her the credit she deserves. II 


Gone But Not Forgotten 
Howard Hall residents are upset about the way they were •sent packing' 


By Kris Murphy 


I remember the first time I ·saw Howard Hall, and the first words I used to describe it. The~ were along the lines of "What a'dump]" That was in August 1985. I was a freshman and the prospect of living in a dorm with peeling paint, holes in the walls, rusty sinks and a gen­erally weird smell didn't appeal to me in a big way. Since then I've learned several memorable lessons, not the least of which has been that appearances are usually deceiving. 
It quickly became evident that I'd judged it too quickly. In fact, I'd been completely wrong. The diversity of personalities in Howard meant that there's never a dull moment and that everyone stays open-minded. It also meant that there's a kind of intangible unity present which binds the hall together. Howard Hall has a posi­tive identity that's great to be a 
part of. 
At least it was great to be a part of. Everything changed back in mid-December when all 165 of us (the inhabitants) got a letter informing us · that we were no longer residents of Howard. We had been unceremoniously sent packing to make way for more women to enter the University. 


I've found this to be true slowly but surely during the time I've 

. lived in Howard. My first impres­sion of the hall was right. It was a dump. My first impression of the people was wrong. I thought I'd never seen such a strange bunch of guys. No one seemed to have much. in common, and I was sure I'd· made a mistake in putting Howard down as my first choice. 
24 
The women were not the problem. The problem was the administration's handling of the affair. It was unfair, it was rude and it smacked of cowardice. 
We should have been told much earlier and not during finals week. We never received anything remotely resembling an apology ­only "this is the way it has to be." We were given "concessions" in the process of moving into other halls. For most of us that was akin to having someone steal your wal­let and then offer to give you back 20 percent o( what they stole if you'd promise to shut up and be cool about the whole tJ\ing. 
This was another,way that I and everyone else in the hall learned· that appearances can often be deceiving. iust because the University said you could live in the. same hall for four years didn't mean they meant it; and just because we talk about the unity of the Notre Dame family doesn't mean we respect that unity in the face of "financial" questions. 
We're all mad but sad and we've realized that the administration is­not about to apologize for making a mess out of this situation, much less right any wrongs. I think that most of us have decided to get on with things, but we'll still be angry. It is inevitable that friend­ships will be broken up into "before" and "after" as we go our separate ways. 
I'm going to miss Howard Hall. I'll miss our rector, Father Gene, encouraging us to be "stalwarts" and "pillars." I'll miss parties on the fo1Jrth floor and Bob tlie jani­tor. I'll miss hall council every Tuesday and just sitting around with the guys I called my hall­mates, drinking beer and laughing. But most of all, I think I'll miss my belief in the integrity of this University and in its dealings with the people who make it what it is.II 
Scholastic 
------~--­

~-------~---•---~--.....:::_ ___. __ ,-,~------•:-;,_-~ ~-•-~ ,,,--~~ ,--;...,,.-.., _ _,.,__: --~ -• •I 
Life In Hell 

AR-E.~oLJ 
REA1'~,o 
G\Ve U? 
-tHE. JD~S Qt=' 
sItJbL.-E'DOM ? 
-AR: ~OLJ GEiT'ltJG 
N\-ARR.\E D 
FOR1~E. 
RIC,HT REA$oflJS? 
-ARE~ou R-EA1'~ foR. 
,-He 
RE.SPotJStBI L1i1;5 
Of= MARRIA~E? 

'

C.HAPtERX: L0Vf.8UMPERS TE:XTBOOI( 
0 00 l'JOiMll\:.I: 
.JOC.Ut.Al<. 
M~~1A6E, PRoPO SALS IF ~Ou O0>,J'T 
StlOOLb W-f. 
Q WAIJT To (:,l::T

ErET MA9RRtf02• C.L06.&Q.E.D . 
~OUR. SPouSe'S 1-l':)f.-JAl.lKE ':1ov c.A..:i...io'"t" SP1c:1:: uP ';jovR. 
JCl::E's ASovT MAR.1?..JAC:,E l.t.\UGH \,Jl\..l. I-JOT 6EC.OM~ l'-1A.RR.1~E: B".l REA.Di.JG AC>VIC.E 
AR€. l'-1012.E. PA,t11:,,c... T~A1v 

Mol2.E TOt..EeA/3~~ AS TIMES C,ofS 11v MO.GA'Z.1..iEs AIIA1LA8.L,E ,,.., 
i: ()"',-J"..)? 0"-): SuPEfi!MARkE"t tl-l\:Cl:01/T L.1,-iE-f~ 
""" .,, i:i;, o. ..o :r 1---,,,..-------,,,r-----'""--.;:-.-,.,,..-_, Pt.A':) " PVSS 1,J THE 
Oistribultd by Acmr i'raturcs Syndicatr 






