
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO..WINSTON-SALEM.N.C.
Smoke WIBST0H ...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip! e
He’s creating America’s fourth coastline
THE grades this gentleman is making have to be good because America’s largest construction project, the St. Lawrence Seaway, depends on them. When it is finished in 1959, America will have a fourth coastline 8,000 miles long. Ships will sail 2,300 miles into the nation’s industrial heart. Milwaukee, Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland and Buffalo will be seaports.
To get the job done, 3,000 bulldozers, power shovels, draglines, dredges and trucks must rip 180 million tons of earth and rock from the valley floor. This takes machines with guts. And that’s why most of these huge machines use Timken® tapered roller bearings. Timken bearings roll the terrific loads, keep wheels and shafts moving day in, day out, in steady, friction-free rhythm.
Keeping these machines rolling smoothly is just one way the Timken Company keeps America on the go. We’re working hand-in-hand with all industry to make machines go faster with more precision, fewer break-
downs, minimum maintenance. We’re helping to improve the machines that are improving America.
This desire for continued progress made us a leader —the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings and removable rock bits. And a leading producer of fine alloy steel.
Would you like to get in on the ground floor with a company that’s on the go? If you’re interested, we’ll tell you more in our booklet, "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. Drop us a card soon. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TiADf-w*)< 9£G U 5. PaT CP?
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken® bearings keep America on the GO ... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
March 29, 1957
3
PROBLEM:
How to get home for Vacation?
SOLUTION:
Fly United Air Lines speedy Mainliners!
Going Home or planning a holiday vacation? You’ll save valuable vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, dependable service to 80 cities coast-to-coast and to Hawaii. ’Round the clock schedules. Call or visit your nearest United office or authorized
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 March 29, 1957 No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
CHARLES McKENDRICK
Editor
JOE NORTON Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON	|
Associate Editor	& ;
JIM STEINTRAGER .........News Editor
JAMES McDonald ..........Copy Editor |
DAVID KUBAL ............Feature Co-Editor !
JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor H
FRANK SPIERING ..... Assistant	Features
GEORGE CLEMENTS..........Assistant News : । JIM DULAN ............... Assistant	News ' I
BOB WILLIAMS ............Assistant News j!
HARRY McKEE ...........Assistant	Cop 0 ।!
MARSH PIDGEON____________Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER.—Circulation Mgr. I
HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN..............Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........Assistant Sports
travel agent today!
1QU1W UBUlYaii INK SUP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Kar-nath, Jim Lenox, Gerry Leppek, Roge" Leto, Ed Plumly, David Schwartz, Don Shoulderg, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson.
Sport,; Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon. .
. ( Business Staff: Loran Sheffer, Mike Kuras, Pete Hasbrook.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during die school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad^ , dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Not ? ;
Dame, Indiana.
4
The Scholastic
ELEGY FOR IVAN
Editor:	•
Ivan Osorio, what did you do
To merit demotion to page twenty-two?
a You rose overnight to fame on campi;
“Your caricatures caught everyone’s eye.
But one reader thought, “It’s immoral and bad,”
Another exclaimed, “It makes me real sad.”
So it was decided, “He’s got to go.”
You are black and white now, poor Osorio.
Ivan Osorio, what did you do?
®Why did you fail the critics’ review?
Friends, if you labor in any creation, Beware of using imagination, To stay alive long you must please the Nation.
Ivan Osorio, what did you do?
Was last week’s Scholastic symbolic’ly blue?
Ronald Schoenberg 201 Lyons
I SHAME! SHAME!
Editor:
I never thought I’d see the day, the , standards of this University being what i they are, when the Scholastic would ': stoop so low as to capitalize on a popular j I fad. I am referring, of course, to last । ^week’s article: “True Confessions, etc. |	... etc.,” which is obviously an attempt
to cash in on the “Confessions” craze that has swept such people as Augustine, J. J. Rousseau, Whittaker Chambers, and, more recently, Lillian Roth and Diana Barrymore into international prestige and public sympathy.
I am doubly astonished that you would I print what is, by the authors’ own ad-g^mission, a “half-hearted attempt.” But, ■like any public act of contrition, the evils presented are a first step toward their correction which, I’m sure, was the authors’ moral indention. And this is, I suppose, sufficient justification for its publication and their following commentary. . . .
Ken Woodward
235 Walsh
a-------------------------------------
ON THE COVER: The grimaces and contortions of the tangled figures here photographed indicate that perhaps "de-humanist” Osorio’s caricatures aren’t far from reality after all. But the Jordanmen actually had few moments of such anxiety, as the inside . Resume relates.
At the Movies
COLFAX
Ten Thousand Bedrooms (A-2). Dean Martin, Anna Maria Alberghetti. The vehicle in which Dean Martin now sets out on the road to fame unaccompanied by Jerry Lewis is a plush production, with songs, about a young American capitalist on a hotel-buying mission who stops off in Rome, becomes emotionally involved with a local family, and spends the rest of the picture there trying to marry whichever of two pretty sisters he may turn out to be genuinely in love with. He finally picks the youngest of the sisters only to find out that their father will not let her marry until her older sisters are. married. Dean succeeds in rigging two marriages but finds the third just too much.
Summing up: This one will either make or break Martin as a single.
GRANADA
Cinderella (A-l). Cinderella, Mean Old Mother, Handsome Prince, Ugly Sisters. With this cast how can it fail?	' .
PALACE
Giant (A-l). Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean. It’s Academy Award time again so the local houses of entertainment are showing the nominees. Giant will undoubtedly win several of the awards, and for good reason. The acting is outstanding, the story is very well done, and the direction is excellent. Rock Hudson turns in the surprise performance of the year, he proves that he can act. All in all it’s 3% hours of fine film entertainment.
STATE
Friendly Persuasion (A-l). Gary Cooper, Dorothy McGuire. Big Coop is agin fightin’ and he is really put to the test. He lives in southern Indiana during the Civil War and if that isn’t bad enough his land and home are destroyed. Well, the inevitable happens and Gary mops up the bad guys.
Co-hit: Lust for Life (A-2). Kirk Douglas, Anthony Quinn. Kirk has been nominated for an Oscar for his work in this picture and it is well deserved. The story is the life of Vincent Van Gogh, the painter of some note. Many of Van Gogh’s originals are displayed besides a severed ear.
AVON
Anastasia (A-l). Ingrid Bergman, Yul Brynner, Helen Hayes. Three of the finest artists in American films today combine their talents to turn out this partially factual story about the Grand Duchess Anastasia or a reasonable facsimile thereof. Miss Bergman turns in an excellent performance as a pitiful and destitute stranger championed as the last surviving member of the presumably massacred Russian Imperial family. Miss Hayes is very impressive as the Dowager Empress of Russia living in the past.
Co-hit: The King and 1 (A-l). Yul Brynner, Deborah Kerr.
The story, as everyone now knows, is about a teacher who comes to Siam to take care of the children of the King, of whom there are many. While interesting, it is nothing outstanding. The acting is very good and the songs are excellent. Yul Brynner is very impressive as the King.
Summing up: I wonder if this will start a shave your head craze on campus.
RIVER PARK
Three Violent People (A-2). Charlton Heston, Anne Baxter. The carpetbaggers are back in town and preying on the poor devils in Texas. Well, one thing leads to another and the bad ones who don’t reform are done away with, which only, goes to show that bad guys don’t last long in Texas.
Summing up: No wonder there are so many from Texas up here.
Co-hit: The Screaming Eagles (A-l). Tom Tryon, Jan Merlin.
March 29, 1957

HERE'S THE SUIT FOR MODERN LIVING —
IT'S WASH 'N WEAR . . . AND ONLY 39.7S
The smart man selects his warm-weather clothes now . . . and many smart men have found this Haspel 75% Dacron*—25% cotton cord, that washes easily, needs no pressing, and defies wrinkles the most practical suit they ever owned. Select yours now ... in time for spring vacation wear (it’s a perfect traveling) . . . and all summer long. Ivy League styling ... at its practical best!
*DuPont’s Polyester Fiber -	4
On the Campus—Notre Dame
A ...
The Scholastic
6
A frank message to graduating electrical and mechanical
ENGINEERS


You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	~	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you' are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fence/around it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. f
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back.)zWe are an old, young organization. Old, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronics./tOur technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
APRIL 5
■ISSUES -RARAR.ANTENNAS.MICROWAVES• INFRARED• SOLID STATE • TEST SHIPMENT • INIISTIIAL T. V.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
e
' ■ I
< i
£
0
The Scholastic
Captain John Smyth ♦who led the Irish to a 20-8 season keeps the ball away from Michigan State’s Jack Quig-gle in the first game of the NCAA playoffs at Lexington, Ky. ND lost to the Spartans but still completed one of the most suc-^cessful seasons in the school’s history.
in Review. . . .
1956-57 Basketball Season
The Story ...
A Most Impressive Season—20-8 .
by Mike Fitzpatrick
Notre Dame, Ind., Dec. 5 — Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish opened its 51st basketball season here tonight by defeating St. Joseph College, 98-55. John Smyth was high man for the victors with 29 points. Every Irish regular hit in double figures as the locals scored consistently both from inside and out.
Notre Dame held a 45-24 lead at halftime and then let the reserves take over for the better portion of the second half.
The 98 points scored by Notre Dame marked the second highest point total ever amassed by an Irish basketball team. The record is 99 scored against New York University two years ago.
Madison, Wis., Dec. 8 — Sophomore Tom Hawkins led the Notre Dame basketball team to its second straight win of the season as the Irish overpowered the University of Wisconsin 75-55. Hawkins scored 21 points and captured 22 rebounds to lead both teams in these departments.
Hawkins completely dominated the backboard play in the first half, a fact which enabled the Irish to hold a ten-point halftime lead, 37-27.
The Badgers came back strong in the early minutes of the second half however, cutting the Irish lead to five points. Then Notre Dame broke loose, outscoring Wisconsin 16-4, giving them a comfortable 69-48 lead. From this point to the
AUTOMATIC BOBBY SCORES
final buzzer it was just a helter-skelter affair.
Notre Dame had a fine percentage from the field, scoring 28 baskets in 66 attempts for a 42.4 percentage. Wisconsin connected on 22 of 84 attempts for 26 per cent.
Notre Dame, Ind., Dec. 10—Northwestern University broke two losing streaks here tonight as they defeated the Notre Dame basketball team 75-60. This marks the first time since Dec. 17, 1949, that Northwestern has beaten a Notre Dame basketball team in a 13-game period. It also marks the first Northwestern victory on the Irish hardwood since Dec. 16, 1936.
The first half was fairly even with both teams using a ball control type of offense. Northwestern employed a zone defense; the Irish, a man for man. The score at halftime was 24-20 in favor of Northwestern.
Then for the first four minutes of the second half Northwestern scored ten points, while holding the Irish scoreless. Again after that it was fairly even.
Northwestern’s Phil Warren paced both teams with 23 points followed by Notre Dame’s Tom Hawkins with 20.
Lafayette, Ind., Dec. 15 — Unbeaten Purdue handed Notre Dame its second straight loss of the season here tonight as they raced to an 85-72 win. Purdue has now won four straight. The Irish record is now two and two.
Notre Dame held the Boilermakers to an even battle in the first half, losing only by two at the intermission. The game raged on evenly until the middle of the second half when Purdue jumped to an eight-point lead with 7:27 left.
Again the Irish came back, narrowing the margin to five points. But the Boilermakers got hot and scored five baskets in succession to quell the Irish attack.
John Smyth, Notre Dame center, led • both teams in scoring with 27 points. Purdue’s Bill Greve received runner-up honors with 21.
Notre Dame, Ind., Dec. 17. — Notre Dame’s basketball team got back on the victory path tonight as they beat Valparaiso University 86-74. Bobby Devine and Tom Hawkins led the way for the Irish, scoring 18 points each.
Although starting slowly, the Irish built up a ten-point lead in the first half. However, the inspired Valpo team fought right back and narrowed the gap at halftime to two points, 37-35.	.
The second half was much the same as the first. The Irish couldn’t gain a comfortable lead until midway in the period when Crusader center, Neil^ Reinke fouled out. Without the services of Reinke the Crusaders couldn’t cope with the Irish on the boards and it was , all Notre Dame.	. .
The Irish hit on 31 of 81 attempts from the floor and Valpo scored on 27 ; of 80 tries.	.
Louisville, Ky., Dec. 22.—All-Amer- ’ ican Charlie Trya led his Louisville^ mates to an 85-75 victory over Notre® Dame here tonight before 13,756 fans.
In winning, the Cardinals had to stave off a strong Irish bid in the second half, after they had built up an impressive : 12-point halftime lead.
These 12 points proved too much for the Irish, however. They could not tie -the ball game up and weakened slightly in the closing minutes of the contest.
Tyra scored 40 points for the evening.^ In doing so he connected on 11 of his^ first 14 shots and made 16 of 16 from the charity line. His 40 points set a new Louisville single game scoring mark.
Joe Morelli led the Irish attack with
HAWKINS UP FOR ONE MORE $
10
The Scholastic
WHOOPS — NOT QUITE ENOUGH
J
,i 21 points. He was followed by Bob Dei vine, Tom Hawkins and John Smyth, i who each scored 14.
J i| New York City, N. Y., Dec. 26 — A V! driving lay-up in the last seconds of the fd ^game by Irish guard Bobby Devine gave ' Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish a thrilling i 72-71 victory over NYU and a slot in >	the semi-finals of the New York Holiday
I	Festival.
With the Irish down by one with but seconds remaining, NYU was called for traveling and the ball given to Notre Dame. The pass was to Devine, who । drove the length of the floor for the | ^game winning goal.
, The first half was close until with six , minutes remaining the Violets made their ' move to lead 40-33 at halftime.
The second half showed NYU still in command. The Irish inched back, however, and with four minutes to go Devine ' tied it up with two free throws. The , score changed back and forth until with 50 seconds remaining Tom DeLuca of the Violets put them ahead 71-70. This ^finished the scoring until Devine’s gameending field goal.
NYU’s Cal Ramsey was high scorer < with 21. Tom Hawkins led the Irish ' scorers with 20, followed by Joe Morelli and Devine, who scored 17 apiece.
New York City, N. Y., Dec. 28—Notre Dame’s fighting basketball team won an
other upset here tonight by defeating nationally ranked Brigham Young Uni
versity, 91-66. The win gave the Irish the right to meet Manhattan College in the finals of the Holiday Tournament tomorrow night in the Garden.
The first half was very even. The
; score was tied seven times and the I changed hands on five occasions. j Togame was tied 36 all at halftime.
i March 29, 1957
lead The
In the first five minutes of the second ‘ half it was all BYU, as they grabbed a five-point lead, 48-43.
However, Notre Dame came right back, thanks to some fine offensive work by guards Bobby Devine and Ed Gleason, and the score at the end of ten minutes of play showed Notre Dame ahead, 56-50.
The final ten minutes of the ball game followed the same pattern with the Irish pulling still farther ahead. They broke the BYU full-court press and were able to score, almost at will, on easy lay-ups.
Irish Captain John Smyth was high man for the Irish despite the fact that he sat out the first nine minutes of the second half due to four fouls committed in the first period of play. Smyth scored 23 points.
New York City, N. Y., Dec. 29—A hot Manhattan team nipped Notre Dame here tonight, 86-79, in the finals of the New York Holiday Festival basketball tournament.
Manhattan hit for nearly 50 per cent of their shots from the floor and made 28 of 33 free throws. In contrast, Notre Dame scored on 30 of 81 from the field and 19 of 29 free throws.
The Jaspers built a 22-8 lead in the
WHERE DID HE GO, DUFF?
first six and one-half minutes of play. Notre Dame was able to narrow this to just six points at halftime, but the bulge proved too much.
Irish Sophomore Tom Hawkins led both teams in scoring and rebounds. He scored 35 points on 12 baskets and 11 free throws, and picked off 21 rebounds.
Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 5 — Bobby Plump and Ted Guzek combined to give Butler a 70-point barrage and enabled Butler University to defeat Notre Dame, 86-84, in a basketball thriller here tonight.
The Bulldogs, who were at one point down by 12 points, never quit hounding the Irish. They closed the 12-point gap and trailed by only six at the half. Then midway in the final half, they turned it on, taking the lead 74-72. After this Butler never trailed, although the score was tied on several occasions.
With the score tied 84 all, and only seconds remaining Guzek fired in the game winning basket. The Irish didn’t even have time to bring the ball down court before the buzzer sounded.
Both teams were amazingly hot. Butler ’ had a .525 shooting percentage and Notre Dame .516. Guzek was high man for the game with 38 points. He was
11
HAWKINS STOPS WARREN
trailed by the Irish’s John Smyth with 37.
Evanston, Ill., Jan.. 7.—Notre Dame gained revenge for an early season loss here tonight by defeating the North-, western Wildcats, 82-61.
Except for the last 30 seconds the first half of the game was extremely even. The score was tied eight times. Then an Irish spurt enabled them to leave the floor with a seven-point lead, 39-32.
In the second half it was an entirely different story. The Irish completely dominated play. After six minutes of play the Irish held a commanding 51-36 lead and were never threatened thereafter.
Notre Dame captain John Smyth led all scorers with 27 points. High man for Northwestern was senior Dick Mast, who had 22 points.
Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 12 — Notre Dame ripped Loyola 90-76 here tonight after a late scare had narrowed the Irish lead from 15 points to a shaky four.
The Irish grabbed a 65-50 lead midway in the final period when Notre Dame captain, John Smyth, who had contributed 22 points to the Irish cause, fouled out. The Ramblers, led by guard Paul Sheedy, closed the gap to 78-74 with but 4:21 left in the game. Notre Dame however outscored Loyola eight to two in the next two minutes, Tom Hawkins getting six of them.
Forward John McCarthy led the Irish attack with 23 points on ten field goals and three free throws. He was followed in the list of scoring leaders by Smyth of Notre Dame with 22 and Sheedy of Loyola with 20.
Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 15 — Sophomore forward Tom Hawkins led a red-
12
hot Notre Dame basketball team to a 86-76 win over Michigan State University here tonight, before a capacity crowd.
Hawkins could do no wrong this evening as he contributed 32 points to the Irish attack. He rebounded superbly and played excellent defense.
The game was fairly close until midway in the first half when the Irish suddenly got hot and scored 24 points before the Spartans could get a single point. This burst was spread over the closing minutes of the first half and the first few minutes of the second.
The Irish eventually widened the gap to 32 points, leading 68-36. At that point the Spartans went into a full-court press which completely befuddled the Irish guards. Time and time again they threw the ball into the hands of the Michigan State defenders, who scored on easy shots.
However the large margin proved too
GET THE LITTLE GUY!
much for the Staters. Although they closed the gap to just eight points with a minute to play, time ran out on them.
In addition to Hawkins’ fine play, Irish captain John Smyth was brilliant for the victors. He scored 19 points and all evening was all over lioth boards.
Chicago, Ill., Jan. 26—Illinois tied the Chicago Stadium scoring record here tonight in defeating Notre Dame 99-81 before 15,678 excited basketball fans.
The game was fairly close in the opening minutes of the first half. Then with the score tied at 25 all, the Illini began to move. Harv Schmidt scored a basket and John Paul added a free-throw to begin the drive that gave the Illini an eleven point bulge at the intermission.
The Illini increased the lead to 21 points, 69-48, before the Irish attempted their belated rally. They closed the gap to ten points, 83-73, with five minutes
left in the game,' but again the Ulinitf ' came to life.	I
Don Ohl dropped in two long jump?-shots and Schmidt made two free-throws to spurn the Irish attempts at victory.
Scoring leader for the game was Illini captain Schmidt with 26 points. John • Smyth was high for the Irish with 22.	.
Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 29 — Notre Dame, led by two red-hot forwards, John^ McCarthy and Tom Hawkins, blitzed Indiana here tonight, 94-82.
The pair contributed 65 points between them, McCarthy getting 35 and Hawkins adding another 30. McCarthy scored on 14 of 22 field goal attempts in his greatest game as a Notre Dame player.
The first half was very close with the score changing hands several times. The Irish held a meager 42-39 lead at the£ intermission.
However the Irish gathered momentum in the second period making 22 of their 38 shots from the field.	.
After gaining an 85-68 lead Coach Jordan sent in his reserves in the final minutes.
Buffalo, N. Y., Feb. 2 — Underdog Notre Dame battled a tough Canisius team down to the wire here tonight be-^ fore bowing to them in a chilling double overtime affair. The score was 94-89.
The Irish held two sizeable leads in the first half, first 8-2 and then 18-13. However erratic play erased these margins and the Griffs held a halftime lead of 40-39.
They increased this lead to seven points until Notre Dame battled back once more to go out ahead 60-59. The^ game was see-saw from this point until Hank Nowak scored to make it 74-70 with a minute left.
Bob Devine dropped in a pair of char- . ity tosses and Tom Hawkins tied it up with a jump shot with but eight seconds
YOU’RE HURTING HIM, JOHN
The Scholastic
The Griffs were unable to convert and the game was thrown into overtime.
The Irish scored first in the first overtime but Nowak tied the score after the Irish were called for traveling. The two clubs matched baskets and free throws throughout the rest of the overtime.
With only 1:50 remaining in the second overtime, the Irish had the ball and one point lead. However, Joe Leone stole a stray Irish pass and went in for an easy basket. Again the Irish came down and again the ball was stolen, this time by Nowak. Leone scored once more before the game ending buzzer to give Canisius their five point victory margin.
John Smyth was high for the Irish with 28, followed by guard Bob Devine who scored 24 points. Griff guard Dave ^Markey scored 27 points.
Boston, Mass., Feb. 4 — Notre Dame equalled its own record here tonight as they defeated Holy Cross, 99-82 before a small crowd of 3,047. Notre Dame had previously scored 99 points against New York University three years ago in South Bend.
It was Notre Dame all the way. Tom ^Hawkins put the Irish ahead 5-4 after *1:45 of play and they were never headed thereafter.
Forward John McCarthy led the Irish, scoring 25 points on twelve field goals and a single free throw. McCarthy scored nine of his field goals on long push shots. He added the other three on tip-ins.
The scoring honors however were taken by a Crusader. Art Andreoli bagged 27 points on ten field goals and seven charity tosses.
Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 7 — Notre Dame, home again after two games
| Ft BIG JACK’S BIG NIGHT March 29, 1957
SECOND PLACE IN HOLIDAY TOURNEY
away, defeated a stubborn Portland club here tonight 78-64.
The lead changed hands 19 times in this scorcher and on another seven occasions the score was tied. Portland, although the smaller of the two clubs matched the Irish for the first 29 minutes, both from the floor and on the backboards.
With the score tied at 53-all and but 11:07 left to play in the game. Irish forward John McCarthy scored a field goal to push Notre Dame ahead. Moments later the Irish scored again, finally breaking loose for several more. They eventually ran the count to 70-55 before the Pilots could score a basket.
The surprise of the game was little Gene Duffy, starting his first game for the Irish varsity. Duffy consistently wrecked Portland’s attempts at a fullcourt press as he drifibled through their defense with a veteran’s poise.
McCarthy playing one of his better games for the Irish contributed 21 points, to cop game scoring honors. Jim Armstrong led the losers with 19 points.
Chicago, Ill., Feb. 9 — Notre Dame smashed Loyola 96-64 here tonight as the Irish scored more than 90 points for the sixth time this season.
Notre Dame started fast, grabbing a quick 23-7 lead. They did not even slow down at this point, but rather pushed forward relentlessly, upping the halftime margin to 23 points, 52-29. Notre Dame hit for 19 of 38 shots from the field in the first half for a torrid 50 percent.
Coach John Jordan eased the pace as he cleared his bench with twelve minutes
remaining in the ball game. Despite this fact Notre Dame scored well in the second half also, as they finished the game with a field goal percentage of just under 50.
Forward Tom Hawkins was the high point man of the game. He scored 25 points on nine field goals and seven free throws. Iiish center John Smyth had 22. Paul Sheedy was high man for Loyola with 18 points, 16 of which came in the first half.
Indianapolis, Ind., Feb. 13—The 8,500 'basketball fans who sat in on the proceedings at the Butler Fieldhouse were treated to a real dazzler here tonight, as Notre Dame came from behind in the closing minutes to defeat a spirited Butler team, 70-65.
The first 35 minutes of the game was Butler’s. They outscored and outrebounded the Irish time and time again. The Bulldogs were not to be denied tonight, or so it looked.
With but five minutes to play the scoreboard read, Butler 63, Visitors 53. Then it broke loose.
Notre Dame went into a full court press. Little Gene Duffy grabbed a loose ball and went the distance to cut the Bulldog lead to eight. John McCarthy then dropped one in from the outside after gaining the ball on another Butler miscue. Butler’s Bobby Plump then drove through the Irish defenders for an easy layup to give the Bulldogs a 65-57 lead with but three minutes left. Duffy was then fouled and made the first charity toss. His second shot was off the mark, but Joe Morelli grabbed the loose ball and dropped it in to cut the Butler lead to five points. After an exchange
13
of the ball Ed Gleason dropped in two free throws and McCarthy scored again to make the score 65-64 still in favor of Butler. Then with 1:20 remaining Notre Dame fouled Butler, then Butler fouled Notre Dame, with, everyone missing their free throws. However McCarthy rebounded the Irish charity toss and dropped it in to put the Irish ahead.
Panicky Butler tried a quick shot and missed, and on the play McCarthy was fouled. The Irish forward made both of them, and Duffy added insult to injury by stealing the ball and driving in for a game ending lay-in.
McCarthy, the hero of the game, shared scoring honors with Plump of Butler. Each had 20 points for the evening’s activities.
Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 20 — Bobby Devine and Tom Hawkins sparked a Notre Dame win over tough Detroit here tonight as the Irish posted their 14th win of the season, 99-88. Devine scored 28 points, a new high for him and Hawkins had 29, giving them a combined 57-point effort.
Notre Dame who held a secure twelvepoint lead with seven minutes remaining in the game received a bit of a scare as Titan star Bill Ebben suddenly came to life.
Ebben who had ten points in the first half and was blanked from the field for the first 13 minutes of the final heat, really turned it on. He scored on eight straight jump-shots from the outside and whittled the Notre Dame lead to six points 87-81.
Hawkins and Smyth then scored for the Irish, but Ebben and Mike Walsh came back with Titan scores to make it 91-85.
Reliable John McCarthy and Gene Duffy clinched the game however. McCarthy grabbed two points on a tip-in and Duffy dropped in two free throws to put the game on ice for the Irish.
Notre Dame, Ind., Feb. 23 — John McCarthy led his Notre Dame mates to a convincing 95-80 victory over DePaul here tonight. McCarthy scored 28 points.
The victory was number 15 for the year' and the sixth in the current win streak. The Irish season mark now stands at 15-7.
The lead changed hands six times in the first half, with DePaul holding its widest margin at 14-11. Notre Dame went into the lead to stay with Bobby Devine’s jump shot coming at 12:20 of the first period. The Irish led 47-38 at the intermission.
It looked as if the 100 point jinx was finally to be broken as Notre Dame led 83-66 with 7:37 to play. However the Irish suddenly went cold and were able to score only two points, a jump
shot by Tom Hawkins, in the next five minutes.
Besides McCarthy, Devine was a standout tonight. He scored 26 points, all on field-goals, and passed with deadly accuracy.
Milwaukee, Wis., Feb. 26—The Notre Dame basketball team tonight set a new all-time1 school scoring record for one season as they defeated a somewhat bewildered Marquette five, 76-56.
The game was close for the first ten minutes with the lead changing hands seven times. Then Bobby Devine dropped two free throws to put the Irish ahead 24-23. They were never headed after that. In fact they held a 42-29 halftime edge.
Coach John Jordan substituted liberally in the second stanza, usingnine men. Irish Captain John Smyth was high man for the victors, scoring 26 points on twelve baskets and two free throws. Tom Hawkins closely followed him with 24 points. Sophomore center Mike Moran was top man for the Warriors with 22 points.
Chicago, HL, March 2—Irish forward Tom Hawkins became the second highest scorer in Notre Dame basketball history here tonight as he dropped in 28 points in leading the Irish to an 85-73 victory over DePaul. The win was Notre Dame’s eighth victory in a row and brings their season record to 17-7.
With his 28-point burst Hawkins^r moved in front of Dick Rosenthal andw
Jack Stephens. His point total of 507 is only 32 shy of the all-time Irish record set by Lloyd Aubrey last season.
The game was much closer than the score indicates. In fact DePaul led at halftime 39-38.
The second half was much as the first. With 9:30 to play and the score tied at 62 all, Irish center John Smyth fouled out.
The Irish rose to the occasion and held the Demons scoreless from the field for the next three minutes while they built up a nine point lead. The outcome was never in doubt after that.
Notre Dame, Ind., Mar. 6 — Notre Dame rounded out its regular seasons^ play in fine style here tonight by ripping* the Marquette Warriors 94-55. The win was the 10th straight for the Irish and brings their season record to a fine 18 wins against seven losses.
Senior center Jack Bedan playing his finest game as a Notre Dame performer ended his home basketball career in the star’s role. He was high man for the f game with 22 points and consistently out- | maneuvered highly touted Marquette [i center Mike Moran.
Marquette just did not have it tonight. They started slowly and continued in
(Continued on page 28)
14
The Scholastic
Head Coach
John Jordan
Notre Dame’s victory over Pittsburgh in the consolation game of the NCAA regionals two weeks ago meant more than just ending the season on a winning note. It marked Coach Johnny Jordan’s 100th win in only six seasons here at Notre Dame.
The win was a fitting tribute to the Irish mentor, who has been very instrumental in building Notre Dame into a nationally-ranked power. His six-year 'total is 100 victories and 51 losses.
Jordan enrolled at Notre Dame in 1931 and, after playing football and basketball during his freshman year, decided to concentrate on basketball. He lettered the next three years on the court and captained the 1934-35 Irish squad. During his three years, Notre Dame compiled a 49-19 record.
Immediately following his graduation, he accepted the head coaching job at Mount Carmel High School in Chicago. Except for a three-year stretch as a Navy lieutenant during the War, Jordan served as Carmel’s coach from 1935 through 1949. His teams won three Catholic League Championships and were City Champions twice. While at Cannel he became known as one of the nation’s top prep coaches.
He directed Loyola University in Chicago to a 15-14 record in 1950-51 and came to Notre-Dame the following year. His first club won 16 of 26 games, and for the next two years the
Irish went to the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament before losing to Indiana and Penn State, respectively. The 1952-53 team took 19 out of 24, and the 1953-54 club dropped but three of 25 encounters. For his excellent job during the 1953-54 season, the New York Metropolitan Sports Writers named him “College Basketball Coach of the Year.”
The next two seasons were rebuilding years in which the Irish fell under .500, winning 14 of 24 two seasons ago and slipping to a 9-15 mark last year. But this season, Jordan had the Irish back in their winning ways as the squad picked up after a slow
start to finish with a 20-8 mark and ranked 16th in the final Associated Press poll.
‘ This year- the Irish won four of six tournament games to bring their tournament record to 16-4 under Jordan. He had taken
Notre Dame to the NCAA quarterfinals twice, the finals of the Holiday Festival Tourney this year, and directed the underdog Irish to two successive Sugar Bowl titles in ’54-’55 and ’55-’56. Under his leadership Notre Dame was the first team to repeat in the Sugar Bowl Tournament.	•
Assistant Coach
9
Jim Gibbons
Jim Gibbons, in his first year as assistant basketball coach, served as the chief aid to Johnny Jordan and also handled the up-and-coming- freshman players. Gibbons, guard on the Notre Dame basketball teams from 1950-1953, returned to the Irish from Mount Carmel High in Chicago where he coached both the baseball and basketball teams.
During his playing days for the Irish, Gibbons was known for his defensive ability and his adeptness at dribbling the ball. Throughout his three years of varsity competition, the Chicagoan scored 210 points and was one of the team's most consistent foul shooters.
Upon graduation from the College of Liberal Arts in 1953, Gibbons served a two-year hitch in the Army prior to taking up his coaching career at Mount Carmel. Gibbons, who also was a pitcher-outfielder for the Irish baseball team, serves as assistant coach to baseball coach Jake Kline in addition to his duties as assistant to Jordan.
March 29, 1957
15
TIME OUT
this year’s club. It team. This was evi
JORDAN
At Tuesday night’s banquet honoring this year’s basketball team, Moose Krause hit on a point that expresses quite well the reason for the success of s spirit and determination that gave impetus to the t throughout the season and gave everyone the firm belief that this year’s Notre Dame team is a sign of things to come. There is definitely a new interest in basketball at this school by both the administration and the alumni. This only means one thing. Basketball is on the upgrade at Notre Dame. We almost had a NCAA Championship here this year. We will have one within the next few years. No two people deserve more credit for this than Coach John Jordan and Captain John Smyth.
This year, Jordan put himself on the spot after last year’s dismal 9-15 season. He wanted a winner badly. He didn’t want to coach another losing team at Notre Dame. The club he put on the floor performed beyond all expectations. The reason is simple. He is a man who, in this writer’s mind, is beyond most other men. He wants his players to first of all be men and second to be basketball players. To
him, winning is not the most important. He set the example for his club and he motivated his club with the result that he had an impressive winning record, but, more important, he presented 14 men to the country. These were Notre Dame men winning basketball games under a great Notre Dame man—their coach. John Jordan may not have the inspirational powers of Rockne nor the ability of Rupp but he does combine a good part of these with more important intangibles that make him one of the most liked and most respected coaches in the country.
We mentioned that “Smitty” played an important part also. Here was a player who had less natural ability than most other college players. But he worked and he worked hard. He wanted to play basketball well and he was willing to pay the price. It was no wonder that this player made such a great captain and served as such a great inspiration. Certainly he is going to be missed next year. Looking for a replacement for John is going to be like looking for a replacement for the Rock of Gibraltar in a gravel pit. It just won’t be done. Notre Dame may have better ball players than John Smyth but they will never have a better leader.
We can’t forget the work of Devine, McCarthy, Hawkins, Duffy, Sullivan, Gleason and Morelli. Nor could we forget Bedan, Williams, Ireland, Witten-burg, Luepke, and Reinhart. “Smitty” wouldn’t want us to. He believed that each one of them was in his own way an important part of the TEAM.
RECORDS FALL
This year’s club probably set more records than any previous Notre Dame teams. The outstanding record was Tom Hawkins’ 576 points in a single season, breaking the old record of 539 set by Lloyd Aubrey last year.
Smyth became the second highest scorer in Notre Dame history. His three-year total of 1,236 is topped only by Jack Stephens’ total of 1,251. He also became the holder of the third highest one-season total with 534 points.
The team scored a total of 2,364 points which broke the record of the 1953-54 team which totaled 1,896 points. Even more people watched the Notre Dame basketball team than any other in Irish history. The 28 games were witnessed by a total of 188,922 fans, breaking the figure of 188,780 which attended contests in 1948-49.
The records fell and thousands were impressed. A coach with a great captain turned out an impressive ball club. Now Devine and McCarthy along with the same coach will attempt to build an even greater club. And they’ll do it.—J. G.
r
16
The- Scholastic

About the Frosh
k:' )	_ This year’s freshman basketball squad
, l ® spent most of their half-hour pi-actice . I sessions in intensive defensive work.
Coach Jim Gibbons figured that most men trying out for college ball know how to ,	shoot but not many know how to play
,	good defense. On offense, they concen-
.	1	trated on passing and cutting off the
K	f.	single pivot. This last month or so, they
11	j;	worked on the fast break. Gibbons
'	switched men around, trying different
r'l ^combinations all season long.
; ( Following Big Ten rules, the freshmen did not engage' in intercollegiate competition. Instead, they played intrasquad games, which preceded the varsity , encounters. A rundown of the team: ,. Mike Graney—Since Captain John 1 Smyth’s departure will leave the pivot position open, Mike Graney from Bishop I Noll in Hammond, Ind., probably has the V ^ best chance to break into the starting ■ ? ^lineup. The. 6-5 center might play at . the top of the key in Johnny Jordan’s double pivot offense. In addition to a ; good one-handed jump shot, Graney can hook with either hand and is a strong rebounder.
?	Bob Skrzyski — Also 6-5, Skrzycki
makes himself more effective on offense because he can move outside and shoot a one-handed push shot. He alternated
\	Q,.with Graney at center and can also hook
1 either way.
Emmett McCarthy—Coached by Jim Gibbons at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago last year, the left-handed McCarthy does a fine job on the boards for his size. The 6-3 forward is alert on defense, but probably his biggest asset is his ability to drive hard. His brother John plays forward on the varsity.
Harry Morgan — Morgan alternated ■ between forward and center this season.
The 6-3 Louisianan has a soft touch । on a one-handed jump shot but needs work on his defense.
Don McGann—Coached by former Notre Dame All-American Leroy Leslie, at Joliet, Ill., McGann is the best hustler on the squad. He passes into the pivot • man and cuts and drives well.
Mike Bekelja—At 6-4 Bekelja is a good rebounder when he goes up. The j. best facet of his game is a long, one-handed jump.
Bob Bradtke—Bradtke is one of the i top defensive men on the floor, and his ■ shooting has improved a great deal | through the season. From his guard slot, he is the “take-charge guy,” who sets / tAi
5 March 29, 1957
i
by TED THOMPSON
up the plays. Bradtke and Graney were teammates at Bishop Noll last year.
The freshmen who answered the call for tryouts and were good enough to stick were Mike Farrell, Frank Finnegan, Phil Allen, Mike Dull, Bill Kelly, John Conway, Walt Sherwin, John Conroy, George Richvalsky, John Dorrain, and John Kenny.
Vote Devine, McCarthy Basketball Co-Captains
Bob Devine and John McCarthy have been named basketball co-captains succeeding graduating John Smyth.
Devine is in the college of Arts and Letters and is majoring in Philosophy. His home is Philadelphia where he captained the West Catholic High squad as a senior. Devine, in his senior year was named the outstanding player in the Philadelphia area. Sports writers compare him to the fabulous Tom Gola, the only difference being’ in size.
Devine has been a regular guard for the Irish for the past two seasons. In his sophomore year- he led the team in playing time and was third highest in the scoring column.
This season his fine outside shooting and floor play were indispensable. His jump shots from the key and cool passing opened the middle enabling the big men to maneuver for position. Much credit for the team’s fine record this season should be given to him.
McCarthy is a native of Chicago. He attended Mt. Carmel High and was the leading scorer in Chicago’s Catholic League in his senior year. He was named to the All-Chicago prep team.
McCarthy is a two-year letterman. Although he did not start as a sophomore, he played in 20 games and was fifth in both scoring and in playing time. His outstanding game that season was against Illinois.
This season saw him play to his potential. He broke into the starting lineup midway through the schedule, and immediately the team played better ball.
His best defensive job for the season was the first half of the Detroit game, when he held Bill Ebben, Detroit’s All-American to ten points, and rebounded excellently.
John is in the College of Arts and Letter’s and is majoring in Philosophy.
Tyra Heads Cage List Of All-Opponent Team
Charlie Tyra, Louisville All-American, once again heads the list of the Irish All-Opponent team for 1956-57. Besides Tyra the Irish named three other seniors— Bill Ebben of Detroit, Dave Markey of Canisius, and Manhattan’s Gerry Paulson. Michigan State sophomore John Green completed the five-man squad.
Scoring 40 points, Tyra led his Louisville club to an easy victory over the Irish during the Christmas vacation, breaking the previous Louisville high game mark by two points. ■ Against the Irish he hit for a very commendable 16 of 16 from the charity stripe. The 6-8 center last year was named to the Helm’s All-American squad in addition to being the Most Valuable Player of the NIT tourney which his team won. Again this year, Tyra has been named to the majority of the post season All-American polls.
Detroit’s Bill Ebben turned in one of the season’s finest all around offensive performances the Irish came up against this year when he scored 29 points, despite the Titans’ losses to the Irish late in the season. Ebben cashed in for five field goals in the first half but the jump shot artist was blanked from the field in the second half until only 7:36 remained. Then in the space of seven minutes he ripped the cords for eight consecutive baskets and three free throws for his 29 points and a new Detroit season scoring mark of 620.
Paulson, the eagle-eyed scorer and playmaker from Manhattan, directed the offense and defense, as well as garnering 27 points to be high scorer on the Jasper squad, in leading his teammates to victory over the Irish in the final game of the Holiday Festival in New York. His offensive and defensive dexterity merited him the tournament’s Most Valuable Player award.
Michigan State’s John Green came into his own as a scorer in the Spartans’ first encounter with the Irish in January, but it was in the tournament play that he proved most menacing. The jumping-jack center controlled the defensive boards for State in the Irish-Spartan clash two weeks ago at Lexington in addition to pouring in 20 markers and do- -ing a good job containing Irish captain John Smyth.
Fifth man on this year’s Irish dream team is Dave Markey, a 5-10 backcourt ace who is regarded as one of the finest guards in this country, usually finding the opponent’s leading scorer as his assignment. Against the Irish in Buffalo he led the Golden Griffins to a double overtime victory, scoring 27.points and hitting 13 of 15 from the free throw line.
17
1956-57 NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL TEAM. Left to right: Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons, Jim Williams, Tom Reinhart, Henry Luepke, Jack Bedan, Charlie Wittenburg, Head Coach Johnny Jordan. First row: Gene Duffy, Tom Sullivan, Tom Hawkins, Captain John Smyth, John McCarthy, Bob Devine, and Joe Morelli.
NOTRE DAME 1956-57 FINAL BASKETBALL STATISTICS												
	Games FGA		FG	Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct.	Rebounds	PF	TP	Avg.	
Tom Hawkins, f 				 28	527	227	.431	186	122	.656	484	64	576	20.6	
John Smyth, c 							 28	463	208	.449	156	118	.576	423	101	534	19.0	
John McCarthy, f 				 28	378	155	.410	157	121	.771	286	71	431	15.4	
Bob Devine, g 				  ..	28	364	142	.391	96	72	.750	133	71	356	12.7	
Joe Morelli, f-g 					 22	154	52	.338	69	48	.696	67	37	152	----	
Ed Gleason, g 						 17	80	30	.375	49	38	.778	30	25	98	....	
Gene Duffy, g 							 22	59	29	.492	37	21	.568	24	26	79	....	
Tom Sullivan, g 					 19	69	23	.333	16	9	.563	47	30	55	....	
Jack Bedan, c									13	53	21	.396	14	9	.643	30	16	51	....	
Jim Williams, f								 5	11	7	.636	2	1	.500	7	5	15	....	
Mike Ireland, c 						 5	10	2	.200	7	3	.429	11	3	7	....	
Charles Wittenburg, f 						 2	3	2	.667	2	2	1.000	0	0	6	....	
Henry Luepke, c						 3	5	1	.200	0	0	.000	3	3	3	....	
Tom Reinhart, f 						 1	3	1	.333	2	0	.000	3	0	2	----	
Team 														109				
NOTRE DAME TOTALS 					 28	2179	900	.413	793	564	.711	1657	452	2364	84.4	
OPPONENTS’ TOTALS 								 28	2050	791	.386	758	518	.683	1257	468	2100	75.0	
												•
18										The Scholastic		
MATTHEW FITZSIMONS	DON PRICE
‘American Culture’	‘Government and Science'
International Relations Committee Sponsors
1; Conference on 'What
Q, “What America Stands For” is the ’ subject of a symposium, sponsored by the University’s Committee on International Relations, which will run today and tomorrow, according to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, committee chairman and professor of political science at the University.
Seven specialists in various aspects of American life will speak at the symposium whose object is a “clear presentation of American ideas, institutions, * goals, and practices,” Dr. Kertesz said.
1 Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will serve as chairman of the sessions which will be held in the Law Auditorium on the campus.
Visiting speakers and their subjects include Prof. Jerome G. Kerwin, University of Chicago, “The Living Constitution”; Prof. Louis Brownlow, Washington University of St. Louis, “The American City”; Don K. Price, vicepresident of the Ford Foundation, New York, N. Y., “Government and Science”;
. and George N. Shuster, president of Hunter College, New York, N. Y., “The Meaning of Higher Education in the United States.”
Three Notre Dame faculty members, _in addition to Dr. Kertesz, also will . ~ speak at the symposium. They are John t T. Frederick, “The Meaning of Litera-‘ ture in America Today”; Aaron I. Abell, “The Religious Factor”; and Matthew , A. Fitzsimons, “American Culture: Uni> versal Elements and Specific Features.” . According to Dr. Kertesz, the sym-| posium “will unfold the picture of how i Tthe dynamic American system of govem-
• March 29, 1957
America Stands For*
ment has made possible a profound revolution without upheavals, and how traditional American concepts and values have been applied to the rapidly changing conditions of modern life.” The various speakers, he said, will endeavor to make a “critical appraisal and sincere evaluation” of our countiy whose “intellectual strength, determination and courage” greatly influence the direction of world events today.
WORK BEGUN IN 1948
Notre Danie’s Committee on International Relations was established in 1948 under the leadership of the late Dr. Waldemar Gurian. Since then it has published 12 books and sponsored a number of campus symposia. These symposia, which have drawn together noted foreign affairs specialists from western Europe as well as this country, have dealt with problems arising from the “cold war” and the ethical and religious as well as political aspects of our relations with foreign powers. The research of the committee is sponsored in part by a $100,000 grant received from the Rockefeller Foundation in 1955.
Dr. Kertesz, former Hungarian minister to Italy, was named head of the Committee on International Relations in 1955. Other committee members are M. A. Fitzsimons, editor of Notre Dame’s Review of Politics and professor of history; F. A. Hermens, professor of political science; John J. Kennedy, associate professor of political science; and W. O. Shanahan, professor of history.
Students to Register For Rooms April 2-12
Registration for campus rooms for th 1957-58 semesters will begin Tuesday h the Office of Student Accounts and wil continue until Friday, April 12. Roon lists have been posted for- each of th< classes throughout the campus. Student; whose names appear on these lists hav< been notified as to the date and time t< report to Student Accounts.
Those students going into senior halls: Alumni, first and second floor Fisher and Walsh, will report from April 2 tc 4; junior halls: Dillon, Pangborn, anc Sorin, April 5 to 9; and sophomore halls: Badin, Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey. April 9 to 12.
The scholastic average required for a campus room is presently 76.8 for sophomores, 79.08 for juniors, and 81.17 for seniors. However, supplementary lists will soon be out with additional names.
With the change to the use of IBM machines for handling work that had previously been done by hand, the average determining order of registration is based on academic work through last January.
Students whose averages are highest and who do not have permission to reside off campus next year will obtain rooms for next semester. There will be 600 seniors, 775 juniors, and 1050 sophomores on campus next year. If the new halls are completed by next semester, off-campus students, regardless of class, will be placed in the new rooms.
Students whose names do not appear on the lists will receive no notice. As vacancies occur they will be called in according to their general average.
Engineers Set Weekend For Annual Open House
An auto show, an engineering show, an air show, and exhibits of all phases of engineering development will highlight the 1957 Engineering Open House, April 12-14.
The auto show, under the direction of Ed Kelly, will feature special experimental models such as the DeSoto Adventurer, the Chrysler 300-C, the Plymouth Fury, the Oldsmobile Golden Rocket and the Rambler Palm Beach.
Also included in the exhibit will be models of the latest fuel injection systems and air conditioning systems now in use, along with Studebaker-Packard’s new supercharger and twin traction differential.
A special feature of this year’s show is a full scale model car designed and built by the automotive styling department of the College of Arts and Letters.
1*
Brady Looks
Into The Future
by JERRY BRADY
Back in the fall of 1955 our controversial Student Senate amended its constitution by changing the words Student “Senate” President to Student “Body” President (Art. I, Sec. 6 to be exact). It didn’t seem like much of a change, just one little word.
But it’s strange to see what that word implies: it began to remind people that the job had nothing to do with speeches, constitution and policies, except indirectly, and that its real purpose was to think and act for the students. Seems pretty obvious, doesn’t it? Strangely enough it is very easy to forget.
You might get a better idea of who this Brady is by seeing how he would think about his job. What should the Student Body President be thinking about? Let’s take a look.
I have often wished I had a place to study outside the hall at night since I’ve been bounced out of most of the buildings. Student Government could arrange for study facilities in the Student Center and other classrooms until 11 o’clock.
Let’s take a look at the future, at the problems presented in April and May. Vacations will be starting then and so will the usual mad rush for cabs at the circle. Student Government could provide bus service to the trains, particularly for those leaving from Plymouth and LaPaz.
Many years ago it was a tradition to sing hymns and say a few prayers at the Grotto every night during May. While I was Sophomore Class President last year we brought back this tradition for our class and it was continued by the class this year. I would like to see it made a devotion for the whole school.
Since the President’s Cup was established two years ago to honor the outstanding hall on campus there has never-been an adequate scoring system and results have never been announced. I would remedy this by allowing the Hall President’s Council to determine the system and its results to be published in the Scholastic.
The Student Government budget allocates $1200 per year for the four classes and $1000 for the 15 halls. I would like
to emphasize the hall as the key social unit by giving them more money to spend.
On the social scene: do you Sophomores realize that between your Sophomore Cotillion and the Junior Prom there are 19 months in which you do not have a single high-level date activity? A dinner dance can be arranged at a South Bend country club during the spring and fall to give a quality social event that is strictly for your class.
Of course, I will continue to promote
THE AUTHOR
the ideas that have already been introduced in the senate this year: publishing a newsletter for Student Government eveiy two weeks, completion of the Academic Honor Societies, special student rates in South Bend, emphasis on NSA and NFCCS, a regional student body president’s conference and the movie pool for campus clubs. But we must go further by doing new things, by doing better things better.
In addition to the newsletter we could start a weekly program over WSND and speak at hall meetings to explain Student Government.
Sounds like a rosy picture, doesn’t it, with all these things that Brady is hop-
I ing to put in? Unfortunately the job is not as easy and pleasant as all that. The i-'_ president must think about serious problems of the university; it will be no fun to correct them. Such things as possible bad conduct in Washington Hall and at basketball games and the lack of real student responsibility will have to be ; corrected.	j
Can you see just a little bit of what I ‘ mean by being a Student “Body” Presi- fa dent rather than a Student “Senate” President? In my two years in the senate we have spent about half of every meeting discussing, amending and generally chewing up the constitutions, policies and by-laws in great volumes. We’ve got policies on everything; we’ve even got constitutions on how to make constitutions.
All these things are absolutely neces-sary but they are not productive of anything for either the students or the university. All they can do is educate those in it about the machinery of government. These are means to an end, not an end in themselves. The ends of Student Government are: (1) benefits and representation for the students, (2) the good of the university as a whole and (3) an education in leadership for those who are in it. Those who talk of policies and committee meetings without relating them to these three aims have missed the point of student government.
This is the way that Jerry Brady, a potential Student Body President, is thinking of the job he hopes to hold. I will not plague you with a list of my accomplishments in two years but rather give you a look at what I think the future holds, a Student Government with a purpose. If I would make one promise and I believe that is all I will make—it would be that I would always think like a Student Body President.
For me the short future looks like this: I will try to visit your room in the remaining days of the campaign on this schedule: Saturday afternoon in Dillon, Sunday in Morrissey and Cavanaugh, Monday, Howard and St. Ed’s, Tuesday,^ Breen-Phillips, and Wednesday Sorin" and Zahm.
I have used the previous 700 words to explain some of my thoughts about the . , way a Student Body President should be thinking. On Sunday the senate will publish a special election bulletin in which I will give you my view on how Student Government can be improved to meet its^ three aims. I hope you will consider!^ them both carefully in making your choice.
Briefly then, to be a Student Body President is to think first of the students and how their good is the good of the University. This is what I will do. This is why I am running; this is why I have tried to learn how to do the job best.£-
20
The Scholastic
As Student Body President
I Propose ...
I
by VICK CLESI
i
1 Believe it or not, campaigning for a 1 position such as Student Body President i • at Notre Dame is sometimes a rather ' nerve-racking job. As a matter of fact, ) WX few days ago I decided to make a little , trip over to the Student Infirmary to try to obtain some sleeping pills for the , restless, toss-and-turn nights that I’ve been warned are ahead.
, The person on duty at the Infirmary asked me why I wanted sleeping pills, to )	which I	replied that I am running for
1	Student	Body President. He then asked
I	me why	anyone would try to land a job
11	such as	that. I didn’t answei’ immedi-
* lately. He continued, saying that in his mind leadership is nothing but ambition.
I believe that leadership does involve ambition, but I don’t believe leadership is nothing but ambition. Nor would I describe leadership only as service, because there are too many different kinds of service. Thus, even though all leaders serve (We say George Washington “served” his country well) undoubtedly ^vhat we customarily refer to as “serv-l ice” is not leadership. But a “spirit of i service” and even ambition are factors that strongly motivate leadership.
In light of the above, then, I can tell you why I want to be elected Student Body President. First, I believe that a person holding this position has unparalleled opportunity to work on behalf of his • classmates and his University simultaneously. Secondly, I have great respect for this office and the people who have held it in the past, and I would consider it a great honor to be elected to that office by the Student Body of I Notre Dame. There are other reasons why a person aspires to this office, but I feel that the two named above are the two most basic.
It is unfortunate that Notre Dame is ^.o large that every student can’t know • every other student by name. This situa-j tion is especially unfortunate during the time of elections, because it is then necessary to choose a man to fill an office i when many of the voters don’t know • either man running for the position. AdI mittedly, this is an unfortunate and un-l^desirable situation. But, there seems to i ^be no known remedy, other than to com-I
j March 29, 1957 f
municate as best as possible through media such as the Scholastic, and to make as much personal contact as possible.
It seems appropriate at this time, therefore, to state briefly why I think I can administei- this job efficiently.
It was my good fortune to become involved in Student Government in my freshman year, at which time I held the
THE AUTHOR
position of Senator from Farley Hall. Since then I have again been so fortunate as to have been elected a stay senator my sophomore year and senator from Pangborn Hall my junior year. Three years in the Senate gives any person a good background for, and a good working knowledge of, Student Government.	.
During the course of my three years in Student Government, I have served on almost all of the Senate’s committees. These include the Senate Finance Committee, Concessions Committee, Constitution Committee, Dining Hall Committee, Seriate-Blue Circle Policy Committee, and Library Committee, just to mention a few. •
This year, as head of the Library Committee and Dining Hall Committee,
I’ve had the opportunity to deal directly with the members of the Administration, a .very valuable experience. Our Library Committee was able to work with the University library in implementing the new library policy, now in effect, which . was put through with a minimum of confusion and provides students new privileges.
Three years in Student Government have also formulated in me strong opinions concerning what Student Government is and what it shottld be. I believe there are certain policies, projects and activities that Student Government should emphasize during the coming year.
On March 14, 1957, Student Government proved itself capable of successfully doing something big—bringing bigname entertainment to Notre Dame and South Bend with the Louis Armstrong concert. The Student Government should take it upon itself to continue to bring big-name entertainment to Notre Dame, and to do so more often than once a year. Possibilities for next year: Four Freshmen, Four Lads, June Cristy, etc.
Notre Dame needs a group of honor societies of a purely academic nature. The Senate Academic Commission has evolved a plan and laid the groundwork this year. Next year we should see to the birth of these societies.
Student Government has not sufficiently broadened its scope of operations. Next fall we can start taking more active part in the furthering of spiritual life on campus by subsidizing student retreats in the amount of $200 per semester, thereby making retreats economically possible to more students.
Numerous changes are needed in the Senate’s finance policies—better control of Student Government Concessions, as well as some control over that portion of the activities fee turned over to the classes, colleges, and halls (constituting about 30 percent of the total activities fee) are in order.
Students should be kept informed of what goes on in Student Government— a monthly news bulletin (or more often should it prove necessary) should be published and distributed by the Senate^
Certain physical improvements are in order for the sake of convenience. For example, a billboard of scheduled campus activities in the main lobby of the Student Center would prove very helpful.
Concerning national affiliations, Notre Dame should take a stronger lead in them, especially in the National Federation of Catholic College Students where strong leadership is badly needed.
These are examples of some of the things that can be done by Student Government next year. You might call them a platform if you like. I think they serve to give you an idea of what I think Student Government should be striving for.
21
SACRED HEART CHURCH
Crowds flock to pay last respects to Rockne.
A Tribute to ‘Rock’
Sunday, March 31, marks the 26th anniversary of the death of the greatest coach in the history of football, Knute K. Rockne.
The following is a tribute to Rockne, a great coach, and a great Catholic gentleman. It is a eulogy delivered as the sermon of the funeral Mass by Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., the President of the University.
“Lord, thou hast proved vie and known me: thou hast knoivn my sitting doivn and my rising up.
“Thou hast understood my thoughts afar off: my path and my direction thou hast searched out.
“And thou hast foreseen all my ways . . .
“Behold, 0 Lord, thou hast known all things, the last and those of old: thou hast formed me, and hast laid thy hand ■upon me.
“Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy face?
“If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I descend into hell, thou art present.
“If I take my wings early in the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea:
“Even there also shall thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me.
“And I said: Perhaps darkness shall cover me: and night shall be my light in my pleasures.
“But darkness shall not be dark to thee, and night shall be light as the day: the darkness thereof, and the light thereof are alike to thee.
“For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast protected me from my mother’s zvomb.
“I will praise thee, for thou art fearfully magnified: wonderful are thy works, and my soul knoweth right well.
“My bone is not hidden from thee, which thou hast made in secret: and my substance in the lower parts of the earth.
“Thy eyes did see my imperfect being, and in thy book all shall be written.”— Psalm 138.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me: Write: Blessed are the dead, who die in the Lord. From henceforth now, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their zvorks follozv them.—Apoc. xiv, 13.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.” These comforting words, in this hour of sorrow, derive their comfort from belief in the existence and the benevolence of God. Who is the Lord in whom we live and move and are, in
whom it is a blessedness to die? Let Himself answer: “I am Who am.” “I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.” He is that necessary, selfexistent Being, demanded by our reason^ and revealed by His o«m handiwork as'' the only key, the only satisfactory intellectual explanation of the riddle of life. Sought and found by our reason, He is further guaranteed by that exercise of our reason and our ■will combined, which aided by help from Him, is the supernatural act of faith.
By the light of our own natural faculties which He gave us, and by the beam^ of that divine illumination which also is^i His gift, we know Him as the cause of all things and the last end of all. Moving of Himself out of the uncounted ages of His eternity, He brought into being all things that are. Life, the power of life, that is His creation; from Him it comes, from Him alone. As human study proceeds, each advance of science opening r new doors toward the hidden center of^ knowledge, widening in everextending directions the horizons of fact, which in their turn enlarge the reaches of human dreams, grander and more august, wiser and kinder we find Him to be who is the cause and source of all. Yet, when everything is reported of the splendor of our discovery of Him, it must fall short of that original postulate of oui’ reason and^
22
The Scholastic
* i •our faith that names Him infinite. “0 ' the depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the knowledge of God. How incomprehensible are His judgments, and how unsearchable His ways. For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been His counsellor?” (Rom. XI, 33, 34). He is “Alpha and Omega, . the beginning and the end.”
i He is the master of the universe. He I ^!is the lord of life and death. He is the lodestar of our destiny. He is the cap:	tain of our soul. All lands are His, all
seas and the uncharted empire of the ; sky. “Whither shall I go from Thy t	spirit? or whither shall	I flee	from Thy
'	face? If I ascend into	heaven thou art
1 there. ... If I take my wings early in I.	the morning, and dwell	in the	uttermost
j ’	parts of the sea: even	there	also shall
i/ •.-Thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me.” For, let us mark the greatest mystery of all: this Supreme Being, this God of majesty and power, is a God of tenderness and love, ‘reach, ing from end to end mightily and ordering all things sweetly.’ “What gray I hairs are on the head of Judah whose youth is renewed like the eagle’s, whose ? feet are like the feet of hai-ts, and under-j neath the Everlasting Arms.”
But, oh, this Infinite God, who fills all time and space, gentle Father though He be, is infinitely remote, it will be said: He is vague and impersonal to the heart . of man, reaching out, as by his nature he must, to clasp a friendly hand, straining to catch the tones of a human voice. Ah, that need too He has foreseen and answered and provided for. The Word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us still. ^This very week the whole world keeps i
TRAGEDY
He died as he lived — a Champion.
March 29, 1957
remembrance of His life, His passion, and His death, His sacrifice of Himself for our sakes. He came to be our Brother; He came to prove Himself the great Lover of mankind. For uncounted millions of men that proof has been conclusive, and will be accepted as the perfect proof till time is no more.
In this holy week of Christ’s passion and death there has occurred a tragic event which accounts for our presence here today. Knute Rockne is dead. And who was he? Ask the President of the United States, who dispatched a personal message of tribute to his memory and comfort to his bereaved family. Ask the King of Norway, who sends a special delegation as his personal representatives to this solemn service. Ask the several State legislatures, now sitting, that have passed resolutions of sympathy and condolence. Ask the university senates, the civic bodies and societies without number; ask the bishops, the clergy, the religious orders, that have sent assurances of sympathy and prayers; ask the thousands of newspaper men, whose labor of love in his memory has stirred a reading public of 125,000,000 Americans; ask men and women from every walk of life; ask the children, the boys of America, ask any and all of these, who was this man whose death has struck the nation with dismay and has everywhere bowed heads in grief.
Was he perhaps a martyr who died for some great cause, a patriot who laid down his life foi’ his country, a statesman, a soldier, an admiral of the fleet, some heaven-born artist, an inventor, a captain of industry or finance? No, he was Knute Rockne, director of athletics
CAN T KEEP A GOOD MAN DOWN Rockne with Frank Carideo.
and football coach of Notre Dame. He was a man of the people, a husband and father, a citizen of South Bend, Indiana. Yet, had he been any one of these personages that have been mentioned, the tributes of admiration and affection which he has received could not be more universal or more sincere.
How is this fact to be accounted for? What was the secret of his irresistible appeal to all sorts and conditions of men? Who shall pluck out the heart of his mystery and lay bare the inner source of the power he had? When we say simply, he was a great American, we shall go far towards satisfying many, for all of us recognize and love the attributes of the true American character. When we say that he was an inspirer of young men in the direction of high ideals that were conspicuously exemplified in his own life, we have covered much that unquestionably was true of him. When we link his name with the intrinsic chivalry and romance of a great college game, which he, perhaps, more than any other one man, had made finer and cleaner in itself and larger in its popular appeal, here, too, we touch upon a vital point. But no one of these things, nor all of them together can quite sum up this man whose tragic death at the early age of 43 has left the country aghast. Certainly, the circumstances of his death do not furnish the answer.
I do not know the answer. I would not dare the irreverence of guessing. But I find myself in this hour of piteous loss and pained bewilderment recalling the words of Christ: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole heart. This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is like unto this: thou
. (Continued on page 28)
23
I
The Day the Dock was Baptised
By JOHN McMAHON
ROCKNE
Creator of the “Irish” legend.
John McMahon is a junior journalism major. The following is the story of Knute Rockne's Baptism, written especially for this memorial to “the Rock.”
He would follow the team into the little Catholic Church across from Grand Central Station when they went to New York to play the Army. He would see his boys get up early on the morning of a game, steal from the hotel lobby and head for a church. His wife, who was converted before their marriage, was understanding in her Catholic example around their children. He was in constant contact with priests and clean Catholic boys at Notre Dame. It is probably a combination of all these that prompted Knute Rockne to become a Catholic.
It was 1925, the year after the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules. Boys named Christie Flanagan, Joe Boland, Captain Clem Crowe and Arthur Boer-inger perspired under his tutoring. Rock was being instructed by Father Vince Mooney, a close friend, and a priest at Notre Dame. Father Mooney tells how Rock was quick and eager to learn. How on many occasions, the Norwegian would stop him cold with questions on the
Catholic Faith. He once asked Father Vince, whom he called “Scotty,” just what the story was on the Modernists and Fundamentalists, two groups that had crept silently into the Church causing some trouble during the twenties. Father Vince was floored. Even he knew very little about it.
“I caught you off-sides, Scotty. If I were refereeing the game,” the Rock said, “I’d penalize them both half the distance to the goal and then start the game over.”
Father Mooney said Rock learned his religion by knowing football. He had the Seven Sacraments for a line and a back-
ROCKNE, CARIDEO, MAYOR WALKER Rockne receives keys to New York.
field consisting of Faith, Hope, Charity and the All-American quarterback Justice.
The Baptism was set for November 20, the day before the Northwestern game. Northwestern, an unusually powerful eleven that year, hoped to be the first team ever to beat Notre Dame inside the confines of the green-fenced Cartier Field.
No one knew that Rockne was under instruction except his wife, Bonnie, and Father Mooney. Somehow several of the players got the rumor and came to ask Father Vince if they could be present for
the ceremony. He relayed their message to Bonnie and she approached Rock.
“So they want to be at my Baptism,” he said. “What do they think this is, a | three-ring circus? Tell them to go say their prayers.”	.
On a bright fall afternoon, Rock, Bonnie, Father Vince and Mr. and Mrs.	(
Thomas Hickey, neighbors of the . I Rocknes, who were to be Rock’s spon-^, | sors, entered the Log Chapel on the campus. The afternoon sun seemed to be setting in the old building, illuminating it entirely.
Father Vince began arranging the oils, cotton and the Baptismal font for the ceremony. He asked Rock if he would light the single blessed candle on the table before the font. Obediently the coach reached for the matches and . marched toward the table. He looked to® ! the rustic altar where several Benediction candelabrae stood guarding the tabernacle. “How ’bout those, Scotty. Do you want me to light those?”
“If you were a priest or a bishop,” Father Vince answered, “we would light all the candles in the church, but you’re just an ordinary football coach.” Rock turned and looked at the priest. “It looks to me, Scotty, like you’re pretty^ damn tight with the wax.” Stooping be-^ fore the solitary candle, he ignited it with a satisfied grin.
Rock stood before the font and the
CHICAGO GREETS THE CHAMPIONS
LaSalle Street swarms for parade.
24
The Scholastic
/
ROCK AND THE FOUR HORSEMEN
Builder of champions with his greatest backfield.
ceremony began. The sun drove through the window, reflecting on his bald head. “OK, Scotty, go ahead. You won’t have to use much water.”
After the baptism, Father Vince took Rock by the arm. “Why don’t we step into the sacristy where we’ll have a little privacy, and I’ll hear your confession.”
Rock grinned again. “Why don’t you ^hear it out here? Everybody knows my business anyhow.”
Rock’s First Communion was to follow the next morning in St. Edward’s Hall. At that time, St. Ed’s was a grade school and the chapel pews were designed in miniature for boys up to the eighth grade. It was also First Communion day for about 100 of Sister Aloysius’s six to ten-year-old boys. Knute Rockne, Jr., was a member of this group. He did not ^know that his father had been baptized. Sister Aloysius arranged the boys so
that when they stepped out into aisle to go up to receive, Knute Sr. Knute Jr. would be side by side.
As Father Vince bowed low for “Domine, non sum dignus . . . ,”
the and
the the
choir began singing “Oh Lord I Am Not Worthy.” Rock stepped in beside his ^young son, and slowly walked in pro' cession to the Communion rail. A look came over Junior’s face. “Daddy, you
1 go back,” he said. “You can’t come up here. This is only for Catholics.” But i Rock marched solemnly on. At the rail i he knelt beside his son. “Daddy, go ! back,” said Junior again. “You’re not
a Catholic. Go back.”
By this time, Father Vince was near
them with the ciborium. He leaned down to the small boy. “I baptized your father yesterday afternoon,” he whispered. “Now he is going to receive his First Communion with you.” Admiration, sur-
prise and pride face. He turned “I’ll offer my Daddy,” he said.
swept over the boy’s to his father smiling. Communion for you,
That afternoon was also a great one for Rockne. The team knew that he was now a Catholic. Northwestern was playing as well as it had all season, and at the end of the half, were leading 10-0. In the dressing room between the halves, Rock’s boys slumped to the floor to wait for an eruption from their coach.
“Good afternoon, ladies,” said Rock coming through the door. “So this is the Fighting Irish I’ve heard so much nbout. Well, when you go out there in the second half and get the beating you deserve, I won’t share the disgrace with you. I will no longer be your coach.” Turning to his assistant coach, Hunk Anderson, he said: “You take ’em, Hunk.”
Rockne left the dressing room and went up into the stands. He remained there for eight minutes. But that was long enough for the Fighting Irish to score two touchdowns. His boys won 13-10 on Cartier Field.
Maybe Rockne chuckled to himself. Anyway, he could never have lived out his threat if Notre Dame had lost that day. After all it was only the day before that he had become a real member of the team.
Comment
It has often been said that Time is the great healer of all wounds. Perhaps, but the wound that Notre Dame has suffered by the death of her most loved man will never be healed completely. Even now, after the nation has partially recovered from the passing of one of its greatest citizens, it is hard to realize what the loss of “Rock” means to us all.
* * *
Notre Dame without Rockne . . . the United States without Rockne. What does it mean? We hardly know, yet. The thousands of telegrams and letters received by the University are only partially indicative of the grief felt by the entire nation. It mattered not whether the newsboys in San Francisco or New York or Florida knew “Rock” personally; he was a friend to everyone and they loved him.
* * * _
We at Notre Dame were closer to Rockne than anyone else; his very appearance on the campus made the world look brighter; his kind face, his soft smile, his cheery hello gave a thrill to all who spoke to “Rock.” And no one was ever intentionally snubbed. Rockne was that kind of a man—“a man’s man.”
* . * *
Father O’Hara received a letter- from the father of a crippled boy, who last year asked for a photograph of Rockne and got it, personally autographed. The little fellow heard the announcement of the air crash ovei- the radio. He turned the radio off. When his father came home, his small son, with tears in his eyes, asked: “Daddy, ■will there be a Notre Dame now?” That is typical of the questions being asked by millions, young and old. And the only answer to the question is: “There will be a Notre Dame, a greater Notre Dame, because the spirit of the man who made Notre Dame famous will inspire her sons to greater heights, will drive them on to preserve the high ideals which their leader always advocated, because “Rock” will be watching, guiding, and praying for them to “cany on” where he left off—at the pinnacle of success.”
* * *
We shall remember Rockne because he wanted us to do the right things in the right way. Always clean, always fair, always fighting for the highest things in life. That was Rockne.
The above comments zvere taken from the Scholastic of April 17, 1931, zvhich zvas dedicated to the memory of Knzite Rockne.
March 29, 1957
25
I
DO YOU WANT A CHALLENGE?
DO YOU WANT A GROWING COMPANY?
DO YOU WANT ADVANCEMENT?
DO YOU WANT A FIRM OF
YOUNG EXECUTIVES?
We want to hire two June Grads
*	Accounting Trainee MBA or BS in Accounting
*	Market Research Analyst BA or BS
Ben Koehler, of our Personnel Department, will interview interested students on April 1st at your Placement Office.
THE TONI COMPANY
A Division of the Gillette Company
MERCHANDISE MART
. Chicago 54, Illinois
ND Debaters Qualify For National Tourney
The Notre Dame debate team has been named midwest representative to the National Championship Debate Tournament by winning first place in the midwest -eliminations of the tourney held last , week at Purdue University.
Debaters Paul Coffey and Jack Martz-^ ell outdid approximately 100 eligible j teams in a six-round performance in which they argued both the affirmative and negative sides of the Foreign Aid question.
This was the tenth time Notre Dame has won this event, it was announced by Prof. Leonard Sommer, debate coach.
The debaters are continuing tourna-^ ment competition this week-end by par-R ticipating in the Georgetown University Cherry Blossom Debate Tournament in Washington, D. C. Representing Notre Dame against some of the top teams in the East will be Robert Dempsey, Gerald Goudreau, Coffey and Martzell.
Ton Banchoff and Dennis Schaul debated for Notre Dame in an exhibition tournament on Monday and Tuesday at Augustana College, Rock Island, 111.-They met the Augustana team before the^ college’s student body on Monday and debated before a meeting of Rock Island civic groups on Tuesday.
Tailored Ensemble
Engagement —
Wedding Ring jeweled with % carat diamond
$189.50
HEADQUARTERS FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS, WATCHES, JEWELRY, GIFTS
111 SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
DRRWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J.TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Pianist Casper to Give Concert Here Monday
Richard Casper, a 1953 Notre Dame graduate, will present a piano concert^ Monday in Washington Hall at 8:15 . p.m. There will be no admission charge.
While at Notre Dame, Mr. Casper appeared as piano soloist and accompanist. During this time, he performed in more than 50 concerts throughout the United States, and also played numerous piano recitals at Notre Dame and in the surrounding area. Upon graduation in 1953, he was awarded a fellowship for gradu--ate study and earned a Master’s degree^ in 1954.
During the past two years, Mr. Casper has been studying as a scholarship pupil of Beveridge Webster, at Juilliard School of Music. He has performed frequently at the school and throughout the New York area.
SENIOR RETREAT
The Senior Retreat will open tomorrow at 7:15 Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The Rev. Raphael C. McCarthy, S.J., director of Laymen's Retreats in Denver, Colo., will preach the retreat which will continue through Sunday.
26
The Scholastic
Rev. Sheedy to Speak On Hydrogen Warfare
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Aits and Letters, will speak on “The Morality of Hydrogen Bomb Warfare” this Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Lounge.
His paper will be a commentary on ©the latest statements issued by Mr. Thomas E. Murray, U.S. atomic energy commissioner and prominent Catholic layman, on the limitations and controls which should be placed on the military use and testing of the greatest and most unwieldy of the weapons in our nuclear arsenal, the H-Bomb.
Father Sheedy is the fifth speaker to deliver a paper before the Graduate ^Forum, a new lecture and discussion ' senes inaugurated this year and open to the whole Notre Dame community. In early May, Dr. Anton-Hermann Chroust, of the Law School, will discuss “Modern Trends in Jurisprudence” before the Forum. Concluding the program for 1956-57, the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs, will review the issues recently raised by Msgr. John Tracy Ellis in his article, ©/‘American Catholics and the Intellectual ’ Life.”
Pre-Registration Scheduled In All Colleges April I to 12
Students who have paid the $50 enrollment fee will pre-register for Sep-L tember, 1957, between April 1 and 12. [ ^Summer session students may also pre-t "register at this time.
On-campus students will have their schedule books delivered today and tomorrow and off-campus students may pick them up in Room IB of the LaFor-tune Student Center beginning tomorrow.
Students should check with their deans for specific instructions on pre-registra-i tion by checking the bulletin boards of | —their colleges. Students who have se-| Elected majors should begin making appointments with their schedule advisor by writing their names on appointment 1 sheets posted outside departmental offices.
Winkler-Pinado Team Wins Off-Campus Bridge Tourney
The bridge team of Alan Pinado and George Winkler took first place in the off-campus bridge tournament held last Sunday afternoon in the LaFortune Student Center.
Second place was taken by the team of Jose Delatorre and Ervin Anderson while
rope. you have to UVf $ |
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
11 Special Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships: He de France, United States, Liberte, Saturnia, Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days ... $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
Don Gayhardt and Bob Pinter finished in third place.
The interhall Team-of-Four bridge tournament is scheduled to take place the next two Sunday afternoons. A hall traveling trophy and individual trophies will be given. Masterpoints will also be awarded.
Each hall may enter as many four or five-man teams as are necessary. Each team is asked to register with Will Joncas in 136 Dillon.
CREW CUTS
The Crew Cuts will be at the No-j ©? tre Dame Field House for a two’ hour concert on Friday, April 5. Tickets for the concert will be sold next Tuesday and Wednesday from 12 to 6 p.m. at either the Field ; House or Washington Hall. Advanced sale will also be held at ; St. Mary’s College on Thursday. Admission will be $1.25.
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. e[o Travel Sales Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information C-69 about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!
Name................................
Address......................................
City..............................Zone........State...............
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNOS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES—SPENDABLE EVERYWNEK
■ March 29, 1957
27
Tribute to Rockne
(Continued from page 23) shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.” I think, supremely he loved his neighbor, his fellowman, with genuine, deep love. In an age that has stamped itself as the era of “go-getter”—a horrible word for what is all too often a ruthless thing— he was a “go-giver”—a not much better word, but it means a divine thing. He made use of all the proper machinery and the legitimate methods of modern activity to be essentially not modern at all: to be quite elementarily human and Christian, giving himself, spending himself like water, not for* himself, but for others. And once again, in his case, most
OUR "346" SUITS AND SPORTWEAR
and reflecting our quality and taste
Spring vacation is an ideal time to visit the ”346” Department of any of our fine stores and become acquainted with our large Spring clothing selection, moderately priced for college budgets. You will find a wide variety of good-looking worsted, gabardine and tropical suits, tweed sport jackets, trousers and attractive furnishings... all characteristically Brooks Brothers in quality, workmanship and distinctive styling.
Suits, $75 to $95 • Sport Jackets, $60 and $65
32 Page Illustrated Catalog Sent Upon Request
ESTABLISHED 131*
ms ^umishingsjjats ^$hoes
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
illustriously is verified the Christian paradox—he cast away to keep, he has lost his life to find it. This is not death but immortality.
We who are here are but a handful of his friends, come to pay our last tribute of devotion to his mortal remains, to give some token of our affection that so his dear ones, his loving wife and children, his venerable mother and his sisters, may in their sorrow be a little comforted by oui’ sympathy and the knowledge that we too loved him. Of necessity, we are few in number in this hallowed place, though thousands are without the doors. But we represent millions of men and women like ourselves who are here in spirit, in the very spirit of these solemn
services, and listening all over America to these holy rites.	f
It is fitting he should be brought here ,' to his beloved Notre Dame and that his ; body should rest a little while in this church where the light of Faith broke upon his happy soul, where the waters of Baptism were poured on his brow, where -he made his first confession, received his 5 first Holy Communion, and was con-^~ firmed by the same consecrated hancF that today is raised in blessing above his : coffin. He might have gone to any university in the land and been gladly received and forever cherished there. But he chose Our Lady’s school, Notre Dame. He honored her in his life as a student, he honored her in the monogram he earned and wore, he honored her in the principles he inculcated and the ideals . he set up in the lives of the young men" / under his care. He was her ow true son.
To her we turn in this hour of anguish and of broken hopes and hearts laid waste. She is the Mother of Sorrows and the Comforter of the Afflicted. 0 Mother of God, and Mother of God’s men, we give him into thy keeping. Mary, Gate of Heaven, we come to thee, open to receive him. Mary, Morning Star, shine upon his sea. Mary of Notre Dame, take*, him into thy House of Gold. Our Life^ Our Sweetness, and Our Hope, we lay him in thy bosom.
Eternal Rest grant unto him 0 Lord, and let the perpetual light shine upon . him.
May his soul and the souls of all the . faithful departed, through the mercy of ' God rest in peace. Amen.
An Impressive Season $
(Continued from page 14)
like manner. In fact the Irish regulars played only 12 minutes of the ball game, giving the chores over to the substitutes ' midway in the first half.
Columbus, Ohio, March 12—A Chicago trio, composed of John McCarthy, John Smyth and Tom Hawkins, led the Notre^ Dame eagers into the regionals of th^? NCAA tournament here tonight by breezing past Miami of Ohio, 89-77 for the 10th straight Irish victory of the season.
The Irish shone on the floor of the St. John Arena from the opening minute of the contest and were never threatened throughout the entire game.
Hawkins ripped through 25 points for the high point honors, of the evening,^: He was followed by Smyth with 23 and" McCarthy with 22.
After a half-time break, in which the Irish led 47-31, the ball sailed through the baskets equally for both teams. The Irish then got hot and moved to a 20 point lead with nine minutes left to play.
Notre Dame won the right to face^* (Continued on page 30) v
28
The Scholastic
I' 0 Bengal Finals Slated for Fieldhouse Tonight; Basilio to Referee Final Heavyweight Fight
uti of Morrissey to be perhaps the best boxer of the evening as he defeated Bill Herber of Pangbom. Riciuti jabbed and showed great poise in coasting to an
[-/
i
/
The finals of the 1957 Bengal Bouts will get underway at 8 p.m. in the Fieldhouse tonight. If the preliminaries are any indication, tonight’s fights should be some of the best ever seen in the Notre Dame ring.
Highlight of the evening will be the appearance of welterweight champion, Carmen Basilio. He will receive the Bengal Award as the man in boxing who has contributed the most to the youth of America and competitive spirit during 1956. Basilio will referee the final heavyweight fight of the night.
Another highlight of the evening will ® be the presentation of the Most Outstanding Fighter Award. The trophy has been donated by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Ash of Colorado Springs, Colo., in memory of their son, the late Larry Ash, a former Notre Dame student and Bengal fighter. Larry Ash graduated from here in 1954 and was killed in a patrol plane crash just a yeai- ago last Tuesday. The winner of the award will have his name
inscribed on the trophy and will receive a replica of the award.
Monday night’s opening fight saw Denny Landry of Howard outpointing Gene Reaux in the 127-lb. division.
In the same division, John Donovan of Morrissey gained a close decision over Ed Rohrbach of Badin.
Moving up to the 142-lb division, Dave Cowdrill outfought Bud McGovern to gain a unanimous decision.
£ Bill Herber of Pangborn won a’ disputed split decision over Don Derne of Farley in the next fight, also in the 142lb. class.
In the fifth fight, John Finn of Badin scored a win over George Houk of South Bend.
’ The 157-lb. class was highlighted by TKOs by both winning fighters. Bill ! Moore stopped George Kleindorfer in ^■1:15 of the second round and Gerry Waters knocked out Ron Delamielleure in 1:30 of the third round.
In the only 167-lb. battle, Frank Na-cozy of Badin outpointed Vince Distasio of St. Ed’s.
The 177-lb. fight was a free-swinging battle ending with Bill Blass winning a disputed decision over Bill Hickey.
, Two Irish footballers and a former :	gridiron performer copped wins in the
’	three heavyweight fights. Pat Healey
|	earned a split decision over 1955 cham'	pion, Charles Connors and last year’s
;	light heavy runner-up, Dick Shulsen,
j beat Don Lawrence.
’ In the final bout of the night, Bob I Mondron of Off-Campus, won a split
• a decision over- Dick Prendergast of Sorin.
:	In the first bout of this Wednesday
evening’s semi-final night, Leighton Young of Lyons Hall defeated Jim Harris of Off-Campus.
In the second 137-lb. bout Ross Franco of Cavanaugh Hall TKO’d Hany Odem of Dillon in 52 seconds of the third round. The contest was never in doubt as Franco led throughout the match.
The first 142-lb. bout proved Ed Rici-
TONIGHT’S CHAMPIONSHIP CARD
1 27 lb.—
Denny Landry vs. John Donovan 137 |b.—
Leighton Young vs. Ross Franco 142 lb.—
Ed Ricciuti vs. Dave Cowdrill 147 lb.—
John Finn vs. John Steinberg 155 lb.—
Bill Moore vs. Hugh Ball
160 lb.—
Gerald Waters vs. Bill Brelsford 167 lb.—
Frank Nacozy vs. Dick Murphy 177 lb.—
Pete Noznesky vs. Dick Lynch 185 lb.—
Dick Prendergast vs. Charles Con-
nors	‘
Heavyweight—
Pat Healey vs. Dick Shulsen
Guest Referee—CARMEN BASILIO
THE LARRY ASH MEMORIAL
Presentation to be made tonight.
easy win.
In the second 142-lb. fight Dave Cowdrill of Off-Campus won a unanimous decision from John Finn of Badin in a real scorcher.
William Moore, Off-Campus, won the first 157-lb. bout by a booed split decision as he defeated John Steinberg, also of Off-Campus. There was action throughout the fight as the two boys continually traded leather.
Hugh Ball of Off-Campus defeated Jerry Waters of Off-Campus in the second bout in the 157-lb; division.
The winner by unanimous decision of the first 167-lb. bout was Dick Murphy who won over Bob Miller of Off-Campus.
Frank Nacozy of Lyons won a split decision over Bill Bredsford of St. Ed’s in the second 167-lb. battle.
Moving to the 177-lb. division, defending champion Pete Noznesky earned a right to defend his title with a split decision over Bill Blass.
Dick Lynch of Fisher used a hard left hook to knock out-Doug McGinn of Farley in 35 seconds of the second round.
In the heavyweight division, Dick Prendergast of Sorin rallied to TKO Don Lawrence of Howard in 1:25 of the third round.
The unlimited division saw three Monday winners and 1956 champion John McGinley in action. McGinley was beaten by Dick Shulsen in the first fight of the division. In the other fight, Bob Mondron of Off-Campus lost a unanimous decision to freshman footballer, Pat Healey.
March 29, 1957
29
jack’s
with his new
RMO.C W
; new r
SONIC CufjiL
Ever since Jack bought his new Sonic CAPRI phonograph at the local college store—he’s become the biggest B M O C ever. You can join him and be the biggest ever, too, for you can buy a Capri phonograph for as little as $19.95. This month’s special buy is the Capri 550. It’s a portable 4-speed hi-fi phonograph with WEBCOR automatic changer. Features are twin speakers, a quality amplifier and a smartly styled cabinet in attractive Two-Tone Forest Green. Specially priced at your local dealer.
SONIC INDUSTRIES, INC. 19 Wilbur Street, Lynbrook, N. Y.
Do Mxt Know How to UiweaCoodte?
If you really want to get more fun out of life... to enjoy the thrill of meeting new people . . . making new friends, then decide right now to pay a visit to Arthur Murray’s. Learn about our exciting Student Parties at which you meet new people, dance with many different partners in a gay, informal atmosphere. Learn, too, about our new quicker way to improve your dimcing, die Arthur Murray Magic Step method. You’ll be surprised bow quickly and easily you catch on to the latest popular steps. You start dancing right away, at die very first lesson.
So stop passing up good times. Come in today and see how much more fun and new popularity can be yours when you learn to dance die Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
"It’s fun for us, too, to help shy people quickly develop into popular dancing partners with complete confidence," says Joyce Lyons.
Arthur Murray’s 120 E- Wayne st
An Impressive Season
(Continued from page 28)
Michigan State Friday night in Lexing- P ton, Ky.	;
Lexington, Ky., March 15 — A fine, £ never say die Michigan State University basketball team blasted Notre Dame’s ' X chances for a NCAA championship here^ tonight by defeating the Irish 85-83, be- < fore a full house in the University of -Kentucky Fieldhouse. The winner will advance to the regional championship game against Kentucky here tomorrow night.
Rugged rebounding and an iron-clad » defense spelled victory for the Spartans, i They controlled both boards all evening ■ which enabled them to take an amazing^' 91 shots at the basket. Particularly *. tough on the Irish was Spartan center John Green. He grabbed 27 rebounds and scored 20 points to pace the MSU attack. John Smyth was the scoring leader for Notre Dame with 25 points, and was followed by forward John McCarthy who had 21.
The Irish had leads several times in the first half, but State battled back • each time, and jumped ahead 37-26 at^ halftime.
In the second half Notre Dame valiantly fought back and were down by only two with 1:05 remaining in the game, but Spartan Jack Quiggle dropped in a short shot giving his team a four point lead, 85-81, which iced the game for the Spartans. Eddie Gleason scored an anticlimactic basket as the game ending buzzer sounded.
Lexington, Ky., Mar. 16 — The Notre Dame basketball team finished out their 1957 season here tonight by defeating a strong Pittsburgh team in the consolation game of the regionals of the NCAA tournament 86-85. It was the 20th win against eight defeats for the Irish this season and marked the 100th win for Coach John Jordan in his six seasons of^ coaching Notre Dame teams.
Bob Devine clinched the win with two free throws in the final minute after Pitt made a dying bid to take the Irish in the last two minutes.
John McCarthy dipped in 23 points to capture point honors for the Irish tonight. Hawkins and Smyth were both above the 20-point mark to give the Irish the win.
Notre Dame claimed the victory from the foul line, led by McCarthy with 13 of 14.
Tom Hawkins boosted his season’s total to 576, to set the all time scoring record for the Irish. He broke the 539-point mark of Lloyd Aubrey in 1956. The Irish also scored 2,364 points to set a new^t scoring record for a season.
30
The Scholastic
Chemical Engineers Civil Engineers Mechanical Engineers Business Administration (Marketing) Liberal Arts
REG.T.M.
Opportunities with Texaco
Fino out, first hand, the broad range of opportunities in the fields of your study and interest made possible through TEXACO’S nation-wide and world-wide scope of operations.
EXPLORATION	REFINING	MARKETING	FINANCE & ECONOMICS
PRODUCING	RESEARCH	PIPELINE OPERATION	BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
LEARN HOW you can build a rewarding career for yourself with The Texas Company, a leader in the constantly expanding petroleum field.
TEXACO'S representative will be interviewing on the campus soon. Sign up, now.
SEE Texaco “Job Opportunities” and “Job Opportunity Descriptions” — and interview dates posted — in your placement office.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
$
FABULOUS SUMMER TOURS
FOR COLLEGE MEN & WOMEN (18-30 years of age) AT AMAZING BUDGET RATES
adventure .... study .... fun EUROPE .... $780-1140 70 exciting days
including special VOLKSWAGEN tours and informal “HOBO” tours by bus
AFRICA........................$1100
THE ORIENT....................$1800
SOUTH AMERICA .... $ 650 Special Interest Tours
English Lit • Sculpture & Painting • Music Festivals • Economics & Politics All tours include passage, meals, guided trips, lectures, entertainment
, For free itinerary and sailing dates, fill out ' coupon and mail to —
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC. EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL, INC •
701 SEVENTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 3S, N. Y. *A non-profit corporation serving U.S. students from coast-to-coast.
March 29, 1957
31
Cramming for Exams?
Civil Engineering Graduates
Work and Live in Wonderful Wisconsin
A rapidly expanding highway program offers: Permanent civil service positions
Training program
Rapid advancement
Challenging work
Positions now available in construction and design.
Interviews: 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.
Monday, April 1
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you crain for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
98*
For information and application forms, fill out this coupon and mail to:
THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN, STUDIES ”A non-profit corporation
35 East Wacker Dr.,	Chicago 1, III.
Enroll in a full program of English taught courses at the University of Vienna. Live in a Viennese home. Learn to speak German fluently. Participate in three separate study tours through eight countries. Integrate study and travel for a grass roots grasp of contemporary European problems. This two-semester program lasts 10 months. Round trip ocean transportation is covered in the all inclusive fee of ------------------------------ $1780.
name address city
Study in Europe
ECONOMICAL ACADEMIC YEAR
15 foblelj—
large economy size (for Greek Row and Dorms) 60 tablets—
Nave a WORLD of FUN!
* Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost
i»M^Europe
60 Days
.IX from $525
Orient
state
^-8^X43-65 Days from $998
TrtMOREl Many tour, .ndud.
SIX- '	college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico 1^$169 up, Sout^ America $699 up, ■ Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and Around the World $1398 up.
UTA Chicago
Canoe Trips
Total cost $5.75 per diem for a thrilling vacation in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. For information write: CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Bill Rom, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.
32
Flying Somewhere?
Now You Can Make AIR LINE RESERVATIONS Right on Campus at No Extra Cost
First Bank & Trust Co. ' Travel Department Second Floor, Book Store Telephone, Notre Dame 554 Also Steamship Reservations;
Domestic and Foreign Tours
EUROPE BOUND on a BUDGET?
Then the new, pocket-sized manual “Europe for the PennyWise” is for _ you! Included are . . . Inexpensive ac- 1 commodations and restaurants . . . Free social and cultural activities . . . Low cost planeflights . . . Why, you could even earn your way, for “Europe for the PennyWise” tells you HOW. Now is the time to plan your summer trip! Send $1 to: Box 14 Madison Square Station, New York 10, New York.	<
The Scholastic
$ 'On Stage' to Present 'Marty' Monday Night
Bob Sasseen, a - senior and veteran University Theater actor, will play the title role in Paddy Cheyefsky’s “Marty,” to be presented at 8 o’clock Monday night on WSND.
The play, an hour-long dramatization featuring a-cast of 11 students, is the second in the new “On Stage” dramatic series being produced and directed by Bill Chesson.
Sasseen has been seen in University Theater productions of Caine Mutiny Court Martial, Death of a Salesman, and Macbeth.
The play was originally written for „ television, and through this medium brought acclaim to its author who subsequently adapted it for the stage and finally for the movies. The Hollywood version won an Academy Award for the best motion picture of 1955.
Supporting Sasseen will be Valli Rozier, a St. Mary’s College sophomore, who will play Clara, Marty’s girl. Dan
CENTER MANAGER
Applications are now being taken from students to manage the LaFor-tune Student Center during the 1957-58 school year. The manager must presently be a junior. The two assistant managers must be sophomores or above this year. Letters of application should be sent to LaFor-tune Student Center House Committee, 227 Walsh. Interviews for the manager's job will be held on April 4, and for assistant manager on April 14.
Ferrone will be heard as Marty’s sidekick, Angie, Paula Laughton as Marty’s mother, Grace Rembush as Virginia, Carol Cruise as Aunt Catherine and Joe Mocarski as Thomas. Both Miss Rembush and Miss Cruise appeared in “A Country Girl,” the first “On Stage” presentation three weeks ago.
Others in the cast include Rudy Hornish, Terry Dittrick, Larry Finneran and Joe Maier.
European Holiday Tour under leadership of Dr. Charles E. Parnell, Ph.D. Associate Professor Modern
Languages Notre Dame, Indiana
Leaving Montreal June 12, 1957 Returning New York
August 12, 1957 All-Inclusive Tour Price $1060 by Private Motorcoach
For complete information see FIRST BANK & TRUST CO.
Travel Department
Notre Dame Campus: Book Store
Telephone, Notre Dame 554


in top condition. 1.00 plus >ax
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION
SHUITON New York • Toronto
March 29, 1957
33
What’s it like to be in
AT IBM?”
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Two years ago, Robert Everett asked himself this question. Today, as Administrative Assistant to the Divisional Controller, Bob reviews his experience at IBM and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your business career.
What’s it like to work for a big, expanding company like IBM? What would I be asked to do? Would I get ahead fast?” These were some of the questions that filled Bob Everett’s mind as he faced up to the big problem, “How can I put my M.B.A. training to the best possible use?”
Bob came directly to IBM from Cornell in July, 1955, with an M.B.A. in finance. He was immediately assigned, with twenty-nine other M.B.A.’s, to a Business Administration training program. This six months’ program comprised general orientation in the entire IBM organization, a six weeks’ field trip to the
Developing a new system
Syracuse branch office and several months at the Poughkeepsie manufacturing facilities. There he gained a functional knowledge of IBM machines, particularly the 700 series of giant electronic computers.
His training completed by January, 1956, Bob was assigned to the Methods Department as a Methods Analyst at IBM World Headquarters in New York City. Here, with the cooperation of operating department personnel, he worked on the development of systems and procedures for the various Division areas. In addition to normal methods techniques used in developing systems and procedures, he studied these projects in terms of possible machine application for either IBM high-speed giant computers or conventional accounting equipment. One project was the study of the Machine Ordering procedure with the objective of simplifying and mechanizing it and at the same time improving the source information to provide for a more complete analysis of sales and production backlog.
DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC
TYPEWRITERS • TIME EQUIPMENT
* IJSSM®
Filtering out the “hot” projects
Promoted the same year
By December of the same year, Bob was promoted to his present job— Administrative Assistant to the Controller of the Data Processing Division. “The first function of an Administrative Assistant,” says Bob, “is to filter out the ‘hot’ projects from those that can be handled later. You follow through on projects assigned by the controller and keep
Keeping the boss posted
him posted on their progress.” Bob’s new position affords a pleasant diversification of work: charting divisional responsibilities of the controller’s function ... plans for decentralization___ costs of regionalization ... summarizing key financial and statistical information for presentation to top management.
Bob points out that there are many areas in Business Administration at IBM for men with an M.B.A. or a B.S. in accounting: corporate, general, and factory accounting; internal audit; methods; payroll and taxes. Administrative and management positions constantly open up at World Headquarters, IBM’s 188 branch offices, many plants and laboratories.
Why Bob picked IBM
Bob made a careful study of existing opportunities before selecting IBM for his career. He had a dozen campus interviews; took nine company tours. IBM’s M.B.A. program interested him—because, as he says, “It gave me a chance to review the entire company before starting an actual line assignment.” He was intrigued by the increasing use of data processing equipment in finance and he knew that IBM was a leader in this field. Salary-wise, he found IBM better than many, but it was company growth potential that motivated his choice. “Opportunity certainly exists
Opportunity certainly exists at IBM”
at IBM,” he says. “Growth factors alone will account for many new executive positions. A second factor is the trend toward decentralization, which also creates new jobs. These factors, plus IBM’s ‘promote-from-within’ policy, add up to real opportunity.”
IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to be in Business Administration at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Sales Assistance. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of College Relations, Mr. P. H. Bradley, will be happy to answer your questions. Write him at IBM, Room 10001, 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
MILITAR Y PRODUCT




An inside
story you ought to know
These famous Arrow Tee Shirts have comfort -woven right into them. They can’t sag, can’t bind, can’t stretch out of fit. Here’s a fine-spun Tee Shirt that “gives” with every motion you make. And the Dacron reinforced neck band keeps its perfect shape—‘permanently. Arrow Tee, $1.25 Arrow Guards (knitted briefs), $1.25.
ARROW
—first in fashion
SHIRTS «TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
Tee means "Tops!" when its an Arrow
Arrow Tee Shirts and knitted brief Guards are made of the softest fine-spun fabric. The Dacron reinforced neck band can’t sag out of place. Come in anytime and see our fine assortment of Arrow Tees and Guards.
Tees, $1.25 up; Guards, $1.25.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Band

DAWN’S SURLY LIGHT*
Early to bed and early to rise
Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
The truth of such nonsense by me is contested;
I’d rather be weakly, insolvent. . . and rested.
MORAL: In any light, things start looking up when you light up the BIG, BIG pleasure of Chesterfield King! Majestic length —plus the smoothest natural tobacco filter and the smoothest tasting smoke today—because it’s packed more smoothly by ACCU.RAY. Try ’em!
in ,-king
a
Chesterfield King gives you more of what you’re smoking for!
*$50 goes to Daniel J. Sullivan, Holy Cross College, for his Chester Field poem.
$50 for every philosophical verse accepted for publication. Chesterfield, P. O. Box 21, New York 46, N. Y.
O Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
t'GGfTT & UVtnr -
& TOBACCO