o
HOW MANY TIMES A DAY
DO YOU INHALE?

IF YOU’RE AN AVERAGE SMOKER THE RIGHT ANSWER IS OVER 200!
PROVED definitely milder . . .
PROVED definitely less irritating than any other leading brand . . .
PROVED by outstanding nose and throat specialists.
YES, you’ll be glad tomorrow . .. you smoked PHILIP MORRIS today!
Yos, 200 times every day your nose and throat are exposed to irritation...
200 GOOD REASONS WHY YOU’RE BETTER OFF SMOKING Philip Morris!
*•*83557* it*.	fUdOMWte.—

S st PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
• LETTERS
In cooperation with the Chesterfield representative on campus, “Scholastic,” as of now. institutes a new policy. The two most constructive letters printed in this column every month ivill win the authors one carton of said cigarettes. —Ed.
Bill Kiley:
Your article in “The Back Page” on honor has been brought to my attention. I thought I should take a moment to advise you that you handle' the matter of the Honor Code at West Point a trifle lightly. It has always worked and recent dismissals attest to this fact. It is simply a matter of the violators being found out. . . .
... I hope that you will some day have the opportunity to speak to a graduate of West Point about the Military Academy’s Honor System. I be-live you would be quite impressed with its simplicity and effectiveness.
Sincerely,
Aloysius A. Norton
Captain, USAF
Asst. Public Information Officer U. S. Military Academy
«« ARROW GABANARO!
America’s favorite sports shirt—with the sensational Arafold collar you can wear open or closed—Gahanaro sees you through in style and in comfort!
More on Honor System
Editor:
It speaks well for our University— the realistic view thus far expressed on the question of adopting the honor system at Notre Dame.
There are two groups who favor the system—those who seek an easier way to cheat, and those who naively assume that the world is made up of the good only, instead of the good, bad, and indifferent.
There are those- whose dignity has been offended by the presence of a proctor—a policeman during exams. Do they resent the presence of policemen on our streets and highways, or at large gatherings of the general public?
We must legislate for the inhabitants of this planet as they are and not as they ought to be. The fellow who knows ^his subject because he is a student and not something else, has no fault to find
--------------------------------------->“
SHIRTS • TIES • SPORTS SHIRTS • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT’S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
February 29, 1952
3
with supervision of examinations, nor with the policing of our streets and highways.
Honor System! Yes! In More’s Utopia.
John McCarthy
Dillon Hall
Editor:
We have a complaint to register in regard to a certain letter published in last week's edition of the Scholastic. The “amusing” little epistle to which we refer, written in a distinctly sarcastic vein, directed much adverse criticism at Messrs. Mark Tremblay and Jim Garvin for their opinions on the proposed honor system here at Notre Dame (Scholastic, Feb. 15, p. 12).
Now, being a free country, the shy composer of this letter certainly has the right to his own personal opinion, and likewise can enjoy the privilege of criticizing Tremblay and Garvin. Thus he has no need to hide behind an anonymous signature in so cowardly a fashion. The gentlemen mentioned did not try to avoid criticism, and did not hesi-itate to affix their names to the statements which they made. Therefore, we think it only fair to Messrs. Tremblay and Garvin that the writer condescend to reveal his name. How about it, guy? Are you afraid of a little criticism?
We also resent the rather careless and indiscriminate manner in which our bashful friend uses the plural pronoun “we” (e.g., the student body). On what basis does the writer consider himself a delegated spokesman for the entire student body? Obviously, he was as much in error when writing his letter as when analyzing the well-founded .arguments of Mr. Garvin and Mr. Tremblay.
In closing, we would like to assure our nameless “master” of sarcastic wit
that, should he find the courage to reveal his identity, we would be happy to debate with him the merits or demerits of an honor system at any time he may care to suggest.
Frank Donlan Dan Whelan Charles Masters James Zavatone Chuck Cypher
Sincerely, Joe Bandiera Fred Bellissimo Cletus Lee Joe Leaser Jim Liberatore
Boucuet
Editor:
Just a note to compliment you on what I consider the greatest issue of the Scholastic this year (Feb. 22). The large number of pictures was the major factor. Congratulations!
Name withheld on request.
(Continued on page 33)

AWER

I "V
I *
X ■ \..
••«...\
./ i
/
/
...... -..............................................................................
£ (Xj&LcIv
I I I
I
I
--
—	--"ItyjZ >
Ceun/Ry /
I’H JLI. I TS-JON Eb COUP., NEW YORK 1, N.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
4
The Scholastic
because the program had a misprint and had him down as Charles Snubber. We’re all sort of hoping he’ll keep it that way; it’s easier to spell.
Twin Maestros
Top of the Week
WND is due to begin airing to St. Mary’s tonight . . .
Hoppy New Year!
Last week, just as we suspected, was one fraught with the gaiety and madness of the Vieux Carre at festival time —and we all know how gay and mad that can be!
It all began, of course, last Friday at the Palais Royale where Marterie’s men banged away for a record assemblage' of dance-goers. Eddie Makar, the genial major domo of Walgreen’s second story still has an ice-bag crushed to his furrowed brow as he surveys the wreckage of what used to be South Bend’s finest ballroom. “This is like New Year’s Eve,” he remarked over the din of sirens and noisemakers as we chatted during one of the intermissions, “they’re raisin’ the roof off the joint!”
Hurry! Hurry!
And they raised another roof before the' week was out, too. The Navy Drill Hall resounded to the rafters for three nights as the Carnival got into high gear.
The booths and the ideas behind them were, for our money, and we lost most of it, the' greatest we have seen at any Mardi Gras Carnival in the past, and we’d sort of like to grab this opportunity, if no one has done it already, to extend our deep bow from the waist for the week to Bill Toohey, chairman of the Carnival proceedings and all his organizational aides who certainly put this year’s pre-Lenten celebration over the top and more so. It’s that kind of organizing that is refreshing to see around here—action, plenty of it and short on the political parliamentary prattle. Gentlemen, we salute you— even though Ann Blyth didn’t show up.
Mistuh Chairman . . .
Speaking of things political, machinery has now been revved up for the mock presidential convention to be held here on the campus sometime in the spring. The affair of states follows the pattern laid down in mock conventions of 1940 and 1948 by Mr. Bartholomew of the Political Science department, and Bill Lewis of the Academy
By Jack Hynes
of Political Science who will serve as student chairman. We understand that the convention will be a Republican one, which is a distressing thought to say the least. Everybody knows we' can’t have a Republican president — it’s against the law!
And the Critics Raved
Washington Hall packed them in last Sunday afternoon and evening as Jim Power’s Minstrels took over the' boards for three “laugh-packed” performances, (“laugh-packed”—that’s what Winchell said about it).
The critics hailed the show and bestowed individual honors on such stellar lights as Mr. Interlocutor Lee Steiden, who, wearing a white tux that was too small two years ago, was forced to hold his breath during the performances, and came out of the whole thing with a ruptured lung.
Arthur Perry, looking every inch the part of an Irish aiderman from Des Moines, stole the show hands down with his lilting rendition of McNamara’s Band, and, we understand, was besieged with offers from Rogers and Hammerstein, to understudy in South Pacific. Look for his latest record release, “You’ve Changed,” which will be released soon; it’s on a Blackmarket label.
Young Charles Schubert nearly broke his contract before the show went on
------------------------------------------------(
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRAD/T/ON
▲
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 North Niles
We’ve had it whispered into our little pink ear again that following Gene Hull’s graduation in June, the orchestra will be taken over by Lou Martini-ello, currently titillating the Baldwin for Gene and his men, and Don Gells, who is a trumpet man with the group. Both gents have' been with Gene for two years now, and have a goodly number of Victory dances under theii- suede belts. Look for them to be up front at the shuffling soirees come next September.
Bottom of the Week
. . . but don’t be surprised if the opening of the new line isn’t postponed again — there’s a wire shortage, you know.
PHOTOS COPIED
20 for Si .00
DeLuxe Wallet-size Prints Send any size photo or negative No Proofs . . . Original returned
IDEAL FOR COLLEGE, ROTC, OR JOB APPLICATIONS
Federal Wallet-Size Photo Co. P. O. Box 2448 Dept. Kansas City 6, Mo.
(No C.O-D.’s Please)
February 29, 1952
5
FEBRUARY 29
PALACE (to March 5)—Scandal Sheet (Legion of Decency Rating- A-2) is the old newspaper melodrama brought up to date. Broderick Crawford is a ruthless editor who will do anything to up circulation, and John Derek is the star reporter who outscoops the local constabulary as well as rival newspapers. It’s an old story but if you’re young and have a poor memory you’ll never know the difference. Harem Girl (A-l) is the co-feature.
GRANADA (to March 13)—Clark Gable rides, shoots, fights and swashbuckles in general in Lone Star (A-l), which purports to tell the story of the entry into the union of Oklahoma or New Mexico or some state down around that area. There’s a lot of that standard western stuff in this picture, too, and the scenery is brightened up by a gal named Ava Gardner. Broderick Crawford is in this one, just as ruthless as ever, and he wants to keep the territory independent with him as dictator. But right triumphs and another star is added to the nation’s flag. Pretty good movie. Flight to Mars (A-l) sounds like something that could wreck the whole thing, though.
MARCH 1
FIELDHOUSE—Track meet with the Irish meeting Indiana. Field events start at 1:30 with running events getting underway at 2.
WASHINGTON HALL—Day the Earth Stood Still, at 1:30, 3:30, 6:40, and 8:30.
CHICAGO STADIUM—The basketball Irish wind up their season in their return game with DePaul. WND will broadcast, starting at 9:45.
MARCH 5	.
AVON (indefinite run)—Phone Call from a Stranger (B) is filled with a number of messages but unfortunately none of them comes through to the viewer clearly enough to understand. A wifefleeing attorney is the only survivor of a plane crash and while waiting to be rescued he wrestles with his own problems as well as those of three late fellow passengers on the plane. The film on the whole is spotty—it’s good in some places, not so good in others. With Betty Davis, Gary Merrill and Shelley Winters.
MARCH 6
COLFAX (indefinite run)—Six million, five hundred thousand dollars’ worth of motion picture won the Christopher’s $2,000 prize last week for the best movie making of 1951. Quo Vadis (A-l) has, among other things, 63 lions and 30,000 extras, and is the costliest movie ever made. It was filmed entirely in Rome, took six months to shoot and takes two hours, 51 minutes to see. The story’s not much—a melodrama about the persecuted Christians in Rome—but for sheer razzle-dazzle, splendor, lavishness and all the other comparable descriptive terms used by Ho llywood, there’s never been another film like it. Robert Taylor and Deborah Kerr lead the cast.
BETTER READING IS * A PRICELESS ABILITY
Students get a better grasp of their subjects through better reading . . . They can improve their academic standing, and get more out of their education.
To learn how you can read better... faster, return attached card today.
Lifetime Skill
Find out now how easily and quickly you, too, can further develop your reading skills for a lifetime of increased reading profit and pleasure.
Start Benefiting Now
A limited number of enrollments can be accepted this month. Call, write, or stop in for free information and literature.
CLIP AND MAIL NOW
Mr. A. Brown, Director South Bend Center	.
114 E. LaSalle, South Bend Send me a free copy of “How You Can Read Better... Faster”
Name.......................................
Please Print
Address....................................
Major......................... Year......G
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 E LaSALLE	3-0077 .o.
(Open evenings ’til 9)
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 February 29, 1952 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mori turns
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOHN J. POWERS
Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO..........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY..........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
THOMAS FOOTE.............Assistant Sports LEON GARDNER.............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER.............Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN_____________Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl. Vai Chun. Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding. Bob Rust, Neil Scarlett, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig. Frank Donlon.	’
FEATURES: Sal Asselta. Jay Conlon. Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta. SPORTS: Mickey Carroll. Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett. Bob Huddleston, Jack Quetsch. Jerry Sheehan. Bob Swanson.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: Senior Fred Esser watches the- Roulette wheel whisk his fortune away at the gala Mardi Gras Carnival last week. Follow him through the eve-^ning in our feature on page 17. Photo by Dick Wollensak.

Forty Important Days
The time when everyone should take an inward look, turn away from petty troubles toward something infinitely more important, and take positive steps to get back on the straight road is upon us. Lent takes in just 40 days out of 365, so they should be made to count.
There is nothing novel or new that can be said about Lent, about the duties it entails and about the opportunities it offers. But what has been good for nearly 2000 years is still good today, and worth some restatement and reminder.
Lent is a time for self-examination. Being honest with one’s self is the necessary first move toward correcting any shortcomings. A spiritual housecleaning should be the first step in preparation for Easter.
Lent is the time for re-assessment of values. It is a time to re-discover what things are really important, and set these things in first place in the mind. Temporal problems, like the poor, we have always with us, but eternal problems are the ones which must be taken care of. Eternal things sometimes take second place in the rush of work, war, and worry, but this is the time to give them their rightful place and precedence.
Lent is a time for penance. One doesn’t have to look far in the Bible to realize the importance Our Lord places on doing penance. The best of us pile up a big debt to God at one time or another, and penance is our best method- of paying that debt.
Lent is a time for positive action. Practicing self-denial is good, but it isn’t enough in the way of preparing for the death of Christ and His Resurrection. Besides doing without, or doing less, do more, by going to Mass every day, saying a daily Rosary, and so forth.
We’ll never have a better chance to make the most out of Lent than at Notre Dame, so take the opportunity while it is presented. Opportunity doesn’t knock too often, and it might be a matter of now or never. Who knows?
The Place for Gripes and Action
On page 22 of this issue, Scholastic carries an article by Council President Jim Garvin on what he considers wrong with the present Student Council. His analysis is sharp and we’re glad to hear that he at least recognizes some of the Council’s more prominent failings.
We’d like to put our two cents in right here. When some of you sophisticated lads read this and start chuckling, remember that you’re the big reason that the Council has any faults at all. There is so little interest in the week-to-week happenings on the Council that we often wonder why we have one at all. Yet as soon as the troops figure they don’t have enough say in something around here, they set up a collective howl — always forgetting that the place for gripes and for action is the Student Council.	-
If you’ve read this column before, you know we don’t always agree with what the Council does ... so don’t take this as a “get out there and fight” piece. But merely remember that if there is something wrong with the Council’s members, you elected them. And if there’s something wrong with the Council, you can change it. Read Garvin’s article and see what you think on the subject.
February 29, 1952
7
THE MORRIS INN
"on the campus"
The University of Notre Dame’s Own Hotel will open in April
92 Rooms
92 Baths
Rates from $6.00 Single — $9.00 Double
/ * Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-Conditioned \ * Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned
★	Room Service
*	Gif. and Souvenir Shop
*	Cigar and Newsstand
*	Golf, locker and shower facilities for men guests
*	Putting Green
*	Radio and Circulating Ice Water in every room
\ * Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining	/
The Morris Inn, a gift to the University from the late E. M. Morris ’06 of South Bend, Indiana, will open in April.
Reservations from many friends of Notre Dame, the Alumni and parents of the Students are being received daily.
It is the hope of the University that the Morris Inn will help to introduce many new friends to the objectives and ideals of Notre Dame, as well as to serve the many old friends and supporters whom the University now enjoys and values so highly.
With this thought in mind we think it well to assure all of our readers that the facilities of The Morris Inn are completely at their disposal, not only for themselves, but for their friends and acquaintances as well.	.
Please feel free to call upon the management of The Inn for assistance in caring for your requirements, or those of persons you direct to us. It will be his pleasure to render prompt and efficient service at all times and nothing will be left undone in carrying out your wishes.
In the event your room requirements cannot be taken care of at The Inn because of previous booking the management will assist in securing reservations in one of South Bend’s downtown hotels.
Please write, telegraph or telephone.
Edward H. Hunt, Manager
The Morris Inn
Notre Dame, Indiana
8
The Scholastic
Station WND Makes St. Mary’s Debut Tonight
Dual Campus Hookup Officially Opens, 7:30
r	By MICKEY CARROLL
The long-awaited hook-up by which WND will broadcast to the St. Mary’s campus has finally been completed— and an hour long show starting this evening at 7:30 will commemorate the opening of two-campus broadcasting by the student voice.
A week of steady work by the station Technical Director Ted Byrne, assisted by Tech Engineers Johnny Saul and Joe Frediani, has resulted in the complete construction and testing of the St. Mary’s transmitter. Beginning this evening at 7:30, WND’s program will go out verbatim to St. Mary’s.
Plans to “split the channel” so that each campus could hear a different program or commercial at. the same time have been temporarily shelved f because of the technical difficulty of such an operation. Therefore everything that goes out over the student voice will also be beamed to the school across the highway.
Tonight’s hour-long inaugural show will feature many of the names and programs which have attracted audiences on the Notre Dame campus.
Starts With Official Welcome
Emceed by the station’s Chief Announcer Al Wood, the show will get underway with an official welcome to the St. Mary’s listeners by Notre Dame’s director of radio, Jerome A. Fallon. Miss Margaret Meade, director of radio at St. Mary’s, will reply on behalf of the new listening audience.
Following this, certain of the top shows which the station has through the Thesaurus transcription service ^will be reviewed by announcers Frank wBroucek and Leo Zatta.
Then comes new time. Keith Klein
will read a brief news summary from the United Press followed by John Jarnot with a capsule edition of the campus news. Jim Gannon will finish the news section with a short look at the world of sports.
Highlighting the second portion of the program will be WND’s two top comedians Chazz and Jack, whose zany commercials and Randy Cornball antics on the three-time-a-week “Date at Eight” show have been the station’s top audience-getter this year.
More music will follow as examples of the afternoons’ “show time” and
classic programs.
The program will conclude with a short talk by Station Manager Bill Ryan, who’ll outline the events of
(Continued on page 32)
NFCCS Salesmen Conduct
Door-to-Door Missal Drive
Next week representatives of the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter will visit all the halls to sell missals. The prayerbooks will be sold at various prices.
This, door-to-door campaign is intended to give everyone an opportunity to own and use a missal at Mass. The salesmen will offer the missals at cost through the prefects of religion.
The Chapter is also going ahead with its plans for May Day. Three co-chairmen have been decided upon. Their names will be announced in the near future.
FALLON AND RYAN
The hook-up is completed
February 29, 1952
9
ND Will Drag Out the Bands and Banners For Mock Republican Convention April 1-2
By RUDY UNGER
Notre Dame will go political March 31, April 1 and 2 when the student body unveils its big three day mock Republican presidential convention in the Navy Drill hall.
Strictly a student affair, the convention will be a facsimile of the Republican convention which will be held this June in Chicago’s International Ampitheater.	-
From the convocation through the keynote address, the nominating and seconding speeches, demonstrations and the actual voting on nominees by the state delegations, every event will be carried out in the same manner as the real convention in June in Chicago.
All the trimmings of a typical convention will be included, banners, parades, bands, walk out, etc.
Originated by Dr. Paul Bartholomew as a practical educator in American politics, this year’s convention will be the third in the University’s history.
CONVENTION WHEELS
Is there a Democrat in the house?
The first, a Democratic convention, was held in 1940 when President Roosevelt was trying for his third term. The other was a Republican clambake held in 1948 when the students chose the late Arthur Vandenberg as their presidential nominee. Due to war conditions none was held in 1944. This year the Republican convention was chosen because it was felt that it is creating the greater widespread interest.
Central Committee Supervises
The nerve center of the mock student convention will be The Central Convention Committee. Chosen from the ranks of The Student Academy of Political Science—the sponsors of the convention—this group with the technical assistance of the political science faculty, is supervising the convention's organization, procedure and presentation.
Wednesday, the Central Committee, headed by Chairman Bill Lewis, senior
from Greenwich, Conn., met with the presidents of the various geographical clubs on campus which represent students in each of the 48 states. At the meeting, committees from each state were set up to handle the election of their particular state’s delegation to the convention.
Every state delegation in the student convention will be allowed as many votes as their state will have in the real convention in Chicago in June. For example, New York students will be given approximately 97 votes, Illinois will get 56, and California 53.
If the Central Committee allows one delegate for each vote, a minimum of some 1,200 students will participate in the convention as members of their various state delegations. The Central Committee emphasizes, “That all students regardless of party affiliation, are eligible to compete for membership in their state’s delegation.”
Majority Wins
To win the convention’s nomination, a candidate must gain a majority vote, meaning over 600 votes, and ballots will be taken until one of the candidates gains such a majority mandate.
To win such a majority approval, a candidate needs good backing, careful planning and plugging. This generally is done by a campaign committee. A committee for each of the four Republican candidates—Warren, Stassen, Eisenhower, Taft—will be formed. All students interested in campaigning- and plugging for one of these men, should indicate his desire to do so by contacting Chairman Bill Lewis in 309 Alumni..
Campaigning Starts
The Central Committee has been subdivided into three committees; each to handle a certain aspect of the convention. The Rules Committee, headed by Bill Dempsey of New Ulm, Minn., and John Fagan of Scarsdale, N. Y.; the Arrangements Committee, led by Al Geraghty of Gloversville, N.Y., and Pat Henry of Detroit, Mich., and the Credentials Committee, Guy Emmanuele of San Leandro, Calif., and Paul Brom-leich of Detroit, Michigan.
Political success is no miraculous affair but the result of planning, plugging and bell pushing, according to some of the Taft men on campus who are preparing early to assure their candidates’s nomination. Eisenhower backers as well as followers of Stassen and Warren appear to be vehemently opposed to the Taft backers’ plans and are out to win the’ state delegates over to their side.
10
The Scholastic
Z
£ R. T. McBride Wins $2,000 Graduate Chern Fellowship
The Socony-Vacuum Laboratories of Paulsboro, N. J., have announced the sixth renewal of a Fellowship in Chemistry at Notre Dame.
The $2,000 grant from the Socony-Vacuum Laboratories, which will extend from Sept. 1, 1952, to Aug. 31, 1953, is given for research in physical or organic chemistry at Notre Dame. An outstanding graduate student in his second or third year of graduate study in the Notre Dame Department of Chemistry annually is the recipient of the grant.
Recipient of the 1952-53 Socony-Vacuum grant will be Richard T. McBride, who before enrolling in the Notre Dame Graduate School was with the E. I. duPont de Nemours Company.
McBride, who also has taken graduate work in chemistry at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., will conduct his research under the supervision of Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, of the Notre Dame chemistry faculty.
MR. ANTROBUS AND FRIENDS It could only happen in New Jersey
Fred Snite Gives University 2 Rare Sets of Shakespeare
Two rare extra-illustrated sets of the Works of William Shakespeare have been given to the University by Fred Snite, Sr., Chicago business executive.
The two gift sets, one in 29 volumes and one in 15 volumes, have- been appraised at $14,000. Both sets were printed by the noted Scottish firm of T. & A. Constable, of Edinburgh, and both were edited by W. E. Henley.
Included in the- 29-volume set of books are 230 original water colors by Jean Paleologue, 120 decorative water color designs by Easton, 80 water color drawings by Gifford, 24 by Schultetus, and 18 by Daniel Garber. Also featured in the volumes are nearly 1800 etchings, mezzotints, and steel, copper and wood engravings. Many of the plates used to illustrate these volumes date back to the 18th century.
The 15-volume set given to Notre Dame by Mr. Snite includes many extra plates which have been hand-tinted. The first three pages of each play in this set are elaborately illuminated in design done in gold and water colors.
Throughout the set, in each volume, are numerous full-page water color illustrations depicting some important event in the- play of the volume, and full page portraits of some of the leading characters.
University Theatre Puts Its Newest Comedy Before the Footlights for First Time Sunday
Sunday evening will mark the opening performance of the University Theater’s comedy production, Skin of Our Teeth, with successive evening performances the following three nights, closing on Wednesday.
Director John Tumpane announces that today is the last day on which admission tickets can be obtained in the Dining Hall. Tickets have been available curing the lunch and dinner hours this past Wednesday and Thursday.
Washington Hall will be the scene of this zany production, which involves such unorthodox props as a dinosaur, a glacier reminiscent of the ice age, and a complete deluge which would put even Noah to shame.
Sufferer and survivor of these weird cave-man era monstrosities is the backbone of his Excelsior, N. J. family, Mr. George Antrobus. Only an average husband, Mr. Antrobus discovers himself the fated victim of scores of unusual predicaments, from which he manages to escape unscathed.
He guides, cajoles and bamboozles his family through an ice age, a deluge, and a global war. Throughout the play Mr. Antrobus is a composite of all the great and small men of the world—
Adam, Noah, the inventor, the philosopher, the breadwinner, the eternal husband and father and the eternal worm.
Skin of Our Teeth, playwright Thornton Wilder’s 1942 Pulitzer Prize winner, has been one of the most debated plays of the time, since its first intro--duction to the theater nine years ago. It has been classified from that of a modem morality play to that of an insane comedy.
Junior Doug Robertson is cast in the role of the harried Mr. Antrobus, while Alice Weiss and Jean Richards are slated in two other major roles, playing chief supporting roles are Dick Simons, Denni Egri, and Walter Swift.
BLOOD PLEDGES
So that the amount of blood pledged in the current drive on campus can be determined as soon as possible, students who have not yet turned in .their pledge cards and parental release slips to their hall representatives are urged to do so immediately. Extra cards and slips are available from the hall representatives. .
February 29, 1952
11
Two Awards Go East, One Goes to California As 'Biggest Ever' Mardi Gras Carnival Closes
The 1952 extended Mardi Gras was the biggest ever with students attending not only the three-day carnival, but also the Mardi Gras Ball, the carnival social, and the three Minstrel performances. St. Mary’s girls participated in the booths Monday night, giving another new highlight to the fifth annual celebration.
Kay Justin of St. Mary’s pulled out the winning names at last Tuesday night’s finale. The happy winner of the Buick Riviera was M. M. Williamson of Sayre, Pa. Robert Peterson of Alumni Hall was the student winner. When Bill Toohey, Mardi Gras chairman, called Mr. Williamson to tell him of his award, he got him out of bed and, sleepy as he was, he couldn’t even remember being eligible.
Second award, the television set, went to Jerry Paulsen of Merced, California, and the third award, the radio-phonograph to Paul McGovern of Midland, Fa. Peterson, who was in the infirmary at the time of the carnival received the Nash Rambler; the TV set foi' the second place student winner went to James Skeese of Morrissey, and the radio to Buz Helfrich of Cavanaugh.
Another feature of this year’s festivities was the grand opening ceremony Saturday night at 7:30. Mr.
CITY CONTROLLER ZIEGLER CUTS THE RIBBON And the money started rolling in
Ziegler, South Bend City Controller, was on hand to cut the ribbon. He was personal representative of newly elected mayor, John Scott.
A week ago tonight Ralph Marterie and his 17-p:ece orchestra played to a full house of 550 couples at the Palais Royale. Almost all those who attended this Mardi Gras semi-formal had an enjoyable evening.
Saturday afternoon the carnival social, also at the Palais, was attended by about 200 couples. They heard the music of Jerry Costello and his combo and also enjoyed refreshments—sandwiches, potato chips, and coke.
Washington Hall was filled three times for the student-participation Minstrel show Sunday afternoon and evening. Bill Toohey, Mardi Gras chairman, said that he felt that this was one of the most successful innovations and that the students in general were well satisfied.
The $50 prize for the most novel booth went to the Electrical Engineers with their all-electric wheel. Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the art department and Tom Carroll of Public Relations did the judging for this award.
Another prize awarded during the
grand finale Tuesday night was $100	*
to St. Ed’s Hall for the most books per student. Ed Murphy of 215 Morrissey received $100 for the largest total—$332.50 worth. Buz Helfrich, who also received the radio for the third place award, got $50 for coming in ' second in book distribution.
Other campus awards for the student winners were: 3rd for $30 — Pat Leone of Cavanaugh Hall, 4th for $25 —John Vollmer of Lyons, 5th for $20 (tie)—Ronny Coury of St. Ed’s and Clair Southgate of Lyons.
Pat Thoben, of St. Mary’s received the first prize over there, $50, and Joan Crawford second, $25. In Vet-ville, Gene Jaeger received $50 for the most books and Ted Sobieralski came in second for $25.
The general chairman for this gala Mardi Gras celebration was Bill Toohey. Ed Vasta took charge of the prizes and Ed Raque the carnival. Jim Powers handled the Minstrel show. Cochairmen of the ball were George Sweet of Notre Dame and Joyce McMahon of St. Mary’s, with Phil Toole as publicity chairman.
Most of the plans which the committee followed were originally submitted to the Student Council by Jerry Kelley and the NFCCS early last fall.
March 10 Last Date To Sign for SS Test
The Selective Service Qualification test for college students will be held here at the University, April 24. Applications for the test must be submitted on or before midnight, March 10, the final deadline for applications.
The nature' of the test is to examine the student’s ability to read with understanding and to solve new problems by using his general knowledge.
Some of the questions are based upon reading passages, charts, tables, or graphs. To answer these questions, the student will need not only to understand the matter at hand, but also to apply general principles in the field of knowledge' involved.
In other questions the student will have to solve problems based upon the meanings of words and their relationships to other words. There are also mathematical problems designed to test the student’s ability to comprehend and use numerical relationships.
The test presupposes no schooling beyond the ordinary high school preparation for college. No advanced prep- , aration for the test would be practical. ’’ Competency in present subjects will be
12
-The Scholastic
> most beneficial. Work on the expansion of vocabulary is about the only advisable preparation.
The examination will begin at 9 a.m. and finish at approximately 12:30 p.m. The applicant must present his Ticket of Admission before entering the testing room. An official document which shows the applicant’s Selective Service number and the designation and address of his local board will also be necessary. Textbooks, notes, and other aids will not be permitted in the examination center.
All examinations will be scored by the Selective Service Examining Section. A report of each examinee’s score will be sent to his Selective Service board of jurisdiction, which will consider it as evidence in determining his eligibility for occupational deferment as a student.
—To be eligible for the test in April, the student must be a Selective Service registrant who intends to request occupational deferment as a student. He must also be pursuing a full time college course, graduate or undergraduate, leading to a degree.
Those who are planning to take the test are' asked to make application immediately. Application blanks and information about the test can be obtained at the Office of Military Information in the east wing of the first floor Main Building.
Those students who are in any of the ROT'C units or are uncertain about taking the test have been urged to take it. Many Selective' Service boards will not grant occupational deferments even if the student is in the upper part of his class. Likewise, all ROTC students should take the test as protection should they fail their ROTC course.
$ The test itself will not determine deferment. Scores on the test will be used by the Selective Service local boards in considering the eligibility of registrants for occupational deferment as students.
Field and Yankiss Win Trib Air RO Awards
Cadet Thomas J. Field and Cadet John J. Yankiss have been named recipients of the Gold and Silver Chicago Tribune Awards made annually for the past 17 years to two outstanding AF-ROTC cadets.
The candidates were' chosen during the past month by a board of Notre Dame AFROTC officers which met three times. The first session of the board chose a number of outstanding cadets. At the' second meeting four outstanding cadets were chosen. The third meeting of the board selected
Field and Yankiss as the award winners.
The candidates were screened according to their military achievement, scholastic attainment (in both Air Science and University work), and military bearing. They were also j'udged for their mental alertness and aptness of thought.
Professor Eisen has also announced that the Hearst tuurnament of oratory is now open to those' interested. The subject is Henry Clay, with a six-minute time limit. Prizes of $250, $100, $75, and three $50 U. S. Defense Bonds will be awarded to those placing first through sixth respectively. These are the prizes for first elimination only with a $10C0 U. S. Defense Bond as national first prize. Those interested are urged to contact Mr. Eisen, Department of Speech, 328 Main Building, before Feb. 29.
The formal awarding of the medals will be made at the Spring inspection. At present the awards may be viewed
‘TRIBUNE’ AWARDS PRESENTED
These Were Outstanding
in the AFROTC bulletin board in the Social Science Building.
The board of officers who screened the candidates were: Lt. Col. James K. McLaughlin, Lt. Col. Antone Borecky, Maj. Joseph J. Weidner, Capt. Oliver W. Cairns, Capt. Jack D. Alexander, and 1st Lt. Norman D. Elson.
There is also an Armed Forces Communication Association Gold Medal now being exhibited, which will be awarded to an AS 42 cadet who has demonstrated outstanding ability in the communi
cations option. Moreover, in the future other decorations which will be awarded to leading cadets at the formal review will be shown on the bulletin board.
—Bob Rust
DeKoninck Opens Aquinas Lectures With Talk Sunday
First of the Aquinas Lenten Lectures will be given at 8:15 pan. Sunday at the South Bend Progress Club,
DR. CHARLES DeKONINCK
The Dogma of the Assumption
with Dr. Charles deKoninck speaking on the dogma of the Assumption.
Dr. deKoninck is dean of the faculty of philosophy and lecturer in the faculty of theology at Laval University, Quebec. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, a member of the Marian Society of Canada, and president of the Canadian Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
He has been a visiting professor at the National Autonomous University of Mexico; a lecturer at the University of Salamanca and the Higher Council for Scientific Research, Madrid, Spain; a lecturer at the Universities of Santiago, Chile; Buenos Aires and LaPlata, Argentina; Fribourg, Switzerland; and at several universities • in the United States, Holland, France,' and in his native Belgium. Dr. deKoninck is also author of several books and articles on scientific method, philosophy of nature, metaphysics, and Sacred' Theology.
Following his talk, sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, the philosopher will give a series of lectures at St. Mary’s College.
The second in the series of Aquinas Lenten Lectures will be on March 9 by Stanley J. Kusman, S.M.
February 29, 1952
13
Dispensation Given ND Men In Fasting, Abstinence Rules
Because of the great difficulty here at Notre Dame in preparing meals both for those' bound to fast and those not bound, the Most Reverend Bishop of Fort Wayne grants a dispensation from the general law of fasting and abstaining for students, faculty members, and employees whenever they eat their meals on campus. Visitors eating on campus may also enjoy this privilege. This dispensation is local—restricted to Notre Dame—and does not apply personally when meals are eaten off campus.
This dispensation extends to all days of the year except Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, the morning of Holy Saturday, and the vigil of Christmas.
Since there is a large number of students living off campus — Vetville is considered on campus—the Bishop consents to grant these students the same Lenten privileges enjoyed by students living on campus. The' privilege may be used whether the meals are eaten on or off campus. This special privilege applies only to students living off campus.
However, the Bishop points out that no one' may enjoy these privileges unless he substitutes some other form of penance, such as daily mass, attendance at Lenten Devotions, the Way of the Cross, or alms giving.
Catholic Magazine Campaign Scheduled by Liturgy Club
Under the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter the Liturgy Club has organized a Catholic magazine drive. Volunteers are needed from all the halls.
Because of an excessive amount of work during Catholic Press Month, February, the NFCCS was forced to postpone the drive until the first part of March. Tentatively, the week beginning March 9 has been set for the campaign.
The drive will consist of a door-to-door canvass in all the halls. Subscriptions will be offered for a few of the most worthwhile and most popular Catholic magazines.
In a similar drive held at this time last year, Notre Dame students bought over 280 subscriptions to various Catholic periodicals, leading all other Catholic colleges in the nation-wide NFCCS campaign. ‘
Although no national subscription campaign is being carried on this year, the local Apostolic Chapter agreed to sponsor a drive' on campus. A smaller but choicer selection of Catholic magazines will be offered.
Placement News
There will be four companies holding interviews at Notre Dame Monday. Bauer & Black (Division of the Kendall Co.), Chicago, makers of tape', surgical dressings, etc., want chemists and physicists, (B.S., M.S., Ph.D.) for research work. In the plant development field, they will intel-view B.S. mechanical and chemical engineers.
Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company (Casualty insurance), Chicago, will interview Commerce and A.B. June graduates for special agent work (not selling) in the Middle West.
Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Aurora, Ill., makers of Thor Portable Power Tools, will interview Mechanical and electrical engineers for the design or re-design of portable tools.
Lybrand, Ross Bros., & Montgomery, certified public accountants of Chicago, will interview accounting majors.
There will be three companies here Tuesday.
Universal Atlas Cement Co., subsidiary of United States Steel Corp., Buffington, Ind., will interview mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineers.
Price Waterhouse & Co., certified public accountants, Chicago, will interview accounting majors for offices in the- U.S., Mexico, and Venezuela.
Corn Products Refining Co., Argo, Ill., will interview B.S. Chemists, mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineers foi- a training program in preparation for factory, supervisory, and engineering positions in domestic or foreign operations.
On Wednesday, representatives of the
Mass Schedule
Monday, March 3—Monday after the first Sunday of Lent.
Tuesday, March 4—Tuesday after the first Sunday of Lent; feast of Saint Casimir.
Wednesday, March 5—Ember Wednesday of Lent.
Thursday, March 6—Thursday after the first Sunday of Lent; feast of Saints Perpetua and Felicitas.
Friday, March 7—Ember Friday of Lent; feast of Saint Thomas Aquinas.
Saturday, March 8—Ember Saturday of Lent; feast of Saint John of God.
----o----
Mass of Sunday, March 2, will include an instruction on “The Introit.” Speakers will be: at the 7 o'clock Mass, Father Bachofer; at 8, Father Fryberger; at 9, Father Bolger; at 10, Father Holderith.
Bell Telephone Companies, the Bell Laboratories in New Jersey, Sandia w Corp, of Albuquerque, N. Mex., and Western Electric Co. will interview various candidates who have not previously been interviewed by them this year. Men with advanced degrees in physics and electrical engineering, are especially wanted by Bell Labs and Sandia (which is operated undei- prime contract to the Atomic Energy Commission).
Western Electric, the manufacturingorganization of the- Bell System, needs mechanical, electrical, chemical, metallurgical, and industrial engineers. A.B. and Commerce men who have a strong desire to work in a non-technical capacity in any Bell Telephone Co. affiliate will also be interviewed.
Also on this same day, Indiana & Michigan Electric Company (utility ® company serving nearly all of Indiana * and southern Michigan), will interview electrical and mechanical engineers, and the Caron Spinning Co., Rochelle, III., will interview mechanical and industrial engineers.
On Wednesday and Thursday, Arthur Anderson & Co., certified public accountants, will interview accounting majors.
Two companies will be here on Thursday.
The U. S. Naval Gun Factory, Washington, D.C., will interview graduates in chemical, mechanical and electrical engineering and in physics (electronics).
General Motors Corp., Detroit, will interview mechanical, electrical, industrial, chemical, and metallurgical engineers.	f
14
The Scholastic
I Council Discusses Proposed Hall Changes; Discuss '52 Student Trip to State or Navy
The Student Council, at its regular Monday meeting, heard a proposal that would drastically change the present system of campus residence, which would have students living in one hall from their sophomore through their senior years. The plan was discussed at a recent meeting of hall rectors, and is to receive more consideration.
According to the proposed plan, residence halls would not be reserved for classes, but would accommodate students from all of the upper classes. Once in the' hall of his choice, a student would reside there for his remaining years on campus. Seniors would receive preference in selecting the better rooms.
The hall rectors are interested in the student’s reaction to this new plan, and have accordingly asked the Student Council to publicize and stimulate interest in the matter. A questionnaire to determine student opinion on the plan will be issued sometime in the future, it was announced.
Favors Two Student Trips
The Council is continuing its tentative planning for next year’s student trip, and is narrowing down the choice of games to Navy at Cleveland and Michigan State at East Lansing.
It has been suggested that both trips might be taken. The usual studenttrip holiday would be missed next year if the trip were made to Cleveland, since it would occur on All Souls day. And if enough students signed up for the one-day Michigan State trip, the University might grant the missed holiday for that Saturday.
Advantages in seeing the game at Cleveland would be that it is not too distant, and would be free' to Notre Dame students, since the game is officially a home game for Notre Dame.
At Council request, the Blue Circle is currently working on plans for a permanent committee to test student reaction to Dining Hall matters such as new additions to the menu, favorite dishes, hours for meals, and so forth.
The committee was suggested to the Student Council by the management of the' Dining Hall, which is anxious to keep informed on student feeling and to accomodate the s udent body as much as possible.
Besides this permanent committee, the Council also has working a special committee concerned with the problem of line crashing in the Dining Hall, and
also the long lines at lunch time, which sometimes require students with 12 o’clock classes to stand in line even before the dining halls open.
The Student Council will hear next week from the committee studying how and to what degree the Council should financially support the various non-var-sity teams of the University.
This committee, with the assistance of Athletic Director Ed Krause, will attempt to put such groups as the sailing, boxing, and wrestling teams in a more secure financial position.
—Bill Moore
Well-Stocked Lakes Await Battle for Bass
The annual Spring fishing contest will again be conducted from March until June, Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., announces.
FATHER BALDWIN And many more like it
Prizes in fishing equipment from Reco’s sporting goods store have been made possible for the winners by the Student Council. First prize will be $20; second, third, fourth and fifth prizes will be $16, $12, $8 and $4 respectively.
Both St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes have been restocked by the state and according to Father Baldwin, a large supply of small mouth bass has
been built up. He also reported that an eight-pound 24-inch bass was caught last year.
This contest will be limited to students here in school and it has been stipulated that to be eligible for the contest, all fish must be entered with Father Baldwin in Corby Hall within 24 hours after they are caught.
In connection with this contest, Father Baldwin and the Student Council have arranged for free casting instructions to be given by experts. Barney Van Lue, a bait-casting expert from the South Bend Bait Company, and Steve Barany, a fly casting expert, will give these instructions this Sunday and March 11 at 7:30 pan. at the Drill Hall.	*
Mr. Van Lue will give instructions with a casting rod and Mr. Barany with a fly rod.
'Stay Tuned for Addleman1 Singing Lead Roles Named
As a result of auditions held February 11, Bill Toohey and Jean Artesian have been awarded the lead male and female singing roles in the forthcoming student musical Stay Tuned for Addle-man.
Charles “Chazz” Schubert, co-author of the musical, will fill the lead role as a New York disk jockey. Another lead female singing role has yet to be filled, and auditions for this and 15-odd minor roles will be held during the second week in March.
Toohey, who plays the part of George Mitchell, a radio producer, in the musical, has had experience in several student productions and was emcee of a student talent show staged two years ago by the present senior class.
Miss Artesian, a South Bend resident, has held leading roles in productions of the Thespians. She plays Pamela Gramby in the musical.
Schubert, a versatile comedian-disk jockey- announcer on WND, appeared in last year’s musical, Mr. and Mrs. Broadway, this fall’s production of Old Heidelburg, and most recently as an end man in last Sunday’s minstrel show.
Rehearsals will not begin before the middle of March, the lead roles having been selected early to allow time for the special arrangements of the' songs and music.
The musical, co-authored by Schubert, Jack Hynes, and Jerry Costello, with music and lyrics by Costello, is scheduled for a tentative four-night presentation early in May.
February 29, 1952
15
Descendant of Japanese Emperor Studies Botany at Notre Dame for Career in Hawaii
A descendant of a fourth-century Japanese emperor, who “talked his way out" of an internment cam]) in order to continue his education, currently is working toward a doctorate degree at Notre Dame, preparatory to entering the field of education in Hawaii.
The Japanese emperor’s descendant at Notre Dame is Harold S. Shirakawa, who is serving as a teaching fellow in the University’s Department of Biology while completing work for his doctorate degree. He is specializing in botany.
Shirakawa, a native of Los Angeles, explains that his family stems from the Japanese royal line of Shirakawa, emperor of Japan around 325 A.D.
“My father, who was a viscount of the royal family, left Japan when he was quite young, contrary to the custom of the nobility wlio prefer royal children to live a completely sheltered and inactive life,” the Notre Dame botanist points out.
“When my father died, the Japanese government offered the title to the males in our famil.v. We refused the title, however, since we were brought up in America and had no intention of returning to Japan.”
Interned at Race Track
Shirakawa’s educatioji at the City College of Los Angeles was interrupted by Pearl Harbor, when orientals were moved from the west coast. One of his brothers served with the famed Japanese-American 442nd combat team throughout World War II, but Harold and his mother were interned along with 22,000 others. The first six months of their internment was spent at a temporary camp at the Santa Anita race track, before they were moved further inland to a camp in Colorado.
Recalling his stay at the Santa Anita camp (during which time, he wistfully reminisces, there were no races because the stables had been converted to living quarters), Harold describes the period as a “pretty rough six months.”
“It was terribly crowded and most of us were broke,” according to the emperor’s descendant. “Though we could get employment within the camp, the wages were only $9 per month. Most of us were city folks who weren’t used to ‘roughing it.’ The quarters were so small that everyone had to buy a card table that could be folded up, because
there was no room for a standard table.”
Although the Shirakawas found the permanent camp in Colorado much more comfortable, Harold stayed only two weeks before “talking his way out” to continue his education.
“I told the camp director my ambitions toward completing my education, and asked him point-blank how he would like to waste his life in a camp. He asked me if I had any money or a job—I had neither, but I had enough high hopes to gloss over the misinformation—and then he gave me official permission to leave the' camp. I was amazed.”
Harold worked in the dining hall at the University of Colorado for a few weeks to save enough money to come East, and then took a job with a wholesale book company in Chicago. He stayed there until he had enough money to enroll at Muskingum College, New Concord, Ohio.
“I was always interested in biology, but had studied business administration at the City College of Los Angeles so I could begin to support my mother more quickly,” he explains. “Since Muskingum really was a new start, and since mother was being cared for at the camp, I had no immediate responsibilities. I decided, therefore, to enroll in the science school.”
Will Settle in Hawaii
Harold was graduated from Muskingum College in 1946, and immediately was drafted into the Army for a 17-month hitch. It was while serving with the Army, and during a visit to the Muskingum campus, that he met his bride-to-be.
His wife’s home is on Kauai, one of the islands near Hawaii, where they were married. This is one reason why Shirakawa wants to settle in Hawaii.
More important, however, he calls the islands the “perfect society.” There are representatives there of all the races and nearly all the nations of the world, and they all live in harmony he explains. “They practice what we in America preach,” the Notre Dame botanist muses.
Not only is there a near-perfect social life, but Shirakawa points out that there is tremendous opportunity in his field of botany, where he says no significant paper on botanical science has been produced for the past 25 years.
That’s why this descendant of the fourth-century Japanese emperor, Shir
akawa, defied all obstacles to complete his education at Notre Dame. And that’s why he will sail for Hawaii as soon as he receives h:s doctorate degree —to utilize his Notre Dame training toward the end of lifting just a bit higher these “near perfect” islands of Hawaii.
Graduates, Seniors Open Lenten Retreat
Tomorrow evening at 8 o’clock in Dillon Hall chapel the Graduate students and Seniors will open the first of a series of foui- Lenten retreats. The retreat will be conducted by Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C.
Originally, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., was scheduled to act as retreat master for the opening retreat. How- » ever, since Father Hesburgh has been called away on University business over the weekend, Father McAuliffe, who was to give the Junior retreat, will substitute fox* him. The Junior retreat next week will be conducted by Father Hesburgh.
The Perpetual Novena in honor of Our Mother of Sorrows will be inaugurated here at Notre Dame on March 7 at 8 p. m. in Sacred Heart Church.
The purpose of beginning this Novena on campus is to focus attention on the world peril and the need for peace through this Perpetual Novena to Our Sorrowful Mother, whose Immaculate Heart appeared in a vision to the three children of Fatima.
Rev. C. M. Brissette, O.S.M., national director of the Perpetual Novena, will preach at all Masses Sunday. Father * Brissette has also been invited to conduct the first Novena service on March 7. Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will deliver the sermon, which will be broadcasted over radio station WCFL, Chicago.
The highly-indulgenced station of the Via Matris will be blessed and set up in the main church before March 7. Private and personal intentions may be deposited in the Novena Intention Box. The intentions will be placed on the altar during the service.
Oui- Mother of Sorrows is the Patroness of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The Perpetual Novena in her honor was inaugurated by the Servite Fathers of Chicago in 1938 in Our Lady of Sorrows Church. It was primarily through this novena that ~ devotions to Our Lady of Fatima was -propagated in this country.—Phil Bolin.
16
The Scholastic
The Big Carnival
photos by Dick Wollensak
For many it was wrapped up in the Masquerade Ball, with confetti, noisemakers, and the big-band sound of Ralph Marterie. Others were' attracted by the new element—the Minstrel Show —featuring song and dance, black-faced straight men and Mr. Interlocutor.
But for most, Mardi Gras simply meant the Carnival. It meant a transformation of the Drill Hall from a large, bare room containing at various times lifeboats, dance-goers, or registration lines to a large, bare room con
taining barkers and games, roulette and black-jack, meatballs and bingo, hoops and slots, winneTs and losers.
To a large extent the prizes determined the success of youi' evening. You could go there and have an enjoyable time. You could win money and feel pretty good about it. But if you could walk out of the Drill Hall with a straw hat on your head, a lei or two around your neck, a couple of banderrilleros sticking out of your pocket, and a cake in your hand, so that people made corny
jokes about “well guess who broke the bank at Monte Carlo,” then you had really been to the Carnival.
Just how easy it was to win those ' prize's is another story. Some people seemed to walk away with a little bit of everything. Others weren’t quite so lucky. Still others should have stood in bed. We saw one such fellow there, and his sad story just has to be related. But if his story has a moral to it, it would be this:' at the Mardi Gras, even the losers are winners.
February 29, 1952
17
TOP: for the first 100 yards or so in the Drill Hall
one is filled with a sense
of quiet
have the accuracy of a Norden bombsight, the luck of the Yankees, the steel nerves process of a mechanical brain, the touch of King Midas, and the cool superiority of remains is to prove oneself.
himself
to
of a watchmaker, the thinking
All
that
one of those banderillas
would look
La Raza Club is not in business primarily
to
discover you say
you did
a riverboat gambler.
confidence. One feels
£3.
1



ABOVE: you swagger about, observing the house a bit, and then you decide that
good sticking out of your back pocket. The ensuing
that the was the
riverboat-gambler
type?
action is a three-step process: you pay, you toss, and stick banderillas into your back pocket. BELOW: who
TOP: you can’t play if you don’t pay, so it’s back for more money. About this time you come to a -decision: ban-derillas, leis, and woven hats are all very nice and good, but you're a man who goes for the more substantial kind of prize, namely food. Let’s see, cover 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and that only leaves 1 and 10 open. With those odds, how can one miss? I think I’ll take the angelfood.
ABOVE: but one advantage of the mechanical brain is that it leaves nothing superficial characters to enjoy themselves in troubled times like these. World just about broke, and they're busy having fun! BELOW: so some pizza and girl! Things are looking up.
to chance. Hmmpf, people must be pretty going to pot, things getting worse, you're then back. Well, your roommate and a
the Greatest

The phrase "bigger and belter than (."er" 1- an especial favoiite of tin drum-bealeis which seem~ to covo everything from movie' to pickle'. And quite often there i' amazingh littl-justification for its usage. <*ne exception is the l'Jb’2 Mardi Gia- that, from the tir.'t mellow note of the Marterte horn io the last excileu yell of a cai -winnei. provided an event to be i e-mtmbered through the ,'i\ long, quiet week.' which follow. The Ball—main .'aid it was one of the best dance' evei gixen at Notie 1 >ame. The mixei, a nnvel and most enjoyable idea. And the Minstrel Show gamed oxen more lauiels for the week-end. Each seemed to produce a different kind of enjoyment, but whether you’re speaking of the noist gayety of the Ball, the more quiet pleasuie at the* Mixer, or the laughter and applause of the Minstrel Show, you have to admit, it was one of the great-<st.
(Above left) Band leader Ralph Marterie takes time out to present crown and bouquet to queen of Mardi Gras Ball, Miss Jo Ann Berg, date of chairman George Sweet. (Right) Bill Stapleton, Frank Ronnenberg and dates.
b*
The expressions on
some of the dance-goers
here
seem to indicate a
great time for all concerned.
(Below left)
Sitting
the floor was the custom
intermission out on
at the Ball, which turned out to be one of the greatest.
What Ails the
r
Student government exists at Notre Dame under the official title of Student Council, but over the years it has picked up a number of nicknames.
Some of my embittered colleagues even go so far as to say that there is no such animal as student government because the terms “student” and “government” are mutually contradictory. The University administration takes a different view of things. Although the Council is supposed to be the mediator between student and administration, even Father Cavanaugh, president of the University, recently referred to the “cold war” that persists between the two.
No, all is not well with Notre Dame student government. Occasionally it shows streaks of brilliance, but for the best part it has a “long way to go.” What ails our governing body?
Before we examine Notre Dame’s particular specimen, let’s take a look at student government per se. What is it? Where does it get its authority? Student’s rights? What is its scope and jurisdiction?
From Consent of Governed
Student government’s immediate power or authority comes from the consent of the governed, the student body. But the student’s power, in turn, stems from the automatic contractual agreement he makes with the administration when he enters the University. He agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the particular institution. The administration, then, is the legal corporate authority, while the Student Council is semi-sovereign—a, very unique status.
This legal authority of the administration implies student right to gain the broadest possible education that is in accordance with the aims and purposes of the University. Student government, then, is the result of a moral right. It exists to cooperate with the administration and faculty in creating means conducive to the development of Cardinal Newman’s ideal university product, “the whole man.”
Four Sides to Whole Man
This “whole man” concept stresses the intellectual phase of a student’s development with emphasis on his spiritual, social, and physical elements. The triangular relationship of administration, faculty, and student government must,
By JIM GARVIN
Scholastic presents the following article as an honest attempt to throzv some light on the question of student government. The views expressed are those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of the University of Notre Dame or the editors of this magazine.
if the goal of the “whole' man” is to be achieved, be based on cooperation. Each has a vital part to play, the success of which depends on the mutual cooperation of the other two entities.
But where does the jurisdiction of one end and the other begin? And what degree of influence' should one have on the other? These questions have never been satisfactorily answered anywhere. This can be seen in the “student’s rights” debates now raging in the National Student Association and elsewhere throughout the land. However, an acceptable solution can be brought about by recording, in a constitution or charter agreed upon by both students and administration, the purposes and jurisdictional limits of a particular Student Government.
An Unratified Constitution
And here we have the first failing of Notre Dame student government. The present Student Council Constitution has never been properly ratified by the student body. Therefore the Student Council is unconstituted and exists merely out of practical necessity. It has yet to attain the consent of the governed. (This article, however, will presume such ratification.)
Aside from these theoretical considerations, our immediate concern is the practical failings of the Notre Dame Student Council. What is the Council supposed to accomplish? What is its job?
Student leaders throughout the land give student; government a triple mission. First, in line with the development of the “whole man,” the Student Council exists to stimulate' and co-ordinate student extracurricular activities:
academic, social, spiritual or physical (athletic). Secondly, as mediator between student body and administration, it exists to present crystallized student opinion to. every administrative department whose decisions concern the student body. Thirdly, the council, again in its role as mediator, exists to explain administrative' policy to the student body whenever necessary.
Faulty By-Laws
The present Constitution recognizes this three-fold mission but fails to concretize it in the by-laws. Therefore the ; original terminology of the Constitu- J | tion retains its expected arbitrariness. A As a result no one knows where student government stands at Notre Dame. The , present Constitution does not give Notre ; Dame student government a fighting ’ chance to do its three fold task.	j
Besides this general criticism of the I Constitution, the sad Student Council situation is attributable to two main factors: the inadequacy of specific Constitutional provisions, and the Council’s < neglect of its duties.
There are many failings due' to inadequate Constitutional provisions, but the main ones are three: confusion of the legislative and executive functions, inadequate representation, and little guarantee of capable personnel because too few students are	allowed	“in the	|
act.”	j
.	j
Three Main Faults	«
1.	Executive' Phase—Administration,	1 |
not legislation, is the	main worry of	!
student government.	But the	present	J
Constitution stresses the' legislative function and makes only vague mention of the executive function. The Council also now combines both of these functions so that, besides deciding what to do, it must also do what it decides.
This results in an impossible demand on the Councilmen, and is an injustice to the many students who want to participate, but cannot, in student government. Under this same category fall the ill-defined duties of the various Council committees. The Constitution fails to point out the responsibilities of k the committee chairmen, so it is difficult ' to rebuke them for incompetence' or ir- 1 responsibility.	_ J
2.	Representation — Student government implies government for the stu-
22
The Scholastic
Student Council?
dent and by the student through representatives. At present, the Council’s • composition reveals that this representation is done only by the president and vice-president of each class, an off-campus representative, and a law college representative. Only ten men, therefore, represent our 5,000 Notre Dame-ers. How can such a representation hope to know and “crystalize” student opinion?
3. Lack of Trained Personnel—Under ' the present Constitution it is next to impossible to break into Student Government without winning a class election. mF And quite often, too often, the class officers just aren’t of student govern-r ment calibre. Too many of them “knock themselves out” winning the election, then yawningly ride out their tenure doing only what is absolutely expected of them. The' difficulty arises when four Student Council members are chosen by and from the retiring Council to serve on the new Council. These four men, most of them usually becoming Student Council officers, are the only .guarantee of continuity and experience. If they are mediocre, the new Council is usually mediocre.
Poor Use of Talent
In other large colleges, Student Government runs smoothly and progressively year after year because they have devised means of allowing freshmen and sophomores to rise' up through the Student Council ranks, so that by the time they are juniors and seniors they are thoroughly familiar with the system and ready to assume responsible positions confidently. At Notre Dame it is a hit or miss situation. What’s needed are more and varied ways for talented students to enter the Student Government realm. This would supply extracurricular ability now dormant due to lack of opportunity.
The rest of the blame for our Student Government’s ill health can be traced to the Council’s neglect of its duties: hazy or non-existent operating procedure, inadequate communication with the student body, and failure to establish long range goals and the program to realize them.
Neglect of Duty
1.	Operating Procedure — Student government more so than any government demands recorded operational in
February 29, 1952
formation because of the fact that every June the bulk of its wisdom and experience is lost to graduation. If the retiring council has not left its ad-ministrational rules in written form, the new Council must start from scratch. This results in regression and loss of valuable time. A look at the Council’s Minutes for the past four years shows that the details of annual activities are haggled over year after year. This is proof enough that the Council has failed to draw detailed rules of operating procedure for its various functions.
2.	Communication — The' Council has failed to establish and utilize channels reaching its constituents. As a result the students can not know what the Council is doing or plans to do, and
JIM GARVIN
The Student Council is yours
reciprocally, the Council cannot hope to know student opinion on such matters.
3.	Long Range Objectives—The final physical failing of the Council is its failure to deteimine far-distant goals and the programs to attain them. The Council gets so wound up in its weekly chores that it seldom reflects on its constituted mission. This results in a short range attitude of expediency. The longest look ahead occurs about this time every year when it comes time to choose the site of the Student Football Trip. But this' year’s Council has attempted to rectify the situation by a Master Plan Committee. The proposals of this committee will be out soon.
The Revision Committee
And so completes the critique of our Student Government. It’s in a, sad way for a number of reasons. But almost all of these can be traced to a single source — the present inadequate Student Council Constitution. Today’s Council realizes this and has established a special committee to revise the faulty charter. The revision committee, composed mostly of underclassmen, is striving to complete their task well before Spring elections. If successful, the revisions will go into effect next September. But the task is a tremendous one.
It consists of first revising or revolutionizing the present constitution, then explaining and selling it to the student body who will either ratify or reject it. As pointed out previously, a valid student government charter demands not only student ratification, but administrative acceptance as well. To help insure this administrative acceptance, the vice-president of Student Affairs, Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., has been asked to assign an administration or faculty member to serve as the committee moderator.
3-Way Responsibility
The Committee plans to incorporate such innovations as multiple student representation, i.e., by classes, colleges, and dormitories; division of the' legislative and administrative functions; and means whereby any interested student can participate in the student government process. It is the hope' of the committee members that their labor will enable every student to take better advantage of the remarkable environment that is Notre Dame’s.
In closing, I’d like to stress once more that Student Government is everybody's job. Don’t think of the Student Council as something to be suspected. It’s your council, your governing body. It exists for you, to do your general will. But to be successful, regardless of its constitutional provisions and the quality of its personnel, your Council must have the confidence and support of an alert student citizenry.
Get interested in Notre' Dame student government. Learn and criticize Council decisions. And, finally, please don't waste your opinions by keeping them to yourself or telling them to your roommate. Unless, of course, your room-mate happens to be a WND Disc Jockey.
23
'States in life' Talks End Next Wednesday
The Dedicated Single Life in the World is the subject of the last of the discussions in the Institute on States in Life. It will take place at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Engineering Auditorium.
Miss Mary Rosenfelt will speak on the benefits to be gained by the individual for such a life. She is at present a teacher of English at St. Mary’s College where she received her undergraduate education. Miss Rosenfelt earned a master’s degree in English at Smith College.
Mr. Vincent Giese is to talk on the dedicated single life as a necessity of the modern lay apostolate. It means giving up marriage to serve the spreading of the faith. He is a graduate of Marquette and business manager of the Fides Publishing Co.
The dedicated single life in the world is the least understood of all vocations. In fact, according to the director of the Institute, Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., few people even know about the vocation. Most of the single people in the world do not know that they can gain merit from their state just as one' may in the married or religious life. According to Father Haley, this leads to a loss of virtue and the neuroses found in so many unmarried people.
Father Haley will himself give a talk on Secular Institutes. They are societies made up of persons who have dedicated themselves to the state of evangelical perfection by vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience and to an apostolate in the world. It is somewhat like a member of a religious order without living in a monastery or wearing a habit.
Father Haley is the unofficial coordinator of information of Secular Institutes in the United States. He was one of the persons who organized it in this country a few years ago.
Chicago Papers, Ice Cream Dips Go Up I Cent Monday
The price freeze on campus ice cream and Chicago newspapers has melted, and once again, the Notre Dame student finds that infiation makes it harder to eat and even read the funny papers.
Mr. David Ford, Manager of the' cafeteria, announced that for the second time in nine months, the wholesale price of ice cream has been raised.
After having absorbed the first raise nine months ago, the officials of the cafeteria find it necessary to raise the
24
price one cent per dip in all the campus soda fountains; the Huddle, Golf Shop and the cafeteria. The price hike will go into effect Monday.
Another penny-pinching campaign has been ordained by the Chicago Daily newspapers. As in the sale of icecream, the cafeteria had previously absorbed one price jump on newspapers, currently selling the Chicago Dailies at five cents, two cents lower than the' price downtown.
The most recent boost has made it necessary to hike the prices of the Tribune, Sun-Times, and Daily News to six cents a day. The price of the Saturday Daily News and the Sunday Tribune and Sun-Times will remain the same. Price changes on the sale of newspapers will also go into effect Monday.
Four Foreign Films Remain On Modern Language List
The Foreign Film Series, sponsored by the Department of Modern Languages, presented the second in a series of six present semester movies, The Mad Queen, Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
There will be four more European films presented during this term. They are: The Captain from Koepenick (German), March 12; The New Gulliver (Russian), March 31; Don Quixote (Spanish), April 22-23; and Bicycle Thief (Italian), May 7.
Admission to the bi-weekly foreign films, which have the sound track in a foreign language and English subtitles, is 25 cents.	.
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
At next Monday's meeting (7-.15 p.m., 100 Law), the Student Council will:
1)	Hear from the presidents of the local clubs along the route of the NYC Lake Shore Limited’s ‘‘great train robbery”;
2)	Hear from committee on non-varsity athletic clubs, which will present its own and the report of Athletic Director Ed Krause;
3)	Hear from a committee studying possible taxation of the Student Council or any of its projects;
4)	Hear from the special Dining Hall committee.
--------------
Capsule Corner
POSTHUMOUS MEDAL FOR ND HERO
Corp. Curtis J. Kiesling, '49, first ND graduate to be killed in Korea, has been posthumously awarded the Silver Star. The medal was presented to his parents Saturday at Glenview Naval Air Sta- ’ tion, near Chicago, Kiesling died Nov. 28, 1950,
EXTRA MATINEE ON SATURDAYS
Because of overcrowding at the Saturday movies in Washington Hall and the necessity of complying with state fire regulations, an extra matinee has been added to the weekend bill during Lent. The showings will be at 1:30, 3:30, 6:40, and 8:30 p.m. (The time of the second afternoon and evening shows will vary somewhat with H the length of the movie.)	a
WND: FROM SPORTS TO	‘CARMEN’	’
Continuing their regular	Sunday	.
afternoon custom of presenting a full-	i
length opera at 3 p.m., WND will fea-	f
ture Carmen this week.	J
Tomorrow afternoon will be devoted	j
to coverage of the track meet from the	f
Fieldhouse, while the early evening	|
hours will feature a blow-by-blow	g
broadcast of the Novice Boxing Tour-	g
nament finals. Tomorrow evening WND	|
will air the Notre Dame-DePaul cage'	g
contest from the Chicago Stadium.	S
CONTEST WINNER	I
£
The Chesterfield cigarette represen-	■
tatives have announced that Joe Tunny was the winner of their contest held recently on the Chazz and Jack radio show over WND.
Another carton of Chesterfields will be awarded in a similar contest late in ® March.	W
FATHER HESBURGH U. OF I.	j
RETREAT MASTER	j
Rev. Theodore C. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,	[
executive vice-president of the Univ-	|
sity of Notre Dame, will give a retreat	|
for Catholic students at the University	I
of Illinois, March 2-4. The retreat, held	;S
annually for the benefit of Catholic stu-	1
dents attending Illinois University, is	|
being sponsored by the Newman Foun-	I
dation there.	I
FATHER GRAHAM ON ‘VATICAN RELATIONS’
Rev. Robert A. Graham, S.J., gave a lecture on “Diplomatic Relations With The Vatican” Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium under the auspices of the' concert and lecture series here.
fl
The Scholastic
I Marciano to Receive Bengal Award
F
Undefeated Heavyweight Challenger to Act As Honorary Referee at Bengal Bout Finals
Hard - punching- heavyweight fighter better known as the latter-day Boston Strong Boy or Rocky Marciano, has been named as the Bengal Bouts Award Winner for 1952. He will receive the award at the intermission on Bengal final night, Monday, March 17.
Marciano, who is best known as the boxer who battered Joe Louis into retirement, has an impressive record in the professional ring. He has been undefeated in 39 pro battles and has won 34 of them by knockouts.
From Brockton, Mass., a suburb of Boston, Marciano is 27 years old. He started his boxing career* in a Dick Rover fashion, winning a tournament at Fort Louis Washington in Tacoma, Washington, while in the army, after being goaded into entering the tourney by the camp bully. The bully regretted his action shortly after the beginning of the second round when he was rendered unconscious by the irate Marciano.
Although he has earned his sports fame as a fighter*, Marciano was also a good enough baseball player to receive a trial as a catcher with the Chicago Cubs in 1946. However, a sore arm ended his baseball dreams and he took to fighting for a living. Anyway, off the' record, it looks as if Marciano was destined to be a fighter. When he was born, his father received a congratulatory card with the imprint of a pair of boxing gloves reading: “Hail to the Champ.” A neighbor, Al Colum-bo, relates that Marciano actually fought his first ten rounder at the tender age of eight, a no decision bout in the neighborhood. "
Regarded as the logical contender for the heavyweight championship held by Joe Walcott by just about everybody
but Ezzard Charles and his manager, Marciano hopes to win that crown, then
ROCKY MARCIANO
Battered Joe Louis
go into the managing end of prizefighting.
He is the latest in a large' group of outstanding men in sports to have been awarded the Bengal reward and serve as honorary referee at the' finals. Among the others are Tony Zale, Barney Ross and Elmer Layden.
Cagers Meet DePaul in Finale Tomorrow
Tomorrow evening, at the Chicago Stadium, scene of their near upset of Kentucky in early February, the Notre Dame basketball squad will draw down the curtain on its 1951-1952 campaign when it engages arch-rival DePaul for the' second time in three weeks. ‘
For the Irish, the season has been one of ups and downs. It was this same Blue Demon outfit that was the unwilling participant in one of the Jordanmen’s “ups” in the fieldhouse last February 14. Before a-roaring student body, ND paced by Joe Bertrand’s two sensational shots in the closing minutes, pulled out a 76-70 triumph. On this first day in March, the Irish hope to duplicate things and conclude a somewhat disappointing season on the right foot.	.
Shackled by scholastic and injury difficulties, the eagers enter the Windy City after a gruelling eastern swing. In all probability, missing from the lineup will be the first DePaul game hero, Joe Bertrand whose back injury might or might not come around by tomorrow night’s encounter.
Feiereisel Leads Demons
Fresh off a heartbreaking loss themselves, to Kentucky’s Wildcats last Saturday, Coach Ray Meyer’s crew, always bettei* in their familiar Stadium surroundings, will be out to even up matters with Notre Dame. If they do, it will be the sixth consecutive season that the schools have split their two meetings. Notre Dame has an overall advantage of 10 wins against 8 losses.
Leading the DePaul attack will be 6'3" guard Ronnie Feiereisel. The lanky captain’s smooth floor play and sharp eye have been a prominent factor in the Chicago club’s 19 victories. Last week against Kentucky, Feiereisel played great ball in his team’s last
February 29, 1952
25
GENE DYKER A real trouble maker
minute loss, the seventh of the year for DePaul.	$
The other big threat is 6'7" center, Gene Dyker, whose deadly pivot shots were' real troublemakers against ND in the first game. Averaging approximately 15 points per contest, he and Feie-reisel form a difficult combination to stop as Johnny Jordan well knows from his February 14 experience in trying to
BILL SCHYMAN
Outstanding against Irish
cope with them. Six-five Bill Schyman, also outstanding in the Notre Dame defeat, will start at one forward while Danny Lecos, 6'4" sophomore nails down the other front court berth. At the remaining guard, usual starter Stan Hoover might be replaced by diminutive Jim Lamkin. Lamkin, only a frosh, saw but limited action here earlier this month but has starred for Meyer's team on numerous other occasions.
In their first eastern test last Saturday, the ND five fell before Navy’s middies and the hook shots of Don Lange to the tune of 67-58. Leroy Leslie, using his jump shot with great effectiveness, shone for the Irish, netting 19 points. Jerry McCloskey, hitting from outside, had 16 while Dick Rosenthal garnered 15. Except for the early moments, the Irish trailed the whole way and each time they seemed ready to close’ the gap, their hopes were shattered by the picture-like hooks of Lange who wound up with 23 points, all but a lone foul coming from his specialty.
Five Champs Return to Box in *52 Bengals
Five returning champs and four finalists from the 1951 Bengal Bouts will be among the contenders for the eight championship trophies to be awarded on March 17.
Over half-a-hundred challengers will be trying to block the way, however, in preliminaries to be held on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, March 11-13, and the semi-finals, to be held Friday night, March 14.
Dick Cotter, law student from Austin, Minnesota, and a fullback on Notre Dame football teams of 1948-50, will return to defend his heavyweight crown. Cotter won the championship last year by belting Bill Flynn, a football tackle, into oblivion at 1:50 of the first round. Cotter had earned his ticket to the finals by TKOing Jerry Hagman in the’ semi-finals with 1:53 gone by in the second round. Hagman will be a contender again this year.
Top candidate for the light-heavyweight crown is Joe Brown of Sanders, Arizona and Walsh Hall, who defeated Bob Bickert of Lincoln, Nebraska by a unanimous decision in the finals of the 167-pound division last year.
Both finalists from last year’s 157-pound championship fight return to the ring this year for another go at it. Dick Windishar, of McMinnville, Oregon, earned a split decision over Tom Chisholm of Pampa, Texas last year, in a toe-to-toe slugging match that was one of the best in the 20-year history
of the fights. Windishar had previously decisioned Don Bergman and TKOed Ted Garland, both returning this year, while Chisholm had moved into the finals on the strength of decisions over Joe Bandiera and Leo Vigil. Bandiera and Vigil also are among this year’s Bengal Bouters.
Bernard Baute, junior from Howard Hall, will be defending his 147-pound crown this year. Baute decisioned Bernie McNulty last year in the finals, and also .had to his credit a win over George Carden.
Geary Becker, a Dillon Hall junior from Park Ridge, III., will have to whip Sal Fiorella, 1950 champion in the 127-pound division if he is to retain the crown he won in that weight class by the narrow margin of a split decision last year. Both Becker and Fiorella had impressive' records in last year’s fights. Becker dropped Charles Sheerin of Kokomo, Indiana in the preliminaries and decisioned Gene Perry in the semifinals, while' Fiorella TKOed Brendan Cryan. Cryan will be a contender in the 127-pound class again this year.
The only weight class in which neither a champ nor a finalist returns is the 137-pound division. Only one fighter, Leo Hickey, from that class, returns to fight this year. Hickey is in his fourth year of Bengal competition.
ROTC Rifle Teams Rank; Hayden, Riley Win Firsts
Results of the William Randolph Hearst National ROTC Rifle Competition show Notre Dame’s Navy and Air Force teams ranking high on the list. Besides copping second and third in their respective divisions, the local ROTC teams each claimed the distinction of producing a national individual scoring champion. Donald Riley of the Air Force blasted 196 out of a possible 200 points to top the fly boys while William Hayden led the sailors with 195 points.
The Navy team of Hayden, Richard Molokie, Charles Minges, Joe Wester, and John Harrington accounted for a total of 947 out of a possible 1000 points to place Notre Dame second for the' second straight year. Ninety-four teams from fifty-two universities participated in the Navy division which was won by the University of Washington with a score of 951.
The Ail- Force team of Riley, Sommers, Brown, Walter Gruger, William Donelan, and Maurice Maynard ran up a total of 933 points to finish third in their division among 225 competing teams. The’University of Maryland won with a score of 936.
26
The Scholastic
j * Notre Dome Trackmen Down Marquette and Michigan Normal in Triangular Meet
'	By KEN MURPHY

The Notre Dame track team swept past Marquette’ and Michigan Normal in a triangular- meet last Saturday in the fieldhouse to cop its second victory of the indoor track season. The Irish picked up eight first places in the process of racking up 73 9/10 points, far-outdistancing the Hilltoppers, who finished second with 30 7^10 points, and last place Michigan Normal, who garnered 24 2/5 points.
As a result of the decisive victory, three Notre Dame cindermen are still unbeaten in dual and triangular meet £ competition. Captain “Bucky” Ewing, sophomore Harvey Newquist, and sophomore Jim Harrington have yet to be bested in the 60 yard dash, the 60 yard low hurdles, and the pole vault respectively.
Ewing Gains First Victory
It was Ewing who gave Coach Alex Wilson’s men their first victory of the day as he broke the tape ahead of two Marquette sprinters in :06.4. This tied his best previous time, which he ran
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
Feb. 29—BOXING—Novice Tournament
Mar. 1—BASKETBALL—Depaul at Chicago
■ 1—FENCING—Chicago at Chicago
1—TRACK—Indiana at Notre Dame
against Missouri two weeks before. Harvey Newquist, was clocked in his best time so far as he crossed the timbers in :07.2. The event was a clean sweep for the Irish as Jim Baker and John Campagnone placed behind Newquist.
In the vault, Harrington cleared 13’ for the third straight week, and for the fourth week in a row soph Joe Springer, was right behind him, tying for second place’ with Cobb of Marquette at 12'6". This Irish one-two punch is also unbeaten in outside com-petition, having finished in their usual “ order two weeks ago at the Michigan State Relays.
The Wilsonmen started the afternoon off slowly. Jack Cunningham had to be satisfied with a fourth in the shot put, as John Koczman of Michigan Normal took the event with a heave of 48'1" and Dean Mielke and Don Sheehan of Marquette placed second and third. Jerry Kenkel of the Hilltoppers copped the high jump with a leap of 6', as Tom Hassenger and Hughes Wilcox of the Irish finished in a fiveway tie for second along with O’Malley of Marquette and Strong and Hendricks of Michigan Normal.
Take Broad Jump
The Irish came back to take’ the broad-jump, however, as Bob Hanrahan sailed 21' 8 3y8” across the pit. He was followed by Porterfield and Hendricks of Michigan Normal.
In the mile run, freshman Jack Alexander was only :02.2 off Greg Rice’s indoor record established in 1937 as he came from behind to beat out Wayne Robins of Marquette in 4:18.5. Aylmer of Michigan Normal finished third. Notre Dame swept the hurdles as they duplicated their feat in the lows by-taking the 60-yard highs in :07.9 as Ed Powell, Newquist and Campagnone finished 1-2-3.
Workhorse Wilcox gave the’ Irish another first in the 440 as he toured the track in :49.9. Norm Feltes came in third, behind McConner of Michigan Normal. Bob Allen gave Marquette its other first place’ of the day as he out-legged Ben Almaguer and Harry Syn-der to paydirt in 9:36.3 in the two-mile run. Notre Dame came back to take the 880 as John Mohar was timed in 1:56.4, only :01 off the indoor record established back in 1938. Baars of Marquette and Con Tetrault of the Irish came in second and third. In the mile relay Michigan Normal ended the day the same way they started off—with a first. McConner, Parks, Jacobs, and Davis teamed to bring home the baton ahead of the highly-regarded Irish relay team of Feltes, Wilcox, Bob English and Kevin Begley with a time of 3:23.3.
In a special race’ Bill Fleming, who graduated last year, warmed up for the Olympic trials by winning handily over two competitors. Fleming, holder of the Notre Dame indoor record in the 60-yard low and high hurdles, was starting his comeback after undergoing a heel operation last year.
TOM HASSENGER One of five for second
The season’s record of the Irish trackmen now stands at two wins and one loss. The Wilsonmen go after their third win tomorrow afternoon in the’ fieldhouse against Indiana.
According to Indiana track coach, Gordon Fisher, this year’s Hoosier squad is characterized by balance rather than individual brilliance that has been associated with Indiana clubs of recent years. Fisher will have twelve’ lettermen returning from last year’s squad which was undefeated in both outdoor and indoor competition.
JOE SPRINGER
Second for the fourth time
February 29, 1952
27

By Jack Varley
Lost Seven of 18
With one game ahead and 25 behind Coach Johnny Jordan and his team have just about written finis to the 1951-52 Notre Dame basketball season. Jordan looking through the record books in years to come will probably never brag about his first season as Irish hoop mentor, but one thing he can be certain of now is that he will probably never have a more luckless season. Looking at the official squad i oster that was put out just before the season is evidence of this. Of the 18 players seven were lost in the course of the season for any reason varying from scholastic ineligibilities to injuries. Of the first seven men at the season’s origin only three were playing in the final games. As a matter of fact, three of the 12 men that Jordan took on the Eastern Tour had never participated in intercollegiate basketball.
Trouble Began in February
Jordan’s difficulties all began about the first of February when he lost
four players because of scholastic deficiency. Up to that time his team had a .733 average with 11 wins out of 15 games. Of the four losses two were suffered at the hands of powerhouses Indiana and Louisville. Since early February when the roster began to dwindle the Irish hoopsters have won four while losing six. There is very little doubt that the season would have been better had the team remained intact but, into the record books the 1951-52 season goes as little better than mediocre. Too bad some notation can’t be made to show why it was.
.500 Average in the NFL
Of the ten teams in the National Football League, five of them have head coaches who were at one time Notre Dame students. When the New York Yankees were transplanted to Dallas as the Rangers and it was certain that their head coach, Jimmy Phelan, would make the trip south with them the .500 average of Notre Darners in the head coaching job was affirmed. The other four are Buck Shaw of the San Francisco ’49ers, Wayne Millner of the Philadelphia Eagles, Joe Bach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, and Joe Kuharich of the Chicago Cardinals. Phelan was a quarterback here from 1915-17, Shaw a tackle from 1919-21, Bach a tackle from 1923-24, Millner an end from 1933-35, and Kuharich a guard from 1935-37.
Fleming Makes a Comeback
Bill Fleming, who holds all the Notre Dame hurdle marks, a good many meet marks and the Sugar Bow] Tournament record in the 120-high hurdles at 13.9, is now working out with Coach Alex Wilson’s track-sters in the hope of nailing down a berth on the U. S. Olympic team. If the Providence, Rhode Island speedster is successful, he will, have made one of the greatest comebacks in sports annals for last year he tore his Achilles tendon and it was very dubious that he would ever run again.
Baseball Team Opens • 1952 Season in Gym
By JACK HEALY
The Notre Dame baseball squad, made up of forty candidates, moved into the fieldhouse this week to begin six weeks spring training session under the guidance of Coach Jake Kline. And according to the Irish mentor, the outlook for the coming season is not a particularly bad one.
Stronger This Year
“Potentially we are a stronger team than we were this time last year,’’ he
KLINE COACHES
A better season
stated. “The pitching and catching will be good and defensively we will be a much better club on the basis of experience. However, the question mark this season will be the hitting departmenr. We are looking for a couple of long ball hitters and maybe one or two football players will be the answer, since there isn’t any spring- practice for the football team.”
Coach Kline is also expecting some help from a few members of the basketball team who have had some experience with last year’s squad. However, it will be a few days before they will be able to report due to the remainder of the basketball schedule.
During the first part of the training period Coach Kline plans to have the team working through drills primarily to have everybody in shape so that the team can commence practicing on the diamond as soon as weather permits.
28
The Scholastic
Notre Dame hasn’t suffered to any great extent from graduation. Eight men who have previously won monograms will play again this season.
Although it is not definite yet, the Irish plan to start off their season on the road. This proposed trip will include two service teams, Camp Breckinridge and Fort Knox, and the University of Iowa. Two games will be played with each of these clubs.
Irish Club, Detroit Pace Kegler Action
By JACK SAND
In one of the most crucial bowlingmatches of the season, the two’ first place clubs, Kansas City and Buffalo, £ tangled together, with the result being a split of four points between the two, thus giving the Irish Club an advantage which they capitalized on by drubbing the Chemical Society in three games and taking over undisputed possession of first place. The Irish now have a total of 33 points, while Buffalo and Kansas City have 32 each.
Buffalo’s George Klee, with a 51!) series, was high man for both teams, while the Irishmen were paced by Ed Mahoney’s three game set of 501. This Sunday, an all-important roll off between Buffalo and the Irish might poss
ibly push Kansas City into first place if the latter can cop four points from the Toledo Club.
In two other very important matches, the Civil Engineers were a victim of the unexpected, as they were upset by the New England Club in all three games. Bill Argue led the New Englanders with a 508 series, while the losers Bob Craven registered a 518 in a vain attempt to keep his club in condition. And while the "Civies” were dropping four, the Pittsburgh Club moved into a third place tie with them by virtue of their clean sweep over Central New York. A combination of new and old blood sparked the Smokey City lads, as newcomer Joe Yazvac and veteran Justine Perticone rolled 543, and 514 series, respectively.
Over in the Gold Loop it was Detroit still maintaining a six-point lead over their nearest rivals as they beat the Met Club in two out of three matches. Returning to form was top kegler Jerry Ledwidge, whose 549 series paced the leaders.
Moving- into a three way tie for second place with St. Louis and the Italian Club was the onrushing California outfit, who once again picked up four points in routing the Syrian-Leb-onese Club. Consistency has been the key to the team thus far, with Jack Dewan’s 470 set, and Bernie Paulson’s 466 series leading the way over the Syrians.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey*
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main SL	J. M. S. Bldg.
AQUINAS Library and
Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
IIO EAST LaSALLE
Still among the five best teams in the circuit, the St. Louis Club kept pace with the rest of the leaders, by downing the Metallurgy men in a four point victory. Bob Dougherty notched a 544 series to lead the Saints, with teammate Bob Hoyenck chipping in with a 511 count.
Bengal Bout Committee Lays Plans
Knights of Columbus Bengal Bout Committee chairman Paul Rupp (standing) gives final instructions to committee members Mark Tolle, John Corrigan, Patrick Healey and Bill Riley (I. to r.) on publicity and ticket sale for March Bengals.
Fencers Lose to Illinois;
Meet Chicago U. Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s fencing skein at four in a row was brought to a halt at George Huff Gymnasium in Champaign last Saturday, as the Irish Swordsmen succumbed 16-11, to a fast-wielding Illinois squad. Coach Walter Langford’s charges now have a season’s record of six wins against two losses.
For the first time this year, Notre Dame’s fencers lost the count in every division, aS the Illini copped 5-4 victories in the sabre and epee classes, and a 6-3 triumph in the foil division. -
Paced by three-time winners Brace Subletle and Phil Urso, the Champaign lads were frequently in command throughout the match. Charlie Daschle of the Irish, fenced his way to two victories in the sabre class, while Jay Conlon copped two matches in the epee. The Irish lost most of their ground in the foil division as captain Jim Walsh failed to win a match. Jack Mooney gained two decisions in the foil. Tomorrow the Irish fencers travel to the Windy City to engage Chicago University’s swordsmen, in quest of their seventh triumph.
February 29, 1952
29
BOXING YEARS AGO
The SCHOLASTIC yelled “farce”
It Wasn’t Always Like This
by Frank Price
“Throw it straight! Turn your side! Don’t drop that right! Slide, slide! Just your left—no rights! Slide, slide! That’s it. Now you’ve got it. Slide, slide!”
The warm air and smell of sweat; the sound of leather hitting skin, feet Jumping rope, arms swishing through air, gloved fists thudding into a heavy sand bag—nothing but bustling activity in the Bengal rooms in the Old Gym.
Nappy, the Main Cog
In the ring two heavyweights are throwing hard left jabs. The white mouth pieces and black head guards give the two boxers a grotesque appearance. A small, stocky man in a gray sweat suit is moving around the ring, keeping a watchful eye on them, teaching them.
Over in the corner a young lightweight is shadow boxing. Bouncing in, hooking a left, covering up, swaying to the right and slinging a right uppercut at the elusive figure on the wall. Bouncing back from any counter attack, side turned, fists poised, ready, waiting.
The man in the gray sweat suit called time and the boxers left the ring to take a few laps before finishing theii- workout. The man walked over to where I was standing and said, “It wasn’t always like this.”
Dominic Napolitano, better known as
30
“Nappy” has been the main cog-in the Notre Dame intramural boxing-program since his undergraduate days, with the exception of the war years.
But boxing had been at Notre Dame before “Nappy” took over. Knute Rockne introduced boxing to the University in 1923. Notre Dame sent its talented pugilists to other University campuses for matches until the end of the 1926 season. That year the uncoached Fighting Irish Jost all six of its matches. The year- 1927 found boxing confined strictly to the intramural level.
In 1931, “Nappy’s” inauguration year, the Student Activities Committee tried to raise the status of boxing at Notre Dame by sponsoring a tournament. Only twenty students volunteered, Scholastic screamed “farce.” The names of the winners were not published that year.
But in 1932 the Scholastic saw the possibilities of the tournament as a fountain of help to the Holy Cross Missionaries in Bengal, India. It was then that the Bengal Bouts were bom and the name Bengal Bouts attached to the tournament. Two thousand fans crowded the Old Gym to see what the fighters had to offer. The Bengal missions received $450 that year.
Spent War at Iowa Pre-Flight
During the war years, 1943, ’44, and ’45, “Nappy” served as boxing instructor at the Iowa pre-flight school. Chief “Robbie” Robertson, All-American at Southern California in 1942, and Sgt. Joe Santos, who fought professionally under the name of “Bill Marshall,” supervised and continued
the tournaments during “Nappy’s” absence.
K. of C. Takes Over Bengals
The Bengals were growing each year and the Scholastic found that it couldn’t devote enough time to the cause. It turned the job over to the Knights of Columbus in 1946. That year the attendance was greater than in all previous years combined. And it has grown steadily since, much to the delight of the priests, brothers and nuns in the Dacca Diocese.
Besides the rich financial rewards of the tournament, it has taught many an aspiring young man the rudiments of boxing—the art of selfdefense.
Boxing Grows
Boxing has grown so popular on the campus that the possibility of elevating it to a major sport might not be too far distant. The first match with another college was held in the Old Gym a few weeks ago. A novice boxing tournament has been initiated this year to give training and much needed experience to the newcomers in the fistic world.
Yes, boxing has come a long way at Notre Dame since that dismal 1926 season when they lost every match. And who knows? Maybe some day you’ll come back to the new Bengal training room, and hear a small, stocky man in a grey sweat suit moving around the ring saying, “Slide, slide! Turn your side; use that left!” Then he’ll walk over to you and say, £ “It wasn’t always like this.”
The Scholastic
l
< Novice Tournament Semi-Finals Tonight
Notre Dame’s first Novice Boxing tournament continues with the semifinals tonight and the finals tomorrow, both at 8 p.m. in the Fieldhouse Boxing Room.
Over 45 men registered at the weighins this past Monday, entering the eight weight classes. Preliminaries were held Monday and Tuesday afternoons.
After tonight’s program, 16 boxers will remain as finalists and should provide real boxing action, especially in the 165 and 175 pound classes each of which had over 12 entries. Tomorrow the' 16 winners of the semi-finals will meet for the crowns in their respective' classes. Both the winners and runner-ups will be awarded medals donated by the Reco f Sporting Goods company.
A few tickets still remain for tonight and tomorrow night and may be obtained from members of the Bengal Bouters Club or at the entrance to the Boxing Room before the fights. Admission to the semi-finals is 15 cents and to the finals 25 cents with the proceeds going to the promotion of boxing on campus.
Last Monday in the first day of elimination bouts the beginners showed a “rough-em-up” form. The first bout pitted Mike Duggan, a sophomore from Cavanaugh hall and Pleasantville, New York, against George O’Connel, a soph
omore from Morrisey hall. Duggan gained a unanimous decision.
In the second bout on the afternoon’s card Fred Piccini, an off-campus student from Chicago, outpointed Jack Economou, a Poughkeepsie, New York senior history major. Piccini was knocked down by Economou in the second round, but his come-back ability carried him through.
Jesse Jolly a sophomore chemical engineering student from San Antonio, Texas, outpointed Dan Bruce in the third of five bouts in the 165-lb. class. Bruce, a sophomore' pre-med student, is from Memphis, Tennesee.
Referee Dick Windishar stopped the Chuck Meras-Bill Stanley bout in the third round of their 165-lb. clash. Stanley, a sophomore' commerce student who hails from Garden City, Long Island, New York, continually pounded the freshman commerce student from Waukegan, throughout the bout.
Phil Brehn was outpointed by the heavier Pat O’Malley. Brehn is a sophomore from Twin Lakes, Wisconsin. O’Malley is a sophomore from Ambia, Indiana.
The Jerry Boyd-Tom Hamlin battle began as a toe-to-toe slugfest and ended as referee Windishar stopped the 175 lb. bout in the second round as Hamlin was TKO’d. Boyd, a sophomore A.B. student, is from Saginaw, Michigan. Hamlin is a physical education major from Charlevoix, Michigan.

t
JOHN SULLIVAN (r.) AND ED SARNA MIX IT UP A few tickets still remain for tonight and tomorrow
PERSONALIZED NOTRE DAME MUGS
Your own personalized Notre Dame mugs. Your name and year of graduation hand-stamped on this beautiful keepsake mug.
onZy $4.25
The same mug, without engraving, priced at
on/y $2.95
Other mugs, with or without engraving, priced from
$1.75 to $1.95
Insure delivery before summer.
Order your mug today at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
ibruary 29, 1952
31
Dual Campus Hookup
(Continued from page 9) note that will be coming up over WND in the days to come.
In a statement earlier this week, Ryan said, “We are very grateful to the many people who have made this transmission of WND’s program to St. Mary’s possible. We at the station would like to thank Mr. Fallon and Miss Meade for their efforts in this regard. And I personally would like to thank the members of oui- technical engineering department, who made this hook-up possible.
“These technical men are the unsung workers at the station who unselfishly devote their time end energy without thought of personal glory for making WND a better radio station.
“That we have been able to inaugurate these broadcasts to St. Mary’s is a tribute to our technical engineers.”
The project of carrying WND shows to the St. Mary’s campus has been in the planning stage ever smce the beginning of this school year. For various reasons, mainly technical, it has been put off until this evening.
St. Mary’s girls have been notified of the coming of WND. This exclu-
Travel and study
ABROAD
this summer
LOWEST FARES EVER make university-sponsored tours via TWA most attractive.
Spend your summer profitably and enjoyably on one of 16 four- to ten-week study tours in Great Britain, Europe, Scandinavia, Asia or Africa. Earn full credit while you travel and study. Arranged by specialists in the educational-travel field, in cooperation with TWA. Tour price takes care of all necessary expenses, including TWA’s money-saving new tourist fares.*
For tour information, mention countries that interest you most when you write to: John Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours, 80 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
★Effective May 1 subject to gov't approval
nun Ktu mum
sive Scholastic story brings word to Notre Dame.
From now on it will be: WND—the Student Voice of Notre Dame—and St. Mary’s.”
Joe Conwell Gains Top Seat In Speakers' Bureau Election
Officers elected by the Speaker’s Bureau at a meeting this week are: Joe Conwell, president; Bill Riley, vicepresident; Frank Donovan, secretary; Bob Kosydav, treasurer; and Joe Weis, publicity director.
During the course of the meeting, a discussion entitled “Taft or Truman?” was presented by Bill Geary, Joe Weis, and Bill Riley, with Bob Roney acting as chairman.
Richard Eisenhauer and Joe Colligan will speak pro and con on the subject, “The St. Lawrence Seaway” at next week’s meeting, under the chairmanship of Roy Belknap. Extemporaneous speeches are to be made by Bill Riley, Tim Kelt, and Joe Weis.
The remaining members of the Bureau will make extemporaneous speeches which will be criticized ,by Prof. William Eisen, head of the Department of Speech.
Peace Speech Test > II Coming Here Mar. 21
Notre Dame will be host March 21 to the annual Indiana State Contest of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association.
All Indiana colleges and universities have been invited to send representatives to compete in the' contest. Winners of state contests throughout the nation are eligible for the national con-	,
test in oratory which is sponsored by	.
the association. A Notre Dame senior, Joseph Conwell, of Greensburg, Pa., won the national title in 1951.
The state contest at Notre Dame will be divided into four divisions. Competition will be held in men’s oratory, women’s oratory, men’s extemporaneous speaking, and women’s extemporaneous speaking. First, second and third place £ prizs of $25, $15, and $10, with further national prizes in oratory, will be awarded in each division.
Prof. William J. Eisen, head of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, will be in charge of the state contest. Prof. Orville Johnson, head of the Department of Speech at Earlham College, Richmond, Ind., is Indiana state chairman of the Intercollegiate Peace Speech Association.
Clothiers	Merchant Tailors
ATTENTION
ALL AIR FORCE, MARINES AND N.R.O.T.C. MEN:
Who will receive their commissions in June. You can secure either tailored or ready-made uniforms from us. All garments fitted and finished here in our shop. There won’t be any delay on delivery.
The proof of our reliability is the many years of experience we’ve had serving the armed forces with their garments, gear, etc.
We are now taking orders from many N. D. men and advise all who need garments to place their orders early.
You may phone for an appointment dr call at our shop at your earliest convenience.
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115/2 - 117/2 N. Main St.
Upstairs
Uniform Tailors	Clothiers
32
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
Credits
At this time I would like to publicly thank the following individuals for their aid in making the Mardi Gras Dance a success. I would first like to thank my co-chairman from St. Mary’s, Joyce McMahon. The others are:
Phil Toole Justin Bolger Bob Beh Frank Regan Bob Deline Jack Daut George Reverman Tom Foley
(Co-chairman,
Tony Messina Kay Justin Rosemary Donatino Faith Kilburg Charlie McCarthy Dave Dahrouge Ernie Masini Ed Raque
Sincerely, Mardi Gras Ball) George R. Sweet
Debaters Second At Azalia Tourney
The Notre Dame debate team continued its successful series by taking second place in the annual Azalia tourney at Mobile, Ala., last Friday and Saturday. The debaters have now won second place honors in the last three tourneys in which they' participated.
This is the third year that Notre Dame has taken part in this tourney, and they have taken second place the last two years.
This year the negative team of Don Dowden and Bill Hank won first place and the distinction of being the highest-ranked negative team at the tourney.
Notre Dame’s affirmative team of Al DeCrane and Chuck Doherty took second place, and the Irish debaters, in the overall record, were accorded the second place trophy.
The champion is decided on the basis of overall wins in tourney competition, rather than round robin elimination. Thus Notre Dame, with 10 of 12 wins, was runnerup to Auburn, who took 11 of 12, their only defeat coming at the hands of the Irish.
Dowden, along with representatives from the two other top ranking schools, Auburn and Kansas State, participated in a round-table discussion of the debate tonic over Station WBWK, the local radio outlet of Mobile.
On March 7 and 8, Notre Dame will participate in the Brooklyn College tournament, which annuallv bring1:: together approximatelv 45 of the tou-r«T>k’ng debate teams in the country. The Brooklyn meet will be
strictly an arguing tourney, having five rounds of competition, Mr. Len Sommer, the debate coach, believes he has found a winning combination in DeCrane-Doherty and Dowden-Hank, and will send these same men to Brooklyn next week.
Navy, Michigan State Possible Trips for '52
Where are the ND students going to go for the 1952 football trip? There are six games being played away from campus. Technically, only five of them are “away games.”
The first two games are away—Sept. 27 at Philadelphia and Oct. 4 at Dallas. Both these games would involve considerable expense to the student making the trip and thus extremely limit the number going. The estimated price for either of these trips would be well over §50.
The next game for which the team must travel is the Purdue game at Lafayette’. It is conveniently located, but the interest in the game and in the town may lead the student to prefer some other site for the trip.
'The Navy game’ at Cleveland on All Saints Day is technically a home game. Since ND played at Baltimore last year, the Irish get the advantages of the home town team this year, namely, that any Notre Dame student who sits in the student cheering section, pays nothing for the ticket. This would make the price of a student trip to Cleveland well within the budget of most students.
If the Navy game were selected as the occasion for the trip, there would be no cuts taken at all, since the trip would begin Friday night, last through two holidays, and end in time for Monday classes.
State a Possibility
The Michigan State game at East Lansing is the next fracas on foreign soil.
A student trip to Michigan State would be strictly for the game. The excursion would begin on Saturday morning, and because of the lack of facilities there, would return Saturday evening. The location of the cheering section would be in the end zone. There is also the possibility that the student would be held responsible for the cuts of Saturday classes.
The final away game’ is at Iowa City Nov. 22. The location is not too far, but again there is the question of interest as compared to the interest in some of the other contests.
The Student Council has suggested that two trips be made. The official trip would be to Cleveland, and a semiofficial one would be made to East. Lansing, with ND securing the tickets and transportation.
Although no plan has been made as to how the decision will be made, it’s up to the students to consider the possibilities and decide which could be best from the viewpoints of expense, convenience, and interest.
ft's magic, mellow
Biddy Morrow
and his great RCA
Victor dance orchestra
in person at the
PALAIS ROYALE BALLROOM
Saturday, March 1st
Dancing from 8 to 12
. $1.25 per person, plus tax
David Kempler
FAY’S
Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry_
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
Ill South Michigan Street
February 29, 1952
33
------------------------------------------------------ By Bill Riley
The column on the honor system that appeared in this space a couple of weeks ago seems to have aroused considerable discussion, some of it evident in the LETTERS column of this magazine, It is to those who took the trouble to put their opinion down on paper this week’s words are addressed.
First of all, to a gentlemen who goes under the »om de plume, “Name withheld on request.” This young man climbs all over one Mark Tremblay for essaying that Notre Dame is not geared to an honor system. Says NWOR, “Who then, if not a school dedicated to Our Lady (a fair translation of Notre Dame), is geared to produce gentlemen of honor?”
Now, I don’t know Tremblay, and I’m not sure that I know NWOR, but I am pretty sure' that Mr. Tremblay has been unjustly attacked. It seems to me that the letter-writer is blasting Tremblay’s moral standing when all that Tremblay is doing is trying to face reality.
What he (Tremblay) means, I think, is that Notre Dame’s disciplinary setup, as it is presently constituted, makes an honor system in the classroom practically impossible. Notre Dame, at the present time is run on what could be' called, for want of a better name, the police system. Each floor of each hall has a representative of the governing body, the administration, who has police powers, understood in the narrow sense of policing the university. The student is not bound by honor to abide by the regulations of the university. He is bound by the realization that if he does not, swift and effective disciplinary action will be' taken. He will be caught. He is not asked to take a vow of honor that he will be in his residence hall at the specified hour; he is checked in by another representative of the governing body. He is not assumed to have sufficient consideration for his fellow students, nor sufficient maturity to realize how much sleep he needs. His lights are turned ‘ out for him at a main switch by still another- administration representative. It is not assumed by the powers that be that the student knows how to conduct himself on the evening of a school dance; he' is checked in and out in order to ascertain that he will spend a certain amount of time at the dance, and not too much time elsewhere.
It is not the purpose of this column to judge the' prudence of this course of action. It is the purpose of this column to set down the facts of life at Notre Dame which pertain to the possibility of developing a workable' honor system.
To put an honor system into work in the classroom while retaining a police system elsewhere seems to me to be a contradictory action. There is no reason to believe that a student who lacks consideration, maturity and honesty in the wider field of student life will take upon himself not only those qualities, but a further devotion to the abstract principle of honor when he steps inside the doors of a classroom. I do not mean to say that an honor system could not work at Notre Dame. Only that it could not work as long as it is limited to the narrow sphere of classroom activity.
It could not work because' you cannot rightfully expect a human being whose right action is motivated chiefly by fear to change completely for four hours a day to a self-governing person. That is what I meant when I said that student loyalty is to his fellow student. And that there are exceedingly few students who would finger a friend, or for that matter an enemy, to the disciplinary powers.
If that be cynicism, Mr. Baute', let it stand. I prefer to call it realism, and think that if you would check with the rest of the troops you would find it borne out, statistically and otherwise.
And, Mr. Baute, if you don’t think a 70, 77, 85 or 90 is important, tremendously important to the great unwashed, I again advise you to check with examination prefects.
To refer once again to “Name Withheld on Request.” Honor is not a concept that can be limited to purely academic activities while' it is deemed insufficient to insure right action in the other phases of student life. If those who have the final decision on regulatory matters would like to take' a whack at putting the student on his own altogether, I think that maybe—just maybe—the results would be gratifying. •There would of course, be abuses, just as there are abuses now. The atmosphere, if such a system should prove workable, would, I agree, be much more fitting to a school dedicated to Notre Dame.
GUARANTEED £
\1ariin
126 NO. MICHIGAN ST
Kicked in the Face by a Bootee OR Who Ever Called It a "Blessed Event"?
Once there was a Soph omore who had a Sister. He had a Girl. Both these y/J fillies had the Baptismal Handicap of Maggy. Small World.
The sister (call her Maggy I lot the record) got married. In due process, she produced an Offspring. So. Iraternal-like. our Sapient Sophomore wrote her a letter of Congratulations, starting ”1 hear you have a Baby”—Trouble was. he forgot to mail it right away and went on vacation and left the letter or his Desk.
His roommate spotted it and being a Soul of Honor, he didn’t read the Blast. Just saw "Dear Maggy’’. So he addressed an envelope to Maggy II at Northamp. slapped on a stamp and dropped the Epis tie in the box.
This Sophomore still has a sister named Maggy. No Girl. He still has no Idea why.
Had fie been Wise — he’d have sent his Sister and her Mate a beautifully decorated "Congratulations” Telegram. Telegrams get to the right destination carry Good News. Invitations. Bids for Cash and Dates more resultfully than any other Form of Communication. When you have a message to send that means Something to Someone — just call Western Union ... or sprint to your Western Union office.
FOR MEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
209 W. COLFAX AVE. Paul Whalen, Mgr.
34
The Scholastic
MANHATTAN
SHIRTS PAJAMAS
and
NECKWEAR
are featured
in a grand array
at
Spiro’s
in South Bend
When good fellows get together they wear Sportshirts
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Welcome to
SMITHS
M MO-ART PHOTO SHOP
128 W. Washington St.
—ADVENTURE
35 Days-From $300 Offered by America’s largest organization for educational travel. Scholarships available.
See More—Spend Less Tours to MEXICO. The Scenic
West, Alaska, South America, Bermuda or The Orient.
Our 19th Year
See your local represent, alive or write to:
Indoors or out, when you see a crowd of campus biggies relaxing, you’re sure to notice that the really smart boys are wearing Manhattan Sportshirts. The reason is as simple as a snap course. Manhattan Sportshirts are styleright, handsomely tailored, and so darned comfortable you just hate to take ’em off. Manhattan has them in long and short sleeves ... in a wide variety of colors and patterns all in the finest fabrics. All are the sportiest you could put on your back when you want to take it easy!
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgeiy of mouth and jawi Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend Ry appointment Ph. 4-5661
£	STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL
W ■ ■	TRAVEL ASSSCUTION
-----545 FIFTH AVE.. NEW YORK 17 • HU 7-0264
