Che Notre Same Scholastic Advertisements
ELffibO
331
A man is judged by the pencil he ieeps.
A well-sharpened Dixon’s Eldorado is a friend to be proud of.
JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO.
Pencil Dept. Jersey City, N.J.
Can&iian Distributor*
A« BaMacDnngall k Co., Ltd.
Toronto
— - - - —- - - -..............-
National Grocer Company
WHOLESALE GROCERS
402-8 South St. Joseph Street. South Bend. Indiana	'
.	"LIGHT HOUSE BRANDS"
............... ■ ■■ —..lk
| GEORGE WYMAN 6 CO. j :	_ Come and See Us	I
| The South Bend Home for Better Luggage. - |
1	N. V. P. Trunks—Indestructo Trunks	- I
I	Miller Boston Bags, Brief Cases, etc.	, I
♦ —	- ■ ■■	■■ - ■ ■ " ■ ■ ■■ ■ 0
Frank Mayr & Sons
JEWELERS
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STRHET
>■■■■■■ ■ ■■ ■ - ■ - - . - ■ ■ *
EYES EXAMINED
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices Satisfaction Gtutrantud
DR. J. BURKE & CO.,
OrroMWTsisTs and Manctactpkino Opticians	.
¥e duplicate any law the aaa* day. wa	«•
■attar who fitted the*. Briar the piecee.	23O S. Michigan St
,lf „ - , - „>
Kahle’s Restaurants
104-106 N. Michigan St.	119 W. Jefferson Bvld.
Isa W. Washington Ave.	206 So. Michigan St.
X x
< ——- —-—-----------------—— ►
The Ellsworth Store
ALL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FURNISH INGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR . NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
d
MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE
J. J. KREUZBERGER
. MERCHANT TAILOR
ai6 W. Jefferson Blvd
Arnold Building . .
JIMMIE & GOATS . "WHERE THE CARS LEAVE"
Pure Drugs. Careful Compounding. Prompt Service
.	-	‘ Always at
The Eliel Pharmacy
ago W. Washington Ave.. 7	EmilReyer, Ph. G., Mgr.



the Hoeye Same Scholastic Advertisements
^nrirtii Stand Cbthrs

Real Economy means getting real value for every dollar youspend.
A man who wears Society Brand Clothes practices real economy. Society Brand Clothes are made of strictly pure wool fabricks which have been rigidly tested and are guaranteed to give the very best of service.
They are tailored as ■. well as it is possible for I clothes to be tailored. AH I frills such as belts and pleats I which require extra fabrics I and which cost more to I make have been eliminated. I
The styles are very pleas- I ing, the fitting qualities 1 perfect. , The prices are as I low as is consistant with .1 high-grade clothes. I $40.00 I $50.00 I
$60.00 I
&

$70.
III
ADLER BROTHERS I
HE ATB1ETK STORE
HARRY E POUUN. Mp.
i


the Moure &ame 5cholasUic AOVepuisemenus
------------------------------------------
Dr. Walter A. Hager I
EYE. EAR, NOSE AND THROAT ' I
.	Telephone Bell 52	|
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St.	|
and Wafh*ngton Ave.	ooutn l>endf Ind. |
Mike’s Restaurant I and Lunch Room	I
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props.	I
105 E. Jefferson Ave.. South-Bend	Home Phone 6183 |
--- .........................■ -
1 n...— f Home Phone, 5789	Ree Bell 1162
J UFFICR t Bell Phone. 689
DR. R. F. LUCAS
|	" DENTIST
| 611-612 j. M.S. Bldg.	_	,
I Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave.	South Bend, Ind.
-—— ■— —----------■■ - -■ — ■ — 4
Nobile’s College Inn
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM
STUDENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY
108 South Michigan Street
Phones: Bell, 602; Home* 965
Officb:	PHONES Rkstdknck:
Bell 886. Home, 5842.	Bell, 3561. Home, 5703
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY
DENTIST
No. 5x1. Corner Suite J. M. S. Building
Wash. Ave. and Main St. South Bend. Ind.
< ——————————————- — ►
DR. F. W. VAUGHN SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST
608 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
I—
“WALK-OVERS”
THE STUDENT’S SHOE WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP '	115 S. Michigan St.
< ~ - - ■ ■ ■ - ■ ■ ■ ■ >
Bell Phone 581	Will call at Unirersity
Home Phone 3451	by iffvinlmnl
Chiropodist L. L. ROBERTS Office and Residence, ass S. Taylor Street, South Bend, Ind.
With the Largest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen, we are prepared to meet your most exacting requirements.
L. P. HARDY CO.
4x7-433 S. St. Joseph St.	South Bend, Indiana
— — " ■ " - - ■ ■ — - - ■ >
Klingel & Kuehn
SHOES OF QUALITY
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S. Bldg. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Baker’s Shoes "FOR MEN WHO CARE" exclusive nr anu prefect in fit . 114 W. Washington, Ave. South Bend, Indiana
1 T^s 1 at Reasonable Prices. Special attention
1 Fjf CVC1£S Ki^en to students. Branch Repair Shop, 1 "ivyvaw st Edward Hall, Notre Dame.
I Anderson Brothers & Bultinck
I X09 West Colfax Avenue	- South Bend. Indiana
" 4
■ ——............. ■ ■ - —
I THE LIGHT OF THE VISION
By CHRISTIAN REID 362 pp.—Price $1.25 THE AVE MARIA . NOTRE DAME. IND.
^Dtpe]J)ame|||^
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. Lin.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 8,1920.	No. 27.
Queen of Night.
, BY DILLON J. PATTERSON, ’20.
PLEASURES may pall, shadows may fall, Rough grow the way and long,
Friends may depart, pain fill the heart, '
Robbing the day of song.
But the light of thine eyes can illume the skies
Crown thy visions with sweet delight,
And the cares of the day may go flitting away When I see thee, sweet Queen of "the Night.
Dreaming, beaming, my Queen of Night,
-The shadows flee from thy throne of light,
And my heart cries “I love thee, bend bright above me,
Kiss me, dear light, my sweet Queen of the Night.”
Money and Banking.*
BY FRANCIS JOSEPH KILKENNY, ALUMNUS.
THE Bureau of the Currency was organized February 25th, 1863. The primary object of the act creating this bureau was to provide a market, for Government bonds which had to be sold to secure funds for the continuance of the Civil War. It also did away with the so-called “wild-cat” currency which' was in circulation in the different, states. At the same time national banks were given the privilege of issuing their own notes upon the deposit of these bonds with the treasurer of the United States. Hugh. McCullough, afterwards secretary of the treasury, organized the bureau and was the first comptroller of the currency. He had been president of the bank of the State of Indiana when so honored, and being a practical banker, the comptroller’s department immediately came into prominence as one of the most important, offices in the Government. Through his efforts. many precedents were established, which have always been respected by bankers and by his successors ■ „ * Address • before the Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce, on Sunday evening, April 25, 1920.
in that office, and after that time, few changes were made in the National Bank Act until the Federal Reserve Act was approved on December 23rd, 1913.
National bank examiners are appointed under the provisions of Section 5240 U. S. R. S., as amended by the Federal Reserve Act in 1913, by the comptroller of the currency with the approval of the secretary of the treasury. While these positions are not within the civil service, the comptroller requires that every applicant for appointment, before being considered, shall report to Washington, at his own expense and without any assurance of appointment, for the purpose of taking an examination. It is necessary that the applicant shall first obtain the permission of the comptroller to take the examination, which is then accorded him in the office of the comptroller. The questions asked have reference to banking practices, the requirements of the National Bank Act and the Federal Reserve Act and the ordinary rules of commercial law. The questions asked, when their use is discontinued, are not made public and copies cannot be procured. ‘
It is necessary that an applicant either shall have had actual experience as an employee of a bank who is entrusted with at least some part of the executive responsibility, or shall have been an examiner under state or clearing house authority, or as an assistant to such examiners or to national bank examiners. It is also required that the applicant attain a passing mark of- at least 80% in his examination.
The minimum salary paid to national bank examiners is $2400 a year. The advancement of the examiner beyond that amount depends upon the ability shown by him. The salaries for examiners other than the chief national bank examiners, range from the $2400 indicated to $6500. The average amount paid at the present time, is about $3,300.
When an applicant has been notified that he has passed the required examination satis
43+	*	Moure dome Schckwuic
factorily and has been appointed a national bank examiner, he is required to again visit the office of the comptroller of the currency for the purpose of receiving instructions as to his duties. He is given printed instructions, which are prepared by the comptroller’s office for the use of examiners only and are not furnished to any one else. The instructions, the form of report, and all office requirements are gone over with him painstakingly, and he is. given all information possible in connection with his duties.
He is then assigned to the particular federal reserve district where a vacancy exists and instructed to report to the chief national bank examiner for further instructions. The chief national bank examiner, under the rules of the comptroller’s office, sends the newly appointed examiner out with older competent examiners for experience in the work of examination, for from thirty to sixty days. When the chief examiner is satisfied that the new examiner is competent to conduct an examination, the comptroller’s office advises the chief examiner to what particular sub-district he should be assigned.
Of late years many of the employees of the comptroller of the currency’s office have become national bank examiners, the information as to requirements of law and office rulings being invaluable in the work of an examiner. While only a few of the employees have been appointed national bank examiners directly, many of them have become assistants to national bank examiners, 'and, after acquiring the necessary practical experience in examining, have been accorded an examination and appointed as examiners. The percentage of examiners who were formerly employees of the comptroller’s office, however, is very small.
There are twelve- chief national bank examiners, one for each federal reserve district, the office of the chief examiner being located in the city in which the federal reserve bank is operated.
The chief examiner is charged with general supervision of the work in his district. In his office he has a sufficient number of clerks to typewrite all reports of examinations made by the examiners in his district, reconcile accounts of banks under examination with their correspondents as of the date of examination, and care for. the chief examiner’s correspondence with the individual examiners in his district and the office
of the comptroller of the currency. The number of such clerks is a matter for the recommendation of the chief examiner, as he finds their services are needed. Clerks are appointed by the comptroller only upon the recommendation of the chief examiner.
In addition to the clerical force required for work in the office, each chief national bank examiner has a number of assistants assigned to him. The number of assistants varies in the different districts in accordance with the recommendation of the chief examiner, who is required to make recommendations covering his needs. In all of the districts, however, enough' assistants are authorized to enable the chief examiner to assign one to each national bank examiner in the district in examining the larger banks assigned to him. The examiners are expected to examine the smaller banks without assistance.
In addition to the assistants assigned to examiners in the field, it is also necessary that the chief examiner have a regular corps of assistants to accompany him in his examination of the large city banks, which are under his personal supervision. The chief examiners, of course, can augment their individual -force at any time by calling in the assistants from the field examiners for any particular examination, and in this way the number is kept at the minimum necessary. The average number of assistants at this time assigned to the office of each chief national bank examiner office is twelve.
The chief national bank examiner is authorized and required to be familiar with the conditions of banks in his federal reserve district and the kind of work done by the examiners in that district, and he isA authorized and required to ' visit personally banks which, because of their unsatisfactory condition or disregard of law, or, by reason of some other unusual circumstances, require prompt action and special investigation.
Every national bank examiner is required to follow instructions received not only from the comptroller of the currency but from the chief national bank examiner having immediate supervision of his district.
. The examiner prepares his reports of examination and forwards them to the office of the chief ■national bank examiner where they are typewritten, five copies being made. The original report, after being signed by the examiner, is forwarded to the comptroller of the currency;
?5fie Hocre dome Schokrerk?	435
One copy is sent to the bank, one copy to the federal reserve bank, one is retained in the files of the chief examiner, and the other returned to the examiner making the examination, for his files.
Before the Federal Reserve Act became a law in December, 19x3, national bank examiners were appointed in the same manner as at present, but instead of being paid a salary, they were compensated by fees paid to them by the banks through the comptroller’s office. It was necessary for the examiner to pay all of his expenses of every kind from fees received,' and this made it absolutely necessary that a sufficient number of examinations should be made to produce a living wage for the examiner. Under this system it was not possible in the majority of cases for an examiner to remain in the bank for the time required to investigate and determine the facts in connection with unsatisfactory conditions which he might find. Only in cases deemed extremely critical could the examiner remain as long as necessary, and in those cases he was paid a per-diem and expenses from a very small special fund placed by Congress at the disposal of the comptroller’s office for special examinations, which in many years did not cover the expenses incurred, thus necessitating another appropriation to make good the deficiency.
While the examiners, as a rule, were conscientious in the performance of their duty, they could, not under that system make other than somewhat superficial examinations. Under the present system where they are paid a fixed salary and their legitimate expenses while engaged in official work away from home, they not only can, but do, remain in the.bank until they are satisfied as to its actual condition and can report thereon. Furthermore, the limited time at an examiner’s disposal under the fee system deterred him from obtaining while in the bank correction of critical matters to the same extent as he does now.
Under the old system, there being no federal reserve districts and no chief national bank examiners, an examiner was assigned a certain number of banks in contiguous territory and required to examine them twice • a year. At that time there were not more than one hundred examiners; now there are about one hundred and fifty. The examiners reported directly to the office of the comptroller of the currency and were under no supervision other than the
examination of their reports and instructions given by the comptroller’s office.
Under the present system the chief national bank examiner has on file in his office information concerning all banks in the federal reserve district, and he also can obtain information through the federal reserve bank, if it has had dealings with any particular bank in the district. He has established credit files for his district and in various ways has information on file which is of inestimable benefit to the examiners in the field. In his appraisal of assets of the banks the examiner is required to apply to the chief national bank examiner for credit information whenever he stands in need of it. This intimate knowledge of the financial standing of large borrowers in any particular section of the country was available only to a limited extent prior to the establishment of the chief examiner’s offices, as there were no available means of compiling the information and keeping it up to date. This means is now provided through the sub - division into the federal reserve districts, and the placing in each of these districts of a chief examiner who, under the comptroller, has general supervision of his district. Chief examiners are also instructed to correspond with each other and obtain credit data, where borrowers in banks come from outside districts, and also to exchange general information for the good of the service.
A national bank examiner is required when examining a bank first to take possession of its assets, sealing up safes and vaults wherever this is necessary, in order that all books and assets may be within his control until he has examined and released them. Unless this is done a satisfactory examination cannot be made.
The examiner takes the statement from the general ledger showing the condition of the bank at the commencement of business, and then proceeds to verify each item appearing on the statement. He counts the cash, lists the bills receivable and checks them against the account on the books. He notes makers and endorsers in order to be able to determine the total amount against each, and shows excessive loans and large loans..
The individual ledgers are added, certificates of deposit verified, all other assets are examined and checked against the proper accounts in order to prove that the assets shown by the books of the bank are in its possession. Where assets have been sent elsewhere for safekeeping
PUS"
436	^eNocre domeSchotcwcic1
or placed as collateral to loans, where the tion is entered on the bank’s card, together with bank is Hable for rediscounts or bills payable, the name of the examiner making it.
and where it has an account with other banks or The report is then handed to an examiner
with state or county officials, letters of inquiry, .	. called verification tracers, are sent out, some-
times by the examiner, but usually by the chief national bank examiner, the repfies in every instance being returnable to the chief examiner’s office, where they are ckecked against the examiner’s reports to see if the books of the .	bank under examination show the true condition.
Examiners are instructed in connection with examinations to arrange for a meeting of the board of directors wherever this is possible, and preferably to hold the meeting at or near the close of the examination, for the purpose of :	discussing with the directors the loans and dis-
counts and securities owned by the bank and of obtaining their judgment as to their value, where this cannot be readily found from market quotations and credit data.
The national bank examiner is also required to take up with the directors at this meeting matters of criticism found during his examination, and to have immediate steps taken to correct .	all matters, if this is possible. The criticisms
may cover simply bookkeeping and minor ।	matters, but may also include violations of law
•	and losses, or accumulations of overdue, slow
■	and doubtful paper, or bad banking practices
,	and incompetent management. If corrections
of all important matters cannot be obtained, the ;•	examiner is required to procure a letter from
»	the board of directors containing a, statement
’	of what they will do to comply with his require-
|	ments and to correct conditions. He must satisfy
।	himself as to the solvency of the bank and the
■	!	safety of the management.. The vital thing for
j	the examiner to determine, therefore, is the
i	value of the loans and the investment securities,
: .	as upon the value of the assets rests the solvency
I	of the bank.;	’
•	When the examiner has forwarded his notes
-	•	> of examination to the. chief national bank
*	. examiner and his report has been properly
;	' typewritten on the form furnished by the
j	comptroller, signed by the examiner, and
*	forwarded to the -comptroller’s office, the
■	following action is taken upon it:
p	The date on which the report is received* is
j	stamped on it.: It is then sent to the examining
;	division of the comptroller’s office, where a
card record is kept in the name of each bank of all examinations made; the date of the examina-
who reads it and marks all items of criticism appearing therein. If the items of criticism are of sufficient importance to necessitate a letter being written, the examiner places a check mark on the back which is an indication that further action is necessary. If he believes that the condition of the bank is such that no further action is required, he places his initials on the back indicating that it is ready for the files.
Certain federal reserve districts are assigned to each of a number of clerks, and the examiner ' passes on all reports to the clerks to whom they have been assigned. The derk then examines the reports reported to be ready for the files, and if he agrees with the original examiner, the word “File” is stamped upon the report and the clerk initials it. These reports are then placed in a basket from which they are taken to the general file room of the office, where they are placed in a flat file, arranged alphabetically according to cities and states, and are convenient for reference when needed. '
The report to be written upon is examined by the derk in conjunction with the report of the previous examination and correspondence with the bank, and he dictates the required letter, and reviews and initials the letter when completed by the stenographer. The letters are then placed on the desk of the chief of the examining division, who, if satisfied, sends them on to the deputy-comptroller of the currency, who in the great majority of cases signs the correspondence in lieu of the comptroller. When the letter is signed it is returned together with reports and correspondence to the examining division, where it is copied in a press book and sent out. The reports and the correspondence are then returned to the general files and filed in the same manner as the reports 6n which no letters are written.
In order that letters requiring replies shall not be lost sight of, a carbon copy of each such letter is placed in a folder, dated from fifteen to twenty days in advance of the date of the letter, and the date of . the folder is entered on the letter in the press copy book.
All letters coming into the examining division go directly , to the desk of the mail derk, who finds the letters to which they reply in the press copy book and enters the date of the reply thereon. The carbon placed in the folder is then taken out, being easily found by reason
1.
. St*- . J -- X
'5f»Nocre domeSdniagcic
437
of the lead pencil date entered on the press copy book, and both are returned to the derk who dictated the original letter. The clerk then reads the reply, and if it is satisfactory in every particular the carbon is destroyed and the letter filed with the preceding correspondence.
If, however, all matters have not been corrected / and report their findings to the board.
and later information is desired, a new date in advance is placed upon the carbon, the date of the reply is also entered thereon, and a note is made as to the action to be taken when the carbon is again returned to the derk at the / latter date. When replies are not received, the carbons, of course, remain in the folder until the date of the folder, at which time all carbons in the folder are. taken out and distributed to the proper clerks, who constilt the files to verify the fact that no answer has been received and then again write to the banks, calling their attention to the failure to reply to the letter. 1
The law now requires that at least semiannual examinations shall be made of each national bank. Wherever banks are continually violating the law, or where their assets are in a critical condition, or where because of laxness in bookkeeping methods and general management of the bank its condition is unsatisfactory and the directors of the bank do not make the proper efforts and do not show a willingness to correct conditions, examinations are made more frequently, usually quarterlyt this being within the determination of the comptroller, based
upon the conditions in each special case.
It is the duty of directors of a national bank to supervise the affairs of the bank to the extent at least of knowing how its general business is conducted and the character of its loans and other assets. They take an oath at
the (time of appointment that they will not knowingly violate or willfully permit to be violated any provision of the National Bank Act, and it is their duty to inform themselves sufficiently in regard to the affairs of the'bank, not only to know that the law is being observed but that its affairs are being conducted along prudent and conservative lines.	-
The directors’ meeting called at the time of examination is one means the office of the comptroller of the currency employs to assure knowledge of conditions t>y the directors. Another is requiring that at least monthly meetings of the, board be held, at which, in addition to; any other business, loans and discounts made since the previous examination shall be examined
and approved. It is also required that a committee of the directors, specially appointed for the purpose, pass upon all loans of any size before they are granted, and . that another committee shall make examinations of the bank at irregular intervals, at least twice each year

Under the federal reserve system any national bank or. member of the bank can in time of need procure from the federal reserve bank either on its bills payable or by rediscounting paper the necessary ready money to meet an emergency. '
The amount of accommodations which a bank could lawfully obtain from another bank was limited prior to the Federal Reserve Act to the amount of its capital stock, and this amount may still be procured from other sources; accommodations from the federal reserve bank are not subject to this limit but may be obtained in addition thereto. This obviates the chance of a bank which is a member of the federal reserve system being closed by reason , of a run, provided, of course, it is in solvent condition and has acceptable collaterals to . secure a loan of the necessary funds to meet the demands. Before the federal reserve system banks were more than once obliged to dose their doors when they were solvent, because of persistent withdrawals of deposits to meet which they were not able quickly to procure the necessary currency. In addition to the assistance
rendered to banks by the federal reserve banks, the much more thorough examinations and insistence on correction of unsatisfactory conditions safeguard the interests of depositors to a degree never heretofore possible. Confidence in the safety and effectiveness of our banking
institutions means confidence in the safety and effectiveness of our national government.
- - ~.— - .
How often we look upon God as our last and feeblest resource! We go to Him because we have nowhere else to go. And then we learn that the storms of life have driven us not upon the rocks, but into the desired haven.
,	,	—George MacDonald.
There is a beauty in the name appropriated by the Saxon nations to the Deity, unequalled except by His most venerated . Hebrew appellation. They call Him “God,’’ which is literally “the Good’’—the same word thus signifying the Deity and His most endearing quality.
. r ..	—Turner.
y.
438	Moure &ameSdxjlagric
Varsity Verse.	At Midnight Mass.
Dixieland’s A-Callin’.
Listen heah a minute, all you Northern white folks, Ah’s got somethin’ Ah don’t think yo’ understan’.
In yo’ hatred fo’ us niggers, does yo’ eber stop to figgers How ouah hearts are longin’ fo’ old Dixielan’?
’Co’se yoah busy wiv yoah Northern push and bustle,
While us niggers—we would much prefah de shade, When de sun am warmly shinin’, just like Dixie’s sun
is pinin’	. •
An’ a-callin’ back us niggers whut have strayed.
Ah wuz ten when fust Ah crost the Mason-Dixon, ' And fust hit'yoah hard and heartless pavin’ bricks, An’ mah feet what knew no leathah, and wuz bare in ebber weathah
Now are all rigged up in patent leathah kicks.
Heah we cannot play ouah banjos on de ribber,
All yo’ white folks work so hard and work so fast, But please take yo’ agitation, fo’ Ah’s takin’ a vacation Down to Dixieland to stay and breathe mah last.
Please don’t think that Ah’s the least’st bit ungrateful, But Ah’s ’fraid the land ob cotton has mah eye,
Tho’ they’s mighty heap ob lynchin’, yet dah am no shoes a-pinchin’	-
An’ a-plaugin’ dem poah niggers ’till they die.
Ah can see mahself a-strollin’ through de cane fields, Ah can see de darkies swayin’ as dey croon,
An’ Ah knows wifout a-doubtin’, dat de song so sweet deys shoutin’
Can be nuthin’ but a dear ol’ Dixie tune.—p. g.
To John. , '
A little more than three short years ago
You made your living with a peanut cart.
You sold delicious hamburgs, hot dogs, cones
And other victuals that were on the mart.
But you, like any other mortal should,
Had high, ambitious thoughts; to start upon
A greater enterprise, to gather wealth
With business art. We do not blame you, John.
We do not criticize your restaurant,
But still we miss the old refectory bunch, \ We miss that old familiar peanut cart,
That ever-ready, hamburg-sandwich lunch.—b. p. s.
Morn."	.
The moon reluctant hides its glow And stills its nightly story,	.
The frightened stars like children hide, The sun appears in regal glory
Lo! every hill and tree and vale, -And stream, its placid waves alight, .
Awake and tell the deeping world ’ ‘ The daily passing of the night. • •	•
On every chimney, spire, and roof ■ The day, so golden-bright, is bom,
Oh! come ye sons of men and hear The joyous message-of the-morn.—ci D.
BY ROBERT E. O’HARA, ’20.
There was a hushed expectancy throughout the crowded church. The rustle and shuffle of people moving about had suddenly stilled. Then came an organ-note, low and exquisite, like a tremor of the air, so that one seemed to feel rather than hear it. A violin broke into melody with a clear, soft ripple of music which floated down from the choir-loft as tender as the laughter of a child. The cellist caught his cue, and a man’s voice rose in the tenor solo of “Adeste Fideles”—the song of Christmas.
The music drifted through the great cathedral like a mist of hartnony; the quartette took up the “Natum videte” with a burst of exultation; they could barely be heard in the nave as they sang the appeal to the faithful—“ Venite adore-mus”—and the song died out. Each verse was more tender than the preceding and the final “Dominum” sank into a silence as intense as that which had preceded the anthem. 'Then, through the great open doors of the vestibule came a burst of laughter as some belated party hurried up the steps to the church.
A young man stood in the dim recess near a confessional and gazed with seriously happy eyes on the riot of bright color in the body of • the church. Giant chandeliers, filled with the spendthrift spirit of the day, sent gorgeous light over the crowd. The great main altar was banked with palms and with flowers as white, and nearly as costly, as the marble itself. His youthful heart was full of happiness as he watched the beauty of it all. The procession, with the bishop at the end, came from the side door into the church. The choir began its chant; the bishop vested, and then the Midnight Mass was begun.
. As the young man was walking down the steps of the cathedral after Mass, the sound of a voice arrested him. Turning, he saw a girl enveloped in the. softest of fur coats. '	.
“Hello, Joe,” said the girl.of the voice; “wasn’t the Mass wonderful to-night?”
“The most beautiful thing I’ve ever- seen.
May I take you home, Bet?”
■ “Since you ask me, how can I refuse? I’d really like you to awfully well, Joe. Isn’t.that bishop, of ours a perfect peach when he wears that big ermine thing?” , ;	.
_ “The cappamagna, you mean. Yes, I think
I
Notre dome Scholastic	439
it makes him look more like Napoleon than ever; there certainly is a strong resemblance. Watch your step on that running board; it has been loose ever since I let Pat have the car, and he ran into a coal truck.”	.
Joe Kilduff stepped around to the other side of the car, pulled open the door, and settled down into the driver’s seat of the coupe. He looked at Miss Martin as he reached for the button to switch off the lights; then pulled back his arm and looked again.	.
“That is a wonderful looking coat, Bet,” he said; ‘ ‘ Christmas present ? ’ ’
“Yes, Joe, it’s from Dad. He’s a perfect peach; I told him not to be extravagant, and to get me something useful,—and this is the result of my trying to make him behave.” Bet smiled rather petulantly. “Ever since mother died he has been that way—presents, presents, all the time. Of course, I don’t mind much; there are only the two of us now, and he is able to buy me almost anything without suffering any hardship; but I really think he’s a little extravagant. I had a new coat last month, and then a fur jacket last February for my birthday that I scarcely wore at all. He really treats me more like a sweetheart than a daughter.”
“Yes, he does,” brooded Joe. “He doesn’t even think you are old enough to marry yet, so ~ he tells me. He doesn’t want us to become formally engaged, but seems to want you to wait until you are an old maid.”
Bet laughed. “You are tactless. If I didn’t like you so much, I should feel insulted to hear you say I was so near to old-maidenhood.” .
Joe pushed the switch-button and started the car. He stopped in at the Martin home -to see Bet’s father, and asked if, for a Christmas boon, he would give his approval of their engagement. The old man shook his white head slowly, with pain evident in his serious grey eyes.
“ Don’t make me give her up yet,” he pleaded; “you are both young, and another year won’t make so much difference. She is only twenty-, qne; you are but three years older, and I am more than twice your age. I will not stand in your way, but I wish you would wait just one more year.”	•
“All right, sir, I’ll wait a year; but please don’t make.it much longer than that. You know I will take care of her. Will you promise me that next Christmas we may make formal announcement of our engagement?” .
“I promise you that, Joe; and I wish you a
very happy Christmas—to-day and also a year -from now. Good-bye, Joe.”	•
Joe Kilduff slammed the door of the coupe so violently, that the loose running board rattled as he got into his car, then drove home, and went to bed. He lay awake a long time, his anger fighting with patience. He remembered and finally succeeded in keeping in mind the fact that Mr. Martin had lost his wife but two years , before, and that Bet was now all he had. Finally he fell asleep pouting like a spoiled child.
The year somehow passed. The first two weeks had been not nearly so miserable as he had expected, for Pat was at home and gave him something to think about. In the summer Joe had gone to South America on a business trip. On the whole he was quite comforted by the fact that whenever he saw Bet with her father, the man looked so happy; and on his frequent calls at the Martin home, he religiously kept clear of the one subject uppermost in his mind.
It was getting close to Christmas time when Joe stepped into the waiting room of the railroad station, shaking a few big snowflakes from his coat, and Pat came up on the run to greet him.	'
“Your train came in sooner than I had expected, Pat,” he said.
“Yes, it made up ten minutes on the way in. But, say, Joe, it’s great to see you again. I missed you all summer. Of course, I used your coupe all the time, but with your kid brother' only home for three months a year, it’s funny you couldn’t have’ chosen a better time for going to South America.”
“Business is business, Pat,” replied the elder brother. He smiled cheerfully as he looked over the orphan college boy with an almost paternal eye. Pat was a beautiful specimen of brawn, he • thought—just the full-back type in its perfection. .
“But say, Pat,” he continued, as they turned and started towards the street door, “your greeting was rather effusive. I wonder if you might possibly need some funds. An all-American football man shouldn’t though. He should be getting plenty of entertainment without spending any money himself. How about it, lad?” .
“I only made the second all-American, and I’ve got plenty of money, only—”
“Only what?”
“I wish I had a new car, Joe. We can afford it easily, and that old trap I’m driving is a sight.
440
Nocre dome Scholastic
Of course, Father left you in charge of the estate until Iwas graduated; but I’m over twenty-one now and I think—”
“Go and buy what you like, and send the bill to me—it will be your Christmas present. You see, I’m feeling pretty good now. I’ll tell you why Christmas—and this is the twentieth. So don’t get curious, for you haven’t very long to wait. What do you think of this new limousine that I bought?”
' ‘ Why we don’t have any use for a limousine—■ with only the two of—Oh, I understand! Well, you can tell me about it Christmas, but you needn’t expect me to be surprised. It is certainly a beauty of a car. Let’s hustle home, Joe; I want to see old Wright.”
On Christmas Eve the snow was still falling in delicate flakes which dressed everything in white. Joe sat all afternoon talking to Pat about the old school, the football team and Pat’s multitudinous affairs of the heart. He knew, it seemed, at least seven girls who were absolutely the most wonderful that had ever lived. Joe was happy; even more happy than Pat, though he was less boisterous about it. This was the last day of his waiting, and when Pat finally left the house to go to a dinner-party somewhere, Joe was by no means lonesome. He found it rather enjoyable to sit alone before the fireplace in the shadowy library, dreaming hazily of a future that would have shamed Utopia. All of his waiting, now that it was over, was a very appreciable goad, since it had made the fulfilment of his desires so much happier. He looked around the familiar room, lighted only by the fire in the grate, with a'new love; everything was beautiful to him on this day of days. He' was so much enraptured with the glamour of his own thoughts that it seemed, when Wright at last announced dinner, that it had been only a matter of seconds since Pat had made the house rever-
. berate with his parting slam of the door.
When Joe reached the dining-room, he smiled.' faintly at the sight of the two places. He had completely forgotten Pat’s message to Wright.
“He said to tell you he was going out,” Joe remarked. “It completely slipped my mind until now.” "
The butler removed the place, and served dinner.	* _
“Pat is certainly growing upon us,” continued the elder brother, an “all-American full-back'is a "person of some importance. He is a regular social lion.”
\	I	•	'
“I think, sir, he has made a wonderful record. The best line-plunging average ever made by a Harvard full-back, sir. Four and seven-eighth yards on an average for the whole season, sir, and never thrown for a loss. I—I remember reading that somewhere, sir.”	.
“Wright, you are a hypocrite. To think that our ancestral butler should read the sport page! But that’s all right. I’m going to surprise you to-morrow—just you wait.”
Joe stepped out of the new limousine at the Martin home and walked slowly up the steps, as if to conceal by undue deliberation his' real impatience. He went into the house, and as he removed his hat and coat the butler told him that Mr. Martin was waiting in the library to see him.	'
“Good evening, Mr. Martin, and a Merry Christmas to you!” he greeted, as he walked into the room. The old gentleman rose, and faced Joe, smiling quietly. Joe noticed more than ever how the man had aged during the past year; he had been middle aged the Christmas before, but he was an old man now.
“Good evening, Jbe. I asked to see you because I wanted to tell you something of' importance. I am not well. I think you can see that. That is practically what I wanted to talk to you about.	'
“I have twice asked you to pbstpone your engagement to Bet. No, I am not going to ask you to do it again, Joe; I merely wished to give you an explanation of my request.”
“I think I understand, sir. Your wife’s death—”	,
The older man interrupted him. “No, it is not that primarily, though I would have been very lonely. You noticed, I suppose, that I seem much older than I did a little while ago? I am going to die soon.”
“But, sir—”
“The doctor told me that two years ago. I have a cancer. He said that I might live two years, or even three, but that I could not Jive longer than that. I saw him yesterday; he told me that within threeweeks I should be on my death-bed. You understand that I had just lost my wife a few weeks before I was told that I had not much longer to dive. If I had told you of this, you would have felt that you were doing a wrong in taking Bet, when she was all I had, and . I was so soon to die; so I merely asked you to let your engagement be postponed, so that you could make a free', choice. I may
' ' . \ 1

Noure domeSdickigcic
441
have done wrong in even asking you to postpone your happiness; but you have done it, and God will bless you for it. I thank you more than I can tell you, Joe. You have made my last years happy. Now go and see Bet, but don’t tell her; I don’t want her to know this until I am at death’s door. Take good care of her, boy. Good-bye, Joe; Merry Christmas!”
The men shook hands, and Joe’s voice was very husky as he bade the old man farewell. Bet was waiting as he came from the library.
“Hurry, or we’ll be late. You look tired—and almost unhappy.” She dropped her voice. “Has Dad. . . .?”
“No, it’s all right, Bet. I’m very happy. Here’s a little Christmas present.” He drew a little box from his pocket and showed her the ring—a large emerald, with little diamonds on the four sides of it.
“O! I think it’s a perfect peach,” Bet rhapsodized, as Joe put it on her finger, and kissed her hand. “See, it just matches the necklace that Dad gave me. It must have cost a fortune, don’t you think? He has been more extravagant this year than ever. Now get your hat and coat on while I run in and kiss him good-bye.”
They reached the cathedral about half an hour before the Mass, but the church was very crowded, and when they finally reached their pews, the “ Adeste Fideles” was being sung. Joe recalled the Midnight Mass of the year before—-how selfish he had been then! He remembered he had thought bitterly he would have to wait for Bet until her father died—he had been so impatient then. . . .
The procession came from the side door of the church; the bishop went up to the altar; the choir sang softly as he began to vest. Bet leaned over toward Joe.
“Isn’t the bishop a perfect peach in the cappa magna?" sne whispered. Joe smiled.
“This perfect peach you are always talking about—do you know who I think he is? Your dad,” he replied as the Mass began.
There is a God in science, a God in history, and a God in conscience^ and these three are one.—Joseph Cook.	'
The old mystic says somewhere, “God is an unutterable sigh in the innermost depths of the soul.” With still greater justice we may reverse the .proposition, and say, the soul is a neverending sigh after God.—Christlieb.
.	Thoughts.
BY JUNIORS.	...
He whose laugh lasts laughs best.
Fortune makes friends, misfortune triesthem.
Neither 'the owl nor the pessimist sees the bright side of life.
The man with the chip on his shoulder wears' sprinting shoes betimes.	'
When beauty whispers low, “Thou must,” the youth replies, “I can.”
Are not our best friends those upon whom we can impose most freely?
The man we want for president is a man with vision but not’ a visionary. .
People are now making patches as popular as did the old song-writers.
Who steals money from another, student is worse than he who-robs the dead.
Only men of conviction and courage associate themselves with a dying cause.
Where is the politician who used to advocate the coinage of half-cent pieces?
Many of the, world’s ills are traceable to an entirely false notion of success.
Half the satisfaction of. doing good comes from ability to do it unnoticed.
Some men carry oh their shoulder a chip which cannot be knocked off at all.
Mary Pickford will soon be popular enough for the newspapers to run a serial story of her life.
Not even the opening of the baseball season has lessened interest in the Republican presidential race.
As Uncle Sam has refused to play war with the Mexicans, they are going to play amongst themselves.
Natural means may prevent social evils somewhat, but only supernatural means can eradicate them.
Formerly it was “Go west, young man, go west,” but now the West says, “Go ’ east Herbert and Hiram, and be president.”
Public schools are closing on account of the scarcity of teachers—and still we are confronted with a Smith-Towner Bill.
Application forms for divorce might be distributed with marriage licenses, with instructions to use the license first- ;
442
'fcfie Nocne ibameSchdasdc
^otpePame^cbolastic
DISCE-QUASI-SEAVERVICTURUS -VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
must consider his venture a permanent enterprise and not a mere sally into an Eldorado. Finally, the American business man must be ready to issue long-term credits to Chinese buyers. A substantial part of the Chinese trade will be ours if we be consistent iir recognizing these facts concerning successful trade with the great Eastern Empire, facts which America as a nation should realize as fundamental.—A. N.s.
VOL. LIII.
MAY S, 1920.
NO. 27.
Board- of Editors.
Francis Farrington, ’20
William C. Havey, '20 Charles A. Grimes, ’20 WalterM. O’Keefe, ’21 Thomas H. Beacom, ’20 Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21 Arthur B. Hope, ’20
William Robinson, ’20 Edward W. Gould, ’23
Allen W.
Robert E. O'Hara, '20 Paul Scofield, ’20
Thomas J. Tobin, ’20 Paul R. Conaghan, ’20 Leo L. Ward, ’20 Jennings Vurpillat, ’20 M. Joseph Tierney, ’21 Edwin W. Murphy, ’23
Page, ’23
Strong economic rivalry was undoubtedly one of the chief causes of the world war. The United States entered in defence of principle, but, as is natural, she is now thoroughly engrossed in a struggle for Trade with China, commercial supremacy with nations strategic in politics and in business. In the Far East is a great country which our traders have failed to consider seriously as a fertile field for American commerce. True, some of our great financiers have entered China, but their success in establishing themselves with any degree of permanence has been slight. The British have achieved phenomenal results, while our merchantmen, blessed with every facility, have not only failed miserably but have graciously retired from the competition in favor of Great Britain. And they have done this conscious of the fact that China’s four hundred millions
of people depend upon the manufacturing world for a great amount of their essential commodities. American business interests will nevei succeed in that vast country until certain conditions are fairly met—conditions which the British have long since accepted. The American
business man must be willing to establish himself permanently in China. He must adapt himself thoroughly to the Chinese view of things. He must master the Chinese language and adopt the customs of the country. He
When Cardinal Mercier in his stirring pastoral letters solemnly protested against the spoliation of Belgium by the Germans he was everywhere ,	regarded as a hero, and
The Pastorals of nowhere more than in the Irish Bishops. England. How different the hearing whLh Britain accorded the Lenten pastorals of the bishops of Ireland, when they protested against atrocities as heinous as any ever imputed to the Germans. For his courageous protest Cardinal Mercier was acclaimed a hero; the Irish bishops for the same act are proclaimed traitors. Why? Because they dare to arraign England for the muzzling of the press, for raids on private homes, for the racking of towns and cities, for long imprisonment on mere leltres de cachet, for deportations and extreme cruelty. Cardinal Logue characterizes the rule of Dublin Castle as “ a military regime rivalling in severity even that of countries under the most pitiless autocratic government.” Bishop Memory declares that “brute force is being shamelessly employed to terrorize and suppress a nation.” Bishop O’Dea says Ireland is openly subjected to “a regime of the bomb and bayonet, and the most modem engines of war.” The sublimely ridiculous thing about it all is that England commits these outrages in the name of “law and order.”—T-. j. T.

We have just finished reading a criticism of the latest play produced in Chicago.- The
critic is on^ of the highest-salaried and most j notable men in the news-
Clean Up the Stage, paper world. He pronounces the play to be replete with filth and suggestion, an* immoral and insidious perversion of the drama. Yet
this play goes blithely on and continues to poison the minds of scores of pleasure-loving people. Is there no means by which such plays can be driven from the stage? The board of censorship is practically admitted to be a

- Noure &
failure-in,.regard to the cinema; so it would be Useless to offer a similar plan for cleansing the regular stage. The prominent newspaper men are powerless to remove such filth and the publicity they give to such a debasement of art serves to attract the sensuous audience. The people will not boycott the theatre, as the playgoers who. seek the vulgar are in the majority. The only feasible plan is to unite the producers in an organization which will bar from their stages the immoral drama—the men who are the real producers, the men who first organized the drama in America, the men who by their industry, perseverance, and ability can give to America better, cleaner, more intelligent, and entertaining plays.—p. s.
The Senior Ball.
An event unsurpassed in the social annals of Notre Dame was the dinner-dance given by the Seniors of the University on Thursday night, April 29th, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. Covers were laid for forty-two .couples at nine tables, lighted by individual taper& of blue and gold with colored shades. Flowers were banked in the center of each table, , and at the places of the ladies were favors of miniature ivory portrait frames, embossed with gold monograms. Programs of the evening’s dances marked the places of each guest. Blue and gold streamers were suspended from the chandeliers and a large monogram blanket hung over the fireplace, which was flanked on both sides by large illuminated numerals of the class year. A tasteful profusion of palms and fems completed the scheme of decoration. Between the courses of the dinner, Harry Denny entertained the banqueters with a number of violin solos, and Walter O’Keefe, semper fidelis to the demands of Comus, contributed-a variety of songs and stories. Charles Davis and jiis orchestra, playing during the dinner hours, provided music to which the guests danced before the regular program was begun. Promptly at ten o’clock “Cope” Harvey’s orchestra, of Chicago, played the first of the fourteen dances that filled the program of the night. An undeniable spirit of good-fellowship pervaded the atmosphere and made- parting . at the closing hour seem sadly premature. Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, patron and patroness of the affair,,, and Mr. and Mrs. N. D. Smith, of Chicago, were guests of the Seniors. Among
ne ©chdasuic	443
others from distant places were the Misses Corrine Ryan, Washington, D. C.; Carolyn Tobin, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania; . Helen Bailey, Pomeroy, Ohio; Eva Crouch, Beloit, Wisconsin; Mary Ryan, Phoenix, Arizona; Anne Kelleher, Des Moines, Iowa; Loretta Vaughey, Marseilles, Illinois; Dorothy Wade, Grand Rapids, Michigan; Zella Nutter, Minneapolis, Minnesota; Genevieve Hildebrand, St. Joseph, Michigan; Eloise Huity, Rochester, New York; Sarah McCullough, Anderson, Indiana; Helen Rhoyans, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Geraldine Swanson, Hammond, Indiana; Nellie Lee Holt, Falls City, Nebraska; Genevieve Ward, Otterbein, Indiana; Marie Humphreys, Waverley, Iowa; Gertrude O’Connell, Wilmette, Illinois; and Alice Hoit, Elizabeth Grogan, Marion Catherine Grady, and Helen O’Sullivan, of Chicago. The committee in charge of the arrangements consisted of: Clifford O’Sullivan, chairman; Paul Scofield, D. D. Smith, V. F. Fagan, John Buckley, James Connerton, A. C. Ryan, Norman Barry, Walter J. Douglas, and Clement Mulholland.
Obituaries.
Mr. Bernard L- McLain.
The old friends of Brother Leander, C. S. C., for many years a notable figure at Notre Dame, will be grieved to hear of the death of-his brother, Mr. Bernard L. McLain, of Elizabeth, New Jersey. The McLains were devoted friends of the University, and the boys made their preparatory studies here. We bespeak prayerful remembrance.
Otto Paul Robey.
On April 22 Paul Robey, student in Commerce, 1917-19, died of tuberculosis at the home of his parents in Monroe City, Missouri. The ' news of his death was a shock to his many friends here. Two brief notes asking for prayers had come from him within a few days preceding. his death, but his friends felt that his vigorous physique would resist the attack of disease. Paul was a very conscientious student and a loyal Notre Dame man. He was fervently devoted to. the Blessed Sacrament, having practised daily Communion most of the time during his two years here; and the best consolation of . his bereaved parents will be the knowledge that he has a generous share in the prayers of the and the students of the University. .
444	Moure dome Schokrecic
Inspecting the Portmanteau.
Criticism of a college dramatic bill, for this isx what the benefit performance given last Friday evening was, should be guided by a poor but illuminating joke: don’t treat Bill as if he were William. We shall try not to. In the first place, the house was large: guests were many and generally feminine, the weather was obliging, zand the orchestra was inspired. Under these happy circumstances the curtain rose.
Beyond a doubt, the interludes were the best and most popular items on the program. First came Mr. Charles Butterworth with a monologue and a manner of professional suavity. Shortly after Howard and McCormick, Inc., did more with the audience than anybody else and resurrected Cleopatra in a really intriguing song. It is ho mistake, however, to credit Ralph Dumke and Jerome Eddy with the evening’s finest piece of acting. The latter needs only further experience to make him one of the best female impersonators ever seen at Notre Dame.
It is impossible to be so enthusiastic about the sketches. “Madame Zephina Backs Down” . was occasionally bright, even witty, but undoubtedly the parenthetical remarks on the program were correct. The Man,_ -Charles Butterworth again, forced madame’s retreat with genuine skill and deserved more applause than he received. The talkative Zephina, alias Harry McCormick, the Landlady—Cameron King in dark disguise—the Settlement Worker, otherwise Fabian Haynes, were all of the stage, although, perhaps, they had not quite assumed femininity.	'
The last sketch, “Married in Haste,” had a dual advantage: the acting of William Fox as Charles Hurley, and a swifter story. Of the masterly Mr. Fox it is unnecessary to say more than that he is an actor, persuasive and pleasant, to the manner born. His nearest rival for the laurel was ‘George O’Brien, who represented the emotional Missus Hoy with delightful natural. ness. William Mary Jones, was an enticing grisette, and the other members of the cast, even to Harry McCullough who adapted himself so y well to the part of winsome Sally, did their do-.
ings with almost veteran skill.
“An Episode of the Lost Battalion” provided a medium for considerable good acting, and the work of everybody concerned was most creditable. Matthew McEniry as Captain Busch, and Delmar Edmondson as Private Miller
owned a smoothness and power which the audience distinctly appreciated. Nevertheless, the theme is out of date and the details are too far removed from actuality to ring true. We are afraid that the feminine titter which accompanied the gently falling curtain was only too reliable a judgment of the sketch.
All in all, the performance demonstrated that the Notre Dame Players are talented and enthusiastic. Their work showed flashes of passion and comic art Jar above amateur standards, and some added coaching would make of them a superior college troupe. Details of production, such as presenting the German captain with a helmet of impossible design, should and‘could easily be altered.
To Delmar Edmondson, “author, actor and producer,” we owe sincere appreciation for an evening that was largely his making. Originality is a difficult job and not often an unduly appreciated one. To the officers and members of the Players’ Club, to that veteran supervisor of the stage, Brother Cyprian, and to all who helped make the evening interesting, greetings. And, since the first .must also be the last," it is hereby affirmed that Davis, Denny, et al., belong to one of the best orchestras in the history of the school.—g. n. s.
Personals.
—Mr. Paul Fenlon (LL. B., ’19) spent Sunday at the University. Paul is working in the First Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.	'
—Ted Rademaker, pole-vaulter and captain of last year’s track team, will be seen in action, at the track meet to be staged here May 15th. Ted is now employed with the Butler Brothers, wholesale grocers of Chicago.
—Andrew L. McDonough (LL. B., ’19) has opened law offices in the Babcock Building, Plainfield, New Jersey. “Andjr” will be remembered as one of the track stars on Notre Dame’s famous relay team that lowered the record at the Drake Relays a few years ago.
—Dominick L. Callicrate (C. E. ’08) visited old friends at the University recently. Dominick was a varsity football player for three'years and was elected captain in 1907. After graduation ’ he acted ais professor and director of athletics for several years at' Columbia. University, Portland, Ore. He is at present with a large construction company in the far West.

F
'fcfie Nocre dame Schoiarcic
445
- Local News.
—Earl Miller, of the Junior Class, has withdrawn from the University on account of ill health. He will be back next year and expects to graduate in nineteen twenty-one.
'	—Rev. E. J. Galvin, of the Maynpoth Mission
to China, was a visitor at the University Tuesday. He has lately arrived in America from Ireland, and in company with sixteen other Irish priests will sail from Seattle on May 25th for the Far East.
’	—Dudley Pearson, sub-quarter on the Varsity
football team during the last season, was a visitor on the campus Tuesday. He is now working as a salesman for a wholesale clothing . house in Chicago, with territory .in Illinois,
Ohio, and Indiana.
—“Spiritism” was the topic for discussion at the meeting of the St. Thomas Society held in the Library on Tuesday evening. The principal' speaker was William C. Havey, senior, of Holy Cross Seminary. He was followed by Leo Ward, and by others who have made a special study of the subject this year. Much information was forthcoming in regard to ouija boards and other occult phenomena.
—The annual “Junior Prom” will be held on May thirteenth at the Elks Temple in South Bend. Steimrich’s Orchestra will furnish the music. George O’Brien heads the program committee; Cyril Kasper, the publicity committee; Tom VanAarle, the finance committee, and Charlie Davis, the committee on music. The patrons and patronesses for the dance will be Mr. and Mrs.. K. K. Rockne, Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dorais, and Mr. and Mrs. John P. Tieman. .
—The election of members of the Dome Board of next year was held by the Junior Class on Monday evening. Edward Doyle, of Indianapolis, was chosen editor-in-chief; Thomas Dollard, of Troy, New York, art-editor, and James O’Toole, of Pittsburg, business y manager. In accord with the traditional policy of the Dome, the editor-in-chief is a. journalist, the art-editor an architect, and the business manager a lawyer. With such capable men in the executive positions, there is no doubt . that the high standard of the publication in
previous years will be . maintained in 1921.
Harry “Red” MiUer (Ph. B., ’io), Creighton 'University (LL. B., .’13), was married to . succeeded in crossing the home plate with one
' Miss Mary Duffy, of Omaha, Nebraska, here in the Sacred Heart Church Wednesday mom-ing at eight-thirty o’clock. While here Miller was selected as half-back on Walter Camp’s All; American team, and was one of the greatest backfield men that the West has produced. He is now attorney for the Gresselli Chemical Company, of Cleveland, with offices in the Guardian Building. The bride is a graduate of Sacred Heart Convent, of Lake Forest, and has been Society Editor of the Cleveland Plain-Dealer. Ray T. Miller (LL. B. ’13), brother of the groom, at the present time in partnership with J. J. Sullivan in the Williamson Building in Cleveland, acted as best man, and Miss Veronica Luick, of Chicago, former classmate of the bride, was the bridesmaid. The solemn nuptial Mass was sung by Rev. Michael Moriarty, former track star of Notre Dame, who is now head of the Cathedral School of Cleveland. Rev. George Finnigan, C. S. C., acted as deacon, and Rev. Peter Hebert, C. S. C., as sub-deacon. After the ceremony, Mr. and Mrs. Miller departed for a trip through the West, and on their return -they will reside in Lakewood, a suburb of Cleveland. The Scholastic joins with a host of other friends of the Miller family in extending its felicitations to the young couple, and wishes them the same measure of success that “Red” attained in his gridiron days.—¥. s. F.
Athletic Notes.
Notre DAme, 3; Kalamazoo, 2.
Notre Dame won from Kalamazoo, 3 to 2, by a sensational rally in the ninth inning last Saturday afternoon. The game settled down promptly to a pitchers’ dud, with Fenner, the Kalamazoo moundsman, hurling air-tight ball through the first eight frames and retiring the . Gold and Blue stickmen with alarming regularity. Lally was equally effective in the box but was accorded erratic support at crucial moments. As a result of several infidd boots, the Michigan nine achieved their first tally in the third round. In the fourth, Miles reached the third sack on a pretty bunt and an error by Andrews, but Fenner was equal to the situation, fanning Mohardt, Blivemicht, and Fitzgdrald. During the next five innings neither team had the advantage.' In the eventful ninth, Kalamazoo

-5

Noure dameSchdasric
run. Moore was injected as a pinch hitter but failed with his three mighty swings. Captain Miles laid a neat single over second and Bliver-nicht followed with a sizzler down the third-base, line. Fitzgerald then saved the day with a timely double and dashed in with the winning run on fluke plays by Hoekstra and Andrews.
* * * *
. Notre Dame, 4; Purdue, 8.
Notre Dame lost to Purdue, 8 to 4, in a rather loosely played game of baseball last Tuesday. The Boilermakers lost little time in getting their runs, making two in -the first inning when Stanwood and Barnaby drew walks and Strubbe connected for a two-bagger. They added two more in the fourth, in which inning the infield combination of Notre Dame was particularly erratic. Purdue reciprocated with a series of costly errors and bases on balls, which pernfitted the Gold and Blue to register three scores. In the fifth inning Fitzgerald found the ball for three bases, and came in when Strubbe dropped Blivernicht’s liner. Hits by Hiser, McConnell, Fawcett, and Roberts, in the seventh netted the Boilermakers four additional runs. The Varsity threatened to rally in the eighth and the ninth innings, but the Purdue fielders performed perfectly and prevented further scoring. For Purdue, White, Barnaby, and Roberts performed notably with the stick, and the timely hitting by Fitzgerald was the feature of Notre Dame’s exhibition.
* * *
Coach Dorais’ baseball squad is to encounter the nine of the Michigan “Aggies” today on Cartier Field, after a full week of rest. Every man on the squad should now be in prime condition for the strenuous schedule ahead, as a result of the rest which will extend over next week to the Valparaiso game, with which begins the real rush of the schedule.
Penn Relays.
The Notre Dame team, composed of Kasper, Burke, Sweeney, and Meehan, finished in fifth place in the two-mile championship of America, at the Penn Relays, last Saturday. The combined Oxford-Cambridge team outdistanced the American teams and won the race in the record time of 7 minutes and 50 2-5 seconds. At the finish of the first half-mile Cornell, Illinois, and Notre Dame were bunched, with the British runner fourth, and twelve yards
behind. The surprise came in the" next relay when the English runner made up the lost ' distance and got a fifteen-yard lead. At this stage Cornell was second, Illinois, third; Penn, fourth; Yale, fifth, and Notre Dame, sixth. On the next relay the American teams cut down the lead of the English team. Illinois passed Cornell in this relay, the positions of the other teams remaining the same. The last English runner got^away to a seven-yard lead, which he maintained until the last furlong. He then started a sprint which carried him across the line a winner by thirty-five yards. Illinois finished second; Penn, third; Cornell, fourth; Notre Dame, fifth, and Yale, sixth.—E. J. m.
*** ' '
There is scheduled for today the first outdoor track meet of the season at home in which Rockne’s men are to meet the Freshmen in the first annual Varsity-Freshman handicap. All of the Varsity regulars will be seen in action, and such stars as Murphy, Desch, Ficks, and Stowe will perform for the yearlings. The numbers will be run in conjunction with the interscholastic high-school meet scheduled for this afternoon on Cartier Field.
***
The Michigan Agricultural College will send her track team here next ■Saturday for her annual outdoor meet with Notre Dame. We should have little trouble in winning, unless the “Aggie”’ coaches have in store some real surprises. On the following Saturday, May the 22nd, the Illinois Athletic Club is to be here ’ for the most important dual meet of the year at Notre Dame. Hays, Murphy, Desch, and Ficks will be eligible for competition on this occasion.
v ***
The re-arrangement and correction of the Interhall baseball schedule has been completed by Coach Dorais as follows:
May 2nd—Badin-Corby; Walsh-Sorin.
May 5th—Corby-Brownson; Badin-Walsh.
May 9th—Badin-Brownson; Sorin-Corby.
May 12th—Walsh-Brownson; Badin-Sorin. May 16th—Cor by-Walsh; Sorin-Brownson.
. *** .
In a hard fight Walsh won the opening-game of the Interhall series last Sunday from Sorin’s “hopes” on the Brownson field, by a final count of 2 to o In the second inning Walsh ejected the only scores of the game, when serious infield errors by Sorin aided the only successful attack made on Martin’s hurling. The contest.
'SfieNocre StameSchokredc
Was a pitchers’ battle all the way, Smith and Martin sharing honors about evenly. Hartley . Anderson caught a notable game for the “Mari-tians.” Sorin rallied in the seventh, the eighth, . and the ninth, and threatened to tie up the score, but close work behind Smith and his own consistent speed saved the day for Father Farley’s company.
* ** Interhall Baseball.
Sorin’s strong baseball crew struck their real stride Tuesday in the second round of the Interhall series, in which they defeated the Day Students, n to 5. This was the first appearance of the “Dodgers” in Interhall baseball in several years, and their work proved that with a little practice they will be a formidable outfit. “Morrie” Smith started on the mound for Father Marr’s men, but after the first inning retired in favor of Feen. The latter held the day men with ease through the rest of the game. “Mal” Gooley was the slugger for Sorin, and George Gipp wielded the most elective stick for the opposition. Anderson’s catching again merits special credit. Martin, Sweeney, and Gretchen hurled for the town lads and were received by Larrazola. In the same afternoon Corby Hall yielded to Brownson when in the third inning of the game the Brown-sonites knocked Falvey out of the box, and scored eleven runs. Sharpe, who was rushed in to relieve Falvey, held the Brownson men to four hits in the remaining six innings, but his teammates could not score runs on Seyfert. The final score was 11 to 8.
The standing in the Interhall league after
the second	round of	games is shown in the		
table below.				
	Played	Won	Lost	Percent
Walsh	1	1	0	1000
Badin	1	1	0	1000
Brownson	1	1	0	1000
Sorin	2	1	1	.500
Day Students	1	0	1	.000
Corby	2	0	2	.000
	/			
Corby’s early-season aspirations were jolted in the second game of the Interhall League when Badin slipped past them in the seventh and took the lead to keep. Badin won 6 to 3. Castner hurled effective ball, for twelve strike-- outs, and held Corby to a few well-scattered hits. Castner and McIntyre both hit for homeruns. Falvey, pitching for Corby, exhibited
some real skill, but his support failed at critical moments. Corby was rather crippled in being without the services of Kasper, Kiley, and their star-twirler, Sharpe.
* * ♦
Coach Klein’s “Preps” won their second straight game of the season Saturday last by defeating the nine of the Elkhart High School, 6 to 4, on the Brownson campus. McGibbney and Walk did the battery duties for the “Preps.” A second game between these two teams is to
be played in Elkhart soon.
Coach Steinle’s
Minims also won their game with the South Bend “Bat-Breakers.” The Minims had it all their own way, 16 to 1. Their battery consisted of Huebner and Steiniki.
Carroll Juniors Win Championship.
The Carroll Hall boys triumphed last Saturday over the Y. M. C. A., the Colfax A. C., and the Buchanan Juniors in the first annual junior meet, held on Cartier Field. The Auburn Juniors entered in the meet failed to put in appearance. More than fifty athletes of the 128-pound class competed, and the contest was witnessed by a, large and enthusiastic crowd. Several unusually good track and field records were made. Carroll took the lead early in the meet and kept it, the Y. M. C. A. offering the only close competition. The Carrollites took ten firsts in twelve events, “slammed” in two events, and scored in all but one—the pole-vault, which the “Y” team took easily. Elaborate banners for the winning team of the meet and for the winner of the relay were donated by the Frances Shop, Sailors, and by the Max Adler Company respectively. These are now much valued trophies in the Carroll collection. The beautiful ten-inch silver cup for the highest individual point-winner of the meet, donated by Adler Brothers, went to Johnson, the star for the Carrollites, who scored. 27/^ points, including five firsts. Reynolds, the high-point man for the Y. M. C. A., was the only point-getter of note among the visitors.
After losing by a score of 9 to 4 to the Corby Hall regulars last Saturday, the baseball team of Dujarie Hall clinched a drawn-out game with Joe Hyman’s aggregation of Brownsonites on Sunday afternoon, by score of 11 to 10. The second game was marred by loose playing on both sides.
448	^eNonv dame5chdasric
che Hour? dame Scholastic AdCeptisemencS
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. Main Office, Cor. Mich, and Colfax Ave.
BELL 514 HOME 5515
The Oliver Hotel
European Plan
BEST IN THE WEST -
300 Rooms	Fireproof
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
. One or two passengers, - - -	$1.00
Each additional passenger, * - -	.50
Special trip for Baggage, - - - - $1.00 Each additional Trunk, - - -	- .50
Suit Case,.....................-	-	.25
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED
CAFES CIGAR AND NEWS STAND BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP HAIR DRESSING AND '
MANICURING PARLORS
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. _ KATES REASONABLE
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT Waiter service after 9 o’clock P. M. if desired.
DEXTER
Smart, Gool and Gomjortable
Von (ollars
OLDEST BRAND IN AMERICA UNITED *HIRT & COLEEN CO. TROT. N. V.
SOLVBT__________________ max ADLER CO. SOOTH BEND, IND.
A uditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
On the comer of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the -theatre and business center.
, Special attention shown students . and alumni of Notre Dame.
the Notre dame Scholastic Advertisements । '
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana
(Oliver,Hotel Building)
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 145,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER. JR., Vice-Prest.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C. J. WHITMER, Ass’t Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES
Wb Imvb FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit Payable Throughout the World
Try Our Traveler’s Cheques
Mechanics Tools " ’ Draughtman's Tools
G< E* Meyer & Son
Hardware Merchants
115-117 West Jefferson Boulevard
~	(Oppo»ite Pottoffice)
Fine Cutlery *	South Bend, Ind.
I
The Dome
Official Portrait Photographer
McDonald
211 South Main St. c .<	.
o». Past omm	boutn Bind, ina.
Spaldingior Sport
Base Ball, Tennis, Golf Track and Field, Ele.
Complete Equipment and Clothing for Every Athletic Sport
Send for Catalogue	"
A. G. Spawing & Bbos.
: 211 So. State St . CHICAGO
Ideal Laundry Company
“Get the Ideal Habit”
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
Notre Dame News Sitand
Cox Sons & Vining
72 Madison Ave., New York
CAPS AND GOWNS
Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
MHmmBmBM ' Nmw FhMMs 2M2 Mid CM* Schuler, Kllngel & Co. Wholesale Fruit* and Produce 4U-4tt Sauth St. Jaaaph St.
.	- Seuth Bond, Indiana
MMM BUTZBACH, Btamaar .
Citizens National Bank and Trust Co.
112-14 w. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend, Indi (f  ■ \ k




IWrp’fi College anti Slcatemp
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Gymnasium
Academy
Church
College
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY
NOTRE DAME P. O., INDIANA
Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education
College—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—Commissioned;
Credits accepted by the leading Universities
An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and protection of home life. St Mary’s is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care.
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites correspondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take pleasure in mailing an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President.	*	*
<	ST. MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY





Umbenrttj> of ^otre ©ante
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
*
College of Srt£ anti JLetterg.
Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science.
College of Science.
Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Pharmacy, Agriculture.
College of architecture.
Departments of Construction, Design.
College of engineering.
Departments of Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Mining Engineering, Industrial Engineering.
«
College of Jtato.
College of Jfine Slrte.
Departments of Artistic Drawing, Painting, Cartooning, Instrumental Music, Vocal Music.
I
Preparatory ^cftooL Variant Courses.
£>t CbtoarblML For Young Boys.
<
Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by the press and by the public . as a college whose work is of the same grade as that of the most highly endowed colleges or the best state universities. Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever attended the University of Notre Dame can escape its influence in after life.	'
J
The discipline is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest liberty consistant with earnest study and manly Christian character. Rooms at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on application.
^,70',!'*"^
' Address:
THE REGISTRAR
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
'£