____­
:9azme since 186i
University of Notre Dame's StLI dent Mar:.1 · 
Changing Mind 
A lookatwh S 
l.beral as th at mak es students m
ey move toward ore

graduation 
Every Thutr1day I Opm=Mffidni9ht lafo,tune l~1~ment 

•:J'3-brought to you by the 
~ {-:':; 
Student Union Board 
Q 
·•9 .. 
.~f~ 
i3 
"!C 
,, 
cl 
Q •• r . .
._,l' ' 
0 [i 

J' d' 
l\;) 
'· 





0 IDECEMBERl2007 

news 05 
12 Special Report: Catholic Hiring 
News Staff 

The university faces a conundrum as it seeks to hire professors that reflect 
two of its top priorities: research and Catholicism. 
18 Cover: Changing Minds 
Mike Laskey 

Statistics show an increase in "liberals" from freshman to senior year. 
Scholastic explores the shift. 



17 culture 
24 Spotlight on the Arts 
Claire Sobczak 

Three and a half years into the "Decade of the Arts," people are wondering if the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center is fulfilling its purpose. 
27 Campus Chatter 
Regina Gesicki 

What would an innocent bystander observe at a dorm dance? 
Shenanigans. 



sports 31 
36 A Legacy of Loyalty 
Andy Gray 

The football team's fifth-year seniors say that, despite a losing record, they do not regret their decision to stay. 

38 humor· 
36 And the Winner Is ... 
Elisa Suarez 

Elisa bestows awards on outstanding members of the Notre Dame community. 
06 DECEMBER 2007 ISCHOLASTIC I 1 


GROWING AND CHANGING 

A nearly IO-percent increase in students who identify themselves as "liberal." A 10­percent increase in pro-choice students. An 11-percent increase in students who support the use ofaffirmative action in college admissions. On paper, these statistics may lead you to believe that the university causes students to become more left-leaning. But the growth that Notre Dame incites is much more complex. In "Changing Minds," Executive Editor Mike Laskey analyzes the interplay between the spiritual and intellectual development that occurs at Notre Dame. No student can predict how he or she will change while on campus, so this story is relevant to freshmen and juniors, architects and engineers alike. 
We would like to thank Mark Gunty from Notre ·Dame's Office of Institutional Research for the invaluable information he provided for the creation of this story. 

I SPECIAL REPORT 
I 
It may seem strange to worry about the Catholic character ofa university that houses a chapel in each of its 27 dorms, a crucifix in nearly every classroom and a giant golden replica of the Virgin Mary in the center of campus. Nonetheless, some worry that as the percentage of Catholic faculty continues to decline, the university's Catholic character 
may be in jeopardy. Last spring, the Rev.John I.Jenkins, C.S.C., announced a controversial proposal to ensure that the university will continue to employ a faculty that is at least 50 percent Cathoiic. Debate over the the proposal has ensued on campus and nationally.
~ 
ii Our special section on the issue includes "Guardians ofthe Grotto" by Mike Tresnowski, 
I 
which profiles an alumni watchdog group; "Wanted: Catholics" by Maggie Condit, which reports campus views; and "The Catholic Core" by William Dempsey (ND '52), a guest columnist. Scholnstic's staff editorial also addresses Jenkins' proposal. 

WE FINALLY DID IT 

This issue marks an important change for Scholastic: It is our first all-color issue. Our designers and photographers have been working hard to make the magazine as visually appealing as possible, so we hope you enjoy the extra splash of color as you're thumbing through the magazine. 

HAVE A HOLLY JOLLY CHRISTMAS 

We'd like to wish everyone a safe and happy holiday season. Enjoy the gifts, the cheer and the time with family and friends. Additionally, the magazine bids farewell to our staff members going abroad next semester -Molly Slavin, Maddy Zollo, Maggie Condit, Christina Golubski and Mary Kaminski -and welcomes back Jessica Farmwald, our executive copy chief who has been abroad in London. We wish them safe travels and look forward to having them back next year. 
We'll see you next semester, 


Amy Meyers  Doug Schlarman  
Co-Editor in Chief  Co-Editor in Chief  
i1  
I  

2 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 





Step -Into the Office 
Fr. Jenkins' office hours provide a forum for discussion 
Maddy Zollo 
When junior Michael Amenta heard about the new office hours the Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., was offering for students, he was excited to have the chance to voice his opinion on disciplinary issues. He e-mailed the Office of the President with a request early in the semester, and when he did not receive a response, he assumed that the administration avoided topics that addressed the Office of Resident Life and Housing. But according to Mirella Riley, who coordinates Jenkins' office hours, the office does not shy away from controversial issues andJenkins tries to accommodate as many students as possible. "We had over 50 requests for the month of November," Riley says. "There is simply not enough time to squeeze them all in." Jenkins' monthly office hours are part of a new program that encourages open dialogue between students and the administration. Riley has seen both undergraduate and graduate students bring topics like Catholicism, diversity, environmental concerns and disciplinary issues to Jenkins' attention. "The opportunity for students to meet with their president gives them a chance to share their views directly," Riley says. "And I think the office hours are a benefit to Fr. Jenkins because he is able to hear students' perspectives firsthand." In order to attend Jenkins' office hours, students must first register on the presidential office's Web site. After completing the form by entering their graduation year, choosing a time slot, and putting down their topic, it is up to Riley to decide who will receive an allotted time that month. Riley tries to choose a range of discussion topics and especially considers students who have applied before but did not receive an appointment. Those selected are given 15 minutes to talk with Jenkins, and some are grouped with. 9ther students who are interested in similar issues. Senior Paula Wang says that since she was given such a limited amount of time and had to share her visit with another student, it made her appointment less effective than she had hoped it would be. By the time introductions we._re over and Wang had explained her reasons for corning, there were only a few minutes left for Jenkins to respond to her questions. Junior Mike Gotsch had a similar experience. "The office is doing a good job, of getting people in and out of there," he says. "But that causes the quality of the appointments to be lowered." But not all students feel frustrated by the experience. Sophomore Tazbah Shortey shared her observations about life as a Native American student with Jenkins and was surprised to hear that several weeks later Jenkins had contacted the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame to discuss the possibility of getting a recruiter to bring inore Native American students to campus. "It was great to hear that he actually followed up," Shortey says. "He put an idea I suggested into motion. You could tell he wanted to help." + 

NEWS 


POKER TOURNAMENT Students competed in a poker tournament held by the Class of 2009 in the Knights of Columbus building. The winner received an iPod Touch. 


TV Writers' Strike 

--· Where is the love? More importantly, where are my beloved shows? 


End of the Football Season 
Now maybe the pain will go away. Meh ... doubtful. 


Christina Aguilera's Pregnancy 
No way, you're pregnant? We couldn't tell at a//! 



Christmas Time 
If only we could be this fat and jolly all year round. 


Library During Exam Week 


The "hs anty town" 
environment is not 
conducive to productivity. 




Mission to Africa 
ND sophomore spearheads Eyes on Africa Foundation 
Molly Slavin 

Ubuntu. It is a word that means, "I am me because you are you." It is a word that speaks to the belief in human interconnectivity, and it is the motto of the Eyes on Africa Foundation. 
Inspired by a trip to South Africa in the summer of 2007, the Eyes on Africa Foundation is the brainchild ofJeff Lakusta, a Notre Dame sophomore. Lakusta estimates that the group has already raised 10,000 dollars in its two-month existence. Othandweni Orphanage in Johannesburg is earmarked as the initial recipient of the money. 
Lakusta traveled to South Africa with an international student medical team to learn more about the country's HIV and AIDS epidemic. "When we got back to the United States, I contacted the people who had gone on the trip with me to see ifthey'd be interested in setting up a foundation," he says. "We currently have around 30 chapters on college campuses, and we are working to generate donations and publicity." Eyes on Africa is planning a summer mission to build cottages for the orphanage and already has about 200 interested students. 
Sophomore Jim Murphy is in charge of Notre Dame's branch of the foundation, and each chapter is planning a 5K run on the same day as a fundraiser. Students can visit the group's Web site, www.eyesonafricafoundation.org, to make a donation or buy a shirt or a copy of Lakusta's journal. The Sophomore Class Council is hosting a dinner 1n the press box on Dec. 6 and donating half the proceeds to the foundation. + 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 



NEWS 

A CARROLL CHRISTMAS Students enjoyed Christmas karaoke, a tree lighting and photo ops with Santa Claus at Carroll Hall's Christmas celebration on Nov. 30. 



ND STARTING SALARIES 
Signs That You Are A Nerd 

By college for the undergraduate class of2006 
1You look at Web comics on . the Internet. 

You know what animal Ginny Weasley's patronus is. 

You can name all the 
countries in the Middle East. 


You have been home-schooled at any time in your life. 
l;l;,: You read Star Wars books.


;;JJ. 
06 DECEMBER 2007 f SCHOLASTIC f 7 



NEWS 

. . . 




Helicoptef 
--._•pi···...·•a-•···--r··>,e·-_•·n•·-· ·•·-· s--·--_
:.___ ·t:-­
. .· -. . _·.. _:_ ... ' . 
When today's college'.?aged childre·n leave the nes( they 
' ' " . 
_mc;3y not be;flying.sqlo 
., .. ,. /·,~:t: 

·.-.;:AAr.~6~~,·e,,co~~tir'&:KJt~ii5tJ~lt'f:)Y){· ··•ti! 
.. ··•··. rl:E:~:;;~~~t~;.··]1 
r ;~~ 
: . ·: '\ Iri cerfain~huations, pare'nt~i inY,olv~ni~~e, ;\} 




;;~f~\llli!~l~~~~~I 
· ·:,_ ':•..:<·Hlie:rdom·:se1:.:up'sli6illd· b~,.•!:Etli1e?idg~;~~:-,: ,. df:i 
···• .·.. ·:;;lii~Jli~iflll:<i 
·_.•· : ,; ing orientation reeke11d, she gives thei.ri'gen-·• .•.. (ti'l 
··.Ji. ;!~~t~~·!4fei'/'.£P~m~X'lil,\~$ft% .. ·1 
.:":·:_:/. -~ ... .-:~L..\~-;J~--: _.: ~~~ 

i'A .. " ,I.IiiI. l,BcRS 
_~;f)(: 
-',,(. 
o_ri,Notre '. Dame,s. (i3.attiqh.G~orna,racte,t::,;x,·: ,.;:i:,?,:':.·, .. ,· :.. ,,· .. ·. J.e:i:,r~s,ngws,·,..l(U2/, 

::Wi:;:i,,: j•,,;;,,;:,.,,, "'' ,.""'''~','f")illlllifilif'/twi?"S''
"'"''-""'i(,,,t,,;;::·::.:.;k:t',i:'",:",''1il!J,<c.>,bi'JC,..,,,,;:,, ''"'' 

:~lrlij, {',,; 
"' -.. :i~.:;:.:-.,;~--~~-~-­
ffilhied,witi~:ils·:fB''


1'<,::11itt1~ 
~~ ...,,_; -,_.
'h•1 ;.. ·"'---,,
~ '• /,, 
.._;.,,r-"(~ :?t ~:-­
' . • "o' \ Y
; ·.__:, {;· i'i .; ---. 
~ ---·~ ..l ---.... ­
. \ • :'• • '.,., _,-¥,1 \"-• . . 
. , ~­
,. ' .... ·­
.. 

i' 
REPORT CATHOLIC HIRING 




WANTED: CATHOLI 
Goal to attract more Catholic faculty has campus engaged in debate 
Maggie Condit 
12 ) SCHOLASTIC ) 06 DECEMBER 2007 


CATHOLIC HIRING SPECIAL REPORT 


THE CATHOLIC CORE 
Guest columnist argues for "a sharp turnabout in hiring practices." 
William Dempsey 
William Dempsey is a 1952 alumnus ofthe University ofNotre Dame and current president ofProject Sycamore (see page 10)
'Notre Dame no longer Catholic? Is the Pope?" That's a typical reaction to the suggestion that Notre Dame may be losing its Catholic identity. And why not? Notre Dame's Catholicism radiates from a campus stamped with the symbols and sacred places of the Church and students who crowd the chapels and labor at works of mercy. But what of the core of the university, the faculty? Studies show that the secularization of a university begins and ends with the faculty. Its gradual transformation goes unnoticed outside, the university until too late, and once it'~ completed the entire religious culture collapses. The question, then, is what will Notre Dame be for the children and grandchildren of the students nowhere? We in Project Sycamore set out to explore thatquesi:ion. Ourfindings, togetherwith the sources for what I write here, are displayed at www.projectsycamore.com. The short of it is that, without a sharp turnabout in hiring practices, the future looks bleak. Notre Dame's mission statement declares th~t its Catholic identity depends 
upon there being a "predominant number" of Catholics on the faculty, and all agree this means a solid majority. This echoes the standard prescribed by Pope John Paul II in 1990's Ex Corde Ecclesiae, an apostolic constitution for Catholic universities. But while the faculty was 85 percent Catholic in the 1970s, today the number is only a shade over 52 percent. With a modest discount for nominal and dissident Catholics, the necessary Catholic presence is still not met. 
But even this slim arithmetical majority will likely soon be lost. While the Rev. John 
I. Jenkins, C.S.C., has pledged to arrest this decline and has taken some praiseworthy steps in that direction, the administration has established a new hiring goal that falls far short. 
That goal will be met if 51 percent of new hires are Catholic. The goal was met last year, and the decline continued. Our projections, which have not been disputed by the university, show that at this rate Catholics will sink below 50 percent in a few years, will decline thereafter to 39 percent and will not climb above 50 percent for the foreseeable future. This means they never will. 
The reason is demographic: the heavy concentration of Catholics among those retiring. This need not happen. A hiring rate of 60 percent would probably be adequate, and those in governance -the president, the Board and the Fellows -have the authority to adopt whatever measures are necessary to ensure that the goal is met. There might be substantial faculty opposition. As a recent Baylor University survey disclosed, most of the faculty oppose paying any heed to an applicant's religion. The contrast with the solid and proper supportforaffirmative action for women and minorities is notable. And faculty protest might prompt raised eyebrows in secular academe. The administration evidently hopes it can persuade the faculty to do far better than 51 percent. We hope so, too. But the lesson ofhistory is sobering, and risking the loss of Notre Dame's Catholic identity is far too heavy a price to pay for faculty pacification and secular applause. + 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic. 

06 DEcEMBER 2001 IScH01AsT1c 11s 
SPECIAL REPORT CATHOLIC HIRING 

A DANGEROUS PROPOSAL 
A move to increase Catholic faculty could threaten Notre Dame's status as a research institution 
Scholastic Staff 
After accepting the invitation to serve as the newest president ofthe university, the Rev.John I.Jenkins, C.S.C., announced an ambitious three-fold vision for Notre Dame. Jenkins hoped to simultaneously sustain a tradition of excellence in undergraduate teaching, improve the university's status as a key research and graduate institution, and preserve the university's Catholic identity. "I really want to retain those three points and enhance each one of them, without sacrificing the others," said Jenkins at a press conference in 2004. In general, Jenkins' administration has done a good job of addressing all three of these admirable and important goals. We are concerned, however, by a recent proposal aimed at maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic identity. We believe that the proposal to ensure that 50 percent ofthe faculty is Catholic threatens to undermine the other two goals. 

Because the many of Catholic professors already on staff are reaching the age ofretirement, Notre Dame will need more Catholic than non-Catholic hires to maintain this quota. The problem is that only six percent of all Ph.D.s at elite universities are Catholic. This means that most hires must come from this small pool. And Notre Dame has no way of knowing how many of these self-proclaimed Catholics are actively engaged in their faith versus how many are simply checking a box. 
Secondly, many of the best possible faculty candidates are neither Catholic nor even Christian. By actively privileging Catholics, the university risks being labeled as unfriendly or unwelcoming to people from these rich applicant pools. Such a label would contradict Notre Dame's long-held Catholic values ofinclusion and respect for diversity. 
Finally, we disagree with the notion that so many Catholic professors are needed to preserve Notre Dame's Catholic identity, particularly in the undergraduate experience. While including a personal religious perspective may enhance some humanities classes, there is no reason why a professor's personal faith should be of any concern in introductory biology, advanced calculus, microeconomics or basic French. 
We hope our concern regarding this measure will not be misunderstood. We respect the commitment to keep Notre Dame actively Catholic and agree that it can be enhanced without sacrificing its commitment to undergraduate education or goal to be a premier research university. Of the top 20 institutions listed in U.S. News and World Report's Top Colleges, Notre Dame is the only one with a strong religious affiliation. Being Catholic makes us unique and therefore attractive to outstanding prospective students. And it is these intelligent students that are most likely to pursue Ph.D.s and become the very professors that Notre Dame hopes to hire .. 
Instead ofassigning a numerical quota, we hope that the university will treat efforts to attract more Catholic faculty as a recruitment measure. The administration should actively seek out existing Catholic professors and make itself as attractive as possible to them. And what will make a university in the freezing Midwestern tundra of South Bend appealing is outstanding resources for research, intelligent, hard-working students, and the opportunity to address religious issues in a unique way. Notre Dame should also focus on encouraging our bright and predominantly Catholic student body to pursue Ph.D.s. · 
We urge the administration to abandon the quota-like commitment of employing a faculty that is at least 50 percent Catholic and instead focus their efforts on providing venues for religious discussion and practice and making Notre Dame the best possible research institution. + 


Fresh Talent 
Exhibit displays work of Notre Dame art students 
Courtney Ball 
After spending all semester in obscure rooms in Riley Hall, some of Notre Dame's best works of art are finally getting their chance to shine. The Fresh exhibit, on display now through Feb. 17 at the Crossroads Gallery in downtown South Bend, is a new way for art studio majors to display their art to the public. The gallery is partnered with the Art, Art History and Design Department, the Institute for Latino Studies and the Snite Museum. The Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., professor of art, organized and installed the collection. "This show is specifically for undergraduate art major students. It is called 'Fresh' because the undergraduates are full of fresh and new ideas," he says. The gallery is open to all visitors free of charge. "It is a way for students to get their work in a gallery off campus," senior art studio major Amanda Martin says. "It gives us a chance to have an exhibition before we graduate." Martin will graduate in the spring with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in painting and is one of about 30 Notre Dame students whose artwork has been selected for the Fresh exhibit. Th<show was curated in an unusual manne;, with no single individual responsible for selecting the body of work. "The professors in each department · _'; painting,· sculpture, photography and graphic design -picked student pieces. they thought would be good for the show," Martin says. The result is an . assortment of media and styles. Graphic design projects hang adjacent to abstract paintings and contrast with dramatic 
"I think my work complements the other work in the gallery, not only medium-wise but also content­wise. Graphic design is visual communication, but not always about some of the more emotional issues that come with studio art," Martin says. Kelly Gronli, a senior graphic design major, says that though the styles are very different, it is all worthy of display. "I don't see them competing or conflicting in any way. They seem to fit nicely together," Gronli says. 
Though many of the artists were present at the exhibit's opening on Nov. 20, they were not the only Notre Dame students who made the trip to view the artwork. "A few of my friends who are business majors and engineers came, too. They were a little overwhelmed because they do not get to see what I do very often," Gronli says. 
Molly Schmiege, a senior finance major, was one of the students without a background in art who was present at the opening. "I was really impressed with all of the artwork in the show," she says. "I feel that students outside of the art department don't know how hard they work, so it is nice that Fresh gave them the opportunity to have their friends outside of Riley see their work." 
The faculty is hopeful that students will continue to make the drive to the gallery. "There are more opportunities for students to see Notre Dame art now than ever before. It always makes it more meaningful when you know the artists and can finally see what those crazy people are doing in their studios," Flanigan says. + 
black-and-white photographs. 
.'.,1s,t,Sq-I,01Asn~; f:.op· ,pk~:(· ,oz·::·>:.:: :,':; :.:,:~;Yf:·E>·:·: :• , · · ...· -_,. ·. .'.\~:<r,:\:~-:;:Lr~':: ~;~"',:t:::;~~ ;;,:?~< :;,; 
COVER STORY 



ing Minds 
A look at the factors that make students more liberal as they move toward graduation 
Mike Laskey
When Scott Hagan arrived at Notre Dame as a freshman in August 2004, he didn't stand out. The son ofa plastic surgeon, Hagan graduated from the elite Montgomery Bell Academy in Nashville. He was a Tennessee high school all-state lacrosse player and varsity wrestler, and his standardized test scores were outstanding. He figured he would end up at medical school after college, following in the footsteps of his father. Politically, he was a conservative Republican. Now, as a senior, the walls of Hagan's off-campus apartment are covered with blown-up photographs ofradical liberal political thinkers and philosophers, from Karl Marx to Noam Chomsky. Far removed from his days as a conservative, Hagan now calls himself a socialist. Plans for medical school are still in the works, but only after a year ofvolunteering in Latin America. He eventually hopes to use his medical training to advocate for universal healthcare. In three and a halfyears of college, the way Hagan sees the world has been flipped upside down. While Hagan's dramatic shift of worldview is an extreme case, his story is emblematic of a statistical trend that exists at colleges everywhere, even more markedly at Notre Dame: Undergraduates' thoughts and beliefs about.the world change over their four years in school, generally taking a bend to the political left. This tendency might not be surprising at most colleges. But in some ways, Notre Dame is stereotyped as a particularly conservative institution, both because ofthe students it attracts and some policies it has in place. For instance, 13 percent more of 2004 Notre Dame freshmen classified themselves as conservative than the national average, according to the College Students' Beliefs and Values Survey operated out of UCLA. "That's the type of student we attract, coming out of private Catholic institutions from a lot of middle to upper-middle class families. Students do tend to be somewhat conservative when they come in," says Mel Tardy (ND '86), who is an academic advisor in the First Year of Studies program. Some university policies are also seen as especially conservative, such as the rule prohibiting nonmarital sex, the existence of gender-specific visiting hours governing Notre Dame's single-sex residence halls, and the university's refusal to officially recognize a gay-straight alliance student group. Still, the statistics show that Notre Dame is fertile ground for what, on the surface, appears to be a liberal shift: The percentage ofNotre Dame students self­classifyingas liberal shoots up almost 10 percentage points from freshman to senior year, compared to only a 5.7 percent increase nationwide. The students, faculty members, staff and administrators interviewed for this article provide plenty of anecdotal evidence to confirm student change, but also universally insisted that classifying that change as a merely a liberal shift is overly simplistic. Instead, members of the Notre Dame community say the change in student worldview is marked by the realization of the world's complexities, more so than a change in political affiliation. The college experience challenges students to 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 19 


COVER STORY 
PERCENTAGE CHANGE AT NOTRE DAME: FRESHMAN TO SENIOR YEAR 

think critically, or to confront why they believe what they believe. "Much of education is an education to complexity and ambiguity," says Dean Mark Roche of the College of Arts and Letters. "One of the things that students learn is that their very strong personal views may not be as clearly grounded as they thought they were." Perhaps the statistical shift, then, emerges from the fact that the average Notre Dame freshman is more likely to be conservative than a freshman elsewhere. If a change in worldview happens here, a shift from conservative to liberal is just statistically more likely. "There's probably a general trend from conservative to liberal because our students come in more conservative," Roche says. 
At the same time, a survey conducted this year by Notre Dame's Office for Institutional Research and Campus Ministry reports that 71 percent of Notre Dame student respondents experience an increased level in the depth of their personal spirituality during college. A deepening personal spirituality seems to complement a developing worldview. 
However you interpret the numbers, the challenges to students' views arise throughout a Notre Dame education in many ways, perhaps most distinctly in classrooms and r~sidence halls on campus and through study abroad experiences and Catholic Social Teaching-inspired service immersion programs all over the world. 
Hagan first began to examine his worldview during a required introductory philosophy course that he took during his first semester at Notre Dame. "I don't think I had ever thought about what I believed the way I was forced to in that class," he says. "I think it's really dangerous if we don't have reasons for what we believe religiously or politically, and I was never really forced to think about that." The class was taught by Bill Ramsey, a popular philosophy professor who left Notre Dame for UNLVafter the spring 2007 semester. Ramsey described the class as a "smorgasbord" of philosophy, as it explored topics ranging from the philosophy ofreligion to the relationship of bodies and minds. "I deliberately pick topics that are major themes in philosophy but also very provocative," Ramsey wrote in an e-mail. "My view is that I want to upset the students so that they will be thinking and arguing about this stuff outside of class." Hagan's worldview was most affected by a reading in the class called "Famine, Affluence, and Morality" by Princeton philosopher Peter Singer, who argues that wealthy individuals are morally obligated to donate significant portions of their income to humanitarian efforts. Hagan started to believe that charity is not merely a good act, but an essential 011e. "No one had a response to Singer's argument. There's no refuting it," Hagan says. "So why don't we live like that? When we hear about poverty, why don't we do something about it?" Ramsey says that many introductory philosophy classes, including his own, are designed to challenge students this very way. "Ideally, students will gradually become more critical-and more careful thinkers throughout the semester," Ramsey wrote. "We see this all the time, where students initially accept something right away just because it sounds plausible. Then, after 14 weeks, they hear a perspective that initially sounds good, but their immediate response is to more critically examine it, and look for weaknesses. I think that is a good thing." 
A class like Ramsey's could exist at practically any university, but there are some unique aspects of the Notre Dame academic experience, deriving primarily from Notre Dame's Catholic identity. Roche believes that this identity lets Notre Dame courses address certain questions that are often ignored or censored at other colleges. "Some of the existential questions that have religious resonance are put front and center in the classroom here, though they would be bracketed at many other schools," he says. "When· t interview faculty candidates, a lot of them are excited about the opportunity to engage questions that are considered taboo elsewhere." As many political issues like abortion and gay marriage are also religious issues, Roche says; they can be approached in such a dual way in: the Notre Dame classroom. 
Theology classes, two of which are mandatory for all Notre Dame students, can also challenge students' perspectives in a way that secular-school required classes cannot. Senior theology and peace 
20 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 
studies major Nick Albares' worldview changed while his spirituality deepened in theology courses, including one called Globalization, Spirituality and Justice taught by the Rev. Daniel Groody, C.S.C., which examined the role of social justice as an integral element of Christian spirituality. "Coming into Notre Dame, I kind of had a narrow view. Notre Dame has really opened that up for me," Albares says. 
Looking back, Albares can mark his shifting outlook by noting the changes in the "political views" section of his Facebook profile. He moved from "conservative" as a freshman to "moderate," and then settled on "other," deciding that his commitment to his Catholic faith placed him outside of the standard spectrum. "As opposed to becoming more liberal, I think it's becoming more attuned to the realities in the world, and I think Notre Dame does that out of a sense of mission," Albares says. 
While classes can challenge a student's worldview in fundamental ways, experience within residence hall communities can provide similar opportunities during late-night discussions or more formal dorm-wide events. Albares is a resident assistant in Alumni Hall, and he says that the hall staff makes a concerted effort to foster a vibrant community primed for student growth, hoping to turn the dorm into much more than a temporary home. "We try to cultivate in all our residents an awareness of different things and promote different initiatives," he says, citing a recent environmental T-shirt sale and upcoming dorm-sponsored outings to educational films for AIDS Week. "The idea ofliving in community is that link between residential life and worldview," Albares says. Sunday-night Mass in the Alumni chapel, Albares says, is the "center-point of the week" and the most visible representation ofthe dorm's community life. 
The university intends for students to have their worldviews expanded through partlClpation in such faith-based, active communities. "The University encourages a way of living consonant with a Christian community and manifest in prayer, liturgy and service," the university's m1ss10n statement reads. "Residential life endeavors to develop that sense of community and of responsibility that prepares students for subsequent leadership in building a society that is at once more human and more divine." 
Senior Pat Reidy's worldview changed in a concrete, powerful way thanks to an initiative operated out of Sorin College, his residence hall. Since the summer of 2004, Sorin has sponsored a summer­long position for one of its residents at St. Jude Primary School in rural Uganda. Reidy was selected for the spot in 2006 and spent the summer teaching children and living in community with the Holy Cross priests there. He credits his experiences in Sorin for opening him up to the opportunity. "When I was in high school, it really wasn't a big thing to think about the outside world, to think about the poor, to think about the environment. Some of the conversations that ensued in the dorm over the most random stuff would become the most deeply philosophical, ethical and theological conversations," Reidy says. "I think those discussions really opened me up to the possibility of thinking about Uganda as a legit option, as opposed to something that somebody else would do." 
Reidy returned to Uganda this past summer and has studied the effect ofthe nation's politics on primary schooling. "Uganda is not the reality I live within, yet it is a reality in the world in which I live," he says. "It's something I realized I need to appreciate and act upon, having an obligation based on the fact that I live at Notre Dame, where I do have the ability to do something about it." To that end, Reidy started a personal fundraising campaign for the school and has raised close to 40,000 dollars. "We could build the finest school in Uganda for less than it takes to run Notre Dame for a day!" Reidy writes in a brochure available in Sorin. 
Since his powerful experiences of community with the Holy Cross priests at the mission near St. Jude, Reidy has entered into a strong discernment of 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 21 
COVER STORY 

the priesthood. "As far as being a faithful person, it's a lot easier when you're ignorant of some of the truly horrid realities of the world," he says. "I have had to really evaluate and reevaluate my faith and whether or not it's a true faith or whether it's a blind, ignorant faith. I look at that as a great thing."
Reidy's worldview was dramatically affected by his international experience, and many students take advantage of other off-campus opportunities while attending Notre Dame. Almost 60 percent of Notre Dame students study abroad during their collegiate career, which is the sixth-highest percentage in the nation. For Hagan, his semester spent in Monterrey, Mexico further developed his worldview by allowing him to see the United States through a new lens. "My program was unique in that there was over 500 international students from all over the world, so I heard the opinions of people from a number of different countries," he says. "It was surprising to see a general consensus of tremendous dislike for our current administration, and also considerably more progressive 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 
political views than the ones I had been exposed to in the States." 
Dr. Tony Messina, acting assistant provost for international studies, believes perspective-altering experiences like Hagan's are the hallmark of study abroad programs, often affecting the way students see and approach important world issues. "It's part and parcel of the abroad experience that students come into contact with people who get them to refocus their thinking about what it means to be an American and how Americans are different from other people," Messina says. "I think students develop a window into the complexity of the world and into the nuances of other societies' international questions." The complexities of the world that Notre Dame students can explore in classrooms and dorm rooms intensify when a student finds him or herself immersed in an unfamiliar culture. 
Inaddition to study abroad experiences, each year hundreds of students see more of the world through participation in off-campus service immersion programs through the Center for Social Concerns, working in places from Appalachia to India. Steph Gharakhanian, who graduated in 2007 with degrees in peace studies and pre-professional studies, got involved with the Notre Dame Peace Coalition as a freshman, which exposed her to the range of opportunities available at the center. As she grew more active, she learned how faith inspires Notre Dame's social justice efforts. "Prior to Notre Dame, I had never encountered Catholic Social Teaching, I had never heard of people like Dorothy Day and Oscar Romero, these incredible Catholic voices for peace and justice," Gharakhanian wrote 1n an e-mail. "So, it wasn't until Notre Dame that issues of peace and justice became a matter offaith." Gharakhanian then . spent a summer in Cambodia on an International Summer Service Learning Program through the center. "It wasn't until Cambodia that I came to understand how extensive of an impact war has on a country," Gharakhanian wrote. "After Cambodia, the issues that I encountered in my peace studies classes were no longer abstract." 
Similar to Albares, Gharakhanian is hesitant to label her growth "liberal." "Personally, I don't know if I became more politically liberal while at ND, 

~--------------CO_V_E_R_S_TO_R_Y 

but I do know that I was able to live out my values more by doing things such as service and by getting involved in various CSC initiatives," she wrote. "Service, particularly I think, for me at least, didn't radicalize me, but made the preexisting values that I carried so much more personal, because I could associate names and faces with the causes that I had always been involved in." 
The Rev. Bill Lies, C.S.C, director of the center, emphasizes that the role of the CSC is not to be a clearinghouse for volunteers, but a place where community-based learning, inspired by Catholic Social Teaching, can educate students about the world and broaden their outlook. "Here at the Center for Social Concerns, the local community, the national and even the global communities become our classroom. We push the walls of the classroom into those issues, and that's why the CSC has such an impact on our students and opens up their perspective," he says. 
The experiential learning that students participate in through the center as undergraduates has an effect on each senior class, as about 10 percent of each graduating class -or just over 
200 students -goes on to do full­time service for a year or two after commencement. The number is so high that the center hired Liz Mackenzie (ND '97), who serves as the director of senior transition programs. Mackenzie counsels seniors on post-graduate service opportunities and teaches a one­credit discernment class for students trying to determine how to incorporate justice and faith into their lives after .graduation. "There's more awareness on this campus of post-grad service as a real option than at other schools," Mackenzie, who has previously worked at Boston College, says. "It's part of the culture here." Mackenzie says thatNotre Dame is compared to the University of Michigan for both Peace Corps and Teach for America recruitment, despite the fact that Michigan's undergraduate population outnumbers Notre Dame's three to one. 
Gharakhanian was one of the 211 members of the class of 2007 to pursue post-,graduate service, and she's currently working for Peace Action Maine through the Jesuit Volunteer Corps QVC). "Ultimately, I would say that I chose to do JVC so I could live out the values that my ND education and involvement nurtured within me," she wrote. 
In looking at the statistics in the light of these students' stories, it is not sufficient to simply conclude that students become more politically liberal at Notre Dame, and stop there. A deeper change is happening, in classrooms and dorm rooms, in Mexico and Cambodia. The world becomes more complex than it ever appeared in high school. This development is at the heart of Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic institution. "We're failing our students at Notre Dame ifthey're not leaving here asking some fundamental social questions about our responsibility as people of faith," Lies says. "Our people should be different than a student graduating from some other university. There should be a Notre Dame difference." For Hagan, despite his self-p:r:oclaimed socialistic political leanings, the way he sees the world now goes far beyond politics. "It's not so much about your political views. As long as you're working for justice, you can find common ground with a lot of people," he says. "It's not a political thing, it's a human thing." + 
06 DECE:tvIBER 2007 f SCHOLASTIC f 23 
CULTURE 


Claire Sobczak
Three years ago, the state of the arts at Notre Dame was promising. When the red tape was cut outside 
of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, the university launched into its "Decade of the Arts." The opening of the center was the university's first and biggest step in affirming the value of the arts, both on campus and in the greater South Bend community. But at a school known more for its football team and business school than for its emphasis on 
24 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 
turning students into art critics and theater patrons, the center has had to fight to attract a steady following. And with the recent turnover of the executive director position to Anna M. Thompson this past July, questions have arisen about the future of the center and if it will continue to uphold its original mission. 
Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves was involved in creating the center's mission. "It was our starting goal that every student should attend at least one production and be a part of one production before he or she graduates," ,Affleck-Graves says. "I don't know how far we've come toward achieving that goal so far, but the presence ofthe DPAC on campus definitely helps." 
Along with creating a larger presence of the arts on campus, the center also sought to connect the university with the outside community. According to their mission statement, the center aims to "provide more 


CULTURE 

cultural opportunities for individuals and families from Michiana and a new level of participation for them in the life of the university." 
"The location of the center itself has a purpose," says Leigh Hayden, director of external relations for the center. "It was built at the very south end of campus to bridge the campus· to the community. We wanted the community to know that the facility is as much a place for them as it is for Notre Dame students." 
But some question how well the goals of bringing the arts both to students and Michiana residents have been fulfilled, especially in light of the fact that the center has seen three executive directors in the past three and a half years. Former executive director John Haynes left Notre Dame in 2 006 to p~rsue a similar endeavor ofopening a performing arts center in Seattle, Wash., and Howard Hanson took over as interim executive director until Thompson was hired in July. 
Both the university and the center's staff, however, seem pleased with the progress the center has made thus far. "People need to be patient," says Jon Vickers, the director of the center's Browning Cinema· and a senior staff member since July 2004. "We are only three and a half years into the Decade of the Arts, and something like this needs adequate time before it can be judged." 
The center has made progress toward achieving its goals. "It has been great to see projects that began as small snowb_alls start rolling," Hayden says. "We have seen success in the increased subscription base that has formed over time, and last year students averaged 35 to 38 percent of the audience who attended ·each show." 
The center saw an increase in student attendance at performances over the first three seasons. Between the first and third seasons, attendance at guest artist shows rose from 26 to 33 percent, while student numbers at cinema showings rose from 30 to 43 percent. Thus far in the 2007-2008 season, however, student attendance at guest artist shows has only reached 27 percent, and the cinema statistics are not updated yet for this season. The center is hopeful, though, that upcoming big-name performers such a~ jazz musician Wynton Marsalis will bring the numbers up to the 40-percent range. 
The staff members also do not see the changes in executive directors as detrimental to the mission or stability of the center, but rather as the natural progression of such an institution. "John Haynes was brilliant, and Anna Thompson can carry his vision· even further," Vickers-says. "She has a vision that bridges academics closer to the arts." 
Though Thompson has only been at Notre Dame for a few months, the university has had its eyes on her since the center's inception. "Notre Dame originally head-hunted me for the job in 2004, but it wasn't the right time for me," Thompson says. "Haynes was the right man for the job at the time. He loves to build facilities, which is what he's doing right now in Washington. But people with his interests are usually gone within 18 months. I, myself, love to build programming; there's a lot more longevity in it." 
Thompson's 20 years of experience have helped her to adjust relatively easily to the job. "The center has come out of infancy and is into its toddler phase," she says. "And I have a crackerjack marketing team and three MBNs on staff. All 20 ofus plus myself are working to bring the center to the next level." 
Thompson's marketing team is working hard to raise student involvement and interest in the center and has started various programs in conjunction with students themselves to achieve these goals. Students Promoting the Performing Arts is one of. these endeavors, in which seven students work with the public relations team to stimulate the interest of their peers. Senior Caroline Askew is a member of this group who is optimistic about its potential, but she also admits that everyone involved has a lot ofwork to do. "I believe the group has a lot of potential to promote the arts and encourage students to attend performances at the center, but at this point in this semester, the group hasn't been very effective. We have only met once so far this semester, and nothing has really happened after the first meeting," she says. "But the group is expected to do more during the spring semester of 2008, and I think it will do a lot to promote the upcoming events." 
The schedule for the 2007-2008 season was already set in stone when Thompson arrived on campus, but she has innovative plans for curating next year's season. "Next year we are bringing in residencies, which are theater troupes who will stay at Notre Dame for about a week to perform and work hands-on with students in their classes," she says. 
Thompson has many plans for bringing the center into its next phase of existence, yet she admits that living up to the mission of bringing in more of the outside community has been challenging. "The performing arts can often have a pretentious stigma attached to them," she says. "It can be intimidating for people to come on campus and do something they consider high class. But the point of the center is to bring the arts to everyone. We can't stress enough that it doesn't matter what you look like when you come, so long as you come and enjoy the ambiance and experience." + 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 25 


CULTURE 
. 
RIDING TOUGH Sr. Sue Bruno balances the dual roles of disciplinarian and mentor for the women of Pasquerilla West. 
Rectors walk the fine line between authority and camaraderie 

Jen Wulf 
Under the bright lights of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center rehearsal space, sophomore Film, Television, and Theatre major Rory Norton had a "heart to heart" with her rector. For her performance art class this semester, Norton had to bring one non­student to an avant-garde performance, and she asked Lewis rector Linda Cirillo. "She came and she was 15 minutes early, which was really funny because no one else was there yet," Norton says. During the performance, Cirillo joined Norton on stage. "We stood back to back and let our 'hearts talk'.. to each other," Norton says. "She was completely serious and didn't laugh and said ~he wanted to come to another one. She really liked it." This type of experience may be surprising to students who only associate their rectors with the Office ofResidence Life and Housing (ResLife). However, according to Pasquerilla West rector Sr. Sue Bruno, O.S.F., less than five percent of her job is disciplinary. "You don't see me on the floors a lot because I don't 
26 ISCHOLASTIC I06 DECEMBER 2007 
want them [the students] to feel like I'm always checking up on them, but my door's always open if you need me," she says. 
Like most rectors, Bruno's job is difficult to define. Her duties range from meeting with hall staff to counseling, students to organizing social events for the dorm. "I think what makes the job so unique is the variety and spontaneity," she says. 
According to Cirillo, the best way to anticipate this spontaneity is to always be prepared. "Sometimes I'll sleep in my clothes," she says. Several late night excursions to the hospital with her students have taught Cirillo to be flexible. 
The Rev. Jim Lewis, 0. Carm, Carroll rector, ·agrees. "Because we live with students, it really is 24-7," he says. "I joke with my friends that I have a lot of free time. I'm just never really sure when it's going to be." Lewis says that to be a good rector, one must be in continual dialogue with students, even if that means losing personal time. 
"This is a very important crossroads. For many it's the first time they've lived away from home, the first time they've fallen in love," he says. "They are making decisions not only about what they want -to do, but truly who they are." 
Lewis ,also says that Notre Dame rectors play an especially important role b~cause the dorms are so crucial to ·cainpus life. While at most state schools the majority of students move off campus after freshman year, according to the ResLife Web site about 80 percent of Notre Dame undergra~uates live on campus. 
"?tudents and alumni are more readily identified by the hall that they lived in than they are their academic major," Lewis says. Since the rectors live in the dorms with their students, a huge part of their jobs is to foster a sense of community. "The rector role has always been kind, of a paternal role," he says. "People are very attached to the dorm community long after graduation." + 
CULTURE 



Campus Chatter 
DEPT. OF BUMP 'N' GRIND 
UNDERCOVER AT A CHRISTMAS DANCE 
Under the high vaulted ceiling of the LaFortune Ballroom, the "Cha Cha Slide" was in full swing. The attendees of the Howard Hall/Carroll Hall Christmas Winter Formal 
followed the steps amidst the ballroom's columns, which were festively adorned for the occasion with Christmas lights and garland. The turntables were manned by a 55-year-old bearded gentleman, who segued into "December, 1963 (Oh, What a Night)" by Frankie prospect proved to be a mirage, as the chocolate pooled at the bottom of the fountain, with pieces of lost angel food cake floating among the chunks. Nestled between the nearly-full garbage can and a co-ed in a bright blue dress, her arms crossed as she carried on a cell phone conversation, a couple embraced. There was no room for the Holy Spirit as he appeared to whisper sweet nothings in her ear, though he may have been reciting ·the lyrics to "Get Low" by LilJon. As the 

those dancing were shouting along with born. Colored lights "To the window, to the followed the bass line wall." of the song, blaring Just past the refresh­green, red, yellow and ments lay the door to purple over the mass the women's bathroom, of bodies singing along the traditional den of on the dance floor. iniquity at dorm dances. 
Small groups of I pushed open the door, dancers with moves too ready to find carnage, wild for the confines of but only found a young the dance floor filled lady arranging her ba­the periphery of the nana curls in the mirror. room. I wove through She let out an exasper­flailing limbs and ated sigh and confessed swaying dresses to one to a friend in the stall of the small cafe tables behind her: "I'm ready set up along the wall. to go to Fever." No re­At the table next to me, sponse from behind the a young man in a Santa door. "Are you okay?" hat sat with a friend. At The reply finally came, 11 p.m., the men were "Yeah, I don't want to less than an hour into get up off the toilet the festivities, but both 'cause my feet hurt so had their ties undone, bad." I turned to leave their feet up on chairs, the makeshift confes­
surveying the scene. Some of the wild dancers began incorporating what appeared to be tribal ritual movements into their repertoire while a man in a bow tie . danced dangerously close to the well­decorated Christmas tree. By this time, my table had accumulated two Styrofoam cups, a half-eaten cookie and an abandoned black high-heeled shoe, complete with rhinestone accents. 
Enticed by the prospect of food, I wandered toward the well-lit enclave to the right of the dance floor, where an extensive spread was laid out. A chocolate fondue fountain rose up out of the platters of cookies, strawberries and marshmallow treats. This delectable sional as another young woman entered a stall barefoot. 
Meanwhile, on the dance floor, the crowd had begun to thin out. By quarter after 12, more ladies than gentlemen wore ties, bestowed upon them by their dates. One resident assistant, identified by his shiny gold badge glinting under the Christmas lights, yelled to another, "It's like the Chicago marathon ... we ran out of water." At 12:30, I gave up my post at the table as flagging couples searched for a place to rest their weary legs. The troupers continued to lean and rock with it on the dance floor. 
-Regina Gesicki 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 27 

CULTURE REVIEWS 
CHEAP GIFT CH 
JES 
Scholastic brings you the picks for unique, irresistably-priced gifts and excellent exhibits throughout the country where the donation fee is merely suggested, just in time for winter break. 

Pocket Mirror $6.00-$8.00 A two-person endeavor out of Brooklyn, Bad Buttons has a ton of cute, slightly creepy trinkets like this sturdy pocket mirror. They do custom orders with your color and image suggestions and the pocket mirrors, buttons and keychain bottle openers are cheaper if you buy bulk. (www.badbuttons.com) 
Zirh Shave Cream $14.00 
This fancy depilatory experience enhancer is formulated with ginseng, aloe vera 
and rare seaweed extracts to smooth and tone skin. The blue and silver spartan 
packaging screams, "I care about my facial hair, but I'm still a strong, brawny 
man." (www.sephora.com) 
TOMS Shoes $38.00-$78.00 Though on the expensive side, these shoes are a two-for-one deal: Every pair purchased is matched by the donation ofa pair to a South 
. American child in need. The shoes were inspired by a traditional Argentine shoe design and come in canvas, suede and tons of colors. For men, women and children. (www.tomsshoes.com) 

Black Sake Set $14.50 
A three-floor store in New York 
City's SoHo that has attracted a 
cult following for its vast selection 
of low-priced Chinese imports, 
Pearl River Mart has a great 
selection of gifts. This glazed 
ceramic sake set is one of the 
many items, from tote bags to tea, 
featured on the extensive·Web site. 
(www.pearlriver.com) 

NewYorkCoffeeCup $14.00 The iconic "We Are Happy To Serve You" paper coffee cup was introduced to New York in 1963 and transformed by designer Graham Hill into this lead,.free, microwave-and dishwasher-safe earthenware cup in 2003, a kitschy gift that supports the Museum of ModemArt. (www.momastore.org) 
'~ 
: • ; • • I • • • ' • ,• • • • ' • //' , • ¥ • • • 
J 

CHICAGO A~.t Institute of Chicago 
Until Jan. 6, 2008, a comprehensive look at the work of one of the great living American artists, Jasper Johns, is on display before traveling to the Metropolitan in New York. The exhibition focuses on Johns' revolutionary use ofgray in his paintings and prints, examining the connotations of and associations with this color. (www.artic.edu) 

NEW YORK CITY American Museum of Natural History 
Take a quick trip to the tropics in the museum's Butterfly Conservatory, where until May 26, 2008, over 500 species ofLepidoptera will flit among the foliage. (www.amnh.org) 

CULTURE REVIEWS 

TOLEDO Toledo Museum of Art 
Visit this prestigious regional museum's exhibition ofglass jewelry on display untilJan. 31, 2008. Sixty contemporary glass artists from the United States, various European countries and Australia are featured, showing the sculptural, pristine beauty of the medium. (www.toledomuseum.org) 


NEW YORK CITY Guggenheim Museum 
Until Jan. 6, 2008, check out Richard Prince's photographs of iconic American images, often appropriated from advertisements and other widely proliferated cultural symbols. This critical overview includes Prince's most famous photographs, as well as his work in other media such as painting and sculpture. (www.guggenheim.org) 


SAN FRANCISCO Museum of Modern Art 
Check out Joseph Cornell's found object shadowbox constructions and collages until Jan. 6, 2008 at SFMOMA. Two hundred of the entirely self-taught artist's works, created from the 1930s to his death in 1972 are on display in this retrospective. (www.sfmoma.org) 
LOS ANGELES Museum of Contemporary Art 
Traveling worldwide, a retrospective surveying Takashi Murakami's entire career stops in Los Angeles until Feb. 11, 2008. Whether you know him from his collaboration with Louis Vuitton a few years ago, or from an extensive knowledge of 1990s Japanese art, check out the show. If you're not on the "\,Vest Coast, visit the virtual tours on MOCA's vVeb site. (www.moca.org) 
06 DECEMBER 2007 ISCHOLASTIC 'I 29  
.  ~  . .  .  .  .  
' --­ •  I  ~­ ,­ -­- •  \  - -•  - •  
-,,...  .  ' ~  .  .  .  '  .  







CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 



STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Bautista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gayResbian/questioning students 
and their friends; pertinent library resources · · in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey1 CSC, at 1-(800 
Universi1y Counseling Center 
(lncftvidual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu ­
Higher Scores 
Tutors help athletes succeed in the classroom 
Meagan McGinley 
In 2003, Ohio Stat: tailback Maurice Clarett played m the national championship game, despite having walked out on his midterm and not even bothering to show up for the final. In September, 23 Florida State student­athletes and two academic counselors were implicated in a cheating scandal in which the investigative report stated that it was "common knowledge among the student athletes that the tutor would help with exams in [that particular] class." Special treatment and abuse of support services for athletes often slips under the radar at major Division I universities, especially for athletes playing high-profile, high-revenue sports like football and basketball. Could the abuse of academic support services occur at Notre Dame like it did at FSU? Thanks to a wide variety of academic supports, probably not. Advisors help design feasible course loads, but the personal tutoring services are what many student-athletes find indispensable. "I use tutors for a lot of classes," says junior middle-distance runner DornnHarris. "Sometimes they're not helpful if they're not reliable or don't show up on time, but for the most part they've really helped me understand my homework and with study strategies." Tutor Coordinator Kassen Delano oversees the 200 tutors, who are all Notre Dame students who have earned an A or A-in the courses they are hired to tutor. There are also strict rules pi-eventing a tutor from completing homework or a paper for the student-athlete. Tutoring is available to all athletes, but not everybody uses the service. "Most who take advantage ofthe tutoring program are doing-well in their courses and looking to improve their grade," Delano says. "While career, some will meet with two or three in any one semester. Tutoring tends to occur more frequently in the student-athlete's first and second year and diminishes thereafter." 
Notre Dame prides. itself on its dedication to higher standards for admitting student-athletes in the face of boisterous calls from dejected football fans to lower them. These high standards have never been quantified, and athletes have been recruited and admitted with both exceptional standardized test scores and GPAs or scores that are below that of the average admitted student. 
All athletes were accepted with the expectation of being able to compete academically, and most have flourished. Notre Dame's total number of College Sports Information Directors Association's Academic All-Americans (152) ranks second-highest in the country. In the 2006 Graduation Success Rate (GSR) standings, Notre Dame finished with a GSR of 98 percent for all student-athletes, second only to the Naval Academy's 99 percent. 
"Math classes, economics, chemistry, engineering and many of the sophomore business classes are most in demand," Delano says. "[But] the tutoring program is not intended to take the place ofattending class and working with professors. Tutoring provides an opportunity for students to gain a more comprehensive understanding of course material[...]there is no set GPA or grades that activate mandatory tutoring." 
Through the comprehensive support system and personal tutoring available, student-athletes have learned to handle demanding workload themselves, avoiding the scandals that result when others handle it for them. + 
some have never met with a tutor in their 



A tale of a coach, his team and their fans 
Marques Camp 
You are the future ofNotre Dame basketball. You are not an All-American with a textbook jump shot. You are not a lightning-quick point guard with puppeteer­like control of the basketball. You are not a bruising rebounder who imposes your heart and your will in the paint. You are not a ferocious defender. You are not a floor general. Yet Mike Brey wants you. The jovial, easygoing man who glides along the Joyce Center sidelines in his trademark sport coat, mock turtleneck and slicked back hair doesn't force great performances out of his players; rather, he allows them to flourish freely. His game-day wardrobe seems to perfectly match the tenor of his style: convivial, comfortable, yet still ready for business. He encourages without dictating. He is, as former player Colin Falls said at a team banquet, a confidence giver. The man who grew up as the student is now the educator. "I guess you're just a product of your environment," Brey says. Education and sports have always consumed Mike Brey's life. His father was a high school athletic director, his mother a collegiate swimming coach who had competed in the 1956 Olympics. Brey played basketball at DeMatha High School in Maryland under legendary coach Morgan Wootten, one ofthe winningest coaches -at any level -in basketball history. He thought, at the time, ·that it might be his destiny to be a high school coach, and after graduating from George Washington University, he went back to teach history at his old high school and coach under Wootten. "There's probably not a day that goes by where I don't rely back on my start as a high school teacher and JV coach when I was 23, 24 years old. That was a great experience," he says. As if he weren't fortunate enough in his apprenticeship, Brey was summoned in 1987 to coach under Duke;s Mike Krzyzewski. Brey especially admired Krzyzewski's communication and people skills. He says, "[Wootten and Krzyzewski] have differentX and O philosophies, but their way ofhandling people~ people management, which is what my business is -whether it was assistants or players, those guys were masters." Mike Brey is a team-builder. He brings people together. Upon arrival at Notre Dame in 2000 after five years as the head coach of Delaware, he inherited a team that had just missed the NCAA tournament the previous season. He reminded them ofhow much they wanted to reach the pinnacle of college basketball. His message was simple: "I can help you with that. Just let me help you." ­His overhaul of a program that hadn't reached the tournament 

since 1990 wasn't a complete makeover. He saw that the structure was already in place -all he needed to do was build on it, fill in the details. His task was to unify the spare parts into a cohesive whole. His team­building project continues: Eight years, four tournament appearances and four 20-win seasons later, its reach extends far beyond the basketball court and his own players. 
Mike Brey needs you. He has the requisite parts to execute the game plan, but he needs your energy. The student body, as he has become well known for saying, is the sixth man. Thus, as he learned from Wootten and Krzyzewski, he needs to communicate and build relationships, not only with the starting five, but with the sixth man as well. 
He never stops reflecting on his time as a high school history teacher. "Relationships with· students, coming by my classroom -I miss that. I've been hired here, certainly, to train a basketball team. But if I could be a resource to another student, that's my role. 
I'm responsible for that." 
Brey realizes that his relationship with the student body plays a vital role in gaining their support at home games. He is known for making the rounds of dorms on campus to speak directly with students. As a former witness to Duke's famed "Cameron Crazies," he sees the Leprechaun Legion as a legend in the making. "Our student section is on the way up. There are certainly nights where our Leprechaun Legion is every bit as good or better than Cameron," he says. During meetings concerning the upcoming renovations for the basketball arena, student seating was at the top of his priority list. "When they asked me, my biggest thing was that I wanted the students in the best seats. Period. After that, just fix it up." 
One of Brey's most powerful experiences came this past May, when he and other college coaches traveled to Kuwait to participate in Operation Hardwood, a program in which coaches lead basketball teams of members of the armed forces. "It was probably one of the two, three, four most powerful experiences I've ever· had in my life," he says. "It was the greatest example of teamwork I've ever witnessed -our military in that setting." The experience had such a profound impact on Brey that he plans to travel back to Kuwait this May. 
Successful military endeavors, much like basketball or any other sport, require· proper execution and dedicated teamwork. Mike Brey can only write so many X's and O's on his clipboard. The Irish's current 24-game home winning streak owes itself largely to the connection he has allowed to flourish between the team and its fans. He never takes stops along the recruiting trail. He's always out convincing somebody that they can become a crucial component of his blossoming program. 
And he doesn't even need to leave campus to do it. + 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 35 
A Legacy of Loyalty 
Fifth-year seniors leave on a high note 


Andy Gray 
arius Walker left Notre Dame after the 2006 season, final year ofeligibility 
in hand, to try his luck in the NFL draft. After this year's turbulent 3-9 season, it is reasonable to wonder whether those players who returned as fifth-year seniors wish they would have followed Walker out. ' 
But when fifth-year senior safety Tom Zbikowski was asked whether those difficulties made him regret returning for an extra year, he made it clear that such doubts could not be further from his mind: "No, no, no. The way we finished makes it worth it." The 2007 Irish football squad was the first to win its last two games since 1992. Whether this heals the wounds ofthe painful season is a complicated issue that raises questions about this team's legacy, specifically the senior leadership. 
From a football perspective, this senior class was a driving force behind two consecutive Notre Dame BCS bowl appearances. Though it did not capture victory in either BCS game, the outgoing fifth­year group rallied the Irish. spirit behind names like Zbikowski, John Carlson (pictured left), Joe Brockington and Trevor Laws. Even punter Geoff Price, though plagued by injurythis season, was showered with occasional chants of"Price for Reisman!" 
Returning for a fifth year at Notre Dame to complete his eligibility, Laws, among the best of all defensive linemen nationally, had a spectacular season despite the team's record as he led the Irish with 112 tackles. Laws ,fell just one tackle shy of Steve Niehaus' school record for a lineman. He now enters the agent-seeking process en route to the NFL, and his performance, even on this year's exhausted Irish defense, will certainly enhance his stock. "IfI could make that decision [to return as a fifth-year senior] again I would do it a hundred times," Laws says. "I would never give up this season for anything, all the great times I've had with everybody." 
Brockington was second to Laws in tackles this season with 108, and led the defense in tackles for loss. Zbikowski was a reliable safety all year, adding to his school record for tackles by a defensive back, and was at times electrifying on punt returns. Carlson was a consistent target on third down and near the endzone, with three of the team's rare touchdowns. Cornerback Ambrose Wooden provided continuity and experience in a pass defense statistically much 
improved since last year. Dwight Stephenson Jr. stepped into his first starting role in his fifth year to record 40 tackles at defensive end opposite Laws. 
Though these players' contributions did not buoy an inexperienced team to more than three victories, it was clear at every game that there was little or no bitterness in the hearts of the Notre Dame community. "I think that's what makes Notre Dame Stadium and fans so unique and special," says halfback Travis Thomas, another fifth­year. "Through thick and thin, they're there."· 
It is possible, especially considering the never-quit attitude that the two-win streak represents, that this season has cemented a legacy of community and perseverance for the exiting class. Head Coach Charlie Weis speaks highly of his seniors' determination. "The last two years, when everyone said 'When are you going to throw in the towel?' that was the last thing they were thinking," Weis says. And after even the most disheartening losses, the team and students sustained a tradition born during these seniors' short time at Notre Dame by singing the alma mater together. 
Of course, this season will raise questions concerning Weis' coaching and the development of younger players. But it is hard to question the heart of players who, in a year they thought could be difficult, came back to give it their all. 
"I think our class, we've been through a lot ofups and downs," center John Sullivan says. "We've never given up, and we're going to walk out ofhere no matter what with our heads held high, and we're going to be proud of what we accomplished at this school." + 
D


SPORTS OPINION 

Notre Dame seniors stick by the football team 
Brittany Lash 
Dear Class of 2008, What a long, strange ride it's been. Obviously, no one wanted to go out this way. No one wanted to have to go into their last game in Notre Dame Stadium against a feeble aspirational peer, a 1-9 B-squad team -and still wonder ifwe could pull out the win. We dreaded going home for Thanksgiving, seeing our state-school friends and hearing about their bowl game aspirations and left-field BCS-crashing schemes. Notre Dame football, home for the holidays. Is begging Santa to wrap up Brady Quinn and the Shark and put them back under the Notre Dame Christmas tree too much to ask? Yes. For all the fervent wishes we might have had to bring back departed seniors, or to get one last chance to deflect a pass on fourth-and-9, our time as students and fans at Notre Dame has been one of the most compelling series ofseasons in the history oflrish football. At no other time has a class' resilience and dedication been tested as much as it was over the past four years, and I am proud to be a part of the class that stood strong through it all. We rushed the field after a hard-fought 28-20 victory over Michigan in our first home game as Notre Dame students. We embarrassed Tennessee in Neyland Stadium. But the last-minute losses to Pittsburgh and Boston College broke our hearts, and likely broke the wills of those who championed Tyrone Willingham. The tempest surrounding the firing ofTy consumed us. Were we racist? Were we fair? Were we going to get Urban Meyer? Campus protests and student T-shirts brought the issue into our dorms and dining halls, as the storm rained down from the media and the outside ~orld. 
We saw the return ofthe spirit ofNotre Dame the next year as we pounded Pittsburgh, manhandled Michigan in the Big House, and took it to Ty at Washington. "Pass right" endeared Weis to the Notre Dame faithful. 
The Game ofthe Century brought us to our feet and to our knees. It brought us an overflowing stadium pep rally, ESPN GameDay and tickets selling for thousands of dollars. It also left us knowing the true legality ofpushing your man across the goal line. 
East Lansing in 2006 left us drenched but ecstatic, the Shark left us breathless against UCLA, and the team kept their heads and voices high, singing in solidarity with the service academies. 
We had the opportunity to experience pure college football, beyond wins and losses. We visited the three largest stadiums in college football -Penn State, Michigan and Tennessee -and we faced some of the most zealous fan bases in LSU and Ohio State. We saw rising stars and future hall-of-famers. 
We saw the joy on the faces ofthe families for whom a Navy victory inspired their sons and daughters fighting abroad. 
Most importantly though, through each and every game, we saw the resilience of the Fighting Irish spirit. We did not throw in the towel, we did not seek to place blame, and we stayed for the alma mater. Every time. We were humbled, but we were not destroyed. 
It's not about having been here for a championship season or a bowl victory. It's about never giving up in a time when the Notre Dame spirit has never been tested harder or more consistently. 
Seniors, we passed the test. And that's a grade worth cherishing. Go Irish. + Brittany Lash is a senior and Scholastic~ Sports Editor. 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 37 

Listening In ... 
H/t:lryYi i~edia's ~r~mmar is so bad. I'm going to have to proofread this :;;:,~;: before I turn 1t m." -overheard student 
110jjif0rms are like beer goggles for girls ..." \f,{/" -overheard student at Air Force game 
tf.;1{f;f'1.1Z~ 9~year-old boy. My dreams are either about sex or world if/tj':lo mat1on ... usually both." -overheard male student 
~k.like a reindeer prostitute." ~-female student at a costume party 

'Qii::li. nyofyou do the readings or did you all spend last night watching VH1?" Spanish professor · 
Forty-Five Years Ago 
Finding Christmas gifts is always a huge dilemma for casual shoppers such as myself. Should I get that special someone a Singing Trout Wall Plaque or a CD of Rihanna covering all of Metallica's greatest hits? It's hard to say. As always, I turn to the wise students ofNotre Dame yore for advice, finp.ing the answer in a 1962 issue ofthe Scholastic: 
"We were speaking ofChristmas gifts which naturally put its in mind ofMarlboro cigarettes. What could be more welcome at Christ11tas ti11te than Marlboro'sflavor, Marlboro's softpack, Marlboro'sflip­top box? What indeed would be 11tore welco11te at any ti11te ofyear -winter or su11t11ter, rain or shine, night or day? Any time, any season, when you light a Marlboro you can always be certain that you will get the sa11te mild, flavorful, completely comfortable s11toke." 
Hmm. I guess this was before the whole cancer scare. Ahh, I long for the old days when a little thing called "emphysema" couldn't dampen that Christmas spirit. -Elisa S1,arez 

38 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 

HUMOR 
Pioneers! Circle the prairie schooners, secure the oxen, and outfit thyselves with the accoutrements of war! Today, Grandpappy Gipp relates to you, his adoring faithful, a tale of unconscionable, indefensible and inexcusable persecution, molestation and perturbation directed at one of our own. Such an ignominious train of abuses and usurpations cannot stand! Join with me in singing the song of angry men. Or, if you don't like chants of malevolence, at least wear a pair of chartreuse knickers to show solidarity. Not so many moons ago, an intrepid adventuress got together with members of the [redacted] varsity sports team to embark upon an evening of unprecedented monkey business. It is a fairly well-kept secret that running underneath the verdant pastures of Our Lady's University there flows a labyrinthine network of tunnels that allows maintenance workers to service the buried piping. But the secret isn't that well kept, and it certainly did not escape the attention of our protagonist, Laura Ingalls McFreakin' Wilder -a blonde haired, blue eyed, bear wrestlin' baby maker. In an alcohol-induced moment of inspiration, Sneaky McFreaky decided to break into the tunnels beneath this gorgeous campus with some thoroughly intoxicated comrades. Managing to force entry through the vent outside SDH, the three made their way into the coveted "hole." No sooner had penetration been accomplished than the spelunking soiree was joined by those omnipresent kill-joys: NDSP. Best friend of Wilder, Running Scared of Administration, bolted from the scene, escaping the tunnel and the po-po, and left poor Laura to brave the wild burrows of this underground channel without any sense of direction. (And by "escaping," the Gipp meant Running Scared got ResLifed. Lesson number one: Never leave a man/six-foot-tall prairie princess behind. Karma is a ... ) 
Laura made her way, wandering for about an hour in what seemed to be the opposite direction of a hefty fine and service work. It was a terrifying experience, one that she swears she wouldn't wish on anyone except that prairie harlot, Nellie Olson. 
Now, to you Giplets who are entertaining thoughts of copying Laura, listen well: The piping underground contains hot water. The general atmosphere is hot, sticky, sweaty. Where did this leave McFreakin'? The giant beauty queen stripped down to her skivvies in order to avoid excessive sweat and an untimely death from heat exhaustion. Bare­Domed, she made her way to an unlocked vent. Voices tipped her off to the location of the law enforcement. Fatigue and resignation gave in, so she opened the vent and hopped onto the quad. Oddly enough, voices carry in the silence of the night, and the officers were a significant distance from the vent. Seeing that they were distracted as they interrogated Running Scared, Laura decided to bolt from her little manhole on the prairie. Should she have stayed, choosing instead to take her chances with Scarlet Fever and starvation? 
Yes. 
Fear struck our woman of the frontier as she realized she would be unable to out­stride one of Notre Dame's finest, let alone uphold an educated conversation due to her inebriation, adrenalination and elite edification. 
Still, she decided that it would be a good time to challenge a member ofthe ND Special Forces team, daring this NDSPian to a good old fashioned footrace. Deft and aggressive, she took her high plain lungs to the quad and her feet ravished the land leaving behind a trail cloaked in moral uncertainty. Run first, ask questions later. 
Gipper Law: It is better to run and discover the law is faster than you, than to have never run, and forever wondered. Laura sets precedent ... but she lost. 
Loyal readers, you all know how this ends. The long arm ofthe Gestapo rocks us all, and traitors of the Lac are punished accordingly. 
Laura Ingalls McFreakin' Wilder, you are a legend in your own time. A dit Lac taboo, you naughty girl, but naughty is good, and ol' St. Gipp won't be placing coal in your soiled stockings this Christmas. Be bad, be very bad. We love you for it. You get respect, and a column dedicated to your shenanigans. 
Stay sassy. Stay seditious. And stay Domed. 
Yours in stocking stuffing and ego puffing, The Gipp 
'TfP 'TH08fPP 
@ e e e @ 6 at gipper@nd.edu 
06 DECEMBER 2007 I SCHOLASTIC I 39 


HUMOR 
And the Winner is o•• 
The Domies recognize the stars of the Notre Dame scene 
Elisa Suarez 
It's that time ofyear, folks. The time ofyear when the Christmas parties, final projects, late-night cram sessions, tests and papers join forces to make me as frantic as a fish out of water until I wake up on December 20 in a pile of empty Twinkie wrappers wondering if it was all just a sugar-induced dream. It's also time for award ceremonies, where we recognize all the worthless stuff ,that everyone ,has accomplished over the semester, in the spirit of those kindergarten soccer leagues where they give out trophies for running a lap around the field. My soccer coach was giving those trophies to random kids at the mall, he had so many. That's why I invented the Domies, an award similar to the Grammys mixed with the Oscars, except that no one votes and no one cares. 
Best Dressed 
This award goes to that guy with the red hair and beard that wears the woven, multicolor, Native American-esque hoodie all the time. I'm sure you've seen him. That hoodie is a smorgasbord of sights and colors, similar to my high school's production of "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat" . . . gotta love those Catholics, y'all. Dude, I hope you got that one day while driving down a highway somewhere in the middle of Arizona, and you saw a roadside stand of small, wooden, carved eagle statues along with Navajo blanket sweaters. Props. 

Best Hair 
John Jenkins takes this category in a Southern California landslide. What other 40-something man who devotes his life to Jesus has a haircut like Dean from "Gilmore Girls"? It's not really a bowl cut, but more of a human incarnation· of the Ken Doll. Think about it . . . do priests even cut their hair? Aren't most of them bald or something? 
Most Likely To B~ Ort The News The champ here is so obvious it's like taking a true-false test with Pinocchio. The 
40 I SCHOLASTIC I 06 DECEMBER 2007 
winner is townies. Townies have their own eclectic air of crazy, whether it's , that guy I saw pushing leaves from his truck back into his yard or the man with the super-long fingernails who works at the movie theater on Edison. There's always something to see in South Bend. 

Most Likely to be Confused With A Celebrity: 
This award is usually kind of a stretch ... maybe in high school it went to the boyfriend of your class treasurer because she wanted him to win something besides the Milk Gallon Challenge. This time it's legit. There is a student on campus who is a dead ringer for Sarah Jessica Parker. Sometimes I get confused, but then I think, why would SJP be schlepping around Notre Dame parties? I think I need to stop wearing the wrong prescription contacts and drinking alcohol at the same time. It's like trying to read a vision chart through the wrong end of a telescope while doing the Soulja Boy dance. 
The Elks Club Award for 

Overcoming Adversity: 
Through what I now suspect is a piece of junk mail, the Elks Club of Dayton, Ohio offered to present me with their annual Award for Overcoming Adversity for a small fee of $14.99. Since my resume needed something to distract potential employers from my craptastic GPA, I heartily accepted. And besides, I have overcome great adversity. Next time you're driving to school, think of the sad kids who have to ride bikes, and then think of the even sadder kids who have to ride bikes that don't actually work properly. Yes, Wal-Mart, purchasing your cheaply made, conglomerate crap has finally come back to haunt me. My bike's brakes don't work, the pedals have fallen off, and every time I pedal the gears change, preventing the possibility ofactually reaching a destination. Furthermore, the seat refuses to stay up, forcing me to ride Big Wheel-style. I look like a chunky two-year-old, but only because I'm wearing three pairs of pants. Pretty soon I'll be the one carrying you to school, bicycle. But I will struggle on, because I overcome adversity. 
Well, that's all for now, kids. Keep on striving, keep on dreaming and keep on living big. Then maybe you too could win a Domie. + 
j 
THE PERFECT SIZE. THE PERFECT STYLE. THE PERFECT PRICE. 





THE PERFECT GIFT 
THIS HOLIDAY SEASON 
THE DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER GIFT CARD. ANY AMOUNT. ANY PERFORMANCE. ANY REASON. 
GET YOURS AT THE TICKET OFFICE TODAY. performingarts.nd.edu I 574.631.2800 
~UNIVERSITY OF
~DEBARTOLO 
~ PERFORMINGARTSCENTER WNOTREDAME 
REALLY?I? 









