by

‘Am I in love
or is it just that sea air?”
HOLLYWOOD SCOUT Gavin Hare, on his way back from a fruitless European talent hunt, and on the lookout for the movie “find” of 1940.
NO DOUBT ABOUT IT — a ship at sea does something to your private life! These four people meet on an ocean liner racing from Southampton to New York — and within twenty-four hours find the whole course of their lives suddenly entwined, dramatically changed. On page 5 of your Post, start the first installment of this exciting new three-part novel in the modern tempo.

IS BIG-LEAGUE BAU DAMMING
CGUE6E MAYERS’
And what’s it doing to college coaches? USC’s coach speaks out frankly on what he terms “the least savory side of baseball," shows where baseball might well take a tip from pro football’s experience. Page 20.
Baseball Gets ’Em Too Young by JUSTIN M. (Sam) BARRY Beuisll Caack. UnivmitfafSastkm (Mifmie
SOCIETY GIRL Gillian Archer, lovely—and still single. “Lots of men think they’re in love with me. But I still haven’t found what I want...”
DOCTOR David Sutton, brilliant young neurolo* gist and brain surgeon, determined that no woman was ever again going to play a part in his life.

NOW SIMIN ms NffllCOOiniNO NNIflt
STALIN ANO HITLER ENEMIES? “A myth!” says this former head of Stalin's secret service in Europe. In the Post this week he reveals Stalin's strategy. Also in this article: first world publication of the secret German-Japanese pact, how it was negotiated, and an outline of its terms. A Post exclusive. Read Stalin Appeases Hitler.
by W. G. KRIVITSKY
Farmer General is tkeRedArmy
ACTRESS Kingsley Campion. “What you need is to fall in love again,” said her maid. “You’re always successful when you’re in love.”
And “THIS GUH HAS OHE MORE JOB TO DO!” said Skid Bolio. “It thinks for me.” A good plan for a jailbreak—until the gun did start to do its own thinking. Royce Howes tells the story in Instinct Ain’t Thinkin’.
---------TELEGRAM!-------------
ALEXANDER BOTTS.
EARTHWORM TRACTOR C0>
EARTHWORM CHY ILL«
AM INFORMED YOUR SALESMEN USED EARTHWORM TRACTOR TO NOVE DANCE HALL AND LEFT IT SITTING ON RAILROAD TRESTLE SENO DETAILS AT ONCE*
GILBERT HEXOERSOM
For the full details, see Who’s Running This Sales Department, Anyway? by William Hazlett Upson. Page 10.
P. G. WODEHOUSE brings you a new serial. Turn to Uncle Fred in the Springtime and start the second d six riotous installments.
SHE MARRIED A HOVEUST-and then her hubby fell for a “heroine" next door! A short story, Writers Believe Their Stories, by Ruth Rodney King ... PLUS: articles, editorials, humor and plenty of cartoons. AU in this week’s Post.
.. MM
THE S^TUl^MY evening POST I
The N otre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
April 28, 1939
No. 23
HARTNEX WINS PREP ORATORY CONTEST
Public Philosophical Disputation to be Held Monday Under Direction of Schoolmen
The Fifth Annual Catholic Oratorical Contest, sponsored by the Notre Dame Wranglers, was held Saturday and Sunday, April 22 and 23, in the auditoriums of the Cushing Hall of Engineering and the Law Building.
The Joseph P. McNamara trophies, awarded annually to individual winners, were presented to students representing Leo and Mt. Carmel high schools of Chicago and Catholic Central high school of Fort Wayne, Indiana. '
James Hartney of Leo high school received first prize for his excellent presentation of the subject, “The Peoples Vote on War,” (Rose Wilder Lane). Second prize was claimed by Robert Gannon, of Mt. Carmel high school. His subject was “Misfits.”
Third place selection resulted in a tie between John Albright of St. Rita’s high school, Chicago, and Wilmont Kerr, of Catholic Central in Fort Wayne. Their respective subjects were “Quo Vadis—America” and “Poison Peddlers,” a subject condemning the indecent practices of many contemporary publications. Kerr received the trophy on the flip of a coin.
"Scholastic" Honored
The Associated Collegiate Press announced its annual awards this week, The Scholastic for the first time in its history received All-American ranking — highest honors in its class. Papers and magazines were classified chiefly according to the size of the school and the frequency of publication.
In awarding honors, the A.C.P. considered 401 college and university news organs. Of this number 55, or 13 per cent, merited All-American ranking.
In the critical report, based on this year’s issues to date, improvement in coverage and style were noted as the most important factors which raised the 1938-39 Scholastic above the First Class ranking received in previous years.
Academy of Politics in First Convocation
•
In commemoration of the 150th Anniversary of the Inauguration of George Washington and the adoption of the Constitution, the Academy of Politics will hold a Convocation on Sunday evening, April 30.
This will be the first Convocation presented by the Academy, and it will have a general appeal to all students as participation is not limited to the Academy members. The speaking program has been arranged in the same evening in order to have an appeal beyond technical political theory.
Fred E. Sisk will preside as chairman of the Convocation. He has announced the following speaking program : Harold Bowler will discuss “The Doctrine of the Separation of Powers”; Frank Fitch will speak on the “Interstate Commerce Clause”; William O’Hare will address the Convocation on “The Bill of Rights”; and John Killen will describe “The Formation of the Constitution.”
Of parallel interest is the fact that the World’s Fair in New York will open on the same day, commemorating the same events. The Convocation does not boast the variety of entertainment purported by the Fair, but Chairman Sisk promises plenty of verbal action.
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will open the program at 8 o’clock, and speeches and music will constitute the program.
NOTICE
Students who desire to join The Scholastic staff for next year, or who have manuscripts of stories, sketches etc. to submit, are invited to call at the editorial rooms, Ave Maria Building, between seven and eight o’clock, Sunday through Wednesday evenings.
The Schoolmen will pit their intellectual wits against each other during the Public Philosophical Disputation, next Monday night at 8 p.m. in Washington hall.
This discussion, which is the fourth of such events to be conducted at Notre Dame, has aroused intense student interest each year and.. another
Romberg and Roche
The big night is Monday.
overflow crowd is expected to attend. The affair will be slightly less formal this year in order that it may be more easily followed by students who are not majoring in philosophy. All philosophy classes will be dismissed Monday.
Rev. James McDonald, O.P., of the Dominican House of Studies in River Forest, Ill., will be the honorary guest at this year’s event. Father McDonald teaches philosophy at the Dominican headquarters and conducts special courses at Rosary College and De Paul University.
Thomas E. Roche, president of the Schoolmen, will open the proceedings with a brief explanation of the purpose of the disputation and preside over the formal discussion.
Preceding the formal disputation itself, John J .McGovern will read a paper entitled, “The Intellect and Man.” Following this, John E. Walsh will present an essay, “The Search for Certitude.”
Herman M. Romberg, the formal defendens, will present the thesis and outline the arguments. The general proposition to be defended is “The Integrity of the Human Intellect.” Mr.
(Continued on Page 22)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
MARTIN TO PLAY FOR BALL NEXT FRIDAY
By Frank Wemhoff
Freddy Martin and his orchestra will furnish music for the departing seniors at the annual Senior Ball on May 5. This year’s Ball will establish a precedent for school dances. The mecca of former Notre Dame dances, the Palais Royale, has been discarded in favor of the new Rockne Memorial. Hours of the Ball are 9 to 1.
Freddy Martin
Will furnish the music.
General chairman is Joseph Francis Ryan. Paul Donovan, chairman, has engaged Pierson Thal and his orchestra to play for the tea dance following the Ball to be held at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club Saturday afternoon from 2 to 5 p.m.
Tickets for the Ball and the tea dance will be placed on sale Wednesday and Thursday of next week. Price of tickets for both is $8.00. They will be on sale in the lower lobby of the dining hall from 5 to 7 p.m.
Novel favors and decorations are promised by the committees in charge. Student ingenuity in decorations will be supplanted this year by professional decorators.
Assisting General Chairman Ryan are the following heads of committees: Tea Dance, Paul Donovan; music, Raymond Schleck; tickets, Michael Blessing; favors, Francis Lauck; arrangements, Frank Reppenhagen; publicity, Carl Nagel; patrons, Chas. Englehart; programs, William Waters; reception, Louis Bemish; invitations, William McVay; decorations, Ed Simonich; entertainment, Donald O’Melia; floor, Joseph Eray.
THE WEEK	By Bill Donnelly
In A Moment of Weakness
Two seniors we know were out on a date with two South Bend girls a week or so ago and one of them, being in an unusually generous frame of mind and having been woven into some sort of enchantment by that spell which South Bend girls sometimes weave, suddenly asked his date to go to the Senior Ball. “And you,” he said to his friend, “must ask your date so we can all go together.” The latter hadn’t had quite as much generosity generator as the former but he was so dumbfounded that he just sat looking at his girl friend and didn’t say anything. Of course she misinterpreted his silence as an invitation. “Oh goody,” she said, or whatever it is girls say when they’re invited to the Senior Ball. And there he was.
When they woke up the next morning and realized what, they had done, they tried to think of some way to get out of it. (You see they were really a couple of those Two-time Tommys you have all been told about.) Ones of them called up his girl and asked her if she wouldn’t rather sit home and chat or take in a show that night. “Those formals are all so boring, you know,” he explained. “Well,” she said, “I wouldn’t mind myself but I’m afraid mother wouldn’t like it after she’s gone and bought me a new dress for the ball already.” We hear the other fellow didn’t even try to change his girl friend’s mind after he heard that. So South Bend Sue scores again.
Top of the Week
8:15 P.M. Daylight Daving Time.
•
Naughty, Naughty
We always thought raiding the icebox was an indoor sport to which the male sex rather than the female sex was addicted. But one of the Sisters over at St. Mary’s was showing some visitors around the place one night a week or so ago. “This is our pantry,” she said as she opened one door. Immediately there was a loud scurrying noise, and when the startled Sister put on the lights, there before her were several girls peeking out from under tables and behind corners trying to look innocent as their pretty little cheeks bulged with the food they had been too frightened to swallow.
Coincidence
We hear tell of a St. Mary’s girl who wanted a date and was asked if she would like to have one with Frank Pfaff, a Senior engineer. She and her friends took out the 1938 Dome St. Mary’s girls use for such purposes and went paging through the Junior
section looking for Frank’s picture. They looked all through the “F’s” and looked again to make sure, but they could not find Frank. They looked in the alphabetical index of pictures in the back, but they couldn’t find any mention of him. Finally they gave him up as a bad job and went looking through the book to find a face that was particularly dateable. “Now there’s some one I’d like to meet,” the girl said as they were whipping through the “P’s”, and lo and behold, you’ve guessed it,—it turned out to be none other than Frank Pfaff. If you have any doubts about the story, we got it straight from St. Mary’s, so gosh, it must be true.
' • -
Submarine Trouble
The old Periscope is gone, but the new one that looms up to take its place has followed the tradition of the old one and has already made a subtle attack on us, citing us, we hear, as the object of a funny story. That seems silly. Imagine us being the^ object of a funny story! It is our job to lurk around watching for opportunities to get laughs on other people but for us to do something funny ourselves,—never. We didn’t hear the program and what information we got was from some one who is not a student. We have canvassed the campus trying to find some student who did hear the program but we can’t find a single one. Yes, the new Periscope is certainly following in the tradition of the old one.
•
War Declared!
We remember all the arguments we used to have when we were freshmen about who should have won the Civil War, which side had right on its side, and which side did the dirtiest deeds. We remember hearing of such arguments in every freshman class since but these arguments never amounted to anything more than hot air and the emission of excess steam. Last Sunday afternoon, however,-four Zahm Hall freshmen, a confederate from Texas and another from Arkansas, and two Yankees from Chicago and Pennsylvania, went out into the woods, gathered sticks and stones, and actually fought the Civil War over again. They came back bloody and with clothes torn, but happy at having upheld the 'honor of their section. One fellow had suffered such severe reverses in the southern sector that he couldn’t sit down, and another fellow reported having a heavy log dropped on top of him. It was all in fun, of course. Neither side had a decided advantage but they have been gathering recruits all week and are planning to continue the war on the next Sabbath.	'
APRIL 28, 1939
5
FIRST SPRING SPORT DANCE TONIGHT
"Puppeteers Grope on Blackened Cotwalks, Pull Strings on Miniature Treasure Island"
By Harry Penrose
Tonight Karl Hunn and his orchestra swing for sweet charity at the first annual Spring Sport Dance in the gay rooms of the Progress Club. Entire proceeds of the affair will benefit the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
Chairman Bill Coleman was enthusiastic over the large advance sale of
Ed Tracey
. . . For sweet charity. . .
tickets which already indicate a successful affair. They can be secured at the Vincentian office, 23 Lyons Hall, or from any Vincentian for one dollar.
Hunn and the orchestra again feature the voice of Bob Henegan, while swingcopator Carl Quinn will be at the drums. The band played a lengthy engagement at Virginia Beach last summer and while in New York over the Army week-end at the Glen Island Casino. They have also made many local appearances.
Usual dance regulations are effective for the evening.
Committee chairmen are as follows: General Chairman, Bill Coleman; Arrangements, Jack Reddy; Tickets, Ed Tracey; Checking, Bernie Marbach; Publicity, Joe Mulqueen; Refreshments, Steve Smith; Patrons, Frank Itzin.
Band Concert Sunday
Last week it was Music Week which the Band started. This week, the'Band will again play the role of leader, this time to start May Devotions. Next Sunday evening, April 30, the Band will present a short concert from the porch of the Main Building. It is hoped that these concerts will continue throughout the month of May, weather permitting.
An entirely new group of numbers will be presented by the Band. Among the numbers are a group of French songs and marches, and several American interpretations of military and folk song.
Things that I never knew about Marionettes—until Tony Sarg came to Washington Hall.
That if it was necessary, the troupe who handle the marionettes could put on a complete show in the dark.
That the actual conditions under which they work are much like this. The only light that reaches them on the narrow catwalks above the tiny stage is reflected from the miniature footlights.
That the four people in the troupe supplied the 21 voices that were necessary to make the 21 characters in “Treasure Island’ ’talk.
That many times one puppeteer gives voice to two or three different puppets on the stage, while his hand guides an entirely unrelated pair. One husky, that would match any football player in physique, at one moment would be squeaking out the sissified voice of Squire Trelawny and then bellowing the bass of Capt. Smollet.
That the puppeteers would match any radio sound effects man. Three men and one woman create mob scenes, manufacture all kinds of noises by banging drums, shooting blank guns, and slapping loose boards on the catwalk.
That the nonchalance of the troupe on the catwalks would make the iron workers who tread the steel girders of high buildings, turn green with
Savord Wins Office at Evanston Meeting
•
John Savord, Sandusky, Ohio, first-year law student, was almost unanimously elected vice-president of next year’s conference of the Mid-West International Relations Club at the conference last week-end at Evanston, Ill.
It was the second time that the University of Notre Dame was represented at a conference. Other attending students, members of the Round Table, were John Walsh, Chicago, Tom Foye, Los Angeles, Calif., and Lawrence Sutton, Memphis, Tenn., who gave a talk on America’s relations with Latin America.
Thirty-six schools were represented by the 240 delegates from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
Only one vote was allowed each university in the election. Tom Foye was the official voter for Notre Dame.
envy. The puppeteers are constantly straddling the stage with a foot on each catwalk, or else changing from one catwalk to the other. A mis-step would mean broken bones and a ruined show.
That the puppeteers must know every line of the play by heart. It would be impossible for them to read a script and handle a puppet at the same time.
That you should never refer to a marionette as a “doll” nor call the puppeteer a man who plays with dolls. This is the quickest way to call the wrath of the entire profession down upon your head.	.
That the troupe makes all the marionettes, their costumes and the scenery. The players construct the bodies from wood and mould the head, hands, and feet from plastic wood.
That every gesture and every change of position of each puppet is carefully planned. Only confusion would result if there was any irregularity.
That the hardest thing in puppet operation is making a figure walk. The puppet must not scuttle or swoop across the stage nor walk on his heels. The operator must give the impression that the figure is bending at the knee, the way a man does, and so a certain jerkiness of’ movement is inevitable.
That whenever a puppet talks, the (Continued on Page 21)
Jerome Crowley Speaks at Hoynes Banquet
•
Jerome Crowley, prominent Hlinois attorney, delivered the principal address last night at the annual Law Club testimonial to the late Col. William Hoynes held in the Bronzewood room of the Hotel La Salle.
Under the chairmanship of Samuel Borzilleri, senior lawyer from Rochester, N. Y., the testimonial took on a two-fold aspect with a student tribute to Dean Thomas F. Konop and his work in carrying on where Colonel Hoynes left off.
Thomas M. Shea, senior lawyer from Toledo, Ohio, presented the Law Club’s tribute to the Dean,' describing the rapid strides forward in legal education made by the College of Law under his stewardship.
Professor Clarence E. Manion vividly re-lived the colorful and glowing career of Colonel Hoynes in a short talk appropriately entitled “Reflections.”
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
Living the life of the Liturgy is the true Christian life. It is both a way of life and the way to live that life. Abide in me and I in you is our Lord’s invitation thereto. This continuous consciousness of oneness with Christ through the Liturgy is a free life, a joyous life, a foretaste of the perfect life.
Besides introducing the month of Our Lady, the coming week pulses with the joy of true living. Joy is the keynote of the Sunday mass. Midweek the Cross again flashes upon our vision in the feast of its Finding by the Empress Helena. At the beginning and the end we commemorate Apostles whom Christ especially favored. St. Catherine of Sienna put an end to the exile of the Papacy at Avignon. St. Athanasius led the Council of Nicaea which condemned the Arians. St. Monica gave us St. Augustine, the great Father of the Church. St. Pius V, to whom we owe indirectly the feast of the Holy Rosary, buttressed the Church after the Reformation and reformed the missal and the breviary. What a joyful company!
Mass Calendar: April 30 to May 6
Sunday, April 30 — Third after Easter. Semi-double. 2d prayer St. Catherine of Sienna. 3d Octave. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, May 1 — Sts. Phillip and James, Apostles. Double of the Second Class. Mass proper. Preface of the Apostles. Credo.
Tuesday 2—St. Athanasius. Bishop. Confessor. Doctor. Double. 2d prayer Octave. Credo.
Wednesday 3—Finding or- the True Cross. Double of the Second Class. 2d prayer Octave. 3d St. Alexander and Companions, Martyrs. Preface of the Cross.
Thursday 4 — St. Monica. Widow. Double. Mass proper. 2d prayer Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday 5—St. Pius. Pope. Confessor. Double. Mass: Statuit (Common) . Prayer proper. 2d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday 6—St. John, Apostle and Evangelist before the Latin Gate. Greater Double. Mass proper. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
GOOD STUDENT WORK FEATURES "LAWYER11
By Bill Mahoney
A predominance of student contribution and three excellent articles marked the third appearance last week of this year’s Notre Dame Lawyer. For the first time since the publication was begun 14 years ago, fully half of the material was written for by members of the junior and senior law classes.
Probably the most timely of the articles was Professor James Kearney’s treatment of the judicial review of the decisions of administrative boards; timely, because of the present
John Vicars
An expert on dram shops.
controversy between the boards and the courts over how much power is to be reserved to each. The writer makes no attempt to solve the difficult problem but succeeds in pointing out possible solutions. There is, however, danger in granting the courts so much power of review that they will be able to nullify the boards’ findings. For that reason, Professor Kearney is opposed to giving courts the right of de novo (from the beginning) judicial review of the boards’ decisions.
The issue also contained student notes on the following subjects: “Construction of the Illinois Dram Shop Act,” by John Vicars; “Constitutionality of Statutes Prohibiting Sales Below Cost,” by Francis Bright; “Labor and the Commerce Clause,” by Sam L. Devine; “Remedies Available for Injuries Due to Unwholesome Food,” by Edward Boyle. Comments on recent decisions were contributed by John Wilson, Leon Lancaster, John O’Connor, Richard Sullivan, and Louis Da Pra. Robert Weaver and John Vicars submitted book reviews.
A criticism and discussion of the present rule in many states enabling judges to cite newspapers for contempt for publicizing court proceedings is given by Neil Plummer and (Continued on Page 18)
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
“With these scripts reflecting campus ability, Notre Dame would be a producer’s heaven on earth.” Thus spoke Don Mihan, sound effects head at N.B.C. in Chicago as he surveyed the scripts submitted in the recent script writing contest. As sole judge, Mr. Mihan decided that two men tied for first place — Vern Sneider and Edward Wurtzebach.
Of Sneider’s, “Mr. Brown’s Valet,” he said, “It indicates a sharp sense of choice material.... and is the kind that would fit well into a Chase and Sanborn or Rudy Valley show.” Concerning the odd-titled, “Fish in the Forest” by Wurtzebach, Mr. Mihan states, “He shows a fine awareness of the mechanics of radio writing... and tells a cute story with a nice surprise ending.” A prize of $7.50 will go to each of the winners for their fine efforts. Ed Fulham, Ed Heinz, and Clyde Archer finished second, third, and fourth in the contest respectively. These men also received much praise as one could gather from Mr. Mihan’s first general statement.
Scripts to be Broadcast
The script writing contest is closed. Now, the next step is to cast and produce them weekly from the local studios. Under the direction of Vern Witkowski, the first is expected to reach the air Tuesday at 9:30 p.m. and one will follow each Tuesday thereafter. This broadcast will replace the ex-Modemaires who have been forced to discontinue.
The Man Behind the Voice
As you tune in the Faculty talk next Monday night, the first voice greeting you will be that of Henry Penrose of Howard Hall and Utica, N. Y. His radio work this year has led him to announce just about every type of broadcast among the local programs. A member of the Scholastic staff, he is an accounting major looking toward a future career in law. He likes hockey, reading, and can even be found occasionally at his hobby of breeding pigeons—though not while at school! .
Coming Broadcasts: Mr. Cox will speak on the Faculty series Monday - night. A Wrangler’s meeting will be broadcast for the first time sometime next week.
Notre Dame—WFAM-WSBT Log
7:45—Mon.: Faculty Talk. 9:30—Tues.: Dramatic Sketch.
. 9:15—Wed.: The Periscope. 9:30—Thurs.: Music Appreciation. 7:30—Fri.: Politics Forum.
9:00—Fri.: Campus Quiz.
7:30—Sat.: Our Economic Outlook.
APRIL 28, 1939
7
McArdle in charge OF ELECTIONS
Gym. Sun Lamp. New Facilities in Memorial;
Building Completely Available to Students
By Joe Perkins
Primary elections for all class offices will.be held in the lower lobby of the cafeteria on May 2. The innovation of pickets in front of the
Chairman “Buck” McArdle
Now that the Thesis is in. . .
With the opening of the large gymnasium on the top floor, the last of facilities of the Rockne Memorial was made available for student use.
The gymnasium contains two regulation basketball courts. The floor is marked off for one large tennis court, two volley ball courts and several badminton courts
Other recent additions are the powerful sun lamp in the north section of the main locker rooms, and the railing around the balcony of the swimming pool.
Twenty-four persons may make use of the sun lamp at one time. The lamp is not the type winch emits ultra violet rays, but is merely a unit which gives artificial sun light. It is not the type of lamp used for healing purposes.
The two special exercise rooms have been equipped with various sized mats, horizontal bars and weights.
The facilities of the Memorial have not yet been called upon to accommodate their capacity, with the possible exception of the swimming pool room, which, it is estimated, accommodated some 350 students at one time on the opening day.
Mr. Thomas Mills, director of the Memorial, estimated that nearly 700 students may use the facilities simultaneously. These include, the swimming pool, wrestling and boxing rooms, golf rooms, two special exercise rooms, eight handball and four squash courts, the sun lamp, two basketball courts, and three baskets to be installed on the end walls of the large gymnasium.
“caf,” cartoon posters, and “open letters” to the students concerned, indicate that this year’s elections will be as interesting and hard fought as those in the past.
Finals for the Senior class offices will be held on May 9, for the Juniors on May 10, and for the sophomores on May 11.
All candidates for offices must be approved by the Prefect of Discipline and the Director of Studies.
Paul McArdle, senior S. A. C. representative is in charge of the elections. He and his committee will be in complete charge of both primaries and finals.
Band Has Breakfast
It was the Band which officially opened Music Week on the campus by celebrating with a Communion Breakfast. Mass was celebrated in Alumni Hall Chapel, with breakfast following in the Faculty Dining Hall. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C. was the celebrant at the mass and spoke to the band members after the breakfast. Father Trahey remarked that the Band was holding its first Communion Breakfast in many years, and that such activities should be encouraged to promote greater fellowship among the members.
The Scholastic needs features, short stories, essays, poetry, cartoons. Do your part by writing up or drawing up that odd little incident that occurred down the corridor the other day.
THE VIRGINIA GENTLEMAN
A Book Review by a member of the Bookmen
A few months ago appeared the third edition of The Virginia Gentleman, the collected writings of George W. Bagby. It is the work of a scholarly gentleman who, with genuine humor and graceful understanding, sustained Virginia letters through the hard and bitter days of the Reconstruction. This new printing was arranged by his youngest daughter, Miss Ellen M. Bagby. For a memorial edition she has gathered the best-known of his sketches with some of his unpublished papers to show the range and versatility of his mind in purely regional material.
As true Americana, the value of Bagby’s sketches lies in their sympathetic fidelity to the old life in Tidewater Virginia before the War. His gently melodious and whimsical prose describes and holds permanently this important phase of American life and thought. By his local realism, Bagby stands in the sharpest contrast to that other Virginian, Edgar Allen Poe, whose imaginative tours des forces lose all marks of place. Like Poe, however, his work was known only to a narrow coterie of admirers, not at all to the burgers of Richmond and New York.
Though Bagby was forever nourished by his love of Virginia and though he was devoted to it always in his literary practice, he never lost
the certain critical focus that his Northern education at Princeton and Pennsylvania furnished him. Remembering his mild satire, we discern an element of universality in his enjoyment of the countryside and in his appreciation of the folkways and the customs of the gentle people. His view is not, in large, blurred by sentiment or lost in provincialism.
■ Bagby’s Virginia was not the facade of periwigged and brocaded gallants and ladies that we see in the English novels on Southern life. Rather, it is the life of the Virginia homestead, peaceful, plain, that Bagby presents with its full charm and genuineness.
. . . there was in our Virginia country life a beauty, a simplicity, a purity an uprightness, a cordial and lavish hospitality, warmth and grace which shine in the lens of memory with a charm that passes all language at my command. It is gone with the social structure that gave it birth, and were I great, I would embalm it in the amber of such prose and verse as has not been written since John Milton laid down his pen. Only greatness can fitly do it. . . .
His humorous sketches and skits were composed in a sort of phonetic dialect, full of topical allusions and local personalities, but delightful ” withal in their farcical mode. The whole of the Virginia Gentleman is recommendable to anyone who has a keenness for the good rich life founded but not fastened in the soil.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
Spare the Water and Save the Fine
In the future by a ruling of the student council it will cost the fraternities of Ohio State University $50 to have a water fight. One provision was made: “unless proof can be furnished that they are defending their property.”
Sorry
At Auburn Polytechnic Institute in Alabama the co-eds use a wide variety of excuses to get out of a date according to the Auburn Plainsman. The most common of the “reason-why-I-can’t” excuses is “already have a date.” Next comes, “have some studying that must be done.” But too often the male retaliates with, “How about Saturday or Sunday?” Then the Auburn co-ed calls some of these into action: “sorry, I don’t date so far ahead,” or “call me back in a week or so, and I’ll see about it then.” Then, of course, come the other alternatives of “catching up on sleep,” “Sorry, I was out late last night,” or “I’m wearing another fellow’s frat pin.”
—o—
This and That
English 325 at Glenville State Teachers College is concerned with the collecting of West Virginia Folk-Lore. . . So far the research in one county of West Virginia has netted 258 riddles, 92 proverbs, 50 play games, 33 ghost and witch stories, and 1,450 old sayings. . . . We wonder if they include college jokes under “old sayings.” ... A free Scholastic to anyone who can find a capital letter in the headlines or column streamers of the De Paul University De Paulia. . . . The make-up of the paper is entirely in small letters; here’s some of the effect of the innovation: “itkin thanks dr. o’connel for backing eliot stage play.” . . . Results of a recent student poll throughout the country show that a majority of students favor the present neutrality law in keeping the U. S. on this side of the Atlantic and Pacific and out of war. ... St. Bonaventure College in New York state is taking precautions against any goldfish gulping. . . The caretakers of the St. Bonaventure goldfish have decided not to put the fish in the campus ponds until it is deemed safe to do so. . . Better hide your phonograph records too, because the collegian’s appetite has also swung records whether sweet or classical. . . For sale: one college with professors. . . Sounds a bit extraordinary, but between 40 and 50 U. S. colleges are put up for sale each year.
One -person that the prevalent spring fever hasn’t clutched in its devastating claws of laxity is Francis Joseph Lanigan, a La Porte, Ind., lad who can boast a 91.09 per cent average for three years in law school. But immune from boasting is this Hoosier student who made Phi Beta Kappa honors at Wabash college, Crawfordsville, Ind., before coming to Notre Dame three years ago.
He is competent in golf and handball and more so in billiards—he won the campus championship in 1936.
This shatters the idea that learned men aren’t good athletes. Very versatile, the man is a fresh-air fiend, as he likes nothing better than the great out-o’-doors except perhaps the home town steady.
This man of erudition is a confirmed Sorinite—he lived there his entire period on the campus. It’s his home, he tells the boys, for the one in La Porte is only a place “to hang my hat.” It seems that he is headed for big things—a degree of doctor of jurisprudence is in the offing—something which hasn’t happened at the Irish camp for four years.
Recently, the editor of the quarterly Notre Dame Lawyer for which he deserves a bouquet, bowled a 192-down town where his inquisitive classmates couldn’t see his magnificent performance.
The ever modest lawyer-to-be thinks it’s a phenomenon when he shoots consistent 80’s in golf. Usually has the last word in bull sessions.
Devoid of the wandering spirit, he intends to practice his profession in La Porte.
Last week’s article was interrupted by the very important announcement that the Vincentians are to receive the proceeds of the Spring* Sport Dance -which is to be held tonight. Again -we urge you to attend this affair. Loyal in the past when the Vincentians needed you, this time youi-loyalty promises to be rewarded with a most enjoyable evening.
We continue our story of the Big Brother case at the school on Monday afternoon. Let us assume that the the principal’s name is Mr. Hannigan and that the youngster’s name is Tony Cardolli.
“Will you tell me please where I can find the principal’s office?”
“Thank you.”
“Mr. Hannigan, I’m from the Notre Dame Conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. It seems that you have a boy in school here who is material for Big Brother work. Do you know much about the boy? I’ll probably find him in the yard.”
Outside there was the usual shouting and running that one finds when school is out for the day. A ball game and a noisy second baseman caught the eye.
Our Vincentian moved up to where a group was watching the game.... “What kind of a ball team will you have this year? The fellow at second looks plenty good.”
“The team will be all right, Mister, if that kid Tony Cardolli hits like he did last year. He was the best batter in the school league. He knows it, too!”
After a wallop by Tony broke up the ball game, the teams trotted off the field. Our Vincentian approached the youngster... “You played a swell game young fellow. How long have you been interested in baseball?”
“Who are you.... a ‘big league’ scout?”
One Problem Solved
Sunday, at the meeting. The worker makes his report.
“I made trips to the boy’s home on Wednesday and Saturday. The youngster is on probation. He had found farm life at the reformatory very hard and had run away. After he had been captured and had explained why he had escaped, the judge and the reformatory officials agreed to place the boy under his aunt. I’m afraid that she has not done much good for the boy. The officials at the Vincentian Service Bureau gave their approval to a plan of mine for getting the youngster into some club activity where he would have a real interest.”
APRIL 28, 1939
9
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
A huge crowd, gathered in the gymnasium Tuesday night, thanked the University for presenting the world’s greatest baritone. It is difficult to adequately praise this master baritone whose voice and charm have left audiences and critics speechless wherever he has sung. His concert here Tuesday night equalled the high standard he has long since established.
His handsome presence held the audience in command from the very beginning. He opened his program modestly with “The Song of Momus to Mars” by Doctor Boyce. This was followed by “Wher’er You Walk” by Handel. The quiet and intensely beautiful presentation of this classic demanded absolute silence from the audience. In all of his serious numbers, Mr. Tibbett captured and held the attention of the audience, never relaxing the mood between long piano interludes, nor at the end until the last vibration had died. In each of his numbers, he was supported by a marvelously helpful accompaniment. In his choice of numbers, he constantly considered contrast. In his serious selections, the melody came straight from the soul, and each rise in volume was paralleled by a rise in motion. His voice was profound, deep and powerful. In his lighter numbers he seemed to spring along with sharp accents and clear articulation.
He closed the first half of the program with the famous Figaro aria from the “Barber of Seville.” Here indeed was the jibbering Figaro.
The artistic perfection of the concert was efficiently maintained by Mr. Wille in his group of piano solos.
In “None but the Lonely Heart,” Mr. Tibbett reproduced beautifully the hopeless, despairing, sadness of Tschaikowsky. The combined effectiveness of a familiar classic superbly sung was reflected in the audience’s response.
Another highlight of the program was the song “Edward” by Karl Loewe, which consists of a dramatic dialogue between a mother and her son who has killed his father. His voice poured out, vigorous and solid, pleading, begging for forgiveness. He followed this group with the adaptation of “Old Mother Hubbard” to the style of Handel, and for his second encore he sang “A Day on the Prairie,” which, to coin a phrase, had the audience in stitches. To prove his versatility he whistled the last eight bars. For his third encore, he sang Tschaikowsky’s “Pilgrim’s Song.”
In the last group, the dancing of Betsy’s Boy left Mr. Tibbett breathless. His great appeal lies in his ability to dramatize the various characters.
At the end of his program, he sang several requested encores. The audience was thoroughly satisfied.
THEATRE
By R. J. Sadlier
“Pygmalion,” “Wuthering Heights,” “Love Affair,” “Dark Victory,” “Midnight” — who could ask for a more solid block of top-flight entertainment? It is our belief that this schedule surpasses any other group of entertainment units all arriving within a two-week period.
Recalling to mind impressive scenes and delightful character portrayals invariably proves a fascinating diversion.
“Pygmalion” was a grand picture.
Leslie Howard was superb in every movement, every gesture, every word he uttered; the stoic, classical features of Wendy Hiller several times gave way to emotional contraction showing the high degree of restraint which marked her* characterization; she noticeably pressed Howard for top honors; Wilfrid Lawson, as her dust-man father, was excellent.
Best of 1939?
With no exceptions the greatest film of 1939 to this point, for us at least, has been “Wuthering Heights.” The face of Laurence Olivier was the face of a Sphinx. His eyes were the all - expressing agents of a gnawing hate for the aristocracy, and a fierce love for Cathy. A brilliant performance by the man who is at present teamed with Katherine Cornell -in her new Broadway vehicle, “No Time For Comedy.” Merle Oberon, in the sometimes unsympathetic role of Cathy, the ambitious Cathy, also used her eyes expertly, delicately One has only to recall her scene on the staircase when she pleaded with her husband (David Niven) to stop the marriage of Heathcliff and Isabella. Eyes, eyes, eyes.
Two factors, photography, excellent photography, enmeshed with a perfectly timed musical background, contributed more to the success of a movie than they have ever before. However when we say that we do not diminish the merit of which every character is justly deserving. The point is that all possible details of production, all the cogs and wheels and pins that went to make up “Wuthering Heights,” were at a clean, well-oiled operating capacity. The result: an entertainment gem.
ART
By Don Driscoll
On Wednesday evening, April 19th, Dr. Paul Ganz of the Art Institute of Chicago lectured in Washington Hall on “The Latest Problems in Modem Art.”
Dr. Ganz showed that art in the 19th century was not confined to France and Germany as Gertrude Stein in some of her recent writings would have us believe. France was the center of impressionism—a manner of artistic expression which “destroys the power of the line,” and in which the “painting dominates the drawing.” However, the 19th century saw the growth of art in other countries as well, not the least of which was Switzerland.
A number of slides, depicting the work of the noted Swiss artists during this period, supplemented the lecture. Outstanding among these were Hodler, noted for his realistic and symbolic murals, and Segantini, a “pointilliste” after the manner of Seurat. The predominant theme of the paintings of these Swiss artists lay in the mountainous Swiss landscape which they rendered in both a realistic and impressionistic manner. Dr. Ganz also made reference to the French impressionists such as Monet, Gaugin, and Renoir, indicating their influence in Swiss art.
In conclusion Dr. Ganz gave notice of an exhibition of Swiss art coming to this country; and expressed his firm conviction that the future would see a continued growth in Swiss art because of its basis in freedom and sincerity.
Room Question Settled Until Next Tear
Between April 17 and April 21, some 2,000-odd freshmen, sophomores and juniors, expressed their preferences for residence halls during 1939-40. Secretary Kenneth Oliver and his assistants were kept busy handling approximately 75 students every hour during the preregistration period.
Only 50 of the 2,300 potential residents failed to appear at the time designated for them. Of this number, 2,050 were assigned to various halls and the remaining 50 were placed on the “waiting list.”
The present juniors voted for Walsh as the number-one hall on the campus. Alumni was second choice, and Sorin third. Any member of the junior class whose average was below 76% was unable to secure a room.
10	-
Hie Notre Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell_____________________Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCouksey___________________Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney._________________Literary	Editor
William C. Fay__________________________News	Editor
Donald Foskett________________________Sports	Editor
Tom Powers_______________________________Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	April 28, 1939	No. 23
Why the Goldfish?
PERHAPS we’re just too pessimistic, but lately we’ve been wondering whether there might be some cause for alarm, after all, about this business of a college education. Prominent educators have for years been severely critical of an educational system that seems to justify mass college attendance by the obvious fallacy that all men are created equal. But their criticisms have been passed off for the most part as the antiquated ideas of a lot of conservatives. That these allegedly non-progressive gentlemen are really the only true progressives is proved by the fact that they are trying to correct a flagrant evil in the modem American system of education. That evil is the presence in American colleges today of a large number of men and women who are unquestionably not qualified to receive a college education.
Every college generation has had its share of mental lightweights, but recent developments seem to indicate that the present group of collegians is trying hard for an all-time record. A short while ago a student at an Eastern university swallowed a goldfish on a bet. And he started something! Students all over the country frantically gulped down goldfish until some since-forgotten hero reached the inevitable limit. Then goldfish-swallowing became too commonplace, and America’s collegians took to eating footballs, kissing co-eds, and even biting the heads off inoffensive kingsnakes; the all-time high in collegiate asinity was probably reached when a young Californian was reported to have digested a couple of hundred grasshoppers, raw.
Psychologists ascribed this temporary (we hope) mania to an intense desire for public recognition. This would seem to be the most plausible explanation, and the implications contained therein are none too flattering to the alleged intellect of these publicity-mad collegians. For the very fact that a person goes to college is supposed to indicate that he intends to learn a little more than he did in high school. An we hate to think of the names we’d be called by a lot of youngsters if we said a high school boy is incapable of eating a goldfish without tartar sauce.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Since colleges exist primarily for the intellectual development of their students, it seem only logical that these students should seek to acquire their much-desired public recognition through intellectual achievements. A magna cum laude is infinitely more significant than the National Intercollegiate Goldfish-swallowing Championship.
—Donald A. Foskett.
"Unwept, Unhonored, Unsung!"
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN in Poor Richard’s Almanac says: “If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading or do things worth the writing.”
In another column we publish a book review by one of the Bookmen, the campus reading circle. It is one of the all too rare instances which evidence the justification of the existence of campus clubs. Publicity for their activities they ask for and we are glad to give. But some evidence of the benefit of their activities in the way of a well written report, or a contribution on a timely topic, a special interest of the writer, extends the circle of their influence.
The Scholastic has repeatedly invited contributions from any source whatever. We have solicitors who are very active. Modesty, want of confidence in their powers, hold back some. A sense of superiority—it is difficult to see why—holds back others. Others are simply mercenary. We have been asked how much we pay. Others prefer to amass rejection slips from outside sources. They fail to see that local publication is a stepping stone to the wider field. Finally all are so busy. One can be so busy about being busy that one fails to do the business at hand.
A more sobering thought is whether or not there is any point to the criticism that in not learning to read and write we are missing the fundamentals of an education. A leading article in the last issue of The Catalyzer presented some worthwhile thought on this very subject. Finally, and more than all else, there is the intangible called “spirit.” What place is there in the world for a man who has no loyalties? “Unwept, unhonored and unsung” fits him exactly. It surely is a lonely road!
There are but a few weeks of the present school yeai’ left. But those few weeks provide a splendid opportunity for the Scholastic to plan and to prepare for a better magazine in 1939-40. Planning and preparation are perhaps the most important aspects of publishing anything. And your response at this time constitutes one of the most important elements in our plans for the future. We feel that the principal necessity is'to remind you of the importance to yourselves and to us of your attitude and your contributions.	•
We hope the remaining weeks of the schoolyear will bring in any hesitating helpers who want to make ready for next year. It is with an eye to your future. Look about you to the men who are leaders in the work you are studying for now. Most of them, you will find, are men who know their work well, and—equally as important— they are men who can write down what they know for others to read.—C. O. Labour.
APRIL 28, 1939
II
The Scholastic Disputation
.	By GEORGE HAITHCOCK
How many angels can sit on the head of a pin?
If you can answer this problem then you have excelled the best efforts of St. Thomas Aquinas and other Scholastic philosophers of the Middle Ages. So say some of the modern educationalists who attack medieval teaching methods as being concerned with childish play and irresponsible trifles.
Such intellectual events as the Scholastic disputation they do not hesitate to characterize as an almost complete waste of time and energy. Medieval students are seen as squabbling about insignificant topics like the seating capacity of a pin for tired and weary spirits.	.
These criticisms are without foundation in the opinion of Dr. James J. Walsh, Laetare medalist and distinguished American historian. In his book, Education of the Founding Fathers of the Republic, Dr. Walsh exposes common misconceptions about Scholasticism, and explains the influence of Scholastic philosophy on medieval universities and modern European and American colleges. This mode of philosophic teaching, he finds, “occupied the serious attention of scholars for many hundreds of years and is the key to nfearly one thousand years of education.”
Scholasticism is generally regarded as having gone out of use at the end of the Medieval period or to have disappeared with the Reformation. Contrary to this popular opinion is the fact that the Scholastic system, especially the disputations, formed the fundamental basis of all higher learning to the first quarter of the 19th century.
Early colonial colleges looked on the disputations as the most important academic exercises in a college career. Charters reminded the presidents of their duty to see that these discussions were conducted regularly and . properly. Far from being “trifles”
these philosophical circles were an integral part of the curricula.
The Scholastic disputation originated in the latter part of the 12th century and reached its culmination in the efforts of St. Thomas Aquinas and the Schoolmen of the 13th century. It took form along strict syllogistic lines, was highly detailed and formal. The participants were called
New Orleans
New Orleans—
Suggestive
Of old Spain and France, Spelling beauty And golden dreams, Among myrtle-azalea And moss draped oaks;
Knights, duels and glamorous tales
Still linger on
For the stillness tells
Of days noiv gone;
But not only the memory of splendor dwells,
A grandeur, poignant, lifeless and old, For it lives again, Immortal, young and fair, With dreams of adventure and romance
Still lingering there.
—Frank V. Ciolino.
defendens and objectens. After the proposition had been argued by the regular members, the students in attendance were permitted to raise objections in an informal manner.
Great educators of the 13th century recognized the import of the disputation as a means of training the minds of young men. Robert of Sorbonne
counselled his students with the maxim : “Nothing is perfectly known until finished off by the tooth of the disputation.”
Outstanding scholars in all centuries have expressed the same convictions. John Stuart Mill, who hardly can be classed as a pro-Scholastic, quotes the noted Scottish philosopher, Sir William Hamilton, “It is to the Schoolmen that the vulgar languages are indebted for what precision and analytical subtlety they possess.” Professor Sainstbury, of the University of Edinburgh, felt that the training in Scholasticism had much to do with correctness in the use of words.
The Scholastic disputation was in vogue at Cambridge university from the 13th to the 19th century. Through an alumnus of this institution, John Harvard, founder of the American university that bears his name, the disputation was introduced into this country. It was famous as a part of the annual commencement day exer-"cises.
All candidates. for degrees had to engage in this final performance as a requisite to taking their diplomas. Eventually, the graduating students were asked to present a thesis in the form of an essay on some selected subject. The defense of theses gradually ceased and the disputation no longer had any special significance, except in Catholic institutions.
It is interesting to note that the discontent with which the American system of education is regarded, began to make itself felt in the same generation when the Scholastic disputation went out of use.
The theses defended in the Scholastic disputations were interpretations of important problems of philosophy and life. Scholastic methods taught young men to think. All a person need do is to investigate the proceedings of the disputation to realize and appreciate its value as a means of thoughtful education.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Perfect Cub
By WM. C. McGOWAN
I knew the kid walking toward my desk was a freshman, but I didn’t feel sorry for him. Anyone who trembles when he is walking through the offices of The Elastic, our snappy college publication, deserves to be a freshman. And I knew what he was coming around for—“I got a story. Will you look at it? Please!”
“Sit down over there, Kid, and give me the paper. Let’s - see the title: “My First Impression of College.” Your own, Kid? Oh, your roommate’s idea! Where’s he from, Kansas City? . . . Well, don’t fall off the chair. . . . Oh! He is from Kansas City! Well, I’ll tell you a secret: anyone who suggests “My First Impression of College” as a title, has to be from Kansas City. Yeah, that true. Wait till you’ve been in this game a few years . . . but never mind that. Pull up a chair.”
“So you want to be a newspaperman, Kid. No ambition, eh? . . . Skip it. I was only kidding. Sure I’ll show you the ropes. The whole thing is a simple business. In the first place you need a few stock phrases at your fingertips. Okay? Well, just change the connectives around between them and you have a story. Of course the bromides differ for each journalistic field. Sports writers use one set. Feature writers use another. News writers use still another. In fact, that’s how a man gets to be an editor. As a staff reporter he learns each set of cliches, then he uses the sports set in the newswriting, the feature set in sports writing, and a combination of both in feature writing.
“When he can do that better than anyone else, they make him editor. An editor-in-chief is a genius who has had at least five of his own phrases stolen by another paper. We figure if a guy’s stuff is good enough to steal, he’s good enough to be an editor-in-chief. Here, Kid, let me test you out. Hoes does any good newspaperman keep, and what does he have?
“A good newspaper man keeps ‘abreast of the times,’ and has the ‘courage of his convictions.’ ”
“Right! Now, who works for a newspaper? What does he •write about? and what is he always in?”
“A ‘representative of the press’ works for a newspaper; he writes about ‘the American scene’; and he is always in a ‘feverish haste.’ ”
“Let’s see now how you are as a potential sports writer.... What is any good athlete always in?”
“A good athlete is always in the ‘pink of condition.’ ”
“If I asked you to bring in a report of our football team’s victory, how would you start the report—even if you hadn’t seen the game?”
“That’s easy, Sir. Like this: ‘The Blue and Gold rose to brilliant heights this afternoon and rode the ---------- eleven into the dust of defeat.’ ”
“That’s uncanny, my boy! Are you sure you’ve had no experience on a newspaper?”
“No, Sir. But I have practiced, using the style of your own sports staff as a model. I’ve done it so often I can almost tell what’s coming before The Elastic is out each week. Some of your writers are wonderful.”
“That’s very good of you to say. Your ability certainly shows you’ve followed us pretty closely, too. No doubt you’ve followed our games each fall, haven’t you? . . . Hmmm! ... I thought so. And of course you’ve heard of our star end, Perle Green? Now, tell me what Green did in the third-quarter of the Ball State game last year? And what was the result of what he did?”
“I remember, that very well. Green ‘punted out of danger’ and thus 'pulled the game out of the fire’ for us. After that we ‘romped to victory.’” .
• “You probably know more of Green’s athletic ability. What do you think Green is most proficient at?”
“Well, I think he’s best at ‘rifling the old pigskin’ to someone’s ‘waiting arms’ with ‘unerring accuracy.’ ”
“Of course you know, too, that Green plays baseball? ... Yes, of course. He pitches, I believe. Supposing on some day Green finds himself unable to pitch, what would the trouble be? and where would he go?”
“He would have a ‘charley horse’ and he would be ‘sent to the showers.’ ”
“Put this situation into proper English : ‘Green hit the ball hard and ran, but on arriving back where he started the catcher was injured.’ ”
“Green ‘smacked the ole pill-for a homer and made the circuit, but the catcher tried a body-block and was spiked for his troubles.’ ”
“Now, Kid, what are all our games? and where do we invariably end up?”
“All our games are ‘hectic contests’ and we usually end up ‘at the top of the heap.’ ”
“Kid, you’re a natural! There’s only one more thing I want to quiz you on. Washington Hall is the cenT ter of extra-curricular activities here, as you probably know, and reports of what goes on there form an important part of our news material. If I sent you to cover a speech given by Senator--------, how would you write the story up?”
“Well, Mr. Ed., that’s what I practiced even more than sports writing. I figured that if I could do a good job on reporting the Washington Hall speeches, why then I could do anything. I’d handle such an assignment like this:
“ ‘Senator--------- spoke to a large and enthusiastic audience on Friday evening at 8:00 p.m., in Washington Hall. The Senator began his talk by describing his brilliant career in glowing terms, but gave his constituents fulsome praise—which he assured us they truly merited for electing him. He expressed infinite sorrow that the irony of fate doomed to disappointment several who had planned to journey from afar to hear him. It seems they were forestalled by an unavoidable accident.’
“ ‘Senator---------went on with renewed vigor to say that the state of the nation was a welter of confusion, what with war clouds overcasting the European skies in spite of a storm of protest registered by the American people, and in particular by our beloved president. The Senator assured us further that he would stake his reputation as a statesman that today is the psychological moment for democracies to band together in a common cause against their arch foes, the dictators.’
“ ‘The Senator concluded his speech by saying that it is a matter of great personal sorrow for him that his voice will probably not be heeded by those who are the guiding hands of this land of the free and home of the brave. He said it was only a matter of time before there would be weeping and gnashing of teeth, because his clarion call had not been heeded. There the Senator hung his head in great despair; it was a soul stirring sight to see him. It was a moment that seemed an eternity. But the Sen-
( Continued on Page 19)
APRIL 28, 1939
13
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
MICHIGAN NINE HOST 1939 GRID SQUAD GETS FIRST TEST AGAINST TO IRISH TOMORROW IRISH OLD TIMERS IN STADIUM TOMORROW
By Frank Aubrey
Michigan, at present the popular choice for the Big Ten bunting, will entertain the Fighting Irish at Ann Arbor tomorrow afternoon. Monday will find the squad back home on Cartier Field to meet their Hoosier rivals —Indiana University. The Bloomington nine will be the sixth Western Conference team to meet the Blue and Gold this year.
Coach Ray Fisher, former Cincinnati Red, has Wolverine lettermen at every position but third base. His pitching staff is capable but inexperienced. The first three hurlers were graduated from the Ann Arbor institution last June but Jack Barry and Dan Smick, augmented by Dean Du
Chet Sullivan
Continues to shine.
Bois, soph portsider, have come through in excellent fashion.
Stars of other sports will do the receiving. Beebe, basketball captain, and Evashevski, all-Conference quarterback, share the duties behind the plate. Capt. Walt Peckinpaugh, son of Roger Peckinpaugh of Yankee fame, is defensive ace of the infield, and Irv Lisager, who batted .321 in the Conference last year, is the chief offensive threat. Trotska, Pink, and Tinker, all veterans, will patrol the outer defenses.
Indiana has been trying to defeat the Irish since 1901 but has been forced to be content with a close score. The schools have met 31 times and the Irish won on 29 of these occasions, one ending in a tie.
The Irish lineup will probably be the same. Doyle has shown great improvement at first base, and Chet Sullivan has continued to display the
Along about 6 p.m. tomorrow the moleskin-minded around this campus will be marking R. I P. on the 1939 spring football season. By that time 25-odd old men will be feeling their aching muscles in the Stadium dressingroom—a sad testimonial to the ravages of time, mashed potatoes, and the varsity line. Up in the concrete shell, -fcx, fans will have had their last look at the ’38 varsity squad including Earl Brown, le; Capt. Jim McGoldrick, 1g;
Qualifying Hounds Held For Inf er hall Tourney
• '
Approximately two more weeks remain for students to qualify for the Interhall golf tournament which will be held on Saturday and Sunday, May 14 and 15. Qualifying rounds close Thursday, May 11.
Students desiring to compete in the tournament must turn in at the club house three 18-hole scores. The five lowest average scores of all those handed in from contestants of each hall will determine the five man team to represent that hall in the tournament The meet is open to all students except members of the Varsity golf team. However, the Varsity “B” squad is eligible.
The tournament will be over 36 holes of either medal or stroke play. The pairings will be in groups of three, as: one man from Brownson, Badin, and Howard.
The four men of the five man team returning the lowest aggregate score for the 36 holes of stroke play will receive the team championship. A trophy will be presented to the hall, and medals to members of the winning team. The student turning in the lowest medal score of all the competing players in the 36 holes tournament will be declared the individual Interhall champion.
ability, both on third and at the plate, that won him a regular berth as a sophomore last season. Ellis or Mand-jiak will get the call against the Wolverines while Norv Hunthausen, the cool curve ball flinger, with plenty of ability to pitch himself out of the tough spots—the mark of a great pitcher—will be in there tossing them up to the Indiana batters Monday afternoon.
He may need Kuharich. Oldtimer Longhi
Ed Longhi, c; Augie Bossu, rg; Paul Kell, rt; Bill Hofer and Emmett Crowe, qb; Paul Morrison and Max Burnell, rh; and Motts Tonelli and Ed Simonich, fb.
While age and experience are indubitable assets in Congressional sittings, they are not conducive to success when stacked up against speed, organization, and reserves — gentlemen—the Notre Dame varsity! However, Coach Joe Kuharich believes his oldsters will have enough of the old agility and spring in their legs to keep them from falling back too often on the assets which they are all supposed to have. Hard blocks and hot weather will result in some heavy wear and tear on the ’38 gang and will insure the appearance of the seconds including Ed Broscoe, Sweeney Tuck, Jake Kovalcik, Bing Binkowski, Joe Harrington, Dollard, McMahon, Plain, Loughlin, Maleshewski and if the crowd demands it, Joe Kuharich and Harv Foster.
If the following men don’t start for the varsity, it will be the first (Continued on Page 20)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NICHOLSON SPLITS TRACK SQUAD FOR RELAYS; FAYMONVILLE DEFENDS PENN DISCUS TITLE
By Robert B. Voelker
A split Noti'e Dame track team competes in the Penn Relays at Philadelphia and the Drake Relays at Des Moines today and tomorrow. To the Penn Relays will go Coughlin, Tucker, Saggau, and Marquardt as the Irish sprinting
quartet. This aggregation has been working hard on the longer outdoor distances and should be able to make a
respectable showing. Dave Reidy will go along to compete in the special high hurdle events to be held tomorrow afternoon. Reidy has been hampered in practice by a rather bad cold but Coach Nicholson feels that he has sufficiently recovered to be ship-
■Ted Leonas Goes East this week.
shape. The Irish mentor does not think he will use Buenger, who is suffering from a strained leg muscle.
At the Penn Relays Bill Faymon-ville will defend his discus title, which he won last year with a heave of 157 feet 1% inches, an all-time record for the Relays. He will be tossing the discus against such men as Harris of Indiana and Watson of Michigan who are ranked with the best in the country. Ted Leonas will likewise go to Penn for the high jump.
Captain Greg Rice will run a special two mile event at Des Moines with Mahel for competition. Nicholson says Greg is not quite in top shape but will go the limit. A four man group composed of Rice, Hester, Donnelly and Obrys will run the four mile team race.
Coach Nicholson has decided not to send his shuttle relay team to either meet. Lawrence is stopped with a leg injury. However, Dean will pole vault for the Irish, while Beinor throws the shot and Stevenson the javelin. Tentatively an Irish aggregation will run the two mile relay with Halpin as key man.
N. D. Golfers Tackle Chicago Monday
By Jack White
Coach Chuck Tanis brings his untested University of Chicago golf team to Notre Dame Monday morning to meet the undefeated Irish.
The Maroon mentor has been unusually hampered in this season’s preliminaries, what with a muddy, wet course for almost every practice session, and the absence of two of last year’s lettermen. Johnny Gilbert went with graduation, while Bill Weber faces ineligibility this year. But Tanis is expected to present a sextet of finished golfers when he opens his day’s stay here.
In the number one position for Chicago is Harry Topping, who is accustomed to shooting a game in the low seventies. Maroon Jimmy Goldsmith is number two man; Bill Welter is in the third place, Bob Sampson is number four, Al Folson number five, and Jim Lytle number six. The first two men, Topping and Goldsmith, are the sole Maroons who gained their letters last season.
Though untried as yet, the Chicago delegation will not be playing its first match Monday. It opens its season tomorrow at Olympia Fields in Chicago, where it faces Marquette.
The Irish linksmen will be after their second win Monday, after a most auspicious debut last Saturday when they outclassed the University of Illinois by the score of 20%-6%. The same- set of players who opened Saturday will start against the Maroons. Tommy Sheehan will be opposite Topping. Walt Hagen will line up against Goldsmith. Sophomore Sammy Nield will be after more records after accomplishing a course record in competition on Saturday with a 68. Al Donohue, Bill Schaller, and Dan Sheedy will see action .for Notre Dame.
Father George Holderith, coach of the Irish squad, will be in a position to determine with more certainty, the . strength of this year’s team, which, to most onlookers last Saturday, appeared to be excellent.
IRISH TENNIS SQUAD MEETS SPARTANS
By Jim Newland
After spectacular opening victories over Wabash, Detroit and Indiana, the Notre Dame tennis squad made final preparation to day to entertain a veteran Michigan State squad of
Tennxst Gregory His coach is satisfied.
netmen tomorrow. Coach Pedro de Landero and his men returned from the south today after matches with DePauw at Greencastle, and Kentucky at Lexington, and are in excellent condition for tomorrow’s match.
On Monday the Irish will be hosts to Western State, and on Wednesday they will travel to Chicago, the guests of the strong Maroon netmen, a team which hasn’t dropped a match since 1937.
Coach de Landero, expressing satisfaction over his team’s successful showing so far, will rely on veterans Bill Fay, Whit Gregory, Captain Simon, and sophomore Jack Joyce to carry the burden of the Irish hopes tomorrow. •
Michigan State and the two formidable opponents of next week have always given Notre Dame plenty of trouble on the courts and the coming engagements will be no exception, although the locals will be the favorites in tomorrow’s meet. •
APRIL 28, 1939
IS
BASEBALLERS TRIM CHICAGO. PURDUE
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
NETMEN TAKE THIRD STRAIGHT MATCH
There seems to be no stopping Coach Jake Kline’s Notre Dame baseball team these days. Just two weeks ago Saturday we saw the Irish lose their only game of the season to Northwestern in a haphazard, sloppy exhibition of baseball that did no credit to either club. Since setting out on their current victory string, however, the Klinemen have looked like one of the best teams ever to represent the school.
The two latest victims of the Irish were Chicago and Purdue. On Tuesday Kline took his team up to Chicago’s Midway to tackle the Maroons of the University of Chicago. The game turned out to be a free-scoring affair, with Notre Dame finishing on top after 12 innings, 9-7. Big Rex Ellis started in the pitcher’s box for the Irish and was good for seven and two-thirds innings, during which the Maroons gathered seven runs from his delivery. At this point Coach Kline put Tony Celia, pint-sized righthander into the game. It was Celia’s first intercollegiate test and the clever little junior turned in a performance that marked him a man to be watched in future games. For four and one-third innings, Celia set the Maroons down easily, allowing only two hits. Then his work was rewarded when the Pinelli boys pulled a brother act in the 12th, as Ray drove in brother Roy with the winning run. The Pinelli’s led the attack for the Irish, each getting two hits in six times at bat
Irish Beat Purdue
On Wednesday the Notre Dame ballhawks returned to home grounds to meet the Boilermakers of Purdue University, who are at present setting the pace in the Big Ten Conference. Coach Kline’s dependable Norv Hunthausen took over the hurling duties for the Irish and easily captured his third game in as many starts. Hunthausen pitched his usual masterful game, allowing Purdue only three scattered hits, but he had no lack of support from the Kline heavy artillery. The game was a scoreless deadlock for five innings, but after the smoke of a four-inning bombardment had cleared, Notre Dame trekked to the fieldhouse showers with a 9-0 victory in the bag.
Outstanding hitters for the Irish were Captain Joe Nardone and third baseman Chet Sullivan, each of whom got a home run.
Arthur Joseph Verhoestra is a “ballplayer’s ballplayer” and one of the few South Bend boys to win an “N.D.” monogram.
Coach Jake Kline thinks that Art is the smartest receiver that Notre Dame baseball clubs have had in recent years. Art is a baseball anomaly. He doesn’t possess a rifling
throwing arm, yet his snap throw, getaway speed, and deadly accuracy nip daring enemy baserunners.
Against Western State on Cartier Field last week Art picked a pair of Teachers off the bases and extricated Norv Hunthausen from a pitcher’s dilemma.
Later in the game Art came through on a hit-and-run and poked a basehit into right field behind the runner to give Notre Dame “a first down on the one.” Coach Kline, cognizant of Art’s open hitting stance that induces Verhoestra to pull his drives into left field, accused his catcher of “throwing” the pellet into right field. It was simply another situation in which the long and lean local athlete “x-x’d” the opposition.
Hunthausen and Rex Ellis, Coach Kline’s junior pitching twins, come down off the mound to whisper that Art makes an effective target, always an asset to pitching perfection. “Verhoestra is the best catcher I’ve ever thrown to,” Hunthausen admits, and “Hunt” has been around in a baseball way.
When Art is awarded his B.S. in Pharmacy in June, he already will have won his second monogram, and these possessions will in part determine his future road. For next to squatting behind the batter, Art cherishes nothing more than a traveler’s portfolio with a national pharmaceutical and biological house.
Saturday afternoon after the meet with Indiana had been played off and the tennis team had a chance to get their breath after three busy afternoons, Coach de Landero proudly remarked, “So far this year has been the finest any Notre Dame tennis team has enjoyed and if the boys keep their play at this level we’ll finish our year with a record far above all past years, but—”
Then the professor began to explain in a quieter voice the job that confronts the squad with Northwestern and Chicago as the foremost obstacles. Having met three teams without a day’s let-up and taken them very handily, losing only two matches out of the 21 played, the team was given a day’s rest before they picked up their racquets for three more meets this week.
Weather Hinders Drills
Working under the handicap of the local weather the team’s practice had been rather meager so that the overwhelming victory of Wabash surprised even the most optimistic. The 7-0 victory was as decisive as it sounds, the Irish losing but one set all afternoon and 6-1 and 6-2 sets being numerous on scorers’ card. This was the first varsity competition for the sophomores whom Coach de Landero has counted heavily on for this year and both Jack Joyce and Jack Walsh playing third and fifth respectively encountered little trouble with their opponents, fulfilling their advance promise.
Saturday’s meet with Indiana was slated as their first real test but when the final ball had been “put away” Captain Simon and his boys were on the right end of a 7-2 score. The “Scarlet Jackets” from Bloomington put up some stiff play but the N. D. team showed fine tennis, particularly Fay and Joyce winning in love sets, to better their down-state rivals. “Red” Bowler a junior showed great improvement and appears set to take over a singles spot. Results:
Wabash: Fay beat Mayberry, 1-6, 6-4, 6-3; Gregory beat Elliott, 6-0, 6-3; Joyce beat Bechtel, 6-2, 6-1; Simon beat Wahl 6-0, 6-1; Walsh beat Rynerson, 6-2, 6-2; Fay and Lewis beat Mayberry and Wahl, 6-1, 6-3; Bowler and Gottchalk beat Elliott and Bechtel. •
Detroit: Fay beat Goldsbury, 6-0, 6-2; Gregory beat O’Grady 6-1, 6-0; Joyce beat Rosmusser, 6-2, 7-5; Simon beat Mehair, 7-5, 6-0; Walsh heat (Continued on Page 18)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By Andy Wilson
KLINEMEN SHUT OUT WESTERN STATE
There is an interesting little story "behind last week-end’s track meet between Wisconsin and Marquette, in which the Hilltoppers beat the state university 70-61, by winning the mile relay. This defeat broke a five-year dual meet victory string for Wisconsin’s coach, Tom Jones. Coach Jones hates to lose probably more than any other coach in the midwest. Now his Wisconsin team in recent years has never been the best in this section of the country. Therefore in order to preserve a winning-streak over a period of years, it was necessary for Coach Jones to carefully select his opponents, omitting tough ones like Michigan, Ohio State, and Indiana, and sticking to the “weak sisters” in track, Minnesota, Iowa, Chicago, and —up till this season—Marquette.
This year, after the meet with the Hilltoppers had been scheduled, Coach Jones was horrified to find Marquette coming out with a well-balanced team — Beaudry in the sprints, Burke in the high jump, Stolberg in the pole vault, Shurilla in the broad jump and the hurdles, Carr in the 440, and three new sophomore stars in the hurdles and distance runs. Coach Jones, after figuring up comparative times and distances, decided he didn’t want to face Marquette at all. And so he asked Con Jennings, Hilltopper coach, to call off the meet; he wanted to send his men to the Kansas Relays instead, he said. But Coach Jennings didn’t see any reason for not having the meet, so it was held—and Coach Jones’s worst fears were realized.
Yet Coach Jones certainly tried hard enough to win, running Walter Mehl in three races, the half-mile, mile, and two-mile But even Mehl’s triple victory for 15 points couldn’t save that carefully-nurtured five-year string.
Biggest surprise of the meet was Marquette sophomore Foster’s victory in the high hurdles over Ed Smith of Wisconsin.... Smith was the center of the Wisconsin-Missouri controversy a few weeks ago. Missouri’s refusal—prudent and quite defensible, we feel—to let the colored hurdler compete before a hostile, prejudiced, unpredictable crowd was the pretext for Wisconsin’s withdrawal from the triangular meet between the Badgers, Missouri, and Notre Dame, scheduled for April 15.
On what we know at present, we would arrange the six best track
teams in this part of the country in the following order, according to their dual meet strength:
1.	Michigan, far out in front;
2.	Notre Dame,
3.	Indiana
4.	Ohio State,
5.	Marquette,
6.	Wisconsin, all very close.
We stopped in for a rehearsal of the Monogram Absurdities recently, and saw two of the seven scenes. Really, the show is so funny that the members of the cast in the audience, waiting for their turn, couldn’t help laughing at what was happening on the stage, though they’ve been seeing it steadily now for the past three or four weeks. Bud Faymonville, the hero, and Chick O’Brien, his “stooge,” did a good job with their parts, we thought, but in the scenes we sat through, we found most interesting the work of Bill Mahoney as a simpering, sneezing professor, and Steve Szumachowski, as a mad Russian who appears in various capacities throughout the show, sneering, shooting, yelling, completely disregarding stage convention.
Steve is particularly amazing for us and for all who know him. We had him typed for three and a half years as a rather quiet, serious fellow, not inclined much to loudness and display. Then he suddenly appeared as one of the looney “boxers” who put on a comic intermission-act at the Bengal Bouts And now in the Absurdities, he is all over the stage as Ratoff the Russian with a prize accent and Mischa Auer antics. If there were no one else in the show but Steve, we’d enjoy it. He’s a wow.
Very pleasant to see is the Irish tennis renaissance. With three consecutive victories, Fred Simon, Bill Fay, Jack Joyce, Whit Gregory, Johnny Walsh, Harold Bowler, and Joe Lewis are well on the way toward establishing one of the best records a Notre Dame tennis team has ever made.
Marshall Goldberg may shine once more on the college gridirons next fall, though Pitt opponents won’t have to worry about tackling the West Virginian Whirlwind. Goldberg is reported to be considering an offer as backfield coach at Long Island U.
As the. Irish basebailers gained their second victory of the season last Saturday, it appeared that at least one of Coach Jake Kline’s biggest worries was a thing of the past. The victory, by a 5-0 margin, was gained on Cartier Field over Western State College, and cause for Coach Kline’s joy was a certain right fielder from far off San Francisco, son of a famed major league umpire.
The fielder is Roy Pinelli, up to now considered the “lesser half” (as far as baseball ability is concerned) of this year’s outstanding brother act on the baseball team. Out of four trips to the plate, he got two singles and scored one run. Foremost in his defensive work was his back-handed stab of Hill’s smash to deep right in the eighth inning. It was a play that would have brought credit to any major leaguer.
Hunthausen Strikes Out Ten
Of the other Irish players, Norv Hunthausen and Ray Pinelli stood out as they gave their usual fine performances. The former held the opposition to eight hits, struck out ten, and issued but one base on balls. Ray Pinelli turned in a fine game at short and led the hitters with three singles in four tries. Two of these hits were turned into runs.
In the extra base hit column, Captain Joe Nardone of Notre Dame showed the way with his triple to the left field wall in the sixth inning. The visitors collected one double in' the second and another in the sixth.
Baily started on the mound for State and was relieved in the sixth by Timberman. Together, they allowed 12 hits, struck out seven, and issued only two passes.
A sequel to the 1938 World Series play occurred in the fifth. The Western State second baseman, Haire, turned for a quick throw to third and didn’t see his shortstop, Barber, several feet in front of him until it was too late. The ball struck Barber on the back of the head, knocking him unconscious. Though a bad injury was feared, the team physician pronounced that Barber would suffer nothing more than a bad headache.
The Irish showed great improvement over their form of the week previous when they lost to Northwestern. Coordination and that cer- ' tain, spark that can turn a mediocre team into a great one come only as the team gains experience by working as a unit.
APRIL 28. 1939
17
MONOGRAM SHOW IN LAST REHEARSALS
Monday night the cast of the 1939 Monogram Absurdities moved into its fourth week of intensive rehearsing. The show this year is built up around a Monogram Club election, with Bud Faymonville, Irish discus - throwing star, as the leading candidate in the “election.” Featured prominently in the show, of course, is that bevy of ponderous ladies, the graceful Irish Corps de Ballet, including Joseph DeFranco, Edwina Simonich, Theodosia Harvey, Bernadette Sheridan, Josephine Thesing, Jeanette O’Brien, Louisa Zontini, Thomasina Gallagher, and as premiere danseuse, Miss Wilhelmina Kerr.
The show—differing from the shows of past years by virtue of having a genuine plot—has everything: music, clever dialogue, crazy situations, offstage stooges, appropriate campus satire, and an expert cast. Producer Jimmy Quinn, who has seen five Monogram Shows, insists this is the best ever. Miss Marie Buczkowski, who has been creating the dances for the Absurdities for several years, says this year’s numbers are the most interesting she has ever devised.
Possible show - stealers are Jack Kelly and Bill Dunham, the school’s hottest drummers, Steve Szumachow-ski as Ratoff the Russian, Norvall Hunthausen as an anonymous tramp, Bill Mahoney as Mr. Smith, professor
VICTOR RECORDINGS
LAWRENCE TIBBETT
“Barbiere de Seviglia”—Largo al Factotum (Barber of Seville—Room for the Factotum) (Act 1). No. 7353— 12 inch record--------52.00
“None But the Lonely Heart”— Tschaikowsky. No. 1706—10 inch record 51-50
FERDE GROFE
Grand Canyon Suite—
Album C-18------------55-50
TOMMY DORSEY
■ “Our Love”—Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and Juliet"
“Only When You’re in My Arms”— from “The Story of Irene and Vernon Castle”
KATE SMITH and Mixed Chorus
f “God Bless America”
( “Star Spangled Banner”
RODIN' Inc.
132 N. Michigan Tel. 4-1184
Private Baths—Electric Victrolas Open Saturday evenings until 9 p. m.
of English, and Chick O’Brien as a campus campaign-manager. The show begins with a bit of pre-curtain insanity; then the thread of the plot is started with a Monogram Club meeting scene. Thence the story travels to St. Mary’s, then to a comprehensive exam back at N. D., then to a downtown dancing-school, then to a room in one of the residence halls, then to a downtown restaurant, final-
Prexy Faymonville
Star enters new magnitude.
ly ending at the Monogram Ball. The Linnets and their band, and Mike Mandjiak’s swingsters take care of the music portion of the show, while Phil MacFarland supplements the dancing of the Ballet with some fine tap numbers.
A capacity crowd is expected in Washington Hall on each of the four nights the show is to be presented— Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, May 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th. It was tentatively announced that Monday will be “St. Mary’s Night.” Tickets may be had at the Athletic Office, or from Bill Condon, 346 Sorin. They may be ordered in advance through any Monogram man. They are forty cents. All seats will be reserved. Downtown ticket centers are the Tribune offices, and Sonne-born’s Sport Shop.
Chicago Elections
Dan Ryan, president of the Chicago Club, has announced that elections of new officers will take place in the Library Basement, on Thursday evening, May 4th, at 8 p.m.
Candidates for President are, Tom Hosty and Gene Toolan; Vice-President, Babe Ziggenhorn and Tad Harvey; Sacretary, Jim Merrion and Gus Ryan; Treasurer, Bud Lenihan and Tom Brennan.
Prominent in the cast of the University of Santa Clara’s seventh annual Passion Play are some of Coach Buck Shaw’s varsity football players. Among the grid greats turned thespian were: Bill Bruce, Jim Coughlan, E. Fisher, and Steve Cardwell. This smacks a bit of the Shane Leslie idea, “Hamlet in the Notre Dame Stadium.”
MAKE FLYNN SOCIAL WORK DIRECTOR
Major changes calling for an enlarged scope for graduate work in the social service program at the University of Notre Dame were announced by the authorities of the University.
The announcement coincided with, the appointment of Prof. Frank T. Flynn by the president of the University, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., as director of the graduate program in social work.
The changes announced include extensive revision of courses, new field work facilities which call for increased cooperation with South Bend social workers, and new courses of studies. The new director stated that the department will meet all the requirements of the American Association of Schools of Social Work for Type I schools.
The new courses to be added include one in social insurance which will take cognizance of the changes' in this field which have occurred during the past few years. Two other new courses to be offered in the Fall Term are in public welfare administration and medical information.
New Field Program Practical
The field work will consist of students spending approximately fifteen hours a week in supervised work with actual cases dealt with by major social work organizations. The new field work program, will bring the students in close contact with a variety of social problems, enabling them to make practical application of their background in social science theory.
Professor Flynn, the new director, is a native of Pawtucket, R. I., and was graduated from Providence College, Providence, R. I. in 1929. He received his master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1931 and worked as a graduate student and assistant at the University of Chicago’s School of Social Service Administration in 1932 and 1933. In July, 1937, he was appointed to a four year term as member of the board of trustees of the Indiana State prison by Governor Clifford M. Townsend.
Prof. Flynn is the co-author of Social Problems, written in collaboration with Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology at the University. The book has been highly acclaimed as a valuable document on the social service sciences.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC WEEK EVENTS MERIT PRAISE
The South Bend Symphony concert tonight, featuring the pianist, Percy Grainger, and the concert by the Notre Dame band Sunday evening will bring to an end the most successful Music Week in campus history.
Beginning, appropriately enough, with the Gregorian mass by the Moreau choir last Sunday, the program went through the Linnet concert, featuring the amazing Novachord; the concert by Lawrence Tibbett, winch is reviewed in this issue by William Mooney in his Music Notes column; Glee Club recital, Wednesday night; Student recital Thursday; tonight’s symphony concert; and the conclusion Sunday by the band
Next week’s Scholastic will carry a detailed account of the events of the week. As this issue goes to press it is safe to say that regardless of what comes after, the University officials in charge of the affair have done a wonderful job. The programs presented to date have been of a caliber hard to equal and almost impossible to surpass.
The band program for Sunday follows :
I.	Marche Francaise—“Father
of Victory” -----------------Ganne
2.	March (in English, Irish, Scotch
and French-Canadian theme)
“Alouette” ■--------------Goldman
3.	March—"A Frangesa”--------Casta
4.	Southern Echoes --------Goldman
5.	Novelty Concert March—
“Maria, Mari”Alford
6.	Mother Goose Medley------Goldman
7.	Jubilee ----------------Goldman
S. Ave Maria____—-------------Gounod
9.	Our Glorious Emblem-------Be Luca
10.	Victory March---------------Shea
Marine Corps Exams
The Reserve Platoon of the Marine Corps will receive applications from candiates for their Summer Camp. Courses in leadership and other related subjects are included on the program of the encampment. Information and application blanks can be secured at the Registrar’s Office; George Haggerty, 117 Walsh, or George Wallace, 215 Dillon. Major Smith and his assistants interviewed and examined all prospective entrants at the University Infirmary, 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Thursday, April 27.
Attend Teachers’ Meet
Last week Professors Jose C. Corona, Gilbert J. Coty, Philip H. Riley, William M. Schuyler, John P. Turley, and George J. Wack attended the Saturday sessions of the Twenty-second Annual Meeting of The Association of Modern Language Teachers of the Central West and South held in the Drake Hotel in Chicago.
“LAWYER” ISSUED
(Continued from Page 6)
Frank Thayer, members of the faculty of the University of Wisconsin journalism school. The rule, allowing judges to clamp down if the publicity has “reasonable tendencies” to prejudice the administration of justice, enables the court to control the power of the press. In an article entitled “Fair Comment in Literary Criticism” James L. C. Ford, graduate student at Wisconsin and formerly literary editor of the United Press Association, points out the extent to which a critic may go in belitting a piece of literature without becoming the victim of a law suit by the author.
EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORS
WILSON
SPORTING GOODS
SAM SNEAD, GULDAHL and SARAZEN CLUBS Reasonably Priced 35c Todd Balls..$2.75 doz. 50c Wilson Revoltas...,$4.00 doz.
Tennis Racquets _.„$1.85 up Tennis Balls....3 for $1.25
Racquet Presses....59c
•
See Us before you buy!
THE "RECO" STORE
113 N. Main South Bend
fLY..
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot's license.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES—$3 per half hour lesson. Guaranteed solo, $45.00.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Bendix Field Phone 3-2455
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
TENNIS TEAM WINS
(Continued from Page 15)
Grow, 6-2, 6-1; Simon and Gregory beat O’Grady and Goldsbury, 6-0, 6-1; Bowler and Lewis, beat Kolch and Courmartin, 6-0, 6-1.
Indiana: Fay beat Haynie, 6-0, 6-0; Kingdom beat Gregory 6-8, 6-1, 6-4; Joyce beat Chiddister, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3; Blankery beat Simon 8-6, 6-3; Bowler beat Eldridge 6-1, 2-6, 6-1; Walsh beat Schling 6-0, 6-0; Fay and Joyce beat Kingdon and Haynie, 7-5, 2-6, 6-4; Gregory and Simon beat Chiddister and Blankerty, 6-3, 6-2; Bowler and Gottshalk beat Eldridge and Schilling, 6-2, 8-6.
Bob McLeod, All-American halfback at Dartmouth last season has turned to a different type of football. Bob will start at left wing for the Chicago Rugby Club in a game with New York this week.
*31"	'	™'	*- '	"	"gw

ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
SHAMPOO and HAIRCUT SHOE SHINE MANICURE
•
DODDRIDGE
BARBER SHOP
124 W. Washington Street
Don't Worry...
about Senior Ball week-end!
The BAVARIAN ROOM is the answer to what to do and where to go for GOOD FOOD.
La Salle Hotel
APRIL 28. 1939
19
ADD FACILITIES TO BIOLOGY BUILDING
The lecture room in the Biology Building used by Rev. F. J. Wenninger, C.S.C., is being equipped with a new aid to visual education. The room is at present fitted with facilities for both movies and still projection.
On the latter is a device which permits the lecturer to operate the projector from his platform. In slide projection a mirror is placed in front of the projector which faces the audience. The mirror is placed at such an angle that it reflects the image on the screen. The principle is, that by means of the mirror the image is projected over a great enough distance to enable it to be enlarged to a sufficient degree whereas if it were projected from the platform without the aid of the mirror it would be too small.
The projector is also capable of projecting opaque objects such as photographs, pages from books, etc. In such work an additional mirror is required.
Details are not fully completed as yet. It is probable that the mirror will be hung from the ceiling instead of the present arrangement which obscures the view of several students in the front rows.
The work is an adaptation by Prof. James A. Reyniers, who designed the Biology Building.
“Heads or Tails” . . .
With NOTRE DAME MEN it’s always
HILLr*
for the Best
5c — HAMBURGERS — 5c PIES
CHILE
317 North Michigan Street Just north of So. Shore Station
“THE PERFECT CUB”
(Continued from Page 12) ator was not the man to leave his audience in despair. He said in closing that every cloud has a silver lining and that we should pin our hopes on the Great White Father in Washington. It was a brilliant performance, but certainly a nerve-racking experience too?
“Now, Sir, you’ve heard my work and know what I can do. Is there any present opening on the staff that I can fill? I promise you I’ll learn all the bromides, cliches, and stock phrases there are.... anything to better myself and make my style equal to that of your regular staff members. Will you give me a chance, Sir?”
“My boy, you’re hired on the spot. I seldom praise new men, but let me say that you have as many bromides at your fingertips now as some of my seasoned staff reporters who have been with me for years. Will you promise me just one thing?”
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO
NOW!
The ^Monogram
on Schaeffer Pen and Pencil Sets
Complete color selection Variety of pen points
GOLD MONOGRAM on the pocket clip NO EXTRA COST
Sets._____$5.00 to $15.00
Single Pens.. .$2.75 to $10.00
Notre Dame BOOKSTORE
“Sure! Anything!”
“Promise me then that you’ll never use an original phrase without my approval, because if you do the hoys from Slip, our campus rival, will be after you. Do you understand what I mean?”
“I’ll promise what you ask, Mr. Editor; but I do not understand why the boys from Slip will be after me!”
“That’s all I want to know! You can start working here tomorrow morning.”
SAFE
South Shore Line. Service
• Save Time, and save money, too! It actually costs less to travel the South Shore Line way than to operate a car — and you skip all the annoyances of driving in traffic and parking. Trains every hour mean convenience when you start; safe speed all the way saves time on the wav.
- /
CALL
MR. C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan St.
PHONE 3-3111
for more information about
Fares and Service
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE « SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FATHER MURRAY TRIP STORY CONTINUED
Last iceek’s SCHOLASTIC carried an account of Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., and his journey to Alaska for anthropological research. Believing that the account is of interest to the student body, the SCHOLASTIC presents a further history of the expedition.
Fly to Nome
After finishing their work at Rampart Rapids the two anthropoligists drifted down the Yukon on their make-shift raft for about 40 miles to the village of Tanana, where they were able to get a wireless message to the station operated by the Northern Commercial Company at Fairbanks, incidentally a concern which is managed by the father of George J. . Preston of Dillon Hall. In this way they made arrangements for an airplane which flew them to Nome where they chartered a small boat to St. Lawrence Island, Bering Sea, about 40 mile from the coast of Siberia. Here they engaged eight Eskimos with whom they spent the rest of the summer digging up many valuable artifacts, some pre-Columbian, from the frozen ground. The report on this phase of the summer’s work will be published later, probably by the University of Alaska.
The present report of Dr. Rainey also describes the anthropologicial research being carried on in connection with the hydraulic gold mining operations in the vicinity of Fairbanks where the bones of many extinct species, such as the mammoth, mastodon, saber-toothed tiger, lion and camel have been found, but as yet no implements of human manufacture which can be said to be definitely associated with these Pleistocene mammals.
The authorities at the University of Alaska hope that by teaching their students of mining engineering the fundamentals of Alaskan archaeology, many valuable findings throwing light upon the early settlement of the continent will be preserved, since it is believed that Asiatics invaded Alaska about 15,000 years ago while this area was still occupied by mammoths. Arrangements are now being made for the shipment of a large tusk of a Pleistocene mammoth, discovered by Father Murray in the frozen silt of one of the placer mines near Fairbanks, from the University of Alaska to the Notre Dame Museum. Father Murray will incorporate much of his Alaskan material in his forthcoming book on Prehistoric Man.
SPRING GAME TOMORROW (Continued from Page 13) time since Easter that they haven’t: Bud Kerr and Jolin Kelly at ends; Tom Gallagher and Tad Harvey at tackles; Joe DeFranco and John Gu-banich at guards; Al Mooney or John McIntyre at center; Steve Sitko at quarter; Bill McGannon and Lou Zontini at the halves; and Joe Thes-ing at full. These men will kick-off at two o’clock (CST), but before the program closes (and we warn you to bring your lunch), a large group of new faces will be seen on Stadium turf for the varsity. Those getting a blow will be, in the backfield: Pete Marko and Steve Bagarus — local boys; Jackie Hayes from Kansas; Bob Hargrave— from Evansville; Bernie Crimmins—Louisville; Joe Prokop— Cleveland; Chuck McNeill and Joe Postupack — Pa.; Nick Pepelnjak — Minnesota; Jim Hackner—Wisconsin; and John Hogan—New York.
Followers of line play will want to watch: two more local boys, Joe Lai-ber and John Kovatch; Herky Bereo-los and Ken Moser—Indiana; E. Stel-maszek, Marty O’Reilly, and Joe Coatar of Chicago; Bill Ford—Wisconsin ; Bob Maddock — California; Jim Brutz — Ohio; Cliff Brosey and Paul Lillis from New York; and Clair Rively of Altoona. Pa. By the time
CONFIDENTIALLY...
You can't go wrong with any ARROW shirt. . . .
For the assurance of being comfortably correct wear an ARROW
Dress Shirt_______________$2.50
Collars  ..............     .50

you’ve seen all these boys and 40 or 50 more unsung and unheralded heroes, Mr. Connolly will have the tables set for supper. But it’s going to be a long and interesting afternoon, so remember this is your last chance to pre-view the ’39 Irish before they go against Purdue next fall, and its absolutely the last showing of the ’38 varsity until the Monogram chorus capers onto the stage.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
APRIL 28. 1939
21
MARIONETTE SHOW
(Continued from Page 5)
operator must move some part of the figure’s body This catches the eye of the audience and concentrates their attention on him. Otherwise, with several figures on the stage, the listener would not know which one was talking.
That according to the operators, even the puppets have their “off” and “on” just like the Broadway stars. “Just look at that,” said one of the puppeteers when Jim Hawkins made that horrible leap into the barrel. “He just won’t act tonight. He has a swelled head from the applause at the afternoon show.”
That marionettes are one of the oldest forms of entertainment known. The Indians for centuries made shadow pictures with miniature figures, and the North African tribes worked with opaque black dolls thrown into relief against a screen.
That the stage on which the marionettes act is merely a real stage in miniature. It can be completely erected by the four in the troupe in 45 minutes.
That as many as ten puppets can be on the stage at once. Those that the operators do not hold are allowed to hang from sticks that are bolted to either side of the catwalks and reach out above the stage.
That 20 years ago marionettes were a novelty; now, because of Tony Sarg and other enthusiasts, they are being treated as a branch of the theater, and schools and colleges have added courses in puppet construction to their course of studies.'
pOR sheer exhilaration and well-being you’ll delight in Arrow’s new formal attire.
. Born with a royal touch the ARROW LIDO dress shirt is a thing of beauty, carefully tailored and authentically styled ' in the new narrower bosom. Even suspender loops and a trouser tab are provided to keep the shirt well behaved and always in place. If you wear tails or single breasted dinner coat—LIDO is your shirt. $3 up. '
The formal Arrow white ties are superb—self knotted,, yet launderable. The butterfly type is the one preferred by I most men. §1.
Arrow wing collars . . . HOST, PROM and UDO, are best sellers. 35c.
AKKOW
DRESS SHIRTS
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. . South Bend, Ind.
22
PHILOSOPHY DISPUTATION
(Continued from Page 3)	[
i
Romberg will seek to establish the j validity of the thesis by three sub- I ordinate theses:	i
I. Existence and nature of the Intellect. II. Proper and adequate object of the Intellect. III. Ability of the human intellect to attain the proper object.
Attacking the arguments as ar-guentes will be: Ted Frericks, Irving Klister, and George Haithcock. This group will raise objections against the thesis and the formal defender will strive to clear up their difficulties.
After the formal objections, the audience will enter into a public discussion of the proposition. Peter Repetti, informal defeddens, will answer the questions of those in audience.
Concluding the night’s proceedings, Father McDonald will give a few remarks on the material that has been presented during the discussion.
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
WHY DO COLLEGE
MEN PREFER
PALM BEACH
SUITS AND SLACKS?
M for the ten best statements of 50^ words or less answering the above ques-tion, the Goodall Company will award M $25O
Visit your local Palm Beach store. See the new suits, slacks and formals. Ask the salesman to show you their unique features. Then address —to the Contest Editor, Goodall Company, Cincinnati, Ohio—a statement not over 50 words long, telling what specific features of the new 1939 Palm Beach suits and slacks appeal to you as a college man. The ten best answers will be rewarded as follows:
FIRST AWARD.................  $1OO
NOTRE DAME MEN
We invite you to enjoy GENUINE
ITALIAN SPAGHETTI 30c
Delicious Meat or Mushroom Sauce and Real Parmesan Cheese
"SINCE 1914 —FINE FOOD”
Strafigon Restaurant
114 N. Michigan Street
SECOND AWARD........... $50
THIRD AWARD............ $25
FOURTH AWARD........... $15
SIX AWARDS EACH OF .... $10
DUPLICATE AWARDS IN THE EVENT OF TIES

Only men duly enrolled in a recognized American college or University are eligible. Letters must be postmarked not later than May 31—and must contain your college, class and name of your favorite clothier Winners will be notified by mail after June 15th, so be sure to state your mailing address as of that date. Selections by Contest Editor will bind company and contestants. Entries, contents and ideas therein become property of
GOODALL COMPANY. CINCINNATI, OHIO
APRIL 28, 1939
NEW BEST SELLERS IN LIBRARY
9
Latest additions to the University library include several fictional and non-fictional best-sellers, such as Paul Osborne’s dramatic hit, On Borrowed Time, and Mrs. Woodrow Wilson’s informative autobiography, My Memoirs.
Edna Ferber, noted for Cimarron and Showboat submits her autobiography, A Peculiar Treasure. Dorothy Day gives her account of a young Communist’s conversion to the Christian Front.
Pantisocrasy, a literary movement popular in the early nineteenth century, is treated by Katherine Burton in her record of life at Brook Farm, and titled Paradise Planters. Mrs. Burton is best remembered as the author of Sorrow Built a Bridge, (a splendid biography of Rose Hawthorne Lathrop).
A. C. Gryzesinski portrays life in a dictator nation in his current com-
the SUMMER SESSION
begins with white shoes— for cool comfort in the hot
Crosby Square's authentic reproductions of costly custom made shoes will satisfy you.
mentary, Inside Germany. James Bemhart discusses The Vatican as a World Power. A political treatise on party machines is the work of Post
They head the quality class
This Most Spectacular Hat Value By John B. Stetson. They^re $5 Featured at SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Tyrol ...to Stetson...to You
master James Farley. Msgr. Fulton Sheen’s latest series of essays on current social and economic problems explains the Catholic viewpoint.
Nationally known NETTLETONS - “America’s most popular Fine shoe” — two tone and sports shoes...................
...the country hat they make tweed suits for...the Stetson Tyrolean.lt’s rugged...good Iooking...and so authentically Alpine that you can bring it to class as a case history in international relations.
120 S. Michigan
STETSON
*5 to MO
CARLOS f^EASUR}
At the New York World’s Fair
.. .Captain NANCY LOWRY and her Guides will show millions their way around.
And at the Fair... or wherever you go . . . Chesterfield’s right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos is showing millions the way to more smoking pleasure.
When you try them you*ll know why Chesterfields give smokers just what they want ,-g in a cigarette... more refreshing mildness ... better taste... more pleasing aroma.
__ they Satisfy
V>hesterfield
... the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos .	• • they’re miider and taste better
. Liggett&Myess.Tobacco Co. _	.	_ _ .•<-	.