

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and previews, Oµt of Bounds and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
·campus Life sto~ies to keep you informed of what's µappening on campus. Reme~ber: If you see news happening ... you're 
_-probably.reading Scholastic! 
-If you don't have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give y·our parents a subscription! 
~-------------------------------------­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
. Address: ______________ 
City: ______ State: ___ •zipCode: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x _ years,= $ ___ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

CONTENTS 



NOTRE DAME 1SSTUDENT MAGAZINE 

2 Editor's Notes 
3 Editorial . 

7 Campus Watch 22 On Other Campuses 23 Week in .Distortion 24 Final Word 
4 Robbing the Rich·. 6 Who's Who 

8 . Just Called to Say ~-.. 10 A Clean Bill of H·ealth-. ·· ·· 

14 Set for Success · 

17 Out of Bounds 18 ·A Dream Realized . 20 ·The Age ofInnocence 
Above: Junior Ryan Leahy, grandson of the legendary Frank Leahy, joins other students in speaking about their .. ·experiences of being children of alumni. See page 8. Cover photo courtesy ofNotre Dame Photographic 
FROM THE EDITOR 
On October 4, 19'11\ South Bend witnessed its first world premiere ever 
with the opening of i<nute Rockne -All American at four area theaters. 
The Morris Civic Auditorium, known then as the Palace Theater, was the 
center of opening-night activities. Last night, South Bend hosted another. 
world premiere at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Rudy. 
When Knute Rockne-All American opened with some 10,000 people 
in attendance, the streets of downtown South Bend were filled, as seen on 
today's cover. But the celebration was more widespread than a simple 
photograph can possibly explain. 

The state of Indiana helped to celebrate the movie that celebrated a Notre Dame coach who became a national hero. The week of September . 29 to October 5 was dedicated to Rockne's memory. Notre Dame cancelled 
Saturday morning classes in honor of Rockne Week. 
And the university went so far as to break a 99-year-old tradition. For 
the first time, women were admitted to a public banquet sponsored by or 
given in cooperation with the university. That's right, women were 
admitted to a Rockne Week banquet on October 3, 1940. 
Rockne's mother, Mrs. Martha Rockne, also attended the premiere. It 
was the first movie the 8 I-year-old ever saw a motion picture. 
Now, it's not likely that theRudypremiere will have the same memorable . affect on the campus (after all, our classes were not cancelled), but the 
premiere was something no one should have missed. How often does a 
world premiere occur in South Bend? Only twice, so far. 
Scott Johnson attended a sneak preview of Rudy and shares his insights 
with us on page 20. 

ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 

Campus Life offers a special alumni package, including a piece on 
students who are children of Notre Dame alumni and a second story on 
how 1993 graduates perceive the campus when returning for the first 
time. Also, for all the parents visiting for parents' weekend, there's a 
story on some creative care packages that students have received. 
Welcome back "Out of Bounds;'' For those of you who are not familiar 
with last year's popular weekly column, turn to the.Entertainment section 
and check it out. 

In News, there is a profile of a man often heard but not seen, Sergeant 
Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police. There is also a story on illegal 
T-shirt sales. 
Enjoy the issue. 
Scholastic is publishedwetkly throughout the school year except 
during ex,unination Rnd vacatiott periods at tht University of Notre DRmt, Notre Damt, JN, 46556 and printed at Tiu Papers, 
Inc, Milford, IN 46542: The subscripti01t rat, is $25.00!ytar and back issuts are available at $1.25 /copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not ntassarily rtprtstnt the opinions ofth.t entire editorial board of 
Scholastic or of th, University of Notr, Dam,, Its administra­twn, faculty or students. Editorials sign,d Scholastic represent tht opinwn of tht majority of tht ,x,cutiv, editorial board. 
Manuscripts a,ewtlcomt. Allunsolicititdmattrials become the 
property ofScholastic. · 
Copyright 1993ScholasticMagazint. All rights reserved. Rtpro• ductwn in whol, orin partwithoutwritttn p;rmission isprohib­

ittd. 
utters to Scholastic must be typed and include tht writ,r's name, 
address and phont numbtr, Univtrsity studtnts should inclUdt thtir ytar in school and colltgt. Faculty tntmbtrs should include 
th,ir dtpartm,nt. All l,tttrs must b, signtd. Nam,s will be 
withhtld upon rtqutst in certain instances. 
Scholastic rtStrvts the right to reject l,ttus that are libtlous or obscen,by th, laws oftht Unittd Statts. Scholastic also will edit for copyfittlng, grammatical or sptlling trroi-s and Scholastic 
style. Uecause ofspact, Scholastic cannot print all lttttrs rtceived, 
Address all corrtspondence to : The Editor 
Scholastic I..aFortunt Cent.tr 
Notre Dame, IN 46.'i.56 


EDITORIAL 




The Attitude of SILENCE 
What Are-They Scared Of? 
I.hate my job," a university employee told a Scholastic staff member. "That man makes my life miserable." 
This employee spoke of years of harassment. This person also spoke of fear. Trying to raise three 
children on a meager salary and wanting to stay at Notre Dame for help in financing their education, 
the employee can't risk losing this job. This person is terrified of unemployment. 
The employee is also afraid of bringing the story into the open. A person who held the same -university position earlier was vocal about the harassment and was silenced and dismissed, the employee said. "I can't risk that happening to me." Recently, this person did speak to an administrator about the problem. Nothing was done, the employee said. 
Scholastic is neither alleging nor implying that this person was harassed. However, the story 
makes a remarkable statement about the way the university is perceived by those intimately 
connected with its operation. 

Earlier, when Scholastic examined the issue of parietals, several employees of the office of Student 
Affairs retracted their original comments. 
Last issue, when Scholastic reported on the policy change concerning initiation rites, several 
rectors directly affected by the change refused to comment. 
Last year, when Scholastic investigated the issue of research and teaching, five faculty members 
refused to comment on what should be a relatively non-controversial issue. 
Scholastic is aware of several examples of theft and harassment that they are unable to investigate 
further because sources refuse to comment, even under the condition of anonymity. 
Why.are people afraid to comment? Whyis someone who believes he/she is being wronged afraid 
to look to the administration for help? Furthermore, when a report is brought to the university's 
attention, why is no action taken? Is the fear of scandal so great that we have to cover up rather than 
address real problems? 

Scholastic is concerned with the attitude of silence at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is now ranked as the 25th best university in the nation. By the very virtue of its 
reputation, one would expect that the University of Notre Dame would foster and encourage an open 
environment for discussion. One would also expect that people who work for the university ­
people who dedicated a sizable portion of their lives to the university -could work in an· 
environment where they would not be afraid of speaking up against injustice. The reality is that 
people are suspicious and distrustful of the administration. 
Scholastic is concerned that there is no effective mechanism for employees and administrators of 
the university to protect themselves. 
Bureaucracies, by their very nature, attract corruption and abuse of the system. Problems within 
Notre Dame are not unique to this institution. However, the perception by people connected with 
the university is that they are not free to speak openly. They arc afraid that instead of investigating 
reports of corruption, the university will silence them. they are afraid that if they express a 
controversial opinion they will not be tenured, or will not be promoted within the system. They are ·afraid of losing their jobs for taking a stand on an issue and believing in it. 
Scholastic is concerned that an environment that purports to foster and encourage the development of values is not leading by example. By allowing the attitude of fear to exist, the administration is opting for control of rather than diversity of opinion. 
-Scholastic 
NEWS 


Student entrepreneurs build an industry by peddling bootleg garments behind the backs ofthe bookstore and Student Alfairs 
the university without proper authoriza-the profits from the sales of Notre Dame to 
by Robert J. O'Brien III 

tion," said Kirk. · students, alumni and other fans goes toward Protecting Notre Dame's trademarks is financing our main goal -education," KirkW hether they criticize your favorite noted. rival or advertise your favorite li­According to this theory, every shirt sold quor, they are not supposed to exist. They illegally by students or other persons essen­

Students claim that 

are the ever-present and always popular tially takes money out of the bookstore's illegal (that is, not university printed and they buy the shirts for coffers. However, the bookstore refused to sold) T-shirts; and they provide the students release estimates of losses that they sustain who sell them with quite a profitable indus­the unique messages, as a result of the increasing sales of illegal try. materials. Thedirectorof the bookstore also 

most of which would

The craze for T-shirts with stinging mes­declined to comment on this matter. sages took off in 1989 when Notre Dame Any merchandise, clothing or otherwise,

most certainly not be 

was involved in a grudge match with the is considered illegal also if it is sold on the University ofMiami and a national champi­licensed by student campus without a permit or if the vendors onship was at stake. "That game was the pedal their wares door to door in the resi­beginning of the 'Catholics vs. Convicts' activities, which rules dence halls. · era, and it spawned a whole series of shirts "Although the problem with sales of ille­aimed at insulting the other team," said whether items for sale gal merchandise has remained steady within William Kirk, the assistant vice president the last five years, it has not become a greater for residence life. The sale of illegal mate­are in generally good . problem because enforcement in the halls rials has increased somewhat in the last four has done relatively well keeping the sales in

taste. 

years, but it has not yet become a major check," said Kirk. The office ofresidential problem, according to Kirk. _ life holds the responsibility for curbing the 
The official university policy on indepen­very important because if they are not . trade withiri the dormitories, and it delegates dently manufactured and sold T-shirts is guarded,the university could lose the right to that authority to the individual rectors. simple: They are illegal. "A T-shirt, or any market them exclusively, according to Ki:rk. The rectors, in tum, rely on their RAs. · other piece of merchandise, is considered . "The loss of this source of income would be "My response to sales in the dorms without illegal if it carries any trademarked logo of a blow to the university's finances because a permit is to ask the offenders to leave the building, and then I call security so that no problems are caused in other dorms," commented Father Terry Linton, C.S.C., rector of Grace Hall. "The RAs are very important, both on and off duty, in spotting illegal sales in action. I tell them to take the same steps I do, and they report to me any problems which they encounter," Father t.inton said. Only once in a while are unlicensed vendors caught in the act, ac­
answer is not too difficult to find: It revolves solely around financial matters, One -vendor said, "I needed some money, and it's very prof­itable." Indeed it is. That same student sold one batch of three hundred T-shirts at ten dollars each and netted a profit of fifteen hundred dol­lars that he split between himself and his partner. 
According to those who sell the shirts, an operation such as this is very easy to set up. All a prospective entrepreneur needs to do is find a number of shirts." 
Sometimes the company already has a design that the student can use. However they do it, the vendors can make back double their original investment, according to one student involved in the business. 
The sales techniques used by the shirt dealers are necessarily primitive but effec­tive. For obvious reasons they are unable to advertise. Instead, they rely on word-of­
mouth and the illegal 

cording to Father 
door-to-door sales in the Linton. residence halls. Two students who The contraband shirts 
· sell illegal merchandise are very popular did not seem to think amongst the student that the security is all populations of both that tight. "The worst Notre · Dame and Saint thing that ever hap­Mary's College. "Saint pened to me was that I Mary's is a big seller," got kicked out ofa dorm claimed one vendor.. once when I was selling "I've bought too door-to-door," one of many of those shirts to the sellers stated.· count," commented jun­
"Not everything that ior Tom Hoban. is sold is illegal; many According to the stu­things are permissibleif · · dent sellers, the sales they are first approved should not compete by the Office of Student with the bookstore. Activities and by the · "Students buy our shirts manager of the book~ because they have de­store," said Kirk. ''In signs that are different most cases; these sorts from what you get in the of items are sold by a bookstore," said one of group or a dorm for the underground ven­fund-raising purposes; dors. Students claim rarely will a student be that they buy the shirts allowed to pursue a ven° for the unique mes­ture for personal profit:" sages, most of which 
The main criteria for would most certainly approval of indepen­not be licensed by stu­dent items sporting a · dent activities, which university logo are the "' rules whether items for amount of "benefit to iii a sale are in generally the students, the unique­i good taste, according to ness of the service to be ~ Kirk. 
offered, and the cred­
ibility of the organiza­
tion involved to deliver 
a quality product," ac­. cording to Kirk: One might ask why 
students are involved in the T-shirt trade  company that prints shirts; "It's as easy as open­ 
when it is clearly illegal and harshly  ing the Yellow Pages," said one seller.  "Just  
punished by the administration.  The  bring them a design and the money for a certain  

As the season draws 

closer to the much Students check out a T-shirt advertising "Notre Dame -King of Schools." vaunted match up be­Selling such merchandise is deemed illegal by the university. tween Florida State and 
the Fighting Irish, look 

out for new arid -im­proved illegal T-shirts coming to a door near you-it is a sure thing that Student Affairs will be looking out for them, too. . 
NEWS 




Sergeant
Who's Who: 
Tim McCarthy 
-A closer look at Notre Dame's man behind the fourth quarter safety announcements: He doesn't mean to needle you, but he hopes you get the point 
by James C. McNamee 

Asilence unlike any other silence engulfs the stadium. There are no whispers. There are no murmurs. 1magine the noise that would be made if every human being attending the day's game were bound and gagged. This is true silence. Newcomers look up, half expecting to see the last faint traces of smoke from some mushroom cloud lingering in the sky, signaling the final apocalypse. Oldtimers just smile know­ingly. "May I have your attention please ... this is Sergeant Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police." 1993 marks the thirty~third season that Tim McCarthy has delivered his fourth quarter safety quips to all those attending Notre Dame home football games. He has witnessed four Notre Dame National Cham­pionship victories. He has survived the careers of four head coaches. Sergeant Tim McCarthy first joined the Indiana State Police in 1953. "I was asked to make the safety announcements at the last two games of the 1960 season. While doing these games, I noticed that the crowd did not pay particular attention to the announce­ments." Whether inspired by divine inter­vention or sheer brilliance, McCarthy de0 cided it was time to change that. "Remember, the automobile may have replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon." · McCarthy is constantly barraged with re­quests to tape record announcements for high schools and Notre Danie clubs across the United States. Even other universities, such as Indiana University, Purdue and the University of North Carolina have asked. 
"My goal was never to be silly, but to get their auention." And he did. He continued to simultaneously inform and entertain fans for the remainderofthe twenty-five years he served with the Indiana State Police. Even after being appointed Porter County Sheriff in 1979, McCarthy still made the forty-five minute game day trek from his home north of Valparaiso to the stadium in ·order to impart his pearls of wisdom. 
McCarthy is proud of the job that has been done to decrease post-game accidents. "For 

Officer McCarthy in 1961, preparing to deliver his very first safety quip. 
the amount of traffic [it] has coming through here, [Notre Dame] .has an outstanding safety record." 
During his thirty-three seasons, spectacu­lar games haven't been the only things McCarthy has witnessed. One time he was in the box· with photographer Dutch Hennings. -"I saw some kids rifling cars in the parking lot. Dutch snapped a picture, which they used to help apprehend the young culprits." McCarthy always makes sure to keep an eye out for any suspicious lookil}g activities. . 
Rarc.ly does McCarthy repeat a quip, al­

. . 
though he has accumulated about five pages of phrases that have been used already. "I'm completely shocked when I repeat one from five or ten years before and someone tells me after the gamethat they rememberit." When he thinks of a new one, McCarthy jots it down as soon as possible. Before being used in a game,. the joke must pass the 'wife and kids test.' With their approval, he writes down his introduction along with the joke on a note card to be read at the game. In 
• McCarthy's viewpoint, it is harder to write an introduction than the actual stinger since it needs to have a good lead in to make sense. 
McCarthy still gets nervous. "I'm scared 
to death of the quiet.'' But the silence is his 
ally. Without it, his message would be lost 
forever in the myriad of sound waves that 
reverberate throughout the stadium. "Some­
times I find it difficult to geta quiet moment 
in the fourth quarter, especially when there 
are two bands playing. [Announcer] Mike 
Collins and I have to•time it just right by 
paying close attention to what the bands, 
cheerleaders and teams are doing. We have 
the most trouble when Notre Dame is play­
ing USC because they do that 'duh, duh, 
duh' thing after almost every play."·· 
Few people have had the unique opportu­
nity of watching thirty athree years of Notre 
Dame football· from .the press box.. "The 
spirit, fervor and undying loyalty. to Notre 
Dame that was present in the beginning is 
still there. When I can; Ialways step out of 
the box so that I can be outside with the 
crowd and the noise -it is different here." 
· Teams, fans and bands have left, returning w_ their regular existences. Sergeant McCarthy makes his way from the press box, out gate 14, to his car. "As long as they keep asking, I'll keep on doing it." . . 
NEWS COMMENTARY 



CampusWatch 
-_-. _ -__ --BY THE-G.IP·PER 
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO 
DON'T BREAK .., MY HEART 

Last week the Gipper told his trusting readers that the band had plans to play "Achy-Breaky Heart" during the halftime show of the Pitt game. Apparently the Gipp isn't the only onewho thinks"Achy­Breaky Heart" is a-bad idea-so does the band. Inside sources told the Gipp that the band staged a courageous rebellion, re­fusing to play the song in public. The Gipp's sources.would not comment on what the band will play instead, but the Gipp thinks a medley of Twisted_ Sister and Perry Como would be appropriate. (It is Parents' Weekend.) 
SUE ME BABY Well,theGipp'sfriendsprobablyknow by now that Dan Devine is planning on 
suing Tri-Star for portraying him in an unfavorable ·1ight jn the movie Rudy. However, the Gipp's sources tell him that Devine was sent a copy ofthe script to OK 
long before last night's premier. 
The Gipp thinks that Devine should save the money he will lose in the lawsuit and should. instead invest in a documen-. tary entitled The Rea/Rudy. This could be a movie about a groundskeeper who writes to Tri-Star for three years to have his thirty~second football career made into a movie, makes a fortune off it, goes on a lecture tour, and still has no life. 
NOT GONNA DO IT 

The Gipp_heard this rumor: If the.Irish are _still undefeated when they play Flprida State, N~C will ~ell the game to 
· CBS,,who wiU pay for lights to have an 
8:00 prime-time game. The Gipp would like to thank. his sources for this rumor because it is, of course, preposterous and 
-· totally false. 
'.The.Gipp also heard _tllat alumni from now non-existent Holy Cross Hall were planning to return for a football weekend reunion and wanted to set up a tent on the 
site of their old dorm to commemorate its fashion designers managed to find that destruction. When they asked the university for ... Brighter-than-the-Center-of-the-Sun Yel­
permission; the official ariswer was:·· No. It would cost too much. . The Gipp's suggestion: Drain a little cash from the Corby Hall booze fund. THE GIPP IS HARD UP. ­Send him your tips: 
email: gipper@nd.edu mail: 303 LaForlune phone: 631-7569 fax: 631~9648 

MORE FOOTBALL MADNESS 
First, the Gipper wants to know if Clint Johnson will say "What'sUp" a few more times on national TV this weekend. 
Second, the Gipp has heard ofsome students who are selling their Pitt student tickets in order to stay home and watch the Miami/ FSU·gaine. This -is a bad idea -unless ABC· airs the 
halftime show. 
Imaginethe events at this game: 
1) Purse-snatching Race. 
2) Spelling Bee. 
3) Tourist-Target Shooting. 
The Gipp cag't imagine why anyone would miss the Pitt game. The Gipper is very excited about it, particularly the uniforms of the Pitt Panthers. The Gipp wonders where the team 
INCONCEIVABLE 0.. 

You Mean There Is LEAD In The Water??? 
Last week the Gipper made a joke about the 
lead content in the water at Notre Dame. This 
joke required no prior research on the Gipp's 
part-:-everyoneknows that drinking the water 
here is about as healthy as chewing on ape))cil. 
What the Gipp did not know; however, was 
how gross the water is in Pangborn Hall. Wheri 
the Gipp headed over there for his w~kly 
sponge _bath, he was repulsed to discover the 
water was the same brownish color as his 
underwear. Don't laugh! It wa~ that disgust­
ing. 
·The Gipp took pictures of the water, but the Gipp's Time/Life"camera(free with.his paid ·subscription) failed to capture the real essence 
of the un-filtered swamp sludge. 
Jow and the 1-Like-to-Dress-in-Women's­Clothes mue:-The Gipp also wonders why these designers decided to incorporate these colors into one sickness-inducing package. 
Trying to get on Geraldo maybe? 
WHAT'S IN THE BOX? One of the Gipp's informants saw Monk 
at the Notre Dame post offic.e, checking a post office box. First, the Gipp must con­gratulate this student for being the first un­dergraduate to see.the president since 1987. Second, the Gipp wonders whatHockerhead is having shipped to a P.O. box that he can't have sent to his office? Latex in a plain 
brown wrapper, ~aybe? 
HE WAS PROBABJ..,Y SOBER 

·Toe Gipp heard that a freshman from 
Dillon Hall tried to duke it out with 
Morrisseyr~torFr.JoeRoss,a.k;a.Ghandi. When Ross took him into his office to dis­cuss the principles of not beating up on priests, the freshman proceeded to throw up on his Lazy Boy• 
-You are part of the rebel alli~ce and a 
trnitor. '.fake her_ away!!! . · 

H2Ofountain." _ _ . The Gipp's advice: Pretend you're in Mexico. Don't drink the water. 
-----------------------:-------~~~~ CAMPUS LIFE 

by Michelle Crouch 

As the Notre Dame Victory March plays over and over, the infant reaches up­ward toward the bobbing leprechauns dan­gling over his crib. His father gazes into the crib, dreaming that his son will carry on the Irish tradition as he did, and as his father did, and as his father's father did. This child will one day carry on the legacy as a fourth-· generation alumnus of Notre Dame. Approximately 25 percent of Notre Dame students are the children of alumni, accord­ing to the Notre Dame admissions depart-· ment. For some of these students, Notre Dame is not simply a bond between father and child, but a tie spanning two or even three generations and uniting a whole.net­work of family members .. Notre Dame was not a new concept to sophomore Heatherlyn Harnisch. Her two older brothers went here, her father and his three brothers went here, her mother went Lo Saint Mary's and her mother's two brothers went here. "It's inbred in me," she said. "Besides, we have the whole bookstore in our house--, placemats, glasses, mugs, blan­kets. If I went to another school, I would have had to buy a new wardrobe!" 
Junior John Gonnan had a similar experi­ence. His fath"er, his grandfather, two uncles and a great uncle all graduated from Notre Dame. In addition, his mother went Lo Saint Mary's. "I wanted Lo go here all my life because I grew up on Notre Dame," he said. ''The fight song was the first song· I ever learned!" 
In senior Bill Kruse's family, eight out of the nine children followed in their father's footsteps and came to Notre Dame. Kruse has been told that his family holds the record for "the most degrees from Notre Dame." · · 
Kruse said the main reason they all d~: cided to come Lo Notre Dame was because "our dad had such a great experience here, 
and we all wanted a strong Catholic educa­
tion." The one person in the family who did 
not go to Notre Dame went to Marquette, 
another Catholic u-niversity. · 
Some students, like junior Ryan Leahy, 

carry the torch of the Irish athletic tradition as well. Although his brother,two uncles, his godfather and his cousin graduated from Notre Dame, most people remember his father and his grandfather for their contribu­tions to Irish football. His father played for the Irish in 1965 when they won the national championship, and his grandfather, the leg-. endary coach Frank Leahy, was on the 1929 National Championship team. · The young­. est Leahy, a member ofthe. current football team, hopes that he will be ~ble to carry on the tradition by winning aNational Champis 
onship himself before his graduation.
''I watched football games with my dad 
every ·saturday," he said. "and ·1 saw 
people's eyes light up when Dad said he 
went to Notre Dame. · Notre Daine is a 
special place for e~erybody, whether 
they're a student or an athlete or a subway 
alum. That's why I decided to come here." Senior Nick Harmon is also endowed with a heritage in Notre Dame athletics. His father played football for the Irish in 1949 and .his grandfather played for Knute Rockne's cha~pionship team in 1929. Af­terward, his grandfather and Rockne be­came good friends. In 1931, Rockne asked · Harmon's grandfather to come with him to 
Los Angelos to interview for a coaching job 
Stanford, but his grandfather was content 
coaching high school. "The plane he would 
have taken to Los Angelos was the one that 
killed Knute Rockne," .said Harmon. 
Harmon and his two older brothers all 

made the decision to come to Notre Dame. 
. Although Harmon received baseball schol­
arships from several small schools, he de­
cided to come to Notre Dame. "The tradi­
tion of going here means a lot to me," he 
said, "especially the football tradition and 
all the• lineage that went through here. It 
makes me feel special to be a part of it." 
Although students such as these were 

born and bred to come to Notre Dame, most 
of them said they did not feel pressured to 
come here. 
Harnisch admitted it was "almost ex­

pected" that she would come to Notre 
Dame, but she said her parents would have 
been "totally supportive" if she went any­
where else. 
Gorman agreed: "My parents wanted me 

to go wherever I wanted to go. But they 
influenced me by the way they talked about 
Notre Dame and the way they exposed me 
to it." 
"My father brought me here for football 

weekends, he walked wit,h me around the 
lake, and he showed me how much he loved 
it," said sophomore Laura Merritt. "But I 
wanted to come here for my own sake. My 
dad never pressured me." ­
One of the great moments for many of 

these students is sharing their acceptance to 
Notre Dame with-their families. "My 
mother got all teary-eyed, and my dad 
smiled and didn't say a word," she said. 
"My moni said she'd never seen that ex­··pression on his face before." 
Junior Sorin Spohn, who was so named 

because his parents met and married at 
Notre Dame, has a story about.his accep­
tance as well. When he was in second 
grade, he won a Notre Dame mug through a 
raffle at an alumni picnic. He never drank out 
of the mug, and he kept it on his desk through 
high school "as a motivation thing." When he 
finally received his acceptance to Notre 
Dame, he and his father celebrated by split­
ting a beer in th~ motivational mug. 
Although the admissions office offers 

"extra consideration as reco1,rnition of strong 
alumni support," director of admissions 
Kevin Rooney said that "everyone accepted 
to Notre Dame does have the qualifications." 
Some children of alumni said that people 
often make assumptions based on this admis­
sions policy for alumni children. "Some­
times people think that's the only reason I got 
in," said Harnisch. "But that's not true; I 
worked for it." 
The same situation happened to freshman 
Erin Kennedy: "When I got here, a girl told 
me you didn't have to be srriaft to get in as an 
alumni kid, and that really bothered me," she 
said. 
However~ as Gorman points out, "Once 
you're here, everyone is on equal terms. 
Being an alumni child has no bearing on how 
you perform." ' 
Another situation that 
presents a difficulty for 
alumni children are some 
ofthe NCAA regulations. 
"The NCAA has a lot of 
restrictions about athletes 
and alumni," said Leahy, 
"but it's really hard be­
cause a lot of tncm arc my 
dad's friends, and I know 
so many of them person­
ally." 
Students mentioned a 
number of benefits to be­
ing alumni kids. Kruse, 
who said he has been to a 
Notre Dame football 
game almost every year 
since he was born, re­
memb~rs how comfort­
able he fell here as a fresh­
man and how he was able 
Lo help other people find 
their way around. 
Gorman likes the fact 
that he can get "awesome tickets for away games . and extra ones for the good ones that are here." 
Many alumni kids also enjoy the connec­tions that their situation brings. One student who wishes to remain anonymous said that these connections allowed her to get a job outside of the dining hall her freshman year. Another student was able to request the dorm in which she wanted to live. 
"On any football weekend, I can talk to any given alumni, and one out of ten will know my dad," said sophomore Darcy Yaley. "The alumni system here is just incredible." 
Ryan Leahy commented on the alumni connections as well. "Last weekend at Stanford, John Lattner came up just to say 'Hi' because he played under my grandfa­ther," he said. "People talk about the Notre Dame family, but I really know it's there when people treat me as a family member . because my dad or my grandfather was here." 
Kennedy said, "Being an alumni kid makes you feel like Notre Dame is not just a four-year shot, but somethiog that will last a lifetime." 0 

OCTOBER 7, 1993 
CAMPUS LIFE 

[a 1993 graduate] was a Carroll hog, and she 
just gave him hog towels for his new apart­ment."
In Addition to Tuition 
But plastic bats and chicken paper clip 

What some creative parents send to their kids 
by Katie Redding 
Notre Dame parents have many ways of showing their sons and daughters that they love and miss them. Phone calls. Cards. Letters. Care packages. Elvis posters. 

I 
Elvis posters? Obviously, some parents are more creative than others. Posters of the King are not the only gifts sophomore Ry Beville has received from his father. The elder Beville also sends plastic bats, "weird health nut food," newspaper ar­ticles, magazines and books. 
"I have/our calendars in my room now 

from him," Beville said, "and he just sent me a magazine about violin playing. I don't play the violin!" 
Sometimes Beville's father types out strange letters and signs them with such aliases as "The Ayatollah Khomeni." Some new item is sent about every two weeks, according to Beville, and occasion­ally his dad sends mail to his friends as well. For whatever reason, it seems that some Notre Dame parents are not content with sending the usual letters or care packages filled with hot chocolate and cookies. In­stead, their children receive humor via · UPS. One freshman from Texas received a cactus and a wind-up bug from his family, · who seemed to think he might be missing 
the Southwestern wildlife. 
Another freshman received a condom with a note that said: "A treasure. To be used in an emergency."

l 
Some parents use the postal service to

l j creatively communicate frustration. One
I 
senior recently received a phone bill from j her parents with a 120-minute call circled in red. Another freshman's father sent her 
q 
the outstanding library fine that had accu­mulated over the summer with the note, "Please pay ASAP." 
Freshman Jeanne LaFieur's parents have an especially good sense of humor. During orientation weekend, she received a large package in the mail. Inside was the entire "Hooked on Phonics" learn-to-read pro­gram. "I tried to look through it," she said, "only nothing is labeled. It's all color­coded because you aren't supposed to be able to read the directions." 
LaFieur's sister, senior Anne LaFleur, has some unusual stories as well. Her freshman year, she lived in Lewis, home of the Lewis chickens. So her mom sent her packages with a chicken theme. Among them: chicken stickers, chicken boxers, chicken cards, chicken bows, chicken nightshirts, chicken notepads, chicken pa­per clip holders and chicken postcards. 
"It's a good thing I moved to Pangborn," she said, "or else I would be receiving chickens forthe rest ofmy life. My brother · holders are not the only ways parents have found to express their love. Some parents win points just by consistency. Freshman Courtney Sosnowski has received a card from her mother every day since she arrived at Notre Dame. "She finds Hallmark cards and writes me about what's happening at home or draws pictures of my stuffed ani­mals," Sosnowski said. ''It's just nice to open the mailbox and have something always be there." 

Humor seems to be the reason most cre­ative parents go out of the.ir way to break out of the normal mold of food packages. "My parents just wanted to make me laugh," said the younger LaFleur. "When I was little, my teachers always said that I had lots of trouble with phonics. I had trouble reading, and I couldn't spell. So [my parents] thought this would be funny." 
Certainly, humor is a welcome relief to most overworked students, and these off­spring of creative parents seem to enjoy the extra effort. Even Beville admits that it is fun to never know what he'll receive next and whether or not he may find it useful. "I'm supposed to get a package soon," he said, "but my dad won't tell me what it is. He just said to be careful who I wear it around." 0 

10 


CAMPUS LIFE 
Coming Home to Irish Country 
1993 graduates talk about their first visit back to Notre Dame as alumni. 
by Daniella Schmidt 

When students walk to the football stadium for_ home games,· they see thousands of alumni who have made the trip back to their alma mater. One has to wonder how these alumni feel on their first trip back. Joe Laur, who graduated in 1993, re­turned to campus for the· first time as an alumus during the Northwestern football weekend. "It was kinda' strange ... but things didn't seem to have changed that much. Itwasn't as strange as some people said it would be," he said. ·. Eileen Deane, another 1993 graduate, admitted she felt strange upon returning to campus, but she noted she still felt a part of Notre Dame "just in a different way." "It is easy to come back because of the strong alumni ties," Deane said. "They are something about Notre Dame that I really value now. There was such a. feeling of community.'; "But it was qifferent because there were seventeen hundred new freshman I did not know," Godfree pointed out. One aspect of the alumni experience that many graduates find disconcerting is hav-· ing to sit in the general admission section at the football games. According to graduate John Godfree, the ru:ea was "strange ,arid calm" compared to the student section. "At times, you want to stand up and cheer and get into the game," he said, "but if you do, you feel really out of place.'' Having friends who are still students eases the blow of returning to campus for the first time after graduation; Christy Cook, who lived in Pasquerilla West for four years, said the friends she had remain­
· ing in the dorm made her visit much more comfortable. "I was surrounded by a lot of strange faces at the Northwestern game," she said, "but once I went back to PW, I felt right at home." 
Laur had a similar experience when he stayed with friends in the same room he had lived in last year. "I still got the feeling that I belonged," he said. "I felt comfortable there." 
"Notre Dame students seem more classy than the average person." 
-1993 graduate Joe Laur 

And Godfree, who had been a member of 
the men's swim team during his time at Notre 
Dame, said that he felt most comfortable 
when he was tailgating and when he visited · 
the pool and the locker room. "It was prob­
ably the best part of the weekend," he said. 
Anne Marie Krauza, who also graduated 
last May, came back to visit.in August when 
everyone was moving in. 
"It was a little awkward because everyone 
was moving in, but I didn't re~illy feel out of 
place," she said. "The freshman looked so 
young and innocent, and I envied them be­
cause they have so many exciting things 
ahead of them." 
However, Krauza does not wish she were a 
freshman again: "It felt good to be on campus 
again butit made me realize that it is time to · move on." 
Students who graduate from Notre Dame take with them more than just increased intelligence. "I took so many important things from Notre Dame, the value of hard work, the value of communication in rela­tionships, true friendships and the meaning of God in life," Godfree said. 
"What I took from Notre Dame with me was my experience with a wide range of people," said Cook. "I work in a big city now, a'nd it helped that I had known so many different people at school." 
Deane, however, said that "The one dif­ference that I found between Notre Dame and the real world is that the world is more diverse than Notre Dame's campus." 
Laur agreed: "Not to sound snobbish, but Notre Dame students seem more classy than the average person. They lead more moral and ethical lives and they have more integ­rity. I guess that goes back to its Catholic heritage." 
Upon returning to Notre Dame, alumni find thay miss · many things about Notre Dame. The part ofNotre Dame that Godfree misses the most is the Grotto. "Itis a special place," he said. "I guess it kind of symbol­izes Notre Dame for me." · 
Krauza said the dorm Masses are what she misses most about Notre Dame. When she goes to church now, she realizes how much she misses the intimacy and community feeling present at the Masses at Notre Dame. She encouraged students to attend Mass and to appreciate the atmosphere in which they getto take part. 
Other recent alumni are quick to offer undergraduates advice as well. They urged students to make the most of their time at school because it flies by. 
Or, as Laur. simply advises, "Stay in school forever.'' 


Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303LaFortune, or_call 631-7569. 
Thursday 7 
Lecture: "Conflict in Contemporary 
Russia and Its International Implications," 
Roman Setov, Moscow University, 12:15 
p.m;, Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. 
Presentation:."President Ointon•s' 
National and Community Service Trust 
Act of 1993: Challenges for Notre 
Dame," Marty Rogers, Notre Dame 
Trustee,4:15p.m., Room 124, CSC.. 
Leclure:."Four Decades as a Catholic 
Journalist," Fr. Joseph Gallagher, Arch­
diocese of Baltimore, 4: 15 p.m., Room 
1201, Hesburgh Library. 
Rosary and Mass: "Feast of Our Lady of 
the.Rosary," 5:00 p.m., Sacred Heart 
Basilica. 
Lecture: "Our F.nvironmental Destiny,'' 
Robert F. Kenn~y Jr., Pace University, 

7:30.p.m;, Stepan Center, $3. · l Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-12:00 p.m., 
I 
LaFortune. 
Movie: "Gentlemen Prefer Blonds,'' 8:00 
. & 10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theatre, $2.. 
Friday· 8 
Soccer: Notre Dame womeri vs. 
. Xavier, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field. . Colloquium: "The Existence Condi­tion," Mic Detlefsen and Paddy .. Blachette, 3:30 p.m., Lounge,· Hesburgh Library.. Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m;, SMC Clubhouse, $. Film: "Wide Sargasso Sea," 7:30 & 
9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "What's Love Got to do With It," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m.; Cushing. Auditorium, $2. · Movie: "Son-In-Law;" 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall," SMC, $. VoHeyball: Notre Dame vs. Alumni, 
8:00 p.m., JACC. 

Saturday 9 
Pre-Game Concert: Shenanigans, 
11:00 a.m., J_ACC. Football: Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 
12:35 p.m., Home. · · Movie: "Son-In-Law" 7:00 & 9:30 p.m., Carroll Hall, SMC,$. . Film: "Wide Sargasso Sea,'' 7:30 & 
9:45, Sniie, $2. · · Movie: "What's Love Got to do With It," 
8:00 & 10:30; Cushing Auditorium, $2: 

C 
' 
~ 

( ( I 
C 
< 
I 

\ 

rduch FoUr
\ -. ' . 

x 1031 for local weather Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6736 for national weather x6050 for news headlines x 6123 for movie reviews x6052 for world news x 9463 for thought for the day x6121 for top pop albwns x 6238 for TV sports events 
i x6571 for prime time TV . x 6230 for national sports report Ii x6129 for videoreleases x 6263 for college basketball 

TOUCH

Monday
Sunday 10 
Film: "Singin' in the Rain," 7:00 p.m., 
,occer: Notre Dame women vs. 

FOUR
Snite, $2. 







~vansville, 1 :00 p.m., Alumni Field. 
Film: "Robocop," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
:oncert: "Fischoff Winner's Tour Lecture: "The Role of the Jesuits in the :oncert," Amemet String Quartet 2:00 
Wednesday 13
Peace Process of El Salvador," Teresa 1.m., Snite. 
Whitfield, BBC 2, London, 8:00 p.m., 
Soccer: Notre Dame men vs. Loyola, 7:00 :oncert: Organ Concert, Johannes 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
p.m., Alumni Field. 3asilica. 
]effert, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Keenan Chapel. 
Tuesday 12 
Film: "New Jack City," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Horsefeathers," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 

Movie Theatres: 

Campus Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. 
100 Center Cinema I&II: 259-0414 
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583 

Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090 
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336 
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441· 

Forum I & II Cinema: 277~1522 
SPORTS 

A Major Ii ·Challenge 
Head coach Johnny Majors returns to South Bend to face the Irish with a struggling Pittsburgh team 
.by Jake Schaller 
He says that the program. is in worse shape now then when he took over the first time more than ten years ago. "Since I left very little has been put back in the program, and that's a shame." Sounds 


similiar to Lou Holtz typically 
badmouthing one of his out­
standing teams? No, it's Johnny 
Majors, head coach of the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh Panthers, 
and unlike Holtz, he may not be 
exaggerating. With the slogan "Back to the Future" greeting his arrival, Majors returned to coach Pittsburgh this year after leaving the University of Ten­nessee. Majors coached at Pitt from · 1973-76. He took a team that had gone one out of ten the previous year and turned them into National Champions by 1976. 
Majors then left the Panthers to coach at Tennessee, his alma mater. Again, he was able to tum a struggling program around. He took Tennessee to contender status and even an eleven and one record in 1989. Now Majors 
· has come full circle and returned to Pitt. This year he has his toughest re­building job to date, or so he says. 
Admitting that this year's squad is the worst team he has ever coached, Majors went so far as placing an add in the university's paper inviting any in­terested students to walk on to the team. This move symbolized the ter­rible fall that the Pitt football program• had suff cred in the years since its na-tional title. 


The Panthers were 3-9 last year, beating only Kent, Minnesota and Temple. The Panthers return four offensive starters and eight defensive starters from that team, but they lost some key players. Without a doubt, the biggest loss is ~t quarterback, with the departure ofAlex Van Pelt.Van Pelt rewrote the Pitt passing records by starting every game ofhis four year career. Another player who will be absent is tight end RobKoons. Also missing from this year's squad are four out of five of last year's starting offensive linemen, as well as their starting punter and starting kicker. 
Pitt comes into the "House that Rockne Built" afterathreegamehomestint. Though opposing teams fear the noise and the mys­tique of Notre Dame Stadiulll, Pitt may be glad to get away from home. 
In his first game back with Pitt, Majors and the Panthers pulled off a stunning upset over Southern Mississippi. Although they were outgained 296-151. in total yards, Pitt made four fourth quarter interceptions to triumph 14-10. The Panther's top tailback, 
\ 
junior Curtis Martin scored the two touchdowns 
and sophomore linebacker Tom Tumulty led the 
Panther defense to a win that Majors called, "one 
of the most exciting wins of my life." 

In their home opener, the Panthers welcomed 
Virginia Tech to Pitt Stadium. The Hokies were 
not polite guests however. By halftime they 
were beating their hosts 42-6, and by the end of 
the game, the count was 63-21. Tech amassed 
379 yards of total offense. The Hokies, led by 
Tommy Edwards with four touchdowns and 
Dwayne Thomas with 170 yards rushing and two 
touchdowns, were able to 
score on seven consecu­
tive possessions. -What 
made the loss more bitter 
was that Tech had gone 2­
8-1 last season. 
"I don't ever remem­
ber being whipped worse 
than we were by Virginia 
Tech," said Majors. 
Ohio State came to 
town the next week and 
was no kinder than Tech. 
The Buckeyes scored on 
their first five posses­
sions, and with a 35 point 
lead in the second quar­
ter, began putting in their 
second teams. State to­
talled 302 yards rushing 
and 195 yards passing, 
and, by the end of the 
game the scoreboard read 
63-28 in favor of the 
Buckeyes. 
"Idon'tknowofateam 
that needs a week off 
more than ours," Majors 
said. 

Ifa bright spot is possible in such a game, Pitt 
quarterback sophomore John Ryan provided it. A week after being benched· in favor of Ken . Ferguson Jr., Ryan was reinserted and Ieel a mild second half comeback in which he completed 15 of21 passes for 236 yards and four touchdowns. 
The Panther's offense is not one to be feared, 
but it can occasionally do some damage. Ryan, a pure dropback passer who is not afraid of -staying in the pocket, will look to his main target junior Dietrich Jells, who had four receptions for 71 yards and two touchdowns against Ohio State. Jells, Pitt's top receiver in 1992, is the 

team's big-play threat who has also de­veloped into a valuable possession re­ceiver. He boasts soft hands and a 4.43 40-yard dash time. Ryan will also look for senior wide receiver Junior Green, who tallied five receptions for 111 yards and one touchdown in the matchup against the Buckeyes. In the backfield the Panthers feature junior Curtis Mar­tin, who has a 4.5 40-yard dash time, good cutback skills and can catch the ball out of the backfield. 
The Irish defense, however, matches up very well with Pitt. If the defense is able to shut down Pitt's rushing game, too great a burden will be placed on the shoulders of the passing game and an inexperienced quarterback. The Notre Dame secondary, spearheaded by se­nior Jeff Burris and sopho.more standout Bobby Tay !or, should hold the Pitt passing auack in check. Also, look for Notre Dame's imposing front-four, led by Bryant Young, to take advantage of Pitt's inexperienced line and apply pressure on Ryan. 

Offensively, the Irish could have a field day. In the last two years against Pitt, the Irish have rolled up big numbers rushing the ball. Last season Notre Dame gained 308 yards on the ground in a 52-21 embarrass­ment of the Panthers. This year the game plan should be no different. If the Irish offense is able to run the ball, Pitt will be in for a long 9ay. A high powered running game will also open up the passing lanes for Kevin McDougal. 
But Pitt's defense can offer some prob­lems. The secondary is extremely talented, 
featuring returning starters sophomore David Sumner and junior Derrick Parker. Joining them in the · defensive backfield is sophomore Anthony Dorsett, son of Heisman Trophy win­ner and Dallas Cow­boy great Tony Dorsett. 
Notre Dame can take advantage of the Panther's poor special teams. Pitt lost both its punter and its kicker from last year's squad. Incidentally, the ad that ran in the paper concerning walk-ons asked spe­cifically for long­snappers and kickers. 
Pitt should return 

home with the fifth straightloss at the hands of the Irish. Notre Dame must be wary, however, ofa letdown. Stranger and more unbelievable things have happened. Two years ago a Tennessee team, coached by none other than Johnny Majors, made an unbelievable comeback to shock the Irish at home. Could this happen against Pitt? In 3:1! likelihood, no. 
But with a huge game against Florida State looming and rilatchups versus BYU and rival USC right around the comer, it is imperative that the Irish stay focused on the game at hand. 
SPORTS 

,1 
I 
I 

.i 
·1 
\1 
l Ii i· 
1 
l 
l 
r · 
i 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 
1111Q Q1111 

Bruno's North Open for carry out and delivery only. One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $15. Or one 14 inch 2-item pizza for $10. 115 N. 31 Gust North of campus) 273-3890 
Bruno's South Accepting reservations on wee_kends. Available for private parties and banquets. Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 2610 Prairie Avenue 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Sarah Riley: Riley, a junior from Hins.dale, IL, led the Notre Dame women's cross country team to a victory in the Notre Dame Invitational last weekend. Riley placed fourth with a time of 17.47. She was the first Irish runner to finish. The team beatAlabama by just two points. 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 

Tim Oates: Oates, a junior from Virginia· Beach, VA, led the Notre Dame men's soccer team to a win against South Carolina last weekend. Oates scered both goals for the Irish in a 2-0 upset against the fourteenth-ranked Gamecocks. 

REVIEW & PREVIEW 

By Miranda C. Sanford 

As I was perusing the fall movie pre views, one title leapt out and struck me as possessing blockbuster potential. A cor­rupt Detroit company and our favorite me­chanical police officer are returning to hold audiences in suspenseful bliss inRobocop3. In the tradition of Sidekicks and Cop and Half, Robo is going to team up with a ten­year-old orphan. Together they battle a Japanese conglomerate who is forcing fami­lies out of their homes. I do not know what is·more fascinating about this movie pros­pect-the fact the director describes it as "a James Bond style action-adventure with a lot less gore than the first two" or that it has tested very highly with Japanese audiences. 
As Love Blossoms 

In these confusing modem times, people often wonder who they can tum to in times of emotional need, especially when it deals with that special someone. Well, look no more-the perfect answer already exists. It seems that since "Blossom in Paris" made its debut, many lovesick teens have written to the sensitive Mayim Bialik (Blossom), for advice of the heart 
After receiving thousands ofthese "heart­breaking" letters; Mayim discussed the mat­ter during an interview. In an effort to comfort the heartbroken masses, the seven­teen-year-old, who deferred her Harvard ad­mission to remain on the show, said, "I like to be logical even in situations surrounded by emotion. But it is difficult to be logical about love." So wise'and profound ... it is amazing her career has not skyrocketed. 
Let's Talk About Sex 

Anyone who has listened to Janet Jackson's latest album (self titled Janet) or has seen the cover of September's Rolling Stone knows what is on her mind, and it is definitely not legal under Du Lac. But seriously, if anyone is looking for a new "hook-up" album, search no further! After hearing some of her songs oil the radio and having someone tell me that seeing her new video made him a new man, I bought the CD. 
I made the purchase strictly for research purposes. I intended to unearth the reason behind the chosen theme for her new music and to find out how she got such a great stomach. The answer for both questions, simple but effective, was stated in an inter­view with Rolling Stone. Jackson has en­tered a "happy phase of sexuality," and she loves "feeling deeply sexual and doesn't mind letting the world know." 
At this point of the article, I was very impressed. For one, it takes a very strong character to admit these personal facts to the free world, and it sure beats the "pasta bar/ dried fruit phase" I am going though right now. There is more expression of sexuality in one of this woman's songs than there ison this entire campus. After all, she designed her video "If' to send an obvious "orgasmic" message. It should leave permanent corrup­tive effects on even the most innocent boy scout. 
Over all, the complete package of her voice, instrumc·ntals and lyrics on the album are phenomenal. The final tip of advice I took from her and want to pass along to others: "Women want satisfaction, and so do men. But to get to it, you must ask for it. Say what you want." 
Picks, Pans and Tidbits 

Never did I think that with the release of the Led Zeppelin box set would come such an onslaught of questionable musical collec­tions. Well for this holiday season, music marketers have covered every possible mu­sical taste. People, ready your wallets be~ cause everyone will be able to choose from Paul Simon, Elvis and Police sets. Also, now available for those Zep heads arc Led 
Zeppelin 10 (contains ten discs holding ev­
ery studio recording ever made) and Led 
Zeppelin 2 (a two-disc set that has studio 
songs not on the first album ·and one new 
release). 
For anyone waiting for the Stone Temple 
Pilots' unplugged disc, stop. The band can­
celed its release due to the fact they felt they 
would be "selling out to the mighty dollar" 
like every other band. 
If anyone is looking for a good movie this 
month, be sure not to miss Dazed and Con­
fused. This movie looks stupid at first but is 
really hilarious. _The plot follows some 
random high school kids who have just been 
lctoutforsummerbrea:kin 1976. A warning 
to audiences: This movie advocates drug use 
and presents a neo-feminist group that ar­
gues that Gilligan's Island offers nothing for 
women. Who could ask for anything more? 
Be sure to see it-I think it will be another 
Better OffDead. 
The Good Son is Macaulay Culkin's dra-. ,. ,. matic debut as a bad seed, psycho kiddie with a choir boy face. If you want to see Macaulay use the F-word, be my guest. I'd rather go see Evil Dead 2 for the third time. 
Up and Coming 

For all of you who have not yet cemented 
plans for Thanksgiving, pencil this one in! Due to popular demand (maybe not), Wayne Newton has added a performance ·date at the Star Plaza Theatre on November 
28. 
Duran Duran willbeattheStaron the 12­
13 ... Living Colour showing at the Cabaret 
Metro on October 13 ... Primus .at the 
Aragon Ballroom on October 16 ... 
The Broadway play, Breaking Legs, will 
be at the Morris Civic Auditorium October 
15-17. 
On the fifth, a new. album by the 
Lemonheads will be in the record stores ... 
Pearl Jam's new release should hit record 
stores on October 19. ~ 

ENTERTAINMENT· 

Tri-Star's Rudy plays upon the Notre Dame mystique.to depict the story of a young man's passion for the Irish tradition 
by Scott Johnson 
Amovie term known as "willing suspen sion of disbelief" applies to the viewer's acceptance of the incongruities of the film, such as scene changes, time lapses, unrealistic events and so on. In order to fully appreciateRudy you must attempt to achieve this mental state, putting aside your knowl­edge of Notre Dame and even the story of Rudy itself.· I am not saying n<Jt to look for youself or your friends passing down the halls of Holy Cross (O'Shag), but you should try to forget the Boston College banner that flashes by during the Georgia Tech game and· other incongruous tidbits on which a fellow Domer might pick up. Just remember that this is a movie -a story about a dreamer and his passion for Notre Dame. · The problems with the movie stretch be­yond the inability to achieve this "wiIIing suspension of disbelief." Almost all of the film takes place in Notre Dame Stadium or on the practice fields outside of it. We only get three shots of the dome from across the lake, arid one.shot ofa pew and the stations of the cross in Sacred Heart. I was most disappointed when my favorite vantage point of the university was not shown._;__ the walk.tip Notre Dame A venue with the dome glistening up ahead, in five feet of snow or amidst the glory of summer. Rudy was promoted as a story about a place, about the faith and courage it requires to beapartofthe University ofNotre Dame. In the film, we don't learn enough of the Catholic aspect of the university, but in­stead we receive stereotypical remarks about priests and rich, smart kids. 
The references to football glories and legends are great. But Rudy's rapport with the team goes only so far as getting knocked on his butt a thousand times; the11 one day he suddenly becomes loved by every player. Rudy falls somewhat short in its quest to capture the essence of a team, or of. the University of Notre Dame but rests solely on the quest of an individual. 

The cinematography and the music are some of the greater aspects of the film. Two magnificently filmed scenes are of Rudy kneeling before the candlelit Grotto and of Rudy walking along the perimeter of the stadium at the beginning of a game In this scene, the camera slowly shows the contrast between the lively stadium and the lonely outcast. 
· Beyond those aspects, the acting was in­deed one of Rudy's stronger points. Sean Astin over-dramatizes the role of Rudy, but overall -Astin included -the acting was remarkable. Ned Beatty plays Daniel Reuttiger, the reality-stricken fa­ther in love with Notre Dame; Jason Miller .as Coach Ara Parseghian; the coaching staff; Jon Favreau as D-Bob, Rudy's only true student friend at Notre Dame; and especially Charles S. Dutton's portrayal of Fortune, All arc outstanding performances. 


Father Hesburgh; Father Joyce and many students make stellar cameos. 
With all ofthe problems I had with the movie, I couldn't help but become to­tally engrossed in it. .From the moment thirteen-year-old Rudy mimics to per­fection the speech and demeanor of Knute Rockne, Icouldn 'thelp but fream Rudy's dream with him. The loss of his only trusting friend Pete, Rudy's com­panionship with Fortune and D-Bob, and his eventual leading of the Irish out of the tunnel -each scenario evoked poignant empathy, 
The story,of Rudy, cinematic differ­ences aside, isterrific. The story brings to mind all of the reasons why I came to Notre Dame. For some, it is to one day 

.. Rudy Reuttiger, right, makes the now famous play on which the movie was based. 

"play like a champion" on the gridiron. Rudy' made true the fascination, the ob­session associated with being a part of the great Irish tradition. · It brought to mind some of what I love here: the Grotto, Touchdown Jesus, the Basilica, the feeling one gets when first walking into that stadium. 
Notre Dame aside, Rudy' accom­plishes something much more impor­tant, a theme evident in hundreds of films. It is the story of a dreamer, the underdog. A quote from. another film captures the heart and will power of Rudy in opposition to the beliefs ofthose who question him: In Dead Poet's Soci­ety, John Keating says, ''Only in his dreams can a man be truly free. Twas always thus, and always thus will be." 
A comparable quote from Fortune in the film, one which encompasses what Rudy is all about, goes as follows: "You don't have to prove nothin' to nobody except yourself." 
-And that, I believe, even more than the dome, the Grotto, the blue and gold uni­forms, the legendary speeches of Knute Rockne, is what Rudy is all about. . 

. . . SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!! LightAppetites: Big Appetites: 6 Foot Party Sub 6 Inch Cold Cut Combo Only $1.49! • SR 23 Atlronwood • US31 N (By North Village Mall)  


ENTERTAINMENT 

The Age of Innocence: Choosing Loyalty over Love 
Martin Scorsese uses exquisite cinematography to adapt a Pulitzer Prize-winning novel to the big screen 
Newland Archer and May Welland visit with Welland's grandmother, · · Mrs. Manson Mingott, in her parlor. · 
by Josef Evans 
Picture this: aman'shand,movingslowly and sensuously over the lap of a woman, under soft, expressive lighting. Cut to a shot of him delicately kissing her on the neck, while she closes her eyes in rapturous plea­sure. Classical music swells on the soundtrack. Return to the hands, sliding gently under-. neath her cloth­ing, pulling it over her smooth, wann skin, to re­veal the beautiful curves of ... her hand. Such is the nature of eroti­cism in The.Age of · Innocence, the latest film from acclaimed direc­to_r Martin Scorsese (Raging Bull, The Last­Temptation of Christ). 
Although less explicit than what is considered 
·steamy in most films today, this scene, and others 

like it in this adaptation ofthe Pulitz_cr Prize­. winning novel by Edith Wharton, is no less erotically powerful. Infoct, all of the film's themes arc perfectly applicable and under­. standable to the modern viewer and arc brought out quite powerfully, a credit to the entire production team. Scorsese and his. crew have let no jacket lapel or color scheme go overlooked, successfully recreating the period and bringing new life to an old but· 
already exciting story. 
Every bit worthy of this stunning back­drop is the cast, headed by Academy Award winner Daniel .Day-Lewis,· Michelle Pfeiffer and Winona Ryder, and ,strength­ened by a number ofoutstanding supporting performances. Lewis and Pfeiffer are excel~ lent, as Newland Archer, a young la~yerand member of one of New York's finest fami­lies, and Countess Olenska, a woman scan­dalized by the status of her tempestuous mar­riage to a notorious European. Especially impressive is the depth. 
. ofemotion each is able to express, usually with the smallest mo­tion or inflection. 
Somewhat off the mark, though, is Ryder (who plays May Welland, Archer's fi­. ancee), partially due to the less emotive char­acter she is portraying. Also notable is Miriam Margoyles as Mrs. .Mingott, the city's 
most powerful social arbiter, who never leaves her chair due to. her huge size. 




effect, is just as important-if not more so -in bringing out these themes. The cos­tuming, the food, the set design -every­thing is perfect for the time and for the characters. Scorsese makes excellent use of paintings and clothing to bring out Wharton's characters more fully. Olenska, for example, is dressed in richer, more emo-proper grandiose, and in 
Countess Ellen Olenska and Newland Archer
one part, uses a spinning­
share a romantic moment before denying
type shot that blurs to­
their love for one another.
gether shots of the corsets, the opera glasses and other tiny objects that give the viewer a real sense of what this society is all about: the proper look for the big show. 
Every aspect of this film brings that out, and the result is a joy to watch. D 
WVFI RECOMMENDS .... 
Don Caballero, For Respect -

Increcible, precise, soulful, heavy, fast instrumentalists. Blasted out of nowhere, taking Helmet's rhythmic ~xperimentation several levels higher. This is cruciaL(Touch & Go, P.O. Box 25520, Chicago, IL, 60625) 
Freestyle Fellowship, Inner-City Griots -Jazz-hop greatness. rrncredible rhymes, half-song raps and jazz beats collide in a fine slab of music. Get this. (4th and Broadway) Jon Spencer Blues Explos.ion, Extra Width -He howls, he whispers, he screeches and barks. Soul, baby, soul. The music is. warped and spliced blues, rock and soul. It rages like you can't even begin to understand. (Matador, 676 Broadway, New York, NY 10012) 
Small Factory,/ Do Not Love You ­My favorite bouncy pop band in the whole wide world finally put out a full-length album. (spinArt, P.O. Box 1798, New York, NY 10156-1798) 
Today is the Day, Supernova -· 

Unusual, -harmonically~wild, fuzz­enshrouded skronk. This is fine, fine stuff. (Amphetamine Reptil, 2645 First Ave. South, Minneapolis, MN 55408) 
-compiled by Joe Ca,rno,i, WVFJ music director 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Biwrre from the Na'tion's Universities 
,i1 
jii ir  
JI !  Anything for the Team  
Sometimes, it is better to just say no. When a University of Utah student agreed to appear on a billboard in Salt Lake City promoting Utah athletics, she had no idea that her body would become an object of controversy. Some local students and residents protested that the billboard featuring the gymnastin what they deemed a seductive pose constituted sexism: The sign was subsequently removed by the university. Later, a billboard promoting a spring art fair featured the gymnastic team's male coach in the same pose as the gymnast on the · first sign and wearing a pale blue tutu and pink tights. Although meant as a joke, local women's groups weren't laughing. Once again, protestors started screaming sexism. So much forthe 'ole team spirit.  

Roach Motel 101 

It's time once again for news ofan interesting collegiate Jiving r an;angement. One-hundred and ninety male students of Alabamal State University are being housed in a motel for the semester. To live i in the motel, students are paying $1,100 per semester, the same cost as on-campus dormitory housing. But we are not talking the Morris 
I: Inn here. Alabama State has leased the Red Carpet Inn for these I students until their new dormitory can be completed. 'il Interestingly enough, this same motel was closed last year because i it was frequented by drug pushers and prostitutes. Obviously, the i\. . motel does not sit in ~e best part of town. However, the university 
runs a bus service to and from campus and has built a fence around the motel to help ensure student's security. 
But the measures have not been enough. Last month, two armed burglars broke into a student's room while he was sleeping, shot him in the face and stole his wallet. Fortunately, the student's injuries were minor. And you thought that living atLafayette Square was unsafe. 
Starting Kids Early 
Boston University labors under the assumption that you can never start kids too young. BU has opened the Boston University Academy, a _new private high school, on its campus. Following a liberal-arts curriculum, students will take courses in both Greek and Latin. All seniors will take only college-level courses, allowing them to enter college as sophomores. Although the school currently has only forty-two students, enrollment is expected to jump to 480 within the next ten years. Along with a demanding college prepa­ratory program, the high school also sports a hefty price tag. Tuition and fees are $13,440. It seems a shame to painstakingly prepare these students for college only to find that after four years of paying this kind of tuition, none of them will be able to ·afford it! 
Compensation for Engineers 
· Congratulations, Engineers! For all of you who survive the grueling regime of earning an engineering degree your work will pay off-literally. According to statistics released by the College Placement Council, engineering undergraduates receive higher of­fers than education, journalism, architecture, business or nursing counterparts. A Bachelor's degree in engineering will usually bring salary offers of around $29,000 to $33,000. Of about 70 majors cited by the College Placement Council, pharmacy students topped the offer list with $42,796. Chemical engineering students were offered the second highest salary at $39,747. Just think how many pocket protectors that would buy! 
Edited by Jenny Tate 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
Back to School 
Re-entering Notre Dame After a Year Abroad 
there area lot of refreshing new faces. And, bed. That's a day?! There are times when I by An~rew Horn of course, there's that dazzling new just want to grab a person out of the stream DeBartolo building. I've only been in it ofinterclasstraffic,pullhimorheroutonthe
0.K, 
raise your. hand if you just once, but if I hadn't kno.wn where I was, I quad and yell, "Let's frolic!" returned to Notre Dame after a semes-would have sworn I had stumbled onto the And then there are the weekends. I went ter or a year abroad on a foreign studies Star Trek set. It certainly has altered traffic to my firstSYR ofthe season lastFriday, and 
· program. Ithasbeenastrangeifnotdifficult patterns. Thestretchofpavementattheeast in a notsso-drunken stupor I kept thinking, month, hasn 'tit? Everyone who has studied end ofSouth Quad now has that cattle herd-"Yup, I'm back." It is really an odd situation overseas knows what I am talking about. ing feel of an urban campus. It's quite when you step back and look at it objec­For those who have not, I must tell you that exhilarating, really. tively: Boys and girls in their Sunday best, coming• back to Notre Dame after a year I think the two greatest things one must drunk out of their minds, dancing (or should away is a transition notalto---·----------------------I say bouncing) to Garth getherdifferentfromcoming "There are times when I just want Brooks, Jimmy Buffet, AC/ 
here as a. freshman-excuse DC and the Village People, me-First Year Student. to grab a person out and either hooking up or an-
I spent last year in Rome noying each other. Whether on the Saint Mary's program, of the stream of interclass traffic, going to a dance, a dormroom and the reverse culture shock th d beerbongpartyoranoff-cam­·of coming back here is as pull him or her out on e qua pus kegger, students here and 
greatastheonelexperienced and .Yell, 'Let's frolic!".' at many other American cam-in my first few days back in puses have one thing in mind the United States last June. on Fridays and Saturdays: getting ham-During the first two weeks of school, I was re-adjust to after being away are the lifestyle mered: They seem determined to kill the absolutely clueless, and I still don't feel like and social climate here. People in this coun-very brain cells that are storing the informa­I'm "in the groove of things." try do things in a very intense manner, and tion they amassed during the week. Call me One of the biggest problems has been this behavior is particularly exemplified.at wacky, but something just doesn't seem convincing people that I am neither a fresh-Notre Dame. Students here either work or right here. man, nor a transfer student, nor a ghost. I play, study or socialize, w.ork out or sit j know that nothing I say can change have the added social complication of hav-around, eat or fast. There are no in-things very much, but I thought I would ing changed residence halls. Hall unity and betweens. I am not claiming that I live any · present a perspective which a lot of people hall identity are very important aspects of differently; since I returned, I have been share with me. This is my suggestion: Let's campus life here, and nowhere have I gotten . leading a life ofextremes asweH. Yet I now just try to relax a little. Stress does not equal so many suspicious and puzzled looks as in · recognize how unhealthy this is. · success (this is coming from one of the my hall. •· And then there are all of the • Things function very mechanically here. world's worst stress cases), and intoxication acquaintancesfromtwoyearsagowhocan't Go to class; go to your room. Go to your doesnotequalpeaceofmind. G9forawalk; quite decide ifl arri real ornot, who stare at meeting; go to your room, Walk on the we'.vegotagorgeouscampus. Sit on a bench me with that eerie deja vu look in their.eyes. · sidewalk, in a straight line, don't make eye and watch people go buy. There are a lot of After I re-introduce myself, they say, contact (you don't want people to think you simple pleasures to be had in life. And "Yeah, I thought I knew you from some-are interested in them) and certainly don't remember, my friends, that no. matter what where." make physical contact.. Study, eat (God crises you may face, no matter what trag-Well, I'm back. And I must say things forbid you should spend more than twenty edies life brings, there is nothing worse than have not changed all that much. However, minutes doing this), study study study, go to a bad hair day. . 
' ­
-~-~-~~-­

FINAL WORD 
Coming Out and Being Heard 
by John Blandford 

Recognizing Homosexuality at Notre Dame 
John Blandford· is a graduate student in the 
department of economics. Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. Call the office for deatails. 

During my final year as an undergraduate al N.otre Dame, I Look the first sleps in my journey toward coming out of the closet as a gay man. A quiet, cathartic walk across campus one late night enabled me to embrace what I had so long feared to face. A few days later I was in the office ofa favorite professor and mentor tentatively confiding my feelings and anx­iously awaiting a reaction. The reaction was immedi­ate and unequivocal; there was no question of his understanding and support. Strengthened by his re­sponse, I ventured over the course of the following weeks to speak with my housemates and with several other close friends. To the person, the response was positive. Those lmost cared about not only remained friends, but the friendships deepened. The whole process ofcoming out, once undertaken, was not really difficult. At the same time, the rewards 
. · were great. The liberation of acknowledging a core part of my identity, the excitement of exploring a new role and a new culture, the acceptance and support of persons whose friendships I felt invaluable -each added to the exhilaration and joy of these days. My only real regret was not feeling able to acknowledge my sexuality earlier. 
I don't think my experience of coming out at Notre Dame is atypical. Lurking fears of being rejected by friends, shunned by teachers and ousted from the Notre Dame "family" conspire to delay and make terrifying the first ventures toward honestly dealing with one's feelings. Once able to confront these fears, however, one encounters a world of decent, compas­sionate students and faculty members whose support has always been there, but was largely unspoken. And one discovers a sizable community of lesbian and gay undergraduates, graduate students and faculty mem­bers that b.lends in so well as to be essentially invisible. Because much of the support remains unspoken and because most in the lesbian and gay community re­main invisible to the campus as a whole, students who are not yet out ofthe closet continue to face significant challenges in accepting the nature of their affectional inclinations. The silent support and the invisible · presence are overwhelmed by the policies and mes­. sages formulated by those sequestered in thebciwels of OurLady. These students are told that a group serving · lesbian, gay and bisexual students cannot officially exist nor speak its name because such tolerance would violate the l!lOral teachings of the Church.· Yet when · decade-old rumors are confirmed arid a Holy Cross priest1 professor and former administration official is 
found to have abused the trust of pastoral counseling through sexual contact with students, they learn of efforts to hinder disclosure of the transgressions and to minimize the impact. 
As an epidemic rages, they watch as a dedicated group of students trained as peer AIDS educators are forbidden to teach practical measures to avoid HIV transmission during sex, callously dooming many to later tragedy. And after all this, they look on incredu­lously as alumni funding to. bring the AIDS quilt to campus is denied, with assertions that the donors' sexual orientation had nothing to do with the decision. Add to Lhe above the frequent diatribes spewed forth by a few Law School troglodytes, and the compassion and tolerance of the quiet majority in the Notre Dame community get lost. 
In light of these narrow-minded, uncaring policies and attitudes, it has become imperative forthe oft­unseen community of lesbian, gay and bisexual stu­dents, facully and staff to become increasingly visible, 
. and for the quiet majority ofstraight supporters to make their feelings loudly known. This upcoming Monday, October 11, is National Coming. Out Day. In most quarters of this country, this day" simply represents a reminder and an opportunity for those of. minority sexual orientations to take the next step toward open­ness; For one person, this step may mean acknowledg­ing to oneself the reality oflong-suppressed feelings, For another, this may mean speaking of one's orienta­tion to a friend or family member. For yet another, it may mean finally placing the photograph of one's companion on a desk at work. · · 
In the context of a campus that seems oftentimes hostile to the needs of gays and lesbians, however, National Coming Out Day also should represent an opportunity for supportive heterosexuals to take the next step in demonstrating their commitment to the creation ofa university that embraces its diversity. This support can take many forms: incorporation of th~se issues into the classroom, announcements by professors that lesbian and gay students are welcome in their offices, refus~ls by students to accept pejorative lan­guage or the telling of. jokes at the expense of any minority group. Such support can make apparent to gay, lesbian and bisexual students that the environment in which they rriay co_me out is not so hostile as it may at first a11pear. O 
·The views expressed in this column do not necessarily reflect the views ofScholastic. 
---,..------•-----I ~ < !.: ; \_ 'J 
Grist For The Mill 
JL!5T T*KE. IT EAS'l' I
HELLO'( JEFF, ITS 
l'M 0/.J M'l' ~y OJE.<-/
ME. tE.T 
SljOOL.l> I c.Au.. .A-1'.l 
OVEI'.. 1-\E.~E,

\ A-MBU~CE ~ I
Qu1u::f 
Rick Grey 
WELL, Uk.I /...X) ... I i)oµ';-FEEL ALL T}j.ltT
l"FrENr, l>CTVALLY••• 

Uh••• TWO FOOTBAl..l. GAMEs, HHM ••• RIGl-ti. Y'KNOt,J, -e,oyo, TJ.jAT.5 AL.l. I:,'2. P,1-!1. ne.._s/ GHn,-J G 51(.l(_ 
! JZ.EMEM-e.ER, Ai,j1 l'M lz.<i 171-\E.5, A-J,J1) TI-lE-
STI u. THERE./ 

TRY TI> "BEMEL~r::;~/ S"ElM<>.S HE!I.E, DVA.le.4/J. 
~ (_J ._ 



Fun things to do on pare,nts' weekend: introduce _parents to friends watch the Irish humiliate Pittsburgh '90 oul lo dinner 
WHAT ELSE?! 

Black Jack *Poker *Cra s*Roulette Music *Food *Mockta1 s*Prizes 
ti 
Ml 

The most lun you can have without ditchin 
your parents. 
non-,:xofit o,gonuotron 
U.S. POSTAGE 
PAID 
Notre Dama Perm,tNo 10 
Sl"UDKNT UNION BOAllD 







