Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, .OCTOBER 25, 1884.
No. 8.
In Memoriam.
FATHER THOMAS BURKE, O. P.
-Muses more skilled than mine have laid Their ttibutes on his bier;
Many a grateful heart portrayed In verse its grief sincere.
I come to glean, like Ruth of old, When the Reaper’s task is o’er, The harvest of a saintly life
Garnered for evermore.
Rich, golden ears for the gleaner Lie ’round in profusion cast, Where Memory heaps her treasures
In the storehouse of the past:—
Tokens that plainly tell us
What a painful path he trod;
Yet we saw but the faint shadow Of all he bore for God.
For thirty years in Christ’s vineyard He labored in sun and shade.
(How richly its sacred Owner Has those toilsome years repaid!)
When his hours of life were numbered, When he bore the seal of Death
On his brow, he gave the orphans And the poor his dying breath.
Now he sleeps. At rest forever Is the weary, pain-racked frame;
And the sacred fabric riseth
Destined to preserve his name.
While his brethren chant the Salve, And the hymns he^oved so well, ■
Peacefully he lies beneath them,
■J/Father, friend, a long farewell!
—Ave Maria.
.	Modem Thought.
The human mind is ever active. Like a tortured Prometheus, it writhes and revolves by its own .innate principles of action; and the amplitude of its conception astonishes even itself. Its insatiability forces it beyond the confines of the earth. It descends to the very foundation of science, and by the boldness of its flight rises to the highest and -loftiest speculations. But when it has reached the boundaries of that space over which the human
mind is permitted to range, it reaches the unknown, and discovers its own powerlessness. Thus have the greatest minds of all ages returned dissatisfied with the result of their search and study. The illusions they followed vanished, and when they thought to’find light, darkness appeared; and they recoiled in affright at their own ignorance. The profound Pascal has remarked: “The sciences have two extremes, which meet each other. The first, the pure, natural state of ignorance in which men are born; the other, great minds arrive at when, having reached the utmost extent of human knowledge, they find themselves in the same state of ignorance as at first.”	•
All human power has its limits. ’Tis but the Ruler of all that possesses infinitude. In His Hand tie holds the destinies of all; and Time, as he passes on, laughs at the predictions of philosophers, destroys the plans of men, and shows the vanity of all human projects. Yet our subject brings before us the names and works of those who set at defiance all authority; and, like him who raised impious war in heaven, they cried: “Let liberty triumph, and nature have its way!” One of these authors, in a distich addressed to youth, says:
“ Believe not and know not, but doubt and doubt ever;
Reject Faith and Hope, though your heart strings should sever.”
And another apostle of the school of negation says:
“No clearness has response to my-jissires,
And naught is true, but pleasure’s glowing fires.”
We behold this literature, which the past three hundred years have produced, endeavoring to.sup-plant religion, and usurp the power of Heaven; and in its stead erect the worship of the goddesses Reason-and Pleasure. The rule of law and religion, of submission and morality must go down, and from their ruins shall rise the sway of licentiousness and dissoluteness, covered by the veil of liberty. It is not, .however, our intention to speak of the numerous literary evils that have visited the Christian world in the past three hundred years. But it is the present, the very age we call our own, that demands our attention. ■ It challenges our attention and observation as Christians, and, in the name of all we hold most dear, commands us to oppose the giant strides of irreligion, as, like a gigantic colossus, it moves upon us. The very ties which bind the massive fabric of human society are threatened, and yet we supinely permit the destroyer to ad
a
ii4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
vance. The authority of parents is usurped, marriage is attacked and ridiculed in the very heart of a Christian country, gibed at as an institution too antiquated for the days of Free-love and Plymouth Doctrines.
Society has grown drowsy in the lap of luxury. The doctrines of innovators and reformers attack the security of families. A poisoned literature has sown its ideas broadcast and seduced many understandings. The warning voice of the Church, as it portrays the fearful gulf before us, is disregarded "by the present century, just as the followers of Voltaire and Rousseau neglected its warnings during the reign of Louis Philippe. It showed to their infatuated souls the glitter of daggers, and the gleam of poniards amid the gloom that enveloped them. That Revolution is still fresh in our memories, and the wounds it inflicted are still open in the heart of France. The unanimous voice of veracious historians supports us in the assertion that that upheaval had its origin in the pernicious principles of atheism and infidelity infused into the public mind by the literature that flooded Europe for years before. Gaining strength as time sped on, it finally burst with all the force of pent-up fury upon the Christian world. It felt the shock; for as the waves will always heave their mightiest billows against the rock that resists them, so also did the tornado of that commotion burst upon the adamant Rock of Peter. But the invulnerable fortress that Christ promised would never yield to human power foiled all its advances, and proved the inefficiency of human strength to battle with that which is divine. Another galaxy of writers succeeded, who advocated the principles of their predecessors, and the work of perversion and demoralization still goes on. They endeavor to estrange the heart of man from its legitimate aflec-tions by the two rival powers that speak from the depth of his being—the spirit and the flesh. The manner in which these would guide man can be judged from the fact that all authority proves that the unregulated impulses of the heart can never point the true path to happiness.
The writers who produce the evil literature of our day boast of their independence and heap reproaches upon the head of Religion, accusing her of violating right and liberty by demanding a submission outrageous to the very dignity of man. They say: “Why should the human mind be subject to any law? ” The very bonds of nature cannot contain it. For far beyond the laws of God it has gone; and, goaded on by the pride of man, its ever restless spirit seeks another field of thought. Thus it is that the writers of to-day draw their readers. ' Perhaps by the subtlety of their plan they astonish, and by the boldness of their flight captivate, until the victim is irresistibly drawn into their meshes and surrenders himself passively to their ideas.	’
The vaunted - “ progress ” of which we hear, so much; when examined closely, and stripped of the tissue that surrounds it, consists chiefly in the alienation of the human mind and heart from their legitimate attachment to truth and religion. In
the metaphysical deductions of Darwin and his followers we have an example of the progress of human thought in this progressive age of ours. Slowly and warily has been its advance since the estrangement from the Church of God. It only took three hundred years of private judgment and genealogical study to ascertain that man was not, as was formerly taught and accepted, like unto God Himself, bearing His image stamped upon his soul, but that, on the contrary, he was but an improved ape. Truly, a magnificent conception, and well worthy of the source from which it sprung! When we behold the manner in which the human mind has taken advantage of its freedom, are we not lost in admiration of its liberators? The literature that is found upon the tables of people of the present day is sufficient to bring the blush of shame to every cheek; and, knowing its vitiating nature, it is not surprising that the minds of our epoch are contaminated. The plant that grows strong in the field or on the mountain side will, if deprived of the nourishment designed for it by Providence, show but a sickly and unfruitful, though precocious growth; and can the heart of man escape disease when removed from the atmosphere created for it by the Eternal Creator? Is it surprising that he degenerates day by day, when fed upon the infecting, corrupting, and damning food furnished by the coryphaeii of modern thought? Gentle words will not lull the lion; and the heart of man, unbridled, will force itself onward, defying all authority, and, affecting a contempt of heaven and hell, will boast of its freedom, while, at the same time, it is an abject slave to the visionary geniuses who follow the chimerical ideas of reformed sociality.
But there are also among the readers of our time ardent souls and gigantic minds who will never be satisfied. They look with supreme disdain upon the farces men and society are acting, and seek their desires beyond the mortal horizon. Behold the effects of Catholic teaching and principles, in contradistinction to those principles reproduced by the literature of which we spoke, upon other minds! But despite the sad and lamentable effect of this literature, nature will still assert itself. It still bears upon it the ineffaceable impress of the Infinite, and all the sophistry and impiety, all the perversion of fundamental laws and principles, cannot respond to the requirements of the soul. It is but the works of those whose writings breathe the perfume of Christianity, whose words strike responsive to her teachings, that can survive the criticism of time and bear the scrutiny of truth. A new phalanx of writers now present a formidable front to the enemies of religion; and we may hope the hour is not far distant when the stream will engulf the evils produced, and bear to succeeding generations the bread cast thereon many years since. Truth is mighty and will prevail; and although falsehood may endure for a time, it cannot last; it must eventually succumb before truth, maintained by a Church whose works are as imperishable and indestructible as the power of Him who established her.	T. F. O’G. .
115

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
j	■ '■ —-	■	,
Autumn.
“ The melancholy days have come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing winds and naked woods, and meadows brown and sear.”
It is not my intention to launch out into a gloomy October-poet description of this our favorite season, but to lead the fancy to reflect upon a few of the changes now taking place in Nature in the transition from summer to winter. ’Tis but a few short days ago that' we sweltered under a burning sun, and all Nature was parched and dull; but with the first visit of the early frost which greeted us upon the fleecy panes of our window a few mornings since, all has changed. The cool and harvest-laden breezes of the Indian summer have mitigated the intensity of the sun’s heat, giving comfort to man and beast; while the nipping frosts and heavy, chilling dews of night have given a new aspect to Nature. Each day is marked by beautiful changes which may be seen everywhere around us, and it is a most pleasant and instructive occupation to study and closely observe them in their gradations.	*
We were first warned of the approach of Autumn by the cool, damp nights of early October, and a few straggling- russet-colored maple-leaves which scurried about the fields and campus borne by the fitful gusts which stirred the rustling trees.
The nights have become cool, and no more does the festive mosquito dance a “ Hornpipe ” or a “ Racquet ” around your ear while you dream that the North Pole is melting, or that, dressed in sealskin clothes, you are making a tour of the Torrid Zone. No more, alas! can that creature known as the spring-poet sing of “ vernal days, the shady dells, or the melodious warble of feathered songsters.” He must drop down to Autumn, and then he sings a simple lay of russet-shod October.
However, say what they will, this is one of the most beautiful of the seasons. As the days pass by and the Indian summer departs, the frost begins to tinge the leaves of the forests in rich and gorgeous colors, puts the blushes in the great, mellow harvest apples, and causes the large, brown nuts to fall rattling on the ground. There is a combination of the brightest colors and deep, rich shades in the maple and forest leaves which, at the rising or setting of the Autumnal sun, seems to set the woods in a resplendent blaze of crimson and gold. Often, though, the mornings break dull and drear until the sun appears from behind a veil of thin, . flaky clouds, dispersing the glittering hoar frost and gradually extending its warmth to temper the delightful days of October.
A day spent in the country during this season will be productive of the most agreeable sensations, and will make a lasting impression. On every side one can find subjects for the artist’s most consummate genius: here a sober’ field of stubble brightened, perhaps, in many places' by great golden pumpkins, or, maybe, a group of ruddy children who cheerily sport around the harvest stores; there the banks of some gentle stream over which hang naked willows and barren shrubs.
With every gust of wind, millions of bright leaves are caught up and borne in whirling eddies from the skirts of the forest to carpet the country roads or choke the slow mill-streams and sedgy marshes.
“ Heaped in the hollows of the grove, the Autumn leaves lie dead;
They circle to the eddying gust and to the rabbits’ tread.”
From roadside bushes, affrighted quail and other game start in whirring groups, and the cry of numberless migratory fowls, which in their illimitable flight announce to man the approach of Winter, are borne upon the Autumn wind.
During this period the sun sets early, and as its last beams shoot o’er the tree tops the many-colored woods deepen into a thick, confused shade which lends an umbrage to all the country.round.
While the crimson light yet glows on the window panes the air becomes chilly, and the distant farm houses from whose low-built chimneys curl thin wreaths of smoke, suggest coziness and enjoyment. In early Fall there are a few hours of rosy twilight, and then the moon rises like a great golden ball, over the harvest fields, bathing them in the soft and mellow light of an Oriental evening^: but
O	O'
later on, the twilight gives place to several hours of darkness, and then the moon is much more silvery and bright. There are but few stars in the heavens, and,
“ Full in her dreamy light the queen presides, Shrined in a halo, mellowing as she rides.”
-It is at such times as these that we can form an idea of the beauty and harmony displayed in the evolution of the seasons, and can glean an infinite amount of pleasure in observing the work of the great Master; for, as Bryant says,
“ To him who, in the love of Nature, holds Communion with her visible forms, she speaks A various language: for his gayer hours She has a voice of gladness, and a smile, And eloquence of beauty; and she glides Into his darker musings with a mild And gentle sympathy that steals away Their sharpness ere he is aware.”.
F. H. D.
(Rev. Bernard O'Reilly, D.D., in the “N. T. Sun.") Ireland as It Is.
HOW THE CATHOLIC SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES COMPARE WITH OTHERS.
Dublin, Sept. 20.—This city is to me a pleasant surprise in many ways. The impression produped on me, some twenty years ago, by too short a stay has been completely blotted out by a whole week’s sojourn and a more leisurely survey of what now strikes me as one of the most beautiful. cities in . Europe, and one of the most delightful to all.who prize refined and cultivated society and a literary atmosphere full of noble activities.
There is, at the very moment I write to. you, intellectual activity of the noblest and most inspiriting kind. Yesterday morning were published ' the lists of successful candidates in the first Royal

ii6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
University examination. All through this week the examiners had been busy at work. Pupils, parents, and the whole public were on the tiptoe of expectancy, for it is now a race between the long-established, richly-endowed, and admirably-equipped Protestant preparatory schools and their recent rivals, the Catholic schools, unendowed; poorly-equipped, ill provided with a professional staff and scientific apparatus. The lattei' have, in spite of all these disadvantages, obtained a large majority among the successful candidates.
This morning, while public sentiment was still excited over these lists, the Government has issued a list of all those pupils who have passed with honor the intermediate examinations, that is, the course of three grades—Junior, middle and Senior —which fits young people to enter the University proper, or to compete for the civil service examinations. The name of a student from St. Malachy’s College, Belfast, heads the list of Honors in the Senior grade. This seems prophetic of the fastapproaching day when Belfast and the whole north of Ireland shall have a Catholic University school as richly endowed by Government and as well equipped as the Queen’s College, Belfast, now so successful as a purely Presbyterian school. Fair play must soon be the cry in this national competition for intellectual excellence. It must also be soon the rule.
Of the 676 prizes awarded this year for intermediate examinations 414, or sixty-one per cent., have fallen to pupils of the Catholic schools. So they more than hold their own. The readers of The Sun will observe that this proportion will be increased in their favor as soon as they are placed by the Government on the same footing of equality as their Protestant competitors.
What I have now to say regards university education. Since my arrival in Dublin I have devoted much of my time to a close study of the comparative conditions of the so-called Catholic university schools under the Royal University of Ireland and Trinity College, or the University of Dublin, together with the numerous and splendid establishments for higher education, belonging to the Protestant community. The former Catholic University of Ireland, which sprang up one day to die the next, was the creature of Cardinal Cullen. The discussions among the Irish hierarchy, which proved from the very beginning fatal to a project so dear to the hearts of Irishmen on both sides of the Atlantic, must only be alluded to here, because they are spoken of plainly by the biographers of the late Archbishop McHale. I allude to them as to a timely warning, because like dissensions would lead to a like fatal result in the case of the attempt just being made with remarkable success to open for. the Catholic youth of Ireland a great central denominational school for university education.
The Jesuits have already solved the problem deemed insoluble by leading Catholics. They have here in Stephen’s Green, within five minute’s walk of Trinity College, a school numbering above 130 matriculated.students, who have successfully passed the prescribed ordeal of examination. Let me
speak, in this letter of their efforts and successes. What I have to say will, if I mistake not, enable American readers to seize all the conditions of this great educational struggle, destined to exercise a decisive influence on Ireland’s future.
In the first examination of the Royal University students, just completed, the Jesuits sent up thirtyeight candidates. Thirty-seven have passed. Remember that the school (St. Ignatius’ Catholic University College) was only opened last November; for not till then had the ecclesiastical authorities agreed to place these devoted educators at the head of this central establishment. Still, in this first year, despite drawbacks of every description and trials that I need not speak of in detail, ninety-nine of their students passed successfully the ordeal of examination before the Boards of the ‘Royal University, fifty-three of their number obtaining honors, a large proportion, as we shall see presently.
One of the great obstacles toward granting to the Catholics of Ireland a university of their own arose from the opinion prevalent, both here and in England, that the Catholic population had no schools capable of fitting boys for university colleges, and that very few parents cared to have their sons prepared for university education. These reasons were more than once put forth in and out of Parliament as a sufficient ground for denying to Catholics the means of such education. More recently, when the Queen’s Colleges in Cork and Galway were threatened with suppression, because they failed to win the confidence of Catholic parents or to attract their sons, and because, too, their inefficiency as university schools was asserted and proved, Catholic members of Parliament asked why these establishments were not transformed into denominational schools, or why the funds devoted to their support were not applied to the purpose of superior Catholic education. Then the refusal of Ministers was based upon the above reasons.
Meantime, the Jesuit colleges had gone to work to disprove these reasons. Father William Delany, the President of Tullabeg College, began in 1876 to send his most advanced students up for examination in the London University. They met with no little success, one boy obtaining first classical honors. In 1878 eight pupils were sent up, and all eight passed. Here, then, was one school proved to be able to prepare boys to enter a university college. ’	.
In 1879 the Ministry inaugurated for Ireland the system of intermediate education and examination. I have conversed with some of the men who were most active in urging this measure on the Ministers and on Parliament. It was providentially destined to supply in Ireland the need, so long felt by Catholics, of some means for preparing the national youth for higher studies and the most advanced science. It did not establish schools, but it stimulated all existing schools to raise their standards and to perfect their methods of teaching. The facile cry of “cramming” has been raised both against the present system of intermediate schools and examinations and against the preparations necessary for matriculating in the universities. I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have long been of the opinion expressed a few days ago by Mr. Oscar Browning in the Social Science Congress at Birmingham: “ Where there is real ‘cramming’ and overwork, for the student, it arises from inability of the teacher to impart knowledge properly.”
At any rate, the wonderful success of the intermediate system in Ireland and the splendid results obtained by the Catholic schools in this open competition—bj’ the Jesuit colleges particularly—dispelled the fond notion cherished in England, and so sedulously kept up in Ireland, that the Catholic majority had not competent schools, that Catholic children were not of the superior intellectual stuff required, and that Catholic parents did not wish their sons and daughters to be as highlv educated as their Protestant neighbors.
From 1879 to ^83, both inclusive, Catholic schools won 393, or nearly 53 per cent, of the prizes awarded in the intermediate examinations. Of 73 gold medals for excellence in special subjects, Catholic schools won 43, or 60 per cent. Of the 45 boys who won the first places—first, second, and third in each of the three grades for five years —32 are Catholics, or 71 per cent.
If ,under a free and liberal government, professing to deal with perfect fairness toward all denominations, the moneys granted for education are to be given just in proportion to the work done, to the proficiency of the pupils and the acknowledged excellence of the teachers, why allow such schools as St. Ignatius’ College, Stephen’s Green, to struggle onward and upward without a shilling of the public moneys, while the Queen’s Colleges in Galway and Cork are treated with lavish prodigality for work that is avowedly inferior, and, in the instance of Galway, for no work worth speaking of?
Judge by the following tabular statement if I am unjust or partial in what I here affirm. In the printed report of a Parliamentary commission instituted to inquire into the condition of these two colleges, it is established by one of the witnesses that hardly any students enter either of these colleges who have completed the senior grade of the intermediate examinations, and that there is on the rolls of these colleges a total absence of “ ex-hibitioners.”
1.	SENIOR GRADE STUDENTS.
Total..................1
Univ. Col. of St. Ignatius, ’83-84......................7
Exhib. Prizemen. Passmen: Total.
Cork, to ’S3-’S4 inclusive.. .1 Galway, to ’S3-’S4,inclusive.o
12	17	30
7.	8	15
- '	—	——■
19	25	45
20	27	54
2.	INTERMEDIATE EXHIBITIONERS ON THE ROLE OF THESE COLLEGES IN SESSION l883-’S4.
Senior. Middle. Junior. Total.
Cork..................... 1	2	4	7
■Galway.................. o	o	0	o
Total............... 1	2	4	7
Univ. Col. St Ign.....	7	5	6	iS
- ■ Now, if we bear in mind that the Catholic University College of St. Ignatius has had to go into
the competition suddenly and without any of the advantages enjoyed by Cork and Galway, we can only be astonished at the following figures marking the results for all three given by the Board of Examiners of the Royal University at the end of the session i883-’84:
All fair-minded Americans who may be inclined to judge that the grievances complained of by the Irish exist only in the imagination of a fanciful race, will see by glancing at the above figures whether or not there be solid ground for complaint on this matter of higher education.
This is far from being the worst feature in this enormous public wrong done to a whole nation. Students in the Catholic university schools, who obtain the very highest honors and distinctions, are allowed to fight their way to the end through the university course unbefriended and practically unrewarded pecuniarily by the State, whereas their intellectual inferiors in Cork and Galway, the very men whom they have defeated and left far behind in the race for intellectual superiority, are given valuable scholarships! During the session of 1883 —’84 Galway had in her university school 100 students for all the faculties taken together. Of the forty-six students attending the lectures in the department of Arts, thirty-four were scholars. In the third year course there were only six students, and all six were scholars of Galway College, although they all were merely pass-men of the Royal University, undistinguished by prize or honor. Of the twelve students reading the second course in arts, ten are scholars, and not one could obtain honors in the Royal University examinations. In the first course, out of twelve students, two only succeeded in winning second-class honors, and yet ten are scholars. More than that, there is not on the roll of Galway College for iSS3-’S4 a single student who had won distinction in the intermediate examination, or who had obtained rank as exhibitioner of the Royal University. More even than that, this roll call of undeserving favorites is now just one-third of what it was when Mr. Gladstone proposed' to bestow its endowments on some more deserving institution. This is the state of things -which the Prime Minister qualifies as “ shamefully bad,” and yet the Secretary for Ireland does noth- . ing,.proposes nothing, to remedy the scandal.
In the Catholic University College, which from its very birth takes so glorious a place in the struggle for true education, that which combines the most careful culture of the heart and the conscience with the highest development of the mind, I see the sure pledge of the Christian Irei and., which will remain true to God, no matter what defection may
n8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
desolate other lands. All here are for denominational education.
Whatever may happen, Irishmen everywhere can henceforth look with proud satisfaction to the great schools of Dublin and to the College in o	o
Stephen’s Green.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Mrs. Delia T. S. Parnell is stated to be engaged upon an operetta. It contains several well-known Irish scenes, and will be dedicated to and sung by Rosa d’Erina.
—Eight new wall paintings have been uncovered on the walls of the Pantheon in Paris. The subject is the life of Charlemagne, and they take up the whole of the left side wall of the St. Genevieve Chapel.
—Dr. A. Riart has recently published in Paris a very entertaining book on the habits of French authors, with much general advice as to the course of life literary men should pursue, under the title “ Hygiene du Cabinet de Travail!
—“ Some sensation is likely to be made in the religious world,” says The Pall Mall Gazette, “by a book shortly to be published under the title ‘ Letters from Hell.’ It is written by a Danish bishop, and is now being translated into English.”
o	o
—A new edition of an early English romance, “The Tale of Gamelyn,” is being prepared for the Clarendon Press series. The tale has been usually regarded as one of the sources from which Shakspeare drew the story of “As You Like It.”
—The French Government, having obtained the consent of the Vatican authorities, are about to send M. Molinier, Professor of Literature in the University of Besancon, to copy unpublished documents in the Vatican archives relating to the inquisition.
—The new statue of Bach, unveiled at Eisenach, is unanimously declared to be one of the finest in Germany. It is cast in bronze, and represents Bach in an upright position at a music desk, which is in the form of a little genius as Caryatide. A high relief in bronze shows St. Cecilia at the organ.
—The mayor of Lichfield, England^ has invited the world to correspond with him on the three questions—whether it is desirable to celebrate the centenary of Dr. Johnson’s death; what form such a celebration should take, and in what way his correspondents will give their aid. The wise old doctor died on Dec. 13, 1784.	»
—An addition is about to be made by Mgr. Capel to the ecclesiastical literature of this country, by a reprint of a classical work, “The Faith of Catholics Confirmed by Scripture, and Attested by the Fathers of the First Five Centuries of the Church.” It was compiled by Berrington and Kirk, and edited later by Waterworth.
—A very interesting meeting of the Catholic Union of Church Music, for the revival of old composers of ecclesiastical chants, was held at May-ence, in. Germany. Thousands /of prelates and priests attended from France, America, Ireland,
Holland, Belgium, etc. In the fine old cathedral of the thirteenth century masses, hymns, and chants by Pallestrina, Paisiello, Lassus, and others were sung.
—The Belgium “Institute National de Geographic ” announces the publication by subscription of a work of very great interest, an atlas of the towns of Belgium in the sixteenth century, being fac-similes of the plans made by order of Charles V and Philip II by Jacques de Vender. • The original minutes of a portion of this work have been preserved in the Royal Library of Brussels, and a fragment of the atlas executed for Philip II in the Library of Madrid. The atlas will consist of one hundred maps, accompanied by descriptions of the towns by eminent writers, and a historical introduction.
—Handel, whom all the musicians unite to consider the greatest prodigy in music, the most illustrious man and with the highest moral courage, was systematically abused in London by such literary coteries as Addison and Steele. When “The Messiah ” was produced in Dublin not one word was said about it in London. Finally, one concern, called “ The Universal Spectator,” remarked that “ Old Handel had been bringing out a piece of sacrilege among the Irish.” Schoelcher says: “The enthusiasm, which Handel’s works excited at Dublin and the personal welcome which had been accorded him in the native country of Balfe and Wallace, presented a happy contrast to the state of things under which he had suffered at London.” The British snobs resolved to give parties during Lent so as to break up Handel’s musical entertainments. Horace Walpole attacked him. For the second time he was made a bankrupt in London after he had succeeded in Ireland at the moment the renown of his works was increasing more and more throughout Europe. He became blind in the nation he had brought refinement and taste to, but lived long enough to survive one age of his enemies, and the next generation had to cower.
Scientific Notes.
—While oiling a dynamo machine at the Health Exhibition in London, on Sept. 27, one of the workmen inadvertently touched it with the oil can he held in his hand and was instantly killed.
—Experiments in various hospitals show that sulphide of carbon is the best agent to restore to their normal action the bowels of cholera patients. It has restored to consciousness in thirty seconds several patients insensible to even the pricking of a needle.	.
—The tower of the new light-house at Hell Gate, _"	o	-
East River, New York, is 250 feet .high, and is surmounted by an electric light of 54,000 candle power. It illuminates every object for miles around. The light: is the most powerful one in any lighthouse in the world.
—Poison Ivy.—Of all the remedies, readily and easily applied, says a scientific authority, the fluid extract of serpentaria is perhaps the most eflica-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	119
cious in cases of rhus poisoning. Cloths well moistened with it are laid, without any friction, upon the parts affected. Immediate relief is experienced, and two or three applications generally effect a cure.
—The prize of forty thousand francs offered by the French Academy for some certain test of death, to prevent people from being buried alive, was given to a physician who announced that on holding the hand of a supposed dead person to a strong light, if living a scarlet tinge is seen where the fingers touch, showing a continuous circulation of the blood, no scarlet being seen if dead.
—Prof. G. F. Wright, treating on the Niagara River and the Glacial Period, infers that the river itself has worn the whole of the gorge from Queenstown to the falls, with perhaps some little assistance from preglacial erosion, above the whirlpool. The rate of erosion, calculated at about three feet a year, would make the time requisite for the work so performed not over 10,000 or 12,000 years.
—Van Rysselberghe, of Belgium, has succeeded in transmitting a telegraphic and a telephonic message along the same wire at the same time. A trial of this has been made at the Antwerp Universal Exhibition, where concerts held in important towns in Belgium were heard, the transmission being made with ordinary instruments along ordinary telegraph lines and with earth returns.
—The two-tailed rat exhibited in the dime museums is not a lusus natures, but the victim of an-, tiseptic surgery. The tail of a healthy rat is cut off and inserted in a V-shaped cut in the nose of a second. Antiseptic dressings are applied, and the four limbs tied to a little frame to prevent scratching the new appendage. The second tail “ sets ” in twenty-four hours, and in four days nervous connection is established. Thereafter the rodent guards its front tail as zealously as the other.
—In a recent number of The Lancet Mr. Spence Bate, F. R. S., has a paper upon the “Teeth,” the inference from which appears to be that the teeth of the human race are gradually being evolved into brain matter; that as man increases in intellect, his masticators become unnecessary; and that, consequently, the man of the future will have a large brain but no teeth, and will have to depend on the mechanical dentist to preserve his semblance to his ancestors. —Index.
College Gossip.
- —A party of hazers at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, used a pistol to induce a Freshman to stand treat.— Crimson.
—At University College, Stephen’s Green, Dublin, the Jesuit Fathers have established exhibitions and prizes in connection with their Gaelic Classes.
—Father: “I had no idea that your studies would cost so much money.” Student: “Yes, and .1 don’t study so very much either.”—Cornell Era.
—It is estimated, by the Commissioner of Education, that the total value of the grounds, buildings and apparatus of the 375 colleges m the United States will reach $43,'500,000.—Crimson.
—The skill of the Sophomores in rowing was tried rather unexpectedly last week. When about one mile and a half from shore the boat sprung a leak, and they pulled for the shore in good earnest. —Yale Hews.	.	.
—“ What branches do you find most useful to your pupils?” asked a visitor of a professor at the University of Texas. “Any branch is good, but I find that the branches from a peach tree are the most useful of all.”—Texas Siftings.
—Kind Auntie : “ So you have Prof. X------------, and how do you like him?” Tough - Soph.: “ Hate him.” Kind Auntie : “ Indeed, whom of your instructors do you like best?” Tough Soph.: “ Oh, well, old X-------------------------------, I guess.”—Record.
—It is whispered that four or five times as much as Barnum has already given to Tuft’s College is coming to found a Museum of Natural History, viz., a steady percentage on the profits of the circus and menagerie. This is reckoned as amounting to $250,000 in the near future.— Cornell Sun.
—The Vassar Alumnse Association of Chicago have for one of their special objects the collection of funds for the education of poor Western girls at Vassar. The Alumni and Alumnae of other educational institutions, in concert with the friends of the institutions and their officers, would do well to follow such an excellent example.
—For the first time in the history of Yale, it is said, the college ivy is in bloom. It was planted by the Class of ’81. It is an English ivy of a sort that rarely blooms in that locality, the harsh New England climate not being favorable. The bios-som is a small, dull, creamy-white color. There are thousands of these, and they exhale a delicate and delicious odor.—H. Y. Sten.
—A Sophomore is engaged in cultivating an apparently verdant Freshman, when suddenly the silence is disturbed by the tuning up of the Chancellor’s cat for its nightly serenade. Says Soph.: “What makes that cat howl so?” Verdant Fresh. : “ I don’t know, unless it’s his mew-cuss membrane.” The Soph, sadly turns away and leaves the Freshman alone in peace.— University Herald.
—To the degree of Doctor conferred by German universities, more especially to the Ph. D., or Doctor of Philosophy, there has attached a certain suspicion, from the fact that some of these institutions have granted the honor to any one who cared to give a few dollars for it. The universities of Germany have at length united to wipe away this reproach. It has been agreed by all the faculties in the empire that neither in Law nor Medicine, neither in Philosophy nor Divinity, shall any doctor’s degree be hereafter conferred upon a candidate in absentia; nor is the inaugural dissertation, written in German or Latin, in any case to be dispensed with. The qualifications for the degrees in alb the German universities are now practically uniform. In addition • to passing the “maturity” examination at a gymnasium, candidates are required to attend a minimum number of classes at a university during three sessions.—H Y. Sun.
120
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, October 25, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid. *
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
N. H. Ewing, ’84.	W. H. Johnston, ’85.
C. F. Porter, ’85.	T. J. McKinnery, ’85.
C. C. Kolars,’85. Frank H. Dexter,’87.
F. Hagenbarth, ’87.
—The words of Rev. President Walsh spoken on last Sunday evening should be treasured up by everyone. An incalculable advantage is it to all of us to receive the visits of men eminent in the history of the nation and realize from living exemplars the possibilities that are before us. Each one of us has a work to do in life’s fitful warfare; but the grand aim and object of all should be to do that work well—nay, perfectly; to be eminent, each in his own sphere of action.
—Before another week has passed away, the annual retreat for the Catholic students shall have been begun and terminated. It is well that all should understand the importance of the exercises in which during that time they shall be engaged. A retreat is a breathing spell in the active life of the student at college—a time for reflection upon the great truths and principles which should direct his conduct in this world; and, while fitting him for the proper fulfilment of the duties of the position he may hereafter occupy in life, prepare him for another and a better life to come. It is an exercise
which forms a prominent feature in the conduct of all great Catholic institutions. Impressing, as it does, the heart with a deep sense of the duties which we owe to God, ourselves and our fellowman, it becomes an important and essential factor in the work of imparting to the youthful seeker after knowledge that moral training without which no education can be complete and perfect. Its importance, therefore, cannot be over-estimated, and it should be with serious, earnest attention that its exercises be followed.
—We are happy to announce that the iong-looked-for electric crown of stars at length adorns the grand statue of Our Lady on the Dome. Early in the week the lamps were received, and the work of placing them in position was at once begun, and successfully completed on Thursday last. When night came on the powerful dynamos were started, and quickly there shone around the head of the statue a beautiful halo of light, formed, as it were, by twelve brilliant meteors, and visible far and wide. Much of the effect, however, was lost, owing to the presence of the immense scaffolding surrounding the statue; but still it was very easy to judge what the general effect will be under more favorable conditions. The lamps—as their elevation precludes the possibility of constant attention being paid to them, are necessarily small, and the light is subdued, soft and mellow; it is, however, sufficiently powerful to illuminate the statue, while forming a resplendent crown. Present obstacles will be speedily removed, and hereafter in the darkest night the figure of her under whose protecting mantle this home of Religion and Science is placed will shine forth radiant and glorious, typifying the constant, watchful care which she ever exercises over those who entrust themselves to her guidance.
—College life certainly does not cut off the student from the outside world. Having reached the years of discretion, it comes within his province to acquaint himself with the conduct of affairs in the world without, and, under proper direction, apply the lessons thereby taught. ’ Naturally, too, in a country like ours, where the stability and permanence of our Government demand the existence of parties, the sympathies and feelings of the student are drawn towards some one of those existing. As a rule, where such feelings do exist, they may be accounted for, not . by any self-conviction, but by association with elders. However,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
here at college—where the mental faculties are being disciplined, where all passion and prejudice must be curbed and restrained, where the one grand object before all and each of us is to fit ourselves for a future career,—party feelings, as* well as other passions, should be properly restrained. The student, as such, belongs to no party; he is not yet a full-fledged member of society, much less a citizen of the Republic. He is now going through a course of training; profiting by the experience of others who have gone before him, of those who now hold prominent positions and with whom he may come in contact; preparing himself to take his place in society; to do his duty manfully and well in the profession or position to which he may feel himself called. That is the end which he has in view, and, apart from mere purposes of debate and the desire of further experience, party feeling, of any kind whatsoever,should find no place in student life.
(From the “Catholic Fevie-t:.'' ) Notre Dame.
_ REMINISCENCES OF A SUMMER HOLIDAY IN OUR lady’s university in the CENTRAL WEST.
To spend a vacation profitably one should combine pleasure, rest and instruction. To those, therefore, who have stiength of will to resist the tide of mere pleasure-seekers I would suggest a round of our Catholic religious and educational establishments for their next summer’s excursion.
Such a trip would give many of us a much-needed knowledge of our own country, its natural beauties and varied industries. It would open our eyes to the vast strides of the Church in its mission of civilization—and the latter expression must not be supposed as applicable only to the wilds of Africa or Asia, for her influence is quite as much needed to curb the passions of hearts which beat under fashionably-cut garments as those which have no cover but that supplied by nature. It would even be a key to the past history of the Church, and give us a more correct idea of monastic life than the tainted versions that come to us through the ordinary “ history.”' .
Notre Dame, whose generous hospitality I shared this summer, and whose calming, holy influence I hope to benefit by to the end of my days, is well fitted to give the lie to those writers who supplied, and, unfortunately, do supply, much of the food of our minds. . It is a living witness against those who affected to portray monastic life, and proves them vicious caricaturists, whose only claim to attention is the fact that monasteries did exist. It is a witness of the piety, industry and self-sacrifice which a pure love of God can draw from the human heart, elevating the standaid of our natures above that of the mere animal,—and we
remember that God breathed upon man and gave him life. He who has sojourned sufficiently long at Notre Dame to fully observe the life of its in-., mates, the morning, noon and evening exercises' devoutly performed; the day’s labor systematically, promptly and scrupulously gone through; the voluntary obedience cheerfully rendered to authority; the heavenly calm of mien and eye, “the window of the soul,” giving dignity to the hewers of wood and drawers of water as to those whose early life was spent amid the refining influence-of cultivated Christian homes and educational establishments; who has seen the handsome church with its beautiful altar and statues; the grand and imposing University, having a frontage'- of three hundred and twenty-five feet; a two hundred feet Dome crowned by a richly-gilt statue twenty-two feet high of Our Lady; St. Edward’s Hall, the cheerful, happy home of the Minims; Science Hall; the building of the reading, recreation and music halls; the printing and publishing establishment whence issue The Ave Maria and Scholastic, and many other works of wisdom and piety; the many other buildings which go to make up this small town, the fifteen hundred acres in verdant fields, amid which nestle the beautiful little lakes of St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s, affording boating, bathing’ and skating for the pupils, with St. Mary’s Academy fur young ladies, and its taste-efullv-arranged grounds standing on the bank of the St. Joseph River in the distance—all the property of this community; who has seen all this must also recognize the hand of God.
For this is not the gift of kings and princes. No lordlings have given in charity or penitence; no government in gratitude to Heaven for favors received. It is the life sacrifice of earnest Christian men and women in whose hearts God planted deeply the seed of His love, which has borne its natural fruit and in overflowing abundance.
The fruit of love’s labor it then is, and this overflowing love and charity bathes in its calm waters the world-fevered spirit, and heals with sacramental balm the wounds of those who are so happy as to enter under its roof, and, carried far beyond the geographical limits of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, sprinkles mankind.
Notre Dame University and St. Mary’s Academy instruct between seven and eight hundred boarders every year, and members of the community conduct parochial and other schools all over .the continent. The course of studies embraces preparatory,. commercial, phonography, science, classics, laws medicine, and the fine arts, thoroughly taught by a numerous and competent Facuity.. But, above all, and beyond all, pupils are taught their duties to God and man; that a clear conscience is more precious than gold or honors, and can only be at-' tained by honorable integrity; that “religion,has rocked us in the cradle of life, and her maternal hand shall close our eyes, while her melodies soothe us to rest in the cradle of death.” Where will such influences end? Happy are the children reared amid such surroundings! Happy and grateful should be the world which, in spite of itself, has still pre
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
served to it that much-wronged and hated yet gushing spring of God’s graces to man—the monastery!
Happy are those men and women, examples of Christian charity, whose life and labors are the source of so many blessings to their fellow-beings; and thrice happy is that -venerable and deeply venerated old man, Father General Edward Sorin, under whose fatherly care those lives have been trained, and, by the grace of God, all this good has come; who, over forty years ago, when full of youth and strength, came from his own sunny France and took possession of this then wilderness, and exclaimed: Here is the portion of my inheritance; here will I dwell all the days of my life !
Joseph Brennan.
Exchanges.
—Our quasi-military friend, the St. Mary's Sentinel, is again at hand. Welcome. But don’t, please don’t perpetrate any more such puns as that upon “Morris” and “playin’ politicians.” They are abominable. Bad puns are as nauseating as doggerel verses, and less excusable.
—The Doane OwZsays: “It would be difficult to describe an ideal paper, yet when we come across it we all know it. The ideal college paper represents the college, its aims and endeavors; it represents the students, their thoughts and their ambition; it shows the best work of the students; its departments are well filled, yet not overcrowded; its editors are thoughtful, yet not dull; and the paper, from beginning to end, is interesting and instructive.”
—The Pa^er World for October is handsome in appearance, and well stocked with everything of interest relating to the paper business. The illustrated sketches of this superb trade magazine are a peculiar feature; one by one, the paper-making celebrities in various parts of our broad country are sketched with pen and pencil, and their history almost invariably shows what can be accomplished by energy and industry. The Pa^er World is brimful of news. -
—The Cornell Daily Sun, deprecating the weakness of the elocutionary department of the university, appositely remarks: “ To young men who are to enter professions and occupy the positions which naturally fall to college men, ability to speak readily and well is a necessity. That the students appreciate this fact is shown by the large number electing extempore speaking, and availing themselves of every opportunit)7 for culture in this line.” Unlike the. Cornellians, we cannot find fault with the elocutionary training here, but we think the advantages of the elocution classes are not appreciated by many who should .take an interest in them.
—The Daily Crimson, published at Harvard University, is one of our most regular and most welcome exchanges. The Crimson is in every respect a model-college paper. The Harvard stu-
dents have good reason to congratulate themselves © ©
on possessing such a respectable, well-edited daily. No one who is not or has not been a college editor himself, can form even a remote idea of the difficulties encountered in editing a college weekly; what then must be the pluck and energy of those who must write, arrange, and glean matter for such a paper as the Daily Crimson! But the work is done, and well done; the eight columns of reading matter, daily, give ample evidence of this.
—Anent the late “ cane-rush ” at Columbia, in which Pres’t Barnard cut a figure and gave one of the Freshman “ rushers” a bloody nose, we suppose the Harvard Crimson speaks ironically when it terms the “rush” a “noble custom.” In the “ rush ” at Yale it is said that two Sophomores lost all their clothes with the exception of a few strips of trouser legs and their shoes and stockings.
“Time is ripe, and rotten ripe, for change: Then let it come,”
once wrote Lowell for a different cause; but the words will apply equally well to the cane “ rush.” A collection of the newspaper accounts of late “rushes” would make a good “Roundabout” on the subject.
— We give cordial greeting to the Collep’c jozirnal, from Georgetown University, Washington, the first number of which, for the current year, has just come to hand. In the matter of poetry we think a better selection could hardly have been made than the Rev. Alyn Conyngham’s touching song,“My ain Countree,” which we find in the journal. The various departments of the paper are filled with matter of interest concerning the college and students, especially the alumni, who have lately formed themselves into an organization for the purpose of liquidating the debt of the University, which at present is about $150,000. The object is praiseworthy; we hope the alumni will rally to the aid of their Alma Mater. Alumni associations are, as a rule, rather loose affairs, lacking in spirit, owing to. the apathy of those who should take an interest in them. Why this is so is a mystery; but so it is, in most colleges.
—Like some of our American confreres, the English college magazines are late in putting in an appearance this year. The first that we have received is Frondes S Uvula:, a little monthly magazine issued from the Salford Catholic Grammar School, Salford, England,—not exactly a college magazine in its origin or character, but yet entitled to a place among college publications. The poetry in this magazine is always good, but the prose articles seem heavy on account of the absence of lighter material to form a variety or diversion. We hope the editor or editors will enlarge the scope of their magazine and give the outer world a glimpse of the inner life and workings of their school. Local items, personal mention, school gossip, reminiscences, etc., would form pleasing features of the magazine, and would undoubtedly make it more popular. We should like to have the editors’ opinion of our crude suggestions.
—The Philoso^hian Review opens the initial

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
123
number of its second volume with a bit of advice that will suit very well some of the readers of the Scholastic, so we clip it for their benefit. Instead of the Review read the Scholastic, and the piece will serve our purpose as well as if we had written it ourselves:
“ Students who complain about the reading-matter of the Revie-v should remember that it is open to all. If it does not meet with your approval, contribute something ' to its columns. We often hear business men of learning say, with regret, that they are unable to write a respectable letter, or express their thoughts properly. Now is the time to train yourself. If you would occasionally contribute an essay to the Review, in a short time you would be surprised at the facility with which you could write. It is too often the case that the work is left to a few. School papers are generally filled with matter from the editors only. • Professors, alumni, student—contribute, and by so doing you will increase the interest of the paper tenfold.”
The Exchange-editor of the Philosofihian says:
“We have but one criticism on the Notre Dame Scholastic. That is, it deserves a better cover. It is full of solid matter, and we are at all times glad to see it.”
Well, we don’t hanker for a cover, but if some wealthy friend of the Scholastic gives us a donation, or remembers us in his will for that purpose, we shall not object to the handsome raiment. It is at least a consolation to be told that we deserve a better one than that which now envelops us.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the Messrs. Benziger Brothers the Introduction to a work by the Rt. . Rev. James Ricards, Bishop of Grahamstown, South Africa. The work is entitled “. Catholic Christianity and Modern Unbelief,” and, judging from the portion we have seen, we think it will ■prove a valuable acquisition to the Catholic -literature of the day; and one very opportune, considering the great inroads made by the Rationalism, Scientific Positivism and, if we may use the term, the “ Ingersollism ” of the present time.
—Edward Everett Hale, in the November number of the North American Review, makes a plea for “ Half-Time in Schools,” which every parent and every school board ought to consider seriously. The old question, “Where are we, and where drifting? ” was never more forcibly suggested than By another article in the same number, that in which Prof. Gilliam discusses “The African Problem.” The facts that he gives as to the increase of the negroes in the United States, their peculiar situation and disposition, and the problem they will force upon us in the near future, call for the gravest consideration. The other articles in this number are: “ Woman as a Political Factor,” by Judge Robert C. Pitman; “Progress in Naval Armament,” by Hobart Pasha, who thinks the United States Government has been wise in not constructing a costly navy; “ F riendship in Ancient Poetry,” by Principal J. C. Shairp; “Herbert Spencer’s Latest Critic,” by Prof. E. L. Youman’s; “ OverIllustration,” by Charles T. Congdon; and “Restriction of the Suffrage,” by William L. Scruggs.
,—The Catholic World for November opens
with the first of a series of papers on “Scriptural Questions,” by the Rev. A. F. Hewit. In these papers Father Hewit proposes to consider those “ questions in respect to the Holy Scriptures and their teaching which are matters of sfeneral discussion at the present time,” and show what opinions may be held in consonance with faith and the principles of true science. We have no doubt these papers will attract much interest. In the present number, after a lengthy statement of his plan and the principles by which he is guided in its development, the writer proceeds to treat of “ cosmogony,” in which he explains the scientific view of the age of the world and its reconcilability with the Mosaic account. Rev. Walter Elliott contributes an able article entitled “ A Critic of the Great Republic,” in which he reviews certain remarks made by a writer in the Month for July, under the heading “ An Englishman’s Impressions of America.” The other articles are: ccFrenchwomen Portrayed by a Frenchwoman,” by Kathleen O’Meara; “Two Translations of the Dies Tree'' by George M. Davie and John Mason Browne; “ Solitary Island, Part II,” by Rev. John Talbot Smith; “ F ray Junipero Serra,” by Bryan J. Clinche; “Down the River to Texas During the Flood,” by Thos. F. Galwey; “Katharine,” by E. G. Martin; “ The Liquefaction of the Blood of St. Januarius,” by L. B. Binsse; “A True Reformer— Nicholas Krebs,” by Rev. Henry A. Brann, D. D. . —The November Century marks the beginning of the fifteenth year of the magazine (the fourth under the present name), and also the beginning of the most extensive enterprise yet undertaken by its conductors,—the recently announced series of papers on the Civil War, by Generals Grant, McClellan, Rosecrans, and others in high rank. The first paper, on “The Battle of Bull Run,” is .contributed by General Beauregard, who adds to his description of the engagement a postscript on the subsequent conduct of the war on the Confederate side, and his own relations with Jefferson Davis. The illustrations, some twenty-five in number, are largely from photographs made during the war, or from recent sketches of the battle-field, and are by Fenn, Taber, Thulstrup, Redwood, and others. The first part of the “ Recollections of a Private ” begins with the enlistment of the soldier, and continues the description of his life down to and including Bull Run, thus supplementing Gen. Beauregard’s account of that battle. That the variety of the magazine is not likelv to be sacrificed to the War Series is evident from the other contents of this issue which are interesting and entertaining. “Topics of the Time” discusses “Lawyers’ Morals,” “The Bible in the Sunday-school,” “Bribery in Politics,” and “False Issues.” “Open Letters” contains a notable letter from Mri Cable, entitled “ We of the South,” and other short papers on “A School of Dishonesty,” “ Recent Fiction,” “ Mr. Watts’s Pictures.” “ The ‘ Christian League’s ’ Practicability,”. “ A Rallying Point for a New Political Party,” and “ Church Music.” In “ Bric-a-Brac” is the first of a series of social cartoons and a variety of- light and humorous verse. '
124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—-Joseph P. Beegan, of ’77, is practising law successfully in Fort Wayne, Indiana.	.
—Edward and Joseph Haslam, of ’82, are prospering in their native city of Cincinnati, Ohio.
—We have been told that John Arentz, of ’78, was married on the 9th inst., at Fort Wayne, Ind.
—Rev. J. Lang, of Fort Wayne, the genial Secretary of the Diocese, made a brief stay at the College last Thursday afternoon.
—John D. McIntyre, ’84, is connected with the establishment of his brother-in-law, Mr. Edward Mendel, Times Building, Chicago.
—Chas. Droste (Com’l), ’82, is in active business with his father at 62 East 2d St., Cincinnati, Ohio, and promises to figure prominently among the commercial men of the “Queen City.”
—Wm. P. Breen, ’78, has the reputation of being one of the ablest—and is undoubtedly one of the most successful—lawyers in Northern Indiana. Mr. Breen’s place of business is in Ft. W ay ne.
—Adolph L. Kreichgauer (Com’l), ’74, is settled and doing well in Memphis, Tenn. Adolph will be remembered as the best penman in the college during the last year of his sojourn in the institution.
—Philip M. White, B. S., of ’74, enjoys a lucrative practice in Cincinnati, Ohio. After his graduation, Dr. White repaired to Europe where he completed his medical studies in one of the best colleges of Germany.	.	.
—Mr. Corbett, Assistant Superintendent of the Western Union Telegraph Company, spent a few hours at the College on Sunday last. Mr. Corbett is a brother-in-law to Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., a former President of the University, and seemed to be greatly pleased with his visit here.
—Ballard Smith, ’65, paid a flying visit to the College on Monday last. Mr. Smith is one of the students of the “ old, old College,” the predecessor of the one destroyed by fire. Not having visited Notre Dame since he left it, twenty years ago, it was with surprise as well as pleasure that he beheld the many changes and improvements made in that time. Mr. Smith has had a very successful career in the journalistic profession, and now holds the position of city editor of the Nezu York Herald. Business connected with his paper called him West, and furnished him with an'occasion of ■ paying a pleasant visit to his Alma Mater. *
Local Items. •_
—Rotsab 1	■	.
—“It’s cold!”
—Cheers are at par.	‘
’ —Competitions this week.
—First snow of the season last Thursday.
—The “ Abbie Coon ” is laid up for repairs.
—Our astrologer says this is. a “ squaw winter.”
—The boats will soon be put away for the winter.
—The burros have again appeared upon the scene.
—The Scholastic Annual is in course of preparation.
—Gymnasium soirees are the latest. Base and alto prevail.
—There was an exceptionally large “ Roll of Honor ” last week.
:—Our boys beat many of the college records on St. Edward’s Day.
—Snow-flakes fell last Wednesday evening and settled on many a straw hat.	.
—A great many visitors thronged the premises during the afternoon of the 19th.
—The St. Cecilian entertainment will be given during the latter part of November.	.
—It is said a cement walk will be laid in front of the presbytery leading to the church.
—The Band is now in splendid condition, and we may expect good music during the year.
—V ery Rev. Father General has the best thanks of the “ princes ” for a grand pyramidal cake.
—The Band and Orchestra rehearsals should be well attended by every member of these organizations.
—Rev. President Walsh began on Wednesday the examination of the classes in the Minim department.
—The championship games of baseball have been finished. The “Star of the East” carries off the pennant.
—Yes, Autumn is here, and the frost doth tinge the maple-leaves and young man’s nose a gay and brilliant hue.
—The secretaries of the various societies are not as prompt as they might be in sending in reports of the meetings.
—Now is the time when ye festive local items are “ few and far between.” Let all come to the assistance of our reporter.
—The annual retreat will begfin on next Wednesday evening. The sermons will be preached by the Rev. P. P. Cooney, Miss. Ap.
—In the report of the mile-race of the 13th there was an error in the statement of the time made. The mile was run in 4 min., 55 sec.
—Has anyone taken the pains to notice the beautiful colors thaLtinge. the leaves of the trees lining Notre Dame.Avenue? It forms a most beautiful sight.	'
—We notice considerable improvement made in the interior of Washington Hall. The decorations of the front of the stage and the walls near* by are very fine.
—Double windows have been put up in Music Hall. The same improvement will soon be effected in the College, and -then we may look out for a mild winter..
-—The engraving of the Founder of Notre Dame, which appeared in last week’s Scholastic, is said
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I25
to be the best one yet made of him. It is the work of Melville & Co., Chicago.	•	,
—The monthly conference of the ecclesiastics of the community was held last Thursday morning. The appointment of the new secretary has been received with universal satisfaction.
—The Mirror of American Shorts, containing an account of the sports on the 13th, was received this week. This paper recommends itself to all students interested in college athletics and games.
—It is expected that the Scientific Association will be reorganized in the course of a week or two. Now, let the Philodemics wake up, and revive a Society which was once the pride of Notre Dame.
—On the occasion of Mr. Gray’s recent visit, some guilty creature was heard to remark: “ The authorities here seem to be very -reckless in regard to the manner in which they refuse the students rec’.
—Our scientific men, under the direction of Father Zahm, were busy at work during the week placing the electric light on the Dome. Their efforts were crowned with success on Thursday evening.	„
—The Scholastic will be published on Friday next week, as Saturday, the Feast of All Saints, is a holyday of obligation. All society reports, personal, local items, etc., should be handed in a day . earlier than usual.	’
—At the fourth regular meeting of the Philo-patrian Association, held Oct. 20th, Masters M. O’Kane, W. Morrison, J. Williamson and D. Cartier gave recitations. A spirited debate will be the feature of the next meeting.
—-The young gentlemen of Notre Dame must yield the palm of histrionic excellence to their fair sisters at St. Mary’s.—South-Bend Register.
Yes, gladly; and to “ our sisters, and our cousins, and our aunts}"1
—A game between the Juniors’ third nine and the Minims’ first, played last Monday, resulted in a score of 45 to 24 in favor of the Juniors. Masters Mullane, of the Juniors, and McCourt, of the Minims, distinguished themselves by superior playing.
—A feature of the St. Edward’s Day celebration was omitted in our report last week. It was the drawing for the “Sorin ring,” by a number of the Minims whose conduct had been excellent since September. The trophy was carried off by Master J. McNulty, of Chicago.	•
—Wednesday, the 29th* inst.,‘will be'the tenth anniversary of the death of Rev. A. Lemonnier, at one time President of Notre Dame University. His memory is still cherished by many over whom he once presided, and who will not fail on that day to make special remembrance of him in their petitions before the throne of Mercy. -
—J. B. O’Reilly (’83) and Harry Morse (’83) have promised that the finest medal given this year will be to the Senior who will have shown himself, by June, to be the best general player. - As John and Harry always took much interest in sports, and as their generosity is well known, their
medal, no doubt, will be a prize worth competing for.
—The Staff of ’85 appears in this issue, and one can see at a glance that it embraces the. fo-wer (but not the green part) of the University.' We have been a little late in organizing; but, believing in the.old saying, “Better late than never,” we now make out bow and step before the Facultv and students, hoping that we may be friends with all and enemies of none. P. S.—We are not at all bashful; please mark that down. -
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Oct. 21st. A debate—“Resolved that Immoral Literature, is more Destructive to Society than Intemperance ”— was held. Speakers on the affirmative were Masters Hagenbarth, Mulkern, Harris, C. Mason, and J. Courtney; on the negative were J. Monschein, W. Daly, and W.‘ Condon. The debate was an exciting one and showed careful preparation, especially by F. Hagenbarth on the side of the affirmative, which gained the day.
—The following, clipped from a Cincinnati paper, may be of interest in connection with the late field-day records:
“ At the Union Athletic Park, Ed. Crane, of the ‘ Boston Unions,’ made the longest throw on record. The wonderful performance of John Hatfield, formerly of the ‘New York Mutuals,’ whose throw of 133 yards, 1 foot and 7^ inches stood for twelve years without being beaten, or even equalled, was eclipsed by the young Bostonian, who emphasized his victory by putting nearly two more yards to his credit. His throw was 135 yards, 7 inches, and made without the slightest effort.”
—Last Sunday the “Junior Athletic Club” was organized, having for its object the promotion of gymnastic - exercises in the Junior department. The members, twenty in number, assembled in St. Cecilia Hall, and having elected Rev. M- J. Regan temporary chairman, proceeded to the election of officers, which resulted as follows: Director, Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C.; President, Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.; Vice-President, F. J. Hagenbarth; Secretary, W. Wabraushek; Treasurer, G. Myers; Censors, E. Porter, H. Sedberry, C. Mason; Reporters, M. Mulkern, W. Borgschulze. The President resigned in favor of Bro. Marce-linus, who is now acting President.
—The third of the series of championship games of baseball between the “ Star of the East ” and the “University”- was played October 20th. The “ University ” labored under a disadvantage, as two of their best players were unable to take part; they appeared to lack spirit, and played.a losing game from the start. The playing was tame, and, on the part of the “ University,” rather loose until the fourth inning, when Dickerson led off with a two bagger, followed by C. Combe, V. Burke and Ryan, with a base hit each. In the fifth, Dickerson again sent the ball over the heads of the fielders, and succeeded in reaching third. In the sixth, Guthrie made a three-base hit and scored on a wild throw. The “University” opened the fifth inning with the apparent intention of recovering their lost ground. Rahilly led
L
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
off with a two bagger, followed bv Pohl and McGill, with a two-base hit each; Murphy batted a three bagger, and reached home plate on a wild throw. In the seventh, the “Stars” had scored three runs, and had a man on base when the umpire was obliged to call game on account of darkness. The following is the score:
STAR OF THE EAST.
V. Burke, 2 b. .! 5	3	3
Ryan, p	5	0	1
Coghlin, 3b...! 5	-	0
Guthrie, s. s... 1 4	I	I
F. Combe, 1 b.. ■ s	I	0
Dickerson, c. f.; 5	4	q
Dolan, 1. f	i 4	I	O
C. Combe, r. L. 4	3	I
C. Kolars, c... .1 4	0	0
i		—		■ —
Total	(36	15	s
Loomis, s. s... F. Burke, 2 b.. McNulty, c. ... Devoto, Lb... Rahil v, c. f... Pohl. L f... McGill, 3 b... Murphy, r. f.. Browne, p....
Total....
4 ;°	1 0
4 ! 1	1-
4 j 1	2 ! 3
3 ,0	1 > 7
3 I 1	2 1
3p	3'1
3!°	1 :1
3 j2	1 1
—I—	2 1 1 	1	
3°; s	14'18
Innings:—i 23456
Star of the East:—2 1233 4=15 University:—o 3003 2=S
—The Hori. James G. Blaine was the guest of the University last Sunday evening. Taking occasion of his stat’ at South Bend, he visited near relatives at St. Mary’s, after which he accepted the invitation of Rev. President Walsh and dined at the College. At a reception tendered him by the students, he was introduced by President Walsh who spoke substantially as follows:
“It is not as politicians nor as partisans, but as young men preparing for the privileges, duties, and responsibilities of American citizenship that you are assembled here to-day to extend your cordial greeting and to offer your tribute of respectful homage to one whom indeed it is no flattery to call an eminent American citizen, and whose career stands forth to the youth of the land a striking illustration of the possibilities which a nation like ours glories in being able to open up to merit—like his. It is for me a pleasure and an honor to introduce our University’s distinguished guest, the Hon. James G. Blaine.”
Mr. Blaine then made a brief address to the students, in the course of which he said:
“ I never feel more pleasure in standing before an audience than when it is composed of young men, the future hope of our grand, young Republic. The possibilities that are before you are possibilities of great success or great failure. You should remember that you are in a country possessing the widest prospects, and that the responsibility' of educated Americans is greater than the responsibility of educated men elsewhere. The responsibility’ devolving upon you is of a political, literary’ and religious character, and you should have a thorough moral training to discharge it properly, to take an honorable position among the sixty* millions of people who await you. You go forth from these halls with prospects proportionate to your efforts, proportionate to your abilities, and to your determination to succeed. I had the pleasure of meeting yres-terday’ a large number of young men of- the University’ of Michigan, and I told them, as I now tell you, that your responsibilities are increased in proportion to the educational advantages which you possess, in mental and moral training, and that y’ourcountrj’men will hold y’ou accountable for them. By making a proper use of your time and opportunities you.will be enabled to discharge your duties honorably, and to give an account of y’ourselves, not only’ in this life but in the greater and better life to come.”
In company with Rev. President Walsh, Mr. Blaine visited the church and the.various buildings of the University, and left at a late hour for South Bend. .	...	-
Roll of Honor-
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Alvarez, Ashton, Browne. A. Barbabosa, J. Bar-babosa, Bustillos, Felix Baca, Fiiadelfo Baca, Becerra, J. Baca, F. J. Baca, F. Burke, V. Burke, Breen, Conlon, Crilly, Wm. Collins, Chapin, Crawford, Casavantes, Creel, F. Combe, C. Combe, Cusack,* Dory, De Groot, Donohue, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, Dickerson, Estrado, Ewing, Goulding, Gordon. Guthrie, Garcia, Hamlyn, Harless, Halligan, Howard, Hotaling, Jess, Kavanaugh, Kleiber, Kolars. J. Lechuga, Livingston, M. Lechuga, Loomis, McMillian, McNulty, G. Miller, McGuire, McErlaine, McCartney, Mahon, Marquez, AIcGill, C. Murdock, A. Miller, Noonan, J. V. O'Donnell, O'Kane, O’Connell, Perley, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pattison, Padilla, P. Proudhomme, J. Proudhomme, II. Porter, C. Porter, Piefer, Rothert, J. Ryan. Rui, Riley, Rivard, Ramsay, Rahilly, J. Smith, Sheridan, Savicrs, Stephens, Steis. Schaefer, Sanchez, G. Smith, Triplett, Tully, Troy, J. Wagoner, W. Williams, F. Waggoner, Wiley, C. Williams, Wilson, Warner, Zeitler, Johnston.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Arts, Ackerman, Borgschulze, Bearss, Baur, Berthelet, Brown, Bverly, Congdon, Clarke, G. Cartier, Cavaroc, Cleary, Cooper, O. Dillon, Dempsey, Dorenberg, Dougherty’, Daly, Darragh, Eppstein, Ewing, Finckh, Fehr, Flood, Grunsfeld, F. Garrity, Grimes, Hoy’e, Hieronimus, Howard,-Hairing, Hibbeler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kelly, Knisely, Kenny, Leoni, Luther, H Long, F. Long. A. Moye, Martinez, Mulkern, R. Morri«on, Monschein, Menig, Meehan, Myers, Macke, J. McGordon, Nussbaum. Oxnard, O’Brien, M. O’Kane, E. Porter, Regan, Real, Rose, Ratighan, Rebori, Rufling, Remish, Robinson, Ryan, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Stubbs, Senn, Shields, Sokup, Soden, Smith, Stange, Spencer, Schmauss, Shaw, Sedberry, Tewksbury, Talbot, Thurston, Tarrant, Vandercar, Wabraushek, W. Wagoner, P. Wagoner, Williamson, Weiler, Zollers, Hornbeck.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters J. Addington, Ackerman, Berry, Bull, Barger, Crotty, Cobbs. L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, B. Falvey, Hopkins, Haney. Johns, E. Kelly, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphy, Morgan, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt. Mahon, Mason, McNulty, McGuire, C. Mooney, Nusbaum, Noonan. F. Peck, J’. Peck, Paul, Piero, Quill, Sweet,.Stone, Shoneman, Weston, Zozaya.
* Omitted last week by’ mistake.
fi
L'
5 I
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Messrs. V. Morrison, Hagenbarth, Courtney, E. Porter, Mason, Goulding. F. Combe, Kleiber, A. Browne, J. Wagoner, Rothert, Halligan, Sheridan, Conlon, Kolars, Saviers, Ancheta, H. Porter, C Porter, Johnston, Guthrie, Steis, Conway’, Callaghan, Mathers, W. Cartier, Reach, Dexter, S. Murdock, Ewing. V. Burke, Dolan, Wilson, C. Murdock, Hausberg, Kavanagh, G. Smith, Dickerson, Mc-Kinnery, Coghlin.	•
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.	’
Latin—Messrs. Dickerson, J. A. Burns, J. Wagoner, De Groot, O’Connell: Greek—Messrs. Dickerson, J. Wagoner, Moral Philosophy—Mr. Dickerson; Logic—Mr. Guthrie; English Composition—Messrs. McGuire, Wiley, W. Burns, V. Morrison; Rhetoric—Messrs. E. Porter, Daly; Literature—Messrs. Dexter, Courtney; Criticism—Messrs. Ancheta, Sheridan; Algebra—Messrs. Halligan, Wiley, Hagenbarth, J. Wagoner, Berthelet; Geometry’—Messrs. Mulkern, Dalyr; Mechanics—Messrs. Ewing,Kolars; Engineering—Mr.Johnston ; Descriptive Geometry—Mr. Johnston; History’—Messrs. Sheridan, Dexter, Hagenbarth, V. Morrison,' Mulkern, Daly-, Berthelet; Machine Drawing— Messrs. Johnston, Kolars; General Geometry—Mr. Ewing.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint Jftary's Academy.
One Mile JKest of Notre Dame University.
—The fortunate winner of the Roman mosaic cross is Miss Lily Van Horn.
—By mistake, the name of Miss M. Hale was omitted last week in the account of the Third Class in Oil Painting.
—A magnificent floral offering was presented on the 13th with the festal congratulations of Mrs. Shepherd and daughter, of Arlington, Nebraska.
— In the Third Senior Composition Class, a test subject was given. Those who wrote the best exercises were the Misses Trask, Eisenstaedt, Snowhook, Richmond, Taylor, Faxon, High, McSorley, and Fehr.
—On the 19th inst., at ten in the morning, the House of Loreto was the scene of two very impressive events. The first was the reception as aspirants into the Association of the Children of Mary of the Misses Blair, Dillon, Donnelly, A. Donnelly, Hutchinson, B. Hcckard, Kearney, McSorley, A. McSorley, C. Smith, L. Walsh, and White. Father General performed the ceremony which he prefaced by a short instruction congratulating the young ladies on the^race of receiving the title of “ Children of Mary ” on the day which commemorates “The Purity of the Blessed Virgin.” Immediately after the reception, also in the same place, Very Rev. Father General baptized the two infant daughters of Hon. Judge Hammond of Rensselaer. Father General said it was with unusual interest and consolation that he was about to perform the ceremony, as he had also baptized the mother. He impressed the importance of the action, and the responsibility assumed by the mother, and by the sponsors. The scene was one of touching beauty and significance, and not soon to be forgotten.
—On Wednesday, prizes for .those who took part in “ Marie Antoinette ” were given. A beautiful medallion of the Sacred Heart fell to Miss Murphy; a handsome watch case to Miss Munger; a pretty picture of the Sacred Heart to Mary Lindsey, and other gifts to those who had been especially thoughtful and obliging in the excitement inevitable among so many, with an.intricate play and an inconvenient stage. Acknowledgments are due to Miss Agnes English fora beautiful artificial garland of blue violets used in the play, and constructed by her ingenious fingers. The parts taken by the Misses L. St. Clair, Lora Williams, Jennie Barlow, Grace Wolvin, Nettie Danforth, Grace Regan, Mary Dillon, Estelle Horn, Ellen Sheekey, Bertha Lauer, Margaret Duccy, and the three who represented the little companions of the royal children—Clara Richmond, Sarah Campeau, and Hannah Stumer—were so well done that a less vivid personation would have seriously detracted from
the leading parts. Beautiful letters, thanking the Prefect of Studies and those who superintended the entertainment, were indicted by the young ladies. They were received with great pleasure on account of the affectionate esteem and gratitude expressed. A feast was given to the participants on the same evening, and the young ladies are deeply grateful to the Prefect of Studies for the treat.
—The Hon. James Gillespie Blaine paid a short visit to the Academy, on Sunday, at four o’clock p. m. At St. Mary’s his sister, Miss Maggie Belle Blaine, a beautiful, amiable and accomplished young lady who died in 1868, and several daughters of Mrs. Walker, of Helena, Montana, another sister of Mr. Blaine, were educated. His lovely mother, who died in 1868, spent much time with her sister-in-law, Mrs. M. M. Phelan, whose residence is here, and two of his nieces are now pupils of the Academy; not to speak of other near relatives members of the Community. To the associations connected with those most dear to him the honor o‘f the visit must be assigned. Accompanied by his son, Mr. Walker Blaine, Mr. Manley of Maine; Mr. Clem. Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. Oliver, Mr. L. Tong, Mr. and Mrs. Judge Stanfield, Mr. and Mrs. Howard Stanfield, Mr. Miller, of the Tribune^ and his wife, and other prominent citizens of South Bend, Mr. Blaine was received at the door of the Academy by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, Fathers Shortis and Zahm, C. S. C. Miss Murphy, on behalf of the young la.dies, presented a pertinent but brief welcome. After a short but appropriate response, Mr. Blaine repaired to a private parlor to enjoy a social visit with relatives. Other* members of the party were shown through the buildings, and after partaking of some refreshments, the distinguished company departed for the University.
—Among the richest of the Art treasures in St. Luke’s Studio is a large collection of chromo lithographs from the Arundel Society, comprising copies from frescoes of the various schools of art from the beginning of the Christian era. These lithographs are of priceless value to the young ladies of the department, not alone because they familiarize the taste with the masterpieces of those ages when art exerted an imperial sway over the minds and hearts of men, but because they are, almost without an exception, impressed with a spirit of vital faith; a simple grandeur that is as far above the modern aesthetic standard as the Falls of Niagara are in majesty above the play of the mimic fountain in our lawns. There are Madonnas of the Byzantine school in this collection, the celestial beauty of whose faces is simply indescribable. “The Vision of St. Bernard,” of a later school, presents angel faces with an expression so sweetly pure and yet so humanly life-like that the very remembrance is like a dream of heaven. It is through the senses that the soul is reached; and the more elevated the character of that which appeals to the senses, the more refined and spiritual will the soul
it to A
128
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,

become. The vivid outlines of a Landseer, a Hogarth, a Rosa Bonheur, may excite admiration of the skill and accuracy displayed by the painters, wonder at their fidelity in copying their models; but is the heart made better, the mind ennobled, the soul raised into its native element by these delineations? Not so! The cold skill, the perfection of physical execution may indirectly contribute to our sense of adoration for the Infinite Being who imparted the genius which produced their works; but how insignificant do they appear when compared to the masterpieces of the Christian artist whose inspiration is supernatural!
—The Feast of St. Luke, Saturday the 18, entitled . the Art pupils to freedom from class at three o’clock. An extra lunch was partaken of ip the refectory, and a stroll in the orchard and groves followed. St. Luke with his artist-eye must have looked down with no common delight on his young votaries as, with joyful, innocent faces, and light, happy hearts they returned laden with russet apples, grasses and fall berries, the two last-named being reserved to adorn his own charming quarters in the Academy. These, with fresh flowering plants, served to brighten the studio which was thrown open on the following day to the distinguished visitors. Among the articles most admired was the richly-illuminated manuscript “Life of St. Angela Merici.” Every page of the volume is painted in water-colors with designs purely original, the flowers all copied from nature; the letters in colors, silver and gold. Between each chapter is a large painting in flowers, and no two pages of the thick volume are alike. It is a treasure of art, and though very heavy, it is no exaggeration to ' say that, in an aesthetic point of view, it is worth its weight in diamonds. The magnificent painting of “ The Nativity,” the painting on velvet, and the French China painting, attracted great admiration-.
In the small studio fruit pieces—one by Miss Sheekey, and another by Miss Dunne—are fine. Miss Williams is copying a beautiful work from the great French artist, Bouguereau. Miss A. Heckard and Miss. Shepheid are painting a beautiful piece—“ Roses and Lilacs.” Those engaged in Elementary Perspective are progressing admirably. This course embraces drawing from block in different positions; some exquisite shading may be found here. The Crayon Class, under Professor Gregori, are making excellent progress. The large amount of unpainted china promises much work in this department for the future.
A youth who had picked up a few scraps of .French from a phrase-book, wishing to know the time of day, accosted a grave-looking gentleman with “ Quelle heure est-il, Monsieur ? ” The gentleman, suspecting that the youth knew nothing of French, answered him in Latin, Nescio—“I know not.” Affecting great surprise, the inquirer commenced running, exclaiming: “Dear me! I did not think it was. so .late!”	.
Obituary.

The deepest sympathy of all at St. Mary’s is extended .to the family of Dr. Van Patten, of Wittsburg, Arkansas, in the loss by death, after a few hours’ illness, of their lovely daughter Lilly, a pupil of ’82—’83. May her pure soul rest in
peace!
Roll of Honor.

FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, COR. RECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES. ---------------------------
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	gg
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, M. Bruhn, J. Barlow, M. Blair, N. Brady, E. Call, C. Cox, L. Car- ft ney, C. Congdon. S. Dunne, N. Danforth, A. Dwan, M. § Dillon, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, M. Fuller, C. Fehr, J. ft Foster, D. Fitzpatrick, A. Gordon, A. Gordon, B. Gove, 5 O. Griffith, C. Griffith, M. Hale, A. Heckard, B. Heckard, S Henry, E. Horn, L. Hutchinson, B. Kearney, N. Kearns, W C- Lang, M. 'Munger, A. Murphy, N. Myler, Murdock, J. McHale. T. McSorley, A. McSorley Newman, E. O’Connell. H. Ramsey, E. Rose, M. Reinholdt, D. Reynolds, S M. Scully, C. Scully, L. Sheekey, L. St. Clair, A. Schid- § ler, M. Shea, M. Schmidt, K. Smith, E. Walsh, L. Walsh, A. White. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Ducey, G. Legnard, B. Lauer, L. Ryan, E. Taylor.	g
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	S
Par Excellence—Misses N. Brown, O. Boyn, M. Borr, B A. High, F. Hertzog, L. Norris, C. Proudhomme, E. Pres- 4g ton, C. Richmond. N. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G. Stadtler, g Margaret Smith, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Cox, ® G. Regan..	«	1
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	g
Par Excellence Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. J Mun ay, F. Spencer, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet.	8
Class Honors.
[The following-named young ladies are best in classes— - according to competitions held during the month.]
Logic—Misses N. Danforth, J. Barlow, M. Munger, T-Ieckard, M. Ducey, F. Cummins, L. Carney, L. Williams; Geology—Misses S. Dunne, Gove, Ginz, Call, Ramsey, Sheekey; Geometry—Misses A. Heckard, Kearney, Barlow, Danforth, Carney, Helpling, Williams, M. Ducev, Cummins, Ramsey, Sheekey, S. St. Clair; Astronomy— Misses A. Heckard, Munger, Barlow, Danforth, Carney, Cummins, M. Ducey, Williams; Rhetoric—Misses Horn,' Kearney, Fuller, Adderly, OJConnell, C. Griffith, Dillon, N. Sheekey, Keyes, Congdon, C. Scully, Morrison, Hale, A. Murphy, Myler, Legnard, McHale, Wolvin, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly,-Kearsey; Algebra—Misses Kearns, Regan, Keyes,.Trask, Taylor, T. McSorley, A. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, B.- Heckard, C. Smith, L. Blaine, Schmidt, L. Walsh, Rose, Fehr, High, Alice Gordon, Addie Gordon, C. Cox, Van Horn, Morse; Arithmetic—Misses Horn, .O’Connell, A. Murphy, .Wolvin, Hale, M. Dillon, Fuller, Shephard, Kearsey, Legnard, McHale, Congdon, Morrison, C. Griffith, C- Scully, C. Ducey, A. Donnelly, Kearns, Alcott, T. McSorley, E. Taylor, Snowhook, High, Alice Gordon, C. Cox, L. Walsh, Fehr, M. Cox, Rose, Keyes, L. Blaine, Regan, C. Smith, M. Schmidt, Addie Gordon, Van Horn; Literature—Misses Barlow, Danforth, A. Heckard, Munger, Carney, Fitzpatrick, O. Griffith, Cummins, Williams; Latin—Misses L. Blaine, M. Helpling, Trask, G. Scully, Keyes; Modern History—Misses Adderly, Horn,' O’Connell, Kearney, O.- Griffith, Wolvin, N. Sheekey, Keyes, Kearsey, Dillon, Morrison, A. Murphy, Legnard; Ancient History—Misses Kearns, Snowhook, Fehr, Regan, Eisenstaedt, Richmond, High, Trask, E. Taylor; Geography— Misses Shea, Lauer, White, Murray, Schmauss.