THE SMART LOOKING
SUIT THAT YOU CAN
REALLY WASH 'N WEAR
BY PALM BEACH
AND ONLY $39.95
' DKUUXK waMv'n,weaJv
■w’' \
OntheCm^u—NotreDami
Years of Palm Beach lightweight tailoring know-how go into these wonderful lightweight suits . . . eleven special construction features that insure a long and useful life! So, here’s a wash and wear suit you can really count on ... to keep you cool . . . keep you looking smart . . . and insure a carefree summer. When this suit needs cleaning, simply toss it in the washer . . . let it drip dry from a hanger . . . and its ready to wear with little or no ironing. Come in and try one on!
*C I LB E RF5
QithfOfi MsShohon
(By the Author of ‘‘Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, . “Barefoot Boy with Cheek. )	$
HOW TO BE A THUMPING BIG SUCCESS ON CAMPUS
While up in the attic last week hiding from the tax man, I came across a letter, yellow with age, that dear old Dad had sent me when I was a freshman. I reproduce it below in the hope that it may light your way as it did mine.
“Dear Son, (Dad always called me Son. This was short for Sonnenberg, which used to be my first name. I traded it last year with a man named Max. He threw7 in two outfielders and a left-handed pitcher___But I digress.)
“Dear Son, (Dad wrote)
“I suppose you are finding college very big and bewildering, and maybe a little frightening too. Well, it need not be that way if you will follow a few simple rules.
“First of all, if you have any problems, take them to your teachers. They want to help you. That’s what they are there for. Perhaps they seem a little aloof, but that is only because they are so busy. You will find your teachers warm as toast and friendly as pups if you will call on them at an hour when they are not overly busy. Four a.m., for instance.
“Second, learn to budget your time. What with classes, activities, studying, and social life all competing for your time, it is easy to fall into sloppy habits. Set up a rigid schedule and stick to it. Remember, there are only 24 hours a day. Three of these hours must be spent in class. For every hour in class you must, of course, spend two hours studying. So there go six more hours. Then, as we all know, for
every hour studying, you must spend two hours sleeping. This accounts for twelve more hours. Then there are meals—three hours each for breakfast and lunch, four hours for dinner. Never forget, Sonnenberg, you must chew each mouthful twelve hundred times. You show me a backward student, and I’ll show you a man who bolts his food.
* * *
Here’s more advice to freshmen—and upperclassmen too. If non-tUter cigarettes are your pleasure, double your pleasure with Philip Morris, made by the makers of Marlboro,
4
“But college is more than just sleeping, eating, and studying. There are also many interesting activities which you must not miss. You’ll want to give at least three hours a day to the campus newspaper, and, of course, another three hours each to the dramatic and music clubs. And let’s say a total of eight hours daily to the stamp club, the debating club, and the foreign affairs club. Then, of course, nine or ten hours for fencing and bird-walking, and another ten or twelve for ceramics and three-card monte.
“Finally wre come to the most important part of each day—what I call 'The Quiet Time.’ This is a period in which you renew yourself—just relax and think great thoughts and smoke Marlboro Cigarettes. Why Marlboro? Because they are the natural complement to the active life. They have better ‘makin’s’; the filter filters; the flavor is rich and mellow and a treat to the tired, a boon to the spent, a safe harbor to the storm-tossed. That’s why.
“Well, Sonnenberg, I guess that’s about all. Your kindly old mother sends her love. She has just finished putting up
rather a large batch of pickles—in fact, 350,000 jars. I told her that with you away at school, we would not need so many, but kindly old Mother is such a creature of habit that, though I hit her quite hard several times, I could not dissuade her.
Keep ’em flying,
Dad.”
© 1959 Max Shulman
News Briefs
The foreign service officer exams will be -given on December 5, 1959 in 65 centers throughout the U. S. and in Foreign Service posts abroad. Applicants will be given a one-day written exam to find their ability in expression, general ability, and back- ’ ; ground. Those who qualify will be orally examined by a panel in their area. Those who pass, will get a physical exam and * background investigation. If they survive | this, they are put on an appointed list in	)
order of exam grades. Starting salary	I
ranges from $5,225 to $5,885 per year. I
Candidates must be between 21 and 32	/
years of age as of Oct. 19, 1959. College J seniors or graduates may be 20. They must ( be American citizens for at least 9 years. ' ?
Application blanks and other information i | may be obtained from the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington 25, D. C. Applications must be filed by October 19, 1959.	-
A paper on “The Silicon Solar Energy Converter” took fourth place in a contest * sponsored by the Great Lakes District of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. It was written by Robert Archey of Pittsfield, Mass., an electrical engineering senior at Notre Dame.	• ?
A comparative study of the judicial I systems of the United States, Canada, I Switzerland, Argentina, Australia, Brazil \ and Mexico is incorporated in “The Federal States and Their Judiciary” a new book by W. J. Wagner, associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School.
Professor Wagner, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1953, has just been award- I ed a Fulbright grant for lecturing and re- J search abroad during the 1959-60 school 1 year. He will lecture on American law fl and comparative law at the University of •’ Paris and the University of Rennes in France. The author of the new work holds advanced degrees from the University of Paris and Warsaw and Northwestern University.
A book on Communism, which two Notre Dame professors helped edit and to which they contributed, has come under attack by a Red party publication in the Soviet Union. The authors were called “the most open and naked enemies of Communism.”
The book, “A Handbook of World Com- ... munism,” was published in Germany last year by a Polish priest, Rev. Joseph M. -Bochenski. The Notre Dame editors and .. contributors are Dr. John Fizer and Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer.
The book came under attack in the March issue of “The Communist,” a monthly review of Red ideology published for party members. It is the official “party line” for Communist party members.
Although the book is available in Ger-man, it will be published in English this fall and issues in other languages will follow.
Scholars from the United States, Canada, Europe and South America have accepted (Continued on page 25)
The Scholastic !
the
. Scholastic kA
I Vol. 100 May 22, 1959 No. 24
I i 7	-
I	Disce Quad Semper Victunu
p	Vive Quad Cras Moriturus
*7	' ■ - ■	=
Founded 1867
TO JOHN THURIN AND THE ENTIRE STAFF OF THE 1959 DOME, OUR SINCERE CONGRATULATIONS
At last week’s Publications Banquet in the Morris Inn, John Thurin, 1959 Dome editor whom you see pictured at the left, unveiled volume 50 to the pleasantly surprised audience. In typical Thurin fashion the event was of heroic scale.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH________________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE__________________Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH.---------------Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON.___________Sports	Editor
4 JON SIDDLE__________________Cover	Editor
DAVE SOMMER________________Photography
PETER HASBROOK--------Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI----------Circulation
ROY RUBELI______________Assistant	News
,	AL GENIESSE......—......Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK_____________.Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA___________Assistant Features
r	JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER...Asi’t Features
CHUCK MILLER_______Assistant Features
TOM ROSE---------------Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER___________Assistant Sports
*	BOB HORN.--------------------Assistant	Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
Against the hack wall of the Mahogany Room was a four- or five-foot reproduction of the Dome cover which, when opened, revealed a movie screen. For the next ten or fifteen minutes we were treated to a sneak preview of the year book and were so impressed with the changes that we decided to devote the cover and several feature pages to our own preview. As the bulletin board posters around campus claim, the Dome DOES have a new look, an informal spirit that captures many of the eveiyday facets of campus life. We were particularly impressed with the color pictures of the Dome taken from the road to -St. Mary’s and the stadium picture during the Duke game last fall.
It is unfortunate that the Dome comes out so late in the
year for it leaves very little time for John, and his Associate Editor, Bob Janoski, to enj'oy the praise that is so deserved for their year-long effort. Again, may we offer our congratulations for a job well done.
GRADUATION: Recently a lottery was conducted to see which parents of the graduating seniors would be assigned seats in the Drill Hall in event that rain would . force the exercises inside. Although the lottery was perhaps the most democratie way to solve the problem, it might have been much better or fairer to reward the parents of those students who achieved academic distinction at the University, such as honors or prizes. To reward those who had attained an excellence in academic matters by giving their parents choice seats for the ceremonies would not be unlike the way in which the University rewards its former athletic leaders. The Monogram dub members have a fifty-yard line section reserved for them in each home game.
STUDENT FORUM: The last forum of the year proved to be quite a success. The speeches were interesting, and the discussion lively (although it did come off with a slow start). This one and the forum discussing the problem of Red China were perhaps the best. The Academic Commission is to be congratulated on its program of student fora.
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey. Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon, Joe Finnigan.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade * Clarke, Bill Flaherty. Bill Galvin. John Hoey, Bob Kelley. Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak. Tom ' Romans, Charles Tausche. Tom Wass.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris, Tom Walsh.
Member of Catholic School Press Aswaation and Aswciated Collegiate Press. Represented for ■»-’ tiooal advertising by National Advertising Service, t Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York Qty.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examiao-taoa periods, at die University of Notre Dame. Inscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all maau-■eriptt to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Damr, Indmaa.
WSND’s YEAR IN REVIEW: One of the most enjoyable features of the year on the . student radio station took place last Sunday night when the entire year, off and on campus, was reviewed by the staff of WSND. A very good idea and a very wellhandled program.
Possibly the most interesting facet of this particular program was the presentation of awards to a member of the administration and a member of the faculty for their . outstanding contributions to Notre Dame this year. Oftentimes, as is evidenced by the -recent furor over television’s Emmy awards, one is disappointed or appalled at the selection of particular winners. Happily, this was not the case with WSND.	:
We would especially like to cite the award given to Father Collins, Notre Dame Dean of Students. The very nature of his position is extremely difficult and even, . no doubt, undesirable since he must handle, in addition to numerous small details such < as lost and found, the disciplinary problems of the University. His kindness and eon-sideration, his patience and personal concern have impressed many of us since his assumption of the office two years ago. We would like to add our appreciation and . ? congratulations to that of WSND for an honor well deserved.
ONE DISGRUNTLED NOTE: When Father Collins commented on the number of students who, for reasons other than disciplinary, were forced to leave Notre Dame he said that he had tried to convince some of them to remain but that he wasn^t com- : J; pletely successful. WSND’s interviewer remarked blithely, “Well, you can’t win them " ' all, Father.” Later on, when Coach Langford remarked that he regretted losing a particular fencing match, the atrocious “you can’t win them all” was repeated—to our 4% extreme annoyance. The flippancy (though we feel that it was unintentional) of this f. phrase was completely out of context with the seriousness of the program. May we. suggest that the interviewer find a more appropriate comment.
s. * Kis!
■ -.
May 22, 1959
BREEN'S JEWELRY . . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Aten's and Women's Costume Jewelry
Four H'oys to Buy. Cash. Charge. Layaway. Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore
OUR COVER: This week’s SCHOLASTIC cover is a preview of the 1959 DOME which will be distributed on the 25th of this month. It pictures the cover of the yearbook with the implements of those who worked on it laying on top of it.
Fine arts major Gerald Welling gives the students a sneak look at the cover of what is one of the most excellent college yearbooks in the country. Welling is a member of the DOME staff and has other work featured in this year’s book.
A complete four page spread on this year’s outstanding book begins on page 14. Carrying our cover theme throughout the section, this week’s SCHOLASTIC is designed not only to preview the DOME but to look like it.
RENT a One-Way Trailer to fake your things home WARNER’S RENT-A-TRAILER 901 WESTERN AVE. SOUTH BEND
1QIW
LIBR AR Y aid KOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
to get a better shave!
Quicker ... closer ... smoother ... no matter what machine you use. 1.00
plus tax
SHULTON NewYorit • Toronto
Available at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
6
The Scholastic
a demi-finale:
♦
by JOHN BELLAIRS
1 the arthurian legend continues
Now that I am about to pass into the pages of history as one of the maligned and maligning wits of this fair campus, 4' • I deem it time to try once more to wrest the somewhat battered laurel wreath from the head of the Arch-fiend, Bowen. My response to Bowen’s archaeological coup of last week is the announcement of a discovery of my own.
While rummaging through some of the more moldy sections of the library, ’ I discovered a decaying volume which was being used as a doorstop for a fire exit. The barely legible gilt lettering 1 of this old folio edition proclaimed it a first edition of Malory’s Le Morte d’Arthur, but what interested me most was a hand-written addendum at the back. This manuscript, dedicated to a fellow named Ralph Roister Doister, is entitled Ye Legende of Kynge Baldric of ‘ Umbrage. I shall attempt to reproduce on this page this quaint legend, preserving if I can the inimitable mediaeval » style.
Once in a valley yclept Promisse (that is, blight-ridden) there dwelt a King Baldric. This goodly knight built in the valley a castle (ne’er seraph spread a I* pinion o’er castle half so fair) called Umbrage, and called to it knights and damozels from all the country round, so J’ that he might have jousts, quaff mead, and become legendai-y as all get-out. To guard the castle from dragons, knights-errant, and other riff-raff, King Baldric organized a society of guardian knights called the Order of the Baggy Blue Doublet, or Seiff-Templars. This so-| ciety was composed of men who were € by rule no less than 86 years of age, and I no more than three feet tall, with a I weight of at least 200 lbs. net. The g members of the society were ranked ac-| cording to their ability to growl guttur-I ally, make meaningless gestures, and I protect entrances, portcullises and the I like. Clad in their garb of baggy blue | (which was decorated with tinsel) these I stalwarts guarded the castle against | enemies, but especially against those | who wanted to get in or out of the ! premises for any reason whatsoever. For instance, if Sir Falconet, a teacher at the castle-school wished admittance at
May 22, 1959
the sallyport, the following ritual would ensue:
Serf-Templar: Get the (wheeze) devil out from under that portcullis! Yez can’t come in here after the ninth hour between Swithinmas and Michaelmas, except on tournament days, when yez can’t come in at all.
Sir F.: But, marry, this is mine own place of study, and besides I have on my shield the Seal of Righteousness which gaineth me access.
S.-T.: Oh Yeah? Well it ain’t gonna gaineth yez entrance here. Out!
This ceremony was always completed by the guard’s confiscation of all the knight’s regalia amid violent curses, and the expulsion of said knight from the premises. It came to pass that these stalwart protectors would challenge anyone who even passed near the castle, and those who wanted admittance could gain it only by donning a hairshirt and advancing on the knees bearing propitiatory bouquets of forget-me-nots for the guards. On tournament days, when the most burly knights of the castle engaged in mortal combat, visitors were forced to tether their palfreys at least 12 miles from the castle, and advance the rest of the way on foot chanting the Carmina Burana in four-quarters time. The guards not only obeyed all orders but made up their own, and their watchword or motto became: “The knights who own the castle are no better than anyone else.” It may be wondered that these aged protectors were not sorely beaten or at least challenged by the men-at-arms whom they discomfited, for they bore neither halberd nor broadaxe. But the fact was that the Serf-Templars were said to be enchanted and that their very touch would bring down on the victim of their wrath a murrain of gnats, ague, and acid stomach to boot. And indeed the countenance of these • men bore witness to the efficacy of the curse.
But in time the Templars became dissatisfied with mere- entrance-guarding, and took to rebuking the pages of the castle, who would bait the guards to make them give chase. New rules were invented to keep the pages off the ram
parts after the tenth hour, and the pages were forbidden to burn candles in the evening. All candles and wicks were controlled by the Templars (who claimed to have invented light), and their chief amusement was to patrol the castle with water-buckets, dousing the candles of those who disobeyed them. The guards demanded of the pages small bits of parchment, which were collected and burned in a great fire every Walpurgis-nacht. If the parchment was not forthcoming, a hue and cry would ensue, and the page (if caught) would be sorely flogged.
These tireless guardians of the castle never tired of insulting visiting dignitaries. The Abbot of Cul-de-sac was pitched into the moat on the charge of being an impostor (The guards had decided that all those who were not of their number were impostors, or at least very naughty people), and on one occasion King Baldric himself was ejected for not knowing the password of the day.
It came to pass eventually (as all things do) that no one was able to get in or out of the castle, all the passageways having been bricked up by the guards. The palace lay thus, as if en-—. chanted, until the doughty Sir Hugh Demi-Culverin and his men (who did not believe in the curse) decided to assault the castle. As he said:
“I think it is time to take Um-brage.”
So Castle Umbrage was taken, nor was it the last time that Umbrage was taken, since it was discovered that the guards were unable to elicit from outsiders the respect accorded them by the castle personnel. It was also discovered eventually that the castle had nothing worth the taking but a few dented wassail bowls and a few paynims left over* from the last Crusade, so the invaders went away, leaving the guards to their games. It is said that the Serf-Templars watch over the castle to this very day. Some say they are the husbands of the Valkyries, some claim they are descended from the Troll-god, hut others (and wiser ones, too) say they are just bothersome old men.
; x
h>"' p
RENEW YOUR SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTION NOW
ABSOLUTE LAST CHANCE TO:
I WIN A FIN !
G. Washington, famous father, says: “Makes your hair look real George!”
Just a little bit of Wildroot and...WOW!
College Outline Series
* History of Europe Since 1815 * History of the United States Since 1865
* first Year College Chemistry
* Biology
* Chemistry Problems and How to Solve Them
* French, Spanish, and German Reviews
* Physics—Questions, Problems, and Solutions
See the Special Sale on Prints and New Books
Save Time and Money Shop at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE off-fhe-campus
LIMERICK LAUGHTER
ENTER NOW! PROCRASTINATION WON’T PAY
Put a little sunshine in your life. Put some cash in your pocket. Enter the SCHOLASTIC “Limerick Laughter” Contest. It’s easy. It’s fun! Here's how the contest works:
The SCHOLASTIC will award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the May contest must be received by May 24. Names of the winners will be published in the May 29 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick
I oft must suppress a strong yen, To think for myself now and then. In all this “security,” Why strain my maturity?
It's done for me by “competent men”
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry. He dated a coed named Mary. With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair — need you query?
RILTBMS uccm * MHM WMCCO COi
CHESTERFIELD KING Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with Moro taste to it. Don't settle for one without the other.
The Scholastic
| AEC CHIEF JOHN A. McCONE TO SPEAK I BEFORE 1,280 GRADUATES IN STADIUM
Cardinal Koenig to Deliver Baccalaureate Address;
Bishop Pursley to Celebrate Solemn Pontifical Mass
! His Eminence Franz Cardinal Koenig, ’ Archbishop of Vienna, and Chairman John A. McCone of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission will be the principal speakers at Notre Dame’s 114th annual
1 commencement exercises here Sunday, I • June 7. The announcement was made to’ day by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
I The Austrian prelate will preach the ' Baccalaureate sermon during a Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated by Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne in the Notre Dame Stadium at 9 a.m. McCone will deliver the commencement address at afternoon exercises in the stadium. Father Hesburgh will conf er (ight honorary degrees and approximately 1,280 graduate and undergraduate degrees during the ceremonies, which will be televised by WNDU-TV.
Honorary degree recipients, in addition to the Archbishop and Commission member include Lt. Gen. Bernard A. Schriever, head of the Air Force Research and Development Command, Andrews Air Force Base, Md.; Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, head of the department of chemistry, Carnegie Institute of Technology,
CHAIRMAN JOHN McCONE . . . and State
Pittsburgh, Pa.; Sir Hugh Scott Taylor, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, N. J.
Honorary doctors. Other honorary degree recipients are Rev. John A. O’Brien, author of religious and philosophical books and a veteran Notre Dame faculty member; Harry C. Hagerty, financial vice-president, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York City; and John Walker, director of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
Following the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning Father Hesburgh will bless an American flag which the senior class presented to the University on Washington’s birthday. Traditionally, the seniors’ flag is blessed and flown for the first time on their graduation day and then throughout the following year.
On the day before their graduation from Notre Dame 236 members of the senior class will receive commissions in the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps during Class Day exercises in the University Drill Hall, Saturday, June 6, at 10 a.m. The program also will include the awarding of prizes to outstanding students. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s executive vice-president, will preside at the Class Day ceremonies. Student speakers will include John Hayward, Lucio Noto, and John Maloney.
Hayward, the class president, is a resident of Toledo, Ohio. He is membership chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society, co-chairman of the YCS, and a member of the NROTC.
The valedictorian of the class, Noto is a resident of Englewood Cliffs, N. J. He is a member of the Physics club the International Relations club, a YCS group leader, and was assistant chairman of the Festival of Arts. He has been named winner of a Woodrow Wilson Scholarship, which he will use to study physics at Cornell University.
Orator from Penn. Maloney, the class orator, is from Fairness Hills, Penn. He is a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Joint Engineering Council, the Nu Delta - Epsilon honor society, and NROTC. He also is serving as the vice-president of the AIChE, vice-chairman of the JEC, secretary of the Nu Delta Epsilon, and assistant editor of the Dome. '
FRANZ CARDINAL KOENIG Representing Church . . .
Maloney is attending Notre Dame on a Lubrizol Scholarship, and was awarded the Notre Dame Navigation Award.
Cardinal Koenig became a Prince of the Church last December, having succeeded Cardinal Innitzer as Archbishop of Vienna in May, 1956. A native of Rabenstein in lower Austria, the 53-year-old prelate is an outstanding Biblical scholar and an exceptional linguist with a command of most European languages including Russian.
Eminent visitor. During World War II he served as chaplain to University of Vienna students. With the end of hostilities he became lector in Biblical studies at the University of Vienna and later was appointed to the chair of moral theology at the Salzburg Theological Faculty. He was elevated to the hierarchy and made Coadjutor Bishop of his native diocese of Sankt Poelten on June 3, 1952. He was ordained in Rome on October 27, 1933.
McCone was sworn in as chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission on July 14, 1958. During 1950-51 he had served as Under Secretary of the Air Force in charge of new aircraft procure- . ment and the construction of air bases throughout the world. A native of San Francisco, McCone is a 1922 engineering graduate of the University of California. Before assuming his present-duties, he waspresident of the Joshua HendyCorp^ Los Angeles, which operates tankers in world trade and cargo ships in the Pacific.	\ .
Last year’s commencement speaker . was Labor Secretary James MitchriL Archbishop Brady of St. Paul gavethe Baccalaureate address. The ceremonies this year as in the past, will he heki . ! in the Notre Dame Stadium. In case of rain, the ceremonies will be held in the DriU Hall.
'	9 ±
May 22, 1959
Yoch Chosen '59 Editor of 'Juggler' by Board; New Format Planned for Literary Periodical
The editor and senior board members of the Juggler have announced their selection of Jim Yoch as editor of the campus literary publication for 195960 Yoch, a Dean’s List student, is a junior English major from St. Louis. He is an active member of the Wranglers, president-elect of the Bookmen and is the present features editor of the Scholastic. Joe Ryan, the outgoing editor, is a senior English major from Bronx, N.Y. Next year Ryan will study English literature as a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship winner at the University of Chicago.
Next year, Yoch plans to completely change the format of the Juggler as part of the celebration of its thirtieth anniversary. The present size, cover, paper, and type are being discarded (finances allowing) in favor of a larger, color-illuminated magazine that will enlarge its scope to include photographs of student painting, sculpture, and architecture exhibits. The winter issue will be the longest and will contain stories and essays selected from the thirty-year tradition of the Scrip-Juggler. Yoch also plans to boost circulation. The Juggler will launch an intense advertising campaign next semester based on the present magazine’s high quality materials and its new format.
Television performer. Assisting Yoch, as associate editors, will be Tom Ban-choff and Dave Christian. Banchoff, of College Quiz Bowl fame, is a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship winner for 1960, the chairman of the AB Advisory Council, a member of the Bookmen, tennis squad, Third Order of St. Francis, president of next year’s Wranglers, and is on the Dean’s List. He is a junior math major from Trenton, New Jersey.
Christian, a junior history major from Lansing, Illinois, is the secretary
ASSOCIATE BANCHOFF Literary help.
of the Herodotians, a member of the University Concert Band, and a Dean’s Lister.	,
Also on next year’s Juggler board will be Bernard McElroy, Cris Watters, and Jim Rose. McElroy is a junior English major from East Orange, N. J., who has recently been named the recipient of the Mitchell award for play writing. He is a reviewer for the Scholastic, a feature writer for next year’s Dome, a member of the Dean’s List, and an exassistant vice president of the NFCCS. Watters, a sophomore pre-med student from Trenton, Ohio, is a member of the Bookmen and a member of the Dean’s List.
Revolutionary assistant. Rose, of Cuba fame, is a junior English major from Hamburg, N. Y. He is a member of the Wranglers, Bookmen, and the 1960 Jazz Festival Committee.	•
EDITOR YOCH A new look.
Next year’s Auxiliary Board will be headed by Paul Hundt and Jack Caha-lan. A junior English major from New York City, Hundt is on the AB Advisory Council and was a member of the Junior Parent-Son Week End Committee. Cahalan, a sophomore philosophy major is an academic commissioner, a member of the Blue Circle and the AB Advisory Council, and is on the Dean’s List. The other newly appointed members of the Auxiliary Board are William Slattery, Michael Smith, and Lyn Ralph, sophomores, and Terry Burke, a freshman.
Of next year’s Juggler personnel, Yoch, Banchoff, Christian, Watters, and Hundt are on the present Juggler board. In addition to Ryan, the graduating members of this year’s staff are Charles " Bowen, Bob Vondrasek, James Carroll, Andrew Connelly, Bob Ghelardi, Marsh
'(Continued on page 24)
Army Field Band Gives Concert at 8 in Drill Hall
The United States Army Field Band * will present a concert tonight at 8:00	,
in the Drill Hall. The program is sponsored by the Tri-Military Council and * admission is free.
Composed of more than 100 of the finest musicians in the Army, the band has made three extensive overseas tours 4 as part of President Eisenhower’s People-to-People Program to foster , international good will. Concerts for Pope Pius XII, Prince Rainier and Princess Grace of Monaco, and President Tito of Yugoslavia were highlights of the 1957 goodwill journey.
In Spring of 1958 the Army band * made its first tour of Hawaii and the Far East. The veteran musicians played .. a total of 45 concerts in 41 days. During the 27-day tour of Japan, Korea, and ' Okinawa, the band played before an estimated audience of 150,000.
The band’s repertoire ranges from classical arrangements to popular tunes and novelty numbers. Vocal and instrumental solos are also a pai-t of all -performances. The Soldier’s Chorus of 30 vocalists has accompanied the band since 1947 and is considered one of the best male voice groups on the concert stage.
Spanish bull rings, French provincial , market halls, Riviera seaside parks and Scandinavian amphitheaters were crowded with audiences totaling 350,000 during the 1957 summer tour of Europe. Traversing the continent from Oslo to Seville and from Lisbon to Belgrade, the “Kings of the Highways” played 43 concerts in 12 countries.
The primary mission of the Anny Field Band is to tour, as directed by the * Secretary of the Army, and present free public concerts as representatives of the United States and the Anny, both here < and abroad.
ASSOCIATE CHRISTIAN The historical approach.
10
The Scholastic
Jones to Replace Bertoncini as Band Leaden Titterton, LeRose, Nolan to Return Next Year
WALLY JONES
New letterhead for the lettermen.
Taking charge of next year’s Letter-| men, popular campus band led this year 5- by Gene Bertoncini, will be Wally Jones, t a pianist for the past two years with j Bertoncini’s group.
f''- Jones, a junior from Wilmette, Ill., is I a communication arts major. He has . been playing the piano for 15 years and 1 has played for musical productions put ! on by the University Theater. In adi dition, he is a member of Gene Berton-i cini’s quartet, which has a three-week I engagement, beginning July 6, at the ' Cloister Inn in Chicago.
Big Band Sound. Next year’s Letter* men will probably carry 15 pieces, according to Jones, who has still quite a few unfilled positions. Although final personnel arrangements won’t be com-
* pleted until fall, Jones expects to use three trumpets, three trombones, and five saxophones in addition to the rhythm and string sections.
Only two of the saxophone spots have been definitely filled. They will be held down by Len LeRose and Ralph Capas-so, both graduate students of the music r school. Two trumpet players have been selected: Freshman Con Nolan and John
... OR ELSE
Another notice joins the ranks. This one emphasizes that all books borrowed from the University Library after May 12 will be due May 31. In any case, all books will be due the day before final examinations, that is, a week from this Sunday. Special borrowing privileges will go into effect only during the examination period.
Titterton, a junior in the College of Engineering.
Old Pro. One membei- of the trombone section, Bill Coulson, will be returning next year. Coulson, a graduate student in philosophy, had had 16 years of musical experience, and has worked with such musicians as Abe Most, Betty Hutton, Ray Sims and Shorty Sheilock. Coulson is now playing regularly on Frank Dreighton’s show on WNDU-TV.
For next year, Jones plans to put more emphasis on the large band than was done this year, when the activities of the smaller five piece group largely overshadowed it. Greater attempt will be made to seek out engagements for the large band at South Bend area dances and other social affairs.
Plans for next year’s small group are still indefinite, and will be largely contingent on Jones’ finding suitable replacement for guitarist Bertoncini.
Any aspiring musician wishing to audition for the Lettermen should contact Wally Jones at 317 Howard.
Grand Knight Elected For Next School Year
Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus for next year is Jerry McGlynn, junior commerce major from St. Louis. He has served as warden of the Council this year and was named Knight of the Semester last fall, McGlynn is also president of the St. Louis club and has been active in Dillon and Stanford hall governments.
Deputy Grand Knight will be Bill Heaphy, a junior English major from Bridgeport, Conn. He was publicity director for the Knights this year.
Selected as chancellor was Joseph Hil-ger. Hailing from Columbus, Ind., Hilger is also active in the Accountingclub, the YCS, and the Propeller club. Recorder for the coming year will be Marty Ronan, sophomore AB student from Chicago, who was re-elected to his present post. Warden will be Jim Waters, Dean’s List commerce student from Philadelphia who is also a member of WSND’s Public Relations Staff.
Elected to the position of treasurer was James Long, AB sophomore from New York City, Long is also active in the teaching activities of the CCD. Advocate will be Clay Smith, who retains his present position. A junior commerce major, Smith is secretary of the Commerce Forum and president of the Indianapolis club.
Inside Guard will be Shephen Kiley, former Senate spiritual commissioner and commerce student from Kokomo, Ind. Outside Guards will be Thomas O’Donnell, an AB major from Chicago and member of the AFROTC rifle team, and Thomas Miller, commerce student from Milwaukee, Wis.
Shishman Supervises ’59 'Technical Review’
Tom Shishman, a mechanical engineering major from Tulsa, Okla., has been named to the position of editor of the Technical Review. Named as associate editors were Jim Hayes and Jim Wulf.
Previously articles editor of the Review, Shishman will succeed Roger O’Neil. A Dean’s List student, he is secretary of the engineering honor society, Nu Delta Epsilon, a member of the Joint Engineering Council, and the Glee Club. Tom, who has been a member of the Review since his freshman year, plans to keep his policy much the same as that of the present, which has had so much success in recent years.
Hayes, who is in his fifth year of AB Engineering here at Notre Dame, is from Larchmont, N. Y. He is the vicepresident of the engineering honor society, Nu Delta Epsilon and a member of the Met club.
Wulf is a mechanical engineering major from Rock Island, Ill. Formerly features editor of the Review, he is a member of the American Society of . Mechanical Engineers.
A third junior on the new staff will be Dick Sapp, who has been named as business manager. Sapp, an engineering science major, is from Munhall, Pa. He is on the Dean’s List and a member of the Air Force ROTC unit here
The other new staff members for next year will be: John McLaughlin, a sophomore from Chevy Chase, Md., office manager; Garry Scheuring, a sophomore from Iona, Minn., copy editor; Tom Medland, a junior from Logansport, Ind., features editor; Joe Ogurchak, a sophomore from Akron, Ohio, articles editor; and Hank Mittelhauser, a freshman engineering student from Manhasset, N. Y., advertising manager.
HNTO* TOM SHISHMAN Technically speaking.
May 22, 1959
WSND Reviews Year on 'Profiles in Sound'; Announce First Recipients of Station Awards
“Profiles in Sound,” a review of Notre Dame, 1958-’59, took to the WSND airwaves last Sunday between 8 and 11 p.m. The three-hour spectacular, produced and directed by Mike Ahern, WSND program director, began with a montage of the year’s activites.
Joe Geary, WSND news director, followed with the year’s 15 top news stories. King Gillan presented a summary of campus news highlights.
WSND sports director, Tim Kyan, added a summary of the year’s top sports stories, and Dick Ciccone reviewed campus sports. Ryan also interviewed Coaches Joe Kuharich, John Jordan, and Jake Kline, all of whom expressed confidence in their ’59-’6O teams.
New awards. Highlight of the show was the announcement of the recipients of the first annual WSND Faculty-Administration Awards. This year’s winners are Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Dean of Students, and Professor Walter M. Langford, head of the modern language department, and coach of the fencing team.
In presenting the awards, Station Manager Neil Stalter cited Father Collins’ “sense of fairness and understanding in dispatching the duties of his office, as well as the gratitude of the student body for his farsighted and selfless work on behalf of improvement of student life.”
Multiple citation. Stalter cited Professor Langford for “his outstanding contribution to the 1958-’59 Notre Dame scene, for his generosity and his dedication to the ideals of his profession as a Notre Dame gentleman, and for his work to improve the academic and extracurricular life of the Notre Dame student.”
Father Collins was appointed Dean of Students in the fall of 1957, succeeding Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C. Prior to this time, Father Collins served as superior of Moreau and Holy Cross Seminaries, as well as superior of Andre House, and rector of Morrissey Hall.
Professor Langford has been head of the modern language department since 1946. He has taught at'the University since 1931, and has held a full professorship since 1943. He has coached the fencing team since 1940, and coached the tennis team from 1940 until 1953. He is one of three coaches in Notre Dame history to be credited with more than 200 victories.
The WSND spectacular also featured interviews with Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, Rev. George C. Bernard, C.S.C., vice-president for student affairs, and Rev. Glen Boarman, C.S.C., prefect of religion, and chaplain for the staff of WSND.
We predict. Also featuring the top seven - tunes of 1958-’59, and the an
nouncers who have made them popular at Notre Dame, “Profiles in Sound” was rounded out with news and sports predictions for the coming year given by Geary and Ryan.
Among the campus personalities interviewed on the spectacular were Bill McCullough, 1958-’59 chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society, John Thurin, 1958-’59 editor of the Dome, and Robert Sedlack, 1958-’59 editor of the Scholastic. The 1959-’60 campus leaders also participated in the program. Among them were Tom Scanlon, new chairman of the Blue Circle, Pat O’Daley, editor of the Dome, and Ron Blubaugh, editor of the Scholastic.
Coming up this Sunday night is the annual farewell message by Father Hes-burgh to the student body.
Banchoff Selected President Of Campus Discussion Group
The Wranglers, composed of the intellectual elite of the campus, (Scholastic—May 1) have selected their officers for the 1959-60 school year. Traditionally the Wranglers have only a president and secretary.
Tom Banchoff, a junior, has been chosen as president. Banchoff is an AB-math major from New Jersey. A member of the debate team, he was chairman of the National Invitational Debate tournament held at Notre Dame this year. Banchoff was also a member of the Irish Quiz Bowl team of recent fame and a winner of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship.
The Wranglers’ secretary for next year is Bill Slattery. Slattery hails from Caldwell, N. J., and is a sophomore in the Arts and Letters College.
The 20 members of the club hold weekly meetings and discuss a paper presented on any one of a variety of topics. This year the general theme for the papers and discussion was “The Modern Mind.”
Joe Daschbach, this year’s president, will do graduate work in English at Columbia University. A Navy scholarship student, Daschbach will receive his degree from the University’s general program of liberal education this June.
“WATCH THE BIRDIE’’
Attention all photographers! Applications for photographic positions on next year’s SCHOLASTIC staff are now being accepted. Anyone who is interested please contact Ron Blubaugh in room 309 Pangbom as soon as possible. If no one is in, please leave a note.
Math Dept. Announces Tie Winners of Contest
The Mathematics Department an-	4
nounced Wednesday the winners of their annual mathematics competition for	1
sophomores and freshmen. In the sophomore competition, there was a first place tie between Robert Burckel of Science and William O’Connell of AB. Joseph Bartlett of Engineering and David Hudson of AB submitted papers worthy of 4 honorable mention. These four papers were chosen from among the 20 submitted by sophomores from all colleges.
John Meyer of AB was chosen the winner of the freshman competition. There was a second place tie between Jerome Cosgrove and Clement McDonald, Both of the second place winners * are Science majors. Third place awards were given to Paul Donis, Raymond Durand, and Richard Jensen. Honorable ? mention was accorded to Robert Cihak, John Garnett, Ronald Herm, John Heywood, Paul Margosian, and William Moran. The winners were chosen by a panel of mathematics professors.
The test was administered last month. It was composed of theoretical problems ' chosen in such a way to give an equal chance to all students regardless of their present mathematical courses. It was constructed to show the readers the student’s mathematical creative ability in solving problems. The winners will re- ' ceive various mathematical books.
Faculty Members Awarded * Promotions at Annual Dinner
The promotion of thirteen University of Notre Dame faculty members was announced Monday evening at the annual President’s Dinner in the new North < Dining Hall on the campus.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, was host to ap- 4 proximately seven hundred members of the University faculty, administration and their wives. Honored guests at the event were Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and Prof. Leo Kuntz, who are 4 retiring from the faculty this year, and Professor Emeritus Knowles B. Smith । and Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh who are , observing their 50th and 25th anniversaries respectively at the University.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vicepresident for academic affairs, announced the following promotions in the • departments indicated:
Professors Otto Bird, General Program of Liberal Education; Rev. Cletus Bach-ofer, C.S.C., biology; and Bernard D. • Cullity, metallurgy.
Associate Professors — Robert E. Christin, English; Journet D. Kahn, General Program of Liberal Education; Louis Pierce, chemistry; and Kwang-Tzu Yang, mechanical engineering.	'
Assistant Professors—Rev. John P. . Dolan, .C.S.C., history; Rev. Henry A. Geuss, C.S.C., classics; Robert J. Lordi, English; Rev. Patrick H. Maloney, C.S.C., music; Gilbert L. Rathbun, communication arts; and Rev. Ernan McMullin, philosophy.
12
The Scholastic
Five Receive 'Engineer of the Year' Awards; Annual Recognition to Laud Outstanding Men
Five recipients of the 1958-59 Engineer of the Year Awards, announced each May by the Technical Review staff, have recently been named.
The first is James Mullen, an aeronautical engineer from Pittsburgh, Pa. Mullen, who is on the Dean’s List, has been a member of the Sailing club, the Pittsburgh club, the freshman swimming team, and the IAS. Besides serving as president of the latter, he served on the Joint Engineering Council and as chairman of the committee that founded the engineering honor society, Nu Delta Epsilon, of which he has been seiwing as president. He has been awarded scholarships at both Cornell and M.I.T. for graduate studies.
Navyman. John Maloney, a chemical engineer is from Fairness Hills, Pa. Maloney is a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Joint Engineering Council and the Nu Delta Epsilon honor society. Maloney is serving as the vice-president of the AIChE, vice-chairman of the JEC, secretary of the Nu Delta Epsilon, and assistant editor of the Dome. Attending Notre Dame on a Lubrizol Scholarship, he was awarded the Notre Dame Navigation Award and the AIChE Chapter Award. Maloney is a contract student in the NROTC program and will enter the Navy for two years immediately after graduation.
A mechanical engineer, George McAndrews is from Clinton, Iowa. McAndrews a Dean’s List student, has been a member of the Senate academic commission, the permanent hall residence committee, the student chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the Joint Engineering Council, and the staff of the Technical Review. He is also the membership committee chairman of the engineering honor society, Nu Delta Epsilon, and a member of the publicity committee for the Engineering publicity committee for the Engineering open house.
Fire scholarship. Kenneth Kraemer, an architect from Plain, Wis., who will graduate cum laude, has won the National Fire-Underwriters scholarship, the Wisconsin Architects Foundation Scholarship, and first prize in the Catholic Property Administration competition. He is presently a finalist in the national competition for the Paris Prize of the Nivola Trophy. Besides his architectural activities, he was on the Junior Prom and Senior Ball committees and is a member of the Nu Delta Epsilon and the student chapter of the American Institute of Architects. He will receive a commission in the Air Force in June.
The fifth man is Paul Anderson, an electrical engineer from Yonkers, N. Y. Paul has served as vice-chairman and chairman of the AIEE-IRE, and cochairman of publicity for the Engineering open house, and as a member of the Joint Engineering Council. Attending
May 22, 1959
Notre Dame on an International Telephone and Telegraph Co. scholarship, he was awarded the title of Distinguished Military Student in the Army ROTC program. He is planning on entering the Army on graduation.
A four-year record. The winners of the Engineer of the Year- awards must have fully demonstrated that they possessed the qualities of leadership, scholarship, service, and character in accepting responsibilities, both as members of the University and the College of Engineering.
HIP, HIP, HURRAY for the
GREYHOUND8 way to save money!
Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It’s the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride and complete restroom! You’ll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound —it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS...AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
Greyhound Terminal. Main & Monroe. AT 7-S541
TAG ’EM AND STORE ’EM
The dosing date for this year’s summer storage is 5 p.m. Tuesday, June 2. All items to be stored for the summer must be tagged, securely tied and brought to the-Drill Hall before this date.	'
There is a general storage price of $3.25 for extra large* items, $2.75 for first large item and a $2.50 charge for each additional large item, and a $1.50 charge for small items. All stored items can be insured up to $50 at a cost of 2% of evaluated value.
Compare these low.
low fares!
Cincinnati, Ohio Detroit, Mich. Harrisburg, Pa. Miami, Fla.
$ 8.20
6.40
18.75
36.35
one-way fare, plus tax
GREYHOUND
Vol 50
F Io ten •
i Q r e II ।
F ra n k
McGee
PRINTER
DIRECTOR Oc
Jon
mODERatOR
IZATIONS
>u rp h y editor
G Helirung Messinge'
Galvin
T EDITOR
Shay
Wholen
oly editor Flonigan Zougg
Frank Smith
Do O m 11 io n o
COpv
Ton- H Obe rg Ricn Mu'ph*
John P Thurin EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Robert A Janoski ASSOCIATE EDITOR
McBreen
manager
MIC
Guzzc editor ofc Logc-■eorge Rozum
UNDERCLASSMEN Boo Good ed»tor Rcr LoReou F'onk Aishe'mer Don Beaudorr Pqv Morgosion
A P ’ WORK John Martine
SHEETS Jon Siddle
1959
John M Maloney
ASSISTANT
Thomas J MANAGING
PHOTO
COPY
EDITOR
McHale
EDITOR
EDITOR
EDITOR
DESIGN COORDINATOR
ART EDITOR
PUBLIC RELATIONS
SENIORS;
Dan Lyons, editor Ken Loje Denny Montali Frank Oberkoetter Bill Dodd Bill Kruger
SPORTS
Art Kanerviko editor
Jack Brody
Pete Hickey John Osipowicz John Schustef
PHOTOGRAPHERS Bob Cihak Tim Keough Denny Kidder Ed Mertz Carl Peterson George Spahn Dean Singewald Kevin Solon Bill Su IIiva n Walt Wittenberg
ADMINISTRATION S
PORTRAITS Ed Mertz
Jerry
Welling, Ken Witte
CONSULTANT George DuBois
Al ADVISOR
Mr John
Press Inc
M B > rt
Hammond Indiana
NOTRE
DAME PUBLICATIONS
P Defon-
Re>
OQM

1959 DOME:
Notre Dame in 19-59 — this was the year of the College Quiz Bow], the change of football coaches, the new grading ’ system, the record snowfall, the Jazz Festival, the Howard Hall-< bicycle races and more. This was Notre Dame, all of it.
To present this cavalcade of both the predictable and the unpredictable the 1959 DOME, banning the format and style of previous volumes, has initiated a design and coverage planned with a reader appeal in mind. No longer found are the usual lineups in the “Halls” section. Discarded is the stamp * collection of professors’ pictures peculiar only to the DOME’S . “academic” section. Gone are the segregated academic, social and sporting highlights of the year. Absent are the inhuman, prop-dominated portraits of the administration.
In place of this traditional coverage the reader will find a month by month coverage of all events at Notre Dame in 1958- | 1959; an entirely new approach to the senior section; a new I
A LOOK AT THE SEW LOOK’
By John Thurin
and different set of “Karsh” type photographs of the administration; a pictorial bulletin of each college, of each department; and a new informal type of hall pictures. This is the new and accurate perspective of Notre Dame initiated and pictured for you amid a completely different format.
This new concept, with emphasis on informality, incorporates a “flare” design, photography which captures relaxed and natural groupings, and copy geared in a casual tone.
Most closely identified with the “new look” is the layout. It is a “flare” type of design similar to that of such professional magazines as Look and Life. A controlled oi* guided style of layout directs the reader’s eye in and around the page in a logical story-telling fashion.
Perhaps the most noticeable improvement in this 50th volume, however, is the quality of the photography both technically and non-technically. Handled by nine students, this year’s photography incorporates very little of the traditional
May 22, 1959
formal type of picture. Instead there is now an informality	j
in all pictures, yet finished in a professional manner.	;
And, finally, the reader will find a style of copy unusual j to the average yearbook. It’s readable. It’s alive and flashy.	,
It’s interesting and rightly so because of its casual, down-to-	•;
earth tone.	:
Incorporating these three features of the “new look” are	>
six completely revamped sections. These sections are the “Fea-	j
tures,” “Seniors,” “University,” “Sports,” “Organizations” and j “Underclassmen.” Their content is Notre Dame in 1959. Their i style is strictly a “new look.”	|
This is Notre Dame’s yearbook, originally conceived in
April of 1958 and completed more than one year later. It rep- t resents an attempt to construct a yearbook with some • new	|
ideas. These ideas ‘ have been simple ones and the book has	I
been mounted on them as simply as possible.	This, then, is	the	1
“New look,” the 1959 DOME. ‘	|
15	|
4 Review:
THE 1959 'DOME'
What imagination and energy can do to revive a seemingly iron-clad tradition of inferiority and outdatedness is seen in the 1959 Dome. Gone are the posed and spotted pictures with their insipid stares, the dry explanations, the unending file of seniors’ and professors’ pictures. In their place, vital and clean photographs are escorted by an informal, personable text that is mature, interesting, and enlightening. Often the comments go beyond the yearbook. After a description of how Who’s Who men are chosen, the text accompanying the brilliant photograph of the candidates reads, “This year however, from some quarters of the University, came criticism of the method of selection.” The headlines too have a personality and “The Mardi Gras Carnival” from last year’s book becomes “Wheels turn, dice roll, Brubeck swings,” in the new book. Other examples: “December; a coach, a cardinal, concerts, chemistry”; a “Murder in Washington Hall.” Examples of subheads: the graduate school becomes the “Summit of learning”; biology, “Facts of life”; commerce, “Dollars and sense.” The introduction is especially good and we want to take the barker’s advice and “step right into the 1959 edition for a new look, a new view of an old well-known, well-loved university.” All the students can find themselves in the new Dome. In the Activities section scenes from all phases of student activity are grouped according to the months, and the old, discriminating “Highlights” is reduced in area and replaced by pictures of students (for instance) buying books or skiing, as at mid-year. In the Sports section too, the “unlettered” sports are reviewed.
The Senior section is broken up by large photographs that depict scenes from the inevitables of student life with an appropriate text: a yelling cadet officer on the drill field, Zyggy, the Huddle, a cursing student putting on a “laundry-shrunk” shirt, and Frankie, the campus cop, gendarming the theater door.
The picture of Joer’s in this section has an interesting story. “No, let’s agree on one thing right now, George. We just stop in for one friendly, sociable beer, and then catch the bus back in time for chow. I’ve got two tests tomorrow, and I got’ta hit those books. Just one fast one. Right, George?”
“Yeah, yeah.”
“Now let’s get it straight, George. One more beer — two at the most — and we cut out and go to the Avon. They’re showing an Italian flick there this week. With subtitles. So just a couple more an we leave. Right, George?”
“Yeah, yeah.”
“Now don’t get panicky, George. Suppose we do miss the last bus? We can always take a cab, you know. I mean it won’t break you to take a cab just once. Right, George? . . . George?”	.
The photographs throughout the book are top quality, both in subject and reproduction. Only the color shots, which are still an improvement, fail to live up to the over-all quality. The scenes are no longer the dull ranks of the Senate’s seats or a group huddled about a table or standing at attention; the lake, the drill hall, or the student press show students and professors at work or at leisure in their natural and appropriate surroundings: Fr. Hager writing music or Dr. Evans getting Be-ing (a difficult picture, indeed.) Special mention must be made of the superb pictures of the Administration. These pictures are examples from the elite sphere where photography is art.
But even these pictures could be hidden under the old method of layout. And so change took over here also to display the pictures in layouts that have almost always considered the relation of the two open pages seen together. Each page is internally balanced as well. Often pictures are bled off the page or run from one page onto another, thus
joining the pages and casting away the “framed” look of past issues. A series of related polygons, expanding and contracting, lines, and a corresponding print used consistently unify the book. One difficulty with the layout is the lack of white space which creates an impression of busy movement for the eyes without relief.
One of the more glaring faults is the opening of the academic section with a picture of the College Quiz Bowl team. The performances of the team are hardly representative of the academic and such an association is erroneous.
In the final analysis no comparison with the past can be made. The new book has completely thrown its ancestors’ techniques away and the result is a book, as the editors suggest, “mature, accurately informative, and attractively modern.”
Congratulations. J. Y.
HISTORY OF THE 'DOME' •
by ED RICE	’
With the rise in cigarette sales at Notre Dame from yeai- ( to year, no one would suspect that an anti-cigarette club once existed here. In the 1914 Dome, a picture of this group ap- I peared in the “Activities and Organizations” section of the ,4 annual. Things have changed since the first Dome was pub- | lished in 1906, but the annual has consistently chronicled the -college years of Notre Dame men.
In earlier years, the annual happenings on the campus were recalled with humor, while many articles not directly connected with student life were of a very serious nature.
Such things as minor student activities and pranks, along with social events were, and sometimes still are, recalled with * humor. Cartoons were essential to the early Dome reader, as were wit and humor columns. In the main, this was due to the lack of photography and improved methods of printing. * Advertisements were profuse in the back pages of early Domes, in the days when the Philadelphia was advertised as “The House of Purity,” and Brother Clemmens was proud to say he used Halfner Coffins. Those were the days when the Holy Cross Brothers operated an undertaking establishment at Notre Dame.
On the other side of the coin, however, the Dome could be 4 quite serious when it chose to be. All formal events at the University, including graduation, important visitors to the campus, and the like, were treated with the utmost pomposity. ■< Poems and literary content were heavy in early editions.
Poems and philosophical discussions are printed in other University publications now, but many of the things mentioned in early Domes are still with us. The very first Dome, as a matter of fact, described the Notre Dame watchman, with a still up-to-date bit of irony:	I
There once was a watchman called Dorin, Whose job was to guard over Sorin.
When a student came late, His plight was to wait, While Dorin in Sorin was snorin’.
r ■
The layout of the Dome has been mainly the same through- j out the years, too. In the tradition of all annuals everywhere, J it has always 'begun with a dedication, moved through pictures „ J of the campus, members of the administration, faculty, and ' on into the graduating seniors. Later sections cover student activities and sports.
Baseball was formerly the main sport at Notre Dame and received more space in the Dome than football. The change began with the Army^Notre Dame battles which were cited by football fans as the greatest of all sporting events. This 3 turn began about 1915. Notre Dame also formerly had a j, hockey team which captured many trophies. Debating was almost as popular as baseball, with each hall cheering on their own teams in heated competition.	-
Slang has undergone changes down through the years — for instance, many of the students used to go “skiving.” This
(Continued on page 19)
16
The Scholastic
S'
r
ft

DODWOOD
by Tony de Haro
Taking a deep beath, she wound the feeble topcoat tighter around her slight body and stepped out into the stream of hurried people while the cold winds slashed through her thin clothes.
The inside of the building, she recalled, had been quite different. Warmth seeped through the lush carpeting from office to office and the comfortable chairs bore weight tenderly,
Oh, the nerve! She was perfectly fit for the job, her feet marked in deter-
L ■ mined cadence along the sidewalk.
K was at her best in office work, her n	7
k lips tried to form the words.
As the first drops of rain began
She thin
fal-
K ling, she slid into the entrance of a store. I Her eyes flashed in fury, tearing at the k very heart and cause of this annoying k .v rain. Water dripped now and then from | the brim of her shabby hat and sizzled | on her inflamed face. How could they !. do this to her?
J She turned toward the display window i and looked at her reflection on the glass. K Quickly, taking her compact out, she U dabbed hei- face liberally with rouge.
Then she turned around once to assure P, herself of the imagined propriety of her t outfit.
l By no means a beautiful woman, she f had worn her face into sad wrinkles P through years of worry. Adorned with r too many ill-placed flowers, her hat | rendered her stern face comical. Corset | ribs were visible undei' the re-done dress k with the unmatching belt. Aftei- gri-
¥
macing at it she tugged down on it to smooth it out. The topcoat, thin and a lifeless gray, turned into more of a rag every time it rained.
True; she did not seem much. But she was a good, honest woman; and nobody could fit the job as she would.
There is no opening at the present
time! Who are they, anyway? Why did they put up the sign, then? Perhaps they like to be begged; but she would
? stoop to no one.
With only a frown betraying her, she " stepped down into the rain and shuffled k away. But soon the indignation within her turned to muttering once more. She stood in the rain without even noticing it.
At first she didn’t see the old lady. T When suspicion turned to certainty, she । whirled around and stood looking deeply { into the lady’s eyes.
“Here,” said the lady kindly. An outstretched hand held a crumpled bill.
Her eyes played over the withered face with the look of a pleading soul, a grateful heart; but an outraged queen.
“Lady, I’m no beggar!”
At the Movies
AVON
The Night Heaven Fell: (May 21-26). Brigitte Bardot puts on her act between murders and as a direct result of looks between her and her thrice-removed paramour, Stephen Boyd. The Legion of Decency, having no lower rating, has stamped it with a low C. In Bardotscope and Eastman-Color.
COLFAX
It Happened to Jane: (May 22-28). Most people are wading through promotional material for this one, since it’s being pushed harder than Marl-boros in a tattoo shop. The title is probably misleading because the picture is classed as a family comedy, though Doris Day has brought suspicion upon herself after Tunnel of Love. But it’s rewarding to see Jack Lemmon in male clothes. Ernie Kovacs, head shaved, engages in his usual antics.
GRANADA
Warlock: (May 21-27). A Western with a twist that, as we go to press, is still unbelievable. Henry Fonda uses his tin star to no avail and finds himself out of a job, showdowned by Richard Widmark. The fair sex was never fairer as Dorothy Mmm-malone and Dolores Mmm-michaels appear on the scene. And the dishes desert Fonda, who rides off into the sunset.
PALACE
Thunder in the Sun: (May 20-26). After the place in the sun was set aside, an island and a raisin entered the picture, and now thunder makes the scene. This one was released after Academy Awards, probably for fear of what it would do to Susan Hayward’s chances. Jeff Chandler and Jacques Bergerac vie for Miss Hayward’s affections, and Susan professes her preference for greying hair.
RIVER PARK
The Naked and the Dead: (May 21-24). Norman Mailer’s poignant novel loses so much that the only thing left is an arresting performance by Aldo Ray. Cliff Robertson and Raymond Massey play characters strong in the book and wishy-washy on celluloid. A disappointment even for the actors. So much for that.
Co-Hit: Enchanted Island. Herman Melville is at present spinning madly in his grave upon seeing this adaptation of “Typee.” Jane Powell plays a tinted-hair, green-eyed Polynesian and Dana Andrews is the guy who jumped ship to live on the island. After a lively sojourn with some cannibals, Dana offends the great god Zeke and is chased onto a ship that pops out of nowhere. Running after him, Jane almost gets her goose cooked as she climbs on the ship, because of a flaming arrow thrown at her by the natives.
STATE
Stranger in My Arms: (May 21-27). Jeff Chandler and June Allyson ponder, between hugs and kisses, whatever happened to her dead husband. Sandra Dee and Charles Coburn also star, in addition to Mary Astor. The whole mess is about the mother, Miss Astor, who insists her son was a hero and the war buddy, Jeff Chandler, who knows what really happened.
Co-hit: Never Steal Anything Small. That well-known song-and-dance man, Jimmy Cagney, believes in stealing nothing smaller than the show. This seems difficult with Shirley (Oklahoma) Jones and Roger (“Kookie’s sidekick”) Smith sharing the billing. It might be interesting to see how the venerable old Cagney sneer-wit mixes with Shirley’s voice.	.
—Tony Wong
May 22, 1959
An Appreciation of Existentialism
by Frederick J. Crosson
PREFACE
The Scholastic is honored to print a resume of the croivd-gathering lectures that Professor Crosson gave last month on the Existentialists Satre, Marcel, and Heidegger. Dr. Crosson rejoins the Notre Dame faculty this year after a year of research and study in the field of existentialism at Louvain. In 1953 Dr. Crosson joined the General Program faculty and at present is teaching political philosophy in the program, while continuing his work in contemporary political philosophy and existentialism.
One of the most remarkable events in contemporary philosophy has been the appearance of the existentialist problematic in the work of several different thinkers, independently and roughly at the same time: Marcel, Jaspers, and Heidegger. One is tempted to see here the kind of inner logic or necessity for such appearance in history, that Maritain has spoken of in a different context (the appearance of the notion of pluralism). Like most philosophical positions it may be viewed as a corrective reaction against the excesses of its time: rationalism and its cultural counterpart, the increasingly technological organization of human life. With Kierkegaard, these later thinkers register a strong protest against a merely objective or scientific view of man, and reaffirm the uniqueness of the human world. Insofar as it does represent such a reaction, its own temptation will be to overstress the non-categorical nature of reality, that is to impugn the significance of objective knowledge.
Whether or not these thinkers succumb to this temptation, the insights which they express will be valuable in themselves, if they are true. And the only way to discover these, before being able to judge the movement as a whole, is to approach their writings sympathetically. It is impossible to disagree with someone unless, first of all, what he is saying is understood as he means it.
COMMON ELEMENT, A VERB
If there is a common element in the diverse philosophies called existentialism, it may be located in the peculiar meaning which they assign to the verb “to exist.” Only man exists — this means that only man embodies that unique manner of being which may be called ec-centric rather than ego-centric. This notion of existence (or ex-sistence, as some prefer to write it, literally “to stand out from”) is a transformation of the scholastic theory of intentionality; the transformation consists in the fact that intentionality is no longer taken to be an accidental attribute or mode of being, but rather the very structure, the very manner in which man is.
St. Bonaventure, in the “Mind’s Road to God” characterizes man’s preoccupation with the things that manifest themselves to him (as distinguished from preoccupation with himself) in the following way:
for the human mind, distracted by cares, does not enter into itself through memory; obscured by phantasms, it does not return into itself through intelligence; allured by concupiscence, it never returns to itself through the desire for inner sweetness and spiritual gladness. Thus, lying totally in this sensible world, it cannot return to itself as to the image of God.
We can take this text as a point of departure for the existentialist problematic, but only if we make one crucial distinction. St. Bonaventure is here opposing the spiritual soul to the sensible world. But the soul in this sense is not the same as the “subject” or the “subjectivity” of modern philosophy. We can bridge the difference by noting that the immaterial ideas which manifest themselves to the soul also appear tot in other words, that the self can “lose itself” in ideas
18
as much as in phantasms and sensible things. What we are trying to seize here is that innermost, intimate reality which we may describe as that to which all things that appear in any way, appear.
This subject or self, then, is not an object of consciousness: it is that in relation to which there are objects (ob-jectum, something thrown before. . .). We are clearly forced to use circumlocutions at first, in trying to circumscribe this reality; for language is articulated to express the characteristics of objects, the things which ordinarily preoccupy us. How shall we conceptualize what we are talking about?
Jean-Paul Sartre conceptualizes it in this way:
“It’s a complete void, because the whole world is outside 14 of it.” The self (the in-self, in Sartre’s terminology) is pure nothingness, a paper trough in being. But, riveted on being (intentionality), it is experienced as, on the one hand, the ab- / sence of being, and on the other, as therefore absence of and desire for being. Man, in dread of admitting this nothingness in his heart, tries to become something. He acts like a professor, like a waiter, like a statesman. He tries to escape from, and hide from himself, this complete lack of determination, of definiteness, which he is, ontologically, not something but nothing, he can never succeed. He is condemned to be absolutely free — he makes himself what he is, he freely chooses to be kind or cruel, to be professor or thief, to follow a code of values or not follow it. Essence, Sartre says, does not precede existence, but follows it. Suppose I assume the roles of husband, employer, member-of-a-fraternity, etc.; very well, I may act as if these “define” me, give me as it were an onto- < logical status. But my commitment to each role is a past act — and I am free at each moment to repudiate them. I cannot not be thus free — this is the meaning of the characteristic x ex-sistence of man.
It is clear then that no perduring structure can be built upon this fundamental nothingness of the self, for any such structure can always be stripped away by a new choice. Gabriel Marcel differs from Sartre on two levels of this analysis of man. First, on the level of ex-sistence, he asserts the intimate union of consciousness with its body. Human subjectivity is incarnate subjectivity. The significance of this difference lies in the fact that the self is no longer conceptualized in terms of emptiness, but that there is a mutual imbrication of flesh and spirit — mysterious and yet undeniable. I cannot say that I have a body (this would be to think the self as separate from or independent of its body) nor can I say I am my body (for the very statement of such an identity suppresses the experiential awareness of my body which differentiates me from it). My body is at the intersection between being and having.
MARCEL: A REACH ABOVE
On a second and higher level, Marcel asserts that a movement from existence to being is not only possible, but needed if man is to become a person. Agreeing with Sartre that man’s fl freedom is such that, for example, the marriage vow may al- 'I ways be repudiated, Marcel refuses to	admit that it follows	B
that fidelity or lack of fidelity to the promise leaves the self	■
unchanged. Fatherhood is not merely a role, a mask assumed by the self, there is involved in it an	act of commitment of	fl
engagement of the innermost nature	of the person. It is	fl
through such a commitment, through the free forging of an fl intersubjective bond, that the person comes into 'being. Such fl an act is not purely of one’s own choice: it involves an answer ''r to the innation of another, it involves the recognition of and fl response to the presence of a person. As a result, the level I) of being to which one accedes is not that of Descartes’ ego 4» cogito: it is, Marcel writes, the level “not of esse but of cum- k esse.”	■
This order of reality is accessible only to what Marcel calls I “secondary reflection,” because 1) it is not manifest to a de- fl tached impersonal observation, which views the data of its I (primary) reflection as so many problems to be answered, as I
The Scholastic I
separate from the observer; 2) it is beyond the level of any sort of objective verification: no one can prove that someone loves him, or that he loves. He either knows it immediately, . intuitively if you will, or not at all.
| It is in this order that man encounters, or can encounter, i the presence of God. God is the Absolute Thou, the Absolute ’ Person, who will never repudiate His covenant with me, with • ‘ us. But the order of being is an order of freedom, and it is
only if God freely presents Himself to me, and I freely open । myself to Him, enter His Presence, in response, that “being-with” on this level is possible.
Martin Heidegger stands apart from Sartre and Marcel, [ not only in his attitude with respect to the religious encounter, ► but in his insistence on ontological questions. His philosophy [ is a philosophy not of man, but of all existents, who raise the , question about Being.
| It is in the structure of man’s existence as being-to-the-| world, as “transcending himself toward the world,” that Heidegger locates the secret bond between man and Being. Man’s
*. existence is accomplished in revealing, in bringing to light to significance of things — in the laws of Newton, a painting by
. Van Gogh, the language of a philosopher, even in the every-I day actions of every man, when he says “Today is Friday,”
“This is pure gold.”
Man can lead things into the light of Being, of truth, because he is the hearer and guardian of that light. The error of modern thought, according to Heidegger — an error whose seeds were sown by Plato — has been to forget that the “world” within which things exist and manifest themselves, is * essentially related to human existence. The world—this open-[ ness in which things exist — is a result of man’s ec-centric mode of existing, of man’s transcending himself toward the totality of existents, such that he comprehends them all in some way.
But precisely because this openness — this Being — is । translucid, is that which reveals things, it is itself, in a way, unrevealed. Man forgets Being and occupies himself with be-i ings, with existents. The whole philosophical effort of Heidegger is to think that being directly, in itself, to ponder the “ontological difference” between beings and Being.
Within this universe of Heidegger’s philosophy, God can be identified with neither beings — finite and dependent on Being — noi’ with Being, which Heidegger declares, “cannot exist without existents.” Since, however, he insists that he has no answer to the question about Being, and since he maintains that we must resolve this question before we can decide
the meaning of the Sacred, Heidegger declares that his philosophy is neither atheistic nor theistic. It is, thus far, silent on this question, sane to remark that “perhaps the trait which most marks our epoch lies in the disappearance of the dimension of the Sacred. Perhaps this is our unique misfortune.” Faith remains, for him, a specific manner of existing in the truth of Being, but it is a way not open to philosophy as such.
A SUMMING UP
I would like to conclude with a very brief summing up of some main points:
1)	Through two events — the repudiation of the corrosive rationalism of transcendental idealism by Kierkegaard, and the recovery of the notion of intentionality (though with a fundamental reinterpretation) by phenomenology — the period of modern philosophy inaugurated by Descaters has been, I think, decisively closed and transcended.
2)	One of the most significant elements in that modern period was the deepening of the notion of human personality through the introduction and clarification of the category of subjectivity. At once its merit and its fatal flaw, this notion proved to exercise an overwhelming attraction upon the other data of experience, washing away their ontological roots, so to speak, until it ended by draining all things into itself in Hegel’s Absolute Idea, concerned as total presence.
3)	By rejecting the intoxication of reason with its sense of systematic totality, by asserting at once the irreducibility of the individual person, and his incarnate ex-sistence, the existential analytic has shown that the experience of the otherness which man encounter is the experience of finitude.
4)	The crucial problem that has therefore been posed is that of the relation between that finitude and the transcendent. Is the encounter with the transcendent impossible, does it imply the impossible acceding of man to the knowledge of absolute truth, and absolute godness? Sartre maintains that it does, while Marcel contends that the very meaning of intentionality, as consciousness of something other than itsdf, permits an opening beyond the finite. Heidegger, as we have seen, permits that encounter to faith, while refusing to either allow it or disallow it for philosophy.
5)	Nevertheless, by returning to the world of “human things” (to use Plato’s phrase), existentialism has placed once again at the center of philosophy, the quest for the meaning of human existence. Not the least of its merits is to have recognized the intimate bond between that quest and the mystery of Divine Transcendence.
History of the DOME
(Continued from page 16)
* was the popular word for* anything done illegally, such as leaving the hall by the fire escape after night check.
f Everybody had nicknames in the yearbooks of many years I ago: Doc Pickles, Midge, and Smush were B. Ml O. C’s. in 1913. But if a student did not have a nickname, one was promptly made up and printed under his picture so he wouldn’t be considered “out of it.”
The size and shape of the Dome has changed from time to ' time, but there is one thing that has never changed. In the 1906 issue, the very first, Dome, the by now almost legendary picture of St. Mary’s Lake with the Dome and Sacred Heart . Church’s spire in the background was printed. This picture has found its way in one form or another into every Dome published since that time.
The Dome has not been published continuously, however. In 1919, the year following the end of World War I, the Dome was not published. During the second World War, the Capstan was printed three times a year. From 1943 to 1946, Notre Dame was transformed into a large naval training I center, and officers were graduated three times a year, occasions for the three annuals.
Knute K. Rockne, better known in another field, was activities editor of the Dome in 1914. And Walter Wellesley (Red) Smith, as editor-in-chief of the 1926 Dome, portrayed the Rock’s triumphs. Red Smith was better known as “Brick” Smith in those days.
May 22, 1959
Dome editors weren’t always sports figures, though. Paul J. Hallinan was editor in 1932. He is presently the Bishop of Charleston, South Carolina.
Yearbooks have usually concerned themselves with a central theme. In 1956, for example, the Dome celebrated its 50th anniversary, calling itself the Golden Dome. And in 1941, with the addition of new buildings on the campus, the yearbook used the theme: “Notre Dame, a suburb of South Bend — a city without women!”
A theme which has always recurred is Notre Dame’s close association and Platonic relationship with St. Mary’s College. The Dome recorded the reign of Mother Claudia as president of St. Mary’s from 1896 to 1934. During those years the girls were not allowed to accept single dates. Students would, therefore, send postcards to St. Mary’s girls and through a pre-arranged code set up a meeting place — such as inside a theater, or a very popular spot, the Oliver Hotel’s Mezzanine.
Still, the girls were not supposed to be seen on South Bend streets with a man. They came in large .groups to events, such as football games and dances. And at specific hours they . returned in a group.
The Dome can be humorous or serious, it can tell the news or interpret it. It is a book of which Notre Dame can be proud, because it is Notre Dame’s own. And through the years it has proved the forecast of its first editors many times over:
So this, then, is the Dome, the first, let us hope, . of a long series of yearbooks that for originality, for variety and excellence of their contents will stand „ with the best university annuals in the country. . ' j
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL . . .
•
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep.
263 Dillon	Ext 631
CHARTER A —
Renew Your Scholastic Subscription NOW!
Millions of times a year drivers and students keep awake with safe NoDoz
Complete Outline and Rapid Review Series
OUTLINE AND REVIEW HOOKS TO FILL YOU IN FOR EXAMS
See our
Second Floor Bookshelves
Let NoDoz'alert you through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caffeine—the same pleasant stimulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: nonhabit-forming NoDoz delivers an accurate amount of dependable stimulation to keep your mind and body alert during study and exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDoz, it'll probably be late. Play safe. Keep a supply handy.
The safe stay awake tablet— available everywhere
Unfortunately, the bright horizon of summer vacation always seems darkened by ominous exam clouds. We have a way to cut long hours of study and at the same time make each course take a semblance of order in your overtaxed intellect. Buy and try the Outline Series.
J
They give you the meat of ail your courses and eliminate the gristle.
XOTRE DING BOOKSTORE
20
The Scholastic
f Undefeated Irish Netters Meet Detroit Here Today
Detroit visits the Notre Dame tennis courts this afternoon to battle the un-f beaten, high-flying Irish netters. Mar-l quette sends its tennis team against j' Coach Tom Fallon’s squad tomorrow ।	afternoon on the ND courts. Notre
t Dame will carry an unblemished 11-0 record into today’s meet.
Notre Dame’s latest victory came at the expense of Northwestern last Friday. Winning every singles and doubles match, the Irish shut out the Wildcats, 1 9-0.
Three winning streaks were kept alive [ by the Irish victory as Ray Bender and Bill Heinbecker won their 13th straight victories, while Don Ralph !• chalked up his twelfth win in a row. Bender beat Bob Bard of Northwestern, 6-1, 6-2; Heinbecker downed Vandy i Christie, 6-4, 6-2; and Ralph won over I, Steve Hibben, 6-0, 6-1.
In ; the remainder of the singles events, Max Brown won 6-0, 7-5; Ron Schoenberg was a 6-1, 6-4 victor; and Chuck Stephens won 6-1, 6-0.
Against Northwestern in the doubles, Brown and Heinbecker beat Christie and Hibben, 8-6, 4-6, 8-6. Ralph and Schoenberg notched a victory in their-| match 6-0, 6-2, while Bender and Step-hens came through in the final match, 6-0, 6-2, to complete the Irish sweep.
The Irish netters had already captured their tenth victory in a row when they defeated Wisconsin on May 11, 8-1. Sweeping the singles, the only Irish 7 defeat came in the doubles. Balfe Wagner and Bill McGivern lost a professional set, 8-3, to Badgers Dick Tracksei and Lon Ruedesili.
In the other two doubles matches, Ralph and Heinbecker won, 8-3, and
MAX BROWN Co-Captain on ND’s best tennis team.
May 22, 1959
PidiM
NCAA BERTH LIKELY FOR KUNEMEN AS GLENVIEW INVADES TOMORROW
In a recent three-game road trip the Notre Dame baseball team lost two out of three games. The Irish dumped Michigan, 9-8, while bowing to Michigan State, 5-4, and Western Michigan, 3-0.
Michigan State came up with a three-run rally in the last half of the ninth inning to edge Notre Dame, 5-4, and hand the Irish basebailers their fourth loss of the season. The game was played last Wednesday, May 13, on the Spartan’s diamond in East Lansing, Michigan.
Junior pitcher Jim Hannan started for the Irish and had a comfortable 4-2 lead going into the ninth frame. However, Michigan State centerfielder Art Luplow slammed a two-run homer to tie the score. Hannan, giving up two solid singles and placing the winning runs on base, was then relieved by sophomore ace, Nick Palihnich. With two out and a 2-2 count on catcher Bob Monczka, it seemed as if the game was going to go into extra innings. But Monczka smashed a solid single into left field to score the winning run for the Spartans.
Mike Sinks, the fourth Michigan State pitcher to appear in the contest, got credit for his fourth victory against a single loss. Hannan gave up twelve hits in registering his second loss against two wins.
Catcher Ed Wojcik led the Irish with two hits and drove in a run. Gene Duffy, with a ground-rule double, Jack Gentempo, and Dick Selcer each batted in a run for the Irish also.
On the following day, the Irish de-
Bender and Stevenson also won by the same score. All doubles matches were pro sets of the first eight games.
Number one singles man Brown started Notre Dame off to their sweep of the singles by defeating Keith Anderson of Wisconsin, 5-7, 6-0, 6-2. Ralph, who incidentally finished the Northwestern meet with 24 straight winning sets, beat Jerry Rotter 6-4, 6-1.
Bender triumphed over Badger Bob Darling in identical sets of 6-2; Schoenberg won 6-4, 6-3; Stephens was a 6-2, 6-3 winner; and Dee Stephenson also won two identical sets of 6-2.
. Going against Detroit tomorrow, Coach Fallon’s squad will be looking for their thirteenth straight win of the year and 15th straight including the last two matches of the season.
Yesterday the Fallonmen hosted Southern Illinois but the Scholastic went to press before the results could be reported.
feated Michigan, 9-8, at Ann Arbor, Mich. Sophomore Jack Mitchell, taking over for starter Charlie Scrivanich in the sixth inning, pitched three-hit ball the rest of the way to post his fifth victory of the season against a single loss.
The Irish batted around in both the first and the third innings. In the first inning, four walks, three Michigan errors, Duffy’s two-run single, and a sacrifice fly by Bob Broemmel netted four Irish runs. But Michigan tied the score in the second inning, getting two runs on three walks and two singles. The Wolverines had picked up two runs in the first inning also.
Notre Dame again built up a four-run cushion in the third. Second baseman Dick Selcer delivered a key two-run single in the rally. But once again Michigan tied the score with a tally in the fourth and three runs in the sixth inning.
The Irish scored the winning run in the seventh when Mike Graney doubled and then scored on an error. Mitchell held Michigan in check the rest of the way.
Graney and John Carretta led the Irish with two hits each. Duffy and Selcer were the runs-batted-in leaders with two RBI’s each.
The basebailers finished their Michigan tour against Western Michigan at Kalamazoo on May 16. The Broncos shut out the Irish, 3-0, on a fine four-hit pitching performance by righthander Bill Topp, winning his seventh game.
Notre Dame sophomore, Nick Palihnich, was handed his first defeat of the season. Palihnich, giving up eleven hits, seven for extra bases, managed to keep the score low with the help of fine defensive work by his teammates. However, only Graney, Dan Hagan, Selcer, and Frank Finnegan managed to hit safely, Graney smashing a double in the ninth and Finnegan lining a single to center in the fifth.
Then on Monday, May 18, the Kline-men, led by Hagan and Duffy, with five hits between them, downed Valparaiso 9-5.
The win gave the Irish basebailers an 19-5 over-all record and a 14-4 record for regular season play. Coach Jake Kline stated that our games against Valparaiso and Northwestern this week should decide whether the Irish will be invited to participate in the NCAA tourney at Omaha. Valparaiso is also' a strong contender for the tourney berth.
Tomorrow the Glenview Naval Air Station ball club visits Cartier Field for their second game of the season against the Irish.
21

Irish Linksfers Place 3rd in Big State Meet; finish Regular Season Play With 12-5 Record
Notre Dame’s golf team finished its regular season with a 12-5 record. The last two losses were incurred at the hands of Indiana and Purdue last Saturday in the Big State golf meet at Bloomington, Ind.
Indiana defeated Purdue and Notre Dame to win their first Big State golf title since 1952. The Hoosiers finished with a 751 total, three strokes ahead of runner-up Indiana’s 754. Notre Dame finished with a 783 aggregate score.
The event was run as a triangular meet, with the low five scores on each team counting in the Big State score. In the dual competition, Indiana and Purdue battled to a 18-all tie. Notre Dame lost to Indiana by a 25/j-lOya score while Purdue was victorious over the Irish delegation, 22-14.
John Konsek, Purdue’s defending Big Ten titlist, was medalist for the day with 72-73-145. Jon Sommer of Indiana was close behind Konsek with a 72-74— 146. Notre Dame’s Budd Zesinger led the Irish with a third place on the strength of an 80-74—154.
The five other golfers who figured in the Irish poinr total were Terry Lally, Ray Patak, Christie Flanagan, Jim Stahl, and Frank Hund. Lally had an 85-71—156. Patak was one stroke behind Lally with an 80-77—157. Flanagan tied Patak at 157 on rounds of 83 and 74.	•
Stahl led the Irish in the morning with a 77 but shot 82 in the afternoon for a 159 total. Hund closed out the
CHRISTY RANAGAN DRIVES ON THIRD HOLE
Junior Irish linkster from Texas leans into a tee shot as Captain Gerry Webster (left) and junior Frank Hund watch admiringly.
Irish scoring for the day with 82-81— 163.
The morning round was a disastrous one for the Nctre Dame golfers as only one man on the squad broke 80. The scores in the afternoon were much better, as Lally, Flanagan, and Zesinger shot rounds of 74 or less, but the large Indiana and Purdue lunchtime advantages proved to be insurmountable.
Purdue is the defending Big Ten champion, and Konsek is the Big Ten individual titleholder. The Boilermakers have lost only one match this year, and that was to Michigan on the rugged University of Michigan course in Ann Arbor where the Big Ten championships are being played today and tomorrow.
The meet was played on the new Indiana University Golf Course which was just built in 1957. The course is laid out over a rolling, wooded area just northeast of the campus. More than 10,000 trees were removed to clear the first fairways alone, and an underground watering system keps both fairways and greens in excellent condition. The greens are some of the largest to be found in the Midwest.
Tiie NCAA tournament is the next tentative event on the Notre Dame golf calendar. The University of Houston will defend its championship on the University of Oregon links in Eugene, Ore. from June 22-27. Purdue, Ohio State, and Michigan from the Big Ten, along with the southern schools, will present Houston with its strongest opposition.
Trackmen Top Indiana To Capture Big State
The Irish outdoor track team won the Big State track championship May 13 as they amassed 93 points, outscoring their closest competitor, Indiana University, by ten points. The victory avenged last year’s meet in which Notre Dame lost to the Hoosiers by three.
Ron Gregory, Mike Morando, Ken Scarborough and Jerry Fitzpatrick were outstanding in the Irish triumph. Gregory, running on a rain soaked track, won the mile with a 4:20.9 time and the two-mile with a 9:18 effort. Fitzpatrick also won two events as he sprinted home with a :09.7 in the 100-yard dash and broad-jumped 23 feet, nine and one-half inches.
Mike Morando won his event with a
record breaking 208-7 javelin toss. Ken Scarborough threw the discus 147 feet, five and one-half inches to win this event. Both were defending champions.
Dan Rorke was the only other first place winner for the Irish, and he won * the 880 in 1:56.3.
Teams who participated in the meet in addition to Notre Dame and IU were Purdue, Wabash, Butler, Hanover, De Pauw, Ball State, Indiana State, Manchester, Indiana Central, Evansville and Rose Poly.
On May 15, the Irish won their only home dual track meet of the outdoor season as they downed Michigan State 74-57. Two meet records were set in the contest.
Fitzpatrick won three events, and Steve Dornbach won two to help Notre Dame take nine of 15 events. Fitzpatrick won the broad jump with a 22-feet, nine inch leap, the 100-yard dash with a :10.1 time and the 220 with a :22.0 time. Dornbach won the 120-yard high hurdles completing the course in 15 seconds flat and the 220 low hurdles in :24.6 seconds.	■
Other Irish winners were Ron Gregory, Dick Monjeau, Mike Morando, and Ken Scarborough. Gregory came out of . the infirmary to win the half-mile with I a 1:52.5 time. Monjeau jumped five j feet, eleven and three-quarters inches to j gain victory in the high jump. Morando | threw the javelin 209-1 to win this event, ’ and Ken Scarborough won the discus I with a 154-foot, two-inch toss.	j
Gregory set both a meet and Cartier 1 Field record with his 1:52.5 half. Bob Lake of-Michigan State ran the mile in 4:13.7 to break the meet record which was set last year by Michigan State’s I Willie Atterbury.	z
Gregory’s time in the half broke a dual meet record that had lasted for nine 1 years at 1:54.3 and the 21-year old Car- A tier Field mark of 1:53.2.
This was the last home appearance for seniors team Captain Dornbach, Moran- ! do, and Marty Clynes top member of the , Irish distance relay teams.	!
The Scholastic
ND Sailors Qualify Two In Pan-American Trials
On Sunday eliminations were held for representatives in the Fin class championships, and for the Pan-American games to be held in Chicago next September. Notre Dame took two of the three berths alloted to its area as Jack Devanney and Joe Boland made apparent their ability as expert sailors.
Last week end Notre Dame, sailing on Lake Mendota at the University of Wisconsin, tied with Wisconsin for first in the area eliminations for the Midwest Championships. Purdue, Marquette, and Washington were the other schools represented.
Skippers Mickey Pavia and Dan Schuster combined their talents to take either first or second in all of the ten races. Jim Kuras crewed for Schuster and Devanney for Pavia in the shifting light airs.
This week end Notre Dame will be , competing against Wisconsin, Purdue, and six other top teams in the Midwest for the Midwest sailing crown. The regatta is being hosted by Ohio State. The top two teams as decided by this regatta will sail at the nationals, this year being held at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island.
TIME OUT
Campus Softball Teams Play for Championship
The Interhall softball championship will be determined today when the winners of the interhall and interclub leagues meet this afternoon for the campus title.
In the three divisions in the club league, the Calumet club won the division one title with a 4-1 record. In the second division, the Cincinnati club went undefeated with a 5-0 record while the Hispano-Americano club won the third division with a 4-0 record.
Badin finished on top of division one in the club league with a 4-1 record. Keenan Blue led division two with a 4-0 record. Farley, the winner of division three, and the fourth division winner, Zahm, also were undefeated in four games.
The baseball championship was played last Wednesday, too late for publication.
j GERITY TOURNEY CANCELLED
The annual Gerity Golf tournament was originally scheduled to be ■ played, starting with qualifying rounds on May 10, has been can-f celled. This announcement was | made by Mr. Napolitano, head of I the intramural athletic program. I Mr. Napolitano said that there I were not enough entries to make the I holding of the tourney possible.
The Gerity Golf Tournament which is usually held sometime in May each year has been cancelled. An insufficient number of entrants is the reason for the cancellation. This is hard to explain in view of the fact that Burke Memorial Golf Course receives steady play each day of the week and is literally jammed with golfers on the week ends. There are probably more active participants in golf than in any other spring sport with the possible exception of softball.
Poor publicity of this year’s tournament plus the inefficient handling of past golf events of this kind at Notre Dame appear to be the two main reasons why the tourney failed so miserably this year. Probably not more' than one-fourth of the potential entrants in the tourney were aware of the date and those who knew about it were likely to have been discouraged from entering by previous experience of the tournament’s disorganization.
LACK OF PUBLICITY
There were no notices published on the hall bulletin boards. There were no “flyers” distributed. There was only a drab, routine-looking, notebooksized announcement tacked up on the bulletin board of the golf shop. The simple reason why there were so few interested golfers is that nobody knew about it.
In the past the Gerity Golf Tournament has been run very informally. Those who wish to participate go out with their friends and shoot a qualifying score which is used as a basis for a handicap. Then the field is divided into flights and the remainder of the tournament is match play.
Basically this is the only feasible way that the event could be handled under the given conditions. There are, however, a few improvements that could be made which would measurably improve the appeal of the tournament.
WRITTEN ENTRIES
First of all, the entries should be received in written form and pairings should be made up for the qualifying round by the tournament committee. Thus players of approximately equal ability could be paired together, collaboration and “sandbagging” among friends would be eliminated, and a limit to the number of entries could be set before the qualifying round.
Secondly, the matches should be played on the week ends at a time specified by the tournament committee. A major problem in past years has been for two contestants to find a time which is suitable to .each of them in which to play their match. Such things as eighteen-hole putting contests have been resorted to in playing off the matches. This type of thing discourages any serious golfer from entering the tournament. Playing on the week ends would virtually eliminate class conflicts which have been the main problem in arranging satisfactory times in the past.
GOOD POTENTIAL
With golf becoming increasingly popular each year, an event such as the Gerity Golf Tournament seems to me to have great potential in the campus sports program. As yet this potential is unrealized but I hope that in the future this tournament will grow to the popularity and importance which it deserves. The sports staff of the Scholastic will make every effort next year to help the Gerity Golf Tournament “make good.”
Ron Gregory continues to have a great year. Last Friday evening he got up out of his bed in the Infirmary with over a one hundred-degree temperature and ran the half-mile in 1:52.5 against Michigan State to break the Notre Dame outdoor and meet records. Gregory, who had been ill with the flu for several days, put on his overcoat and returned to the Infirmary immediately after his record-breaking performance.
The track team has two more events on their calendar, the CCC out-dor Championships iii Milwaukee and the NCAA at Lincoln, Nebraska. Both of these meets are in June when warmer temperatures make possible faster times. Perhaps Ron will lower his present best outdoor time in the mile of 4:11.3. But whatever happens at Milwaukee and Lincoln, Ron has made the track season interesting and exciting. Only a sophomore, he seems a cinch to be the best Notre Dame miler ever. — T. R.
May 22, 1959
Nagel, Miller Presented Current Review Awards
The winners of the 1959 Dean’s Awards have been named by the editorial staff of the Technical Review. They are David Nagel and Robert Miller.
First place award, of $35 for the best article published in the Review during the current school year went to Nagel for his article, “Eye to the Universe,” in the November, 1958, issue. A junior engineering science student, he attends Notre Dame on an NROTC scholarship.
The second prize of $15 was won by Miller, a mechanical engineering major from Milwaukee, Wis., for his article “Free-Piston Engine,” in the March, 1959, issue. He is a member of the A.S.M.E. enginering honor society, and the Milwaukee Club of Notre Dame.
Juggler Staff
(Continued from page 10) Pidgeon, Richard Sampson, and Art Editor Joe McDonnell. The Juggler is privileged to have Professor Frank O’Malley continue as its faculty advisor for next year.
There are a limited number of positions on the Auxiliary Board open for freshmen. Mainly, the duties will consist of typing, publicity, sales, and distribution work, and there will be excellent opportunities for advancement into higher positions in the future. Interested freshmen should write a letter of application to Jim Yoch, 127 Panghorn, stating their background, interests, and qualifications.
College of Commerce Groups Elect Officers; New Activities on Agendo for Next September .
In recent weeks, the various clubs and organizations of the College of Commerce have elected their officers for the coming year. These officers-elect are now in the process of making plans for activities.
Mike Murphy, a junior from Beverly Hills, Cal., president-elect of the Accounting club, has stated a desire to take his organization on tours of local industries and private accounting firms beside their regular field trip. The reason for these tours is the same as the general purpose of the entire Accounting club — getting its members into a professional attitude by supplementing classroom theory with practical applications and study. Another function of this club which follows along the same lines is the auditing of the books of the LaFortune Student Center and student government.
In the past, Accounting club meetings have been headed up by various seniors reading papers they have written. Murphy is interested in getting next year’s juniors to take over some of these meetings. Other officers under Murphy will be: Vice-President Bill Kelly, Teaneck, N. J.; Secretary Joe Shaw, Bloomington, Ill.; and Treasurer John Doren-busch, Middletown, Ohio.
The Marketing club, in its elections, has named Junior' Drew Barton of Cincinnati, as its president. Assisting Barton will be: Tom Mekus of Archbold, Ohio, vice-president in charge of programming; Bob Toland of Chicago, vice
president in charge of publicity; Pat- ? rick J. Crawford of Des Moines, Iowa, < vice-president in charge of membership; Dan McVeigh of Bellerose, N. Y., secretary, and Howard Foley of New | Canaan, Conn., treasurer.	'
To investigate the real-world applications of classroom studies is the avowed „ purpose of the Marketing club. In order j to fulfill this purpose, the club invites guest speakers from industries in the area. This group is most noted for its annual fall sale of green hats, the proceeds of which go to the missions.
The Finance club, with its limited membership of 30, has set its goals on 1 an active and progressive year under t the able leadership of its president, • John Carretta, a junior from Arlington, W. Va. The aim of this club is to ad- i vance the interest of the members in matters pertaining to the field of Fi- r nance. This objective will be pursued by means of the two projects of the 1 club for 1959. First, they will expand • on this year’s successful Finance Forum. Second, the members will contribute their own money to an Investment Fund and will analyze and buy their own securities out of the fund for experience * and profit.
Junior Bill McCormick, vice-presidentelect from Merrick, N. Y., will be heading up a move to initiate a commerce magazine similar to the Tech Review of the College of Engineering. Handling the clerical work for the Finance club will 'be Secretary-Treasurer Mike Feld-meier of Chicago.
AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Labor-Management club will be bringing union and management leaders to the campus next year in order ■ that its members may get a fuller and closer understanding of industrial relations. Terry Conway, a junior from Kansas City, Mo., is the club’s president and will be working with its moderator, Dr. Lyons, to attract these speakers. Other officers of the Labor-Management club will be: Vice-President Ray Hurley <| of Kansas City, Mo.; 'Secretary Bill Lehr of Silver Spring, Md.; and Treasurer ; Peter Boyle of Sharon, Pa.
A Commerce school discussion group, the Commerce Forum, will characterize its ij meeting next year by having its seniors -s deliver papers on general business topics. ■ In this way, the members can share their outlooks on current business situa- W tions in formal discussion as well as 9 on the informal social level.	1
President-elect Bill Phelan of Chicago o will be inviting the applications of Com- M merce students as of next September. Helping Phelan in the administration of the Forum will be: Brian Foley, vice- | president from New Canaan, Conn.; I Clay Smith, recording secretary from | Indianapolis, Ind.; and Mike Dalzell, cor- I responding secretary from Kokomo, Ind. ]
—Ron Bukowski I
The Scholastic I
24
News Briefs
(Continued from page 4) three-year appointments as advisors to the Jacques Maritain Center at Notre Dame. The center is an international clearing house for friends of the French philosopher where all his writings are being catalogued.
. Some of the 31 newly appointed coni suitants are Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., < academic assistant to the president at Notre Dame; Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., head of the University’s philosophy department;
| Mortimer Adler, director of the Institute for Philosophical Research, San Francisco, Calif.; Louis Gardet, Islamologist, Paris, France; James Kritzeck, assistant professor of Oriental studies, Princeton University, r, Princeton, N. J.
I	.
i Francis Lavalie of South Bend and August Verhoff of St. Louis, Mo., have ' been awarded first prize in the St. Louis Section of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences Annual Student Paper Competition.
The winners are both seniors, majoring in aeronautical engineering. They titled their combined effort, “Negative Magnus on - a Smooth Sphere.”
Stepping up to receive the annual award from the Commerce Activities Council was the president of the Finance club, Dan * Cullen. The award is presented each year to the organization that is voted the outstanding club of the Commerce school on the basis of the activities that the club sponsors.
In elections of their own, the Council selected Bill Phelan, an accounting major, as their president. His chief aid will be Vice-president Dave Broecker. The club’s > secretary is Drew Barton and the treasurer is Mike Murphy.
FOR FREE!
Notre Dame’s yearbook, the DOME, will be distributed this Monday in the back of Stanford. As in the past, the book will be passed out from the truck to students who present their IBM cards. Those who did not get their cards earlier may do so on Monday from noon until 5 p.m. in the DOME offices. The offices are located on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center above the Huddle.
^HMWIMNKS CANOE IBM
We ftnrneh wvaiy-nrMV’Y tidnf for a tMRhf vacation in famaa Qottico-Suparior wN-dgHMaa! Aluminum caDOC* CtXDplcSB M—pny outfit* fine food all at low Mly rata. Write today far cwt trip planning kit, map* hats, rataa.
(PA (Sris make canoe trip% tool)
■order takes Ovtfiltfaf P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
"It Isn't' necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them at RUBIN CLEANERS in their SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional
amount.
CALL CE 4-3188 OR STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Cleaners 217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER UNCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS UNE
Rack Pat]*
by W. DENNIS SHAUL
youth at Vienna
The Western World’s struggle against Communism has often been termed the struggle for the minds of men. At first glance, the West’s victory in this struggle might seem both assured and rapid. For to our eyes, it is a clear contest in which the forces of insidious, ruthless, tyrannical government are opposed by the forces of freedom and human dignity. But our very difficulty in this struggle shows that the fight has never seemed such a simple war of black versus white to the rest of the world. In part this is a severe condemnation of our own fervor; in greater part it exemplifies a tragic flaw of the West—its failure to be firmly, passionately devoted to a positive ideology. We tend to "believe that the triumph of right is inevitable, that Communism can be conquered without our working to defeat it.
The Soviet World, on the other hand, has always devoted itself wholeheartedly to its own self-appointed destiny— to conquer the world for Communism. A large part of their effort centers in attempts to convince the youth of the worth of Communism. This summer the Communists are holding their seventh ■“World Youth Festival” in Vienna.
The history of the Festival, its role as a component of Russian propaganda, were described in a previous back page by Mr. Paul Body. Unquestionably, the Festival must be seen as a highly-developed and centrally-controlled program of activities designed by its organizers to present a selective and flattering view of Soviet cultural achievements and policies. Yet, it should not be forgotten that for hundreds of Asians and Africans, the aims of the Festival will not "be so obvious.
The one hundred million dollars spent by the Communists on the Festival indicates their confidence in its usefulness. Moreover, it is a measure of its importance. The Soviets expect an attendance of 15,000. Of these, only about 7,000 are expected to be from Eastern Europe and Communist Asia. Thus over half the Festival participants will "be from non-Communist countries; many from the .neutral nations. .
It is here that the issue becomes quite a real and important one for all American students. It can be universally agreed that it is not possible for American students to attend the Festival in any hopes of influencing the Communists in attendance there. The Communist young people will be carefully chosen f rom among the most loyal party members. Yet, it must be remembered that the Communists will constitute only a part of the total group.
26
The question thus becomes one of what is to be done about the non-Com-munists in attendance at the Festival. Clearly, for* thinking students everywhere in the democratic world the answer is an obvious one. These students from neutral countries should not be left to hear only the Communist side of the story. The democratic viewpoint should be represented and articulated at the Festival.
But, there are other considerations. It should be equally clear that in no way should any sort of approval or sanction be given by American students or American student groups to the Festival itself. Any American student or any student from a democratic country should not attend the Festival in any representative or official capacity, or even as a spokesman of a college or local community organization. Thus it is clear that American students should shun participation in such groups as the United States Festival Committee operation out of New York City and the American Youth Festival Organization operating out of Chicago. We are left then with this position: it is desirable to have American students at the Festival, but not as representatives of any official delegation.
This is the position of the United States Department of State. In an article which appeared in the March 17 issue of the New York Times, William Jordan wrote: “The United States Government is quietly and unofficially encouraging the participation of able and thoroughly prepared American students in the Communist dominated World Youth Festival in Vienna this summer.” The same position has also been voiced by United States Senator Hubert H. Humphrey. Senator Humphrey, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee wrote, “I do not think we can afford to ignore the thousands of young people from all over the world who will be assembled there . . . and it therefore seems very important to me that well-informed, well-briefed, enthusiastic American students be encouraged to attend the event in Vienna in their, individual capacities.” In his statement reprinted in the Congressional Record for March 10, Senator Humphrey stressed that the informal contacts the Festival will provide would be extremely valuable for some American students.
The dangerous aspect to the Festival is simply that so many tourist American students will be in Vienna for some part of the Festival. These ordinary young people who have not taken the time to examine the Festival in a very thorough and highly critical way will
not only hinder the democratic cause at , the Festival, but stand in grave danger of losing their own beliefs. It is a sad but true fact that most American stu- ' dents have not devoted themselves , thoroughly enough to the questions of -the day. Most surely those attending the Youth Festival would have to answer questions on a great range of sub- i jects, explaining our country’s policies I on such things as suspension of bomb tests, recognition of Red China, racial ' integration, our Pakistan policy, the Berlin dispute, and so on nearly ad infinitum.
Despite this, there is a nearly nonchaiant attitude toward the Festival on ! the part of the student traveler. He ‘ treats it as if it were one more attraction on a star-studded, all-European tour. He treats it as if it were the 1959 sequel to the 1958 Brussels Fair. He does not ask himself whether he is capable enough to attend the Festival; ■" with a great surety he answers he is. He fails to realize the gravity of the event and he fails to realize that a few un- ♦ qualified students attending the Festival could undo all the good that a much larger number of capable people could bring about.
It is essential then, that only the exceptional student-traveler attend the j Festival, and it is essential that this exceptional student be most well-informed. It is for this reason that the Independent Service for Information on the Vienna Youth Festival has been established. This group, formed with the backing of such organizations as the Young Republicans and Young Demo- 4 crats, is trying to inform all American q students about the Festival. From its Cambridge, Mass., office it has attempted to channel information to universities across the country. Interested students should write the Service at 323-24 Col- , lege House Offices, Cambridge, Mass.
The challenge offered by the Com- 4 munists at Vienna is a great one. It is 1 an opportunity to use an instrument of 1 Communist propaganda at least par- J tially to our own advantage. But the test is a severe one, and only the most . firmly devoted and best qualified will ~ pass it. It is to be hoped .that when 4 July is over, and the Festival is past, J| the results will show that we have made f< progress in our battle with Communism, g More, it is to be hoped that some American youths will more fully realize the need for their own leadership and train- | ing and the gravity of the struggle in I which we are engaged. Perhaps this is | the most important benefit the Festival | can offer.	f
The Scholastic 1
i
Available at the Notre Dame Bookstore
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
•
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
See: JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St.	JALS. Bldg.
10DM 4aH!d qsajj AMOMS
o|-s*oh*mo^MW*’S
debe ebe bbee □□□□ E1BE 2D0B □□□□□□□□ DEED EBEEBBE (UBBQS EQDBE GED BEBEC EQ □□EEBB □EBB SEES BOTB0 EEE
EEHEE 0BDEEEB BEEC EBEDBECB EEEE BED BEDE EDEE QBE EEBE
tSMSNYXDN
KQDL KROSSWORD No. 25
ACROSS
1. Audio approval 5. Sept, follower 8. Performs
12.	Je t’--
13.	Much-used article
14.	It’s in the middle of everything
15.	With Kools, your throat
17.	Watery surroundings
18.	Squarer 19. Assists 20. Long, long____ 21. Kind of
ribs or minister 23. God (Latin) 25. Bum 26. 2nd-century ascetic, in essence
28. Split Yo-yo 29. He looked homeward, angel
31. Pat is confused 34. A hot time 36. Kools are
Snow--------- 38. Kools give
you a_____, fresher taste
43.	Transportation luxury
44.	Go under, dressed in goggles
45.	Cheese that’s made back-w&rds
46.	River literally in England
47.	Related
48.	What la vie
is en 49. Mumbly gal 50. Dissolve
DOWN
1.	Waterfall
2.	China in France
3.	Not quite glamorous, but oh, boy!
4.	He’d be flowery with a Y
5.	Alter ego (2 words)
6.	A word for Brigitte
7.	Walloper Williams
8.	HI ac you,
9.	Man, those Kools are_______I
10.	Part from the back
11.	They may be loveforOlmedo
16. Filter part of a Kool
19. The good guy
22. Old Boyer movie classic
24. What a Singer does
27. He chaperoned some wild couples
30.	She loves me, she loves me not
31.	Kind of math
32.	Madrid’s great museum, cha-cha
33.	State of exaggeration
35. Hallow____
37. Sprint star Dave_________
39.	Number-one boy
40.	Defense missile
41.	It’s unnoted by 3 monkeys
42.	Flat rate
44. Juicy dope
15
18
20
23
26
31
32
36
43
45
48
39
K©L
12
22
29
37
27
28
34
SWITCH
KGDL
• As cool and dean as a breath of fresh air.
• Finest leaf tobacco...mild refreshing menthol and the world’s most thoroughly tested, filter!
• "With every puff your mouth feels dean, your throat refreshed!
Qmericds Most- 12fefieehing Cgorefe
..ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER!
•1959. Brown A Williamson Tobacco Corp.
AREYOUKODL ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*
i
MEN OF AMERICA
THE RANCH
HANDS
Live-action shots— Saddle Mountains, Wash.
Herding steers across the range
Driving cattle!
Desert sun ablaze!
Takes big pleasure when and where he can... Chesterfield King!
you’ll find a man
This sun-drenched top-tobacco’s
gonna mean...
That you’re smokin’ smoother and
you’re smokin' clean!
MfAemen aria dwr-NOTHING SATISFIES LIKE THE BIG CLEAN TASTE OF TOP-TOBACCO
O Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Pounding leather rounding up the strays!
Top-tobacco, straight Grade-A, Top-tobacco all the way!
Only top-tobacco, full king-size, For big dean taste that satisfies!
EXTRA LENGTH
top-tobacco filter action ... tops in friendly satisfaction!
KING
