

\ : ,/ • '' / • • • • • • • y • • • • • • 

05 news 
God. Country. Notre Dame. 
8 
Andy Gray 
The general election sends numerous Notre Dame grads to Washington, D.C. 

11 culture 14 Bottoms Up: The Evolution ofAlcohol Policy on Campus . 
Jen Wulf 
Notre Dame has undergone quite a few changes over the years with regard to alcohol, but is the policy keeping students safe? 

20 Campus Chatter: Department ofNicotine 
Mike Tresnowski 
Scholastic attempts to get inside the minds of the most exclusive group of rebels at Notre Dame: the smokers. 
23 sports 
2 4 Irish Eyes On: Pat Kvntz 
Malisha Samarasekera 
In a one-on-one interview with the leader of the Irish defense, Kuntz shares how he gets ready each Saturday, as well as some of his more hidden talents. 

26 High Expectations on the Hardwood 
Josh Flynt 
As the weather grows colder, the JACC begins to heat up as both Irish basketball teams enter their seasons highly ranked. 


28 humor 
Midwest or Bust
31 
Malis ha Samarasekera & Jen Wulf 
Two life-long residents of the Midwest cite low costs, friendly culture and phallic corn art in defen;e of their oft-insulted region. 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 1· 


EDNOTES 

LIQUOR? I HARDLY KNOW HER. 
From crowded, sweaty dorm parties to beer pong tournaments at off-campus houses to 3 a.m. at the Linebacker Lounge, it's easy to see that the drinking culture at Notre Dame, like most universities, encapsulates a wide variety of behaviors. For many students, alcohol is a part ofsome of their favorite memories -and/or some of their worst college experiences. Every student faces the decision ofwhether or not to drink, how to manage their consumption and whether or not to do it underage. 
A new movement called the Amethyst Initiative, made up of 134 university presidents from across the nation, is advocating for discussion on lowering the drinking age. Their Web site lists binge drinking and problems stemming from fake IDs as part of their reasoning, along with the following statement: "Adults tinder 21 are deemed capable ofvoting, signing contracts, serving on juries and enlisting in the military, but are told they are not mature enough to have a beer." 
See Associate EditorJen Wulf's cover story, pages 14-19, on the history of alcohol policy at ND to find out why Father Jenkins has declined to join the Amethyst Initiative. The story also addresses alcohol issues especially significant at ND, such as competitive drinking and the effectiveness of counseling sessions at the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. 
OH THE WEATHER OUTSIDE IS FRIGHTFUL ... 
But the rest of our issue is so delightful! Curl up on your futon and learn about broomball, the intramural sport ND students are going crazy for, in sports writer Matt Formica's article on page 23. On page 20, Culture Editor Mike Tresnowski . attempts to infiltrate those mysterious cigarette circles -and goes up in smoke. Our Reviews/Previews section on page 21 is filled with the staff's top picks for elective courses this spring semester, so check it out before you DART. And for a final chuckle, staffwriter Mary Kaminski catches up with campus comedian Joe Kwaczala on page 32. 
Ifyou do venture out into the newly fallen snow, head to the Morris Performing Arts Center downtown. It's actually ranked in the top 100 theatres worldwide, not just in the U.S., as we stated in an article last issue. All the more reason to go take 
in a show! 
Stay warm, 

Jessica Farmwald Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 20 NOVEMBER 2008 



Stay warm this winter with Notre Dame's Own Soup.­Available in the Huddle Mart. 
LE 

NOTRE DAMF FOOD SERVICES
ART 


Eco Enthusiasm Goes Downtown 
Students and residents watch green 
-,:-­
films over lunch in South Bend 
if~::;_· 
Meagan Drapalik 
,, 
··:..;,7(
While Notre Dame students are used to stealing other dorms' recycling, trying to find something that is both edible and locally grown in the dining hall and holding green fashion shows that feature eco-conscious couture, the green craze now seems to be spreading off campus. The first three Thursdays in November, South Bend residents and students gathered during their lunch hour at the Notre Dame Downtown Crossroads Gallery at 217 Michigan St. to watch films featuring current environmental issues. 
In conjunction with Notre Dame's Office of Community Relations and other sponsors, "Downtown South Bend" launched the Downtown Lunch & Learn Eco Film Series in response to the success of this past summer's Eco Fest. Marco Mariani, Downtown South Bend's executive director, spearheaded the event and hopes that the film series will continue the organization's commitment to community activism and advocacy. "We want to be an advocate for not just working in a green way but actively living green lifestyles," iVIariani says. 
Mariani also sees the series as a way to encourage the business community of South Bend to interact, support their city and learn something at the same time. With this audience in mind, Mariani chose three short films he felt would most strongly appeal to the environmental concerns ofthe South Bend community, and he credits Eco Fest sponsor Dean Bergeman for providing the films and helping to hatch the idea. The first film, "Six Degrees: Could Change the World," was shown on November 6. 
"Human Footprint," the second film ofthe series, drew a diverse and casual audience. Business people eating their lunch, retirees taking an afternoon break and even a local Jimmy John's employee gathered at' the coffee tables in the small Crossroads Gallery on Nov. 13. 
The film follows the life and consumption of two people from infancy through retirement, analyzihg and physically representing the many foods and products each individual consumes in a lifetime. For example, the narrator stacked up a mountain of the 3,796 diapers that the average baby will use, which paled in comparison to the 1,423 chickens most non-vegans will eat in a lifetime. The 43,371 cans of soda and 13,248 beers the average person drinks may force many to reconsider their beverage choices. 
At the conclusion of the film, Mariani reminded the audience of the final film, "The 11th Hour,"which screened at noon on Nov. 20, then invited the viewers to reflect on what they had seen, which he says he feels is the most important aspect of the series. "Iftwo people have a conversation about an idea related to something green, and it starts here, then that's great," he says. 0 

People complaining about snow in November 
Did you not understand you would 

1--= 
be attending school in South Bend? 
I__ 
,_ -=== 


==~ =-== 
·---­
•
,-­
The debate over the newWhite House pet 
We know dogs are cute and all, but does anyone really care? 
"The Dark Knight" this weekend 
For once, we actually want to see a SUB movie. 
Current lack of campus controversy 
·= 
We eagerly await the arrival of "The
'=--~ 
Vagina Monologues." 
6 ISCHOLASTIC I20 NOVEMBER 2008 
Re-establishing the Navy winning streak 
One down, 42 to go. 



The End of TCEs 
Online C/Fs replace old pen and paper method 
Amber Travis 
Sophomore Jasmin Simmons is one of many students who is happy to hear that she no longer has to fill out Teacher Course Evaluation (TCE) forms at the end of the semester. This semester, the new Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) system will allow students to give feedback online and in the privacy of their own rooms. "I think it's a better idea, because in the past we've had to fill out TCEs at the end of class, and students are rushing to get to their next classes," Simmons says. Many students did not have the opportunity to give the evaluations the proper time they deserve. Dr. Mark Gunty, assistant director of Institutional Research, says this new program, which was approved in April by the Academic Council and goes into effect approximately 10 days before the end of the semester, is different from the pi:evious TCE format. "This is not just TCE online. This is the development of a new system," he says. The results from student feedback will be available for each course on the class search tab, which has neverbeen done before with TCEs. Gunty also says the best thing about the progpm, which consists ofa series ofmultiple choice and written questions, is that it provides greater flexibility for each student to complete the online form. Some students anticipate that they will prefer ·crF over other online feedback applications, such as ndtoday.com. "It seems a lot easier to access· the results and information, because when I look for classes, it will be right there," Simmons says. · Gunty says the results from this semester's CIF will be available to all students, but this will eventually change to exclude those who do not complete the online form for future semesters. "Ifyou're part of the data, you'll be able to see the results," he says. 







The Cost of Living Off-Campus 
Scholastic compares apartment prices 
Molly Kring 
For those of you making the switch from on to off-campus living next year, this guide is for you. Scholastic has done the research on the.. prices of popular student apartment complexes so you do not end up living in a cardboard box. Consider it an early Christmas present. The graph below displays the projected monthly rent for the Fall 2009 semester of two bedroom, one bathroom apartments. Note that in some cases, rent does not include all utilities, so overall prices may differ from those shown. 
-
~i-u; .-.! ' 
---.. --. i 
t u ;­



Excuses at ResLife 

"I thought I left my pants in her room." 
"It just seemed like very holy
~ 
water."
6t:7J "I went to Catholic school! I didn't know what we were doing." 


"No, seriously, it was just the Spicy Sea Nuggets." 

"Did you know my last name is CoMo?" 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 7­



NEWS 
Department ofHomeland Security, he comes in with an agenda," Arnold, who has spoken with Roemer about security in more recent years, says. This agenda is likely to include cleaning up things he says he believes the.. Bush administration did incorrectly. Though he was integral in the conception of a cabinet post for Homeland Security, he eventually voted against the formation of the office as President Bush wanted it due to the potential for bureaucratic inefficiency. 
Roemer would also likely seek to implement the lessons learned from the doctoral work he did at Notre Dame, Arnold says. His dissertation concerned retirement and public personnel policy, and his investigation showed that retirees from the executive branch were leaving early and not being equivalently replaced by young public servants. Roemer may also attempt to do work alongside his national security agenda to make service through the government more attractive to young men and women. 
Of course, Roemer is not the only public servant or policymaker with Notre Dame ties. The Congressman from Indiana's 2nd District, which includes South Bend, is Democrat Joe Donnelly. Donnelly is twice a Notre Dame graduate, earning both a B.A. in government in 1977 and a J.D. from the Notre Dame Law School in 1981. 
Donnelly was elected to a second term as Representative of Indiana's 2nd District this November, defeating Republican Luke Puckett with over 67 percent of the vote. Donnelly espouses a pro-life view and is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a Democratic group of Congress members dedicated to moderate policy, fiscal responsibility and strong national defense. 
"It has never been about Democrats or Republicans. It's about doing what is right for families here in Indiana and across the ·country," Donnelly told his supporters after he was reelected. 
Joining Donnelly in Congressional representation for Indiana is fellow Democrat Peter Visclosky of the 1st District and Republican Mark Souder of the 3rd District. Visclosky, who earned his law degree from Notre Dame in 1973, took his 12th term by winning 71 percent of the vote. Souder, with an MBA from Notre Dame, is now in his eighth term in the House of Representatives, and his fourth as the Congressman from the 3rd District, which was redrawn in 2003. 
Other Notre Dame alumni in Congress include Republicans Peter King ofNew York and Dan Lungren of California. 
The future of this university's presence in government looks bright as well. Soon to join the ranks of these Notre Dame graduates in public service may be Tom Pappas. 
Pappas, a junior from Siegfried, allowed Scholastic to trail his campaign in the Democratic primaries for a seat in Indiana's State House of Representatives in April of 2008. Reflecting on the experience, which ended in a loss but with approximately 40 percent of the vote of his district, Pappas says he learned quite a bit from his campaign. "Grassroots works!" he says. "And campaigning that way is fun. You get to talk to people about how you can help them and discuss policy with all kinds ofvoters." 
The importance of Roemer's. bid for a cabinet seat is not lost on Pappas either. 
"He's a very inspirational figure for young politicians, especially from Indiana," Pappas says. "How well he did here, and how far he's ­going, it definitely helps my confidence." 
The junior hopes to run for Congress or governorship some day -in his words, "However I can best serve Indiana and the country." 
And maybe, on that day, Tom Pappas will inspire another young Notre Dame student with designs on public service to try his or her luck. As Pappas says, "It would be nice -I'd be in good company." 0 

20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 9 . 

Futures & Options 
The game changes for graduating seniors 
Kate Zinsmeister 
For those ofus who have yet to invest our life's savings in a plunging stock market, or for people who don't quite know what, "The Dow dropped another 400 points" means, there is another kind of worry perpetuated by the recent economic meltdown that, unfortunately, everyone can understand: Will I have a job when I graduate? 
Though senior finance major John Watkins does have a job lined up, he understands how dire the situation is for many of his peers. "How can you be hiring people right out of college when you're cutting thousands and thousands of other workers?" he says. Watkins attributes his success to his many semesters ofwork in Notre Dame's Student International Business Council and to his summer internship at Fidelity, where he will be working post-graduation. 
Lee Svete, director of ND's Career Center, says that seniors who completed internships before the economy collapsed are generally receiving offers, but those who did not are struggling. And, according to Svete, even those students who did receive offers are not guaranteed a position come graduation time. "We continue to monitor to make sure that those students are taken care of. One might think that a company can't rescind an offer, but [sometimes], Hke at Lehman Brothers, there is no company," he says. 
The Career Center has implemented several new strategies in response to the shaky job market. Svete and his colleagues recently sent an e-mail to 24,000 alumni, asking them to make sure their companies were aware of Notre Dame's career fair and to help identify open positions. The Career Center is also prepared to shift the interviewing process to the Internet, phone and even Skype and webcam, as travel budgets tighten. 
Svete has also noticed a change in how students are approaching their job search. "Students are not restricting themselves geographically; they're looking at smaller to medium-sized organizations where you're not seeing the big layoffs," he says. Senior economics and political science major Claire Hutchinson said that she would love to work in Chicago but realizes that she may have to make some sacrifices in the tough job market. 
Even students who do have jobs lined up have had to make compromises. Senior English major and theology minor Molly Palmersheim's summer internship at Target turned into a job offer that she has accepted, but she also hopes to go to law school one day. "I think that my decision to take time off before law school was·· definitely influenced by the economic crisis. Having this outstanding offer with such a good company, it didn't really make sense for me to not take it now." 
But, as they say, there might be a silver lining amidst all of the uncertainty. Many Notre Dame students are taking this opportunity to give, rather than accept. "We've seen a huge increase in Teach for America applications. Peace Corps applications are up. And our volunteer service fair was well-attended," Svete says. 
And for those who are determined not to let the economic crisis affect their career plans, Svete does offer hope to Notre Dame students. "I'm optimistic that our grads will be successful. They're among the best and brightest in the country. Their integrity and ethics continue to rise to the top. They're career-flexible. And they're 
resilient." 



COVER STORY 
In the 1950s, students could. get expelled ­from Notre Dame for getting caught with a case of beer. In 1977, the junior class held a 30-keg party on what is now known as DeBartolo Quad. And today? Notre Dame's alcohol policy has undergone a winding evolution and is certainly more moderate than in the days ofyore. But is the policy effective in keeping students safe? On other college campuses, it seems that this is not the case. Overall, alcohol consumption among college students has declined fairly steadily over the years, but incidents of dangerous intoxication have actually increased. According to Monitoring the Future, an ongoing survey ofyoung adults conducted by the University of Michigan Research Center, 94.3 percent of college students had used alcohol in their lifetime in 1980. By 2004 this percentage dropped to 84.6. But according to a 2008 Time article, 
"Should You Drink vVith Your Kids?" more college students are blacking out and injuring themselves while intoxicated. Citing Henry Wechsler of the Harvard School of Public Health, John Cloud writes that in the 1940s, 18 percent of college students who drink said that they have forgotten where they were or what they did at least once. Today, 26 percent of college students nationwide say that they have blacked out. In the 1940s, six percent of college students suffered an accident or injury because of alcohol. Today the figure stands at 13 percent. 
The times they are a'changing, and so is Notre Dame. Here is a look at where we've been and where we are now. 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 15. 

1
COVER STORY 
The Good Ole' Days 
According to "Student alcohol use a concern since ND's early days," a 2002 article from the South Bend Tribu11e, in the 1800s, Rev. Edward Sorin put his foot down against hard alcohol; however, he turned a blind eye towards beer consumption on campus. The same article says that in 1881 Rev. Thomas \-Valsh, a prohibitionist, began a more heavy­handed regime with regard to alcohol. It wasn't until the late 1960s that students could have alcohol in the residence halls. Students made up for lost time, though, and according to the article, "in the early 1980s, alcohol flowed unchecked in the residence hall common rooms on weekends." 
The check came in 1984 when the university banned kegs in residence halls, and again in 2002 when dorm dances (SYRs) were moved out of the dorms and hard alcohol was banned. 
The keg ban incited "near-riot conditions" according to an April 19, 1984 issue of The Observe1: Current Assistant Director of News and Information Michael Garvey was in the Main Building when almost 2,000 students stormed the Dome in protest. "What I most vividly remember about that day was how very frightening it was," he says. "I remember seeing the ceiling and watching it ripple and thinking, 'Oh my Lord, we're going to have one of those terrible indoor accidents."' 
Class President Pat Flynn ('78) attended the 30-kegger party on DeBartolo Quad in 1977. "We didn't do anything stupid; we were just having fun," he says. Flynn and his wife owned eight student rental houses in South Bend in the mid-1980s, and he said that he saw hard alcohol replace the kegs ofyesteryear. "I noticed then that things had changed a little bit. People were out to get hammered rather than have fun," Flynn says. 
Hard alcohol's days, however, were also numbered, and in 2002 the administration banned it from residence halls. Fr. James Lewis, rector of Carroll Hall and assessment counselor for the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (OADE), was on campus during the 2002 ban. "As you might expect, there was great resistance. There was a sense among students that the policy was unjust, but those complaints never seemed to address the concern for student safety that was articulated by Student Affairs," Lewis says. 
Associate Vice President for Residence Life William Kirk says, "I think [the ban] certainly has had an effect in terms of reducing the number [of hospital visits]. Is it perfect? No. 
16 J SCHOLASTIC J 20 NOVEMBER 2008 
I mean, there's still hard alcohol, I would venture to guess, in every hall on this campus, but I think that there is a hope and intention that by having a prohibition on it that there is some recognition among our students that can cause them some relative good," Kirk says. 
Junior Mikey Moses says that students now often resort to hard alcohol as a matter of convenience rather than preference. "I live off campus now, but when I was on campus, ifyou want to drink you have to get your booze [ ...] on the campus. Getting a case onto campus, you can do that, you get a couple backpacks, and it's fine. But getting more than that, you're going to need a lot of people and a lot of effort and a lot of backpacks ... So it's a hell of a lot easier to go get a fifth or a handle and bring that on," Moses says. 
Ambulance runs slowed dramatically in the year after hard alcohol was banned and dances were moved out of the residence halls. In 2001, 25 students were taken to the hospital for alcohol poisoning in the first eight weeks of school. In 2002, only eight students went to the hospital in the same time frame. Despite improved safety on campus, however, many students feel that administrators have unrealistic expectations of students. 

Alcohol Education and Punishment Evasion 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (OADE) was founded in 1989 to educate students about responsible alcohol consumption. It is fairly unique to Notre Dame -most other colleges send students to campus counseling centers -and has been a prominent feature of Notre Dame's ~lcohol landscape for the past 19 years. 
Vice President Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., says the OADE was an important step in developing alcohol policy. "First, we wanted to provide better education to students about. alcohol and alcohol abuse. The subsequent investment in the staffing and programs of [OADE] has been an important step in the right direction toward meeting this goal. [ ...] OADE, the University Counseling Center and University Health Services established and enhanced their cooperative efforts to assist students who need resources for in­patient and out-patient assessment, treatment and recovery programs," he says. 
Somestudents,however,havemixedfeelings about the OADE's effectiveness. Moses' rector recommended alcohol counseling after Moses was sent to the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ResLife) his freshman year. "I think 
it was mainly a good face gesture to make to ResLife," Moses says about his motivation for going voluntarily. He attended about three sessions but did not find them very helpful. "There was this odd sanctimoniousness that is really well-intentioned, but is just strangely 
out of touch." 
Men who consume more than five drinks 
and women who consume more than four 
per occasion are considered binge drinkers 
by the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse 
and Alcoholism. Moses says he thinks the 
definition is idealistic. "It was so unrealistic. 
If I remember correctly, it was something 
to the· effect of: I said I had been drunk like 
twice before that, and [OADE] told me I was 
showing signs of having a drinking problem, 
just from me saying that. There seems to be a 
disconnect between the definitions that they 
had and what reality actually seems to be," 
Moses says. 
Lewis says that he thinks the definition 
of binge drinking was "absolutely" realistic. "First of all, I think it's imprudent to be underage and drink. Of course that would not be a popular perspective among students. On the other hand, to normalize high risk behavior is common on college campuses. But in no way am I or Hall Staff or the university, or, as I think we're learning, law enforcement, going to enable what is often normalized among students," he says. 
Regardless of whether the OADE's 
expectations are reasonable, some students 
say they .do not find counseling there very 
effective. Kristen* had to go to alcohol 
counseling after she was taken to the 
hospital during a dorm dance. She lied on 
her assessment and was placed in a level-one 
group meeting that she only had to attend 
once. She also does not think that reporting 
inaccurate responses on an assessment is 
uncommon among other students. "I lied like 
crnzy," Moses says. "And despite that, I still 
faiied it miserably, which makes me question 
how realistic the assessment is in terms of 
qualifying people." 
Those who cheat on the assessment may 
not be as sneaky as they think. Assistant 
Director of Student Assistance Annie Eaton, 
a counselor at the OADE, says she realizes 
that students are not very open during the 
assessment part of the process. "When they 
do their screening, not so much, but once 
we're in the group where it's okay to talk 
about that kind of stuff, they do [open up]," 
she says. "I have been pretty surprised to see 
how-forthcoming some of them have been at 
times in the.group." 
Moses agrees that group sessions were more· 
•name /las been changed to protect identity 
candid, but the reason why may not be what the OADE expects. "In the group discussion I think people were typically honest," Moses says. "I think that kind of came from the fact that none of us were taking it all that seriously, and some people had some pretty ridiculous stories to tell." Kristen had a similar experience. "You share your stories and they just give you a bunch of facts about alcohol which you already 
know," she says. 
Despite their frustration, all three students 
interviewed said that they had positive 
impressions of their counselors. "So we're 
here and we think this is kind of absurd, but 
the moderator is really well-intentioned and a 
really nice guy. And so at least my impression 
was that I wanted to show him some respect by 
doing what he was asking us to do because he 
was such a nice guy who really thought that he 
was doing something very important," Moses 
says. 
Actual impact on students' drinking habits 
is debatable. Kristen has not been in trouble 
for alcohol since her first visit to the OADE, 
but she says that this is because her initial 
experience was an isolated incident and not 
because her counseling session had any lasting 
impact on her. "I think they don't really educate 
you about alcohol, they just tell you not to do it. 
I think it would have been different if! maybe 
had to go to more classes, but I only had to go 
to one," she says. 
If she had told the truth on the assessment, 
however, she probably would have had to 
attend more sessions. The lack ofimpact seems 
attributable to both the OADE and students' 
approach to counseling. Some students in the 
top tier of treatment, level three, found the 
OADE's counseling services more helpful. 
Junior Kevin Donahue says, "So what's wrong 
with level two that people are still going to 
level three? Clearly it's not working, or people 
aren't changing." 
Donahue was originally placed in level-two 
counseling, but due to scheduling conflicts, 
attended the meetings for level-three 
counseling instead. He said that counseling has 
had a positive impact onhis drinking habits, and 
he has attended counseling sessiqns every week 
this semester with one exception. Interestingly, 
the weekend after he missed a session he was 
arrested at the Purdue football game for public 
intoxication and minor consumption. 
Donahue says he thinks that the upper-level 
group's approach is starkly different from levels 
one and two's counseling. "The· group focuses 
on making safe decisions about drinking. It's 
much more free-flowing and accepting; it's 
a little more realistic. We have two drinking 
rules. Rule number one -don't black out, and 
'' 
.-/.\ 

_._··:<:)} 
:., 
--I, i .,__,,._ ,. -.-,•.,~. -.W..E9;~-hl ,-,... ,.i 
_-~ '.,.:: ';'.-,,,:·. ',:t ~ ···\J.:·:?:?.\'~-.{i"~-:;:~/-~: ~-: ·:;-_::.. ){:~.:·~) J:t~:;:·:·:_ ·::'? ~--~-~:: !,: ·-~--~1 




t~• •. ..-:$:?t..rnat--'triey{_. 





go together because it's kind of hard to black out on beer," he says. "The nickname for the group is the 'get your s---together' group. It's time for many of us, myself included, to get our s---together." 
Although unable to obtain statistics on how many students are sent back to the OADE after initial counseling sessions required by ResLife, Eaton says that she sees some students return. "I can pretty much tell when I see a student whether or not I'm going to see them again down the road based on where their thinking is about it," she says. For some students, Eaton says, "They're going to have to get !n trouble a couple more times before the light goes on." 
Senior Andy Bulso is a member of Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning, and F,.esponsible Socializing (PILLARS), a peer advocacy group that is rooted in the OADE. He too understands the difficulty in immediate change and thinks that this makes education initiatives more, and not less, necessary. 
"Ultimately, I don't know how effective any sort ofargument with words is going to be on somebody's behavior," Bulso says. "People are going to have to figure it out for themselves sometimes. That's why a lot of our focus is on peer education." 
Women At Risk 
Generally speaking, women cannot 
common knowledge, yet dangerous drinking 
seems to be even more prevalent among 
Notre Dame women than men. In 2002, 
26 Notre Dame women were taken to the 
hospital for alcohol poisoning as opposed to 
17 men. Lewis says that men can consume 
roughly two drinks for every one drjnk a 
female consumes. 
Eaton, who leads a women's support 
group at the OADE, says that trends show 
that women who are athletes or are in male­
dominated majors are more susceptible to 
dangerous drinking. "Ifwomen are going to 
perform in a man's world then they should be 
able to kind of keep up and I don't think guys 
even stop to think. Especially sometimes I 
have girls express they may be the only female 
with 40 other male interns and so there isn't 
any kind of time out that the drinking should 
be any different for them," she says. 
"\Vomen in business majors tend more 
towards dangerous drinking. Eaton says that 
they often feel pressure to drink as much 
as males because they are in the minority 
and because of the competitiveness of their 
major. This competitiveness is also a factor in 
drinking problems among female athletes. 
"I run the women and alcohol groups here, and especially with our women who are athletes, they talk about that piece, that competitive nature does fit into it. And I think just the whole equality piece of women today -women tend to have to speak up more and 
encouraging them to compete with men when 
they're out there," Eaton says. 
In "Campuses on a Binge," a 2002 South 
Bend Tribune article, reporter Margaret 
Fosmoe found that ResLife saw a 31-percent 
increase in female referrals between 1996 
and 2002. 
The director of Drug and Alcohol 
Education at the time, Gina Firth, speculated 
in the article that the "traditionally m_ale 
environment" at Notre Dame encouraged 
females to compete with males both in and 
out of the classroom. 
Eaton says that even dorm life seems to be 
a different experience for men and women. "Yeah, I think there still is the 'boys will be boys' attitude and girls are kind of supposed to be young ladies, and there is definitely different kinds of expectations within dorm life and in how the policies are enforced," 
she says. 
Pasquerilla East rector Breyan Tornifolio 
attributes this difference to the distinct party 
atmospheres of men's and women's dorms. "I 
think that if my women here were to have a 
party that we may have ten, twelve people 
here; that's a manageable number. Ifyou go 
to a male hall their number may be 35 people. 
For two R.A.s to walk into a room of35 people, 
there are probably going to be different ways 
of how you're going to approach it than ifyou 
were to walk into a party of eight people," she 
says. 



COVER STORY 
Today 
The drinking culture on campus these 
days is characterized by Notre Dame's 
peculiarities. For example, dorm parties are;! 
unheard of at most state schools, but are 
common on this campus where residence halls 
take the place of fraternities and sororities for 
camaraderie. Notre Dame also has the added 
pressure ofbeing a major representative ofthe 
Catholic Church. And, as mentioned above, 
Notre Dame's beginnings as an all-male 
university and the inherent competitiveness 
of its students can affect students' decisions 
regarding alcohol. 
Although Lewis is an assessment counselor 
for the OADE, he says, "First and foremost 
I'~ a rector." Unlike many college campuses 
in Indiana, alcohol is allowed in residence 
halls that house minors as long as it is in the 
possession of students over 21. Purdue does 
not allow alcohol on campus at all. So why are 
Notre Dame's policies more lenient? 
"I don't make policy. As an observer, I would 
say that first ofall college is an age-appropriate 
time to learn how to drink, but that does not 
circumvent the law that says you must be 21 
years old," Lewis says. "Second, from a Hall 
Staff perspective, to turn dorms into non­
alcohol communities would really shift a lot 
of the focus of rectors, assistant rectors and 
[resident assistants]. I think that would tend 
to erode the more pastoral dimension of our 
service." 
According to "Corking It," a 1992 article 
from the National Catholic Registe1; Catholic 
universities face special challenges with 
alcohol. Robert Chapman, coordinator of the 
Alcohol and Other Drug Program at LaSalle 
University at the time, says, "Catholics are at 
a higher risk of problems than other ethnic 
groups because we tend not only to be heavy 
drinkers, but understanding of and accepting 
of intoxicated behavior. There's an old joke, 'Show me four Catholics, and I'll show you a fifth.'" In the same article, ND's Garvey said, "Catholic colleges and universities have the 
advantage that they're able to address alcohol 
consumption as a moral issue. 'iV-e can affirm 
there's a moral dimension to behavior." 
Director of the Office of Alcohol and 
Drug Education Christine Nowak also cites 
students' intensity as a factor in the alcohol 
culture at Notre Dame. "It would carry over 
to lots ofthings. Itwould be drinking, it would 
be hall SYRs. I think just about anything that 
students do, they do it all or nothing," she 
says. 
Kirk, however, thinks that this intensity and, more specifically, the well-roundedness that often characterizes ND students, could actuaUy work to students' advantage. "I think that Notre Dame students probably need [alcohol] less than most students because they are so well-rounded and they have the ability to make great contributions in their community and in their residence halls. It's unfortunate, but it's a fact oflife. I'm a realist; I understand the role that alcohol plays in a college student's life," he says. 
Also important are both the measures the university is taking and those they are not. Rev. John Jenkins, C.S.C., announced in early October that he "appointed an ad hoc committee to review the on-campus safety, security and hospitality protocols and practices for football weekends." 
Jenkins has declined to join the Amethyst Initiative, a movement that is promoting discussion on college campuses about the lowering of the national drinking age. Approximately 100 college presidents have joined the initiative, including those from Duke, Dartmouth and Ohio State, saying that "current laws actually encourage dangerous binge drinking on campus," according to an article from the Chicago Tribune. In the same article, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) CEO Chuck Hurley, says, "Nearly all peer-reviewed studies looking at the change showed that raising the drinking age reduced drunk­driving deaths." This could be a factor in Jenkins' decision. 

Conclusion 
Evolution never stops. In nature, it is completely random, and the changes that happen to work are retained -those that do not fade out. Though the varying attitudes toward alcohol on campus are certainly not random, they do seem to follow the pattern of evolution in that they must constantly be adjusted, and they may never reach a definitive conclusion. According to Kirk, alcohol has always been an issue on college campuses and, especially on a campus such as Notre Dame's, it will be difficult to ever say that the problem has been resolved. 
"Certainly the statistics are helpful in trying to identify policies and procedures for dealing with it and certainly we want to be to some degree data-driven in this," he says. 
"But I think that ~specially on a campus like ours, where we care about each and every individual, if we've got one student having a difficulty with it we've got a problem." 0 
Tilt headle--zf-9,fintain airway. Tuck nea:festjiland under 
cheek _to~aintain 
headt1lt.~ 
Check adher often. 
www.drug-re~bs.org/alcohol­poisoning.htm 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 19 

Tips on how to help someone who has alcohol poisoning 


Follow these steps to perform "The Bacchus Maneuver" 
Raise the~e~=rson's closest arm above , is/her head. 
f

Prepare to ~©II him/her towards yoilil. 


Gently rq,'9) unit. Guard 
h~s/her he.~~~tas you roll him/her.-~

t/k-czy:;::J 









Campus Chat:t:er 
DEPARTMENT OF NICOTINE 
It's one thing to try a cigarette from time to time. Maybe you'll borrow one from a friend outside a party or at a bar. After all, it's tough to resist all the curiosity that builds up after being subjected to 20 years of anti-smoking campaigns. And who hasn't watched an old private detective film and thought, "Hey, smoking might be kinda cool'-'? 
But it's another thing altogether to actually become a smoker. To earn that title, you smoke on the way to and from class. You smoke outside DeBartolo waiting for your next class. You perch on the steps of Riley, staring at the passers-by. When it drops below freezing and blizzards fall upon South Bend, you still post up outside your dorm, puffing away. 
The group of smokers at Notre Dame is not all that easy to i_nfiltrate. They tend to gather in small groups, and their kind is increasingly rare. Just last week, the U.S. smoking rate dropped below 20 percent for the first time in history. The percentages on campus are even smaller. But in the spirit of journalism, I did my best to get into the mindset of these rare Notre Dame characters. 
I find my first group meeting of smokers at the back corner of my dorm, Keenan Hall. At least one of them hangs out back there most hours of the day, ironically standing next to the building that houses Health Services. The only form of landscaping back here is the pile of cigarette butts that line the walkway. I stroll up with my very best l\1arlboro Man swagger and casually say, "Yo, can I bum a smoke?" I think that's the right thing to say. One of them offers me one and flips open his Zippo lighter. I take a few puffs and study the way the others hold their cigarettes. Let your arm casually dangle to the side with the cig between two fingers. Despite my best impression, however, it's not long before they identify me as a poser. One of them calls me out, saying, "You're not even inhaling, are you?" I cough a few times and respond with a nervous chuckle, thinking, "Thi~ might take some work." 
After this initial embarrassment, I decide to see how your average Domer reacts to the sight of a smoker by accompanying one of Keenan's smokers, junior Phil Marshall, as he walks to class. As Phil lights up, a few students along the quad shoot him a demeani'ng stare. Phil tells me along the way that it's not unusual to hear people let out a few coughs as they pass him by. He even claims people have lectured him on the quad about his bad habit. No incidents occur on this particular occasion, but it makes me wonder: Why would anybody choose to smoke on a campus that could hardly be called smoker-friendly? 
I set out on a two-hour fact-finding mission in the midst of the first big snow of the winter season, hoping to ask a smoker why they do what they do. I am disappointed to find smokers aren't sitting around waiting to explain their craft to eager young journalists. One smoker tells me, "I'm sorry, I don't speak English very well," in very clear English when I ask him for an interview. Other smokers blow by me on their way across South Quad with headphones on. One professor has his eyes glued in a book as he smokes a pipe on the way to the library. My failure to find a direct answer is frustrating, but what did I expect? Children learn that smoking is bad before they even learn their ABCs. New smoking bans are rolled out constantly. In effect, the decision to smoke is increasingly a private decision. Why would somebody want to blab about it to me? 
-Mike Tresnowski 
The views of this author are not necessm·ily the views of Scholastic J\!Iagazine. 

POSER. IT'S NOT EVEN LIT, IS IT? 
* 
z 
0 
w 
_J 
w 
Cl 
w 
z 
w 
~ 
:a >­
(D 
z 
0 
~ 
Ck'. 
lii 
3 
:! 


CULTURE 
REVIEWS&PREVIEWS 
BIOS10107: Ecology Professor Kenneth Filchak 
Jen Wulf 
Though he shows no mercy to dozing or chatting students, Professor 
Filchak is an engaging and provocative professor who will challenge 
[ everything you thought you knew about human nature. Do not let the name of the course mislead you -you will not have to wade through 
j 
classifications of deciduous trees. Instead, you will read "The Red Queen," a book that argues that human nature is a product of evolution. Ifyou think this might throw you into an existential tailspin, don't take this class. Or, even better, do take this class and go to Filchak's office hours. He's an interesting guy, and he understands that many students struggle with his class on an academic and personal level. Ifyou're up for the challenge and don't mind severe awkwardness as 150 freshmen attempt to maturely discuss sex, you're in for a treat. 0 
MATH10360: Calculus B Professor Chong Keat Lim 
Caitlin Wilson 
Even the sleepiest students get out of bed for this 9:30 a.m. calculus course. Lim's exuberant energy fills the classroom as he jumps around, checking to ensure that everyone, from those in the 
· front row to those in the last three rows of"Siberia," understands the lesson. While he insists that reciting "I love math!" each morning helps students learn, he also welcomes students to his office hours for extra help. By combining humor with careful explanation, Lim makes this required class interesting and informative. .0 
THE020828: Christianity & World Religions Professor Brad Malkovsky 
Molly Kring 
The first day of my Christianity and World Religions class, there were students sitting on the floor because the available chairs could not seat all the students who wanted to enroll. This is not your typical theology class. Malkovsky begins each class with 10 minutes of meditation and finishes with a hilarious anecdote of his time living in India. Malkovsky takes a refreshing approach to theology, one filled with personal insight into what it means to be a Christian in today's global world. He is not afraid to cross the line between life 
insight and scholarly criticism. This class teaches students about the major world religions and challenges them to analyze their own faith in light ofthese other religious traditions. 0 


SOC20732: Introduction to Criminology Professor -Curt Sobolewski 
Maddy Zollo 
., 
Serial killers, prostitutes a_nd gangs are only a sampling of the topics discussed in Introduction to Criminology. Sobolewski's entertaining lecture style makes learning about criminals and criminal beha~or seem more fun than it should be. During each unit, there are plenty of movie days set aside to highlight the theories and subjects covered. 0 

ARST21401: Photo I (Teachers vary, may be a grad student) 
Juliana Hoffelder 
Photo I challenges students to master the basics of fine art photography. Students begin the semester using a 35mm camera for black and white images then proceed to a digital SLR camera. Printing materials must be purchased by the student and can be expensive. Cameras and equipment, however, can be checked out from the Art Department. While class is three hours long, some days are set aside as work days. Projects normally require time spent outside ofclass and are subject to class critique. Photo I will dare you to think creatively beyond the expectations of your usual course load. Just warn your roommates that they may be the subjects of multiple photo shoots: 0 
ANTH10Io4: Introduction to Anthropology Professor James McKenna· 
Jessica Farmwald 
Professor McKenna turns what could be a snoozer class on the evolution of man, primate studies and socio-cultural behavior into an exciting, life-changing experience. He is incredibly passionate and down-to-earth, despite his plethora of awards and honors. Special treats of the course include McKenna's groundbreaking research on mother-infant co-sleeping, videos on monkey sex and anecdotes from his undergrad years at the University of California, Berkeley. The class is fairly easy in terms of workload and grades, but it will challenge you to think about_ h~mans in a new light. 0 



PIDL20415: Morality & Modernity Professor David Solomon 
Courtney Ball 
Focusing on Notre Dame professor Alasdair Mac!ntyre's work "After Virtue,'' this course invites you to imagine yo:urself ina world in which a catastrophe has erased our collection ofscientific knowledge, leaving just incomprehensible fragments. While this scenario is reminiscent of bad science :fiction, the class insists modern society is in a similar predicament. The course will attempt to convince you of the shocking claim that the modern world faces precisely this crisis with a fractured and nonsensical moral vocabulary. Though the courses is taught in the impersonal, large lecture style of the Introduction classes, the material is absorbing enough to keep even the back row awake. 0 
ENGL30101: Intro to Literary Studies Professor Maud Ellmann 
Alexa Shoen 
Each work, each word of every sentence, reinvents literature for a new generation of creative writers. This class is an expository seminar on the true meaning of literature within humanity. Professor Maud Ellmann's course seems more like a group ofscholars discussing their favorite poe_ts from the past 500 years. The passionate intellectualism that Ellmann brings to this course allow~ for the cr!'lativity, energy and freedom that every college education needs. 0 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I 21 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue _Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 


corecouncil.nd.edu 
Leadership Institute: Emerging Leaders Call for Applicatio_hs 
The new Leadership Institute: Emerging Leaders program is designed to provide leadership education for first-year students at Notre Dame. Participants will engage in large and sma!Lgroup discussion, and reflective journaling. Sessions will be supplemented by self-directed projects, and a service project designed by the participant in conjunction with various service agencies in the community. In addition, each participant will be paired with an experienced student leader mentor to guide the participant in their leadership journey. Participants will become familiar with.the many opportunities to become engaged in campus activities at Notre Dame during and after the program has.ended. :. -_ 
Applications are now available and-can be found at: http://sao.nd.edu 

-, 
Applications should he completed and submitted to the Student Activities Office by Monday,· December 5th, 2008 at 5:00 pm. 


Swept Away 
Intramural broomba/1 takes ND by storm 
Matt Formica 
A sport played with brooms has captivated Notre Dame students in recent years -and this one has nothing to do with Harry Potter. Broomball's popularity has skyrocketed in the past decade and is a fixture at Notre Dame and countless other colleges. 
There is evidence that broomball originated in Iceland during the 10th century, when games frequently involved entire villages and lasted for up to 14 days. In fact, an occasional death while playing was not uncommon. In other words, ancient broomball resembled a battle more than a sport. 
Since that time, broomball has undergone numerous changes, but its popularity continues to grow. Broomhall as we know it today likely originated in Canada and quickly spread to Minnesota. 
The rules ofintramural broomball at ND are relatively simple. Played in the JACC, each team has six players on the ice at all times, and the games consist of two 10-minute halves. RecSports provides necessary equipment like brooms and helmets, and rather than wearing skates, players use standard athletic shoes. The games are self-officiated, and any intentional contact is illegal. 
Now that we've covered the basics, it's time to address the real question: Why has a seemingly obscure sport caught fire lately, particularly among college students? The most striking explanation is that broomball excludes absolutely nobody -everyone can play, regardless of athletic ability or competitive drive. 
"Broomhall is really easy to pick up, and both guys and girls play, 
i 
so I don't think anybody is really apprehensive to just give it a shot," senior Danny Rosas-Alvarez says, who plays on a team with some ofhis friends from the marching band. 
Freshman Danny Zebrowski enjoys the option to be either as intense 
•• or as laid back as he wants. "Some people get really into it, but others like to be more mellow during games. It's really all about having a good time," he says. Additionally, playing broomball is a good way to blow off some steam. "It's actually a great study break and gives me some time to relax while also boosting my adrenaline a little bit," Rosas-Alvarez says. Although broomball can be conducive to a friendly and laid-back environment, some strategy is involved. We all remember the days of tirelessly chasing after the soccer ball in kindergarten, and it seems as though some students revert-to this tactic when they play broomball for the first time. "I think people forget that you can't just run after the ball, and it's actually important to pass and work together, just like in other team sports," Zebrowski says. Ultimately, however, most players realize the importance of maintaining at least a basic formation while playing. "Having a background in team sports is definitely an advantage," Zebrowski says. _ With many former athletes p,irticipating in the broomball league, the competition can at times become fierce. Although intentional contact is illegal, it is not uncoinmon for a player to sprawl across the ice in an attempt to win the ball, knocking down a few competitors in the process. "Some players definitely shy away from contact,. but others really approach each play with reckless abandon," Rosas-Alvarez says. In fact, RecSports provides a medical staff for each game in the event that an injury does occur. Maybe modern-day broomball isn't as different from the bloody 10th-century version as one might think. 0 
.• ::,;:l}{¼;; 
Malisha Samarasekera



':t;~ 
Senior defensive end Pat Kuntz has become a force on .<_· thdield _and a cult hero ?ffit. With shirts bearing './ ..·. . . the momker "Kuntz Nat10n" and Facebook groups \iiiuch (u11tz #1 Fans" created in honor of him, 6­"" :_ '-;:pound Kuntz has become a prominent " J9ng with his mohawk. Kuntz led all ,.,"?'··· . .. >.::--v.:.. • xiwith nine/'ass,:: 
••-·.:::•.: 

Molly Kring 
Sophomore Michael Sullivan has become a big deal in the world of Notre Dame sports. Last week, he was named Big East Swimming and Diving Athlete of the Week. Sullivan had two individual wins in a meet with No. 16 Purdue on Nov. 8. While Notre Dame lost to the Boilermakers, Sullivan's swims were sensational. His times in both the 200 back 
(1:52:79) and 400 individual medley (4:07:18) were the best the Irish have seen this season. Notre Dame will take on Ohio State University at home this Friday, Nov. 21, at 5 p.m., hoping to secure another big victory like the one over Big East rival Pittsburgh earlier this season. 


Following a devastating 1-0 loss two years ago to North Carolina in the NCAA championship game, the Irish women's soccer team is seeking revenge. The team is making its 16th-consecutive NCAA Championship appearance this week and has already advanced to the third round following wins over Toledo and Michigan State. The lone undefeated team in Division I women's soccer, Notre Dame is poised for victory with its 23-0-0 record. With a No. 1 overall seed in the tournament, the Irish are confident in their abilities. Senior forward Kerri Hanks and forward/midfielder Brittany Boc.k are expected to lead the Irish offense, while senior defender and co-captain Carrie Dew will hold the Irish's defensive line. 

On Nov. 12, Irish basketball standouts Kyle McAlarney and Ashley Barlow achieved what many consider an athlete's dream: gracing a regional cover of Sports Illustrated magazine. One of six pairs highlighted in the College Basketball Preview issue of the magazine, McAlarney and Barlow are the figureheads oflrish basketball. SJ's preseason poll ranked the Notre Dame men sixth and the women 13th. Before the men play their next home game on Nov. 30 against Furman, they will take a tropical vacation to Maui, Hawaii, for the Nov. 24-26 EA Sports Maui Invitational. The women play 
their nexthome game on Nov. 25 against Georgia Southern. 

Josh Flynt 
Although the weather in South Bend can make the time between the start of the second semester and spring break feel like an eternity, Notre Dame's men's and women's basketball teams are sure to give fans a few reasons to get excited this winter. Both teams enter the 2008-09 season with high expectations and aspirations to play deep into March. 

Women's Basketball 
Led by Coach Muffet McGraw, now in her 22nd season at Notre Dame, the women's team comes into the season ranked No. 16 in the Associated Press Top 25 poll. With three Big East foes in the Top 10, the Irish are sure to face many challenges this season. This has not, however, stopped the team from setting high goals. 
"We want to finish in the top four in 
the Big East and get a bye in the Big East 
tournament. We want to be able to compete 
and stay active in the Top 25. We definitely 
26 ISCHOLASTIC I20 NOVEMBER 2008 
want to be top 10 in the nation by the end of 
the season," junior center Erica Williamson 
says. 
Fortunately, the team has three starters 
returning from a squad that re.ached the 
Sweet 16 last season. These key contributors, 
including Williamson, junior guard Ashley 
Barlow and senior guard Lindsay Schrader; 
are sure to make an impact again this season. 
Junior point guard Melissa Lechlitner, who 
joins Barlow and Schrader as this year's tri-· 
captains, will take over a:s the team's floor_ 
general, replacing Tulyah Gaines, who 
graduated last spring. 
In addition to the veteran returnees, 
the team also welcomes back sophomore 
forward Devereaux Peters, who tore · her 
ACL in February, forcing her to miss'"a _ significant part of her freshman season. 
Among the non-league opponents .­
that ND faces this season are Vanderbilt, 
Purdue and Michigan State. Like the Irish, 
Vanderbilt reached the Sweet 16 last season, · 
while Purdue and Michigan State boast two of the strongest programs in the Big Ten. Aside from the non-league schedule, Notre Dame's Big-East schedule includes a visit to preseason No. 1 Connecticut and a home matchup against No. 5 Rutgers. . Williamson explains that they need to win some big games if the Irish are going to meet thei_r expectations this season. "I was always told · that the great teams beat the teams ·they are supposed to beat, but also some of the teams they aren't supposed to, so we're hoping to ·go out there and surprise some people and get the job done when we need to," she says. 
It will ultimately come down to staying focu~ed throughout the course of the long season. "It's a lot of work, and we want to 
-stay mentally focused and make sure we are 
. playing our game every day," Williamson says. "If we're in a 2~3 zone, we want to make sure we're guarding the right people. We need to rebound strong, offensively and defensively and be a big presence on defense.'' 

SPORTS 

Men's Basketball 
After a disappointing loss to Washington State in the second round of last season'li'. NCAA tournament, the·men's team comes into the 2008-09 campaign with something to prove. The team returns four starters, including junior guard Tory Jackson, senior guard Kyle McAlarney, junior forward Luke Harangody and senior forward Zach Hillesland. Senior guard Ryan Ayers and senior center Luke Zeller will also play important roles for the Irish on both ends of the court. With many key contributors from .last season's squad coming back, the Irish come into the season ranked ninth in the country. 
"We're really dreaming big this year. We're better than last year, so we want to go deep into both tournaments, the Big East tournament and the NCAA tournament," McAlarney says. 
Although  their ultimate  goal  may  
be  to  play  their  best basketball  in  the  
postseason,  the  team  also  recognizes  

the importance of not getting ahead of themselves. Harangody says, "With all the players we have coming back, we have a much older group this year, so we feel like we can do pretty much anything. We're smart enough to know we have to take it one game at a time. There's a long way to go and a lot of work left to do." 
The road to reaching their goals this season will not be an easy one. Playing in the Big East means facing perennial basketball powers such as Connecticut, 
· Louisville and Georgetown. In addition to their difficult league schedule, they will also run into several challenges from non­league opponents. 
"It's the toughest schedule we've played in our history," Coach Mike Brey says. 
McAlarney, however, emphasizes the importance of not letting the difficult schedule affect the team's confidence. 
"Coach Brey has talked about how we're going to take some punches this year, and I think for us as a veteran team with the great schedule that we have, we need to just take those into context," McAlarney says. "We might not have as good of a record as we had last year if we lose some of those games, but we're just as good, if not better than last year. For us to understand that might be a little tough, but it's something that we've got to take a hold of." 
The season really picks up when the team heads out to Hawaii for the Maui Invitational, the annual tournament that takes place prior to Thanksgiving. The Irish will face Indiana in the first round, and depending on the outcome, they could also face No. 8 Texas and No. 1 North Carolina. In December, they will travel to Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis for a matchup with Ohio State. 
While it remains to be seen if the Irish can live up to the hype this season, both the· Notre Dame men's and women's basketball teanis have the talent and leadership necessary to do some damage in the Big East and NCAA tournaments. Even though their challenging schedules may affect their records, these teams have the potential to keep playing when the snow melts and the birds return in late March. 0 



Listening In ... 
q~t Citizen Cope concert: I think we are going to hook up tonight! G ·t-,•.'Yi2 eah.1 
MJN5r~J;*:~sp't naked. r didn't do it voluntarily. r thought it was my bed," tSii:;/i;;iJ•.,·;.7 -male student to friend on way to DeBartolo 
~.4 ... .•..;.'~:Fk Rolling Sto.n: must be ~onservative. Or maybe racist is the right word." 
1·:·1:f·;·;·f.:.?./;t1u.·.'
:,rc,:::<c;.:,/y -dude readmg magnzmes 

dj.,. e's a fine line between being in a relationship and prostitution." --· -boyfriend to gidfriend 

:!·•i~ I mean, she's really mad. I can't imagine being that mad at her ever. Well, be if she killed my dog. 
Girl 2: Or drowned your fish. 

Back In the Day... 
Go back to the summer before your freshman year at Notre Dame. That long-awaited, fateful day that will determine your identity for the next four years finally arrives. You tear open the envelope (everything was much more dramatic before we had e-mail), heart pounding, palms sweating. You eagerly scan the dorm assignment letter, images of different mascots and signature events flying through your head. But wait -this can't be right. You've been assigned to live in ... a convent? This . wasn't a bad dream, but a somber reality for a nu~ber of girls years ago when Notre Dame faced an undergraduate housing shortage. Some freshman girls were placed in the convent next to St.Joseph's . High School and had to take a shuttle to class every day (and the guys in Carroll think they nave it bad). But beyond the inconvenience, this had to have put a bit of a damper on the social scene. I have a feeling these girls didn't ever break parietals. Actually, I'd be surprised ifthere was any need to enforce the rule. I can't imagine one of these girls bringing a guy back to her room. "Want to come. over?" "Where do you live?" "Oh, you know ... the convent." Makes it a little harder to complain about how the other people on your floor never go out or about the long walk from your dorm to O'Shag, doesn't it? 
-Kathleen Toohill 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 20 NOVEMBER 2008 
.  .  ,  ,  .  .·  ,  . .  .  ,  
'  i  
HUMOR  


Bienvenido, my little gipplings! That chicken fight that Gipp loves so much -the presidential election -has passed us by, and even Gipp was surprised to see his ninny of a conservative state swinging blue. Gipp was even happier to see celebrations erupt in every corner of campus, regardless of political affiliation -after all, a win or a loss for a party is still a party, and Gipp managed to find scandalous tips from all walks of life this time around. Seminarians, St. Mary's girls, the Green party, even those hippie little liberals ... the Gipp has never been prouder to be in this tasty melting pot called America! So sit back and enjoy what Gipp has entitled Election 2008: Sandwich Edition. 
Our first story finds us at a birthday celebration, complete with tumbling cups, inebriated seminarians and a lonesome lad minding his own business in a chair. Because girls always dig the dude in the chair, it should come as no surprise that our sitting duck, Wheaty William, soon found himself being fawned over by his very own St. Mary's chick, who jumped into his lap without provocation or warning. Never one to resist the enthusiasm of fervent ladies, Wheaty William humored his lap-dweller's whispered advances and insidious glances. When she could no longer resist our gallant WW, she presented an offer: take her to his room, stat. But WW, ever the gentleman, chose not to exile his studious roommate, who was using their dwelling for his own passions (writing a lab report). Unfazed, WW's chick immediately offered an alternative: she wanted some bread. This struck WvV as a strange departure from ,yhere the night had originally seemed heaclecl,_but the chick insisted. SHE WANTED SOME BREAD. And so WW went on a quest for quenching starches. After hijacking an entire loaf from an unnamed source within his dorm, he returned to find the partying seminarians "parting like the Reel Sea" and leading him to a closed-door lovenest. There, his chick had climbed into the first available lofted bed and now waite.d in hypoglycemic anticipation for him. When WW entered, bread in hand, her eyeslitup in crazed excitement. She asked our gallant WW to do the only thing one can do with bread and a hot chick: feed it to her. And so he did. Never the selfish eater, our chick quickly returned the favor, generously feeding WW bread from her own bare hands. Then, they brought their crumbed lips together in passion, occasionally taking replenishing breaks that involved more forced feedings. As the loaf wore down, the chick wanted to continue their love, but WW found himself a little confused and frightened over what had become a night of multiple deadly sins. In one clean swoop, the chick had appeased both his lust and his gluttony. 
Our next story brings up sandwiches of a more human variety; namely, Gipp refers to "the man-wich." This story also brings up someone who is now becoming a recurring character in Gipp-dam -our beloved Gentle Blonde Giant. Perhaps you elders remember the Gentle Blonde Giant from last spring, when he relieved himself on his girlfriend and then paraded around an apartment in sleepwalking naked glory. As for you youngins, have no fear, new antics are here. This time, the scene is set with friends frolicking around the house in banana suits, curly-haired blondies dancing all up on inflatable alcoholic beverages and a pong battle for the ages. Such a mess can only encl in slumber, as it did for the Gentle Blonde Giant, who managed at least to remain clothed and in a bed (belonging to the aforementioned girlfriend -yes, they're still together) at the beginning of his sleep. But it only took 15 minutes for him to resist such comforts and bust out of the room, eventually settling on a wooden board. After some maneuvering, the Gentle Blonde Giant was coaxed back into bed, and everyone fell asleep for the night. Or so it seemed. In the morning, Gentle Blonde Giant awoke to discover he was not wearing nothing below the button-down he wore to the Linebacker the night before. NOTHING. Although he found himself in the same bed he began the night in, his skivvies were nowhere in the vicinity. After some searching, the missing lower halves were eventually found in a downstairs bedroom, still together and quite obviously released in one fell swoop, and luckily unaccompanied by any golden signs or smells of GBG's old habits. The story of Gentle Blonde Giant's mysterious nighttime journey was further complicated when another housemate awoke to tell her tale. Sometime early in the morning, she was roused to find not one, but two pairs ofhairy legs surrounding her. Remembering that she had snagged one lucky lad from the Backer -but by no means two -she jumped out of the naked man-wich in a terrified haze. It turns out that in the darkness, Gentle­Blonde Giant had somehow mistaken the ladies of the house and crawled into the already doubled-up bed of his girlfriend's roommate, completely pantless. Screaming, the two invaded lovers pushed the Gentle Blonde Giant back to his girlfriend's home base, where he promptly passed out with absolutely no recollection of his journeys. Muchlike one will never discover the secret ingredient in General Tso's Chicken, so too will the Gentle Blonde Giant never exactly know what led him to his man-wich position on that fateful Friday night. 
In closing, the Gipp would just like to remind everyone that no matter how loving and peaceful you appear, the police will never believe that the mysterious "vegetable" tree in your background was not, in fact, planted and intended for sale by you. As some off­campus residents found out the other day, sometimes when old residents leave you their house, they also leave you their herbal hobbies in the backyard. There are some plants that are never fit for sandwiches. Gipp thanks all of the sandwich makers and enjoyers who contributed to the pickles of this latest column. Remember gipplings, presidents come and go, but sandwiches are forever. 
Cheers, 
Gippy .Mc Gipp Gipp 

o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 ISCHOLASTIC I29 
: ; 
,,,_,,;?t· ·. 
.... ·· 


HUMOR 


Dear People Who Think They're Better Than the Midwest, 
Hi, my name is Jen. I'm from Indiana, and the last time I was home, I ate a turkey that was shot by my best friend, Annie. Her little brother can fart on command, and she once stayed home for three hours to count how many he could do in a row. Six hundred and thirty-six. 
Hello, I'm Jen's funnier roommate, Malisha. In eighth grade I traveled with my class to the Ohio Capitol Building to campaign to make the bullfrog the state amphibian, as it is one of the few animals found in all 88 counties. We lost due to the strong opposition from the salamander contingent ... apparently they were a large part of the voter block that year. 
Beyond more practical concerns (e.g. how would you ungrateful slobs eat without the rolling farmlands ofthe Midwest?), we can objectively say that we are the region everyone strives to be (whether they know it or 'not). Think about it. Who has the least noticeable accent? The Midwest. Who is the least politically skewed? The Midwest. We are the middle ground. We excel at mediocrity. We are the safe and secure rock upon which this country was built, and if I hear another East coast/West coast dispute settled by "at least we don't live in the Midwest," I will corn* your house. 
That being said, we have compiled the following list of reasons why the Midwest does not suck: 
1. 
No Privacy in Your Hometown: This is a bit of a trade-off, especially if you are trying to keep the facts that you wore headgear in middle school and that you read the entire "Lord of the Rings" trilogy during recess from following you for your whole life. But the day I found out that my next door neighbor had become a gay porn star under the alias of Chet, I decided it was worth it. 

2. 
Modern Grecian Gods: Giving Ohioans the ultimate claim-to­fame, we from the Buckeye State have the proud honor of knowing that beautiful Brady Quinn was birthed in our state and now plays for its favorite pro team, the Cleveland Browns. You in Cali and Florida may brag about your lovely beaches and tropical locale, but just remember this -the sun never sets on Brady Quinn. 

3. 
The Cost of Living: Everyone knows that housing is cheaper in 


the Midwest, but the savings don't stop there. Especially when all you have to pay for groceries is five dollars worth of shotgun shells. 
4. 
Contemporary Art: As if we don't have enough grain to feed all of southern Alaska for the rest of eternity, there is a vast expanse of land covered with concrete corn in Dublin, Ohio. This monument to our favorite homegrown product lets us Midwesterners get our fix even in the dead ofJanuary. It is located next to the mall and is a memorial for Sam Frantz, the inventor of hybrid corn, who changed the agricultural industry in more inspiring ways than even Barack Obama could promise. Nothing says, "Welcome to the Midwest" quite like 109 phallic stone vegetables. 

5. 
Obese America: You can thank the Midwest for your next late night trip to Wendy's ... Bob Evans Farms also calls the Midwest home. Where else can you buy a guaranteed heart attack for only $7.95, complete with homemade biscuits and honey syrup? Without Columbus, Ohio, there would be no "Harold and Kumar Go To White Castle." Let's be honest -nobody wants to watch "Harold and Kumar Go To Panera Bread." 

6. 
Cultural Education: My high school had "drive your tractor to school" clay. Seriously. 

7. 
Smiling Faces and Friendly Cashiers: Don't try to find this in Boston, unless you want to get stuck with a $200 non-returnable dress that you only bought because the one nice person in all of the Northeast happened to be working at the store you passed by. And don't even bother talking to the lady behind the Dunkin' Donuts counter unless you want to dilute your not-very-tasty coffee with tears of rejection. 


Though not exhaustive, this is a good foundation upon which to build your love for the Midwest. Sure, it may not be the prettiest or most exciting or warmest or most intellectual or ... wait, what point were we trying to make again? 
Your friends, Jen Wulf and Malisha Samarasekera 
*corn -v. to throw corn at houses, cars and passersby; usually out of the bed of a moving pick-up truck 
20 NOVEMBER 2008 I SCHOLASTIC I 3L 

:{!~!!!1.!f ; ::•::;;.":;;ing~::e0~,;~:;:1;;:n::;:.:~:y:he,e when you',e ynung you
}irin'.g; !t··: , ... \ latch .onto something. And I do recall at a very young age finding that I could Jifi],?Aff;{J{ : make people laugh. And hearing laughter is such a good feeling, that a lot of [if{{({~§i0:?}}::times it would become my concentration on what to do, whether it's in class 
~tt~j~t~:Jt)/t-}>·or ·with friends. 
1b\~Jfif~H':}ftW;f.'.s/soyou took the semester off to study at The Second City? :iiffi'i{~vtltt.i(;)yk:Yeah, The Second City just started this college program called Comedy Studies. ;;{{tsJfaiJ:fl\\'.?·Jt'.san intensive semester-long course of study. [ ... ] And so when I went there I would li/'}{i;i\}:\f( /·:~have classes like a normal college student, only they'd be like writing, acting, improv, 
1
t~t,11\~i)~~;1Ifa;(-~~(1:::;~~::~~~ In~:~:::o,~i!a:0 z_:;~0;:t~!tf!::;~~:
s:;1:;;:i!;s:!a~:a ''\f-?j/:JfJ}/')was able to, for the first time, find like-minded people my age, as it was a college ·'t;{;~\:i':\:2(:program, and work on improvising, learning how to improvise and learning about ~'\}/.H{(·sketch-writing as well. And then at the end we had a final show on one ofThe Second ·,,f,i'/kk\S~ty•.stages. 
,'7<1":;)lrH'?s:So do you plan on moving back to Chicago then, or where do you think you'll
itl(0iWi{-; ,gj }rom here? 
,J]f!A\~i}i,)J~:You know, maybe. I really do like Chicago, and not only do they have a really ~\if&\}ft/i:Jfriving stand-up scene, but improv and sketch as well which I really like. And so }\tr)~JX{iflyeah, Imight move there ... it's really all about the road until Los Angeles in a way.' ''<f\};h~~lthink if I spent some time in Chicago before I moved out there I could really 
· ~§iieiny craft -I hate to use that word -and just try to get as funny as I can, and '_lieb)jave spec scripts ready and just work that I can show people, so when I go out to ?:A'.;;fcan make more of a splash. 
'.:1,f~~ve you ever gotten up and just fallen flat? i<:iQh my god, all the time. Yeah, what was interesting was my first couple times I ]~)there on campus, and it was such a supportive environment just with people who 
,l''.~~}going to accept anything. So I definitely got a little cocky. And then I did some 6ph1 mies back in my hometown in Pittsburgh, and it was rough. [ ... ] Sometimes you Jgst,don't connect with an audience, or the audience is just bad, or you're just not on 
'9p:O<:ifyour game, or you're just not performing well. 
'lka little bit about what you do with NDTV and what's new with that. 
__ --,iJ.1?,ed to host "Late Night." I'm not doing that anymore. Right now I'm in llcIµctibn trying to work on a new show that will just be sketches. It won't have any }t]jfvariety or interview stuff that "Late Night" had. Yeah, so hopefully I'll get,n''.~st one episode out this semester. What I'm trying to do is just make a sketch 
·}Jy show and have a big event at the end of the year if all goes well. 
};\&hat do you like to do in your spare tirt1e when you're not being funny? 
hs ~••·-·.: · . " 
.4~J~ave to say that a lot of times my primary focus is comedy. I don't think that a lot \pJ9ple could say that, like I don't even care about my school work if I have to get a itc:h written or ifI have a show coming up -that really does take top priority. 
·. '.J/t~--~-­
}&{iidwhat would you describe as your perfect night out in South Bend? i/qh, South Bend, the Entertainment Capital of the World. I don't even go out that '.:µ~lr~o be honest. I don't want to trash South Bend, but coming back from Chicago ::;~):~you can see good stand-up, good sketch or good improv on any night of the Je.fand then coming back here wh~re it's like, "Maybe I'll watch 'It's Always Sunny i{]:hiladelphia]' On Demand." 
Jr~~:_;ou want to head more downthe stand-up road? ,Kf,You know, I think so. I do like writing and performing and sketches,-and I'm going 8_'t~ke ,vhat I did at Second City and use what I've learned to kind of inform the sketch 
;~')hope to do at the end of the year and the TVshow as well. Stand-up is something fays be doing, and I think it's easy to do. I've gone back to Chicago a couple times \He beginning of the year to do shows there ~hich has been really great. ~1if -. 











