4
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
Communique No. I
We received a letter the other day, a fan letter.
Headquarters 1st Inf. Div. Indiantown Gap Military Reservation, Pa.
Dear John:
You’re slippin’. I noticed an item in your College Parade column which is really out of date.
Look at the last squib in your column of the June 5 issue. Then run through the issues of last year—that is, while I was at school. You’ll find that I wrote the exact same item in the Scholastic some time during the year.
I imagine the item was taken by the Tomahawk out of our own Scholastic. So you just stole something that belonged to you anyway.
I won’t be mad though. In the army it’s better not to get mad. I’m just doing this to let you know that I’m still reading the Scholastic with jest even after all this time.
Give my best to Father Carey and tell Bob LeMense I wish him lots of luck in his session as the Scholastic’s boss. The army got me from the Pittsburgh Press, so my journalistic days are over for a while.	,
Regards,
John W. Patterson, Jr.
❖
Or the Clock Stopped
Thanks for the letter, John, but we’re not really to blame. LeMense did it. You see, we were unknowingly three inches short that issue of June 5, but would Bob tell us that? No. Being an ex-Parader, he just took it upon himself to fill up that three inches. They cut the last semester short on Bob and he had some sour shorts left over—saving them for just such an occasion—so he slipped them in without our knowing. Needless to say. as you have recognized already, his leftovers are of inferior quality.
We won’t let it happen again.
Plato
Proud father (showing triplets to the visitor): “What do you think of them?”
Visitor (pointing to one in middle) : “I’d keep that one.”—Annapolis Log
2	'	-
Remembrance of Things Past
From The Tower, University of Detroit annual, we have taken the following lines as they appeared in the summary of the 1942 basketball season.
“It had always been traditional for even U. of D. drumthumpers to concede a Notre Dame victory every year. Yet Lloyd Brazil dissented. He was always confident that some day a Titan club would come along to crack the jinx and beat the haughty Irish once and for all. . ; . And on the night of March 12, as he sat on the bench watching his small team laughing in the face of the mighty Irish of Notre Dame, he thought that at last, this was the team to break the streak. . . . That they eventually lost 43-41, can never be attributed to their lack of spirit.... And if they are remembered for nothing else, it will be that they came closer to beating Notre Dame than any other Detroit team before them.”
Two in a Taxi
“Pray let me kiss your hand,” said he With burning looks of love.
“I can remove my veil,” said she, “Much easier than my glove.”
Mount Holyoke News
V Mail
Dear Dad:
I hope mother is well. .
I hope sister is well.
I hope John is well.
I wish you were here.
I wish mother was here. ’
I wish sister was here.
I wish John was here.
I wish you would send me some money. Love,	Timothy.,.
Purdue Gears for Victory
Reading through the “Victory Edition” of the Purdue Exponent; we are able to see what an all-out victory effort really means. Quoting at random we find that:
“The University has shifted to a 12’ month basis, adopting an academic calendar that calls for three 16-week terms and abandons all vacations. . . . Over a hundred of the faculty and staff have left for duty with the armed services. . . . Our president has been granted an indefinite leave of absence, following a government appointment to a post where he will
direct the war-time programs of all colleges and universities in the country. . . . The Student War Council came into being to coordinate the war efforts of the student body. . . . Around 500 students have received flight trainings under the CAA training carried on at the University airport. . . . About 2500 men receive training in present ROTC courses. . . . At the May commencement 170 students were commissioned as Second Lieutenants and sent to various camps. ... 84 students received commissions in the Naval Reserve. ... In addition to Red Cross classes, special defense classes in motor repair, Morse code and pistol shooting have been organized for the coeds. . . . This spring the University was commissioned as a training school for naval electricians and in June the first group of 200 sailors arrived to begin the fourmonth course. ... In the Chemistry Building 44 men are engaged in full-time experimentation on products vital to the nation’s war effort.”
Michigan Ave.
“She walks with a decided jerk.”
“Yes, isn’t he?”
—Texas Ranger
Overheard
A conversation between a certain rector and student (pre-med) who had come in past midnight.
Rec.: “How did you get those marks on your nose?” ,
Student: “Why these marks are from glasses Father.”
Rec.: “How many glasses?”
We’ll Meet Again
This little bit of verse was found . among the files of the ancients. To what it refers, no mention was made.
They stop the heat at ten o’clock
And turn out every light;
Then put the water under lock
And close up for the night.
In morning when you’re dreaming
There echoes up the stairs	'
A bell that’s loudly screaming, “All out for morning prayers!”
The meals they serve would please a king, If king had stomach stout
Which could hold most anything From prunes to ancient trout.
They’ll serve to you a leather steak,
Sometimes a spud or two, And all the grub that you forsake
You’ll get again in stew. .	'
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing -at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June'25, 1918.
- Vol. 76
JULY 10, 1942
No. 5
WEST DINING HALL CHANGED TO CAFETERIA STYLE AS 1300 V-7 SEAMEN TAKE OVER FOUR HALLS
Along with Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Hall, Badin is now housing the navy because of the increase in the latter’s
BOB DUNNE
Between 48 and 60 V-7 apprentice seamen were being served per minute at each meal this week as a result of the transformation of the west dining hall into a cafeteria. .	-
Mr. E. F. Connolly, manager of the dining halls, announced earlier this week that “most of the kinks will be ironed out” by today. The innovation in the navy’s eating routine started Monday although installation had only begun last Friday. This is the first major change in the dining halls since the building was constructed in the fall of 1927, Mr. Connolly became manager in 1931.
The hall is approximately 300 feet long and the stainless steel serving counters are more than half this distance in length. Manager Connolly stated that the counters were complete except for the coffee dispensers which were delayed in shipment. Nickel-plated and having brass faucets, the coffee urns are expected to arrive today. A feature of the coffee containers is the patented cream dispenser attached. According to the manner in which the handle is turned, coffee may be served with or without cream.
Milk is kept in a refrigerator section of each counter.
No plates are used since food is placed in compartment trays. Proceeding down the line, the navy men first receive soup, choose their meat, and then,. in order, select the vegetable, salads, fruits, bread, and drink.
Waiters formerly employed in the dining hall have become “bus boys,” who remove trays from the tables and perform other similar tasks. Manager Connolly cannot ascertain at present just how many workers will be required.
One thousand and twenty-five of the new naval contingent were served at noon Monday with the unit equally divided into four groups. The future officers, who had just received and donned their white duck uniforms, entered the
hall according to companies, with Chief Petty Officer Brady in charge. Unlike the 1100 commissioned officers who departed last week, the group now consists of college graduates studying for their commissions. Of the new men, 100 have been taken away from the navy ranks and chosen on the basis of exceptional records. They are also college graduates but have been in active service. Representing all points on the compass, the present class .is the largest to take the indoctrination course at the Naval Training School on the N.D. campus. The unit is 1300 strong.
Photo by Chrisovergis
V-7 Trainee Robert Sterner of Evanston, Illinois, Is First Man to Test New Cafeteria in West Dinins Hall.
numbers. Student residents of Badin moved out several weeks ago to make
room for the incoming Navy men. During the past few weeks carpenters and other workmen have been busy in the hall. -
Throughout Monday the new members of the greatest navy in the world exchanged their civilian apparel fpr the navy’s sartorial taste. As supper was served, however, an occasional seaman could be spotted still in civilian dress.
According to Mr. Connolly, cafeteria style of serving meals in the west dining hall will remain in effect for the duration.
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I EDITORI AL I
Disco Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
ssv
FOUNDED 18 6-7
THE STUDENT’S PART
Last Monday about 3,000 travel-weary men came on the Notre Dame campus. About half of this crowd tiredly carried their luggage to the various student residence halls and moaned to all within hearing distance about getting back into the old “rut” again.
The other men, however, were not going back to the old “rut” again. They were starting a new phase in their lives. They were the new V-7 trainees. The Notre Dame campus was not a familiar sight to them. In fact many of them did not know where to report for duty. True some of the fortunate early arrivals were delivered right to the door of their new home in trucks, but many late-comers had to get directions from the officer at the gate.
The majority of the V-7 men will never have the opportunity of knowing Notre Dame as well as the student body. But the students and the student organizations can do their part in letting these men know the spirit of Notre Dame while they are here. Their time here is short; they will be busy fitting themselves for that important duty. But the spirit of Notre Dame will prevail; the students Mull do their part.
* * *
OUR CAMPUS
The beauty of the campus, especially in the summer, is something that one-half the students do not realize and.the rest do not think about. Once in a while fellows will become involved in heated discussions as to the beauty of other college campuses. Strangely enough, mention is scarcely ever made of our own -campus.
Look about you. Look down the quadrangle from the front entrance. Walk around the lakes. Present seniors can remember when the grass was just sprouting in the plot between the dining hall and the Kockne Memorial. Stand by the corner of Alumni hall sometime and listen to the favorable comments of visitors as they first look down towards the Memorial. What other university has a bet- / ter-than-average 18 hole golf course on the main campus? The next time you are walking along the Dixie Highway look across the golf course to where the golden Dome stands out above the trees. Stran-
4	\ -r '	. ;	' '
gers speeding past appreciate this scene. Students forget to look at it. But this is a beautiful campus.
* * *
The three big class dances, Cotillion, Prom, and Ball, are always popular subjects of conversations. At present the big issue is the “when” element in connection with the Senior Ball. Even this week a class poll was held to determine the majority opinion in this matter. Regardless, however, of whether the seniors are smooth and suave in white tuxes, or the . juniors take their date to a football game, or the sophs have a Victory dance addenda, one thing is certain—all three dances will be affected by the war. And most of the effects will be beyond the control of the classes.
But there is one thing in connection with the war that can be done by the students themselves. This action has already been discussed by various class representatives. So also has it been carried out in other colleges and universities. The students buy their dates Defense Stamp corsages.
* ■ * *
, Each evening large groups of students stream out of the halls and head for the various playing fields on the campus. The intramural' sports program has taken hold in a big way. Almost three-fourths of the student body is in some phase of the program. Congratulations are in order for the department of physical education for its efforts in this connection.
—R. D. L.
* * *
The extent to which the University , Administration is aiding the students in. finding the best possible positions in the. armed forces is known to a minority of the student body. In some instances University administrations have been interested merely in keeping their students in their. universities until graduation. Not so vath Notre Dame. Time and time again the Notre Dame Administration has done its utmost both to keep the • student in the University and provide him with the proper training so that he may qualify for a commission either before or after entering the armed forces. The successful reconsideration of the applications of some sixty commerce students last weekend through the efforts of Father O’Donnell and Dean McCarthy is another example of this. Our students should be thankful that they have an Administration that is so interested in them.	—E. C. R.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Edward Roney, Jr. —Managing Editor Daniel Downey_________Campus Editor
Bill Reynolds.................Eports	Editor
Charles Kleibacker____Admin. Editor
Robert Lonergan...........Promotion
Ted Weber.... 1________________Photo	Editor
George Thompson..................Art	Editor
James Chrisovergis....Staff photographer Gail Fitch, Jr............Advertising Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear . at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 267 Alumni-Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Navy Eats Cat Style............ 3
"Dome" Within Week.............  5
- University Theater. Presents..  7
ADMINISTRATION
July "Review of Politics" _____ 9
/ Prof. O'Grady In Army__________10
SPORTS
. ■ Rogers -Rangers _............14 -
Volleyball Scene ______,____i..14
FEATURES
College Parade :..............  ........  2
The Week	 8
The Clubs...:.:....r.i___________________11
Introducing, ........_________L—.—.—20
: Ricking Splinters..........___________  22
HILLEBRAND PROMISES '42 "DOME" WITHIN WEEK;
HECTIC WAR YEAR BLAMED FOR LATE APPEARANCE
RICHARD POWERS
Notre Dame students can breathe more easily now. They have been holding their breath in expectation ever since the September of 1941, and now their vigil is over. The long-lost Dome of 1942 will arrive on campus within a week, and this time the rumor is fact. Editor-in-chief Joseph R. Hillebrand has confirmed the report with an unhesitating, self-assured nod. He and his fellow slaves have at last been emancipated from a hard, trying job and a’very difficult schedule. The publication world was relatively calm at Notre Dame at the opening of the 1941-42 schoolyear in September. But when the war broke out so suddenly between Japan and the United States, not only were there wild speculations as to the draft, invasions and air raids, the war was expected to strike very close to the school publications and even the very existence of this and any future Dome seemed to be threatened. The term “priorities” became increasingly significant and annoying to the editors of the Dome and the other publications. However, despite the fact that the Domes, Scrips, anti Scholastics of future years have been cut down to a definite minimum, this year’s Dome was permitted to continue according to the original plans with whatever changes were necessary in reference to the Naval Reserve and the war. The accelerated semesters had a very telling effect upon Dome-work .because it conflicted with schoolwork. The other’ causes for the delay were beyond control. Many high schools had placed orders for printing of their yearbooks before the Dome had done so and they had to be served first. The latest delay has been caused by government orders at the Dome’s printers which must be filled before the Domes are bound.
The new Dome, observed from proofs, is definitely on the more conservative side when compared with the 1941 yearbook. Instead of a close parallel to Life magazine, done in one definite style and technique, the 1942 Dome states its themes with a bit of epic loftiness and then suits the appropriate word to the appropriate action or picture. Last year’s Dome was written with a tenseness and terseness typical of Life and Time and many informal shots crowded the pages. Joe Hillebrand, however, forged ahead keeping this axiom in mind: “Fewer, but larger and better pictures for this year’s Dome.”.
And, surely enough, the photography is excellent and the pages in general are neat, clean and uncrowded. Many of the shots are striking enough to make old familiar landmarks like Sorin Hall seem different and even beautiful. The style of the copy varies according to what is to be described and this may or may not be a good idea, acording to one’s interpretation of the ideal yearbook. At any rate, though it seems to subtract from the forcefulness df the book, it does not take away from its unity. It varies all the way from impressionistic comments to flat prosaic statements of facts. Above all, the general tone of the book is never flashy or journalistic. It is smooth, simple and elemental, with just that touch of a “noble hymn” to help transform pictures and words into something whole and complete.
The book—which is larger than the usual yearbook—340 pages—is divided into five sections called “Books,” dealing with the “People of Notre Dame,” “Activities,” “Athletics,” “Notre Dame" and America,” and “The Year.” Preceding these, however, is an introductory section which outlines the various themes that rim through University life—Religion, Philosophy, the Arts. This is one of the outstanding features of the book because, beyond being excellent photography, writing and design, it states in a kind of symphonic or epic, style, the important theme of the 1942 Dome: the meaning and importance of Notre Dame as a cultural force in the United States. The accent is on our learning, our scholarship and our significance in American education. -The orderly ’ division of “Books” exemplifies the simplicity and good taste with which the whole book is handled. There is no fanfare in an ostentatious sense. Pictures of rows of students will always be dull in themselves, no matter how far back the photographer may lean in order to enliven them. The attention of the editors was concentrated upon a simple presentation of a large subject and not only upon the mode of presentation. The activities and the athletics section are carried off pretty much in the usual way, brightened, however, by some very good informal and action shots. The last two sections will probably be the most popular and are certainly the most interesting pictorially and otherwise. The first deals with the war effort
and the University’s part in it. The story and pictures of the Naval R.O.T.C. and the V-7 invasion are very .well done. The last section is a month by month pictorial and verbal comment on the year at Notre Dame containing some remarkably good informal photos. Much of the usual standard material for the Dome, like the city and state clubs and other organizations, has been excluded in order to make way for the Defense section. The loss is not very great and the Dome is spared a good deal of the usual cataloguing effect that this sort of material provides. The debating team’s very successful year was not recorded unfortunately and this is the only notable omission.
One of the outstanding features of the artwork is the use at the beginning of each of the “Books” of the die-cut, a special, hand-inserted flap in the shape of the Dome. This picture of the Dome stands in relief and is surrounded by drawings or other pictures with a few impressionistic comments. Each subdivision is done in a certain color scheme, alternating in red or in blue. The drawings by Bill Sherer, especially the view of a backstage, are all very effective and exhibit careful draughtsmanship. The binding is of light brown leather with bevelled edges and an outline of the Dome in gold with gold lettering. In general, the book is the fruit of careful and relentless work by the whole staff, despite many psychological and physical hindrances. It is the record of a calamitous year, yet not calamitous in itself and again not ignorant of the grave part which Notre Dame and her students must play for the duration. It is a calm, simple and unflustered account of the year’s events despite the frantic emotions that accompany a war effort.
Sheehan Discusses Post-
War Economic Problems
Belief that America will continue a policy of controlled consumer spending for two or more years after the end of the present war was expressed at the weekly professor and student get-together in the Rockne Memorial, last Monday night, by Prof. John H. Sheehan, head of the department of economics. His topic was “The Economic Aftermath of the War.”
He asserted that experience shows that the height of a war boom and the greatest danger of inflation comes shortly after the war ends, when pent-up consumer purchasing power seeks the goods that have been denied during hostilities. “If
5
controls are not then exercised, the continuing war expenditures, which cannot stop immediately with the truce, will clash with released consumer spending and the elevator of prices will jump upward.”
Continuing, Mr. Sheehan emphasized the fact that the wartime saving now going on is not permanent saving, but rather postponed expenditures for equipment and clothes and houses that are wearing out in the meanwhile. “Because of this, and because there will be need for much public spending for rehabilitation of war damage, it would be folly to permit huge public spending and unleashed torrents of private spending to enter the markets together. Thus it is important, though it may sound distasteful, that in the immediate post-war period private business and private individual spending be under a continuing curb until war expenditures gradually slack off.”
To avert an after-war boom and depression, Mr. Sheehan believes intelligently planned cooperation between business and government is necessary so as to try to keep a balance between declining war production and expanding, revitalized peace time production. Thus he hopes for conservative, cautious relaxation of controls over consumption and investment, supported by an adequate tax program and by a careful re-employment program for the gradual transfer of -workers from war work to peaceful pursuits.
The speaker believed there was no reason for pessimism concerning the post-war situation. But he asserted that the public should be made aware of the significance of post-war problems while the conflict is still in progress. Then an educational campaign could be used to help carry over into the post-war period the spirit of national unity and cooperation which will be needed for achieving a successful peace.
An open forum on post-war economic problems followed the guest lecturer’s talk during which'there was a discussion of reading matter currently available on the topic.
ATTENTION SENIORS
It is important that you honor your apointments for Dome portraits, now being taken in the Walsh Hall Studio. The brief period allowed us for compiling a record of your last months at Notre Dame prompts us to enlist your wholehearted support in this matter. The December Dome will appear in December — only with your cooperation.
—The Dome Editors.
Glee Club To Present
Concert On Wednesday
The Notre Dame Glee Club, directed by Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, will present its first concert of the year in Washington Hall next Wednesday night at 8 o’clock.
In addition to a very popular group of selections sung in unison, three soloists will be featured. William Scully, well known second tenor who has won recognition on the campus for the fine quality of his voice, will sing “The Road to Mandalay.” William Brady, also a second tenor, will sing “Hills of Home” and “Irish Folksong.” The Glee Club’s piano accompanist, John Witt, will play “Quartette from Rigoletto,” a concert arranged by Franz Listz.
This concert will mark the Glee Club’s third appearance so far this summer but the first on the campus since last Memorial Day. One of the most active organization in the University the club boasts a total summer membership of 59. Ray Flynn, a Sorin Hall senior from Youngstown, Ohio, is this year’s president.
Navy men, as -well as faculty members and students, are invited to attend the concert and hear one of the best glee clubs in the country. Following is the variety of selections to be presented.
Sanctus _____________________Antonio Lotti
Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes_Waring Arr. Drums____________________________ Salter
The Lost Chord __________________Sullivan
Estrallita______________Mexican Folk Song
All Through the Night___________-Welsh
Strike Up the Band___________ Gershwin
Shadow March________________.Protheroe
Victory March_______I___New Arrangement
Service Songs ________________ Variety
Baritone and Pianists
Present Program Here
Last night at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall an enthusiastic audience heard Earl Ashcroft, established New York baritone, and Dorothy Bechtel and Edith Steinmetz, duo-pianists, in a concert that proved most enjoyable both because of the quality of the performers and the popular selection of numbers.
Mr. Ashcroft, who was born in Minnesota, has been one of the leading baritones of the country and has sung leading roles in all of the major operas. His fine quality of voice has won general recognition throughout the country. Among others, he studied with Professor Cecil S. Birder, voice teacher and head of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame.
Dorothy Bechtel and Edith Steinmetz are one of the score of recognized piano teams today. Both are artist pupils of Frank Kasschau, noted conductor and teacher, and have a similarity of style and method which assures the perfect
collaboration essential to superior piano duets.
The three artists were well received by a mixed audience that appreciated the professional singing of the baritone and the command of the keyboard which the pianists displayed.
Band To Give Second
Summer Concert Soon
The Notre Dame Band will give its second concert of the summer on July 21, according to Mr. Franklyn Wiltse, guest conductor. The concert will be held on the lawn in front of the Main Building at eight o’clock.
William Scully will again appear as the soloist for the band and will sing “Johnny Doughboy.” He sang with the St. Joseph Municipal band last week and was so well received he is to make a second appearance with that-band later in the summer.
The concert will consist of a variety of selections with patriotic music, specialties, baton twirlers, group singing, and popular songs. Two members of the band, Dick Pedrotty and Bill Binet, will be featured in a cornet duet.
Among the numbers to be played are “Metropolis,” “Stardust,” “The Mastersingers of Muremburg,” “Desert Song,” “By the Blue Hawaiian Waters,” “Notre Dame Hike Song,” "Deep in the Heart of Texas,” “General Douglas MacArthur March,” “Stars and Stripes Forever,” and the National Anthem.—Bob Sinkle
Commerce Men Sworn In
As D-V (P), Naval Reserve
The first nervous student arrived at 9 a.m. and the last happy ensign left at 6:30 that night. This might be called a very short review of what happened last Friday in Chicago when 35 Commerce students answered an order to appear to be sworn in as Ensigns, D-V(P) in the Naval Reserve.
But actually much more happened. Although a majority of the men were there by 11:00 a.m., it was 2:30 p.m. before the first group went downstairs for their interviews. There each man was individually questioned about himself and the answers on his application.
After the interview all but six men were sent to a waiting room until such time as a yeoman could make out the forms for him to sign before being sworn in. The other six men were given an additional physical examination and three of these were added to the larger group. The three remaining men were advised as to what they could do to make themselves acceptable to the Navy.
After waiting .again for a short time the men were taken in groups of six to
6
sign their appointments and were sworn into the Naval Reserve as probationary Ensigns by Lieutenant Commander J. L. Clarkson, U.S.N.R.
All this procedure was under the direction of Commander Olds who came to Chicago especially to direct the swearing in of the Notre Dame men.
Many Students Enrolled
In New Economics Courses
The present war has extended its influence even into academic circles, with new courses in the history of the Far East, military strategy, and numerous other subjects being introduced into the curriculum. Recognizing the influence of World War II on the economic system, both at home and abroad, a course in the Economics of War is being offered by the University. Its purpose is to determine exactly to what extent economic factors are involved in the cause of war, its prosecution, and its result. The course is being given this year by Father Kehoe.
Another relatively new course in the Economics department was introduced in 1940 and will be taught every other year. This course, Economics of Consumption, provides an entirely different approach to the problem than is taken by other studies. Although the customary method of considering economics has been from the producer’s viewpoint, emphasizing supply and demand, labor relations, distribution of wealth, monopolies, industrial organization, etc., Economics of Consumption presents the buyer’s views and problems, with a study in particular of consumer’s control over production, the influence of custom, fashion, and advertising, attempts to practice fraud against consumers, competent sources of consumer information, and other topics designed to aid buyers in an attempt to “get their money’s worth.” Economics of Consumption is being taught this semester by Mr. John Sheehan.—Charles Steltmann
Bulletin!
The results of the Senior Ball poll last Wednesday evening proved conclusively that the majority of the Seniors are willing to take a chance on still being in the University in the early Fall. An early Fall date for the Ball captured first place with 161 votes. The Summer vote was 71 and the Fall 91.
Chairman Moritz will now proceed rapidly in choosing the exact date and make other plans for an early Fall Ball.
DRAMATIC SCENES AND "TRIAL BY JURY" TO BE PRESENTED SOON; SYMPHONIC NOVELTY INCLUDED
On July 22, 23, and 24, the University Theatre, concluding four weeks of intensive rehearsal, will present an evening’s entertainment consisting of an anthology of scenes from great plays, symphonic music, and the delightful Gilbert and Sullivan operetta “Trial by Jury.”
The operatic triumph, “Trial By Jury,” is a mild satire on the English Chancery. Though lasting only 35 minutes, it is regarded as one of the greatest works of the popular composers, Gilbert and Sullivan. With Mr. Cecil S. Birder directing, and the success of “Pinafore” still fresh in the minds of all, there is no doubt that this will be an entertaining performance.
Practice Diligently
Those having leading roles in the operetta are David Curtin, who portrays the Judge; Joan Birder, the plaintiff; Ed Hoban, council for the plaintiff; Mike -Zorovich, defendant; and Kevin O’Toole, usher of the court. Included in the members of the chorus are Herb Clark, Jack Coleman, Tom Schrieber, George Beck, " Dick Murray, Bill Murrin, Frank Haley, Jim Monaghan, and Jerry O’Reilly.
The identity of the scenes constituting the anthology are to be kept secret to add to the enjoyment of the audience. Directed by Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., they are five in number and have been chosen from some of the greatest English
and American dramas. Those taking part in these are David Curtin, Griff Allen, Kevin O’Toole, Charles Kane, Andy McElroy, Jim McDonough, Dan Downey, Lyle Joyce, Harold Zink and Dave Skory. Feminine roles will be taken by Elizabeth Jankovits.
An added attraction for the evening’s entertainment is the presentation called “Theme for Winning the War,” a patriotic partita, played by the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra. Recently this new composition by Henry Brandt was aired over the Columbia Broadcasting System for it’s initial presentation. When the Symphonic selection, which takes eight minutes, is played here, it will be the first time any University has been able to include it on a program. This “Theme for Winning the War” is divided into four humorous movements, and is under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music.
This entertainment will probably last one and one-half hours and will be presented in Washington Hall. If warm weather necessitates, the performance will be delayed until nine o’clock in order to await the cooler part of the evening. To all who attend, a very enjoyable program is promised.
Moritz Chairman of Ball;
Committee Heads Named
President Jack Tallett released the names of the general chairman and the committee chairman of the Senior Ball to the Scholastic last Wednesday evening.
The general chairman was named in the person of Pete Moritz, and he and Tallett together announced the chairmen of the various committees. They are: Music, Lee Raymond; Decorations, Herb Melton; Arrangements, Don Potter; Programs, Ed Cummings; Publicity, George Kelly; Invitations, Bill Carroll; Favors, Tom Sweeney; and Patrons, Co-chairmen Jack Finnigan and Bob Owens. Jack Jeakle was appointed as chairman of the Saturday entertainment which will consist of the usual tea dance or some one of the other ideas under consideration.
Last Friday evening General Chairman Moritz announced a plesescite to determine whether the majority of the Seniors desired a Fall or Summer Ball.
There will be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next Friday because of midsemester examinations. The next issue of the SCHOLASTIC will appear on . July 17.
7
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
Top of the Week:
All the teachers are smiling.
And His Men Are Bonded
We can’t understand why our local plumbing champion, Harry Nicodemus, didn’t win all the prizes at the motor boat races two weeks ago. He certainly must have felt right at home down there on the beautiful St. Joe.
It Shouldn’t Happen To Harvard
Do any of you remember the picture, “Spirit of Notre Dame”? Too bad the film wore out! You would have seen it eventually in Washington Hall. Well anyway, Warner Bros, are thinking of doing the picture over. The hero will be played by that great lover and athlete, Lionel Barrymore. The heroine naturally goes to school at “The Rock,” so Warner Bros, have to cast someone in the role who has all those outstanding qualities which identify the St. Mary’s girl. So far it’s a toss up between Edna May Oliver and Zasu Pitts. George Gipp will be portrayed by Mischa Auer.
WantedrMore Zippers
Johnny Boyle, local operator from Alumni, was visiting his girl friend in South Bend the other night. Visiting in this case is synonymous with ,“ Hi babe, wanta howl?” Any way, the lady was giving our fugitive from a sax section tile once over. “You certainly look handsome tonight Johnny dear,” the young lady cooed. “Do you have all your shirts done at the school laundry?” To which our hero replied: “Oh no. I rip all the buttons off myself.”
Student Manual P. 28, Par. 6
Four Notre Dame lads were strolling nonchalantly along one of-the more pop- , ular beaches up at Lake Michigan, paying no special attention to anyone, except" maybe an ocasional blonde. It was a warm day and the boys were quenching their thirst. Suddenly the four froze in their tracks. No, it wasn’t the Indiana weather making a quick change. They gazed anxiously at a figure emerging -from the water. Not that kind, of a figure! He approached the boys with a good natured smile that bordered on hysteria. Suddenly one of the students spoke: “Why Father! we didn’tkhow you were on vacation!”
Caffein Society
Poor Mr. Connolly! It seems that a group of Navy officers’ wives were spending a quiet afternoon in his place of business playing a little game of bridge. Bridge is O.K. but not when it keeps hungry Sorin Caf book holders from sitting while eating the chef’s latest nightmare. Mr. Connolly, however, handled the situation beautifully. If you’ll just drop downstairs in the dining hall, you’ll see a number of tables and chairs neatly arranged so the ladies can have their afternoon sessions.
We have it on good authority that the school is seriously thinking of installing a cafeteria system in the East dining hall, come next semester. This means that the students will have a choice at every meal. The choice will be the first tray or the second tray. Orchestras will entertain all during lunch hour and will be glad to play any request. Most appropriate will be that swell new number, “Nature’s Latest Mistake.” Another new feature will be the installation of electric cutting machines. Just drop your meat under the machine and forget your cares. It’s driven by a 900 h.p. motor, so no sinews will be good sinews.
Friday Knight
Chivalry is not dead. It’s just a little weak. The following is a brief but authentic account of a night at St. Pat’s. As we emerged from the dining hall, we met a few of the fellows.
.“Where you going tonight Charlie?” we cried. “Oh, I guess I’ll take in a show,” he called back. The liar.
We walked in the gate at St. Pat’s. Well, look who’s here. Yep, it’s old Charlie. These Friday night affairs are really popular with the N.D. men. Too bad they aren’t more popular with the girls. We estimated that in a recent private dance survey, it was Notre Dame six to one.
One of the features of the evening is what is known as a “John Paul Jones.” From where we were standing it looked more like a “Paul Revere.” The object of the scrimmage seemed to be this. The girls gathered at one end of the room and the boys at the other. So far, very sensible. When the gong sounded, they came out fighting. The Phy-Ed school is thinking seriously of making it a part of the curriculum. Another novelty was a shoe dance. The most novel part was the shoes. Each of the girls placed a shoe in the center of the floor. Notice that we say placed, not dropped. If they had dropped '
those boats, they’d go clear through to the cellar; basement to the English men. Then the girls retired to one end of the room. At a given signal such as “O.K. fellas! If the shoe fits, etc.,” the boys dashed for the pile of shoes. The wise ones continued right on past the shoes and grabbed a girl, then the shoe.
The music was divine. Why is it, though, that a stupid freshman always has to be the corny master of ceremonies? The gentleman last Friday evening was most obliging in his choice of records. For instance:
Master of ceremonies: (after a short advertisement). “All right now fellas, a ha ha ha. How about a bit of conga, eh? Let’s see you Latins from' Manhattan give out, eh? A ha ha ha.”
Audience: “Booooooo! Throw him out! Play something slow!”
Loud Speaker: “1-2-3 kick.” (Mttch grumbling).
Charge of the 1300
Last Monday more of the V-7 boys arrived for their initial Navy training. It was easy to distinguish the Navy lads from the returning weekend students. The Navy boys didn’t look sea sick and they didn’t look like they were walking the poop deck in a storm. It was interesting listening to the remarks of the V-7 men as they rode up Notre Dame Avenue in the buses.
“I . feel-like I’m a prisoner already,” said one lad as he looked at the slanty eyes of the driver.
“There’s the school,” said another as he pointed to the stadium.
“Who’s that standing up there on the roof?” cried- a third as he shielded his eyes from the reflecting sun on the dome.
“Gee,” cried a fourth, “where’s all the footballs?”	-
We know you’re going to like it here though, fellas.' If you ever want directions, don’t fail to hail a student and ask him. Chances are 9 out of 10, he won’t be able to help you, but it’s one way of getting acquainted.
Famous Last Words
Freshman: “I don’t care what you Seniors say. I’m gonna eat one of those mystery balls!’’
Correction Please
The WEEK erroneously reported that the project behind the Law Building was to be an airport for training nurses. We have been informed that it is really a Victory garden for Alumni.
Bottom of the Week:
Here come those mid-terms!
8

JULY "REVIEW OF POLITICS" TO APPEAR SOON;
PROF. NEF CRITICIZES GUARDIANS OF LEARNING
RICHARD POWERS
In the forthcoming July issue of the campus quarterly, The Review of Politics, Prof. John U. Nef of the department of politics at the University of Chicago presents a shrewdly logical criticism of the guardians of learning in America in his article called “Philosophical Values and American Learning.” By going back to Montaigne’s Essais, Professor Nef finds “a trace of wisdom” in the greatest French skeptic “which forms the springboard for his reductio of present-day American learning. Montaigne said that he found it difficult to change when any new doctrine is presented to him. “I am distasted with noveltie....,” he says, “whatever countenance it shows.” This attitude towards the new science of investigation and measurement of Bacon’s and the other 17th century English thinkers’ is definitely a reactionary one. But Professor Nef’s point is that, in the centuries that have passed since Montaigne and Bacon, scientific inquiry has progressed farther and farther into the measurement of matter and in discovery of. “noveltie,” and now seems to have reached its limit. He cites recent writers such, as Sorokin and Stace and others who are all concerned with this end of our epoch which we are witnessing today. This end, Professor Nef believes, has been brought about simultaneously with the conclusion of our research into matter. What we seem to be searching for now in matter is novelty, which eventually leads to mere nonsense. By analogy, our philosophical speculations incline towards mere novelty instead of continuity. What is needed in our country especially where material advancement by the principle of novelty has been so great, is a solution to our human problems which can only be approached philosophically and with a sense for continuity and not for. novelty. The author holds that' a touch of old fashioned skepticism towards modern novelty-seeking thinkers will perhaps be a step forward in solving our problems of mind and spirit.
In the second part of his article, Professor Nef very clearly and precisely puts to work his skepticism. He trains it against the biologist or any other precise scientist who claims that human problems will be solved by breeding a new race of superior mankind. He points to the grim evidence of the war today as the result of the theory that man’s
spiritual problems can be solved by the manipulation of masses of matter. It might be objected that Professor Nef advocates the abandonment of positive science until the human problem is solved by philosophy. Though we must concentrate upon virtue and ethics and religion we must not at the same time lose sight of the importance of positive science. Against this philosophic treatment of modern problems, however, comes this one stumbling block which has been pushed before many a philosopher: the philosopher or theologian does nothing to increase the abundance of the true, the beautiful and the good, however independent of material causes they may be. The third section of the article is devoted to a brilliant and witty reductio ad absurdum of both this argument and another one, “that truth, beauty and goodness are nebulous.” Taking the second argument first, Professor Nef uses instances from contemporary American life and shows the absurdity of those who doubt the existence of these virtues of the intellect. Like every adept logician the author turns the -first argument against the objectors themselves by putting their principles into practice instead of acting contrary to it as they ordinarily do. He pushes them with his inescapable logic to two alternatives: they can claim that education is desirable because it provides a living for teachers; or, they can argue that it is desirable . because it adds to the health and wealth
of the students.	,
Throughout the paper, Professor Nef’s style is sharp and stinging and above all .. logical.- He concludes successfully with these doubts:	•
“Unless the argument moves in one or the other direction,.it dissolves into, nonsense. Nonsense is delightful; it is a ' great relief in a world tearing itself
apart. But is it a defense of learning? ' Is it a defense of education? Can the . . existence of the good be destroyed by
folly? When related to learning, isn’t a little folly, like a “little learning,” a dangerous thing?”	.
Other contributors to the July issue of the Review are: Professor Timasneff of Fordham, who discusses the Russian Revolution; Goetz A. Briefs, professor at Georgetown University, who reviews Sorokin’s Crisis of Our Age; the Rev. William F. Cunningham of Notre Dame,
writing on Nazi Education; William 0. Shanahan, professor of history at the University, who analyzes Literature on War; and Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics at Notre Dame, reviewing books on Naziism.
Editor-in-chief of the Review of Politics is Prof. Gurian. Associate editors are Prof. Francis J. O’Malley and Dr. F. A. Hermens. The Review of Poli'ics is one of the four professional publications of the University; of these four it is the , most widely read and circulated.,It appears in January, April, July, and October.
Profs. Schubmehl, Shilts
At Engineering Meeting
Dean Raymond J. Schubmehl and Professor Walter L. Shilts of the Engineering School attended the 15th annual meeting of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education at New York City, held from June 27-29.
The task of engineering colleges in the war effort was the principal point discussed during the meeting. Also stressed was the importance and need of engineers during the present crisis. It was suggested that the various universities give the students in engineering as much education and training as possible, even though the schools would not be allowed to grant all students sufficient time to graduate.	-	'
The main meetings of the convention were held at Columbia University while the sectional assemblies took place in the 12 various engineering schools of the New York metropolitan region. -
It has been the policy of Notre Dame to send representatives each year to the convention. This enables the University . to keep in touch with the trends of engineering education.—Richard Kisgen -
Prof. Chizek Attends
Accounting Convention
Professor Cletus F. Chizek, head of the Department of Accounting, recently attended the annual convention of the National Association of Cost Accountants in Chicago. The meeting was devoted to the matter of war contracts and accounting problems rising out of the war.
The N.A.C.A. is made up of accounting executives and educators; its membership totals 11,000. There are 68 chapters throughout the United States. Prof. Chizek is Director of Publications and Education of the local South Bend chapter. -
9
Lt. John F. Davis, Q.S.N.
Awarded Flying Cross
Lieutenant John F. Davis, U.S.N.R., of Evansville, Ind., a graduate of Notre Dame in 1938, has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for skillful handling of his patrol bomber during a Japanese attack on Jan. 17. Announcement of the award was made by the Navy on June 27.
The announcement came as a complete surprise to his family who, except for a few cables, have had little news from Lt. Davis since the outbreak of war. His father, suffering from a stomach ailment, received the news in St. Mary’s Hospital where he received three transfusions on Friday, June 26. He had improved Saturday and, with the news of his son’s feats, gained enough strength to leave the hospital July 2.
The last letter Jack’s family received before the Pearl Harbor attack was dated Nov. 29 from Midway Island. After a few weeks of patrol duty there, Ensign Davis was transferred to Pearl Harbor just before the assault on Dec. 7. His only, words about the onslaught were, “I was there, Dad, and saw it. all. I’ve plenty of stories to tell you when I get back.”
There was a cablegram from him on Feb. 22 out of Soerabaja and one March 1st from Perth, Australia. Two letters in June have no postmark. His latest address is c-o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. In his letters home the most exciting news he mentioned was his marriage to an Australian girl, Mary Clarke, of West Perth, on April 21.
The Navy declared that Davis’ exploits have already become legend, and as a consequence of his outstanding work promoted him to the rank of Lieutenant junior grade.
Lieutenant Davis, a graduate of Memorial High School, received a degree in Mechanical Engineering from Notre Dame in 1938. He won his wings at the Navy’s Pensacola’Training Station and was immediately stationed in Hawaii.
—Shaun McDermott
John Flynn, Notre Dame, *36 Reported Missing in Action
R.A.F. pilot John V. Flynn, of Washington, D. C., who received a bachelor of philosophy degree in the school of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame in 1936, has been reported in an Associated Press item from London to be miss-ing in; action. Pilot Flynn, formerly of Chicago, was credited with shooting down a German Messerschmitt plane last fall.
10
Mr. Armstrong Speaks At Alumni Council Meeting
Mr. James E. Armstrong, director of publicity at the University, is attending the National Conference of the American
James E. Armstrong
Alumni Council, which is meeting in Hot Springs, Va., July 8-11. Mr. Armstrong is scheduled to give the keynote speech in the magazine section of the Council on Saturday the 11th. He will speak on “How to Run a Magazine During the
War.”
The membership of the American Alumni Council is made up of all the executives of American colleges and universities. As an organization of professional alumni workers, it is one of the outstanding societies in the country.
Professor Daniel O'Grady To Leave for the Army
Mr. Daniel C. O’Grady, professor of philosophy at the University, will leave soon to join the United States Army.. Prof. O’Grady has passed the induction physical and will probably be stationed at Camp Perry, Ohio. He is now . on a 14-day. furlough.
Prof. O’Grady has been a member of the faculty since the Sept, of 1926. He received his Ph.B. from the University of Ottawa in 1924, and his A.B. and Ph.L. from the same university in 1925. His A.M. he received from the Catholic University of America in 1926 and his Ph.D. from the University of Ottawa in 1927.
Mr. John J. FitzGerald, assistant professor of philosophy, has received his commission as a lieutenant junior-gradi. He is in the DV-P class of the United States Navy.
Outdoor Art Classes Held;
Exhibit-Plans Outlined
An innovation has been introduced in the department of art for the summer semester in the holding of landscaping classes out of doors. The art students have discovered various locales, such as the Notre Dame farm for rustic scenes, the glades around the lakes for any water scene, etc.
One day a week the students paint what is called a “Mudhead.” The term was originated by the late Charles Hawthorne, great American painter.- In introducing this study, the Art department has brought a bit of Mr. Hawthorne’s Provincetown, Cape Cod, to the campus —sans ocean. The “Mudhead” is a model posing in blue jeans and a large straw hat. The hat shades the figure’s face, making the features undistinguishable. For this reason the model is referred to as a “Mudhead.”
In the designing class the students are working on a series of small pen sketches for the December Dome.
A series of exhibits to extend throughout the year is being planned by the department of art. The first of these is to open as soon as the Wightman Gallery in the library is repaired. This will be an exhibit of the students’ summer work and will include water color paintings, oil paintings and pastels.
The second exhibit will be a collection of prints of famous contemporary works and reproductions of old works by great artists. This show is particularly for the student body and when it closes the prints may be rented by the students for their rooms. This is a service rendered by the department of art and is modeled after the plan started in the depth of the -depression by Alexander Woolcott and - Claire Boothe for the Metropolitan Art Museum in New York. The idea was quickly taken up by museums and schools throughout the country as part of their art appreciation courses. Through this service the student becomes acquainted with the masterpieces and develops a taste for art. The . Notre Dame prints ‘ represent a collection made over a period of five years.
The third exhibit will consist of recent water color paintings by Mr. Francis J.
. Hanley, professor of art at the University. This will open Sept. 20 and continue through Oct. 20.. This year’s traveling
-show of water colors.by Mr. Hanley has just concluded a . ten months’ tour of
. Midwestern and Eastern Catholic schools and colleges. -	-
Academy of Politics Has.
First Summer Meeting
The first meeting of the Academy of Politics for the summer semester was held last Thursday in the K. of C.-Lounge. As the new officers took charge, candidates for membership were received
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.
and plans for the coming year were discussed. Arrangements are almost definite for having a faculty member* of the Department of Politics address the club at ■each meeting.
The new officers for the current session are, president, James Murray, an Alumni Hall senior from New York City; vice-president, Walter Jones, from Anderson, Ind., and Sorin Hall; treasurer, Charles Lewis, from Sorin and Philadelphia, Pa.; and secretary, Kevin O’Toole, a Sorin Hall senior* from Chicago. The faculty advisor for the club is Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Politics.
The Academy of Politics was founded in 1937 as an honorary society for the students of political science. The aim of the organization is to promote a closer union and a stronger bond among those students exhibiting a serious interest in the science and philosophy of politics. The society meets twice a month at which time a paper is presented by a member, followed by a round table discussion.
The next meeting of the Academy will be held July 15 in the K. of C. Lounge. All those desiring entrance are invited to attend or present applications for mem-
• bership at 263 Alumni Hall.
—James Murray
Clubs desiring publicity in the Scholastic are requested to hand in their information not later than 9 o’clock on the Monday night preceding each issue.
$	S
Buffalo Club Has Plans For
Dance, Bowling Party
The spacious Rockne Memorial lounge was the scene of the first meeting of the Buffalo Club last week. The purpose of the meeting was to elect officers and discuss possible activities for the summer semester. Much of the time was spent considering tentative plans for sandwiching a dance in Buffalo between the semesters, such as was held during May. A bowling party to be held in late August for the purpose of replenishing a depleted treasury was also discussed. If put into effect, the party will be open to all students in the University.
The club, which boasts a membership of 62, elected Ed Duquette to succeed Bill Fallon as president. Vice-president is Bill Gardner, and the secretary and treasurer are John Egan and Bill Lawless.
Buffalo alumni and students make it their policy to be especially active in stirring up interest among prospective high school students in their home town. Last year, under the direction of Ed Steeb and John Denney, several movies of the campus and football games were shown in the schools throughout the city in an effort to make the younger generation Notre Dame minded. In this the Buffalo club is unique and stands as one of the most profitable organizations on the campus.—Mark DeMots
Haley, Kralovec Speak Before Round-Tablers
To every member of a campus discussion club there comes at one time or another the necessity of preparing and delivering a paper worthy of the standards of his respective club. Such moments presented themselves to two members of the Economic Round Table last month when Frank Haley and Charles Kralovec presented their papers to club members at meetings in a downtown hotel.
Haley, who hails from Sewickley, Pa., discussed several methods of avoiding post-war economic difficulties when he read his paper on “Inflation.” Kralovec proposed a permanent union of the democracies as a permanent peace measure when he presented his paper. Discussion by club members and rebuttal by the speakers followed each paper.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the department of politics was a guest at the latter meeting. Professor William Downey of the department of economics is faculty moderator for the Round-tablers who hold weekly meetings.
Biology Club Elects
Officers, Plans Summer
The last two weeks have been busy ones for Notre Dame’s Biology Club, the campus organization for pre-medical and pre-veterinarian students.
Two weeks ago, their first meeting was held in the Biology Buliding and election of officers for the summer and fall semesters took place. The office of president went to Bob Nelson, a junior chemistry major from Cavanaugh Hall and Auburn, N. Y. Donald Seuffert, a junior, and John Shea, a freshman, both premeds, were elected vice-president and secretaiy-treasurer, respectively.
A week ago Monday was the occasion for a combination meeting of the Biology Club, the Academy of Science, and the Chemistry club, the “big three” of the College of Science. A lecture on “The Water Balance in Animals” was given by Father Beider, Ph.D., from St. Francis Seminary, St. Francis, Wis. Members of the Biology Department faculty were also present, and the lecture was enthusiastically received by all.
This week a special meeting was called by President Nelson to discuss plans and appoint committees for this year’s activities. Chief plans include a memberprofessor picnic and a club banquet in the fall. A report by the membership committee shows that enrollment has increased from 30, present at the first meeting, to a current 68 members.
—John Shea
Villager Dance Success
Despite the mass evacuation of the campus over last week-end, the Villager Club’s second dance Friday night was a great success. Making whatever improvements are necessary, President Vail Pischke promises still better dances in the future.
One change to be realized is the trans-fering of the dance to a larger and more convenient hall. Although the floor was not overcrowded last week, due to the week-end and inclement weather, a larger gathering resulting from fuller attendance on campus would necessitate a more spacious hall.
A cooling system definitely will be installed in the near future. Due to the drop in temperature last week the system was not used.
These dances are held primarily for the recreation of Notre Dame students, and every opportunity is made to see that they have an enjoyable evening. A number of girls, are sent formal invitations to attend, while the Notre Dame students pay 35 cents for dancing which lasts from 8:30 to 11:30 pun. The date of the next dance will be posted on all bulletin boards.—Shaun McDermott
■ 11
-  ’ -	■-	■	■=! IW
,	>	Ncuuf, at Noite. ^bame ,
*mi	1	... ^	■'"* ■	- ■'■■=	~	...	*'~
THE NEW CLASS
The present group of V-7 candidates looks like one of the finest groups of of--ficer material ever to be obtained by the Navy.
In theii- first few days on the campus, while they were being checked in, assigned to rooms and issued uniforms and clothing, they impressed officers attached to the school with their eagerness to obey commands and learn the “Navy Way” of doing things.
As they streamed into the Navy School from the North, South, East and West, looking eager and fit for the fray, one could understand why this country will win the war.
A glance through some of the questionnaires filled out by these neophytes in the Navy bears out these first impressions.
Some were honor men in their respective colleges; others were star athletes; some had been out of college a few years and successful business men; on the di- . plomas of many the ink is barely dry.
*
NAVY DICTIONARY
Following are the derivations of a few nautical words in the English language that were derived from Greek, Latin, Spanish, French, and Dutch sources:
Admiral—The title may be traced to the Arabic Amir-al-Bahr or admiral (commander) of the seas.
Boats — Derived from Anglo-Saxon “bat” that -stood for boat, small ship, vessel.
“Buccaneers—The term was first given to early Frenchmen in Haiti, who were the original cowboys of that island. The word “boucan” was of Caribbean origin, meaning a dealer in smoked-dried meats.
In the Caribbean area, the hunters placed meat to dry on wooden lattice work, known as “boucans.” “The Boucan-ners” eventually took to privateering and general lawlessness. After the Treaty of Ryswick, buccaneer became the common word for pirate.
Chit — (Hindu word chitti.) Letter, note, voucher, or receipt. It came from the old East India Company. The word has wide use in the Far East and is used throughout the British Army and Navy. The U. S. Navy has used the word for many years. It was probably gained by the Navy on the Asiatic Station many years ago from the “pidgin” English.
12
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
by
THE PUBLIC RELATIONS OFFICER
❖
He always wanted to see his name in the papers, and it was today. He said it would be . . . “in the headlines, just wait and see.” It wasn’t in the headlines and he won’t see it.
Because Bill Swidersky died today.
Column six, page five, under missing it simply reports, swidersky, e. william, and then gives his address and closest of kin. He was one of those “heroic defenders on Bataan,” the paper said, but to the gang back home he was and will always be just plain Bill Swidersky. He would have wanted it that way, too, and he won’t be forgotten by any one who knew him.
Bill had a family, an automobile, a cottage for the kids in the summer, and a good job. But more than that Bill had an Ideal. He couldn’t define democracy, even though his life was a symbol of it. He couldn’t explain what Freedom meant, although it was in his blood. But uneducated as he was, Bill had an Ideal. It was the motivating force in all his living. I whispered to him . . . “Bill, if there are going to be any changes made, you make ’em.” and he did.
If he felt his boys would be better off in another school, he sent them there. If he liked to go to different churches, he went. If he wanted a different program on the radio he got it . . . and his high point of the week was when he sent his own letter to the Voice of The People Column in the local paper. But it wasn’t published. “Badly written” the editor would say, and Bill didn’t get his name in the paper. But Bill still thought, spoke, and wrote what he wanted. He made his own changes, if any were to be made.
Not long ago some outsiders decided they’d try and tell him what to do. “Democracy will perish as a way of Life!” said Schicklegruber. Bill thought it over, and reasoned as he always did. If there were going to be any changes, he’d help make them.
So he enlisted and went where they needed him. He won’t come back. He-probably won’t get much of a burial. But if he wants a monument that will live forever, it’s his. Look, Bill, it’s all yours! Kids still save boxtops from Wheaties . . . mother still waits for the 5:40 to
pull in with dad on it, and the “old man” can still get mad when the Sox beat the Cubs.
Yes, those things are yours, Bill. They belong to you and your pals who went down fighting. There aren’t any changes in Freedom and there never will be!
Because. Bill Swidersky died today.
DID YOU KNOW
That the first warship with propelling machinery below the water line was the screw warship Princeton, designed by
John Ericsson in 1841 . . . the first paddle - wheeled steam warships were the U.S.S. Mississippi and the U.S.S. Missouri, finished in 1841 . . . that the first United States warship to circumnavigate the world was the U.S.S. Vincennes, commanded by Commander William Bolton Finch. The Vincennes left New York September 3, 1826, and returned via Cape of Good Hope on June 8, 1830 . . . the three rows of tape on the collar of the bluepacket’s jumper was authorized in the British Navy in 1857. Lieut. Commander Lowry, R.N., writes:
One of the members of the committee which drew up the 1890 uniform regulations has since said that they then suggested two rows of tape, but that the Admiralty for not stated reasons decided on three, the question of commemorating Nelson’s three victories never being mentioned.
Lieut. Commandei’ Leland P. Lovette, U.S. Navy, author of Naval Customs,' Tradition and Usage writes:
It is likely that the three lines of braid on the collar of a bluejacket’s blouse were selected for decorative effect and have no special significance, tradition to the contrary nothwithstanding . . . John Barry was the first under a commission of Congress and under the Grand Union flag to fight a battle with a British warship and make it strike its colors . . . John Paul Jones was the first to raise the Grand Union or American flag on a ship of war . . . Esek Hopkins was the first commander under a commission of Congress to carry the Grand Union flag in .naval operations and to make a capture under it. ...
Naval Officer Speaks
To Local V-l Candidates
“The Navy wants you to stay in school and finish your education if you possibly can.” That was the theme of Lieutenant TrusdelL Wisner’s remarks to more than 50 prospective V-l candidates, who assembled last Thursday night in the Law auditorium.
The lieutenant brought forth the fact that completing your education is not only a great advantage to you, but it is also your definite patriotic duty. One false notion was quickly dispelled. It was emphasized that the V-l is primarily an officer procurement service. Due to a false report, it has been widely stated that only 35,000 out of 80,000 would be commissioned. Lieutenant Wisner said that these figures should be 35,000 of a possible 40,000 which is almost 90 per cent.
The progress in becoming an officer in V-l, V-5, and V-7 was explained by the speaker. In concluding, it was prophesied that “sooner or later every man, woman, and child will feel the full brunt of the war and we should be ever awake to meet all emergencies.”
Lieutenant Wisner is currently serving as assistant recruiting inspector of the central recruiting division, which includes 13 midwestem states. The lieutenant is faced with the problem of visiting the 396 schools carrying the V-l program in this region.—Phil Keen
NOTES TO YOU
Ensign Robert M. Balmer, officer in charge of organizing the choirs that have sung in the past two classes at the Navy School, is seeking volunteers again from among the group of V-7s.
The last two choirs sang every Monday evening over Station WSBT. Known as the Capt. Burnett Choir, they received widespread acclaim in this area and many letters were received requesting favorite songs.
' One member of the present class, who will feel right at home in the Navy School’s a- capella choir is Robert Austin Davis. Davis sang in a similar choir at Parsons College.
Davis, 24, put in a pretty active career while in college. He played football, basketball and was on the track team. He was president of the student council, vice president of his fraternity, Zeta Theta Gamma, and also managed the choir for one year.
*	* *
Out of the first 33 questionnaires filled out, 10 listed relatives in either the Army, Navy, Coast Guard or Marines.
Jack Frost has arrived on the Notre
Dame campus. Now wait- a minute . . . this Jack Frost is one of the V-7s. His full name is Jack Philip Frost. He’s 25 and comes from 4107 N. Greenview Avenue, Chicago.
This class will discover, as the previous two casses did, that in South Bend nothing is too good for the Navy. The Service Men’s Center at 107-109 East LaSalle Avenue, South Bend, has distributed invitations to make use of its gen-■ erous offerings such as the canteen which has served 1,171 meals since April 18, including free Saturday and Sunday evening suppers. In addition there are 100 hostesses for ping pong, bridge and dancing.
Plans are also afoot to extend invitations to Sunday dinners to this class. Sunday dinners are furnished by citizens of South Bend, many of whom have sons of their own in some branch of the Service.
Lyons Arch — Once Student Lounging Spot, '■ Now Echoes to Tramp of Marching Sailors.
Some of the hobbies listed by this group of V-7 candidates include, collecting classical records and books; stamps; amateur architecture and designing; photography; soldering; woodwork; fishing; hunting and sailing.
*	* *
Clipper—Properly taken from an old English “clip,” meaning to run, fly swiftly. * * *
Most of the material on these pages was written by the Public Relations Office of the Naval Indoctrination School here on campus. Contributions ; by members of the present class of V-7 trainees will be accepted. The purpose of these pages is to promote the already fine relationship between the .. students and trainees.
13
N&bte. 2bam& Spwii.
V9C

Rogers Rangers Claim
Three Losses, No Wins
Jack Denniston
A Breen-Phillips freshman ambled up to a group of juniors the other day. After about five minutes of stammering, stuttering, and scratching his head—until it seemed as if he would scratch it off— he murmured this incoherent question: “Say fellows, who are those men with the grey beards out there playing baseball.” They whirled around and scanned the field south of the Biology Building. “Say, what is this?” the juniors thought. “Have the New York Yankees stopped off here on the way to their four-game series with the White Sox in Chicago? No, those couldn’t be the Yanks, because they haven’t grey beards,” they deducted.
Repeating the freshman’s action of stammering, stuttering and scratching their heads, the juniors finally detected that these old-men were some of the fifthyear students of Notre Dame. They confirmed their conclusion as the “Roger’s Rangers”—they’re still trying to figure out where the “Rangers” part comes in —attempted a practice double play. Bob Fagan, bat boy for the Rangers, bounced a double play ball to pilot-shortstop Joe Rogers. Joe grabbed the baseball on the fourth hop (three of those hops coming off his chest). He flipped the agate to “Rocky” Moran, second baseman, who grabbed the ball, pivoted, stumbled, and then fired the elusive ball to initial sacker “Hammerin’ ” Hank Dahm. Dahm bobbled the ball, and it slid across his arm to the ground.
Well, everything was all right; now it was known who the “old-men” were, and so the third-year men began to instruct the bewildered freshman of the Ranger’s feats. How they have played three games this year and have lost all three. That their team batting average for the three struggles is a shattering .084. That Hammerin’ Hank Dahm is currently pacing the “sluggers” averaging, with two singles and a double in 15 times at bat, an even .200. However, he wasn’t-told that Hammerin’ Hank beat out a bunt and scratched a hit off the third baseman’s glove for his two singles; and how the double was a fluke, affair that dropped between the shortstop and the left fielder in short left for a “pumpkin” two-bagger.
The wonder battery of Bob “Rubber-Arm” Hutton, pitcher, and “Bullet” Joe Fitzpatrick, catcher, have steadied the - team through some of the oppositions famous 15-run innings. Norm “Iron-
Shin” Mueller, Ranger hot comer guardian, made it known the other day, that he has taken out an accident insurance policy. He attests those hits whiz past him at least 90 miles per hour. And he wasn’t ducking fast enough, hence the policy.
An outfielder on this team is guaranteed plenty of running exercise. Charlie Schick, Paul Larson, and Ken “Pee-Wee”
Kirby comprise this well-exercised trio of outer-gardeners.
Joe Rogers has communicated with Andy Chlebeck, Interhall Baseball ruler, about an all-star team being chosen from the Interhall basebailers to play the “Roger’s Rangers.” "
Round Bob Fagan, custodian of the one-and-only broken bat, offers: “We’ll play any team, any time, and guarantee them a victory.” Oh yes, about a victory. The boys have agreed that if they achieve a victory—moral or otherwise— the “Rangers” will be untacked from the Rogers and the new name will be Roger’s Dodgers—with all apologies to the current song.
Alumni II Defeats Faculty In Top Volleyball Billing
The faculty team in the Interhall volleyball loop may well rest this next week before their twilight encounter next Thursday with Sorin Hall, for it was they who fought and scrapped an astounding battle with the muscle-men of Alumni Hall, team II. Gil Burdick, swimming instructor at the Rockne Memorial Pool, and John A. Scannell, head of the department of physical education, shared duties at the helm for the Faculty, pushing Alumni II to five games be
fore the celebrated seniors wriggled through to capture a win. Coach Tom Brock’s St. Edward’s haliers still hold a one game lead over Alumni Hall II, as the result of turning down Alumni team I in three hard fought sets, 15-12; ‘ 15-10; and 15-9. Peppy Ed Krupa spearheads the current first placers.
Alumni Hall, team I, strengthened 'by Andy Chlebeck and Jerry Moore, stopped Dillon Hall in a tussle abbreviated by rain 15-10; 9-15; and 15-7. Jerry Cowhig, Bucky O’Connor, and John Yonaker appeared the better water-poloists for Dillon. Tom Cooney, Jerry Moore, Frank Haley, Bob Walsh, Andy Chlebeck and John McNulty battled the rain a little better than the Dillonites to score the hard earned victory.	/	.
Breen-Phillips kept Dillon from the . cellar by politely succumbing to the Navy
ROTC. It marked the return of the ROTC to the win column for the first tune in two weeks.
The old October villain—rain, paying . an out-of-season call for three evenings, forced the postponement of six games, which will be played at a later date.
Results: Alumni II, 8-15-12-15-10 defeated Faculty, 15-10-15-9-15; Alumni I, 15-9-15 defeated Dillon, 10-15-7; ROTC,
15-15-15 defeated Breen-Phillips, 4-8-7; St. Ed’s, 15-15-15 defeated Alumni I, 12-10-9.
Schedule—Week of July 13: Monday and Tuesday—no games, mid-semester examinations. Wednesday (July 15), Sorin vs. Alumni I; ROTC vs. Alumni II. Thursday (July 16) Dillon vs. Walsh; Sorin vs. Faculty. Friday (July 17), Cavanaugh vs. Sorin; Dillon vs. St. Edwards.
Standings:	WON	LOST	PER.
St. Edward’s 			 4	0	1.000
Alumni II .......			 3	0	1.000
Cavanaugh 			 3	.1	.750
Alumni I 				 2	1	.667
Walsh 		2	2	.500
NROTC 		2	2	.500
Faculty					 1	1	.500
Sorin 						 0	2	• .000
Dillon’ 			 0	3	.000
Breen-Phillips 			 0	4	.000
—Jack Denniston
Cavanaugh Boxers Await First Intermural Bouts
Cavanaugh’s interhall boxers will clash with either Dillon’s or Alumni’s leatherpushers Wednesday night, July 15, in the gymnasium, rmless the University has scheduled some other event for that
date, Coach Dominick Napolitano announced this week.
Heading Cavanaugh’s fight lineup are the following:
-Johnny Quinlan, 127; “Mickey” Finn, 165; Walt Romito, 145; “Slug” Stevens, 155; Tom Kerrigan, 175; and Jack Whitely, heavyweight. Kermit Rousseve, current welter champ of Indiana collegians, is coaching Cavanaugh’s hopefuls. The Alumni and Dillon rosters were incomplete at this writing.
.Following the first fights, cards will be conducted every, two weeks instead of weekly as originally planned. Each pugilistic program will consist of the regular eight divisional bouts along with three exhibitions in which past and present Bengal Bout kingpins will participate.
For August 29, “Nappie” has mapped out a huge outdoor boxing extravaganza
14
to climax the current season. At present, exact details are only in the infancy stage.
Daily the Irish interhall pugilists continue to improve in the wisdom of the squared circle. Aided by John Peasenelli, Coach “Nappie” works the slugsmiths out over a carefully planned routine.
Almost 100 men have now been signed up with different groups training at separate times according to their class schedules. When the Scholastic visited the Rockne Monday to get a glimpse of hard-working ringsters, the following men were present:
Sam Atwater, Kermit Rousseve, Jack Padore, Sam Meyer, Harry Florence, Farrel Quinlan, Bill McNamara, William Huber, Paul Malloy, Bob Dunne, Joseph Becker, Clint Wilkins, Tom Hessert, Bob Kraft, J. R. Holdern, Jim Dacey, Robert Reilly, Pete Mancini, Otto McNaughton, Jim Waleavy, and Jim Walpole.
—Bob Dunne
INTERHALL TENNIS
Interhall tennis made its debut into the summer program this week when the official schedule was announced. This practically completes one of the fullest interhall sports program ever attempted at Notre Dame.
Eight teams will comprise the league. These are: Faculty, Alumni, Walsh, Cavanaugh, NROTC, Dillon I, Dillon II, and Breen-Phillips. Seven matches will be played by each team throughout July ’ and up to August 20. Each Tuesday and Thursday there will be four teams battling for supremacy. Each match ■will 'consist of five singles and two doubles. Tennis coach, Walter Langford, urges more activity in the hall ladder tournaments. The weekly standings in these tournaments will determine the ranking of each member of his hall team.. Standings on the ladder are to be posted at the clay courts.
Captains have been assigned each team and are to be responsible for the presence of his squad at the courts at the correct time. The captains are: Faculty, Walter Langford; Alumni, John Doerr; Walsh, Fred Funk; Cavanaugh, Bill Talbot; NROTC, Roy Grumbine; Dillon I, Jim Whalen; Dillon II, Jack Collins, and Breen-Phillips, Bud Steffen.
The varsity tennis meet, scheduled for last Sunday, was postponed due to the mass pilgrimage of students, including the players, from South Bend to parts unknown over the Fourth of July “daycation.” This match will be played tomorrow. On Sunday, Club 25 of Gary will try to break the spell that the Irish have held over their opponents all season.
The interhall schedule for the next week follows:
July 14, NROTC vs. Cavanaugh; Dillon vs. Faculty.
July 16, Alumni vs. Breen-Phillips; Walsh vs. Dillon II.
—Phil Keen
Hoosier Beer Nine Wins Second Game From Stars
A blanket of darkness screened Cartier Field last Thursday evening to smother the drone of Hoosier Beer bats that for the second time in a fortnight fed
Z	A A	a n overdose o f
I < 9 1/	base hits to the
I y	Irish Stars and
V	choked the sum-
■—mer varsity, 10-4.
Jake Kline lev-eled three hurlers "	at the bombing
brewers but the combined efforts of “Bobo” Fischer, John Creevey, and “Nibs” Trimbom were not enough to quell the clamoring bats of the Northern Indiana league unit. Decidedly weak on the mound the Irish Stars were unable to splatter the Beers with enough base blows to make up for the mild slab performances. The Hoosier lads cruised along to muster a total of 14 hits during the twilight affair while the Stars scraped but four blows together.
The Beers’ runs, like grapes came in bunches. They cropped four runs in the top of the third frame—enough scoring to smother the Stars complete offensive work of the evening. The downtown crew added two more tallies in the fourth and, not satisfied, punched four more men across the plate in the fifth.
Chrobor was headman on the hill for the visitors limiting the Irish to four birigles..He extinguished the only severe scoring threat of the Stars in the last of the third by striking out Evans and Creevy and forcing Dick Creevy to fly to deep left. Third baseman Lou Costello, former Irish diamond star, relieved Chrobor to set the Stars down in the last of the fifth. Using a fast ball and delivering from the side Costello had little trouble holding the Irish scoreless in their final turn at the plate.
Gore first up in the last of the third shaved second base with a hot single and trotted to third when Mitchell wrinkled the outfield grass with a one-baser. Tallet then singled Gore home and Mitchell, the West Virginia wildfire, skipped / to third. Chrobor went all out throwing the ball over the head of Pierce, his battery mate, and Pierce retaliated letting the next pitch hop through his legs as the final two Irish rims bounded home. Kisgen felt a curve . bounce off- his back as Chrobor’s once effective tosses went awry. But the lanky
(Continued on page 23)
Campus Golf Tournament
Gets Underway Tomorrow
Aftei- watching the brigade of national college golf champions that shocked the galleries with unerring chip shots, perilous putts, and lightning drives down the narrow green of the Chain O’ Lakes fairways the golfing members of the student body should have assimilated enough golfing tips to improve their games by many strokes. The opportunity is now at hand to put this acquired knowledge to very valuable use.
Father George Holderith, who has just finished the gargantuan task of playinghost to some 145 collegiate golfers, announced this week that the annual tournament held each year to determine the best- golfers on the Notre Dame campus will start July 11.
A new individual champion will be crowned this summer as John Conry, last year’s leader, graduated in May. Members of the Varsity squad that reeled through an undefeated semester are ineligible to compete in this affair. The field will be great with every entrant having an equal chance to strut off as Notre Dame’s individual golf monarch.
The qualifying rounds for the tourneys will be held on July 11 and 12. The lowest 64 of the original starting group will be selected to continue play. This qualifying group will be gradually reduced until there is but two remaining, contestants. The date set for the finals is August 2.
Match play will commence immediately after the qualifying round has taken its toll and the low 64 medal scores are posted. Definite rules for the playing of scheduled matches will be announced to the entrants but the field will be re- ■ duced to 32 between July 15 and 18. A gradual reduction will see the group sliced to 16 in the second round of play from July 19 to 22. The third round schedule from July 19 to 22 will lead up to the quarterfinals which will be played inclusively between the dates of July 23 and 26. The semi-finalists will tangle between July 23 and 26 with the finals settled on August 2.
Those who still think they are not competent enough mashie-maulers to enter the open tournament will have a chance to get into the competitive golfing circles. The inter-hall championship will be decided the third and fourth weeks in August with trophies and awards awaiting the victors. So Mr. Golfer take that rusty niblick out of the dusty bag in the corner or under the bed and start slicing a few reconditioned spheroids out of the sand traps or from the tee. Your big chance is beckoning.—Bill Boss
15
N. D. GRAD OF 1870 ONE OF BASEBALL'S IMMORTALS; "CAP" ANSON IS ONLY IRISH ALUMNUS SO HONORED
BILL BOSS
Many Notre Dame men had never heard of baseball when young Adrian Anson, the pride of Marshalltown, Pa., romped across the Irish campus one day with a crude bat, overstuffed glove, and a bulging ball. A few curious students timidly hung behind and followed the lanky youth to the acres that are now Cartier Field. Anson and a few “learned” associates took turns passing the ball and belting it with the wooden stick.
This certain Adrian Anson was none other than the famed “Cap” Anson who left behind one of the greatest major league careers in baseball history when he died in Chicago in 1922. This was the same Adrian “Cap” Anson whose memory is now honored by a plaque in the Baseball Hall of Fame in Coopers-town, N. Y.
Anson’s great major league stand came during an age of baseball obscurity. To the people of that age it was just an innovation, a foolish idea, soon to die and be forgotten. But they were wrong. Soon those who did so much to build the great pastime during the latter part of the nineteenth century were forgotten. But the game and their deeds live on. They were the pertinent characters in the organization and success of baseball.
Anson was born not far from the original home of baseball, Cooperstown, and his love for the game was greater
iar of Williams was exactly the same movement Anson used.
During the years Anson’s National League batting record has never been
Photo Courtesy Sporting News
Adrian C. "Cap" Anson .N. D. Man in Hall of Fame
than any of the kids in his neighborhood. Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1870 he played with Rockford of the Northern Association for a year and then shifted to the Philadelphia Athletics of the same league. After three years in Philly Anson had accumulated a fine .375 swatting average. Leaving that city he joined the White Sox of Chicago, then in the National League, where he spent his next two seasons as first-baseman; later becoming manager of the Windy City outfit.
One of Greatest Hitters
In Chicago the long slim bat that was characteristic of the Anson artillery began booming loudly. The authentic old-timers still recognize him as one of the greatest hitters in the game’s history. He was a right-handed slugger and put terrific power behind all his drives. Standing an even six feet Anson never weighed more than 190 pounds during his major league furlough. We could call Ted Williams the contemporary Anson; the long grooved swing' and terrific wrist action that is so famil-
equalled. Old-timers still emphatically declare that Anson was surpassed by no one in the stick wielding department. The great Ed Delahanty, Hans Wagner, and Rogers Hornsby, who are rated as tops in the right-handed department in National League annals, could never cope with the potent clubbing of “Uncle Anse,” as he was later* to be called.
When fielding is mentioned our Irish alumnus has to step to the background for Comiskey and John Morrill of Boston, Roger Connor of the Giants, Al McKinnen of the Pirates, and Joe Start of Providence. Even weak-fielding Dave Orr of the Metropolitans surpassed the Pennsylvania lad in the field. Little hoppers that sneaked toward first base were often bobbled and missed by Anson. He complied the not-so-enviable record of some 58 errors during a major league season.
Anson, nicknamed “Cap” and in his later days “Pop,”-was the first National Leaguer to line out four two-baggers in one game, the date being July 3, 1883. He was also the first player to hit five home runs in two consecutive contests — two on August 5, and three on August 6, 1884. This mark was equalled by Ty Cobb in 1925.
During these horse and buggy days “Cap” became the charter member of the 3,000 hit club. This record has since been tied by Ty Cobb, Hans Wagner, Eddie Collins, Tris Speaker, and last June by Paul Waner. It is certainly a select group. Anson also holds the National League record for most consecutive years played — 22.
To realize the severe punishment the
Clothiers
Tailors
Adler-Rochester Tailored
Your campus sport Coats.and Slacks, —in tweeds, flannels and Shetlands— always correct by ADLER-ROCHESTER.
★ ★ ★.
Headquarters for Navy Uniforms
PARKER-WIN TERRO WD 115^2 - H 7% N. Main Street (Upstairs)
PAUL LILLIS	CAPTAIN GEORGE MURPHY	LARRY KELLEY
. Law Building-	.	.	130 Alumni	- '	- Oliver Hotel
16
old Notre Damei' doled to opposing pitchers we can refer to a clipping from the Chicago Tribune files, dated Sept. 21, 1886: “Anson’s batting average has reached the extraordinary percentage of .393. He has made 50 hits in the last 22 games and has made 29 doubles, ten triples, and nine home runs this season. In the last 23 games he has failed to hit only once and has averaged two hits a game in the last 33.” To modern statisticians this may not seem to be too great a feat, but it must be taken into - consideration that Anson was batting against speedball hurling with the mound a mere 50 feet distant. He didn’t have the chance to clout the live ball that Ted Williams, Joe Gorden, and Dolph Camilli slap around the orchards today.
Manager of White Sox in ’90s
The philosophy of Anson as a major league manager was to make his pitchers work as often as possible. He felt constant work made a man more proficient in his department but he later found out that there was such a thing as burning all the coal in one fire. He often remarked that he had never seen more effective boxmen on any squad than Corcoran, Goldsmith, Clarkson, and McCormack who pitched for his championship teams in the early ’80s.
During his career as manager of the White Stockings Anson developed some of the greatest players in Chicago baseball history. Among the stars he produced are: Hugh Duffy, whose 1898 batting average of .438 has never been topped, Catchers Farrell, Daly, and Kittredge; Shortstops Jimmy Cooney (no, John’s not that old), and Bill Dahlen, Outfielders Jimmy Ryan and Martin Sullivan, and Pitchers Bill • Hutchinson, John Luby, and Clark Griffith.
The greatest controversy in the baseball life of Anson was unearthed in 1887 when President A. G. Spalding sold the celebrated Mike Kelly to the Boston Club for $10,000, then a record price. Kelly was not only a great ball player but also a master strategist. One day during an active battle he scampered from second base to 'home via the pitcher’s mound. The umpire was stunned and the opposing management was infuriated but the rule book had no clause governing the act. The next season there were several alterations in the rule book so there would be no recurrences of the “Slide, Kelly, slide” incident. In 1888 Spalding added salt to Anson’s bruises by shipping Clarkson to the Beantowners for the same sum. Thus within the space of one year Anson was deprived of two of his best players.
Leaving the White Stockings in 1898 Anson managed the New York Giants for a month for Andy Freeman. He then bought a billiard parlor in Chicago and
. later became involved in Cook county politics. He was, for a while, chief of the National League umpires.
Now the only Notre Dame man in Baseball’s Immortal Hall of Fame, “Cap” Anson has left many marks for future Notre Dame diamond aspirants to shoot at.
Attention Mr. Golfer
University golfers have requested that all players be off the University golf course by 7:00 p.m.- each evening. The greenskeepers are having a difficult time during the warm weather keeping the greens in fine playing trim and the trampling of feet over the wet grass is detrimental to its growth. The sprinklers are turned on at seven each evening and interference with the watering is liable to kill the grass.
No players will be allowed to play on the course following the evening meal.

The Duke 50 A summer style v leader for any occasion. In tan and white. Ventilated for cool comfort.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET South Bend
NEW SUMMER STYLES IN LADY. DOUGLAS SHOES —$4.45—$5.45

Career in Majors in Brief
During the off days Billy Sullivan, Notre Dame’s major league representative, is a successful building contractor.
Recently while having a chat with a New York sportswriter Billy related the story of his ten year term in the major circuits: “Back in ’26, Columbia Prep of Portland, Ore., had two players who made the majors. I played third and Jack Wilson,- Washington pitcher, was on first. When I graduated Notre Dame and joined the White Sox in ’31, I was started in a position I had never played, right field.. I faced Alvin Crowder in Washington and got a hit. Later the Sox moved me to third, where I pulled those triple plays. Two seasons later I was catching Ed Walsh, Jr. Our dads formed the famous Chisox battery of a generation ago.”

You’ll be batting for .500 when you step out in a pair of cool, ventilated Douglas Shoes. For college men know that Douglas Shoes are easy on the eyes, OK the feet, the pocketbook. So step up-to Douglas quality and step out in America’s best-known shoes.

Douglas "Down-to-tbe-Wood" construction assures you better fit—greater comfort.
$5-50 _?g-50
Custom and Normal Treds $8.50


17
When in Chicago visit our
Naval Uniform Branch Store
DRAKE HOTEL
THE MODERN GILBERT'S
is
HEADQUARTERS
for
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
Navy Officers' Navy Officers' Navy Officers' WHITES	BLUES	SHOES
Navy Officers' Shirts and Neckwear
THE MODERN
GILBERT’S
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN
18
VISIT OUR CHICAGO STORE-DRAKE HOTEL
Navy Men
TAXI FREE!
TO THE MODERN GILBERT'S
Hail any Cab---Tell the driver “Gilbert’s.” We pay upon arrival.
You'll enjoy shopping in this air-conditioned store for men
EVERYTHING FOR THE NAVY MAN
TRE MODERN
GILBERTS
Mom, dnofbeJir
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE
FOR MEN
19
INTRODUCING
F. “SLUSH” RICHARDS
Philadelphia, the City of Brotherly Love, has sent many promising- young men into the world, and to Notre Dame
it sent Ambrose Francis Dudley. Thus follows a thumbnail sketch of him who would rather be called, “Bud.”
Bud, who came to Notre Dame some three years ago, is the boy whom you saw on the mound for Coach Kline the past season when things were going too tough for the starting pitcher. Bud was the Irish relief man. Baseball has been just another sport, however, for our man of the week who has also seen service at the halfback spot on the gridiron and on the basketball courts.
It was in 1919 that the statue of William Penn, noticed that another member had been added to the Dudley family. Bud is one of the few students who can already call himself a Notre Dame
We carry the regulation
NAVY SHOES
Florsheim’s $10.50 up Freeman’s $6.95 up
Rm 5 Kan
MAIN AT CQUWAX
alumnus having attended Notre Dame Academy in Philly. Further pursuit of education brought him to St. Joseph Prep, also in Philadelphia. During these years, Bud played baseball, football and basketball, being honored in football by a captainship in his senior year. It proved quite logical that he was given this position, too, and here is why. With three years of experience behind him, he led the city in scoring by bringing home the bacon to the tune of 92 points! During this same senior year, Bud played against Francis Reagan, who later became an All-American at Pennsylvania, in the city championship game.
Baseball lost face during these years and it was with the Narbeth team of the Suburban League that pitching duties were again taken up. A record of 12 wins against four losses made Bud a standout.
The next educational institution that laid claims to Mr. Dudley’s prowess was Kiski School. Sports again proved to be the main dish and to show that we are not talking in the singular, Bud, once again, was a three sport man. A tie with a teammate again brought high scoring honors in football. When you realize that Bud’s fellow gridders included Daniels of Ohio State, Engels and Fritz of Michigan and Crowley of Dartmouth you have the answer to whether the team was good or not. It was while, at “dear old Kiski” that Bud played against “Special ‘ Delivery” Jones of Pitt fame. “He wasn’t exactly slow then either,” added Bud.
Here at Notre Dame, Bud teams up, in Sorin, with “Dippy” Evans to write of all things, poetry! “Dip’s much the better poet,” were Bud’s modest words. Whoever the better, we nominate the pair of them as co - poet laureates of Sorin.
A business administration major in the College of Commerce, Bud hopes to receive his degree in December and then use his knowledge of figures to count the number of Jap planes he bags as a member of the Army Air Corps.
Q
Modeling, a job procured for him by “Clipper” Smith, is one of the many jobs •which Bud has dabbled in during the summer months. Bud has helped Jack Armstrong sell Wheaties while Seagram’s and Jockey underwear have also commandeered his services.
A very pretty countenance in a frame - smiled at us from Dud’s desk, and more cross-examination brought us this story. The very close acquaintance is one Bette
Cunneff of the home town. Flicker star Janet Blair is also a “friend.” What is that old adage which says, “it isn’t what you know but who you know?”
Back in the realm of sports, Bud’s favorite team is the Yanks with the' nod going to the late Iron Horse Lou Gehrig as his idol along with Hughie Devore who made his name ’neath the Gold Dome in years gone by. Iowa gets his vote as the best college baseball team he has seen in these parts. The best football team? Are you kidding?
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR’S
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS; 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
• Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory. -
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
the
Dining Room
of the -LaSalle dMel
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p.. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
20
Hello, V-7
The
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Welcomes you to the campus. We invite you to visit our shop at your first opportunity.
Souvenir Jewelry
Compacts Necklaces Bracelets Pins Novelties
Toilet Articles
Toothpaste Shaving Creams Lotion
Soap
Postcards and Stationery Pens and Pencils
Holiday Week-end Halts Hail Baseball Activity
. A great portion of last week’s interhall ' baseball schedule was played in the green seats of Comiskey Park over the weekend as the campus diamond addicts stomped Chicago way for a little big time action. With the birth of another week action has been plentiful and Sorin’s seniority, clinch on the league lead has been strengthened by an 8-0 scalping of Cavanaugh.
Walsh walloped Breen - Phillips, 7-0, while the rest of the circuit remained on the inactive list.
After two weeks of rapid play, the first division battle for the league championship seems to be pinned between the Sorinites, Alumni, and Dillon. The two latter combines, having been victims of a duo of tie contests, remain, at present, . . in the background. Alumni is grinning at a splendid chance this week as they are slated to tackle the tail-end aggregations, Cavanaugh and St. Edward’s. Sorin’s path is a little rougher as they must tangle with the strong NROTC club late this week. Dillon may be dropped a notch lower in league standings when they wrangle with the sailors and the up and coming Breen-Phillips nine.
Next Week's Games
July 15: Dillon vs. Breen - Phillips; Alumni vs. Cavanaugh.
July 17: Sorin vs. NROTC; Walsh vs.
St. Edward’s.	■
July 20: Alumni vs. Breen-Phillips; Dillon vs. Cavanaugh.
GREETING CARDS
.	League Standings				
TEAM	WON’	LOST	TIED	PCT.
Sorin 			 3	0	1	1.000
Alumni 			 1	0	2	1.000
Dillon 			 1	0	2	1.000
Walsh 					 2	• 1	1	.667
NROTC 			 2	1	1	.667
Breen-Phillips ..		 2	2	0	.500
St. Edward’s ....		 0	3	0	.000
Cavanaugh 				 0	4	0	.000
National Journal Reviews
Notre Dame Mathematics
The current issue of Mathematical Re-vieivs, a monthly published by the American Mathematical Society, contains reviews of seven papers by Notre Dame mathematicians: both parts of the Notre Dame doctoral thesis of F. P. Jenks on non-Euclidean geometry, the first part of the doctoral thesis of J. C. Abbott continuing Jenks’ development, and two papers on metric geometry by Professor P. M. Pepper. All these papers were pub-~ lished in the Notre Dame Reports of a Mathematical Colloquium. Moreover, the
issue contains a review of a paper on geometry published by Professor Emil* Artin in the Notre Dame Reports, and of * the lectures delivered by Professor Karl Menger at the Rice Institute and published in the Rice Institute pamphlets.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CIGARETTES
CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
SPALDING . WARFLITE GOLFBALLS
NOT JUST RE-COVERED!
Rebuilt from the ■ center out by Spalding.
Hurricane__________ 75c
Pursuit____________65c
Bomber ________.___ 50c
Recruit  35c.
SONNEBORN'S
121 West Colfax
21
halfback whom many of us have watched with joy. . . . Brother Cyril is probably the most disliked player by pitchers because of his chatter. Speech majors drop around to a game some night for pointers.
The Sorin Sirens
On the old hardball diamond the lads from “Tradition” Hall are still ruling the roost. They have the all-around balance which seems to be lacking on the other-teams and they are making the most of it. Dick Creevy adds spice to the game with his base running and “PeeWee” Clark pitches like nothing we’ve seen on any other team. He has the best control in the league. . . . Walsh is not taking a back seat, as the ease with which the boys breezed through their last three games will testify. . . . “Black Mike” Mitchell is the most outstanding personality. He is a one-man circus and there is no price. . . . John Creevy still leads in circuit drives. He seems to come through with the phenomenal every time.
History Repeats
John McHale was a flashy player at Notre Dame and is still shining with Winston-Salem. Just a few weeks ago with the bases loaded and one out in the last half of the ninth he pushed the ball as far as it would go to win the game, 4-2. John told Bill Reynolds that he was planning to return to Notre Dame this fall, weather permitting. ... On the 15th of this month “Nappie” plans to have interhall boxing matches. At each meet there will be three exhibition matches by last year’s champs and a full card of 12 matches. The big outdoor boxing show may be the 29th of August. Clint Wilkins is really coming along and he may give defending champ Rousseve a scrap.
Green Cap Supremacy
When it comes to softball the Freshmen are tops. R.O.T.C. is partially frosh, Breen-Phillips is solid frosh, which leaves only Alumni for the upper-classmen. At the time of press, the boys from B-P were heading the league and a review, of the line gives a brief explanation. The leading hitter, Al Salvi, and catcher, Bob Logan, are only peanuts compared with the other men aboard the team: Jack Pearl was All-State in Hlinois basketball, Tiny Coughlin was All-State in .Idaho baseball and football, and Jimmy Bucci, the peppiest player wears a brace. He broke his back in high school football but plays one of the fastest infields in the ' league. We agree with Manager Peasen-elli when he claims that he. has a classy ten.
The Fighting Irish
The volleyball tourney has been practically cinched by the Alumni team of. Brock, Commisa, Bittner, Murphy, and
22
Lanahan. They are a treat for sore eyes, especially when the Irish elements start to holler bloody murder at each other. On the serves Rebel Lanahan rifles them so high that the opposition develops and is cured of the “D.T’s.” while waiting for the ball to come down close enough to be slapped. . . . Doc Handy’s track team is still developing. You should hear him brag about White’s work with the discus, Yonakor and Higgins on the shot, and what Zilly can do with a javelin. . . . “Scoop” Scanlan, of last year’s Scholastic, has just entered the service in clerical work. His typing and literary ability did it for him. . . . When you think there are a lot of golf enthusiasts just stop to think of what Dr.'John Scannell has done for interhall sports. There are now over 1200 participating in interhall sports. . . . Ed McKeever has had a big share in bowl teams. He has been on the staffs of four successive bowl teams: Texas Tech in the Sun Bowl in ’38, Texas again, in the Cotton Bowl in ’39, and Boston College in the Sugar Bowl in ’40 ’41. He did not coach on a bowl team last year* because of a school ruling.
Baseballitis
That is what Bill Rich has. We have heard of it but now we know that people do eat, sleep, dream, and talk of baseball. Supt. Chlebeck consulted us about it because he thinks that possibly something should be done. The patient sits in the dugout from 7 to 9:30 rather often doing his classwork. As a result his ball is very good but we are wondering if someone would like to drop around and do his work for him. . . . Fred Gore is still looking for his initial hit. Maybe the nation’s baseball coaches should keep their eyes on their own interhall teams instead of to high schools. ... Bill Stewart is behind the plate every day for some team only he is doing the catching. Maybe he should have done that last Spring when he went out for a fielding job. . . . The brothers and priests of Zahm have taken the place of St. Ed’s team under the pitching of Brother Florian and now are a threat to Sorin’s supremacy. Brother-Mel of Zahm’s team No. 3 is the brother of Billy McGannon, an ex-Notre Dame

108 WEST
Lay Faculty Publication
The third issue of the Listening Post, official publication of the Lay Faculty Club, made its appearance last week. The Post is a mimeographed magazine, which has as its purpose “the better informa-. tion and unity of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame.”
The magazine is made up mainly of ■ short news-items from the various academic departments of the University.
Mr. Louis L. Hasley, associate professor of English, is editor-in-chief. He is assisted by departmental editors John H. Sheehan, Andrew J. Boyle, C. Robert Egry, Francis J. Calkins, Elton E. Richter, James E. Armstrong and Edward R. Quinn.
Mr. Herbert J. Bott, head of the department of foreign cvommerce, is president of the Lay Faculty Club. Other officers are, Mr. James A. McCarthy, vice-president and Donald J. Plunkett, secretary-treasurer.
Whatever Your
and
Requirements Be
YOU CAN SATISFY THEM HERE.
Gifts of Leather for all occasions.
Wrapped for mailing and as gifts.'
HansA Ri ntzsch (uqcpup Shop.
138 N. Michigan
WASH I N GT ON
IRISH STARS LOSE
(Continued from page 15)
hurler found himself as he struck out footballer, “Dip” Evans, forced Dick Creevy to send a long screamer into left that Nemeth managed to tag, and whiffed anxious John Creevey.
A wild heave past third by Tallett started the final scoring spree for the South Bend squad. Their wailing bats had splattered four runs across before Trimborn had time to wipe his brow.
“Lefty” Norris, drawn out Hoosier center-fielder, led both teams in the power department collecting a brace of doubles in three appearances. Mitchell, Evans, Gore, and Tallet divided the four Irish blows between them.
There seemed to be little or no enthusiasm exhibited at all by the Stars when on the field during this scrap. Unlike the fine and spirited varsity squads that Notre Dame has seen before this
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS .503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY 825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY
FOOT AILMENTS
X-Ray Examination	609 J. M. S. Building
Hours by Appointment South Bend, Indiana
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, D.D.S.
Cyril F. Rose, D.D.S.
Peter J. Rose, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Building South Bend, Indiana
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
current nine seems to be listless defensively and ineffective at the plate. This is nothing to become alarmed over. The lads have only been playing together for a few short weeks now and haven’t had time to straighten out the vacation kinks. Seven of the eleven lads that saw duty in last week’s tiff did not play varsity ball during, the past year and are still a bit bound and tense at the plate. A few warm-up contests with nines like the Hoosier Beers and a little more appreciative backing by the student body should lead to more spirited contests. The constant shifting of men playing interhall ball to the varsity scene will improve the team caliber immensely.
Lineups:	-
Hoosier Beers	Irish Stars
' Larry, rf	Pyne, 2b ’	'
Nemeth, If	Gore, ss
Costello, 3b,	p	Mitchell,	If
Norris, cf	Tallett,	lb
Pierce, c	Cusick; c
Hickey, lb	Kisgen,	cf
Snyder, ss	Evans,	3b
Bell, 2b	' R. Creevy
Chrobor, p.	Fischer, p.
J. Creevey, p Trimborn, p.
Score by innings:
Hoosier Beers ....... 0 0 4 2 4 0—10
Irish Stars ......... 0 0 0 3 0 0— 3
—Bill Boss
$25 Prize to be Awarded For Best Rally Idea
Up to this date, student school spirit has been lacking in the cheer writing and song writing contest sponsored by the Student Council.
On June 26, the Student Council announced a plan, whereby a §15 first prize will be given to the student who in the opinions of the judges submits the most original cheer, rally song, or idea for the coming football season.
So far only two students have taken advantage of the offer. This number is a bare minimum of the unexpressed talent flourishing on the campus, and with a §15 first prize, plus four other cash prizes as an incentive, more entries are expected.
Any song or cheer with the typical “Fighting Irish” tang to it should produce results. All questions and entries should be taken to 252 Alumni Hall. July 25 is the deadline. So Notre Dame men, let’s go! This is your chance to do something for your school and at the same time reap a nice profit.
“New cheers and new songs to go with new uniforms.” It’s up to you fellows. It’s your band and your cheers. Make it a great season with some real solid songs and yells.—John O’Hara	.
First Class	■
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to THE HUDDLE
“IMAGINE,” said the Professor, “Imagine ME forgetting this easy schedule!”
A TRAIN EVERY HOUR
South Shore trains leave South Bend 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. to 9:30 P. M. In addition, there are two early morning trains and two late evening trains.
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates