
OUtwardB0und,3½wee1{s ·.· ...... ···•···· .1 
ofbecomineyourself-.Lil{eitornot.•· i 
''I was prepared for the bodyparl ofthe Outw~rd · .'Boundtrip, but I sure was surprised atwhat it: 
. didformyhead:' · · · . ·· ·_ -· . · •·· · 
·''!guess, in asense, Outward Bound has taught . · . · me that I am me. A person withlimits and fears · and frustrations that can be overcome by myseJJ, · · . and with help from other people." ... · .. 
"The bruises and the blisters and the aches were ··. all worth it. So far, OutwardBound has been the most important 25 days in mylife:' 
White-Water Canoeing/Rocl<.-Climbing/Sailing/-. Back-Packing/Hiking/Camping/Expeditions/ · Solo. · 
Year-round wilderness c~urses----standard3½ · weeks or 5 to 15 days. Spring, summer, fall, : • winter (interim term); Men, woinen, co:ed. Minimum age 16½. Partial scholarships . . . 

available. · · · · . :. · · · Sch_ools in Maine, North Caroiina, Colorado, ·. Minnesota, Oregon, New Mexico,·and at · partmouth Colleg~. · ·· · 

. ' .For information, write: Outward Bound, Inc.,165 w. Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, Ct. 06830. Ph~ne (W3) 661-0797. 
'Name·· Ae-e___Scbool_...;.____-'-c---------,-----'-­
mt"ascrnnd 

Street-----------•City_____________.. State_·___Zip____ 



..· . ==-~.::~ ..··. 
. ~ ,· 



~,,,"'~-~~..:..c--~:::~--. 

i 
.-,. -I \::· ·... -·i . ; ! ' 
: . ·:· -)::i.> ­
;.--~· .. , ; ~ . ' 
,,..., 

Illustrations: Tom Paulius, of cou:rs~·-.. Photographs: Ed Brower' 19, 20, . 21, '_30, rear cover / The . Observer 24 /':Tom Paulius 7, 9 (3), 14, 15, 29 l St. Mary's 
Information 5. . ·. · Cover: Photograph by Tom Paulius. Snow­fall and tree courtesy of Mother Nature... 




Scholastic 
Volume 117, No. 6, December 5, 1975 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 4 ·Celebrating a High Society. Victoria Stephan 
7 In. Loco Progeniei Marianne Murphy 
8 The Student as Crucified Maureen· Reynolds 12· At Christmas Francis J. O'Malley 13 The SecrefGreeks of Notre Dame Michael Feord 18 Preambulation·s & Pitfalls:·,. 
A Plumbing of the Senior Bar Paul Starkey 28 The Domers' Recess · Bill Delaney 29 Oh, Puck!, Chip Scanlon 
.REGULARS 10 • Perspective : Morton T. Kelsey 
16 . Gallery · Gary Gross 
23 Jottings Rev. Robert Griffin,.C.S.C. 26 Book Review' · ··Mary Reher . 
27. Week in Distortion J. Robert Baker . 
30. The Last wo·rd. 
S_ally Stanto.n 
Editor 
Staff . . Sally •stanton 
Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno; ,Ron R~ndst~dt, John ,Kenward, Dave

Art Director . 
Dreyer, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Sarahan, Chris Meehan; Mike Feord, Mark· Hopkins, BobTom Paulius Gilroy, Rich Nugent, · Dan Adler,· Richard G.· Landry, Pa'ul Starkey, Susan 'Grace, Dan

Ma.naging Editor 
Lombardi, Rhonda • Kornfeld, Barb . Frey,·. Mark Luppino,, Gary· Harden, Christie Herlihy~John Phelan Paul Hess, Johri Delaney, Judy Robb, Sean Mclinden, J. Peter Delaney, Jim Romanelli,

Production Manager , ' ·: · 
Paul Barickman, Bernie Valenti, Karen Caruso, Jim.· Ryan,· Ed .. Lecuyer, Cary Gerber,Annemarie Sullivan · Moira Keating, Mary Ann Chambers,· John Bartone, Andee .Gotuaco, Randy Cashiola,

News Editor· , 
Kate Bernard, Mike Palmer, Marianne Murphy, Melanie Jorgensen; Maureen Reynolds,Bill Gonzenbach , John Feeney, Mark Amenta, Missy Heard, Julie Runkle, Chip Scanlon, Brian Doyle. · 

Culture Editor 
Robert Baker Assistant Art Director : The opinions expressed in· Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic
Kathy McElroy. 
and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the. Univers_ity of Notre Dame, ,its Steve Slater . . 

Assistant. Production Manager 
administration, faculty or the student body. .Sports Editor Bill Delaney Second~class postage paid at. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. · Th·e 'magazine is represented Business Manager:· for national advertising by National Educational Advertising• Services, 360 Lexington Kathy Salzer . , . Avenue, New York, N. Y..10017. Published fortnightly during the school.year except Assistant Business Manager · during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic. is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre 
Jo·anne Toeniskoetter Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $~.00 a year and back numbers are available'. Circulation Manager from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholas_tic,_ No~re Dame, Ind. 46556. Kevin Murphy· 
Photography Editor All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic.· 
· Ed Brower Advisory Board. . . · , , . , : . copyright© 1975 Scholastic/ allrights reserved/ none of the ·contents•.may b~ repro~ Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, Ed Sanna, ·· duced .without permission. · · · Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles · .. McBride,. C.S.C., Richard Cori kl in : 
• • •.. I ; • • ~ . . • • ~. ' 
' . . . . ' ~ . : . . ~ 
1• 
• .. • • 1 , · , , ~ •. ·1 


Celebrating a High ·Society 
.. by Victoria Stephan 

Fashion; _or, Life in New York is Iigan) is a nouveau riche merchant, fany's blackmailing clerk Marks the second play in the 1915-1916 haplessly. bullied into' ccirru'ption at looks as though he will carry the season of the ND-SMC Theatre. It the. office and meek submission at part· off .quite well, having mastered will be. performed on December 5, 6, . home. Throughout the ·play he ap-·wicked chuckles, and the sly raising ·· 11, 12 and 13 ai S:00 · p:m. in pears as though he wished he were of a single eyebrow. . · .. ··· ; O'Laughlin ·1 Auditorium of Saint somewhere quite distant. . :ivrr. T. ·Tennyson Twinkle -(Mike Mary's College. Mrs. Tiffany (boisterously played Mercadante) is. a poet who also fan­by Kathleen Rink) is a ;former hat-cies Seraphina: His presence in Mrs: 
Anna. Cora Mowatt's Fashion;. or, maker who . rose to become the :Tiffany's drawing. room is justified Life in New York certainly has the grande dame. of New York fashion by its being the· current rage ·10: potential to be a highly entertaining through an advantageous· marriage. patronize poets. Mr, Augustus Fogg play, but its anticipated success is The source of Mrs. Tiffany's trend (Peter· Reiher), described in ·_ the· due to the combined creative efforts setting is her French domestic, Mil-script .as '"a. drawing 'room appen-l of• the· ND-SMC· Drama Department, linette (Jeannie O'Meara); Due to the dage," is just• that. Most · notable and the director's wise avoidance ambiguous distinction of· being a about Mr. F<>gg is his indifference to' of relying on the quality of the Frenchwoman, Millinetfe's vague nearly everything. Prudence (Brid­script. The department has devoted ideas of what is fashionable on the get Ragan),· Mrs. Tiffany's maiden this . bicentennial season to four Continent are enthusiastically ad~ sister, has not forgotten her· origin· American' plays, of which Fashion hered to by Mrs. Tiffany, including (much, to :Mrs;·•Tiffany's distress) is the earliest example of native hilarious malaprops in Fren_ch.. · . ..: and is preoccupied with finding a drama. · Seraphina (Celeste Volz) is the husband. · .First · produced in the mid-nine­Tiffanys' coquettish. daughter. Her The character .of Zeke.: (:T. R teenth . century, Fashion received greatest appeal is her ability to take . Pauii~g); ·.. the .butler and'.c-footman,. polite, if not condescending reviews. orders (especially from her.mother), has been adapted frorri a_ black' fo a The . playwright, Mrs. Mowatt, was notwithstanding the size. of .her ex~ . Cockney, in order to avoid_:_! sup~ 
. a member. of New York's· fashion~ pected inheritance; Thus,. Seraphina . pose-;-unfavorable reactions from ably wealthy set·. who considered is found to be very desirable by membE;rS of the audience who might herself liberated enough to· abandon Snobson (Patrick Marks), Mr. Tif-not find a comic black servant.par-' the_ drawing room:··for a iiterary 
ticularly ·comic. This :calls for:con­career which ·. included writing · siderable alteration, and perhaps the·· poetry, · novels, and magazirie · reasons for such tampering wjthJhe articles, in .addition to Fashioiz_. She original can be questioned. ·A:ma0 went ·on to become. a. professional .. ti.ire· audience should be able to re~ actress. Apparently the unconv~n-.. gard drama in its proper: historical tional Mrs. Mowatt achieved· some · perspective, not .through . eyes notoriety in her day, .thus her plaY · clouded with ·relatively.·.•. contempo~ caused a serisatic>n that frivolous rary issues. However, Zeke· appears·· New York audiences must have de~ , to have survived· the transform::1tion. lighted in. Seraphina's governess;. ·Gertrii'de 
Fashion is . at. best a passable (nicely portrayed by Lisa Colaluca); farce; it is intended. to be seen, not is Mowa~t's mouthpiece; Gertrude is read. It is importa'nt to· point out ·pure common : sense. and virtue. Her . that the characters are not wholes, goodness ·stands out amidst' ma-: but, rather, each character is repre­terialism .·and· superficiality; ..Her •. sentative of a certain . social type. romantic interest and .counterpa;t.is These types ·were as present ·and . Colonel· Howard (J. Matthew Mc-_· recognizable· in .the' mid0nineteenth ''. Kenzie.).. His ·simple, virtuousness· is 
.century as . they .are .today.· The not as extensively (or exhaustively) h·umorous complications result. from pointed out,-as is ·Gertrude's. Adam the interactions of these types in the, Trueman (talented Matthew Regan) manner of a farce. . . is a cu.rious rustic :who has kriown 
·The intrigue. takes place in th2 ·Mr: Tiffany. from :better days; his . · New York household· of Mr. and unexpectE;d: arrival in. the :drawing. Mrs. Tiffany. Mr. Tiffany (John Col-·room.sends Mrs>Tiffany into a state 
. . . -'" 
4 
SCHOLASTIC; 




of extreme agitation. Trueman is a wise old farmer with an insuppres­sible penchant for moralizing .. ~he · most consistently entertaining char-· acter is Count Jolimaitre (adroi_tly performed by Bill McGlinn). The Count is an unabashed opportunist . who finds his way into the Tiffanys' · inner · circle, ; with some cleverly humorous results. I asked Bill to comment on his impression of Fash-. ion, and his approach to the role of',,_ 
Count Jolimaitre. . · .. 
"What occurs, wi_th a script like.' Fashion, and what we've all come· to the understapding of is thatit is very one-dimensional. Itdeals in ·su­perficiality: ancf t:hat's all iUs. We have had trouble, all of us, in· at­tempting to deal with the characters as if they/ were deeper than· they actually were ,/intended to be. They're comic characters abstracted in a style, and you just watch them work, either together in the style, or' in contrast. . 
"You have Gertrude and· True­man, who. might ·signify the good~ ness,. the 'earth;·. quality,. _Then_ you have Mrs. Tiffany and ' Seraphina, who exemplify the height of social vu.lgarity, ,when manners become so affected and_ so:: meaningless ,that they don't point out one's . person~ aHty,. theY simply cover it. Then you, have Mr., Tiffany, who .repre­sents the middle point between. vul­garity of;: social _:manner· and .the earth.· quality of, Trueman_ and, Ger­trude. He's a villain, in ,that he ex­pioits people, but he feels and talks about his wanting to get out of that situation, and he just can't. He is stuck in it by his wife. I think Mr. Tiffany serves as sort of a sounding board for Mrs. Tiffany's character.. 
"We all sound off oL him;· but again,.· they're. all ·one-dimensional characters... It's almost ·a style .of nineteenth-century melodrama. What. the audience sees is what it is; there's nothing more to it. That's why it's . such ·. a heavily· physical show.. Everything has to be pointed physically, so that they catch it­and then we move on. We don't stay back..and · say; 'What .could··_ this mean?' We just do it and move on.· It's not a Moliere. Moliere :was writ­ing a deeper sort of satire. J think this is satire, but_ in that one-dimen~ sional sense. 
"As_ for the Count,"I. was· having trying 'to'" ·build.· a duality ·in the character: My image of him now is that he was: some man's valet or 

.'. chauffeur, and he had been-br'ought up to .. speak properly. -If you were a man's yalet in Victorian England or before, you had to be able to speak properly, . understand· termi­nology and pick up some of the manners of the . house in which• you served. 
' "So we worked from that image and it works very well. · Again it establishes him as aorie-dirri.ensional character,' so that 'in-the end. we a.'ccept ·him; He makes the best of every moment. That's 'all there is tb the Count;' he is a· master. of im~ provisatiori.• He is·able·to·weasel·otit of . every' ·situation,· and usually.: 'to his gain. Frorri that stance/the one­dimensionality of the Count works for me now. It was hard at the . beginning because I kept thinking ·that there must be some.thing more substantial to ·this character, espe­cially after coming out of Indians, 
. where I played Sitting Bull. So the one-dimensionality · was· what_ · I needed to get into, and the style; the physical play of the character." •. 
· After watching several hours of rehearsal, it is apparent that · the cast quickly realized the impor~ tance of style and· timing. An indi­vidual line does not have much sig­nificance; it is. the rapid~fire inter­play of speech and_ 'motion, and the style in which the lines are delivered · that accentuate · the· lighthearted humor.-. . . . _. . · _Fashion is under the talented and witty direction of Mr. Charles Bal­linger. After a perceptive appraisal: Ballinger .has more than compen­sated for 'any failings. in· the· script with his own creative' humor. He has skillfully blended verbal_ with visual and physical elements; .from mediocre literature,· Mr.' Ballinger has created fine theater. He com~ mented on Fashion; and what he is trying to achieve in the•· production: 
"We were looking for ·an All­American season:' We're one of: the few theater groups•-in town· ·that have devoted themselves to a bicen­tennial season of plays. Fashion is a ·representative type of-American drama; We chose Fashion because of its style;-and the fact that it is a comedy.' We needed a comedy in this' season. Indians ': has some comedy in it, but it'is not considered a comedy. Fashion is' a•farce. It is a style of play that .you. are· not always going :to see; more often you will see a Moliere; •It is· an ·example of early ; 'American· comedy and we chose it for that reason alorie; to expose our students1· to this partic­ular style of play: 
· "All comedy deals with a serious subject ·matter; It is through·. its form and presentation that this se­rious subject matter is expressed. It is done in farce, so that we do laugh 
· at it at the same time.· In comedy we have to recognize a situation. We have to see a bit of our lives,--a bit of our: society. We laugh at it be­cause we understand' it. · 
"The more" I·· have studied .the · play,· the' more'I see· of Mowatt's own life ·in the character of -Ger­trude, who seems to have a•bit of the 'women's· libber' in her. She··had abilities, ·as' she says in the' script, 
difficulty with the character; I w'as · arid understanding of _the play, Mr: and she intended to use them: In DECEMBER 5, 1975 
5 

the mid-nineteenth century, this was · not a woman's place. I think that the play from this standpoint does make a statement. It makes a statement about the young American country and its need for materialistic goods; its copy of the European world arid modes. For what else-do we have? Instead of · developing traditions of our own; we for so long brought them with us from the Continent..I think the whole thing is extremely social. Even today we are still very concerned with 'keeping up with the Joneses,' with being 'in with the in crowd,' and the 'in' crowd is very often the one with the money. This is brought out in the play, 'but it is brought out in such .a manner :that we _are not going to preach to_ you, It is a comedy,· it is a farce. We see 
the situation, understand it, and laugh at it. 
"The style we are working In is certainly removed from contempo­rary theatrical standards. It is done 
in a very broad, overt style. There is a great deal of physical activity connected with the play and the presentation. of it. . I am a strong believer in the _use of the body as an instrument of_ expression, as well as the_ intellect and the words. You need a blend between these so that they are not overweighted, one over the other. In this production, _it takes just the right movement with just the right word at just the right time, to get the-point to work It all has, to be synchronized to come together .at the right __ moment. I want the audience to be entertained; I also hope that they will get the social message_ that I think the author intended.'' ­

Faith Adams and Richard Berg­man are working to create a visual atmosphere which win significantly contribute to the comedy. Ms. Adams has been working on .the costuming of the characters since mid~October. She researched fashs ions of the play's era, then designed the costumes herself. -. Ms. Adams and Mr. Ballinger agreed that the costumes should be an exaggeration of the . real, in keeping with · the characters: Thus the costumes -are r!!flections.of the personalities of the 
-characters. Ms. Adams found the designing of the costumes for the character Mrs. Tiffany to be a chal­lenge; the difficulty . is in clothing_ a 
I· 
6 

,j 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
tasteless character without jeopard­
izing the designer's good taste. 

Mrs. Tiffany, Gertrude and Sera-• phina each have three different CCJS­tumes. Gertrude's. costumes._ are basically white, and her style is re­served and .functionaL Seraphina's · dresses are in loud colors, t_rimmed with fringe, ,lace and_ ruffles. Mrs. Tiffany's_ costumes are even more bright, ornamented ·and -overstated. That· Ms. Adams and ·her. assistant seamstresses have spent a great deal of time on-the-design· .and . _sewing of the costumes wiH _cei;-tainly be evident. The costumes combine crea­tivity, humor and _realism to com­plement the characters beautifully. ­
Mr. -Bergman, _the technical direc­tor and_ scene designer,: spent nu­merous -hours ..researching the fur­niture and architecture of the Amer­ican -Revival period in order to find props and -backdrops which suited the style of the play. He selected a -muted -color _scheme ·of soft blues, grays and neutrals as the back­ground for the bright costumes. He is using the wing-drop-border tech­nique,. a series of three panels_ on either side of the stage, with a back­drop.. Again, comic elements have been skillfully furnished. to comple­
ment the characters. 


Mr. Bergman and his crew have built backdrops arid furniture which are, comic inventions. The furniture is overstuffed and gaudy. Many of the props are simply one-dimension­al painted cutouts: Mr: Bergman's work emphasizes the idea in the play that Americans of that period insisted upon •borrowing exagger­ated and superficial fashions, man­nerisms and decorations' frorri Europe: 
Fashion is a play on words, man~ nerisms and style. It is meant'to emphasize superficiality and 'affec­tation. The people involved in the production· -are -seeing to it -that everything verbal, •visual· and phys­ical-comes together in an exagger­ated and humorous way. Fashion might not quite be . a .landmark in the · development of· American drama, but this production will suc­ceed as a comedy. • · 
Like the characters in the play, Fashion is representative· of a cer­tain type; and nothing. more. It must be taken for what it is;. Fashion· is intended · for-· entertainment, not analysis. With these things in mind, the audience should find the produc­tion of Fasliion to be pleasantly en­
tertaining,  --and  certainly.  worth­ 
while.  
SCHOLASTIC  


In loco Progeniei 
"I'm gonna have a leaf!" .What's this?. Progeny in . a dorm on the Notre· Dame campus? But isn't that a direct violation of the sex code? Calm down, administrators, nothing to ·fear. In fact, this "green revolu­tion" is worthy :of true celebration, as plants of. all sizes, colors, shapes and personalities· creep ' their way into the hearts of. those not already affected. Hanging plants,· terrariums, bot.tie gardens and other forms of plant life· are.:all •-increasingly. com­monplace as '· greenery adorns not only the outer but also ·inner ND community. Interviewing a wide cross section from the expert on down · to the novice plant owner, I dug up many opinions on this new plant consciousness. 
Paul Linehan, senior art major and entrepreneur of• ".The Hanging Gardens,"·a· plant·shop that he.oper­ates out of his .room in Dillon; has some insights on this phenomenon. He views it not so much as fad but as: a physical display of man's in­creasing awareness of his environ­ment.· Having come through the in­dustrial revolution giving little care or .· attention to . the environment, man is now compensating by mak7 ing his surroundings more livable. · 
Paul is trying to promote plant consciousness on campus and his vested interest concerns much more thari the monetary aspect of the business. His feelings toward plants have· grown to the point where· he considers ·them his friends and com­panions: "It's great to live with them!" •He admits that:he has gone berserk with plants; his aspirations of becoming a landscape architect had a direct· bearing on this and he is presentlyworking on -plans for a picnic area near the Student Center, 
· It· is because of concern on the part of others before Paul that Notre_ Dame is able to boast of such a beautiful park-like atmosphere and ·. the reason it is so preferred among many universities. Professor Horsbrugh, head of graduate studies in environics, · feels that the sense of tranquility imparted to both stu~ dents and faculty with. respect to the outdoor landscape should hold 

by Marianne Murphy 

true for the internal environment. Many people are no longer satisfied as passive observers of nature and are eager to discover any unknown talerit for cultivation they may have lying fallow. Professor Horsbrugh has put a number of his students to the•. test of responsibility in. plant care. He feels that if a person'can't care· for a plant, giving it the mini­mum: daily requirements, he has no right to even consider marriage> 
By taking on this sense of respon­sibility for plants through nurturing activities, an individual· can gain a self~identity.. This was evident· as many students fell into the role of the proud parent introducing .me to each one of their "babies," obviously their pride and joy. I wasn't bored in the least though, for the .anima­tion with which the plants· were described· usually· left me spellbound, 
Each plant had its -own history, having been grown from just a seed~ ling, another recently raised from the dead. The challenge of. buying 
a . sickly plant arid· discovering one has the ability to revive it brings on a great sense of pride and accom­plishment. The continual growth of the· plant·· offers . physical · evidence of success; as each. new leaf unfurls itself the :"dorm gardener'( experi­ences personal triumph. ·· Besides the inner satisfaction that plants bring, they are great catalysts for social interaction.· One doesn't have.to be a· botanist to discuss his plants'. idiosyncrasies. One owner boasted her plant had. the· power to make· people speechless if they bit a· leaf. (That plant could come. in handy at times ! ) This interaction can take negative forms, such as the fellow who refuses. to . tolerate ·his roommate's plants· because of ·the bugs . they <;lraw. Yet even these hardened characters· can usu.ally · be · won over and may become the big­gest plant freaks around.. 
daily grind of the semester, some



The Student 
students are disrupted by breaks and have great difficulty in getting back 

_into the grind. ·

as John G. Beverly, associate pro­fessor of accountancy, stressed the importance of distancing midsemes­
ters from Thanksgiving break. "Fall



Crucified 
Barrages-of papers,: books, exams and·Jectures have, hit Notre Dame students __ since September.. Before recuperating from· one set of exams and: papers, many ·students •··have found· .themselves in the midst of another. Throughout · the Notre Dame community, there spreads an apathy and fatigue more reminiscent of a war zone .than a -college cam­pus. ,The library has· becorrie · the trenches,. and the_ classrooms, the battle sites. As the semester relent­lessly marches on, a break has come to represent the only -opport1:1nity for students to catch their breaths and_ brace. themselves .for .the final onslaught of: exam. week.,· .•· A degree, of mental and physical exhaustion -unparalleled in _-recent y~ars plagues many Domers as final exam week approaches~ The notice­able increase in tension is:most fre­
.quently attributed to., the absence of an October break in the calendar. One oL the -advantages· of.a break most missed ·is a complete recess of classes directly, following the period of . midterms. __The knowledge that once · the exams are finished ,there will be a break spurs students on in a period that· could otherwise prove emotionally and academically. detri­mental. ­; Many students encountered an un­broken string .of exams, instead of the concentration of. exams charac~ teristic·of October break years. This occurrence proved advantageous -or detrimental, depending on the per­sonality:and sttidy habits of the in~ dividual. -Spaced exams -benefited students who are able to study for exams without noticeably accelerats in·g.;their pace. However, there is a significant number ·of students on campus, who accelerate for every exam regardless of the· time -avail­able for study. 
It was about these students that Dr. Peter Grande, assistant dean of and Thanksgiving breaks can be 
close enough that they [his, stu­

by_ Maureen Reyno.Ids dents] don't recover from,one bes 
fore the other: Some students are 

Freshman , Year , of Studies . com-on continuous vacation and forget 
mented, ''When you are preparing there are classes before Thanksgiv­
for a -test, you are working at a ing.. ; If they are here it is in body 
different speed than when you are only." 
doing daily work. With constant tests -The widespread,-adverse,: effects 
you-are always. on a super-charged experienced. _by students, have_ not 
speed with no letup." Dr., .Grande been as apparent in-the, administra­
further suggested that in)ieu of an tion and faculty: The break tends 
October break, professors should co-to be less of a necessity.·for them; 
ordinate their , exams for the same Furthermore, a break.-for -students 
period and then: let the pressure off. does .not indicate a break, for ,the 
Instead -oL_constant exams, there university's academic ,staff;, and is 
would -be a built-in-break. , usually used as a period to catch up 
The need ,,for_ .a: break does not on· paperwork and to plan·ahead in 
arise · solely, from the exhausting classes. Assistant Dean of Arts, and testing patterns. Rather, _the need is Letters, Robert J. Waddickrin9icated derived from combinations of exams, that he and the othe administrators -special, projects, · reading, assign-keep _working regarclless ; of., aca­ments, papers, -lectures and ,daily demic .vacations. ,Dean Waddick felt assignments. The problems of; class that most· administratoi:-s were more requirements are_ particularly. tax~ concerned about choosing ,·a, con­ing _on students_ in courses which census calendar and sticking _with it 
demand constant .attention and ap~ for a-trial period. ­
plication,· These ·, students . cannot .-A: concensus calendar is also -the afford the luxury._of allowing these goal of the survey distributed·_ by classes_ to slide_ in -order to concen~ student .government. The survey, re: trate on other classes. They have quested student preference on the little guarantee of being able to •traditional calendar ' controversies, ·grasp the missed material. ·-such. as midterm break versus post-
The constant academic _·pressures .__ Labor . Day _start. Student govern­made Thanksgiving a mostwelcome : menf hopes that the results -of the holiday. However, many students :survey will be the·· basis for the feel that_the.five days off at Thanks---scheduling of the calendar for the giving .weretoo>late and too little: ' next: few years. The examination of For them,.,-"October break" has ·the surveys from one section dis­taken on coiinotations that resemble dosed aunanimous partiality for, a a successful cure for cancer more midsemester break over a post-Labor · ­than a cough --suppressant _for the_ -· Day start. _-_ _ -_ ­common cold. --__ Weekend trips, as a substitute for 
Administration-· and professors )he unscheduled break, became one of have iess optimism than students · the. most p:opular methods to relieve about the cure~all advantages to be . depression and revive interest fn gained from a midterm break. Expe-·:classes.··. Home and other. campuses rience. a_nd perspective give these ·were the most mentioned destina0 persons an awareness of the poten-· ,tions. However, an acceptable desti~ tial unfavorable effects of a mid-nation could have been' anywhere semester break t~at students might :without:a 'liorizon dominated by. a fail . to perceive: Dr.. Grande has steeple/a golden dome and a· replica counseled sttiderits who have expe-of Christ signalling for -a touch~ riericed results directly opposite to ---down. · k, flighf Jrom _the campus those intended. Accusto'?ed to --the· -may be the_ cmly--r~coµFse' -open. to 
SCHOLASTIC DECEMBER -5, 1975 



students who cannot divorce them­selves from their studies while on campus. 
No one considered home football weekends to be sat~sfactory breaks from studies. The idea of football weekends as a break was dismissed as a nice theory, but impractical in operation. Students under heavy pressures resented having the_ dilem­m·a of choosing between their -visit­-ing families and friends and their books. 'Excitement was-_ spoiled by the cramming 'which· followed the weekend's' ·departure. ·si-~-Barb~ra Counts, rectress :of Lyo'ris, was_ par~ ·ticularly ,:dubious. about: :'the; con.: sequences''·: of -.football : weekends. "Football·\veekends are)iot ·a sub~ stitute for 'a break.' The pressure 'to' do.. everythfog'on·Sunday leaves· one ready to -collapse. by Monday~foot-: ball weekends bring more "friisfra_;.
tiori.">:_-.-,' 1·-,.;"_,'! · .-: •;·, · 
';. 'Fiustra:tiori• was'the word· used. by 
Dr. Carole Moore, ·assistant profes­sorof history, ti:i'describe t:he· stateof mintf of her students. She said; i•Tliere's 'a -frusfra•tion 'I' haven't sensed before; maybe'' they 'were· spoiled last year:;,_ ;Along· with_ the frustration: she has ·noticed>a higher level o{ tension -and . a tendency to·_ be on' edge..This frustration is an -attitud1{ which seems p'articularlY . charaderlstic•. of students·__ who -are barely ~ble ' to . cope with the pres~ sures of this semester. -. -. . -. ,>Learning how fo cope with 'intense academic pressure· is a major adjust­ment for -freshmen with . a break: Without.. a· break;· the adjustment• takes -_. ~n Herculean 'proportions:· Seniors ' -who -rerrie~bered· • their breakless ·first semester were parUc­
-ularly sympathetic to the freshman 
. _. . ' -~-, .~. . . . , l 
plight. One senior said,_ "It's riot as ---academics, G.P.A. and future em­bad as my freshman year. because . . ployment precludes the education I'm more used to the grind and· I. available outside of· the class frame­can make it through; However, -I work. know 1· was ready to go home long Student attitude towards campus before Thanksgiving my freshman -clubs and organizations is often year." · expressed by excuses of "I'd love to · ,Freshmen tended to. agree :.that' write for the Sclwlastic, but I'd let the semester was hitting them hard-my classes slide when trying to meet est. They felt their initial adjust-adeadline," or "I used to work with ment to being away from home and retarded children, but I need Satur­to handling a college work load day mornings for study." Professor would have .-b.een difficult with: a Beverly supported a midterm break break, and found it sometimes nearly' with the· hope that the ·opportu·nity impossibie without; : -: · . -. to catch up would afford students 
-_A_ comparison of the.:feedback re-·_ the · time for constructive :campus ceived by Dean· Waddick and· Dr. activities ·outside. of academics: He Grande tends to. confirm· that there noted that with. classes like his: ac­is_-a -·greater. ·strain .on-, freshmen: counting ·course; there {s often no Fi-om the <upperclassmen ·in the Col-· space for outside activities;' Student lege of Arts: and Letters, Dean Wad_. reluctance to dig-ress· · from acadein~ dick heard few complaints about the ics·: also extends· to ·attending' ·guest schedule. The dean felt the'sttident lectures or···reading an· unassigned 
comments leaned toward the "Gee, book. -' . -',•. _: . . . . . it would be nice to have a break" ''There is a tendency· to·_ put the variety. -_ humari side secondary to· ·academics At Freshman Yeat; Dr.: Grande here. Living. p~opie ·n.eed time· to 
thought : the 'freshmen were very work out problems, buti ·as' acadeniic tired and would certainly -welcom·e -a pressures worsen, people ignore .their break. Freshmen visiting him· were' human side until· they finally' blo~." frequently ·volunteering_ thaf "they· Sr. Barbara Counts' words echo 'per­were pooped." Dr'. Grande felt that haps the grav~st consequence oft.he last year's freshmen were 'probably uninterrupted. accumulation ''of aca: better ready for tlie final push 'to-demic· pressure-the • destruction of 
wards exams.. --_. . •'• human relationships;' · ,.-: .. _: The all-consuining quality of aca-' It is impossible riot fo 'perceiv1rthe: demia at Notre Dame has been mag-air: of. desperation, which is 'char­nified. to. greater proportions this ad:erlstic'ohnany of, the students in semester. because .of the removafof the' library _'on· a. Wednesday ··or the _October break. T!'ie • increased Thursday night.' Nor :would anyone focus on 'ciassroom 'academics has' deny 'the legitimate' I need of iriany eliminated opportunities .to 'partici-students to have a break'. However, pate' in. campus organizations, ' to students must· realize ·'1:hat a ·break 
deepen personal relationships arid to· can. only' alleviate the tensions·'o·f a· enjoy the beauty of an exceptional seinesier~if'caiinot'reniove alhen-· autumn..At times, th,e·emphasis:~~-sions;·nor·can 'if solve all problems . 
• -. , , : ' 1' • ~. •· ':' . . . • 


Morton T. Kelsey, an Episcopalian 7JTiest,' is _an, assistant professor of graduate studies in education. 
Christmas . tells us the most won­derful story ever told to man. It is the account of God. be~oming man and putting off .his power and might to be a baby'. in astabie. Not only does the Christmas story tell us that this happened, italso tells us what kind 'of people received the greatest gift of.God in Bethlehem and so 
suggest; Jiow ·we may receive this gift ~oo. : ; Christmas tells; us .the greatest truth.of all .times and then tells .US how we can' appropriate this truth in our own. lives now! 
They were .a s'trange lot' present at the birth in the stable: a woman pregnari(out ofwedlock, a husband who 'stooci by her, a. donkey which carried that woman on a ha~d, long· trip, .an ' innkeeper ' who ·would not let. them' in, some paltry no-account shepherds, watching their_, sheep,­three. astrologists · who followed a star, somecattle in adirty Oriental stable and a ~anger_,..:oh, yes-artd a variety of assorted angels.. ; . . . 
. As we see the symbolic meaning of these. principai characters of the Christmas drama; we are able to see what we, can do in· our own lives.to allow the reality of' that event to break forth in ·our' lives now. Then we can· possess or be possessed by the incredible wonder and power of Christmas.. The. same light and might which blazed out in· Jesus of Nazareth c_an and wish to break forth · in us. These .characters are living symbols. which show us how to have that power in our own lives. 
Frankly, unless the same reality which appeared in the world in the events of the · first Christmas can· also reappear in our lives, Christmas is not very important. . . ..Under­stand, please,· that just because ,j_ call · these· historical. figures . sym~ bolic, I am not saying they are not. really historical; History can be 

Blessed Are the-Stables 
symbolic and factual at the same time.,. . . .. . .. , . .. The first symbol of Christmas is 
Mary -a. simple, ordinary young woman. She is the symbol of man's roul. Mary . _was walking, quietly 
and unhurriedly in the garden. Ari a·ngel, a messenger of spiritual real­ity,· appeared .to her. and told her that she was .to have a child .without a husband. To this incredible infor-. mation she replied, "lam the Lord's servant. As you have spoken it, so be it." . 
Caught up as we are in the pious ideas of later· years, we .fail to ap­preciate the. courage it took to be willing and obedient as. Mary was. She knew welL what. the villagers would say about her pregnancy, the old women gathered at the village fountain. She knew ,what her fiance would think, but she was willing nonetheless'. Mary was simple .but not naive. This obedience took cour~ age: Unless, . however, there is the same .. kind of . wming openness ·.. to God in our souls there . will be no Christmas there, no Christ. Child born. the~e.. Willing . obedience: no matter what it costs, is a prereq­uisite to new spi_ritual birth in us. 
And . then there was Joseph. He was ·at _first going to break the be­trothal when he learned of Mary's condition. What. else could. he be­lieve?.· But this man could listen to the depth of himself. He listened to the angel of his dream and he was spiritual enough to believe and obey . ' . . as ' absurd as .it seemed; Joseph was a strong man; and later he listened·again and. took. the womc. an and Child arid fled by-night intb exile into Egypt to save the Child's life. Believing strength which knows· how to listen to the secret depth of life and acts with courage, this was Joseph. There· must be that in us which Will protect our new spiritual life when it comes or else it will be destroyed. and our original obedience will be in vain, 
·by Morton ~-Kelsey 
And then the donkey, the dmnb, 
stubbom animal which carried the 
woman about ready to deliver-for a 
hundred miles from Nazareth to 
Bethlehem. Simple, tough animality. 
So many people try to. be so spiri­
tual tha.t'they rule out their animal 
nature. If God. wanted us. this way, 
he would have' made .US so. We are 
not pure spirit, but half ~pirit and 
half animal and .unless we care for 
and cherish this dumb animal, our 
body, what St. Francis called brother' 
ass, then we shall never .bring the 
holy Child to fruition in .the place 
where he is to be born: Sctmu·ch of 
modem religion ignores and rejects 
the animal and physical side of rrian 
and so there is no birth of realspiri~ 
tuality in our religious lives; no epi­
phany of power and new. life. 
The image of the innkeeper 

plagues me. Can't you ~ee him stand­ing in the great doorway, his huge bulk standing between the fireblaz-· · ing upon the hearth and the· cold Palestinian winter night outside? He was a busy, practical· man of the world. His inn was all filled. He did not want to be bothered. . Oh, she was pregnant? Thatwas to'o bad, but there are lots of hungry children in the world and lots of poor. wom­
en who have no place . to give birth. 
to children. . 
How careful-we must be not to be 
filled with so many things, so many 
activities, that we have.no place for 
the Ch_rist Child_ when he comes, 
that we have. no place for God when 
he would ent~r our lives.· Busyness 
is not of the devil-'-it is the_ devil. 
Where· a Hfe is completely full, God 
has no'place to get in. A completely 
busy person ·is· more effectively an­
tireligious: than the most violent 
atheist arid one can even be busy 
with church activities and come to 
the. same place,. . . 
· The shepherds -poor, stupid, in­
effectual.· men-'-the . outcasts., . Agairi romance has. covered theni with a . sheen of glamour. How would you 
'
-. 

like to spend night after. night out there and only had to walk across ing, upon a ~ilken cushion, before in the California winter nights with the field, .but there is. hope for the the admiring .oh's and ah's of the only a ·garment of skins . which intellectuals if they try hard enough· noble parents and the courtiers? ... comes to the knees to keep out the .:,,.-.. they are not ruled .out. These Herod's palace was not exactly cor­cold? Only the 0poorest men who rrien were stargazers.. They had . a dial! Where then? ·In the well-kept had nothing else. to· do,· who were star, a goal, an aim. Every man inn where a.maid brought hot water right on the edge of starvation,• needs a star to follow. No· man· arid comfort and help to the woman would· have been there, the men achieves much without a star to in travail? There was no room in who were too emotionally crippled follow. tlie well-kept inn'. ; ... or too stupid to do anything else. · These were wise. men. They had No, . the · Child . was ..not · even They probably hadn't had a square • . the .courage to look into life and to •brought ·. forth in the humble and meal for three months, like so many admit that they did not have every-squalid. surroundings of the ·village people all over the world today thing that they wanted, and then to ·mud hut, but in a stable, an Oriental where one-third of the world's chil-_continue to .seek until they found stable. Put aside the Christmas card dren .go to bed hungry at night; what would satisfy them. They were picture of that stable and imagine even if we cannot do anything about dissatisfied with what they had· and what it was actually like. Have you it, we can.at·least bear iton our con-.knew there• must be something bet-ever seen . an Oriental stable or science and no~ be complacent. ter. There are many motives. which thought of one? Use your imagi-
These shepherds were nobodies_ or .·. lead. men fo the power of the God-nation. It was quite different from a · less than this and yet it was to them Child and his birth in us .at Christ-Carnation model 1:iarn. This was that the angels of heaven first a.ri-mas. If we are not shepherds, and where ·the . God-man chose to be nounced the birtn of the God-man! I see few who answer to that de-. brought forth into the world. The Why? Because they were hungering £cription here, then .we must follow straw was riot clean and the manger. and looking for . something. They a star. We must be aware of our had not been made for a Christmas were not satisfied with things as emptiness and seek for something play; The ox had eaten !rom it only they were and also ·beca·use they to fill it. How few do this! a few hours before: .. ; . . were not. asleep, and because they. And what ajourney! Across inter-·· . · This stable with its manger is . were si~ple enough to. believe that ·. minable deserts, fighting -with rob-the most important and significant· such ari. event could happen! The hers and contending with cantan-. symbol. of the whole story. For if angels may· well have visited some kerous .camel drivers, through sno_w Christ can be born in such a stable, of _the c:omfortable villagers in their .. and .icy mountain passes, ·rejected he can be born in any life, in any· beds· telling them the same image ·. and turned out by hostile villages. person, no matter what· he is or has in their · dreams, but they only They pressed on and ori, following. ; been; even in me. To the most hum­laughed at the absurdity and turned their star, their hope. Naturally, . ble and rejected ·place the Christ· ov~r to go to sleep in their__ warm · they looked _for a king in a king's canw to be born so that no man need beds. house and so they went to the palace be ruled out; rio man. There is none . 
Most of our ·churches have pag-of Herod.· Then, because they were so depraved or foul ·that the Christ. eants in which we have the shepherds . \vise,.. they_ too listened to their cannot come into J:iis life and be. portrayed.. H,o-.y shocked the. con~ dreams a.nd fled . in the night to born. gregations would be, how incensed, escape the king's strange wrath .and . Christmas tells us the most im~ · if the real McCoy were .to· show up · fear. At last they came to the new-portant truth of an times, that ulti­with their matted hair, questionable born king.. They had the inward mate power is also characterized by odor,. and possibly even some lice! sight to. recognize their goal when love,· that God. came as man. in a There · is nothing. so ignored or for-they found him, even though he -lay stable. This is .. a truth we must . gotten or despised and rejected in ..in a. manger in an Oriental stable someday come to a decision about: us that it cannot come to the birth ·. and they· offered him the rich gifts . What do we·· actually think of :this·• of new life within us. The· shepherds . they brought. They.·· were prepared .· idea? And. Christmas tells ·us .how . are the symbol of the rejected parts to give. Those who have much and .• we. realize. that powe~ in our owri of us, the humble and ignored side · are. not prepared to give greatly · lives> It. tells it. through living sym­of us, the simple, searching, rejected . never cometo that place where-God bols-a young and obedient woman, part of us. It is to. this side· of us is bom in man. Yes, I said never.... ·a. strong and faithful husband, a. that ·the message of· Christmas · And so the most simple, the shep-donkey and some miserable .shep­really appeals: There is no one too . herds, and the most intelligent and herds, three astrologists and their simple or depraved that he. cari~ot Eearching were ;both satisfied along blazing star .... and astable. . enter the Christmas scene. It is the with the woman who.gave her will-Christmas tells us that all the obe­comfortable and satisfied who ·are ing obedience and also her husband dient and strong and searching and more often· ruled out. who _had the courage to _stand by. simple may have the infinite power· 
Thank heavens for the wise·men, Where did they.all come.together? 'of the'universe_born in them no the astrologists from the East. They ' Where did they meet? .Where _did matter what they are or have been. had . a hard time coming from the · 'the power -.which lies behind the · This is quite a message! far reaches of Persia on the· other exploding star choose to come forth :This· is Christmas-nothing .less-:­side of the w6rld, but .they.;.nade it. as.a man? Was it in a king's palace no wonder it'makes such an impact.. The miserable shepherds were. right · with ladies~ a_nd gentlemen-incwait-What will you do about it? . 
DECEMBER 5, 1975 

.I 
12. SCHOLASTIC 
-~ 11 
I.I
I, 


The. Secret Greeks 
. . . .· . 


of Notre, Dame 
It's cold out,.you'rewalking to the dining hall and' it's raining.. You've got your collar up, head down and shculders into the wind, but It just cuts through, ·the cold and the wet running down the back of your neck. · If you make it there in spite of South Bend's weather;"· what.· good does it. do you? End ·o( semester/en.d of budget. dining hall. food eaten among crowds of milling zombies is all you get for· your troubles. Christmas is close; but so are exams, and the more you think about the short time arid long workleft, _the moreit seems thatevery other day in the semester is going to be a desperate· fight against deadlines and despair. . At times ·•· like t!1is , you :"".OI1der why ym1're. a· college. student~why you bring yourself here to. get ·1ost .in a whirl oiJaceless neurotics.-'.:;. . . 
The nature of college work:puts a lot..of· pressure on. the student.to. get th~ 'grades,. to _be abie, to._er:i,~ur~. long periocls, ;~f ..concentrat_ed..._work . and, especially, to maintain a, distinct identity:-. As the, semester w~ars on, · bqoks, _tests and_ pape_rs occupy, a larger and larger. part of the stu­dent's. routine· ..Outside llCtivitie,s de­crease,· and. the, student's self seerris · to l>ecome : defined .more · by. his·. role as an I.D.' numbe~ on the R~gistrar's list that bY.:his O\Vn action ·and inte~­action with other human b_eings. Akoho~,· ~<;x' ~nd,_at:hle_t_ics ~re. us~d by many students ..to ..assert .their indfviduaiity, b·ut: many: such. activ-· ities simply ,becor11e.. manifestations of. ,the "ND tradition", and: don't 
·by Michael Feord 
: ·-. .' 

help the student break out of that, sity 'works, the· College' members 
. role of .. University student. There. engage in ritual 'celebration~ · ··.. comes, then, a need to identify with 'Another group.which coridticts its a group which is •distinct from the. affairs in such a lighthearted man­University, and in which the.· stti'-ner, but which is -'a branch of a na­dents can associate with. people of tfonal organization as opposed to .be­similar interests. . . . . ing a spontaneous: student creation, 
The Imperial College of St. Jude'. i~ the Society'for'Creative Anachron­is one of many esoteric societies ism, the Notre I:ia.me chapter 6eing which· operate on campus.·· These known ~s the shire of Mithrimdriel societies are not.esoteric in the sense Mardi. The nationai organization is tliat they have restricted member-rull by a: board of' directors· in Cali­ship; indeed, most are open to any fornia, lovingly referred fo as the an~ all coiners.. They are esoteric in. ''Imperium.": A rion'profit educatfonal that·they carry with them a unique organization; the:'Society" is' dedi­
. identity, orie whi.ch aHows its mem-cated to preserving life,· not as· it bers to see themselves as entities was, but as it should have b'een in with some other. role than that of the Middle' Ages.' 'Its·· members· re­Notre Dame University ..Student. create ·as 'authentically :·as possible Some. are official organs of student the dress a'nd 1frC:.styl~s of people life, sudi as student publicatic>ns or' who lived between 450 <A.D. and the theater, but the Imperiai°College 1640 AD.' They do; however, take and others to be discussed here are advantage of modern conveniences· of a_more in!_ormal nature. Their,ac-such as zippers_ (very handy for tivities,cover wide. areas ,of interest, keeping jerkins on) and flush 'toilets some. academically o~iented, some (just plain very handy). . historically, some socially, others .Combat having-been an integral recreationally. They. all, · however,-part of medieval life, Society mem­contain ari essence oLritual, a· re-bers also train in the use of wooden peated . formula of activity which replicas of the broadsword, axe, gives --th~ .group.. its identity -and war hammer, mace,·, dagger and a brings its members together. . whole array of medieval armor; 
·. The Imperial College. of St. Jude Battles and wars are then held in is dedicated :10 the proposition that which members compete for awards· all students . have .. a . basic right .to for achievement in such areas as freedom from the.· inertia .of aca-music, needlework, brewery, armory, demfa. · \ It. was originated . . as a re-alchemy and combat. The basic phi­
.-~ ' . 

sponse to the pressure of the aca-. .losophy behind combat in the So­demic workweek.. Since Wednesday .. ciety is that one should kill and not_ night· is the traditionaLwork night . hurt his opponent; . Heavily padded for .students, . ~he .charter mem~ . combatants smash each other with bers-.of ,the CoUege decided to get together_.on that night .and cel_ebrate. R_elaxing whHe most of the Univer~ 
. DECEMBER 5, 1975 
wooden swords swung with all their might, until one "kills" the other by striking a vulnerable area with. the . edge or point of his sword. Although many bruises .and a few broken bones have resulted from these clashes, there have been no serious injuries in the 10,000°inember So­
ciety's ten-year history. · 
From the Imperium in California, 
the country is divided into five king­
doms: ·the E_astern Kingdom, the . 
Western Kingdom, the Southern 
Kingdom, the Kingdom of Etenveldt 
and the Middle or Dragon Kingdom.. 
The kingdoms are broken down into 
shires, our. shire of Mithrandriel 
Mardi being located in the Dragon 
Kingdom. Each kingdom, and in turn 
each shire, has a Seneschal and a 
Herald. who.· handle the paperwork 
and executive planning. The titular 
heads of the kingdoms are, logically 
enough, the kings. In the world of 
the Society for Creative Anachro­
nism kings rule not by divine right, 
but by right of arms, and must win 
their thrones in the Crown Tourney. 
Every year each kingdom has such 
a tournament, and aU the able­
bodied men of the . realm come to-· 
gether to fight it out until one wins 
the title of Crown Prince, to rule as 
king the next year. 
Like all civilized societies the 
SCA kingdoms want· to fight' wars 
and must lookfor some good excuses 
to allow them to do· iio. Yet, those 
excuses are hard to find: for, whereas 
most wars· are. fought over geo­
graphical b6undaries, the :kingdoms' 
boundaries are set by the Imperium 
and cannot be changed. Human in­
genuity triumphed, however, and 
the Eastern and Middle kingdoms 
were able to go to war. Since real 
borders could not be changed, they 
'invented an area called the "Deba­

table Lands," for possession of which·. up in medieval battle formation, and 
they could wage war. 
The Pensic Wars (so-called be­cause the border at which _the two kingdoms. fight runs through Penn­sylva11ia)' are fought each Labor Day 


weekend and draw thousands ofSo­.ciety members . to defend the honor · of both kingdoms. On the first day, everybody arrives and sets up camp in a large field in western Pennsyl.: vania. · After the tents are pitched they relax with a medieval~style . revel. On the second. day, .there is an arts and crafts competition, and . individual . challenge matches are fought. .·Another. revel. follows. The third day sees the combat of the kings' champions ·and the · crown princes, followed by. another . revel.·. The fourth and final day brings ·the 
· Grand Melee, ·the decisive event. Each side lines all· ·of its warriors 
they charge each other and start slogging away.· The side with the most men left alive (most recently our. own Middle Kingdom) at the end ·. takes possession of. the. Deha·.: 
table. Lands. Then both sides, alive and dead, join 'for one last revet Whenever an individual joins the 

.· SCA she chooses a persona, invents a character who lived in the Middle Ages and makes up a life history. She is given a device with which· to adorn her ··costume, and in all Society.' ~unctions is known by her chosen name; .is identified by her device and acts in character with her autobiography. From the fifth~ century Celts through twelfthscen­tury Mongols and up to fifteenth­century Frenchmen;.the Society for Creative Anachronism has them all. To avoid confusion or duplication, all dev.ices are ·registered with the.· Imperium,' and aH personal histories are kept by the local herald. 
Locally, Misty Lackey and Chris Rosinski, the Serieschal and Herald respectively, formed the Notre Dame shire, Mithrandriel Mardi, this last September. Since then the shire has grown ·• to · include twelve members, who meet twice each Saturday: The first gathering. comes at 2:00 p.m. when they have weapons drill. Pro-· fessor. · Lewis Soens, · who · choreo­graphs all ofthe ND-SMC Theatre . swordfight scenes and is an excel~· 
,.. 

lent swordsman himself, trains the A group of students · led by senior Father Sorin Lunch Club. shire m·embers in their sword han-Fred Antczak then became the new Last year, four seniors lived to­dling. That evening at7: 00 p.m. they Wranglers. . Last year Ed Martin gether: in a house off campus. Liv­have a meeting in .the: La Fortune coordinated the group; and this year ing off campus, presented many ballroom .where subjects of histori-.·· senlor Pat Miskell is in charge of problems; among. which was having cal 'foterest· and plans for future the·: cardboard ' folder filled with to run home for lunch in between trips to tournaments and home-based·, papers and known as the Green Box.. an llMWF and a lMWF class. Com­events are discussed. Among .other .. ·The. move to Louie's came this munication with one another was an­events, they are planning a night of year with Miskell. A problem the :other problem _since all four. had m~dieval entertainment, including group had had in attracting new classes scattered all over campus. minstr~lsy, dancing and miracle· members was that the formality of They began to use the statue of plays; for some time next semester: · the group had scared people away. Father Sorin as a bulletin board and Yet; even seventeenth-century Celts . The: new Wranglers are not inter-would lea~e notes for each other on and twelfth,,c~ntury Frenchmen rriust ested · in any pseudo-intellectualism, the esteemed gentleman. The solu­re.turn to twentieth~ceritury Ameri-· just i~ sharing ideas outside of the tion to one problem became the solu­ca,'. back to:Notre Dame. shadow of organized classwork. tion to another, and they decided 
Atotc!-llY different type of esoteric-, Different groups, then, break out that on Fridays they would take a society, not . one which takes its of the University rut in different break and meet for a picnic lunch membe.rs into an alternate world, ways, one with Jevity, one with fan-at the base of the statue. When in­but one which allows them to redis-tasy, arid one. by separating the clement weather didn't allow their cover certain aspects of academic. learning from• the school. These dif-picnic, rather than do without, they life hy removing them from . the ferent groups· also have a common would move into the Rathskellar at classrooms, is the Wranglers Society. ground in ritual; they all have their La Fortune. Every other Monday night you .can own unique ceremonies. The meal, Friends joined them and the force find them sitting around doing what food· shared with others, is perhaps of the ritual turned the lunch into most people .reserve for the class-one of the world's strongest rituals. a tradition. This year the original roc:mi--reading and discussing aca-There.is another group on campus four Father Sorin lunch dubbers demic ·papers. :.Yet, you won't find, which ·usesthis_ very form of ritual are gone, but every Friday a group t_hem in a classroom, but in the base-to give its members the chance to of people still meet at the statue and ment of Louie's. Each · member slow down and find themselves amid pass around their cheese, bread and 
.writes. a paper.on an idea, subject· .the chaos.. They call themselves the. wine. or question-which interests him, and · which he would like t~. share with. 
· the group. Without the. pressures · .'of a , classroom, the ·Wranglers can . ·devote themselves freely throughout . · their two~ or three~hour sessions to . 
·.. intellectual and.. philosophical ins 
qu;:~· Wra:glers were fo~rriect' in 
•the early, twenties by the •late· Fra.nk .. · O'Malley ·_with· thi~ same purpose.in : . mind. ,For 'thirty ·years the ·wran­glers were·: One of the· most disti~'­guished gro'ups .. on campus; · untH . 
'.:, they died out· in_ foe mid~fifties for 
. no known reason.. In their earlier 
·: : prime; the \Vranglers had a Green,• . .· .Box, iri which• all the papers which.:· /had'beeh submitted •were kepf; The·. Green '•Box'' became 'a metaphor for' : Truth.:·.·. In the. Box,. it.was said, was Truth,: .and every paper submitted worked towards. opening it:. Every~ one knew•itwas inipossible,.butthey tried anyway. . 
·• •:. The· Green Box: ·was lost and the . .Wranglers faded out· of the. picture. : ,Untii;.that is, Prof.' Edward Goerner, ',who,· had ·Been ' a: student' member ' under· O'Malley; revived it in 1973;
.,.. . . .· . . , . ' 

· .'·:.·DECEMBER 5, .1975 

.-..-. SOl'!le~~i~g !!lside you dicks, o_ :. as if yo_ur__ mi!ld has _become a shutter. See that scene over there? Frame it, Bracket, one: up, one down, ,maybe two,_ 1 could even-_ be too· much contrast, where's my filter? ·Maybe I just appreciate l preservin'g a mood, recording·· feeling 
on film. . .. .. '. ·-,. . 
< :. :.:·· 

Gary Gross -.. :·;· , senior, electrical engineeririg . ,Notre. Daf!1~ 
,,. 
:··:~ 
-·_-. ..,, 
, :· ,, . 

. .,-.:•. 
. . -. 
::,-, ' ... _......., _:_ ::-;· 


16' 


DECEMBER '5, 1975 

Preambulations &·--Pitfalls::
. '' . . ·.. 

A Plumbing of the Se11io(Bar 
by Paul Starkey 

Wednesday night finds a great of facilities; usually, the senior.cla~s hours every afternoon. At the fall 
many seniors and "guests" congre-enjoyed a small.share-of the club's_ opening of the club,.Witt promised:. 
gating in an old two-story brick profits. With the idea of-· taking all · "Club '69 will b_e 7something every 
house just south of the football sta-· the profits and turning that incmey -_senior and his favorite girl can both 
dium. Although the sign above the back into the senior class, the Class.·• enjoy and be proud of." 
front entrance says "Alumni-Senior of '67 became the first class to obs ·_ .. Hardly· a week had passed, how­
Club," most people call it the Senior tain a private club license. To meet ever, before the club started to expe­
Bar. Several hundred people pack requirements for the_-Hcerise;: the _ rience trouble. Loiterers outside the 
the house and sometimes overflow class agreed to restdctions set, by bar were harassing dub members to 
onto the surrounding grounds. From the Alcoholic Beverage,_ Control such an extent that the managers 
open windows streams an excited Board: No underage drinking; speci~ . decided to. have _-a· policeman sta­
drone of loud music and talking. fically "ladies under twe~ty-one"; tioned nearby for the protection of 
People flow in and out of the house. no dancing; ''.and-all: persons -must patrons. Problems with outsiders in­
A small queue forms at the door as be seated while drinking." The new __ creased and, in late October, grew 
bouncers check for proper I.D.'s. Senior Bar -promised _"to .cater•· to: serious with .an incident one Satur-
Inside, the constant "excuse me" couples· as well· as individuals.'' Now_ day night-. that involved "at least 
of people squeezing to and from the with a legal_ spirit, the· Senior Bar. one· confrontation with knife-wield­
bar is heard above the noise of the sorely lacked a body to reside in. ing youths." The_ Saturday night 
large crowd. Mounted in one corner, The problem of lo.cation, remained -violence fed to the student managers' 
a color RCA television blinks silent-unresolved until January of 1969. immediate decision to close down 
ly. Drinks ancl dollars exchange over ·_In the fall of '68, the senior class the club operations at The Flamingo 
the bar and beers float mysteriously . established its "Club ·;69;, in the and to seek a new loca'tion. . 
through the crowd which extends lower level of The Flamin.go, then . The 'probieni of relocation ~esolv'ed 
to the other-rooms and up the.stairs: -a restaurant-ba~ in South Be11ci: The itself in January of 1969. With the; 
Music pounds from stereo speakers senior class, under the directiori of blessing of the University, the Notre
O 
and fills the large dance room Whffe class president--Dave Witt, had Dame Alumni' Association ·estab;­
patrons continue to "bumpll into sought theestablishment of an on-. lished the ,;Alumni Club" on .the 
one another. In an adjoining room, campus-bar. The available Mc-· McNamara premises .and·_.. extended 
small groups of people stand around Namara House, the old two-story · . membership_ and dub privileges. to. 
a long I-shaped bar and talk. -house south of the football stadium, "legal" seniors. The, move by the Upstairs, one brightly lit room is . h~d·served just recently as the home _ Alumni. Association to include sec full with people shooting pool, jos-·'of the Faculty Club. To'· Witt,. it -niors ·was 'a-''practical decision: -the tling pinballmachines or just watch_-ieemed "an ideal Senior Bar." The Alumni Association· held the club ing others play. Across the hall in _Class of '69 approached theAd.minis-license and .nominal responsibility, the "wine room,'' couples sif' at ' · 1:ration with the idea of ·establish-while · the ·senior class managers tables or on couch.es and enjoy· a -ing. im· on-campus bar in the' Mc~ . ha~dled the day~to-day operations comfortable atmosphere of soft can--Namara House,' but, according to of the club; With-· a capacity for dlelight. The ''upper room" serves Witt, such reports fell on deaf ears. several _hundred persons and':an on~ carafes of wine and higher quality The class then ·returned to the idea -campus location, thus negating the -beer. -of.. establishing -.Jhe Club _at .. The need· for. protection, the McNamara 
In short; the Senior Bar offers Flamingo, which offered the advan-Ho.use indeed .. proved, as. Witt had 
"something for. everyone.". The Club tage. of adequate physical . space, . suggested earlier, ideal as a: club. 
enjoys great .popularity and has:: proximity to campus 'anci' favorable Happily; the"A1unini Club'.' opened 
met with a·, lot of support.· It seems • -fi·iianci~l ·arrangements> . -_. ___ __ its doors oii. Jamiary_16, l96_9, just· 
that the success of. theSenior B~r. . Club '69 operated under the mari~ ' "in time for _finals.'.': (Remember 
as a "Club" comes' from the fact agement of Witt and class vice-presI-that_ in those' days; fall term final 
that it has developed gradually over dent and club directorGordonl3eeler.. 'examinations_ were scheduled afte; 
a period of. several years. ·.-. .Open from 4 p.m:.'to 2 a.m;:'daily, .· the Christmasbreak.) Class presi~ 
The first :Senior -Bars we~e merely the club offered a regular menu of dent'. Witt told, The Observer;• ."Se~ 
places off . -campus where. seniors.. drinks arid dinners.. Interestingly, -riiors are going to need more than 
came together on . a regular basis...patrons who .had purch~sed ten~dol~ · ip.oral ·support to ·get them through 
Each new seriior class decided_ on .. a .lar· _shares of· ''stock'!_iin 'thE; '-'Class· -first-. semester_ finals:·_ The,Alunini· 
location and negotiated with the.. of'69; Inc." were entitled to certain Club wiH provide t:hat .support ... And 
local bar mvners concerning the.use-. ~r~~~leges which included : 1happy it -probab~~< citd; Mo_nday. :through 
SCHOLASTIC 

---~--·-: 

i I I 
I 
.. ! 
! 
~ 
Saturday, the club was open · for 
business from 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. Daily 
happy. hours lasted from four to five 
in the afternoon. In addition to the 
complete bar; the club served sand­
wiches.. 
The house had recently been re­modeled,. and the senior class · in­vested some $3,200 of :.class funds for· other.. improvements. The first floor was divided into .three sec­tions: a bar area, a room for play­ing billiards and "a date,room" with a fireplace and an area for dancing. A newly-added sound system pro­vided music throughout the bar; The second floor held another large room for,· couples,. a card-playing room and a color television. set;. 
The Alumni -,._Club must have en­joyed a successful first· year because an April referendum by the incom­ing Senior Class of '70, voted over­whelmingly in favor of keeping the McNamara House as the·location of the.'· Senior Bar. The rejected .pro­posal had been an effort to move the bar off. campus again. Apparently, the owner of Louie's had discussed the possibility of building "an exten­sion" ·for·a Senior ·Bar in exchange for a five-year contract. In the cam­paigns for class office that semester, 
·both presidential candidates pointed to the "protection" problems related to· off-campus bars and echoed the class' desire to keep the present location. · .At last; it seemed, the Se­nior Bar had found · a home; 
'·In·· May, ·then, the . Alumni Club changed hands. With some $3,200, the Class of '70 purchased the "oper­ational rights" from the graduating• senior class. Summer remodelling created :what one senior called ·"a classy place," but required another investment of: $1,400. In order to. meet the demands of the debt; the price of membership increased to $7 per year~ a· fact that · served as a source of complaint from not a few patrons. Nonetheless,; the Alumni Club enjoyed · another successful year.:. Many factors entered'into the success of the club, particularly the_ low .prices· of. drinks, the nightclub atmosphere and the:improved male/ female ratio. : Class president Jack Crawford noting the ratio;,estimated some nights to be . 250 ,men to 100 women, as "the best to be found anywhere" on. campus. 
Curiously, The Observer of May 1, 1970, noted that the senior class, in the euphoria of graduation cele­brations, even considered employing playboy bunnies at the senior club, Although the class at large was di­vided on the issue, _the majority of the club patrons approved and, con­tingent upon available finances, a Monday was designated as "bunny day." Unfortunately, subsequent is­sues of The Observer failed to men­tion the appearance of "bunnies" at the Club. Thus, for the moment, the "bunny" question goes unanswered. 
· After another summer of "exten­sive renovations," which ·included t_he. creation of a black-light room, the Alumni Club, now operated by the Cl_ass of '71, opened for another year of business. And so it con­tinued. For a few years, the history of the Senior Bar became the story of the status quo. New seasons. brought new faces, but things. re­mained very much unchanged-until 1974. 
In .the spring of 1974, no effort was. made to find a new manager for the Senior Bar. Increasingly, the Alumni Club had lost much support from the Alumni Association. Orig­inally founded as· a meeting place for students, faculty and alumni, the Aiumni Club had evolved into a largely student-run operation. In snort, the Alumni Club had become the Senior Bar. Fr. Dave Schlaver, then Director of Student Activities, noted that a shift in emphasis was a major reason for the Alumni Asso­ciation's .negative _attitude toward the club. With the removal of Alumni support and the plans to abandon the McNamara House, the roof feH in on all hopes for a "Club '75." . 
In ari effort to pick up the pieces, the Senior Class of '75, led by class president Gregg Ericksen, met with members of the Alumni Association over the summer months and dis­cussed the possibility ·of keeping the McNamara House open as a senior club. Aiso, seniors approached the Office oJ Student Affairs (OSA) and asked· for University support in re~ establishing the club. .Naturally cautious, .the OSA kept from taking any definite action and cited prob­lems with legal implications, insur: ance, the trarisfer of the license and the bar's need for a new image. . 
During·.the last weekend of. Sep­tember, the Alumni Board met on campus and discussed, among other things, the fate of •the Senior Bar. In ·a unanimous opinion; the Board urged the re-establishment of the Senior Bar as the, renovated Senior Club. The Office of Student Affairs accepted the Alumni · proposal, as-· 

DECEMBER· 5, 1975 
sumed control of the Senior Club and of the club, the new fixtures, the believing I was doing a good job." began a search for managers. "nightclub atmosphere," and the Nevertheless, the issue was moot. 
specials on drinks all must have Under the co-management system, By mid-October, the Office of Stu­contributed to the club's early suc­notably the leadership of Shanahandent Affairs had chosen William cess. Owners of nearby bars in as general manager, the Club ex­"Butch". Smith as manager, Jim South Bend, particularly Nickie's, . perienced no further problems andSweedyk as assistant manager, and Corby'~ and the recently established enjoyed a good year. Five days be~Jim Shan'ahan as business manager. 
Library, acknowledged some loss of fore the. end· of· spring semester; aAn "operating committee" made up business, but expressed no. fears new manager was chosen and theof studeri't managers and members that the Senior ·Bar would have control of ·the. Alumni-Senior Clubof the OSA was . created to set Club "bad effects" on their business.-Also, moved into the hands of the Classpolicy. OSA members were Dr.' 
owners discounted rumors of a local of •'76.
Robert Ackerman, then . Director of bar . boycott of· beer and vending ·Better organization :, marks thisStudent Offairs, Dean of ·students machine ·distributors ·that serviced year's Senior Club as differentJohn Macheca ~rid Fr. Terry Lally, the Senior Bar, from those of. the past. Gil Johnson; Vice~President for .Student. Affairs. 

In the light of this initial success; an accountancy major from NewThe-' OSA,. largely concerned with something rather unexpected hap~ Jersey, serves as the Club's generalthe new image of. the Senior Bar ·as pened; Within two · weeks of the manager. · :Gil . oversees :the totala · club, l~ft much of the · physical Club's opening date,· club· manager operation . of.· the Club, keeps themanagement 'of the.~lub in student Butch Smith · was fired. Sweedyk books, and takes ultimate respon­hands; but sought .to"have an in­and Shanahan moved into Smith's sibility for' the. Club's· successes orfluence' in the ·direction of the club." 
' ' . failures. . Two assistant managers 
. Renovation and "red tape in the help out with. the .general operationchange of the license" further de­of the Club and each ,one heads alayed the opening ,of the club. Stu­special "department;!~ ., 'Maureendent Body' Vice President Bob Spann Creighton, · · in finance, · serves · asand s·enior. Ray Capp . headed the Club manager. Steve Infalt; an ac­renovation project. With $1,500 ·from countancy major;,manages the "barthe ·savings of the '74 bar and a lot aspect" of the Club. 'Also/this yearof v·olunteer· work-:-some.2,000 'man~ · marks a change · in the Club's re­hours-the·.. Senior Bar . received.· . a. 

lationship .. with . the ' OSA; The new look..New flooring, carpeting "operating committee'' is rio lo·nger. upstairs,. ·painting, wall-paneling, a in: existence, . and Club managerslowered ceiling . and a. new music meet· with a faculty advisor, as­system, among·_. _other renovations, sistant professor. of •. accountancygreatiy changed .the .Bar's former 

. _· '. . -. '· . 
Kenneth W. Milani,, and Fr. Terry image -of "cracked walls; beer-stained Lally, ·who continues to act as liaison floors." In addition to the bar, the to the University . 
. first floor rooms housed a pool table, Professor Milani·· discussed .the pinball and •other game machines, change in .the new club: "We at­and ·a small area for dancing. Two tacked it from an organizational more·. rooms. were <lup. the stairs." 
level." Milani· noted that:there was The "tavern," unlike the "stand-up "not .much of· a .transition" for Gil . bar'.'. ·· downstairs, had· tables and 
. position as '4co-managers." Dean as Club manager. ,.Milani admitted chairs. In a quieter atmosphere, the 
. Macheca, offering little. comment sorne initial problems with;the Club · upstairs bar served wine and cheese, 
on the matter, termed Smith's sud-organization, but added,' "Thingsdark· beer and malt · liquor.· :The 
den removal "a personnel.· thing." pretty well pulled together.'' Jim ''coffeehouse,":the.. room _across·.the 
According to· Fr. Lally, . Smith's Shanahan, Milani. stated, did "a hall, offerecl a. still different type of management of. the . Club had,, not fantastic job". of managing the Bar place. · At one end . of the room, a . been consistent·. with OSA pl1llos~ last year.. Jim made numerous im~ 
small pla.tform and mural , back_. 

ophy. Lally f~rther mentioned a provements ·in. the Club, . and im-. ground created a stage· for local 
lack of communication; "not getting portantly, ·left-a report on the Bar's talent. Patrons.seated: themselves on 
. solid answers'' from Smith. Finally, . status which suggested' severaLim­.the carpeted floor or used one of the Lally referredto a list ofcomplaints. provements ·and served as guidelines iarge seat-pillows found ·i11 the room. 
Apparently, several problems, in-for this year's,: operation .of the Despite the delayed start,· the . eluding ,underage drinking, overly Club. Milani stressed the importance grand opening. of the newly . named large crowds, ·damages and poor up-of "control in ·the· operation" and 
. "Alumni-Senior Club" in mid-No~ · keep of :the· Club, .led to•• the _Ad~ the need.· for. "consistent'' policies; vember met with success: The head­ministration's decision. For many, Such policies would cover ,."full job ·­line . of an article in The Observer· Smith's< re~oval seemed..too sud-. descriptions/ ·.. salaries,'! and ·· the of November 15, 1974, suggests some den. Smith protested the OSA de-question of what to do·:with "excess of the implications of the campus cision. . While .Smith acknowledged earnings.''. Milani described the. im-. bar's initial success: "Senior ·club disagreements between himself and portance of the,_ Senior' Bar·. as .. a Opening . Causes Slump at Local the..Office of. Student Affairs over . service "not . only for• the .students South Bend Bars." .The resurrection·. Club, "policy," he felt "misled. into who are patro_ris,'', but ·as "manage­
20 '. ,.•SCHOLASTIC · 
ment experience" and a source of student income "at a high-cost Uni­versity" for the Senior Club staff. . . As general manager of the Senior Bar, Gil takes. ultimate responsibil­ity for the Club. and concerns him-' self . with ,the tota.'l operation. Gil outlined the. general. goals as keeping tighter control, of operations,. espe­cially:.th~ books, , promo.ting the at­mosphere of a club and maintaining "a. good understanding" , with the . University.'' ..·. . . . .. . .· . 
On •the•. subject. of the books, Gil note'd ..that prlor to the Shana­han ·•administration, bar managers had. faBed to . keep any records of transactions.,,. Gil's. brief. experience as general manager 'has .. convinced h.im of.,the llneed ,to keep .accurate books.'': He me~i.ioned that itemjzed statements of .account from the .Uni­versity .· have: shown discrepancies and, in ,some cases, the. ·club may have. been paying for goods not or­dered.•There is)ifficulty in keeping accurate· accounts, "especially be-; cause we try; to account for every pe·nny.''. RecaUing his late. appoint-; ment as, manager in May and subse_-. quent "on the spot" training, Gil, talked: of plans to give future mana­gers. ':better preparation . .through, earlier appointments and a training program". before the end of spring. terin.
' .. ·, . ·;,_, . . . / 

. Gil projected an optimistic outlook for the Club's finances. At pr:esent,. the Club .is "operating in the red," 
-but he predicted a substantial profit by May. The.size of the Club's debt came as· ail-imhappy surprise to the managers; he reported. ,Although 
. they had been warned by'last yea.is managers that the Club had in-· curred.a $2,00(i'debt, University ac-'. · co~nts , revealed the true amouri't of the debt, collecting over a period ·of years, to be some $8,000. · With a goo·d fall semester, which Gii at< tributed, to the income,f~om $6.oo· ro'embership. fees and large. football crowds,·; the . debt . is slowly being paid off. ', Indicative of the . Club's' success. are the figures. for Septe'm­ber . which show..$4,000 cleared. '.'We're pJlling more money in this year," crn reported; but he expressed 
a. cautious .,· optimism .. because the Club' expects. a Jess profitable 'sp~ing semester. In. o'rder' to keep business at' tli'e Bar; the· t:lub "will offer "alot more : 'specials' during the coming
term.", .,,... ·· -· · "··· · "· 
Discussing some of the overhead 

DECEMBER 5, 1975 

costs involved, . Gil specifically noted the '.'.upkeep of fixtures''... and sal­aries. . One unfores~en expenditure this year, .he pointed out; .was the addition ·of a $3,000. fire escape. Re­quired by ,the firemarshal, the Club. either had .to pay for the ladder or close down operations.. Going , to; the Administration with the argu­ment that the University should pay for ma.jar physical improvements, made on its property, Gil was told~ that the· _Senior Club, in. exchange for free. rent,. was. responsible. for, such'. improvements.: Other.expendic tures for fixtures came earlier in the year with. plumbing problems in the. basement and damages by .patrons to the house. · 
·. In reference to d,amage done to the Club, he sought to downplay the reports of recent Observer -articles whi~h catalogue some $200 worth of theft and damage to the Bar, in: eluding _the $75 . loss of a stolen stereo speaker. "There is no real problem," .he insisted.."Usually the damage. is .'unintentional.''' John­son pointed to th·e .·influx, of ·visltors during the football weekends and the larger crowds .that ''c~n create a 
p·robleni." ,, . ,' . . . ·, .. 
Salaries .are another .important cost .. of /dub . operaHons. . The Bar provides. another. source :of, student jobs. "We're' payi~g the salaries of three. managers and 25 staff mem~ bers.'' The costs add up to foe point where "if iLis a slow -night, you lose juston salaries." ' . . . . 
Gil expressed general satisfaction with this year's Senior Club: •The "heavy attendance, especially on Wedl}esday nights when it's wall­to-wall people" suggests to him that people are happy with the -Club's management... He also pointed to the Senior .Bar's popularity. because ·of low prices and the attempt to main-. tain "a comfortable club atmo-, sphere." He sees no problem with crowd behavior. or underage drink­ing: . "We run '. it pretty tight;','. Finally, he commented on _the par­ticulal'. "closeness" of the Senior Class and its positive ~ffects on. the Club, The Bar. is a "social . thing. It's a good crowd._ Nobody gets out of hand... Gil senses. an,attitude.of pride in the· Club. "It's their place." .. ciub Manager Maureen' Creighton sh~res GH's satisfaction. with the: Club. and notes. that it ''surpassed anything . I thought we. couid .do.JI Maureen, . with the distinction , of being the first wo~an . 'to .have a' manager's role in, the Senior Bar, describes her job as .·"establishing the philosophy of .the Club". arid de­fining the. direction of the Club's appeal. Accorcling to Maureen·•· the· Club should not try to appeal to those people "lo·oking for a cheap drunk,. but. to the. men and. women of the Senior, ciass .. that are inter­ested . in a. Club: Physical. renova: tions aren't enough," she stated.. A re~l need exists "fo develop' new at­
titudes about" drinking and about bars.". Interestingly, a recent' study by the. Natim1al . Clearinghouse on, Alcohol Informatiori, '.'The Whole College -. Catalogue. on -D'rinking: · A· Guide to .Alcohol Projects on Cam­pus," cites. the Senior Club as part of a program that minimizes the "negative effects" of alcohol con­sumption .... ­
Maµreen stressed the social as­pect of the Club, "a place to meet a friend, a place where you could bring a date," pointing to the fact that the Senior class is "so spread out in dorms and off campus" the chances to meet with friends· are few. The Club serves as "a nice place to. be," where· people can come to­gether. With the male/female ratio close to 60/40, Maureen feels that the Club creates a "comfortable" social atmosphere. "Senior women like the Club." Maureen noted the re~ . 

· cent success of a "Ladies Night" at the Club. About the Class of '76 in general, · she remarked: ''.They're good people and they make the bar a· good time. People are loyal, and that promotes the idea of a Club." 
Discussing the role· of the man­agers, Maureen described the rela­tionship between this year's·-staff and ·the Office of Student Affairs. Being a manager provides "a great opportunity to learn· small business management.'' The· Club operation is run totally by the managers and staff. "They [the Office of Student Affairs] keep their hands out of the bar." Maureen added, a great deal of "trust is 'involved.'' Fr. LallY gives the Club "a lot oflatitude and we don't wanf to betray that.trust." 
The other · assistant · manager, 

. Steve Infalt, · also an accountancy major, stayed in the.-McNamara house during summer months arid made preparations for the Club's early opening in September: Steve continues to ·nve in the house for insurance ..· purposes and-· finds 'his qua_rters "the greatest." As Bar Manager, he handles all the ordering of beer and _liquor· for the Club and accepts deliveries from the distribu­tors.. When asked to' describe his job, he shrugged his shoulders: "It's the whole aspect of running the bar." Working directly-. with the whole­sale distributors,. Steve ~eports that' the service . is . generally . good and the Club 'has experienced no major problems. He· noted, · however, that there is a certain "pressure" from distributors to sell their product. Steve, also happy with the Club, re~ marked, ''This '.is 'definitely the best year the Club has been open in the aspect of rtinning' the bar and the as-. pect of people just having a good time." He gave a lot of credit to the 
staff. "The bartenders," he_ said, 
"make the bar go'. They're the ones 
that meet the people." 
Indeed, conversations . with sev­

eral . of the bartenders provide yet_ another view of the Senior . Bar operation. As Bill-Kelly noted, be­tween pouring beers, "It's a different. . view from this side of the· bar." Bill said that he enjoyed watching people's reactions, especially on foot­ball weekends. "You· get two types of customers," he explained. Some patrons demand service and "will bang their cups on the bar,". but the ~ajority <of customers are 
"pretty respectful."·. 
.Pat Miskell ·describes his work­
ing relationship with the bar as 
"barkeep, record-spinner, and regu­
lar customer." He expressed the 
feelings shared by many of the bar­
tenders that the "chance to see a 
lot of people" makes the job "really 
enjoyable." Pat finds the Bar a "nice 
study in human relations," remark­
ing that "low pressure" makes the 
job seem "not like work, just a good 
time.'' 
· Tim Zelko, too, finds the job ''a lot 
of fun." People "appreciate the Club. 
It's supposed to be a big party.'' 
Tim mentioned "music" as the only 
real· complaint he ever gets from 
customers. Pat described the inusic, 
usually Top Forty singles, as 
"bopper · stuff.'' "All the patroris 
want is Sixties-Beach Boys!" com-· 
ments Tom Monaghan. Tom, "spe­
cializing" at theliquor bar,--observes 
that "girls more than guys" order 
mixed drinks from the bar. He notes, 
too, that most customers "are there 
for beer," but liquor consumption 
increases when people ·· want · to 
"warm up" on colder days·. . Jim 
Wilson; also at the liquor bar; sees 
no problems with the Bar, but dis~ 
like:; "people complaining_ about how 
I mix the drinks." . 
Chip Turner, \Vho . has' played· 
more than a minor role in the Club's 
success this year, emphasized the 
importance of certain physical reno­
vations, especially the dance floor. 
"The whole · place was , switched 
around" to make room for· a larger 
dance floor, which Turner feels helps 
make the ciub more of asocial "suc­
cess.'' . Serving from the bar, Chip 
finds most people "pretty nice" and 
"having a good time." 
For the "bouncers," the guys that 
check J;D.'s at the door, the story is 
somewhat different. The 'problem, 
explains Rich Johnson,· is that "some 
people view the place as a bar in­

stead of a club. They forget there is 
a privilege involved here.'' . Rich 
pointed· to football:• weekends as 
"particularly bad with a lot of 
hassles from visitors.'' He feels that 
it is necessary to promote the image 

of the club "not ·as a cheap drunk, 
but an inexpensive good time.'' 
Mike Welch ooserves that people 
"take it as a personal affront" when 
he asks for identification·. A lot of 

people become ''indignant," and_ Mike 
wryly adds, "especially the under­
agers." Like Rich, 'he complains of 
the football crowds. Some visitors, 
"coming to the campus once or twice 

a year," pose particula.'r · problems 
because they view theClub as ;'just 

another bar.'' Mike reports problems 
with··people getting angry, ··"insulted 

at being carded,. others getting ob­
noxiously drunk, and•· some shew­

ing.'' On a· lighter note, Mike says 
that he enjoys the jcib because it 

gives him ''a charice to see a lot of 
chicks.'' . · 
A lot. of people have. contributed 
time and effort to make the Senior 
Bar "a good thing," riot least among 
them, senior class president Augie 

Grace. In 1974, at the request_ of 
Ray Capp, renovations · chairman, 

who wanted "junior in'volvement in' 
the re-establishment ·of the Senior 

r
Bar," Augie and· some · 25 .other 
juniors assisted_ the Class of '75 with 
renovation of tne Club. Prior to the 
improvements, Augie. stated;'" the' 

Club "was a bunch of walls."; The' 
physical improvem_i-ints greatly 
helped the Senior Bar to change its 
"image." . _ 

This year; Augie sees the Club as, "the ceriter · of everything that happens for the Senior Class.'' He estimates that 75% of the class comes to the Club at onetime or an~ other. Noting that there is "some­thing special" about the Class of '76, he suggests that the challenges of four years, one of. the most notable of these being four years'of coedu­. cation, have brought the class to~· gether. The'Senior Bar is a club for Seniors, .and Augie feels people take a lot of pride in being a member: "Everybody knows· thaLWednesday 
night is Senior ·Bar night." 
SCHOLASTIC 


> --· • 
Christmas· at WOolworth's, the· Poor .Man's Tiffany's 
Robert· Griffin, -C.S.C., is officially known ar the University Chaplain. In reality,,he is the friend and con­fidante of much of the university community,,_ companion: of Dar­by "o/e-N ever-Said-We-Didn't~Love­You" O'Gill and .a much-loved, not to say vital member, of the Univer~ sity._ , 
As a matriarch of the Protestant. faith in our family, my grandmother had a horror of graven images that ­depicted the members oLthe heavenly court, She didn't mind our having a bust ofLongfellow, the city's poet, on the family. piano. -She would have considered the public 
-squares of our New England town to be quite empty without their war. monuments -clustering minutemen . and doughboys and the soldiers in blue of Mr. Lincoln's army as the , , figures at a bivouac of glory, while a_ stone goddess representing A. Grateful Country watched them in a toga draping the Stars and Stripes . Forever on her shoulders. -My grandmother even encouraged our. grade school to buy a statue of the, Father'.of His Country to fill-a niche on. the opposite side of. the stage in the school auditorium from the. niche filled-by Nathan Clifford, the local lover of; children for whom.the school was-named. She even wrote the school· board: telling them that they_ should give money for buying General ;,Washington's statue. 
, ;But religious statues of Mary and Joseph, and .of Jesus, especially as_ He .is depicted under the title of the Sacred Heart,· filled her with horror. If my _sister. and I were. shopping 
DECEMBER 5, 1975 
with her at Grant's or.Woolworth's and we passed the counter where' such statues were sold, she would grab us by the hand. She would command us: "Children, shut your'· eyes." She would guide us past those counters like a· pre-Vatican n pastor leading his' nuns past a pornography 
shop.,· ·. ··. · --: -., ·__-· · · -.·. Later, when we would ask her why, she would quote us the com­mandment ·from the Decalogue in _, Exodus: "You. shall not make your~ self a carved image or' any likeness of anything•in heaven. or on 'earth . beneath or iri thewaters under the · earth; you shallnot bow down to . them or serve them."· My sister and I never felt the temptation.to disobey God through· the wbrship of graven images. Most of the -graven images I had seen were pretty ugly anyway. We knew what Jesus looked like from the pic­tures in our Bible and from the . paintings hanging on the walls of the Sunday school, and, that was · enough. I was much more intrigued by the crucifixes and scapulars that the Catholic children wore than I was by graven images.. Once I found a rosary:in the park. •It-was., black, and .I decided it must have beer left. there by a -nun.. It,was certainly too ugly to wear, thoug~_ I didn't know what other uses that beads could'have. The crucifix on that rosary absolutely fascinated me..The whole notion of a man being nailed to a cross haunted my · mind so that, again and again, I had to ask;the Catholic children what it meant. They said it ,was God who ! was nailed to the cross; it was God · 
' 
by Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 

who had nails in His hands and feet. I knew a great deal about the death of Jesus, ,though I thought of Him more as the Lord than as God. Seeing Him nailed on a• cross was · different from reading about·it,· or hearing-about it,in .hymns.. I was used to-seeing· the cross on the:_·. communion table in our church, though we never had one in our home; but the _church cross was an empty cross with a lily in the center. I think that the Catholic cross with its figure of a dead or dying Christ .. (you really couldn't tell what-that immobile figure was doing) told me more about the details of the re-_-­demption than all the Good Friday sermons I was ever to hear..-/ 
Whether the figure ofthe crucified savior qualified ,as a graven image, nobody in my family._ever said. When• I showed. the rosary to my . father and mother, they merely said, "That's Catholic.'' They took it, and I assumed they would give it ­back to Catholics. But they couldn't give back the impression that a crucifix had made on-a child's mind or the emotions it . had stirred in ­his heart. Looking back now,.I don't think they would really· have wanted to. 
l'guess it was the. curiosity of wanting to see again an image of the Catholic and crucified God that led me to visit the Catholic church one day when I was with my sister on the way home fr:om school. It was December, .in the late afternoon, and the outside door of St. Joseph's Church was:open., I said to my sister,;_''Let's go in."· 
She was really hesitant, .and more than a little frightened.. "I don't 
think we're supposed. to," she said. I didn't think we were supposed to either; but for we~ks I had been thinking of God nailed to a cross, 
with a crown of thorns on His head. I had to look at Him again, though 
I wasn't sure we wouldn't be ar­
rested for trespassing. 
"Come on," I said, and I dragged her after me into an empty church. 
Inside the church,' it was very dark, but there was light coming in through the blue glass of the windows. There were candles burn­ing in little red cups, and there was a smell of incense hanging in the air. I didn't know it was incense, of course; it just seemed like a Catholic :church smell. It would always be a Catholic church smell for me, even in later years when I knew about rituals like Benedic­tion of the Blessed Sacrament and the incense that was offered to the Host .of the monstrance. · · 
We walked down the middle aisle.• of the: church to the Com-· munion rail.'.-There, above the altar,, was the God with nails · in His flesh; Theimage was carved out of a rich,' brown wood; and there :was· a halo• · of gold about the Lord's head that · · contradicted the ·shame of the metallic : thorns;. ·. 
I think I· knew then that the Catholic God with wounds and blood that· stained the wood ·would always be more real to me than ,, .:, the Friend we had in Jesus who .. · lived in· sunshine at the;Protestaiit Sunday s.chool. My mood of wonder was achild's mood, riot a mystic's, • but I must· have stood there for five minutes· watching. that crucifix. to see if it· would move> Finally,· I ' realized my sister was trying to , move me away. · 
",Come on over here," she said, ·: ·. 
"and see them." . 
She led me.to a side chapel that · she. must have been ~xploring. "Look," she said, and she was smiling with happiness. The scene'· that delighted her was the camels , and shepherds, the Magi and sheep •. on their knees before a baby laid . 
1 
on straw, while• his father and . '.. mother.watched him with• adoring · glances: It was probably the. first 
·time either of us had ever seen 
the.Holy Family together in a pose 
like that, in a presentation much · 
more .real than the printed pictures · 
on a Christmas card. ·The Christmas Creche was not part of our religious tradition. The public·· schools never · 

·had creches. The public schools celebrated Christmas with decorated trees and paper bells and thin, blue little books of Christmas carols printed by the John Hancock In­
.surance Company. Department stores and tlie civic ·community may· have used nativity scenes as part of their holiday observance, but my. sister and I had either never seen them or never paid attention to them, though the latter doesn't seem likely. Later on, we would par­ticipate in those church pageants where youngsters like us would present living tableaux of the scenes at Bethlehem. But whatever our earlier or later experience was or ,would be, the manger in St. Joseph's 


Church seemed to us in our innocence like •a window freshly opened onto· the wonders belonging to the. birth­day of Christ. ·Everything that the:· Gospel speaks· of seemed to be:·• · · represented in that side chapel, and .there were other· show-stoppers· as• · well. There was a little lame· ' shepherd boy, for example, walking on a crutch; in those days,, he be­
. longed more. to the pages of Henry· Van Dyke· than he did to the Gospel of Luke or the Amahl of the Menotti opera; but no m·atter· where he came· from, he was there rejoicing.•: It seems to me now that the Little··: Drummer Boy was there, thoµgh ·he was many years away from, be0 
• 
coming part ·of the ·Christmas · legend; I am sure that some child : was there with drums.· After many;' many years, one imagines too much, but I surely remember_ that the 

•Grinch and the red-nosed Rudolph and Ebenezer Scrooge were there on their knees, offering gifts to the Christmas Child. 
I know, in that week b.efore . Christmas, the Magi were there as · handsome ceramic figures·. There 
was. a night sky filled with stars, arid the brightest star of all was blessing the Infant with its}ight. There were angels everywhere, some of them in'places where they hadn't ought to be, with one little cherub hiding under the manger bed. Best· of all, of course, there was the Baby Jesus looking like · everybody's favorite••infant. I don't know why He was placed in the manger so much in advance of His birthday; but perhaps the school sisters had been· celebrating with the children before everyone left school for the holidays.' Anyway, Jesus was there.as a laughing baby boy, ·and my sister.was· sighing at Him as though, playing the mother· role as little girls do with their . dolls, she wanted to pick Him up and hold Him. 
The whole chapel scene was designed. to breathe a reverence and a belief into•the heart of.a child.'·. The oxen and the sheep and the shepherds looked exactly as im­pressed and devout as they ought to have looked in that timeless scene when the King of heaven meets the Magian kings of earth. · The snow on the ground· outside the stable· looked as white as snow .would· hope to look if it had just fallen, in honor of God. · .. 
As !TIY sister andl walked home from the church to· listen· to Tom Mix on the radio, we agreed ·we should not mention· to our parents that we had -:visited Catholic · piemises .. Visiting Catholic churches was something that we,· as•· Protestant children, were' not: sup-· posed to· do.• As. Republican children, we were not supposed• to speak wen: of President; Roosevelt, ·either, •' ~ · though no one had ever".said we;, 
·mustn't. .But our parents never spoke wellof·Mr. ·Roosevelt, although my. mother liked· him better than my father did; and as Protestanfand Republican children;' we could figure out where our duties lay; · 
In -the next few days, I might have forgotten that Nativity scene en­tirely, if my: sister hadn't ·kept reminding me of it. "Remember that littlest lamb," she would say, "I think he was happiest of them all." I couldn't remember the littlest lamb, but I would answer, "He wouldn't have been happier than me, if I had been there." 

. "·But you were there," she said. Tricks of _the imagination were never a. problem for my sister. · 
. On Saturday, my grandmother took us to .Woolworth's to do our Christmas_ shopping. ,In order to keep our. selection of gifts secret, we were allowed .to wander by our­selves around the store, each trying to avoid the other, picking out presents. At the end of the hour • we were.to.meet; ifwe had finished our shopping, we would go to visit • Santa Claus in his department store toyland. , : · · :, That is why neither my. grand­mother. nor I knew what my sister had bought untH that evening when my, grandmother was helping each child :with his or her gift wrapping. lremember that·my.father and I, were. listening to Easy Aces. on the· radio when. my grandmother •came into the room clutching a paper bag. My sister; in tears, was behind her. . .''.Jerry," my grandmother said, . · '.'turn off that. .radio. I've got some­thing to show you.": Then; opening the shopping bag, my grandmother said: "Look,at what Barbara has 
_. bought." There on a coffee table; like a salesman presenting his wares, she laid. out ·the items of my sister's shopping: one. garishly. painted, plaster of. Paris statue of Mary,• whose golden halo had run its color .into her face; one very brown statue of St. Joseph, whose golden halo had run into the brown of his beard; one very.baby Jesus, whose golden halo had halfway melted _. on His,.curls; one small wooden rack that served as a manger to the Child;· two rather sickly-_sheep, · that looked as though they hacl lost. their way through the valley; and a shepherd bearing a lamb on his back as though it-were_ a hump growing-_out of his shoulder. 
, My grandmother's comment was: "Catholic junk. Ugly, Catholic junk." 
·My father· said to. my. sister: _ '.'Isn't it .really .very awful? Do you really think that Christmas looks · like that?.'' 
"It's all that I had the. money 

DECEMBER ·5, 1975 
for," my·siste~ said. "Any~ay, the baby Jesus could never be ugly. His father and mother wouldn't let Him be." She started to cry 'again. "I· wish you wouldn't say the baby Jesus is ugly, Daddy. Maybe he just isn't comfortable. But please don't say He's ugly, Daddy.'.' 
I thought· of the crucifix show-_ ing God with nails in His hands. "God can't be very comfortable . like that," I said to myself. "At least a baby Jesus doesn't have holes in His -hands."• 
My .. grandmother s_aid: ·"Barbara dear, the -Lord doesn't, want us making-statues of Him. The. Lord hates it when we make statues of Him. Statues are like graven images and God,said graven images·are an · abomination unto Him. Catholics nezd graven images to worship God with, and they are displeasing to.: their .Father who will· not be worshiped. under.· the.form. of. cor­ruptible things. We have Jesus in our hearts, and we give Him a name that is above every name, and when. we see Him we will be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is .. And He is not like this ..._this is junk!" -My:sister said:, "Please, Daddy ... if He had a little.straw to sleep on, and.·we could get some camels and·; snow, and a .roof for His. head, maybe we could make Him com~ fortable and beautiful and looking like He was. in church.': 
· My father said: "Your grand-, mother is right. This is .the worst · kind of religious junk, .and I .don't want my children thinking that the Son of God looks• like any goddamn dime-store Jesus.'' . : . You couldn't argue with my· father when he was in a mood like that. My weeping sister -.was led off by my. iconoclastic grand­mother, ·smashing down images · · w_ith her tongue in echoes from Holy Writ. At,my. father's direction, I gathered Mary,· Joseph and the young 'un into the. shopping bag, . and left them in his room. I : · wondered if he would give them to • the same Catholics he had given :. the rosary to, and whether my father minded if. Catholic . kids thought the Son of God looked like a goddamn· dime-store, Jesus. ·. 
Three days later, it was Christ­mas. I was ready_ to celebrate, but my sister wasn't.'. She was moping around the house. like a grieving fawn. None of us could get a smile out of her, nor would she 'sing a Christmas carol, and she seemed to have lost all interest in gifts. Orr Christmas Eve,· we all helped decorate the tree, and she rather listlessly hung tinsel on the ever­green branches. She had always been known as the best tinsel hanger in the family; but that year, I had to go around straightening out every one of her:tangled strands.. · 
We didn't see the tree again until Christmas morning. At five o'clock, I awoke the family; and in the early morning darkness, we went into the living room where Santa's. gifts were waiting. There, under the . lights of the Christmas tree, be­neath a snow-covered roof thatched with ·evergreen, were the most exquisitely carved Bethlehem . figures I have-ever.seen.: Mary was there as virgin .and. mother, looking Catholic and Protestant and Jewish, all at the same· time, the universal. mother .of earth. Joseph was there as the young patriarch piously watching,· standing· at attention as. though he were guarding jewels. At the center of it all was the Lord Jesus;. and the woodwork of the oxes' stall seemed to form .a cross .. toward which 'His little hands were reaching:. 
· · My grandmother didn't come to · · visi_t us that Christmas, but she.·· heard of my sister's.happiness on that blessed day. My grandmother wept, my mother. said, when she heard· how my sister wept at the Christmas manger; My sister was a , delicate child; and we all knew my · grandmother loved her very much. 
The next day when we went fo my grandmother's homfe, ·we found the Woolworth Jesus, Mary and Joseph under her Christmas tree. But she . had taken each figure and had most carefully. repainted it so that there were no dripping haloes and. no garish colors; but even she, in her · · love for her granddaughter; couldn't entirely redeem the dime-store . ugliness..I thought to myself: there is a look on His face as though He were already feeling the ·nails in• His.hands. 
My grandmother said,-as if _to -: · explain 'lier compromise of. the· directives of Scripture: "Christmas is a blessing_ that should bring us together.'' I think her words were intended to include the Catholics; 
· Merry Christmas from Darby O'Gill and me. 


Tantalizing Tales Jro'm Tiny Tim 
Mary· Reher is a junior ·A·merican Studies major from Downers Grove, Illinois. : 
Picture the ruddy glow of air warming a Christmas fire flaming in the hearths Chestnuts on the fire sputtering . and. cracking noisily. Puddings steaming of warmth, not of chill. · Such is the picture Charles Dickens · gives in his new work, A Christmas· Carol. ·· 
Who is this Charles Dickens to speak of Christmas? He could never be more · mistaken . than to believe Christmas means nothing but joyous times-singing carols to· red-faced, cheery lamplighters in snowy cob­blestone streets. Although such an illusion of Christmas may be• com­forting:· and delightful, ·Christmas is not a holiday to relax and chat with old-time friends, sipping flaming brandy -and devou'r-ing goose. Christ­mas is not, contrary to his belief, a God-Bless-Us~Everyone time. 
Surely Dickens, at one time or an­other, must have wasted a 54-hour day shopping 'for a nonexistent gift, while being . crowd-carted · down 
.State Street in . Chicago the day after : Thanksgiving.· . Jockeying around the bargain counter,, buck­ing crowds to snatch the best buy in striped hot· water bottles: for 
·grandma never fails to draw out the Yuletide spirit in people. · This is Christmas! 
Scrooge misses this completely­he never learns the skill of shopping in. mobs to grab the ideal gift for some obscure relative. He does not realize that every December people's friendly handshakes move up the arm to elbow-jabs and· shoulder­blocks, which somehow prove more effective in cutting through· waiting lines. To 'Scrooge, Christmas shop­ping . entails no more than casually calling out the window to a· passing neighbor boy to .buy the fleshiest turkey at the market-and charge it to his account.• Where is the chal­lenge in that? : (Of course, the store just happens . to conveniently open 

-at dawn on Christmas morning ~to garner some last-minute sales). Scrooge might •. possibly . master the true Christmas psyche, if .the 
Ghosts of Christmas Past,. Present and Future woul<l just leave · him alone. At the beginning of the story, Scrooge is a true success; a fine figure of a self-made man, not un­like our dear · Ben ·Franklin,. who built a thriving business through thrift and long hours of honest hard work. · As Dickens observes; "Oh! But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grindstone, Scrooge!· hard and sharp as flint," a levelheaded man of busi~ ness. Scrooge was· born with the makings of an· aggressive Howard Hughes. · 
Not only is Scrooge ·aggressive, he also is a fine upstanding gentleman of respectable stock at the onset of the tale. Acting with culture, he substitutes· a:dilute six-letter "hum­bug" for more . colorful _four~letter curses, which I shall leave to your imagination. It seems thatScrooge's potential knows no· bounds. _ 
Then come the Spirits of Christ­mas. The three ghosts-Past, Pres­ent and Future-proceed to corrupt his standards overnight on Christ­mas Eve and warp · his competitive spirit into a happy~go-lucky, every­thing-is-glorious, half-crazed . fool. How else can you explain a man suddenly · falling in love with his door knocker? "'I-· shall love it as long as I live!' ·cried Scrooge, pat­ting·. it · wi_th his hand.. 'I scarcely ever looked at it before. What ·an honest expression it has in its face! 
·u•s a :wonderful knocker!' " Strange . . . very strange. 
Upon hearing: the Christmas bells pealing to· celebrate the birth ,of Christ, Scrooge goes berserk, .jump­ing around the room and describing the chimes as•. ''lusty.',' Or perhaps it is Dickens who is insane for im­agining such a: scene. In either case, it is obviously. an eccentric reaction for an eccentric character ·created by an eccentric author; after all, how many people can sincerely find passion in a church chime on Christ­mas morning?• Quasi . modo, you . say? 
Suppose the ·spirits had never visited Scrooge. · In all likelihood, he would never have shouted out the window to bewildered strangers be-

by Mary Re_her 
low in· the street, " 'I don't know anything. I'm quite a baby. Never mind. I don't care. I'd rather be a baby. Hallo! Whoop!' " Definitely not your James Bond breed. 
Moving on to.a distinctly different approach to A ·ohristmas Carol, let us , get· down to symbolism, every English major's pet fetish. 
Picture the fire, Picture the chest­nuts.. Picture the pudding. Picture Jerry Ford Scrooge pinching Bob Cratchit's pennies on the streets of New York City. · Charles Dickens has actually created a political es­say, commenting on the financial future of New York.· So move over, Richard Brautigan; step aside, Kurt Vonnegut: Dickens has moved into satire, too. He has titled the story, A Christmas Carol, but it·will un­doubtedly be more popularly· known and .·loved in the future 'as Abe Beame's Swan Song.· 
·At the onset of the story,· Jerry Ford Scrooge refuses to supplement the ·meager salary· of Bob· Cratchit, a struggling .. Manhattan business­man, to help allay the urban·· fain~ ily's excessive debts;: He suggests, 

. however; that they fend for them­selves as best as they can; Scrooge observes, " 'It's not my business. It's enough for a man to understand his own business and not to interfere with other people's ... if they would rather die, they had better do it and decrease the surplus populat_iori.' " 
However, in Dickens' tale, the ens tire crisis is resolved· by the· ap­pearance of three ghosts, Christmas Past, Present and Future, who liter­ally sea.re Scrooge into his· senses so that he.parts with a portion 'of his immense: wealth to help the down­trodden Cratchits of New York. So, help is on the way after all, New York. Simply have patience· and keep a· watchful• eye on 'the next December, for when the spirits step into the· world, you will have·· no more worries. 
In the meantime, Jerry F'. Scrooge should listen with caution for "a clanking noise, deep • down · below; as if some · person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant's cellar.'' 
SCHOLASTIC 


The fallowing excerpts are taken from the complaint book in the "lobby of the library's second floor.· Scho­lastic is indebted to Antonie L. Baker for permission to reprint these 
selections. · · 
Q. ·Why are there no Coke machines on· the 14th floor? I get awfully 'thirsty when I study up there late at night after ·the library has closed down and all . there is is Fr. Burtchaell's Boone's Farm Straw­berry Hill. When do you intencl to do something to correct this-atro­cious situation? And no milk ma­chines either!! A. 24 October: You're complaining. to the· wrong people. ,.. 
Q. Ahh! Arrgh! HELP! pleasEi re­spond. 
A. ? 
Q. Can yo~ tell ~e if Connie Steveris was strangled? A;' No. 
Q. Dear Mrs. Bake~, You never answered my question about the library's '.'no kegs" policy. Tliiswas not.to be taken in.jest.HI throw a party upon· the· 6th floor, keep it in between bookcases and have a· guest list (no· hard drugs or priests allowed), what then is the problem?. Is this so unreasonable? As I have previously said, you too are invited. 
·A.. 29 October. I.know what a disappointment this will be to.you, but I'm afraid you have us mixed up with . ano.ther "Library." 
Q, Suggestions for the perennial 
problem of.the 14th floor: 
l; •Remove it entirely from . the building and use it as a roof to keep .the rain off. the reflecting pool. Thir­teen floors are enough really. 
2. Raffie off a key-to it. Good way to make money. .. :3, Hold an open house.. sometime. When everyone sees that ·all there is up there is a lounge, ;kitchen and storage space, maybe .the ,interest will die. down. 
.' 4. Close it off entirely, change all the locks, disconnect the elevators, 
·DECEMBER 5, 1975 
glue the doors shut. (Fr: Burtchaell could help' you.) Declare' the entire 
University persona non grata on the 14th •floor-including the President and Piovost. · Don't know what this would accomplish, but it makes as much sense as anything else, includ­ing the present closed-door policy. . 5. Use it to throw weekly beer blasts for the dining-hall · workers. They need a little fun too. But you'd better do SOMETIUNG! ! Re­member, . when the revolution comes 
the 14th floor will be the first to go!! Another suggestion: .. Change the name of the 14th floor to the 15th floor. Hence no more 14th~floor prob­lem. Absolutely brilliant! · 
Or: Eliminate one of the lower 13 floors, such as the sixth floor, which is another problem floor. That way the 14th floor becomes the 13th. 
Or: Remove the 14th. floor com­pletely and'relocate it on top of the Golden .Dome. Why not? ,Burtchaell thinks he's God anyway..... A. 30 October. What fascinating suggestions-with all sorts of possibilities. · 
Q. Why is there a God .and why don't I know__ everything? (In 15 words or less please.) A..·***See below. 
Q. What. is th.e meaning of Life? Also what were the principal causes of the Crimean War? (Use both sides if necessary.) 
A. *·**See below. 
Q. True or False-:,-How many rooms does the library have? If so, why not? 
A. ~:·HManifestation of midterm malaise seem to be surfacing. We sympathize. 
. . . 

Q. !cannot believe that a library of _this "caliber" does not have a sub-­scription to Women's Wear Daily, which, contrary. to popular belief, is a business , rather than._ a fashion magazine. Why not? · A. 17 October. 
The University Libraries do not select serial titles for purchase. Please take your suggestion · to an appropriate teaching department for their consideration. 
Q. Why not a room somewhere in the library, quiet, and furnished with couches, where one could nap? 
A. Aw, c'mon! Comment. University of Chicago has the above for commuters, with at­tendants yet! 
Q. Michigan State has the world's largest collection of comic books. Will the ND library ever catch up? A. 12 September. I sincerely doubt it. 
Q. With. so inany:people gathering at the 9 p.m'. hour iri the second­floor lobby, you should consider. cov.:. ering the floor. with white sand and installing sun lamps so all time· is 
n?.t for naught. · · · A. 20 September. A very . intriguing proposition. In fact, it has all sorts of potential, not only for students, but for the library staff. A little piped-in sound of waves lapping on a beach to help drown out the talking, · the sound of ·gulls screaming~ops! That's not gulls, that's the' library administration screaming that it would be cheaper to physically carry the "people gath~ ered" to La Fortune, .where they claim the socializing belongs. Can't say it wasn't a good try though. 
Q. What is the purpose of having a 14th floor when only certainelitist bourgeoise are allowed to use. it? Does this not imply ,some sort· of acceptance of favoritism,. discrimina­tion of the proletariat, "all men are not created, eqi:ial," and. the. iik.e? Have you ever read Animal Farm? Get off your duffs. Rally against the domineering forms of bosses: Burt­chaell .and Hesburgh. What kinµ of a person would permit such an unacceptable social· doctrine? Do unto others as . you would have them do. unto you. Love thy neigh­bor as thyself. What do you .think Jesus would have to say about such a ridiculous situation? Or Buddha for that matter? Or even Dean .Roe-. mer? All men are created equal, but some men· are . more equal than others. Fascist pigs! Crucify them! Revolt! 
A. 28 October. -. Please. refer to pages 15, 20, back of page 24 and p. 25. 
The 
D. I omers 
,, ' ~ : l 



Recess 
by BiU Delaney 
Notre Dame can be a ·very boring place at times.. In order to combat the stream of testS:papers, :lectures, labs and finals, there must-be some form of relaxati'on availabi~ ·to' the 

student. .. -: . ' ­Some go drinking in order to for­get their probl~ms, but theLibrary is a long, bitter walk on a cold win­ter night. 'Some 'party the weekend away, but . the supply of money needed for that entertainment . is quickly· 'depleted.··· Others. sleep,· and say·· they ·enjoy. resting: . . -. . . A good 'riumb~r of , people work out and play· 'sports. 'Many'·cannot accept. the fact that their high school athletic c~reers are over, and warit to show··their·-roommates that they can· still throw 'like Namath, block like Simpsciri" and shoot· like Mara­vich. ' Others enjoy the mental relief provided by a long run or a strong swim; Racquetball claims' quite 'a few.of us, and s·ome· like to be' alone with their thoughts ori a long walk. . The track in.'the fiel9house of the ACC is next tothe hockey rink. It is an oval track, with six lanes ex­tending around the-hockey stands, by the long jump pit and ·near the football training room. Eight laps arc:iund the far length niarks a mile ruri. On ' any afternoon, you can hearthe sounds of feet running, ten~ nis balls' bouncing' and the blades of hockey slfates cutting on the -fresh ice of the. rink. While :the student­athletes of· Notre Dame are 'prac~ . ticing; there are other student~ath­letes working· out with equal deter: · mination:': "We run-because we like to;'' explains'Paula Tale, who along with eight or so other girls, runs three miles a week.-'.'We started dur­ing freshman year, ·when there real­ly wasn't that much to do. Phys ed wasn'f the greatest, so: we decided to do something different. We started 
off with· a quarter: mile each time, 
and gradually brought our endur­
ance up. We all ran during the sum­
mer, and we . don't plan on stopping; 
it;s too much of a good time." . 
Under the direction of John Vano, 
the weight room offers the interested 
stude~t a place to. expand his':,(or 
her) muscles. "I came over· to ·1:11e 
weights because I wanted . to· build 
myself . up,'' .. rela_ted .John Carrico, 
the_ captain. of Alumni's·· interhall 
hockey team. "I'm amazed at the 
way Va.no runs, tlie place-it's too 
good _to . believe:. I think I'll . keep 
lifting all year now." · · · 
. Dominick' I':l'apolitano supervises 
the boxing program at Notre Dame, 
culmin_ating in •the Bengal Bouts,· on 
the ~orig road · of hard work for_ a 
title. "Ijoined the program to keep 
myself iri shape for lacrosse," said 
Thad Naquin. "I had never boxed 
before in ·my_ entire life, and.' sure 
felt funny putting the gloves on; But 
the camaraderie in the club was the 
greatest.''It made· the'·e~tire •effort 
worthwhile." . 
When the· hockey team isn't prac~ ticing, the ice fa free to ail students. Skating is a relaxing sort of pas­time, and when St. Mary's Lake freezes in earl{'January; skating under , the stars in the brisk wind can bring out romantic interests in anyone .. "We love fo skate 'ouii here on the lake," said Jack Horan,' who organizes hockey ·games during the winter for Alumni · Hall. :'.'The _con­ditions for skating are just perfect­theice· is great, the\veather fine and the people out for a good time. Arid .that's what we ·want--a good· time 
.for all.'; ­
The lakes also provide -a·• natural 
run for those interested in jogging. 
"Fstarted · running•. the first' 'day. I 
came in freshman year," explained 
Joe Schroer. "I knew I had to ·do 
something to keep from losing my 
mind, so I decided to run. ·. There is 
a certain ·freedom of running around 
the lakes, and a sense of accomplish­
ment, too:·. Some of the· greatest 
moments of my four y'ears here will 
be my runs around the path."· 
-· The Rockne Memorial houses one of -·the :c· finest basketball courts around, ,and the competition every ·night is fierce. "The first time I ever· . came ·aown here, I had to waifan hour before we-. could play," ex­plained Mike Donovan. "Each game was like'· the 'seventh game of the NBA Championships-the pressures 
were on everyone. When we finally got our chance to play, we were run right off the court by five little guys who-ran like. gazelles. And when we los( we .had to sit' down again:_ this time for ai1 hour and a half!" 
The pool in the Rock is an old one/ where thousands have swum to ease· their tired muscles. The pool is getting outdated, but it is the only 
swimming . place for the students. "I've always been, apoor ,swimmer, so my· way to fight ·my weaknesses is to practice," reiates Dick Steiner. "We alt'go swiirimirig twice a week, and every Sunday night for-the free period, and I've learned quite a .bit frmri my time in the pool/'' -. 
The 'endless noise of racq~etballs bounciitg agaii1stthe"cmirts is also present at the Rock. Leagues are formed for both .the ·novice . and ad­~anced; 'and. tourna~ents 'are . s:ched­uled through the Interhall · office. Since it is relatively easy to play the game, tli'e . ciunpus provides. quite·. a number of good players for ·either play or competition. "I've been play­ing for four years now, and I still can't get enough 'rif it;'' ··admits_ Ed Brower, a four-year· veteran. :. "I'm pretty skinny to play· the· .other sports, so a game such ,as racquet­ball gives me the opportunity to dis­play my prowess' in ·an a~·ea I can be relatively good' at with' little natural skill. -And I feel a·. certain . sense of accomplishment: each -time I take the courf__:_I really can;tdescribe it, it's just there.'' • . 
Karate and Tae K~a°' Do started as' informal groups' and gre~. into club organizations iri' a very short period.. Bruce Lee's _exploits 'may have prompted many to·participate, but the' benefits of the activity have kept.them interested: "Dressing iri that·• white .'smock'' ·certainly -gave many the impression that 'I wasn't all I-was cracked up to be," admitted Dan: O'Sullivan .."AlthoughI practice _by myself, the·forces around me'are very strong. .'T learned to harriess my-bodyJn sucha way that"I can 

I 
I
unleash great amounts· of power at will. Since, I've always been ~!meek 

I
sort' of. guy;' my new' talents are 
coming. in rather handy.'' ·' 
· , so· some · box, •some run; : some swim. '; The student~athletes come from alt'directions, in various shapes and sizes; with different-motivations and interests; but come. they· do, . converging·· on ·the.-Rock, the ACC 
and the' lakes. ; 
SCHOLASTIC 




Oh,· Puck! 

Things are different · this year in the colder half of the ACC. A change.. in the,. program structure, a new assistant coach and a. healthy, 
.experienced and academically sound squad are· a few of ·the ·highlights that are giving the Irish leers a new look as hockey season iolis round. · 
A big part of the: new look that ND hockey is sporting is due to the 
.addition of Assistant..· Coach Ric Schafer, a Notre Dame graduate as well as a ,former hockey captain in 1973-.74. Aside-from his ND back­ground, he has done· a· short term of duty with -the WHA's Minnesota Fighting Saints. The playing .and coaching• experience gained from his stay :in· Olten, Switzerland, _will add another.. dimension to 'the style of play stressed by the. Irish coaching tandem. ::,, 
· .Schafer has played. with. some of those currently skating for the Irish and some wondered if this,might be 
a. little awkward for. the new coach. But from the first practice, Ric has established himself as an asset to the ND hockey program.· According to 
. John· Peterson, one of the most ex­perienc~d sophomore. goalies ·in ·the WCHA (the other.being ND's Lenny Moher), "Ric has really_ been :a; plus·to the .team; his -playing here has put him-_in a spot where he can· identify: with. what you go through to ,play· hockey here.. Playing with some of the older players .hasn't affected' his relationship .with the team in the least." · '.:'-': · ·: And Ric is just as pleased with his return: to the Notre Dame. campus. '/I am ,quite. thrilled to be· back at Notre Dame. I will always be grate­ful for .the opportunity to coach and play· here,"· Schafer admitted. : "I hope I can·, really help this hockey program;'.' One aspect of· the pro­gram that Schafer .will concentrate on .is recruiting.r. This is the founda­tion for a good program and indi­cates the respect and faith Lefty has for his•abilities. ·.· ·. 
·Another· radical. change · in' ·this year's hockey. program is· the ab­sence of' the junior varsity pro­gram. The program was discon­
DECEMBER-5, 1975 
tinued because of the lack of funds, of teams on a competitive level with the Irish jayvees, and of ice time available for practicing. Without the added ice time for the players that the junior varsity program pro­vided, it will be difficult to keep many players constantly prepared for the goaltending position. Prac­tice time must be juggled, using dif­ferent drills and scrimmages to maintain competitiveness and to keep the · players ready to play should injury or inconsistency plague the :netminding · corps. One thing. .is certain this year as far as -goalies go: "The chores will be split on Fri­day and Saturday nights," Coach Smith confessed.. And unless some­.thing radically changes, the Irish . sophomore _goalie tandem of. Moher and Peterson -will be' doing most of 
that. 
Morale will be. a key to Notre 

Dame hockey this· year: it will' be 
a challenge for the entire 30 players 
to stay motivated :throughout:,the 
grueling schedule of·. 36 games.· The 
big chore-will be •for the players 
running twenty-first through thir­
tieth to maintain the. proper. condi~ 
tioning and attitude so that they will 
be able to make a ·contribution to 
the team.·. should.· the opportunity 
arise. The coaching staff realizes that 
it, will be a difficult task. .As Lefty 
Smith said, "Hockey players .must 
be able to sacrifice, whether ·it be 
. ,. •• -:·_. ;_! < > 
\._(}:·~-~:~-::~_L::,.: . 
by Chip Scanlon 

practicing at weird hours, enduring cold and bad weather to play on out­side rinks, or even having to buy some of their own equipment. This is why I have so much respect and admiration for hockey players as individuals." 
The latter 10 players on the var­sity won't have any of the glamour of suiting up for a home game or the enjoyment of traveling with the team, visiting other schools and fa­cilities. Their job will ·be to play a prep ·team role and act as a var­sity reserve. It was ,only last De, cember that the Irish leers lost four players to academic ineligibility and one to injury. ''.The success· of this year's team will be partially attrib~ uted to .the ·players at the 21-30 spots,"• Smith acclaimed. "These .10 players, will allow me to adjust the starting lineup if the need-arises too," he added; "You hate to have to keep a kid home. Traveling is. part of the_ fun,· but sometimes you have to." 
Coaches Smith and Schafer think they have a.winner• on .their. hands this :year and from all indications one would · have to agree.· · The changes ·in the program will pose no insurmountable obstacles for the Irish, and despite facing some of the toughest competition in ·the nation, the 1975-76 hockey campaign so far is . a· very. successful .one for the Notre Dame leers. 

Christmas is a special mystery for me: it comes with warmth and light in.:the cold and dark of winter and is both remembered and anticipated at odd moments 0 in July. The nuns in grade school said Easter was the most, important feast (if• there be such competition among holidays); and they may be . theologically cor­rect, but I held out for Christmas. Perhaps I was ruled by materialism, by all the comniercfal hoopla, by Mattel toys -and department store Santas, and perhaps my Easters had been singly corrupted by stray rab­bits·and stale jelly beans, but I was adamant. Emotionally, Easter was a distant event for me: I could ·un­derstand mothers and children and the cold, the soHtude and quiet. of late night more· than I could com­prehend tombs and resurrection and the chill, ethereal,' alien air of early morning. 
It is . hard· to determine when Christmas begins; I suppose I first begin the anticipation when the stores put up their decorations in midsNovember. It is after Thanks~ 

. giving, though, that the real Christ­mas spirit sets in. When I was little, ..·. the . newspaper ran a Christmas serial around December 1, some crazy adventure story of swashbuck­ling reindeer and errant elves which climaxed on Christmas Eve. And before the energy crisis, my neigh­borhood put colored lights on its· houses, its assorted trees and bushes. 
We used to have an Advent wreath and, being the youngest of three. children, I got to light .two candles, including the rose-colored Gaudete one. A few weeks before Christmas our mail all turned to 

· by Sally Stanton 
Christmas cards, gold and green, red and blue, ,with shepherds and ma­donnas and names of people from my parents' past: 
The Christmas tree dominated our 
living room. We had boxes of orna­
ments collected through the years, 
all with their own stories. I was 
particularly fond of . all the· odd­
shaped ones, the stars and tea ket­
ties and the bells which made sounds when I put them on ·the tree. We have one ornament that looks much like crumpled tinfoil and old ,netting, but is .. actually a replica of the Graf Zeppelin which hung on my grandmother's tree. It is distinc­tively. ugly by modern · standards; bu( unique (How many people have zeppelins on their trees· at . Christ­mas?), unbreakable (and so able, to survive child-fingers) . and ancient (a' venerable relic of .my mother's childhood). It was the first ·occasion of my meeting the delightful··word . "zeppelin" and always occupies a prominent place on our tree. . . . . 
,Christmas is a still point/the ·rit­
ual that links my past with my pr~s~ 
ent. .. All my .Christmas trees b.lend 
together at night, and in the lights of 
one I remember the lights of all the 
others, when I \Vas ·small and niy 
concerns were different, when my 
family was all _children and. Santa 
Claus still came silently while I 
slept: · 
· Christmas can be one of. the lone­liest times of the year: in the midst of a dead world,. we celebrate life, yet death · is still just outside the window_ and sometimes, when the tree is ·turned off for the night, or after the presents. are all opened .and the scraps of colored paper lie 

in · isolated heaps, :-it threatens to come in. Christmas is best celebrated in families: it .is a time when lone­liness or absence ·can be lev.st ignored; ·; · · ~ · 
·Although it seems in many :ways a holiday of childhood, of receiving,· it is primarily a time· of adulthood, of loving and : unselfish ·• giving. Christmas must be :.created-· anew each year and given to the children of the day. 
It seems perhaps, that it is .time for us to take our part in the crea­tion of Christmas. · 
Yet Christmas is not created in· a day.·There must be a. period of prep­aration-'-and this ..time is difficult to find on campus now.. Finals arid last-minute .papers· oppress .'people as we try to finish, the semester.. I find myself reacting much as I imag: ine a cornered or trapped hedgehog might,-snarling and. striking: out at all who come near, driven by a sense of self-preservation. 
·christmas .runs· the risk ofgetJing lost in all-nighters and frantic type­writing. :r-fear many of us,. rather than-bringing .Christmas ·with us to our ·families, ·crawl home .to. sleep the sleep. of··the frantic. dead, .not waking till Christmas morning:. · ·I .have ··.no glib solutions to this 
rush (I am preparing. for .the. last long haul .myself), except perhaps a suggestion that we each try .to main­tain a sense of humor. and·,propor­tion throughout. 
On benalf of the Scholastic edi­torial board and staff, I extend best 

· wishes. to· all our readers for a merry and rest-filled Christmas and a happy 'new year, · 
SCHOLASTIC 



-, ·_ . ' . . . . , . ~ . . . . . 
. . ·· <)t-1111[/llurenee, (Jra11d111alerl<i11s,
. _-_. . .· . . . . . -"•,:. . 


.·· · . · ...... ·•· .· · sfatlles Ofthe-Saered :.Hetlrt? · 
. ·;. ·. . . . ' . . . 
~ . . . ' . 



" ·.·· •· (}luU!-i11-the-dark rosaries? 
.·. << J;ul 1ur u11tv $5/1011 ea11 ·· · 
. . . 


. 

·. ·· ·ii... ..· give them au11e-vear 
. . . 


stibseriptiun tu.··.. . . · 
. 86_H0f:v4S?:Je 
·..· ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j . . ~ ·. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC . . . . . . . }:f ·NOTREDAl\lE, INDIANA 46556 : . ..··. -· . _ ~ 
. . :!, Please ~encl me a subscription to SCl~~~ASTIC for· · I.. 
.· ;. : .· •· .. ·I . . ..... year~ at $5.00 a year. . . •. · . I .. 

. 
..... ; .f 

. 




