
is not to be the Library
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
NOVEMBER 3 Nineteen Thirty-three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mori turns FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class - matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 35, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief
.Managing Editor
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN___________________JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors THOMAS J. STRITCH_________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK_____________________College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL. _____________________Staff Artist
. Sports Staff JOHN D. CARBINE.............)	„	.
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING................ P<”	® dlt°rS
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR...............HOWARD	T. WALDRON
'News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD-------------------------News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR-------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ-----------------------.ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL--------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.____________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES------------------------LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY_________________Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
November 3, 1933
No. 7
A BY-PRODUCT OF 14-0
The Notre Dame student body spoiled a more or less popular belief last Saturday. They showed that they still know how to lose, with grace, and with generosity to the winners, if not with resignation.
During the early weeks of the current football season quite a few of our outside critics made unhesitant statements that the students at Notre Dame were no longer able to take defeat, that they couldn’t back their team unless victory was regularly achieved. That position was never justifiable; Saturday it was positively disproved.
Naturally the students don’t relish losing a football game. But they know superiority when they see it, and they are big enough to acclaim it, whatever their ^emotions may be on finding that the superiority rests with the opposition. The Scholastic, eager to see the local reaction to the Pittsburgh game, paid particular attention this week to campus conversations and second-guessing. No item of complaint, no fragment of Monday morning coaching arrested that attention. The students realized that the Fighting Irish gave their best, and they were proud of them for it.
The fact that the students and the team are not satisfied to lose is indicative of a healthy competitive spirit. The fact that both the players and the students can admit that the best team won, when it really did, is proof that a sportsmanlike attitude on football continues to exist in full strength at Notre Dame.
CAMPUS RENAISSANCE
One very pleasant fact that has been noted this fall at Notre Dame is the apparent increase in the activity of campus organizations. Increases in membership, improvements in the frequency and regularity of meetings, and the evidence of more thorough planning and organization of the groups’ programs seem to indicate that the extra-class groups of a scholastic nature are in for a , more profitable existence than was their previous lot.
To mention just a few of the groups that have shown a definite upturn: the French club, the German club, the Spanish club, the Economic Seminar, the Bookmen, the Irish club, the Cracow club. ,
It may be a logical deduction from this, new campus situation that the perennial standers-about on South
November 3, 19 3 3
Bend street corners are greatly reduced in number. If that is not true, then it seems necessary that a larg number of regular campus denizens have been stirred from their lethargy this year. Either condition, or both, are-welcome; the finders of the formula that has wrought the change should be prevailed upon to reveal their method to several remaining undergraduate organizations that could stand a bit of new zeal.
CAMPUS ACTIVITY FOR PURDUE GAME
On page three of The Scholastic today there is an announcement from the rally committee that should be of particular interest to the student body. Plans for the regular pep rally that will precede the Purdue game next week have been enlarged to include a program of campus decorations and special events.
Such occasions in the past have roused observations by some school boy cynics that Notre Dame is going “rah-rah.” That is hardly a reasonable point of view. A week of campus enthusiasm, of decorations, of football consciousness, is genuine fun in its own right. It can produce a very pleasant reaction on the part of thousands of visitors who attend big games here.
This year, in addition to that aspect of the program, there is the fact that the special student demonstration will unquestionably be beneficial to the football squad in the matter of success. It can and should help the source of a certain type of inspiration that helps win games. Even the scoffers have admitted that in the past.
The Scholastic, because of those considerations, hopes that every student and every hall on the campus will cooperate with the rally committee in making its plans for next week successful. It can be done very well without the generation of any hysteria.
Tomon-ow afternoon an unusual service will be rendered the student body. A special play-by-play report of the Notre Dame-Navy game will be brought to Notre Dame Stadium by direct wire and announced over the amplifying system there. Considerable work - and expense were required to arrange this feature. The student body should show its appreciation of those efforts as well as its enthusiasm for the Fighting Irish by turning out in full force.
One
THE WEEK
Big Game Number of ‘Juggler’ Chit Nov. 10
By Thomas J. Stritch
Lady Visitor
A lady came in this week, on her way to the World’s Fair, and caused considerable commotion. She was a bustling soul, full of the springs of life and used to bobbing around with a vengeance. She got here shortly before lunch-time, bent on doing the campus and seeing a neighbor’s son, who roosts in Sorin. The lad was in class and dashed over to dinner right afterward, but the lady intended to have him know she was here. Before he had seated himself fairly at the table, Father Farley came up to tell him she was here. Three guys told him about her on the way back to the hall. There was a note on his desk from another priest to the same effect. The lady did her work well —too well, if anything.
Well, they met—such things are foreordained in heaven. The senior wanted to do what he could foi' her in the way of telling her the campus lore, but she was ahead of him. Already she had met Mr. Anderson— “Isn’t he nonchalant?” she said. She was able to differentiate infallibly between the two Father Wards, something he had not learned in four years. So she put him wise on a few things about the campus as they walked here and there, seeing the sights.
Naturally, it didn’t take her long. She wanted to get to Chicago and do up the Fair before sundown, and so she left in the middle of the afternoon. The visited escorted her to her car, and as she seated herself at the wheel, she said with an air of shocked surprise: “Oh, I forgot something!”
“What?” he said.
“Your mother,” was the reply. “I had meant to bring her.”
Prefectures
Halls have been quiet this year. There was something of a Chinese demonstration over in Freshman not long ago which made the papers, and there have been a few flare-ups here and there, but in general rectors and prefects are not turning prematurely grey. Father Farley, not having to worry about the latter, has even gone so far as to declare that Sorin is a mausoleum; but most of them are not so sorry that the boys are a studious lot.
We’ve heard two good stories, though. One concerns a lost opportunity on the third floor of Dillon. The prefect, aroused by suspicious noises in a near-by suite, popped around to see what was going on.
Two
His flashlight revealed the room empty of people, but on the table was purveyed quinces and jellies and inviting sorts of food. But instead of eating or carting away the stuff he sought an incredible number of wedding-guests, none of whom had on a wedding-garment, who were lounging with bated breath in the other room and banished them to the exterior darkness.
The other comes from St. Edward’s. On the second floor there, in the annex to the rear, a group of our best athletes has gathered. Lately they have been annoyed by an over-zealous' prefect from the first floor who pips around ringing a bell o’ mornings. They advised him to keep to his own plot, and to ring the bell at a Christian hour. He persisted. They warned him again. Next morning they waited for him. He sidled up to the annex, tinkled the bell, then ran with all his might.
•
Signs of Recovery
Publications Note: Some smarty in the Juggler characterized the Oliver Travertine room as the place “where you can dance all afternoon for a nickel coke.” The Juggler wasn’t out four days before South Bend’s Largest and Finest came through with a menu note: There is a minimum charge of 50 cents.
Guerrilla warfare note: A man over in Alumni was thrown in the lake last week for the ninth time, it is said.
Zoological note: At last! After years of endeavor Notre Dame has produced someone worthy to succeed Perone at basketball games. We don’t know where he’s from, or what hall he lives in, but he can make noises like dogs that would fool Sir Leoline’s mastiff. He was baying his way over to the Dining Hall last week, and boy, is he good! He’ll be a wow during the indoor season, we freely predict.
Port In Storm,
On Monday afternoon, when the boys were barging in to get their tickets for the game, chiseling here and there and making rushes to the several windows amid the usual uproar attendant on such, we espied a lean, bespectacled youth leaning against the wall intent upon a book, a tower of calm in the rush. Curious to see the volume which could command such concentration amid so much distraction, we edged close.
The book was entitled “Who Wouldn’t Go Crazy?”
On Nov. 10 “at seven,” the Juggler will make its second appearance on the campus guised as the football issue. This number is dedicated to Coach Heartly W. Anderson, and the
Gerry Doyle
Another “Juggler” Cover.
magazine in its entirity is in keeping with the pigskin atmosphere which will prevail during the week-end.
The success of the previous issue has spurred the staff on to outdo themselves in perfecting the forthcoming number. The columns “Caf Smoke” and “Rhythm Beats” continue to furnish the reader with meaty morsels of inside and outside news. Nick Lukats and Jim Moscow provide excellent material for keyhole portraits.
Gerry Doyle Does Cover
To Gerry Doyle, art editor, goes a large portion of the credit for reestablishing the prestige that the Juggler once enjoyed in the field of college comics. Again he draws an attractive cover together with many cartoons scattered here and there throughout the magazine. Between times he suggests ideas for the make-up.
For the benefit of students making the trip to the Northwestern game, there is a list of places to go and things to do in Chicago during that specific week-end. It is valuable information and will save the prospective glee seeker no end of trouble and indecision. If for no other reason, this alone is incentive enough for one to purchase a copy of the new Juggler.
In proof of the appraisal with which the first issue of Notre Dame’s humorous publication was received, it might be well to mention that the number sold up to this time stands well in excess of one thousand copies —an achievement in itself.
The Scholastic
Calendar
NOTED CATHOLIC LEADERS ARE EXPECTED AT PEACE MEET HERE
Friday, November 3
Symphony Orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Scholastic meeting, Ave Maria Building, Editorial staff, 6:30 p. m., General staff, 7:00 p. m.
Saturday, November 4
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m., “Destination Unknown”; Football, Notre Dame vs. Navy, 1 p. m. at Baltimore, Md.; Play By play report Notre Dame Stadium; Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at East Lansing, Michigan.
Sunday, November 5
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upper classmen, 7 p. m., for Freshman and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Interhall Football games, 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.
Monday, November 6
Adirondack club, Brownson Hall Rec., 8 p. m.; Collegians Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.; Lemmer Trophy debates, Law building; Alumni vs. Walsh, Carroll vs. Brownson; Bookmen, 8 p. m.; Patricians, Law building, 8 p. m.
Tuesday, November 7
Wrangler Meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.; Italian club, Carroll Rec. 7:30 p. m.; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Symphony Orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Wednesday, November 8
St. Vincent de Paul Society, Brownson Hall, 7:45 p. m.; Collegians’ rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Thursday, November 9
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m., “The Shepherd of the Seven Hills,” an insight into the Vatican City.
King to Speak
Grenville N. King, senior in Chemical Engineering will speak on “Copper Coating of Steel Wire” at the meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Society of Steel Treaters to be held tonight at 7:45 in the Metallurgical Department of the Engineering Building.
An invitation to attend is extended to all those who are interested in metallurgy.
Wranglers Meet
Wranglers, honorary forensic society, met for a few minutes Tuesday evening in the Law Building to approve the completed plans of the Lemmer-Trophy Debates. Chairman Arthur Korzeneski and President Arthur Sandusky gave brief talks on this coming interhall debate season.
Purdue Rally —
A gigantic “Pep” week, featured by hall and campus decorations, will precede the Notre Dame-Purdue football game of November 11th, it was announced this week by Tony Andreoni, chairman of the rally committee. “There will be no woodpiles and bonfire rally as last year,” says the chairman, “but we plan an equally great demonstration on Friday night, November 10th and a decoration contest for all halls during next week.”
The hall decoration contest will open Sunday night and continue throughout the following week until the rally committee sets a closing date. Halls are given absolute freedom of choice as to the type and manner of decoration to give the proper atmosphere for a major football contest. A suitable and distinctive award will be given the hall whose decorations are thought best by the group of judges, who have not been named as yet.
At the present time the committee is planning to hold the great Friday night rally in the University Stadium. A splendid speaking program is to be accompanied by fireworks and other colorful additions. “We can only hope for the greatest possible student cooperation in these endeavors,” says Andreoni.
STUDENT NOTICE!
There will be no radio broadcast of the Notre Dame-Navy game tomorrow. A play by play report, brought by direct wire from Baltimore, will be ' announced over the amplifying system in the Stadium starting at about 12:45. In case of rain the local broadcast will be held in the gym. Students will enter Stadium gate No. 14.
CONTENTS
Editorials ....................... 1
“The Week" ....................... 2
Juggler .......................... 2
Peace Conference ................. 3
All Saints Day.................. 4
Lecture Series ................. 5
“Neivs of the Week” ............ 6
K. of C. Neivs ................. 7
“Man About The Campus” ............ 8
Navy Game ....................... 11
Cross Country ................... 11
Pittsburgh Game................ 12
Interhall ....................... 12
“Introducing” ................... 13
“So They Say” ................... 14
“Splinters From The Press Box”.... 15 “On Down The Line”............. 16
JUDGE CAIN IS CHAIRMAN
While the complete program for the regional meeting (Nov. 19 at Notre Dame) of the Catholic Association for International Peace was still un-
Rev. John A. Ryan Plans another N. D. visit.
announced early this week, a few additional facts concerning the assembly were given out.
Some of the expected guests at the one-day session are: Dr. Moon, President of the Association, Dr. Hayes of Columbia U., one of the group’s most active members, Dr. John A. Ryan, more usually associated with the field of economics, and Rev. Joseph Thorn-ing, S.J., of St. Louis University, who has devoted five years to this question of international peace. Fr. Thoming has written much- concerning the subject.
Papers will be given by three members of the University faculty: Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dr. Francis McMahon, and Dr. R. C. Pollock. Father Miltner will talk on “Peace in the College Curricula,” Dr. McMahon’s topic will be “Nationalism,” and Dr. Pollock’s address concerns “Student attitudes toward peace in the present crisis.”
Judge William M. Cain has agreed to act as chairman of the afternoon session. The chairmanships of the other meetings will be announced at a later date.
Reports Out Nov. 15
Rev. Father Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, announced that the mid-semester report of deficient students would be issued about the 15th of the month.
Only students who are deficient will receive notices.
Three
Nov emb er 3, 19 3 3
Prof. Kervick Talks To Architects’ Club
Prof. Francis W. Kervick brought biblical history to life in the minds of the members of the Architects’ Club in a lecture last week, recount-
Fkanois W. Kervick
Speaks to architects
ing Iris travels of the past summer through the Mediterranean countries.
In the course of lais lecture Prof. Kervick took his listeners with him to Algiers where the French were celebrating their “Fourth of July,” to Tunis and historic Carthage, so often destroyed and rebuilt, to Malta, the last outpost of । the Knights of .Malta, whose monks cared for the wounded crusaders. The next point of interest was Port Said, the reputed “wickedest city of the world,” situated at the entrance to the Suez Canal. Then to Cairo to visit the pyramids and the Sphinx; here one sees native Egypt much as it is pictured in biblical history.
From Cairo to Jaffa, the seaport for Jerusalem, and then to Bethlehem where an imposing church marks the site of the Manger. Entering Jerusalem one travels down the Via Dolorosa where the Agonies of Our Lord are commemorated by marbie plaques. Then down the road as did the the good Samaritan, to Jericho.
Damascus, the oldest city in the world, is situated at an oasis; here is seen the house of Antinues, the friend of St. Paul. In Constantinople a period of social revolution is modernizing Turkey under their progressive President who is cleaning up the city.
Mr. Kervick next visited cities along the southern coast of Russia where Soviet officials outdid them-
Vejar, Monogram Man, Extra in Two Movies
Lawrence Mose Vejar, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and a football monogram winner, appeared in scenes of two movies shown in South Bend during the past week.
Vejar, a resident of Hollywood, California, played extra parts in two pictures, “I Loved a Woman,” starring Kay Francis and Edward G. Robinson, and the football vehicle, “Saturday’s Millions” with Robert Young and Leila Hyams.
In the first picture, Vejar appeared in an outdoor scene wearing a derby and an overcoat and carrying a basket. The latter picture showed him in the locker room of the football team trying desperately to tie his necktie.
Pharmacy Students Participate In South Bend Frolic
An exhibit arranged by the faculty and students of the Department of Pharmacy attracted much attention at the annual Uptown South Bend Frolic, held from Oct. 31 through Nov. 2.
The display was divided into five sections — analytical pharmacy, dispensing pharmocognosy, bacteriology, and the history of pharmacy— and included examples of the vari-out types of apparatus used by the pharmacist.
The South Bend Pharmacy club cooperated with the Department of Pharmacy in preparing the exhibit.
Fr. Bolger Talks
The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Economics, addressed the Catholic Forum club of South Bend Monday night, October 30, on the parallel between the new social justice philosophy under the NRA and the encyclicals of Pope Leo XIII and Pope Pius IX.
selves in an effort to show the progress being made.
In Greece such historical spots as the Acropolis and the ruins of the Greek theatre and stadium at the Oracle of Delphi were visited.
The ship docked next in Italy where the ruins of Imperial Rome were visited. At Sienna on August 15, the floor of the great cathedral is uncovered showing the bible stories that are inlaid with beautiful marble.
The last port of call was the Azores where the government station was visited to obtain water. The ship then sailed to New York where the Statue of Liberty was sighted September 2.
First Solemn Mass of
Year Sung Nov. 1st
On Wednesday, November first, at nine o’clock, Notre Dame observed All Saints’ Day with a Solemn High Mass in the newly renovated Sacred Heart Church. This was the first Solemn High Mass of the school year. It is customary for this first Mass to be celebrated earlier in the year, but this fall the church was in the process of redecoration, so the ceremony was postponed until last Wednesday. Thus, November first marked the official opening of the liturgical services of the school year.
The Reverend P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, celebrated the Mass, with Reverend Charles Milt-ner, C.S.C. acting as deacon, and Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., as sub-deacon. The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C. delivered the sermon.
The Moreau Choir, under the direction of the Reverend James W. Connerton, C.S.C. sang the Mass. It was the choir’s first appearance in the church this year and their talent has not diminished since last year.
Father Carrico’s subject was “The Church and Progress.” In his sermon, he stressed the point that while the Church has been bitterly accused by its enemies of attempting to keep the world in the middle ages and retard progress of civilization, in reality she is the foremost champion of progress so long as that progress includes spiritual betterment. He said that the sciences and arts are given the Church’s utmost sanction when the development of the soul and the answer to the question of the purpose of life are not forgotten.
French Club Visits
Notre Dame Art Gallery
The French Club held a meeting last Monday night in the art gallery of the University Library at 7:45. The members were very ably conducted through the gallery by George Lawton, one of the regular library guides. They were shown all the pictures, the Bendix collection, and the Whitman collection. The club was accompanied by Reverend Edouard Laurin, C.S.C., and Reverend Augustine Seguin.
John J. Ryan and William Ellis have been appointed to head the committee in charge of the next meeting of the French club. The committee for the meeting following that will be in charge of George Martinet and Tom Cassidy. The club intends to plan some special program for the last meeting held before Christmas. The possible presentation of a French talkie in Washington Hall is, at present, still up for discussion.
Four
The Scholastic
Commerce Men Hear New York Executive
FRANCIS J. SHEED WILL GIVE TWO
LECTURES AT N. D. NOV. 12 AND 13
Henry H. Heimann, executive manager of the National Association of Credit Men, with headquarters at New York City, delivered an address to College of Commerce students Monday afternoon, Oct. 30, in the Law auditorium.
Mr. Heimann’s talk was entitled “New Frontiers” and covered an analysis of influences prevalent today in business, and the effect that these influences are likely to have on American commerce and industry. His speech made a thorough analysis of the workings of the NBA to date, covering not only the phases that have proven successful, but also an honest appraisal of the entire plan, both from the standpoint of industry and labor.
The National Association of Credit Men, of which Mr. Heimann is head, has affiliated organizations in. 130 cities throughout the United States. The influence exerted by the Association under Mr. Heimann’s guidance upon the credit structure of the country has been a very potent factor in assisting to stabilize economic conditions.
The speaker is also a member of General Hugh Johnson’s Industrial Advisory Board.
Warning Issued Regarding Illegal Use of N. D. Seal
The right to use the seal of the University has been flagrantly violated. Among the violators are the students wearing the University Seal superimposed on their jackets, the Campus bookstore ,and some of the merchants of South Bend.
Not without the expressed permission of the officers of the university may the seal be displayed. But the coat-of-arms, in contra-distinction to the University seal, may be displayed and used for legitimate purposes without expressed authority. The coat-of-arms may thus be used as a sticker, or ornamentation.
Students are warned to take notice of the distinction between the emblems, and should not use the University seal in the future.
Directory Out Soon
The Student Directory, which comes out each year, will appear in about • ten days. It is printed in smaller type this year; another feature has been to name the high school from which each student has come. For this reason the directory is somewhat later this year. It will remain, however, at the original price of $.25.
Economic Seminar Convenes;
Linton Elected Chairman
The Economic Seminar convened for the first time this year with a dinner, Tuesday night, Oct. 24, in the Cafe Peacock, South Bend.
Francis Linton
Heads Economic Seminar
A welcome was extended to Father Edward Keller, C.S.C., a new member of the Economic Department faculty. The club also elected Francis Linton as its chairman for the year.
Charles McNichols delivered a paper concerning the recent revolution in Cuba. He stressed the fact that Cuba should be allowed to govern herself, and if the United States proposed to aid her, it should only be through cooperation with the other Latin-American countries.
At the next meeting, Nov. 7, Linton will give a paper on the subject “Adolph Hitler.”
Robert Nachtway Elected President of German Club
Robert A. Nachtwey, senior in the College of Science, was elected to the presidency of the German Club at the meeting held Wednesday evening, October 25, in the Carroll Rec room.
James W. Pick, Science junior, and Justin R. O’Toole, were elected vice-president and secretary-treasurer respectively.
The newly appointed officers will serve in these capacities for the first half of the year.
Professor Wack, faculty adviser of the Club, presided at the meeting and led the group in singing several German songs.
The Club will hold meetings on the first and third Wednesdays of each month. Talks on German culture and politics will be presented at each meeting.
OPENS LECTURE SEASON
Francis J. Sheed, English author, publisher, leader in Catholic Action, will visit Notre Dame’s campus the second week of November to open the lecture season for the current year.
“The Catholic Evidence Guild,” will be the subject of his first talk, to be given Sunday evening November the 12th. This will be followed on Monday night with a discussion of “The Modem Idea of God.” The latter topic is subject to change.
Sheed, a successful London publisher, has recently opened a New York branch of the Sheed and Ward publishing house. His partner is the former Maisie Ward, now Mrs. Sheed. Their list of authors include such impressive names as Belloc, Chesterton, Martindale, Ronald Knox, Maritain, Claudel, and Christopher Dawson.
Not only a successful publisher, author, and translator, he is also widely known as one of the foremost organizers of the Catholic Evidence Guild in England. Of him The Com-momveal remarks, “He knows the British non-Catholic public as only those men and women of the Evidence Guild can possibly know its temper and its needs of the mind and of the soul—by intimate and long personal contact with it in the streets and parks and halls where the apostles of the Evidence Guild carry on their splendid work of explaining and defending the doctrines of the Faith ..”
Kenneth Kreps Reads Paper to Bookmen
The Bookmen held their scheduled meeting last Monday night. The question of purchasing bookplates for the newly selected books was discussed. Kenneth Kreps, an alumnus and one of the founders of the Bookmen, read a paper n the contemporary short story. He emphasized the current opinion that the short story may surpass the novel in American minds as the greatest form of narration. After the meeting a general discussion was held in which the merits of Gertrude Stein, William Faulkner, and other literary highlights were argued at some length.
Irish Club Meeting Postponed
The meeting of the Irish Club scheduled for last Wednesday will be held next Wednesday evening at 7:45. The following meeting will be held a week from Wednesday.
November 3, 19 3 3
Five
Jugglers To Change Name To Collegians
According to a decision of the Notre Dame “Jugglers,” campus dance band, the name of that organization has been temporarily changed to the Notre Dame “Collegians,” a name originally used about eight years ago by one of the earlier editions of the orchestra. The appellation will be employed until a more suitable name can be selected for the group. Students having any suggestions or names to offer may send them in to Prof. J. J. Casasanta, Box 103, local.
John Ryan, tenor soloist of the University Glee Club, was recently added to the personnel of the Collegians. Mr. Ryan’s ability as a singer is well known about the campus, and his appearance with the Collegians has been well received.
South Bend Official Is
Speaker at A. I. E. E. Meet
“Fifty thousand lives and $275,000,000 a year can be saved in the United States by providing adequate illumination in city streets.” With these words Mr. William Qualls, superintendent of the electrical department of the City of South Bend climaxed a talk on municipal illumination before the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, convened in its third meeting of the yeai- on Monday night, October 30.
Mr. Qualls, who has had many years of practical experience with city lighting and police and fire alarm system, showed very clearly how loss of life and property in our cities may be reduced by properly lighting streets, clarifying his points by means of a film issued by the -General Electric Company. He explained that in Cleveland a comparative survey of two well-lighted thoroughfares and two poorly-lighted ones revealed that on the latter the fatalities were just eight times as numerous as on the adequately illuminated streets. After lighting on these streets had been improved, fatalities were reduced 75 per cent.
The speaker also pointed out that, while crime flourishes in darkness, it is banished by light. Daylight robberies, he said, are front page news because they are unusual; while robberies committed at night are quite commonplace. Proper illumination of city streets will do much to reduce crime.
<	- The postponed meeting of the Adi	irondack Club	which	was	scheduled
•	for last Monday night will be held
p	next Monday	night	in	Brownson
Rec at 8:00 p. m.
p	Six
ii
li
News of the Week
By George Leyes
NRA put into operation this week its biggest single code in the retail code, which will attempt to banish unfair competitive practices. The six practices singled out for banishment were: inaccuracy in advertising and selling; attacks on competitors; price discrimination; commercial bribery; breach of contract or interference with those of others; coercion by blacklists and other devices. Probably the most important part of this code is the clause which banishes cut-throat competition, or selling below cost.
Since this code applies only to towns of more than 2,500 population and to merchants employing more than five persons, but one exception, the chain store, political experts point to this example of helping the small merchants as an indication of the NRA’s shift to more socialistic principles. It means the NRA is no longer all for one, and one for all. It is all for the little fellows.
Congressional leaders are of the opinion that Congress will grant an additional two billion dollars or more for public works construction, bringing the total to more than five billion to be expended. Of the first $3,300,000 about two-thirds has already been allotted. Public works administrator Ickes originally advocated $5,000,000,000 for public works.
Many authorities believe that this great building of public works is the most important and most necessary aid to recovery, since business will not make any commitments as long as there is any uncertainty caused by talk of inflation and tinkering with the dollar values.
The squabble between the steel industry and Coordinator of Transportation Joseph B. Eastman was finally settled when President Roosevelt stepped in and effected a compromise. The RFC had offered to lend the railroads money to buy 800,000 tons of steel rails at $35 a ton, but the steel chieftains had demanded $40 as a fair price. The compromise places the price at $36.37% a ton. This is one more victory for the administration, but it is not expected to effect any great increase in mill employment since the steel rail plants have a capacity for 24,000,000 tons a year.
Play-by-play report of the Navy game in the Stadium tomorrow starts at 12:45.
Initial ‘Santa Maria’ Issued by Kennedy
Decked in an autumnal mantel of deep red, the Santa Maria, published by the local K. C. council, made its debut last Friday evening. The ap-
J. Walter Kennedy Edits K. C. organ pearance, taking place on Cotillion night, was so arranged because of the dedication of the issue to the guests of the Sophomore formal. J. Walter Kennedy, senior in the School of Journalism, A. B. College, is the 1933-34 editor of the magazine.
The publication contains nine pages, a considerable improvement over last year’s four page paper. The first page of the issue is taken up by the mast head, names of the council’s officers, and the log, including K. C. activities from Nov. 1 to Dec. 20.
Sponsoring Contest
Prominence is given to the K. of C. Literary Contest being conducted by the Santa Maria, and an account of the recent smoker held in the South Bend chamber rooms on the next two pages. ‘Campus news notes’ of outside interest is ably handled by Frank McGuire.
Editorials, a sports article entitled “The Team’s Chances for the ’33 Season” by Joseph S. Petritz, and “G. K.’s Chair,” a column written by Grand Knight W. Lawrence Sexton, form the outstanding contents of the middle section of the book. The succeeding pages contain notes on campus and K. C. activity, an exchange column, reports on finances, and a full page spread on athletics. A cut of “Kitty” Gorman accompanies a brief article on football.
An innovation in the nature of a “Winchell” column occupies page 7 of the magazine. Although Editor Kennedy states in an editorial that it is not his work, and hints that there is an unknown mariner at the bottom of it, the fact that all of the campus notables belonging to the council are taken for a ride, seems to indicate that such knowledge, could only be held by the editor himself.
The Scholastic
Freshman Theatrical
Group Is Organized
New to the campus this year is the freshman group of the University Theatre. It is under the direct supervision of Prof. Frank Kelly and Prof. Albert Doyle, of the Department of Speech and Drama, who aim to ground the freshmen in the fundamentals of dramatics.
It should be understood that the work of this organization is not to be solely theoretical. Actual stage experience will be given the frosh when they perform in a play of their own. While this play has not been decided upon, it will be of a comedy type, such as “Jimmy Valentine.”
A meeting of this group was held in Washington Hall last Monday evening at 6:30 p. m. Some of the elementary points in stage technique —the correct manner of walking, etc.—were discussed.
Work on the regular fall presentation of the University Theatre is progressing. Director Kelly is at present lining up the various characters for the roles. One of Shakespeare’s most popular dramas, “The Taming of the Shrew,” will be given by the Players.
Students interested in taking part in the play or for membership in the freshman group are asked to confer with either Professor Kelly or Professor Doyle, as soon as possible.
Symphony Orchestra Plays
For Jubilee in South Bend
Thirty-five members of the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra played at the commemoration of the Diamond Jubilee of the Diocese of Fort Wayne given by the Deanery of South Bend last Sunday evening at the Knights of Columbus Hall. The program included the “Carnival March” from the Masquerade Suite by Paul Lacome, and the “Rio Grande Overture” by Edward Bergenholtz. They also accompanied a mixed chorus of seventy-five voices in “Long Live the Pope” by Ganss, and Handel’s “Hallelujah Chorus.”
Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Law School of the University was one of the principal speakers of the evening. In speaking of the History of the Diocese he told of Notre Dame’s contribution and of the heroic work of Father Sorin and his companions in their pioneer work in this part of the state.
At present the symphony is rehearsing for their first concert to be given early in December. Beethoven’s second symphony has been added to the repertoire together with two numbers by Hadley, “Herod Overture” and “The Flower Suite.”
November 3, 19 3 3
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
What a meeting! You people who missed the meeting Monday really have something to cry about now. Old Man ‘Good of the Order’ put on a program that was a peach. Dancing, singing, piano, and everything. With the assistance of Father Reynolds, Lecturer McGahren presented to us a quartet of young ladies who did much to lighten the evening for everyone. Miss Theresa White, accompanied by Mrs. Kelly, both of Buchanan, Michigan, did a novelty Spanish number, which included some intricate footwork around a huge sombrero.
She was followed by Mrs. John Taylor, light opera star, and a favorite of the American musical comedy stage; Mrs. Taylor sang several hit songs from musical comedies of a decade ago, and ended her numbers with a question which Brother Church answered all too readily. Mrs. Taylor was accompanied by Miss Helen Guilfoyle, to whom special thanks are due for arranging the program.
Miss Guilfoyle comes to us direct from Paris, where she was organist in " the Metropole-Mayer American theater. She concluded her program with several beautiful classical renditions.
This feature was followed by an interesting talk on NRA by Prof. William Coyne of the Speech Department. In discussing the constitutionality of the act, Mr. Coyne said that the legality of such an act cannot very well be discussed as a whole, and probably will not be passed on as a whole by the Supreme Court. He mentioned the 'four bills which together constitute NRA, and went on to mention the points on which the bill can be thought constitutional. He said that there are three points on which the act can be defended: national necessity, the public welfare clause, and the interstate commerce clause.
The way the Supreme Court lines up now, it appears the three justices are apt to defend it, four to oppose it, and two to be neutral. These two men, Justice Roberts' and Chief Justice Hughes, thus hold the balance of power.
Announcements: the third degree has been postponed until Dec. 10. The start of the bowling league has also been postponed, but teams, time, and place will be made public through this medium in a short time.
Wisconsin Club
A Wisconsin club meeting is scheduled for Monday night, November 6, in Carroll Rec, 7:45.
/
/
Band To Make Only One Trip This Year
Because of the recently incurred expense of new band uniforms, the band trips this fall will be limited only to the Northwestern game in Evanston, HL, two weeks hence. Rumors that the band vrould possibly make the trip to the Army game in New York are unfounded and have been dispelled by this fact.
Last year the University Band made two trips during the football season, one to the Navy game in Cleveland which, incidentally, was a student trip, and the other to the Pitt game in Pittsburgh.
The band, under the direction of Professor Casasanta, has been rehearsing for special formations to be used between the halves of the Northwestern game. This will be the first appearance of the band in their new uniforms outside the home stadium.
The entire personnel of eighty regulars and Louis Alaman, drum major, will make the trip to Evanston. The itinerary and program for the trip ■will be forthcoming in next week’s issue of The Scholastic.
Cracow Club Takes Part In Anniversary Celebration
The Cracow Club of the University, together with the South Bend and Mishawaka Polish societies, took part in a program held at St. Hed-wige’s Auditorium, South Bend, at two o’clock Sunday afternoon to celebrate the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Battle of Vienna.
Professor Charles Phillips, faculty adviser of the Cracow Club, and Reverend Boleslaus J. Sztuczko, C.S.C., pastor of St. Stanislaus’ Church, were the principal speakers. Professor Phillips said that Poland’s greatest contribution to American life was her idealism. He continued giving a history of the idealism of King Sobieski and his great reliance on God in his campaign against the Turks. Sobieski had great devotion to the Blessed Mother to whom he prayer before and after his victory. After defeating the Turks, he sent a message to Rome, “Veni, Vidi, Deus vici!”
Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Cracow club, extended a greeting to the Polish gathering and introduced Albert V. Ozechowski, vice-president of the Cracow Club, who gave a dramatic recitation of “The Concert Above Concerts” from Adam Miczkiewicz’ historical poem “Pan Taduusz.” He was accompanied on the piano by Professor Casimir Luzny.
Seven
Press Club Members Hear J. Hinkle, ’28
“Pray for the best and be prepared for the worst” advised John Hinkle, editor of The Scholastic in ’28 and now general assignment reporter on the New York Times, in his informal address to the Press Club last Friday afternoon in the Library. This statement was made in relation to what might be expected on a large newspaper by a “cub” reporter. One’s stories may be cut up or even cut out completely.
When asked to quote from his personal experiences, Hinkle brought forth many humorous incidents which have filled his “beat” and also off the “beat.” He also mentioned that personal contacts sometimes tend to prove embarassing in some instances. In this case a reporter may seek a “let off” on that particular story.
“I get to the office an hour before time and look over the day’s paper, selecting the most important news items. Then I rewrite them and add my own personal touches. In this manner I become acquainted with numerous facts and when the time presents itself I will be able to write the story,” said Hinkle in reference to his work in the office.
In describing the operations of the various departments of the Times, the former Scholastic editor, pointed out that the reporters and editors are grouped into “big shots, medium shots, and little shots.” On a paper such as the Times resignation or death are about the only factors which assist in making vacancies for “cub” reporters.
Interhall Debates Open Mon.
Four debates on the question, “Resolved: that an amendment to the Constitution making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1st, 1933, should be adopted,” have been set for next week to begin the Lemmer Trophy Interhall Debates. These are: Monday, November 6th, Alumni affirmative versus Walsh negative; Carroll negative versus Brownson affirmative; Tuesday, November 7th, Dillon negative versus Freshman affirmative; Wednesday, November 8th, St. Edward’s negative versus Morrissey affirmative.
Judges have been selected ' by Chairman Arthur Korzeneski for two of these debates. Reverend J. J. Fogarty, C.S.C. will deliver the decision on the Dillon vs. Freshman debate, and Mr. Paul Byrne, Librarian, will judge the opening contest between Alumni and Walsh Halls, on Monday night. All debates will begin at 8 p. m. in the Courtroom or Room 1 of the Law Building, and all debates are open to the student body.
Eight
about the camPys
Just a little breath of Tammany Hall at Notre Dame. That’s James
John Dunnigan, maker of presidents
and a president in his own right.
James John is the high office-holder in the Metropolitan club, the membership o f which, the boys tell us, is just about the biggest of any group in school. And he is in his third year as roommate to the eminent Mr. Joe Condon,
of S. A. C., dance committee, and ex-
presidential fame.
Of course the activities of the small Mr. Dunnigan go well beyond the reach of campus ballot-grabbing. He lives in Walsh hall, an accomplishment in itself, he skates a bit, he dresses smoothly, he likes people with alliterative names, he has a time now and then, and he has the best Irish grin and chuckle in these proIrish precincts.
One Man Team
Maybe the skating deserves a blow: Intermediate open champion of New York state in 1930, Westchester open champion that year, Middle Atlantic sprint champion, New York senior inter scholastic champion at three-quarters of a mile, and Notre Dame’s one-man skating team last winter when he scored 20 points to place the team (himself) third in the Midwest intercollegiates in St. Louis.
To make that skating appearance he stood her of the alliterative name up on a date for roommate Condon’s Junior Prom with his typical “Aw, you can dance anytime.”
He is a canny fellow, this Irishman, and regular. He majors and summer schools in journalism, can carry off any situation easily, has worthwhile contacts and takes care of them, looks out for James John without being selfish, likes a lot of people and is liked by just as many, and always manages that grin and chuckle at the strategic moment.
Vatican City Movie
To Be Shown Here
A movie entitled “The Shepherd of the Seven Hills” will be shown in Washington Hall, Thursday, Nov. 9. Two shows will be given, one at 6:35 and the other at 8:15 p. m.
This film is a sound and picturized record of the Vicar of Christ on earth. Many momentous acts of His Holiness since he assumed office as the Father of 325,000,000 beings will be illustrated. Some of the notable personages included in the picture besides Pope Pius XI are Cardinals Gasparri, Hayes, and Mundelein, Bishop Schrembs, Premier Mussolini, John McCormack, and Signor Marconi. The purpose of this feature is adequately explained by Father John B. Kelly, spiritual director of the Catholic Writer’s Guild, in the New York Sun: “This picture brings the Holy Father to those whose circumstances prevent them from appearing before him in person at Rome.”
New York newspapers were very generous in their praise of this unusual photoplay. Following is part of a review of the picture written by a New York Telegram critic: “Somewhere in the Catholic heart is the desire to visit Vatican City and see the churchly splendors which have accumulated through the centuries. The next best thing—if a trip to Rome seems too remote—is to see “The Shepherd of the Seven Hills.”
Basil Ruysdael, a man thoroughly familiar with the subject, gives descriptive narration throughout the film. The musical accompaniment is rendered by Lew White, noted organist, and includes the Hallelujah Chorus by Handel, and the Triumphal March by Grieg as well as other inspirational religious music.
“Deutsch Verein” Will Meet Next Wednesday Evening
In Brownson Hall recreation room Wednesday night, November 8, the “Deutsch Verein,” official title of the German Club, will assemble for its next meeting.
Officers of the club aiding in the arrangement of the program are Robert Nachtweg, president; James Pick, vice-president; and John O’Toole, treasurer. An address by Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C. on “Hitlerism in Germany” will be the feature event of the evening.
The order of the evening’s entertainment includes fifteen minutes of conversation held in German, Father Hebert’s address on the man of the hour in Germany, native Deutschland folk songs, a few numbers by the Deutsch quartet accompanied by the German band.
Th.e Scholastic
Dr. Paff Is Speaker
At Science Academy
George H. Paff, Ph.D., instructor in histology in the College of Science, spoke on “The Physiology of tne Embryonic Heart Cultivated in Vitro” at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science last Monday evening.
The speaker preceded the main body of his talk which was illustrated with lantern slides with a history of the work and development in the field of tissue culture. Drs. A. Correll of .Rockefeller Foundation, A. Fischer and M. T. Burrow., are the outstanding men in this field.
Experiments With Chicks
The question as to whether the heart beat is neurogenic or myogenic in origin has long been a debatable point among various investigators, Dr. Paff pointed out.
The method in which this particular experiment was carried out, its developments, and the conclusions drawn from them were outlined briefly.
The technique consists in dissecting embryonic hearts from chick embryos of about 48 hours, placing these hearts in a medium composed of embryonic extract derived from minced embryos, blood plasma, and Tyrode Solution. This culture is then incubated under glass and the progress carefully observed.
Following the talk a brief business session was held.
Senior Class Pictures
For “Dome” Being Taken
The Dome photographer began taking pictures for the Senior section of the Dome yesterday afternoon. The photographer will be in the basement of Walsh Hall every afternoon from 1:30 to 5:00 except Saturdays. As the time for taking senior pictures is limited to one month seniors are urged to have their pictures taken early in order to avoid “rushed” photographs. The charge will be one dollar as usual. No pictures will be taken of men in sweaters.
Juniors who have not already obtained their proofs may do so by going to the Walsh Basement studio any time after 2 o’clock. These proofs should be returned to the studio with preference marked on the back as to which picture is to be used for publication in the Dome. If this is not done. within three weeks after the date of the original sitting it will be necessary for the Dome photography staff to use their own judgment and make the selection themselves.
November 3, 19 3 3
November “Alumnus” Makes Appearance This Week
The November issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus, official organ of the Alumni Association, makes its appearance this week.
This month’s issue contains as an added feature, a presentation of “The Notre Dame Man.” With this editorial the Alumnus begins a series of presentations of the several divisions of our alumni; their distinctive advantages, and their respective obligations.
“Confessions of a Lifer” is the title of an account recalling the school days of the writer, George Dewey Haller, a journalist of Detroit, Michigan and an alumnus of ’19. Mr. Haller thus recalls a significant period of the schools’ history:
“When I came to Notre Dame in 1911, there were only about 500 students counting all ages from six to seniors. There were three diningrooms, all in basement of the main building, the minims having a small room towards the front front of the building on the east side, (the present Athletic Office) and everybody else, faculty included, being seated in the east and west rooms under Brownson and Carroll.”
An interpretation of the arguments adavanced by critics of the gold standard is presented by Joseph L. Apodaca, of the Economics department, in an article titled, “A View of Inflation.”
“Except for temporary periods of comparative prosperity,” writes Mr. Apodaca, “it (monetary problem) is a problem faced by America since the early days of oui- national existence, when Alexander Hamilton, in 1793, embarked us on a bi-metallic standard, with gold and silver as standard money. Since then the problem has been associated in one way or another with every one of the 13 major depressions experienced by the United States.”
. Several campus writers also contribute in this issue. Joseph Petritz writes a page on “Athletics,” and Jim Kearns, a page on local campus news under the heading “Campus.” The story of the birthday of Brother Leopold, C.S.C., who has been a part of Notre Dame history for more than 70 years, is an article of more than usual interest, and was written by Carl Zimmerer, a senior in Journalism.
Prof. Davis Speaks
Professor Alden E. Davis, professor in the department of Finance and Accounts, College of Commerce, spoke on “Monetary Aspects of the Current Economic Situation,” Tuesday, Oct. 30, to the Indiana and University clubs, meeting in joint session at a luncheon.
Waters Is Chairman Of Football Dance
Raymond F. Waters, Walsh Hall, was appointed general chairman of the football dance which will follow the Purdue game, Nov. 11. Maurice
Raymond Waters
Chairman of Purdue dance.
Rigante was named ticket chairman. These appointments were made this week by James V. Moscow, president of the senior class.
The Purdue dance is the second in a series of three football dances being held at the K. of C. ballroom in South Bend following three of the four home football games. Last week the dance was sponsored by the Junior class. The Purdue dance is under the sponsorship of the senior class while the Southern California dance will be supervised by the S. A. C.
Tickets for the dance will go on sale Monday, Nov. 6, under the direction of Chairman Waters assisted by Rigante. Representatives will be established in all the halls.
The dance will be held from 9 to 12 o’clock with special 12:30 permissions for all who attend the dance. The Notre Dame Collegians (formerly the Jugglers) will furnish music for the dance. The revamped Collegians were reported as an excellent group of musicians by those who attended the Pitt dance last week.
Heads Catholic Youth Bureau
The Reverend Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., ’16, former head of the Department of Physical Education, was put in charge of the organizing of the Catholic Youth Bureau, by the executive committee of the National Council of Catholic Men at the Chicago convention of this organization.
Father Mooney’s activities will be centered in Washington at the headquarters of the National Council of Catholic Men. The bureau will serve as a source of information and service, for various approved boy guidance agencies throughout the country.
.	Nine
Announce Schedule For Basketball Year
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
38 Gridders Taken On Baltimore Trip
Notre Danie’s basketball team will open a 24-game schedule Dec. 4, which includes games with the cream of the nation’s net crop. The best teams of every section of the country, excepting the Pacific coast are scheduled.
Kalamazoo is one of the eight new schools on the Notre Dame schedule this year. The others are the Ball State Teachers college of Muncie, Ind., Bradley Polytechnical Institute of Peoria, Ill., the University of Arizona, Valparaiso university, University of Detroit, St. Xavier college of Cincinnati, and Temple university of Philadelphia.
Tough Games Ahead
Two hard games follow the Kalamazoo fray, and Coach Keogan is not at all sure his team can carry the victory streak on to 13 and 14, if it doesn’t check out at 12. Northwestern which meets the Irish here on Dec. 9, beat Notre Dame, 39 to 35, last year at Notre Dame, -while Ball Teachers college although it has never played Notre Dame before, comes from the heart of the basketball universe, central Indiana, with all the tricks of the trade.
Albion college will play Notre Dame here Dec. 15, and Dec. 19 Purdue, the toughest early season foe on the schedule-will meet the Irish on Notre Dame hardwood. Purdue has never been beaten by Notre Dame in seven seasons of competition since 1921.
The complete schedule follows:
Dec. 4.—Kalamazoo College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 9—Northwestern U. at Notre Dame.
Dec. 13—Ball State Teachers College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 15—Albion College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 19.—Purdue U. at Notre Dame.
Dec. 22—Bradley Polytechnical Institute at Peoria, III.
Dec. 30—Northwestern U. at Evanston.
Jan. 4—Univeristy of Arizona at Notre Dame.
Jan. 6—Michigan State at E. Lansing, Mich.	>
Jan. 9.—Marquette U. at Notre Dame.
Jan. 13—Butler U at Notre Dame.
Jan. 20—U of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Jan. 24—Chicago U at Notre Dame.
Jan. 31—Valparaiso U. at Notre Dame. Feb. 3—U of Detroit at Detroit.
Feb. 6.—U of Minnesota at Notre Dame. Feb. 10—St. Xavier College at Cincinnati. Feb. 12—Temple U at Philadelphia.
Feb. 17—U. of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. Feb. 21—Michigan State at Notre Dame. Feb. 24—Butler U at Indianapolis.
Mar. 3—Ohio State IT. at Notre Dame.
Mar. 10—Marquette U at Milwaukee
Mar. 12—University of Minnesota at Minneapolis.
Ten
To my little four-year-old sister Ruth (if I had such a sister), the words “Bogey, Bogey,” growled out in a sinister tone, will send her running to mama for protection. To Acidophalus Hitler, the words “Rabbi, Rabbi,” are enough to set his heart fluttering dangerously, his larynx squirming violently, and his mustache wiggling foolishly. And to a great section of the American public “Hearsty, Hearsty,” causes righteous indigatnion to mount alarmingly, moral migraines to set in and muscular tongues to waggle vigorously.
The name of William Randolph Hearst, who has gained for himself a multitude of more or less unflattering sobriquets, is anathema on the STANFORD campus. Every professor knows that the surest way to work up enthusiasm for an otherwise dull lecture, is to insert a few deprecatory phrases regarding this journalistic ogre. If the professor were to praise Mr. Hearst, the boos would be directed at the lecturer himself.— The Stanford Daily.
AT NORTHWESTERN, the co-eds who had promised to remaian faithful to their loves who lived far away organized, and will refuse all dates with university students. According to the latest reports the group has now grown to three members.—The Lehigh Brown and White.
Via The Tulane Hullabaloo: “Driving without a license, obstructing traffic, operating a trolley without a franchise, and further investigation were the charges piled on students of COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES, arrested while driving an ancient street car down the streets of the town, plastered with signs as an advertisement of their impending game with DENVER.
How’s this from The Indiana Daily Student? Complaining that she had been a “football widow” too long, Mrs. Ethel Sanford, whose husband, Clyde, coaches a professional football team at Needles, California, filed a suit for divorce in Chicago. The coach, she said, dreamed and talked about football all the time. “Once,” she added, “he gave me a dollar and said, “Now I want my half back’.”
A dog entered the college dining hall the other day in setarch of food. Someone took pity on the friendless mutt and offered him a weiner. The dog sniffed twice, smiled as dogs will, then turned and made a beeline for the entrance.—The Technician.
Thirty-eight members of the Notre Dame varsity left the campus yesterday afternoon on the trip to Baltimore for the game against Navy to- . morrow.
The team entrained from LaPaz, Ind., and arrived at 8:30 a. m. today at Broklond, D. C., where the group attended Mass and breakfast at Holy Cross college.
The squad was to practice this afternoon at the Congressional Country Club, Washington, where they will spend tonight. They will reach Baltimore at noon tomorrow, and entrain for Notre Dame immediately after the game. They are expected back on the campus about one o’clock Sunday afternoon.
The complete roster of the travelling squad is as follows:
Ends: Hugh Devore, Dom Vairo, Irv Davis, Wayne Millner, Marty Peters, and Matt Thernes.
Tackles: Ed Krause, Tom Roach, Norb Rascher, John Michuta, Ken Stilley, Joe Sullivan, and Harry Becker.
Guards: Harry Wunsch, Rocco Schiralli, Jim Leonard, Joe Pivarnik, Bill Smith, and Jim Martin.
Centers: Kitty Gorman, Fred Solari, and Henry Pojman.
Quarterbacks: Tony Mazziotti, Bud Bonar, Frank Gaul, and Wally Fromhart.
Left Halfbacks: Nick Lukats, Andy Pilney, Bill Shakespeare, and Frank LaBome.
Right Halfbacks: Captain Ray Brancheau, Johnny Young, Johnny Tobin, and Mike Layden.
Fullbacks: Steve Banas, Don Elser, Fred Carideo, and Dan Hanley.
Fifty Attend Meeting of
Spanish Club on Oct. 26
Approximately fifty men attended the meeting of the Spanish Club held in the Carroll Rec room on Thursday, October 26. Professor deLan-dero presided ovei' the meeting and welcomed the new members.
The main business of the club was the election of officers. The men elected were President, Edwin J. Holman; vice-president, Robert J. Hanley; secretary, Charles H. Litty; treasurer, Leo Brias, and sergeant-at-arms, John F. Egan. Holman and Hanley are seniors in the College of Arts and Letters. Litty and Egan are seniors in the Commerce school, and Brias is a senior in engineering.
Spanish Club
The Spanish Club is to hold a regular meeting Thursday night, Nov. 9, in Carroll Rec, at 7:45.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Harriers Win; Meet Mich. State Saturday
IRISH BATTLE MIDSHIPMEN IN BALTIMORE TOMORROW
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Notre Dame’s cross country team hung up its second victory in as many starts last Saturday when the Pittsburgh Panthers were taken into
Eddie King .
Back in top form camp, 26 to 29. It was the first defeat suffered by the Easterners this fall.
Eddie King, veteran middle distance runner, engaged in a duel with Wagonhauser of Pitt for initial honors. Eddie withstood the challenge of his opponent and crossed the finish line one second ahead of the Panther ace. King’s time was 20 minutes and 44 seconds for the four mile course. .
Leo McFarlane, winner of the Carnegie Tech meet, finished a good third. Pitt men other than Wagonhauser placed fourth, sixth, eighth, and ninth. Norman Duke, Clyde Roberts, and Joe Young finished fifth, seventh, and tenth, respectively for the Irish.
State Has Strong Team
Tomorrow Coach John P. Nicholson will send his squad against the big barrier in their schedule. Michigan State College will me met at East Lansing on what will be the proving grounds for the Irish harriers. Earlier in the year, in commenting on the schedule, Nick looked to Michigan State for the hardest fight his charges will have to face.
State possesses some of the outstanding cross country men in the country.
History —
1927—Notre Dame, 19 ; Navy. 6.
1928—Notre Dame, 7 ; Navy, 0.
1929—Notre Dame, 14 ; Navy, 7.
1930—Notre Dame, 26; Navy, 2.
1931—Notre Dame, 20 ; Navy, 0.
1932—Notre Dame, 12; Navy, 0.
Totals: Notre Dame, 98; Navy, 15.
The series between Navy and Notre Dame is one of the shortest in football history here and one of the most glorious from the Irish point of view. The Annapolis Middies have encountered Notre Dame teams on gridirons in Baltimore, Cleveland, Notre Dame, and Chicago on six different occasions and have failed to register a victory in the half dozen starts.
The Midshipmen have the distinction of being one of the college elevens that has played before the largest crowd in the history of the American gridiron. The Blue and Gold squad met the sailors in Soldier Field in 1928 before the record smashing assemblage of 120,000 spectators.
Previous to this meeting Navy had lost two games by narrow margins, and the Irish had taken the measure of Loyola of New Orleans and felt defeat at the hands of Wisconsin Badgers. The meeting with the seagoing lads was to be a real test of both squads, which showed signs of greatness.
It was not until early in the final period that a pass, Niemic to Col-erick, finally penetrated the stubborn Navy defense and allowed the Rockmen to triumph, 7 to 0. The turning point occurred late in the third quarter when Lloyd punted out of bounds on the sailors’ 25 yard line. Dew, Niemic, and Chevigny carried the ball to the Navy 7 yard line where the running game was stopped cold, as it had been on two other occasions. Niemic took the pass from center, faded back, and shot the oval into the hands of the Irish end who was left unguarded in the end zone.
In 1929 the Irish came from behind to turn back the Middy tide at Baltimore. Navy had registered a touchdown late in the first quarter to lead momentarily. A few minutes later the Blue and Gold machine ground out a 62 yard march which (Continued on Page 16)
SEEK 2ND VICTORY
By Howard T. Waldron
Not the biggest, not the toughest, but certainly the gamest team that Notre Dame played last year was the Navy. On the mud-covered flats of Municipal Stadium, Cleveland, the Irish beat the Middies by a score of 12-0, but at no time during the contest did they outfight them. Twice they held for four fourth down on their own two yard line against the Irish regulars, and twice were the Irish forced to relinquish the ball. That’s the ball club that Notre Dame will meet tomorrow. Not so big, but certainly game to the core and sporting their best team in ten years.
The Academy on the banks of the Severn has been usually lacking in reserve replacements, but this year is an exception to that rule. Coach Rip Miller lost only three men from his first two teams of 1932 and these places are all bolstered by sophomores from the best plebe team in the history of the school. Eas'tern experts claim that it is the best Navyteam in years, despite their loss to Pittsburgh. No longer is the Navygoat of college football taking a beating, but always making a game stand. Navy is once again ranking with the best teams in the East on its own merits and brilliance of play. It has a good, well-rounded and carefully-trained squad capable of giving any outfit a stiff tussle.	’
Brancheau Is Captain
Notre Dame will be captained in the Midshipman battle by Raymond J. Brancheau, great blocking back of the Irish for the past two years, who played the best game of his career against the Pitt Panthers last Saturday. Brancheau was injured in this game, but Coach Anderson expects him to oe in shape for the Navy tilt. The Irish will probably start their reguars in this contest with a new man at quarterback, Reyman Bonar.
The Navy coaching staff should be in a dilemma for this game. They are all graduates of Notre Dame and have applied the Rockne type of attack at the Maryland school. Saturday, faith will bind them to cheer for a Navy victory, while emotion will swing back to their alma mater on the Indiana prairies. Besides Rip (Continued on Page 15)
November 3, 19 3 3
Eleven
PITTSBURGH PANTHERS REPEAT
VICTORY OVER IRISH; SCORE 14-0
Lyons Tops Group II In Interhall League
SEBASTIAN RUNS 75 YARDS
By John D. Carbine
The Pitt Panthers, decisively outplaying the Irish in every department of the game, swept to a 14-0 victory over Notre Dame in the stadium last Saturday, and thus became the third of the teams which have defeated the Irish for two consecutive years.
Notre Dame, however, went down fighting as no Notre Dame team has fought since the Southren California defeat of 1931. The team gave everything it had, but, in the final analysis, it did not have quite enough. The Irish never gave up and, in the face of over-whelming odds, played their best football of the year in the last quarter. Ray Brancheau went through an entire quarter with a torn cartilage in his side and then protested when Coach Anderson kept him out of the battle.
Irish Show Improvement
Regardless of the result Notre Dame’s team of Saturday was a far-different and far better team than the one which faced Carnegie two weeks ago.
Both Pitt scores came midway in the second quarter. Mike Sebastian, who last year burst an Irish championship bubble, scored the first with a brilliant 75 yard run through the Notre Dame guards. Harry Weisen-baugh scored the second a few minutes later- on a three yard plunge.
Sebastian’s dash caught the Irish flatfooted. Pitt had the ball on their own 25 yard line on the third down with a yard to go for a first down. The Irish defense evidently expected a quick kick and set itself for this maneuver. Sebastian took the ball, headed for left end, cut sharply and dashed through a massive hole between guards. Once through the line he ran almost unmolested for a touchdown.
Panther Line Superior
Weisenbaugh’s touchdown came as the culmination of a 39 yard march after Ken Ormiston had intercepted a pass by Andy Pilney. O’Dell threw a pass to Sebastian who was downed on the 18 yard line. Weisenbaugh gained 16 more on an off-tackle play and then plunged the remaining three for a touchdown.
The Panther line outplayed, outsmarted, and outguessed the Irish forwards throughout the game. Frequently two or three men could have gone through the holes opened up for the Pitt backs, and many times a Panther linesman was able to crash
Twelve
STATISTICS N.D. PITT.
First downs.................... 7	13
Total yards gained ...........193	274
First downs, rushing .......... 2	8
First downs, passing .......... 4	2
First downs penalties ......... 1	3
Total yards, rushing ......... 97	251
Total yards, passing _________ 96	23
Forward passes attempted _____ 16	9
Forward passes completed ______ 6	2
Forward passes intercepted ____ 3	5
Number of punts --------------- 8	6
Total yards on punts _________249	235
Average distance on punts ____ 31	39
Punts returned (yards) _______ 62	24
Kickoffs returned (yards) _____ 0	40
Fumbles ......................  1	3
Fumbles recovered (own) _______ 0	1
Fumbles recovered (opponent).. 2	1
Penalties ..................... 6	5
Yards penalized .............. 50	55
through and nail the Irish ball carrier behind the line of scrimmage.
Notre Dame’s backs were never able to get far past the scrimmage line. Don Elser plowed through once or twice for seven or eight yards, but his gains were due to sheer man power and not to any gaping holes which the Irish line opened up for him.
The Irish were within Pitt’s 20 yara line on only two occasions, both in the final quarter. Andy Pilney’s pass to Johnny Young brought the Irish to the 18 yard line, and Nick Lukats’ pass to Steve Banas did the trick again. But subsequent passes were intercepted and Notre Dame was forced back on defense.
Pitt Shows Power Early
The statistics are all Pittsburgh. The Panthers made 13 first downs to Notre Dame’s seven. They gained 274 yards from scrimmage while the Irish gained only 173, half of which was made on passes.
Pittsburgh lost no time in getting started on their march to victory. After receiving Elser’s kickoff, the Panthers drove up the field for three successive first downs and were stopped only when Nick Lukats intercepted Matesic’s pass on the Notre Dame 27 yard line.
Things went along fairly even until Mazziotti fumbled one of Mun-jas’ punts which Watson recovered on the Notre Dame 29 yard line. Weinstock, O’Dell and Matesic carried the ball to the four yard line but an intercepted pass by Schiralli halted the Panther advance.
Elser’s kick from behind the goal line was partially blocked and went out of bounds on the 18 yard line. The officials ruled that the Pitt linesman had charged into Elser, and the (Continued on Page 14)
The Cotillion failed to have any after effect on two of the sophomore halls as they won their games by decisive margins. The second year men from Morrissey won a lop-sided game from St. Edward’s 19 to 0. This was the biggest score that the Gold Coast eleven had piled up yet this year. The other soph hall that came through in great style was the scrappy grid team that is representing Lyons. The Ffrench coached team won a 6 to 0 game from the highly touted Badin aggregation.
In the Dillon-Freshman game, Whitman of Dillon intercepted a pass on his own 40-yard line and ran 60 yards for the only score of the game. He also booted the ball between the uprights for the extra point. Whitman made his lengthy run in the last few minutes of the third quarter. Previous to this run the two teams had been playing on a par with most of the action taking place in midfield.
The game for the championship of the Main building ended in a scoreless tie. As the half was rapidly coming to a close M. Tuck heaved a 40-yard pass to Cuhna who was hauled down on the Carroll three yard line. But the Brownson outfit lacked the punch to shove the pikskiri over for a score.
“Stumpy” Shultz led his fellow Morrissey players to a 19 to 0 victory over St. Ed’s by galloping off-tackle for 65 yards. Zarantello plunged over center for the extra point. The other two scores were registered by Crotty, a seemingly unknown end, who grabbed two 40-yard passes and ran approximately 20 yards on each for scores. Crotty will bear watching as he played a bang up game on both the defense and offense.
Lyons remained at the top of Group II by dropping Badin 6 to 0. The game was truly a battle of quarterbacks as Delaney of Lyons and Cavender of Badin are the ranking signal callers of the interhall league. However, Delaney was the chief instigator in placing the ball for Schmidt to score from the seven-yard line. Schmidt’s score was made in the final minutes of the third quarter.
A series of short line bucks in the first quarter gave Walsh a 7 to 0 victory over Howard. During the remaining three quarters neither team threatened to score although, at one time Walsh had the ball on the Howard 15 yard line but lost the ball on downs.
The last league games of the year will be played this Sunday. In Group 1 on the Minims field Freshman and St. Edward’s will tangle, on the Brownson gridiron Dillon and Freshman will clash for the first time, on
The Scholastic
Notre Dame’s Soccer Teams Lose 2 Games
Notre Dame’s soccer representatives lost a double header last Sunday when the Blue Jays, formerly the Conquerors, of South Bend took the measure of the La Raza club 1-0 on freshman field, and the Mishawaka Merchants made a 2-1 conquest of the Hibernians earlier in the day.
The Conquerors were the underdogs in the contest with the LaRaza hooters, but played a heads-up ball game and protected their early lead. Cohn, a substitute at left wing for Mishler, made the only score of the game with a perfectly executed shot from the side, which sped by the fingers of the LaRaza goalie. The La Raza men weren’t up to their usual passing and running form and could not tally against their peppy foemen.
' Scoring their second win in successive contests over the teams which represent Notre Dame on the soccer field, the Mishawaka West End Merchants, who had beaten the La Razas last week 2-0, eked out a 2-1 victory over the Hibernians after a hotly contested battle. The Hibernians had a one goal lead on the Merchants as the second half started, but the Mishawaka team soon tied the score and then booted through another tally which proved to be the winning margin. Schmidt made the sole Hibernian goal on a dribble-in shot. Although they threatened consistently during the remainder of the contest, the Hibernians couldn’t penetrate the Mishawaka defense far enough for a good shot at the goal posts.
Tomorrow, the La Raza soccer club will journey to Champaign, Illinois, to meet the Illinois hooters, whom they defeated earlier in the year on the Freshman hall field.
Cartier No. 1, Morrissey will attempt to increase their victory string by defeating Carroll. All of these games will be played at 1:15.
At 3 o’clock in Group 2, Corby and Lyons will meet on the Minims field,
Alumni will oppose Brownson gridiron. Walsh will fight it No. 1.
Howard on the And Badin and out on Cartiier
group i	w	L
Dillon .................. 3	0
Brownson ................ 2	0
Moi’risscy .............. 2	2
Freshman ................ 1	2
Carroll ................. 0	1
St. Edward’s ............ 0	3
GROUP II.	W	L
Lyons ................... 3	0
Corby ................... 2	0
Walsh ................... 2	1
Badin ................... 2	1
Alumni .................. 0	3
Howard .................. 0	3
T Pts. 1	7
2	6
0	4
1	3
2	2
0	0
T Pts.
1	7
1	5
1	5
1	5
0	0
0	0
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
Thomas Gerard Roach, varsity right tackle, came to Notre Dame from Grand Rapids, Michigan, in 1930. He did not go out for fresh-
T homas G. Roach
His souvenirs: four marks
man football because of a badly wrenched back, but he showed up well enough in the 1931 spring practice to make the varsity squad.
Last year Tom was first string understudy to All-American Joe Kurth. At the end of the season, Roach was playing a type of football that would have won him a varsity berth if he were not up against a man of AllAmerican caliber. Tom reached his peak in the Southern California game when he smashed up several Trojan plays behind the line of scrimmage.
This year Roach started the season as varsity right tackle but after the general collapse of the Irish line, he was replaced by Michuta. Tom, however, looked good in the Pitt game and may regain his varsity berth before the season ends.
Before coming to Notre Dame, Roach attended Catholic Central High of Grand Rapids. Tom was right tackle on the football team and played . center for the basketball quintet. He was captain of the football team and AU-Michigan Interscholastic right tackle for two years. Catholic Central used the Notre Dame system and was coached by George Fitzpatrick, who played for the Irish in the earlier years of the century.
Tom’s handsome profile is marred by four marks on his nose. These marks are souvenirs of the four times he failed to leave the field under his own power. Twice in high school and as many times at Notre Dame he has been knocked unconscious, and each time it was a kick in the head that did the trick.
Reserves Travel To Menominee, Mich.
While the varsity team has already clashed with four opponents, the doughty reserve players of the varsity squad have been anxiously awaiting their season’s inaugural contest. This game will be played Sunday in Menominee, Michigan, against Jordon College.
The Reserve squad is usually made up of men from the fourth and fifth teams, many of whom have seen action in the varsity games. Some of them aren’t big enough for the battering of varsity competition but they have the fight and ability necessary for this less gruelling competition. Others lack the ability and skill for the finesse of first string ball, but are rugged enough for any type of football competition. Last year, Jordon was beaten by a team from Alumni and Freshman halls, but this yeai* they are much improved and aim to erase that blot on theii* record.
The tentative list of those who will make the trip is: Left ends, O’Neil and Canale; Left tackles, Esser and Katz; Left guards, McMahon and Belden; Centers, Dunn and Bowdren; Right guards, Mueller and Weidner; Right tackles, Cronin and Kopczak; Right ends, McIntosh and Schroeder; Quarterbacks, Moriarty, Caldwell, O’Brien; Right halfbacks, Beach and Clark; Fullbacks, Hagen and Heinle.
Varsity Pair Advances In Fall Tennis Doubles
After lying dormant for a week because of unfavorable weather conditions, contestants in the annual fall tennis tournament burst forth again Monday with a new vigor, to continue play in the tourney.
The doubles competition got un-dei’way at this time with eleven teams enrolled in the cause. After two days of swinging five teams survived and entered the semi-final round which was to be concluded yesterday or today, weather permitting. The finals will be held early next week.
The team of Waldron and Waldron earned the right to continue play on a default. They will be pitted against Weldon and Fallon in the semi-final round. Other pairings find John O’Hanlon and Dick Kelly, varsity veterans, scheduled to meet Cashman and Pendergras.
The singles crown was won by Fallon from McNulty by the scores of 6-3, 6-3, 6-2.
November 3, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
“Notre Dame football plunged to the lowest depths in years when the University of Pittsburgh sent the Irish eleven reeling to defeat Saturday for the second consecutive year. The score was 14 to 0, almost a duplicate of last year’s margin of victory for Pitt except that the Panthers kicked both goals after touchdown Saturday instead of missing them as they did in 1932.”—United Press dispatch in the Milwaukee Journal of Oct. 29.
“Notre Dame tried—and failed.
“It was a fighting Notre Dame football team, one that had its moments of greatness that went down to defeat before a strong and steady Pittsburgh eleven at the stadium Saturday, 14-0.
“The better team, the much better team won. There is no doubt of that. And it won over a Notre Dame team that was better than it has been at any time this season, an Irish eleven that but for the true greatness of its foe might itself have turned in a victory.”—J. Kay Hunt in the South Bend News Times of Oct. 28.
“Save for some creditable forward passing, and occasional running by Don Elser and Pilney, the passing attack was all that Notre Dame had.
“The backs ripped and slashed through Notre Dame’s line about as they pleased, and piled up a huge total of 274 yards from scrimmage, all but 23 of which were overland.”— Warren Brown in the Chicago Herald Examiner of Oct. 29.
“Notre Dame was whipped by a vaster margin than the score indicates. It penetrated deep into Pitt territory on rare occasions and then was stopped short by defensive brilliance. None of these serious thrusts came until after Pitt was smugly complacent as the result of a dazzling outbreaking in the second quarter.
“The whole story is oneof lines, despite the brilliance of the Panther ball carriers. Notre Dame’s line was completely eclipsed. The Pitt backs drifted through large holes from start to finish. The line was so soft that Pitt didn’t have to try its speed at the ends. The Panthers also drifted through persistently when even Notre Dame had the ball. Steady changes in the Irish line brought no improvement.
“Because of this difference the Notre Dame backs never could get started. Andy Pilney, a Chicago lad, flashed occasionally, because of individual ability. Don Elser, the bulky fullback, did it persistently, solely on his
Fourteen
own brute power, but his gains were usually so limited that the coveted first downs didn’t pile up quickly enough to be profitable.”— Irving Vaughan in the Chicago Tribune of Oct. 29.
“Pittsburgh’s Panthers hit Notre Dame for two touchdowns in the second quarter here today, and then coasted through the rest of the game for a 14 to 0 victory over a hopelessly defenseless eleven.
“Only once did the Irish really threaten, and that threat ended as the final whistle blew when a Notre Dame pass was intercepted by Ormis-ton on the Pitt 16 yard line.”—Jimmy Corcoran (International News Service Sports Writer) in the Memphis Commercial Appeal of Oct. 29.
“The game but seemingly shellshocked forces of one of football’s long-time powers, Notre Dame’s burly green shirts, fell a victim today to the Pittsburgh Panthers for the second successive year, chiefly through the exploits of bare-legged, shifty Mike Sebastian of Sharon, Pa.
“There was little consolation for the home team which was out-rushed nearly three yards to one, consistently outplayed and unable to show anything resembling a sustained running attack.” — Associated Press dispatch in the Lexington (Ky.) Herald of Oct. 29.
“Notre Dame went down fighting today, but Notre Dame went down decisively, unquestionably and with no excuse.”
“Outplayed as few Notre Dame teams have been outplayed, the Irish were humbled by a much superior Pittsburgh team, 14 to 0, on two touchdowns scored in the second quarter.”—Herbert Simons in the Chicago Times of Oct. 29.
“The ‘What’s happened to Notre Dame?’ question cannot be answered by ‘The Notre Dame system has been solved.’ Kather it would be wise to look at the complexion of Notre Dame teams last season and this. Doing so, we find a certain lackadaisical aura surrounding them which can mean but one thing: some of the boys are just out there going through the motions. Why this should be can be answered your way or mine.
“We will also find the one or two ‘spark plugs’ the individuals who fired up Rockne’s teams, who kept the other boys on their toes, who were emotional, keen and nimble-witted, missing. Notre Dame players today seem picked for their size, their physical attributes. These attributes can be met by their like and defeated.”— Dick Hyland in the Detroit Free Press of Oct. 30.
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
play was called a touchback. Elser kicked again and this time forced Pitt back into their own territory.
An exchange of punts placed Pitt on heir own 12 yard line and they were penalized to their own one yard line for holding. Hogan got off a punt to his own 35. Here the Irish attempted a passing attack which failed miserably. Weisenbaugh slapped down the first and a moment later intercepted the second on Pitt’s 16. Line smashes gained nine yards on the first two plays and then Sebastian got away for his touchdown.
Weisenbaugh Goes Over
Pitt kicked off to Notre Dame and after the Irish had made one first down Ormiston intercepted Pilney’s pass on Notre Dame’s 37. O’Dell heaved a pass to Sebastian which was good for 19 yards. Sebastian picked up two more through center and Weisenbaugh sliced off tackle for 18 yards to place the ball on the three yard line. The same Weisenbaugh then rammed through center for the second touchdown.
The second half saw Notre Dame fighting hard and trying desperately to score with its aerial attack. Their passes clicked in mid-field but were knocked down by an alert Pitt defense when there was an immediate prospect for a score. Late in the game, Pilney brought the crowd to its feet when, without the aid of interference, he twisted and weaved his way through the Pitt team for a gain of 58 yards returning Hogan’s punt.
Notre Dame (0)	Pittsburgh (14)
Millner ------------L.E____________ Rooker
Stilley -----------L.T.---------- Meredith
Schiralli ---------L.G.___________ Hartwig
Gorman --------------C___________ Shotwell
Schrenker ----------R.G_____________ Onder
Michuta -----------R.T.____________ Walton
Devore ------------.R.E__________ Skladany
Mazziotti ----------Q.B_____________Munjas
Lukats -------------L.H____________ O’Dell
Brancheau ----------R.H___________ Matesic
Elser --------------F.B--------- Weinstock
Pittsburgh ----------------0 14 0 0—14
Notre Dame  .______________0 0 0 0— 0
Touchdowns—Weisenbaugh, Sebastian. Points after touchdowns—Onder, Weisenbaugh. Referee—W. H. Friesell (Princeton). Umpire—John Schommer (Chicago). Field Judge —Lee Daniels (Loyola). Head Linesman—Dean Watkeys ( Syracuse).
Faculty Organize League
Next Monday a Faculty Volley Ball League will make its appearance. Each college will have a Volley Ball Team made up of members from its faculty. A tournament will be begun that will last till the semester is ended. A list of the members of each team will be made public in the near future.
The Scholastic
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
Well Monday was a nice day anyway.
I guess maybe the world will be surprised, but Notre Dame didn’t dismantle the stadium Saturday after the 14 to 0 business. It’s still out there, waiting for Purdue and Southern Cal., and so are the Fighting Irish and 2,547 students.
Hunk’s boys finally proved their right to their name. The fought all the way; their playing was harder, if anything, in the fourth quarter than in the first. And that display of the old-time spirit had its effect on the spectators: we didn’t hear a gripe on the playing of the Irish.
It certainly had its effect on us. A week before, after the Carnegie Tech day, we were shedding what we thought were unobtrusive tears over our steak in a Pittsburgh restaurant when a waitress observed, “Gee, from the looks of you, you must go to Notre Dame.”
We got away with last Saturday’s dinner without anybody remarking on our long face. The explanation is simple: we didn’t have one. Defeats ride pretty easily when the better team wins. And Pitt was the better team—their line was too strong offensively and defensively, and their backs ran lower and with more power than any we’ve laid eyes on for a couple of years.
PROBLEM
Notre Dame has not lost three games in a row since 1887-88 when the first three games in Fighting Irish history were won by the opposition. Notre Dame has not had a losing season, one in which more games were lost than won, since 1888, the second year of football here. Notre Dame has never been held scoreless in three consecutive games.
Those are great records. The maintenance of them is a Notre Dame tradition. The players and the coaches are giving their best efforts to protect those records, to win games for Notre Dame. They deserve every bit of support that can be given them. We’re sure they’ll get it, but there should be no let down of enthusiasm and support on the campus.
It’s a tough problem that is facing the Irish. To get the satisfactory solution of it they’ll need all the help anyone can give them.
SCORECASTS
Last week, out of 22 games predicted, we had these results: 14 win-
on’s record now shows 92 winners, 29 losers, 14 ties. The percentage, eliminating ties, is now .760; count- • ing the ties as losses, the average is .681. A year ago this time our record was 90 winners, 23 losers, and 16 ties.
This week we’re putting in our nickle’s worth on the following 28 games:
NOTRE DAME 7, NAVY 0.
East
Army 47, Coe 0.
Princeton 13, Brown 6.
Colgate 10, Tulane 7.
Columbia 13, Cornell 0.
Dartmouth 13, Yale 7.
Fordham 6, St. Mary’s 0.
Harvard 13, Lehigh 0.
Syracuse 12, Penn State 7.
Temple 13, Drake 6.
Pittsburgh 20, Center 0.
Duquesne 7, Washington and Jeff. 0.
Middle West
Purdue 13, Carnegie Tech 0.
Iowa 13, Iowa State 0.
Kansas State 13, Michigan State 7.
Minnesota 13, Northwestern 0.
Ohio State 19, Indiana 0.
Chicago 13, Wisconsin 6.
Michigan 27, Illinois 0.
Oklahoma 13, Kansas 0.
Nebraska 20, Missouri 6.
South
Duke 13, Alabama Poly 7.
Georgia Tech 13, Vanderbilt 0.
Alabama 13, Kentucky 6.
Georgia 7, Florida 0.
Far West
Santa Clara 7, Rice 0.
California 13, U. C. L. A. 0.
Oregon 12, Utah 7.
NAVY GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
ners, five losers, three ties. The seas-Miller, of the 1924 championship team, the other members of the staff are Johnny O’Brien, of the 1930 squad, who is end coach, and Christy Flanagan, the backfield mentor.
Navy has won four games and lost one so far this season. They opened their season with a 12-0 conquest of William and Mary. This game was especially welcome as they had been beaten 6-0 last year by the same squad. The second game was a win over Mercer, 25-6. Here Miller uncovered a mite dynamo for quarterback in Robert E. Lee, Jr., a tiny, whirling flash in the broken-field. Pitt was too strong and clawed out a 34-6 victory, but the Middies were undaunted. They started back on the right path and trimmed the U. of Pennsylvania, 13-0, last week.
Bulky Bob Harbold, the veteran center who turned back play after play last year at Cleveland, is back to hold down the pivot position. Jim Reedy is gone from guard, but Zabriskie is making the Navy boys forget their great captain by his fine play. The rest of the line is composed of rugged, experienced veterans who know how and when to
block. At the ends are Captain Hugh Murray, probably the best wingman in the East, and Dave Miller another veteran from last year.
In his backfield, Miller has a varied assortment of runners, blockers, and passers. Gordon Chung-Hoon, the triple threat Hawaiian, Red Baumberger, speedy left halfback, and Walkup are the best ball-carriers. Chunky Bill Clarke and Swede Larsen, the line bucking fullbacks do the kicking. Lean Fred Borries, the Kentucky flier, and Larsen do the passing and pass-receiving.
This year’s Notre Dame team is not the best in Irish history, but at times they show promise of being potentially a great team. The power that is harnessed in the Irish machine is due to break out any time now. Coach Anderson and the Notre Dame players hope that it will be against the Navy, because Purdue, Northwestern, Southern California, and Army are still coming up on the schedule. Whether they play the best they are capable of playing or whether they play just another ball game, the Irish will match up with a team that is year in and year out a fighting team from the opening whistle. ’
Navy Sendoff
Ray Brancheau, senior halfback and captain for the Navy game, and Tom Conley, line-coach and captain oi the Irish in ’30, spoke to the student body assembled in front of Badin Hall at 12:30 to “sendoff” the team to Baltimore, for the Notre Dame-Navy game.
Cotillion Is Successful
The Sophomore Cotillion, held last Friday night at the Palais Royale, was a success, both from a social as well as a financial point of view. This was made known early this week by Cotillion committee members. The number of tickets sold has not yet been determined by the second year men.
Dr. E. J. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
November 3, 19 3 3
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
BUCKY HARRIS has signed to manage the Boston Red Sox for one year . . . ALABAM’ PITTS led the Sing Sing eleven to their sixth straight victory by making three touchdowns against a team from Peeksville, N. Y. . . . The Chicago Cub Officials denied the rumor that they are intending to buy CHUCK KLEIN and CHICK HAFEY . . . JOE GAILUS and SID GILMAN, co-
YOU CAN PAY MORE but you can’t buy Better Candy
Old Fashioned RUFFMADE Chocolate Creams
Pound
Made in our own spotless candy kitchens by expert candy cooks. Nothing is used but the finest ingredients—and each candy is hand-dipped in the most delicious chocolate you ever tasted. Your first taste will prove how delicious really good, fresh candy can be. Take some home tonight!
Week-end Special!
Ruffmade Chocolates__lb box
Fruit Flavored Jellies lb. box
Chocolate Cov. Almonds, 10-oz. box
All 3 Boxes 93c
Walgreen DrugStore 208 NORTH MICHIGAN L. Newman, Mgr.
captains of the Ohio State team, keep in condition during the summer months by working in the steel mills . . . The three major systems used in football today are the Notre Dame, the Warner, and the Michigan systems. . . . HERB PENNOCK gave seven intentional bases on balls in ten innings of relief pitching in one game against the White Sox. . . . The Cockroach Jockey club of San Diego, Cal., had to call off its racing meet when some unidentified person poisoned the contestants.
HARKNESS EDWARD’S Walnut Hall race horse farm at Lexington, Ky., takes in 5100 acres. . . . Indiana U. has a quarterback named “Rip” Peters, and Purdue has a guard also named “Rip” Peters. . . . COACH A. A. STAGG of the College of the Pacific holds two workouts daily, one in the afternoon and one at night. . . . Walter “Pudge” HEF-FELF1NGER, Yale’s all-American guard of the 90’s, was the first player to pull out of the guard position to run interference. . . . FIRPO PHIPPS, star halfback at Auburn, uses his spare time playing pingpong. . . . DAN McGUGIN is serving his 29th year as head football coach at Vanderbilt U. . . . Earl “Izzy” Greenville of Swartz, Tenn., swam ten miles in six hours, 58 min. . . . LEO DIEGEL has signed as pro at the Philmont Country club.
LOU LITTLE, head coach at Columbia, says that the former rules governing kicks and fumbles should be re-established. . . . PRAFULLA KUMAR GHOSE set a new endurance mark by staying in the open water for 79 hours, 24 minutes. . . . The home economics department at MICHIGAN STATE has provided a checking room service- at football games for parents who do jnot care to expose their children to several hours in the variable fall weather. ... It was necessary for the athletic officials at ALABAMA to buy stockings for their team when they-played Fordham in New York last week. . . . For one dollar, a person could buy stock in BILL SCHWARTZ, a professional golfer who was desirous to play in winter tourneys, and who lacked funds to finance himself.
CHUCK COLLINS, left end on the Notre Dame “Four Honemen” team is serving his eighth year as head coach at the U. of North Carolina. . . . GRANTLAND RICE, nationally known sports writer, is ill at his home with a throat infection. . . . 55,000 saw CARNERA defeat UZCUDON in Rome last week. . . . Physicians claim that Jose Martenez-
Zorilla, former Cornell football player, will never be able to play football again because of a severe knee injury. . . . WINOOKA, the Australian sprint champion, in a trial race covered the half- mile in 47.2 seconds. . . . FRANK CARIDEO’S Missouri football team has quit the huddle, and gone back to calling signals from regular formations. . . . When a youth holding the linesman chain shouted a warning of the “dead” Indian play in a high school game a riot ensued which it was necessary for a police squad to quell.
HISTORY . . .
(Continued from Page 12)
was climaxed by a pass from Cari-deo to Elder for a touchdown.
In the opening minutes of the final frame the Navy lads opened up with a passing attack. Frank Cari-deo snared one of the heaves and ran the oval to the Navy 32 yard line before being downed. Marty Brill and Mullins took the ball to the one yard line where Larry crashed over for the winning margin.
Play At Stadium Dedication
Forty-five thousands fans were on hand in 1930 to see Navy and Notre Dame dedicate the local stadium. They not only saw impressive dedicatory ceremonies, but also viewed Joe Savoldi in the role of leading scorer in a game that left the sailors far behind, 26 to 2. Jumping Joe stole the show with three touchdowns. The big Italian raced 23 yards for the first score and later reeled off 48 for his second tally of the fray. In the third period the Irish chalked up touchdown number three on a fifty yard march which was climaxed by Savoldi’s five yard off-tackle smash for a touchdown. The Notre Dame shock troops accounted for the final bit of Irish scoring in the closing quarter when Staab went over from the one yard stripe.	,
In 1931 and ’32 Hunk Anderson’s squads rolled over the Midshipmen with ease. In the former struggle, the regulars were dismissed at half time after piling up a comfortable lead. With the shock troops in the fray, it looked more like a ball game, but they, too, punctured the Navy defense in the second half for a touchdown.
Last year’s affair found a stubborn Navy crew go down in defeat, 12 to 0, at Municipal Stadium in Cleveland. Rain had been so heavy during the week that the field had to be sprinkled with sawdust. After much slipping and sliding, the Irish oozed through the elements to hang up their two scores.
The Sc h elastic
Sixteen

Carbine Tells of Sports
The Sports section of the 1934 Dome will embrace many novel and unique presentation features, promises John Carbine, entrusted with the task of assembling all sports for this year’s annual. Since the basis of all athletic endeavor rests with the personalities of the students participating, this angle will be stressed.
With the assistance of the Bagby Photo Co., official Dome photographers, and Victor Acardi, who has been ever first on the scene with his Dome camera, a complete pictorial record will be displayed this year of all events connected with athletics.
SO^ORE'
Special Fare
TO CHICAGO
Reduced Round Trip Rates are available for weekend visits to Chicago. They offer opportunity to visit A Century of Progress before the curtain falls on this dramatic pageant. The rate is:
SOUTH BEND to CHICAGO
YOU’LL be taking all the hurdles in high, once you switch to that natural energymaker, Shredded Wheat.
Shredded Wheat is 100%
mins—and the bran, found in one cereal grain, whole wheat.
Find out for yourself that a bowlful of these crisp-baked biscuits is a bowlful of natural
Tickets may be purchased November 3, 4 and until noon of November 5 for that week-end and will be good until November 8. A similar opportunity is presented for the week-end of November 11.
whole wheat, with nothing added, nothing taken away. It brings you all the energymakers—the essential proteins,
minerals, carbohydrates, vita-
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

energy. Order Shredded Wheat at your favorite eating place. You won’t be kept waiting, for Shredded Wheat is ready
cooked, ready to eat. Use plenty
When you see Niagara Falls on the package, you KNOW you have Shredded Wheat.
of milk or cream, and top with your favorite fruit. Keep up the good habit for at least ten days, and see how much better you (and your pocketbook) feel.
THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product of NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Uneeda Bakers**
November 3, 19 3 3
Seventeen
The Ad-itorial
For the Ancient Fogies Who Contend That an Ad In a College Magazine Is Charity
Many years ago when colleges were in their infancy in the United States, the first college publications were delivered to a waiting world. The obvious raison d’etre was the coalition of the particular college or university the paper served. Similarly so began the organized public press. Advertising came as a secondary consideration — here were fertile mediums in which an advertiser could tell the story of his wares, and out of the weeklies and monthlies of the nation grew that first-aid to merchandising and selling — the science of advertising.
College publications grew more slowly as a matter of course. Advertisers were loath to recognize the value of such mediums. At the schools there was not so much money to be spent by the students. The press of the various schools was disorganized. There was no uniformity of rates, of mechanical requirements, no proper business management by the students themselves. What advertisements the college papers carried were solicited in a hap-hazard manner among the local merchants, in the college town. When a national advertiser inserted copy it was invariably a “drag” ad — placed there because the president of the company happened to be on the board of trustees, or had a son in the school.
Times have changed since those hectic days in college publishing. Nowadays the progressive merchandiser is keenly aware of the existence of the colleges—a definite division of the Youth Market, ranging in age from eighteen to twenty-five. These are the years when buying habits are formed. These are critical years when youth seeks quality, style, and value for its money. The experience of hundreds of manufacturers who have tested this new market, at once actual and yet potential, has been most satisfactory from a standpoint of increased sales.
Let’s get concrete in our illustration. Where else in the publishing field can you find magazines that actually cover' the market without a single wasted reader? Not in newspapers or general magazines, for with them you have invariably a
family circulation. Not so, primarily, with the colleges. Here, at Notre Dame, we hardly need discuss circulation figures of our news magazine, The Scholastic, or of our humorous monthly, The Juggler. We guarantee that your message will be placed before every one of the two thousand, six hundred men enrolled as students at the University. Not a single wasted copy — not a student missed. If coverage of the men of Notre Dame is part of your selling campaign, if your product has a natural appeal to normal, healthy youth you cannot escape the truism that your advertisements belong in our advertising pages.
There has been a hue and cry raised of late, at some of the colleges, that now their publications are assisting the advertiser to merchandise through local dealers. This is no new story at Notre Dame. It has been for some years a part of the sendee that publications at Notre Dame render the national and local advertiser. Whethei' it be assisting in window displays, special tie-ups with an automobile dealer, furnishing accurate marketing data, or compiling mailing lists, we need never be asked twice to perform our part of the bargain. And it costs you, the advertiser, no more for this added service than the regular insertion rate.
We realize that the conditions existing at Notre Dame are unfortunately not universally prevalent in the college field. Not all schools employ graduate managers of publications. With a great pretense at modesty, we pause to explain that occasionally graduate managers have had more publishing experience than the average student business managers. These unseen and unheard business god-fathers do exercise a beneficial business influence over their charges. They catch that “cash-2%-10 days” discount. They watch the specified position of advertisements. They carry on voluminous correspondence wtih advertising agencies and manufacturers. They help you get the woi'th of your advertising dollar. Occasionally, and sadly, they break forth into type in pages like this.
Begin now to plan your winter campaign to the colleges. Put our statements to the acid test. Why not enter the field carefully—plan your year’s college campaign after you have tried out your copy and art in the Notre Dame Juggler and The Scholastic. May we heai' from you?
—The Publishers.
C0S1
ALWAYS Luckiespleast
MtugjwMiTrmwiib iiriijmi.il
TOBACCOS ?
LY
Airplane view of American Tobacco Company warehouses at Reidsville, N. C.
ccos
manship
One Hundred Million Dollars worth of fine Turkish and Domestic tobaccos are being aged by the makers of Lucky Strike
In fine warehouses like these—open to soft Southern breezes—a huge reserve of choice Turkish and Domestic tobaccos is aging and mellowing. 27 different kinds of tobacco, “the
Cream of the Crop”—for nothing but the best is used to make Luckies so round, so firm, so fully packed—free from annoying loose ends. That’s why Luckies are always so mild, so smooth.
66it’s toasted
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE
N. D. Men Attend Talk ' By Heinmann in So. Bend
Henry H. Meinmann, Chairman of the Advisory Council to the Department of Commerce, and Executive Vice-President of the National Credit Men’s Association, addressed the South Bend Credit Men’s Association at a dinner held Monday night in the Oliver Hotel. His subject was “The Latest Developments in the NRA.”
A number of the faculty of the University Commerce and Arts and Letters schools attended this meeting.
Established 30 Years Lemontrees OPTOMETRISTS 222 & South Michigan Street
South Bend, Indiana
•
Patients all over the world.
A strategic point in the battle for sales
Today’s intense competition calls for new and more effective merchandising methods. Several plans pioneered by Bell System men are proving helpful.
For example: the “Where to Buy It” section of the telephone book. Here local dealers are listed beneath the trade-marks of advertised products— such as Plymouth, Greyhound Lines, Exide, RCA Victor. This service helps manufacturers to reduce substitution, helps dealers to increase sales, helps you to locate the brand you want.
BELL SYSTEM
I TAKE A TRIP HOME BY TELEPHONE | — TONIGHT AT HALF-PAST EIGHT! |
^ow If Your Eyes Require Glasses
they will be properly prescribed, correct in styling to be inconspicuous — yet enriching your personal appearance. Always painstaking craftsmanship — regardless of the amount you prefer to expend, and unvarying quality of materials so you may find Better Vision with Greater Comfort.
•	REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
What Arithmetic Applies to the Youth Market?
HERE is a square below that graphically pictures the Youth market in terms of 122,693,391 population of these United States—this is a grand total of youth and aged. If you buy magazine advertising to reach youth on this basis your brain reels at the cost:
■
First, the square must be shrunk to the total number of adolescents near the buying age—in other words the boys and girls attending the colleges and universities of the country—803,000 students in 936 colleges:
Then shrink it again to the 320,000 students concentrated in 38 of the largest colleges in the country, so that you can take advantage of centralized distribution and ready turn-over—like this:
Finally shrink your square once more to represent a market that is compact, respon
sive and cosmopolitan—a university whose undergraduates and alumni come from every section of the nation. Seek out men, students tho’ they be, who have ample current money to spend, like this:
It is the little square, advertisers, and merchandisers, that we ask you to ponder over. Here is the successful way to enter the Youth market-------a bull’s-eye at which you may direct the guns of a selling campaign to youth—which will be served.
It does not represent all the business, of course, but it does represent the cream of it.
May we present your story to the men of Notre Dame? As for results—ask those leading merchandisers, the cigarette manufacturers of America, the bus lines, General Foods, clothing manufacturers, and a score more whose belief in our pages causes them to continue telling their story, here, week after week, month after month, year after year.
May we send you rate-cards, and other essential data?
—The Publishers.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At The University
»
»
Notre Dame, Indiana
v'