The Notre Dame Scholastic
483
( ( HHIM
Some time ago we were walking along Michigan Boulevard in Chicago. People were moving along as if they were following invisible machine gun bullets fired from that rattling gun known as “You must get there.” Everyone seemed to have a fixed, determined frown, or smile, on his face. Everyone, in short, was going someplace.
No^re Dame Scholar io
Disce- Quasi- Semper-Victurus-Vive-Quasi-Cras-Moritum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Ediior-in-Chief Graduate Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
—“And what are you going to do— when you get someplace?”
It’s a fair question; in fact it’s a deserved question, because such expenditure of energy as is obviously indulged in by these people, should only be for the sake of purchasing something really fine and worth while.
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel..... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford.... Joel Egerer........ Ramon G. Smith..... Alfred E. Gall..... Paul J. Hallinan...
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus Clubs ........Script Editor
Features
Editor
—“Why, why, when I I’ve got business to do, What a foolish question!’
get there, of course.
Well! Business to do!
Yes, life
does demand the doing of . certain things—and if they’re not done, there is a consequent penalty. But, the secret of life is in living; getting or making a living is the actual price one pays for the ability to enjoy leisure in which to live.
—“But I’m too busy for leisure or anything like that. I haven’t time to
stop.
Am I
I wish I had—but I haven’t— not right?”
No
and Yes! In the sense that as
the end of all this effort, this hurrying, is the achievement of that intensification of daily existence which is living, No.
In the sense that certain demands beat their little hammers over our heads, while at the same time we dodge the sledge hammer blows of the falling hours, in the sense that this tom-tom battering cannot be escaped, Yes.
But even in the midst of thousands a certain even serenity can always be maintained. How? There is one word that is the key to the door of the room housing the secret. One word. It is—detachment.
James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster
Austin Boyle
William J. Magakral
Harry A. Sylvester,
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Henry B. Asman
George Allan Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
BUSINESS STAFF Harrington J. Noon.........Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Frederick N. Davis......Local Advertising James L. Rizer..........Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
VOL. LXIII
JANUARY 24, 1930
Manager Manager Manager
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
No. 16
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece ______________________________
The Week—Archer Hurley--------------------- Coming Events—A. Richard Schreiner--------- A Man About the Campus--------------------- Brownson “Rec”—Janies Carmody-------------- A Man You Know----------------------------- Music and Drama—Joel Egerer---------------- Campus Clubs------------------------------- Editor’s Page------------------------------ Silent Reminders—Thomas A. Steele---------- The Wink----------------------------------- College Parade—Walter Langford------------- Fai Quintet Set Down, 29-23—John A. Kiener- Pitt Panthers Win, 33-13—William J. Magarral-Tartans Victors, 28-21—John A. Kiener------ Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr-- On Down the Line---------------------------
484
485
486
490
490
491
493
494
495
496
498
499
500
501
502-
509
512
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dante- Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25. 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Purlications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
WASHINGTON HALL
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic	485
OU and I have a tendency to believe a great many things simply because we fail to feel any urge to investigate. Which may be good theology on the ground that work was cursed on man as a punishment for curiosity. Among the truths which were early shoved into our eager crannies is , the historical perversion that united we stand, divided we fall. Ever since the time when I was sent to a neighbor’s to apologize for throwing snowballs at the laundry hung in her back yard I have been convinced that a man’s reputation stands on its own merit. But last issue there were things that interferred with the free flow of my erratic thought, f, and in my need I begged two English majors, who wield good pens with good will, to fill this hungry page. To John Nanovic and Jim Walsh, as friends in need, and writers indeed,—my thanks and appreciation.
t) ANCING used to be a manifestation of religion. In Louis XIV’s time it became an evidence of gentility. And in our day it is a proof of elasticity. At the squire’s dance in “Silas Marner” there was merriment and nimbleness, and the levity of simple people who get dirty at their work, merry at their inns, and sleep without unholy nightmares. Their schottische was rustic and charming, and has waned with the simplicity that made it. Our dances are too often "	apt to be entirely ours, in the sense that a dancing partner
,	feels like a one-man .dog forced into a Yukon harness.
Dancing used to be social, now it is sociological. A man once asked a maid to dance because they found a mutual pleasure in the grace and artistry of communal rhythm. Now he asks her because he has been reared to consider 1	dancing a polite obligation, because he believes in good exer-.	cise, or because he is not being his psychoanalytical best
unless he be familiar with the odds and oddities of femininity. Not that I wish to be cynical about modern dances, but rather that I have yet to meet a man who felt cheery enough the morning after a dance to gulp his coffee without ■ a gutteral grumble over the decadence of culinary art.
v Tradition and prestige, however, save a few of our college dances from the sociological. The Lawyers’ Ball and the Junior Prom are among these, and deserve the patronage of the student body.
V-
BOUT the only thing that we can be sure of knowing is of knowing nothing. Father Miltner speaks of a philosopher as a blind man in a dark cellar looking for a black cat. The black cat, uncertainty, has crossed the path of humanity, and left us the ill luck of not knowing truth. Mankind and this black cat are like the gingham dog and the calico cat of nursery rhyme—they ate each other up, and disappeared to leave things much as they were before. At about this season of the year the evasiveness of truth always gives me a decided consolation. Examinations would be final with an awful finality were it not possible to resort to beating about the bush of truth. I have known professors who were averse to beating about the bush, but they were mostly short-sighted men, who forgot that going round and round gives one the advantage of considering from every point of view. And broadmindedness has ever been an essential to the broadening of the mind.
NE of the things that distinguish us from the other lowly animals is our claim of allegiance to some hamlet or metropolis. We all have home towns. And these towns are like girls, or Mat Keller’s singing, in that no matter how good we think they are, the rest of the world can always find a good deal that is wrong about them . The Funny Fellow, whose own home town is exceedingly homely, has dedicated the current Juggler to “Home Towns.” No one can justly blame the campus humorists foi* laughing at his home town, for we all sometimes feel that a home town is more of a skeleton in the closet than a feather in the cap. Skeletons are quite all right so long as they remain in the closet. But when your room-mate drags your home town secret into a local social circle that considers itself as blue blooded as it is blunderheaded, it is time to read a requiem over the skeleton. It is all very well to laugh at someone else’s home town, but never trust a man who doesn’t believe in his own city. A student who can see nothing but wrong in the place that endured him during his awkward age is small enough to ask for a rain check when he pays his pew rent.
486
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Coming Events
FRIDAY, Jan. 24—La Raza Club meeting, Band Room, Music Hall, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 25—Semester examinations, classes taught on Tuesdays at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 2:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00, 1:15 and 3:15. Movies, “The White Sister,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Interhall Basketball.
SUNDAY, Jan. 26—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Benediction at 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Basketball.
MONDAY, Jan. 27—Last day for contributions to Scrip for February Number, 305 Walsh Hall.— Semester Examinations, classes taught on Mondays at 9:00, 11:00 and 3:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00 and 1:15.
TUESDAY, Jan. 28—Semester Examinations, classes taught on Tuesday at 9:00, 11:00 and 3:15 will be examined at 8:00, 10:00 and 1:15. —Villagers’ Club Post-Exam dance, Palais Royale Ballroom, 8:30-11:30. — Wranglers’ meeting, Public Speaking Room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 29—Registration for second semester. Rocky Mountain Club meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Jan. 30—Movies, Charlie Chaplin in “The Gold Rush,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Detroit Club meeting, Law Building , 6:30 p. m.; Spectators Club meeting, Journalism Room, Library, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, Jan. 31—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications Office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.— Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Wabash, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.—Last day for cap and gown measurements, Room 307, Sorin Hall.
SATURDAY, Feb. 1—Track, Notre Dame vs. Butler, University Gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.; The Paulist Choir, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
“THE AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST”
For some time students have noticed, among those magazines mentioned by the postoffice as having been sent out, a magazine entitled The American Midland Naturalist.
The magazine was established in 1909 by the Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who is still its editor. It is published bi-monthly by the University, and from 1,000 to 2,000 copies are printed. The subscription list is comparatively small, there being only about 100, but its mailing list is rather extensive, containing approximately 800 names. The magazine is sent out, in exchange, to almost all the bettei' known botanical and natural history magazines in this country and in foreign countries, and is a valuable periodical to the University for that reason.
Articles relevant to geology, botany, zoology, paleontology, and physical geography are printed in it, foi-authors of note, free of charge. In return they are given extra copies of the magazine. For an article of eight pages or more, 100 copies are furnished gratis.
Books on scientific subjects are reviewed by the editor and the associate editors, and current volumes receive considerable attention.
We are glad of the opportunity to call attention to this valuable periodical and to cultivate interest in its existence.
RELATIVITY & EINSTEIN
DISCUSSED BY HULL
Professor Daniel Hull, head of the Department of Physics, addressed a regular meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers last Monday evening, speaking on the subject of “Relativity and the Einstein Theory.”
In his discussion of the subject, Professor Hull developed the fundamental concept of relativity and pointed out how Einstein’s predictions of stellar movements gave proof to his theory.
In addition to Professor Hull’s talk, several papers were presented by students. Mr. Paul Rist gave his views on “Interference From High Tension Lines,” and Mr. Pat Murray talked on some of the developments in “Aviation Radia.” Mr. William Cass concluded with a paper on “My Conception of an Electrical Engineer.”
BAND WILL BROADCAST FEBRUARY 5
The entire personnel of the University Band will broadcast over WLS radio station in Chicago, on Wednesday evening, February 5, from the hours of eight to nine.
Tlie musicians will not journey to Chicago, but will remain on the campus for the broadcast which will be by remote control. The place for the concert has not been definitely settled but it is probable that either the gymnasium or Washington Hall will be used.
Joseph Casasanta, director of the band, has announced that some new numbers will be offered the listeners, in addition to the ever popular’ “Hike Song” and “Victory March.”
Harry Bussecher is president of the Band this year.
KNIGHTS OF.COLUMBUSTO MEET FEBRUARY 3
As a reminder to all Knights of Columbus, the regular bi-monthly meeting which would ordinarily fall on Monday, January 28, will not be held on account of the examinations. Instead, Grand Knight John Chev-igny. announces, there will be a special meeting Monday, February 3. This meeting is very important as it will be the last meeting before the initiation to be held February 9. Nicholas Bohling urges all men having applications for membership to be present at the meeting. He also points out that since the entire three degrees will be exemplified on February 9, new men desiring admittance into the Knights can still make this degree by having their applications in by February 3. Since this initiation will count towards the cup to be . presented to the Council showing the greatest increase in membership before June, 1930, all of the officers of Notre Dame Council express it as their wish that every man who wishes to join, should discuss membership, as soon as possible, with some Knight.
COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES DANCE SCHEDULE
The following schedule of dances for the rest of the year has been announced by the Faculty Dance Committee:
Law Club Formal—February 21.
Junior Prom—February 28.
Junior Dinner Dance—March 1st. K. of C. Formal—May 2.
Senior Ball—May 9.
Monogram Club—May 16 (tentative).
1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
487
BROWNSON AND EDUCA-
TIONAL PSYCHOLOGY
SUBJECTS OF STUDIES
\ Two manuscripts have been sent to the Loyola University Press, in Chicago, during the past week, by the Reverend Sidney A. Raemers, A.M., ( Ph.D., of the Department of Philosophy.
“America’s foremost Philosopher” written by Father Raemers is a study of the epistlemological theories of Orestes A. Brownson, renowned in this country because of his gigantic work in the field of philosophical - thought.
“An Educational Psychology” by Jules DeLaVaissiere, S.J., which has <. been previously translated from the fifth edition of the French by Father Raemres, is being supplemented and brought up to date for use in Catholic academies, normal schools and colleges in English speaking countries by the Reverend Austin G. Schmidt, v- S.J., of the department of education, Loyola University.
Father Raemers is well known in the world of philosophy for his translations, in the past, and has . drawn such favorable criticisms as the following- which appeared some time ago in the London Tablet, a t periodical which is not over given to * praise. “We welcome the translation .. of Father Raemers; as far as we have 'T * ' tested it, it is excellent and the English is idiomatic, in fact it does not read like a translation at all; - higher praise could hardly be given it.”
Council Announces New “Taxi” Regulations
The Administrative Council, acting through the Department of Discipline, has stated regulations governing the operation of taxicabs on the University grounds. These measures go into effect immediately, and are made for the general safety and welfare of the student body.
The three companies given license by the University to operate taxis are the “Indiana,” the “South Bend,” and the “Yellow.” These alone shall be permitted to carry students to and from the University.
The regulations as enacted will help to protect the students in case of accident and prevent any overcharging, such as occurred before the Christmas vacation.
One of the main reasons for the passage of the new law is to clean up the approach to the University and to rid the campus of a general nuisance in the presence of many cabs parked promiscuously around the entrance.
The three companies are to use a common stand designated by the University. This stand shall be east of the vehicle entrance to the postoffice, and parallel to, and alongside of the fence, on the north side of the old University road.
No company shall have more than one cab at the stand at any time, save during the rush hours, 11:00 a. m. to
MASSMANN SPEAKS ON CHAIN STORES
Mr. F. H. Massmann, vice-president of the National Tea Company, spoke r	before the students of the College of
■ ,	Commerce on Tuesday afternoon in
I । ” Washington Hall.
His lecture was primarily coni’ cerned with the justification of the chain stores. During the course of his talk, he read convincing statistics h calculated to dispel the current idea j that the existence of chain stores is J 4 detrimental to a community.
|	Again, he mentioned several of the
more common objections which are made against the chain stores; after these were made, he turned his atten-> tion to opposing them. The concluding part of the talk was given over to the answering of questions raised by members of the audience. -
Annual Lawyers’ Ball Committees Are Named
Tickets for the Lawyers’ Ball have been distributed among the students of the Law School. As is customary, each student has received a ticket for himself and a guest. The subpoena form of invitation will be used. The ticket, the invitation, and the program, together, will cost §3.00. The program is adorned with the key of the Law Club, which is placed upon the cover. It has been a tradition of tire Lawyers’ Ball in the past to have a colored orchestra,’and while several such orchestras are now under consideration, no one of them has been definitely decided upon. The committees are as follows :
General Chairman—John H. Flanagan. Ticket Committee—Earle Barry, chairman ; Charles Gass, Francis Dailey, William B.
1:00 p. m.; 4:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m.; 6:30 p. m. to 8:00 p. m.; and no cab shall pass the closed portions of the old University road to receive or discharge passengers, except in the case of community or faculty members.
Strict measures have been taken in regard to overloading the taxis. No cab shall carry more persons than the number permitted by law, i. e. the actual number for which the car. was designed. Speed above the permitted number of miles per. hour is prohibited.
A determined rate for passage to and from the city of South Bend is to be adhered to strictly. The tariff from the University to the city is 35 cents; from the University to the Union Station, 60 cents.
All legislation enacted by the council of the city of South Bend shall be considered in force at the University, just as soon as such legislation becomes effective in the city.
All students of the University are requested to co-operate with the University officials in the above matter. Such action will eliminate any difficulty between the two parties, namely students and cab operators. No students may ride in cabs unless the driver is bonded and the passengers fully protected by insurance in case of accident.
Jones, Clarence Donovan. Raymond Riordan. Warren Fogel.
Music Committee—Morton Goodman, chairman ; Robert Grant. George Kropff, Harry A. Busscher, Joseph H. Robinson.
Arrangements Committee—Raymond San-duskey, chairman; Marshall Kizer, Edward Smith, James Murray, Norman Hartzer, Edward J. England, Austin J. Barlow.
Programs Committee — John J. Nelson, chairman; Louis Chapleau. Cyril U. Nolan, Thomas Purcell, Oliver F. Field.
Reception Committee—John E. Chevigny. chairman: William H. Konop, Leo J. Scanlon, Francis T. Ready, Raymond B. Young. Manfred Vezie, Robert K. Brannon, Robert J. Kuhn, John A. Bitter.
Invitations Committee—Lawrence A. O’Connor, chairman; Arnold Levandoski, James T. Conners, Austin C. Gildea, Daniel Burton.
Publicity Committee—Harrington J. Noon, chairman; William H. Dore, Russell F. Searer, Edward D. Connor, Joseph R. Robinson.

488
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PIN COMMITTEE MAKES SELECTION: JOSTEN CO.
GETS CONTRACT
At the conclusion of the pin committee meeting held Sunday afternoon, Vernon J. Knox, Class President, announced that the Josten Manufacturing Co. of Owatonna, Minn, would be given the contract for the Senior pins. The pin submitted by the Josten Co. was the unanimous choice of the committee. Representatives from the following companies were present with samples: Herff-Jones Co. of Indianapolis, Ind.; Auld’s, Inc., of Columbus, Ohio; L. G. Balfour Co. of Attleboro, Mass.; Spies Brothers, Chicago; Albert F. Zink Co. of Indianapolis, Ind.; May and Malone, Chicago; Williams Manufacturing Co., Chicago; Dodge-Asher, Chicago; Herman Yaley, South Bend, and the Josten Co. of Owatonna, Minn. Each representative was given twenty minutes to point out the outstanding points of his pin and the company he represented.
The pin selected this year is very attractive and has several new features. The price of the pin will be, as in previous years, fifteen dollars for yellow gold, and sixteen dollars for white gold. Members of the committee will start taking orders about February tenth. A deposit of five dollars ■wall be required at the time the pin is ordered, the balance to be paid when it is delivered. Those who have not paid their class dues will have to do so when they order their pin.
The committee which had charge of the selection of the pins is headed by Vincent P. Busch. The other members of the committee are: Jack Lynch, Lyons; Joseph O’Connor, Morrissey; Mike Kinney, Badin; Fred Rahaim, Corby; Joe Hughes, St. Edwards; and James Swift, Off-Campus. This committee will also have charge of the distribution of the pins. Juniors are requested to order their pins as soon as possible after February tenth.
FARRELL VISITS CAMPUS
Thomas Farrell, ’25, president of the New Jersey Alumni, visited the University last Monday. He spoke before a meeting of the campus New Jersey Club, stressing the importance of co-operation between undergraduates and alumni. '
DEBATERS VIE WITH ALBION IN PRACTICE
The debaters have been spending wakeful nights and speechful days lately. Last Wednesday they met Albion College in a practice debate, and made an excellent showing. Now preparations are being made for the first public debate, which will be held in Detroit on February 28. According to the coach, the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., it is possible that another debate may be broadcast over radio station WLS in the near future.
OUTBOARD RACES BECOMING POPULAR
The Gold Cup Outboard Races, to be sponsored by College Humor Magazine in the universities and colleges next spring, have taken on a truly national aspect ■within the past month. Prior to that time the only schools definitely assured of staging these fascinating boating events were situated in the middle west, a section which abounds in lakes and rivers.
Colgate University is the first eastern school to organize in preparation for holding one of the College Humor’s Gold Cup races. The Outing Club at Colgate is eager to cooperate in inaugurating outboard racing. This organization may go as far as to invite drivers from neighboring schools to send entries. The colleges and universities being considered for the Colgate regatta are Syracuse, Union, Hamilton and others.
Lake Moraine, a beautiful body of water three miles in length, will furnish an excellent course for the events, since the ideal track should be a five mile oval. Cornell University will probably be the next eastern entry from.present indications. College Humor may accept an invitation from Tome School to stage a race there, even though Tome is only a preparatory school.
Washington University at Seattle and Occidental College at Los Angeles, California, have signified interest in the outboard races, and at this early date it is a conservative estimate that several of the Pacific Coast schools will take part in this speed boat competition. The University of Alabama boasts several youthful drivers of some reputation in Dixie, and there are also some outboard enthusiasts enrolled at Birmingham Southern. At both places steps are being taken to appoint local committees for the College Humor Cup events.	.
“The Candy Store” j
If you have been around these parts for any length of time, you know the candy store. Tucked off in a corner of a nameless building, and surrounded by Max Adler’s, general store and some hundred of the premed’s inoculated rabbits, it nevertheless is as well known as the Dome. It has been there as far back as any one can remember, and from all indications, it will be there long after the rabbits have breathed their last on the dissecting boards. In fact, there is a rumor about that it was established by Father Sorin, ■who pointed to the spot and said: “There we shall have a sweet shop.” It is said that the Indians who once paddled about on the waters of St. Mary’s Lake were the inspiration of the move, and that the good priest won their affection and aid through the medium of chocolate and raw sugar. How much truth is in the story is not known, but it seems that the Indians have passed on their tastes to the present natives, for the “sweet shop,” started as an experiment, is now an institution.
Of late years the little shop has become a rendezvous. One can drop in during the morning and smoke or eat with the fortunate few who have no eight o’clocks, or munch cookies with the usual afternoon crowd. -The popularity of the place lies in the fact that a dime will dispel the empty feeling caused by lack of breakfast, and that a quarter will produce the satisfying, if erroneous, idea that one is well fed. Nothing more could be desired, unless one is very particular. To take care of that situation, Brother Philbert, C.S.C. has added to the menu some very sweet chocolate milk and an assortment of rather expensive candies. Many of the most fastidious have forsaken the mahogany and porcelain of the cafeteria for the worn pine and tinfoil of the candy store.
You’ll always remember the candy store, if not for the Oreos and milk, then for the occasional spells of indigestion. It will bring back memories of late sleeps and missed meals, and might give rise to a discussion of the injustice of a board fee paid in advance. It will certainly be as clear in your mind as the laundry, for it is just as necessary to life here, and just as much an institution.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
489
ANNOUNCE NEW ELECTIVES FOR NEXT SEMESTER
The Reverend Emiel De Wulf, C.S.C., Director of Studies, announces new and outstanding electives to be taught for the first time next semester. Foi- those interested in philosophy there will be two new courses taught; the first, in philosophical readings, to be taught by Professor Daniel O’Grady. This will be strictly a seminar class, and the hour of meeting will be entirely at the discretion of the professor. The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C S.C., will bold the other new course in Philosophy, called the Philosophy of Value, and it will treat of the new field of Axiology, which is becoming more and more important of late.
In the Department of Finance there has been installed a new course which should be of interest to all students now taking pre-legal work. This is a course in Accounting for Lawyers, and is to be taught by Mr. Chizek.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS WILL INITIATE 60 ON FEBRUARY 9
Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, , will hold their first initiation of the year on February 9, when the second and third degrees of the order will be conferred upon 60 candidates. The * ceremony will be held in the council home of South Bend.
Plans are now under way for the _ degree work and banquet which will follow. The degree work will be under . L the direction of William McAuliffe and his associates from Chicago, and <- will begin at 1:30 o’clock. Martin Travers is chairman of the banquet and promises a talented array of _ speakers for the occasion. Grand Knight John Chevigny will act as i 4* toastmaster. Tickets for the affair will be placed on sale next Wednesday.
PAULIST CHOIR TO APPEAR HERE FEBRUARY 1
The	Paulist	Choir	of Chicago
has been engaged to give a concert in Washington	Hall,	on	Saturday,
February 1st. This musical organization	constitutes one	of	the finest
choral	clubs	in the	country.
There are some seventy-five singers who will appear here. . When the same choir sang before the students on previous occasions, it was given an enthusiastic reception.
“COLLEGE HUMOR” ART EDITOR VISITS. SCHOOL George T. Eggleston, college art editor of College Humor, was the guest of the editor of the Juggler, Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, visiting the campus and discussing problems with members of the Juggler staff.
It was Mr. Eggleston’s first visit to Notre Dame, and his impressions of the campus, the students and the faculty members that he met were very favorable. The most interesting part of his stay here was a meal in the University Dining Hall, at one of the “Sorin” tables.
Tuesday evening, at a dinner meeting of the Juggler staff, Mr. Eggleston talked about plans his magazine has for the year, and discussed the problems of the Juggler with the men on the staff. He paid high compliment to the staff in commenting upon the general appearance, quality, and contents of the Juggler, counting it as one of the best and most welcome magazines he has ever seen.
S. A. C. RESTATES TRADITIONS IN BULLETINS
You will have noticed on the campus a bulletin by the Student Activities Council in regard to Notre Dame traditions. It has been the custom for many years to refrain from smoking on street cars in the presence of women, and on the Quadrangle in front of the Main Building. Upper classmen are familiar with the practice, but the newer men must be reminded to observe these particularly respected traditions. “Don’t forget that corduroys and woolen shirts do not excuse bad manners, and that common courtesy demands an observance of these ordinary rules of conduct.”
The S. A. C. is confident that it will receive the co-operation of every student in preserving these customs, and that further reminders will not be necessary.
STUDENT GIVEN BEAUX ARTS MENTION •
In competition for the Henry Adams prize, offered by the Beaux Arts Society to students competing from various universities, Joseph Golabowski, a junior in architectural engineering, received first mention.
The subject of the competition was the design of the asile window in a 14th century cathedral.
DIRECTIONS FOR REGISTRATION DAY PRO-
CEDURE
The following is a re-print of the forms now posted around the campus detailing registration day procedure:
1.	Pay fees at the office of the Financial Secretary, in the General Offices, Main Building, on or before Wednesday, January 29.
2.	Present receipt of payment to the dean of respective college for class cards: (a) Arts and Letters and Pre-Law in North Room of Library; (b) Commerce in South Room of Library; (c) Science in Room 208, Science Hall; (d) Engineering in Room 10, Science Hall; (e) Law in Law Building; (f) Graduate Students will be enrolled on Thursday, January 30, in the office of the Director of Studies, from 4:00 to 6:00 p. m.
Hours of registration for classes', January 29, are 8:00 a. m. to 12:00 m. and 1:00 to 5:00 p. m.
3.	Students must register for classes in person.
4.	The fee for late registration is $5.00. Students who register for classes after the date given above will be charged this fee.	.
5.	The Deans have carefully gone over the records of their students and have assigned them their classes. These assignments may not be changed. The quota in most classes is complete. It will be useless to ask for any change of hours or professors.
6.	It is imperative that the office of the Director of Studies should have the correct address of all students attending the University so that students will receive copies of their grades on time. Hence be sure at the time of registration to sign the census card on which you must enter your local and home address.
LA RAZA CLUB HOST TO
MEXICAN FAL TEAM
The La Raza club, composed of Spanish-speaking students at the University, were hosts to the members of the Mexican Fai basketball team, Monday, afternoon at an informal reception held at the Oliver Hotel. • A tour of the campus was made, and the visitors were shown the places of interest.
Hem-y Rodriguez, president of the club, arranged the details for the gathering, and othei- members of the club aided him in showing the visitors about the campus.	•

490
The Notre Dame Scholastic
?*
| A Man About the Campus
In the commercial world, “The Man Behind the Gun” is usually called “A Captain of Industry.” In sports, however, he is called the “Manager” and here at Notre Dame the position is in the care of a personality whose review might have been printed months ago: Mr. John Cornelius Carey.
John (he prefers his middle) unlike the Captains, not only sits behind the guns but also gives directions, pulls the strings, and keeps the cannon booming from one season to the next. He resides in Sorin, so perhaps that is the impetus.
In 1926, John left the city of Saranac Lake, New York, and came West in search of higher learning. Not wishing to go beyond Chicago he chose Notre Dame for very expedient reasons, known only to himself and his nearest relatives. Now he is a Freshman in Law and a Senior in the college of Arts and Letters. He says that one degree is not enough, two is insufficient, but he regrets that engineering is not his hobby.
The Junior year is usually the blossoming season for activity men, consequently, John, being “A Man About The Campus,” stepped out in the regalia of a tennis manager. In •
John Cornelius Carey
this role he proved his capabilities, and was later appointed a member of the Junior Prom Committee and Vice-President of the Northern New York Club.
Upon the opening of school last fall this “Happy Warrior” was first
observed in his customary perusal of activities while on the Senior dance committee. Here again our friend in question showed his ability, but this time in a social way. His arrangements were successful in every case and no doubt this is one of the reasons why the dances are matters of pleasant memory.
This year John is president of his state club and engaged to the nth degree as manager of basketball. The fact that work in this particular line is ever awaiting him can easily be proved by calling at his room in 117. There within an arena of correspondence and what not, you will observe the ever persistent Mr. Carey.
Frank O’Marah, an intimate friend of John’s, stated that “to have a record such as Carey’s with its diversified combinations is not difficult to understand, but for such a person to have the ability of an experienced financier included, is beyond my idea of an ideal college man.” O’Mara makes no pretense as an authority on the private life of Carey but he hinted that there might be many things for consideration if only they would be divulged.
Brownson “Rec”—An Institution
Every place in which young men amuse themselves at Notre Dame is, of necessity, not elaborate. One could say that Brownson “Rec” has beauty—it is old, but that is an advantage. Boots have pounded and scarred the floor, cigarettes have given the walls and ceiling a permanent bluish tinge, and Beech Nut leaves stains that even strong soap can not erase. All this, though, is the reason why the “Rec” is always crowded. One cannot shoot pool for a dime in a drawing-room.
Time was when the “Rec” was not noisy and smoke-clouded. Old clothes made up a common uniform, then as now, but cigarettes were the root of all evil, even without the decision of the W. C. T. U. as authority. Freshmen did not slam doors or shout lustily. The “Rec” was a meeting-place in the old days; it had a sober air about it, that was not dispelled
by the click of balls, or the shuffling of cards, or the strains of a band from an elegant radio. Then came the pool tables, and Luckies, and Milton Work’s book, and the old room took on a gala mood that has lasted, thankfully. If you have patience enough to wait, or come from the houseman’s home town, you can shoot pool or billiards for much less than it costs at the LaSalle Annex. In case the check is late, you. can sit down with twenty or thirty other unfortunates and play bridge until you trump your partner’s ace. Bridge is almost the game at the “Rec” now; old hands with the cue shake their heads sadly and hark back to the time when people played a man’s game.
The next time you drop in at the - “Rec,” talk to Brother Aloysius. He’s interested in everything you have to say, and he knows a lot of interesting
things if you can get him to talk. He knew, remembers, the originals of all those pictures on the walls, can recall the winning of the trophies and the cups in the big case. He’ll discuss anything in the sports line—but remember that he’s a Brownson man. Before you leave, stop for a word with Morry Murray, and watch him take in the dimes. Make the usual remark that it looks like good business, and Morry will remark, as usual, that it takes a lot of ten-cent pieces.to make a five-dollar bill.
That’s Brownson “Rec” and if you don’t or can’t like it, you are unusual, to say the least. A lot of men have spent some pleasant hours there. Shoot some pool, loser pay; look at the pictures; smoke somebody’s cigarettes; you might even play bridge; and before you know it, you’ll like the place—it grows on one!
The Notre D am e Scholastic
491
CLUB PICTURES FOR DOME WILL BE TAKEN SOON
Robert Pendergast, editor of the Dome, has annunced that club pictures will be taken by the Dome photographer during the week following examinations, from February 4th ' to the 11th. The club presidents will be notified by mail, and are advised to take up the matter at the first meeting after the conclusion of the semester. The group pictures of the clubs are to be taken by appointment, and the president of each organization should decide on a time and date and then inform the editor who lives at 339 Badin Hall.
Literary work, in the form of sketches or satire, must be in by the first week in March. Juniors who desire to submit such material should commence work on them so that they may be finished in time for publication.
Those who have not as yet signed up for the 1930 Dome may do so now by applying it to their second semester bill.
RUSSELL STUDIO FINISHES 700 PICTURES
The Russell Studio, Dome photographer, has taken over 700 sittings, which include members of the faculty, senior class and the various activity men. Besides this number there have been, approximately 400 junior pictures which have been taken in groups of four.
‘‘Skip’'' Kennelly, 303 Sorin, must have all outstanding proofs returned to him within the next two weeks so that a selection of the proofs for the Dome can be made. Anyone desiring to order photographs should see him as soon as possible.
FRIGID WEATHER CAUSES MUCH COMMENT
Students with classes at 8 and 9 o’clock last Saturday morning, arose in the coldest weather Notre Dame has been subjected to since 1915, according to statistics compiled by the U. S. Weather Bureau representative.
From 11 degrees below zero at
College of Law Notes
Professor Brandt, of the University of Minnesota, delivered a series of five lectures to the senior law students last week.
Dean T. F. Konop has received notice that Donald M. Donahue has passed the bar examinations in New York.
Judge M. M. Oshe will deliver one of a series of lectures to the law students on Friday, February 7, at 2:00 o’clock.
midnight Friday, the thermometer dropped to 20 degrees below zero Sat-uday morning. The coldest weather previously recorded was on January 7, 1915, when the thermometer registered 15 degrees.
The frigid weather during the past two weeks was the first experienced by a large number of students whose homes are in more sunny climes.

A Man You Know

Hackneyed and trite though it be, the phrase “old in body but young in spirit” still holds true in many cases —it still can be applied to certain people who do not allow the spirit to be shackled by approaching age. Professor Antonio J. Provost is one of those people. Not young as years go, his spirit is as fresh and vigorous as ( it ever was. His work reflects his spirit; for his classes are never dull and routine-bound. He is always striving to inject, into the subject that he teaches, an element of vigor and freshness; he puts into it an enthusiasm which, coupled with a sound and mellow scholarship, make his courses very much worth while.
Professor Provost was born in Joliette, in the Province of Quebec, Canada. He attended the Seminaire de Joliette for eight years, graduating in 1889 with the degrees of B. L. and A. M. Upon leaving the seminary, he studied law for three years, but the profession was not to his liking. Teaching appealed to him more than the law. Judging from his thirty-six years of teaching experience, the appeal has not lost its force. Professor . Provost has taught semi-private classes, and in high schools, colleges and universities. He was at Lom
bard College from 1896 to 1900; from 1904 to 1905 he taught at Kansas City University. For three years,
Professor Antonio J. Provost
1918 to 1921, he was assistant professor of French and Spanish at the University of West Virginia. In 1921 he became head of the department of Romance Languages at Marquette University, remaining there for two years in that capacity. From 1923 to 1924 he was assistant professor of French and Spanish at Denver University. He came to Notre Dame in 1924.	"*
A rather wide range of subjects has been taught by Professor Provost during his long teaching career. Besides courses in the French langauge and French literature, he has taught Latin, Spanish, and history. At one
time he had classes in all five of the subjects mentioned.
Some years ago he edited two elementary readers, Petits contes and L’ abbe Constantin, for use in second year French classes. At present he is preparing a supplement of from 1,500 to 2,000 words to the classic English-French, French-English dictionary, the addition consisting mostly of words which have become part of every day speech, inasmuch as they are connected with such subjects as aviation, the automobile, the radio, and athletic sports.
In 1926 Professor Provost received the Degre Superieur d’ Enseignement from the University of Dijon, France. The French government has also made him officier eV academic.
Teaching is Mr. Provost’s hobby as well as his profession. During our talk with him he made some interesting observations concerning his work and chief hobby.
“My hobby,” he said, “has always been teaching, and always will be. As we cannot all do research work, some of us must teach. I love my work; and I need not say that I love Notre Dame—its spirit and its aims. Campus life is most attractive to me. In spite of my advancing years, I like to take part—or at least interest myself—in all the activities of the University, athletics included. I only regret that I did not come here thirty-five years ago.”

The Notre Dame Scholastic
492
“Dinner Dance” Added Feature of Prom Week
A dinner-dance for Juniors and their Prom guests will be an added feature of the Prom week-end program according to the announcement by the committees in charge of the dance. The plans for the dinnerdance have just been launched, and as a result are not yet specific, but indications are that the affair will be held in the Oliver Hotel on Saturday evening, March 1.
Committees in charge of the Prom have held several meetings during the past week to prepare a campaign of work in preparation for the dance. The ticket committee under the direction of Ed Madden will have tickets ready for distribution early next week and will begin an active sales .canvass of members of the junior class. The fifty seniors who have secured bids will obtain their tickets from members of the ticket committee before February 10. Bids will not be reserved after this date and will be sold to seniors whose names comprise the waiting list.
Those who have charge of the distribution of tickets and the halls in which they reside are:
JANUARY “ALUMNUS”
. OUT
The January number of the “Notre Dame Alumnus” was published last week. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., contributed an article entitled “The Needs of the University.” In his message, Father O’Donnell compared the endowment of Notre Dame with that of large universities throughout the country, bringing to light the fact that Notre Dame has a lower endowment than many other universities of like size and importance in the United States. He stressed the need for an endowment fund to further research and graduate work as well as the establishment of fellowship foundations, the University at present having only five.
In conjunction with Father O’Donnell’s article was one entitled “Notre Dame’s Alumni—The Solution,” in which is set forth a plan whereby the alumni can help to satisfy the needs of the University by contributions to a “Living Endowment Fund” which aims primarily to supply the University with funds for current expenses, fellowships, scholarships, and professorships. -
Al Seymour, Badin; •
Thomas F. Monahan, Corby;
Jim Rich and Frank O’Neill, Lyons;
John Blackwell and Joseph A. Lauerman, Walsh;
Edward B. Madden and Joseph O’Hara, Morrissey;
Jack Shively, Tom McGough, Phil Konop, and John Bergan, Off-Campus.
The programs and favors for the Prom are to be supplied by The Elliott Company, of Philadelphia. The contract was awarded recently after the committees had viewed the displays of several leading firms. No announcement is being made of the style of the programs or favors until they are ready for distribution, a few days before the dance.
John Kuhn and Tim Benitz, cochairmen of the decorations committee, have begun work on an elaborate and beautiful system of decoration for the Palais Royale Ballroom. The exact nature of the scheme is being withheld by the committee, but the chairmen promise that it ■will be unique and appealing.
ARCHITECTURAL EXHIBIT HELD IN LIBRARY
An exhibition of drawings and photos from the T-Square Club of Philadelphia and the Philadelphia Chapter' of the American Institute of Architects, was held on the second floor of the Library during the week ending last Monday. The drawings and photographs were of college buildings, residences, and office buildings in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
Davis and Barney, Philadelphia architects, exhibited their drawing which had won the gold medal awarded by the chapter of the American Institute in that city, while Howe and Lacaze, also of the Quaker City contributed exmaples of contemporary architecture.
This group of drawings was first shown in the Wanamaker gallery in Philadelphia, then in Harrisburg, (Penn.), and from there brought to Notre Dame, with Manhattan, Kansas, as the next destination.
Next week, another exhibit will be held on the 4th floor of the Main Building which will consist of prizewinning drawings by students from various universities, to be sponsored by the Beaux Arts Society of New York.
POST-EXAM INFORMAL NEXT TUESDAY
Plans have been completed for the annual Post-Exam informal dance which is sponsored by the Villagers Club. The affair is to take place in the Palais Royale Ballroom on Tuesday, January 28, between the hours of 8:30 and 11:30.
The music for the dance is to be furnished by Myron Walz and his Hotel LaSalle orchestra, which broadcasts regularly over radio station, WSBT.
The price of admission is a dollar and a half per couple, or seventy-five cents for “stags.” Tickets may be purchased from any member of the club or at the door on the evening of the dance.
NOTRE DAME TO BE SCENE OF STATE ORATORICAL
CONTEST
Notre Dame has been selected as host to the Indiana State Oratorical Association this year in its annual state-wide oratorical contest. On February 14, Frank Corbett, this year’s Breen Medalist, will compete with collegiate orators from Purdue, Wabash, Evansville, Franklin, Butler, Earlham, and Manchester for the honor of representing Indiana in the national intercollegiate oratorical contest. Notre Dame backs him with her well-wishes and a wealth of tradition. Last year James C. Roy, of Notre Dame annexed the state title and then won the national meet at Chicago.
“SCRIP” OUT SOON
The second number of “Scrip,” will be published February 10. Many stories and essays have been submitted by students for this number, but students are still urged to send in their contributions to Louis C. Heitger. Mr. Jay Walz, who graduated from the University in 1929 and who is now working for the South Bend Neivs-Times has submitted an essay, “The Modernity of Tchekov.” Louis Heitger, the editor of “Scrip,” says that very few poems have been submitted for this number and requests that students who have poems to contribute, send them in by January 27.	•
NOTICE!
Contributions for “Scrip,” the literary quarterly, must be in not later than January 27. They should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HOWARD HALL BIDS FOR CAMPUS RECOGNITION
Inspired-by the examples of Sorin, Walsh and Corby, Howard Hall is well on its way toward making a name for itself in campus circles. It houses at least live future varsity men. These five, John Abbademarco, Roger Beirne, Paul Kreuz and James Larkin, all received their numerals for freshman football, while John Hoyt received his for cross-country. Due to many injuries, Howard did not show up so well in Inter-Hall competition this season, but the real power of the team was shown in a post-season game with Peru High School, when Howard piled up an overwhelming score.
Roger Beirne, in addition to winning his numerals in football, was one of the stars on the Howard Hall debating team, which last week won the Inter-Hall Championship. His teammates were George Allan, John Barry, James Wade and Frank Cawley.
Howard is represented on the Scholastic staff by George Allan and Leslie Raddatz. The former, one of the most versatile men in the hall, in addition to receiving the highest average in the hall, speaking on the hall’s championship debating team, and writing for the Scholastic, has also succeeded in making the varsity debating team. This is no little honor for a freshman.
The five Howard football men are matched by five student managers: Robert Noll, John McCoy, Robert Johnson, James Burke and Andrew O’Keefe.
Howard Hall was named after Timothy E. Howard, professor of Literature in the University after the Civil War, and later a judge in the Supreme Court of Indiana. It is worthy of mention that Tim Benitz, coach of the Howard debating team this year, is a grandson of Judge Howard.
NOTICE!
There are still a few seniors who have not appeared to be measured for caps and gowns. The measurements that have been taken have already been sent in. If the delinquent few will come to the room of Don Sullivan, 307 Sorin, they may have a special measurement taken. All seniors must be measured before February 1. This will positively be the last time extension.
“Home Town ‘Juggler’” Gets Big Reception
The “Home Town” Juggler, out last Monday, received the most enthusiastic reception that any issue of The Funny Fellow has had this year. With its typical home town paper, containing every feature of the small town news sheet, its special “Home Town” drawing by Lee Stanley, of the Central Press Association, whose daily “'Home Town” cartoons in papers all over the country are well known, and the rich but unbitter chidings of the “old home town” that filled it, the Juggler presented an issue which surpassed even this year’s previous good numbers. The quick response in campus sales showed -the popularity of the number.
Eight pages of news, garnered from dozens of small town papers, with several specially written stories, filled up the “Home Town” paper, a supplement to the issue, printed on regular news print, and made up in official
[ajiunii ii tt *<<«■■■ tnitii mt । ii mu । iiiiniiui i iiimiii i n m in nun inimi Hiitimntiii um i m luuimiitii mn miiiiitiiiiiuiiiiniiitiiiiiii Q | MUSIC AND DRAMA I PI iitmmtimiHUitituiuitimmiiitiiiiiiiiHtmmmmmimnmimmmiimimiimimmimmminmuimmmmmmmmmmHpi
Harold Samuel, noted English pianist, is giving one of his famous recitals Sunday afternoon, at the Playhouse. Mr. Samuel plays nothing but Bach and his interpretations are magnificent. He is only favoring us with one concert this season whereas last year he gave a series of three.
Sergei Rachmaninoff is playing in Chicago on Sunday, February 2. Seats will be scarce as time grows short, so an order sent in immediately would not be too soon. Prices range from one dollar to two and a half. The concert will be held at Orchestra Hall.
Probably the most outstandingevent in the way of piano recitals will be a two-piano concert by Harold Bauer and Myra Hess. Bauer is unexcelled in the field of Beethoven compositions and Myra Hess is the outstanding woman pianist in America. The concert will be held at the Studebaker Theater, Sunday afternoon, February 9, and promises to be most excellent. If you do not intend to hear anything else this season, by
newspaper form. The co-operation of the Western Newspaper Union, which furnished many of its service plates, and the help and suggestions of Henry Justin Smith, managing edito? of the Chicago Dailg News, and R. H. L., of the Chicago - Tribune’s famous “Line-o’-Type or Two,” were indis-pensible in producing the number. Mr. Stanley’s work has also been appreciated.
Foi- next month, the Funny Fellow announces an Alumni issue, with a Prom supplement. To the Alumni number, it is hoped that many former staff members and other alumni will submit their efforts. The Prom supplement of the issue will be made especially for this year’s Prom. The combination of these two subjects will make an excellent number. The deadline for the Alumni number will be midnight, Saturday, February 1. All drawings and written material should be submitted to John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief, 130 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
all means make it a point to hear Hess and Bauer. Prices from one dollar to two and a half.
The best news we have heard for some time is that Harald Kreutzberg and Yvonne Georgi are to give a return concert at Orchestra Hall Monday evening, February 3.
Rachel Crother’s delightful comedy, “Let Us Be Gay,” is to open at the Studebaker Monday, January 27. The cast is precisely the same as that in the New York showing.' Francine Larrimore seems to be the star of the production.
After a run of more than two months, “Tour du Monde” will be replaced by “The Field God.” The Goodman Theater has been rather fortunate in getting both of these plays, as they are just the type of show that goes over immensely well at a theater such as the Goodman.
La Argentina is giving a return recital at the Studebaker, Sunday afternoon, January 26. There is no chance of getting a seat, but that’s all right.
494
The Notre Dame Scholastic
We are glad to notice that the gloom cast by the coming examinations does not extend over the Campus Clubs. Most of them seem almost eager to start the social season after these same “exams.” We might be mistaken—it is possible they will be just glad they are over. There are not enough meetings at present to permit us to devote a page to the various activities within the clubs, but we won’t bore you, at least, with another tirade on organization —for a while.
Then, too, this is a bad season for write-ups. Long suffering secretaries fear the examinations to the extent that only three volunteered to give us information. They were quickly squelched because the information they proffered had to-do with Christmas vacation activities. At the time this page went to press, others were almost ready to give us some information regarding meetings held within the last day or so.
The plans they are making extend, for the most part, to activities between February first and Easter, and of this we are glad. Several are planning banquets. The Philadelphia Club is planning a banquet for Tom Conley, Cap-tain-elect of next year’s football team. The Villagers are quietly discussing their basketball banquet, and their Post-Exam dance, and are at the same time extending a cordial invitation to all club members to attend. The banquets will be treated in detail in this page at a later date.
The season from February first to Easter Vacation, which, by the way, begins at noon, April sixteenth, will be a busy one. Track meets, Registration, Basketball'games, Movies, Oratorical Contests, Concerts, the Lawyer’s Ball, Washington’s Birthday, and with it the Presentation of the Flag, The Junior Prom and all the events connected with it, Debates, The University Theatre, The third quarter exams, .Magicians, and the Monogram Absurdities, will take up a great deal of the spare time students have. Wednesday afternoons and the Palace will take up a great deal more. (Telfel tells us also some literary circle or other is giving a “Cupid” dance, whatever that is, February 12.) The Campus Club Editor, however, believes that it is possible for the Clubs to do their greatest work in this season. The officers of the Clubs have a task to perform in this season which they cannot lightly pass by. The school year, as far as the club is concerned, practically ends with the Easter vacation. After that, there is the matter of arranging accounts, and discussions with alumni for the joint business meeting,—the dance, or banquet at home in the summer, and preparations for another year—for those who have another year.
The officers of the various clubs will remember that to keep the members of their clubs interested in the activities of the club they must be at all times energetic. Entertainment during this season must be varied. This brings us down to a discussion of the coming meeting of all the club presidents in the Law Building a week from next Sunday. While we have yet another issue of the Scholastic to discuss the purpose of this meeting, it might be of value to introduce a few of its good points now. It is to aid the clubs in “getting together” that this meeting is being called. It will serve to bring the clubs together into a closer union, so that there may be a sort of brotherhood in the organization of the clubs on the campus. Every part of the country will be represented and every sort of entertainment will be planned for the coming season. Instead of having one club working by itself for a social function, it is hoped that all of them will take sufficient interest in what the other club is doing to aid in whatever way it can.
No matter how much we objected against writing anything about the Christmas season, we must make a few remarks concerning it.
We are glad to notice in the write-ups that come in on the Christmas dances, business meetings, and suppers, Communion breakfasts and lunches of the various clubs, what co-operation exists between the Alumni and the campus clubs. The alumni, no doubt, are glad of the co-operation given them by the campus clubs, and it is a mark of extreme good fellowship that the officers of the clubs here on the campus invite them and work with them to insure the success of any social function during the holidays at home. It is gratifying to see how many clubs are recognizing their value, and help in this.
Now that we have gone to such labor to fill this page, we will try to act indulgent again and inform you where write-ups on your club may be considered. If there are not sufficient write-ups to fill a page, our readers will be forced to submit to another page of this sort. We don’t like it any better than you do, and since our numerous pleas for co-operation have been so long disregarded,—we feel that we can safely say that,—we ask club members and officers alike once again to consider the position we are in. Without your help, it is impossible for us to know what the clubs are doing. It is impossible for us to tell others what is happening in your club. Write-ups may be mailed to the Publications Office, to the Campus Club Editor, in Science Hall, they may be delivered personally to the Editor in the “Caf”—many find that the easiest way,— or they may be delivered personally to either of the above-mentioned places. If nothing more, please drop a line to the Campus Club Editor with your exact address so that we might call for write-ups. Now we will attempt a graceful exit by wishing you the best of luck in the exams.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
495
••MIU I IS THE ELEVATICN?”
“They have promised you elevation! Where is the elevation?” Such were the stubby, biting-words, heavy with implications of life and death, that came from the lips of a man who, some years ago, addressed this question to the powers that brought about the World War. His query stemmed from propaganda, popular during the early part of the great conflict, that promised “elevation” to those who would win. The man, some eight years later was looking for “elevation” in a chaotic world; and he is still looking!
Now, we hear a great deal, in these days, of the value of a college education; we are supposed to. spend some four years in college, then emerge upon a world eagerly awaiting us; a world that promises “elevation” to him who has had liberal or special training for four or more years. All this talk sounds well, and seems sound in theory—until graduation day is over and we begin to look about for the particular plateau that is to constitute our “elevation.” And then, we are disposed to echo the question above: “They have promised you elevation! Where is the elevation?”
At this time of the year, when more than a few college students are being graduated upon completion of their courses, some remarks on this subject might help to clarify the matter, and point to the only real elevation worth while to those who have spent some time in learning how higher altitudes may be won.
There are just two questions that must confront any intelligent 'person about to start on the quite serious business of supporting himself; how to make a living, and how to live.
If these two indices of the quality of a man’s life are kept clearly in mind, a great deal of the confusion usually blocking a clear view of one’s personal fortunes, is, at the very start, sloughed away.
The questions are not set down in order of actual importance; rather, they are arranged in the order of their immediate occurrence; in a life to the ordering of which any thought has been given, the second comes first; but one must first make a living in order to live.
When we say “make a living” we mean of course, engaging in any activity that earns the necessaries of life; under this we might mention a thousand and one occupations; but the one most likely to be chosen by a majority of college graduates is business. Now business, legitimate though it be, admits, in the final analysis, of but one “elevation”; and that is financial. But it must be kept clearly in mind that such a raising is but external, and, in essence, outside ourselves. The world of the day, actually, promises such success to none; but she does render possible its attainment; yet the spirit implicit in the question at the opening of this editorial, does not recognize a financial platform, however high it may be, as true elevation.
That spirit sees its answer and its goal in a satisfactory reply to the query, how to live?
The function of college is to furnish the reply; one who leaves school, after four or more years, without at least a hint of the answer, has wasted his time.
And the answer is no esoteric secret; it is compounded of constant activity of thought; unceasing awareness of the stupendous beauty of existence; love of God and unfailing regard and love for fellow human beings.
In the successful living practice of these three ways of being, lies the only true elevation. No group, referred to as “they,” promises it to us; the promise is instinct in the beauty and the mystery, the joy and the tragedy, of the world, and of the people in the world.
With these points definitely in mind, we cannot but see all methods of making a' living, as just so many means to an end; the end, living.
Again we have set down the things that constitute this terminus; and again we say that the only true elevation is in being. Seeming is the brief piping of a soon-broken flute; being the first note in a symphony that throws its towers into the stars.	—M. H. L.
Page Ma;—The Xotre Dame Scholastic
Father Sorin “. . . benig


OTRE DAME has a silver-mine of trophies, an abundant flock of traditions, and a few statues, monuments and similar memorials. Everyone has seen the lordly Sorin image. Inhabitants of the grand old hall-by-the-lake are on speaking terms with the Corby memorial; but it is the idea of this reporter to re-discover a few others which you may have overlooked, and add a few facts to what you know of Sorin, Corby and others.
The most noted statue is that of the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, onetime Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and founder of the University. Whether or not John Harvard and Eli Yale continue to greet and solemnly observe whomsoever enters their respective institutions; Father Sorin’s commanding position at the entrance of the campus enables him to do precisely that.
When I used to glance up at his stern features, I felt like hurrying around some corner; and yet, judging from the following letter by J. M. Studebaker to the Very Reverend Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., president of the University in 1906, I am inclined to think now that Father Sorin would be disposed to smile at a freshman’s timidity. Mr. Studebaker, who wrote at the time of the statue’s erection, said: “He had the rugged hon
esty of the Puritan, combined with the grace and exquisite tact of the courtier. He had the attainments of scholarship and culture, but could condescend unaffectedly and heartily to men of any degree. The secret of it was his love for mankind and his desire to do them good. Tall of stature, powerful of frame, benignant and sunny of face, easily enduring the early and trying days of privation and hardship, through a long life of vigor he was a power for organization and progress. . .. If he had an enemy, none were deserved, while his friends were numbered in hosts both here and abroad.”
This great man died in 1893; and thirteen years later, on May 3, 1906, which was the Festival of the Finding of the Holy Cross—the Most Reverend John J. Keane, D. D., Archbishop of Dubuque, dedicated the statue. When told it cost §25,000 in 1905, students of economics may appreciate its value today.
In direct contrast to the dominating situation held by Father Sorin is the obscurity of the Shillington Memorial. “The what?” asks Joseph Off-Campus. The Shillington Memorial, we repeat, known to Brownson boys as “The Bullet.” Although it is one of the most interesting things on the campus, most of the students know nothing of it.
John Henry Shillington, a former student at the University, and a resident of Brownson Hall, was one of the sailors who perished on the U. S. S. Maine. To the memory of his heroism the men of Brownson Hall erected “The Shell.” As the band played “The Star Spangled Banner” the national emblem was lifted, and the handsome red granite memorial, presented to the University through courtesy of the Marathon Granite Co., of Wausau, Wis., with its great ten-inch shell supported on a bronze base, was revealed. All stood with bared heads until the last strain of the national anthem had died away, then the dedication ceremonies were most appropriately concluded with an address by the Secretary of the Navy. This event took place on Memorial Day, May 27, 1915. At that time


Josephus Daniels was President Wilson’s Secretary of the Navy.	-
If any student is interested in treasure huntj ing, he would enjoy starting out early some? clear morning to search for this prize. Usings the steps of the Music Hall as a starting point^
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page ^97
9 m
find sunny of face . . .”
§
tilow the pavement due west. When a small furt is suggested by the Brownson architec-! -h-e, venture north. There it is. We don’t iow why.
Directly in front of St. Edward’s Hall is ,und one of the oldest statues of the University
—the beautiful life-size statue of St. Edward. This was purchased by the Sorin Association and given by them, as a Christmas present, to the Very Reverend Father Sorin. According to an issue of the Scholastic dated December 25, 1880, the Sorins—when ordering it from Froc-Eobert & Son, 38 Bonaparte St., Paris—expressed their desire by these words: “Get us the richest and the most beautiful statue of St. Edward that can be made, and we will be satisfied to pay 8500 for it.” It was the first statue of St. Edward to be imported to America. St. Edward was the Patron Saint of Father Sorin, which made the gift very dear to the founder- of Notre Dame. The same number of the Scholastic describes the statue when new: “The costume is superb, consisting of a purple and gold tunic, a scarlet and gold robe, and an ermine-lined scarlet and gold mantle which falls in folds, gracefully and naturally, over the figure. The massive crown is richly inlaid with emeralds and rubies, and beautifully rests on the noble brow.”
Father Corby, in his traditional pose—hand uplifted in benediction over the soldiers at Gettysburg— stands in replica in front of Corby Hall.
Father John Cavanaugh had the following to say about heroes, and their monuments in the text of his address at the unveiling of the Sorin statue:
“No man who needs a monument to commemorate his memory ought ever to have one; unless the story of a man’s achievements lives in the hearts of his fellowmen, no bronze, however high, can lift his name out of oblivion. Notre Dame is Father Sorin’s monument; but today a grateful people have demanded that the gracious features and the manly figure of this great priest should be preserved for generations that never looked upon him in life.
“Therefore, in the name of the sainted apostles who carried the Eo-man cross into countries over which the Eoman eagle never passed; in the name of those Christian educators who believe, as he believed, that the heart of culture is culture of the heart and that the soul of improvement is improvement of the soul; in the name of humanity whom he loved
and served without distinction of race or creed; in the name of America, the scene of his labors and the land of his predilection; in the name of generations of young- men whose lives have been touched and sanctified by his consecrated hand: in the name of Alma. Mater whose foundation stones were cemented with his sweat and blood; in the name of a noble army of Priests, Brothers and Sisters of Holy Cross who with him bore the burden of a long day, and are now with him trembling in the everlasting ecstacy; in the name of the Holy Catholic Church whose loyal and faithful priest he was: in the name of St. Joseph and the Blessed Virgin whose names he magnified: in the name of Him, the Saviour of us all, whom he served and loved with almost perfect love and perfect service—I say unveil the statue of Sorin.”
The Sacred Heart statue—a duplicate of one at Montmarte, France, which attracts thousands of visitors from all over Europe; and the Blessed Virgin’s statue on the huge Dome are of a religious nature and are “silent reminders” of a different kind. The idea behind this feature, as stated in the first paragraph, was to supply information on the memorials of the campus that represent Notre Dame in its various phases: Father Sorin, the founder; Father Corby, the builder; St. Edward, the patron saint of Father Sorin; Shillington. one of out-many war heroes. The religious statues require another story.
Father Corby’s Statue’
. . . an early nobleman . . .
498
The Notre Dame Scholastic
j .THE WINK j
4
Hey! Heresy! Treason! THERE IS NO WINK IN MORRISSEY HALL! We mean the original Wink, having to do with the intricacies of the electric light system. Night after- night the trusting inhabitants of dear old Morrissey are plunged into the well-known Cimmerian (or, if you prefer more Milton, Stygian) darkness without any warning whatsoever. Come to think of it, has anyone of the present generation ever seen a Wink? First there were no hobnails and now there is no Wink! What’s the use of having the Wink named after the Wink if there really is no Wink? Call out the reserves! Something has gotta be done.
—Willie Wolverine.
—o—
Dear Willie:
Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus. And, Willie, there is a Wink. Howard Hall gets it at 9:45 and probably Freshman gets one at the same hour. You know, we’re one big fraternity and we play no favorites.
—T. Talbot Tabloid.
—o—	'
The Christmas vacation was holed up to hibernate for a year, the weary flight of the stprk with its naked child from Father Time has been completed, and the flapping of wings is already only a hazy echo. Each of us becomes an interested parent of the New Year. We watch the babe grow from the infant period of winter until the childhood period of spring. We see it gain confidence in the adolescent stage of summer, and are surprised at the swiftness of maturity in the fall. Jealously we guard its actions from the time it makes known its need by unearthly howls, until it passes into the limbo of completed years. But this doesn’t solve the problem of how to make my semester exams.
•	—Jules.
—o—
WELL AND WELL, WELL
By P. I.
My heart is like a taxi-cab Upon the evening air, And empty as a mocking laugh . It hurries here and sometimes there.
--0--
This is a fragment of the highly important unpublished works of Mr. P. I., whose fragrant memory still lingers about Notre Dame. They were discovered by T. Talbot Tabloid while he was making excavations in an Ethics book left behind after the leisurely departure of the Luckless Lad.
—o—
This second fragment found on the back of a Practical English duty reads as follows: (it really does!)
And this is my continual song To every one I see, “My heart is like a taxi-cab, Oh, won’t you ride with me?”
No we won’t. Home is where the heart is and who wants to live in a taxi. Of course, it wouldn’t be so bad in South Bend, but it would be a mis-spent life in Chicago cabs.
*
-h
Above is the picture of the average senior, Joe Doaks, ’09, doing a little looking. What is he looking for? Well, he has just taken three exams and has four scheduled for tomorrow, so he is looking for some passing grades, a check from home and the first train to Chicago. Due to the installation of a drainage system there, Joe was caught in front of Badin when the drop in temperature came. He was extracted with the aid of a buzz saw and the American College of Surgeons. Aftei- he came out of it Joe very kindly posed for a characteristic photograph.
—o—
TO ROSEMARY
Rosemary, you've been a peach to me, You gave me all your smiles,
Your dances, and your repartee, .
Along with other wiles.
Rose, you've always been good to me, In love you weren’t too cold,	'
But let me say before you go,
It took a lot of gold.
’	—The Great Divider.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
499
The followers of Aimee Semple McPherson at the University of Washington in Seattle are quite conspicuous by their complete absence. Of the 8,309 students enrolled in the university, not a single one admitted being a disciple of Aimee. Some 5,865 positively stated their faiths, while 2,441 indicated no religious preference and only three professed atheism.
—o—
Six members of the Sigma Nu fraternity at Emory University down in Georgia recently decided to go to a fair nearby and have all kinds of fun. No soonei- had they ar--ived there than a nice man smiled at them and cried: •‘Right this way boys! Just roll the little balls and win the grand prize.” So the boys rolled the little balls, but somehow it happened that they didn’t win the grand prize. “Ah! Roll ’em again, boys,” urged the nice man, as he smiled even more broadly than before; “you’re sure to win this time.” And the boys rolled the little balls again, and even again and again, until finally they had rolled to the extent of $66, with a net result in prizes of one toy elephant, which somehow didn’t seem to be the grand prize. Moreover, it was a white elephant too. Finally the six (as well as sick) boys conferred and agreed that they had had almost enough fun for one day, and accordingly they trudged mournfully away, bearing with them their $66 elephant. And ringing in their ears as they left was the enchanting cry: “Right this way, folks! Just roll the little balls and win the grand prize.”
A certain professor of English at Syracuse University declares that bigger and better swear words are the crying need of the nation today. Well, that may be so but we believe that the professor just hasn’t been around the right people at the right time, for certainly there are those who seem able to express then* aroused feelings in a varied and endless succession of graphic and highly expressive swear words, as he so fondly calls them. Perhaps the professor really means that the crying need is not so much bigger and better swear words as more and better coaching and instruction in that art. The day may be coming when we can find listed among the courses of the Arts and Letters College such classes as these:
Cussing la, 3 hours, first semester.
An orientation course for freshmen. Lectures, readings, and exercises in methods of college swearing. This course deals with the principles involved in the gentle yet manly art of swearing, and likewise surveys the chief problems of the field. Required of freshmen in Arts and Letters. Mr. Cussfast, Mr. Swearmouth.
Cussing 4b, 3 hours, second semester.
A course in the technique of swearing. The following topics are considered: individual differences
and their treatment, the various forms of swearing, swearing in the class-room, the use of gestures, the fine points of swearing. No text is used; considerable outside work is required. Prerequisite: Cussing la. Elective for Juniors and Seniors. Mr. Cussfaster.
Cussing 9, 2 hours, either semester.
A course in extemporaneous swearing. Every effort is taken to develop in the student the faculty of brilliant and impromptu swearing. Prerequisites : Cussing la, Cussing 4b. Elective for Seniors. Mr. Cussfastest.
—o—
The Anti-Salooners and the Drys should be able to derive some satisfaction from the report of the Ohio state commissioner of prohibition to the effect that conditions at Ohio State University are quite satisfactory. The commissioner’ based his statement upon the fact that it took one of his under-cover agents ten days to buy a drink in the University district. “I would not go so far as to say that there is no drinking among the students,” Commissioner Beetham said, “but the practice is not general, I feel sure.” That ten days stuff makes us believe either that the age of miracles is far from past or else that—well, something.
—o—
It seems that Santa Claus is going to be more than usually good to the fellows at Antioch, for the co-eds of the institution, suddenly imbued with a fervor for independence and equality, are determined to overcome what they consider to be the last accepted prejudice binding the status of modern women. They intend to ask the gentlemen for dates, call for them in taxis, and pay all expenses. The smelling salts, quick!
A number of Harvard students recently aided the police in a raid on several speakeasies. A dozen of these “talk-softly” joints were closed and some of the owners arrested. The Harvard men are said to have assisted the police because they were incensed over the exorbitant prices the liquor dealers charged for inferior beverages. The irate students claim that the average price of a case of whiskey is $135. Is it any wonder they helped the police?
The story comes from the University of Washington that a certain young fellow out there labored diligently for twenty minutes with razor and all attendant paraphernalia and was then found to be using a razor without any blade in it. As the young fellow seemed to be having a good time, however, and as the results were the same anyway, nothing much was said or done about it. We might say that Washington is not alone in harboring such beardless wonders.
500
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Fai Quintet Set Down by Notre Dame; 29-23
Classy Mexican Five Holds Third-Stringers On Even Terms
A SCRAPPY, untiring bunch of swarthy, black-haired Mexicans almost proved to be a stumbling block to Coach George Keogan’s quintet—pardon us, we should have said third string quintet—for they battled this combination on almost even terms for three quarters of the contest which was played on the home floor last Monday evening. With the injection of second string men late in the game, Notre Dame forged into the lead to take a 29 to 23 win over the Fai team from Mexico City. Both outfits scored nine field goals and Notre Dame won by virtue of her eleven free throws to the loser’s five.
Apparently with the idea of saving his stars for the Michigan State game, Coach Keogan started Heenan and Host at the forward posts, Kizer at center, and McNally and Johnson guards. This five played the first half and the greater part of the second period and held the speedy southerners in check, • meanwhile forging a narrow lead themselves.
The Fai five-man defense did not seem to function properly until the third-string Notre Dame men had been removed from the contest. When they had been replaced the Mexican defense tightened up and for a time it looked as if they were liable to grasp the lead and keep it until the end.
With the score 22 to 21 against Notre Dame and about seven minutes to play, Busch sank two foul shots to put the Gold and Blue ahead. Flores knotted the count again after Conley had fouled him. Bums ..was hooked by Parra and made the score 25 to 23 for Notre Dame with two free throws. Crowe and Gavin collaborated in making a brace of field goals to take the lead at 29 to 23,
and a second later the gun went off to end the game.
Fai started off the fray with an exhibition of long range shooting. These shots bounded around the hoop, skimmed off the backboard and slid by the net—they all missed. There
Marshall Kizer
were perhaps a dozen or more attempts by Aznar, Mateo, and Parra which failed to connect. Host began the scoring with two free buckets after being shoved by Mateo, and Kizer dribbled up a minute later to swish the ball through from the side. Parra, captain of the Mexicans, and opposed to Kizer in the center ring, repeated his opponent’s stunt by carrying the ball down the right side of the
floor and swerving under the net for- 7 ‘ the goal.
Aznar put Fai into the lead with -two clever goals, the first one slapped the backboard from center floor and the second was from the side of the j. court, clicking the net as it sailed through. Kizer took numerous shots from outside the foul circle and center floor but the ball persisted in rolling around the hoop, finally bouncing off. Heenan came down the floor on a fast play and evened the , count at 6-6; Kizer took a pass from Host, and pivoting, sank the leather - ' from the outer circle, making it 8-6 in Notre Dame’s favor.
Heenan chalked up charity tosses -after Luna fouled him. A second later Host took the tipoff from Du-wan and connected his try. With about fifteen minutes of the first half up, Luna and Mateo scored a foul shot apiece, and Aznar put in another " of his spectacular long heaves from the side of the floor, bringing the count to 12-10 against the Mexicans. Duwan leaped high to make a follow-up shot arid Luna tossed one from the foul line as the half ended , with Notre Dame in possession of a slender 14 to 11 lead.	,
The second period opened with Heenan and Duwan failing to connect on several tries, but Farra narrowed Notre Dame’s lead by cleaning the net with a snap shot from the side. .i* Luna drew his third personal of the game by fouling Host who split even on his duo of free throws. Luna made up for his actions by slipping the leather off the backboard for another goal and Mateo tied the score *-at 17-17 with a push shot from the v side of the court as he raced along f and the ball just barely caught the rim as it flew by. Duwan scored a couple of points after Flores pushed him around the floor, but Mateo gained the tipoff and dribbled through the Notre Dame defense to tie the score again with a beautiful under- ' the-basket goal.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
501
With about 11 minutes of play elapsed, Fai went into the lead for the second time during the fray by virtue of a goal by Flores under the net. Then Donovan and Smith were rushed in to take matters in their own hands and as we told you previously, Busch scored his two foul shots, Crowq, and Gavin their two field goals with Robertes and ' Flores making charity tosses count for points, but their margin had been overcome and Notre Dame walked off the floor with a 29 to 23 win over their opponents from the south.
Parra, Flores, and Luna put up the basket shooting was not quite ac-basketshooting was not quite accurate enough as they should have made a good many more points. ■Rather than attempt to dribble or pass the ball through the Notre Dame inner defense the Mexicans elected to try long shots some of them often missing the backboard entirely.
Kizer for Notre Dame, and Aznar
Pitt Panthers Down Blue and Gold, 33 to 13
The Golden Panthers met the Fighting Irish on one of the latter’s off-nights and what was expected to be the classic court contest of the season
fell far below all expectations. The winners jumped into the lead at the very beginning and were never head-‘ ed thereafter. Pittsburgh coasted along and finished on the heavy end of a 33-13 score last Saturday night in the “Smoky City” gymnasium.
Hyatt was “on” and when this inimitable floorman is that way J the old ball game is just about decided. Too, his mates invariably mark time on such occasions and this makes chances for defeat doubly difficult.
Notre Dame had a bad night and couldn’t seem to click. Time after time shots rolled tantalizingly about the rim only to drift off for no count. These seemingly futile efforts failed to retard their fight, however, for the foul total charged against them speaks convincingly of a vicious aggression.
Soon after the opening tip-off an exchange of passes gave the ball to Hyatt. He passed the ball on a bounce to Arture, who cut fast under the basket for the first field goal of the game. McCarthy then fouled Hyatt, but the latter missed the free throw.
- • Notre Dame gained the ball several times but was unable to pierce the

for Fai were the leading pointgetters, each looping in three field goals apiece. Host was next in line with one and three, and Mateo connected for two goals and one free toss.
NOTRE DAME (29)
	G F P
Heenan, rf	12 0
Host, If	13 1
Kizer, c	3 0 1
McNally, Ig	0 0 0
Johnson, rg	0 0 0
McCarthy, Ig	0 0 2
DuWan. c	12 2
Forsee, If	0 0 0
Gavin, If	10 1
Busch, c	0 2 0
Crowe, rf	2 0 0
Burns, rg	0 2 0
Conley, Ig	0 0 2
Smith, Ig	0 0 0
Donovan rg	0 0 0
Totals
9 11 9
FAL, MEXICO (23) G F P
Flores, rf	112
Mateo, If 2 12
Parra, c 2 0 1
Aznar, Ig 3 0 0
Luna, rg	12 3
Rico, rf 0 0 0
Robertes, If 0 1 0
Paulin, If 0 0 0
Chop’ena, rg 0 0 0
Totals 9 5 S
Referee: Kearns (DePaul) ; umpire, Stahr (South Bend). Score at half—Notre Dame 14 ; Fai, 11. Free throws made—Notre Dame, 11 of 16; Fai, 5 of 13.
Panther defense. Pitt scored again when Kowallis’ teaser was tipped in by Hyatt. McCarthy’s second effort
“Shadow” Gavin
on a double foul brought Notre Dame’s initial score. Hyatt then missed two charity tosses and on the second play, Crowe, who had replaced McCarthy, made a long side field goal to trail Pitt by a four to three score. Zehfuss shortly counted on a pass from Hyatt, after which Notre Dame took time out. ’
From this point onward the winners’ score steadily mounted and a
temporary rout was averted when “Shadow” Gavin tricked the entire Panther team and made two beautiful field goals to reduce the Pitt advantage. With but two minutes of the half remaining, after Gavin’s classy chucks, Pitt took her first time out. “Oonie” Donovan missed a foul thrust as the half ended with Pitt in the lead, 20-9.
Hyatt fouled Smith to open the second half, but the Notre Dame guard’s free effort failed. Cohen then registered a field goal under the hoop. In a bitter struggle for the ball under the backboard, Smith collided with Zehfuss and both suffered cuts over the eye. After receiving attention from the doctors both remained in the game. The third personal foul was called on Kowallis and Crowe made good the free throw. On a block by DeCook, Arture tossed the second of two foul attempts, while Cohen, again on a foul by DeCook, looped his third consecutive charity toss in a row. Up to this period in the second half Notre Dame had been held to a single point.
The Panther defense refused to open and the few Notre Dame shots which were hurled refused to register. Subsequently Captain Hyatt and his mates drew further away from their opponents as the game waned. As the gun sounded the end of the game, the score board displayed a twenty point advantage for the Pittites; a margin which described both the class of the Panthers and the off-stride of Notre Dame.
This 33-13 victory marked the eleventh consecutive win of the season for the Panthers and the seventeenth in a row, Pitt having failed to be on the short end since Notre Dame’s ten-point victory of last year.
The line-up:
PITT .	Pos. NOTRE DAME
Hyatt .................F.......... Newbold
Zehfuss .............F........... McCarthy
L. Cohen ..............C........... DeCook
Arture ...............G............. Smith
W. Kowallis .........G............ Donovan
Substitutions: Pitt — Baker, Wrobleski,
Brown, Lowry, B. Kowallis, M. Cohen. Notre Dame—Gavin for Newbold; Crowe for McCarthy ; Busch for DeCook; Newbold for Gavin; McCarthy for Crowe: O’Connell for Busch.	‘
Field goals—Hyatt 4, Zehfuss 3, L. Cohen 3, Arture 3, S. Kowallis 1, Newbold 1, Gavin 2, Crowe 1.
Foul goals—Pitt, 5 out of 17 ; Notre Dame, 5 out of 9.
Referee—Col Bolster. Umpire—Feezle.
502
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Tartans Take Measure of Notre Dame Five
The Notre Dame Blue and Gold quintet invaded the lair of the Michigan State outfit Wednesday night and were set back to the tune of a 28 to 21 score. It was Michigan State’s game all the way and except for a brief moment at the start of the tilt when Notre Dame held the advantage the Tartans were well in the lead.
Don Grove, a diminutive Tartan forward weighing only 125 pounds, helped get the game under control of his teammates in the first half, looping in several baskets after Notre Dame had the lead during the first minute of play. Grove accumulated a total of six field goals during the contest for the scoring honors of the evening. .
Smith and DeCook gave the up-staters plenty to talk about when they sank four and three goals respectively. Three of Ed. Smith’s were very beautiful shots, made in the last few minutes of play and were from long range. DeCook’s were also of the lengthy variety and he received a big hand from the spectators for his efforts.
The score at the half, 15 to 8, in favor of Michigan State indicates the superiority of the •winners.
By virtue of her win last Wednesday night Michigan State now has 12 victories and Notre Dame 22 in the series of 34 contests played between the two schools.
Michigan State will make its appearance on the local floor the night of February 18, and Notre Dame will undoubtedly be prepared to seek.revenge for the defeat encountered
Wednesday.
NOTRE DAME (21) G F P
Newbold, f 0 2 1
McCarthy, f 0 1 2
DeCook, c 3 0 2
Donovan, g 0 0 0 Smith, g 4 10 Gavin, f 10 2
O’Connell, c 0 1 1
Busch, c 0 0 2
Conley, g 0 0 0
Totals 8 5 10
MICH. STATE (28) G F P
D. Grove, f 6 0 1
R. Grove, f 1 3 2
DenHerder, c 1 2 4
Haga, g 10 1
Scott, g 0 3 2
Haun, c 10 0
Totals 10 S 10
Score at half—Michigan State 15, Notre
Dame 8.
ELDER COPS TWO EVENTS
IN NEW YORK RACES
Jack Elder, the “Flying Rebel,” made his first appearance of the indoor season last Saturday night in the Manhattan College games in New York City. Although not up to his best form, Jack showed his heels to several of the best sprinters in the country in the two races in which he took part.
In the 60-yard dash, Elder chalked up a rather easy victory over the other entrants in 6 5-10 seconds. Daley, of Holy Cross, was second, and Bruder, of New York, was third. In the 75-yard event, however, Jack was pressed to the limit by George Wil-dermuth, the Blue and Grey streak from Georgetown. So close was the finish of this race that the judges were split in their decision. Three of the five checkers, however, said that Elder had won by a margin of two or three inches, and so he made it two straight for the evening. The time ' for the race was 7 4-5 seconds, two-fifths of a second slower than Jack’s world’s record for this distance.
Elder was presented with a gold watch, significant of first place in the two races.
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP
A. M. MYERS, Prop.
Dr. Meanwell’s $5	CM 42
Shoes.......--------
Original Oxfords socks, 25c value 15c
4 Buckle Galoshes.............$2.98
AS

DOUBLE- SOLED Field-Shoes Riveted Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 Boys’ Sizes 2 to 5 ,$2.98

COMPLETE, COURTEOUS SERVICE
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171
The Notre Dame Scholastic
503
Keogan to Coach Varsity Baseball This Season
The rumors as to the identity of the baseball coach to succeed Tommy Mills were given confirmation last Wednesday by the announcement that George E. Keogan, present Notre Dame basketball mentor, would take charge of the 1930 diamond performers.
Coach George E. Keogan
When questioned regarding the appointment, Coach Keogan commented on the lamentable prospects for the baseball season, saying that one could hardly expect anything better than a
BUTLER TRACKSTERS HERE FEB. 1
Notre Dame’s Blue and Gold trackmen will open their 1930 season next Saturday, February 1, against Butler University, of Indianapolis. The meet will be run off in the University gym, and will give the students their first opportunity of seeing what promises to be one of the strongest teams of Notre Dame history in action.
The boys have been working out daily for the past two or three weeks, and are now rounding into form. The Blue and Gold meet last Saturday gave Coach Nicholson a chance to see his men in competition, and the results in most of the events were pleasing to him.
fair team. “Only one of the pitchers, Lefty Lisicki, is eligible to return to action this spring, for Jachym, Rust, and Donohue have all gone away as graduates, and Lisicki did not work regularly last year,” Keogan said.
“Things couldn’t be any worse,” opined Keogan, “we can’t possibly get a strong, game-winning nine built up, working under such a handicap. If we win a few games it will be a miracle, but notwithstanding we ought to win several at least, for if we don’t have pitchers out there we will have ‘throwers’ anyway.”
Regarding baseball practice, Keogan stated, “We are not sure, but the initial summons for inside drill work will probably be made about the second or third week of February.
When the first call for practice is issued, among the ones reporting-, will be Captain Joe Lordi, first-string catcher last year, Joe Palermo, Lisicki, Lefty Moran, and Francis, along with several other promising candidates left from the 1929 squad which was badly depleted by graduation.
Keogan mentioned that the schedule is now in process of revision and that it will be several weeks before any official announcement of it can be made. The spring trip through the South is being carded, and it is expected to open somewhere around the second week of April.
The year 1930 will not be Keo-gan’s first baseball coaching experience at Notre Dame, for he was,in charge of the 1924, ’25, and ’26 outfits, being supplanted by Tommy Mills when the latter came to Notre Dame in.1926.
INTERHALL QUINTETS DISPLAY STRENGTH IN TILTS
Teams in both the lightweight and heavyweight divisions of the interhall basketball league swung into ae
ons, Morrissey, Carroll, and St
tion last Saturday and Sunday with several of the squads displaying marked strength which will aid them as the season progresses and the race tightens.
In the heavyweight division Ly-Badin, Sophomore, Edward’s defeated
Off-Campus, Corby, Brownson, Walsh, Howard, and Freshman respectively. In the other section Off-Campus, Mor-
INTERHALL GAME SCHEDULE -.
(This applies to
both divisions)
SUNDAY.
JAN. 26
9:30-10:30 a.m.
10.:30-ll :30 a. m.
Lyons-Howard Sophomore-Corby Sorin-Corby Off-Campus-Freshman Brownson-Walsh Carroll-Badin
1:302:30-
3:304:30-
2:30 p. m.
3:30 p. m.
4:30 p. m.
5:30 p. m.
St. Edward’s—No game scheduled.
TUESDAY, JAN. 28
Brownson-Sophomore DIorrissey-Freshman Soi in-Badin
WEDNESDAY, Howard-Ofit-Campus Lyons-Walsh St. Edward’s-Corby
7:00- S :00 p.in.
S :00- 9:00 p. m.
9:00-10:00 p. m.
JAN. 29
7:00- 8:00 p. m. 8:00- 9:00 p. m. 9:00-10:00 p. m.
Carroll—No game scheduled.
SUNDAY, Walsh-St. Edward’s Brownson-Sorin Badin-Corby Lyons-Morrissey Off-Campus-Carroll Sophomo re-Fr eshman
FEB. 2
9:30-10:30 a. m.
10:30-11:30 a. m.
1:30-
2:30-
3:30-
2:30 p. m.
3:30 p. m.
4:30 p. m.
5:30 p. m.
Howard—No game scheduled.
rissey, Brownson, Walsh, Howard, and Freshman lost to Lyons, Corby, Badin, Sophomore, Carroll, and St. Edwards.
The 14 to 4 triumph of St. Edward’s over Freshman was the most decisive game in the lightweight class, and the battle between Walsh and Sophomore, in which the latter nosed out the Walsh team, was the most •bitterly contested.
Lyons snowed the Off-Campus squad under in the most one-sided tilt of the heavy division, when the former won by a score of 24-12. Brownson tame from behind in the third quarter to take the lead in the game against Badin, only to relinquish the whip hand again in the last period when the Badin boys hit the hoop from almost mid-floor.
The second round of the interhall play will get under way this week. Following these games, the observer will have a better chance to compare the strength of the various combinations.
Arrangements are being completed for the publication of the complete schedules of practices and games. Players and spectators may watch the pages of the Scholastic for full details. The standings, officials, and other data will be presented.
The men in charge of interhall basketball have requested that spectators viewing the games remain in the stands and leave the players’ benches for those in uniform.
504
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Seeing Is Knowing
Eyes Examined without the use of drops
If needed— we have any style of eyeglass ware
A student knows what he sees. And he knows better what he sees clearly.
Defective vision is always an enormous handicap to learning.
Consult us about your eyes.
LEMONTREE’S
Optometrists
2221^ South Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
A Better Optometric Service.
For the
BEST HAMBURGER SANDWICHES
AND
THE BEST HOME-MADE PIES in South Bend or Mishawaka
STOP AT THE
2x4
LUNCH ROOMS
232 N. Main St.	123 S. Main St.
South Bend	Mishawaka
WE GRIND OUR OWN MEAT DAILY.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR TOASTED BUNS.
Open All Night
GRANADA
--- STARTING SATURDAY----
The Star of “What Price Glory”
—in—
6 This Thing Called Love9
With EDMUND LOWE Constance Bennett --- COMING WEDNESDAY-----
William Boyd in “His First
Command"
With
Dorothy Sebastian
Many scenes from the picture were photographed at Culver.
---STARTING SAT., FEB. 1-
“Hit The Deck”
The Great Stage Hit Featuring
JACK OAKIE
The Notre Dame Scholastic
505
Carroll, 13; Howard, 10	Badin, 18; Browson, 17

INTERHALL PRACTICE
SCHEDULE	
MONDAY, JAN.	27
Varsity	Apparatus Floor	Room Walsh	7:00 p m.	Lyons Howard	8:00 p. m.	Freshman Corby	9 p. m.	Badin THURSDAY, JAN. 30 Off-Campus	7:00 p. m.	St. Edward's Brownson	8:00 p.m.	Carroll Sorin	9:00 p. m.	Sophomore	
INTERHALL BASKETBALL* RESULTS
Saturday and Sunday, Jan. 11-12
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Freshman, 9; St. Edward’s, 17
FRESHMAN (9)			ST. EDWARDS G	(17) F P
	G	F P		
Stecksch’te, f	0	0 0	Kramer, f 0	0 0
O’Neil, f	3	1 0	R. Oelrich. f 2	0 1
Mazur, f	0	0 0	Devolt, f	0	0 1
Waterson, f	0	0 1	F. Oelrich, f 3	1 0
Becvar, c	0	0 1	Carberry, c 0	0 0
Boespflug, c	1	0 1	Igoe, c	1	0 1
Kurth, s	0	0 4	Miller, g	0	0 0
Hughen, g	0	0 0	Hodgins, g 0	0 0
Cavender, g	0	0 0	Dyniewicz, g 1	0 1
Veasley, g	0	0 0	Matousek, g 1 Citro, g	0	0 0 0 0
		—- » - ■ -	1 ’■ “	— 	
Totals	4	1 7	Totals	8	1 4
CARROLL	(13) G F		HOWARD (10)					BROWNSON (17)				BADIN (18)			
			P	G F P				Collins, f	G 0	F P		McDougall,	G f 1	p 0	P 1
										0	0				
Benevino, f	1	0	2	Engelkof’r, f	1	0	2	Furlong, f	0	0	0	Kral, f	0	0	0
Malone, f	0	1	0	Beasley, f	0	0	0	DuBois, I	1	0	1	Boer, f	1	0	0
Smithers, c	1	2	1	Fiske, f	1	0	1	O’Donnell, f	1	2	1	Stack, f	0	0	1
Medland, c	0	0	0	Reese, f	1	0	0	Maher, c	0	0	0	Ziliak ,f	1	0	1
Harrison, g	1	2	1	Leraux, c	1	0	0	Campbell, c	o u	1	0	.Kosky, c	1	0	0
Branshaw, g	1	0	1	Dananan, c	0	0	0	Hawk, g	1	0	0	Fox, c	0	0	1
				Gabrysiak, g	0	0	1	Quenan, g	0	0	0	Dillon, g	0	0	o
				Venables, g	0	0	0	Fayette, g	0	o'	0	Dorshall, g	0	0	0
				Gleason, g	1	0	0	Goldstein, g	0	0	0	McCarthy,	*>	0	1
				Monohan, g	0	0	1	Hayes, g	1	0	0				
				Lazar, g	0	0	1								
				Switzer, g	0	0	0	Totals	7	3	2	Totals	9	0	7
Totals	4	5	5	Totals	5	0	6	Morrissey,				10; Corby, 4			
								MORRISSEY		(10)		CORBY (4		)	
Sophomore, 17; Walsh, 8									G	F	P		G	F	p
SOPHOMORE		(17)		WALSH	(8)			Melchione, f	1	0	1	Taekens, f	i	0	1
								Law, f	1	1	1	Christman,	f 0	0	2
	G	F	P		G	F	P	Groves, f	0	0	0	Snyder, f	0	0	0
Casey, f	0	0	0	Reaume, f	0	0	2	Riedy, f	0	0	0	Bloom, c	0	1	1
Hilzelb’g’r, f	0	0	0	Blommart, f	0	0	2	Swankey, c	0	0	0	Kolski, g	0	1	0
Keeney, f	0	0	2	Meyers, f	2	0	0	Duffy, c	0	0	0	McDonald,	g c	0	1
Conley, f	1	1	0	Spaulding, f	0	0	0	Cavanaugh, <	: 1	0	1	Rudolf, g	0	0	1
Augustine, f	1	1	0	Medland, c	1	1	0	Baldwin, g	0	3	1	Ruppe, g	0	0	0
Guiffre, c	0	0	0	Derby, c	0	1	2	Herwit, g	0	0	0				
Dormon, c	0	0	0	Jane, g	0	0	0	Duffy, g	0	0	1				
Izo, g	4	0	0	Raleigh, g	0	0	2	Chevallier, g	0	0	0				
Rogers, g	0	0	0	Kenneally, g	0	0	4		—	—	—		—	—	—
Conney, g	0	0	0	Scholand, g	0	0	2	Totals		4	5	Totals	1	2	6
Murphy, g Streb, g	0 0	1 0	0 0					Lyons,		24	; Off-Campus,		12		
Shelketski, g	1	O'	2					LYONS	(24)			OFF-CAMPUS		(12)	
			 •				—			G	F	p		G	F	P
Totals	7	3	4	Totals	3	2	14	Palt. f	1	1	i	Hertz, f	1	0	1
Only Vaudeville Theatre Operating in South Bend
Radio-Keith- Orpheum
BLACKSTONE The Magician is Coming Soon
--------STARTING SUNDAY --------
Paul Yocan Dancers
—in—
“DANCES THAT CHARM”
“Tex” McLeod
“COWBOY REVELS”
The Four O’Connors
“COMEDY AS YOU LIKE IT”
----OUR SCREEN ATTRACTION-- “Mexicali Rose” A COLORFUL ROMANCE OF MEXICO With BARBARA STANWYCK—SAM HARDY
----- COMING WEDNESDAY ---
MRS. GEORGE PRIMROSE
Wife of the late George Primrose, famous Minstrel of American Stage, • presents a unique offering
“Spirit of Minstrelsy”
With a Great Cast of Favorites.
----OUR SCREEN ATTRACTION-
Dorothy Mackaill
IN
THE LOVE RACKET”
506
The Notre Dame Scholastic
O’Connor, f	0	0	1	Behan, f	0	0	0	Bisko, f	0	0	0	Coyle, f	0	0	1	Gergon, c	0	1	0	Goulet, g	0	0	0
Smith, f	2	1	1	Duha, f	0	2	1	Cooney, f	0	0	1	Dunlevy, f	1	1	0	Kiraly, g	0	0	0	Karl, g	0	0	0
Dolan, f	3	1	1	Beesley, f	0	0	0	Reidy, c	0	0	1	Roney, f	0	0	0	Smuthw’te, g	0	0	1				
Agnew, c	1	0	3	Behan, f	0	1	1	Hanley, g	0	0	1	Heekin, c	1	1	1	McCarthy, g	0	1	0				
Sheehan, c	0	0	0	Ameling, c	3	1	2	Hickey, g	1	1	0	McKeever, g	0	0	0			—	—			—	—
Callihan, g	3	1	0	Walsh, g	0	0	1					O’Toole, g	0	0	1	Totals	6	2	2	Totals	5	2	3
Hoff, g	0	0	1	Gould, g	0	0	0					Britz, g	0	0	0								
Matthews, g	0	0	0	Ott, g	0	0	1					O’Sh’ghn’y, g	1	0	0					Howard, 7			
O’Brien, g	0	0	0	Meagher, g	0	0	0								 .		Carroll,			10;				
				Nolan, g	o	o	2					Totals											
								Totals	6	1	5		3	2	3	HOWARD	(7)			GARROLL	(10)		
Totals							 •											G	F	p		G	F	P
	10	4	s	Totals	4	4	9	Badin.		. 16:		Brownson, 9				Freitas, f	0	0	i	Galligan, f	0	0	1
																Brady, f	0	0	0	Montgom’y, f	1	0	2
I	-IGHTWEIGHTS							BADIN	(16)			BROWNSON		(9)		Eckert, f Morrison, f	0 1	0 1	0 0	Gandour, f Gelhaus, f	0 0	0 0	0 2
									G	F	P		G	F	P	Baskerville, c	0	1	0	Hopper, f	0	0	2
Lyon	s, 15		; Off-Campus, 12					Nash, f	1	0	4	Hurliby, f	1	2	0	O’Sh’ghn’y, g	1	1	0	Martin, f	0	0	0
LYONS								Ohelemus, f	0	0	0	Thompson, f	0	0	0	Scully, g	0	0	0	Cardewe, c	0	0	0
	(15)			OFF-CAMPUS		(12)		Rohrhach, c	5	0	2	McGill, f	0	0	1	Duffy, g	0	0	1	Maguire, c	1	0	0
	G	F	p		G	F	P	Smith, g	0	1	1	Burtnett, f	0	0	0					Curran, g	1	0	0
Redmond, f	0	0	2	Murray, f	0	0	0	Chamhers, g	1	1	2	Connelly, f	0	0	0					Lusardi, g	1	1	3
Oaks, f	1	1	1	Sowell, f	0	0	0					Ehr, c	0	0	0					Kaskew, g	0	1	1
Moriarty, f	2	0	2	Eicfiler, f	1	2	2					Sullivan, c	0	1	1			—	—			—	—
Brown, f	0	0	0	Watson, f	0	0	0					Duke, g	0	0	0	Totals	2	3	3	Totals	4	2	11
Langdon, c	0	1	1	Fogerty, f	1	1	1					Simmons, g	0	0	0								
Flynn, g Dalton, g	3 0	0 0	1 1	Fox, f Cook, f	0 0	0 0	0 0					Naber, g Regan, g	1 0	2 0	1 0	St. Edward’			s, 14	I; Freshman,		4	
Cashman, g	0	1	2	Rodriquez, c	1	2	3					Beaulaw’r, g	0	0	0	ST. EDWARDS		(14)		FRESHMAN		(4)	
Kaczor’ski, g	: 0	0	1	Bergan, g	0	0	0		— ■		—			— ■			G	F	p		G	F	P
				Cornelia, g	0	0	1	Totals	7	2	9	Totals	2	5	3	Thompson, I	4	0	0	McLeod, f	0	0	0
				Golden, g	0	1	2									' Gorman, f	0	0	0	Sullivan, f	0	0	0
				Locks, g	0	0	0									Kelly, c	0	0	0	Bettz; f	0	0	1
	— .		—			— .		Sophomore,				14; Walsh, 12				Bailey, c	1	0	0	Jaice, f	0	0	0
Totals	6	3	11	Totals	3	6	9	SOPHOMORE		(14)		WALSH	(12)			O’Malley, g	0	0	0	Bointon, f	0	0	0
																Higgins, g	0	0	0	Frieman, c	0	0	0
									G	F	P		G	F	P	O’Shea, g	0	0	0	Higgins, c	1	0	0
Corby,		13;		Morrissey, 8				Tunney, f	2	0	0	Weigand, f	0	0	0	Marra, g	2	0	1	Draper, g	0	0	0
CORBY								Clark, f	1	0	0	Foley, f	1	2	0					Robertson, g	1	0	1
	(13)			MORRISSEY		(8)		Kennedy, f	0	0	0	Reaume, c	2	0	1					English, g	0	0	0
	G	F	p		G	F	P	Guethe, f	2	0	0	Lannon, c	2	0	1				—			—	—
Duke, f	5	0	2	Meyers, f	0	0	0	Waterson, c	1	0	1	Alexander, g	0	0	1	Totals	7	0	1	Totals	2	0	2
t
A TIMELY TEECIAL
For One JVeek Only
We offer our 12 size thin model 17 jewel South Bend Watch cased in a beautiful engraved white finish case at
South Bend Watch Co.
Retail Gift Store
1720 Mishawaka Avenue
Have Your IFatch and Jewelry Repairing Done at the Factory
The Notre Dame Scholastic
507
Golds Beat Blues In Annual Track Competition
The annual indoor Varsity Blue and Gold track meet was held last Saturday afternoon in the University gymnasium. As has been the custom dur-v ing the last few years, the squad was divided into two teams, the Blue and the Gold. This year, the Blue team was under the direction of Coach Nicholson with Johnny O’Brien acting as captain, and the Gold under r Senior Manager Kegowicz, with Joe Quigley as captain. The Gold emerged victorious by a score of 49% to 46%, by virtue of Roy Bailie’s victory over Johnny O’Brien in the finals of the " 65-yard low hurdles, the last event on the program.
Due to the large number of entries in the dashes, and hurdle events, heats were run in each of these classics. In the high hurdles, O’Brien, Bailie, Reimans, and Vaughn were victorious in their respective heats and finished in the same order in the finals.
The 60-yard dash provided the surprise of the day, when Bill McCormick, sophomore sprint star, defeated Ken Boagni by at least two feet in
the remarkable time of 6 2-5 seconds. Away to a perfect start, McCormick did not lose an inch to his rivals in the sixty yard jaunt. Boagni took second, Cummings third, and Crawford, fourth. These four were the winners of their own heats.
Joe Quigley ran the % mile run in 3:54 to defeat Brant Little and Jim Biggins, while McConville stepped the half-mile in 2:04 2-5, very good time for so early in the season.
Darling and Abernathy, both of last year’s frosh squad, tied in the high jump when each cleared 6 feet, 1 inch. Nordy Hoffman won the shot put with 39 feet, 4 inches, about three feet short of his best distance so far this year.
The results:
60-Yard Dash (finals)—Won by McCormick (G); Boagni (B), second; Cummings (B), third. Time :06 2-5.
60-Yard High Hurdles (finals) — Won by O’Brien (B); Bailie (G), second; Reimans (B) and Vaughn
(G), tied for third. Time :07 9-10.
65-Yard Low Hurdles (finals)— Won by Bailie (G); O’Brien (B), second; Acers (B), third. Time -:07 2-5.
% Mile Run—Won by Quigley (G); Little (B), second; Biggins (B), third. Time 3:54.
440-Yard Run — Won by Tuohy (G); Miller (B), second; Bradley (G)T, third. Time :56.
880-Yard Run—Won by McConville (B); Rudd (G), second; Hauss-man (G), third. Time 2:04 2-5.
Two Mile Run—Won by Cavanaugh (G); Connors (G), second; Bauers (B), third. Time 10:23.
Broad Jump—Won by McDonald (B); Rigney (B), second; third place winner disqualified. Distance 21 feet, 4% inches.
High Jump — Darling (B) and Abernathy (G), tied for first. Height 6 feet, 1 inch.
Shot Put—Won- by Hoffman (G) ; Herwit (B), second. Distance 39 feet, 4 inches.
Pole Vault — Won by McAdams (B); Slattery (G), second; Pappas (G), third. Height 10 feet.
Corner Michigan and Colfax
CIGARETTES CIGARS
PIPES TOBACCOS
at Reduced Prices.
—o—
Fountain Luncheonette ’ Candies and Drugs
—o—
Stop in Meyer’s and Wait for Your Car
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
St. Joseph Loan & Trust Company
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
J. M. S. BUILDING
508
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Extra
Fine!
They’re finer than ever this season — colors run riot and as for patterns they are just splendid!
Wilson Brothers
SHIRTS
$2, $2.50, $3.00, $3.50 values
$1.45
Collar attached and neckbands!
Our Modern Maiden speak! Lovely Joan has captivated you many times, now watch her first all talking hit!
JOAN
CRAWFORD
in her
FIRST ALL-TALKING PICTURE .
“UNTAMED”
with
Robt. Montgomery anil
Gwen Lee
Wednesday—Friday
Home of Paramount Pictures fOLFAY TMBATRK
One of the Publix Theatres
The Notre Dame Scholastic
509
Splinters from the Press Box
'.j.—:----------------------------$
Whether it does or not, Jack Elder’s two victories last Saturday night should go down on the books as a really great performance. The Colonel has not run on boards more than a couple of times in his career, and all of his training has been done on either cinder or dirt. When one considers these things, and then that Elder beat Wildermuth, a runner, one might say, practically born and bred on the boards, and acknowledged as one of the greatest board runners to ever perform, well may the Colonel’s performance be listed as great.
Leo Lermond, crack distance runner of the Boston A. A., started his Australian tour off auspiciously by winning the mile-run in an international meet at Sydney in the good time of 4 minutes 26 seconds. But he will have to run fastei’ than that in his later meets to beat some of the Australian track men.
R. J. H. “Bob” Kiphuth, famous coach of the equally famous Yale swimming teams, predicted in a recent lecture that the breast-stroke would be eliminated in swimming meets in the future. He said that the present style used in breast-stroke races was of little or no physical value, and that it had a tendency to make the users of it roundshouldered. He emphasized, however, chat his remarks did not apply to the old style of breast-stroke with its wide-arm action and frog-kick, but only of the short, jerky arm-stroke used today.
Kiphuth should’know what he is talking about, as his Yale swimming teams, in company -with Rutgers,
have for years dominated the swimming world in the East.
Stanislaw Petkiewicz, young Polish law student who holds a victory over the aging Paavo Nurmi, has finally managed to persuade the too solicitous A. A. U. to declare him eligible, and he will make his American debut in a special two-mile race at the Prout Memorial games in Boston tomorrow night.
A. S. “Gus” Blagden, captain of this year’s Yale crew, is the son of A. S. Blagden, who captained the Yale crew in 1901. They seem to go in for this second and third generation business very strongly at New Haven. The Hickok who played end for the Blue this year was the third or fourth of the name to play for Yale; in fact his family is referred to as “the Yale Hickoks.”
When a team places two men to guard a particularly good forward pass receiver in a football game, it usually leaves someone else wide open, and some lesser light may do the damage. Such seems to have been the case last Saturday, when Pitt handed George Keogan’s men the worse shellacing, as the boys say, that a Notre Dame basketball team has received in many years. It was a question of concentrating too much on Hyatt, who was, incidentally, held better than ever before this season, and letting two more of the Panthers go to town. But at that the Keo-ganites were off, even as they were against Ohio State.	.
With track almost upon us, it is perhaps not too early to remind any ■who do not know it, that it has been a long, long time since Notre Dame has beaten Illinois in track. The prospects this year are-the brightest in quite a while, but there is such a
thing as a “jinx” in athletics, a sort of psychological obstacle to be gotten over, and the determining element which decides whether or not it will be surmounted may be the support of - the student body.
N. Y. U.’s mile relay team will have to be considered this season by anyone who hopes to win any major races in the East. Last Saturday at the Brooklyn College Games, the wearers of the Violet turned in the excellent early season time of 3:24 3-5. This would be good in any meet, whether early or late in the season, and speaks well for future performances. Phil Edwards, dusky Captain of the Violet, ran the anchor leg in 49.5 to equal Tom Halperin’s indoor mark for the quarter. All this after he had literally walked away a half hour previous with the Brooklyn College Thousand, one of the classics of the indoor season.
The new hockey rules may have opened the game up considerably, but ' they seem to be doing an injustice to the teams whose personnel is average or somewhat below the average in size. The new rules seem to have given the larger teams the advantage. The Montreal Maroons and the Boston Bruins lead in their respective leagues, and both of these teams boast a personnel that is considerably above the average in size.
WABASH HERE JAN. 31
The Notre Dame Blue and Gold five will meet Wabash College’ on the home floor, January 31, in the first local contest since the tilt with the Mexican Fais last Monday night. Coach Keogan takes his boys to Milwaukee on February 4, for the second of the two-game series with Marquette University. Notre Dame beat the Hilltoppers 44-29 in the initial go.
* ■ 1 ' 1 "
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building
South Bend, Ind. *
- - J
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singier & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates-Bldg.
“ 1
Residence Phone 3-4041 Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
510
The Notre Dame Scholastic
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
Follow the
Basketball Team at home and abroad thru the columns of
THE
NEWS - TIMES
119 North Michigan St.
For week-ends in Chicago take the South Shore Line
Trains leave South Bend every hour on the hour
See Charles Woods in the Bookstore or call 2-5764 for complete information.
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
511
AN OPEN LETTER
Editor’s Note: The following letter was received from Coach John P. Nicholson and we are here reprinting it because of its intrinsic value to Notre Dame sport success.
We must have more men out for track. Come out! We have plenty of uniforms, and if we haven’t we’ll keep the wires hot getting them. ' K. K. Rockne and I are anxious to have as many out for track as we can possibly get. If a student cannot come out for regular afternoon practice let him see me and arrange for hours in the morning or even at night.
Notre Dame has always had her share of track men and very few of them ever* donned a shoe before attending Notre Dame. Had we drawn as many prep stars as we have developed Notre Dame would always have champions.
The parochial high schools, except in the East, have not been giving the attention to track that they have to football, basketball and baseball, and therefore, we here at Notre Dame have fewer experienced men than most schools.
Luckily, however, a track man doesn’t need the experience other athletes require. A year of technique and bodily development and the athlete is ready .to do his stuff the next year, and often makes the grade the first season. Jack Elder never saw a pair of track shoes before coming to Notre Dame. Joe Abbott and Johnny O’Brien were football men in high school, McConville and Joe Quigley never ran before. Thus it goes with the present personnel of the track team.
I am convinced that there are many more track stars at present on the campus, in embryo or partly developed. I know there are a great many men on the campus who have done meritorious work in high school, but because they read of track stars on the team or records of somewhat higher standing than they attained, they think it is no use.
Come out for the track team. There are plenty of awkward men out there now, who will be graceful varsity men soon; plenty of weak boys who will be strong after a while. Come out for the varsity or Freshman teams, or at least join your interhall team when it is organized. And remember, here is one team where experience counts o
not in the coach’s opinion of you. * Track is really democratic. Beat the other fellow -with hands, feet and heart, or matter what your experience, and you get the honors.
For those who have had some experience but feel they have little chance I will here give a list of performances I think are good and which with work should bring an athlete to varsity honors: 100 yards in 10 3-5 seconds; 220 yards, 24 seconds; 440 yards, 56 seconds; half mile, 2:12; one mile, 5 minutes; high hurdles, 18 seconds; low hurdles, 28 seconds; high jump, 5 feet, 5 inches; broad jump, 19 feet, 6 inches; pole vault, 10 feet; 12 pound shotput, 40 feet; discus throw, 95 feet; javelin throw, 135 feet.
If you know any student now in school, capable of, or better than the above marks, make it your duty to get him into a track suit.
J. P. Nicholson, Head Track Coach.
»• r they shall
NOTICE!
On account of examinations the Scholastic will not make its next appearance until Friday, February 7th. The staff is requested to be present at a meeting in the Board of Publications Room, Friday evening, January 31.
Visit the Old World — See Historical Wonders—Travel for Pleasure and Education, in Selected Company, with Congenial Companions . . .
62 Choice Tours
not have our
Pipes!
PIPES and pants are masculine prerogatives that defend themselves and us. Where else could men find sanctuary?
Pipes, stout pipes, and packings of good old Edgeworth—what perfect expression of man’s inviolable right of refuge with other men behind barriers of redolent smoke!
Tobacco with the whiskers on, that’s what man wants—good old seasoned pipe-tobacco, the best of the leaf, all blended and flavored and mellowed . . . Edgeworth, in short.
.You don’t know Edgeworth? Then no time must be lost. Buy Edgeworth or borrow it, or let us send you some.There belowis even a coupon, a free ticket for your first few pipefuls of the genuine.
Send us the coupon and we’ll send you the Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”— 15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
"A TOUR FOR EVERY PURSE"
Ranging from $395 All Expenses Included
All Tours Personally Conducted on
Every Sailing of Popular Cunard Liners . . Limited Groups
See the Passion Play at Oberammergau
Under Auspices of
Catholic ^tubente ®rabel league
551 Fifth Ave., New York Gty
Write for New Illustrated Booklet}
:-----------------------------------*
Edgeworth
SMOKING TOBACCO
-----------------------------------,
LARUS & BRO. CO.	}
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.	।
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try • it in a good pipe.	*
Name____________________________ I
Street g
Town and State__________________ •
Now.let the Edgeworth come! V •
512
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
Two Shredded Wheat Biscuits a day go a long way toward establishing the right
THE SHREDDED
Try them for breakfast with milk or cream. A great food for the mid-night lunch too.
WHEAT COMPANY
| Patronize Scholastic Advertisers! | |a]aaiiaaaaaaaaaiaaiiiaiaaaataaaiiii«iaaaaaiiiiiiaaimaaaaiiiniiiaaaaaaittataaaaaaiiaaaiaiiaiaaiiiiMaaaaaaasaiHiamiiaaaaitiaiiitiiaiiininaaaa E
Al clean cut appearance, broad shoulders, and an active step are the products of exercise and correct eating. The handsomest man in the senior class will have them and they will be the secret of his magnetism.
The Most Handsome Man”
eating routine. They are a part of many a training schedule—they are the mainstay of many a successful business executive.
. . . HARVEY ROCKBURN is five feet five inches, tall . . . and is the smallest defense player in the Nat’l Pro Hockey League . . . stops ’em for Detroit Cougars . . . ’Member SARA-ZEN, not GENE of golf fame, however, but the great thoroughbred racer who won more than §300,000 iit turf prizes . . . now is a saddle horse on the farm of Mrs. Vanderbilt Fair . . . Paul NORDSTROM, quarterback for Midland College, Fremont, (Neb.), this year completed 68 forward passes out of 154 attempts . . . total yardage gained on these amounted to 890 . . .
. . . Then there’s WOOZY, who didn’t enjoy “The Iron Mask” in Washington Hall last Saturday night ... he thought it was going to be a • baseball picture . . . GEORGES CARPENTIER was world’s light-heavy-weight boxing champion in 1921-22. . . . GENE TUNNEY, won the American title in 1922 and lost it to the late HARRY GREB to regain it again in 1923 and hold it until 1925 ... A son of BILL SCHWARTZ, first baseman for Cleveland Injuns years ago, won 22 letters in six sports in high school . . . he’s at Vanderbilt now . . . Chicago . . .SHIRES . . . Windy City ... no wonder . . .
—o—
. . . NICK ALTROCK, Washington Nats coach, was only American League player who batted 1.000 during 1929 season . . . Nick batted once ... in the final inning of the final game . . . and drove out a single . . . Skiing is the Swedish national sport, but ice-yachting, bob-sledding and curling are also popular . . . American women might claim the last mentioned one from all appearances . . . DR. JAMES NAISMITH, invented the game of basketball in 1891 . . . teaching Physical Education now at the University of Kansas . . . shoots baskets yet to keep in physical trim . . .
. . . WINNIE O’CONNOR, is the only jockey who has twice ridden a horse to two victories on the same ❖ day ... he did it on “Sidney Lucas” in 1899 and “Ogden” in 1901 . . . BIFF JONES, ex-coach at Army is not related to HOWARD JONES of Southern California, or TAD JONES, former Yale mentor . . . HOWARD * AND TAD, however, are brothers . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic
513
It’s a man’s drink after all-—
Because hundreds of Notre Dame men have swooped down on Walgreen*s to demolish these justly famous Doubl* Rich Malted Milks........as consistently as they have demolished the best football teams in the country.
And anyone who has seen, heard or read about Notre Dame*s victories, know that Notre Dame graduates MEN!

Wffilll DRUGS WITH A REPUTATION fhw
v.
Where Notre Dame 9s Men are seen and WELCOME!
514
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Eyes of Lovely Women Rest on Well
Groomed Men—
Blue eyes—brown eyes—bright eyes—are all on men, smartly dressed —and know when they are correctly attired. At the Lawyer’s Ball— the banquets; at all formal functions beautiful women cast appraising glances on the sterner sex and, appreciating the significance of correct apparel, admire those men who sense the advantages of following the fashion’s dictates.
/
Correctly tailored Evening Clothes are here at
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Clothes
The Notre Dame Scholastic
515

The Notre Dame Scholastic	517
BOW CRT lllll.E MKSIE 111. PUT RACK MlMMIE S JEWEI S
“As a matter of fact all I wanted was to snitch some of daddy’s OLD GOLDS . . . the smoother and better queen-leaf smoke, not a cough in a carload.”
“No man who smokes OLD GOLDS can be all bad,” stammered the venturesome tot . . .“take the carton, Mr. Burglar mans . . . and go and sin no more.”
FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY.. .NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD
d
518
The Notre Dame Scholastic
*4
5 FOR Now for Spring
;;
II
I
)-

FLORSHEIM SHOES -
This is the time to select your shoe needs for months ahead, at a worth while saving ... all our best styles included
$R.85
a nw
4
ADLER ERCTLERS
g