
Paul Simon 
notre dame concerts 
eholastie 
September 28, 1973 

3 first Prizes: HONDA Super Sp~rts 


50 Second Prizes: · Columbia 10-speed bikes 
· Guess the number of staples 

·.• in the jar. 
The jar. is appro~imately 8¼1' high and 10" in circumference: It's filled with Swingline Tot staples. (Look for the c1u·e about Tot capacity in the 
·coupon.)·. 
· The Tot 50® stapler is un­conditJonally guaranteed. It staples; tacks, mends. Only 98¢* with 1,000 staples at your stationery, variety or college bookstore. · . '· 
Cub® Desk arid Hand 
staplers are only $1.98*. · · And the Super Cub'" sta~ · · pier with no-slip; . 

'. tcl~-Bl 
(You could fiTT between 200I and 300 Tots with the sta­ples in the jar.) 
I I I I I 
no-scratch base, only $2.67*. 
Fill in coupon or send post · card. No purchase required. Entries must be postmarked by Nov. 30, 1973 and .received by ·· Dec. 8, 1973. Final decision by· an independent judging organ­ization. Prizes awarded to en­tries nearest actual count. In · case of tie, a drawing deter-. 
mines winners. Offer subject 
· to all federal, state and local 
laws. Void in Fla. and Wash. 
and wherever prohibited 
· or restricted. 
.•Suggested Retail Price 
:. SWtNGLtNE HONDA 
F


---,1
·, P.O. Box 169 . New York, N.Y.10016 
There are ---staples In the jar, Important: Write your· ¦ 
guess outside lhe envelope, 
lower left hand corner. 

___I 
____,1ate--Zip-1 
Telephone N0---­
1 
·­

SEPTEMBER 28, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Seholastie 


4  the rise and fall of salvatore allende  
8  a sermon on moral leadership  
II  the bicycle boom  
12  a  talk with john macheca  
14  notre dame concerts  1973  
18  rock 'n' roll is here to stay  
21  the art of the pep rally  
24  siddhartha: a  review  
25  coming distractions  
26  the fall concert schedule  
27  the du lac sporting news  
29  lacrosse: as the year begins  
30  the last word  

pat dillon rev. james burtchaell david dreyer paul colgan, jim gresser 
& bob griffin jack wenke thomas & noelle werge jack wenke greg conti rick gering 
tom gora frank coughlin kerry mcnamara 
VOLUME 115, NO. 2 

The opinions expressed in the ScnOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the Scnousnc and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the stndent body. 
Second-class postage paid at Notre'Dame, Ind, 46556. The · magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the ScnoLASTIC is printed at Ave J.laria Press; Notre Dame, Ind, 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from the ScuoLASnc. Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the 8cJ10LASTIC, 
editor: kerry mcnamara / art director: jim purvis / production manager: janet cullen / assistant editors: greg conti, jim gresser, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / sports editor: tom gora / business manager: joe meyer/ circula­tion: frank zaletel / 'faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: paul bolduc, paul colgan, kevin dockrell, betsy dwyer, leo J. mulcahey, pat roach, casey pocius, mary siege!, sally stanton, steve shea, gil zachary, pat sheehan, jean mcquillan, maureen o'brien, eileen o'grady, mark nishan, john whalen, tom busic, jack brown, katy sullivan, sean mclin~en, kathy kelly, tara carey, jorge lopez, jack hangel, tom mcandrews, bob griffin, fred graver, · pat fanning, pat dillon, kevin mccormick; bill murray, frank coughlin, t. j. clinton, mark luppino, john moore I art & photography: mike b_udd, ed earle, nan smith, tom waldoch, john phelan, pat hanifin. 
illustrations: photos o~ 4, 5 court~sy of south bend tribune / photos on 9, 12 . courtesy of the observer / photos on 3, 11, 15 by jim purvis / photos on 3, 
13 by ed earle / photos on -14, 16, 17 courtesy of student union / photos on 
18, 20, 22 by mike budd. . 
copyright @ 1973 scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro~uced without pe;mission
. . . 
Salvatore Allende: 
.The End 

of a Dream 
His corpse lay slumped . over a blood-soaked black velvet sofa. A single round from a silver-plated sub-· machine gun had torn' through the mouth that had once promised "meat pies and good wine for all my com­patriots." As the life and blood seeped out of Dr. Salva­dor Allende, American-made Sherman tanks ·• began blasting away at the outer walls of the Moleda, his 
presidential palace, and government troops began 
rounding up dissidents, executing some on the spot, . herding others, Nixon Administration style, into nearby sports arenas to await their fate. 
With him, Jn the enlarging pools of blood, lay another_ corpse, the corpse of a dream to unite social­ism and democracy without force; to set an example that all men could learn from. 
They carried his lifeless body out shrouded in a . peasant's blanket, and quickly buried him without cere­mony, in a lonely plot in a rural cemetery; his widow the -only one allowed to witness the ·burial of this · martyr and the dream _he died for. 
It·was the first time in forty-six ·years of Chilean his­tory. that the military had overturned a democratically elected civilian government. Chile has become another on the growing list of Latin American countries to fall under military rule. But this was ·no_t--simply another. 


Latin American coup, and Chile was not just another banana republic. Chile had had a long .and proud tradi­tion of democracy ·and political stability. Chile had been the showpiece of this potentially powerful, yet tragedy stricken continent, the land mai:iy called the "sleeping giant." Ever since Dr. Allende came to power in 1970, after three previous attempts, the world has been watch­. ing with great interest his unique attempt to do what no nation had ever done-to move into a· socialist state through apeaceful and constitutional process, and prove .to many skeptics that there was nothing incompatible with Marxism and political freedom. His friend, Fidel Castro (who haq presented Dr. Allende with the gun he used in his suicide as a gift, _and an indication of Castro's feelings on his peaceful revolution) tried vainly to warn him that he was. being too benevolent, and that force was the instrumental tool to any revolution. · 
Ironically, these Chilean military men had refused to participate in official politics. But in the end the final and murderous clash between the two forces ·was ·in~ evitable. It came with lightning speed, striking first in the port city of Valparaiso Wednesday morning, ·the twelfth. The navy gained control of the communications center. At 10 a.m., the chiefs of the army, navy, air force and national police issued an ultimatum-resign within twenty-four hours. Allende refused, and vowed not to leave the palace alive (in his words, "pijamas de maderas," or wooden pajamas). Crowds began gather­ing around the palace as word of the coup leaked out and street fighting broke out. 

What followed reminded many reporters of the Tet offensive in Vietnam in 1968. The military began bomb­ing factories that had become leftist strongholds. One report said more than five hundred were killed in ·6ne factory alone. At about three in the afternoon, it was announced that Allende was dead of his own gun, and that the military was in control. Helicopter gunships battled snipers throughout the day and into the night. Hospitals began filling rapidly, and many were treated to the horror of seeing the dead and dying being piled together, stacked like so many copies of the Manifesto. The stench of.death hung over thEtcity for days, and finally its besieged citizens were allowed out to bury their dead. 
The Moleda lay in ruins, and was prepared for a symbolic demolition. Throughout the week government troops hunted down leftists who had refused to sur­render, and were doing it with a ferocity and ruthless­ness yet unheard of in Latin America. The new junta appeared to be trying to crush the leftists with one, iron-fisted blow, and estimates of death tolls ranged into the thousands. 
The military coup that overthrew the first freely­elected Marxist government in the Western hemisphere also ended the lifelong Quixotic dream of a complex, driven, yet incredibly sensitive man, whose own life symbolized many of the paradoxes of the peaceful revo­lution he tried to lead. As a medical student he had been jailed many times for his political activities, and as Marxist chief of state he had vowed to rescue the millions of Chilean peasants from the exploitation of the ruling wealthy families. Yet he never lost his taste for fine food, fine wines, beautiful women and great art. They called him "El Pije" or the Dandy, after his flair and style. 
Born in Valparaiso in 1908, the son of a wealthy lawyer, he had become active in politics as a medical student at the University of Chile during the dictatorial rule of General Ibanez in 1928. He was jailed repeatedly, but was nevertheless elected president of the Student Federation in 1932, the same year he became a doctor. 
The next year Allende and his fellows founded the Chilean Socialist Party, and as a result of this he was rejected from jobs, and forced to work in the provincial cities for several years. It was here, among the peasants and the poor, that he acquired a sensitivity to their hopeless existence·and despair. In 1937 at the age of twenty-nine, he was elected deputy from Valparaiso, and two years later. became a minister of health in the "Popular Front" government of Pedro Cerda. Also in 1937, he won national recognition for his direction of the relief work done after a disastrous earthquake killed twenty thousand Chileans. 
:.: /·· 
~:-r-~t~, 
,:~ 

He was elected to the Senate in 1945, and began building a power base for his dream to run for the Presidency. He succeeded in his fourth try, in 1970, but received just thirty-six per cent of the popular vote, hardly a mandate for the kind of radical change he dreamed of. As a minority President, with only one­third of the populace supporting him, he already had one strike against him. He had campaigned on the pledge to build a socialist state with a human face, and to set an example for the rest of the world. "I vow," he said, "to be the first President of the first Chilean government that will be authentically democratic, popu­lar, national and truly revolutionary." 
Dreams, said the philosopher, when deferred, do ex­plode. Last week, as he lay dead, his revolution smolder­ing in the ashes of a violent military coup, the peasants cried, and the generals toasted each other. On Tuesday of the following week, the four men who had led the coup, Gen. Jorge Guzman, Vice Admiral Jose Castro, Police Commander Cesar Duran and Gen. Augusto Ugarte attended Mass in Santiago, prayed for "guidance and success in their new capacity." 
Dr. Allende's short but explosive term in office was characterized by many ironies. For all his Marxism, he maintained his exquisite tastes, and often tangoed until the early morning. When a young protege approached with the idea that he move to the slums and become truly a "People's President," he politely refused, and retreated to his villa in the suburbs. 
But Allende was an extraordinary politico. He froze prices in 1970, and granted large wage increases, putting money back in people's pockets, and his popularity soared. He nationalized the copper mines, Chile's biggest industry, and began agrarian reforms on the nation's farms. At the end of the year, however, copper produc­tion fell off badly, as well as produce, and the country's economy began listing. 
Allende then tried -to push his luck, and talked_ of instituting neighborhood judicial tribunals as well as attempting to set up a unicameral parliament, a "People's Assembly." The rich families and upper middle class violently rejected this, and housewives, incensed at the shortage of food and skyrocketing in­flation, took to the streets. The weighted straw came when he attempted to set up a state trucking firm in the. city of Aysen. Chile's truckers rebelled, fearing na­tionalization of their businesses, and walked off their jobs. The truckers, notoriously independent and hard­headed, have always had a low tolerance of people who told them what to do with their money. "This is a battle for the future," one was quoted as saying, "I am fighting so my children won't have to be Marxist. Marxism annuls personality and takes away incentive." 

Officially they were on strike to protest lack of spare parts, but their real goal was to bring down the government they feared would steal their pocketbooks, and "annul their personalities." Despite government threats, the truckers refused to go back to work. Other professional workers, doctors, dentists, and pilots vowed support of the truckers .if the government acted on its threats. 
"I am fighting so my children won't have to be marxist." 

As , commerce ground to a halt, Allende declared a state of emergency and began wholesale arrests, charg­ing many with a Machiavellian plot to bring down his government through strikes. Inflation was rampant, at times as much as three hundred per cent, and Chilean currency was devalued on the world market. Chile's middle class fought back by closing their shops, and bread lines swelled. In the end, Chile was in a state of collapse. To attempt appeasement, Allende shifted his cabinet for the twenty-first time in three years. It did no good. Gasoline was rationed, and prices on govern­ment stores of goods went sky high. 
Again he attempted to adjust his leadership on September third. He included three new officers in his twenty-second cabinet, as well as Carlos Birones, a good friend of former President Eduardo Frei Montalva, leader of the opposition Christian Democrats. However, · 
.the truckers and merchants refused to return to work, and the military, sensing the direction things were go­ing, went with the middle class._ General Carlos Prats Gonzalaz, commander of the army, and doubling as Minister of Defense, resigned under pressure from powerful factions within the armed forces and their wives. Violence flared in many places. Santiago seethed and exploded into rioting and demonstrations. Radicals from both sides called for resignation, which Allende vehemently refused to do. Talk of civil war filled the streets of this nation caught in siege. A mass exodus began and .trains ran painfully slow, jammed with flee­ing Santiagoans and their families. Air transpor.tation was halted by the military. There was no way out or in. Sensing their chance, the military acted with lightning precision and swiftness, and snapped Chile's long his­tory of democracy with one slash of its bloody sword. All communication was cut with the outside world, and. correspondents were ordered to halt all work until further notice. Ties were immediately severed with Castro's Cuba,· and expatriated leftists whom Allende had given refuge to in Chile were notified they were no longer welcome. A shroud of silence fell over Santiago, and the world was stunned. The loudest silence of all came, however, from the United States. It had all along been quite cool to Allende's socialism, and after he nationalized American-owned copper mines ( owned by Anaconda and Kennecott), and refused to pay any com­pensation, U.S. aid was cut back severely. Chile was isolated now, even from sympathetic Soviets. The Nixon Administration refused to comment on the coup, except for saying that it had known of the plot two days prior to its occurrence. Accusations flew, of both CIA and ITT (with its large holdings and political astuteness) conspiracy. The memory of Diem and of the Bay of Pigs was still fresh in many minds. 

Perhaps the greatest tragedy of this violent death of a dream is that many felt that Chile, of all places, did have the capacity to make reforms without violence, and was ready for a more socialist economic frame-· work. There were many injustices, and many of the poorer workers were anxious to end the exploitation that had badly worsened their plight and put most of the wealth into the hands of a very few. What Allende failed to realize was that he did not yet possess a real mandate, and that change had to come slowly. He also failed to enlighten the vast middle class on his reasons, and left them prey to ·the vicious rumors spread by those who had the mo;t to lose-the businessmen and the rich. Opinions polarized-the working middle class who felt they were riext after the rich to meet their doom radicalized and began moving to the right. Fed by fear the workers, the people whose plight Allende dreamed of uplifting, ironically, brought him down. 
Throughout all this, however, Dr. Allende never really lived up to the stereotype of the ruthless dogmatist. He clung faithfully to Chile's constitutional process, and throughout resisted the temptation to let his lofty ends justify any ruthless means to implement his revolution. He felt all along violence would undo any good that he tried to do. 
To say that Chile was not ready to suddenly make a uniquely peaceful transition into socialism would be easy, but there is a larger question. When is any man ready to sacrifice some of what he has obtained, so that the plight of others may be alleviated? Years of not having enough had long since killed any notions of sacrifice, except in the hearts and minds of idealistic students, a few intellectuals, and vast numbers of the poor, who would have tried anything to uplift them­selves. 
It seems quite sad that someone who genuinely wanted to help the disadvantaged could be met with such hostility; but looking back, others come fo mind (including a Galilean), who had similar ideas, and their fate was the same. · 
Dr. Salvatore Allende has left his mark on Chile. He made the poor and exploited realize they were im­portant, and did have a voice. There have been reports that many of his followers, the Marxist ideologues, students, and sympathetic factory workers were arming themselves, organizing, preparing for some sort of vindication, possibly even a countercoup. The military vowed "to blow up every stronghold, every factory, if need be" to rout them out. It appears that Chile is now doomed to a long, agonizing, and at times bloody period of aimlessness, while factions from ·all· sides struggle for the power that all sides want so badly. 
-pat dillon 

"The Moral Task is the Task of All~' A Sermon 
Fellow Scholars of the University, 
Brothers and Sisters in Christ: 
It is time for us to consider our obligation at the University of Notre Dame to offer an education that is more than merely intellectual. 
This has to be a place, of course, where knowledge is sought and shared, and where the intellectual virtues are cultivated which that search requires: honesty, patience, humility, doggedness, clarity, candor. Knowledge, however, is only one of the mind's en­deavors, and if it is the only one that feeds and .. flourishes, it becomes a grotesql,le cancer which will sap the life from the other activities of the intellect that make an organically wise and hearty man. Notre . Dame must, by our avowal, be a place where all the goods of the intellect are honored and offered. What I am most disquieted about today is the depth of our commitment to moral education. 
There are scholars and departments here whose business it is to study ethical values, to explore social justice, to debate political theory, to probe the economic order, and to scrutinize religious beliefs .. _But what I am speaking about is distinguishable from study. It is the ardent advocacy of the moral values we are committed to, and the probing of those commitip.ents: the work of no department, yet of every scholar. 
l . 
Students . who come to this campus should be walk­ing into a crisscross of questions about .the values we live by. Can the American formula for a democratic republic serve the needs of developing nations? Is a 
sexual relationship between a man and a woman right and proper only within marriage? Is organized labor working for the disadvantaged, or against them? Is abortion homicide? How consider one's lifework a service to the world if one must compete for profits? What adjustments is the family going to need when 

Reverend James Burtchaell­

professional and educational opportunities are really made available to wives and mothers? What is honor? Does the development of military weapons preserve the peace or undermine it? These are all moral ques­tions, and they probe at our values. They are not all matters we shall all agree upon. Indeed, by God's grace the Catholic tradition we spring from has not been spared vigorous disagreement and debate in_ its pursuit of truth_, and we can expect a course no less argumentative. But the common pursuit, the readiness to reach, the ability to stand for things-this we have a right to expect of every scholar at the University. 
We are not really forced to this by the students. Their search for interpretation and value is often in­articulate and frustrated. Indeed, our task is often not so much to answer students' questions, as to draw them to ask enough questions so that' the search may get under way. 
Each era has its own needs, and we have seen a profound change of era. When those of use who sit here this morning came to college, students were soaked in a culture, from schools that impregnated them with values, and parents who somehow got across a few things they held precious and were .working for. At Notre Dame this was so true that we may have been little challenged, so lulled were we. by the apparent conformity of students to approved values by the time they arrived. 
This is no longer the case.··Parents and early teachers all too often want younger people to accept values and beliefs which they neither live by nor sacrifice for. Nonchalant homes and slothful schools have not been impressively effective at inculcating either intellectual or moral discipline. As for tradition, some students would not know one if it ran over them. Some students come to the University so value-deprived . that Jhey don't even rightly know what to rebel against. 

The University had tended to be a place where the values brought firmly from one's family, ethnic background, religious training, early schooling, and_ social and economic status· were to be jostled and riled, where unthought and inherited values were shak­en and tested. But often now our raw material is no · longer young people steeped in the Christian tradition. No longer can the major strategy of· our liberal educa­tion take this kind of iron and temper it into steel simply by the process of critical self-examination. The ore is gone, and yet our strategy is slow to change. Now it seems that we have to provide some of the values in the first place. The student now needs_ less to be shaken free of values than to be put together and · guided into some personal and social commitments, even if they be tentative. For in our world, and our country, and our schools there is little vision. Many people do. not believe much, nor have a love to live and die for. 
,. 

If we do take up the task of searching with students for the worth of things, we have to agree about who is to lead the search. Many have been presuming that these were matters best dealt with by the priests in the chapels and in the halls. As a priest who works and lives there, I welcome the charge as do the others of us, but not at the risk of taking it ultimately from the faculty. Students claim moral comment and· moral example from the same persons who lead them in their quest for learning: from you, the teachers. The President must and will continue to give forthright moral leadership. The . campus ministers and the student affairs staff have professional services of their ciwn to offer students. ·But whether men. and women · · graduate from this institution. as adults or as moral troglodytes depends rriore upon you than upon all those.others. We cannot _have chaplains who know noth­ing about scholarship. Neither. can we have sch~lars who have nothing to say about life's goods and their order. If the educators and the educational process of the University are not integrated,_ we shall surely have 
-disintegrated graduates. 
And the moral task is the task of all. Some pro­fessors, particularly if their own branch of scholarship has little direct affinity with value questions, may be tempt~d to consider themselves incompetent to assume the moral task, or exempted from it. Or they may even be resentful to be distracted by it from their aca­demic work. Some even conceal their beliefs as a private affairs which would only bring the objectivity of their studies into question if brought too near them. But if we ac~ept this as a limit upon ourselves as teachers and scholars, we shall put forth students . with disjointed·and feckless minds, bewildered at what to do with all the learning we prize so much, at a loss to integrate heart and m'ind in this mad world. In the matter of values, the silence of ateacher makes a sound. By saying little, we teach that moral matters are not important, or are purely private, or that our own intellectual development is curiously unbalanced. That sort of_attitude is directly related to the shabby public morals one sees in American public life in this year. There is, then, no scholar who enjoys a right to be illiterate in value, in belief, in ethical concern. 
This challenge, peculiarly yours, obliges you as faculty to find better ways for seeking, sharing; and enjoining beliefs and values with our students. Prior to that, perhaps we need to find how to stimulate more of this sort of conversation among ourselves. At lunch or at the library or the laboratory, we do from time ·· to time fall to talkirig of these things, but never with any regularity like that which obliges us to discuss the issues of o_ur respective scholar!)' disciplines. 

Furthermore, we have very few strategies for sharing values with our students, at least none faintly as articulated as is our curriculum and academic pro­gram. It is all so haphazard. Should there not be ways-as systematically elaborated and tended as is the course of study at the University-whereby the senior scholars at Notre Dame will expose, debate, and share their beliefs, values, hopes, and prayers with their younger colleagues? Why must learning be so open and published, while moral convictions and commit­ments are protected as if either improper for public sharing, or unable to support public examination? 
I may be putting this as if it were an easy thing. This is terribly difficult, and terribly delicate. I trouble over it, and hope that what I try to put before you today is also a worry of yours. It is an essential feature of our educational mission, and of our obliga­tion, to help students grow in what they prize, and what they believe, just as we help them grow in what they know, and how they learn. In these matters that tie mind to heart we have no satisfying consensus, not because we wrangle over them too much, but because we wrangle not enough. I put it to you that we have to look to this, and neither consign the task to delegates, nor wave it away as something foreign to our scholarly calling. 
As witnesses to truth, we all seek to dispel the darkness of ignorance, to explain the unexplained, to get to the bottom of things. Is there not another side to witness, though, which brings others into contact with things that are bottomless? As Cardinal Suhard put it: "It has been well said that to be a witness does not mean to spread propaganda, or even to create an impression, but to create a mystery. It means living in such a way that one's life would be inexplicable, if God did not exist." To what extent,. I wonder, do we, the explainers, lead lives that would, in this way, be inexplicable? 

NOW IN PAPERBACK! 
In "his finest book" (Time) 


brings to atriumphant conclusion his account of the teachings of Don Juan 





JOURNEVTO IXTLAN,. 
··' ATOUCHSTONE BOOK • $2.95 PUBLISHED BY SIMON AND SCHUSTER 
Father James T. Burtchaell, Provost of the Univer­sity, delivered this sermon to the faculty at the Mass inaugurating the Academic Year on September 16. 

Th~ Bicyclist's Creed 

As the seventies have dawned and the solutions to the problems of the sixties have started to formulate into constructive change, it is refreshing to see that at least one device of our childhood remains undisturbed and is even being reinforced in the New Consciousness. Emerging more today in America than at any time in _. its history, the bicycle has evolved from a• crude, im­mature plaything to a practical, sophisticated and even intellectual plaything for adults. The millions of Prac­ticing Bicyclists across the country range from week­end escapists searching for an unpolluting alternative and just plain exercise to the pseudocyclists, whose salvation rests in the successful marriage of body to instrument in search of the One Great Hill that has never been conquered. Though sociological statistics are not yet available, it is becoming increasingly clear that riding a bike is now an "in" thing. Although suffering from a fad image, bicycling is now for many a serious religion which may sooner or later become the greatest single faith in the world today. 
As suggested earlier, cycling began in American society as a step in adolescence-that awkward period between childhood and teenage when a paper route and a Sting-Ray with wheelie coasters were status symbols. That value system faded, however, as quickly as it took to get a driver's license. Bike riding was then snubbed as incomparable to the girl-snatching hot rod. But eco­logical awareness in the middle and late sixties brought the bicycle slowly from a simple toy fo a practical al­ternative. Combined with the hippie movement, which laid a strong groundwork for increased youth individ­ualism, and a larger rate of heart disease in the Peop_le of the Establishment,. bicycling was given a perfect at­mosphere for advancement by 1970. Young people were· doing their thing more frequently and variably; older people needed more exercise; traffic was a depressing problem in every largecity. So the bicycling philosophy was born out of the need for enjoyment without techno­logical entrapment and modern problems. Today there are more bicycles bought each year than automobiles. 
More specifically, the philosophy consists of three n:iain principles: a) the bicycle is the purest form of transportation and/or existence; b) the preservation of childhood and innocence is essential and only possible by riding regularly; c) automobiles are abstractions of Nature. There are many who are merely dabbling in the practice because of necessity or casual interest. But the true believer abides a Cyclists' Tract which states the commandments which, among other things, will lead to the great Nirvana if followed closely. They are (not necessarily in order of importance): 
1. 
Thou shalt oil the wheel, thy god. 

2. 
Thou shalt not squeal. 

3. 
Thou shalt honor thy axle and its grease. 

4. 
Love thy derailleur as thyself. 


5. Never trust a semi. (For the naive Easterner tractor trailers.) 
The bicycling faith is truly dynamic in today's times because it draws men and women of all means together for a common good. The social radical, the Wall Street banker, the mailman, the paper boy, and the status quo Middle American are all united as Bike Freaks, pedaling and defying their way through the streets of America. Having ridden from coast to coast myself on a bicycle, I was transformed from a cautious cynic to a zealous believer merely by seeing what my example was doing to the thousands of people I passed. After the usual questions as to my mental stability or any unpleasant experience in childhood, they would stand in awe, facing a miraculous feat of blind courage or whatever, moved to believe for themselves that. the bicycle is a vehicle of salvation which comes only to those who have faith in it. 
At Notre Dame, the number of bicycles, by con­servative estimates, has increased 200% in the last two years. Although it is true that some ride bikes for other than religious reasons, the time is coming when all eyes will be opened to the power of the bike, of the return to childhood, of the independence from the ex­hausting automobile. 
-david dreyer 





A Talk 
with John 

Macheca 
John Macheca graduated from Notre Dame in 1962 with a degree in Latin American Studies. After doing graduate work in Mexico he returned to Washington, D.C., and took a/ position as an Intelligence Research Analyst for the National Security Agency. He had an opportunity to join the Peace Corps but when his wife became pregnant,· they had to give it up. 
"Ask not_ what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country" was the spirit under which he joined JFK's administration. "Things changed under Johnson/' he explained "and that's why I came to Notre Dame." He felt that serving the public good was a deteriorating value. 
To Macheca Notre Dame was separated from this deterioration in values. "Notre Dame produces men with a moral dimension. Not just raw talent but men who could discriminate the moral questions." 
He took the post of Regional Director of Develop­ment in Notre Dame's Chicago office in 1969. He was on "the periphery" of Notre Dame but he said he always made it a point to come back to visit the campus. Usual­ly he stayed in' the dorms when he visited so he could talk to the students. 

It was during one of these visits in the spring of 1970 that Mr. Macheca and I first met. It was the week of Cambodia and Kent State. Notre Dame was striking in protest over the aggressive whims of President Nixon and the National Guard. During one of the many strike activities, I had a discussion with an alumnus who had worked-for Defense Intelligence and quit because of the Vietnam War. We had a long and interesting conversa­tion. It wasn't until the middle of our interview for this article that I realized that Macheca was the same man I had talked to th_ree and a half years ago. 
This continuity of. involvement and concern with the students of Notre Dame over a period of years makes Macheca less of a stranger to Notre Dame than expected. He has been indirectly associated with the Student Affairs office since 1969. This is where he thought he could best contribute to the Notre Dame community in a nonacademic way. 
When Macheca took over this summer, he decided to institute a "new attitude" in the Dean of Students Of~ flee. "We hope to be involved in student life and student activities. You have to know where it's at. You can't educate from an offi_ce in the Main Building." 
Macheca feels that Student Affairs is "a very impor­tant aspect of the total education of an undergraduate" here at· Notre Dame. "I don't want people to feel that the Dean of Students just sits in his office." He "wants to know, to feel, and to be sensitive to what the Univer­sity is doing for student life. We want to be educators as well as administrators." 
A decentralized Student Affairs office is part of this effort. There is more personnel in the office to do the work so that the administrators have more time to get to know the students, the RA's ·and the rectors. To Macheca this represents "the only way to be in better touch with the students and their lives." 
This effort includes visiting the dorms frequently as "a learning experience'' and as a means "to get a feel of the place." ''i have no intention to let people think I don't come out into the real world." By going to the dorms he feels he can serve the rectors and staff in "a more sensitive way." It gives him a chance to communi­cate with the students and to be "more cognizant of the University as a :whole." 
As part of this "new attitude" Macheca said that the Student Affairs office is trying to better articulate their role in the lives of the students. A "new defining of roles in the office and what we could do for the stu­dents" was the purpose of a statement issued to rectors and RA's at· the first of the year. It was "to explain why we're here." This preliminary statement was then given to Fr. Griffin to rewrite in a revised fluid form "to capture what we have to say." 
Macheca uses what he calls a "rehabilitative model" of discipline. This includes "being sensitive to the stu­dent and where he's at." He feels that "everyone needs discipline to cope with the basic weaknesses we all have." 
When questioned about off-campus students' prob­lems he explained that he is "equally concerned with the well-being of students <;m and off campus. I can't limit my concern simply to students on campus ... for then discipline becomes a function of order.)' A function Macheca wants to avoid. 
"We feel that if this community is an educational community seeking truth ... we must be honest." Not adhering to the rules is a "form of dishonesty." Macheca wants his office to act openly and responsively in re-. gard to the rules. The move to create a more realistic rule on the use of alcohol is part of this new honesty. 
The Student Affairs office ·is '.'concerned about the abuse of alcohol" on campus. They want to encourage a more responsible use· of alcohoL "There are right ways and wrong ways to use alcohol in your life," Macheca explained. '.'It is not educational to learn that just because they [ the students] . work hard five days· a week that they can let.it all hang out on the weekends . 
• .1•• Yciu have responsibilities to other people. You don't 
earn the right to go out and blow your mind just be­cause you worked hard.". 
He doesn't want to stop parties; he just wants to stop the abuse in the halls. "It's not the party that is the problem, it's the place. It impacts upon other peo­ple." Macheca said that the dorms were not the appro­priate places for the huge parties people try to have. 
Macheca emphasized that he didn't want to "out­law" parties. They are trying to get away from the legalistic approach to the rules. He preferred to call them guidelines. 
There were two points that Macheca stressed most in our interview. First, that he was seeking justice in the consideration of student problems. The second point was that he was there to serve the student as well as the University. We hope he can do both. 
-pauZ colgan; jim gresser, bob griffin 




Notre Dame Concerts 

Toward the end of a long interview, Senior Rich Donovan, Notre Dame Concert Chairman, leaned back and laughed at the proposition: 
"Do you at any time, in the night for example, see yourself as the next Bill Graham bringing on the Fil­more Midwest?" 
"No, no," Donovan replied, "Hopefully, I'm going to Med· School. The music industry is too risky, too cutthroat. I guess I just like what I do." 
Rich Donovan enjoys his work. Since the Notre Dame Concert is an integral part of campus life, most students reap the benefits of Rich Donovan's efforts. Yet how many have any idea about the individual who spends countless hours booking and producing con­certs? How many, indeed, possess even the slightest intimation concerning · the actual nuts and bolts of concert production? For most of us Rich Donovan is one of those names (hurdy-gurdy man?) who are occasionally quoted for a one-liner in the Observer to say whether ticket sales for an event might be good or bad. Usually, such people are known by the cryptic nature of their one-liners. To say that Donovan is un­selfishly dedicated to getting good concerts is uninter­esting and almost boorish; it is, however, -true. After hearing that no stipend of any amount is accorded·the Notre Dame Concert Chairman I was slightly taken aback. In sympathy, the slightest. twinge of guilt forced the admission that even Scholastic Editors are not completely unrequited for their love. 
Rich Donovan has always been· a serious lover of "pop" or progressive music. As a freshman, he was a programmer for WSND. There are, one might sus­pect, few emoluments of any kind beyond humility, anonymity and the sense of a job well done for the freshman programmer. Nonetheless, having been struck by the lackluster quality of the concerts that year, Rich became interested in concerts as a matter of artistry. "During my freshman year," he said, "the emphasis was all wrong. They had people who weren't what you'd call artists but, more or less, just enter­tainers. Nightclub entertainers, in.: fact.. It's just a matter of emphasis but the balance that should be achieved is a talented mix of art and entertainment." 
So the leap from WSND to working as stagehand was effected. Toward the end of his freshman year, however, Donovan spoke to Don Mooney, then Social Commissioner, and applied ·for the job of Concert Co­ordinator. Rich got the position and worked producing the concerts after Mooney did the booking. Seniors and Juniors will remember that year by the formidable list of productions including The Beach Boys, Cat Stevens, Poco, Liv Taylor, Jethro Tull and Elton John. After Mooney graduated, Donovan was essentially left on his own. He was the only one with any real experience. Hence, Rich performed the double haul, and he still does, of booking and producing the concerts. 
A web of complexity, protocol, correct channels and good fortune lurk behind the lovely veneer of an ap­parently routine operation. When t}:le concert-goer arrives, ticket in hand, anticipation whetted, the stage is already set, the performers are safely stowed and meditating backstage, all one need do .is wait for the 
M.C. to come on and launch the show. There is, how­ever, much that never meets the eye. Concert pro­duction is nothing if not complex. A brief sally down the avenues of concert production might well elucidate a fair share of the operation. 

In planning the upcoming season, Donovan must initially go to the A.C.C. to obtain the available dates. Decent working relations seem to exist between the Student Union and the A.C.C. A certain gentle strain, however, is inevitable in the encounter between stu­dents whose priorities can be generalized as quality before profit and the more business-oriented Convoca­tion authorities who, admittedly or not, would, if forced to the issue, prefer profit over quality. Donovan says, "It could be a lot worse. The A.C.C. are not near as bad as some make them out to be. They are just start­ing to get into rock concerts and they need to get more accustomed to it. But they are getting good. They need, I think, to understand kids a little better. There is a trust though. We do work well together." 
:w.. 

The concerts are cosponsored by the Student Union and the A.C.C. The Convocation authorities put up the money from University accounts, provide the tech­nical equipment and staff, order and operate ticket sales and take care of off-campus publicity. The choice of acts is up to Donovan; there are no real· censures imposed by the A.C.C. as to who is to be booked. 
The evolution of this better working relation can 
· be seen in recent developments in profit sharing. Until last year, the contractual agreement between the Student Union and the A.C.C. called for a split of all net profits. It would, in short, be 50-50 until the Stu­dent Union made $10,000 for the year. When this point was reached, the entire profit went to the University general fund through the A.C.C. 
Since the old contract ran out, a new agreement needed to be signed. Before last season began, Jim Schneid (Student Union Director 1972-73), Joe Pro­chaska, Dr. Ackerman and Rich Donovan came together and drew up a more equitable plan. Much money hung in the balance-money which could be used by the Student Union for its members. Regarding the new plan, Donovan said, "It is basically 50-50 all the way down the line. We share profits and losses. There is no longer a profit ceiling for us at $10,000." This plan was submitted to Fr. Joyce (Vice-President of Business Affairs) and Mr. Plouff (Manager of the A.C.C.) and the matter was accepted with good grace in all quar­ters. 

New Riders of the Purple Sage 
After the list of available dates has been procured, a set of priorities is compiled. This is based upon who is popular, who would sell, who will combine the neces­sary coalescence of artist and entertainer. Even when such factors as popularity are considered, the question of what act to select is no simple divination. Donovan admits that no accurate method exists whereby every­one might be pleased. Oftentimes, he is forced to trust his own intimations. Rich states the problem succinct-. ly: "The problem at N.D. is to please people from such diverse geographical areas and classes. What I try to do is book for what most students want to see." Even with the present uncertainty, let it never be said that technique idles in the Twentieth Century. Donovan suggested that an accurate method for sampling stu­dent mood regarding concert preference is in the works. Professor Appel (Marketing) is designing a study which conceivably would produce an accurate sample of stu­dent opinion. 
When priorities have been established, Rich goes next to the booking agent. There are five to ten major booking agencies in-the country. The Student Union deals primarily with "College Entertainment Associ­ates." In trade talk, they are known as a "middle group." They work, therefore, exclusively with col­leges, serving as intermediates between the college and the many major booking agencies throughout the coun­try. In short, resources are funneled through them and they expand the resources, making the desires and needs of the colleges more universally known. 
With Donovan's list of dates and priorities, "College Entertainment Associates" go out and discover which acts are available, how much money they want and what other circumstances there might be which would pertain to booking a concert at Notre Dame. When Donovan hears from C.E.A. as to who is able to meet our terms, he then authorizes C.E.A. to make an· offer for Notre Dame:·After this, the bands compile a list of offers from all over the country and the group's per­sonal manager sits down with ·the booking agent and they map out a tour. Having agreed to play at Notre Dame, the formality of co~tract signing remains. All in all it is a time-consuming and tedious venture. Rich, for example, is beginning now to contact groups for the second semester. 
l 

With contract signing, the work is hardly begun. l Publicity, promotion posters, Observer and Scholastic reviews must be lined up; equipment must be rented. The sound system, for example, will cost between $750 and $1,000 per concert. Pianos and organs are some­times needed. Food, seemingly an easy commodity to obtain, may become in fact the last-minute run­around when such groups as "Yes" ask for a full com­plement of organic food. Neither are accommodations an easy trip, especially on a football weekend. Up to fifteen rooms might be needed for an act. For the harried Concert Chairman, such business clearly tran­scends a walk on the Primrose Path; the experience must at times be more akin to a slow jog down Lunatic Lane. 

Rick Roberts 

Speculation is always rampant as to why certain "name" groups cannot be signed. "The fact," says Don­ovan, "is money. Certain acts like The Moody Blues, Leon Russell, Faces; The Allman Brothers and Elton John have become so popular that they can afford to play only the largest facilities in the country and at their own convenience." The. presumption, it seems, is that such performers believe that they will sell out every time. Hence, there is more to a concert at stake than merely ticket sales. The group's impact on the surrounding area -i.e., the projection of increased record sales -is also a grave concern. "In this regard," said Donovan with a hint of the. wry, "there is nothing · we can do to make South Bend a major market. Several times I've talked to the Moody Blues' manager -we keep trying to get these people -but the managers say we don't have big enough facilities." 
There are, of . course, many performers of great quality who are not so financially preoccupied. Coming up on the calendar are a few special cases in point: The "New Riders of the Purple Sage-Roger McGuinn" concert is to be presented at special reduced rates; Paul Simon, one of the most important artists in mod­ern music, prefers to play for college crowds as opposed to the great halls or theaters reminiscent of Zeppelin hangars. A very recent and indeed profound develop­ment in this season's concert schedule is the confirma­tion of David Crosby and Graham Nash, formerly of Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young, for a concert in Novem­ber. Professional performers of such eminence guar­antee a concert season of rare quality. · 
No small part of Rich Donovan's success in booking and production comes, oddly enough, from Notre Dame's reputation. The manager of "Yes" has spoken of Notre Dame as "one of the best colleges we've ever played at." The explosion of the N.D. audience at the Chuck Berry concert is the most recent testimony that an audience can make or break a concert. 
So we can look forward to a year of excellent music. Indeed, we are fortunate that Rich Donovan enjoys his work. -· 
-jackwenke 


Roger 


McGuinn 

Rock 'n' roll is here to stay ._ It will never die It was meant to be that way Though I don't know why I don't care what people say Rock 'n! roll is here to stay 
-Danny and the Juniors 


Charlie Brown and -Maybelline Revisited 

It was fitting that the first group on the program was called The Conqueror Worm. And wormy they were. By contrast, the names of the 50's groups had a classic simplicity. Whether reflecting the world of nature (Willows, Moonglows, Drifters), of animals (Crickets, Flamingoes, Penguins), or of inanimate ob­jects (Platters, Diamonds, Coasters), the names were direct and clear. 
Whether the change to more bizarre names -the Byzantine Outhouse, Gross and the Iridescent Adenoids, or whatever -signalled a new consciousness of the Absurdity of Existence (as youth might have it), or a studied pretentiousness (as truth has it), is not the real question. To be sure, one may lament the grotes­querie of Alice Cooper and grow nostalgic over Buddy Holly; prize Marlon's mumblings and heroism in Water­front or rebellion in The Wild Ones (What are you re­belling against?" demands the judge; "I dunno, waddya got?" replies Marlon), and puzzle over the drug-pushing cyclists of Easy Rider or over Marlon's own kinky-chic Tango; or be struck by the contrast between the shriek­ings of acid rock and the soft simplicity of the Moon-glows' lyrics: We go together/Like two straws in a Coke/Why not come over/And you'll meet my folks /Let's go steady/You are my first love-uh-uh-uh-huh­huh-huv). Overly sentimental, perhaps, but only to cretins. Nonetheless, in a week when Willie Mays re­tires, when time disrupts more than two decades of unsurpassed individual greatness, the question of wheth­er such changes are good or bad is less striking than the fact, at once brutal and poignant, of change itself. 

I first saw Chuck Berry -note the simplicity; no confusing that name with Sly Funk or the Jefferson Railroad -in New York in the late 1950's. His per­formance, with Shirley & Lee (Let the Good Times Roll), Bo Diddley, and lesser lights, even managed to assuage momentarily the pain of the Giants deserting the Polo Grounds for the mirage of California. We hanged the Giants' owner in effigy on that lost Septem­ber day in 1957; for if Bobby Thomson's home run (Mays was on deck) in the 1951 playoff was "the shot heard round the world," was not Stoneham uprooting a part of America's own heart? And a plane crash, which in memory also occurred in the late 50's, killed Richie Valens (La Bomba), Buddy Holly, and the Big_ Bopper (it took thirty seconds or so for a maudlin record, elevating the "three stars" to a permanent place on the Big Jukebox in the sky, to appear; mercifully, there was no mention of the Big Bopper outshining the Big Dipper). ,, 
So the 50's were not all bobby sox, C.Y.O. dances (your hand was stamped when you entered, and scruti­nized under ultraviolet light when you returned after slouching outside and Being Cool; Protestants were welcome, but only if they danced to a certain rhythm method), real (as opposed to antiseptic) ballparks, saddle shoes, white bucks·, upturned shirt collars, d.a.'s, ponytails, cinch belts and crinolines, the ring on a chain around the neck to denote going steady, Ike,-and Beats (more profound and literate than Hippies). There were blackboard jungles, troops in Korea and Little Rock (sent by that same Ike to enforce the desegregation orders), payola scandals, Army-McCarthy, and tradi­tional chaos. But the media were not omnipresent, and, more important, there were· no -or few -drugs around. The Stars died. violently on a plane and not on pills. Although Frankie Lyman -of F.L. and the Teenagers, whose Why Do Fools Fall in Love?, along with the Crewcuts' (sic) Sh-Boom and the Penguins' Earthangel, forms a significant early trilogy of classic rock 'n' roll -became hooked on drugs in the late 50's, he died, much too young, in the drug-ridden culture of the. late 60's. In the .relative absence of drugs, if anywhere, was our innocence. 
In those days, and again at th~ ACC, Chuck Berry rocked and wailed over basic emotions: Maybelline's betrayal, Sweet Little Sixteen's desire to grow up (min­iskirts, hotpants and bare feet have replaced in the lyrics the original tight dresses, lipstick and high-heeled shoes), sexual energy in Reelin' 'and Rockin', and sheer celebration and exuberance in Roll Over, Beethoven. Berry's concessions to time and a new generation have been few: his performing is energetic as ever, his mel­
_odies, however frenetic, remain coherent, his lyrics have a narrative strength (the car race in Maybelline), and he desires to be heard rather than be amplified be-· yond intelligibility. In light of the dramatic changes· in popular music. since _the 50's, the opportunistic fey­~ess of Little Rich~rd, the Everly Brothers' bisection (apparently Phil, after twenty years, was getting tired 
.of being known as Don's brother and vice versa), and the campiness of Sha-na-na, Berry's consistency is _amazing. 
SEPTEMBER 28, 1973 
The Coasters share Berry's virtues: a strong beat, simple narratives, energy, and a lack of pretense. Their background in Searchin' was too amplified; but Poison Ivy, Yakkety-Yak, and, of course, Charlie Brown, were very good indeed. The innocence of Charlie's escapades -shooting craps in the gym, throwing spitballs and mocking the English(!) teacher -reflects not so much an ignorance of the seamier aspects of high school in New York in the 50's (after all, Sidney Poitier's high school in Blackboard Jungle makes more recent schools in television and movies seem like Sunnybrook Farm), as a tendency not to sing. about them. It may be argued that such a tendency is escapist; it may also be argued that it is inauthentic to deny that there are moments of adolescence that are tender, romantic, "innocent," and free from social consciousness, and that an excessive "realism," wherever found, is even ·more false than sentimentality. 
There were, of course, no rock 'n' roll ballads in-the concert; to that extent, we revisited one part of the sound rather than several. Chuck Berry and the Coast­ers clearly represent and reflect rock 'n' roll;, so do the ballads. Earthangel, for example, was voted ( don't ask me by whom, but I remember awaiting the results in 1960) the top rock 'n' roll hit of the 50's and it was followed by another ballad (the · Dells' One Summer Night). The absence of ballads last night, of course, was not· a shortcoming. But nostalgia seems to thrive on reminiscences of slower, more gentle moods, even more than on .the "big beat.'' The difficulty was not Berry's, butmemory's. 
"Innocence" in part may consist in the failure to realize how much we owed and owe to those who loved us when we were oblivious to their love, took it for granted, or cast it aside. Perhaps only experience, if that, bludgeons us info the recognition that love is in fact a rare gift, nearly impossible to give in a true spirit or to receive in gratitude. But the soul's strug­gles with the pain by which love and identity are consistently tested, surely were:no different in the 50's than they are now. The 50's had Ike, the 60's assassina­tions; but the inner growing up, private and wrenching, the seeking of some form of durable simplicity in the midst of change, remain constant and recognizable. This continuity may be the source both of Berry's appeal and his consistent popularity -despite the thousand or so one-nighters, in the middle of nowhere, between then and now. He is good; and, after Alice Cooper, where can one go? He has persevered and grown older 
gracefully, without the gimmickry to which the Fading 
Star often turns in desperation. 
If the audience's incredibly zealous response to · Berry clearly indicated that he was the one they had come to see, their response to· the Coasters was also warm. Yet the rapport between audience and per­formers occasioned some disappointment. The refer­ences to drugs were sad -not, perhaps, to the young, but to one who grew up in the 50's. It was obvious but melancholy that a fe.w apparently could not find suffi­cient pleasure in Berry's infectious music without re­sorting to the artificial highs brought about by social pressure that they feel at this kind of event. For a performer to pretend that such devices are chic or even necessary, is depressing as well. It is reasonable to suppose, of course, that the performer's references were simply rhetorical devices meant to ingratiate themselves with a far younger audience. Nonetheless, to have Charlie Brown, the irrepressible but somehow innocuous hood say, "Lay some grass on me" -even if such jargon is not dated, as I suspect it is whenever I am able to understand it -is about as appropriate as it would be to have Dorothy ask for a shot of whisky to help her make it through the Land of Oz. 
But if the rapport between audience and performer is vital, it becomes even more crucial when there is an age difference between them of two decades. The real pathos, then, was not in the attempt to be "hip" (as we used to say), but in the Coasters' explicit denial that the 50's were indeed their home, their point of reference. We came out of the 50's, they insisted, but we are not "for" the 50's. We have been playing all the " 'A' nightclubs" in Las Vegas, Miami, and so on. Now to be "relevant" to an audience need not necessitate pretend­ing to eternal youth, or indicting one's own past. What could it possibly mean not to be "for" an entire decade -and a decade that had been for them a good one? 
Their claim that they had been in,· but were no longer of, the 50's was gratuitous. One understands their not wishing to be museum pieces, stuffed, as it were, with their dusty gold records. But the point Chuck Berry made, of course, and the Coasters did as well, is precisely that good music has a certain integri­ty all its own, and that it does not need the trappings of a later time to ensure its appeal. With the exception of the louder, more elaborately amplified background, the performances were the same as they had been twenty years ago, and they were as well received. 
If the feelings at times were mixed, it was still pleasant to remember, to coast, and to be momentarily berried. The Republic has survived Arthur·Schlesinger, Jr., and it is surviving Watergate. It has endured its elders and its young, its left. and right. Jack Kerouac knew its ever-returning soul better than B. F. Skinner. Faith restored, I'm ready for any innovation. Bring on the Kingston Trio! 

Thomas W erge is an Associate Professor in the Department of English. Along with his position as Chairman of the Committee on Academic Progres;,;;; Mr. Werge is a~o the SCHOLASTIC's Ambassador from the Fifties. • ( 
The Art of A Pep Rally 
A week had passed since. an old friend, bearing a revelation picked up around a bend of booze, had con­fided, "Did you know? Did you know? that no one has ever interviewed a sacred cow?" 
"You're drunk,,. I countered. "Did you know," he co_ntinued, "that no one has ever covered a football rally, either?" 
After chiding such irreverence, I remembered that fools are often more than foolish. I held a brief con­versation· concerning the coverage of the pep rally with the Editor. He reacted with enthusiasm. A com­mitment of sorts had apparently been made. Hence, the concept of · studying the rally preyed on my mind. Suddenly it all seemed basically pretentious. From that point on, .the idea intermittently foundered and re­gaimid life. Then the final uncertainty settled in like the clouds on the afternoon of the night of the rally. In short, if the rally promised to be either too great or too small, too evil or too sublime, then could one do any justice to the event in a few pages? The question of tone was at hand. After having witnessed two suc­cessive, nights of panty raids and having heard from a friend over lunch that an uncertain number of women-attempting a "jock" raid-had been battered by a contingent of men, I had serious misgivings about the socio-sexual-macho-milieu which seems to surround football, especially Notre Dame football. But cynics ·are ·boring and self-defeating; innocents, on the other hand, are generally prudish and lack insight. The answer had to be elsewhere. 
The notion arose that the event might contain its own form and, therefore, the question might con­ceivably contain its own answer. 
· Nonetheless, one needs enthusiasm when digging for gold. The slump of deep depression, settling slowly throughout the week, had completely sagged to bottom when the news arrived that singer Jim Croce, one of the few to achieve any fame from my neighborhood, had entered Buddy Holly Heaven. Thus, a fierce ap­prehension about covering the rally itself had come to­gether with a smouldering depression, leaving as resi­due the unholy intimation that I might arrive at the gold mine and discover I had lost my shovel. The form of the rally might finally prove too impenetrable. 
Outside Stepan Center, before the tribe was per­mitted to enter, the mood was not witchcraft, but _ carnival. I was struck by the difference in sensation between the Dillon Rally of the night before and the Stepan crowd gathered outside in the light .rain. At Dil­lon, the phantasmagoric images of cheerleaders, pro­jected twenty feet high against the wall, and the strange mix of catcalls and battle cries was more like Halloween than pep rally. At Stepan, however, whether it was the lesser ratio of hard-core football fanatics or the large representation of parents and alumnus, there was a decided innocuousness that enveloped the partici­pants. 
After entering the building, like cattle ushered down the trough, the first hint of revelation concern­ing the actual form of the rally was delivered. '.Tribal celebration was more in order than prayerful anticipa­tion because the conclusions are essentially foregone. At an ND rally, there is, of course, no question as to who will win. Any uncertainty is reserved for the more mundane consideration of how much the team will win by. 

The crowd was playful before the rally actually got under way. A foreigner, upon experiencing the sight of so many laughing people, upon seeing the launch of human beings from blankets, not to forget the dancing and singing, indeed, any foreigner who wandered into Stepan with no notion of time would certainly believe we had already won. Psychologically we had. Psycho­logically, the team always wins on Friday night. 
The chaos cohered the instant the Band arrived. The rally was officially begun. The Band contains the po­tential of controlling the crowd at any time. All they need do is strike up the "Fight Song" and even Sid­dhartha himself would have to cease his utterances until the band stopped playing. In short, if the rally is a postgame celebration that is held · pregame, it is es­sential to recall that music is the most profound re­inforcement of the experience. No matter who says what-everyone says the same thing-the Band will christen the verbiage with another round of "The Fight Song." The beauty of this aspect of form is its complete predictability coupled with the sincere spon­taneity of the tribe. 

Since conclusions are foregone, there must be no surprises of any kind. In this regard, the content of the spoken language is essentially irrelevant. Only the affirmative tones and the screaming, emphatic sound of the words are important. One suspects that this is why it is so difficult to remember which speaker has said what. Without a notebook and roster, a scrupulous journalist might be forced to commit the sin of Cre­ative Quotation. 
Consider the question posed by the emcee: 

"Are you psyched?" came the yell from the stage. The question itself is absurd. It would be like asking . a dying hedonist if he'd like another go at one more orgy. The answer returned with a rumble: 
."Yaaaah!" yelled the crowd. More dancing. Cele­bration. And of course the Band was there to let every­one know when to stop. 
The next clue to the rally form was offered by tight end Dave Casper. It was Casper's second opportunity in two nights to speak. The preceding night, at Dillon, the Ghost-as he was then called-was unconsciously on to the rally style. O_ne must be direct, speak in 

short, concise phrases, and tell the crowd what they 
want to hear. Casper squared off before the mike. His 
twenty-foot shadow bobbed and weaved against the 
Dillon wall. Examining his shadow, one could divine 
he was not called the Ghost for nothing. 
"Start yellin'," Dave yelled. The crowd of course responded enthusiastically. But the real p~arl was t~ be offered on Friday night. For Dave Casper showed us the Art of the Redundant Repetition. Casper brought us up to date as to who was "back." Each in­dividual's name was uttered in repetition. "Charley is back. Pete ifback. Lou is back. Bill is back, etc." He ended by saying, "They're all back. They're ready to play." 
In such curious litany, elements of the primitive abound. There is something terribly hypnotic and en­veloping about the repeated phrases that transcend the actual content. While sentences are generally meaning­less insofar as they are unexpected, there are words which never fail to provoke the tribe even when they arrive unexpectedly. "Number One" will always cause an eruption. "Challenge" is no mean word. Even so, we can all thank Mike Townsend for giving still an­other clue as to how deep the primal influences extend. Mike offered the normal line of rhetoric until the con­clusion of the speech. Finally he said, "We're gonna kick plenty of ASS tomorrow." Well. At the sound of "ass" the crowd went wild. Obscenity in public, even the mildest "ass," is always chilling and moving. 
The climax of the night was Ara Parseghian. The crowd, senses awakened, divined when it was almost time for him to speak. "We want Ara. We want Ara," etc., started spontaneously until virtually no way ex­isted for the crowd not to "get" Ara. A disrespectful friend had once stated that there is essentially little difference in emotion between "Ara, Ara," and "Allah, Allah." I remember saying I thought the notion blas­phemous but worth stating nonetheless. No matter 
.what, however, it is clearly the "Era of Ara." After he was introduced and the Band quieted down, Ara pointed out that we were a "noisy group." More noise. Ara had some words to say to the freshmen about the Notre Dame spirit. Since words themselves at rallies carry little truck, it was proven, once again, that the experience would in fact speak for itself. Referring to the gathering before him as the embodiment of the Notre Dame spirit, Ara simply said, "Baby, this is what it is." More and more noise! 
Like the others who had preceded him, Ara saved the best for last. We will remember that the Lack of Surprise and the Art ~f the Redundant Repetition are two essential elements of the rally form. Indeed, it is only the great artist who can break the rules of the craft and still come on with grace and a more pro­found offering. Consummate artist that he is, Ara briefly stunned the audience by saying, "I hear North­western is pretty good." An ugly silence resounded. Gradually, the void was filled with a chorus of boos that began as silence and ended as crescendo. Again he spoke; "I hear they have good backs." Everyone, by now, was ready. Playful, happy boos. "I hear they have a new coach." More boos, only louder. "Good of­fense." Louder still. "Fine defense." The boos were deafening. The Art of the Redundant Repetition had taken hold. And, then, fully expected by all, came the words, "But we're gonna beat 'em." The rally was finally consummated. The crowd was in a frenzy. 
The rally ended when the Band played the "Alma Mater." A few were on their knees. 
"Are you psyched?" 
"Yaaaah!" yelled the crowd. More dancing. Celebration. 

As I. left, I realized my depression had declined. I didn't feel so bad anymore. While walking around campus later that night, I was struck by the conspic­uous absence of the roving mobs of panty raids. The mood at large was actually subdued. Rallies, I sus­pected, have a way of driving off the steam. Rallies, I thought, are more than just emotional outlets. Having attended only three or four other rallies during my years here, I'm not quite sure what constitutes the psychology of the pep rally. Nonetheless, I have distinct impressions concerning each one, making each one meaningful or meaningless depending upon what had happened. I recall, once, falling in love with a girl in my dancing circle. But she was quickly lost in the crowd and probably returned to Toledo, Ohio, on the Sunday bus. That was last year. Now my impressions are less clear and more confused. The rally is a part of Notre Dame, probably here more so than anywhere else. I don't quite know what that might mean. Yet, rallies are very good and very bad, a pure release of spirit and a misdirection of energy. Depending on how you look at it, the pep rally will either be the quintes­sential absurdity or the magnificent ecstasy. It just depends, finally, on how you look at it. 
-jack wenke 

23 

Siddhartha, Everything,, Returns 
With two of Hermann Hesse's nov­els having already sold over two mil­lion copies and with several others well on their way, it was inevitable that someone would make a movie of Siddhartha. What was not in­evitable was that the director who chose to do the adaptation would do a good job of it. Conrad Rooks, who produced as well as directed Sid­dhartha, has done just that. 
Siddhartha, Hesse's. 1922 novel, narrates the allegorical story of a Brahmin of the same name, whose search for the meaning of life takes him through periods of harsh asceti­cism, study with the Buddha, sensual pleasure under the direction of a shapely courtesan, material wealth as a merchant, spiritual breakdown and finally, after a lifelong struggle, the oneness and harmony with him­self that he has been seeking. 
Director Rooks, like all of his col­leagues who have made film versions of literary works, faced a crucial de­cision: whether to stick closely to the simple plot outlined above, or to sublimate. the plot and .create an es­sentially visual, cinematic experi­ence. Rooks, risking a loss of popu­larity among Hesse's avid young fans, chose to do the latter. 
Rooks received some invaluable as­sistance from Sven Nykvist, the man who many experts believe to be the best cinematographer in the busi­ness. Nykvist has photographed more than a dozen films for Ingmar Berg­man and the results of this experi­ence are highly evident in his ex­quisite filming of Siddliartha. Sid­dhartha begins his quest for truth by rejecting the dull routine of his fa­ther's life-style and joining, with his friend Govinda, · a traveling band of sadhus, or holy men. From then on his story is told in a series of visual images and photographic effects which seem unfortunately interrupted by the short philosophical dialogues. Before the conflict with his father Siddhartha and Govinda walk down to the river, shed their clothes, and immerse themselves for their morn­ing bath. At this young age Sid­dhartha is unaware of the mystical significance of the river. It is the river that teaches men the futility of trying to control their destiny with the simple message: "Everything re­turns." Siddhartha realizes the power of this message only after he reaches old age and again we see him, together with Govinda, working as a raftsman on the river. 

Filmed entirely on location in In­dia, Siddhartha benefits from the generosity of a number of special interest groups. The sadhu sequence takes place in jungles along the Ganges River at Rishikesh, the holy city where the Beatles studied medi­tation. Rooks arranged to follow a present-day group of sadhus on their. wanderings for a two-week period. The love scenes between Siddhartha (Shashi Kapoor) and Kamela (Simi Garewal) were filmed in and around the palaces and estates of the Ma­harajah of Bharatpur. 
The film's only shortcoming is its lack of character development. Sfd­dhartha's several changes in con­sciousness are presented too abruptly for easy comprehension by the viewer. It is difficult to identify with Siddhartha's spiritual journey with­out a more in-depth look into his personality. Perhaps a little more verbal · interaction would have been helpful here. 
This lack of character develop­ment is in no way the fault of Shashi Kapoor, who gives a very credible performance as Siddhartha. He is the only Indian actor who has established a reputation outside his native land, having appeared in four international successes including 
The Householder. and Pretty Polly. 
Kapoor joins Simi Garewal in sev­eral beautifully photographed love scenes that manage to be erotic with­out being pornographic. 
Siddhartha is a fine film. Readers . 
who would prefer a strict rendering of Hesse's novel may be disappointed but for those interested in a pleasant visual experience Siddliartha should ·be a welcome alternative to another evening on campus. Siddliartha is now playing at the River Park thea­
ter in South Bend. . 
-greg conti 



coming distractions 
SEPTEl\lBER 28 
. . . Indiana Governor Otis Bowen honors his constitu­
ents with a lecture at Bethel College. ... The cheerleaders honor theirs with the film "Brian's Song" atWashington Hall. 

SEPTEl\lBER 29 
. . . The N.D; .Indiana Assoc. sponsors the film "Bar­
wachi" at 6 :00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. . . . Cinema '74 presents "Red Desert" in the Engineering Auditorium. 

OCTOBER 1 
.... The Shakespeare Film Series continues with "The Taming of the Shrew" in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 and 10 p.m. 
Guy Lombardo performs tonight at the Morris Civic. 

OCTOBER 2 
. . . George Plimpton tells his story at Washington Hall. 
OCTOBER 3 
. ·. . The Music Dept. presents Sue Seid, organist, at Sacred Heart Church, 8 :15 p.m. 

OCTOBER 4 
: . . St. Trinity Episcopal Philharmonic Orchestra of Haiti will perform at Union Auditorium, Goshen Col­lege. ... "An Eighteenth Century Evening" is to be had at Stapleton Lounge, SMC. 
OCTOBER 5 
... "Movie Classics" at Schuyler Colfax Auditorium, South B~nd Public Library. 

OCTOBER 6 
. . . The ACC hosts the New Riders of the Purple Sage and guest Roger McGuinn (Byrds). 

OCTOBER 7 
... Studebaker Drivers' Club Antique Car Display will 
· provide the Studebaker Car Museum its excitement for the semester. . . . The ACC will try to outdo Studebaker with the opening of the Cobra Industries Travel ·Trailer Show, through October 9. 

OCTOBER 9 
... ND/SMC Theater opens "Richard III" at 8:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin. Performances nightly Oct. 9-13. 
OCTOBERlO 
. . . Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series presents Prof. Joseph M. Belth, Professor of Insurance, Graduate School of Business, of Indiana University, Bloomington, in the Library Auditorium at 3 :30 p.m. 


OCTOBER 11 
... IUSB opens "The Trojan Women" through the 13th. ... The CAC shows "Fritz the Cat" in the Engineering Auditorium. OCTOBER 12 . .. Chicago Symphony Trio will perform in the Library Auditorium at 8 :15 p.m. ... The Strauss Vienna Orchestra (Phil Simon Interna­tional Series) plays at the Morris Civic. ... The Blues Festival opens in Stepan Center. 
Dor,. Reitz Ceramics show opens Oct. 6 at the Art Gal­lery, Goshen College, and continues through the 28th. 
Bob Evans opens a show of his New Paintings at South Bend Art Center on Oct. 7. The show will continue through the 28th. 
Photographs by James Raymo continues at South Bend Art Center through Oct. 7. 
O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery continues its show of Italian Renaissance Work from the Permanent Collection 
through Dec. 30. 
A Joint Exhibition of Graphics by Harold Altman and Linda Plotkin, Radecki Art Galleries, continues through Sept. 30. 
O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery's show of 60 Prints from, the 60's will continue through Oct. 18 . 
Paintings by Dr. Susan Chiang will show at YWCA Art Gallery through Oct. 30. 
O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery continues its show of Nine­teenth Century Works from the Permanent Collection 
through Dec. 30. 
French Handbills of the 1890's will continue on show at South Bend Art Center through Sept. 30. 
Experimental Plwtography by Richard Stevens will 
continue at O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery through Oct. 18. 
-rick gering 





notre dame concerts 
' ,~ 
FALL CONCERT SCHEDULE, 1973 
October 5 NEW RIDERS-OF THE PURPLE SAGE (special guest: ROGER McGUINN) 
$4.50, 3.50, 2.50 

October 26 ~RICK ROBERTS FREE 
October 27 ~~CARPENTERS $6.50, 5.50, 3.00 
November 3 PAUL SIMON $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 
middle November DAVID CROSBY & GRAHAM NASH $5.50, 4.50, 3.00 
... other shows will be announced as they are confirmed ... 
*location to be announced 

**sponsored by the Athletic & Convocation Center (all other shows sponsored by Notre Dame Concerts with the ACC.) ­
-

Ever since my freshman year, the football season has engendered The Du Lac dreams, and even expectations of na­tional prominence and dominance. I 

Sporting News
have always hoped that the Fighting 
Irish would finish first in the na­tional polls at least once during my college career. As a senior, my atti­tude has not changed, except, per­haps for absence of the cocky, pre­season certainty that, indeed, "this will be the year." Of my years at ND, 1970 proved to be the most suc­cessful attempt at capturing the na­tional title; only a final, regular season game loss to Southern Cal marred an otherwise perfect record. Since then, we have never even ap­proached the number-two berth ac­corded to us that year by the Asso­ciated Press. 
The following two seasons wit­nessed the Fighting Irish sink to the teens in national ratings, registering the poorest showings in nine years. The disastrous season of 1963 re­versed itself the following year as a new coach, Ara Parseghian, steered the shaken Irish to a brilliant nine and one record, meriting third place in both polls. 
The low ebb of our gridiron strength seemed to evoke miracles from ·Ara ten years ago; one can only hope that Mr. Parseghian can again startle the sports world with that kind of striking recovery. 
After a'sentence like that, I feel 
some of the old assurance returning; 
but then, it always does about this 
time of year. Unfortunately, as far 
as I am concerned, this is our last, 
big chance. 
Apparently ABC-TV still believes 
we are Number One, for, of the an­
nounced games to be nationally tele­
vised, ND leads in exposure with 
three contests -against Purdue, 
Southern Cal, and Air Force-al­
ready scheduled. 

Beginning the season against Northwestern has always been mar­velous for Irish spirits. In the past five season openers against North­western, ND has captured each by at least twenty points. This season's match proved to be a mere continua­tion as the recent change in the Northwestern coaching staff cer­tainly didn't help matters. 
I for one figured that since Johnny Pont had never .worked ·under Ara, he could possibly come up with some original plays. Unfortunately, running up the middle against our youthful but awesome front four is neither original nor healthy. Ends Ross Browner, a freshman playing his first game for Notre Dame, and Jim Stock, together with the damag­ing duo Steve Niehaus and Mike Fanning, repeatedly shifted on the line to effectively fold the Wildcat line in half_ like cardboard. The Northwestern backfield took turns bouncing around inside this trap, or finally came running through the only exit into the waiting linebacker Greg Collins. 

Before the game, Pont stated that he favored a sprint-out, option style quarterbacking. I think our front four proved last Saturday that they also prefer this style of football. 
Optimism and enthusiasm seemed to be the key words emerging from the Purdue camp before the begin­ning of the season. As it turned out, these two terms meant that the Boil­ermakers lost quite a few lettermen last graduation, and have a rather young team that can go either way. After two games this season, they_ seem to be settled in one direction, though not a very promising one. Even though he· escaped to Purdue, poor Alex Agase still has to face his former boss, this year, in our second game of the season. In the past, Purdue's success against the Irish has been only marginally better than the Wildcats'; ND has topped the Boilermakers in their last three meetings. 

As a trivia footnote: the Boiler­makers were so impressed with the 35-14 whitewashing they received last year that they voted three Irish teammates to their "All-Opponent Team"; Frank Pomarico, Eric Penick and Greg Marx. They almost had to face two of the three in this season's contest, but as it is, they will cer­tainly have their hands full with the evasive Eric Penick. 
The Irish seem to be plagued this year with a problem that doesn't much lend itself to national promi­nence. The teams we are scheduled to play haven't been highly con­sidered as tough competitors, and the games· thus far in the season have only proved this too well. In their first outing of the season, Northwestern beat MSU, 14-10, but their showing against the Irish did much to destroy the notion that they were a team of any consequence. MSU came back to beat Syracuse, but only in the last minute, by a 14-8 margin. 
Purdue began its season by shak­ily beating Wisconsin 14-13 but then dropped a sleeper to giant-killer Miami of Ohio, 24-19. And so on. 
It all comes down to one game, as­suming a postseason bowl trip would only be icing on the cake. Four years has been a long time though, and it sure would be nice ..•. 
-tom gora 

The sport legally recognized in Canada as the national pastime is not, as most would think, the tooth­
ND Stickmen 

less game of hockey, but is, instead, lacrosse. Here at Notre •Dame, la­crosse is a club sport beginning its tenth season this spring, right now in the midst of fall practice. 
Under the direction of Coach Rich O'Leary, who also is Director of Club Sports at Notre Dame, the '72 lacrosse squad completed their finest season in the club's history; repeat­ing the 10-1 mark of last year looks to be a difficult task. The stickmen were hard hit by graduation; losing most of the firepower that averaged almost nine tallies a game. Not many students are familiar with lacrosse, much less follow its campus develop­ments. Perhaps a little enthusiasm generated by an understanding of the game would help the ND squad match and, perhaps, surpass last year's mark. 
Historically speaking, the North American Indians were the origina­tors of the game, then called baga­taway. The American historian, art­ist and writer, George Catlin (1796­1872), who traveled extensively in Indian territories, stated that from 800 to 1,000 players sometimes took part in a game. The contests between the tribes often lasted as long as a week. Broken limbs were quite com­mon, and some of the participants were actually killed on the field. Rig­orous training and preparation were prerequisites for these intensively competitive matches, as the games were considered tests of the players' virility. · · 
The first white men to see the game played, French traders, no­ticed, that the sticks of the Indians were bent at the top. The Frenchmen realized that these sticks resembled a bishop's crozier, and from the French word, la crosse, the game re­ceived its present title. 
In about 1840, the game was first played by white men, though it wasn't until 1867 that the National Lacrosse Association of Canada was formed. The game quickly spread into the United States with New York University the first to sponsor collegiate lacrosse, followed by Har­vard and Princeton. •The United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Asso­ciation was formed in 1883, and intercollegiate competition has grown ever since. 
prepare for number ten 


If it is to be played successfully, this quick-reaction game, often called "the fastest game on foot," requires top conditioning, especially from the midfielders, and agile coordination of the stick. Hard, aggressive check­ing, accurate passing, and fancy foot­work in dodging opponents all are needed for the purpose of getting the 5-to 51/4-ounce ball into the six-· foot-square netted cage. 
Co-captains of this year's squad are defensemen George Carberry and Geoff Lyden, who are expected to anchor the Irish defense. Senior Ron Sadowski is the president of the club, which, in addition to the first team, has a "B" squad under the direction of Major Cochran; Coach O'Leary, who in his college days was All-American at Cortland State in New York, has midfield returnees Rich Caron and John Corcoran back to handle ·these most crucial posi­tions. The big question mark on the team is the lack of experience at the attacks. Ron Sadowski has seen limited action in the past, and ju­niors Joe Mears, returning from an injury, and Steve Tarnow, back from a year in Mexico, are relatively in­experienced and untried. The squad members hail from all over the coun­try and the final roster is expected to number between 22 and 24. 
The prospect of lacrosse becoming a varsity sport in the near future is not very good, since Notre Dame, like most colleges throughout the country, is trying to curb its ath­letic spending. Nevertheless, Coach O'Leary feels that the club team has many advantages because of its informality and purely athletic in­terests. 
-frank coughlin 

the last vvord 
The events of the past two weeks evoke ( oddly enough) memories of my senior year in high school. My decision to come to Notre Dame was laced with obscure doubts, made only more disquieting by passing rumors about campus life there. Trite remarks such as "South Bend is great-if you like morgues," which re­curred naggingly, were of not great comfort to a scared 18-year-old. 
I arrived on campus that fall full of vague appre­hensions about a life of semicloistered academics. For­tunately, however, the camaraderie of neighbors and the remaining frenetic energy of the previous spring's confrontations and strike combined to dispel my fears and make me believe that, despite all the factors weigh­ing against it, Notre Dame could have a refreshing and stimulating social atmosphere. 
That very atmosphere has been brought into ques­tion in the past few weeks, and I can't help but be fear­ful of the prospects. 
Despite the claims and hopes expressed (and, I think, firmly believed) by all of tis last year, coeducation has done little, in and of itself, to improve social life at Notre Dame. The idea that the mere presence of women on campus--whatever the ratios-will solve our social problems is as myopic and futile as the idea that suffi­cient government funds can cure poverty. Notre Dame's social malaise has deeper roots, and does not .lend itself to simple solution. 
It is apparent from last week's raids and rallies that the main difference in the social situation this year is that, instead of having a large number of males venting their pent-up frustrations in mass pseudo-orgiastic revelries, we have now equalized things to a point where large numbers of males and females are publicly venting hostilities and frustrations indicative of a very unstable and unhealthy social atmosphere. It is no great episode in the annals of coeducation that the traditional panty raids have now been countered with "jock" raids. 
must take extreme exception with Jerry Lutkus' Observer editorial asserting that traditional panty raids are alright as long as they are not destructive. Panty raids are revelatory of a depressing and perverse social atmosphere, and tradition is a weak argument for per­versity. Furthermore, the idea that such perversity and its concurrent hostility are now coeducational makes them no more palatable. 

The solutions offered so far are no solutions at all. If the social atmosphere at Notre Dame breeds loud, violent, drunken blasts in the halls, then legislating against such parties is like putting a Band-Aid on a broken limb. Instead of counting decibels, we should be asking ourselves why so many parties at Notre Dame are chaotic, destructive, and almost always so unsatisfying in the long run. Our search must not be for effective controls, but for creative outlets. There is a large amount of energy inherent in any and every student-energy which needs to be vented. To set limits to it risks smothering the person. There must be ways to expend this energy creatively, and ways to come together and enjoy each other's company without creat­ing chaos wherever we step. Controlling or limiting social interaction in an attempt to curb destructiveness and chaos in the halls is a severe case of throwing out the baby with the bath. 
Indeed, if I had to choose between a next-door neighbor who blasted his stereo and got drunk daily with his friends and, on the other hand, one who, be­leaguered by rules, sat quietly in his loneliness, I would prefer the former. For though he would be more disruptive and bothersome, he would also in many ways be more human. 
Hopefully, though, this is not a choice we will be forced to make. 
-kerry mcnamara 


LARGE SELECTION OF PHOTO ITEMS 
• 
NIKON • MINOLTA • YASHICA 

• 
BESSLER • KONICA • BRONICA 


• VIVITAR • PETRI • OMEGA 
• BRAUN • METZ 

• COMPLETE DARK ROOM SUPPLIES 
• PHOTO FINISHING 
MAMIYA/SEKOR 1000 DTL o COUNSELING 
~~~ 
WITH 55MM F 1:8 

O FULL SERVICE CAMERA SHOP 
$179.95 

HONEYWELL PENTAX SP 500 Cavalier WITH 55MM F 1:2 
Camera 
$169.95 
SCOTTSDALE MALL 

GIUSEPPE'S RESTAURANT 713 E. LA SALLE AVE. SOUTH BEND 
featuring 
ITALIAN AND AMERICAN FOODS 
also 

PRIVATE PARTY ROOM for 25 TO 250 PEOPLE PHONE: 233-0951 



... . . . .
,

WevegotHang-ups! 
...on our great newFall Fashions. We're J. Riggings, a men's store that knows you know what you want. And we have it. 
Everything from the latest in suits, sportcoats, shirts, sweaters, pants ... t9 belts and higher heeled · boots and shoes; Come in and take a look 
at what we've got· for tdd~y's man. We won't hassle you. Brouse around. Try things on. Maybe you can help us get rid of our hang-ups. 
J.RIGG · 





