WE BRING THE OCEAN TO YOUR TABLE EVERY DAY"
OLIVER HOTEL'S FAMOUS
FRESH SHORE DINNERS
COOKED TO ORDER
(Price of entree denotes price of complete dinner) Choice of Shrimp Cocktail Fruit Supreme Tomato Juice Clam Chowder Soup du Jour Clam Broth
Broiled Live Lobster—Half, 01.10; Whole, 01.85
Fresh Crystal Springs Rainbow Trout, Saute Meuniere, 01.10
Planked Lake Ontario Trout, .90 Planked Lake Superior Whitefish, Doria, 01.00 ’ Broiled King Salmon Steak, .90
Fresh Red Snapper Fried in Butter, .85 Florida Pompano, Saute Meuniere, 01.10 Swordfish Steak Grilled,. Lemon Butter, .90 Fried Soft Shell Crabs, Tartar Sauce, .90 Frog Legs, Fried or Saute, 01.00 Broiled Shad Roe on Toast with Bacon, 01.00
Peas in Butter or String Beans French Fried Potatoes or Parsley Potatoes Salad du Jour Choice of Dessert	Coffee or Tea
HOTEL OLIVER
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
February 17, 1939
No. 16
OSBORNE TO PLAY FOR JUNIOR PROM TONIGHT
Tea Dance, Marquette Game tor Saturday
By Frank Wemhoff
Tonight the brightly decorated Palais Royale will be crowded with 350 couples dancing to the music of Will Osborne’s orchestra at the annual Junior Promenade. Out-of-town -guests, formal attire, and 2:30 “pers” will add to the joyousness of this highlight of the winter social season.
Chairman Jerry Flynn will escort as Prom Queen Miss Kay Tierney, of Rochester, New York. Class president Robert E. Sullivan’s guest is Miss Frances Whittinghill, of Helena, Montana, a student at St. Mary’s College, Leavenworth, Kansas.
President Sullivan “They come from far....
Senior Class in 94th Annual Washington Day Exercises
• '
On February 22 the annual Washington Day program will be held in Washington Hall. Four hundred seniors in cap and gown will be addressed by Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University; and Richard O’Melia, president of the senior class. The commemorative poem will be read by William Donnelly.
The Washington Day oration will be delivered by Frank Fitch of Cherokee, Iowa. Fitch has been prominent as a member of the Wranglers and the varsity debating team. He will speak on “The Freedom of Man as an Individual in the State.”
This is the ninety-fourth Senior class to perpetuate the custom of presenting a flag to the University. The tradition was begun in 1897 when the Rev. Martin Regan, C.S.C., then prefect of discipline, suggested to the senior class that they give a flag to the school as a symbol of patriotism and devotion.
On Saturday afternoon Prom-goers and their guests will attend a tea dance from 2:30 to 5:30 at the Progress Club. Bud Simpson and his orchestra will provide the music. A buffet lunch will be served late in the afternoon.
The Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game will furnish entertainment Saturday evening. A special section of the stands has been reserved for Promenaders.
The usual regulations governing major dances will be.in force over the week-end. Students are permitted to use automobiles, provided they have been registered in the Office of the Prefect of Discipline before 3:00 p.m. today. The time of the Prom is from 9:30 to 1:30. Students must be in their respective places of residence by 2:30 a.m. No one is permitted to leave South Bend without special permission.
Committees :
General Chairman—Jerry Flynn.
Music — Paul Glass, chairman; James Nelson, Douglas Bangert, Joseph Cummings, John Dillon.
Tickets — Albert P. Funk, chairman; William Coleman, Tad Harvey, Paul Lenihan.
Patrons — William Hopkins, chairman; James Aylward, Neil Geary, (Continued on Page 20)
Chairman Flynn .... to the Junior Prow”
iittiiititMiliiMiitiMittiiiiaMtiittiiiiiitaittiMiiiiiutiMifiiattittiita
Forty Hours Devotions Begin Sunday; Father O'Neill Preaches
The annual Forty Hours Devotion services begin with Solemn High Mass celebrated in Sacred Heart Church at 8:30 o’clock Sunday morning. Adoration of. the Blessed Sacrament will be held all day Sunday, Monday and Tuesday — culminating each evening with Benediction at 7 and 7:30 p.m.
The Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., will deliver the sermon each evening. Last Sunday students contributed at the Offertory collections for flowers, a customary practice at Notre Dame.
The Forty Hours Devotion services here are common throughout the Catholic world. The practice originated in 1537 at Milan, Italy. Because of the excesses the last two days before Lent began, Bishops sought a plan to expose the Blessed Sacrament solemnly in the churches for 40 bourse, in memory of the time during which the Sacred Body .of Jesus was in the sepulchre.
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PLACEMENT BUREAU BEGINS JOB HUNT
The Placement Bureau of the Alumni Office this week began its active campaign to find jobs for the graduates of 1939.
Seniors in Arts and Letters and in Science were asked to procure their placement blanks in the Alumni Office. Graduates in Law and Engineering were to receive their blanks through their respective deans. The Commerce Forum, working through a committee appointed by President David Meskill, was to handle the forms for all Commerce seniors.
The Placement Bureau, cooperating with deans and department heads, is
Placer Dooley
“.___to find the proper rut....”
announcing the formation of the Bureau to many industries and other interested organizations and individuals throughout the country. In many cases, it is hoped, the industries will accept the Bureau’s invitation to send representatives to the campus for the purpose of interviewing seniors. Some such representatives already visit the campus each year, but it is anticipated that the present announcement will increase the number materially.
“Seniors who are already reasonably cei-tain either of definite placement or of continuing their education should not fill out placement blanks,” said William R. Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau and assistant alumni secretary. “To do so would be to complicate needlessly the machinery of the Placement Bureau and possibly reduce the job chances of those who are really in need of help.
“I must emphasize the fact,” continued Mr. Dooley, “that we fire just in the beginning of this unified placement work at Notre Dame. We have had so far neither the time nor the facilities to accomplish a great deal.
“Seniors must not, on this account, be too hopeful with regard to employment through the Placement Bureau and they must, obviously, do everything possible to find their own jobs
(Continued on Page 23)
THE W EEK	By Bill Donnelly
He Who Laughs Last....
Those two experienced travelers, Trainer “Scrapiron” Young and Manager Joe Dray, got on the train in Syracuse after the game there the other night, and stood on its steps to watch it pull out. The conductor called out his “All aboard,” and just as the train started moving away, Coach Keogan came running up and began making frantic attempts to get on. But the train was already getting up speed and the conductor refused to let him take the chance. So there, right under the very noses of “Scrap” and Joe who saw the situation in a more humorous light than he did and howled with glee at his futile efforts, the irate court coach ran along next to the train and ranted and raged as it pulled away from him. “Scrap” and Joe were still laughing when they went inside the car and asked the conductor what time the train would arrive at South Bend. “South Bend!” cried the conductor. “Why this train is going to Detroit!”
Meanwhile Coach Keogan was letting off steam on an innocent conductor who was unfortunate enough to be standing near-by on the platform. “What’s the idea of letting that train with the Notre Dame team on it go out five minutes early?” he asked. The conductor looked puzzled for a while, but finally a light dawned and he explained that the Notre Dame team was safe in their own car of a train still standing there on the other side of the platform. Coach Keogan breathed more easily. We take great delight in picturing to ourselves the revengeful laugh he had when “Scrap” and Joe meekly returned to the right section later on at Rochester.
Cupid in Kilts
A fellow we know (you will know why we don’t acknowledge him as “a friend of ours” after you hear the rest of the story) is so Scotch that he filled out five of those Western Union Valentine blanks with the girl’s name and address and his own name and address, checked off the message he wanted in each case, stuck each blank in separate envelopes, and sent them to five different girls each of whom he desires, presumably, to be his valentine. He even left the envelopes unsealed so that he would not have to splurge on three cent stamps.
•
“Hear the Voice of the Bard!”
One of our professors who is always trying to get his name in our column gave out his marks last week (it was well past St. Romauld’s day)
with a quotation for each mark supposedly appropriate to the student to whom it was going. The student who got the highest mark, for instance, had the quotation, “Ah Sunflower!” while one who was close to the margin of defeat had, “Ha ha, Sir Thomas, you do but joke!” One scatterbrained fellow was given “Merry, Merry Sparrow! Under leaves so green!” and one of the boys who hangs out drinking cokes in the caf every night received, “ ‘Good Night,’ said Sipsop. ‘Good Night,’ said the other two.” Then there was one of the playboys of the class who had “How can the bird that is born for joy Sit in a cage and sing?” The others were just as good (or bad— whichever way you want to look at it) but we didn’t have time to collect an exhaustive list.
No one seemed to know where the quotations came from, but the general impression was “Aw, he made ’em up.” But one student with a flare for research (the one who had been callfed “Sunflower”) after a great deal of intensive study came out with the discovery that the quotations were all from the poem's of William Blake, a poet whom the students were supposed to have read during the year.
•
Doodler j	,
There is another professor who has been bothered\the few weeks of this semester by a cartoonist who incessantly draws picturesTluring the class period. But the professor has a trick or two up his sleeve himself. He lets the fellow finish the cartoon and then he says, “If you please, sir, you will pass that up to me at the front of the room now.” He pulled this on the fellow the other day and stood there well-satisfied with himself as the paper came forward from the back of the room. This time, however, there was an unusual tittering that perplexed him somewhat. After practically the whole class had seen it, the paper finally arrived for him at the front of the room. It said, “Ha ha, I fooled you this time, didn’t I?” The professor says he will foool the cartoonist later.
Odds and Ends
We hear of one of the seniors who was filling out an application for a job and put down under military training — “Boy Scouts.” Not only that but he put down as the type of position he would desire—“Office boy on a ship.”.... The football players could get revenge on Will Osborne for those gay caps he presented to them by wearing them to the Junior Prom.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
5
STUDENTS ASSIST AT MASS FOR POPE
COLLEGE PARADE
By Fred E. Sisk
"NAW — I NEVER HIT NO GIRLS," SAYS "?"
Twenty-five hundred students filled Sacred Heart Church on Wednesday morning at 8:15 to pay a final tribute to the “Pope of Peace.”
The Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., celebrated the Mass, assisted by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., deacon, and Rev. Kerndt Healey, C.S.C., sub-deacon. Rev. Francis Wen-
Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C.
•Master of Ceremonies.
ninger, C.S.C., was the master of ceremonies.
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., preached the sermon saying: “Our presence here this morning is evidence of faith, hope, and charity. By faith we know that all men, under the common curse of Adam, must pass before the judgment seat of God. Our hope is in our Divine Savior Who is the Resurrection and the life. In our charity we beg God’s merciful judgment on His Vicar, Pius, who comes knocking at the door of Peter....
“ ‘Pax Christi in Regno Christi,’ ‘The peace of Christ in the reign of Christ,’ he took as his motto as he ascended the throne as the 261st supreme pontiff. He had seen the heart of Pius X broken by the advent of a World war he was unable to prevent. He had seen the warring powers reject the peace terms offered by Benedict XV, and he had seen the heart of that pontiff broken when the world attempted to set up a peace which contained the seeds of war....
“He dealt with the destruction of morals in his encyclicals on Motion Pictures and on the Recitation of the Rosary to Combat Modern Evils. He called the faithful to the higher life in his encyclicals on the Catholic Priesthood, on St. Francis, on St. Augustine, and in the letters and in the letters and sermons which accompanied the many canonizations which took place during his pontificate. He encouraged higher studies in every way possible, and he was the great benefactor of the Catholic University of Milan. Of the Popes named Pius, he may truly be called, Pius the Great.”
In Memoriam
“Pope Pius XI died early today in the midst of a coma brought on by an asthmatic heart onslaught. The 81 year old pontiff passed away at 5:30 a.m., (11:30 p.m., Eastern Standard time).
“The Vatican was plunged into mourning as the word went out that the ‘Pope of peace’ had breathed his last after his four-hour fight for life.”
—Daily Northivestem.
“The death of Pope Pius XI with ‘Peace’ faintly breathed as his last hope for the world and the Church of which he was temporal and spiritual head brought forth expressions of sorrow from many prominent persons in private, religious and public life today.”—Ohio State Lantern.
—o—
“People everywhere are mourning the death of Pope Pius XI, because he stood for one thing above all that men want—peace. He was clear in his affirmation of the spirit of Christianity, and fought with a courage that the world admired to maintain that spirit in a period of darkness.
“A village priest originally, Pius XI was past 50 when the World war broke out to change overnight the placid calm of his youth. He couldn’t take sides in the titanic struggle because so many of his church were participants on both sides; but the testimony is that he was most often found praying on his knees — for peace. From this he emerged a strong upholder of the fight of humanity against war and its accoutrements, the defamation of civilization.
“.... Now the great head of a great church is dead. But his untiring work for the thing he prized most —peace—goes on. A new crusader is needed to carry on the efforts of a leader splendidly dedicated to peace on earth and good will to men.”
—Wisconsin Daily Cardinal
—o—
From Outside the “College Parade”
Former Governor Alfred E. Smith, “... one of the world’s truly great men.”.... Governor Leverett Salton-stall of Massachusetts, “A tremendous loss to the peace and happiness of the entire world.”.... Dr. Stanford, head of Villanova College, “The cause for peace has lost an effective pleader.” .... Postmaster General James A. Farley, “He was respected by men of all political and religious faith.”.... Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, "A true philosopher of Peace—not emotional, but rational.”
Mr. McGowan continues the story of —Neivs Staff challenger for “K ill er” Kell’s Bengal Wrestling Crown....
It took me a half hour to convince ? that the Queensbury Rules were responsible for the change, since they called for only two opponents in a ring at a time. The ? chafed for a while, but his keen sensibility plus his love for the swift exchange of the clenched fist brought him around to the gentlemanly viewpoint, and ? solemnly promised not to tug at the tether agin.
Simply
Won’t Kell be surprised!
When we arrived back at his quarters ? poured a tin of light winter oil on his two windrows of hair. Then ? parted it neat as wax with a bucksaw. I sat lost in wonder at the meticulousness of the ?. '
“Are you a lady’s man, ?” I asked him.
“Naw; I never hit no girls,” Z answered proudly.
Using a split baseball bat for a. toothpick ? sauntered toward the lake to wash, explaining the while that the ice had been only two feet thick the day before and ? had had to stand on shore and wash from there. The ice was still only two feet thick so ? stood on shore again and stomped through the thin surface with his right foot, thus breaking it up into small pieces and flooding the boat house with enough cubes to cool all the .... er, lemonade in Manhattan. This done ? sloshed a bit.
“It’s a good thing I’m only 15, ? announced meditatively. “Because I’d have to wait until summer for hot water to shave with.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OUR DAILY BREAD
Liturgy
The Pope of the Liturgy is not the least of the titles by which the memory of Pius XI will live. In practically every one of his pronouncements he renewed the emphasis of Pius X that the Liturgy is the indispensable source of the true Christian life. Sacrifice and Sacrament are the Liturgy. Not in knowing merely the externals but by active participation of the life of grace do men grow unto the measure of the age of the fullness of Christ. (Ephesians 4. 13.)
The Liturgy of the Lenten Season has a mass proper for each day. This mass may be said except on feasts of major rank. Unless such a feast occurs the Preface is always of Lent. In the Lenten masses the final Postcommunion is the one called The Prayer over the People. The Tract replaces the verse and Alleluia after the Gradual. When the mass is of a feast the Last Gospel is always from the mass of the day, called the ferial. In the liturgical sense the period is a retreat to prepare for Easter.
Mass Calendar: February 19 to 25
Note: V.R. signifies that either a votive or requiem mass may be said.
Sunday 19—Quinquagesima. Semidouble. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday 20—Ferial. Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Faithful Departed. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Tuesday 21—Ferial. Simple. Mass of preceding Sunday. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. V.R.
Wednesday 22—Day of the Ashes. Simple. Mass proper. 2d Prayer St. Peter’s Chair at Antioch. 3d St. Paul. Last Gospel of St. Peter’s Chair at Antioch.
Thursday 23 — St. Peter Damian. Bishop. Confessor. Doctor. Double. Mass: In Medio (Common). Prayer proper. 2d of the ferial. 3d Vigil of St. Matthias, Apostle. 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Tract. Credo. Last Gospel of the ferial. Note: Alternate masses of the ferial or the Vigil with Collects as above.
Friday 2k— St. Matthias. Apostle. Double of the Second Class. 2d Prayer of the ferial. Tract. Credo. Preface of the Apostles. Last Gospel of the ferial.
Saturday 25—Ferial. Simple. Mass proper. 2d Prayer The Saints (A Cunctis). 3d The Living and the Dead (Omnipotens). 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
COMMERCE MEN EYE CHICAGO JUNKET
A foretaste of spring added zest to the Commerce Forum meeting Wednesday night when arrangements were made for the Chicago trip, annually a major event in the club’s calendar. Ray Schleck, vice-president of the Forum, was appointed chairman of the tour and the date was announced for March 16th. Two tentative programs of activity were submitted. Although differing widely in
Chairman Schleck
Directs annual tour.
scope they offer equal educational and entertainment value. A choice will be made between the industrial area or the financial district as the site for inspection.
The trip is open not only to the Forum members but to any student desiring to go. On that day all class cuts are excused for Commerce students making the trip and it is hoped a similar provision will be granted to other participants.
A campus meeting of the Forum was decided upon for next week. This smoker, tentatively set for Tuesday evening, should prove of exceptional interest because of a special motion picture to be offered that evening. It will include a scientific discussion, newsreel and comedy. Place and time for the smoker will be announced by Bulletin.
Of infinitely more value than a particular meeting o r educational tour is the endeavor which the Commerce Forum is making, in collaboration with the Alumni Office, to aid graduating Commerce men procure employment. To this end applications have been distributed in the various senior halls to be filled in by the individual. These applications will be filed in the office and through cooperation of the Alumni organization positions for students will be sought. Any Commerce senior who has not received an application can do so by contacting an officer of the Commerce Forum.
VINCENTIANS
By Richard Leo Fallon, Jr.
South Bend, a factory town, naturally has a great many people who feel a depression such as the one we hope is now over. Before the crash, one plant employed some eighteen thousand men; the number has dropped to seven thousand. The establishment of numerous employment agencies in the City, the Vincentian Service Bureau and others, indiciates that there is a problem.
A few years back when James Foley, a former member, now in a parish conference, was responding to an appeal for help, he was welcomed at one home in town where three boys were responsible for the cooking . . .
“Steaks Tonight”
“Steaks tonight, Jim!”
“Oh, boy, Harry, swell. How’s your mother been?”
“Pretty good. We were out to Sunnyhill Sanatorium yesterday, and she was sure glad to see us looking good. Ma worries about us gettin’ enough to eat, enough of the right stuff, I mean. But Bill and Tom and I aren’t such bad cooks, Jim . . . wouldn’t think we were if you could see the way those kids hustle on their paper routes. I—wait a minute, here they are now. We’ve got a guest, kids.”
“Hy, Jim. Let Tom tell you about his team while I make some coffee.”
Three brothers they were, running a home with the father in prison for petty thievery and the mother away because of tuberculosis. Odd plumbing jobs had kept the father away from drink for awhile, but it finally caught up with him.
“Paper route’s goin’ great, Jim. Three new families joined up today, and maybe I’ll get the bonus this month for the best route. Poor old Harry is havin’ it tough tryin’ to do plumbin’ jobs and cook meals this week.”
Plumber and Cook
“And how’s basketbal 1?” Jim turned to Tom.
“Swell, Jim. We’re leadin’ the Junior High schools. Next week I’ll be pretty busy with cookin’ and the route; hey, maybe you could come down and give me some tips ... or even wash the dishes!”
“Tom’s a wiz, Jim.” This from Harry. “We told Ma all about his playing. She was tickled . . . wants us to keep occupied that way.”
FEBRUARY 17. 1939
MRS. SHEED LOOKS 4T MODERN WORLD
•
Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed, vicepresident of the Sheed & Ward publishing company, described “The World We Are Living In,” in Washington Hall on Thursday evening, Feb. 9. Mrs. Ward had a large audience, and according to the above a large topic.
She began by comparing the present day world with the old Roman world, before the collapse of the empire. “Then as now, there was an increase in urban life, a steady flow of population from the country to the city. Then as now the morals of the city were low. That seems always to happen when population concentrates in one place—and complementary to the concentration of population is a tendency to make pleasure instead of work the design for living.”
Mrs. Sheed then pointed out the work of the Church in taking over when the Emperor fled from Rome to Byzantium as the barbarian horde overwhelmed what is now Italy. “The Catholic Church” she said, “baptized the barbarians and set up a government that considered the influx of new blood a valid and necessary scheme if a more vigorous plane of life was to be reached. Thus was the Pope’s position as a political ruler was unavoidable and not the result of greed as is supposed by some.”
Catholic Action in England and Canada was described by Mrs. Sheed in concluding her lecture, and the work and influence of Dorothy Day’s Catholic Worker were praised. So did she quote Chesterton a great deal— and explained that she was writing a biography of G. K. and found his work as quotable for her topic as any she knew, and far more pertinent.
Coast Guard Lecture
Lieutenant E. K. Rhodes of the United States Coast Guard will speak on “Life in the Coast Guard Seiwice” at 7:45 p.m. Thursday evening in the Cushing Hall auditorium. Lieutenant Rhodes will present sound movies during his lecture.
Qualified students will be encouraged to take the entrance examination for the Coast Guard Academy at New London, Conn. Admission to the Academy is gained only through examination. After four years’ service in a course similar to that given at the Naval Academy, students are commissioned as Ensigns in the U.S.C.G. During peace time, the Coast Guard is under the supervision of the Treasury Department, while during war time the War Department handles its activities.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
By Graham Starr
In the last class elections, Gerald James Flynn, Rochester, N. Y., supported Bob Sullivan for junior class president. Bob won, and today Gerry is a man about the campus—chairman
of tonight’s junior promenade. But that isn’t the only reason.
Also one of the Fighting Irish (and he is Irish—lived four years in Ireland and both parents born there) cheerleaders, he attended all the home games and the New York Evanston, and Georgia Tech frays. First got into the cheerleading game in Aquinas Institute, boys’ prep school, because he could yell louder than anyone else.
Now* he uses his brains too and is on the varsity debating squad, is a member of the Wranglers, and competed in interhall debating.
As a cheerleader he had his picture taken for Life, but the Notre Dame series was not published. One summer, he Avent- into the butter and egg business with a pal. Delivered the produce' for three weeks, and after perfection was achieved, gave up the venture.
Miss Kay Tierney, Rochester, N. Y. queen of the prom, is his guest for tonight in.case he is too busy to give you a knock down.
In H. S. he was valedictorian (post gained on oratorical ability), v.p. of the senior class, president of the dramatics club, business manager of the year book, etc. Majoring in English, he intends to go into creative advertising for which he has some wild ideas.
FATHER MILTNER IN JANUARY "LAWYER
A lucid comment on the basic principles of James Wilson’s philosophy of law by Rev. Chas. C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, features the January issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer which rolled off the presses last week.
Father Miltner clearly shows the close parallel that does obtain between the principles of jurisprudence of Wilson and the Scholastic writers; for the two main principles in Wilson’s philosophy of law are that law is a department of ethics, based on moral principles, and that the foundation of ethics is metaphysics.
“Pan - American and International Law” by Professor William F. Roemer, of the College of Law, emphati-. cally answers those who ask, “Is there any such things as International Law?” “The question,” Professor Roemer explains, “involves the claims of two rival concepts of “law”: one giving primacy to “authority,” the other to “power.”
Perlie P. Fallon, noted law writer, brings to a conclusion his graphic picturization of the “Judicial World of M. Justice Holmes.” In this chapter Fallon discusses and treats of decisions of the “Great Dissenter” anent torts and rights in land.
Student notes are contributed in this issue by William P. Mahoney, Jack Hynes and Edward F. Grogan, Jr. Stewart J. Roche explains a recent decision and book reviews are given by John A. O’Leary, Edward Francis O’Malley, and Prof. James J. Kearney.
Enrollment Shows Drop
According to latest registration statistics issued by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, there are at present 3,040 egistered students for the second semester of the 1938-39 school year.
Slightly below the 1937-38 level of 3,167 students, the present enrollment figures for the various colleges are as follows: Arts and Letters,. 1,005; Science, 284; Engineering, 424; Commerce,' 1,092; Law, 110;
Graduate students, 125.
Call Club Presidents
Calling all club presidents! Calling all club presidents! You are requested to see Kevin O’Gorman, 384 Dillon Hall, before Thursday Feb. 23. On that date the Dome will begin taking pictures of all city and state clubs. The presidents must see O’Gorman for dates and times of pictures. All members of clubs should watch hall bulletin boards for their appointed hours with the photographer.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By Bernard Feeney
Mr. Penrose Describes Coal, Water Softeners, Wells, Razors, Tanks—Even the Power House
Since Notre Dame has been and always will be interested in this country and particularly in the welfare of its citizens, the Campus Radio Studio is bombarding the air waves this week with other stations scattered over the country in celebrating National Defense Week. Annually sponsored by the Reserve Officers Association, it is a reminder to the Nation that our defense must not be neglected. While naturally favoring peace, this organization believes in adequate preparedness in the event of war.
Local plans, as announced by Walt Hagen who has been placed in charge, call for programs tonight and tomorrow night. Major Riordan and Lieutenant Brown, both of the Faculty and also of the Reserve Officers Association, were scheduled for talks. It was likewise hoped that Prof. Pat Manion could be obtained for a talk.
War Material
With the present generation of college men considered as probable material for the next war and with war likely at any time in the near future, there is no doubt that we should be interested in this important topic. Consequently, we hope you will listen-in regardless of whether you agree or disagree with the Association viewpoint. Discussion often promotes good sound plans and certainly these are needed on such an important matter.
New Fred Allen Contract
Fred Allen has been asked formally for his signature again! His new contract keeps him oh that Wednesday night spot at 9 o’clock over the NBC network until the end of June, 1941. When this new agreement terminates he will have rounded out nine years of broadcasting.
The Federal Communications Commission has reported that 47 broadcasting stations were authorized in the last fiscal year. This was slightly more than one-third of the new stations for which applications were filed. That made the total 747, but by Dec. 1, 1938 this had increased to 763!
Campus Radio Log
Mon. 7:4 5—Faculty Talk, WFAM.
Tue. 7:00—Men of Yesterday — Ed Heinz, WFAM.
Wed. 9:00—Periscope—Ed O'Connor, WSBT.
Thur. 9:3 0—Music Appreciation— Music Department, WSBT.
Fri. 7:30—Academy of Politics Forum, WFAM.
Things I Never Knew ’Till Now About the Power House:
That the Power House is not a power house, but is a combination pumping station and power house.
That besides furnishing all the heat used on the campus, it supplies the water also.
That it obtains the drinking and cooking water from two wells; one is behind the laundry and the other is by the dining halls. (The next time that you get sore at the laundry manager or the cook who makes the “Mystery Balls,” you will know where a handy receptacle is.)
That by 1926, when the building program got started, the campus de-
r- ■ . '	■ ■	•	-1
The Power House Badin Bog would help.
manded so much water St. Joseph’s lake dropped five feet.
That because of this it was necessary to install a pump behind Moreau Seminary to keep up the level of the lake. (If there was an efficient drainage system in operation during the spring, to drain Badin Bog, that pump would get some well needed rest and the hip boot-dealers of South Bend would go out of business.)
That a water softener is employed to soften the water that is used domestically. This is a point that the University fails to capitalize on like a certain electric razor company has. Imagine, that certain section of a baby’s anatomy with the caption, “How Notre Dame water leaves your boy’s skin.”
That New Jersey sand is one of the important factors in softening the water. (The only useful thing from New Jersey to reach Notre Dame, students included.)
Use Less Soap
- That this softening cuts down the use of soap by at least 50 per cent. (Quotes from McGutsky, “No wonder they don’t itemize our bill. Take it from me, the soap is included somewhere.”)
That there is one big tank in which all the hot water used on the campus is heated.
That the power house unit has four boilers, two of which are kept going simultaneously for a period of three months. Then the other two take over. And to think that we are worked for 35 weeks without a real let up. Ah, this machine age.
That each boiler is a unit in itself, having its own stoker drive, automatic dampers, and coal feed. What a spot for a student or WPA worker.
That the present power house was started the day after Labor Day in 1931 and was completely finished the following May.
That 52 buildings are heated from this plant.
That there is room to store 1,500 tons of coal outside and 460 tons inside the building.
That all the coal is mechanically handled. A drag scrupper brings the coal inside to an endless chain conveyor that scoops it up and carries it to the coal feeding bunker in the top of the building.
That the conveyor can handle about 50 tons an hour.
That when enough coal is brought (Continued oh Page 20)
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
9
MUSIC NOTES
By William Mooney
Tristan and Isolde Richard Wagner
The Cast
Isolde ...............—Kirsten	Flagstad
Tristan .............. Lauritz	Melchior
King Mark ................Emanuel Lisz
Brangaene .............. Karin	Branzell
Kurvenal ............  .Hebert	Janssen
Milot.............._.......Arnold Gabor
Sheperd .................. Erich	Witte
Steersman ...............Louis	d’Angelo
Conductor—Artur Bodansky
Those who listen to the opera tomorrow will hear music of the most profound depth and richness. The title roles will be sung by the two greatest Wagnerian ' interpreters in the world, Kirsten Flagstad and Lauritz Melchior.
We know Wagner to be a great dramatist, but we know him to be an even greater musician. If you find it difficult to follow the action, we suggest that you simply sit back and enjoy the music. “The tragedy comes about not because of what happens to the ill-fated pair, but because of what they are; ‘Tristan and Isolde’ is a drama of spiritual states, not of outward actions.”
Based on Celtic Legends
The drama is based on old Celtic legends in which the love potion device was often used. These original poems were crude, and their characters were often rough and immoral. However, it must be noted at the outset that Wagner’s Tristan is a man of honor. We are not sure that Isolde ever actually marries King Mark and the indications are that she does not. To save his honor Tristan is at all times ready to die. “There could be no more grievous misunderstanding of the opera than to suppose it to be a magnificent musical glorification of illicit love.”
In the. presentation of his plot Wagner is not always clear. The famous “look” which passes between Isolde and Tristan in Act I is variously interpreted. What was it in that glance which caused Isolde to drop the sword as she was about to stab Tristan? Some writers hold that Isolde has read in Tristan’s eyes an unconfessed love for her, others that she loves him also, but as yet is unaware of it herself. We can be certain, however, that from this “look” the drama as it is today takes its origin.
The music, considered by most critics the finest ever written by Wagner, perfectly describes the characters and the action.
Tristan Slays Morold
Before you can understand the story you must know the events which
lead up to the opening scene. In a war between Cornwall and Ireland Tristan slays Morold who is be-throthed to Isolde. In Morold’s body is found a splinter of the killer’s sword. Tristan has been badly wounded in the battle and Isolde nurses him. At this point it is discovered that the splinter fits Tristan’s sword, and Isolde raises the weapon to kill him.
But a look, to which I have referred, passes between them, and she drops the sword. He departs but soon returns commanded by his uncle, King Mark of Cornwall, to bring back to him Isolde as a bride. The opening scene shows Tristan and Isolde aboard the ship.
Isolde loves Tristan, but he, having sworn faith to his uncle, never looks at her, and she, angry that he woos her for another instead of for himself, attempts to poison him. But Brangaene, attendant of Isolde, secretly replaces the poison with a love potion. As the act ends the two are inevitably joined in passionate love.
* Milot Stabs Tristan
In the second act Tristan, whose honor has been deadened by the lovephiltre, meets Isolde secretly while King Mark and Milot, who is jealous of Tristan and who suspects his love for Isolde, are hunting. Brangaene keeps watch for the lovers, but the odious Milot betrays them and they are found by the good old King, who returns earlier than he had intended from the hunt. Milot stabs the unresisting Tristan. The love scenes of this act are accompanied by music of the fiercest intensity.
In the third act Tristan is in Brittany grievously wounded and attend- ‘ ed by his faithful servant, Kurvenal. In his delirium Tristan raves about a ship that will bring Isolde to his side. When at last the ship comes in sight, Tristan revives and sends Kurvenal away. Tristan’s impatience gets the better of him; he rises from his couch, tears away the bandages and rushes to meet Isolde. But just as he reaches her arms, he dies. As she bewails her loss another ship comes.
Pardon Too Late
It is King Mark prepared to pardon all and to unite the lovers. Kurvenal, seeing Milot advance, mistakes them for foes, and running his sword through Milot’s breast, sinks, himself deadly wounded, at his master’s feet.
Over the body of her lover Isolde sings the famous “Liebestod” or “Love Death” and expires with Tristan. “The two souls are now made one and with the breath of the universe. At the very last there surges through the orchestral tissue, in the sad piercing tissue of the oboe the theme of Isolde’s magic and Isolde’s longing.”
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
Quite an interesting sensation, this. ’ Somewhat on the order of being called upon for a bit of spontaneous declamation at the after-dinner table. Today marks our initiation into the much glorified realm of the columnist. We consider it only sporting to warn the reader. . . .
The term, ‘starving actors,’ to some has no particular connotation, but were those ‘some’ in the company of a few gentlemen of the University Theatre on a murky evening not too long ago, the phrase would have been quite significant. The men were hungry; it was too late to make the dining hall; and there was a miserable lack of funds in the party. Soon came a brilliant idea. So off to a kindly gentleman’s home they traipsed, planted themselves.strongly in front of the residence, and proceeded, as they termed it, to sing for their supper.
Sing For Their Supper
Towards the middle of the second chorus of “Silent Night” the front door cautiously opened. Panic struck instantaneously. The puzzled occupant was almost crushed in the mad scramble for the kitchen. When he had partially recovered, the occupant curiously crept to the cook’s domain, whence emanated an ungodly clatter of plates, opening and slamming of cupboard doors, jingling of silver, scraping of rushing feet.
Still dazed the gentleman stared agape at the wholesale devouring of everything palatable. And ’twas only after all the food had been swiftly and surely dispatched, did our marauding friends become aware of the tiny dog pitifully crying under the sink. His supper had been eaten too.
“Buck” Blake Rides Again
. . . Suggested occupation for one Robert Wilkin Blake: the teaching of rope-twirling. ’
Mr. Blake proved to one and all of the “Room Service” cast' his prowess with the lariat. So impressed was one of the young ladies that she finally induced the rodeo-minded lad to show her the trick. After intense practice the tyro cowgirl has now become quite adept at the art. We consider Robert Wilkin unquestionably qualified to charge for lessons. (This is not an advertisement.). ...	•
The University Theatre feels justly proud of the fact that its next play, “The Queen’s Husband,” has been penned by our day’s master playwright, Robert Emmett Sherwood. It was his genius that gave us, among other hits, “The Petrified Forest,” “Idiot’s Delight,” “The Road to (Continued on Page 20)
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Noire Dome Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Mark J. Mitchell....................Editor-in-Chief
Vincent DeCoursey.......:...........Managing	Editor
William P. Mahoney..................Literary	Editor
William C. Fay..........................News	Editor
Donald Foskett........................Sports	Editor
Tom Powers...............................Art	Editor
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, Post Office Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Wednesday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Vol. 72	February 17, 1939	No. 16
A Significant Custom
NEXT Wednesday the members of the senior class will march in solemn procession to Washington Hall where they will take part in the annual Washington Day exercises. This custom is of long standing at Notre Dame. For the tradition of honoring George Washington on his birthday is almost as old as the school itself. It was founded in 1845, and has been observed with no interruption and only slight variation every year since. The principal addition to the exercises occurred in 1897 when the senior class for the first time presented a flag to the school. The flag was blessed at the Baccalaureate Mass and thereafter became the official flag of the University, to be used until the following year when the next senior class presented theirs.
In retrospect, it seems particularly appropriate that Washington’s Birthday should have been chosen as the occasion on which the members of the senior class make their first official appearance as candidates for degrees. The main fact is, of course, the significance of the class flag, the Washington Ode and the oration. These things represent concretely, intensely the middle phase of the tripartite dedication of all Notre Dame men—“to God, country and Notre Dame.”
But further, there exists a certain analogy between the figures of George Washington and Notre Dame. Leaders in their respective fields, they both represent powerful forces for good, drawing together divergent elements into an intimate organic union, sending them forth with an imprint of special character deeply etched in their very being. With Washington, it was thirteen small colonies, each with a different aim, which he united to form the basis of a great nation. Notre Dame takes inexperienced, immature young men, which she develops as her sons to form the nucleus of that great body of the Church, the Catholic laity. Through loyalty to the ideals that Washington represented a great nation has been
built. By adherence to principles found at Notre Dame, a greater Catholic laity can be developed. It remains for us to keep these principles before us, not merely when we are reminded of them by an occasion like the Washington Day Exercises, but always.—Mark J. Mitchell.
In United Action
A COMMITTEE of Catholic bishops recently met to set in motion a nation-wide campaign to stop the tidal wave of filthy literature that is flooding the United States. And concurrently the Catholic world is celebrating Catholic Press Month with the recommendation of a “general and substantial support of the Catholic Press.”
Father John J. Cavanaugh told you Sunday that in the United States there are 421 periodicals devoted to the excitement and exploitation of the evil in peoples’ lives, 87 per cent of which have sprung into existence since 1928.
Catholics in united action cleaned up the movies; they can do the same with literature. College men soon develop good reading tastes because they have studied under a sound system that deals in realities. But not all young people are so fortunate; many are victims of ignorance and a system of false values, which inevitably leads to disillusionment, discouragement and despair. Some Notre Dame men may have passed through this miserable period themselves, and they know that the trial and error method of dealing with morals is disastrous.
If parents fail to help youngsters through a difficult period, we can help them with a positive program requiring little effort on our part. By example we can boycott all places that aid in the distribution of filth and spend our nickels for publications that right reason tells us would not be harmful to young brother or sister. By speech we can tell distributors why we boycott. And with pens we can contact editors, advertisers and government officials to present our stand. Such simple weapons on a united front will do more for others than a positive chart would indicate.
Perhaps the role of a chronic kicker demands a more "practical motive” on your part. For this, we present the accepted fact that bad literature read during impressionable years contributes to a false sense of values, criminal hero-worship, mounting social disease and insanity rates, and a crime bill of $15,000,000,000 a year.
Young people coming in contact with smut are either jarred from superficiality by the stark realities of life, or they form habits of action and thought based on ignorance and error that influence them regardless of the good environment and sound philosophy which may later be a part of their lives.	'
By positive action we can slaughter Error and Ignorance with the sword of Truth. And we begin by tempering the sword with a boycott on filth and an earnest support of the Catholic Press.—Robert B. Voelker.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
II
POPE OF PEACE
MESSENGER OF PEACE
JOSEPH A. DUBBS
In the spring of 1918 Pope Benedict XV was faced with the problem of reuniting the Catholics of newly formed Poland, free for the first time in a century. His choice was Msgr. Ratti, who was made Visitor Apostolic for Poland on April 25, 1918.
For over 100 years Poland had been divided between Russia, Austria, and Prussia. During the Great War Pole had fought against Pole, depending upon which state controlled the territory. As though this weren’t enough, the task was made more difficult because of the variance of goverment. And so this population of twenty million Catholics had to be reunited both with Rome and with themselves.
Within three weeks of his arrival he summoned the Polish bishops for a conference, and immediately consecrated new bishops to fill the empty sees. Msgr. Ratti traveled from one end of Poland to the other, investigating and taking care of the needs of his people.
After the treaty of Versailles his work was not confined as before to Russian Poland alone. It now included all of the newly set up frontiers. At the request of the new Polish government Msgr. Ratti was made Archbishop to preside over the newly formed nunciature at Warsaw.
Three grave problems faced the Nuncio: the question of the Concordat, the problem of the Church’s position relative to land reforms, and the new state’s attitude towards Church property which had been confiscated by the previous governments.
Since the general good-will of the Polish people was great, the relationship between the Church and State could wait. But the land question was a different matter and had to be taken care of at once.
The old agricultural setup of large landowner and peasant had to go, but still it had to be done in such a way so as not to disrupt the standard of
Pius XI
Achille Ratti
Chronology
Born 1857
Ordained Priest—1879
Prefect of Ambrosian Library (Milan)—1907
Prefect of Vatican Library— 1914
Nuncio to Poland—1918 Cardinal-Archbishop of Milan— 1921
Pope—1922
Died—1939
R.	I. P.
agricultural production. However, it was not given to Msgr. Ratti to complete the work on which he had started. He sanctioned the Concordat of June 2, 1925 not as Nuncio, but as Pope.
In March, 1920, Msgr. Ratti was appointed as papal commissioner in the Upper Silesia region. This territory was one of the richest industrial regions, and Poland laid claim to it. In this matter the duties of the Nuncio can be reduced to one: to do all he could to prevent anything like a civil war between the German and
Polish sections of this population. He was not to interfere with the deciding plebiscite itself. By the final decision Poland was given certain agricultural areas in the south, and industrial areas that centered around Katowice.
The most interesting event of Msgr. Ratti’s three year stay in Poland was not the settling of any of these problems. It had its origin in the advance of Russian troops which were to try to spread the revolution throughout all Europe. In less than 40 days the Russians forced the Poles back 400 miles. The army and the population were so demoralized that the situation was almost universally regarded as hopeless. Warsaw was in danger. The hour had come when man has no hope but in God.
Msgr. Ratti applied for permission from the Pope to remain in Warsaw no matter what happened, and his reqeust was granted. Arrangements were then made for nine days of prayer starting on the Feast of the Transfiguration and ending on the Feast of the Assumption. During this time processions singing litanies of intercession filed continuously through' the city streets.
A few days after the completion of the novena, the deciding battle started. The discouraged and unorganized army of Poland was able to fight off the Bolsheviks from Warsaw, and make them retreat. It was just after the pact, the Treaty of Riga, which ended the conflict that Msgr. Ratti was recalled to Rome by Benedict XV. He was then created a Cardinal.
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FOUNDATION OF PEACE
ALBERT P. FUNK
Pius XI died, “Sovereign of Vatican City”—the first Pontiff to command a temporal domain since 1870.
Pope Pius, long an advocate of peaceful relations between Church and State, early seized an opportunity to carry out his program for abolition of the Law of Guarantees. Shortly after the war when the Fascists came to power in Italy, the question of religious jurisdiction was raised by the new government. Mussolini made subtle approaches to the Vatican. Would the Pope consider a settlement? Pius indicated he earnestly desired such an agreement. But the Pope was firm—no settlement could be reached unless it was a Concordat in the full sense of the word: a pact ■written and ratified by two independent sovereigns, neither dictating exclusive terms to the other.
The text of the Concordat was drawn up by a commission composed of Fascist officials and Churchmen. By the end of 1928 full conditions of the treaties were outlined. They were signed on Feb. 11, 1929 and ratified the following June.
Conditions governing the future relationship of Church and State in Italy were set forth in the 21 articles of the treaty. Most deeply significant were the following provisions: Catholicism is to be the sole State religion of Italy; the City of the Vatican is to be recognized as a sovereign state with all the rights implied therein; the Pontiff shall be king of the Vatican State; his realm shall for all time be considered neutral and inviolable territory. The Church was paid 1,750,000,000 lire or about $87,500,000 in recompense for the confiscation of the Papal States in 1870. Closing the treaty was the Pope’s solemn declaration that the “Roman Question” was irrevocably settled and the Law of Guarantees abolished for all time.
Previous to 1929 the Pope had been “prisoner” of the Vatican; now he
Congress Lauds Pope
The Congress of the United States honored the head of a church for the first time since the founding of the country.
This tribute was paid Pope Pius XI—the “Pope of Peace"—in official resolutions voted by the House and Senate, in eulogies by leaders in the Senate, and in prayer before the boived legislators.
Then, in an expression of mourning never before given by Congress to a spiritual leader, both houses adjourned.
Democratic Leader Barkley of Kentucky and Senator Wagner, New York Democrat, both Protestants, led the Senate eulogies. In this key they were joined by Senator McNary of Oregon, a Republican. Senator Walsh, Massachusetts Democrat, of the Catholic faith, expressed his gratification at the display of tolerance.
was established as an independent sovereign ruling a tiny domain of 110 acres. Non-Italian nations were freed from the objectionable condition of having their subjects obedient in religious matters to an outsider who was himself the subject of a foreign power.
In Italy, the Church gained much by the Lateran Treaties. Appointments of the clergy were guaranteed to the Pope—these were subject to approval of the State only on political grounds. Catholic education was introduced in all the elementary and secondary schools, and Catholic Action groups were allowed to exist so long as they remained free from political affiliation.
Catholic Action, however, has been
a source of much conflict between the Vatican and Mussolini. Early in 1931 the Fascist publication, Lavoro Fascista, attacked the Catholic Action movement demanding suppression of its organizations. These printed attacks were followed by acts of mob violence. In several cities, students burned copies of the official Vatican publication, Osservatore Romano; cries of “Death to the Pope” filled the squares; Catholic students were beaten. The Fascist authorities refused to intervene. Finally, the authorities actually suppressed several Catholic organizations. There was to be only one movement for Italian youth—. the semi-militaristic Balilla.
Pius XI realized the danger which Fascism presented. He strongly protested all actions against the Catholics and warned members of the Church against the absolutism preached by the Black-shirts. Said Pius at this time: “A conception of the State which makes the rising generations belong to it entirely, without any exception, from the tenderest years up to adult life, cannot be reconciled by a Catholic either with Catholic doctrine dr with the natural rights of the family.”
An agreement was finally reached governing the scope of Catholic Action societies. Mussolini decreed that they should be distinctly non-political; that they must not partake of sporting or athletic activities; that only matters of a spiritual nature should be treated in the organization. The agreement was, at best, vague and indeterminate.
Despite the obvious success of the Lateran Accord, there is constant danger of new infringement upon Ecclesiastical rights by the Fascist regime. Pius realized this; he constantly used the whole of his diplomatic skill and forceful personality to create harmony between Church and State.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
13
THE ROAD TO PEACE
LOUIS DA PRA
On the occasion of his election to the throne of St. Peter, Pius XI said: “Pius is the name of peace. I desire to consecrate my labors to .the peace of the world.” That was his first message to the world. His last was a heartfelt prayer for “health and peace” in the world. “With all our heart, we offer ourselves for the health and peace of the world and ask our Maker that either He take back our precious gift of long life or allow us to lengthen our daily working hours for the benefit of our sons.”
From first to last Pius XI was the articulate voice of peace in all the orders of the world whether political, economic, social, or religious. As he said in his Casti Connubii, reiterating the age-old advice of the Apostle Paul to his beloved Timothy, “Be thou vigilant, fulfill thy ministry. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season; reprove, entreat, rebuke in all patience and doctrine.”
How well he lived by that rule can be illustrated by his Encyclical on Church Unity in January of 1928. “How could she (the Church) tolerate the iniquitous attempt to drag truth—divinely revealed truth—into a compromise? For it is a matter of her defending divinely revealed truth.
Peace in the Political Order
In an age of rampant militaristic nationalism and the red brush of atheistic communism, the Holy Father bulwarked Catholic faith and that of the whole world against the vicious destroyers of the high dignity of man and his inalienable rights.
His memorable Divini Redemptoris, was a scorching indictment of atheistic communism. “It is,” he said, “a system full of errors and sophisms; it is in opposition both to reason and to Divine Revelation.” He pointed a -censuring finger at communism in action in Russia, Mexico, and Spain. “There would be today neithei* So
cialism nor Communism if the rulers of nations had not scorned the teachings and maternal warnings of the Church,” he vigorously declared. “To those of our children who are more or less tainted with the Communistic plague we pray the Lord to enlighten them that they may abandon the slippery path which will precipitate one and all to ruin and catastrophe.”
Anent Fascism the Holy Father, addressing hundreds of French pil-
A Review Lost
Pope Pilis’ only venture in journalism came to naught. When he was prefect of the Vatican library he wrote a review of a book written by his friend Msgr. Wilpert, president of the Commission .of Sacred Archeology, and sent it to the Vatican newspaper, OSSERVA-toke romano. Some years later the pope recounted: “Not only was the review not published, but. when I asked for the return of my manuscript, it could not even be found.”
grims in an audience at Castelgan-dolfo said, “It is too often affirmed today that collectivity is everything and that the individual is nothing. This is not the doctrine of the Church. It is error to say that all should go to the State and nothing to the individual, but it is no less erroneous to hold the contrary doctrine that the individual is everything and the State nothing. Truth, like virtue, lies ever in the middle path.”
His entreaties for the cessation of hostilities in Spain, racial persecutions in Germany and lately in Italy, and the mad armaments race are of common knowledge and have commanded the respect and commendation of the whole world.
Over and over again, with a solemn simple tenderness more moving than
the most passionate rhetoric could be, the voice pleads for the humble multitude of the toilers of the world in Quadragesimo Anno, a reaffirmance and supplement to Pope Leo XHI’s Rerum Novarum.
Peace in the Economic Order
“It is wrong,” he wrote, “to abuse the tender years of children or the weakness of woman. Work is not any kind of saleable commodity but one in which the human dignity of the workingman must always be respected.” “Reason itself deduces .from the nature of things and from the individual and social characters of man what is the end and object of the whole economic order assigned by God the Creator.”
He demanded a living wage, restriction of economic exploitation, prevention of unemployment, and the apportionment to the wage-earners of a just share in the fruits of industry. For the welfare of society the Holy Father knew that it was indispensable to secure peace among all economic groups; and for that peace the world has a practical solution— Quadragesimo Anno.
Peace in the Religious Order
On December 11, 1925 there came from the Vatican Quas Primas, a forcible definition of the duty of the civil arm to the secular arm to preserve peace in the religious order. “The civil power, too, must allow to religious orders and sodalities of both sexes the exercise of a like liberty, since they, over and above being a help to the Church and her pastors, also cooperate greatly in the extension and development of the Kingdom of Christ. His (Christ’s) royal dignity demands that society conform itself to the commandments of God and to the principles of Christian life.. .
There was surreptitiously distrib-
14
uted throughout Germany in March of 1937 the Encyclical to the German Hierarchy, dated March 14, in which the Holy Father arraigned the Nazis before the bar of eternal justice for violation of the Concordat of 1933. He objected to the Nazis’ “open fight against confessional schools protected by the Concordat and the sacrilegious disregard for the essential difference between God and creature” by those who would deify the ruler of the Reich.
Peace in the Social Order
This was followed two weeks later by the Apostolic Letter to the Mexican Bishops in which the Pope appraised the value of Catholic Action. “The Church, being a society of men, cannot exist or develop if it does not enjoy liberty of action, and its members the right to find in civil society the possibility of living according to the dictates of their conscience. When the most elementary religious and civil liberties are attacked Catholic citizens do not resign themselves pas
sively to renouncing those liberties.”
Casti Connubii is a restatement of Catholic thought on divorce, birth control, and the marital status. “Since it is no rare thing to find that the perfect observance of God’s commands and conjugal integrity encounters difficulties because the married parties are oppressed by straitened circumstances, their necessity must be relieved as far as possible. ... It is required that in the State such economic and social methods should be set up as will enable every head of a family to earn as much, as according to his station in life is necessary for himself, his wife, and for the rearing of his children, for the ‘laborer is worthy of his hire.’ To deny this or to make light of what is equitable is a grave injustice and is placed among the greatest sins of holy writ; nor is it lawful to fix such a scanty wage as will be insufficient for the upkeep of the family in the circumstances in quent re-affirmance for peace in the social order first sounded by the Arcanum of Leo XIII.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Holy Father time and again exhorted for peace between State and Church on the problem of education. In the Encyclical on Christian Education of Youth promulgated on January 11, 1930. “To one,” he admonished, “is committed directly and specifically the charge of what is helpful in worldly matters; while the other is to concern itself with things that pertain to heaven and eternity. . . . for Christ commanded us to give to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” It was in this well ordered harmony between the two that Pius XI found peace if the world would but listen.
Last week the Pope of Peace had finished his work. The man who walked with the dignity of a priest; the man who walked with God but knew that God walked with men left an imperishable legacy to humanity and to his Church. Death stilled his work but no one will deny that his Pontificate has made a difference.
GUARANTEE OF PEACE
JOHN DEANE
“And upon this rock I will build My Church.” Thus it was said of Peter; so it is said of Pius. Many words will be written on Pope Pius XI, his sanctity, his erudition, his great love of peace, almost every facet of his being will be analyzed but one—his rock-like determination to be right.
The quality that gave form and expression to his thought was just that — determination — and, at times, it approached obstinacy, so great was his desire to have accepted what he thought, what he knew was right. It is said of him that when none was left to argue against him, he would continue to argue with himself, not through any love of debate (though there are those who have had their
fill of debate with him), but because of his ceaseless indefatigable love of truth. He countenanced no error, no shorthand method of reasoning; his was the hard way, the long way, the right way. How satisfying it must have been to him, after long weeks and months of work, when, finally, he knew he had forged a weapon, a hard, bright, shining weapon. No wonder he stood at the head of his Church so staunchly with the blade of truth clasped firmly in his strong hands. Where dared the enemy to stand against him? How many felt its bite? The Christ he loved and defended will remember.
The stubbornness of Pius is best found in his encyclicals. In them is the clearest example of his unrelent
ing, unequivocal attitude toward injustice and wrong. It was not a simple matter to flaunt these in the faces of a world already hating truth; there were dissenters both within and without the Church, but in the face of his stern will what could they avail? Pius willed it to be done; it was done. The intellectual bruises he inflicted among the softer gentry of Fascism and Communism, to mention two of the evils he lashed out against, are still remembered ruefully.
Pope Pius was mentally tough, and, in this era of the free and easy syllogism, that alone bids us to stop and admire. He achieved brilliance in a world that was hard by being harder than it was, but he was both hard and right. History will love him for it.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
15
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
KILLER KELL IS SET TO BRUISE AND BATTER
WELL ■ BALANCED MARQUETTE HILL - TOPPERS BATTLE KEOGANMEN HERE TOMORROW NIGHT
By The Canvas Cub
Well, I was up in Sorin, see? And as I went down the corridor, I noticed one of the walls was flesh-colored. “Now why should one of the walls be flesh-colored and the rest of them green?” I asked myself.
Well, it wasn’t a wall; it was Champ Kell. Well, sir, he’s so big he moves like a Mack Truck on the construction lines. Knowing the Killer as I do, and seeing him make rosin of “This-Way-Out” Race in last year’s Bengal Classic, I conclude that there isn’t any question he can’t lick ? in the Bengals.
I said to myself: “The Champ’s opponent had better train in the dark, because he’ll never see daylight when the Champ starts to decompose things.”
“I’ll straighten ’em out,” growled the Killer as he pounded the walls of Sorin to hear the weather-vane rattle. Knowing the Champ to be touchy, I thought it best to let him do the talking: “ ’Member the Lambast Walk I did all over ‘Fade-Out’ Race last year? When the lights went out that was no accident, see? I jarred ’em out so’s the ladies wouldn’t faint at the killing.”
We remembered Race. He is up in Milwaukee now, making corkscrews in a brewery. Every time the dinner bell rings he calls for doctors and starts to sing “Who Blew Out the Flame?” He was one dandy fellow, too.
The Killer isn’t doing any road work. I asked him why. “I’m a considerate-like fellow and don’t like running around bustin’ things,” he said. I stood watching our Paul roll his muscles and it looked to me like a tidal wave.
Now the Killer is touchy about this mystery guy. “This guy hasn’t got polish, see? He’s not meeting a muscle-rolling ametcher, no sir. Take me; I will pop this question scientific like. I got several corkers: my Solar Plexus Squash and Death by Remote Control. Even them names is classy, eh?” Then he flicks me on the jaw with his finger, which jars my molars a little bit. Of course I know the Champ is kidding, so I don’t get sore. Anyway, I know it doesn’t pay to get sore with the Champ.
By Frank Aubrey
With a successful road trip behind them the Irish basketeers return to the local wars tomorrow night against a tall and powerful Marquette five. Notre Dame’s ten-game winning streak seems to indicate that Coach Keogan has hit upon his best combination, but it will take the combined efforts of the whole
iimiiitaimiiiumaiiiamtiaiimimiiitimitiitttmminmaiitiiiii
Mark Ertel
Dividends tomorrow night?
laiiiaiiaaaaaaaaaiaaiaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaiiiaaaaaaiaaaaaaiaaaaaiaaaaaaa
St. Edward's Leads in Lightweight Division
The Interhall Basketball league enjoyed its most successful round last Sunday as ten of the fastest games of the year were played. The boys are showing rapid improvement every Sunday and the closing rounds should provide plenty of action.
The feature attraction of the afternoon was Badin’s 24 to 18 victory over the Walsh seniors. This contest was close throughout but the Badin-ite’s, due to the splendid shooting of Putnam scored three goals just before the gun went off to win by a rather comfortable margin. In Group I of the lightweight division Zahm defeated Brownson to topple them from the undefeated ranks and, as a result, St. Ed’s, led by Jack Moran, is resting alone in first place.
The scores of other contests are as follows: Group I. Heavyweight—St. Ed’s 30, Freshman 23; Carroll 46, Zahm 16; Zahm 23, Brownson 13; and Cavanaugh 2, Old Infirmary 0. Group II, Sorin 2, Lyons 0; Morrissey 43, Alumni 23; Dillon 16, Howard 6; and Badin 24, Walsh.
squad to continue winning over the Hilltoppers. In 14 games Marquette has toppled Santa Clara, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Chicago, and Butler while losing to Temple, Kentucky, L.I.U. in the Garden, and their opener with Wisconsin. They have a starting five all over six feet and a well-balanced attack. At forward Bob Deneen is the leading scorer with 143 points and is a tough boy to guard. Bob, incidentally, isn’t worth fouling for he’s sunk 41 out of 54 foul throws. Glenn Adams is the other forward, but has been missing from the past two games because of a sore throat. If he doesn’t play, Bill McDonald will start. Dave Quabius and Bill Komenich make a rugged guard set-up with Erwin Graf at center.
According to statistics of the N.Y.U. and Syracuse games the assets and liabilities nearly balance, particularly in Monday night’s fray. But for a sizable outlay in capital goods, one Ed Riska, it seems the Irish might have been in the red. Ed threw just enough weight to keep the team solvent. A look at the balance sheet for last year shows twenty wins and three defeats. A little mental arithmetic shows that Notre Dame can maintain that percentage this year only by sweeping the remaining five games. Marquette was a poor investment in ’38, but with Brown, Ertel, Sadowski, Riska, Klier, and Ducharme all doing well in the bull market it looks as though ten o’clock Saturday night should find the firm of Keogan and Company issuing dividends.
To the cheering section we might say—be fair to organized labor, boys, for there will be some fair connoisseurs of Notre Dame on the premises; meaning that even Frank Lane isn’t to be booed—very loudly.
Apparently the Yankee Stadium isn’t the only stadium in New York that resounds to the strains of the Victory March. We have it on the authority of a Brooklyn engineering student that the Rangers use the Irish song to announce their entrance onto the ice at Madison Square Garden.
16
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH TRACKMEN TAKE IN ILLINOIS RELAYS AT CHAMPAIGN; RICE DEFENDS "1,500" TITLE
LARGE TURNOUT FOR INDOOR SPORTS
With J. Gregory Rice, defending champion in the 1,500 meters leading the way, Coach John P. Nicholson takes a squad of University of Notre Dame trackmen to the annual University of Illinois Indoor Relay Carnival at Champaign tomorrow.
*	llitttlilimMiiiiliiitiiimitiiiitllllilltimuiiaciiailtttllllllllltimi
Rice, John Dean and Bill Faymon-ville, who grabbed places in the individual competition a year ago, will form a nucleus for returning stars. Rice, swamped with invitations to appear in meets from coast to coast after his sensational showing in the Millrose Games in New York City, relinquished them in order to represent Notre Dame at Champaign. He
Trackman Dean Back to Champaign
passed up the N.Y.A.C. invitational in order to run there.
Last year Dean tied for third in the pole vault and will be back for action in that event again Saturday. He made a commendable early - season performance by leaping 13 feet against Michigan State last week. He will also compete in the high jump.
Faymonville, discus star in the spring outdoor campaign, grabbed second in the shot put last year. He and Joseph Ed Beinor will represent the school in the weight event.
Bob Saggau, Buenger, and Tucker will probably take over the assignments in the 75-yard dash while Steve Coughlin may also compete. Dave Reidy and Bob Lawrence are the hurdlers, both high and low. Rice will obtain assistance in the 1,500 meters from Bill Donnelly while Curtis Hester and Joe Olbrys are likely competitors in the 1,000-yard event.
In the high jump, Ted Leonas will join Dean while Phil Daugherty gets his first official action of the year in the broad jump. Ben Sheridan is another pole vaulter.
The distance relays will probably be made up of Joe Halpin, Hester, Rice and Olbreys.
Swordsmen in Crucial Matches this Week
By Joe Palmer
The zero hour for the Notre Dame varsity fencing team has arrived at last. To many it may not seem to have the slightest semblance of drama, but to seven young men waiting nervously in a hotel room in Columbus, Ohio, it is one of the most important days of their young lives. These youths comprise the aforementioned fencing team. Their season to date can be termed neither a success nor a failure. Out of the four matches that they have engaged in, they have gained two victories been defeated once, and have earned one. tie. Therefore, every last one of the members of the fencing team knows that all depends on the outcome of the matches tonight and tomorrow night. There will be other matches to come, but whether or not the season can well be termed a failure or a success rests on the outcome of the pending matches with Ohio State and Cincinnati.
On Friday evening the Irish meet the well-balanced Ohio State team and as matters stand now it is evident that the Irish will have to be at their peak to have any hopes for a victory. Thus far, the Ohio State boys have amassed a very fine record. Their only loss was to the strong University of Chicago squad, a team which also shattered the hopes of Notre Dame for an undefeated season. This is the only available source of comparison between the Buckeyes and Irish, and it gives the lads from Ohio an advantage of several points since they made a decidedly better showing against Chicago than did Professor de Lan-dero’s men. Furthermore, it has become quite apparent, from past Notre Dame matches, that the story will be told early in the match, for, if the hard-working but rather inconsistent foil men bring home a victory, the Irish will have a fine chance of defeating the Ohio State men. If the Irish do not win this first event, the gap in the score may be too much for the men in sabre and epee to close.
The Cincinnati match on Saturday promises to be another close one.
With examinations over and forgotten, four indoor sports — bowling, table-tennis, billiards and handball— took their places on the winter sports program the past week. These tournaments, always favorites among the various halls, are under the supervision of Senior Manager Joseph Dray and his corps of able assistants.
Indications at this point to a record year in all four sports, not only from the standpoint of the quantity in attendance, but also in the quality of all contestants. Qualifying rounds-
Joe Dray Seeks record year.
were on schedule for all four sports during the past week with bowling probably holding the spotlight. Approximately 150 contestants have signed for this tournament and from all indications these festivities in the Walsh Hall alleys seem destined to surpass all previous tournaments. It was announced today that all contestants are urged to report at the alleys at their first opportunity to engage in their qualifying turns. By doing this the tournament will be run off in a much smoother way and obviously will mean less work for the managers.
Handball got under way Wednesday with the first round matches. Contestants numbering in the neighborhood of 75 are in daily drills preparatory to taking their respective turns in the initial rounds. Officials announced that the handball matches were scheduled for 3:30-5:30 in the afternoons and 7:30-9:30 in the evenings.
An impressive number of contestants reported for table-tennis activity. This tournament is literally jammed with talent, with several of last year’s champions again entered. Initial stages of the billiard tournament were completed the past week, with several entries yet to take their respective turns.
Officials announced that pairings are being made at this time for the doubles matches. This does not include billiards, as singles matches only will be held in this tournament.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
17
FIGHTERS CONTINUE TRAINING GRIND
By James G. Newland
Fighters on the right. Fighters on the left.' Fighters everywhere. ’ The apparatus room in the fieldhouse can well be compared to the proverbial bee-hive these days, because punches and counter-punches are being flung so fast and furious every afternoon by more than 100 potential Bengal champions, that instructors Dominic Napolitano, Ed Broscoe and Bill Pa-don are having a hard time dodging the “wild throws.”
Promoter Louis DaPra reports the attendance at each “swing” school as very encouraging the past week. There is, however, plenty of room for as many candidates who wish to display their talent in the manly art, especially in the heavyweight division.
A good turnout of freshmen and novices reported for the special Tuesday and Thursday evening classes. Promoter Da Pra stresses that all men, regardless of whether they wish to enter the bouts or not, are invited to train and take advantage of the boxing classes each afternoon. Many more men can be accommodated at the sessions while at the same time none are obliged to enter competitive boxing.
With the first week of conditioning work behind them, all candidates are starting stiff sparring drills. Most of last year’s champions are included in the present squad of hopefuls. Those who captured titles in last year’s tournament but who have not as yet appeared, are expected to be in the fold by the end of this week.
It was stated that there are now enough novices out to permit the staging of a novice tournament, in conjunction with the preliminaries. This, however, is tentative. If it should materialize, it will be held the third week in March.
Out of this present group of stalwarts, the largest in the history of the SCHOLASTiC-sponsored bouts, 16 will fight it out in the finals on March 24 for the coveted sweaters. The eight winners will be awarded heavy sweaters and the runners-up will receive lightweight ones. Each sweater is adorned with knitted boxing gloves into which is entwined a miniature “N.D.”
Varsity Baseball
“The first call for all baseball candidates will be announced in a week or ten days,” Head Baseball Coach Jake Kline stated this week—after calling together the pitchers and catchers for preliminary training in the gymnasium or out-of-doors, if weather permits.
INTRODUCING
By Eddie Huff
Salvatore Scarlata, the Lodi, N. J. senior pre-medico who captains the Notre Dame fencing squad against Ohio State tonight and versus Cincinnati tomorrow, journeyed via automobile for eight weeks and over a 12,132 - mile trans - continental route
last summer on a scouting trip that was meant, to uncover the medical school of his dreams.
At an age when most Italian youngsters are learning to wield a fork in conjunction with a soup spoon —preparatory to an attack on a gondola of spaghetti—Sal Scarlata was playing truant from the New Jersey school system and trusting to his rod, reel, and shotgun. He set the record for “class-cuts” in Jersey schools, and was given a special “absence scroll” instead of the conventional diploma. Sal boasts that he had three absences more, over a twelve-year period, than did Luke Lacroix, associate football manager, who was a contemporary at Hackensack High. Luke has since made up for the “deficiency.”
One day in the high school library, Lacroix said, “Let’s go to Notre Dame, Sal.” Public opinion in the Lodi - Hackensack vicinity did not rebel at this turn of events; and before long, Freshman Scarlata was substitute hasher in the Notre Dame dining hall for Captain Kevin Kehoe of the fencing squad, for which substitution, Senior Kehoe was to teach F. Scarlata what was known about fencing with a slashing sabre.
HANDBALLERS AFTER SECOND STRAIGHT
By John E. Lewis
The Notre Dame handball team will attempt to make it two victories in a row tomorrow afternoon here in the gymnasium over the toughest team they are expected to meet this year, the University of Chicago. Matches are scheduled to get underway at 2 o’clock.
The Irish aggregation defeated the Windy City team four matches to three last Saturday evening in Chicago. Notre Dame won both doubles matches but took only two of the five singles. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., coach of the team, was well pleased with the outcome.
“The Chicago team is the toughest our boys will meet this year,” Father Brennan said. Hence an afternoon of close exciting matches is expected tomorrow afternoon as the Chicago team seeks revenge.
Matches with Purdue, Illinois, and Northwestern are now being sought after, Father Brennan stated. If present plans go through, two matches will be played with each school on a home and home basis.
Playing for the Irish last Saturday were, in this order: Bill Metrailer, 1; Tim Bradley, 2; Mike Byrne, 3; Phil DiCrocco, 4; Sal Trentacoste, 5; and Jerry Sexton,6. Metrailer and Byrne, and Trentacoste and Bradley were teamed in the doubles.
In the feature match of the evening’s play, which lasted from six to 10:30 o’clock, Metrailer went down to Jack Gilbert in three games, 2-21, 21-14, and 12-21. Gilbert last year advanced to the semi-finals of the Illinois AAU handball tournament.
Victors for Notre Dame in the singles matches were Byrne who defeated Adler, 21-14, 19-21, and 21-18, and Sexton, who' scored a lopsided victory of 21-7, 21-1 over Sullivan.
Metrailer and Byrne won the first doubles matches for the Irish over Gilbert and Myers, 21-18, 21-14. 11-21, and 21-12.
Africa Hears Irish
You have to sit up late if you want to hear a football broadcast in Africa. You can take that from Rev. John F. ’ Kelly, C.SS.P., who visited friends in his native New York recently. According to Father Kelly, who is stationed at Kilimandjaro, British East Africa, he heard the Irish victory via short wave radio; the broadcast was received in Kilimandjaro at 12:15 Sunday morning. Father Kelly praised the music of Joe Casasanta’s Notre Dame band, and said he was even able to catch the “peanuts, hot dogs, cigarettes” atmosphere.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX _	By Andy Wilson
It is very pleasant to sit back and contemplate the string of ten straight victories our basketball team has now compiled. We were slightly disappointed with the smallness of the score against N.Y.U., having a personal, sectional interest in the size of the New York accomplishment of all Notre Dame teams. It seems, how’ ever, that we have been underestimating the ability of the Violets, and should be well-pleased with any winning margin.
Our team did hit its season’s peak against Minnesota, and we suppose it was only natural for them to go through a slack period against Illinois and N.Y.U. The size of the Madison Square Garden crowd did have a tightening effect on the less experienced members of the Irish squad. However, in what was undoubtedly the tensest game of the season, against the Orangemen—one of the finest teams in the country, and a much tougher crew than the Violets, according to Captain Earl Brown— our bunch seemed to take a turn for the better, and they should be “up” again for Marquette tomorrow night.
We hope the Irish can stay “up” for eight more days, till after the game up at the Hilltoppers’ court next week. As we figure it, that is the last really dangerous spot on the schedule — unless overconfidence or the pressure of a long winning streak leads to an upset. There should be a slight but natural decline in form against Butler and Detroit, then a final peak against New York’s visiting Violets.
So far the team has gone through four main cycles or form fluctuations —a zigzag formative period, culminating in a good game against Cornell; a slight reaction against Butler and Kentucky; a steady climb to peak form against Minnesota; a fallingaway against Illinois and the two New York teams. We look for a rise, a decline, and another rise before the season ends.
•
We obtained some fairly accurate but unofficial figures on the various Interhall tournaments that began this week. There are altogether 258 men taking part, with ping-pong drawing the largest number of entries—96 in the singles alone. Eighty-three men enrolled for bowling, 41 for handball, 38 for billiards.
As a group, the sophomore halls were least active, only 31 men entering the tourneys from Badin, Lyons, and Morrissey. Badin, with only 2
men signed up for competition, was chiefly responsible for this defection. The four freshman halls—Brownson, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Freshman — with 62 entrants, barely led the junior group—Dillon, Howard, St. Edward’s —with 60, and the senior group— Alumni, Sorin, Walsh—with 59. Carroll, Old Infirmary, the Lyons and Morrissey “subs,” and off-campus students, we lumped together into a “miscellaneous” group, which produced 46 entries.
Alumni had the largest single representation—29—while the off-campus boys had the most concentrated —20 out of their 23 entrants signed up for the ping-pong tourney. Bowling and handball were most popular among the seniors and juniors, pingpong and billiards among the freshmen and the “miscellaneous” group.
•
The Big Ten basketball situation, ever interesting, becomes more and more enjoyable for us as Indiana keeps winning and Minnesota keeps losing on its home court. If any team can upset the Hoosiers now, it is Minnesota, or resurgent Purdue at Lafayette. Indiana won at Bloomington by a scant three points earlier in the season. It is possible that the Gophers may hit Indiana in the middle of their inevitable reaction against their losing streak, and drop the boys from Bloomington.
We have no grudge against the Gophers, but we are rooting against them because we feel they have been getting all the “breaks” in the schedule. Each team in the conference gets to play only three other teams twice. Minnesota repeats against the two cellar teams, Chicago and Iowa, and to date has played all its first division opponents at home—Illinois, Ohio State, Purdue. The victories that Ohio State and Purdue both gained, in spite of Minnesota’s advantage, we consider to be quite marvellous accomplishments. Of Minnesota’s chief rivals, Illinois has had to play two tough teams away—the Gophers themselves, and Purdue; Indiana doubles up against Ohio State and Purdue, and has had to play Illinois away; Ohio State has had to play Indiana twice, and the Ulini and Minnesota away; Purdue repeats against Indiana, and has had to play the Gophers away.
•
More and more Glenn Cunningham establishes himself as the running marvel of the age. After some seven years of the severest kind of competition, he is still unbeatable, the most
KEOGAN FIVE TRIMS N.Y.U.. SYRACUSE
•
As a result of a successful trip to the East Coast, the basketball team now boasts a ten - game winning streak. A close 34-30 victory over N.Y.U. Saturday, followed by an even closer 35-34 win over Syracuse Monday night added games nine and ten to the victory string.
The game against the N.Y.U. Violets was played in Madison Square Garden before 18,076 spectators. The Irish went into the lead at the start and kept it until late in the final period. Forgetting all about their “ragtime” type of basketball, Notre Dame worked slowly into a 5-0 lead. At this point the Violets started hitting the basket, but Notre Dame’s lead was gradually stretched to 11-5. N.Y.U. rallied though, and at halftime the score was only 16-14 in favor of the men from Notre Dame.
In the second half baskets began to appeal* more often and the Irish worked into a 25-20 lead. This margin was cut down in a scoring flurry of seven points for the New Yorkers, while only Ziegenhorn could drop in two points for N.D. With the score tied 27-27 N.Y.U. faded and the Notre Dame five' charged ahead 3327. The Violets could not cut this lead down, and the game ended with the score 34-30.
Monday night, against a highly-touted Syracuse team, close playing was also in order. From the opening whistle the game was see-saw. Notre Dame had a two-point margin at the half, and at the end of regulation time the score was tied 32-32. In the five-minute overtime period the Irish managed to put in three free-throws while Syracuse could make only two. The winning score was made by Ziegenhorn after the overtime was over.
Ed Riska continued his high-scoring by counting twelve points against N.Y.U. and eleven points against the Orange from Syracuse.
In both games it was a question of either team being dropped from a winning streak. New York U. had a five-game streak when they, tangled with the Irish, while Syracuse was riding high with nine games in a row until Monday night. Both games were marked with much rough playing, and it seemed that the premium was placed upon stamina rather than on sharp-shooting.
consistent miler in the world. Any man who can win two mile races with but 24 hours’ rest and a 200-mile trip between, doing 4:15.6 in the first and 4:10.8 in the second—as Glenn did last weekend at Philadelphia and at Boston—is deserving of the utmost respect and admiration.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
19
TRACK TEAM BEATS MICHIGAN STATE
The Irish track team showed marked improvement in winning over the Michigan State team here last Saturday. However, in spite of the impressive 65-30 score Coach Nicholson believes his squad has not yet approached its top performance.
The Spartans didn’t push the Irish performers, Nick’s boys taking all but three of the eleven firsts. The harvest of Blue and Gold points began as Faymonville and Beinor again took first and second in the shot. The pole vault ended at 13 feet with Dean coming out on top and Sheridan showing great promise in his fieldhouse debut. Captain Rice led home the milers with Van Auken of State fighting off Donnelly’s second place challenge. “Ernie” Greer pulled out of the blocks and led Saggau all the way to take the dash. Halpin and Collins came in first and second in the 440. In the “highs” Reidy beat out Michigan State’s Robinson and then in the “lows” Robinson came back to defeat Reidy. Rice repeated his winning ways in the two mile, allowing Frey to pace him for 14 laps and then giving an exhibition of his home - stretch sprint that left the crowd “gasping” and Frey somewhat
startled several, several yards behind. Leonas outjumped Arrington at 6' 2" to give the Irish all of the field events. In the half Fehr came in ahead of Hester and Wilkenson to give Coach Young’s team their third first. A make-shift relay team caused by an injury to Halpin’s leg, reported in the persons of Reidy, Rogers, Law-erence, and Collins to beat the Michigan State quartet.
Throughout the meet Nick could be seen struggling between the contentment of the moment and the worries of Saturdays to come. He puffed his pipe calmly as Greg Rice pumped his way around the track in the distance runs and sat complacently in the stands during the field events, but during the rest of the meet he stood with watch in hand, thinking and planning for tougher* meets ahead. After the meet Nick expressed his satisfaction with the work of most of the team but said, “This meet is won but the rest aren’t going to be quite so easy. We have a lot of work to do yet.”
Temperatmental “Jojo” White still maintains he is going to retire from baseball rather than report to the Seattle Club of the Pacific Coast League. He went to the coast in a deal which brought Pitcher Freddie Hutchinson to the Detroit Tigers.
Paul McGtin Lecture
Paul McGuire, an Australian recommended by Cardinal Pizzarde of the Vatican, will lecture in Washington Hall Monday evening on “The Christian Revolution.” The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. Recently Mr. McGuire was received enthusiastically by four thousand people at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York City.
Rise to the Occasion!
She will be glad you thought to make it a bit special by selecting the
Bavarian Room
LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS
•
HOTEL La SALLE
Comer Michigan and LaSalle
AT YOUR SERVICE/ AT YOUR PRICE/
ONLY 10c TO TOWN
FOR 4 OR 5 STUDENTS
Hourly Rate, $1.50
INDIANA YELLOW SOUTH BEND CAB CAB CAB CO. - CO. CO.
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUNIOR PROM
(Continued from Page 3)
Bernard Masterson, John B. Murphy.
Decorations — Francis- Gentner, chairman; Richard Fogarty, Joseph Thesing.
Reception — John Kem, chairman; Robert Chamberlain, Dan Sallows, Paul Morrison.
Tea Dance — John C. Brennan, chairman; Robert Brady, Joseph Hart, Arthur Lancaster.
Favors — Jolin Ciccolella, chairman; Charles Barrack, Walter Hagen, John Kelleher, John Gavan, Charles Kelly, William C. Fay.
Publicity — Ernest Timpani, chairman; Donald Foskett, Philip Wade, Edward Brush, ■ John Crane, Joseph Whitford, Edward Kelly.
See if you can top this one! Neil Sanford, playing for the Lockport, (Nova Scotia) Sea Caps, scored sixteen goals unassisted as his team defeated the Shelburne Loyalists (not a Spaniard in the bunch), 16-1.
For
BOOKS	STATIONERY
PENS	PENCILS
GREETING CARDS
Visit THE BOOK SHOP 130 N. Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
POWER HOUSE
(Continued from Page 8) in the conveyor is reversed and it starts to carry out the ashes.
Head Brother Power House, he refused to give me his name, would not say how much coal is used each day. If you ask him, he will do his best to heave you into the nearest boiler as that seems to be his pet peeve.
That it takes a force of 15 men to run the power house.
That the amount of coal burned depends upon the wind. More coal is used when the weather is relatively warm but windy, than when the temperature is low and there is no wind.
That Head Brother Power House also refused to reveal his official title “I’m here to get results,” he said, “and I don’t parade around with a mile long title. The only reason you get a title is so that your employer can cut down on your salary and let your vanity make up the difference.” (No wonder the smartest professors are underpaid.)
I "CORSAGES" |
i	See	|
JOE SULLIVAN | i	Alumni Hall	E
I SOUTH BEND FLORAL |
|	114 S. Michigan St. j
QtaiaaitaaiaaBtatattaataaaiaaiiiaiiaiiaaiiaiiaaiaaaiBiataaaaiaaiiaiiiiia^
THEATER
(Continued from Page 9) Rome,” and the current Broadway hit, “Abe Lincoln in Illinois.” Perhaps it is not often enough realized, but the cast of a show feels entirely different toward the play it is doing when the playwright is a recognized master. It is this attitude that the University Theatre hopes will spur “The Queen’s Husband” on to the sacred circle of successes. ....
It’s Safer
to Ride the

Stay snug, warm and safe when you travel by South Shore Line. No wintry winds to buck ... or snow or ice or rain. It’s actually cheaper than driving/
S.	W. VEACH City Passenger Agent 301 N. Michigan Phone 3-3111
REMEMBER THE TWO JIMMIES FOR:
WATCH	SHOE
REPAIRING	REPAIRING
Jimmie Warner	Jimmy McAllister
(Located next to Candy Store and Telegraph Office)
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE and SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
fSOUTHNSEHORf
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
21
Shoe Shop on the Rouge
It may surprise you to learn that a cobbler’s shop runs daily at the Ford Rouge plant in Dearborn. But the Ford plant is full of surprises. Every one has a practical answer.
Hundreds of workers in the Rouge require special types of footwear. These the company furnishes. So a steady stream of worn-out footwear reaches the Rouge cobblers, and the busy tap-tap of their hammers joins the rhythm of ten-ton presses and heavy rolling mills.
The cobbler’s shop is one part of the great
drive that prevents waste in the Rouge. Lumber from incoming crates is sorted and used for outgoing shipments. Waste paper and wood chips go to the Rouge paper mill. Metal particles removed by grinding wheels and metal saws are reclaimed. Nothing is lost—nothing wasted.
All this plays a part in making finer, better Ford cars. Pennies saved are pennies earned. Multiplied at the Rouge into millions, they help build the value that keeps millions of Fords delivering good sendee year after year.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
"Continentals" Sparkle
Miss Ruby Spencer Lyons and her Continentals can come back to Washington Hall any time they want to now, judging from the applause they received from a crowded house Friday evening. •
The ensemble singing formed a well - balanced background for the sparkling duets and solos. The program opened with the entire group singing the popular Song of the Vagabonds from Herbert’s “Vagabond King.” Another ensemble number, “Joshua Fit the Battle,” was the hit
LEARN TO FLY with JTCCKCRT FLYING SERVICE, Inc. Bendix Field
STUDENT COURSE, #45.00 Trial Lesson FREE!
Charter trips to anywhere in die United States in Stinson.
See campus representative CHAS. CARROLL 114 Dillon Hall “Our business is in the air”
of the night. The audience took great delight in watching “the walls cme tumbling down” and called for an encore.
Another favorite was the group of negro spiritual rendered by Miss Evelyn Ames, assisted by the male quar- • tet. Miss Ames’ almost swingy version of the songs was the spice of the program and was in grateful contrast to operatic arias which rather weighed the program down.
Tri-Club Feast Papular
The communion breakfast of the combined Kansas City, Memphis, and Florida clubs Sunday drew approximately 50 members of one organization or the other. After the mass, celebrated in the Dillon hall chapel by Rev. James A. Fogarty, the “ham and....” lost identity in the lay faculty dining hall.
Do's and Dant’s for Night Owls
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lene or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
DO wear a white tie with tails—black with tux. Buy the the square end butterfly type. ARROW Dress Ties . . . #1.
DO wear a stiff bosom shirt and wing collar with tails or single breasted tux. ARROW Kirk is the world’s best behaved dress shirt. In birdseye pique or plain bosom they’re tops in quality and value at. . . #2.50.
atswm
DO have several separate collars on hand. ARROW Chevy goes with any formal shirt. . .
each 25c.
GO Arrow and you go authentic.
If it hasn’t an Arrow label it isn’t an Arrow.
FEBRUARY 17, 1939
23
PLACEMENT BUREAU
(Continued from Page 4) through their own contacts. Only a relatively small proportion of the class will be able to find work through the Bureau in any one year. The Placement Bureau can never be anything but a campus agency to assist the seniors. The burden of finding jobs will always rest principally upon the men themselves.
“Deans and department heads, ex-
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
♦
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
perienced for many years in this placement work, are largely responsible for whatever success we’ve had so far in placing boys. They will continue to be our main support and guide. The Placement Bureau is not, of course, intended in any sense to supplant their excellent efforts but merely to enlarge and coordinate them.”
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG.. SOUTH BEND
Visit Our New Complete Record Dept.
VICTOR
Latest releases:
BLUEBIRD
1—CARIOCA, F.T. (from RKO film, “Flying Down to Rio”), Vincent Youmans; BILL, F.T. (V.R.) (from “Show Boat”), Jerome Kern.
2—THE DONKEY SERENADE, F. T.
(From M-G-M film, “The Firefly”). Rudolph Friml; MY HEART STOOD STILL, F.T. (From the Musical Comedy, “Connecticut Yankee”), Rich. Rodgers.
5—THE MAN I LOVE, F.T. (From Musical Gershwin; VILIA, F.T. (From M-G-M film,
Album BP-1 — Price $2.25
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
3—LOVER. COME BACK TO ME, F.T. (From M-G-M film and Musical Comedy. “The New Moon”), Sigmund Romberg; ROSALIE. F.T. (V. R.) (From M-G-M film, “Rosalie,” Cole Porter.
4—ZIGEUNER, F.T. (From “Bitter Sweet”), Noel Coward; SUPPER TIME. F.T. (V. R.) (From Musical Revue. “As Thousands Cheer”), Irving Berlin.
Comedy, “Strike Up the Band”), George , “The Merry Widow”), Franz Lehar.
RODIN, Inc.
132 North Michigan Street	South Bend, Indiana
Notre Dame BOOK STORE
BADIN HALL • -SPECIAL Indirect Table Lamps $2.68
INK PENS NOTEBOOKS
Plain Stationery
100 Sheets, 75 Envelopes
Special, 59c
•
A Complete New Line of Pennants!
THE HUDDLE . . .
Campus Smoke Shop and Candy Store
‘V
DrGRABOW
jwrs:
Don't givn hor o fraternity pin—
Bowl
NO BITE! NO BREAKING IN! NO BITTER TASTE1
Pipe—Pre->Smohed by an exclusive mechanical smoking mochine thor mokes H sweet from the first poll..
CAMPUS/

NKOTM
uuv*
You'll enjoy these three stars in "WINGS OF THE NAVY" A Cosmopolitan production released by Warner Bros, coming soon to your local theatre.
GEORGE BRENT * OLIVIA de HAVILLAND * JOHN PAYNE
a/fappy CUwtatiwt
that gives millions Mote Pleasure
... and millions of people before and after the show are getting more pleasure from the happy combination of mild ripe American and Turkish tobaccos found in Chesterfield.
It is the exact way these tobaccos are combined together that makes Chesterfields milder and gives them a more pleasing taste and. aroma. This exact combination is found in no other cigarette.
When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure why
THEY SATISFY
(chesterfield
...the blend that can’t be copied
R,GHT COMBINATION of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos