. ~~-::;;;.p.·~~-?}/~::: ·:--::;":t':.~~-= .. -,.._ 
~..; ~ ... ---~ ... 
. , 
scholastic february 11, 1972 
the college of engineering 
You mighthe happier at.tEtna. 
We think we mjght have what you're looking for. Something 27 million people depend on for security and a better life. 
We'd like you to considertaking a sales managementpositionwithJEtna Life and Casualty. We have-hundreds of broad­gauge management positions, both in the field and in the home office, that pay sub­stantial salaries right from the start. They·a1f take creativity and hard work. But the rewards can be very high: To yourself. To others. 
If the insurance business is still the Overlooked Profession to you, it's prob­

. ably becauseyou haven't heard thewhole truth about it yet. How fast-changing it has become. Or how sophisticated. Or Jhat it is where the greatest variety of job opportunities are-today, insurance probably takes more. college graduates than any other profession. 
· ..Wearean Equal Opportunity Employer 
We have jobs in all divisions of our company. If you'd like face-to-face con­tact with people we have many positions thatwill give you immediate contactwith the public. Ifyou'd rather deal with your co-workers and other profes~ionals, we have those, too. Tell us your preference, and we can work it out between us. 
A brochure called "The Whole Truth'' goes into the specifics on sales manage-. ment as well as other opportunities. It'll tel1 you how /Etna works, what it does, and how you can, becqme part of it. It's an honest picture of an honest business. Why not stop in at your placement office and read it. 
Today, one out of six Ame.:ricans looks to JEtna for insurance protection. You might build a successful.career helping · us help many more. :_. ~ ·., 

. OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
UFE&CASUALTY 
february 11, 1972 notre dame, indiana volume 113, no. 8



scholastic 


analysis  
j.b. brooks  4  counseling, outreach and prevention  
jim pearce  6  lnPIRG  
features  
jack wenke  8  technological education: a perspective and an interview ·  
14  making prisoners of facts/ an interview  
-~  
perspectives  
16  a community of speech-farley hall  
john d. garvick  18  possum papers  
life and the arts  
casey pocius  20  T-REX electric warrior  
~  
dan o'donnel/  21  9/10 of the Jaw  
j.b. brooks and joe  
runde  25  death at any age  
bob elliot  25  de sica's genteel malaise  
kev cassidy  26  coming distractions  
sports  
george block  30  a minor sport?  
mary el/en stoltz  32  the last word  

editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz I art director: rick fitzgerald / editors: mike mooney, greg Stidham, jim fanto, tom macken / copy editor: jim palenchar / sports editor: don kennedy I assistant art directors: linda v. salerno, dan o'donnell / assistant managing editor: joe runde / business: joe meyer / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: george block, john banks-brooks, kevin cassidy, bob elliot, john flannigan, marie glotzbach, phil glotzbach, mary head, bruce hooper, jim jendryx, dave jones, jerry koshinski, john linsky..= pat mccracken, jim munch fred monsour, john moore, john moran, mark o'connel, jim pearce, peggy perkinson, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jack wenke, jeff wyszkowski / business and circulation: joe leahy, ran hein, jack reschauer, marty zone / art and photography: jim hunt, michael lonier, bob mcmahon, joe raymond, pam seifert. 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScIIOL\STIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second· class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Le.xington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year e.xcept during vacation· and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AVE MARIA PREss, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all ·issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the ScnoLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOL\STIC. 
analysis 

counseling, outreach and prevention 
There is a marvelous complex of offices and seminar rooms located on the third floor of the· Administra­tion Building which frequently go unnoticed. Referred to as the Counseling Center, these rooms and people are willing and able to assist, in a variety of ways, anyone in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community from students to professors to administrators and staff. Under the chief guidance of Dr: Sheridan McCabe, former chairman of· the psychology department at Portland University, Father Dan Boland, and Dr. Paul Banikiotes, the staff of_ approximately· ten· Ph.D. candidates in Graduate Education is ·available to 'discuss 

, problems from social alienation to selecting a majo:r: 
·,Dr. McCabe began the semi-autonomous ·_cente:i;-(it is not a branch of Psychological Services) iri 1967 with the dual purpose of.serving the Notre Dame community and :further developing the· Education · Department's Ph.D. progrruri ··in Couriseling Education. 

·The Center provides_·these doctoral candidates. with. . . practical. experience. while·serving_· coui_iseling needs on c~pus: . . . . 
There are a variety of. methods employed in the actua.l counseling,. some ·as: simple as tape'.:"recording the counseling ~essfons (\Vith qne's permission) to com­plex approaches generically labeled non-directive or Freudian. However, the emphasis is not on the 1nethod but on the _person involved; thus, the primary task of the counselor is to build a, warm personal relationship · in which the person feels free to discuss his or her· problems. If one prefers, group counseling is also avail-. 

: able; this experience often enables one to place his 
. 4 
problem in a proper perspective when he· realizes that the particular difficulty is not unique to him alone. 
·Frequently, the apparent problem of a person is interrelated with _a host.of others. For instance, a student _on academic probation may think the answer · to his deficiency is to be discovered in ·hetter study habit~--Instead, further probing may reveal that the 

. student is.lonely, perhaps· frus~rated, over his inability to form close friendships or is bitter about the games college people play. The student may then understand that his academic problems _are merely amanifesta­
tion of greater .diificulti_es:·.. . ' . ·At any o:he time about fifty: people are involved in actual ·couriseli1ig; quite :a small segment of the nearly 12,000 people-of the. Notre Dame-St. Mary's · community..:'Corisequently, the Center has adopted a . three-tier concept in ser:ving the campus: th~ counseling function.·itself, -·outreach; and prevention. In the phase of. outreach, the counselor takes the first step. for::example, black students rarely entered the . Counseling Center so the Center, under the primary direction of graduate student Cassel Lawson, found biack counselors and moved them to a room in Alumni Hall adjacent to black concentrations. A black ombudsman service under the direction of Mike Murphy, a student at the Notre Dame Law School, was also initiated. Prevention, the third phase, sees its goal as keeping the "potential counselee" from having _diffic11lties in the first place. This usually comes in the form of cooperation between the Center and student· organizations'and, in some·cases, seminar classes. In 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

this way the leader or teacher is given advice on conducting a more fruitful discussion and communica­tion among the members of the particular group. Another variation of this prevention phase has been the organizing of a volunteer program of testing for sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters to test aptitude and attitude for particular vocations and college majors. 
Like any organization, the Counseling Center admits limitations,.but these are overcome by maintaining cooperative relations with other services at Notre Dame. If one is having a particularly severe personal adjust­ment situation, he may be referred to the clinical staff of Psychological Services whose major concern is mental health. If a freshman finds himself par-· ticularly bothered by some classes, he may be sent to the Freshman Year Office. It is of note to realize that St. Mary's has its own counseling service, under the direction of Miss Mary Martucci, which works informally with Notre Dame's Center in providing the best possible service to the whole community. 
Perhaps the biggest challenge facing the Center is the ignorance of its function by those not familiar with the Center and the myth that only "nuts" could use the help offered. Rather, Dr. McCabe stresses . that the Center's strongest emphasis is on helping one cope with regular life situations normally. To do this, the Counseling Center is seeking ways to be more effective but it can only be so if the members of the immediate community are willing to inquire about and use the service when in need of such help. 
The Counseling Center does not presume to know all the answers or even all the questions, but neither is it there to fill up office space between 8 and 5 weekdays. It is not there to usurp the function of the hall rector but neither is it there to be ignored and forgotten. Its task is to help one cope with the difficulties of living and growing with himself and others, and, if possible, to prevent such human problems from being so prevalent. 
j. b. brooks 


analysis 



InPIRG 
Beginning Monday, February 14, approximately 80 1\1D-SMC students will be soliciting signatures for a petition calling for the institution of a $1.50 under­graduate fee. The students represent InPffiG ­Indiana Public Interest Research Group-and the money raised through the proposed fee would be used to finance their organization. 
The Indiana Public Interest Research Group is one of 20 statewide public interest organizations in the 
U.S. All are offsprings of a plan introduced and inspired by consumer advocate Ralph Nader in 1970. The purpose of the PffiG is to augment student activisr:::i in solving social problems by hiring public interest professionals such as lawyers, scientists, social workers, and engineers, to form a coalition with the young people. 
The entire plan and philosophy is outlined in the book, Action for a Change: A Student's Manual for Public Interest Organizing, co-authored by Ralph Nader and Donald Ross. 

"All student activities, whether academic, political, athletic, or extra-curricular, suffer from a lack of continuity," write the men. "Other groups suffer from the same problem, but with students it is especially severe. Their stay on campus is punctuated by summer vacations, midterm holidays, exams, papers, and concern with career plans. Seldom are they able to apply all of their efforts to the solution of a particular problem.... Students need the help of professionals in their social efforts. Professionals can bring not only their expertise--for example, their credentials to practice law in a court-but also the continuity of full-time work on the problems. A coalition of students and professionals can provide a workable vehicle for students to pursue their ideals and apply their talents." 
PffiGs in Oregon and Minnesota have already proven very successful. The same is now hoped for Indiana. The theory is not to organize just one college or university in a given state, but all of them. Thus, petition drives for the $1.50 semester fee will be conducted at Purdue, Indiana University, De Paul, Wabash, and others, as well as at Notre Dame-St. Marys. 

The entire sum of money, which would amount to over $200,000, will finance the state organization. A budget for a PffiG is detailed in Action for a Change. According to Nader and Ross, total annual operating expenses total approximately $205,000 including salaries for 10 professionals, secretarial and clerical employees, and student summer research projects. 
· The reasoning behind the $3.00 yearly undergrad­uate fee is that it is a dependable, no-risk, guaranteed source of funds, which makes it possible to hire (he professionals. The concept of raising money through more traditional means, such as contributions through dances and solicitations, was ruled out as the primary source of income. In order to insure the continuity and unity of effort that PffiG promotes, it is necessary to function on only a financial platform of economic stability. The semester fee insures this. 
The petition that will go into circulation Monday is the first step in establishing the financial base of InPffiG. If the response is favorable, the fee will be established and incorporated into the regular student billing system through the Director of Student Accounts. The same applies to the other colleges and universities involved in Indiana. Every student has the right to refund; no person can or will be forced to comply. 
As a public interest organization, InPffiG will concern itself with any issue concerning people: consumer affairs, corporate and government irrespon­sibility, health care, ecology, race and sex discrimina­tion, occupational health and safety, to name just a few areas of possible research. Working together, students and professionals will delve into various topics and take action where conceivable. Action is defined as confronting the party with the accumulated information, publishing the information, lobbying before courts, and ultimately filing suit in court. Once firmly established, the organization will be incorporated. 
The steering committee of the ND-SMC local chapter of InPffiG consists of Bill Rahner, John Bach­man, Dave Kusek, Tom Kelley, and Gary Nagel. Eventually they hope to develop a program with the University through which a student can earn credit for work done with the Group. They also hope to reach an agreement with the Law School and various graduate departments in order to attract graduate students. 
Hours of labor have already been put into the Indiana Public Interest Research Group, but that is no indication that the organization is really established. The "make it or break it" test is the petition. Asked what would happen if the students rejected the $3.00 yearly fee, Bill Rabner commented, "It could mean that the entire program would flop." -jim pierce 
Ralph Nader will be at Notre Dame next W ednes­
day to speak on Student Action; Stepan Center 
at 1:30 p.m. 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

MOR~lfJGS 1 HA""U;. GOl~ 00-rntBOS (Ak;RK I HAW.
10 WRf< r HATB. 





SOH~flf.-165 I fHILI!<... AfJD 11iBJJ I I AM HARRlW. RlHc~BeR .... 




the wars continue over 54,000 Americans are dead over 124,000 South Vietnamese are dead over 704,000 N.L.F. and North Vietnamese are dead Help with your actions and prayers  REAL LOVE AND CONCERN FOR GOD AND MAN, JOIN US IN OUR STRUGGLE AGAINST HUNGER, DISEASE, POVERTY AND IGNORANCE, AS WE SEEK TO BRING THE JUSTICE, FREEDOM AND PEACE OF CHRIST TO ALL MEN. THIS IS THE TASK OF THE DIVINE WORD MISSIONARY PRIEST AND BROTHER. TO KNOW MORE ABOUT US, WRITE: FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. 20D EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 Include your age, education, interests, address, etc.  

Louie's the fas test, the friendliest service the best, the most delicious pizza we would not kid you 744 N. Notre Dame Ave. 233-0380  

'~---~-­..~·~~ 
' t,. 
1 •• _~
·--~ .­
'~ :-,, r 

8 THE SCHOLASTIC 
technological education: 
a 
•


perspective and an interview 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
It is perhaps interesting to note, with all that one 
hears about the negative aspects of our "technological" 
society, that the College of Engineering has one of the 
smallest enrollments at Notre Dame. How many non­
science or non-engineering students really know what 
goes on in engineering school other than impressionistic 
notions about computers, slide rules and long lab hours? 
Unfortunately, the levels of specialization in the techno­
logical disciplines have removed the "art" itself from 
most discussion that is not unfairly negative or naively 
positive. Below are the comments of the Engineering 
College's Dean Hogan and a number of students of 
the college on their discipline from their point of view. 
Dr. Joseph Hogan, Dean of the College of Engi­neering, has, on several occasions, emphatically stated his belief that the engineering student receives the most liberal education on the undergraduate level. In a recent interview he also said, "In today's modern world, technology plays a very important role in just about every aspect of society. In engineering, about one-fourth of the work that an engineer takes is in humanities and social studies areas. In addition to that, of course, he has a lot of work in science and a lot in technology. Engineers study all of these areas and are, in fact, the only ones that have this requirement on the undergraduate level." 
The College of Engineering is revamping its pro­gram. Under the new program, beginning with the Class of '73, the engineering student will be required to obtain 128 credit hours for his degree. The old pro­gram, which graduates its last class this year, requires the student to complete 144 credit hours. After com­paring the new and old programs with the program that expired in 1960 and involved 160 hours for a degree, it is evident that considerable improvement has been realized by the College. The cuts (16 credit hours) were made where there existed redundancies in courses and where certain material was apparently extraneous. The student, in essence, receives the same education 
g 


without the pressure of a mm1mum eighteen credits per semester. The streamlining of the program is accom­panied by an increase in flexibility for the student in choosing, electives. The student is encouraged to make use of the opportunity to broaden himself. According" to Dean Hogan, "We try to spread it (the choice of electives) out so that a student is taking some liberal arts or humanistic social studies in each· semester." 
An argument posed..by the engineers against .the pure.liberal arts education is that the liberal arts major receives little or no technical training whereas the arts and letters work is exposed. 
The argument follows that since technology invari­ably affects everyone and unless some factual under-· standing of its pervasive importance is acquired, whether one believes in a technocracy or not, the stu­dent will not really be educated for the modern world. 
The College ·of Engineering is planning to offer the · · Arts and Letters ·student various courses which will relate to the position of a non-technician in a mech-· anized world. One course already available is "Man and His· Environment." 
One of ·the pitfalls that a student of · engineering may encounter is finding too specialized a par­
. ticular field. To prevent this from happening, the Col­lege of Engineering has adopted a "core" program which .insists .that every student take courses which are common to all students in each of the disciplines within the college. This gives the student greater :flexibility in a very tight job market. If the engineer is aware of a broader spectrum within the science of engineering, then he would be able to adapt more easily. 
At many schools, there exists a five-year co-op pro­gram which combines work and · study. When ques­tioned about his thoughts and preferences concerning the co-op program.versus the four-year program used 
by Notre Dame, Dr. Hogan responded that if a student 
·. would like to spread his undergraduate training beyond four years, then the :five-year co-op is very good be­cause the engineer also receives some related experi­ence in his work. The co-op is also a "great way to go" if financial considerations will not permit the student to attend school full time. All things considered, how­ever,. Dean Hogan believes that, if possible, the student should complete his training in the four-year program. When· judging t11e two programs, he says, "You should .not compare the students on the ·day. they graduate but five years after they enter college." Many times the student who is working in the profession -qnder the co-op program encounters experiences "which are frequently unrelated to what he is doing in college." Dr.· Hogan also states that people in industry tend to prefer the engineer from the four-year program with one year of professional experience instead of .the en­gineer who just graduated from 0the five-year program with. the work-study experience. The College of Engineering has been'working on an interesting interdisciplinary research program in con­junction with the College of Law. The project is con­cerned with delay in criminal court cases on a non­Federal level.· The Federal Government funded the project with a $191,000 grant. The engineers and lawyers worked closely together in order to build a model of how non-federal criminal court systems function. The next possible step for the engineering student is involvement in directing his · effort to activities such as InPIRG. Although little has been done at this time, Dr. Hogan expresses hope that such activity will become popular, thereby moving the interest of the student engineer to concerns outside the immediate Notre Dame community. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


an interview 
Scholastic: Is the choice of the four-year program then mostly one of expedience; time, expense, and so forth? Or do you often wish that you had more time to take other courses? 
Students: I would like to take other courses, but not at the expense of the technical courses. This is what I will be .doing all my life and I want to make sure I know something about it before I make my final commit­ment. The fields are so vast that you need all of that technical background just to get an idea what it is all about. I would like· to have more electives in· liberal arts, but you can't have both. 
There is more to it than just the pragmatic. The studies can also be aesthetically pleasing. To understand one concept you must understand something else, and every­thing starts building. 
Scholastic: The new program· which begins with the Class· of '73 does have 16 fewer hours. Where did they make the cuts? 
Students: Some arts and letters courses have been cut out, like the change in theology requirements, some two­semester courses have been compressed into one semes­ter, some labs have been cut out. What bothers me is not so much the load, but the specializing, the fact that everything is required in the engineering school. There is very little flexibility. Another point is that arts and letters kind of bars engineers. You can't get into CAP if you're an engineer, you can't go overseas if you're an engineer. There is no way that you can take O'Malley, or Duffy or Dunne if you're an engineer: They give priority to their arts and letters people so that puts us into an even· narrower field of things we might take: 
I would have to qualify what he has said. You can get into some of those courses. I am in Father Dunne's course now. 
Scholastic: ·Do you think that your· difficulty in admit­
. tance to Arts and Letters courses :is· the .fault of the Coll,ege of· Arts and Letters or·of the College of Engi­neering? 
Students: I think it is mostly-a problem with engin<:?er­
. ing: They want their kids ·to take just engineering courses: They don't encourage them to go out and take arts and-letters courses. • 
A lot of kids though don't want to play around with English courses or history courses. It:would be nice to drop a philosophy or theology course to take sbmeth~ng in general business because we will all be in the busi­ness world. 
The thing that you have to remember is that the Col­lege of Engineering is most interested in graduating confident engineers. 
I don't know. They started out requiring 156 ctedits in 1944 and now they are down to 128. It seems that they do things somewhat arbitrarily, doing the things that someone tells them to do. They often don't seem to have any good criteria. 
Scholastic: What about within the college, speaking about those courses you're most familiar ·with, have you found that they satisfy your needs to get along well with the teachers? Do they seem to understand what your problems are? Does the quality of the department seem to be good? 
Students: The strong point of the engineering program is the one-to-one relationship of the student and pro­fessor. I've never been denied the right to talk with any professor; you could always stop in and see them. I think this is more so in engineering than any other place, because with most other courses if the professor is going to be available at all he'll say, "Well, I'm going to be in my office for two hours this day and two hours this day," wherec;is engineering profs are in their offices all the time and you can just walk in. You don't have to ask if you can come over: you just come, at any time, with any questions. ­
~nether good point about the Engineering Department is .that a lot of our courses are smaller, not like fifty kids in a class, but more like twenty. 
Scholastic: Have you found in your thinking that you are trained to approach a problem in a certain way, for instance technically more research oriented or prac­tically oriented? 
Students: I wouldn't say it's so much research as the­ory. The general trend among most professors is to get a little more practical, you get thrown out into the world to make· a living, and unless you've got a book to check the theory you're lost. That complaint has been made a lot, and the explanation that you get most often is that once you get out of here you are going to be in practical situations all your life, so it's good for you to be exposed to the theory now. The majority of com­panies, once you go with them, are going to take you with the understanding more or less that you know nothing about the practical side or your field; you have the background to learn it. I have come to think that is what these four years of engineering are for: to teach you a way of thinking,· how to find things out, and to give you a general background. 
Scholastic: How do you look at the current ecological drive? You are set to go into the job market now. Has this affected your thinking at all? Has it made you think about different things? Just how do you feel about it? 

Students: It's come up more and more recently. Just seeing the things we discuss in class, I would have to say we are much more ecologically oriented. They've added some more courses like the Environmental Health. It's as obvious as it is anywhere else. It's slowly working its way up. 

Everyone is becoming more aware of it now, and in designing a new system, we have to be more aware of it. But, I think before someone you would classify as a good engineer has to be. He had to look at what he was doing, at what effects it would have. Maybe he didn't always consider what he was doing, for instance, in designing a nuclear power plant which would raise the temperature of a lake one degree, to be significant. But, he always has been concerned with what he was doing and how it would affect the environment. The problem is new to the engineer. He may know what is going to happen, but he would be told by the company to go ahead and ignore it because it would be too expensive to correct the problem. And it might be the managerial part of the company. The engineer is given a problem, and he is supposed to solve it. He doesn't present him­self with a problem; he's given a problem. He just fol­lows orders. 
Scholastic: You don't see that like a responsibility to 
the citizen, then? 
Students: I think it's his responsibility to let the com­pany know what the situation is. What else can he do? Quit his job and go somewhere else and find the same situation? 
I think there is a much greater sense of responsibility on the part of engineers just as there is a much greater sense of responsibility on the part of everybody. It's a question of national interest now. But as far as the engineer is concerned, I think there is a great deal of interest in just solving the problem of stopping pollu­tion and worrying about the problem of pollution. 
Scholastic: Is there anything anybody doesn't like about the College of Engineering? 
Students: We've got too many hard classes. I think the engineers have far more arts and letters courses than the arts and letters majors have technical courses. 
The engineer has an advantage in our society. Ours is a "how-oriented'' society, interested in technological advance. One thing I don't like about engineering stu­dents and professors at Notre Dame is that I don't think they have the open, the thinking mind that I notice in the liberal arts students and professors, who are asking why. They [the liberal arts students] are asking, should things be done this way? Is our society going in the right direction or should it be completely changed around? Does the direction of the University of Notre Dame need to be turned around? 
I personally look on engineering as some sort of game you play. You have this problem and your aim is to solve it. It's like a crossword puzzle. You can get so caught up in playing that game that you forget about everything else. It is sort of evil because your mind is directed in one way solving insignificant little games. Sometimes you don't even have time to sit down and think about other things. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Scho1astic: Do you think this problem would be alle­viated if you were allowed more flexibility in what courses you can take? 
Students: That depends on the person. For me, I am in­terested in engineering because that is what I am going to be doing, that is what my interest is. Sometimes you get into a Collegiate Seminar or a philosophy course and the people get into these big discussions about the intrinsic value of a book, which really doesn't interest me at all. Maybe the book is a work of art, but that doesn't interest me. An engineering course seems more worthwhile to me. 
Scholastic: You have said that you wish you had more time to sit down and think about things other than en­gineering. 
Students: I think it would be good if the student were given that option, given more flexibility. I also think it would be better if arts and letters students took more technical courses. 
The way our program is set up, if you want a good engi­neering degree there is no way you can get any ex­posure to anything else. 
I don't think there is any reason that engineering should be sacred. Science schools, business schools, and arts and letters schools have four-year programs that are flexible. I don't see why engineering should be held up as something where you need eight more courses in it to get a degree. I think a lot of my courses in engi­neering were repetitious and I could have been a more successful engineer by taking five fewer courses and substituting anything I wanted to. 
Scholastic: If they let engineers be in CAP what would your advantages be in that? 
Students: I guess the major advantage of it would be more flexibility. It would enable more engineers to get into courses that they wanted to get into. They'd let me take an engineering course on an independent study basis. That way I could listen to some lectures over in O'Shaughnessy that I'd rather listen to. 
That can be done though. 
Yes, but I wish it could be done as a standard engineer­ing program. It seems to me it could be integrated into the department. At least for students with 3.5 averages or above. 
Scholastic: It seems that the number of students going into engineering is declining. 
Students: That is because of the jobs. When we came in we were told that there were 60,000 jobs opening up every year for only 30,000 engineers. And now that just isn't so. 

FEBRUARY 11, 1972 

Another point is that a lot of people come in here think­ing they want to be engineers. Then they run into chemistry, calculus and physics and they find out they don't really want to be engineers after all. And now the drawing power of surplus jobs isn't there anymore and a lot of kids are dropping out. But with the engi­neers who are coming in a lot more are sta)'Plg with it. You don't have so many who are not sure. 
Besides the economic situation, I think there is another factor. A lot of people in high school are questioning priorities, and the big thing for America is no longer building spaceships. Another factor is that you come into contact with very few people in engineering while in high school. Most of the teachers are liberally edu­cated, arts and letters oriented. 


making prisoners of fa.cts 
-~~an interview 

Scholastic: In light of the recent Pentagon Papers inci­dent, to what extent do you·feel that docum.ents are overclassified or classified merely to protect someone and cover up· shoddy decision-making? 
Russo: I think that when you look at the entire range of classified documents, almost all of them could be made' public. There are just a very few. that are 'of a nature which would hinder national security. Most of them are classified .because presidents, politicians and bureaucrats· want· to. protect themselves by.doing thi!lgs in .secret. 
Scholastic: Could:you give an· example of _a d~cument 
that you, would_ ,keep classified. 
Russo:· During World War II; I would.keep ship mov~ ments, troop -deployments, and information ··of the 'size· of our forces classified, for example. You see,, I think that there i~ a: differeiice between secrecy ·arici discre­tion._ ,¥hen youikeep something secret·,~it's·like keeping a fact prisoner:. When you are discreet with this fact you use judgment in disseminating it.. That really is the ~ssence of diplomacy and _the essence·. of the ·art of politics; to use judgment' in disseminating information. For-the most part information in·the U.S. iovernment has been sentenced to life imprisonment. 
Scholastic: One last question: how·would you respond to the charge that the Pentagon Papers were useless because the Papers were in large part continge~cy plans, and that· contingency plans have been drawn up for virtually every possibility? . ·" 
Russo:-That's not true at all. The papers· are for the_ most part a· history of what actually went· on .. When they refer to contingency plans they simply refer· to contingency plans per se; without going into the details · of the -plans. Besides, !t is a matter of . record that when you go·to the trouble of planning big operations and big moves, you are to a great exterit issuing a.self­fulfilling. prophecy. When a contingE:ncy plan is ·made 
you increase the likelihood that it will happen.. 
Scholastic: Do you !~l that Mr. Buckley's_-con~ge11:_cy. plan, published in ·the ·National_ Review, was.,not rele­vant? · · · 
Russo: -I feel_that it was· very.foolish·and._quite -in keep­ing with • Mr. Buckley's character. 
Scholastic: ·What do you think of the way the New York Times handled the publicat!ori_ of the·document~? I understand th~t Mr._ Ellsburg was somewhat critical of the reporting._· 
R!-}SSO: They-,held" back.publication,_oi ninety percent of them and I am very critical of that: That puts them in the. sam~ .position· as the U.S. government.. They are still withhoiding documents··· frorri the American people.: They 's?o.i.ild publish them·~~ , , 
---~
:-~ 

Scholastic: What about the book version of the docu­ments that the Times· published? 
Russo:· That amountecl to ~bout -ten percent of the documents. · I would recommend the Beacon Editiori, known as the Senator Gravell Edition which has the entire set of the _Pentagon Papers. It would take a great deal of time to read the entire set, but I would · recommend that people just buy the set, read any page 
at random and they will find a scandal. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
. ' 

--• e C --, 
< C -• '.'. -• • -~ ~ •
--':. ' --_. ~-' ~ -­
. --.
. . 

~ --' -~ < -• -· --••-• • • 
1 ' ' •• -, :· • -· '. < • -• ­

·_::·_. -_,":,":,~.!-: ' --. ~ --_ '~ _.,. -. --_~. 
,--. ' --'. ' ----­
. . . 


perspectives 

a con,n,unity of.speech 



---farley hall 
The following proposal has been made by· the Far­Realizing that the present system for selecting ley Hall Constitutional Revision Committee. The SCHO­rooms each year encourages the principle of selection LASTIC believes that the _proposal deserves campus-wide to consist of considerations such as plumbing, we pro­discussion. Since many people on campus have not pose that people who wish to live. together be permitted experienced seminars as this essay understands them,, it and encouraged to do so. Such groups or neighborlwods is important not to read but to talk about the subject will natu~ally have. their own· particular character and 'lnatter of the essay. Such a conversation could become will be encouraged to live . accordingly_ bounded by the a nwdel of this type of seminar. good· order' of ·the hail.and university guidelines. It has 
been.our experience that to say the whole hall forms a 
Bad times seem to be associated with serious reflec­· community is ·a meaningless statement. Living among 
tion. Such ~as the case of a Greek . whose Imperial us are men · who possibly. cannot -love and others who 
city had ceased to shine and whose courts had .just are not interested in loving their. fellow students: In 
condemned, his best .friend. · This man thought and fa~t, there are many men among us, who due to merely · 
wrote dialogues. The rumors, perhaps totally un­the physical -layout of the hall; ·do not, know many of 
founded; that Farley would be the hall converted into · their fellow residents. Of course, there are the limita­
a women's residence sparked a_· co_mmon, reflective tions o,f hunia11 nature: .Yet, we.know from our experi­
process about the way we .live together. For' us, now, ence.that ·smaller groups· within,_the hall can.live to-. 
it is a conscious problem. ·Carpe Diem, that ignoble getlie_r_ as a·-com:rnunity iri: the sense_ that ·they care for 
phrase, ha~ been. exposed in all the starkness of its and indeed love ··one . another in ·the. Christian sense . 
isolated, loriely. way. We are-to ·,some extent-and .This is. t~::be:: encciur~ged,:'_th~o!,igh_ 'tlie formation of 
desire to be together in a more conjoined manner; in · neigh~>orhoods; · · · ·> . · · . · ::: .. • ·. · · . fact, a-way which shines. . . Realizing that. politics ·and, government refer not · . Reali.zing _that:·our_ life togeth~r revolves not merely 
only to a particular distribution of.:offices but also to a .. around : convenience, and desiring some broader goal 
way of life, .and ·that far_ too ofteri too' much attention ·. ~which· is not adequately formulated as a community of 
is paid to the·former at the expense of the latter, we, active. love, we propose to ~elebrate our togetherness 
the students of Farley Hall/_ after serio'us reflection and .. in a major way-excluding considerations of common 
conversati_cm establish ,the . following as the _way·. we . 'recreational· activity which ·must and should coritinue­
envision. by}orming a community of speech: Such a celebration 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


and community of speech is to be formed by holding basis. Naturally, they will rely upon the testimony of various seminars within the hall; comprising only others who have shared their problem-·they will read members of the hall. Qualified staff will conduct these books. In other words, we will have seminars within seminars. Suggested seminars are: Freshmar(English the hall. There are other questions which could be Seminar and the Freshman Colloquium, Sophomore-considered such as what is .education and what are English, Theology, and.Philosophy, Collegiate Seminar­we doing here? If it.is of little significance that men and Senior Theology, and Philosophy. The Rector-and -can graduate from an institution of higher learning. Assistant Rector will lead the Theology and Philosophy without even knowing why they were there in the first Seminars while the Resident Assistants will lead Fresh­place or even being in a suitable position to ask such man Seminar and Collegiate Seminar. Of course, these a question. Another question will naturally arise-and men wiff have to be qualified in their respective areas. hence be a real and personal one-due to the division Seniors in the hall will lead the Freshman Colloquium. _ of the hall into neighborhoods. Since there will be These seminars, within the limits established by their groups of. men leading, within limits, different lives, respective_ departments, will focus on several questions. the question of how one should live naturally arises in The foremost question among these is. what does it an immediate, tangible way. These are some of the mean _to be a man? .The next question which naturally questions we must ask each other. arises -from: •the first. is how do men act or what do • men do? . The third and perhaps the most important These goals, if realized, promise to enrich our edu­question-is how do men live together? Of course, this cational · experience. To fact, education .in the sense precludes a certain view of the function of a seminar. · that we use the term promises to mark us. Men of The seminars, as we envision them, will be comprised · Farley in ·the .future will be known by the questions o~ students in·.the hall bound together not by accident they. ask and their awareness of many of the core prob­of alphabet or w~im of the computer, but by awareness lems of -life~ .To fact, men of_Farley will be marked of. their_ common · problem and their.wonderings about by -the seemingly · simple· knowledge that such core it.. There will be, of course, one.among them ·who has·: questions must be asked of other men. Such men will 
'been wondering about the same thing except for perhaps · be not only reflective but also es~entially engaged with . a'longer time; in o_ther words,.there wHl be a teacher­other men. The model ·of the. whole process consists a student in disguise. They will meet to discuss, ~larify of seniors talking fo freshmen, regularly about serious, and possibly even solve .their ·problem on a regular common things. 
FEBRUARY.11, 1972 
perspectives 





the possun, papers 
For all the complexity of his mind., ·he was fundamen­tally simple., with regard for ·his acquaintance and a dee'[) affection for his friends. . . . By his being he com­m.anded respect; by his response to one's own being he. nurtured the profoundest and rrwst lasting affection. 
-Bonamy Dobree., 
"T. S. Eliot: A Personal Reminiscence." 
Eliot the 'J)Oet cannot challenge and disconcert us.as he should., until Bliot the m.an is made to emerge from the shadows amid which he concealed hirnself. 
-reviewer, Times Literary Supplement, 
December 10, 1911. 
One could, of course, say similar things about Swift or Johnson. Mutato nomine, ·de te fabular. narratur; strange, that the same personality should lend itself to purposes so glaringly opposed. But who, for the ·sake of an argument, was Eliot? When did he exist? 
Others abide these questions. The mature·Eliot was free, or gives· increasing impression· in his poems of having become so. Not for Eliot the prison of self; not after the early emotional disorder, "the Lausanne spe­cialist," the retreat to a fashionable seaside resort­
· On Margate Sands. I can connect · Nothing with nothing. 
This experience, it appears, was crucial. Ash-Wednesday suggests, almost establishes, that Eliot. was familiar with the night, and found the self there to be a profane· and liberal counsellor. Among us, however, we count those who would-perhaps by grinding articles from numerous professional journals into a fine dry powder and sprinkling them on the poet's grave-in effect sub­poena the unpleasant Mr. Eliot to testify against him­self, under the bold stare of an academic justice that elucidates and explains all mysteries. (We can collate these selves, formulate them, make them sprawl on a pin.) To be the Dante of one's age is to be f~tally in­teresting. · 

---john garvick 
But Eliot's reputation has been somewhat en baisse ·in the universities. Notre Dame, on the other hand, has · recently witnessed some mild stirrings of interest in. his 
work; an odd business given the times, for Eliot valued order in other than strictly personal and political terms. Now, his· earliest plans for. wresting the, soul from the · dilemma of· self and mob, plans long since exposed. in the ·journals, are laid barer still in a new book from 
Harcourt 13race Jovanovich edited by Valerie Eliot. 

· Valerie Eliot, secretary. and second wife to the poet, 
executrix of his estate, proves adequate to a hard job: 
the facsimile and transcript of ·the original drafts of 
The Waste Land., including the annotations of Ezra 
Pound, represent one of the mostimportant literary dis­
coveries· of the present century, and have the power to 
disarrange the entire Eliot mystique. Speculated about 
for years, thought by many not to exist, the vanished 
drafts grew• into a modern legend; their "occultation," 
as Pound says in a. brief preface to the texts, "is pure 
Henry James." We smile, of course, and think of The 
Aspern Papers; at any rate we have Mrs. Eliot's busi­
nesslike explanation of how the drafts were recovered. 
· ·Here then are the Possum Papers. We learn from 
them in many respects: they give us much better in­
sights than we deserve into the creative process of a 
great poem; they give us painfully sharp ideas of a 
poet's personal hell; they inspire significant moral con­
troversy, because the current critical claims abou~ 
Eliot's human incapacity, "the general dysfunction of 
humane values," are served here to the last misogynist 
peccadillo. But most pointedly, I think, they make it im­
possible f9r us to misunderstand the nature and value of 
fragments shored against ruins. 

That the original title of The Waste Land was He· 
Do the Police in Different Voices, is clear from the first 
page of typescript reproduced by ·Mrs.· Eliot. Should this 
amaze, there are further surprises at once, because the. 
original first section offers fifty-five lines of apprentice 
satire: , 
THE BURIAL OF THE DEAD. 
First,we had·a couple of feelers down at 
Tom's place, 

THE SCHOLASTIC 
There:~as old Toni, boiled to the eyes, blind, (Don't you remember that time after a dance, Tops hats and all, we and Silk Hat Harry, 
--And old Tom took us behind, brought out a bottle of fizz, With old Jane, Tom's wife; and we got Joe 
to sing "I'm proud of all the Irish blood that's in me, "There's not a man can say a word agin me").... 

Here_ is an Eliot coming too close. (In draft, the poem is generally much more constrained py emotional in­volvement, by the particulars of space and time, than it ­is in the final version. The dues:-paying passages struggle grimly toward what Eliot calls, in "Tradition and the Individual Talent," the impersonal emotion of art.· A re­reading of that essay can inform the experience of studying the drafts.) But one turns to the next page, and finds a second passage, headed "2": 
April is the cruellest month, breeding Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing Memory and desire, stirring Dull roots with spring rain. Winter kept us warm.... 

This-is more in Eliot's style. The disparity between the two beginnings is as great as any in the world, and thus the typescript of the false start is simply_ cancelled in Eliot's hand with a few decisive pencil strokes. 
Soon we encounter the marginalia of Ezra Pound. These mostly show an assured judgment at work, help­ing Eliot weave the sonic tapestry of the poem. The sum of Pound's contributions gives evidence that he is no less than: the editor of The Waste Land; Pound played Perkins, in other words, to Eliot's Wolfe. 
And yet there is hardly anything in the set of drafts that could be confused with Pound's own meter and poetry. The Waste Land, let the papers prove, is Eliot's poem. Some . of the right words, · though,-come from Pound-"demotic" _as a rriore precise term for Mr. Eugenides' o~erwise "abominable" French, and, what is more vital, the expression "demobbed" to improve Eliot's verse, . 
· When Lil's husband was ·coming back out of the · Transport Corps. 

Sometimes Eliot decides not to follow Poun_d's sug­gestions. Pound used a disparaging term, "photogra: phy," to describe the passage beginning "My nerves are bad tonight. Yes, bad. Stay with ine," and made a similar remark against 
-·.: 'Are ·you alive; or not? Is there. nothing in your head?' 
But instead, the actual revolution that Eliot effects in · poetic diction-following the example of such innovators as Dryden and Browning, who employ a selection of language really used by men-is allowed to develop . freely, and the language of cockney speech we are given in·the Lil and Albert section finds its upper-middle class counterpart just as it should. Here, as a result, Eliot's 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
own sense of structure emerges, weighing and balancing. ­
To dwell for a moment on the potentially notorious, there appear a few scatological passages in the drafts that Eliot and Pound decided, not unhappily, to strike. 

. There is one in particular from a long section of pen­tameter couplets, after Pope, and a related passage which establishes the young man carbuncular as a beastly fellow indeed: "probaly [sic] over the mark," Pound wrote in advising deletion of the errant verses. Critics hostile to Eliot's general view of man will profit 
from these sections, which in any case recall Juvenal and sometimes read like a Rape of the Lock composed by a misfiring Swift. 
Mr. Peter du Sautoy, Chairman of Faber and Faber, Ltd., states ·in a recent letter to the Times Literary Supplement that he hopes "there will one day be a full­scale authorized biography in spite of Eliot's wish to the contrary" ; he adds, "there will certainly be a very full collection of letters publi~hed." The autobiographi­cal implications of The Waste Land drafts ought to be served_thereby; in the meantime, we can get on quite well by honoring the letter and spirit of a certain me­morial tribute: 
Am I to write <about' the poet Thamas Stearns Eliot? or my friend 'the Possum"! Let him re_st in peace. I can only repeat, but with the urgency of 50 years ago: READ HIM. 
-E.P. 


Known for his incisive juxtapositionings of Anthony Burgess, T. S. Elliot and Fidel Castro, Mr. John D. Garvick is an Assistant Professor in the Department of English. 





T-REX 
electric warrior 
The album cover gives it away completely. There's this picture of Marc Bolan, all five-feet-four of him barely clearing his amp, banging out those bouncy be-bop chords. 
To elucidate, Marc Bolan, guitarist and composer for T. Rex, is an elf, androgyny, not of this world, or all of these. Moreover he is a poet, and not just because his lyrics happen to read well. It might be more correct to say that his poems sing well. We all know who he's talking about when he writes: 
0 Girl Electric witch you are Limp in society's ditch you are Visually fine 0 yes you are But mentally dying. 

And the metaphors get weirder all the time. Witness this stanza from "Jeepster": 
Just like a car 
You're pleasing to behold 
I'll call you Jaguar 
.If I may be so bold 

But lyrics alone don't make good composition; the music, as well as the lyrics, is Bolan's vehicle. T. Rex moves with a simple, shuffling. rhythm and an almost uncanny ability to make it work time and again. A song like "Get It On" is sweet and sexy; classic rock and roll. It's positively contagious. 
This isn't· meant to imply that the band isn't versatile. Quite the opposite is true. This is their first electric album since the ·big switch. When you consider that they had something like four straight num~er one's in England the change becomes even more significant. Not many groups have the necessary talent and guts to pull off such a switch. 
Still, if You're a purist, this· .album won't disappoint you. The band. rolls rather. "than rocks, having. retained much of the soft, melodic. quality from its acoustic days~_ The s<;mnd isn't as dense as that of other bands but it never.fails to. get you ·off. 
-casey pocius 
.....~ 
i~ 
. . , 
P· . 

9/10 
of the law-
America., Inc.; Who Owns and Operates the United States. Morton Mintz & Jerry Cohen. Introduction by Ralph Nader; Dial Press, $10.00. 
The masters of the government of the United States 
are the combined capitalists and rnanufacturers of the 
United States. It is written on every intimate page of 
the records of Congress., it is written through the his­
tory of conferences at the White House., that the sug­
gestions of economic policy come from one source., not 
many sources. 
Woodrow Wilson 

Anyone who has bothered to think about the present state of our economy or to trace any political dilemma back to its economic synapses must surely respect the wisdom of these words. Morton Mintz, an i_nvestigative reporter for the Washington Post., and Jerry Cohen, former chief counsel and staff director of the Senate Anti-Trust and Monopoly Subcommittee, have given us a study that combines exhaustiye research with intelli­gent, often amusing, analysis. The result is a fine balance between scholarship and readability, on a topic that begs for excesses on either side, and the achievement is singular. 
Before any consideration of the specifics of America., Inc . ., it is necessary to mention what the book is and what it is not. It is a thoroughly documented investiga­tion into the abuse of corporate responsibility and the non-use of legitimate power. It is an indictment of eco­nomic theories, such as countervailing po~1ers and eco­nomic pluralism, that premise "self-correcting mecha­nisms" inherent in man's economic behavior. From Nader's introduction: 
These depredations are part of a raging corporate radicalism which generates technological violence, undermines the integrity of government, breaks laws, blocks needed reforms, and repudiat~s a quality-competitive system with substantial con­sumer sovereignty. If radicalism is defined as a force against basic value systems of a society, then the corporate state is the chief protagonist. 
This last remark implies what the book is not It is not a '~New Left" reader, and its implications, if studied seriously, are anything but "liberal" in the proper sense of the word. America., Inc. is reformist and anti-Social­ist, arguing with traditional capitalist elan that a sys­tem of free enterprise, truly free enterprise, that is qual­ity competitive and not corporately managed, is the most conducive to democratic change and the most li­able to foster the expression of individual freedoms. Sound like Milton Friedman? Well, except for the hard­headed insistence on truly free enterprise, it does. Be­cause, for Mintz and Cohen, enterprise in this country is neither "free" nor anything remotely resembling "qual­ity competitive." It is, by and large, a system of "private socialism" and the conservative faith in t~e "benign nature of business" only obfuscates this fact~ In short, one must have free markets before one can spealc in­telligently of a "free market analysis." But Mintz and Cohen are as adamantly opposed to the state that func­tions as a giant corporation as they are to the giant cor­porations that function as a state. 
Operating on the assumption that there is no auto­matic correlation between "bigness" and efficiency and that "concentrated political power, no matter in whose hands, weakens and may destroy democratic institu­tions," Mintz and Cohen set out to analyze the criminal negligence and oftentimes ludicrous ineptitude of the so-called "giants of industry." Rather than catalogue the most salient abuses I will simply note a few of the more characteristic as they trace America., Inc.'s larger concerns. 
Does modern technology necessitate corporate giant­ism? Both John Galbraith and James Roche, chairman of the board of General Motors, would argue that it does. The facts, though, as Mintz and Cohen see them, would indicate otherwise. By reducing work-hours, devices such as the computer should be a boon to smaller manu­facturers. They should be the "great equalizer" and not a force toward greater concentration. 
Objection: "Well, though the possession of techno­logical facilities may not, the development of improved facilities does require corporation-sized capital, isn't that right?" Wrong again. Giant corporations have a tendency to balk at creative research. Take, for example, the jet engine, which was developed by two independent inventors who could find no funds or no interest at established aircraft firms. Or the airplane itself, or the 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
vacuum tube, or the self-winding watch, or air-condi­
tioning, all of which were invented and developed with­
out the aid of the "giant." What we now know as 
Kodachrome was discovered by two musicians working 
in their kitchen sink between concerts. Why? Super­
corporations with billions of dollars invested in an in­
dustry invariably have a good percentage of that money 
tied up in methods of production. Hence, they are usu­
ally reluctant to admit changes that would substan­
tially alter those methods and necessitate new capital 
outlay. Chrysler's failure to market a relatively pollu­
tion-free gas turbine engine despite the fact that its 
engineers had developed such an engine as early as 
1954 is a good case in point. The major· auto industries 
chose instead to improve auto engines by increasing the 
compression ratio because such an "improvement" 
would minimize alterations in method. Higher compres­
sion necessitates gasolines with higher octane, more 
lead and more pollutants. 
In fact, according to economist John Blair, eco­

nomic concentration is most likely to occur in industries 
where the tehnological advance can be held to a mini­
mum, such as the food industry. Here competition can 
be eliminated not by better quality or lower priced 
products but by expensive advertising campaigns, se­
cured at the lower rates which television and radio net­
works have so obligingly made available to their "big­
gest customers." These paralegal and sometimes ·illegal 
fringe benefits, rather than "profits" per se, are the 
prime motivating factors in the drive towards economic 
concentration and must, therefore, bear much of the 
responsibility for the subsequent abdication from cor­
porate responsibility. Indeed, the term "corporate re­
sponsibility" may be a misnomer. It is peculiar to _capi­
talist countries that they tend to see corporations as an 
organic unity capable of experiencing values and liable 
to such virtues as responsibility. This philosophy ex­
plains the government's disinclination· to charge the 
executives responsible .for their corporation's criminal 
behavior. The corporation, as a collective entity, is no 
more capable of. being responsible than the state is of 
loving. 
But there are profits, in terms of tax privileges and stock value, atta~hed to.the very process of merging­profits, I might add, that are entirely within the power and scope of the government to regulate. A "good" ac­countant can take two poorly managed firms, combin_e them, and report their earnings in such _a way as to trick big investors into · giving the conglomerate a higher "earnings ratio" than it should have. Meanwhile, .these corporations razzle-dazzle the public with useless style changes and fix prices in order to eliminate com­petition. As Mintz and Cohen observe, "pricing decisions within an industry may be directed not in the individual boardrooms of the'competing corporations, but from the single boardroom of one bank." Is this not conspiracy? 
And how has the federal government responded to this crisis? For the most part it has encouraged and reinforced corporate expansion, making it lucrative for companies, in effect, to steal from the public. According to the editors of the Antitrust Law and Economics Re­view., "anywhere from $174 to $231 billion consumers spend each year may buy no product value." ~ $3,000 minimum income for all families in the United States 
would cost $11 billion per annum. In _1969 we spent $27 billion on the war in Vietnam. "Crime in the suites," as Mintz and Cohen call it, is far more costly to the Ameri­can public than crime in the streets, and the government "coddles" economic criminals rather than political pris­oners. The same Congress that refused to initiate a food stamp program to feed hungry children granted $199.5 million in subsidies to corporate shipbuilders. The same corporate farmers who decry "handout" health benefits to migrant workers accept unparalleled handout subsi­dies from the federal government. Due, in part, to the oil industry's campaign "contributions" and, in part, to the number of senators with oil holdings ( e.g., Russell Long), the government has seen fit to allow oil com­panies to pay taxes at 8% instead of the usual 40% and to benefit from an import quota system that, according to former Labor Secretary George P. Schultz, costs the American public over $5 billion each year. As Mintz and Cohen are quick to point out, corporate campaign "con­tributions" are not contributions at all but investments in the future. 
Many of these corporate dealings present a clear and present danger to this country's ability to decide crucial matters because they, in fact, exercise control over the dissemination of information about those matters. Take, for example, the Radio Corporation of America, which owns the National Broadcasting Company. RCA is also one of the country's leading defense contractors. Could this vested interest influence tlie way NBC news pro­grams present, say, the debate · over military expendi­tures? The question is·not "do" _but "could" they and the distinction is crucial to America, Inc.'s basic argu­ment. For the law is not, primarily, a system for punish­ing offenders ariy more than . freedom is merely the negative measure of tyranny. Rather, law in a demo­cratic society is_ aimed at minimizing the potential for abuse and,· as such, concerns itself not with heroes and criminals but with-ordinary men. 
What do we say, then, fo oif companies that gobble up holdings in the coal industry? Or to television sta­tions and newspapers that buy up CATV franchises? When the Avco Co~poration uses one of its many sub­sidiaries to buy television and radio stations in Cincin­nati and San Antonio, television stations in Columbus and Dayton and Indianapolis, and radio stations in San Francisco and Washington, D.C., while at the same time receiving $500 million a year in defense contracts does a conflict of interests arise? Does a potential for abuse exist? Who's kidding whom, Spiro Agnew? The point to be recognized here is that while an individual may pos­sess rights, such as the right to private property, the government has the responsibiiity to limit the exercise of these rights so far as they degradate the com­monality of a society by infringing on the rights of other persons. The same people who would argue against unlimited freedom of speech scream "Communist" at those who would put a limit on the accumulation of wealth, when the distinction between "possession" and "exercise" is clearly more relevant to the latter. What William F. Buckley writes in the National Review in no way prohibits me from writing what I wish to write here. But when H. Lamar Hunt makes another million next week that is one million dollars that John Smith cannot make. 

THE SCHOLASTIC. 

Mintz and Cohen recommend, first of all, that cor­porations be chartered by the Federal ·Government in­stead of by the State: This recommendation is by no means new. It goes all the way back to Alexander Hamilton and the debate over the chartering of the 
U.S. Bank. Federal charters would allow for a uniform code that could limit business activities and stimulate competition. Delaware, a state justly notorious for its love affair with corporations, allows corporate officials to be reimbursed by their own companies for criminal 
·fines. 
The authors also recommend a limited number of 
"government owned enterprises to provide the services 
that any society purporting to be rational and humane 
must provide." Private industry; of course, would be en­
couraged to compete with these companies. The TV A is_ 
a prime example of a government-owned business that 
has stimulated competition while still managing to make 
a profit. 
Regulatory agencies that really are "regulatory" would be another step in the right direction. This is not an unreasonable demand. It would mean, for example, a Food and Drug Administration whose ex-members would not so consistently pop up as vice-presidents of Parke, Davis & Company. It would mean an agency whose members had the integrity and courage to de­termine what is a "natural monopoly" and what is not. 
American Telephone & Telegraph, for example, may well be a "natural monopoly." But AT&T's insistence that only Western Electric phones be used on their lines is surely unnatural. Needless to say, AT&T owns West­ern Electric in toto. 
If there is one underlying principle to be culled from America., Inc.'s research, it is that, given time, economic power invariably translates into political power. One must exercise political power to clean up economic abuses and that is quite a task when one cannot separate the politicians from the businessmen. For these reasons, Mintz and Cohen's recommendations for financing po­litical campaigns deserve special attention. The authors would have us adopt the British system whereby no candidate or party may buy television time or adver­tising. Instead, each major party is allotted a given number of free television spots to be used for political purposes. Under the Americ~n system as it exists today, political office is secured by those candidates who most successfully indenture themselves to private interests. Mintz and Cohen would eliminate altogether the use or acceptance of money from private sources. Ifthere is one thing this country can afford it is money to improve the electoral process. And, in fact, without such a sys­
tem  Mintz and Cohen's proposals are no  more  than  
wishful thinking.  
dan 07 donnell  

TEXTILES la\111.,.-..DJ"""'I ~IIIIUS. S-...,. Pleo.-.,_..., ~ 11-U __,,,_ • ..,. ......,_raanc, L()Jt$DALl'.C0_~...... ~ ~•-.c.~.,..1-..ado"I-... IIIMC""'9 --­UAAYll.l.£ Jl,.C"-U C0""­W-wt. l'l.1-1k5 eoc..-,,.._,__ .........._, ,aa,nn, ..,­.......,"'='~~f~~o__,_lft,111_.,__ .....,....,,__,.......__ __ ,­"°8$11'11S UlW INC:, H..fl----"'__ ,..._ H 'I'"----•-...... ,,'~ ,~-INDUSTRIAL BATTING f~JltlrMNUfACTUl'IIINGCO SC...'-"'Mo~IIU ........... w-. ~NA8Al:(l.l,.GCO......,.,_,,.c.,~,_.. ....,.._,...,.,..__.._...., ..,....,..,..,..,.__ 0.,.1-.tl'l-el 111..TIOftAL 1-UTOUOT1VC h911tS. lfliC o.~c-.. ,,m~pad-k!tt,,.. __....  ACQUISITIONS OF INDUSTRIAL FASTENERS CAYCAIISC.llfw&u.uwfM:1'1J"'"'a CCft•-"""'•to,,a.lll.J~,__..,.,___._1M!tt11 8001S AUIC!Un "'"' ~OV -•C:--ttolQ Lo(lll.,tl_..,'­I AMfJl;ICAJlf SCMW CD -...-.c-.,.i _... ,...-..._.,...I fU9Ul.Allt -.'IICT a $1'\IO co...,_ .....,,,.1~­J BOSllftff~.,__,. IIIIC -(nl~oeflltllt....___ l H,11-ILUAJIIUfACTURI~ IIIC; s..._ a--, Cal".,,....._ IRON AND STEEL CASTINGS (;.lM'"llflLWYAJIIT&CA,ol,l(llf fOVNOl'l'fC0.-..,.._11,dl, ltk...___.,.., ___G••r ---_,..,..,.... c--,.ta, ­~.. ----­l'ITl!IIUIIIOH snu fOUNOl'n' c:011.. Gin--. Pe tMt S-l•d011o1cn1.,... fUCTIIONIC Jt(Sf:.t.JICH CO11.....,..c,,i,u. IMO (I«;~~~ ·­cr,v.i,,e1.,.. _.._ ,,_, __ ..,_·-­CHAINSAWSI ,._.. _,___.. At.COPII00UCl5• HOUIUU: CQIIIP_ POOi~ H 'r IN ,.....,..,._,.., t,O ---,~~~---........ -...:_.... ~­C0U(QE l'flU UIDUSfRIIS•-<• A.1.,... ,..._ c~'­_.,_""' -·-... """''-.0 ,,.._....,=-=.=:".::i;;::::__. __,.._"' MEASURING INSTRUMENTSI U.(CUI0Ctu.FT Ii.IC. t>,c:aq9.-t•~t.,. PMCl.Uf: IIOIJICO lflC .,..,._...._C-,IMI~-toe•• ::-..:::-...::....~oo:. ~ "'°4JllTCNICS (Hll:~SlS. l11C.. -..~----•.-­""-•"""-HQ =......."for_,,,_ RESEARCH OPTICAL . INSTRUMENTS SHIJIICJrfOf"flCAt.CO ~ 0.-..."'"·'"'......,..,__~-­FITTINGS AND =--"--"-PMS­PRESSURE VALVES ;:.,!.:!.."'::.~~ II-s-._..,..___.__...._ . I litOO(NrolOll'TICS.lNC. 11,.ltilt.. l..Cln~C,ol,t.,..=-...,.-c__ I-....Tea.,n,n L......_otlt>col cONTI"'UlfAI. CWUC-'L. CO 1-.,.,...!0ld.nA ~..-,c-•-­ TEXTRON, INC. 1843-1968 CONGLOMERATE DIE CASTINGS ELECTRICAL OAT BUILDING AN TRANSMISSIONl Jl'tAfYA..UfAC:f\,ltlluroGc;OM" MARINE HARDWARE ~•c.14.~ EQUIPMENT ,...,,_-c--,. METAL STAMPINGS BROADCASTINGI n••TftitnAlS~f_.., _________ .,,.,..._..,., ttU EQUIPMENT --u.c-o..o-e1 (lQ.I• ••u,Ofll.t4 ••"" co 11... ,•• -METAL PIPE AND TUBING ---­l a.o,.tu. T\181 C:O l1'1C.h...,._ una..•NO PAINTS FURNITURE--­(_,.l TOOi..,_$ ""0 LAll.fVIIW I VllAV""'COV -­11,1 t11U 11 O AattESt:;'~­I,o..ca-co..r-.-. • ..s -1--.i~.-.:t.........c,~ --~-;._,__: v.. ttQ • ~--.....,,_,..... nooo~~.!!"'~.t.CTU111ftC. ~;:.r::,_ ~-_..,...c-¦­-·­., tNe BATHROOM ,,_ _..,...._...._o--., ·-----...,._,.,,_. __,..FIXTURES "ll.PCMIJICO,.s,._,._,_,,_ NJ I ou-..---.i,,cn,.,cco­'-'-·-=------' ,..,..__ BEARINGS UNDERWATER METAL WORKING :=I====..-=.:::,..:::_..=="'====~,_.._C:-._1118 EXPLORATION MACHINERY ~---......... IGU\/11,DIHU,.1.TD,,,,__ ----­__ "'"I..,c_o.t~ ~,t,llll.(1158UIIIGJ.tTN,II~ __..,,.,_lPN0SIQooMtfl0005......0IU.CMIJO(S..___, c-IN l ,........_...__,._.__... P..-.,wv.,i-,......, __...,.,.....,_ __.,.._.,..__... _-AGROCHEMICALS MACHINE TOOLS ..uaeu.,, , ... ,.u ~,• U-'Cl<tllt( CO •--· C-. "511c.,t.llo-­-~ -­-~----­~,:::_:::;:::.,:::..,:::••:::...:::....,..:;;::::::I POULTRY FARMING -.SSOC,"'flOOIS-.0,.,_ ~ 1~·.:.:.~~t~•~ I ____ t,u~----­PLASTIC PRODUCTS I °"""'"' """'-m ,..... ,,c.....____.,_ I FOUNDRY SUPPLIES ABRASIVE PRODUCTSMOTOR VEHICLE PARTS AND ACCESSORIES I ~U(TM.,I.U\ASl'IIW.COa...,-.oi,..,ws VAlltflOJIMJUIINOUST,-U,....,......,.,__ """ ~---........I "Lr-O.SMNQ&so,,i •-=­----0,:-­,.__ ,..,,Mr \MUD"OU,o,tH(CQa..._._,..._ttlG. I~.-...---..-,.ctt.lc,------"'-....­ SHOES STORM DOORS N-.....D,tt,,,u,,........,..~C.Oa.,..,011ioe.,..s-------..._._...._ GOLF CARTS DISTRIBUTORS ..C.....,WSUJll,lfolC,-----,,.,.I--­IOIMJIO sc,JUS a. CO._.. _ 1 --­OTHER I ~~--=~-ac:o. ---,..........,,...,_..a.-.....-.~ ....  

FEBRUARY_ 11, 1972 
de sica's genteel malaise 
The Garden of the Finzi-Continis does not dazzle us as some critics would have. It merely creeps under our skin and settles there, an unobtrusive guest. But such guests it is known, are the _most dangerous. As the aristocratic fa!IlilY of Italian Jews whose name gives the title, we are lulled into a comfortable sense of the in­violability of their wealth. The shadow of a _coming Fascist Italy does not terrify us; it seems merely gro­tesque and graceless._ We come to judge politics in ­aesthetic terms. As the young Jewess Mic(?l puts off a young man-because "he is a Communist and besides too hairy," we also learn to turn up our noses at the crass insensibilities of Fascists. That they threaten basic free­doms is beyond our care and that of the Finzi-Continis; guests, it is known, -are the most dangerous. As the the world. 
De Sica portrays this _upper-class society in terms of a frie~dship between Micol and her brother on -the one hand a.nd both to Giorgio~ a -childhood friend from town, also a Jew. The relationship of brother to sister hints at incest. Though it threatens to become cliche, such an analysis of the-effete nature of wealth is justified. In her thwarted love affair with Giorgio, for instance, we are told by Micol herself that she would prefer the remem-­brance of their past friendship to a sensual completion of it. It is as if the world was a vast museum of manne­quins whose purpose in life was to be at times amusing; no more. Micol of course is no more a wax doll than the garden is a sanctuary. Near the finish of the picture Micol is found in bed with the Communist. It is a re­markably telling event. The two sprawled out, ex­hausted as if it had been battle. Micol is so emotionally drained that all she can do is return the stai:es. of . Giorgio who has discovered them. Genteel defenses no longer are offered. We see at last that the malaise of the city Europe is also sown in the garden of the -Finzi­
Continis. 
It is somewhat to tlie detriment of the film _that -De Sica could not _integrate_ more completely _th~ affair of Micol with the encroaching facts of repression. A feeling of · discord is definitely generated between the middle-class family of Giorgio• and th~t of the upper­class Finzi-Continis. The former complain that Micol's family-looks forward to having a Jewish ghetto forced on their land so as to-1ord it over their less fortunate brothers~ Indeed they question the Jewishness of this most urbane and civilized clan. In the end it does not matter of course. 
What :is -disturbing about the emphasis on the thwarted love affair is that it does not reflect or con­tribute to the impact of the finale. Even the prostitution of Mi col is not enough to. diminish our respect for the gracious quality of life in the garden. The affair seems merely an arbitrary vehicle against which a separate evil works. The rise of Fascist anti-Semitism is too re­motely maintained in this film. The anonymous phone calls during the Passover dinner, the scene of a news­boy with a Nazi flag on his bike, the decrees of ll Duce limiting the ·rights of Semites-these · events are too ancillary to be effective. The personal tragedy of life has become the focal point; th_e almost histrionic tragedy which at last ~efalls, seems almost unnecessary. No doubt we are moved at their political plight; the scene near the end in• which one of the goons sent to round up the Finzi-Continis knocks over a beautiful vase jars us to an especial awareness of the dichotomy between what is real and what is aesthetic. We cringe at the efficiency _ of orders which at last separates this proud family. In every sense we sympathize. 
-It is in this success however that De Sica fails. For 

· in the end we forgive the Finzi-Continis too much. We acclaim the veneer while ignoring the soul and sub_­stance. We find ourselves too much on the side of Beauty and Art, blinded to the manifest sins of indif­ference and corruption. De Sica presents us a vision apart from the nightmare which is forever_:_ among our dreams. As such the film is touching, even poignant, in the end, no more. -· · 
___-.bob elliot 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

sophomore literary festival 
death at any age 
Jerzy Kosinski, America's latest "with it" author, was born a Polish citizen in 1933, and at twenty-four defected to the United States. The sensitive socio­political thoughts expressed by his novels can be explained by his maturing in Europe in the period immediately preceding and during World War II. _ Kosinski's works, written in English learned from the subtitles of French import films and a hodgepodge of French, English and Polish dictionaries, have given him status as an_ observer7"prophet with an odd
'

. literary and life style all his own. Offering a seminar on death at Yale, Kosinski, swamped by 2,000 applicants, told his potential students that the format of the course would consist in visiting the places of the dead and dying, then having a small organism killed, and, as a final class project, having a member of the class volunteer to die. The class was not taught for lack of applicants. 
Kosinski's first two novels, The Painted Bird ·(1965) and Ste'f)s (1968), are stylistic expeditions into the realm of the macabre. The Painted Bird dealt-with a young, possibly Jewish, boy on the run in Eastern Europe during World War II. Though Kosinski denies the possibility, it has been conjectured that the novel is autobiographical. Indeed, the incidents in th~ story seem too real and awesome to be imagined. 
The first works Kosinski published in English were of social comment -The Future is Ours, Comrade and No Third Path. After the publication and acclaim of The Painted Bird in 1965 the author began working on Ste'[Js. 
Winner of the 1969 National Book Award in Fiction, Ste'f)s, according to Kosinski, presents a. succinct view of humanity gone awry. A collection of vignettes divided into sections, it is written to represent certain basic views of Western thinking. It confronts one with a personal awareness as it is to be decoded and 
· defined. In reading Ste'[Js there is the strong task of overcoming the temptation to be nothing more than a sophisticated voyeur witnessing an eerie sequence of-events. 
Ascending Mr. Kosinski's staircase a step at a time can bring the reader to only one end. The most incredible step is the final vignette. Heavily laden with symbolism and presenting a powerful image, this scene is the most potent in the novel: 
· She undressed, entered the ocean, and started swimming. She felt the movement of her body and 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
the chill of the water. A small rotten brown leaf brushed against her lips. Taking a dee'[) breath, she dove beneath the surface. On the bottom a shadow glided over the seaweed, lending life and motion to the ocean floor. She looked up through the water to find its source and caught sight of the leaf which had touched her before. 

Ste'f)s is Kosinski's styli~tic masterpiece.· Its clinically pure,-journalistic prose, the heightened impact of its scenes and the completeness of its aus_terity in the elimination of transitions reveal it as a landmark in contemporary prose. 
In his_ latest novel, Being There (1971), Kosinski puts style to work to achieve a devastatingly successful socio-political satire. The novel sneers at the instability and gullibility of economists, politicians, capitalists, communists, housewives, jet­setters, plumbers, Presidents, and that mass which 
· devotedly watches the "boob" tube. Like all good black comedy, Being There sets up a list of ludicrous foibles and presents them to their owners. 
-j. b. brooks & joe runde 
.,·'/ 



y· ·j···
> " 
~1... .. ---:-~:.?.,""' ,1,.,' .. 
, •,H 
' ..
'. ' 
•, n~.> ,. 
.• '. ::.....:f~t 
'. -.-. 
~ ·!.~~j ~~~-:--­


coming distractions 

LECTURES 
L_ewis Coser will put Celebrity Int.elligeilce under 

the microscope February 14 in the Biology Auditorium 
at 8:00 p.m. 
Black Studies sheds light on the Socio-Political Conditions and Liberation Movements of the Puerto Ricans. With power supplied by the American Minori­ties Lecture Series, Eduardo-Sheda-Bonilla, director of Puerto Rican Studies, Hunter College, New York, :flicks the switch in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 7 :30 p.m. on February 16. 
What does Richard Babcock have that you probably do not have? A Proposal to Bring Grace to a Noble Ideal lgnobled: Metropolitan Planning. The Chicago attorney reveals all, February 16 in the Architecture Auditorium at 7 :30 p.m. 
Is all fair in war? For Rich \Vassertrom there are some Laws of \Var. The rules will be laid out in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 8 :00 p.m. on February 17. 
Ralph Nader, chief of Nader's Raiders, rides into Notre Dame on February 17. One lantern in the Academic Commission's office window signals Stepan Center at 9 :00 p.m. 
The American Scene: A Cultural Series focuses on Kalamazoo College February 23 at 7 :30 p.m. in Carroll Hall. Douglas Peterson, Dean of Academic Affairs, explains The Kalamazoo Plan: "a unique inter­relationship of on-campus offerings and off-campus foreign study, career-service, and individual projects." 

FILMS 
Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman and Hitchcock are Notorious together. Join them, in Carroll Hall at 3:30, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. on February 11. 
Underground goes aboveground February 11. Cinema 72's Experimental Festival breaks the surface at 7 :00 and 9 :00 p.m. with a series of shorts. 
Last grasp strips off the blankets and bares the nuts and bolts of The Sleeping Car Murder. 
Rev up your motor in Carroll Hall at 7 :00 and 9 :00 
p.m. February 12. 
Cinema 72 exchanges shovels for The Ritual, February 12, 13 at 8 :00 and 10 :00 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
There is more to the movie M than immediately meets the eye. Take a close look February 13 in Carroll Hall at 2 :00 and 8 :00 p.m. 
Try a little Civilisation on the movie screen. Your free seat is in room 126 of IUSB's Northside Hall. Ceremonies for The Worship of Nature commence at 
4:00 and 7 :30 p.m. on February 16. 
Cat Ballou moseys into town·February lK Meet her at IUSB at 9:00 p.m. She will be waiting for you in room 126 of Northside Hall. 
The CAC continues its Cinema 72 series with Black Orpheus on February 19 and 20 at 2 :00 and 8 :00 

p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. PAS . introduces Brewster McCloud. Engineering Auditorium, February 23, and 8 :00 and 10 :00 p.m. . is_ all you need to know. Take three short looks at the Environment February 24. At 7 :30 and 9 :00 p.m. CAC presents ·A Slo,v Guillotine, Cash Register in the Rockies, and Alone in the Midst of the Land. 
IUSB asks the question: \Vhat.ever Happened to Baby Jane? Maybe clues February 25, 9:00 p.m. and room 126 of Northside Hall, will help you solve the mystery. 

CONCERTS 

The Domb Duo performs Brahm'.s Double· Concerto for Violin and Cello February 13. Bow meets string at 4 :00 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium.. 
Richie Havens brings the sun into the ACC at 

7:30 p.m. on February 13. Warm up, too, to the timely Wint.er Consort. Tickets are $4.50; $3.50 and $2.50. The Burgundy Street Singers stroll into·O'Laughlin 
Auditorium on February 15. Indianapolis isn't known for just race car driving. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, for instance, is also in high gear. Listen, as the ISO makes an elevated pit stop in Bethel College's Goodman Auditorium at 8 :00 p.m. on February 18. 
EXHIBITIONS Isis Gallery opens its doors on February 12 at 
9:00 p.m. to unveil works· by Cynthia Huff and E. M. McDonough. 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery, in O'Shaughnessy Hall, is currently displaying "The Photography of Morley Baer" until February 20 and "The Graphic Work of George Rouault" until February 27. · 
Moreau-Hammes Art Galleries: The Pomona College Exhibition: "Movie Palace Modern." 
"Guild for Religious Architecture" is the theme of the Architecture Gallery exhibitions that will run to February 19. Then, from February 19 to March 13; "The Architecture of William Wilson Wurster" may be viewed. 
The Northern Indiana Artists and the St. Joe Valley Watercolor Society are staging their Annual Show in tne South Bend Art Center now through February 27. 
SPORTS The Notre Dame matmen take to the ACC floor when Findlay comes to town February 11 at 7:30 p.m. 
The Universities of Detroit, Chicago, and Notre Dame cross swords in the· Auxiliary Gym of the ACC, February 12 at 1 :30 p.m. 
Visiting DePaul and Notre Dame match hoops February 12 at 1 :40 p.m. St. Bonaventure and Notre Dame hit the water February 12. Splashes shower Rockne Pool at 
2:00 p.m. 
Bowling Green and Notre Dame clash in a regional basketball battle February 14. Tipoff in the ACC is 8 :00 p.m. 
Fordham brings a hoopfu~ of memories to the ACC on February 22. Doctor Digger Phelps, who cured 
Fordham's woes, now helps Notre Dame try to forget. 
The operation begins at 8 :00 p.m. 
Notre Dame and Northern Illinois make waves in the Rockne Pool February 25 at 7 :30 p.m. Michigan and Notre Dame draw sticks and skates February 25 at 7 :45 p.m. in the ACC. 
SPECIALS 
An otherwise ocean-crossing trip is reduced to a mere walk to O'Laughlin Auditorium as India -its dances, sitars, and other cultural events -comes to Notre Dame. Tickets, available at the Bookstore and LaFortune, are $2 and funds will be donated to Refugee Relief Fund. The Indian Association of Notre Dame sponsors India Night on February 12 at 7:00 p.m. 
Black Cultural Arts Day dawns on February 13 at 1 p.m. Enter into the world of Photography, Music, and Poetry Readings for four hours in LaFortune's Ballroom. 
The Ice Capades skate into the ACC for a seven­performance stand: February 16, 17 and 18-8:00 p.m. February 19-2:00 and 8 :00 p.m. February 20­
2:00 and 6 :00 p.m. Student discounts available. 
Former Notre Dame student Michael Rehak provides the lines and current ND and SMC students provide the talents, as the Drama Department presents Judas Christ February 18, 19, 24, 25, and 26. Past and present rendezvous with the future in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 :30 p.m. 
The National Players hereby subpoena the Notre Dame Student Body to appear at The Trial on February 20. The curtain will rise and the gavel will drop in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 :00 p.m. 
The Michigan State Performing Arts Company presents Shakespeare's Twelfth Night one night only­February 25-at 8:00 p.m. in the Goodmen Audi­torium of Bethel College. 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 

Juggler 
f---------------------1Subscription: 
3 issues only $2.00 I I mailed off campus and out of town ISecond ·issue Soon! I delivered on campus. I 
Make check payable to:

Poetry by John Coury Juggler 
Box 583 
James Wilson 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

Cathy Wolfe Name __________________ ·_____ -______________ ·---------­
Prose by Address _________-______________ ·___ ·_______________ _
Dan O'Donnell Rick Fitzgerald 
------------.------------------------------­
THE SCHOLASTIC 

1. "You're married a year These are j_ust seven of the many
now. When are you going 
wrong reasons for having a baby. · 
to give us grandchildren?" 
There's only one right reason: because you really wantone. And the right time iswhenyou 

2. "You want to have a kid, want one. When the baby can be a 
Evelyn? All right, we'll w~lcome addition, not an accidental have a kid. Maybe that'll 
burden.
patch things up." 
Unfortunatelylots of people who think they know how to go aboutbirth planning don't. (Research statistics show that more than halfthe preg­
3. "Why knock myself out 

working when I can have nancies each year are accidental!) a baby?" That's not having babies for wrong reasons. That's just being wrong. 
Planned Parenthood

4. 
"I bet my parents would send us money if we had Children by choice. Not chance. 

a baby ..." For further information, write Planned Parenthood, Box 431, Radio City Station, New York 10019. 

5. 
"Heh-heh, hey Frankie, what are you and Margie waiting for? 

6. 
"We only want two kids. But if we don't have a boy we'll keep trying!" 

7. 
"Sure I want babies. What else is a woman for?" 



Photos by Leonard Nones 

Planned Parenthood is a national, non-profit organization dedicated to providing advertising contributed information and effective means of family planning to all who want and need it. for the public good 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 
sports 
a n,inor sport? 
---george block 

Hidden away in the dar_k recesses of the .Rockne Memorial is one of the most u4known yet most exciting of the Irish varsities. Laboring under the direction of Coach Dennis Stark is-the '71-'72 Irish swimming.team. This· year, the Irish tankmen have put together one of the most power~, most exciting, and most _jinxed teams in recent history. 
Saturday, February 12, at 2: 00 in the ·Rockne Me-. morial, the Irish ·host St. _Bonaventure for what prom-· ises to be one of the-most exciting meets of the year.. 
"We're 4-1 against the Emmies, with·our only loss being last year, but every meet has been close.· For·the last two yefil's it has ·com~. down to Sherk· in.the_·last relay," said Coach Stark. "I want our bo:y:s to l>e really. high for this one. We've had qujte a few setbacks. yve started this year· with tremendous depth; as evidenced in the relay meet, but· due to · academic difficulties and 
· various injuries, we have· absorbed ·heavy personnel · losses. We've never had a year.like this;" . · "We're really: going :to ·try to peak for this meet,"· added. Stark.--"We'll -have·•six .afternoons phis•-two: or three mornings in the wate~ to · get· us:ready for· this one." But that's 'not all Coach Stark has to add' to the. importance of the day.':"We're.having our .first ·swim-. 
ming alumni-reunion in history. Saturday.'_'_ Among the .. returnees will .be '64 captain ··charles 'Blanchard,: the. · mostlegendary of Irish s_wimmers·and who inspire~ the · "Blanchard award"; '57 captain,Mike Connelly' who first 
and downs one has to meet the swimmers, and that is what the SCHOLASTIC tried to do by interviewing Brian · Short; team captain : and 200 freestyle . specialist,· Joe . O'Connor, who has emerged as the premier swimmer on . the Irish.rost~r this.year, and Ed Strack, who is desig­nated by his teammates as the hardest worker in the 
pool. · · · · · · 
. . SCHOLASTIC: What.do you think is the ·essence of swimming? . O;CONNOR:· It's mental attitude. It's 10% ability, 
· 90%· attitude:··At the begirming ·of the year I· expected to do_ the one, two, and five hundreds and when· I started to ·do. the· 1000 for: the. first .time'! thought-40 lengths, ·. this is insane! · This · is heii ! My mind wandered. One time I found myself singing_ "Jesus Christ,' ·super:.Star" . to keep pace.' But when I started·to think about the race . I started to.do much better. Now I concentrate the whole way.~ I try ·to gef out fast for. the first 500, then keep it 

.-loose and swinging. Then when I get to the end I just remember·that' I've ipne'this hafd,:this far,. not to quit now. 
. ·SCHOLASTIC: Is wirining'everything? Is defeat a total failure? '._.. . . . .. 

O'CONNOR: ·It is. afailure; but not a total failure. If I get beat, ·yet do.my best time, itis·not a total failure. .. If .I get b~at~ and· ·don't ·•do my ·best; then it is a total 
organized the·.varsity; Fr.. Robert Pelton: who·is·a, co~ .. failure.·:· ·. · · · · · · · founder. of the team;·. '67 captain Richard Strack \:V,ho · promised his team a reunion in five years; and even an '.SCHOLASTIC:. What. would you ·_change if you could ex-swimmer . as. far_-away· as Puerto Rico, Guilleimo .·_change·one or two things in the.Notre Dame swimming 
Ramis. · · ·· · · · ;:'·.:. · progr~? · · · . · · ._ · .· . · . 
And the alumni shouldn't be disappoii1ted.~th 7 -what.. . O'CONNOR: ·scholarships! Look· at Northwestern. In they see. Swimming World has called tlii~ :ye_ar•~" St..•.. one year they ~ent:from~ fair' t~ outstanding. If Notre Bonaventure -te~ "the ,strongest ·_ever.'': But-.:Coach .. Dame had. a ·few~w~w!-they·:could :be. a national Stark believes his team .will rise· to the-occasion;·,'.'This. · power in.a few years. Just two ayear; a~d in fo_ur·years year's team has amazing dedication. I_wantedthe team we wo~ld,have one man in.each key·area; to return.to the campus January 8 to'·srart practice, but · . . .. 
I was outvoted. They wanted to return the· 4th! It was SCHOLASTIC: What keeps you on a team ·when not on 
great for. the team. For once they ,not only worked out · . scholarship?·· · · · · · · · · together and ate together, but they lived together. It . O'CoNNoR:If takes desire instead of demand. Swim­really molded the team: They became much more·of a ._m,ing fakes more desfre·than-most sports, except pos­
. ·unit when they understood what it was to live together. . sibiy track. It is a year round sport: In the last year I've It especially helped the freshmen. It merged them· with. · ·." taken a. total:of eight weeks off. I've trained hard for · the unit extremely well." Coach added, "Don't forget 'tlie·, ·_, nine· months and moderately for one. Swimming is dif­girls who work with us as officials, they have really·· ferent from other sports in other ways, too.. There is helped our prow-am."· . · . ·. . · ··: . . . · .. ·, .,: -little room for _upsets. People don't vary much _in their 
But to really understand ·the prograni. and;'its:ups'·.'_ times when they're at their peak.··. 
. . 
·THE SCHOLASTIC 

SCHOLASTIC: What about this Saturday? that sort of set my interest for life. I like to go to dif­
O'CONNOR: I just want to beat the Bonnies. I want f~rent places for meets. to do more than just beat them. Last year we beat the:r:n in the pool, but lost on a technicality. A doubtful one at SCHOLASTIC: If you didn't compete would you stay that. Our whole season is one meet. on the team? 
STRACK: No. I'd probably swim on my own. I have -SCHOLASTIC: Does a crowd make a difference at· a to compete a littl~. ­meet? 
O'CONNOR: Yes. A fuUhouse is a big psychological .SCHOLASTIC: Would you go out for the team if it boost. We· haven't had· anyone cheer for us since our were like Indiana?.· December 3 meet. When we go to other schools we have STRACK: No. There's no reason to be totally out­packed houses, but here we swim.in coffins. Of course, classed. But I'd rather watch a team that's very good it doesn't help having us scheduled the same time as than-be on a fair one. basketball. We don't get coverage.by the school paper~ or by sports_ publicity, so no one really knows what SCHOLASTIC: What does Notre Dame need to be first we're doing. The station WSND gives us the best cover­class? age. Yeah, a crowd is a big difference. · STRACK: The team needs money. Money comparable 
to other -teams on campus. Like football. With five . 'SCHOLASTIC: What do you tell people who say swim­scholarships a··year, we would be unreal. With our aca­-ming is boring or stupid? demic and athletic reputation, in a few years we would 
-O'CONNOR: O~y if you don't know anything about it. support ourselves. What could be-more exciting than to see someone swim stroke for stroke for 1000. Put yourself inside the swim­SCHOLASTIC: You were ineligible for one year. What mer. The relays are always exciting. So are the sprints. do you think of the grade rub? The finish in any race, either in track or swimming is STRACK: 1.6 is a safeguard. It is a good thing. It is always exciting. Look at how many meets have come definitely not fair because some schools are harder than down to the last relay. Imagine yourself as the last man others. 2.0 is not dumb, but there's a big line between in the last relay. a 1.6 and 2.0. I hate to see this school go higher than the 
· NCAA, because the academic and emotional pressures SCHOLASTIC: What is it like to swim at Notre Dame? are hard enough on freshmen without having the dif­O'CONNOR: There is really-not much Notre Dame ference of 1.6 and 1:7. deciding on his most productive 
tradition in swimming, bufthere is a close team feeling, year of competition, and time when he needs to be part The unit sense is really big. People pull for each other. of the group. No one wants to let their friends down. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the dividing line between sports _SCHOLASTIC: Does -it bother you not getting"enough and education? press notice? STRAC~: There is no dividing line between sports and 
O'CONNOR: You'd sort of like to know you're there, education.-There is ·a·line-an obvious one-between but the.real thing is the self and the team; Publicity is academi~s. Swimming· is not academic, but it is educa­nice, but .beating the Bonnies would be great. tion. It is experience, but not in the common sense of 
experience. There are many realitie~ of experience in a · -,SCHOLASTIC: Were you recruited by Notre Dame? very-concentrated form. It is a value to be truly edu­STRACK: No, I came here because of its scholastic cated, but it is not academic. 
.reputation.-! didn't ever think I'd swim here.·The coach -at Air Force Academy told 'me that anew 50 meter pool _SCHOLASTIC: How do you: see grades and sports _ was part of the convo, and that lots of scholarships ¥:ere interacting?" -·given.-:So when they had the frosh meet I swam, and _ Smc~c I see little· difference to myself between a 
saw that Ed Graham. took everything. So I've -been 2.25 arid· 2. 75. So I sacrifice that t_o learn a lot elsewhere. swimming ever since: ROTC helps me pay for school. .--At·least four hours a day. Often more. All weekends. 
~ ~ ' ' 
_You're usually tired. It has ·-a 'lot of effect on your SCHOLASTIC: What made you come-here? · grades. Why d~ I sacrifice?-It's not what grade I get. Its· STRACK: Temporary insanity.. No, I'd just been in --how _educated rbecome. 
Colo~ado all my-life and wanted a good -school ·a":Vay from there. -· · -" ·-· .SCHOLASTIC: Why do yori do it?·, STRACK: A passion' for .improvement. Always do _ SCHOLASTIC: What motivates :you to :sw~'.? rs·_ it 'a -_ ·-better: --. -.
. ­chance for nationals or .All-American~ ·, ,-. ·, ··:' ..-' -·.__ STRACK: 'No.·I really-·don't hav~ much ot'a chance. Sc:s:o~Tic::What is_ the teain:like? · :· .for ·those. When I was a little kid I hacl·a lot _of.fun arid STRACK': The team? There is' a special-closeness. You 
-. -' -­

--FEBRUARY 11; 1972 
know people in a special way. All my best friends are on the team. It was really great living together over Christmas break For a while you only knew people for what they did in the water, or possibly what they would say before practice or at dinner, but we really lived together, I mean totally. You. got to know the other guy a lot better. It's one of the best teams I've seen. It's a fairly close group, with the unity arising from divergence. Everyone is an individual, but he sub­mits himself to the group. The first and the last man are equal. The last man helps in many ways. He· pushes everyone above him, plus he has the hardest job of all. To come off the bench when he is. needed desperately and then to perform better than he ·ever has before. That has to be the toughest job in all of sport. 
SCHOLASTIC: What's the biggest thrill you get at a meet besides winning? STRACK: When Frank (Fahey) and I are able to go 1-2 in an event. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is the support like for swimming here? 
STRACK: Here the sports are football, _basketball, arid hockey. Students miss a fot by not seeing whatever they can. It may take them a wllile to understand swimming, or wrestling, or track, or tennis, but it would be worth it. In my high school we had·super support_. You had to get there early to get a seat: 
SCHOLASTIC: What would help?. 

STRACK: The daily paper would have _to: create in­terest from one side ofthe circle, and the Athletic De­partment would have'. to · give us more. money or the other. Of course a·lot of little things would help, too. Like having·enough warm-ups for everybody._ Having a varsity record board, a scoreboard, and a diving record 
board. . . . 
SCHOLASTIC:· Where would the money come from? 

STRACK: I don't know. I don't understand how the school is set up :financially. I do know if thirty kids get football scholarships each year, there should be 120 kids with scholarships. That would mean 90 upperclassmen. I never see 90 guys dressed for a game. 
SCHOLASTIC: What's it like being captain of the Irish 

swimming team? 
SHORT: Not much different from being on the team. It's probably different than in other sports, though. In other sports you're at your best in your senior year, but in swimming you peak at 16 or 17, so your best years will be as a freshman or sophomore. As senior captain I'm over it. Lea~ership is one factor, too: I can always help the younger guys with · technical things. There's no glory like football. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you mean? . 
SHORT: Swimming is most definitely a minor sport. Only lip service is paid as far as being equal. Heck, the school paper even calls us a minor sport. We don't get any scholarships. 
SCHOLASTIC: Why is the team so young? SHORT: It's hard swimming senior year. You're not close to sophomore times. Don Schollander only swam ·three years: You're too far away from your peak. 
SCHOLASTIC: What is your peak? 
SHORT: A peak is when you go your best times, also when its easiest to go your. best times. ·In. swimming you're never in ,shape, you're. always getting there. 
. . . 
SCHOLASTIC: ·Wnat is the key to success in swim­ming?· 
SHORT: A swimmer has to have a big ego..The Sl)ort is very individual. I've played every gamut of sports competitively, and swimming has to be the hardest. You have to hurt yourself continually, and you have to want to. 
SCHOLASTIC:.How is the team? 
. . 
SHORT: The.!>est_.ever: here. We.got hur_t . badly by academics and injuries. 
SCHOLASTIC:. What do you think about academic reg­

. ulations? SHORT: The NCAA says 1.6, here it's 1.7, and some Ivy League schools like Princeton have none at all. All schools should follow NCAA, and the rules should be clear. We have people ineligible on our team that would be eligible by the NCAA. One fellow is off just because the rules are so ambiguous no one knew for sure. Every · year the school changes ·their rules, too. Athletic rules should be uniform nationwide. If Princeton doesn't have any rules because they are a harder school, are we that much inferior academically? If Southern Cal has 1.6, why.should we have 1.7? 
SCHOLASTIC: How else is swimming a minor sport? 
SHORT: Scholarships is one of the main things-that is the most painful to get into. Look at the basketball court this year. Totally redone. Even new shoes. We don't even have warm-ups for everyone. No scoreboard. We have to be the only pool we've ever had a meet at that doesn't have a var.sity record board. It would be good for the te?-ffi, and the fans. Two scholarships a year and we'd be a national team in four years. Look, Northern· Illinois is second only to California. Ohio is third, Indiana is coming fas_t. We're in a recruiting hot­bed. We have a great name, but without scholarships, who can afford $4000.00 if they have a ride somewhere else? 

SCHOLASTIC: How is this year's team? 

SHORT: We have the most freestyle depth I've ever seen, both distance and sprint. We have five or six that can break fifty seconds for the hundred. That's mov.ing ! We had six divers and now we're down to one, Larry LaFratta. And he's amazing. He just starte.d diving last year. Coach Stark did an amazing job teaching him. He's already got a couple of firsts. If he .. could do some diving, gymnastics, and general conditioning over the off-season, he'd really shine. 
SCHOLASTIC: What do you think is the purpose of the academic regulation? 
SHORT: Theoretically, to keep colleges from ex­ploiting kids. To keep kids from having their educations sacrificed for sport. But it should be dealt with indi­vidually. And if that's not possible, at least make it uniform. Especially since it mainly hurts freshman year, which is the weakest academically and emotionally, and 
· most productive athletically. If the kid has no scholar­ship ties, he'll get out of shape, lose interest, and he's gone. His grades would probably improve more if he stayed on the team, because there is team pressure, too. He could also get help from guys on the team. There is more interest and discipline when a guy is on the team. As long as he's in school he should be allowed to com­pete. Guys are allowed to be hall presidents, work for WSND, build Mardi Gras booths, and go to Frankie's every night if their grades are bad, why not sports? The freshman year counselors should work up and keep tabs on the boy and help him instead of a continual run around if he needs help. Besides, after practice your extra energy is gone and you don't feel like goofing off. Most people follow training rules pretty well; that helps grades. People have to budget time on a team. You're more aware of time. 
SCHOLASTIC: Why do you swim? 
SHORT: I enjoy my masochistic ways. Sometimes it's hard to say. Sophomore year I enjoyed practices and meets. Last year I enjoyed meets. This year I like the meets because they're exciting. 
SCHOLASTIC: What would you tell someone who said · swimming was stupid? 
SHORT: Things like that apply to every sport. It's 

not so much what's being done in collegiate sports as 
who's doing it. Meets, however, have been tremendously 
exciting, lots of close races, meets coming down to the 
last relay. If people knew about meets, they'd come. ·That's where sports publicity comes in. They give us no help. We're almost totally neglected by the Observer. I think we had two stories for six meets. 
Sc~OLASTIC: Would you keep swimming if you didn't 

start? 
SHORT: I'm not too far from that now. There are 

two frosh ahead of me, so I'm third man. That's one 
reason why people quit. There are no scholarships to 
keep you out, so you have to decide continually to keep 
going. Some days at 6: 30 that's hard. The ego demands 
excellence. I'm half crazy, so that's what keeps me 
going. I like to do well in practice. As long as I have 
something to contribute I'll stay. I have to look hard 
now, but meets aren't the only places to _contribute. If 
I wasn't I'd quit. 
SCHOLASTIC: Do you ever swim Indiana? 
SHORT: No. That question bothers me more than any 

other. I'd just ask in return, how well could Ara 
Parseghian do at IUSB with no scholarships and no 
assistants and $3000 costs for each student? We need 
scholarships. If we had them, we could be the next IU. 
We could go nowhere to recruit. People write con­
stantly. We could pick and choose among national class 
swimmers. We ·need more pool time. A locker room 
wouldn't hurt. One more step from where we are now 
to a national power. 
SCHOLASTIC: Would you encourage people to go and 

see swim meets? 
SHORT: People miss' a lot by. not seeing· swimming. 

It's got to be the best FREE show in town. It might be 
the only one. 
SCHOLASTIC: How is Coach Stark? 

SHORT: He's amazing! The University takes him for granted. He teaches a full load. There's no publicity, so he's got to do it himself. He gets little financial help. He has to figure trips himself. He gets no help recruit­ing. Also, we have to be the only sport to have hotdog stands, sell programs, peanuts, have Mardi Gras booths and still come out short. The team came back two weeks early, paid to live at Holy Cross Junior College, and was going to have to pay to drive to campus in 25 below zero weather. 
FEBRUARY 11, 1972 

the last word 


-Liberation' skems to conjure up fanciful and:remote­images in the_ minds o(many.: It has to -do with: social : -or political movements-which concern oppressed peoples~ ,_· Or clo~s-.!t have tc/cio with the self-serving interests of 
. certain _vocal groups? -, It is a socially acceptable:'_topic . ---witi/which '-one can take issue by the :addition of ·an -­' adjective:_ Thira-·world.'. Women's. Gay.'·But;-it ~oesn't 
say-anything -to-_ine unless I belong to one or more of-­:those_adjecti;afgroupings. -:: -·-_ : . --_· Lib~ration-carinot,--ir{-any real sense, be preceded by
~ni adjective;-Iri-at:ierripting·to: label the demand of many -_ -wome~-that. 'society:recognize their freedom, the. fqcus ­-tiecomes_directed towards the categorical limitation· 
-_--"women,'_'__ wli.en in}act the issue is one of freedom. 
-_,:--. -·-----,-·_;, _:-_--_: --. -mary ellen stoltz. 
, ' , ' ~. ( .-, 


'; '·. i ~ "· 
,­
~ --~ _,. -! •• ·, > , __·!, 

-.: --To cast off the idiot Questioner who is always question-:-: -:· _· : '_ -.-: --. __ .__ 
-, -:-_-·'_ . --_ irig,--' -. , . ·-----.-__ . ,_'_", ·.·_--,--·;' -_ . 
'-> -But never capable of answering; who sits with a sly grhi , _ .. __Silent plotting when to -question, like a thief:in ·-a :cave·; :--->?_>. ___ ,-Who publishes doubt & calls it knowledge; -whos-e 'science'·C-·::, ·:~: ·:_-·:--' -_: ,_ :-­
-is Despair, -:. --_ --_._-., ·:•.;.::-> ~ ·--­
-Whose pretence to· knowledge is _Env~•: _who~e-_W~_?Y?} ·~\-:_;:-.~-/\:~-: ---: ~ -":_--__ Science-. 
-_. ----: .-, .c _ • : To destroy thewisdom of ages to -gratify ravejlous Envy·: --. : __ -:','; \':_'-'._ -:--·:· _--,. .: -­.. : _-. <-----_; _· (:-; ~: :-,_ :_ -.·: -.-_· That rages round him like a Wolf _day_-& nighf without -_: <---.::-'· --_-_<, -_: --··_:_---:' \-: ; __ ·· ­-_. :.:· -:_--_, _--·-::> ~'-_::'-< _ rest -· -· _-: : -' · ·-_ ·__ \:~ :_ .--_.,_::_:'-< ::---· --· >_-. = 
-:-_-, ••:_;::-,,~, ·,, -: _, _ ---._: -_--Hesmileswithcondescension;hetalksofBenevolence_& .· -.:;~·a:·_-'-'.•-: _'-~ ·:, ·_ -·. -·_ 1 -·-·, __,-·:--:i · -V:irtue --_ ·-~ ., '· __ ;·-____,-___-_.·, -And those who act with Benevolence & Virtue,they_,-'.,_.:'._:::.__-::--->·-~;_ ·· .-·,:: ,_ -..

-&_.;:2u~=~--
-·•.

_-.,! :•; ,.: \-.-~-_: :_ :---Who pretend to Poetry that they may destroy. the·Iinag.:_2·/?, :·{t\/ .-; ~­· --.-ination _ _ -_ __ __ __,-_· , _·. ::_<: <;='.=:;j{)f~{~·/\_ .~ _.f _--< ._ , -from .Blake Milton,--___._,_, -•s, •->"-"•.·--··--·----· ,. -----, ,~ .-• 
T 
,j­
•--_: _-::r :T;~Jriit,(~-~oLASTI~ 




·. When you know it's for keeps 
You can choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee gives . written proof of a perfect . engagement diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 
~12sa.ke® 
REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 
Rings from $100 to $10,000 Trade Mark Reg. A. H. Pond Co• 

..:-.:;_,.· .. ----.. ----------------7 
.~;. J :HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I . :· I .·, Send new 20 pg. booklet, "P_lanning You! En.gagement and Wedding" plus I ·: :.I . . full cof°.r f~fd.er_~nd 44 pg••a?~~•s B_~ol: gift.offer a'.f for only.25¢. S-72 I
~-.'. I .:Na:. , · <.. • ·-· ,_:.=: -. _
•· • • 
-.: I·:' :Addre~s ,.·,-.,·, •.··: ' : ··• '.'..-;' ·.•.-,. : ,:· .,J > -·· .· · ·=· I" ·. ··· ·· ..--· ·-.,: ·,-·.-::c.:._. = ,. . · -·•. -· ·· · " •. ·. -1 
·: ,. >. ·.·.: :li't:\t·d:~";.;~~~}1]:;~::~~;;;.,1J<".:1r~:ftit,,{f], ·,'.. 
· .. .-:~ :-· ·~;·,J,:<:KiEPsA·KE::_c;i';.:1..:r6'N·o\R'.'i"N:G·stBo'x-·~9{tsrRA2use/'.·N~v;;'_:,3201 \if .-· 
'·.·· ....·. ··. ''. ';', ,: ,~. '.):::c:·}·',;,;;::Jjl2j·f"t:: ::_•' ~ ,>·. );•));••·. 
';,; --••( <-,:~-~~-k ~-... ,........ --.:;:~~ •-~:~~ • -••• 


HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL SE DOING TOMORROW? 
Finding a job that gives you satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com­plex as ours. 
But the Paul­ist finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values that are lasting. 
As a Paulist he may counsel a run­away youth, listen to the probierns of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or conduct a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations. he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
Whatever tool he chooses, the P a 1J 1 i s t g e ts h i s " m e s s a g e" through. 
Can you think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
For more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: 
Re,·. Donald C. Campbell, C.S,P., Vocation Director, Room 
paul°l5f'fothets. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 









