The Notre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $3.00 THE YEAR
May 12 1933
PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY
p. (Office 4-5661	X-ray one 3.4041 DR. E. S. LUCAS Dentist 702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Opposite Oliver Hotel	Indiana		Expert Eye	Glasses Properly Fitted Service '	at Moderate Prices J. BURKE, Inc. Optometrist and Manufacturing Opticians Established 1900	228 S. Michigan St.
Office Phone 3-3309	Res. Phone 5-1343 DR. B. A. KAMM Ear, Nose and Throat	, Suite 526 Sheriand Building Jefferson and Michigan Hours I1® to 12 m. (3 to 5 p. m.	South Bend, Indiana		DR. J. M. SINGLER DR. E. A. PROBST D entists Phone 3-1254	405 Associates Building
Office Phone 3-2574 Residence Phone 4-6354	Corrective Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY	
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments	
432-34 Associates Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain	Dr. H. H. Rogers	
ROGERS Eyesight Specialists		1
Phone 4-8251	213 S. Michigan Street	
Space Reserved
FRANK J. POWERS, M. D.	0
University Physician	9
Office at	Hours:	
University Infirmary	12:30 p. m. to 4 p. m.	
May 12, 193,
One
Tired fingers so worn, so white,
Sewing and mending front mom ’til night. Tired hands and eyes that blink, Drooping head too tired to think.
Tired fingers so worn; so true, Sewing and mending the whole day through, From break of dawn ’til setting sun, A Mother’s IFojk Is Never Done.
"TIRED FINGERS”
Tired arms that once had pressed A airly head to a mother’s breast.
Tired voice so soft, so dear
Saying "Sleep well, darling mother’s near.
Say It With FLOWERS Mother’s Day, May 14th
We Telegraph Flowers
SOUTH BEND FLORAL COMPANY, 114 South Michigan Street
Two
The Scholastic

May 12, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED I860
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917. authorized June 25. 1918.
Edmund A. Stephan
Editor-in-Chie f
James S. Kearns..................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
Neros Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY..........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR....Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI......ROBERT ERVIN
FRANK KELLY'	MICHAEL WIEDL
JAMES A. HART	JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors
PATRICK CORCORAN ' JOHN CONLEY
ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS..............The Week
ROGER McGOVERN.......College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL.........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD...Features Editor LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. .O’BRIEN WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
GEORGE LEYES JAMES FITZPATRICK
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOEGKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH._____Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER..Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON JOHN F. SWEENEY
Volume LXVI.
MAY 12, 1933
No. 26
SUMMARIES
NEWS
Notre Dame Class Officers Elected.............'5
Freshman Oratorical Contest to be Held Next Wednesday ..................................... 5
Third Issue of “Scrip” to be out next week.... 6
Complete Commencement Program is Announced....... 7
St. Vincent de Paul Society Observes One Hundredth
Birthday ...................................11
“News-Times” Praises N. D.’s Commencement Speakers-14
Lawrence Sexton is Elected K. of C. Grand Knight-15
’33 Ball at Palais Royale Tonight..........16-17
FEATURES	.
Tom Sexton in This Week’s “Man About Campus”..... 8
“Voice of The Campus”......................... 9
“News of The Week” is Reviewed by George Leyes...10
N. D.’s College of Law is the Oldest of Catholic Law
Schools in th United States.................12
Walter Johnson Explains the Theories of the Business Cycle ......................................13
SPORTS
Michigan State track team defeats Notre Dame, 67-64 after fierce battle........;.................20	•
La Raza Club defeats Latin-American Society of the
University of Michigan in soccer, 6-0.......20
Banks and Montedonico lead Irish as golf team wins third straight from Michigan State, 17-1....21
Anderson and Harper among five members of athletic department retained for ’33-’34.............21
Twenty-two track men leave for West Point on Thursday for Army meet, Saturday.................22
Sorin wins third game to go into tie for first place in
Group I of Interhall Softball League...........23
Golfers beat Northwestern in rain to register fourth straight victory ...........................23
Introducing Louis Chreist..........................24
Splinters from the Press Box...............:--------25
On Down the Line.....................  1..----------32
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, May 12.—Scholastic meeting, Editorial Board, 6:30 p. m., general staff, 7:00 p. m., Editorial Offices, at The Ave Maria Press Building; Senior Ball, 10:00 p. m.-2:00 a. m., Palais Royale; Tennis, Northwestern at Evanston; Movie, “Cavalcade,” 6:30 and 8:30 p. m., Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, May 13.—Golf, Illinois, William J. Burke course, 9:00 a. m.; Tea Dance, Chain-O’-Lakes Country Club, 4:00-7:00 p. m.; Movie: “Prosperity” Marie Dressier and Polly Moran, 6:30 and 8:30 p. m.; Tennis, Illinois at Urbana; Track, Army at New York.
SUNDAY, May 14.—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church; Benediction, 7:00 p. m. for upperclassmen, 7:30 p. m. for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, Sacred Heart Church; Soccer, La Raza Club vs. Latin-American club of University of Michigan, 10:00 a. m., Freshman Hall field.
MONDAY, May 15.—Baseball, Bradley Tech, 3:00 p. m., Cartier field; S. A. C. Presidential Elections; Wrangler Meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
TUESDAY, May 16.—Tennis, Michigan State, University Courts, 1:30 p. m.; Engineers Club Elections, Engineering Building, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, May 17.—May Devotions, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p. m., for freshmen and students in Morrissey and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:45 p. m., Sacred Heart Church; Freshman Oratorical Contest, Law Building, 8:00 p. m.; Italian Club Banquet, Lay Faculty Dining • Room, 7:30 p. m.; Chemists Club Banquet, Knights of Columbus Hall.
THURSDAY, May 18.—Monogram Club Formal, Palais Royale, 9:00 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
X HERE is something that quickens the pulse about the music of a good band. And it brings back memories of something besides a crowded stadium and the day of the big game. To those students who come from towns and villages where Main Street is the only street, it brings memories of circus day, of a shivering vigil kept in the early dawn waiting for the brightly-colored string of freight cars to pull on to the siding, of a “monster, gigantic and stupendous” parade on a breathless July morning, and the stuffy animal smell of the “big top.” More than one undergraduate sophisticate, as he listened to the concert on the quadrangle, must have smiled as he remembered his early ambition to be the “champeen” lion tamer of the world and marry the beautiful pinkcheeked bareback rider.
OW that the choicest political plums have been grabbed off in the class elections, the lesser lights are turning their efforts to the elections in different campus clubs. Some of the aspirants should glance at the constitutions of those clubs. You’d never recognize them! One club that does attempt to do something for Notre Dame and themselves is the La Raza club. Among other things, this club maintains a crack soccer team that defeated a University of Michigan soccer team six to nothing Sunday morning. Next Sunday morning Michigan comes here for a return game. Just think what a convincing argument that game will be to the senior ball guest who thinks all we do here is play football!
X ALKING about Notre Dame traditions is one thing, — inventing one because it has a human interest angle is another. We heard one of these self-appointed local historians say that the reason that students are privileged to correspond with St. Mary’s for a cent, is because Henry Clay, who was a romantic at heart, obtained that privilege for Notre Dame students when he es
tablished a post office here. The only truth in that little story is that Henry Clay did obtain a post office for Notre Dame. Letters for Saint Mary’s may go for one cent simply because this post office has no official government carrier service, otherwise the charge would be three cents. Why do we realists have to go and ruin everything!
^3 PEAKING of derbies and horseracing in general, if you see a shadowy figure skulking across the campus and peering cautiously around corners, it is probably Mattingly Spalding. Mr. Spalding, being a son of the blue grass is considered one of the campus authorities on hosses, yes suh! Mattingly got a tip a few days ago that was so hot that the letter came wrapped in a horse blanket to keep it from getting pneumonia. The tip was passed on to Marchy Schwartz and Tom Conley who trusted Mattingly with a childlike faith that would have touched the adamant heart of a grave robber. Marchy and Tom loyally backed this blue-blooded son of old Kaintuck with everything they had, but the horse, like a true southern gentleman, allowed the ladies to go first and took eighth place. And Mattingly insists he hates lake parties in May.
X HE VICTORY of the golf team over Northwestern Tuesday marks the fourth consecutive win for the Irish teemen. In view of the records turned in thus far this season by other “minor” sport teams, and some “major” sport teams, the record is remarkaible. Golf teams at Notre Dame have always been good. Year after year they turn in an enviable record in intercollegiate, mid-west, and state tournaments, and yet they are kept from the highest sport recognition at Notre Dame,— the Monogram Club. If a monogram means a reward for excellent work performed for the glory of Notre Dame, then certainly those golfers are entitled to one.
May 12, 1933
Five
ISOO STUDENTS HEAR FIRST BAND CONCERT
MOSCOW, LALONDE, AND SULLIVAN ARE ELECTED TO N. D. CLASS PRESIDENCIES
Program Well Received; Play Again This Sunday.
With the playing of Sousa’s “El Capitan,” the University concert band opened its first open air concert of the season, Sunday evening. The band, which played from the porch of the Main Building, attracted approximately 1500 listeners.
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta directed the band in the following program:
I.	Marches
(a) “El Capitan” by Sousa (b) “The Washington Post March” by Sousa.
II.	Intermezzo “East of Suez” by Strebor.
III.	Processional March “Pomp and Chivalry” by Roberts.
IV.	“University Grand March” by Goldman.
V.	Mexican Waltz “La Golon-drina” by Serradell.
VI.	Selection “Victor Herbert Favorites” by Herbert-Lak.
Following the band concert, the University Glee Club gave a short program. Four members of this group known as the “Blue Quartet,” sang the old favorite, “Baby Won’t You Please Come Home.”
The Glee Club sang the following-numbers :
I.	Motets
(a)	“Ave Maria” by Vitoria
(b)	“Laudate P a t r e m” by Gounod.
II.	Part Song
“There’s a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea” arranged by Lake. A new type of amplifying system was used to reproduce the band and glee club numbers. This apparatus, called the Martin Gold Ensemble, is made up of a bass, a baritone, and a French horn. A special amplifying unit transmits the current from the microphones to the horns. The notes seek their own level, in other words the bass horn reproduces the low notes, the baritone higher pitches, etc. Advantages claimed for this equipment are freedom from static and trueness of note.
Another band concert will be given at the same place next Sunday evening.
Ten Frosh To Vie In Oratorical Contest on
May 17 in Law Building
The second and final contest of Notre Dame University’s oratorical “season” will take place Wednesday, May 17, under the title of Freshmen Oratorical Contest.” This meet will be staged in the basement auditorium of the Law Building at 8 o’clock.
Ten yearlings have signified their intention of entering this contest to compete for the first and only prize of ten dollars. Each oration must be original and must not exceed ten minutes in length.
“Originally the freshman contest was used as a ‘feeder’ for the Breen Medal Contest,” says Professor W. J. Coyne, who is in charge of this forensic activity. “It is an excellent means for the discovery of talent in the fields of oratory and debating.”
John Clancy, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, won this contest and the ten dollar prize last year.
Dartmouth Prexy Lauds Present Day Education
Hanover, N. H. — Education today has the greatest opportunity in its history, in the opinion of Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins, president of Dartmouth University.
“In spite of all the bewilderment of contemporary times,” he said last week, “and in spite of the difficulties and of the hardships, I believe that men of the future are going to look back with envy upon those of us who have had the privilege of seeing gigantic transformations in the social organization of the world take place before our eyes.
“The enduring danger of a great period of material prosperity, such as that of recent years, is that we shall accept the shadows of life as its realities and that we shall assume no reality to exist beyond those which we see with eyes untrained to moral and to spiritual values. This has been the prevalent mood and it has imposed a heavy additional burden of responsibility upon schools and colleges in recent years.”
LARGE TURNOUT AT POLLS
Senior and Junior Offices Are Closely Contested; Soph*s. Elected at Primaries.
James V. Moscow, Thomas K. La-Londe, and Edward T. Sullivan were elected presidents of the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore Classes respectively in a closely contested
James V. Moscow
Seven votes saved him.
election here, Tuesday. That is, the Moscow and LaLonde balloting was close. Sullivan and his entire ticket were nominated in the primaries and received no opposition. Moscow nosed out a victory from Stewart Os-loom, defeated candidate, by seven votes.
The Senior Class officers for next year are: James V. Moscow, Chicago, Ill., College of Commerce, president; John J. Forrest, Bridgeport, Conn., College of Commerce, vice-president; William J. Powell, St. Albans, L. I., N. Y., College of Arts and Letters, treasurer; William C. O’Toole, Pittsburgh, Pa., College of Arts and Letters, Secretary.
Charles A. Jahr, Elkhorn, Wis., College of Arts and Letters; James O. Cole, Peru, Indiana, College of Commerce; Francis C. Winter, Newark, N. J., College of Engineering; and Edward Quinn, Bloomfield, N. J., College of Science, were elected Senior S. A. C. representatives of their respective colleges. L. D. Johnson, Syracuse, N. Y., College of Law, is (Continued on Page 10)
i
The Scholastic
Six
“Scrip” to be Published Early Part of Next Week
NEW CONTRIBUTORS
Dr. O’Grady, Fr. Miltner, Degnan, Spalding, Gartland Write for Third Issue.
By James Munn
Without any loud beating of the publicity drums, Scrip, Notre Dame’s literary quarterly, will make its third appearance on the campus, the early part of next week. The editor is highly satisfied with the unusual and excellent contributions which will appear in this number, and is quietly confident that the issue will be as well received by the students as have been the two previous numbers. For one thing, the number of new writers who are appearing in Scrip for the first time is greater than in any previous edition, and at the same time the quality of the work of the veteran contributors is very much on a par with their earlier efforts.
Degnan’s Work Good
Outstanding in the list of fiction articles are Joseph Degnan’s “Late April,” and Frank E. Gartland’s “Ladies First.” Both stories are concerned with the New England area, Degnan’s being of New Hampshire, in which he has successfully caught the quiet, rural atmosphere in all its small, picturesque details; Gartland writing of a more urban section is altogether pleasing. “B’loney,” another fiction article, by Paul F. McManus, reaches with keen understanding into the mind of a small boy. Mattingly Spalding, noted for his Kentucky Derby tips and fine literary endeavor, presents another of his pre-possessing stories.
The magazine has been especially fortunate in securing two noteworthy contributions from members of the faculty. Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady of the Philosophy Department of the University has written a very short, pointed essay, entitled, “The Theory of Nothing”; appearing in “BookEnds,” Father Charles C. Miltner, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, gives a terse, appreciative review of the American Review, the new literary magazine which is the successor to the Bookman. .
As usual, circulation man “Lefty”
Instructions For “Dome” Distribution Announced By Publications Dep’t.
Each student whose account with the University is up to date will receive a copy of this year’s Dome. The Publications Department will deliver to each student a numbered' card. The student will complete and sign the card, presenting it at the appointed time and place. Upon presentation of the card, properly completed, the student’s copy of the Dome will be delivered to him.
The cards will be distributed from May 22 to May 24 inclusive.
Each student must personally sign and present his card. He will not be permitted to delegate another student to receive his Dome for him.
If a student entitled to a copy of the Dome does not receive his card before May 20th, he should notify the Publications’ office immediately thereafter.
In order that the Publications Office may distribute the Dome to students as quickly as possible without confusion, each student is urged to comply strictly with the above instructions.
Over 1600 Preregistered
More than 1600. students have preregistered for next year according to a statement made by Registrar Riordan this week. This constitutes four fifths of the men eligible to return to the University.
Frosh applications are coming in rapidly but it is expected that the largest number will be received during the summer months as was the case last year.
»
Douville will have charge of the distribution of the issue, and he is certain that the magazine with its fresh, maritime blue cover will satisfy not only the literary tastes of the campus, but the aesthetic as well. It is no mistake to conclude that the May Scrip tops any previous effort. The editor and the contributors are to be commended.
FR. WENNINGER TALKS ON ETHICS IN MEDICINE
Addresses Academy of Science Last Monday.
Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy of Science, spoke on “Medical Ethics” at the meeting of the Academy Monday evening.
“The term, ‘medical ethics’,” the speaker stated, “should connote the rules of right conduct for those in any way whatsoever connected with the practice of medicine, that is, physicians, surgeons and nurses.”
St. Thomas Is Guide
St. Thomas’ definition of ethics, it was pointed out, is the criterion which should guard the Catholic physician from confusion in the deliberations which face him in his practice. “Many of our schools of medicine,” the speaker continued, “teach a doctrine that runs counter to this principle. They recognize no objective criterion but only a subjective rule of conduct. In these schools, brilliant professors dazzle the minds of immature students and very often, alas, chloroform their consciences while respect for principle and authority are slowly throttled.
“Every Catholic knows the fundamental principles of morality. But he sometimes fails to note that denial is not refutation, and that very often he who rejects a principle with a shrug of the shoulder or a sarcastic smile is quite unable to give any justification either in philosophy or theology for his gratuitous gesture.”
Three Types Of Abortion
Father Wenninger included in his discussion the practical side of the problems in the physician’s everyday practice, placing special emphasis upon the most important and frequent case confronting the practitioner, that of abortion.
The three types of abortion, direct, indirect, and therapeutic, respectively, were clearly defined and explained from all angles. Throughout the talk the principles of ethics governing each phase of the subject under consideration were demonstrated and em- ’ phasized.
“The temptation is great,” he said, “especially for the young practitioner.
(Continued on Page 10)
May 12, 19 S3
Seven
‘HIGH JINKS’ PLAYS TO THREE LARGE AUDIENCES
Nick Lukats Outstanding In Annual “Absurdities.”
Kearns, Degnan, McManus, Hruby, Are ’33-34 Editors
FUNNY FELLOW
APPOINTED TODAY

Playing to capacity houses at all three performances, “High Jinks of 1933,” the annual show of the Monogram club, is nothing but a pleasant memory for another year.
The theme of the revue was a trip around the world, occasioned by the reputation for travel of the Notre Dame athletic teams. Instead of picturing scenes from different cities visited by the Irish in their travels, the actors took the audience on a tour through several countries.
Nick Lukats as the skipper of the mythical ship turned in a nice bit of work. His stories were numerous, his stage presence was natural and when he did an imitation he put into it something of his own likable personality.
Holland First Stop
The Monogram men picked Holland as their first stop on this world tour. The Dutch doll dance, besides being a clever skit, is enhanced by the use of attractive costumes, especially designed for the Monogram club by James Cassidy.
Ossie Osborne in Africa, Joe Pi-varnik and Ben Alexander in Africa, and Larry Vejar and Ed, Krause in Paris all turned in excellent caricatures on the people of the country which they portrayed.
The second part of the performance brings the Ramblers back to different points of interest in the United States. The act opens on Broadway and the 42nd Street chorus does its work so well that the men taking part receiver several encores.
Departing from the usual ruri of musical comedies and revues, “High Jinks of 1933” closes with a beautiful waltz number, sung by Norb Christman and Tom Roach and danced by the more graceful chorines of the show. As the final curtain closes the fine voice of Leo Cronin is heard from backstage, bidding the audience good-* night.
When interviewed in his room in Sorin Hall, Joe Kurth, director of the production, admitted that the Mono- j gram club had received offers to take , the show on the road for the summer. ■ Decision is being held up pending the • arrangements of necessary details.
Joseph Degnan who will succeed Joseph McCabe as the 1933-34- Funny Fellow.
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET WILL TAKE PLACE ON NEXT THURSDAY.
The annual Publications banquet will be held next Thursday evening at 7 o’clock in the faculty dining room of the University Dining Halls. Invitations will be mailed early next week to the members of the several staffs who are eligible to attend the banquet.
Badin Students Hold Banquet Last Evening
The students of Badin Hall banqueted in the Lay Faculty Dining-Hall last evening. One hundred and four juniors were present. John J. Hoban, chairman of this year’s prom, acted as toastmaster of the occasion.
The Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C., rector of Badin Hall, addressed the students. The Juggler’s orchestra furnished music during the banquet. Fathers Farley and Stack, rectors of Sorin and Corby halls respectively, were the guests of honor.
The good will and good faith which the nations of the world have so often proclaimed must be translated into action. It may be our last chance.—Richard B. Bennett, Canadian prime minister.
Faculty Board Announces New Heads Of Four Major N. D. Publications.
Announcement w a s made this
morning by the Faculty Board of Publications of the appointment of James S. Kearns, Louis H. Hruby, Joseph B. Degnan, and Paul F. McManus to the 1933-’34 editorships of The Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and Scrip, respectively. Eugene T. Sullivan and Robert M. Monahan
James S. Kearns • The last rung.
were named assistant editors of Scrip.
Kearns, who will succeed Edmund A. Stephan as editor of The Scholastic, is a junior in the college of Arts and Letters and lives in Dubuque, Iowa. During the past three years he has acted as sports reporter, sports editor, assistant managing editor, and managing editor of The Scholastic.
Joseph Degnan, of West Lebanon, N. H., also a junior in the college of Arts and Letters is the new editor of the Juggler. Degnan has been a steady contributor to the humor publication during the past three years, especially during the current year when he was one of the outstanding writers on Editor McCabe’s staff.
For the third time in four years a junior from Cleveland, Ohio, will edit (Continued on Page 30)
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
APRIL NUMBER OF NJ.
‘CATALYZER’ IS ISSUED
By James Munn
Early this spring — around Prom time, to be exact — a story appeared in .the columns of The Scholastic to the effect that Tom Sexton had been seen crouched on the third-story window of his room in Sorin, vigorously engaged in removing the winter’s collection of soot and grime from the panes. Casual but critical observers on the Front Porch d i s m i s s ed it as being a typical Sexton antic — good for a laugh, of course, but certainly nothing to which any significance should be attached. Nor did these same observers note with suspicion or wonderment the unprecedented increase in the Sexton mail delivery. Father Farley’s “Atta-boy,” as he daily flung delicate, feminine missives in Tom’s direction, became downright monotonous. Still Sorin slumbered on in its staid, superior fashion, little dreaming of the spectacular awakening to which it was due to receive; an awakening that was adequately to explain the precarious window-washing and the daily letter. Suddenly, the news buzzed through the old hall: “Yes, it’s true. Web is married— last March. Can you beat that?”
The Sexton Individualism
And there you have Thomas Webb Sexton. That’s the way he does things. Quickly, smoothly, and with a minimum of effort. Some might call it spectacular, and in a way, they are right. Surely, Webb, as he is called on the top floor of Sorin, is not a lad of whom you expect the ordinary. He is a staunch individualist; his every action bears the Sexton stamp. He is a constant,source of interest to the fellows who really know him.
Speedy Webb
Strangely enough, unlike previous “Men About,” Sexton is not given to a large circle of friendships—but it is a safe assumption to venture that he is every bit as well known as are his predecessors. There is none of the “Hi, boy!—How ya doing?” stuff about him. When he strides across the campus, with long space-devouring steps, he looks neither left nor right. No dawdling for Sexton. He likes speed.
Speed. Another descriptive Sexton adjective. It is no secret that he is one of the finest swimmers in the mid-west; Notre Dame students were made aware of this ability in the re
cent intramural swim meet, in which he outswam competitors to win two races in ridiculously easy fashion. A story is told concerning his swimming while he was still a student at
Tom Webb Sexton
With a minimum of effort.
Loyola Prep in Chicago, that gives, better than anything else, a true slant on his general attitude. A meet had been scheduled with the other teams in the Catholic High School League, and Loyola, with Sexton as the bulwark of their club, expected — and rightly so—an easy victory. Cheering knots of students and proud parents lined the pool; the point score was close. Finally, the concluding event of the evening, the breast-stroke, was announced. Loyola was tied with an ancient rival; the situation was tense, but with supreme confidence, the Loyola backers settled in their seats, for was not Sexton—the unbeatable Sexton scheduled to appear? No worry. But suddenly a dark hush settled over the Loyola stands; Sexton, someone reported, was not to be found. He had not been seen at the natatorium all evening. Consternation broke in great waves over the Loyola side of the pool. Efforts were made to hold up the race until he could be located. But the referee ruled—“no delays”; silent and bitter, Loyola turned to watch the frightful spectacle. The starter’s gun was flashing; the contestants had been called to the line.
Suddenly a great shout rent the stands. Loyola supporters stood in their seats, yelling, shouting, and (Continued on Page 11)
One More Issue Remains For Jenny and Staff.
By Thomas Proctor
One more issue of the Catalyzer, monthly publication of the Chemistry Club, remains to vex Editor Frank Jenny and his staff, since the appearance of the April number last week. In this recent issue is an article by W. J. Degnan, B.S. in Ch.E., ’27, an editorial by the editor, news of clubs and societies, and Personals.
In his article, “Chemical Engineering in the Design of Petroleum Refinery Equipment,” Degnan points out the petroleum refining has become an attractive and fruitful field for chemical engineering. “The refiner has realized that modern equipment is necessary in his plant,” says the author. “Thus he maintains a technical organization of his own to insure a modem and efficient unit. Since the refining of oil is essentially a chemical engineering process, and consists of thermochemical reactions, it is the principles of chemical engineering that constitute the authority for soundness of equipment design.”
Father Nieuwland Note
At the present time Degnan is employed as a Stabilizer Engineer by the M. W. Kellogg Company of New York City. _
Editor Jenny presents in an editorial “Evaluation of a Science” his reason for believing that the science of physics, substantiated by its allied science—mathematics, is the most absolute criterion of our basic knowledge of science and engineering.
Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., is mentioned in the “Personals” as having been listed along with 250 others as “among the leading scientific workers of the United States.” This group was selected from 22,000 names in the “Biographical Directory of American Men of Science,” and Father Nieuwland is included along with 43 other chemists.
Socialism, communism, internationalism and pacifism confuse and be-muddle the kinds of young people, making them think lightly of law observance, parental authority and the Lord’s Day.—Mrs. Paul M. Kendrick, chairman of National Defense Committee of the Daughters of American Colonists.	-
May 12, 1933
Nine
CHEMISTS’ CLUB PLANS BANQUET FOR MAY 17
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Three Speeches Are Given At Monthly Meet.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used ztpon request.
The Chemists’ Club held its monthly meeting last Friday evening, May 5, in Chemistry Hall. Final arrangements were made for a banquet to be held at the Knights of Columbus hall in South Bend on Wednesday evening, May 17, in honor of the graduating members of the Club.
Following the short business session, a report was given by Ralph Cripe on, “The Sulphonation of Higher Alcohols as a Source for New Detergents.” Cripe pointed out that the value of soap depends upon its wetting-out power and its emulsifying ability, both of which are possessed by this new detergent. An important feature of this new type of soap is that it does not form insoluble compounds with hard waters.
Importance Of Butanal
William Hockberger next addressed the members on the “Butanal Fermentation Process.” He related the history and increasing importance of butanal. Before the World War, butanal was a by-product in the manufacture of acetone from the fermentation of corn, acetone being used in producing smokeless powder. After the war, the market for acetone dropped and immediately uses for butanal were discovered, it being chiefly employed as a solvent. Commercial Solvents’ Corporation is the leading concern in this production.
The meeting was brought to a close with a short talk by Elmer Harkabus concerning “The Future of the Machine.” “Machines in order to continue in the future must be more stable and more efficient than those of the past,” Harkabus declared. “This means that better alloys having greater resistance and less weight must be discovered by the metallurgists of the future.”
Life is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.—MacBeth.
The United States of America is becoming a country no longer capable of democratic self government—Ed-ivard Bushnell.
Peace Drive
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
In response to your editorial on the new drive being waged against war by the Brown University newspaper I have this comment to make: the campaign, while laudable, is impractical and doomed to meet with the same results as has every other effort directed towards world peace. War is one of the inevitabilities of life, like death and taxes. It is ingrained deeply in human nature. Some sociologists even claim that it is necessary for progress. I don’t see why this latter statement is absolutely true but I am certain of this much: Let every man, woman and child in every nation of the world sign your peace resolution. Let every one of them sign it with the most sincere and well-meant intentions. But let one invasion of another’s rights come along, be it some U. S. property in Afghanistan, and what happens? Statesmen talk about the sacredness of the Constitution, the spilled blood of our forefathers, the inviolability of world democracy. Editors scream about imperialism and tyranny and a lapse of civilization. Bands play, public patriotism steams, and off goes Johnnie to No Man’s Land. It is as unescapable as Mr. Johnson’s business cycle or Mr. Brisbane’s daily dandies on California sunshine.
Sincerely yours,
T. W. S.
Rubber Trees
Editor of The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
Your reference last week to the anti-war drive by the student newspaper at Brown University brought several thoughts on the subject to my own mind. Opponents of the campaign will say that it is impractical, rashly idealistic. I do not believe so — for these reasons: The whole problem of world peace seems to resolve itself into one question: Can war be outlawed by any measures? If some individuals hold that it cannot, under any conditions, be done away with effectively, I say that that in itself
is a blanket admission that we are a race .of short-sighted barbarians. If others hold that the ideal of world peace is not impossible of attainment, I ask what better beginning could be made than the one we are considering.
If a refusal to fight in any war which had no connection with home invasion were signed by the majority of college students in the United States our government would certainly consider it a significant move.
When I think that all my hopes and plans and ambitions could be annihilated by a war in Indo-China over some rubber trees, I wouldn’t hesitate one split second to sign the resolution.
E. S. L.
Law School Notes
Law Club activities were climaxed with the annual elections last Monday morning in the Law Building. According to Club ruling, the president, vice-president, and Law S.A.C. member were picked out of the present Junior class, while the secretary and treasurer were selected from the present Freshman class.
Joseph A. Laughlin of Grand Island, Nebraska, was elected president; J. P. Laughna, vice-president, J. V. Kirincich, secretary, and Nicholas P. Lukats as treasurer. Clay Johnson won the S.A.C. post over Ed O’Donnell by a close margin-.
Thomas L. McKevitt of Ironwood, Michigan, was selected as editor-in-chief of the Lawyer for the coming year, replacing Dan Lencioni. In the past year, McKevitt served as assistant editor. Joseph F. Kelley of Grand Rapids, Michigan, succeeds John Manley as business manager of the publication.
Word has been received that Joseph R. Munizzo and Henry A. Buschen, graduates last year of the Law School, have passed the Illinois State Bar examinations.
The average mind can get nowhere except by marching, can go no further than its own position in the parade, and is incapable of getting out of step.—Dr. Norman Kingsley.
Ten
The Scholastic
COMMERCE FORUM MEETS AT SOUTH BEND STORE
Operation of Sears-Roebuck Company Explained.
M. E. Barnhill, manager of the local Sears-Roebuck retail store, spoke on the subject of “Merchandising” at the meeting of the Commerce Forum held last week at the store. The talk included all phases of merchandising from the store layout to personnel and salesmanship.
Ten of the department heads were present to aid Mr. Barnhill in explaining the store’s operation. The governing factors in the location of department and their effect on sales, as well as the importance of co-operation and organization of the personnel, were also emphasized.
It is the policy of the store, the speaker stated, to conduct a class in merchandising to bring about greater efficiency and service on the part of the employees. Mr. Barnhill also pointed out the necessity for a close scrutiny of the records of sales and inventory.
Newspaper advertising is the principal medium used in attracting customers to the store for the first time. Service and quality are relied upon to secure resales.
“Merchandising is buying and selling at a profit.” Profit, according to Mr. Barnhill, is dependent upon good judgment and the correct percent of mark-ups. Retail prices cannot be set by competition, but must be based upon good judgment and' operating costs.
FR. WENNINGER TALKS
(Continued from Page 6)
He sits day after day in his office waiting for a clientele that does not come. Suddenly the door is opened and a young woman enters. She has been indiscreet. Social ostracism, parental grief, even financial ruin depend upon ridding herself of the evidence of her indiscretion. You are the man who holds her future in his hands. What will you do ? Conscience tells you what to do. I tell you that if you must kill, go out and buy a gun and then tackle a man who can defend himself, but don’t crimson your hands with the blood that cries to heaven for vengeance because it is written, ‘Thou shalt not kill’.”
News of the Week
By_ George Leyes
Great Britain has finally decided to accept (with restrictions) the American tariff truce for which President Roosevelt’s special ambassador, Norman H. Davis, has been working so persistently. England was at first reluctant to accept, but she has an eye on a war debt moratorium or a final settlement. This truce provides that neither nation is to take any action commercially, that would established a preferred position between now and the opening of the economic conference on June 12. England’s approval makes the third major country to come to an agreement, France and Italy already having formally accepted.
Meanwhile President Roosevelt is expected to ask congress for power to negotiate tariff revisions at the conference. This is in line with his program for stimulating world trade by breaking high tariff barriers. The message will also ask for power to deal with the war debt question as he sees fit. The fact that the economic conference convenes three days before the June 15 war debt payments are due makes it possible for England to wreck the conference, if the United States does not do something about debts. At any rate, we should know soon whether Europe will pay, or whether we shall pay for them in taxes at the rate of $2.00 per capita.
If the thousands of telegrams that began pouring into the White House after the President’s radio address mean anything, then Mr. Roosevelt surely has the support and confidence of the radio audience. Hundreds of manufacturers and industries immediately increased salaries from five to ten per cent, and also reported an increased volume of business in the last two months. If President Roosevelt can instill such confidence by simply addressing the people over the radio, Congress might as well pass a bill giving him blanket powers and then adjourn—he doesn’t need any congress.
The National-Socialists in Germany have been attempting the unification of the 28 recognized Protestant State (Continued on Page 15)
MOSCOW, LALONDE AND SULLIVAN ARE ELECTED
(Continued from Page 5)
the Law School’s representative in the Student’s Activities Council; and Eli M. Abraham, Niles, Mich., College of Arts and Letters, was chosen by the Off-Campus students as their S. A. C. representative.
The Sophomores elected to Junior Class offices for 1933-34 are: Thomas K. LaLonde, Rochester, N. Y., College of Commerce, president; Fred J. Carideo, Mt. Vernon, N. Y., College of Arts and Letters, vice-president; Kiernen L. Dunn, Springfield, Mass., College of Commerce, secretary; Donald H. Felts, Princeton, Indiana, College of Arts and Letters, treasurer; Philip J. Purcell, Salt Lake City, Utah, College of Arts and Letters, two-year S. A. C.; William J. Casazza, Albany, N. Y., College of Arts and Letters, two-year S. A. C.; and Thomas W. Flynn, Chicago, Ill., College of Commerce, one-year S. A. C.
Edward T. Sullivan, Mechanicville, N. Y., College of Arts and Letters, president; Frank J. Teahan, Northampton, Mass., College of Arts and Letters, vice-president; Julius P. Rocca, Elizabeth, N. J., College of Science, secretary; Daniel T. McLaughlin, Minneapolis, Minn., College of Arts and Letters, treasurer; and Robert W. Cavanaugh, Rouseville, Pa., College of Commerce, one-year S. A. C., are the men chosen by the Freshmen to represent them next year.
Gleason is Elected Head of Rochester Club for ’33-’34
The new officers of the Rochester Club, as elected at a meeting held last Tuesday night in the Law Building are: President, James Gleason; vice-president, Charles Bragg; secretary, Bernard Hennessey; and treasurer, John Gillooley.
The usual business session of the meeting was waived in order to conduct the election. There was some argument over the district that came within the confines of the Rochester Club and doubt expressed as to whether or not members of the disputed areas would be allowed to vote. The matter was finally settled by Cleve Carey, president of the Presidents’ Council.
Eleven
May 12, 1933
ST. VINCENT SOCIETY OBSERVES CENTENNIAL
Rev. P. Carroll, C.S.C., Gives Sermon; Outlines History.
»7
I
I

The centennial of the founding of the St. Vincent de Paul Society by Frederick Ozanam was observed last Sunday, May 7, by members of the society. There was a High Mass at nine o’clock in the Sacred Heart Church attended by members from South Bend, Mishawaka, and Notre Dame. They received Holy Communion in a body. The celebrant of the Mass was Reverend John C. Kelley, C.S.C., who fostered the society here at Notre Dame.
The Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., associate editor of the Are Maria delivered the sermon. He gave a brief history of how the society was founded. The conditions of the times were very lax, he said. A parallel might be drawn between that age and ours. The Catholic students in Paris were confronted with the taunts of the Saint Simonians that the laymen were not then carrying out the injunctions of the Gospel.
Describes Origin
Father Carroll told how Frederick Ozanam and his friends were sitting around talking and they decided to “do something.” They were asked by a priest to work among the poor. That was the genesis of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. From then on the society grew and spread to Germany and Poland and finally to all the European countries.
He then described the method of procedure in the society. He said the work of the society was never done but was always starting over again. As soon as one case was finished another would present itself. The fact is that while this society gives money, alms, and charity, their special aim is to draw people back to God. They help the poor not because they are just the poor, but because the poor are Christ’s special friends and they want to keep them friendly to God.
Father Carroll said he was glad to see that this society which teaches humility and real Christian charity, was established on the campus.
After Mass a breakfast was served in the University Dining Hall. Father Kelley and fifty-two members attended.
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 8)
pointing — to the door. There stood Tom Webb Sexton, dressed for the street and—eating a banana! Quickly he was made to change his clothes, and shortly, with the combined efforts of managers, coaches, and well-wishers, Sexton was hurried to the starting line.
“Brotherly Love”
The rest is history. Need we say that the erstwhile banana-eater finished an easy first?
One thing Sexton will talk about: his brother, who is a junior at Purdue. Tom will discourse for hours on the younger Sexton’s ability as a football player, and stoutly maintains that he will be an All-American next year. Nobody takes this talk seriously; it has been heard on the Notre Dame campus since the fall of 1929 —the year Tom entered the University. Of course, we do not wish to detract from the brother’s playing ability, — he may, for all we know, be Nob Kizer’s ace in the hole for next fall, but for the time, -we must regard Tom’s remarks as a mere manifestation of brotherly affection.
His Boat A Public Menace
Webb is well known to the residents of Crystal Lake—a summer resort outside Chicago. He has a speedboat capable of going sixty miles an hour—and, for some strange reason, feels that it goes its fastest in the wee small hours of the morning—a feeling which is not shared by the good campers who surround the lake. On the contrary, they are loud in their belief that it is the loudest put-putter in the Great Lakes region. It is a matter of official record that the Crystal Lake Police Department has received numerous calls from irate campers to “Come out to the lake and put a stop to the midnight cruises of the Wild Man.” Whether the police ever succeeded in catching the speedy Sexton craft and the Wild Man is not known. We’ll have to take Tom’s word for it that they haven’t.
Unlike other campus benedicts, Sexton knows pretty well what he is going to do after graduation. An economics major, he may go to New York in the fall to work in one of the many Sexton grocery stores. Even at this early stage, Tom has devised plans which he claims will revolutionize the grocery business. And although we prefer to withhold opinion regarding his ultimate success as a grocery magnate, we can’t help but
A.I.E.E. WILL PRESENT ANNUAL DENONSTRATION
Address on “Audible Light” to Feature Show.
Some of the wonders of modem science, especially those relating to light and sound, will be displayed in the demonstration and address on “Audible Light,” to be given by John Bellamy Taylor at a presentation sponsored by the Notre Dame Branch of the A. I. E. E. on Tuesday May 16, at 8 p. m., in the Auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering. A demonstration of this nature is given annually by the Notre Dame Branch.
Mr. Taylor, a consulting engineer in the famous General Electric research laboratory, will employ several cases of laboratory equipment. He will conduct demonstrations in speech, song and instrumental music carried on a beam of light.
Working with acoustics and music has long been a great hobby of Mr. Taylor’s, and he is well known among engineers for his contribution to this branch of the electrical art. He is also thoroughly at home in producing seemingly astounding effects with a photoelectric or “eye” tube.
Mr. Taylor is a former vice-president of the A. I. E. E. and has served on the council of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, as well as being a member of the International Electrotechnical Commission.
Through his happy faculty for explaining and illustrating the topics which he presents, combined with his ability to create novel and surprising effects, Mr. Taylor is able to deliver an address which, though scientific in nature, will appeal quite as much to those who are not technically trained.
N. D. Men Visit Chicago
Registrar Riordan and Professor Froning, head of the department of Chemistry, visited the Harrison Technical School in Chicago last Wednesday. The visit was made for the purpose of interviewing students. Mr. Riordan and Mr. Froning were the guests of the department of Vocational Guidance at the high school.
have the feeling that Tommie Sexton will have things turn out the way he wants.
Twelve
The Scholastic
N.D.’s Is Oldest Catholic College of Law In U. S.
By J. D. Porterfield
They speak of lights shining from the windows of the Architectural Building late into the night, and chemists trudging over from their laboratories just in time for supper, but, forgetting Walsh Hall Rec for the time being, there is another set of. lights that shine out into the gloom of night until the wee sma’ hours. No noise emanates from the building unless you are close enough to hear the rustling of pages and scratching of pens, but work goes on apace. The cigarette ads picture lawyers smoking mightily as they work over their cases and the clock hands creep to twelve, but there is no smoking in the midst of the casebooks of the Notre Dame Law Library.
Founded In 1869
Delving into history for a moment, we find that the College of Law, an outgrowth of a course in law established at the University in 1869, is the oldest of Catholic law schools in the United States. In 1905 the law department was given the status of a college, and since then it has enjoyed a steady growth.
Brief words written in a concise style, as is ever the way with catalogues, but what history they tell in just those few short lines’. Picture, if you can, that small school in the wilds of northern Indiana, its lights shining out into the night as hands more accustomed to the handle of the plow turned the pages of statute books and state reports, searching assiduously for the knowledge that will interpret justice.
Library Has 10,000 Volumes
But you must read the biography of Lincoln yourself, sometime. Let us leave our history and look at the Law School of the present day.
The College of Law of the University of Notre Dame is one of the sixty-eight schools in the Association of American Law Schools, one of the seventy-three law schools bearing the approval of the Council of Legal Education of the American Bar Association, and one of the nineteen of this last group which require three years of pre-law, in preparation for the course. May we add, also, that Notre Dame was one of the first schools in the country to make such a step in
the furtherance of education of young lawyers.
Harking back to the library, under the charge of J. H. A. Whitman, there are at present 10,000 volumes, with room in the stacks for 25,000 more volumes. This space is being rapidly filled by substantial gifts of books from friends of the University. Among the volumes present are the reports of all the state legislatures and territorial legislatures of this country, all English reports on court proceedings, both from the Supreme Court and the lower courts. Besides these, there are several thousand treatises and text-books.
Prominent Alumni
Nor, if, as they say, a school is judged by the men it turns out, is the Alumni of the College of Law lacking in talent and honors. To mention only a few of the men, who have left • the jurisprudent halls on this campus to become famous, there are Thomas Mott, ’96, Congressman from Massachusetts, T. Ansberry, ’93, member of Congress for several terms, and at present a prominent lawyer in Ohio, who frequently practices in the Capitol City, E. B. Casey, ’24, Chicago Municipal Court Judge, and one of the only two Republicans to be elected in Chicago in the last elections, C. C.. Mitchell, ’02, member of the lay board of trustees of the University, M. M. Moshe, prominent judge in Ohio, Clarence Manion and Elton Richter, professors in the College of Law, Gilletts and Faribalt, ’07, Jones, ’03, and Mclnerny, 01, prominent local attorneys, and E. Payton, professor in the School of Commerce.
Home Of Colonel Hoynes
Nor may we forget the unforgettable Col. Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of the College of Law and one of the most notable characters in the middle west. Col. Hoynes spent almost his entire life in the service of the University. He was a great man.
Wandering through the new building, absorbing culture from the engraved mottoes and in memorials on the walls, and beginning to realize there is much of this University we have missed, we entered a large room on the first floor and fell into a dead
MAY ‘LAWYER’ SCHEDULED FUR RELEASE NEXT WEEK
Several New Contributors Are Included in Contents.
The final number of the Notre Dame Latvyer, quarterly publication of the College of Law, will be ready for circulation the latter part of next week. The May issue will feature articles by leading men in the field of law.
Professor Joseph Beale of the Harvard Law School writes on “Legal Pedagogy or What Have I?” This is Professor Beale’s first contribution to the Lawyer. In addition to being a reporter for the American Law Institute, Prof. Beale has taught law longer than any other member of the profession in this country.
Professor Brendan Brown of Catholic University, formerly a student ' at Oxford, is also a new contributor and offers, “Executory Trusts.” Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is the author of “The Paradox of Law and Liberty.” “Negligent Delay Plus Act of God” is the title of a work submitted by Prof. Ralph S. Bauer of DePaul University.
The issue will also contain the usual book reviews, notes and departmental data. Daniel C. Lencioni, is editor of the Lawyer.
‘Cavalcade* Will Be Shown Tonight at 6:30 and 8:30
According to time honored custom the night of the Senior Ball brings an extra movie to Washington Hall.
“Cavalcade” from the play by Noel Coward, starring Clive Brook and Diana Wynyard, will be the presentation. The shows will begin at 6:30 and 8:30.
faint. As we were carried shuddering from .the building, someone was heard to explain: “He mistook our practice court for the Traffic Bureau in Chicago, poor fellow.” We left the Law Building with as much dignity as we could muster.
Dean Konop of the Law School announces that he will present two courses in summer session this year, Private Corporations and Municipal Corporations. There is, they tell us, a summer session here.

May 12, 1933
Thirteen
WRANGLERS HEAR TALK ON “OLD AGE PENSIONS”
Proctor Outlines Plan to Care For Aged Poor.
Theories of Business Cycle Are Explained By Johnson
By Walter Johnson
“Old Age Pensions” was the topic developed by Tom Proctor, Wrangler member, for the approval of fifteen of the society at the regular meeting, last Monday evening in the Law Building. This talk probably concludes the series of discussions which will be followed by election of officers and the semester banquet next Monday and Tuesday evenings, respectively.
Proctor began his outline of a popular plan to care for the aged poor of the nation by showing that this problem is just as current and vital as any problem now claiming the front-page headlines. “Nineteen states and the territory of Alaska have adopted a system of Old Age Pensions to replace that derelict of modern civilization, the county poorfarm,” the speaker said. “This pension system, which is not a dole but rather a reward Tor services rendered, is a step in the right direction in the care of the aged poor scrapped by Modern Industrialism.
Praises F. O. E.
The speaker eulogized the efforts of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, which organization has been largely responsible for the creation and passage of the pension laws in the several states. Through its efforts, in February and March of this year, Indiana, Washington, and Oregon joined the ranks of states interested in social justice.
Proctor described the horrible conditions in poorfarms, outlined the ideal Old Age Pension Law, refuted contentions ’ against it, and pointed out that it has such a champion as President Roosevelt. He concluded with a plea for the members of the society to “follow through” this and other needed legislation.
After some discussion, the Wranglers voted to accept the speaker’s plan as sound and practical.
Art Korzeneski was appointed to handle all details of the banquet on Tuesday, May 16th, at which the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chaplain of the Wranglers, will be the guest of honor. Officers elected Monday evening will be inaugurated at this banquet.
Theories as to the causes of this eternally recurring cycle of prosperity, and liquidation are innumerable— and somewhat unsatisfactory, considered individually. However, to speak philosophically, an electic theory, incorporating the better points of many authorities, may give us a better working concept of the business cycle.
The following, original only in its organization, seems a more plausible explanation — involving Hobson, Af-talion, May, and a few others.
Wages Not Proportionate
Labor, wage earners and salaried workers, since dependent on their work for existence, lack equal bargaining power with those who employ them. This condition results in their receiving, not a proportionate wage, but one resulting from supply and demand in the labor market. Moreover, the immobility of labor often tends to permit the employer to set his own wage. The result is that the wage earner in the long run receives in return for his labor barely enough to satisfy his most essential needs.
This lack of proportion on the side of labor leaves an extra share for the other factors of production. Capitalist and land owner benefit, out of proportion to their contribution, as a result of their superior bargaining power. The rent of land is more or less determined by economic principles — marginal land automatically setting its return. Thus it is the owner of capital, of the tools of production who benefits most. This is certainly not ultimate, perhaps not any too clear, but I believe that it does follow.
Fallacy Of Profits
Now, admitting the assumption that there must be an even unreserved flow of money from consumer to producer and back, let’s see what happens under the existing circumstances. Industry produces, and shows a profit, the latter essential to its production (although, they say, in the long run there are no profits); the laborer receives his small share, rent is paid at its proportionate rate, and the remainder goes out in the form of dividents and profits, to capital.
The worker, receiving just enough
on which to live, promptly spends his whole income, on necessities, on consumption goods, and does his part in maintenance of the desired equilibrium. For simplification, let’s assume that the land owner, too, spends his whole income, enough for a better standard than the laborer, but spends it all (actually, he doesn’t do it, for many large land owners receive more than they can possibly spend currently.)
The Vicious Circle
Then comes the capitalist, who has received not only his share, but some of what ordinarily and deservedly should have gone to the worker, proceeds to spend his income. But it is more than he normally requires, even allowing for a high standard of living. This surplus, since it can’t be spent currently, must be saved— and since there are more profitable ways than hoarding, the money is invested in industry, in more production goods.
Thus, from this situation, there are two undesirable effects, purchasing power is less than produced goods, and, in addition, the supply of production goods is increased, abetting overproduction, in increasing the potential supply of consumption goods, without an increase in money.
To this must be added the effect to accumulated wealth, which has, over a period of years, been taken from the flow of income in society, and the natural tendency of humans to prepare for the future by reserving part of their income for emergencies.
Offers Partial Explanation
This interpretation, complemented by those of May, Martin, and the Pollak group, tends to explain somewhat the phenomenon of the business cycle. Obviously it does not explain it completely, nor does it provide for every noticed phase of the cycle. It doesn’t invalidate the truth and logic of the numerous theories proposed by other economists.
In fact, granting the necessity for equilibrium in the flow of income— and the necessity for complete spending by both consumer and producer as an essential to a static state of (Continued on Page 14)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
DELANDERO IS SPEAKER AT ENGINEERS’ MEETING
Relates Experience in Mexico As Civil Engineer.
By Edward Mansfield
The exciting story of an engineer’s life in Mexico from his first job in charge of swarnp drainage, amid earthquakes and1 revolution, to his last post as supervisor of federal highways and bridges for the Mexican government, was recounted by Professor Pedro de Landero, ’ll, of the Department of Modem Language, in his lecture on “Engineering Experiences in Mexico” presented to the Engineer’s Club, Tuesday evening, May 9.
“If I had to live my life again, I would go through the same experiences once more. It was worthwhile, I think, to live in those days,” said the former engineer, who has been at Notre Dame since 1926.
Begins In Jalisco
An earthquake and a revolution were in progress in Mexico City on June 7, 1911, when Professor de Landero and his classmates were taking their final exams at Notre Dame. On June 16, he was in Mexico City, after a five-day ride from the border on a train commanded by revolutionary troops.
When guerrilla bands swept the countryside with fighting and plundering, the young Notre Dame graduate began his first job in his native state of Jalisco. On that first job, he had under him a former pupil, a classmate and an old teacher of his father, who had also been an engineer—as was his father before him.
The building of a dam, which he described theoretically in his senior thesis at Notre Dame, “was a coincidence of his early days on this first work in Jalisco.
Once, after being condemned to death by a guerrilla chieftain during the feverish days of 1914, Professor de Landero was saved by an old servant of his who had become a colonel in a revolutionary army.
After he had advanced to a position in which he had charge of testing materials with the geological division of the government, the professor met a problem which challenged ' him. A dry lake bed near Mexico City was the source of choking dust storms
BUSINESS CYCLE
(Continued from Page 13)
business, it would make the cycle seem almost inevitable. For one can hardly picture a system, or a nation of human beings being so confident, so logical, so mutually cooperative as to spend, relying on similar action on the part of their associates, freely their whole income, relying on the system for more income in the future, sufficient for their needs.
There is, however, a brighter aspect. More even distribution of income is not inconceivable—minimum wage laws, excess profits taxes—and for better distribution of wealth, inheritance taxes, “soaking the rich taxes,” even forcible acquisition of wealth by the government.
The result would permit the wage earner a higher standard of living, deny the owner of capital nothing, discourage and at the same time prevent this continual reinvestment of surplus in production goods. Conditions would approach, at least, closer to the desired equilibrium—and that would be a definite advance. Complete elimination, it would seem, in view of the necessary assumption, could result only from a controlled system, assurance of protection and income, and the elimination of profits.
which swept over the town during the dry season. By digging artesian wells to make possible the growing of plants of various kinds, the engineer showed the officials that the storms could be prevented if they provided the money. This problem can still be solved, the professor affirmed, if the officials give it the attention it deserves.
The almost impossible task of constructing a highway with no more than a five per cent grade through the granite and limestone of the treacherous Sierras was one of the most difficult works under the supervision of de Landero when he took charge of all road and bridge construction for the Mexican government in 1922. How this work was accomplished formed an absorbing part of his lecture, and was a practical example of the combined economic-technical problems met by the engineer.
Important Notice
The members of the Student’s Activities Council will meet in the Journalism room of the Library, May 15, to elect the president of that organization, at 12:30 o’clock.
“NEWS - TINES” LAUDS GRADUATION SPEAKERS
Editorial Praises Selection of McNutt, Fr. Coughlin.
An enthusiastic editorial comment on the speakers at the forthcoming Commencement Exercises appeared in the South Bend News-Times of 'May 6. The editorial is in part as follows:
“Father Coughlin, the radio priest who speaks to millions of all creeds every Sunday afternoon through the fall, winter and spring, has become the outstanding Catholic voice in the nation. ... With dynamic energy he has torn into the problems of the day, problems only too clearly highlighted by the poverty and distress of millions of Americans, eager to work but crushed under the brutal mass of an economic system which few understood and none cared to bolster against a period of stress. He took his cue from his spiritual chieftain, Pope Pius XI, and dared to proclaim that in the relationship between employer and employee there is a moral issue with obligations devolving on both parties.
“Governor McNutt took the leadership of the people of Indiana when they most needed a leader. . . . He revamped the machinery with which the people permit themselves to be governed. He pruned away useless bureaus. He combined inefficient departments into unities of service to the people who support them. He lowered the burden of cost to the people. He opened the path for city residents to amputate the tentacles of political expediency in municipal affairs. He courageously readjusted the tax burdens, a tremendous problem, to lighten the load of the farmer and home owner.
“McNutt and Coughlin are truly significant figures on the world stage. Whether we agree with them or not, we are fortunate that they are coming and are happy to extend them a welcome.” ■
A. B. Lay Faculty Meets
Professor Langwell addressed the Arts and Letters Lay faculty at a dinner held last Wednesday in South Bend. Twenty-five were present at the meeting.
May 12, 1933
Fifteen
LAWRENCE SEXTON IS NEW K.C. GRAND KNIGHT
New Officers Are Elected For 1933-34 This Week.
By Edward Mansfield
The new Grand Knight of the local Knights of Columbus council is Lawrence Sexton, junior in the College of Law, who was elected Monday night, May 8, -with the officers for 1933-34.
Deputy Grand Knight for next year is Frank Marley, incoming senior in the College of Law. A tie between Mike Santulli and Jim Lannon for the position of Warden was decided by a flip of the coin. Santulli was the lucky man.
Thomas Gorman is the new Chancellor. William Murphy is the ’33’34 recording secretary, and the financial secretary’s post is now held by Frank McGuire, succeeding Eli Abraham.
Father Fogarty Trustee
Reverend James Fogarty, C.S.C. was chosen as a trustee, and the members of the board of directors of the building corporation were retained for next year.
August von Boecklin, Commerce junior, was elected Advocate, while the posts of inside guard and outside guard are now filled by August Church and William Coyne, respectively.
Delegates to the state convention at Indianapolis, May 22, are John Cahill, Grand Knight for the present scholastic year, and Jack Carey. Eli Abraham, financial secretary for 1932-33, is to attend the state convention of financial secretaries at Bloomington, Indiana, on the same day. Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., will also attend the convention at Indianapolis.
NEWS OF THE WEEK
(Continued from Page 10)
churches of the Lutheran and Reformed denominations. They would have a new creed based on Luther’s reformation. The Nazi government, however, hoping for the domination of all Protestant churches and interfered, rules that the so-called free churches are to be preserved; but all they have in common is to be emphasized to such an extent that a virtually unified Protestant church will result from the reform.
ENGINEERS WILL HOLD A PICINIC AT CHRISTIANA LAKE ON MAY 20.
The annual picnic of the Engineer’s Club has been set for Saturday, May 20, at Christiana Lake, and since the club treasury is tied up in a local bank, individual assessments of seventy-five cents will be levied upon those who attend. Transportation, the picnic proper, and the use of the lake boats and slides, will all be included for the sum decided upon, it was announced at the regular monthly meeting this week.
Students of the College of Engineering who attend will be excused from their classes, but those from the other colleges who wish to go as guests will not have that privilege extended to them.
The group will leave the campus for the lake at 8:00 o’clock Saturday morning, May 20.
Harvard Professor Will Confer With N. D. Men
Dr. George Fisher Baker, Professor of Business Economics, in Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, will be on the campus Monday, May 15, for the purpose of interviewing all the Seniors who are interested in Harvard University.
Dr. Baker will speak in Washington Hall at a time that will be announced to the students by means of a general University Bulletin.
A. B. College Notice
The attention of students in the College of Arts and Letters is called to the fact that May 19, next Friday, is the last day for pre-registration for classes.
Students presenting themselves after this date will be subject to the penalty published by the Director of Studies some time ago.
There is no pre-registration for the summer session. All students will be registered for the summer term on Tuesday, June 20.
Senior class officials have made arrangements with the Indiana Cab Company to carry four people from down-town hotels to Chain-O’-Lakes Country Club, Saturday, for one dollar. Return trip will be the same.
DEAN MCCARTHY BACK FROM EASTERN STATES
States Cities Show Evidence of Economic Recovery.
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, returned Tuesday from a three-week trip in the East during which he interviewed prospective students and their parents. Dean McCarthy’s first stop was in Erie, New York. He ended his tour at Wheeling, W. Va., after passing through Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Washington, D. C.
Three Days In Gotham
The Dean’s longest stay was in New York City where he spent three days. In Providence, R. I., he attended the celebration of Universal Notre Dame night, April 25, of the Rhode Island Club, and spoke on a program which included Dr. Eddie Anderson, new coach of Holy Cross College.
Dean McCarthy stated that in most of the towns he had visited there was evidence of economic recovery. He ventured the prediction that within another four months there will be a very decided improvement in business conditions. What the Dean bases his conviction on is that inventories of wholesalers and retailers are very low at present and have to be replenished. This means that factories are employing more men and working longer hours, and that the price of raw materials is going up.
K. C. Picnic To Be Held On Thursday, May 25
The annual picnic of the Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame council, is to be held at Hudson Lake on Thursday, May 25, with Joseph Clark, Commerce senior, as general chairman.
A special street car will transport the Knights to the -lake, leaving the campus at ten o’clock Thursday morning. The hour for the picnic supper has been set at 6:30; those who wish to dance at the lake pavilion later may do so.
Tomorrow is the deadline for submitting golf scores for the council tournament, and the pairings will be posted at the club house next week.
Sixteen
The Scholastic-
Class of 1933 Takes Its Bow
Ted Tf^eems' Orchestra dd7it
Francis A. Werner
President of the Class of 1933
Senior Ball Regulations •
The hours for the Senior Ball are from 10 p. m. to 2 a. m., and in place of residence at 3 a. m.
Seniors are allowed the use of automobiles over the week-end beginning Thursday afternoon and ending Sunday night. Confer with the Rectors and give them the license number of the machine. Autos must be parked in the field south of the Law Building, or next to the Gymnasium, and not in the rear of any residence hall.
Permissions for the student body shall be curtailed on Friday night, May 12th, in conformity with the University policy in vogue on nights of class dances. This applies to day students as well. Students not attending the Ball must be in their place of residence at 10 p. m. Exception is made for those who work in South Bend, but it is expected that they will not loiter around the city. There will be no extension of permission Saturday night and no permission to be absent from the University over the week-end.
Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C. Prefect of Discipline.
Notre Dame’s most colorful and selective class dance will get under way at ten o’clock this evening in the Palais Royale Ballroom and will continue until two o’clock, standard time. The Senior Ball, General Chairman McLaughlin informs The Scholatic, will be attended by approximately 230 couples.
The Ball perennially has an outstanding orchestra. Tonight Ted Weems and his nationally popular band will take care of the music for four hours. Besides the numbers themselves, the Weems’ repertoire includes some able entertainment by orchestra members, among whom are Andrea Marsh, National Broadcasting star, Parker Gibbs, Country Washburn, and Elmo Tanner. The excellence of the entire Weems’ program has been attested to frequently during the past week by those who were present at the St. Mary-of-the-Wood’s Ball last Saturday evening.
Leather Favors
Favors for the dance, as The Scholastic announced a few weeks ago, are leather hand bags, with the University seal, for the guests, and bill folds for the men.
Programs, made of pig-skin, decorated with the colors of Gold and Blue and imprinted with the University seal, have been secured for tonight. Together with the favors, they are still obtainable at the rooms of hall committeemen.
In regard to certain disciplinary regulations for the week-end: No week-end permissions will be granted. Seniors may use automobiles Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, with their rector’s consent. Three o’clock permissions will be in effect for those attending the dance to-
Chairman McLaughl ^3 /
Miss Doris Wiltrout :o
Guest of President Werner
night. The University Parlors will be open during the week-end.	’
s
Patrons and Patronesses for the Ball, are*as follows: Mr. and Mrs. John M.' Cooney, Mr. and Mrs. Albert T. Doyle,; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lloyd, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Pettit, Mr. and Mrs. James Reyniers, Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rol-k lison, Mr. Alden Davis, Mr. Joseph Ryan, and Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady.
List Of Chairmen	>
1
Committee chairmen in charge of the. affair tonight include: Thomas Hughen'o Tickets;-- Howard Douville and James Clark, Music; Charles Conley, Favors^ Anthony Pugliese, Programs; Hugli.. Colopy, Patrons; Joseph Kurth, Recep-;; tion; Karl Vogelheim, Publicity; Paul;
0
5-1

y 12, 1933
<*"i
Seventeen
Evening
At Senior Ball This (< • • !
Furnish Music From 10 to 2
Experts 230 Couples
Miss Mary Alice Geary Guest of Chairman McLaughlin
, O’Neil, Invitations; Robert Johnson, Ballroom; Eugene Fleckenstein, Ar-[ (/»>rangements; James McLaughlin, Entertainment.
Personnel Of Honorary Committee
An Honorary Committee has also been named and is composed of the following:
» Joseph McCabe, Editor of the Juggler; James Gerend, President of the Student Activities Council; Fred MacBeth, Captain of Track; James McGrath, Captain of Baseball; John Baldwin, Captain of
; Basketball; Anthony Wirry, Manager of «'Football; John Cahill, Grand Knight of I the Knights of Columbus; Charles E.
Sheedy, Editor of Scrip; Maurice Lee, Chairman of the Blue Circle, and Edmund Stephan, Editor of The Scholastic.
<c
Guests of honor for the evening are Miss Doris Wiltrout of Wisconsin Rapids, Wis., who will be the guest of Class President Francis Werner, and Miss Mary Alice Geary, of Erie, Pa., who will accompany General Chairman Thomas McLaughlin.
Golf Match Saturday Morning
Saturday morning at nine o’clock the Notre Dame varsity golf team will be matched with the University of Illinois on the William Burke Memorial course. Although the afternoon match will probably conflict with the tea dance, the first nine holes will be played before 3 o’clock.
From 4 to 7 o’clock Saturday (Central Standard Time) a tea dance will be held at the Chain-o-Lakes Country Club for all who attended the Ball. The club may be reached by going two miles past the city limits on Western Avenue, turning right until a new gravel road is reached after about a mile. A left turn will then lead into the club grounds. Dinner will be served following the dance. Reservations may still be made with Jack Travers in Walsh Hall. Co-chairmen of the tea dance are John J. Collins and John J. Galla. Clare Wilson and his Club Lido orchestra from Benton Harbor will play during the afternoon at Chain-o-Lakes.
Soccer Game Sunday Morning
Another sport attraction of the weekend will be the soccer game Sunday morning between the La Raza Club of Notre Dame and the Latin American Society of the University of Michigan. The game will be played on the field north of Freshman Hall at 10 o’clck,
Thomas M. McLaughlin
General Chairman of the Ball
will be a return match, the Notre Dame group having won at Ann Arbor last week.
No definite mass will be held Sunday for Seniors and their guests but the 9 o’clock one in Sacred Heart Church, at which the Moreau Choir will sing, will probably be the most convenient.
WEEK-END PROGRAM
FRIDAY
Senior Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom, 10 p. m. to 2 a. m. (C.S.T.)
SATURDAY
Golf Match: Notre Dame vs. Illinois, William -J. Burke Course, 9 a. m.
Tea Dance, Chain-o-Lakes Country Club, 4 to 7 p. m., (C.S.T.) Dinner, .7 o’clock.
SUNDAY
Mass, Moreau Choir, Sacred Heart Church, 9 a.m.

Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
ON COMING TO AN END
We are completely aware of the fact that editorials on this subject have been used so often that they become disgusting to the average student. And yet we suppose that so long as there are schools and student publications and editorial writers, the end of a quarter or semester will call forth some attempt to publish an editorial that will in some small way give those who are lagging the increased momentum necessary to put them across the finishing line. If such is accomplished, then the innumerable articles on the subject shall not have been born in vain.
You are perhaps already quite well acquainted with the old phrase that has something to do with the third mile of a four mile race. If so—our repetition of it may bring it home more sharply. So much can be lost through a little slackness at this time of the year and, admitting the fact, we come logically to the conclusion that if much can be lost then there is also much to be gained.
Not that we recommend a last minute “cramming,” but after all there is still quite a bit of school left and the amount of work that can be accomplished in a few weeks, by a determined effort, may change completely the total results.
We have been trying to keep this editorial on a college level, but, if we may revert to high school terminology, our last word is this: “Get going.”—St. Thomas Purple and Gray.
CANADIAN HOSPITALITY
A member of the faculty of the University of British Columbia has invented a punctuality machine which flashes a cheerful “welcome” to prompt students and a sarcastic “late again” to tardy ones.
THE IDLER’S UTOPIA
Students at Missouri may take out insurance i	against flunking.	Should the holder of a policy
i	flunk a course	the company will pay him
< ’	enough money to	cover his expenses at summer
[	school.
i
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY NEWS
The University library, well known resort for the socially minded, is also the depository for 624 pieces of second hand chewing gum beneath the oaken tables of the main reading room, it was recently discovered.
It was found that beneath each of the 48 tables an average of 13 lumps of the chicle compounds had been placed.
NOTA BENE
It was recently discovered in a survey at Franklin and Marshall college that the grades of those students who had chosen their vocations before entering college were 50 per cent higher than those of students who had not decided on their future work.
UNEASY LIES THE HEAD THAT WEARS A CROWN
An orange beret was awarded to the most popular, outstanding faculty member at a recent dinner at Syracuse university, while a red derby was the prize at Wisconsin.
STORMY WEATHER
After five minutes of romantic melody, the Alpha Phi Sorority House showered two serenading University of Colorado Romeos with fudge. After 15 minutes the boys got a cake. At the end of a half hour the Sorority president called the police. The singers escaped.
BAKING HIS WAY THROUGH COLLEGE!
A masculine member of the sophomore class at Montana State College who is working his way through college, does it by selling cakes which he bakes himself, his angel food cake having won a prize in a local competition.
SOME SESSION!
If you want to learn how to sweep a floor, keep your furnace properly cleaned,, make your young brother behave, or simply store up a few educational treasures—go to the University of Minnesota during its two regular “fourth quarter” summer session terms, according to an announcement from there.
Nineteen
May 12, 1933 * ---------------------
EDITORIALS
FOUR YEARS: IN RETROSPECT
A few more issues and The Scholastic of 1932-33 will be another bound volume in the University Library. Considering its so called editorial policy in retrospect the present regime realizes that it has not been overly militant in regard to home affairs, that its crusades have been few, its tangible accomplishments slight. Many things, but petty things, have happened this year in student life at Notre Dame that might have lent themselves to editorial interpretation and criticism. We have preferred to pass them by, lest their import be exaggerated by the attention given them.
After a nine months’ participation, however, in the give and take of campus life, we have inevitably formed some opinions on the undergraduate way of doing things and, while the opportunity is at hand, we would like to make a few suggestions, advocate a few measures, and then be on our way. Some of the things we are going to list apply to but a few; others have a wide reference. Let them be taken at their worth:
1.	A more contented outlook. Why complain about a life that alumni will tell you is a relative paradise?
2.	A more acutely defined sense of values that will put a class dance, an election, or a football game in its proper sphere.
3.	A more immediate and thorough integration of the freshmen into campus life. How many come here with the notion that the first five dollars must go for a pair of corduroys and two army boots?
4.	An awakened interest in such fields as dramatics, publications, forensics, and the fine arts. How many students have ever walked through the art gallery with a catalogue? How many know absolutely where the art gallery is? How about the critics of the Juggler, Scrip, and The Scholastic, who bottle up their own genius?
5.	A knowledge of what it means to be a Notre Dame man and of certain responsibilities that follow. What is your reaction to a group of people who parody the Victory March?
6.	Abolition of 75 per cent of the moribund campus clubs who do nothing but promote dances and hold two meetings a year: one to elect officers, the other to collect dues.
7.	A class pin that will cost what a class pin is worth.
8.	A standard that demands that a man be more than an athlete to be an object of emulation.
9.	A respect for University property: Note the art work on the two year old seats in the Commerce Building.
10.	Some effective ostracism of certain campus types: the pseudo intellectual, the racketeer, the back-slapper, the smooth-article, the scholar who whistles at four syllable words, the non-entity whose sole remark from his window for the past four years has been: ‘So and So—you goof I’
11.	An ability to withstand the ravages of the mob mind. If you do not develop individuality here, where will you?
12.	One omnipresent ideal: to be a Catholic gentleman.
ENLIGHTENMENT
Out of the East, from a recent edition of the Syracuse Daily Orange, comes this encouraging bit of news:
“South Bend, Indiana — Led by Captain Sol Slive, the Notre Dame baseball team has won six games in a row. In a recent game with the bases full and the Irish leading by one run, Slive pulled down three hot liners to give his team the game.”
Our hats off to you Mr. Slive, but for goodness sake come home this instant with the other boys and promise never to go barnstorming again.
Twenty	.	The Scholastic
| ATHLETICS | State Track Team Beats Irish
Mile Relay Decides Fierce Battle As Spartans Take 67-64 Victory
Notre Dame Leads Throughout Meet; Irish Score Slams in 100, 220 and Shot Put.
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The Notre Dame tracksters got off on the wrong foot last Saturday at Cartier Field in their initial home outdoor appearance this year. Michigan State College took the Irish into camp 67 to 64 in one of the closest meets held here this year.
It was the second time that the concluding event, the relay, was the deciding factor. This time, however, the visitors failed to drop the baton, and won the race. The Lansing quartet, which finished third in the Penn relays two weeks ago, took an early lead and headed the Irish captain, Fred MacBeth, by ten yards when Clyde Roberts stepped out and brought the Irish within three yards of the visitors. At this point Keast opened the gap again and assured victory for State.
Score Slams In Sprints
The performance of Francis Murphy, Leo Dilling, and Jim Gilfoil in the dashes was gratifying. This trio swept the 100- and 220-yard dashes. In the century Murphy led his teammates home with Gilfoil second and Dilling a close third. “Murph” and Gilfoil ran a dead heat in the furlong with Dilling close on their heels.
In the shot put the Blue and Gold men also monopolized the scoring, Bill Freschi winning with a heave of 45 feet. Finkel and Dames copped second and third respectively. These sweeps had a great deal to do with the early commanding lead piled up by the Irish; a lead which was gradually cut until it changed hands at the conclusion of the tell-tale relay.
Three other firsts were chalked up by Nick’s men during the cold afternoon. Eddie King showed a reversal
of form and ran a heady race to win the one mile jaunt in 4:25.4. Hurd of Michigan State was second, and Joe Young sneaked into the scoring column with a third.
Clyde Roberts, running his usual smooth and steady race, had little trouble in capturing the half mile run. Vince Murphy completed the list of Irish winners with a leap of six feet and one-half inch in the high jump.
Jack Edwards and Howard tied for second in the pole vault, which was won by Holcomb of State, at 12 feet. Charlie Finkel kept the visitors from a sweep in the discus with his second place.
State Men Win Hurdles
Captain Kenneth Bath and his teammate, Ted Liberty, took care of the first two places in the high and low hurdles. Captain Bath led the field across the finish line on the high sticks and Liberty on the low. Captain Fred MacBeth in the low, and Jimmy Fagan in the high hurdles scored a point apiece for Notre Dame.
Jackson of State performed better than the other contestants in the broad jump with Conley and Eddie Gough tying for second best. Big Ed Krause was a good second to Beaumont in the javelin while Bill Walsh brought up in the third place.
Jim Bowdren and Joe Young tallied the remaining points for the local squad. The former scored a third in the quarter mile, and Joe Young registered three points in the two mile grind.
The summaries:
POLE VAULT—Won by Holcomb (MS) ; Howard and Edwards (ND), tied for second. Height, 12 feet.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Jackson (MS), second; Kleinheksel (MS), third. Height, 6 feet, % inch.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Buss (MS) ; Finkel, (ND), second; Adler (MS), third. Distance, 122 feet, 8 inches.
(Continued on Page 21)
U RAZA CLUB SOCCER TEAM BEATS MICHIGAN
Score 6-0 Win At Ann Arbor; Return Game Here Sunday.
The LaRaza Club of Notre Dame won the first game of the home and home series with the Latin American Society of the University of Michigan by a score 6 to 0. The victory served as revenge for the 2-1 defeat the Club received from Michigan in May of 1932.
From the very beginning of the game the superior strength and coordination of the Notre Dame men were evident. At the half the marker stood at 4-0, all of the scores having been converted by Brias. The Notre Dame forwards were working well, ably directed by the center-forward Roxas featuring runs made by the two wingmen Hoyos and de Landero, and being well supported by the efficient La Raza half backs, Bonnet, Yriberry and Singson.
Goalie Gets A Rest
The two full-backs, Valdes and Creel, had practically nothing to do, and the goalie, de Landero, was not once put into play. Arce, the right . inside man, cooperated with Roxas, Brias, and Hoyos in repeatedly carrying the ball down-field.
The second half of the game saw a little more action in the Michigan ranks, their team executing several advances into Notre Dame territory and even registering a few shots at the goal, which were, however, easily stopped by de Landero. The outstanding Michigan players were Le Page and Tellez.
Next Sunday the Michigan team will play the La Raza at Notre Dame, in the soccer field north of Freshman Hall, at ten in the morning. The student body is cordially invited to attend.
May 12, 1933
*--------------------
Twenty-one
GOLFERS WIN AGAIN -17-1 FROM SPARTANS
Banks, Montedonico Lead Irish To Third Straight Victory.
When the National Golf Intercol-legiates are held next month it may be that there will be entered a number of members of the Notre Dame golf team. At this time, after the team has trounced three opponents with such neatness and dispatch as Notre Dame has done this year, it might not be amiss to look for big things from these Irish golfers should they be entered. Last Saturday, making their bow before the home fans, they defeated Michigan State by the score of 17-1 in a meet in which the visitors hardly had a look-in.
Banks Shoots 74
If it isn’t one Notre Dame man shooting sensational golf it is another. Two weeks ago Vince Fehlig shot a par on the Purdue course; last Saturday Johnny Banks, on a water-soaked course, made a 74, two over par. And Captain Johnny Montedonico wasn’t so far behind that. He covered the first nine in a par 37 and came in in 39 for a brilliant 76.
As both the two ball and the four ball matches were played simultaneously, only four men represented Notre Dame instead of the usual five that Father Ott has been using.
In addition to Montedonico’s parequalling 37, Johnny Banks also accomplished this feat on the first nine. Banks scored two birdies and 12 pars during the 18 holes. Montedonico registered three birdies and nine pars in turning in his 76.
Fehlig Halves Nine
Michigan picked up two half-points to get its single tally. Till the final hole of the combination doubles and singles best ball matches was reached it wasn’t at all a certainty that the Spartans would garner even a single point.
Russ Turill, No. 1 Michigan State man score a par five on the 18th after Fehlig had tied it on the 17th with a birdie two. Fehlig also shot a par five on the 18th, thus allowing Turill to halve the nine. The visitors picked up their other half point when Mueller tied Montedonico on the second nine.
In the first match on the home
STATE WINS TRACK MEET
(Continued from Page 20)
SHOT PUT—Won by Freschi (ND) ; Finkel (ND), second; Dames (ND), third. Distance, 45 feet.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) ; Hurd (MS), second; Young (ND), third. Time, 4:25.4
440 YARD DASH—Keast and Hoff (MS), tied for first; Bowdren (ND), third. Time, :50.3.
100 YARD DASH—Won by Murphy (ND) ; Gilfoil (ND), second; Dilling (ND), third. Time, :10.
120 YARD HIGH HURlft.ES—Won by Bath (MS) ; Liberty (MS), second; Fagan (ND), third. Time, :15.4.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Roberts (ND),; Pongrace (MS), second ; Warren ^MS), third. Time, 2:01.2.	k
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Beaumont (MS) ; Krause (ND), second; Walsh (ND), third. Distance, 177 feet, 5 inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Jackson (MS) ; Gough and Conley (ND), tied for second. Distance, 22 feet, ’4 inch.
220 YARD DASH—Murphy and Gilfoil (ND), tied for first; Dilling (ND), third. Time, :22.3.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Hurd (MS) ; Young (ND), second ; Hammer (MS), third. Time, 9:53.4.
220 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Liberty (MS) ; Bath (MS), second; MacBeth (ND), third. Time. :25.3.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Michigan State (Pongrace, Hoff, Warren, and Keast). Time, 3:26.5.
stretch Notre Dame made sure of the doubles four and three. Cole finished ahead of Herrick four and two and Fehlig beat Turill 2% to %.
In his match with Montedonico Mueller scored six birdies but he was over par nine times and he was forced to be content with a 79, the best Michigan State score of the day.
The cards:
Fehlig (N.D.)
Out: 44455444 4—38
In: 4 5 5 5 5 4 6 2 5—41—79
Turill (M.S.)
Out :54546354 5—41 In: 5 5 4 7 5 3 54 5—40—81
Cole (N.D.)
Out: 54655345 4—41
In :64454363 o—10—81
Herrick (M.S.)
Out: 45566455 6—45 In:65 4'7 5383 6—47—92
Banks (N.D.)
Out: 445543’44 4—37 In:54344354 5—37—74
Mitchell (M.S.)
Out: 55465354 5—42
In:65454463 4—41—83
Montedonico (N.D.)
Out :44544245 5—37
In: 54545363 4—39—76
Mueller (M.S.)
Out: 45654235 5—39 In:634652 6- 4 4—40—79
N. D. ATHLETIC STAFF RETAINED FOR ’33-34
Harper, Anderson to Continue as Heads of Irish Forces.
Announcement was made this week by the Reverend M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Chairman of the University Board of Athletic Control of the re-
Jesse C. Harper
Athletic Director for another year.
tention of five incumbent members of the Notre Dame athletic department for the school year 1933-’34.
Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper, Head Football Coach Heartly W. Anderson, and assistant football coaches John Voedisch, Marchmont Schwartz, and Nordy Hoffman each signed a one-year contract to continue in his present capacity.
The sixth member of the staff, Tom Conley, signed a similar contract to act as assistant football coach earlier in the spring. Conley has been on the campus since early in March and took over his duties during the spring training season.
The one year contracts signed by Harper and Anderson were the third in succession for each of the men. Following the death of Knute Rockne in 1931 his coaching and Athletic Director duties were assumed by the two men.
End Coach Ike Voedisch has been on the Irish coaching staff since his graduation in 1928. Hoffmann and Schwartz were added to the ranks of assistants following the conclusion of their playing careers in the 1931 season. Tom Yarr, center coach last fall and captain of the 1931 Notre Dame team, is the only member of last year’s staff who will not return next fall.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Keoganites Win Two From
Hawkeye Nine 8 to 5,2 to 0
PITCHING FEATURES
Heavy Hitting Helps Leonard In First Game; Sagartz
Pitches Shutout.
By John D. Carbine
With Jim Leonard and John Sagartz doing excellent work on the pitcher’s mound, Notre Dame’s baseball team, won both ends of a two game series with Iowa here, Wednesday and Thursday. The Irish won the first game by the score of 8 to 5, and in the second game, administered a 2-0 whitewash to the lowans.
Sagartz’ Pitching Outstanding
Leonard and Sagartz proved conclusively that the Irish moundsmen can pitch a winning brand of ball if their teammates will give them good support. In Wednesday’s game, Leonard, after a bad first inning, steadied down and held Iowa to two runs during the remaining innings • of the game.
Sagartz’ pitching on Thursday was the best seen on Cartier field this year. Big John held the Hawkeyes to five hits, one of which was of a decided scratchy nature, and did not permit a single runner to cross the plate. Rather than blowing up in the pinches, Sagartz seemed to reach his peak when the bases were occupied.
In the first game, the Irish had to overcome a three run lead which the lowans ran up in the first inning. The Keoganites picked up two in the fourth and six more in the fifth on a barrage of hits. Frank Palmisani, with a single and two doubles to his credit was a leading figure in both of these rallies.
Second Game Close
The second game was a tight pitcher’s battle all the way. The Irish picked up single tallies in the fourth and in the eighth which proved to be enough to win the hall game. In the fourth, Kane singled, went to second on Seidl’s sacrifice and scored on Dunn’s single. With two out in the eighth, Kane again singled, stole second and came home on a hard single by Seidl.
(Continued on Page 30)
NEXT WEEK’S SPORTS CALENDAR
Friday—Tennis: Northwestern at Evanston.
Saturday—Golf: Illinois on William J. Burke course.
Singles at 9:00 a. m.; doubles 1:30 p. m.
Tennis: Illinois at Urbana.
Track: Army at West Point.
Sunday—Soccer: N. D. La Raza vs. U. of Michigan Latin-American club. Freshman Hall field, 10:00 a. m. ■
Tuesday—Tennis: Michigan State on University courts, 1:30 p. m.
NET MEN FACE THREE FOES; GOLF TEAM PLAYS ILLINOIS.
By Howard Waldron
Tennis, a sport which has long been in the background at Notre Dame, comes into its own this week with three contests scheduled.
Northwestern, always a powerful foe, led by Captain Teting, number one man, will be played today at Evanston. Tomorrow, Illinois, whose golf team will be playing here, will be hosts to Notre Dame at Champaign, Ill. Hlinois has another strong team and should give Notre Dame far more than they can handle. A return match with Michigan State will be played on Tuesday, May 16, on the Notre Dame asphalt courts.
To Play On Home Courts
Notre Dame was handed a decisive 8 to 1 defeat in a previous engagement with Michigan State. The veteran doubles combination of Captain Louis Chreist and Dick Kelly saved the Irish from a complete shutout by the clever Spartan players.
But this week Notre Dame will be playing on her own courts and knowing the angles and tricky background, which is of sand, the Irish stand a better than even chance of avenging their previous defeat. Asphalt courts are faster than clay, which Michigan State uses, and a new timing is required which may throw the Spartans off stride.
(Continued on Page 30)
TRACK MEN LEAVE FOR MEET AT WEST POINT
“Nick” Predicts Victory—For Army; Squad of 22 Taken.
By Edward Van Huisseling
With West Point and a victory over Army as their goal, twenty-two Irish trackmen left for the East yesterday to participate in their second outdoor dual meet. A bus has been used as the means of transportation so that more men could make the trip. The squad is expected to stop off at Erie, Pennsylvania, for practice'and general loosening up before charging the Army trenches. The caravan will arrive in West Point late today.
Coach John P. Nicholson had the meet doped out on paper before leaving an Army victory by approximately 70 to 55.
The soldiers boast a strong front headed by two football stars. King, an end on the eleven, is an excellent quarter-miler. With two teammates about his equal, Jim Bowdren and Captain Fred MacBeth, running the 440 for Nick, will have it tough sledding.
Krause In Javelin Throw
Mac Williams, one of the signal barkers on Major Sasse’s squad last fall, will find Ed Krause again blocking his way. This time the boys will vie in the javelin throw. “Moose” put in a strenuous session Tuesday with the big stick and got off one heave of 174 feet. “Big,” as Nick chooses to label him, takes his javelin throwing seriously, as he does other sports.
Clyde Roberts and Eddie King will find things a bit tough in the 880 and one mile jaunts in the person of Cadet Graham who has turned in remarkable performances in these distances.
Other outstanding soldiers in the front trenches are Smith and Epler in the hurdles, Armstrong in the shot put, and 'Martin in the pole vault.
Joe Young ought to feel quite at home in the eastern atmosphere. With the home town friends watching the aggressive New Jersey native perform, it is a good bet that Starbird, the best that the Army has to offer, will follow Joex across the finish line in the two mile run.
The success of the Blue and Gold depends largely upon the performance of Jimmy Fagan, Poredon, and Fred
(Continued on Page 31)	.
May 12, 1933
Twenty-three
AGED SORINITES TIE FOR LEAD IN GROUP I
Win Third Game to Gain Even Standing With Morrissey.
By Nick Connor
The fourth round of the current interhall kitten ball season was safe- • ly concluded last Sunday. All of the teams have passed the halfway mark and all are now headed down the home stretch for the championship. In Group I Morrissey and Sorin are pacing the field while in the second bracket Freshman and Walsh are going neck and neck as each is maintaining a clean slate.
Howard Downs Alumni
There were five interesting games played last Sunday, in fact many of the frays went into extra innings. Among these was the game played between Howard and Alumni; this game went eleven innings, Howard winning in the final stanza 8 to 7. The other extra inning fracas was staged between Carrol and Brownson for the championship of the Main Building. Carroll tripped up the nine from Brownson 6 to 5 in an eleven inning battle. A home run by Clark in the last half of the eleventh won the game for Carroll.
Dillon’s baseball pastimers found little trouble in disposing of Lyons, as they won 10 to 1. This was the third straight loss for the sophomore hall. Sorin won another thrilling game this week-end by dropping Badin 4 to 2. The work of Misterly and Alberts at the plate featured this air-tight game. The fifth and last game of the day’s program was won by the league leading Morrissey team when they bumped off the senior nine from Corby 7 to 3.
League Leaders To Play
The games scheduled for Sunday, May 14th will be between Freshman and Walsh on diamond five. Howard will tangle with Carroll on field number one, and Alumni and Off-Campus will play on diamond number two. The other team from the Main building, Brownson, drew a bye for this week.
In Group I, on diamond six, Dillon and St. Edward’s will cross bats. Corby and Badin will come together on field three. The two league leaders Morrissey and Sorin will meet on diamond four. This should be the best game of the day. The lowly
Irish Golfers Defeat N. U.
For Fourth Straight Win
INTERHALL BASEBALL STANDING
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
Sorin .............. 3	1	.750
Morrissey .......... 3	1	.750
Corby .............. 2	1	.666
Dillon ............. 2	1	.666
Badin .............. 1	1	.500
St. Edward’s ........1	2	.300
Lyons .............. 0	3	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Freshman ........... 3	0	1.000
Walsh .............. 3	0	1.000
Alumni ............. 2	1	.666
Howard ..............1	2	.333
Carroll ............ 1	2	.333
Brownson ............1	3	.250
Off-Campus ......... 0	3	.000
Lyons nine drew a bye for the weekend.
Games will also be played on next Tuesday afternoon at 4 o’clock. In Group II Brownson and Walsh will come together on diamond three. Alumni and Freshman meet on number four. Carroll will stack up against Off-Campus on field number five. Tuesday’s bye in Group II goes this time to Howard.
In Group 1$ on the first field, Corby will pit her strength against the power of the freshmen from Dillon On the second field Lyons and Sorin meet, and Badin and St. Ed’s come together for the first time on diamond six.
Batteries and scores for last Sundays games:
Morrissey 5 0 2 0 0 0 0—7
Corby________0 2 0 0 1 0 0—3
Batteries: Nuss and Ferrel. Suech and Levstick
Badin________1 0 0 0 0 1 0—2
Sorin _______2 0 0 0 0 0 2—4
Batteries: Keeney and Alberts. Gleason and Misterly.
Lyons________0 0 0 0 0 1 0— 1
Dillon ______0 0 0 6 2 2 x—10
Batteries: Santuli and Ashengden. Heckler and McKerbann.
Howard __2 00 320 000 01—8
Alumni_____124 000 000 00—7
Batteries: Staab and Caseretta. Kiep and Motsett.
Brownson _0 20 200 100 0—5
Carroll____0 01020200 1—6
Batteries: Mazelin and Bruno. Tobin and Vervete.
BANKS LEADS SQUAD
Shoots 149 for 36 Holes; Hal Reid, N.U., Low With 144 on Rain-Soaked Course.
By James F. McKeon
Despite the fact that it faced the sternest opposition that it has to date, the Notre Dame golf team kept its record clean by outpointing the Northwestern golfers at the Kildeer Country Club, Evanston, Ill., by the score of 11^2 to 6^ last Tuesday.
Notre Dame held the advantage in both the best ball matches and in the individual play finishing on top by a 4% to 1% score in the former and 7 to 5 in the individual play.
Hal Reid, brilliant Northwestern golfer, turned in the best score of the day. He covered the rain-soaked course in the morning 18 in 71, one over par, and went the afternoon round in 73 for a 36-hole total of 144.
Montedonico Scores 150
Johnny Banks turned in the best Notre Dame score of the day. He completed the morning round in 73 and the afternoon in 76 for a 149, one stroke under Captain Johnny Montedonico’s 73-77—150.
Vince Fehlig continued in his slump. He and Cole were defeated in the-individual play. Fehlig losing 2%-% while Cole dropped his match 2-1. In addition to Banks’ victory, a 3-0 white-washing of Northwestern’s McDonald in the afternoon round, Montedonico swept all of the points in his match, beating Brown of N. U. and assuring victory for the Irish.
The summaries:
Best ball matches: Flynn and McDonald (N.U.), tied Fehlig and Veeneman (N.D.) l^-l^; Banks and Montedonico (N.D.) beat Brown and Reid, N.U.) 3-0.
Singles matches: Reid (N.U.) defeated Fehlig, (N.D.) 2%-%; Flynn (N.U.) defeated Cole (N.D.), 2-1; Montedonico (N.D.) defeated Brown (N.U.) 3-0; Banks (N.D.) defeated Ertsnay, (N.U.), 2%-%.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING	Louis Chreist
By John D. Carbine
Louis. Chreist, the captain of this year’s tennis team, began playing tennis at an age when most of us had only a very hazy idea of what a tennis racquet looked like. His first tennis tournament was the South Bend City Junior Tournament. As to the year in which he first took part in this tourney, Louis is not quite certain. But he does admit that he was pretty young to be playing tournament tennis.
He won this tournament for three successive years, and when he grew too old to be classed as a junior, he entered the senior division. In his first year in this class, he reached the finals of the singles only to be defeated by Paul Martin. The next day, Chreist came back and teaming up with Charles Dillman, the captain of Central High’s tennis team, he won the senior doubles championship of South Bend.
Last summer he won the singles championship for the first time, and teamed up with Dillman again to win
the doubles for the second straight year.
While at Central High, Chreist was captain of the tennis team which, for three years, was undefeated and which won the championship of the Northern Indiana High School Association for three straight years.
Wins “Scholastic” Tourney
Chreist came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1929. He did not report for tennis during his first two years because of scholastic affiliations. But in the fall of 1931, he entered The Scholastic- tournament which he won with such ease that he was virtually drafted into service on the varsity team.
Joe Borda, who had been elected captain of tennis, did not return to school, and the team was sadly lacking in material. Not one of the men who reported for tennis had ever played in intercollegiate competition.
Chreist, along with Carl Myers, the (Continued on Page 31)
TENNIS CAPTAIN
Louis Chreist
“. . . No harm in hoping.”
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sundayl
ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day. (Daylight Saving Time).
Week-end Rate
40 ROUND TRIP
*South Bend to
CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL ... 50c lb.
FAMILY ASSORTMENT . 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . . 70c lb.
V
Special Attention to Mailing
Open Evenings and Sundaps
V
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Hotel
o
May 12, 1933
Twenty-five

SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
PROSPECT
Notre Dame’s golf team, victorious by overwhelming margins in four dual meets so far this spring, has, according to its schedule, three engagements yet to play. Dual meets here with Illinois and Chicago, and the State Meet at Terre Haute are all events remaining on the regular card.
We hate to see such a fine group of collegiate golfers limited to a narrow three-state sphere — no quarrel with the schedule, here, we thought it the best yet. But we think too, that Johnny M onte don i c o and his squad are good enough to play for Notre Dame in the biggest collegiate golf league in the country.
Assuming for the moment that the Irish squad wins its remaining dual matches and the state title and looks impressive in doing it, not a small assumption, we hope that they will be given an opportunity to play in the East.
One chance will be available at the National Intercollegiates in Buffalo late in June. Notre Dame has been represented twice at that tourney, finishing fourth as a team the first year, and third the second. Larry Moller -went to the finals of the individual play the first year, and Bill Redmond to the quarterfinals the following June.
One feature of the Intercollegiates, however, makes it less desirable than another sort of venture. Since the advertising value of such a trip must be considered in these days of shrunken budgets, it will be noted that at the national meet, the Irish would be but one team out of a dozen or more. In a series of dual meets, however, they would be one team out of two in every city they visited.
We cannot imagine any other activity that would draw the attention of collegiate sports followers to the error so many of them hold of “only football at Notre Dame,” as well as a week or ten-day trip through eastern college centers for a series of dual matches by Montedonico, Banks, Fehlig, Veeneman, and Cole—the 1933 Notre Dame golf varsity.
It may be that this is a little late for such a suggestion. But next spring the same five men, bolstered by Win Day and other strong freshmen, will be on hand again. There will be much time to arrange such a trip then, confident that the Irish will be representative enough to make it. We still think, though, that there’s no time like the present; also that the National Intercollegiates would be immeasurably better than no eastern trip at all.
TRADITION (2)
Last week we cited three examples of an athletic tradition at work. The next day, Saturday, we saw another case in point, albeit this one didn’t make for a victory. The Notre Dame track team still fights hard-
STRATIGON “South Bend’s Distinctive” Lunch Soda Grill “JUST GOOD FOOD”
114 N. Michigan □
Noonday Luncheon 25c —dessert and beverage included.
Complete Supper 50c —from soup to dessert.
Sunday Dinners Special —served all day.
Try our Fish and Spaghetti Supper every Friday evening, 50c.
We bake our own Pastries —the best in town.
Buy a ticket and save money.
“Where Notre Dame Students Meet” Open 24 Hours.
How to have a
sunny
personality
Isn’t it a fact that your college friends who are happy and cheerful are those who enjoy good health?
Poor health is mirrored in your manner to other people. Too often, lack of personality can be traced to common constipation. It may sap your vitality and enthusiasm.
. Just eat two tablespoonfuls daily of Kellogg’s All-Bran. This delicious cereal promotes regular elimination. All-Bran supplies “bulk,” vitamin B and iron. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or campus restaurant.
•
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg's Com Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krum-bles, and Kellogg's whole wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee— real coffee that' lets you sleep.
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Lefty Emmerling Wins Handball Singles Title
The University Handball Singles Championship went to Lefty Emmer-ling when he defeated Charley Jask-which in three straight games Wednesday.
Charley Jaskwhich took second place and “Beppo” Levins took third. Each of these men received a medal presented to them by the Athletic Office, while Emmerling received the permanent loving cup.
Kuppenheimer s Suits
Colorful Plaid Ties, $1.00
New Shirts, $1.50
Tattersall Check Pattern Sweaters, $2.95
Smart Plaid Hose, 35c Nettleton Shoes
Downtown and on the Campus
Emmerling won five straight games from Levins while Jaskwhich took four out of five from Levins. The Championship game scores were: 21-16; 21-19; 21-18.
First Rounds of Ping Pong Played Tuesday
The first round of the Ping Pong tournament was played in Brownson Rec Hall Tuesday afternoon. The preliminaries have been the best two
out of three games. The semi-finals will be the best three out of five, and the finals will be four out of seven.
The results of Tuesday games were:
Esposito defeated Healy 2-0, Cliff defeated Gibbons 2-0, Veryeat defeated Ryan 2-1, N. Hart defeated McDougal 2-0, Daussmean defeated Rockenstein 2-0, Dasso defeated Spaulding 2-0, Hurley defeated Savage 2-0, Puterbaugh defeated H. Hart 2-0.
The games scheduled for Wednesday are:
Esposito vs. Broeffle, Cliff vs. Myer, Verreat vs. Cannon, Hart vs. Weldon, Daussman vs. Grady, Dasso vs. Chreist, Hurley vs. Rasmussen, Put-erbraugha vs. Bob Forbes.
Fred Fayette, student-manager of the Brownson Hall rec room, announces that entries are still being received for the pool tournament. This tournament will begin as soon as the Ping Pong contest ends. Matches will be held in all classes of pool. Appropriate prizes are being offered.
McDonough Elected Head Of New Jersey Club
Robert McDonough, West Orange,	’
N. J., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the New Jersey Club at the regular elections held this week. McDonough defeated Robert Ryan and James Fagan. The vote was 46, 22, and 16 respectively.	1
The New Jersey Club of which McDonough is now president has a membership of 122 members. Hugh Devore, Phil Heinle, and E. J. Gervasio were elected to the offices of vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively.
John Venables Elected Cleveland Club Prexy
John Venables, a junior in the
College of Commerce, was elected	«
president of the Cleveland Club this week. Ralph Huller, varsity track man, and a junior in the Arts College, was ' elected vice-president of the club.
Venables, known about the campus for his political activities, succeeds .	«
Cleve Carey in the role of president.
Other officers elected were James A.
Byrne, Jr., secretary, and Al Lawton, treasurer. Byrne and Lawton are both A. B. sophomores.
May 12, 1933
Twenty-seven
Flowers add to the loveliness of even the most lovely.
>
•	/•., ■ rp. , ~ A-J5 ’ Li.■ a -; - ■	' • • *'•-3
7
This Sunday, May 14th, is MOTHER’S DAY
We Telegraph Flowers to all parts of the country.
If s not too late to order a Corsage for the Ball—Call
WILLIAMS, The Florist
“Where Better Flowers Cost Less'1
219 West Washington St.	Call 3-5149
Just West of the Oliver Hotel on Washington
>iwfSiSSa«wSi^i!S^
Ml
p$ tmro B^oas^

TODAYS SHOW n°’E i

NO-JUST THE FLATTEST. CAMELS ARE Mi ED, A NT) THEY TASTE GOOD. TOO. I PRESCRIBE A CAMEL FOR YOU.
THLS LS THE LOOP THAT HE CUTE.
__BUT HAS SMALL LOOP OP POPE COHCEALEP BEH/HO F/PSTAHP SECOMP FL AL G EPS OF LEFT HAHP—
MAGLCL A AL SHOWS HA ALP EM PTE.
AREN’T THEY THE MILDEST CIGARETTES ?
M-M-M, WHATA SMOKEl IT'S ME FOR CAMELS FROM N/OW ON.
YOULL LIKE THOSE COST LIER TOBACCOS MORE AMP MORE ALL THE TIME
you're
THE


Copyright, 1933, R. j. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Camels are made from finer, more expensive tobaccos than any other popular brand. They are milder, easy on the throat ... a better smoke. It’s the tobacco that counts.
H° TRICKS in CAMELS—ST COSTLIER TOBACCOS
Thirty
The Scholastic
<
THREE TENNIS MEETS
(Continued from Page 23)
IOWA GAMES (Continued from Page 22)
J. Armstrong Addresses Michigan School Students
Captain Johnny Montedonico will endeavor to lead his winning golf team to their fifth straight triumph on Saturday when the strong Illinois team is met on the William J. Burke University golf course in their second home stand of the year.
Notre Dame this season has won over Loyola, Purdue, Michigan State, and Northwestern in order. The golf team, so far, has proven as great as any of the fine Irish teams of the past.
The main obstacle to their emerging with an undefeated season and their being classified by the superlative is Illinois. Northwestern, whom Notre Dame downed 11% to 6% after the closest of matches, was played to a tie, 9-9, by this Illinois outfit. Their two ace men are Hoffmann and Baker, while O’Neal, Smock, Pray, and Grunewald vie for the other posts.
NEW EDITORS APPOINTED
(Continued from Page 7)
the Dome. Louis H. Hruby, at present a sophomore in the college of Commerce, was named to succeed present Editor Arthur A. Sandusky. Hruby has been prominent on both the Dome and The Scholastic staffs for the past two years.
In making its appointments for Scrip, the literary quarterly of the University, the Faculty Board has re-adopted the original plan for the conduct of the magazine by appointing a board of editors. Paul F. McManus, of Dorchester, Mass., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and an associate editor of the publication during the past year, will be editor-in-chief.
Robert M. Monahan, of Middleport, N. Y., and Eugene T. Sullivan, of Kenosha, Wis., both juniors in the College of Arts and Letters and both contributors to Scrip during the past year, were named assistant editors and will be members of the editorial board.
Engineers* Club To Elect
New Officers Tuesday Eve
Officers of the Engineer’s Club for 1933-34 will be chosen at a special meeting to be called to order at 8:00 o’clock, Tuesday evening, May 16. This date was set at the regular monthly meeting of the club Tuesday evening, May 9.
The box scores:
Notre Dame (8) AB
Cunha, ss ........3
Kane, 2b .........4
Seidl, If ........4
Velcheck, If .....0
Rascher, rf ......3
Palmisani, 3b ____4
Dunn, lb .........3
xCostello, lb.....1
McGrath, cf ......4
O’Neill, c .......4
Leonard, p .......4
R H PO A E 0 0 16 0 1 1 2 3 1 1110 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 3 0 1 2 3 2 3 0 1 3 11 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 13 0 0 0 1 2 0 1 110 10
Totals ..........33	8	13	27	12	3
x Costello batted for Dunn in the seventh.
Iowa (5)	AB
Laws, cf .........5
Drager, rf .......3
Schul’rick 2b .... 3
Riegert, If ......4
Benn, ss .........3
K. Blackman, c	.. 3
Bazant, 3b .......4
Baker, lb ........4
Stemple, p .......2
C. Blackman, p	.. 1
zShamel ..........1
R H PO .A E 1110 0 2 2 10 0 1116 0 0 2 0 0 .0 1 0 2 2 1 0 15 0 1 0 10 0 0 0 1 14 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Totals .........33	5	9	24	11	2
z Shamel batted for C. Blackman in the ninth.
Notre Dame ........000 260 00 x—8
Iowa ..............3 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0—5
«
Summary: Two base hits—Kane, Palmisani (2), Riegert. Three base hits—Rascher, Drager. Sacrifice hits—Cunha. Stolen bases— Dunn, Drager. Base on balls—off Leonard, 2. Struck out by Leonard, 2 : by Stemple, 1; by Blackman, 2. Double plays — Palmisani to Kane to Dunn; Palmisani to Costello; Benn to Schultenhendrick.
Notre Dame (2) AB
Cunha, ss ........4
Kane, 2b .........4
Seidl, If ........3
Rascher, rf ......4
Palmisani, 3b .... 2
Dunn, lb .........2
McGrath, cf.......2
xRichard .........1
O’Neill, c .......3
Sagartz, p .......3
Velcheck, cf......0
Totals
R H PO A E 0 0 111 2 3 2 3 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1'2 4 0 0 1 11 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 0
.........28	2	7	27	12	2
xRichard batted for McGrath in the seventh.
Iowa (0)	AB
Laws, cf .........4
Drager, If .......3
Sch’rick, 2b .....4
Riegert, rf ......4
Benn, ss .........3
Schmidt, c .......4
Bazant, 3b .......3
Baker, lb ........3
Rickie, p ........3
Totals .........31
R H PO A E 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 110 0 0 10 4 0 0 0 7 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 0 0 0 2 0 5 0
0 5 24 13 0
000 100 01 x—2 000 000 00 0—0
Notre Dame ......
Iowa ............
Summary: Two base hit—Rickie. Three base hitbase hit—Rickie. Sacrifice hits—Seidl. Dunn, Benn. Stolen bases—Kane (2), Laws, Schmidt. Struck out—by Sagartz, 4; by Rickie, 6. Base on balls—off Sagartz, 2; off Rickie, 1. Double play— Palmisani to Kane to Dunn.	'	’
James E. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, has just returned from a trip during which he visited twenty-two high schools, two junior colleges, and several civic organizations.
Between April 27 and May 7, Mr. Armstrong addressed the students in the following schools in southwestern Michigan: St. Augustine’s and Central high schools, Kalamazoo; Battle Creek and St. Philip’s high schools, Battle Creek; Jackson High, St. Mary’s High, and St. John’s High, Jackson; St. Mary’s and Eastern High, Lansing; Union, Davis Tech, Catholic Central, Central High, South High, Ottawa Hills, Creston, East Grand Rapids High, Mt. Mercy Academy, Junior College, and Catholic Junior College, Grand Rapids; and Muskegon High, St. Jean Baptiste High, and St. Mary’s High, Muskegon.
“An excellent reception was accorded to me at all of the schools and organizations which I visited, and a genuine interest in education generally and Notre Dame specifically was evidenced,” said Secretary Armstrong.
Summer “Santa Maria** To Be Out By First of June
The Summer number of The Santa Maria, Notre Dame’s Knights of Columbus publication, will be out by the first of June. This announcement was made by Fred Becklenberg, Jr., editor of the magazine.
Continuing its policy of giving news extracts, the Summer issue will feature the annual election, and the K. of C. picnic. This number will also have cuts of all the graduating members. The cover will be done in gold.
Ray Hoyer, head of the department of Boy Guidance, will be the subject of a feature. The book review will be written by Charles Sheedy, Editor of Scrip.
From some of the 2,500 different councils to which the Santa Maria is sent the editor has received letters of commendation and interrogation.
The one certain thing about war is that it makes another equally certain.—J. Ramsay McDonald.
The world is persecuting us— Adolph Hitler.
May 12, 1933
Thirty-one
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 22)
newly elected captain, whipped a team into shape and it was largely through their efforts that Notre Dame was represented on the court by a team which won six matches and lost four. Chreist, who played the number one position on the squad, suffered but two defeats during the course of the entitre season. One of these setbacks came from the hands of Wietz of Michigan State who is the intercollegiate champion of Michigan. Stagg of Chicago gave Louis his other reverse. At the close of the season, Chreist was elected captain for the year 1933.
This fall, Chreist won the fall meet for the second straight year. So far this season he has played two intercollegiate matches, and has won one and lost one. He overwhelmed

LAND IN LONDON >$90!
and be gay all the way
THERE’S something doing every hour on United States and American Merchant Liners!
For only $90 you can sail on a roomy, comfortable "one class” American Merchant Liner direct to London ... for $102.50 you can sail in Tourist Class on the Washington os Manhattan —the fastest Cabin liners in the world; for $108.50 you can sail Tourist Class on themonster express liner Leviathan. AndinEurope,$3 to $6 a day will cover living and traveling expenses amply.
To ROME in Holy Year
Convenient connections via all United States Liners from European ports direct to Rome.
UNITED STATES UNES
AMERICAN MERCHANT UNES
Roosevelt Steamship Co., Inc.
General Agents
H6 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago —Agents everywhere
his opponent in the Valpo match, but in the Michigan State meet, he was defeated by Rex Norris.
Six matches remain on the Irish tennis schedule. One of these is with Michigan State. Louis is looking forward to this meet, for it will give his last chance to win from a State man in intercollegiate competition. The clay courts at East Lansing were entirely new to the Irish who were accustomed to Notre Dame’s hard courts. Their defeat may be partly attributed to this cause.
“It may be a different story when we meet State on our own courts on May 16,” says Louis. “The boys are all rounding into shape, and now that Lukats is losing his wildness, we may be able to pin a defeat upon State. At any rate, it won’t do us any harm to hope.”
Fencing Team to Have Finals Monday Night
The semi-finals and the finals of the tournament for the Notre Dame fencing team will be held in Washington Hall Monday night at 7:45. Matches in both sabres and foils will be staged. The student body and the public are invited to see the men in action who will represent the University in nter-collegiate meets next year.
Coach Pedro deLandero has been more than satisfied with the showing of his charges so far. The public have also received them well as was evinced at the presentation of “High Jinks,” in which two members of the team gave, an exhibition match.
The foilsmen will fight two two-minute rounds and one touch. The sabre bouts will last until one swordsman wins by scoring five touches.
Young Americans don’t enjoy abstract discussions of political theory.
—Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Dillon, Freshman, Corby Left in Golf Tourney
Freshmen golfers have been going places in a big way in the Interhall competition with the chances that it will be two freshmen halls that will be pitted against each other in the finals.
As it stands now there are three halls left in the competition, Dillon, Freshman and Corby. A week from Sunday Corby will meet Freshman with the winner to meet Dillon for the championship. There will be no matches played this week-end because of the Senior Ball activities.
In racing to the finals Dillon defeated Walsh 18-0 but encountered stiff opposition with Lyons, winning by a 10% to a 7% score.
Corby had little difficulty in winning over Howard in the first round match. However the Main Building team extended the senior hall and lost out by a 10-8 score. Freshman, in its two matches defeated Alumni 11-7 and Sorin 12-6.
Last Sunday Badin defeated Walsh in the consolation tournament while Morrissey, Alumni, St. Ed’s, and Howard drew byes.
LEAVE FOR WEST POINT
(Continued from Page 24)
MacBeth in the hurdles, Ed Krause and “Butch” Pfefferle in the discus, and Jim Bowdren and the Irish captain in the 440.
The capable sprinting trio of Frank Murphy, Jim Gilfoil, and Leo Dilling, which garnered eighteen points in the dashes last week against Michigan State, will again compete in the 100-and 220-yard sprints.
Other Irish thinlies making the trip are Ray Troy, Norman Duke, Charlie Finkel, Eddie Gough, Jack Edwards, Vince Murphy, Bill Freschi, and Howard Conley.
Get going, Fella!
HERE’S HOW
♦♦♦

RAG your feet to the nearest campus lunch bar. Say "Shredded Wheat and half-and-half. Make it a pair.”
You’ll be treating yourself well. For Shredded Wheat is one food that’s VITALLY DIFFERENT.
It brings you all the proteins, carbohydrates, minerals, vitamins that Nature
whole wheat. For it is whole wheat—nothing added, nothing taken away— whole wheat, crisp*baked for easy digestion. All the bran is there, as Nature intended.
Try it with milk or cream and the fresh or canned fruit
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product off NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY “Unoodo Bakers”
dd^^-
When you see Niagara Falls tm the package, yoaKNOiSff yoa have Shredded Wheat. 1^9
you like best. It’s delicious; it’s easy on your allowance. And it helps you keep in trim to lick the world.
♦♦♦
On Down The Line
To hole out in one stroke on a golf course is generally regarded as a “fluke” ... but two BRITISH PROFESSIONALS, ALEX HERD (Moor Park) and ROWLAND JONES (Wimbledon Park), have brought the feat almost to a fine art ... a prominent AMERICAN SPORTSMAN has offered HERD a SOLID GOLD PUTTER when he attains his twentieth hole-in-one . . . HERD has one more to make before he can claim the trophy . . . last month JONES made the 165-yard fourteenth hole of the Wimbledon course in one to bring his total to eighteen ... on the same day he saw his tee shot roll within six inches of the seventeenth hole.
•
Although his right leg was amputated four years ago as a result of an accidental gunshot, JAMES DALE (GREGGTON, TEX.) is a star basketball and football player ... he was voted the MOST VALUABLE MAN on the PINE TREE SCHOOL basketball team . . . FREDDIE WINTER, 4% years old, is believed to be the YOUNGEST AND LIGHTEST JOCKEY IN THE WORLD ... he weighs 42 pounds, and is the son of FRED WINTER, well-known horse trainer of EPSOM, ENGLAND . . .
•
OKLAHOMA A. and M. COLLEGE owns its motorbuses, in which its athletic teams do most of their travelling ... a combined OXFORD-CAMBRIDGE track and field team will compete in the UNITED STATES and CANADA this summer . . . GREYHOUND RACING is enjoying extraordinary popularity in ENGLAND . . . during 1932 more than 20,000,000 people paid admission to the 50 principal tracks . . . this figure is an increase of over 2,000,000 compared with 1931, and is nearly four times as large as 1927 . . .
•
JACK KEARNS (manager of MICKEY WALKER) and JACKIE FIELDS (one-time welter-weight champion) both own wholesale beer houses in LOS ANGELES . . . great marathon runners usually come from lowly trades . . . LESLIE PAWSON, recent winner at BOSTON, is a millhand . . . EL OUAFI, winner at AMSTERDAM, was an army courier in FRENCH MOROCCO . . . NURMI IS A MECHANICAL DRAFTSMAN, KENNEDY A BRICKLAYER, STEN-ROOS A WOODCARVER, HAYES A RIBBON CLERK and ZABALA IS A NEWSBOY .. .
After College WHAT?
LAW?
Former Federal Judge Edwin L. Garvin says: "A keen mind, sound judgment and unflagging industry are required to digest the volumes of laws and decisions facing the practitioner today. The young law* yer can no longer practice by ear and intuition. The science of the law is exacting and difficult.”
ONLY "a keen mind” can absorb the volumes of information which must be at the finger tips of the young lawyer today. Perhaps that’s why in this profession, as in our leading colleges, a pipe is the favorite smoke. You see, it helps a man concentrate . . . clears cobwebs from his brain.
Try a pipeful of Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco—the favorite smoke among college men. *Notice how that blend of fine old hurleys really helps you think out a difficult problem.
Edgeworth is distinctive . . . that’s why you’ll like it. You’ll know — after your first puff. Want to try it before you buy? Just write to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Virginia.
• A recent investigation showed'Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin. Some sizes in vacuum . sealed tins.
Vocal cords made of coal!
Typical of Western Electric care and precision in manufacturing Bell Telephone apparatus, is the making of the transmitter button which transforms spoken words into electrical impulses.
This transmitter button—the telephone’s vocal cords—contains coal. Only a fine grade of selected anthracite, specially treated, is suited for this delicate work. First the coal is ground into fine granular form —next it is carefully sifted and washed. Then, after being roasted in special ovens, it is put into the transmitter button. Approximately 50,000 tiny grains must go into each button —too few or too many would impair transmission.
Such infinite care with “little things” is one reason why Bell System apparatus serves so faithfully.
BELL SYSTEM
TELEPHONE HOME ONE NIGHT EACH WEEK I____ ... LOWER RATES AFTER EIGHT-THIRTY I “
Its the Southern Sunshine
Bright Tobacco is another reason why Chesterfields are Milder ancbTaste Better
AND that’s why we use just -the right amount of XjL "bright” tobacco from old Virginia, the Carolinas and Georgia. Because it’s full of Southern sunshine... with a fine, light color that "smiles right back at you.”
We blend and cross-blend it with other kinds of Domestic and Turkish tobaccos so you get a cigarette that’s milder and tastes better.. .We believe you will enjoy Chesterfields!
LkgkttTobacco Co.
Ibara ara fear absahrtaly