
® The Notre Dame	j
।	I
HOME OF DISNEY HATS
WELCOME MEN OF NOTRE DAME
We say hello to you fellows who are new at Notre Dame. We extend to you the same courteous service that all Notre Dame students enjoy at South Bend’s Best Men’s Shop.
Come in, look around any time.
UNIVERSITY CLUB CLOTHES $45 up
TIMELY CLOTHES
$55 up
RASMUSSEN
MEN’S SHOP 106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
2
The Scholastic
Letters
Dear Readers:
Although this column is supposed to be composed of letters from you to The Scholastic, we have a few things we want to tell you, so you’ll be able to get the things you want published in the magazine.
First of all, about letters. We appreciate your letters because they tell us you are reading the magazine, but, more important, they serve as a sounding board for student opinion. We ask only that you observe these few rules:
1.	All letters should be addressed to The Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. They should be mailed in time so that they will reach that office no later than Saturday noon preceding the Friday of publication. If you wish, you may slip the letter under the door of The Scholastic editorial office in the basement of Cavanaugh Hall. The deadline remains the same.
2.	Your letter should be kept to a reasonable length — usually not over 100 words. This allows us to print more of them, and a short letter is
usually easier to read. If necessary, we will cut the letter to fit, doing our best to keep the original meaning. All cuts will be designated by three dots.
3.	Sign your name to your letter. If you have a reason for not exposing yourself, tell us and we’ll withhold your name. But it better be a good reason especially if the gripe treads on somebody’s toes.
People in the administration or leaders of campus organizations should let us know what notices or stories they want to go in The Scholastic by the Saturday noon deadline. These notices should be type-written.
In the past, everyone has been very cooperative toward our reporters and photographers. We ask that this cooperation be continued. Occasionally they make mistakes, but if you work with them, these mistakes occur less frequently.
The Editors
Registration Plaudits; Bookstore Beef
Editor:	,
Just a note of comment to praise the University for the smooth, effective way registration was handled again this semester.
For the second straight year this streamlined, simplified procedure has been a boon to the matriculating student, consuming a minimum of time and effort and enabling him to finish quickly one of the most distasteful aspects of reentering school. This system shows planning and foresight. It shows an attempt to help the student. An attempt for which most of us are extremely grateful.
But by taking one good look at the bookstore line on Badin Bog last week you begin to wonder if this can be the same place. How, please, can the needs of close to five thousand students be served from that congested little cranny? No wonder the queues lasted all day long and into the evening. And how can instructors expect students to have their books on time, once seeing the impossible length of the line? By the middle of the week the line had died down, sure. But also by that time a week of classes had passed without books.
It seems to me that if a university can alleviate the registration of its student body to such satisfactory proportions, it could certainly do much the same thing about having their books distributed to them. The present situation is deplorable.
R. E. SAYERS
Off-campus
Mat Adieu. Co.
4-PATCH POCKETED
CORDUROY SPORT COATS . . .
14.95
Another reason you’ll find ADLER’S to be the headquarters in South Bend for College Men’s Clothes! These coats are styled with vented backs and leather buttons ... in all colors. See them tomorrow!
4
The Scholastic I
* THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
Only 89 more days till Xmas vacation.
Hi guys (and low guys, too) — you have no idea how good it is to be back here again (we have no idea like that either). But then, here we are, and any WEEK fans that may be left over from the Bob Vierhile era have no doubt spent many sleepless nights in anticipation of the first edition of this, the giggle and groan department of the Scholastic.
Seriously, it is good to be back here at ND after that lousy old summer vacation. Just think . . . you won’t have to sneak into the house at 4 a.m. any more, there’ll be no’ more breakfast in bed (what’s that?) and you will be able to get up at 6:30 a.m. to make morning check. This is always an exhilarating experience, especially if you sleep in a top bunk, and you have to drop 18 feet to the cold Indiana floor below. If your roommate happens to be down there putting on his socks, you are supposed to land on his back and greet him with a cheery “good morning.”
And then there’s the food in the dining hall — but we’d better save something for the next issue. It is good to be back though, isn’t it? Oh, it is, too.
Class of 1953
With every September comes a new group of freshmen — the select few of the ten thousand that await without. This year’s crop is no different from any of the others, except that they seem to be getting smaller and smaller. Regardless of size, tho, (this spelling courtesy of the Chicago Tribune), you can always spot a freshman for the first couple of weeks. They go to the chow hall and eat everything; they buy books at the bookstore; they read the SCHOLASTIC occasionally. One li’l fellow, upon spotting the Dome for the first time, wanted to know how that big, gold football got up on top of the Main Building.
But it’s the clothes that really give them away. For the first week of school, freshmen wear coats and ties to class. The second week they settle for a white shirt. By the third week, they’re down to big brother’s old bell bottom trousers and a T shirt. By the time their laundry gets back, they’re real Notre Dame men.
Sept. 23, 1949
It doesn’t take long for most of the frosh to catch on, however. We overheard two roommates over in Breen-Phillips discussing some of their classes. Said one: “My prof talks to himself." “So does mine,” rejoined the other, “but he doesn’t know it; he thinks somebody’s listening.”
Off the Record
Why is it, that when the phone rings in one of the halls, it’s always for somebody on the fourth floor? We were discussing this situation with Evander P. Flavirons, a commerce senior from Walsh Hall. Being a prac-
LEARN NOW... . THE EXCLUSIVE
GEORGE DAVIS
WAY
GET SET FOR
DANCING FUN
THIS SEMESTER
Don’t miss out on all this semester. Learn
Waltz, Jitterbug, or any other dance in just a few hours with a talented George Davis expert.
FREE TRIAL LESSON
TO PROVE THAT YOU CAN DANCE
PHONE 3.8229
DANCE FIESTA
Every Saturday Night from 9-11 for Our Pupils and Friends
■ U\CE jELtlOS 1
For those who desire complete privacy while learning, we offer 4 individual studio rooms for various dances in addition to a spacious main ballroom.

tical lad, and a BTO to boot, Evander doesn’t mind the phone calls at all. In fact he takes advantage of them, being the rat that he is. “Just watch me," said he, as the phone rang loudly outside his room:
“Hello . . . who? . .’. no, he ain’t in, babe, but maybe I’ll do, huh? .Say, do you live on the bus line? You do . . . well you better get off, there’s a bus coming. Ha, ha, ha (sharp click of the receiver). Just as our hero was about to leave the booth, the phone rang again: “Hello . . . who in the hall do you want, ha, ha, ha (boy, am I making a hit)” he whispered. “Room 459 . . . no, I was just up there, and he’s out for rhe night. Maybe I’ll do, huh? Say, do you live on the bus line? . . .
This has been going on for a week now. So far Evander has had no takers. Maybe he should try St. Mary’s.
Bottom of the Week
Six 8 o’clock classes every week.
the dances and fun a smooth Fox Trot,
Entertainment
SEPTEMBER 23
COLFAX (through September 28)—I Was a Male War Bride. Cary Grant and Ann Sheridan team up in this Howard Hawk’s farce and succeed brilliantly in overcoming the rather shallow plot. It’s not up to the clever material that Grant is generally associated with but it does present a number of good old-fashioned belly laughs. The authentic German background is particularly interesting.
PALACE (through September 27)—Abbott and Costello Meet the Killer, Boris Karloff and Devil’s Henchman. We haven’t got the slightest idea of who appears in the former epic but the very title (which will undoubtedly be great fun for marquee fixers) reeks of slapstick.
GRANADA (through September 24)—It Happens Every Spring and Doivn Dakota Way. The feature is a gay comedy in the tradition of Miracle on 34th Street and Apartment for Peggy. Ray Milland and Paul Douglas (who is the best thing to hit the screen in years) have a madcap whirl in this story of a freak baseball. It’s a bit farfetched, but lots of fun.
STATE (through September 24)—International Lady and My Son, My Son. Two old-timers back for another chance at life.
SEPTEMBER 24
FRESHMAN PICNIC—The Blue Circle and the YCS end up their fine orientation program -with a slam-bang picnic out at Potawatami Park. If it stacks up to its predecessors it will be a great shindig.
VICTORY DANCE—The weekly fall dances start in the Navy Drill Hall. They’re economical, informal and a good way of spending Saturday nights away from dreary South Bend.
SEPTEMBER 25
GRANADA (through September 28)—Calamity Jane and Sam Bass and Amazon Quest. Yvonne DeCarlo exchanges her usually more exotic raiment for some old jodhpurs in this big budget cowboy saga. Howard (nee Sam Spade) Duff plays opposite her — and they call that work! Tom Neal and Carole Mathews emote in the cofeature. It’s a Film Classics release so don’t say you weren’t warned.
STATE (through September 27)—California Straight Ahead, Stormy, and Blotto. The schedule lists three features so if you don’t get anything else you’re sure of getting your money’s worth.
SEPTEMBER 28
PALACE (through September 29)—Oklahoma. The Theatre Guild’s traveling stage show finally hits South Bend. By now it’s accepted as an immortal musical of the American stage. Although no stars are featured in the cast we have heard from fellows who saw it in Cleveland last week that it’s an A-l production. It’s a show that shouldn’t be missed.
SEPTEMBER 30
COLFAX (through October 5)—White Heat. At long last James Cagney returns to the role which made him famous. As a snarling, gun-smoking gangster he stars in this tough and absorbing narrative that has been acclaimed throughout the country as being one of the best entries in its class. Virginia Mayo and Edmund O’Brien support the diminutive James.
Men of Notre Dame!
WELCOME to Michiana’s most beautiful Jewelry
Store—
FAY'S QUALITY JEWELERS
We have been of service to Notre Dame men during the Quarter Century of our existence. We have had the pleasure of serving Notre Dame men from all over the country and it will continue to be a pleasure to serve you stalwart Sons of Notre Dame.
Come in and visit with us. We carry the finest assortment of all nationally known makes of watches and we maintain an efficient Watch and Jewelry Repair Department that is famous for the High Quality of its work.
cW
111 South Michigan Street.
WELCOME...
to the men of Notre Dame
C
Hans/-Rintzsch tuqqaq* Shop
138 N. Michigan
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91
September 23. 1949 No. 1
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA_____________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY Assistant Sports
RICHARD CULLEN.____________Photography
LEON GARDNER_________________Librarian
M. A, ALEXANDER____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO_____________Advertising
EDWARD FOLEY_______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE_______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The - Scholastic is-published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: To paraphrase that old poem, it’s over the hurdles to the mythical national championship for co-captains Leon Hart and Jim Martin. Coach Leahy’s lads open the season against Indiana’s Hoosiers tomorrow for what is hoped will be their 29th consecutive win (with two ties). The Master will unveil some of his new brainstorms including the re-designed huddle. Mr. Hope’s band boys are also ready to introduce their new shuffle step before the game as well as during the entertaining half. Notre Dame’s new mascot, Shannon View Mike, will make his debut with the cheerleaders hoping he’ll make as fine a showing over the hurdles as the stars on this week’s Scholastic cover.
Sept. 23, 1949
From the Editor’s Desk..
On Getting Back
About the only thing bad we’ve heard considering the new method of taking a midnight (not signing out, just signing in) is the question, Why wasn’t this method used before? Perhaps it’s so simple that no one ever thought of it. But no matter what the reason, we’re glad it was finally put into effect. The Scholastic joins with the student body in thanking the person who brought the new method into being.
Other people who deserve a thank you, are the Blue Circle and YCS members who so successfully carried on the Freshman orientation program. Coming back four or five days early is quite a sacrifice, but the results seem to be worth the effort. Over a thousand Freshmen got as much in three days as they would have in three weeks unaided. By now the program seems to be a permanent thing — and that’s justifiable. We only hope the same cooperation is afforded next year’s committee as was given to Bob Slocum and his men the past two weeks.
And while we’re in this frame of mind, we want to congratulate the person who managed to get all the soft drink and. candy machines scattered liberally over the campus. They’re a great relief to hungry stomachs at 10 p.m. But a word of warning: they’ll probably be there only as long as they don’t result in splattered floors and trashladen halls.
With the above innovations, registration running smoothly and everything else about the same, we’ve only one thing to complain about. That’s the “mile-long” book line outside Badin Hall. Last year, when there was about the same number students, the lines were shorter and moved faster. Even though the bookstore has been redesigned, there still seems to be something basically wrong ■with the whole system. With a semester in which to think about it, surely someone can come up with a solution so it won’t take an hour or more to get books in January.
Get Out of Your Room
Although everything around the campus may seem to be exciting to you Freshmen right now, after awhile things will dissolve into routine — routine that can become awfully boring and tiresome. The thing to do to avoid that danger is to get into some kind of activity.
Notre Dame has almost any kind of organized diversion imaginable: athletic facilities for interhall competition, musical organizations, a University Theatre, various publications, religious societies and a club for almost every geographic area. Surely, out of all of them every new man can find at least one or two which suit him. If you don’t know the backgrounds of the organizations — or, for that matter, the organizations — talk to an upperclassman or your prefect.,
Taking advantage of extra curricular activities helps in more ways than one. As we said before, they prevent boredom. But even more important is the fact that most employers weigh a job candidate’s activity record as much, if not more, than his scholastic average. Men in the business world realize that energy and initiative are just as important as a good memory. There is a proper balance between studies and activities. A balance that will help you and Notre Dame.
7
South Bend Theatres
Welcome- tke Men Notoo jbame
Colfax ☆ State ☆ Palace ☆ Granada
So that distance may not be the ally of disease...
IN an increasing number of communities this is becoming a familiar and reassuring scene—the arrival of the x-ray bus, bringing directly to people’s neighborhoods and places of work the benefits of x-ray analysis.
Today 85 busses, equipped with General Electric Mobile Photo-Roentgen Units, are extending tuberculosis control into the rural areas of 34 states and in 12 foreign countries.
Other busses have been especially equipped to bring x-ray cancer-detection equipment into remote rural areas.
Through them the fight against disease has become mechanized, mobile.
To facilitate the work of the men and women who developed these port
able units—the scientists, engineers, and technicians of the G-E X-Ray Corporation—General Electric has built a new laboratory, the Coolidge Laboratory, named after the company’s x-ray pioneer, Dr. William D. Coolidge.
It is the largest x-ray developmental laboratory in the world.
By emphasizing research and creative thinking, by encouraging fertile minds to follow their own imaginative bent, and by implementing their work with the best available facilities, General Electric remains “a place where interesting things are happening,” and stays in the forefront of scientific and engineering development.
GENERAL $ ELECTRIC
8
The Scholastic
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 1	SEPTEMBER 23, 1949
Plans Move Forward For Trip to NC Game
Yankee Stadium in New York City-will be the destination of this year’s student trip. The North Carolina game on November 12 was selected for this season’s trip by the Student Council, after a poll of the students, taken last spring, revealed it as the top choice by far.
Full arrangements have yet to be made for the weekend, but the price of the entire trip, including tickets for the game and hotel accommodations, is estimated at $50.
Contrary to last year’s procedure, no reservations for the weekend may be had on credit. All students contemplating this trip are warned that they must pay for their tickets in cash. This move has been taken in order to avoid the inevitable confusion resulting from a credit sale.
The Student Council has requested that no tickets go on sale before the veterans’ checks come through for- the month of November. It is estimated that sales will begin shortly after- the first of that month.
There will be a special train to New York for the occasion, leaving here on the afternoon of Friday, November 11. The return special train will leave New York Sunday evening, November 13, and will arrive here in time for Monday morning classes.
Pending a future council meeting, nothing definite has yet been settled in regard to which railroad or which hotel will handle the ND trade.
CAMPUS CLUBS COLUMN
The weekly Campus Clubs column will start in next week's magazine. All contributions must be submitted to the SCHOLASTIC'S Cavauaugh Hall office not later than the Saturday afternoon before the Friday issue. It would be advantageous to both this publication and the clubs if a publicity man were assigned to take care of this duty.
University Adds Five New Vice-Presidents To Ease Burden of Administration Busmess
Several changes in the administrative organization of the University took place during the summer holidays.
Five new vice-presidential offices were created in an announcement by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross. The office of Vice-President has been held for the past three years by Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C. Under the new organization Father Murphy will be
Fathers Murray and Grimm
Vice-President in charge of Public Relations. Other positions announced by Father Steiner were: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President; Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Academic Affairs; Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Business Affairs; and Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Student Welfare.
In other changes Father- Steiner announced the assignment of Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., as Vice-President and Dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Portland (Oregon).
Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., Superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre
Dame, was appointed Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame succeeding the Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C. Father Crad-dick was named Master of Novices at Sacred Heart Novitiate in South Bend.
New Seminary Heads
Two new superiors of seminaries on the Notre Dame campus also were announced by Father Steiner. Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Superior of Moreau Seminary was named Superior of Holy Cross Seminary to succeed Father Grimm. Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey Hall, was appointed Superior of Moreau Seminary to succeed Father Collins.
Other changes sent the Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy, to Holy Trinity Church in Chicago. Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., former. Professor of French, returned to the University from parish work in New Orleans as assistant chaplain of the Community House.
A total of twenty-seven priests in the order were assigned to study for advanced degrees at Notre Dame, Catholic University in Washington, D. C., Chicago University, University of Minnesota, Yale, Johns Hopkins University, Toronto University, University of California, and in Rome and Paris.
Several hall rector changes for the 1949-50 school year were also announced. New rectors and their halls are: Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., Rector of Cavanaugh Hall; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Rector of Farley Hall; Rev. Laurence Broestl, C.S.C., Rector of Dillon Hall and Rev. Paul Fryberger, C.S.C., Rector of Morrissey Hall.
Veterans Retire
The retirement of four veteran professors at the University was announced in July by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C. They are Professor Thomas F. Konop, dean-emeritus of-the College of Law; Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Metallurgy Department; Professor Henry Staunton, of the Department of English, and Profes-
(Continued on Page 33)
Sept. 23, 1949
Yearbooks Monday After Binding Delay
After several weeks of unanticipated delay, Notre Dame’s 1949 Dome will be ready for distribution to students by the first of next week, Richard D. Cullen, editor of the yearbook said yesterday.
Originally scheduled to be shipped to students’ homes during the summer, the 368-page chronicle of the 1948-49 school year encountered publication difficulties that prevented the Dome’s release until now. According to Cullen, the book was bound with four pages of the hall section in the middle of the athletic section. Consequently, all copies had to be bound again. Brock and Rankin Co., of Chicago contracted the Dome binding work. The book is published by the Service Printers, of South Bend.
Rebound and completed Domes are on the campus now, Cullen said. But trouble in securing last year’s athletic certifications — used to establish students’ eligibility to receive the Dome — has halted the distribution. By next Monday, however, he said, all red tape should be cleared and last year’s students can begin picking up their copies in the Dome storeroom, around the corner from the BX on the ground floor of the Main Building.
Musicians Flock to First ND Symphonette Meeting
The Notre Dame Symphonette held its initial meeting of the new school year last Thursday evening as some fifty musicians reported. Many old faces were back, as well as several new ones.
Mr. Biondo, the director, stressed the need for additional members, especially in the string section. Everyone on campus who can play a note on anything is urged to come over to the basement of Washington Hall and join in the weekly practices every Thursday night from 7:00 to 9:00. One’s presence is all’that is required for membership—great ability is not necessary. In return, one credit hour is given per semester.
The group plans four or five concerts this year and work has begun on an overture and a symphony in preparation. The first performance is scheduled for sometime during the month before the Christmas vacation. If possible, and if there are enough members, there will be a concert tour later in the year.
Election of officers was held at the first meeting, with Ed Conroy advancing to the presidential slot. Other officers included .vice-president Ward Mc-' Cabe and manager Hugh Baker.
10
ND Band Patterns Half-Time Shows Around Development of Hoosierdom
By JACK BRADSHAW
“Our Hoosier Heritage,” a colorful panoramic history of the growth of Indiana, will be the theme for the N.D. Band’s ’49 series of half-time shows opening tomorrow at the Indiana game. A picturesque portrayal of some phase in the development of Hoosierdom will be given at each of the home games, marking the first time that a college band has patterned an entire season’s shows along a single, broad theme.
A new, highly original opening and down-field routine has been worked out which is expected to highlight the Band’s pre-game and half-time entrances. This new innovation in marching maneuvers — the “shuffle pace,” it is called — consists basically of two high struts followed immediately by four short, quick shuffle steps, all done to a slightly slower cadence than was used in former years. Depending for effectiveness on ultra-precision marching, the new step is intended to add sparkle and eye appeal to a hitherto cut and dried routine.
“So many college bands ignore about 90 percent of the audience by playing only to the people on the 50-yard line,” said Mr. H. Lee Hope, now entering his eighth year as Notre Dame Band Director. “Through this new routine we intend to tip our hats to the audience, so to speak, and to give the folks in the end zones something to look at
Father O'Brien Preaches in South $
Father John A. O'Brien of "Truths Men Live By" fame preaches in the Tar Heel country of North Carolina. Father spends his summers winning converts by scenes like this.
The Scholastic
as well as those in the box seats.”
In accordance with these plans, marching practice for the band began last week with a brisk calisthenics drill and limbering up exercises. Boasting 86 returning upperclassmen, the 91-piece unit will make its initial appearance of the season tomorrow afternoon under the big baton of Drum Major Bill Ensign, ex-Marine and criminology senior from Cleveland, Ohio.
The show for tomorrow’s game will feature the pioneer and Indian days in Hoosier history. The Tulane fracas will spotlight the Age of Invention and Growth in the early nineteenth century, while the Iowa show will recall the era of the Gay 90’s. For the Southern California finale, the Band will fire a 21-gun salute to Indiana’s authors and composers, including such Hoosier literary greats as Booth Tarkington, James W. Riley and Lew Wallace (Ben Hur) as well as the famous songwriters Cole Porter “Night and Day,” “Begin the Beguine” and Hoagy Carmichael of “Stardust” fame.
This year’s large turnout of bandsmen has made it possible for a Freshman Band to be organized under the direction of Mr. Robert Welsh of the Music Department. The Frosh will I play at all of the pep rallies and they are planning a fall concert latex- in the semester.
♦>
Frosh Get Big 'Hello' From Blue Circle, YCS
Hundreds of eager Frosh swarmed over the dusty fieldhouse floor Saturday afternoon to mark the conclusion of another successful freshman orientation program. The Blue Circle, aided £ by the YCS, had put its very capable Robert Slocum, of Pittsburgh, in charge of the program.
On Monday, under the leadership of John Thornton, Blue Circle and YCS men were at the New York Central Station, the Bus Depot, and the South Shore station to aid incoming men. Information booths were set up at strategic points on the campus and maps were distributed to bewildered newcom-ers. In the afternoon tours of the campus were made showing the main points of interest, including Lobund, the art galleries, and the Main Building.
Monday evening saw talks by the hall rectors to their roomers and the traditional “Knute Rockne, All American” movie in Washington Hall.
But on Tuesday morning and afternoon the Frosh were kept busy pushing pencils in the aptitude tests given in the Engineering Building and the East _ Dining Hall. John Powell, Tuesday’s 9 chairman, provided them with a schedule showing the hours during which all of the University’s recreational and service facilities would be available if any man happened to have a few spare moments.
The official welcome by the University took place in Washington hall on Tuesday evening. Edward Farrell, President of the Blue Circle and master of ceremonies, presented Rev. John Cava-£ naugh, C.S.C., president of the University in a short welcoming talk. Rev. ; Joseph Kehoe. C.S.C., Rev. Joseph Barry. I C.S.C., Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., and I	Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., of the ad-
I	ministration gave brief talks. Dean
Clarence Manion of the College of Law also welcomed the new men. Imme-i diately after the talks two movies, “Notre Dame, Past, Present, and Future” and “The Highlights of 1948” en-j tertained the freshmen.
! Thomas Carroll, Wednesday’s chair-!	man, arranged tours to the various
I	halls, the Main Building, the church,
the library, and the Biology Building. On Wednesday evening the freshman mission, which lasted through Friday, began.
The topper of the whole program came on Saturday afternoon. It featured the last pre-season scrimmage ' and was held in the Stadium. Prior to | the game-length scrimmage the fresh-men gathered in the field house to learn
Sept. 23, 1949
Irish songs and cheers. After the scrimmage they returned to the Old Gym to hear short talks by Sparky Thornton and by Bob Schlosser, captain of the fencing team, who represented all varsity athletes.
Lynch to Sing Here Oct. 12 in Drill Hall
The Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series for the current year has scheduled Christopher- Lynch for a concert in the Navy Drill Hall on October 12. Lynch, a tenor from Rathkeale, Ireland, and star of the “Voice of Firestone” radio program for several
Christopher Lynch
seasons, will present to a South Bend-Notre Dame audience a number of Irish songs, interspersed with operatic and other selections.
Mr. Lynch was a protege of the famous John McCormack. He has been hailed by numerous critics since his initial public appearance in 1948. He visited this country for the first time in 1946. It was this visit which made him decide to give up his native Ireland for a career in the States.
| Tickets to the concert, which will be placed on sale shortly, will be priced at $1 for ND students, $1.25 for faculty members, and $1.50 for general admission. Students must present their ID cards in order to secure tickets.
As an introduction to society the Blue Circle is planning still another activity: the traditional picnic in Pota-watami park in South Bend, with girls from St. Mary’s College and Academy in attendance.—Dan Brennan
Notre Dame Granted $69,000 To Help Relations Study
The University has received a grant of $69,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation to further the study of international relations at Notre Dame, it was announced by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. Father- Cavanaugh pointed out that Notre Dame has been interested for many years in the study of international relations, as evidenced by its subsidization of the “Review of Politics.” The University is interested particularly, Father Cavanaugh declared, in the influence of ethics, philosophy and ideologies on world affairs.
According to the terms of the grant the University will receive $27,500 in 1949-50, $23,000 in 1950-51, and $18,500 in 1951-52 to help subsidize the project. Plans for the project call for the establishment of a committee at Notre Dame for the Study of International Relations which will be designed to organize publications and to direct research in the field of international relations.
Fire Boxes, Walk, Showers Installed During Vacation
During the summer months just passed, a new electric fire alarm system was installed in Sorin, Badin, St. Edward’s and Walsh Halls on campus. The system is equipped with the standard glass-faced boxes and buzzer signals. Soon these alarms will be wired to the South Bend fire department electrical warning units.
The Maintenance Department of the University has also replaced the flagstone walk between Cavanaugh and Zahm Halls with a concrete sidewalk.
In the process of completion now is the re-vamping of the basement of Sorin Hall, oldest residence hall on campus. Two new shower rooms heads the list of improvements slated for the old building.
Sacred Heart Church has been painted on the outside and the cross. atop the steeple has been gilded. (Last spring saw completion of gilding work on the dome and statue on the Administration Building.)
APTITUDE EXAMS
Applications for the Medical Aptitude Examinations to be held here on October 22, 1949. are now available in Room 202, Chemistry Hall. All premedical and predental students planning to enter a school of medicine or dentistry in September. 1950. must turn in their applications to take the test before October 8. 1949. (The Aptitude Examination fee is ten dollars $10.00).
zu
New Law Invokes Rigid Changes in G! Bill;
Regulations May Affect Many ND Veterans
By DON SMITH
New regulations which are to go into effect this week will be of great importance to many students attending the University under the G.I. Bill. Under this ruling the student must show that his courses are essential to his future employment or risk losing government aid.
The new law, Public Law 266, will also affect graduate work, changes from one college to another a?id transfer to a university other than the one in which the student began his studies. Dismissal from school for any reason or dropping out of school may well cause the veteran to lose his rights under the G.L Bill.
After Nov. 1, all veterans who apply for school or college work or who want to change their courses of studies must get a new certificate of eligibility from the Veterans Administration. This new certificate must state and justify the course of training requested by the ex-GI’s. If the course is not considered as directed towards employment, the veteran may lose his government aid.
These regulations arise from the passage, on August 24, of Public Law 266 which is the result of complaints that ex-servicemen were abusing their .education program. Records show that ex-GI’s were enrolled, at government expense, in courses in ballroom dancing, bartending, and even baby-sitting.
ND Vets Affected
•When contacted concerning how the law. affects Notre Dame veterans, Edward J. Murray, Director of the Student Accounts Office, said, “Any full course of training offered in an institution of higher learning can be considered as directed towards employment; and, Notre Dame is an institution of higher learning.”
Mr. Murray further* stated that the most important regulation in regard to the students here is: “Any veteran who has discontinued his course of education or training either of his own volition or because his progress has been unsatisfactory according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the institution may not resume education or training unless he submits complete justification that the course which he desires to .pursue is essential to his employment; he is otherwise eligible, and approval thereof has been made by the
12
\TA. prioi* to reentrance into training.” “According to that,” said Mr. Murray, “a student who drops out of school during the school year* (the summer session is not considered as part of the regular school year), or who is expelled may be hazarding the loss of his GI benefits.”
Also students entering Graduate school next semester will have to acquire a new certificate of eligibility. If they cannot prove that their prescribed courses in Graduate school are essential to future employment, they may be refused rights of the GI Bill. However, this justification is not necessary in a pre-Law and Law education program. It seems that pre-law and Law courses are considered as a progression of courses within a course.
GI Bill Grad Students
On the other hand, students attempting to receive their master’s degree or doctorship under the GI Bill may be refused education benefits on the basis that their previous education has rendered them employable.
On this count, Mr. Murray stated: “This may be handled by a committee which will treat each case individually. The danger in that would be that the Indianapolis office might consider a man with a teaching certificate as capable of employment; whereas the Chicago office might permit a man with similar training to continue into Graduate school.” As yet, though, this is not a definite plan of procedure.
Another point of the regulations that is a drawback to the veteran is one concerning the transfer from one college to another. If a student wishes to transfer to another school, he cannot do so if he will lose credits in the process. As most colleges, in accepting transfers, make some adjustment in the amount of credit they will give the new student, this will mean that veterans will be unable, in most instances, to leave their present institutions.
Undergraduate veterans would be wise to check with the VA before dropping out of school or while contemplating graduate work under the GI. Bill. Also, any vet debating whether or not to take an unsanctioned extended midnight might well ponder the perils of such a move under the new regulations.
Draft Head Lists Rules for Students
Notre Dame students who become 18 years of age after the school term starts need not return to their homes to register under the Selective Service Lav*, Indiana State Director Brig. Gen. R. Hitchcock said today, but may reg- 5^ ister at the local board most convenient to them, as may others when they reach the age of 18.
“The law requires registration of all young men — noth very few exceptions —within five days after their eighteenth birthday,” Gen. Hitchcock said, “but there still seems to be some misunderstanding as to the place of registration. All the young man has to do is present himself to the local board or registration place most convenient in the place he happens to be when he becomes 18. The registration process is simple and requires only a short time. The data thus gathered is sent to the local board of the community he terms his home and which has jurisdiction over him.”
When the registrant has a permanent home, the permanent home address should be given to registration officials, the State Director said. For this purpose “home” is the place with which the registrant normally identifies himself and at which he would wish to be classified.
Gen. Hitchcock added that the law is specific in its requirements concerning obligation of a registrant to keep his local board informed as to any change in his address — where he may be reached by mail, that is — or change in his status under the Act. That applies after the registrant becomes 26 as well .. as before, he declared, and it means that college and university students, as well as other registrants, should notify their respective local boards when they leave their homes. There is no form for this. It may be done by mail or personally appearing at the board office.	1
LOST AND FOUND
Lost: One K & E log-log slide rule on Monday, Sept. 19, in Room 308 of the Engineering Building. Will finder please return to Bill Pearson, Room 310, Dillon Hall. Owner's name appears on it.
Also missing: Two books of Dining Hall meal tickets. Names of hungry students appear on the cover of each. If found, please contact Roy Porter, Room 242, Dillon Hall, or Ken Redmond, Room 309, Howard Hall.
The Scholastic
9
How About a Date
Many Come and Many See; Few Conquer at St. Mary’s
By AL LAPORTE
Toss that book of rules and regulations of the University of Notre Dame in the basket by the wall, sonny, ’cause that little ole book is not complete. Something’s been omitted, something of extreme importance, something you oughtta know. Gather ’round me, children, while Ah spins a tale about that “Forgotten Regulation Q.”
£ “Regulation Q,” for you downy-cheeked Freshmen, pertains to St. Mary’s, the institution of higher learning and gambling odds located just across the Dixie Highway from here. No, Ahm not going to tell you the history of said institution, ’cause Ah don’t know that myself. What’s written here is something else again. It’s what you missed — if, indeed you did — last Sunday and what you all better not miss again this Sabbath afternoon.
Each and every Sunday p.m. until £ further notice there will be great and glorious doings sponsored by the “Belles of St. Mary’s.” They toss little things called Tea Dances over in Le Mans Hall, dances made little only because there isn’t .enough room for all the residents of their college and the transients of our University. Someone once investigated the origin of that term “Tea Dance” and discovered that it really should be spelled “T Dance,” the “T” being the only offensive formation
known to have any chance of cracking the stout lines at the doors. What they called ’em in Rockne’s day is anybody’s guess.
The uninitiated are likely to be shocked by what they find over at the “Rock.” After hearing all sorts of nasty stories about the confinement of the sweet, innocent little things there and drawing on the experiences — colored though they may be — of veterans of these dances, you Frosh will be jarred loose from your dark fears by the scenes before your eyes.
Le Mans and near vicinity resembles Times Square on New Years, the only difference being that Times Square has neon signs. Suits to the right of you, clean shirts to the left of you, shaven faces on all sides — it looks like a page from Brooks Brothers. Here and there, scattered about to break the monotony of the all-male pageant, is a demure, timid, cute little thing appearing quite lost but at the same time quite aware of what’s going on. She’s from St. Mary’s.
One slight warning at this point — make sure you, as Freshmen, don’t slight the exalted estate of any upperclasswoman by asking her to dance. (This presupposes, of course, that you’ve gained entrance to the hall and don’t have any part of the wall firmly anchored to your back.) The hostesses circulating about are there for that
. . . And Then There Was July
very purpose — to answer your request for introduction to some girl or other and return with someone else. That’s all part of the game. You’ve got four years here, so don’t feel discouraged if you don’t succeed at once. Remember, these girls are being educated, too.
After you’ve achieved the impossible — a girl and the dance floor at the same time — steel yourself to the other stags. You’re going to be cut brother, but good I You’ll be lucky if you get through the first four bars of the record and the name of your hometown before the heavy hand falls. Give up your hard-won prize, but do it gracefully and don’t under any circumstances, retreat to the windows. If you do, keep going on home. Stay out there and fight! You aren’t called a “Fighting Irishman” for nothing. And if your name happens to be Kozwiatz, stick around
(Continued on Page 28)

ND Alumni Association Emphasizes Student Aid
Special emphasis was placed on the welfare of Notre Dame students by the directors of the ND Alumni Association at their campus meeting last week. The Association’s 1949 program puts special emphasis on better job counseling for both undergraduates and graduates, and a new prestige program to publicize Notre Dame and Notre Dame men on a national scale.
Closer coordination between the University and alumni to preserve a sound enrollment policy with full consideration for alumni family ties ranks high on the 1949 program. Working in close conjunction with the Notre Dame Foundation, the Association hopes to meet its quota in the annual fund-raising campaign, nearly double that of 1948.
The directors hope that through the 1949 program they will be able to further the spiritual, intellectual, cultural and fraternal aspects of the organization, and make the Association an integral part of the University.
Meanwhile two officials of the group made national news during the summer. Francis Wallace, Bellaire, 0., alumni president, is currently in the limelight for his annual football forecast in Collier's. Wallace, who established the forecast in the Saturday Evening Post over a ten-year period, switched to Collier's this year. Wallace recently completed a new book, The Notre Dame Story, which will be published this fall.
Another alumni official in the public eye is Conroy Scroggins, Houston, Texas, a director of the Association. Scroggins was elected to the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus at the national convention of the K. of C. held in Seattle.
President Welcomes Frosh; Mass Opens School Year
■; Formally opening the 1949 school year, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, delivered the jopening sermon at a solemn high Mass Hast Sunday. While welcoming the new .’students he pointed out the high ideals Tor which Notre Dame stands, in relation to God, country, and the student.
i Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., vice-president and executive assistant to the -president, was celebrant of the Mass. Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., vice-presi-|dent and director of studies, and Rev. ;John J. Burke, C.S.C., vice-president in 'charge of finances, were deacon and sub-ideacon respectively. The Moreau. Choir, composed of Holy Cross seminarians sang the Mass.
14
'Holiday' Visits ND Campus For Indiana Feature Shots
Notre Dame and some of its denizens went and got their pictures “took” last week when a “Holiday” magazine photographer visited the campus. The art work was in connection with a feature article on Indiana which will appear in one of next summer’s issues.
Several pictures were taken in the Commerce Building lobby and others included some shots of the shining Dome. A pseudo pep rally was staged in the old gym with some 50 or more localites beaming up at the shutterman in the balcony. In order to fake some action
Holiday Takes Notre Dame
into the picture, the publicity-conscious men sang “Three Blind Mice.”
The article will describe Indiana’s business, social and educational attractions. Notre Dame will occupy the educational section.
Germans Examine Details Of Natural Law Institute
The Natural Law Institute at the University of Notre Dame will serve as a model for a similar Institute to be inaugurated in Cologne, Germany, according to a letter received by Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law. The letter, from the Catholic University Association of North-Rhine-Westphalia asked for details of the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame and for advice to the committee of the proposed Cologne Institute.
The Proposed Institute is to constitute one of the steps toward the establishment of a Catholic University in North-Rhine-Westphalia. All’universities in Germany are state institutions.
Student Body Fills Church To Hear Mission Speakers
The school year- was begun in the right fashion this past week as the student body attended three missions held in Sacred Heart Church. At 6:45 p.m. on Wednesday, September 14, three days of services opened for the freshmen.
The newcomers were especially responsive to the talks by Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., as they packed the church all three nights. Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., spoke to the sophomores on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, and to the juniors, seniors and grads on Wednesday and Thursday, with the final service tonight. All sermons were followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.	S
Father O’Neil graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 and served on the religious staff here several years before joining the Holy Cross mission band. Father Robinson has been here three years and serves as assistant superior of Corby Hall. A former Master of Novices, he taught dogmatic theology at Holy Cross College.
Local yCS Group Begins g Work on National Plan
Intending to follow closely the plan of action outlined at the national convention in Davenport, Iowa this summer, the Notre Dame branch of the Young Christian Students (YCS) has swung into action. A Notre Dame unit headed by the moderator, Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., and president Jim Poat and including Mike Meaney, John Bal-tel, and Roland Ramirez was present . at the convention.
First on the program is an introductory meeting with prospective Freshman Members, which was conducted last night in the Biology Building auditorium. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., addressed the applicants, informing them of the purpose and policies of the club. Next Monday, a more extensive Freshman membership program will begin in room 104 of the Law — Building, where Arts and Letters, Commerce, Science, and Engineering men will be indoctrinated on September 26, 27, 28, and 29, respectively.
Other items looming on the club’s agenda include a tentative Communion Breakfast listed for October 4, and the opening of a reading room in the Club’s Law Building headquarters. The reading room will give students ample opportunity to acquaint themselves with literature concerning Catholic Action.
y.
The Scholastic
ND Summer Months Marked by Activities
By DICK ROSENGARTEN
Most of Notre Dame’s 5,000 students packed their bags and went home last June to forget books, profs, and departmental exams. Before the last bus left the Circle summer activities shifted into high gear and the next few months saw conventions, institutes, and meetings whizzing by.
From June 10 to 12 the old grads stopped by to shake hands and look around. For the first time the Alumni did not meet during Commencement week. Activities took the shape of a golf tournament, class parties, movies, A softball games, the President’s luncheon, and a seminar. A special mass offered for Alumni was held in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday morning to wind up the reunion.
Members of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association stayed an extra day for their summer meeting
June 12 and 13. During their session they discussed the role of the alumni in securing jobs for graduates. Board members decided to strengthen the network of alumni already helping graduates and to promote a job counseling service for undergraduates.
On June 20 the summer session started with 1,595 lay and religious enrollees. Religious communities from all over the world were represented.
Writing luminaries: Professors Cassidy, Sullivan, Frederick, and Nims (standing); seated, Miss Jessamyn West, noted novelist, and Henry Volkening, literary agent.
Archbishop McIntyre of Los Angeles, Miss Irene Dunne, Father Cavanaugh attended the formal presentation of the
Irene Dunne Gets Medal
Irene Dunne visited the campus in late June to receive formally the Lae-tare Medal she was awarded last March. The Drill Hall was jammed to the rifle racks for the ceremony which included talks by Most Rev. J. Francis A. McIntyre, archbishop of Los An
Monsignor Sheen and Laetare Medal June 29.
geles; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.; Charles Brackett, president of the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences, and Ned Depinet, president of RKO Pictures, speaking for the movie industry. Frank C. Walker, class of ’09 and recipient of the Laetare Medal last year was also present.
All periodicals and books published at Notre Dame will come under a new department put in operation this summer. Dale Francis was appointed department head as director of publications, succeeding John S. Brennan. Mr. Francis has been a newspaperman and editor for several years. He recently completed graduate work in political science at Notre Dame.
From July 20-24 the campus played host to the third annual Sisters’ Vocation Institute. The five days of meetings were devoted to the study of practical means of discovering and fostering vocations to the sisterhood.
Catholic Action Institute
The following week saw a meeting of the Catholic Action Institute. A number of conferences and workshops were held with Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., Assistant Professor of Religion and Catholic Action chaplain at Notre Dame as director.
Radiomen flocked to the Golden Dome campus for the second annual Catholic Broadcasters convention held July 29, (Continued on Page 33)
Sept. 23, 1949
15
I
Navy and Air Groups Get Summer Training
Notre Dame chapters of the United States Navy and Air Force took part in annual training programs this summer. Slightly under a hundred and a quarter ND men joined similar groups from other colleges throughout the country in training periods ranging from four to six weeks.
Sixty officers-to-be from here arrived in San Francisco on June 16 to take part in the Naval ROTC SophomoreSenior cruise. They formed a part of some 1200 other ROTC students from other colleges. The group left the West coast on two Cruisers—the U.S.S. Helena and U.S.S. Toledo—and four Destroyers, including the U.S.S. Higbea and U.S.S. Chevalier. The force cruised
RO's Board a Ship
down the Pacific and crossed the equator, then put around and put in at the Balboa Navy Base in the Panama Canal Zone, where it remained for two weeks.
The next port was Long Beach, Calif., followed by short runs up and down the coast line. The last week of the cruise was spent in gunnery practice off the Coast of California. The group disbanded from San Francisco on July 20.
The Junior Navy Program took 48 ND men to Pensacola, Fla., where they received Aviation training. A week was spent on the Aircraft Carrier U.S.S. Cabot. Flight training in Navy PBM’s comnrised part of the Pensacola program.
The R.O.’s then went from Pensacola to the Naval Base at Little Creek, Va., near Norfolk, for a two-week stay. Most of this time was taken up in a study of amphibious tactics, which cli
maxed in a full scale landing operation on the Virginia beaches. The group broke up on the last day in July.
Air ROTC Seniors spent six weeks at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, near Dayton, Ohio. The program for these men, some 25 of whom were from Notre Dame, included flying, courses in administration, tours of the Base, drill, and some technical training.
A certain amount of social life cropped up in each of the groups, perhaps the most notable being a combined party conducted at Pensacola by the men from Notre Dame, Holy Cross, Villanova and Marquette.
Foreign Relief Totals Show ND First Again
The final report of the 1948-49 Student Relief Campaign shows that the University of Notre Dame again topped the list of the nation’s Catholic colleges with a contribution of $26,181.78.
The report published last July by Louis J. Burns, of Washington, D. C., national chairman and Notre Dame graduate, Class of 1949, indicates a gross of $385,189.68 for the benefit of destitute students in war ravaged countries. The University of Detroit placed second in the campaign, sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students, with an $18,000 contribution.
The national total included $195,833.68 in cash and 81,178 pounds of goods-in-kind (food, clothing, and books) valued at $162,356.00. The expenses of the campaign amounted to $16,521.02, or 4.61 percent of the gross.
The Notre Dame total was raised by the students in various enterprises ranging from hat-passing to the two-day Mardi Gras Carnival last Spring. Jack Dempsey, of Philadelphia, was Notre Dame’s campus chairman last year and was assisted in the campaign by Leo J. Condon, Dayton, Ohio, publicity director, and John Moorhead, Atlantic City, N. J., Carnival chairman.
The list of top cash contributors is:
1	University of Notre Dame ___________ $23,241.78
2	University of Detroit _______________ 18,000.03
3	DePaul University, Chicago ___________ 8.300.71
4	Loyola University, Chicago 	8,231.73
5	Manhattan College, New York_________	6,807.90
6	Boston College, Boston _______________ 5,911.66
7	Mundelein College, Chicago______________________	5,619.49
8	Loyola University, Los Angeles______	5,392.50
9	Fordham University, New York ....	4,564.54
10	St. John’s U., Collegeville, Minn. ..	3,950.00
Notre Dame ranked 12th in the goods-in-kind contributions, gauged by pounds, with 1,470 pounds of books. Fordham University gave 3,041 pounds of goods and Marquette University 990 pounds in this class also.
University Theatre Plans Four Shows During Year
Launching an ambitious stage program for the ■ current school year, the University Theater began moving this week with plans for four productions— three dramatic presentations and a student musical.
William J. Eisen, newly-appointed I head of the Department of Speech is again at the helm of the campus theater movement. He says the first production—a three-act play not yet selected —is tentatively scheduled for a Washington Hall opening night late in October. Tryout notices will be posted next week when the play is chosen and approved, and casting will begin immediately thereafter.
The musical, a student entertainment venture not tried since It Ain’t Hay " played to Washington Hall crowds in 1947, adds one to the usual list of three yearly billings by the Theater. Already a student-written script and ten songs are under consideration, the director said.
Concerning last season’s three one-act plays, Professor Eisen had this to say:
“They were generally considered so successful that one of our three other production dates is likely to be devoted a to a similar program this year.”
With the four play program off to an early start next week, the University Theater hopes to equal, if not surpass attendance marks set last season by The Milky Way, Shadoiv and Substance and the one-act plays.
Irish Debate Squad Lures 55 Applicants — a Record
Debate posters attracted fifty-five " hopefuls to the first meeting of the current season, a record number. The new officers, Bill Carey, president, and Tom Ninneman, vice-president, were introduced to the group.
A tournament is planned for the newcomers to determine their ability. Prizes will be awarded. Furthermore, varsity positions are open, not only to last year’s men, but to anyone showing promise. Freshmen are highly eligible.
Professor Leonard Sommer, Director of Forensics, has planned 150 debates, extending from October to April, surpassing by far last year’s schedule. To handle the increase more men will be needed in varsity positions.
The new national topic is: Resolved, that the United States should nationalize the .basic non-agricultural industries. v Meetings will be held three times weekly to discuss the topic and to allow members to grasp some of the problems involved.	'
16
The Scholastic
Football Game Weekend Features Rally and Dance
Two traditional by-products of football weekends will resume their place in campus life tonight and tomorrow. Tonight, after the close of mission services, a pre-game pep rally will be held in the Old Gym. Tomorrow evening, a Victory Dance will be held in the Navy Drill Hall.
The pep rally, sponsored by the Blue Circle, will be preceded by a parade of the University Marching Band around the campus. At 7:30, Band and students will file into the Old Gym to send up a volley of cheers, old and new. Bill Rich will emcee the affair, and the Glee Club will be on hand to sing. The team and the coaching staff will also be introduced to the students.
Two old-new cheers will be reintroduced at the rally. The “Irish Chant,” used in 1947 but passed up last year, is one of the revivified spirit boosters. The other is the “Skyrocket” cheer, which has been on inactive duty for several seasons. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, will address the students.
Tomorrow evening at 8:30, the Drill Hall will be requisitioned for non-naval purposes. The Student Council has arranged for the first Victory Dance of the year to be held there, the music
Freshmen Eat, Meet Leahy and Team
Frosh class gabs and grabs at mixer after the intersquad game Saturday. Before the game, they met Coach Rank Leahy and varsity team members in the stadium.
being supplied by Gene Hull, his sax and his orchestra. Busses will operate to and from St. Mary’s. All students and friends are invited to attend this dance.
"Life" Article Features History of LOBUND
Campus followers of Life Magazine will find that one of the major articles in today’s issue is about Notre Dame’s germ-free Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND). Several weeks ago Life photographers were conducted through the various laboratories by Dr. Arthur Reyniers, head man of LOBUND, while they took the pictures to be found in this story.
The pictorial tale of Notre Dame’s contributions and endeavors in the field of germ-fr.ee experiments takes up seven pages of the magazine, placing it as one of the primary articles of the issue.
Another Irish accomplishment was recorded last week when Life's companion magazine, Time, published an account of Frank Leahy’s new book in its sports section. This book gives the history of the T formation as interpreted by ND football squads (minus details of the new huddle and the double quarterback plays).
WND Hits Airwaves With Full Schedule
Resuming broadcasting activities with a new and bigger schedule, Notre Dame’s campus radio station WND hit the air at exactly 7 p. m. on Monday evening. Heading the list of new programs will be a big half-hour show, “Winter Theater,” presenting recordings of top Broadway musicals of yesterday and today. “Winter Theater” will be broadcast twice weekly, from 9 to 9:30 p. m., and tonight, Friday, Sept. 23, presents selections from “South Pacific” recorded by the original cast.
Jack Dunlevy took over the post of station manager following the graduation of Frank Cronan. His staff includes Bob Nourie, who is program director; Dick Hahn, chief engineer; Joe Shelley, chief announcer; Tom McGee, production manager, and Jack McGoldrick publicity director.
WND will be on the air from 1 p. m. to 10 p. m. daily and from 7 p. m. to 10 p. m. on Sunday. The station will carry a complete schedule of music, news, sports and religious programs, and this year boasts a number of technical and program improvements.
Plans are in the tentative stage now for a new variety show and announcements will be made soon of additions to the regular schedule. An enlarged record library will bring more music to campus listeners. “Skip” Rosser will do a sports program twice weekly and the station will broadcast all home basketball games this season.
A full schedule of WND’s activities will be published next week. Manager Jack Dunlevy announced that the staff still has openings for engineers, writers and production men. WND broadcasts on a frequency of 630 kc., from studios atop the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
Baldinger Lists Reasons For Some Students' Failure
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science at the University of Notre Dame, has come up with a threefold explanation of why students fail in college.
Three of the principal reasons for failure in college work, according to Dr. Baldinger, are: 1) poor study habits, 2) lack of application, and 3) inadequate preparation for college. The Notre Dame scientist believes that other factors include lack of self-discipline, inability to budget time and inability to work under pressure.
Dr. Baldinger also charges the older generation with the responsibility of giving more assistance and encouragement to students of high school and college.
Sept. 23, 1949
17
. and see the world"
Notre Dame Men
by A. •/- Seriba
“No, I didn’t risk my neck to kiss the Blarney Stone,” said Merle Fleming of Sorin Hall, “but I did like Ireland best of the countries that I visited in Europe. I liked Spain too. In both places the people made the difference. They were the most friendly and the most sincerely religious.”
Merle Fleming was one of many Notre Dame men who enjoyed themselves in Europe this past summer. Preston Murphy was in England and France. Fallon Evans took a fast tour through everything between Spain and the Scandinavians. Dick Fitzgibbons lived in Spain. Tom Kennedy covered most of the continent. Walt McGovern also made an extended tour.
“It was nearly like the proverbial old home week,” said Tom Kennedy. “I kept meeting people I knew from school in every large city I stayed. I visited Napoleon’s tomb just after I got to Paris and ran into Fallon Evans. Then I was walking down a side street one day and found Larry Gilling having a beer in a sidewalk cafe. Later I came across Merle Fleming in Italy. They all said that they had been meeting people too.”
People Were Fascinating
In between meetings with each other the members of the Notre Dame foreign legion covered a lot of land and did a lot of prowling and observing.
“I think,” said Merle Fleming, “that I saw everything I could see in three months. And if I didn’t I had a good time anyway. The people were fascinating. Every national boundary brought some kind of a change and Ireland and Spain were like another world.
Ireland Unbeatable
‘•'Places like England and France were like, yet unlike the U. S. But Ireland! There if you miss a train on Friday they tell you to keep calm ‘because there’s another due Monday.’ Spain seemed like an island too. No one ever hurries, its nearly impossible—during one heat wave it hit 124 degrees in Madrid. The people are genuine and friendly, and in spite of being poor they are honest. In Italy they are poor and friendly too, but they’ll steal your wrist watch as they kneel beside you in church.
“France is undoubtedly the cheapest place to live. You can live a week in Paris for what it takes to live two days in London. Some friends and I spent a couple of weeks at the Riviera and our expenditures averaged about $3.25 apiece per day for board and room— including the wine. In England you’d have to spend three times that for fog and cold mutton.
“As for nearly everyone else, Paris was my favorite of the cities. To say it, is trite, but it really is gay. The people there have a carefree attitude all their own.”
Tom Kennedy and his brother who graduated in June had a semi-private audience with the Pope, spent five days at the Benedictine monastery of Soles-nes, and succeeded in finding a house in County Cork that had belonged to their ancestors.
“Solesnes is the birthplace of the Gregorian Chant,” said Tom. “We met one of the brethren in Paris and when we told him we were from Notre Dame he । practically twisted our arm to stay at the monastery for a few days. We did and we really enjoyed our glimpse into their religious life.
“In our semi-private audience with the Pope we were with a group of about a hundred people. The Holy Father spoke briefly with us and with everyone else. He asked us where we were from and what we were studying. We didn’t say very much.
“We only saw a little bit of the Vati- । can as we were with a tour—for that matter we didn’t see very much of Italy at all. If I go to Europe again I’d like to see Italy first. There is a lot there. The country is very poor, especially in the cities. But there are ruins you’ve read about all over the place and the countryside has an odd kind of mellow beauty.”
Food Called Horrible
Preston Murphy spent most of his overseas time in England and was not at all impressed.
Paul and Tom Kennedy got to Europe by a tramp steamer,	Dublin Castle in beautiful, slow-moving Ireland. Merle Flem-
cutting costs but still allowing time to see the many sights	ing maintains the Emerald Isle was the best country visited
The Scholastic
on European Visit
“The food,” said Preston, “is horrible. Everything is boiled, tasteless, unseasoned. And I think that the cooking must have affected the people. To me they seemed rather unfriendly and often completely ill-mannered. London especially seemed a city of gripes and gloom. They’ve had twelve years of austerity now and they are getting very tired of it. The consensus of opinion seems to hold that the U. S. and the labor government are the villians. I listened to the Hyde Park orators one night and found out to my great surprise that the U. S. was 'out to ruin England.’ After talking to a lot of people on trains and as well as in hotel lobbies I decided that the Socialists will be out again come the next election.	*
“After England, my short stay in France was a lot of fun. Even the air smelled better. The people were extremely helpful and friendly and they seemed a lot happier. Superficially the French seem to have a lot more money than the English. Actually they haven’t. I think the illusion comes from the fact that the French don’t seem to care whether they have money or not.
Bantam-like Cars
“Everything in France seemed small. The railroad we came in on from the Channel to Paris was narrow gauge. All the cars look like bantams. The streets are like cracks between the buildings except for a few boulevards. A Cadillac would be nearly worthless. And they
don’t know what a street sign or a speed limit is. Most of the corners are blind and there’s only one system—blow your horn and keep going. It’s a wonder they don’t kill everybody, but I never saw an accident.
“In Paris I saw the usual, Eiffel tower, Louvre and so forth. I spent my best day at the University of Paris. A semiEnglish speaking student left a half of a day’s work just to show me around the place. He even bought me a couple of books and insisted that I let him pay for them. Most of the people that I met at the school really went out of their-way to help me.”
Walt McGovern went on an extended tour with 32 students from a variety of colleges. The group was NSA-spon-sored, 18 girls and 14 fellows. They visited France, Italy, Switzerland, Great Britain, and the Netherlands. On his own, Walt left the tour for a time and took in the international music and drama festival at Edinburgh. “Almost every tourist in Europe was there,” said Walt, “but I didn’t enjoy it quite so much as some other things I did — like street dancing with the Parisians on Bastille day and gondoling with an Italian Signorina I met in the ERP office in Venice.
“Almost without exception I found the people extremely open and friendly. I really intend to revisit a lot of the new friends that I made.
“My strongest impression? That’s
A must-see spot in Paris for every visiting student is the Arche de Triomphe
not hard. It seemed to me that there were far too many “liberals” and “fellow travelers” in the ranks of the Americans who went over with me. It would certainly be a good thing if more Catholic students would go across.”
life in Spain
Dick Fitzgibbons had a slightly different summer from that of his wandering friends. As part of an Experiment in International Living group he spent the summer living with a family in Spain. Said Dick, “Nice town, nice people, good food . . . and the senoritas were very lovely.”
They all seem to have had a good time.
Paris, like the one above, Fleming saw
street in
a
Gilling sipping a beer in a picturesque sidewalk cafe
Along Larry 1
Tom Kennedy before a ferry sign in Hamburg. After touring Germany, the Kennedys went to Rome to visit Pope Pius XII
SHMIQLLI

BJAS5EMGUTER
Sept. 23, 1949
19
Your Suit Photo-Fitted/
Let Parker-Winterrowd style your spring and summer suit with the newest in tailoring methods . . . Photofit. Your posture and proportions are recorded against an accurately calibrated background to insure perfect contour corrections. This completely eliminates guesswork, saves time, and guarantees an absolutely perfect fit. Have your next suit—we have 750 beautiful fabrics to choose from—fitted by photography. Photo-Fitted suits can be yours for as little as $55. Come in today.
Tuxedos and Tails—Sold or Rented. You will marvel at your ready made Suits and Coats. A complete assortment for College Men from $55 upwards.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, Inc.
1151/2—117j/2 north main st.
Second Floor — Upstairs
“South Bend’s Oldest Custom-Tailors and Clothiers”
LOU LOURO—DILLON	WALT MURPHY—DILLON
Welcome!
Notre Dame Men
We hope to see our old friends and to make new ones.
“Just Good Food” at prices you will appreciate.
Drop in Sunday.
JOE NABICHT'S Chicken in the Rough 213 No. Main St.
Phone 3-1215	Open Sundays
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Notre Dame, Hoosiers Clash Tomorrow
Irish defense charges Bob Williams — but green-shirted defensemen fail to stop the regulars' aerial game in last Saturday's intrasquad game. The Varsity downed the reserves, 34-7. These onrushing linemen will be on Bob's side against Indiana.
University Cross Country Championship On Block in Four-Mile Grind Around Lakes
Sunday at 11 a.m. the University Cross-Country Championship will be run around the lakes, beginning in front of the Grotto. This meet traditionally determines the composition of the school cross-country team.
Benny Almaguer, who last year as a freshman tied Jimmy Murphy for first place, rates top choice since Murphy has graduated. However, four men from last year’s team and several other sophs have no intention in the world < of handing Almaguer the race on a silver platter. The race, four miles long, will be a dog-eat-dog affair with no element of team play involved since . 14 or more men will compete for the seven berths on the squad.
The Board of Athletics hasn’t approved this season’s schedule yet, but rumor says the first meet ‘will be held at home a week from tomorrow. It may not be a good policy to count too heavily on sophomores, but this year’s a team could possibly do as well or better V
" Sept. 23, 1949
than the 1948 squad that won the Central Collegiate Championship and three out of four dual meets.
Conrad Tetrault, George Gross, Bob Feiler, John Mohar and, of course, Almaguer represent the best collection of sophomore distance men to show up at Notre Dame in ages. Bernie Endres and Dan Holleran aren’t far behind them in ability.
Jim Kittell, number two man in 1948, heads the returnees. Tony Da Damio was a consistent scorer last year before an inflamed Achilles tendon held him down for awhile. Because of injuries, Jerry Johnson and Jim Kelly ran only in spots last year, but now both are raring to go barring a recurrence of their old ailments.
Merle Fleming, a good man two years ago, is trying to get back in shape and might pop up among the select seven along with Dick McCarthy, another darkhorse.—Ted Prahinski
Irish Hope to Protect Long Unbeaten String
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame, still rated as the team to beat for the mythical national championship, hopes to keep that distinction tomorrow afternoon by disposing of Indiana’s not-too-hopeful Hoosiers in the season opener at Notre Dame Stadium. Game time is 2 p. m. and a near-capacity crowd is expected.
Tied by Southern Cal in the 1948 finale, the Fighting Irish carry into this battle an unbeaten string of 28 games,
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME	INDIANA
Bill Flynn (81)_____E ______ Cliff Anderson (86)
Jim Martin (38) ____ T Steve Georgakis (75)
Paul Burns (64)_____G _______ Joe	Balabon	(64)
Walt Grothaus (52)	_	C_____Bob	Stebbins	(55)
Bob Lally (60) —,___G-------Cas	Witucki	(66)
Gus Cifelli (71) ___ T -------- Ed Bosak (70)
Leon Hart (82)______E	- Joe Bartkiewicz	(33)
Bob Williams (9) ____ Q	 Nick Sebek	(29)
Bill Gay (22)H	— Bob Robertson	(46)
Larry Coutre (24) __ H	— Ernie Huggett	(17)
Emil Sitko (14) _____ F	.. Arnold Bowman	(37)
INDIANA: Wilkins (15). Adams (16). Huggett (17). Byers (18). Kasonovich (23), Gomory (24), Tutsie (25). Sebek (29). Williams (32) J. Bart-kiewicz (33). Van Ooyen (34), Sellers (35). Bowman (37). Henkle (39). Fisher (40). Linneman (41), Mulcahy (42). Driver (43). E. Robertson (45). R. Robertson (46). Benner (47). Marshall (49). Becket (50). Soukup (52). Dolan (53), Stebbins (55). Buechel (57). Brooks (60). Maltby (61). Parobeck (62). Kornyak (63). Balabon (64), Nowak (65), Witucki (66). Thomas (67), W. Bartkiewicz (68), Smith (69). Bosak (70). Morri-cal (71). Sears (72). Washington (73). Rawl (74), Georgakis (75). Bird (76), Talerico (77). Freeze (78). Luft (79).Seiff (80),Kovatch (81). Oaton (82'. Roth (84). Winston (85). Anderson (86), Miller (87). Tallon (88).M. Smith (89).
NOTRE DAME: Mazur (1). Whiteside (3). Carter (4). Layden (5). Dickson (6). Begley (7), Williams (9). Zalejski (12).' Sitko (14). Smith (15), Gay (22). Coutre (24), Butz (25). Bush (26), Spaniel (28). Landry (30), O’Neil (31), Barrett (37). Martin (38). McKillip (40), Swis-towicz (44). Gander (47), Cotter (48), Groom (50). Jeffers (51). Grothaus (52), Boii (53). Hamby (55), Yanoschik (56), Lally (60), Johnson (61). Oracko (62). Wallner (63). Burns (64). M'xHk (65). Perry (66). Johnston (67). Higgins *68). Zambroski (69). Mahoney (70). Cifelli (71). H"dak (72). McGehee (74). Toneff (75). Zancha (76). Daut (77). Zmijewski (78). Fox (79). Waybright (80). Flynn (81). Hart (82). Wight-k:n (83). Espenan (84). Mutscheller (85). Jonardi (85). Ostrowski (87), Dolmetsch (88), Koch (89).
one of them a 42-6 rout of the Bloomington boys last fall.
While Indiana is generally considered , to be among the Big Ten’s weaker elevens, none of those schools can be taken lightly. Coach Clyde Smith has 16 let-
21

Bobby Robertson
termen and some better-than-average sophomores. Last year the Hoosiers were plenty tough before injuries ruined them. After whipping Wisconsin and Iowa, they lost seven straight ball games.
Coach Smith, in his second year at Bloomington, uses the T-formation and the old single wing offense. The latter, of course, requires a crackeriack tailback and Smith lost just about the best in the country when George Taliaferro decided to play with the Los Angeles Dons. Now Smitty has three sophomores—Bobby Robertson, Mickey Marshall and Charley Fisher. Robertson, exSouth Bend Washington flash, is a rugged and speedy runner and the probable starter.
Sebek at Quarter
The remainder of Indiana’s backfield will have Nick Sebek at quarter, little Ernie Huggett at right half and Arnold Bowman in at full. Sebek, who completed over 48 per cent of his passes the last two years, is also a fine field general. Huggett, a Mishawakan, is a seatback and the extra-point kicker.
If his kidney ailment enables him to play, end Joe Bartkiewicz bears watching too. Last year he caught 11 passes for 185 yards. In the middle of the line, Casimir (Slug) Witucki, one of five South Benders on the squad, was a good enough guard to earn a place on Notre Dame’s All-Opponent team for 1948.
Notre Dame faces this Hoosier team with 27 lettermen and some fine sophomore prospects. Most people believe that a successful season will require an improvement in the line reserves and a minimum of injuries to key men like Bob Williams.
Already, one regular, guard Rod Johnson, is lost for a few weeks. Del Gander may miss most of the season because of his wrist operation and Dave Flood has
22
been forced to hang up his cleats for a year. Although he wrenched his knee a short time ago, Emil Sitko should be in top form now.
With Johnson out, Coach Frank Leahy will start Paul Burns, a big sophomore, with Bob Lally at the guards. Co-Captain Jungle Jim Martin should shine at his new left tackle position. And, on the other side, Gus Cifelli may get the call over Bob Toneff. The 222-pound Philadelphian has looked good, especially offensively. Of course, Toneff will play a lot too; he’s a potential All-American if there ever was one.
Co-Captain Leon Hart, undisputed super-man of collegiate ends, dominates right end like its never been dominated before. Left end belongs to Bill Flynn and Bill Wightkin, both experienced and talented. Walt Grothaus will open at center although Jerry Groom figures in the plans if his recently-injured knee holds up.
Bob Williams handles the T-quarter-
Nick Sebek
back spot in All-American fashion. He’ll do all of the passing and punting and may even get the call as No. 1 safety man.
Frank Spaniel has been giving .Bill Gay a real fight for left half, but the shifty Chicagoan should start. Scooter Larry Coutre is the right half, through Bill Barrett will get a chance to show why he’s one of the most talked-about newcomers in the country.
All-American Emil Sitko now runs from fullback where he is just as great. He gets topnotch help from Mike Swis-towicz and Jack Landry.
I
Seeks Fifty-First Victory
Coach Leahy, seeking his fifty-first victory in 59 ND games (five were ties), is sticking to his ever-successful T-formation. The only change has the back
field in a three-point stance just like the linemen. Then, Leahy has devised a new huddle too; ten players stand in two lines of five and face the visiting team. The signal caller faces the other ten men and calls the plays. The new huddle has all the players facing the quarterback, enables the linemen to line up their blocks while in the huddle and gives the Irish a chance to run a few more plays.
Veteran Steve Oracko should kick the
4
first ball and do the converting although there are more place-kickers around this fall. Toneff can kick- off well whereas John Petitbon, fleet soph left half, is an extra-point booter.
Indiana has some new crimson and white uniforms which officials say will make them among the “best-dressed” in the country. The well-known Marchin’ Hundred. is not expected to appear at Notre Dame.
Enthusiastic Cheer Leaders To Shake Thunder Down
Seven enthusiastic cheerleaders headed by James Marheine will rouse ND fans’ fighting spirit to fever pitch during the coming season. Besides Marheine, zealots Jack Wenning, Mike Perino, Tom Latz, Ralph Holmes and Dick Herrle will back the Notre Dame eleven to the. hilt. Due to a summer injury, Joe Pfaff, who also would have been a cheer leader, will be replaced by Jack McGlinn.
A highlight of the season should be the reintroduction of the “Skyrocket” cheer of some years back. It was used for the first time this season at last Saturday’s Varsity-Freshman game and the rest of the school will learn it tonight at the Pep Rally.
Joe Bartkiewicz
The Scholastic
Milwaukee Soph Is
Best Golfer in Yea rs
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Wright
Tom Veech, sophomore golfer from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is a young man who will bear close attention in golf circles throughout the country. According to the Rev. George C. Holderith, C.S.C., Irish golf coach, Veech is one of ~ the best golfers he has seen on this campus for a long time. Father Holderith ranks him with such past Notre Dame golf greats as Larry Molar, Winfield Day, Bud Donavan, Tom Sheehan, and Dick Whiting.
In the N.C.A.A. tournament at Ames, Iowa last June, Tom qualified with a
Tom Veech
i 149 (74-75) for 36 holes in medal play 9' and was the victor in the first four rounds, defeating Jack McKenzie of North Carolina in the first round, Al I Littleton of Kansas in the second, Johnny Hare of Purdue in the third and medalist Arnold Palmer of South Caro' lina in the quarter-finals. Tom then went into the semi-finals against HarI	vey Ward of North Carolina. Ward
; emerged the victor and went on to win j	the tournament.
'	Tom has compiled an amazing record
9 since he started playing golf in 1942. In 1947 he won the Western Junior Open championship. In 1948 he won ; the Wisconsin State Open crown. At I	Washington High School in Milwaukee
I	he was for three years captain of a
golf team which captured city team and individual titles in 1946 and 1947. Here at Notre Dame he led team scoring last season with 30% points out of a possible 39 in dual matches. In | eleven rounds of competitive golf he f	has a 72.7 average.—Jack Varley
I	Sept. 23, 1949
Harry Helps Out
Our old sports editor, Harry Monahan, has left us to work for Charlie Callahan, but not before lending a helping hand in many ways. Included in Harry’s advice was his complicated formula for picking winners in the now-traditional Prediction of the Week. Harry didn’t pick a loser all year. His formula: take Notre Dame in every game. Below, we put the formula into use for the first time this fall. Let’s hope our predictions are 100 per cent correct for the 1949 football season.
Notre Dame and Michigan Again
If several of the leading “football prognosticators” are correct, Notre Dame and Michigan suporters will once again engage in verbal battles. According to many writers the two midwestern powerhouses are still the teams to beat for mythical national honors. In his Pigskin Preview for the Saturday Evening Evening Post, Fred Russell picked ND as the best with the Wolverines right behind them. Five Irish opponents were in the top twenty.
One good point that Russell makes is that, even though Notre Dame (or Michigan) loses somewhere along the way, chances are very good that the team defeating them will wind up the season with an inferior record. All signs point to a season with few, if any, major unbeaten teams. Right now, among the top contenders, Oklahoma appears to have the easiest path.
In 1943, Notre Dame was an almost unanimous choice as the best college team despite the big upset at Great Lakes. And, in 1942, Georgia and Ohio State, generally considered the country’s best, each lost one game.
Speaking of mythical championships, Michigan is already trying to impress the pollsters. The varsity edged the reserves, 90-0, in last Saturday’s intrasquad tilt.
Moose Does Too Well
Remember when everyone was afraid Notre Dame couldn’t find any tough schools to play?
When Moose Krause set out to dig up some rugged competition for Frank Leahy’s lads, you’ll have to admit he did a good job. The Irish meet the favorites
for titles in the Southern, Southeastern, Southwest and Pacific Coast conferences. All these along with mighty Michigan State, improved Navy, three ever-dangerous Big Ten schools and darkhorse Washington, possibly the best northern team in the far West.
These opponents boast the best running backs in the country too. Check the list of backs the Irish line must shackle: Hugh McElhenny of Washington, Harry Szulborski of Purdue, Eddie Price of Tulane, Lynn Chandnois of Michigan State, Charlie Justice of North Carolina and Doak Walker of Southern Methodist. Notre Dame’s All-Opponent backfield should closely resemble a lot of All-American selections.
Unfortunately for local students, Price is the only one of the bunch who will perform here. Eddie finished second in rushing in the whole country last fall and personally gained more yardage on the ground than six of Tulane’s foes. .
Worried About Williams?
As most people know by now, a team using the T-formation needs a pretty smooth operator playing quarterback. In 1948 at this time, Notre Dame’s grandstand coaches (and maybe the actual coaches too) were quite worried about Frank Tripucka’s ability to take over for Johnny Lujack. Of course, Trip came through.
This season there seem to be few people worried about Bob Williams and the reason is obvious. Starting with the second half of the Southern Cal game last year and throughout spring and early fall drills, Bob proved he has what it takes. He was and is the squad’s best punter. He passes well long or short, handles the ball in close-to-perfect manner and is a smart play-caller. And he can run the ball and play great defensively in the secondary.
Coach Leahy thinks Bob could be the best under-the-center man in college ranks this year. We agree.
Prediction of the Week
Indiana has 16 lettermen from a weak team and some better - than - average freshmen. Notre Dame has 27 lettermen from an unbeaten team and some extragood freshmen. Notre Dame, 35; Indiana, 6.
23
Klinemen's Recovery Sparks Summer Games As ND Athletes Build Good Sports Record
Autumn Plans Made For Interhall Sports
By BILL RILEY
Paced by a baseball team that looked mediocre in early season competition, but arose to near greatness in the N.C.A.A. championship play-offs, Notre Dame athletes compiled a commendable record in summer competition.
The possibilities of the diamond crew were shown in a lopsided contest with Pensacola on Cartier field, as Irish bats boomed out a 12-0 win behind no-hit pitching. Victories over Purdue (5-4), Northwestern (4-1), and Western Michigan (7-4) followed. A lone loss, to Michigan State, 10-8, in ten innings, marred the late season slate, and the Irish finished the regular season with an 18-6 record.
In the play-offs the team opened District Four competition with a 1-0 conquest of Purdue. The game was a pitchers’ battle for eight innings, but in the ninth the Irish capitalized on their only two solid hits of the game and a Purdue error to take a one-run lead that won the game. Pitcher Walt Ma-hannah set the Purdue boys down with only one hit.
In the District Four finals the Kline-men met and defeated Western Michigan for the second time, 9-1. Campbell pitched for the victors.
Deacons Drub Irish
Notre Dame met Wake Forest in the quarter-finals of the nationals. The Deacons were dubbed one of the finest teams to come out of the South in recent years; they lived up to their advance billing by trouncing the Irish in the opener. Then, in the second game, with both teams confident of victory Coach Kline threw three pitchers in to stem the southerners. An eight-run bombardment in the second frame was too much for the Irish, however, and despite the seven runs they picked up in later innings to Wake Forest’s two, the Irish lost their chance to try for the national championship as they fell, 10 to 7. Dick Giedlin was the big gun in the Irish offense, smacking out six hits in eight times at bat in the final series.
Another interesting news-bit in baseball turned up when Pitcher Dick Smullen refused a reported $40,000 bonus from the Phillies, and then signed with the same club within the bonus limit. Dick’s father, Charles A. Smullen, explained that he was trying to act in the best interests of his son
24
and that he thought that a bonus could easily spoil a young man and hurt his chances in major league baseball.
Wood Blanks A's
Also in the news was Notre Dame student Art Wood’s one-hit victory over the Philadelphia A’s in an exhibition for the Harrisburg Indians of the Inter-State league.
Notre Dame’s tennis team saved Coach Langford from the first losing season in ten years, as, led by co-cap-tains Bob David and Gene Biittner, they took Wisconsin, 5-4, and Marquette, 6-3, to finish with a six and three record (Continued on Page 29)
Cage Season to Open Here With Creighton
Amidst the sound of a booted pigskin and the clash of body pads comes the announcement of Notre Dame’s basketball schedule. Old-time opponents returning, a roster riddled by the loss of a host of lettermen and schedule akin to the football agenda, will herald the coming season.
Creighton of Omaha, which opens the season on December 8, John Carroll of Cleveland and the powerful Loyola Ramblers will be on hand to add to the woes of Coach Krause’s squad, which will attempt to rebuild around the nucleus of three returning monogram winners: Kevin O'Shea, Marty O’Connor and big John Foley.
New blood will come in the form of such promising sophomores as Don Strasser, Bob Wray and Leroy Leslie, and the return of eligibility of junior Dan Bagley.
The schedule:
December 8—Creighton at Notre Dame
13—Wisconsin at Madison
17—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium 19—Iowa at Notre Dame 29—Indiana at Indianapolis 30—Purdue at Indianapolis January 4—Butler at Notre Dame
7—Michigan State at East Lansing
11—De Paul at Notre Dame 13—John Carroll at Cleveland 14—Canisius at Buffalo, N. Y. 18—Michigan State at Notre Dame 23—Kentucky at Notre Dame 28—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium 31—Butler at Indianapolis’ _
February 4—Marquette at Notre Dame
7—Loyola at Chicago Stadium
11—St. Louis at St. Louis
14—Loyola at Notre Dame
18—De Paul at Chicago Stadium
23—St. Louis at Notre Dame
25—U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis
27—New York University at New York March	4—Marquette at • Milwaukee
Four of the five autumn interhall sports activities were inaugurated this week with the fifth to be started soon. Organization meetings were held this past Monday and Tuesday for football, volleyball, soccer and baseball. A call will be issued for a touch football program immediately upon completion of preparatory arrangements regarding schedules, sites and personnel.
Gone are the Dillon and Cavanaugh football powerhouses of last year who went unscored-upon during regular season competition and who later fought to a bitter 6-2 Dillon victory in the championship match. Also lost by graduation are Joe McMahon and Paul Bouloss, the respective coaches.
New Football Equipmeut
Mr. Dominic Napolitano reports that plans for this year’s program are complete. Only brand new equipment will be issued including shoes and helmets. The only requirements for participation include a physical examination plus daily team training and calisthenics for two consecutive weeks. The league will be divided into two sections with the freshman halls, Cavanaugh, Sorin and Walsh, representing the East campus and the sophomore and senior halls along with Badin and off-campus fighting it out for the western honors. After a season of round-robin play, a championship game will be fought on Sunday, November 5, in the stadium. Twenty-two gold footballs will be awarded to the champs and runners-up.
Soccer is not restricted to interhall competition. Any group of students may enter a team. Last year four teams saw action — two squads made up of phy-ed majors, the Dujarie Brothers and the LaRaza Club, last year’s title-holders.
Plan Fall Baseball
Volleyball too has a small but staunch following. Any six-man team may compete, and Mr. Frank Maxwell, supervisor of the program, expects to A have a dozen squads in competition.
For baseball-minded students a full fall schedule has been planned. Twelve teams, divided into two leagues, will play a round-robin season of five games each. The diamonds on the interhall field have been readied for play.
The interhall program is an all-student activity with coaches and referees from the physical education department.—Jack Economou
The Scholastic
Pigskin Ducat Sales Near Sell-Out Mark
Information from Ticket Manager Robert Cahill and Charlie Callahan’s Department of Sports Information show that Notre Dame’s football team has lost none of its popularity. Chances are good y that the whole schedule will be sold out, but those not present at the games will have plenty of opportunity to see the Irish on television or hear them over the radio.
Mr. Cahill said a few days ago that eight of the ten games were sold out and that the other two probably would be before the kickoffs. Tickets were still left for the Indiana and Iowa ball games, both here at Notre Dame Stadium.
A number of the ducats have been set S aside for the melee with Iowa; they’ll be used by the sophomores as ND meets the Hawkeyes the afternoon after1 the Sophomore Cotillion. Mr. Cahill laid away another group of tickets for the student trip to New York when Notre Dame meets North Carolina in Yankee Stadium.
Most of the games, like those with North Carolina and Southern Methodist were sold out shortly after ticket orders were taken. :
All home football games will be broadcast and televised to all parts of the country, but the North Carolina tussle has been getting the most attention. Twenty-two stations will televise that one (some of them as far as to Chicago). The broadcasts will be from coast to coast.
At least eleven stations will carry the home games on television. WBKB will be the main one for Indiana and Iowa and WGN for Tulane and Southern Cal-P ifornia.
About ten radio stations are slated to be here for each home attraction, although the Iowa game already has 17 lined up. Like the North Carolina game, all home games will be on the air from coast-to-coast.—Bill Delaney
NROTC Sharpshooters Win Annual Rifle Match Trophy
According to an announcement by y Rear Admiral T. L. Sprague, USN, Chief of Naval Personnel, the University of Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team has won the 1949 Secretary of the Navy Trophy, symbolic of excellence in small arms firing among college and university Naval R.O.T.C. rifle teams.
The Irish squad won the trophy by scoring 1406 out of a possible 1500 points, the highest ever attained in the annual Secretary of the Navy Rifle Match, according to Admiral Sprague.
Sept. 23, 1949
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED — SAVE MORE THAN H
CHEST OF DRAWERS .... $9.95 up RECORD CABINETS...........$6.95
BOOK CASES................$4.95 up
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture
WILLIAMS PAINT CO.
755 So. Michigan PHONE 6-7346	FREE DELIVERY
SPALDING
□
Spalding ©
THE FAMOUS,
SPALDING J5-V
ARM/S GREAT TEAM OF1945SET A MODERM MARK OF4&L.7YDS-
■DtDXOU £V02OON&DEa
Running A unrLE op
TNAT)ARDAGE CN1WE tjrfp
GAMEZ
THE BALL THAT GETS THE CALL IN AMERICA'S LEADING GRIDIRON CLASSICS AND IN MOST OF THE ANNUAL BOWL GAMES.
COME TO ME ARMS
YA BEAUTIFUL
DAKUN/

New Plaque Commemorates Rockne's Forward Pass Play
“To Knute Rockne. In grateful memory of the man whose standards of fair play are an immortal inspiration to the youth of America and whose many contributions to the great sport of football will never be forgotten.
He developed the forward pass on this strip of beach.”
You can find the bronze plaque bearing this inscription dedicated on a narrow strip of sand at Cedar Point Beach near Sandusky, Ohio. Here Knute Rockne and Gus Dorais worked in the summers while attending Notre Dame, and where Rockne developed one of the greatest single contributions to football, the forward pass.
Hundreds gathered to watch as Gus Dorais unveiled the plaque last Sept. 1, and then to listen as he told of the summers he spent with Rockne perfecting their aerial offense. Dorais also spoke of Rockne’s great contributions outside the realm of football and it seemed that he put life into the words written on the plaque. Later members of the 1913 team that played with Rockne were introduced and lined up at their old positions.
Mrs. Knute Rockne was present at the dedication ceremonies along with Ed Krause of Notre Dame.
The Cleveland Club of Notre Dame and the Alumni Association of Cleve-
WIDTHS
1 Oto 16
We specialize in large sizes only— sizes 10 to 16; widths AAA to EEE. Loafers, Wing Tips, Moccasins, Dress Oxfords, House Slippers, High and Low Work Shoes, Rubbers, Sox.
Specially designed for large sizes. $9.95 up.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Sold by mail only.
Write Today for FREE Catalog.
SIZES
Write for
Catalog
AAAtoEEE
KING-SIZE, Inc., 206, Brockton, Moss.
ECONOMIC ROUND TABLE
The Economic Round Table is conducting a membership drive. Students interested in economic, sociological and political problems of the day are invited to file their names with the organization secretary in Room 210 Dillon Hall.
land headed by Don Miller, one of the fabulous Four Horsemen, were in charge of the dedication.—Frank Ronnenberg
Harriers Usher in Season With Marines and Wheaton
Notre Dame’s cross-country team will open its season a week from tomorrow when it entertains Wheaton and the United States Marines from Quantico, Va.	.
Though the first meet is over a week away, students can see the harriers in action Sunday morning in the University Cross-Country Championship. The men on Coach Elwin R. Handy’s squad will be determined by this race.
Though a schedule hasn’t been officially released, the Handymen’s slate will probably read like this:
October 1—Wheaton. Quantico- Marines at ND 8—Purdue and Mich. State at Purdue 15—Wisconsin at ND 22—Iowa at Iowa	'
29—Navy at Baltimore
November 5—State Meet at Lafayette, Ind.
19—Central Collegiate Meet at Ypsilanti, Michigan
28—National Collegiate Meet at East Lansing, Michigan
J ?)
Irish Terrier Makes Debut as ND Mascot
Notre Dame’s football fortunes this
season will be aided and abetted by the presence of a "new mascot, Shannon View Mike I, an Irish terrier. He was presented to the team by James Mc-Garraghy, Chicago businessman and long time follower of the Irish, and was received by Co-Capt. Jim Martin.
Mike and Martin
Shannon View Mike I is the third mascot for the Fighting Irish in modern times. His two predecessors were also Irish terriers. Clashmore Mike I was given to the team by a Chicago kennel owner in 1935. He died in 1945 with 10 years of varsity football experience behind him and was buried in the Notre Dame stadium. Clashmore Mike II, who was also presented by Mr. McGarraghy, joined the team in 1945. He disappeared from his home in the stadium last year on the eve of the Notre Dame-Navy game and has not been seen since.
The first two names of the new mascot are derived from the fact that he comes from the Shannon View kennel in Chicago.
ND Lists Four Pitt Tiffs;
Series Opens Here in '50 $
Pittsburgh’s Panthers, once ferocious but milder now, will be back on the Notre Dame football schedule in 1950. Tom Hamilton, old Navy coach and now Director of Athletics at Pitt, made the announcement last Monday.
The Panthers gave Notre Dame a rough time over a decade ago in the days of their famous “dream backfield.”
The present contract runs for four years with the first game to be played in Notre Dame Stadium.
26
The Scholastic
Names Make Neivs
According to an announcement by the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., Vice Provincial of the Eastern Vice-Province of the Priests of Holy Cross, the REV. FRANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C., has been appointed president of Stonehill College in North Easton, Mass. Father Boland, organizer and former head of the department of Political Science at Notre Dame, left during the summer to assume his new duties.
A native of Everett, Mass., Father Boland taught economics at Notre Dame from 1924 until 1930. He served as vicepresident of St. Edward’s University in Austin, Texas, from 1930 until 1934 when he returned to Notre Dame as Prefect of Discipline, a position he held for three years. . . .
When the rescuers of an eleven-year-old girl foundered after swimming beyond their depth, a junior' journalism student from Notre Dame, JAMES RILEY, of Crystal Lake, Ill., participated in the rescue. While the girl and one rescuer were pulled out of Crystal Lake 9 another would-be rescuer went down. " After repeated dives Riley pulled the body to the surface and towed it to shore, but the efforts of an inhalator squad to save his life were futile. . . .
REV ANTHONY J. LAUCK, C.S.C., ’42, was invited by one of the world’s foremost artists, Ivan Mestrovic, to work and study with him this summer. 0 A sculptor of note himself, Father Lauck
Father Peyton ^Sept. 23, 1949
has been accorded other signal honors as well during recent months. One of his works, St. John Beside the Cross, was accepted for showing in the Third Sculpture International, which is known as “the most selective of contemporary art shows.” Father Lauck received high commendation for his work from Henri Marceau, chairman of the committee on sculpture. In addition Father Lauck is the recipient of a traveling scholarship. Last week he left for Rome to spend several months of travel and study in Italy, France and England. . . .
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY, of St. Paul, Minn., a lay trustee of the University, received honorary doctor of laws degrees from St. Thomas College, St. Paul, at its June Commencement. Father Cavanaugh gave the St. Thomas Commencement address. . . .
Two Laetare Medalists died during the past summer. DR. IRWIN W. ABELL, the 1938 medalist and one-time president of the American Medical Association, was an outstanding Catholic leader and was well-known for his kindness and charity. He died in Louisville, Ky. One of the civic and religious leaders of Milwaukee, WILLIAM G. BRUCE died in August after an illness of several months. Recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1947 Mr. Bruce was the nationally known head of the Bruce Publishing Company.
Death also took two freshmen registered for the fall term. They were WILLIAM JOSEPH BOYD, of Berkeley, Calif., and C. PATRICK AHERN, JR., of Worcester, Mass. . . .
DEAN JAMES E. McCARTHY, of the College of Commerce, has accepted an invitation to serve on the Committee of Advertising of the United States Chamber of Commerce for the 1949-50 year. The invitation to Dean McCarthy to serve on the committee, which advises the national chamber on ways to broaden interest in advertising, was tendered by Herman W. Steinkraus, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce....
PROF. WILLIAM D. ROLLISON, of the College of Law, was named as the 1949 recipient of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service during the 1948-49 schoolyear. . . .
A prediction that “a politician may some day bribe an editor to berate him in print” was made recently by EDWARD FISCHER, assistant professor of Journalism at Notre Dame. Mr. Fischer, writing in a recent issue of “America,” national Catholic magazine, said that one of the foundations for his prediction is that the press has lost the confidence of the common man. He said that the press has slipped in its functions of informing and interpreting to concentrate on entertaining. . . .
The founder of the Family Rosary Crusade, REV. PATRICK PEYTON, C.S.C., was named president of the Catholic Broadcasters Association during their second annual convention at Notre Dame July 29-31. Father- Peyton, who also directs the “Family Theater” over the Mutual Broadcasting System, succeeds Monsignor Francis X. Sallawa, radio director for the arch-diocese of Boston, as president. . . .
According to PROF. DONALD ATT-WATER, of Blackfriars School, England, who was a visiting teacher at Notre Dame this summer, too little attention has been paid to the fate of Catholics of the Eastern Rite in publicity given to the recent cases of Archbishops Stepinac and Beran, and Cardinal Mindszenty. Professor Attwater said that Catholics of the Eastern Rite are “being cajoled and bludgeoned into repudiating unity with the Holy See and recognizing the Separated Orthodox Church.” . . .
Polio struck JOHN MILES, ’47, only a week before his scheduled wedding date. Miles, branch manager for the “South Bend Tribune” in St. Joseph, Mich., had been slated to marry a St. Joseph girl last Saturday, but on that day he lay in South Bend’s Memorial Hospital in an iron lung and was said to be in critical condition.
Dean McCarthy
27
St. Mary's
(Continued from Page 13) anyway — some of these girls are from Pittsburgh, too.
Oui- last bit of advice is this — most of those honey-coated lines have been
heard before. They’re old stuff. Don’t go in there with the idea that you’re God’s gift to women. You’re not. Like a Christmas tie, you can be exchanged. For all the kidding they’ve taken, those St. Mary’s girls are pretty swell. They must be, ’cause they’ve put up with the
Two things every college man should know!
This is a physics major. Always up 'n atom. Learned about falling bodies from Ellery Queen—doesn’t give a fig for Newton. Rides his cyclotron on fission trips.
likes of us for quite a while though we suspect novenas are being constantly offered that graduation will bring an end to their pest. Be yourselves and give the girls half a chance to get to know you as you are. Maybe that way you’ll be one of the lucky ones.
But here — about that “Regulation Q”: all of you — all 1300 of you — are cordially invited to attend these shindigs, or at least become acquainted with them. Those little gals over there know full well that the odds are stacked heavily in their favor, hence they play the percentages with much more certainty than any football coach could ever do. It isn’t really gambling with them. They know they’re going to win. With the ratio at almost 10 to 1, how can they miss?
By now you’re getting the idea that “Regulation Q” is a St. Mary’s edict — you’re wrong. “Regulation Q” is a Notre Dame creation, a “must.” It’s taken so much for granted that it doesn’t need to be printed. Just follow it and we’ll see youall Sunday.
“T” set down, one, two . . .
©
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry

126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
SLIDE RULES
This is the ”Manhattan” Burt. Sound investment in solid comfort. Soft roll, buttondown Collar—stays neat day and night. Sise-Fixt (average fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less). In white, stripes and solid colors.
DESK LAMPS
*1.79 UP
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. The Manhattan Shirt Co.
SCHOOL SUPPLIES BUSINESS SYSTEMS
126 S. MAIN
Where You Got The Pencil
28
The Scholastic
Conley Replaces Danis as RO Head
Captain Thomas F. Conley, Jr., USN, holder of the Navy Cross and the Silver Star for service in the Pacific during World War II, has taken command of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at the University of Notre Dame.
With the opening of the 1949-50 school year, Captain Conley succeeds Captain Anthony L. Danis, USN, as Commandant of the Notre Dame unit. Capt. Danis is now Commanding Officer of the Naval Recruiting Station in Norfolk, Va.
The new naval commandant, a native of Bridgeport, Conn., is the former Com-mander of the Fleet Training Group at Pearl Harbor. Most of his twenty year naval career has been spent aboard de-0 stroyers, and during the last war he participated in every major invasion in the Pacific Theatre. During one of his infrequent shore assignments, he earned a master’s degree in engineering at the University of California in 1939.
At the outbreak of World War II, Captain Conley was commander of the USS Barney. In December, 1942, he took command of the USS Ringgold, on which he served in the Pacific until September, 1944. From that time until he assumed his last post at Pearl Harbor he was Commander of Training Operations and Chief of Staff of the Training Command of the Pacific Fleet.
For his wartime duty, Captain Conley also received the Bronze Star and a commendation from the Commander of the Amphibious Forces of the Pacific Fleet.
The new leader of the training group at the University is married and has two children. His son, Thomas, 18, has just enrolled as a freshman at Notre Dame.
Welcome to Notre Dame and South Bend.
For all your Jewelry Gifts and Watch and Jewelry Repairing, visit
BLOCK BROS.'/<>«</<>></ 7 CORNER MICHIGAN AN? WASHINGTON
Need a gift for someone? Send a Victory March musical powder box. Priced from S&95.
Summer Sports
(Continued from Page 24) for the season. In the Central Collegiate tournament they finished fourth.
In track, a slightly-above-average team recorded a slightly-above-average season. Outstanding were speedsterhurdler Bill Fleming, and shotputter John Helwig.
In the Indiana State Meet, a strong Irish showing in almost every division 9 resulted in a 72%-point total, and an easy victory. Notre Dame took firsts in the mile (Kittell), the shot (Helwig), the 880 (Kenny), the two-mile (Jim Murphy), and the 220 low hurdles (Fleming).
The Central Collegiate at Marquette saw Fleming win the 120-yard high hurdles in 14.1, only a tenth of a second off the meet record. Sprinter Bob Smith took the 220, and John Helwig copped a second in the shot’put with a ^50’1” heave.
Sept. 23, 1949
“I'm sorry Mr. PhUbrik, but Johnny has opened up a neto world for me!”
You, too, can open up a new world of smoking-pleasure by lighting up a PHILIP MORRIS —the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any -other leading brand.
That’s why there’s No Cigarette HANGOVER —when you smoke Philip Morris! ^philip MORRIS

ATTENTION, ALL STUDENTS!
Get Your dictionary now at reduced rates.
	Old Price	Sale Price
Funk Wagnails			 $5.00	$4.00
American College		......	6.00	4.80
Winston’s		...	4.50	3.60
4
Offer only good in September
Engineers Notice
Obtain more accurate drawings with Vemco Instruments:
Reduced from: $22.50 to $19.95
MAIL ORDER ADDRESS:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
P.S. Brother Conan and his staff wish to thank all for their cooperation during the recent rush for this year’s volume hit—an all time peak.
30
9
The Scholastic
Music
’ • v..'-	'... ' ■
By JIM BRETT
Well, here we are with a fresh issue of the ole Scholastic and a lot of fresh faces roaming the campus and 9; vicinity. We’ve finally won the struggle against the book store line, and our present activity is aptly echoed on the local juke box by the Andrew Sisters’ leering rendition of Homework.
While spending a peaceful summer trying to mind my own business, Tommy Dorsey and his golden trombone blew into my hometown with a souped-up presentation of The Hucklebuck. Ac-Q cording to the Sentimental Gentleman _ of Swing, who sported a snappy crew-cut, be-bop is on its way out, and it is hoped that this doesn’t come as a blow to any Hoosier Hotshots in this locality.
For those who like tears in their tunes Vic Damone has dished up a soulful rendition of You’re Breaking My Heart in two languages. Art Mooney and his community sing crowd is now basking under Twenty-four Hours of Sunshine — the lucky boy, and if you’re Qi interested, Frankie Laine is currently sweating out a number called Georgia on My Mind. Tex Beneke has turned Blues in the Night into a march, very similar to his St. Louis Blues March of a few years back. And for those who have been worried about him, I guess Vaughn Monroe is still galloping through the sky with his Ghostriders.
If you’ve been looking for an old ^familiar face about the campus maze, look no further. Just hang on to those old disks from the bygone days of single-speed, wind-up gramaphones, for in no time they may be right back on tin pan alley’s first row of hit tunes. Old numbers like the Darktown Strutters’ Ball, Yes Sir That’s My Baby, Would You Like to Take a Walk? and Chattanooga Choo Choo are appearing on the musical scene again. Even Rudy Vallee, the tender tenor of two decades eago’. popped into the news by marrying a girl, who was a mere baby, gurgling happily, while the Vagabond Lover was crooning on his merry way.
While we’re talking about old favorites and familiar faces I ought to mention the musical film story of Marilyn Miller, Look for the Silver Lining, starring June Haver and Ray Bolger, and I might mention Dan Dailey and Ann Baxter in their tuneful performance in You’re My Everything. In s
Sept. 23, 1949
both these numbers Hollywood stretched the plot, as usual, a little too tightly ovei- the celluloid frame, but the musical revivals held both productions together nicely. Of course, since I started talking about musicals, I can’t forget Jolson Sings Again, which picks up where the Jolson Story left off. I won’t waste any of your time with quips about Parks-Jolson, Parks-Parks, or Jolson-Jolson, but maybe someday they’ll make a movie on the life story of Larry Parks, only then he’ll probably be too old to play the part.
Summer
(Continued from Page 15)
30, and 31. Guest speaker was Donald Attwater, British author and BBC broadcaster.
Something new in conferences came to the campus early in the summer. From June 27 until July 2, writers and would-be writers gathered at Notre Dame for a Writers Conference, consisting of three distinct workshops — poetry, short fiction, and the novel.
The purpose of the conference was to assemble interested writers in special sessions with writers and critics well-established in their respective fields.
Three members of the Notre Dame faculty — John T. Frederick, Richard Sullivan, and John Frederick Nims, all
MH5
Presents
The Linesman Ensemble
. . . by ARROW
Shirts.............$3.65
Ties...............$1.50
Handkerchiefs........65c
Men’s Shop . Main Floor -
of the English Department — combined their talents with guest writers Miss Jessamyn West and Henry Volkening, literary agent from New York city to give advice and talk over the different aspects of writing. Many writers, both young and old, attended the sessions, as well as many people interested in the mechanics of writing.
A total of 276 undergraduate and graduate degrees were awarded at the summer commencement exercises held August 12 in the Drill Hall. Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, Professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago delivered the commencement address. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., celebrated the Baccalaureate Mass Friday morning in Sacred Heart Church and Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., Assistant Head of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame gave the Baccalaureate Sermon.
More than 1500 Catholic laymen from all parts of the United States attended the 27th annual Laymen’s Retreat from August 18 to 21 on the campus. Three days of special spiritual exercises were conducted.
And in case anyone thought that was the end of conferences at Notre Dame, the Medicinal Chemistry Division of the American Chemical Society announced they would hold their national symposium at Notre Dame next summer.
from HARVARD
to HAWAII U
(you'll find ARROW in the best stores)
Yes sir! Near practically every college you'll find a campus shop or department store where you can buy Arrow shirts.
Arrow makes many of its products especially for college men and has advertised in college publications for ovet forty years.
When you need a few new shirts—shirts that will look well, fit well, and really wear and wash well-see youi Arrow dealer. $3.65 up.
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Write for your free copy of "The What, When and Wear of Men's Clothing." College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.. 10 E. 40th St., N. Y. 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS
w  —- —----->
HEADQUARTERS for your
ATHLETIC APPAREL
Gym Pants
Sweat Shirts Sweat Pants Gym and Basketball
Shoes
N. D. Jackets
N. D. Blankets
N. D. Sweat Shirts
N. D. Tee Shirts
N. D. Pennants
Golf Balls Golf Gloves
Golf Bags Full Golf Line
SONNEBORN’S SPORT SHOP
121 W. COLFAX AVE. So. Bend Phone 3-3702
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORT SHIRTS
It’s ADLER’S
for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
ROSE & KATZ for ARROW
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
32
The Scholastic
* Faculty Changes
(Continued from Page 9)
sor Edward T. Mug, of the Department of Electrical Engineering.
Replacing Dr. Mahin is Professor Paul A. Beck, M.S., as acting head of the Department of Metallurgy. Other changes in academic departments placed Very Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, Ph.D., F.R.S.C., as head of the Department of Philosophy. Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C., is now the head of the Department of Political Science, and Dr. Bernard Kohlbrenner the head of the Department of Education. Other changes in the College of Arts and Letters was the appointment of William J. Eisen as head of the Department of Speech, and Capt. Thomas F. Conley, Jr., U.S.N., as head of the Department of Naval Science. Dr. A. G. Strandhagen has been made the acting " head of the Department of Engineering Mechanics, and Guy H. McMichael head of the Department of Business Administration in the College of Commerce.
Faculty Appointments
The remaining appointments, other-than administrative, disclosed by Father Kenna are as follows:
In the College of Arts and Letters, assistant professorships to Marshall W. Baldwin, History; William M. Burke, 0L English; Edward J. Cronin, English;
Vincent P. DeSantis, History; John H. O’Neill, Education; and Lawrence F. Robinson, Education. Instructors, Jerome A. Fallon, Speech; John P. Fandel, Jr., English; John J. Glanville, Philosophy; William J. Grupp, Modern Languages; Rev. Phillip L. Hanley, O.P., Religion; Charles F. McGinnis, English; Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., Religion; Matthew R. O’Rourke, English; Ray-mond J. Runkle, Physical Education, and Richard L. Kilmer, History.
In the College of Science, assistant professorships to Murlin T. Howerton, Chemical Engineering; Robert L. Live-zey, Biology; Arthur W. Phillips, Bacteriology; Bernard S. Lement, Metallurgy; and Edward W. Sybil, Jr., Biology. Instructors, Vincent P. Goddard, Aeronautical Engineering; John F. Marshall, Physics; Robert F. Chipak, Mechanical Engineering; John W. Riner, Mathema-tics; and James C. Smith, Jr., Mathe-matics.
In the College of Commerce, as assistant professor, William G. Philp, Business Administration; and as instructors, Jack D. Alexander, Business Administra- -tion; and Edward C. Blakely, Jr. Accounting.
Also added to the faculty are Robert Riordan, former vice-consul in Angola and New Zealand, and Otto Seeler, architect, formerly resident in Germany.
9)Sept. 23, 1949
“The Men’s Cbr/w”
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
KUPPENHEIMER
BOTANY "500" CLIPPER CRAFT SUITS & TOPCOATS ALLIGATOR RAIN WEAR STETSON & LEE HATS ARROW SHIRTS FLORSHEIM & ROBLEE SHOES
& Katz
I V FOE MEN AND ■ ^.YOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
For Appointment	5 Barbers
Phone 3-0678	Manicurist
CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5 -
33
Roughly Speaking
by Ken Zhoren
Intro
For the past few years this space has been occupied by several different writers who, peculiarly enough, had one special journalistic trait in common. Their work was always interesting but their vitriolic, Pegleristic style permeated every line. They carried a chip (generally the size of a two by four) on their respective shoulders and weren’t particularly shy about keeping it a secret. We mention this by way of introducing this column for the coming year.
If any of these past column partisans still exist we forewarn them to look elsewhere for such literary acid. Although we’re no male pollyanna looking through rose-colored glasses at any Utopia (for we know, as well as the next person, that ND and the conditions that prevail here are not perfect), we are emphatically not going to dig for trouble. Unless, of course, it rears its head to such proportions to make silence a farce.
We have every hope of making this column as interesting and as readable as its predecessors but minus the scathing and scornful invective. It is going to be a potpourri of everything. Any criticisms, both pro and con, will be accepted; some with cordiality, others without. That covers just about everything, so out with the palaver and in with the column. — 11	I —
Another Year
One complete week has slipped by since the first class began. By this time everyone’s hand is about back to normal after the terrific pummeling it underwent in greeting buddies. The “hello” blahs (and it generally was a nondescript sound instead of a Christian name), “how are yous,” “when did you get ins,” and the “have a good summers” have all been stored away until after the Christmas holidays. We had cause to heave a great sigh of relief when one friend answered the summer question by saying, “Nah, I had an awful time.” The statement’s ingenuity, alone, was enough for us to regain faith.
Just a Tip	•
For those who are going on the student trip to New York for the North Carolina game and who are planning to see a legitimate show on Saturday
night, Nov. 12, we suggest that you write in for your tickets immediately. The summer lull is over and tickets are once more hard to get. A few of the more worthwhile shows include: W/iere’s Charley?, Lend an Ear, Kiss Me Kate, Mr. Roberts, Death of a Salesman, Detective Story, and South Pacific. Unless you have a contact you’d best pass by the last mentioned show. The theatre page of the New York Times will give you complete data in regard to prices and addresses. But remember — write now!
Please, Not Again
Speaking of stage shows brings up the matter of the annual spring musical here at Notre Dame. Last year the greatly anticipated production was passed up because of failure to find a good book and lack of time. These were the excuses the University Theater gave. The year has just begun so let’s hope the powers that be get to work immediately in presenting to the student body one of the main attractions of the spring semester.
Weekly Concert
For all freshmen, and perhaps for some of the oldtimers who have never bothered to wait, we recommend the half-hour after Sunday night’s Benediction for a period of some of the most beautiful organ music you’d ever want to hear. Don Krebbs, a junior, did a wonderful job last year and is playing again this year. His rendition of The Ave Maria can’t be beat.
Campus Sights
Bill Flynn, Jerry Begley, and Ray Espenan, three-musketeering it to chow, bellowing Three Blind Mice on the way . . . the mile long snake-line waiting to get into the bookstore annex . . . when will they devise a system to facilitate the emergency conditions that arise at the beginning of every semester? . . . freshmen, surreptitiously gawking at the varsity, remindful of the way everyone else probably responded when they were newcomers.
Bows and Boos
A mighty hand of applause to the Blue Circle and the aid given by the YCS for doing such a great job in welcoming the Class of ’53.
New Soft Drink Machines Get High Student Praise
Among the Fall innovations at Notre Dame which rate top billing in the students’ favorable comment department are the ten recently installed soft drink machines. Placed strategically over the campus, they are a marked improvement over the old dispensers. The machines, a product of the Super Vend Company of Dallas, Texas, offer a choice of three carbonated drinks, CocaCola, Hire’s Root Beer and Dr. Pepper. The University intends to try several beverages until the best combination according to student sales is found. The mechanical vendors will take nickels, dimes and quarters, and give correct change, eliminating the scrouging for enough nickels to satisfy a parched throat.
ft
Thirteen candy machines also have been installed and the candy will be rotated for variety. The soft-drink dispensers and the candy machines have been installed in the Main Building, the Chemistry building, the Law Building, and the following halls: Alumni, Dillon, Breen-Phillips, Farley, Cavanaugh, Zahm and Morrissey. Lyons, Sorin and Walsh Halls have also installed candy machines.
Art Department Presents Annual Student Work Show
The Art department, located on the fourth floor of the Main Building, is now presenting its annual student art show. The exhibit began last June and will continue until November.
The work on display was done largely by the art students of last semester. They devoted their efforts to different types of work—drawings in black and white, and color painting in pastels, oils and water colors. There are studies from life incorporating human figures in various media and techniques. Commercial art in black and white and color also has its place.
Featured in the art show are the thesis paintings of the seniors of last June. A prize, the Jacques medal, was awarded for the outstanding thesis^ painting. The recipient was Charles O’Brien of Pittsburgh, Pa. His work was an oil painting, a portrait of his wife.
In addition, there are on exhibit the paintings of former students. These works serve as an inspiration to the present art students and are deserving of serious attention from the students of the University.
34
The Scholastic^)
Nolte PiMfadiMA,
SCHOLASTIC SPECIALS
Three Giant Issues for Just $1
Three big special issues are planned for 1949-50. In December comes the annual Notre Dame Football Issue, bigger and better than ever. In the Spring we publish the Notre Dame Basketball Issue. At the end of the school year comes the Notre Dame Review, a summary of all events, scholastic and athletic. Single copies are 50 cents but if you order all three now you can get them for only one dollar. Orders must be in as soon as possible. Order this special three issue bargain for your family and friends, tell the folks back home to order too.
NOTRE DAME. 100 YEARS
Father Hope’s giant volume is the one definitive story of the real Notre Dame. Handsomely bound, the book belongs on every Notre Dame man’s shelf and it makes an ideal Christmas present for any friend of Notre Dame.
THE JUGGLER
Now Just 75 cents a year
Here’s Notre Dame’s literary magazine at a price everyone can afford. Last year it sold for $2 a year. This year we’ve cut the price to just 75 cents a year although the magazine will be just as big as ever. You get the fall, winter and spring issues for this bargain price. Get your order in immediately.
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS
Here’s the class publication of the University of Notre Dame. Walter Lippman, the internationally famous columnist, says it has no superiors in its field. “Time Magazine” says it is one of the best known university publications in the country. Serious students should subscribe to this quarterly and it makes an ideal gift for the folks back home.
Send Your Orders Today To:
PUBLICATIONS, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind
Sept. 23, 1949
35
Printed at AVE MARM PRESS