?W
‘j-
is
„ "*	“ “s " v «■
scholastic a. ' »> C S' * <^’'.>~-“'jj-V ’•    <■ ••■• -a„,a-„ ...., November 18, -1977

w
■AW


^»’
^feW®sWRf®
?i r ? -	»>	-





iiiiiii^


oww b «</ WWSiS

jpiiPW
gg^friWlMMiM
'I r-Su* 14^
V)
on®
iOSsilK^^

IBOBiBlBSS

«8t

■5&S»r%w\£/£'&*
«-^HSSstew®«
. - -k * f**

ITS A
[MATTER OF... ,
We feature savory Prime Rib as our specialty. Your choice of three.generous cuts is served complete with all the trimmings. Or if you're really hungry, you can enjoy prime rib in combination with a seafood selection. Create your own fresh crisp salad from our bountiful salad bar plus hot bread and butter. You may choose from baked potato or long grain and wild rice. Our unique atmosphere and friendly service combine to make your prime rib dinner taste like you’ve never eaten before. Yes, with us it is a matter of Prime Rib.
<<1.1969
52885 U.S. 31 North
North of Cleveland Road &. U.S. 31
South Bend, 272-5478

scholastic
Vol. 119, No. 5, November 18, 1977 Notre Dame, Indiana
CREDITS
Illustrations: Sue Hart 5, 6 / Sharon Simon 17,18,19.
Photographs: Tom Everman 3, 4, 7, 13, 15, 24, 25 / Jon O'Sullivan 14 / Tony Bottini 22, 23 / Maureen Sajbel 26, 27 / Tim Krause 29.
Cover: Tom Everman.
FEATURES
4	What Price Success?	Lisa Michels
10	Committee with a Progressive Commitment	Jim Jordan
12	Somewhere a Place for Us	Julie Runkle
14	Student Apprentices	Jon O'Sullivan
17	Parties I'd Like to Attend	Elizabeth Christman
22	He Doesn't Look Like a Monk ...	Karen Caruso
24	Digger's Crew Sets High Hoops	Ray O'Brien
26	Responsible Freedom	Maureen Sajbel
28	The Unsung Athletes at Notre Dame	Ron Hunter
REGULARS
7 Perspective: Where Do We Stand?	Rev. Dave Schlaver
20 Gallery	Bill Ehmann, Tom Everman
30 Book Review	Jim Romanelli
Editor
Kathleen McElroy
Managing Editors
Mark J. Ondash . Karen Caruso
Art Director
Sharon Simon
Production Manager
Julie Runkle News Editor Lisa Michels Culture Editors J. P. Morrissey Maureen .Walsh
Sports Editor Ray O'Brien Copy Editor Pete Smith
Staff
Chuck Sweeney, Clare Leary, Dave Beno, Leo J. Mulcahey, Teri Thompson, Barb Frey, Cole Finegan, Steve Fadul, Dan Lombardi, Mary DeRoche, Theresa Rebeck, John Delaney, Fran Gilbert, Rhonda Kornfeld, Sue Hart, Peggy McGuire, Liz Donovan, Rick LaBelle, W. Ben Elliot, Tom Westphal, Betsy Birch, Mary Ann Pelczar, John Stavinoha, Susan Spilman, Bridget Berry, Kathy Leaman,' James Jordan, Therese Phillips, Gabrielle Pentz, Bill Ehmann, Mary Jo Murphy, Mike Murray, Greg G. Gregory.
Hall Representatives: Kim Gumz, Jim Moran, Greg Skranzds, Sheila Gavan, Wendy Fencl, Paul Peralta, Joe Lauch, Ed Rodgers, Brian Glade, Don Orban, Dave Carrier, Jim Jordan, Paul Coppola, Tom Browne, Russ O'Brien, Ruth Hohl, Andy Smith, Brian Donnelly.
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic - and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University, of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body.
Layout Editor
Maureen Kelly
Photography Editor
Tom Everman
Business Manager
Gary Garrabrant
Advertising Manager
Lee Hendricks
Advisory Board
Ronald Weber, Paul Wieber, James Cook, Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C., Richard Conklin, Elizabeth Christman.
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic.
copyright © 1977 Scholastic I all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission.
In comparison to previous years, an increasing number of Notre Dame students enroll in the business college. More and more Notre Dame
Should its top priority be to employ seniors find employment. Fewer and or to educate? Or is it possible to
fewer - seniors attend graduate school. Employed Notre Dame students earn, more and more money. In comparison to the national average of college students, Notre Dame students find more jobs, earn more money, and are accepted by more graduate schools.
With observations such as these, Notre Dame writes its success story. As jobs have been found and graduate schools have been entered, goals have been reached. Yet these goals are as varied as the students. Some students enter their freshman year with one specific goal in mind— to be accepted into medical school or to be offered a job with a “big
eight’’--- accounting-' firm—while' others desire nothing more than a liberal education.
by Lisa Michels
attainment cannot actually be determined. Which course," then, should the University pursue?
seek a median of the two?
The preprofessional or premedical major has one clearly defined objective: to be accepted into medical school. When Rev. Joseph L. Walter, C.S.C., Chairman of Preprofessional Studies at Notre Dame, was asked if he envisioned the success of a preprofessional student’s education as acceptance into medical school, he replied, “Of course. Why, else is he here, but to get into medical school? The preprofessional student is extremely goal-oriented, and if he gets into medical school he has fulfilled this goal.” Father Walter’s program has been successful in ensuring the
cepted. This represents a success rate of 72% as compared to a national acceptance average of 33 %. The competition among premedical students remains fierce, yet according, to Father Walter, “The number of medical school applications is no longer increasing buthas plateaued off. It is just as difficult to be ac-. cepted into medical school this year as it was last year, but in. the future the number of applications will de-: crease.”
The ratio of science preprofessionals accepted into medical school to Arts and Letters preprofessionals accepted is approximately five to one. To attain a science degree the, preprofessional student must take 124 credit hours, 66 of which must be in science. This is an intense work load which serves to “weed out” many who would not have made it into medical school. . For this reason, many who entered freshman year as preprofessional intents have switched to other majors by senior year. In 1977 there were 131 graduating seniors in this major whereas 169 members of this class had listed science-preprofes-sional as their intent in freshman year. Walter, however, insists that it is "presumptuous to draw an attrition rate, between classes.”1 It provides a “false statistic since sb many freshmen don’t really know what
, Recently, there has been a trend towards' , professionalism both at NotreDame and across the country. Students are more goal-oriented. They want to be employed when they graduate from college. For most, the means to this end is a bachelor degree in business or engineering. Success will be determined by * immediate employment even if a liberal education has to be sacrificed?' The student who desires ' solely to Ee educated, regardless of future employment, is becoming a rarity in today’s colleges.
Which of these students should Notre Dame accommodate? Certainly ; the, University, will; appear more ? successful if its graduates have found . jobs1 since employment is a visible ; objective, easily translated into a concrete statistic. A liberal education, on the other hand, cannot be measured or categorized just as its
4
success , of. its students. .This past they want.but decide..to try to beyear 148 of the 204 graduates who . come doctors since they liked science applied to medical schools were ac- in high school.”
Scholastic

The breadth- of . a preprofessional student’s education depends, for ■ a ? large part, on the individual student. ' With 66 credits of science required; the student is left with' 58 “elective” credits.: These “electives,” however, ’ are quickly, consumed by University-requirements - and’ other required » < - preprofessional-related courses. Medical schools also exert great pressure on the student- to take: extra science courses.':' While Walter believes that 66 credits of science is more than adequate and provides an intense work load, he also admits - that “given the choice between two equally qualified students,’medical schools will choose the students with more science courses’ every time.”' With the further. pressure of earning high
grades in all courses, , the prepro-fessiona.1 student is often s forced- to be more selective in choosing courses than a truly liberal education would warrant ’■" ■,	;	..
The College of Engineering has much in common with the Preprofessional Studies Program. It, too, is extremely goal-oriented and successful at placing its students in their desired positions/ -With the recent upsurge in available1 engineering jobs, more graduates are finding employment and less are at-, tending graduate school. Of the 212 1977 - engineering graduates, 175 responded to a Notre Dame survey; This survey shows that only 23 of the bachelor degree recipients went on to graduate school, which; represents 19% of those who responded to the survey. In 1975 30% attended graduate'schools; This decrease in graduate school attendance is understandable when one ’ realizes the salaries being offered to engineering graduates. Of those students who had been offered' jobs; as of May last year the average starting salary was $14,466, over $1,000 more than
November 18,1977
the average • beginning salary - for all -bachelor ’degree recipients at Notre Dame. •- o? -'c/
• • r	... ••	.. .....,
^Although most engineering .students are aiming -towards one de-, termined .goal, to .be .an engineer, other allied fields are open to. them. According . to . the Assistant Dean of Engineering,. Professor. Ettore Peretti, “Anengineering education does not fqrcejOne into just one job, but rather, many jobs are - available. Some are directly related to the student’s j education ; and some; merely border, on the education field.’’ While the career choices for engineers may be , adaptable, the. curriculum . for engineering students is not. Peretti says, “The program , is not flexible. Hie courses,,to be taken, are. specifically. spelled.out, by the College of Engineering. The ..facultyknows more ,a.bout .which courses the student should take than .the student knows. Therefore, the, choice is not left open to the student. Furthermore, there is a national accrediting agency which established strict requirements with which the' Univer-, sity must comply if it wishes' to be accredited.” Of. the, various engineering majors, chemical engineering has the; least electives with six. If an engineering;studeht wishes to receive a . more liberal education he does have the option of a five-year program as long as the time and money are available. ,, ,
■; In ; the: 1977 summer survey of erigiiieering students, 65 of those who responded were - uncommitted; Of these 65, 49 were in architecture. Architecture students -all-over the country' are -notorious for not finding jobs - ’ in architecture.; - - Historically, 60; to 65% ' go into architecture arid --many work in construction of urban planning; According to the chairman : of the’ Architecture' Program: at Notre Dame; Professor Ambrose Richardson, ‘‘One huridred percent of the architecture students ' intend5 to be ■'architects, but many decide to go into other related, fields iff their fourth--year of study/ The reason : for this ■ is not disenchant-irient,vbut- rather new insight-into othdr ’ available --areas. The : ^Notre Dafne Architecture Program has- a much lower attrition rate than other schools :because■ its students are- se-lected'r'carefully ^ a^ are highly motivated.” '
The placement process' for architecture graduates is ‘ particularly difficult because architecture firms	;
do not interview on campus and do	j
not recruit extensively. The student must' seek employment on an - individual basis. The Notre Dame grad-	J
uate, however, has the advantage of	'
a broad education;; A good balance	';
is L achieved ' among courses : of a ’ general, creative; ■ and technical < nature. Architecture is a manda- i tory five-year program which allows : for a iriore diverse curriculum,' but even more importantly; allows for a year spent abroad in Rome; After these five years the architecture student has received much more than a general education of ' problem solving? Richardson - says, - “The study of architecture is a way of life. 1 Its students are: highly moti-	j
vated and possess an unusual spirit.	j
They are not driven by a monetary ;; incentive, but rather they are ere-	•
ative people who desire to improve i the environment. No matter what field they pursue'-they do: not lose their interest in architecture.”
In contrast to-architecture- students, ■ graduates ' with ’ - accounting majors are heavily recruited. This is especially true at Notre Dame, the “accounting recruiter’s dream," ’for two reasons. First of all, accounting firms know of the high quality of	{
Notre Dame'graduates as a result	’
of both' previous employment - experience' and outstanding results' on the;; Certified .’Public ■ Accounting Exam (in 1976, out of 89 taking the test, 10. passed air 4?paints and’50 passed :at least - two). : Secondly;
Notre Dame is a national school, and, thus, •' accbuntirig firms can economically recruit for their offices all over the country, t With all these factors1 combined,: Notre Dame-accounting -graduates find good employment. As early as May of 1977,
5
almost half of last year’s seniors (105) were employed with a mean starting salary of $13,405. Undoubtedly, many more had been hired by the end of the summer. Professor Robert Williamson, chairman of Accountancy, affirms the success of his program. He observes that nearly half of the seniors in recent years have been hired by Certified Public Accounting (CPA) firms, 10 per cent have gone to graduate school, and most of the remainder have worked in private accounting. Williamson adds, “Practically all graduates do get a job after graduation although it may not be the job.”
Accounting, like engineering, architecture and preprofessional studies, has a curriculum which emphasizes professionalism and has a goal of employment in the learned profession. All business majors are required to take at least 40 per cent of their credit hours outside the business college. Thus, the accounting student is given some leeway in determining the direction of his education.
The Notre Dame student desir-’ ing a pre-legal education has no requirements as such. He is only restricted by the requirements of the College of Arts and Letters and his chosen major. The law profession is unusual in that it requires no undergraduate professional training and, in fact, overwhelmingly prefers a broad liberal arts education to a specialized education. All the training necessary for a legal profession can be received in the three years of law school. The Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Robert J. Waddick, says of' law schools’ preferences, “Law schools don’t want a pre-law major. They want students to major in whatever the students want. They care more about what courses students choose
6
around their major. Undergraduates should receive as broad an education as possible to form a base of knowledge for law school.”
Therefore, there is no “magic major” for law school intents. Traditionally at Notre Dame, more government majors are accepted into law school than any other major, but this is only because government is the largest Arts and Letters major and, thus, produces the most applicants. Notre Dame graduates are generally very successful with acceptance into law school. As early as May 1, 1977, 138 of the 227 (61%) applicants had been accepted. The average Law School Admission Test (LSAT) score of Notre Dame students is 590 as opposed to the national average of 532. According to Dean Waddick, “Any Notre Dame graduate with a 2.5 Grade Point Average and a score of 500 or better on the LSAT will be accepted into an approved law school.”
Within the past decade the number of law school applicants had been on a steady increase until two years ago when the number leveled off. Dean Waddick does not believe, however, that law school is a catchall for Arts and Letters majors who do not know what else to do after graduation. Rather, he believes that the large number of applicants is a result of a “herd instinct.” He says, “Many students will take the LSAT because everyone else is taking it. Yet a much smaller number will follow this up by actually applying to law school.”
Like most Arts and Letters majors, psychology is not intended to actually prepare the student for a specific career. The Assistant Chairman of the Psychology Department, Professor Donald Kline, admits that “Most psychology majors do not use their major. Their chosen career usually does not involve a direct application of their education. In order to practice psychology a student must go on to graduate school. Many students use a psychology major to go on to some unrelated graduate professional school or simply use the major to attain a general Bachelor of Arts Degree.”
A major in psychology provides a stepping-stone for a number of careers and graduate schools. Although a student will not be as
secure in the job market as an accounting or engineering major, he will, nonetheless, be able to receive a liberal arts education and be able to procure some type of employment, with or without the aid of graduate school. The only jobs available which require a direct application of psychology, but not a graduate degree, are those of a social nature such as working in a halfway, house. Such positions, however, are extremely limiting. Kline comments, “These jobs are closed avenues and force the worker into,a subservient role. Not many are willing to live with these diminished horizons.” For the student who decides to attend graduate school, career prospects are much more promising. For the undergraduate with a research position in the psychology department, there is an excellent chance of acceptance into graduate school. Last year 15 of 26 applicants were accepted by spring, yet this figure does not reflect whether the student was accepted into his first choice graduate school. :
From this sampling of majors in all four colleges of the University, it is obvious that Notre Dame is successful in the placement of its graduates. A student’s final placement, however, may not be indicative of his original goal. After four years, he may have found that he was not capable of attaining his goal or that, in the end, he did not actually desire to attain it.
Undoubtedly, all students enter college with the three goals of obtaining a job, security, and an education, though each student places a different degree of emphasis on these goals. Dependent on this emphasis is the choice between an education of liberal arts and one of professionalism.
Scholastic
Perspective
Where Do We Stand?
by Rev. Dave Schlaver
Notre Dame has taken much legitimate pride in the success of her graduates in attaining professional school admissions, but I would propose that some of this pride has been achieved at the expense of the education that the students should receive here. The professional schools look with great respect on Notre Dame graduates, but they must always allow us the right and responsibility of determining our own flexible curriculum rather than specifically preparing our students to enter their institutions. The same
holds true for career preparation for accounting and engineering. I venture to say that we will still produce graduates who will attain places in all of the professional schools and occupations even if we relax the burdens upon them for direct preparation.
We have all seen, participated in, and to some extent suffered from the stifling competitive atmosphere on the campus among preprofessional students of all types. One cannot help but question whether or not they are fully benefiting from the Notre Dame liberal education. Requirements or “suggested courses” have gone up in the major concentration areas and have declined in the liberal arts area. Many students graduate with a minimum of free electives unrelated to. their major, and for all of them this is the point of no return.
There is no better opportunity than a “liberal” education to grow and broaden in our basic knowledge about life and human wisdom. To spend four short years in preprofessional or professional training, to the exclusion of areas that should interest us most, and could shed light on a future undreamed-of option for graduate study or work, can only appear as folly later in life. Then the time is no longer available and the resources are far away. Ask present doctors and lawyers if this is not true. -
Whither the university in this situation? We have long taken pride in the apparent fact that Notre
Dame does make a difference in our students lives, both while here and in later life. We who work here can see noticeable growth during the four years a student is with us. This growth is evident in many ways—. certainly intellectually, most often physically, more often than not morally and spiritually, and hopefully in self-awareness, self-confidence and sensitivity toward others. Much of it we rightly attribute to the fact that we “care” about students in all aspects of their lives. Moreover, we can document the continued effect of the impact in the lives of our alumni.
We frequently attribute our success to the dedication of the faculty and to our quality of “residential-ity.” We have a faculty who by and large love students'and take time with them beyond the call of duty. We take pride in our dormitory system and the interaction which it pro-; vides. But Notre Dame has greatly diversified in student composition and orientation, and it is crucial that we take time to re-evaluate “the way it has always been done,” even though that "way” appears to be quite successful. To train or to educate?
Our ever-quotable President, Father Hesburgh, once said that “Education is probably the one thing that people are willing to get less of than they pay for.” This statement is as good as any to set the tone for a discussion on one of the major dilemmas facing higher education at present.
November 18, 1977
The 'dilemma'is' hardly a new’one, “ and the dichotomy between training and education is hardly the only one in life.* But like most dichotomies; it~ ‘ is false: business vs. labor, the President vs. the Congress, liberal vs. conservative, the government vs. everything. In education we are faced with other time-worn dilemmas, such as educating the mind vs. the heart, theory vs. practice, and liberal arts vs. everything else. Sometimes it is just plain necessary to put them down in black and white (another one?) to see how unreal they really are and to understand how necessary . it is to move beyond simplistic opposing viewpoints. If we are not getting as much education as we pay for, then it would seem that we really.do not know the value of education. As an early ' 20th-century president .of . Harvard , once said: “The reason , why. Harvard has so much' knowledge, js that ■ the. freshmen bring, in so much and. the seniors take away so little.”' .' . . , J
The massive accumulation"of learning and 'wisdom^ libraries and books,.’.laboratories’,and1 technical facilities which fill the once-spacious fields, of ; the American . college cam-, pus 'point to the. fact that, there is something to be gainedthrough education if only we can find , the way lb benefit from it., . .
; . The long-standing debate among educators.^ over 7 the import of a liberal education will probably never besolved.. In :the. course, of the debate, . much' liberal ' education' has given ", way. , to specialization, skill gaining, ' and, ?vocationally :But need there be’a dichotomy between liberal’ education "and,training, both of which, happen .tdlyarying degrees in all. institutions' of higher education?.'.,' .' ,'j	’7.’7’-,
.Educators, like.pdliticians, run the risk of ending up'pn one of.the.hqrris of ..the dilemma. In jour 'rush to satisfy, the growing .vocational and
"IF WE ARE NOT GETTING AS MUCH EDUCATION AS WE PAY FOR/THEN IT
WOULD SEEM THAT ", WE REALLY DO NOT
KNOW THE VALUE OF AN EDUCATION."
career concerns of our traditional students, have we in fact been losing the Jbroad > general approach; ? which has characterized:the, best of universities ?. In pur. love for, students have we sbeen, too , selective,loving : only those who “qualify” according.to our elitist- standards?. In-our efforts, to build , a. “‘community.,.of; ,scholars” have,we forgotten that:students, too; come in all sizes and shapes, interests and backgrounds, and all ages?.; j,:. - At Notre Dame we have seen a dramatic shift,.in ■ enrollments,particularly; between--Arts ..and Letters and Business Administration.; Since 1971, Business has; grown - from just under .1000 students; to,,more than 1500; while Arts and Letters has declined from 2250 to 1700;,The shift is certainly. ..frightening .and : probably lamentable in, a university where the liberal arts have always been held in high esteem.	j
- When we. ask. “why?” the most evidentreason seems ■ to, be the; tremendous: fluctuation in the job market during this decade. The Arts and Letters .student is .faced f with the prospect, of graduating four., years hence with no saleable skills and thus no job—or so he thinks. ;We could perhaps say that here he is victim less of “training” inadequacies in
'“liberal'arts, than of"the'mythology surrounding^,the’ job market. He and we seem to forget that the most • “saleable” skills of air are-personal ones—the ability to communicate, self-confidence, creativity, and adaptability—because they" transcend a particular job. But, not being told this, his natural and logical response —and the enrollment statistics bear this out—may be to get all the “training” he can during these four years.
The “professions” which now seem to be. the - goal of nearly all who . enter Notre Dame, have further per. petrated the myth that “preprofessional training” is necessary for successful graduate work. Students fear that they will never be able to get into professional schools, let alone succeed in future life as professionals, without this, .future lawyers thus search in,vain—thankfully,.for, the. most part—for , a. clear-cut; prelaw .program. Future managers feel thatjtheonly, route fntp’managemeht is by a heavy dose of business pn;the undergraduate level. Future accountants, looking toward the “Big Eight,’’ are ; willing^, to" take, eyery^possible elective .in. the’ accounting., area—as if .they,won’t, have time'tq ,learn .on the. jobT-so"; that ’ they, will • be ■ more marketable.when they, dress upjfor their " interviews. ’ Most7,discouraging of all, future, physicians take a total program of preprofessional studies to successfully prepare them to enter medical schools. . i; T 7
The saddest thing about this is that no one seems to realize—or no one is saying—that Notre Dame has always turned out successful professionals throughout its history; and there is no reason to believe that this “sellout” to preprofessionalism is necessary to assure a continuance of this tradition; . I; - T ■ ' ;
In this short essay, I cannot go into the specifics of each professional area and the elaborate requirements.
8
7TTL ,8.i Scholastic
But I do know that the dichotomy between liberal arts and professional studies is a recent and disastrous one which needs pricking. And students need to knqw sabqut it, because in many ways? they; are' being sold a bill;! of! goods.; j Back'• in j 1929;!when j Har-; i vafd; established its business school’,' Alfred North Whitehead, noted philosophy professor, said: “The antithesis between a technical and a liberal education is fallacious. There cari be no; adequate technical education which is not liberal, and no liberal' education" which“is 'hot “ tech-" ~ nical: s - that is, jr.no J education ? which do es, not impart both . technique and intellectual-vision.”
r<;If there is no. inherent conflict, between'- a . liberal - education:: and? some vocational ■ training? ? orvpreparation, thenwhither ?the ;studentr.,in.i.this atmosphere of “presumed”'^conflict? Here, I- will only-, discuss - the student who, intends • to!go into?.business and/ or management, the area with which I? am. becoming i most familiar. All graduate schools/.of ; business (gen-. erally MBA ■ programs) . ostensibly want? to prepare.students for.respon-; sible careers as managers,, thus,- logi-? cally,>one does, not also have-to be ‘/pre”,£prepared. for; such;, a > career.; Most MBA . programs /are -actively searching; out liberal? arts graduates, engineers.'? and. (-.scientists, •, offering . them a > “crash course”, in business and? the broad business' training necessary for careers; which i couple management with their-own- back-grOUnd.??
qFor. abfreshman <who? anticipates attending a: professional-program in business in -the? future/ there is little reason .for?him; to Igivecupca broad liberal: education’:injthe present 'in order to ‘.‘prepare” fori what really should come later.viff, however, qhe has i a;. clearf special > interest-.and . is anxious; to : “get< going!’;fwith, it,-or sees'! four years’ im college; as cal big enough hurdle,?or abhors the idea of spending!-more ;years in - graduate school, then he<is. a; likely’. candidate for-an undergraduate-degree inione of • the - functional! areas; of business. He will without a doubt need certain skills:?dn?iorder?Ato -attain an entrylevel position.in,business./
d-But a-student with a! solid liberal education’in areas that both interest him and’ challenge him, and a good acadeinic record including some studies in the quantitative area, will
November 18, 1977
have no trouble getting into a good MBA program. I would venture to say that other professional areas also look with favor upon such a student because of his .broad edu-f ’’cation.	fy I o
There is no question ;that he must-5 • in' some instances have' • ‘prerequisites.” Someone interested in a career in medicine cannot avoid taking a certain amount of natural sciences. A prospective law school applicant can certainly benefit from developing his personal skills of writ-■deh'ari^
spective;theologian should have some background??, in < history? and - philosophy. Someone who enters a gradu-ate.- school < of ebusiness - with < the, intention nof qconcentratinghin rfinter-nationabbusiness,.; but- has taken ;no language. courses? and studied little history-?or 'political’science may be able to-find .a.niche in,business; but is a bit behind in preparing £or.international ^business. q? The,/dilettante may have a hard time.convincinga professional school that his? “liberal” education has, been a preparation for anything.,; but this,. seems.. ? hardly. ? a problem for. most; of. our. students; ?
2 In ? many; ways ; the ? brunt of: ?the burden is on the student. . If the University? s can? lighten? this? burden? in any,wayjby supporting the-“liberal" education? of; her?.students ?as at least an equally valid preparation? for. pro-, fessional study;, then?;it? must do?so. To.dojless;is ? a-tragic {mistake, both for-the student, and for; the integrity of. the .institution.
.. . Education ?is . more ? than- buildings and ..research ^institutes, - more -than balanced ■ budgets and huge endow-ments,,?-more: even than . chairs, or faculty; - “status’.’ or . administrative “efficiency.” It is:essentially;a'ques of .the .human? spirit, a joint : venture of young and old, working, together to -.find answers - to ,the -penetrating human,-.questions,, and to penetrate, with questioning, the “answers”, we think we have.
|nr. n p1
1 " "INSTEAD OF ' NARROWING OUR FOCUS TOWARDS
A PARTICULAR JOB/ WE SHOULD BE LEARNING
HOW TO LEARN." i i r ■■ v. 'i "f ■; .>•	’ c ■ ;■'(
.. . <-r	I-.?,— _• -
.‘tvruib'n chi: :s.I
‘.'.zC.'-zubJi::; Ji. i b ••-.7?:.;	, *•	■J» ■■
: We want our university’to be a place’of “education” in the broadest sense arid an1 inextricable part of this is a certain amount of preparation, training, career orientation—call it what you will. But in the process of focusing on career goals, we should also be opening new career options to every individual. Instead of narrowing our focus towards a particular job, we should be learning how to learn. The essence of a liberal education is just that: learning how to learn on the job.
I do not purport to have answers to these questions, but the questions themselves are ultimately most important. Higher education has indeed dropped out of its ivory tower. Hopefully it will soon recognize that on earth, all around, are people living and longing to learn. When we at Notre Dame feel these vibrations, we will in fact rediscover our best traditions and be ready for an illustrious future.
Father Dave Schlaver is Assistant to the Dean of the College of Business Administration and Chairman of the MBA Admissions Committee. He is also a Ph.D. Candidate in Higher Education from the University of Michigan.
- 9
by Jim Jordan
Too often, the curricula of many colleges have been crippled by specialization. And specialization is not only true of the scientific disciplines, but also of the liberal disciplines. It is an understandable aberration. Knowledge today is surfacing at such a rapid pace that people naturally want to limit their scope of study. In this manner, they can keep abreast of most of the information in their area of study. A history major in many colleges, for example, can choose nothing except history courses, but one wonders how legitimate it is for a faculty to confer a Bachelor of Arts degree. Why not a Bachelor of History degree?
The diversity of a liberal education has most at stake when one considers the matter of specialization. To safeguard in a fundamental way the diversity of a liberal education is precisely the work of Notre Dame’s Committee on Academic Progress (C.A.P.). The Committee, which includes 23 professors from the College of Arts and Letters, stresses the need for diversity in a liberal education. The professors guide those chosen students who, they believe, can benefit from advice. Under the mass of requirements which years ago determined the College’s curriculum,'the Committee was formed to advise a group of seriously minded students about what particular courses they might choose; courses which would challenge them and would fulfill requirements.
But according to the current chairman of the Committee, Thomas Jemielity, “The Committee’s function has changed. With the advent of a very flexible curriculum, today’s student can select challenging courses on his own. The uniqueness of our advisory role is called into question. Therefore, I believe it necessary to focus our role, if we still wish to stress the need for diversity in a liberal education.” Under Jemielity’s tenure, one way to focus the Committee’s role has been to elicit a communal spirit from both the faculty members and their advisees. This communal spirit stems in part from the voluntary nature of the Committee’s work
and from the willingness of the student to use, for his own benefit, a Committee member’s advice.
Whether or not an applicant can benefit from a Committee member’s advice is basically the criterion for admission. “After some are admitted, they in fact do not take advantage of their advisor,” explained former chairman Thomas Werge. “But I think that the student can draw some psychological benefit. The student at least knows that there is someone available: who cares about his academic life, someone who is available, aside from his departmental advisor, and someone who can help the student to choose electives according to his preferences.”
With a broader base of support, as a result, a department may improve its curriculum. In spite of this beneficial result, many students are skeptical, particularly about places in some courses reserved for CAP advisees. Jemielity insists that this skepticism is based on a misconception. “I have never heard that any student was hindered by these reserved places. The policy does not affect the majority of courses offered by the . College. At the last registration, only one-third of the students who can use these reserved spots actually did so. And assuming that every student under the Committee’s direction would take these places, each student would get one reserved place in only one course.”
The Committee may also grant waivers from required courses. They are not as frequently requested as they were at one time. Most of the waivers today involve Collegiate Seminar. It is easy to find a substitute for Collegiate Seminar, and Jemielity claims that he will approve and forward any such waiver to the Dean’s office. Rarely, however, does
10
Scholastic
I
I
a student ask to be exempt from both of the required semesters. A Collegiate Scholar program is also offered by CAP. This program is offered to those who wish to take a semester of independent study. The senior essay and various colloquia make up the Scholar’s credit hours. “The ■ Scholar must have an extraordinary amount of self-discipline. It is not very realistic to expect this of most undergraduates,” Werge believes. The program in Jemielity’s words is “moribund.”
The Committee does not claim that its advisees make up some local version of Phi Beta Kappa. The Committee wants to be of some benefit to a student. If it believes that it can, then the student is admitted. On the average, the Committee admits 45% of those who apply. Many bright people, consequently, are turned down and consider the Committee’s action an insult., “But," Werge maintains, “they shouldn’t feel this way. Those who turn down a student merely believe that the. Committee would be of no use to him. The grade-point-average is considered, but alone, it is no adequate criterion. The student can either be nominated by a professor or nominate himself. He then writes an ‘intellectual: autobiography’ to explain his basic interests. Afterwards he is interviewed thoroughly by a student and two Committee members, who thereby decide whether the Committee can help him.”
Werge continues, “The Committee’s intention is not to breed a new crop of scholars, although after graduation many advisees have gone to graduate school or have gone into teaching. Their aspirations, I insist, are as varied as the aspirations of all those students in the College.” Whatever the Committee’s intention;
November 18,1977
the number of advisees has decreased to under 160, but Jemielity maintains that this is consistent with the decreased enrollment in the College of Arts and Letters. “I expect an increase in the number of applications and acceptances, since the C.A.P. Student Advisory Committee aims to make the Committee more visible. With this aim in mind, Cori Ching, Dan Prebish, and Karl Kronebusch have been very helpful.”
To date, the creation of the Student Advisory Committee is perhaps the most concrete change made to foster a communal spirit between advisors and advisees. Each advisor is available for guidance to no more than six advisees. The student committee wants an advisor to be in personal contact with more than six students. Werge concludes, “The newsletter and even the social gatherings can be quite helpful, if the Committee still wishes to stress diversity in a liberal education.” As a result, the student might be more encouraged than before to seek a Committee member’s advice. He will also be better informed of any changes in those courses with reserved places. But most important on an academic level, the professors on the Committee and from the departments have in these social gatherings a sounding - board on the strengths and weaknesses of their respective departments.
The communal spirit in these social gatherings would affect not only academic life inside the classroom,
but also academic life outside the classroom. Jemielity believes it incumbent of the Committee to sponsor exchanges of ideas. There have been lectures, for example, given by Matthew Fitzsimons of history and by Edward Goerner of government. And the student advisory committee plans to attract lecturers outside of the University community. Jemielity observes, “The need for exchanges of ideas in a situation less formal than a classroom is perhaps greater than it was ten years ago. The Committee’s call for diversity in a liberal education must be louder than ever before.”
This diversity is threatened by a student’s obsession with grades. By refusing to believe that the classroom is the only bastion of ideas, however, the Committee on Academic Progress attempts, in a sense, to dispel this preoccupation with grades. It is certainly limited in what it can do, and changes in the functions and goals of the Committee might be very effective. Still, it is an unusual animal, in the jungle of this competitive age.
Jim Jordan is a junior history major from Scranton, Pennsylvania.
A noticeable consequence of being a senior in college is that one is hardly ever asked, “What do you want to be when you grow up?” anymore, and the firm, quick retorts of such glamour-filled occupations as “fireman” or “lion tamer”'are virtually non-existent. These days the question is more apt to be phrased, “What are your plans for May?,” and the replies tend to range from “A Ph.D. in English, Harvard Law School, or Peat, Marwick, Mitchell, depending on the day of the week” to some indistinguishable mumbling -about a sales job,,with dear Uncle Sam: that is - directed more towards the.floor, than to the inquirer. , ?
r, Tackling, the mammoth project of life, after college is often overwhelming at"the outset, and one in-which the moment of indecision, is sure to be encountered along- the way.. Self-asked questions are often as ominous as., those , of the,, casual inquirer. “What shall I do with, my Theology major?” “Shall I go on to graduate school?” “How about marriage?” “In which part.- of .the country; shall I iocatermyseK?” .“Will L’be happy?” • “Won’t someone help?” ' .
For the Notre" Dame or Saint Mary's senior, the answer to this last question is. “yes’’; both .schools’ staff, placement an d counseling services "to aid faculty,. students,, and alumni in deciding what path is'rightfor them,' arid then in achievirig their.goals. \\ rf-Four,,, years - ago, Saint-..Mary’s changed, the. emphasis of; its* place-, ment program to (a’.Career .Development Center. \ its director, Karen O’Neil, explains; j “A ,placement. bu-. reau - serves.. those, .who •. are already career oriented, rather, than,,those who need direction, i see the Cen-ter,;as; a/source, of-.information,-. of ihpraL.support, and., of .encouragement. I support whatever the goal is, whether marriage or bumming around the beach, as long as the decision comes from the student.” She believes that in focusing on development, the student can be persuaded to start his decision process as a freshman.
Guidance under the Saint Mary’s program begins as a series of eight workshops, open to all ND/SMC students, which takes the individual through each step of planning a future. Beginning with a seminar on general decision-making techniques, the series progresses to cover work
12
Somewhere
A Place For Us
values and the relationship of a- job to home/’then to the more concrete topic- of job informatiori and the opportunities available.“There are plenty of job opportunities today; but you have to know what you want in order to get but and get it,” explains ■O’Neil;’- “The, job market can seemrather. overwhelmingat first.” .. Directly’.-associated. with u knowledge of the job; possibilities open to a graduate is the ability to identify the? skills > required -for . that * job. “Many students come in very undecided andunconfident, with no - idea what ;their real skills ;are, and’ they talk-themselves out of the job market, whether they’re philosophy or business majors.? Next in: line is:a workshop in resume a preparation; focusing on; one’s -newly-uncovered skills rather, .than on/ 'actual e paid work experience.: “Travel, .volunteer work/ academic: course work, .and extracurricular activities all: play : an important:, part ; in:: job’ and career preparation.”;.:	s;?
< Fifty per cent of the battle is con-fidence jn one’s capabilities.; The. assertiveness := training . workshop encourages students to hold their own among, employers-and parents? /.
- Last in the series, the .Career Development . Center offers instruction in the job search. itself: through their extensive ; campus?, recruiting pro-; gram. ;With direction and confidence, the student can,then select a specific future, goal and,choose: a,.path accordingly.-;.:;?;;
, (; O’Neil,. a 1971 > graduate of. Saint Mary’s philosophy program, identifies with the problems associated with planning a future. “For a long time after graduation I floated, as a salesclerk, a waitress, and a proprietor of a dress shop,” she reminisces. “I had many experiences, and about all they had in common was
by Julie Runkle
that; they were low paying.- After two years, I realized-there was more out there: to be-offered.’-’f Her- approach to- advice and counseling is an offshoot of this experience. “I interviewed with firms and was told’: there were no:- opportunities ‘available for women. So I readj up ' on- careers; gained some confidence 'along:/with iriy information/arid'reiriterviewed with' much ’more successi” She notes with pride that since the inception: of the workshop ^program ?more. -students are interviewing,? more companies are interviewing,’and’there is an=increased interest in the offering's of the liberal arts student.:? nokw-'
While the services offered at Notre Dame: and Saint Mary’s are similar; Notre Dame's/ emphasis /is presently on the/, placement . process sitself. Seniors < are quick to/tfall . into ’the autumnal: routine.- of.: standing .outside: Room 213 of the Administration Building.in the wee hours of Monday mornings hoping to . procure a;time slot/for a campus :iriterview,?be:: it with industry, the government, ; or a law; school. Hn charge’of the .Notre Dame /Placement Bureau sis Richard D. Willemin, a Notre Dame alumnus, whose staff carries, out all the details • involved in connecting; students with potential employers, from sponsoring; annual ? placement; nights ,i to arranging for informal c employer/ student > - social-;; hours.:i-Each year 1,800 invitations are .sent-out to: top firms, .schools,;iservices,: andi govern? mental agencieslast yean 350 major employers ? were , able - .to recruit;. on Notre. Dame’s campus for a total of oyer. 7,000 interviews./?:",? lb kForrihe most-part,’.engineers and business;’ majors; have ? no : problem correlating ..their/future; goals/with the -.prospective/needs, of; .an? employer,..and: interview:; opportunities through.- the Placement; Bureau are
.8-SCHOLASTIC
plentiful.; Not so for the Arts-and Letters majority which, when offered ah occasional interview opportunity, (finds itself, faced; with one choice
sales.; > Mr. : Willemin, points out that sales jobs are. frequently. misunderstood and underrated as a possibility for..the;student with a; liberal arts background.. “Sales involves trans
mitting products and services to the customer. Sales jobs1 are of ten * of ;a marketing;type (as opposed to the Fuller. Brush type). Some of the
PLACEMENT BUREAU
ROOM. 2'3
7’sj .s? «w i::. s
most-successful' people; had beginnings, on the sales level. Don’t: look
ing for outstanding graduates, and see statistics of Notre Dame as an
.1
7^7.7' '77 7 Richard Willemin, Placement Bureau Director down’ on; it; but rather, exploit it for outstanding independent
what it’s - worth.; Move; up 'into a position: of responsibility—engineers, too,- often start a -firm on the entry level.” : J?’;?- j
- Willemin feels that many. Arts and Letters * students automatically contemplate grad schools as an: alternative to going through: the interview process.- “The .mentality ’ has -developed . for Arts and Letters students to get an MBA of a law degree in order to get a job. There is pressure; on them! to; do-this (from the faculty, . but more - sofrom society, which puts , them down on the totem pole? for-jobs because they’re competing with skilled students. Well; Arts and; Letters students have skills,
too,; even though-they’re not* easily
transferable. They’ve learned to be personable and poised, they get along well with others. They’re intelligent. Nevertheless, it’s difficult to con
vince industry and government to talk to the liberal arts student.”
Recruitment at Notre Dame is “the kind of thing that builds on itself,” however. One major reason
a firm is convinced to search at ND is because of alumni employees who suggest such a campaign. “Firms know ND’s reputation. They’re look-

states Willemin.
’ Sister Kathleen Rossman, .rect- five to other opportunities and guess ress of Walsh Hall and the Notre 1 ended up in the right places at the Dame Placement. Bureau’s only ca- right times.
reer counselor, agrees that Notre “The solution is broader than the Dame has provided its students with answer to ‘What will I do in June?’ ” an excellent ■ education. “I remind . Rossman continues. “The important students to make themselves market- thing is to know yourself — who able — they’ve got so much. They’ll . y°u are and where you’re going; not have a good chance ‘oiit there’ be- what to do jobwise, but what to do 'cause they’ve learned things here. A 7 with your life. Ask yourself, .‘What lot of people get discouraged com- in. life is worth my energies and ing for.interviews, but the important talents?’, and aim for it.” thing to keep in mind is that the im-	■
mediate competition is with other	7
Notre Dame7 students, and not the Julie Runkle is a senior accoun-
whole world.”
Rossman’s job as a career coun- er of Scholastic. She hopes to place
selor “just kind of evolved.” “Hooked a-herself ^accordingly in June.
around and noticed students wandering aimlessly around the Placement Bureau.” A master’s degree in counseling psychology qualifies her. for
her three-hour-a-day job, and she credits Karen O’Neil as her mentor.
“Too often I'm dealing with the student who has gotten through four years and doesn’t even know if he
likes his major,” she continues. "I encourage them to act — it won’t suddenly ‘zap’; they have to face reality. They have to seek out the
jobs, the jobs won’t come to them. I give them three pieces of advice:
1) Read, 2) Talk to people about their jobs, and 3) Think of the possibilities open. For instance, a biology major could be a tree surgeon, but how. many people think of that? Investigate the field!
“More importantly, listen to your heart. Do what you want to do — not. what your roommate or friend wants to do. This is such a. professional school — but don’t seek a ca-
reer if you don’t want it; Law school, or MBA school, is often the thing to do, and can be a means of putting off decision-making. You shouldn’t go unless you’re almost guaranteed a job you couldn’t otherwise get. Being scared to make a decision is not the same as not being ready to make a decision. Perhaps it’s better then to get a job. It’s important to see the options and alternatives so you don’t feel trapped afterwards. I try to provide some information upon which” a student can base a decision.”
A first job shouldn’t be viewed as an end, either. Rossman is on her
. fourth or fifth career herself.. “At school,” first I wanted to be a third-grade teacher — but I was always recep-
tancy major and Production Manag-
November 18, 1977
13

Student
Apprentices
After four years of University study many second-semester seniors are plagued by a gnawing doubt that those hours in the classrooms and those notebooks full of forgotten lectures may be utterly inadequate in preparing for the next step in life of tying down:a joband finding a career. What is the future? Is there life after college? If destiny is not preordained in the shape of graduate studies, law or medical school, or immediate employment at some monstrous corporation, will there be nothing but the .dark unknown before their eyes?
There are ways of avoiding this uncertainty. At Notre Dame, many departments in the College of Arts and Letters offer undergraduate courses which go beyond the traditional classroom education. These courses give students the chance to apply their knowledge from the classroom to actual working situations through various internship programs in which the students hold 'part-time jobs with an organization related to their field of study. Through this blend of academics and work experience, students gain not only three hours of credit for the semester, but also a better understanding of that particular line of work, which should ease the transition from college to careers.
There should be no misunderstanding; the stddents participating in these undergraduate internships are not getting credit for merely work-by Jon O'Sullivan ing on a part-time job. “Any internship course must have an academic component in order to differentiate it from work experience you would normally gain from any job,” says Dean Isabel Charles of the College of Arts and Letters. “There is an important difference between experience and a course which involves experience.” Dean Charles states that the students have asked for accreditation for various activities (like being a radio station manager) which is not possible. “I do not question the value of experience, but the real question is, does everything have to be reduced to credit hours?” Dean Charles stresses that there should be some reflection on the work experiences by the student intern and some academic work should result from every program.
Yet there is no official policy or guideline concerning the establish-
r Scholastic
ment or structure of internship programs within the College. It is totally up to the individual departments to take the initiative and organize any program the department believes to be beneficial. Actually, no official policy is heeded because the belief that these courses should be put in an academic context is shared by all the departments involved, and, on the whole, the programs have been established accordingly. The result of this, however, is that the structures of the internships vary from department to department. Some courses are pass/fail, others are not, and some require prerequisite courses. The Theology department has its one-credit Urban Plunge program which takes place during Christmas break. The Government department' intersperses the student’s work in city organizations with class discussions and seminars. Students practice teaching in neighborhood schools through Saint Mary’s education program. The Sociology department emphasizes learning through observation at a Juvenile Delinquent Correction Center in town. Any differences between these programs are relatively superficial; they all provide an education through experiential learning.
Of all the departments in Arts and and Letters, the most visible in the movement towards experiential - as well as academic teaching is the American Studies (AMST) department. It is, for example, the only department that lists its four courses specifically under the heading of Internships in the. Course Selection sheet. “Although. AMST is essentially a noncareer-oriented major, I am a strong believer in internships as a steppingstone from college to careers,” says the American Studies director, Ronald Weber. Weber also points out that a problem with students is that they are launching themselves into careers that they really know nothing about. He hopes to alleviate this problem with well-structured internships which are taken in addition to the requirements of the major. To insure that the academic component is present, prerequisite courses are required of every internship. In fact, Weber sees the internships as extensions of these required courses.
The only program in AMST not related to the communications field
Intern Marianne Murphy
is the Community Internship formerly directed by Prof. Schlereth and now headed by Prof. Barbara McGowan. Unfortunately, this semester no AMST majors took up the opportunity to work on a. Community internship. Last semester, however, several people did participate successfully in the programs which usually involve work in museums of historical organizations. For example, last year, seniors Clare Leary and Claire Boast worked with two architects from South Bend’s Historical Preservation Commission. Their job was to determine which houses in certain communities in South Bend have historical significance. and deserve to be restored. Clare Leary remarked on how her experiences on this job gave her a unique understanding, of how South Bend developed as a community. “You. can see how development started around the St. Joseph River and the transportation systems and spread from there.”
This year the AMST department hopes to set up a Community internship at South Bend’s Century Center. Prof. Weber, explains that it is difficult to establish a new program because it is hard to find an organization which is willing to give the students more than just menial office tasks and which can meet the academic standards of the department.
The purpose of the internship is to give the student a general overview of all the workings and functions of the organization.
These organizational problems, became somewhat apparent when AMST Prof. Christman established for the first time this semester . a publications internship. Chris Datz-man works on campus at Ave Maria Press, which publishes Notre Dame football programs and Scholastic as well as religious publications.. According to Datzman, she is at somewhat of a disadvantage being the first intern to work there. “I do a lot of Mickey Mouse jobs, filing, and secretarial stuff, but it does give me the experience of a real working situation.” As an example, Datzman points out that even the company’s book designer has to do jobs such as typing and proofreading. The Publishing and Sales department in which Datzman works consists of only five or six people, so she has close contact with all aspects of this part of the publishing industry. Datzman remarks that she learned the most on the job by watching the others at work and asking questions.
Another publications intern, Lisa Michels, works at South Bend’s Gateway Editions. Initially, she too was assigned boring and trivial tasks, but when one of the five people who make up the company resigned,
November 18, 1977
15
Michels was given a more responsible assignment. As well as writing business letters and the like, she also did research. When Gateway republished a book written in the 1950’s, Michels did the research to gather critical comments about the book which will appear on this edition’s back cover.
The other publications program is the News internship headed by Sister Madonna Kolbenschlag. This one : requires the interns to hold a major position with one of the campus publications: the Observer, the Dome, or the Scholastic. Joan Fremeau, the Observer’s copy editor, and Bob Brink, the assistant managing editor, must . both write six by-line articles as well as maintain their positions to get the , three hours credit. Bob, however, admits, “I haven’t learned anything new that I wouldn’t have learned if I had the job without the internship.” But Bob does see his internship as a practical extension of a previous newswriting course with Prof. Kolbenschlag. “The internship does give me a break—getting credit for time and work which once caused my other courses to suffer.” Joan Fremeau states, “The main idea is not to get three easy credits. You take the internship to gain some experience and to get some idea of what it’s like working in those jobs.”
The most fascinating and extensive program in the AMST department is the Broadcasting internship which is also co-sponsored by the Speech and Drama department. Ten students from both majors hold positions in unique and varied fields of the broadcasting industry, radio as well as television. At the beginning of the course, the interns went through an orientation program to familiarize them with the different aspects of WNDU-TV, then each student chooses what field he or she wants to pursue. For example, Mark Harmon-elected to work in the TV Sales department. Harmon now goes out with WNDU’s salesmen and calls on six or seven clients per day, to try to persuade companies to
advertise on TV and to buy commercial time from Channel 16. Harmon reported that he was enthusiastic about getting involved in a real part of the business world. “These guys are talking real dollars and cents.” Mark has already been successful in his role as a salesman. He sold to Sears a package of available times for ten-second commercials advertising Sears sweaters, after he had figured out which were the best times and most favorable TV audiences for these commercials.
Mike Sheehan and Tom Panzica are in the production angle in the studios of WNDU. Each is currently working on producing and filming new beginnings to WNDU’s Saturday matinee and Sunday movie. “We were told that we could do anything we wanted for the new movie intro project,” reports Panzica, delighted at the opportunity to get his creative juices going. But Panzica also admits that there is less glamour involved in broadcasting than he had expected. There is, however, no lack of hard work. “The best experience is working at football games. At the MSU game we had to carry 300 pounds worth of cameras and cables up to the press box,” Panzica muses. “You get to meet and talk to a lot of broadcasting people while taping the games, but you also learn that the job can often be dirty, tiresome, and grimy.”
As far as insights into the broadcasting industry go, Lee Hendricks, a TV Graphics intern, has come up with some thoughtful observations during his activities at the TV station. Besides drawing up some graphics for TV shows, Lee is also working on the production of a public service program called The Campus View. While assisting in the production of this show as well as observing the planning of other productions, Hendricks noticed that many hurried decisions are made in the planning stages because of the limited time factor involved. There is a strict schedule to adhere to. Hendricks says that this time limitation does bring out the people who are talented in their field, .but it also causes many bad decisions to be made. Hendricks and some of the other interns are caught in this dialectic conflict between the time factor and creativity and quality of production. “We are treated like real
employees,” says Hendricks, emphasizing that failing in the internship would be a good indication on how one would fare in a real career. “The profession takes a toll on a person’s enthusiasm and incentives. People who move up in this profession must always k^ reviving their enthusiasm and creativity. It can • be a very frustrating thing,” he	I
admits. He also stresses that observ-	(
ing both the good and the bad j aspects of the industry has given him a kind of “professional inspiration” which prepares him realistically for a career.
The internship programs have been instrumental in shaping the attitudes of students towards their prospective careers. Peggy Rodgers, another broadcasting intern, has found that she enjoys her work in TV newswriting and reporting, and hopes to follow up on it once she graduates. “If I hadn’t taken the internship, I would have settled for less; now I have a lot more motivation to go out and get a really good job,” Rodgers states. Chris Datz-man, who considers making publishing her career and has recently become interested in book design, says that the program helps to focus her interest on certain fields of publishing. “You don’t find what you want to do. You find out what you don’t want to do,” muses Datzman.
The value of the education received in the classrooms of Notre Dame can be questioned as to whether it can prepare us realistically for the jobs we must get someday. But there is no doubt as to the worth of experiential learning these internship programs offer the student. At least when a student who has an internship under his or her belt steps out into that wild world, he or she will be treading bn some familiar ground.
Jon O’Sullivan is a senior American Studies major. ; -
16
Scholastic
PARTIES RD EIRE TC ATTEWE
by Elizabeth Christman
Literature is full of parties. At balls, heroines dazzle visiting princes, or sneak off behind the potted palms to receive clandestine kisses. Twentieth-century characters carry on courtships and intrigues at cocktail parties as vigorously as earlier characters did at teas. Fiction is full of dinner parties memorable for the food, like the Cratchits’ bursting goose in Charles Dickens’ A Christmas Carol, or for the company, like the guests who act out the Seven Deadly Sins at Sir Magnus Donners’ dinner, in Anthony Powell’s The Kindly Ones. Novelists of every period love house parties in the country, where people are proposed to, seduced, robbed, or murdered.
Some of the greatest parties: are better to read about than to attend. On the whole I would not like to be present at the Dedalus’ Christmas dinner in James Joyce’s, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, though I’d love to see the pudding carried in, “studded with peeled almonds and sprigs of holly, with bluish fire running around it and a little green flag flying from the top.” The violent argument between Mr. Casey and Dante, ending in sobs and slamming doors, would ruin it for me. Likewise, that dinner party that Dick and Nicole Diver give at their villa on the hillside overlooking the Mediterranean in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Tender Is the Night. It’s an enchanting scene: the late summer sunset, the table on the terrace lit by candles which, reflecting on a bowl of spicy pinks, shed a “gracious table light” on the faces around it, the wine-colored lanterns in the pines, the fireflies on the dark air. “The table seemed to have risen a little toward the sky like a mechanical dancing platform, giving the, people around it a sense of being alone with each. other in the dark universe, nourished by its only food, warmed by its only light.” Yet the scene which Violet McKisco stumbles upon later in the evening, all the more sinister because it is never described, spoils this party for me. .	.
Dr.: Aziz gives a memorable picnic near the caves .at Marabar in E. M. Forster’s, A Passage to India, including a ride on an elephant, but I wouldn’t want, to be included, considering what terrible things happen afterward in the cave.
But there are a few parties so rich
in good spirits and hospitality that I’m madly envious of those fictional characters lucky enough to be present. The dance at Dingley Dell, for example, in Charles Dickens’ The Pickwick Papers. Mr. Wardle, that prince of hosts, is entertaining Mr. Pickwick and his three friends, plus six or seven young ladies who are to be bridesmaids at . Miss Wardle’s wedding, plus poor relations, and neighbors by the dozen. And he hasn’t invited them merely for an evening. They are all staying for a three-day round of breakfasts, dinners, wassail suppers, the wedding feast, and—best of all—the dance.
The big parlor has been cleared, the rugs taken up, and a bower of holly and evergreen arranged at one end, in which the musicians are seated: two fiddlers and a harp. There’s a fire crackling in the huge hearth, and candlesticks and sconces everywhere are blazing with candles. Mr. Pickwick appears in silk stockings and pumps. His friends are astonished to see the stout, middleaged bachelor without his gaiters.
“You mean to dance?” one of them asks. Apparently he had never been known to dance, or display himself in silk stockings.	..
“And why not, sir—why not?” asks Mr. Pickwick warmly.
He not only means to dance, he can hardly wait to begin. .;He. leads Mr. Wardle’s old mother onto the dance floor for the country dance, and in his eagerness he makes four false starts while laggard couples are being recruited. Finally the fiddles and the harp begin to play in earnest, and how Mr. Pickwick dances!	.	'	: - :
Away went Mr. Pickwick—hands across—down the middle to the very end of the room, and halfway up the chimney, back again . to the door—poussette everywhere —loud stamp on the ground—ready for the next couple—off again—all the figure over once more—an-other stamp to beat out the time— next couple, arid the next, and the next again—never was such going!
Mr. Wardle’s mother becomes quickly exhausted, and they have to persuade the clergyman’s wife to substitute; the newly married couple retire from the scene; and the other
17
November 18, 1977
fourteen dancing couples are finally ready to call it quits. But still Mr. Pickwick keeps perpetually dancing in place, keeping time to the music, trying to entice some of the company to continue the dance. How I’d love to see this scene, take part in this dance with the indefatigable Mr. Pickwick, and sit down to the “glorious supper’’ which follows. I don’t think there’s a dance in literature that can cap this one.
Another gallant host, like Mr. Wardle, is Captain Forrester in Willa Cather’s A Lost Lady. Captain Forrester, of the nineteenth-century railroad artistocracy, treats his guests with an old-fashioned courtesy that is delightfur to watch.
Captain Forrester still made a commanding figure at the head of his own table, with his napkin tucked under his chin and the work of carving well in hand. Nobody could lay bare the bones of a brace of duck or a twenty-pound turkey more deftly. “What part of the turkey do you prefer, Mrs. Ogden?” If one had a preference, it was gratified, with all the stuffing and gravy that went with it, and the vegetables properly placed. When a plate left Captain For-
18
Tester’s hands, it was a dinner; the recipient was served, and well served.	’
Niel Herbert, the local, Nebraska boy who is invited to dinner, is wideeyed at the sophisticated hospitality. After Captain Forrester has carved the turkey, his butler, in a white waistcoat and high collar, pours the champagne. Captain Forrester lifts the frail glass in his thick fingers, glances around the table at his wife and his guests, and utters his favorite toast: “Happy days!”
It was the toast he always drank at dinner, the invocation he was sure to utter when he took a glass of whiskey with an old friend. Whoever had heard him say it once, liked to hear him say it again. Nobody else could utter those two words as he did, with such gravity and high courtesy. It seemed a solemn moment, seemed to knock at the door of Fate; behind which all days, happy and otherwise, were hidden. Niel drank his wine with a pleasant shiver, thinking that nothing else made life seem so precarious, the future so cryptic and unfathomable, as that brief toast
uttered by the massive man, “Happy days!”
The party given by Miss Kate and Miss Julia Morkin in Joyce’s “The Dead” is notable for the music, as well as for the food. The two old Morkin sisters are musical, and their middle-aged niece, Mary Jane, has graduated from the Academy and plays the organ in a leading church. At the party Mary Jane plays her Academy piece, “full of runs and difficult passages, to the hushed drawing-room.”, Later Aunt Julia sings “Arrayed for the Bridal.” Her voice is still strong and clear, and she attacks with great spirit the runs which embellish the. melody, and does not miss a single grace note. Her listeners are stirred at the sight and sound of the elderly singer. They feel the same shiver of mortality that Niel Herbert does when Captain Forrester makes his toast. I wish I could be there to shiver with them, and then to warm myself again at the feast which follows.
What a feast! Though the Morkin sisters live modestly, they believe in eating well and in treating their guests handsomely.
A fat brown goose lay at one end of the table and at the other end, on a bed of creased paper strewn with sprigs of parsley, lay a great ham, stripped of its outer skin and peppered over with crust crumbs, a neat paper frill round its shin and beside this was a round of spiced beef. Between these rival ends ran parallel lines of sidedishes: two little minsters of jelly, red and yellow; a shallow dish full of blocks of blanc-mange and red jam, a large green leafshaped dish with a stalk-shaped handle, on which lay bunches of purple raisins and peeled almonds, a companion dish on which lay a solid rectangle of Smyrna figs, a dish of custard topped with grated nutmeg, a small bowl full of chocolates, and sweets wrapped in gold and silver papers and a glass vase in which stood some tall celery stalks. In the centre of the table there stood, as sentries to a fruitstand which upheld a pyramid of oranges and American apples, two squat old-fashioned decanters of cut glass, one containing port and the other dark sherry. On the
Scholastic
closed square piano a pudding in a huge yellow dish lay in waiting and behind it were three squads of bottles of stout and ale and minerals, drawn up according to the colours of their uniforms, the first two black, with brown and red labels, the third and smallest squad white, with transverse green sashes.	.
This marvelous supper is devoured late at night, without a thought of cholesterol or indigestion, after plenty of dancing, singing, and arguments. Gabriel, nephew of the hostesses, gives an elaborate speech after it, in which melancholy tributes to the past modulate into a chivalrous toast to the “Three Graces of Dublin.” No wonder it is practically dawn when the party ends.
Someone has said that the essence of hospitality is to have plenty. All the hosts at these enviable parties offer food and drink in lavish quantity and variety. And so it is with Professor Timofey, Pnin, Vladimir Nabokov’s heartbreaking Russian emigre, who gives a party for some of his faculty friends at Waindell College. He has at last, after a series
of rented rooms, leased a little house, counted the number of chairs and footstools, and concluded that he can manage a buffet supper for nine guests. I love to see Pnin arranging his “supper a la fourchette”
. . . buttered slices of French bread around a pot of glossygray fresh caviar and . . . three large bunches of grapes. There was also a large plate of cold cuts, real German pumpernickel, and a dish of very special vinaigrette, where shrimps hobnobbed with pickles and peas, and some miniature sausages in tomato sauce, and hot pirozhki (mushroom tarts, meat tarts, and cabbage tarts), and four kinds of nuts and various interesting Oriental sweets.
Pnin’s guests bring him bottles of whisky, vodka, and French champagne. Pnin has also provided brandy-and-grenadine cocktails and a rowanberry liqueur. But the climactic drink is Pnin’s punch, a mixture of chilled Chateau Yquem, grapefruit juice, and maraschino, which he mixes in a brilliant aqua
marine glass bowl with a design of swirled ribbing and lily pads. It is for that bowl of punch that I most yearn to be at Pnin’s party. The glass bowl was sent unexpectedly to Pnin by 15-year-old Victor, his “stepson,” a youth of rare understanding. In fact the tangible beauty of the bowl is, for Pnin, dissolved in its blazing reflection of Victor’s sweet nature. The bowl, so much admired by Pnin’s guests and so emblematically dear to Pnin, is the hit of the party.
Pnin’s party, like some of the others I’ve recalled, has a melancholy overtone. The shiver of change and mortality invades it. Pnin, while he entertains, is unknowingly scheduled to be fired from his untenured position. He learns of his misfortune at the end of his party. The bad news preoccupies him as he cleans up and washes the dishes. A nutcracker slips from his hands and crashes into the sink where the aquamarine bowl is soaking in hot suds. His hand, investigating beneath the obscuring foam, . encounters broken glass.
But wait! It’s not the bowl. It is a broken goblet. The beautiful bowl is intact. The symbol of Pnin’s hos
pitality and Victor’s generosity survives. The essence of the party is saved.
Probably every reader has other memorable parties to add to this list. I feel safe in predicting that every one of them will be like my own favorites in prodigality. No budget for these party-givers, no calculations about how many drinks per person, no cutting corners. These hosts serve the best in bountiful quantities, and with care for the visual beauty as well as the taste. You can’t imagine any of them becoming ill-tempered, like poor Ivan Ilych, because some of the expensive food is left over. You can see the sheer joy they take in entertaining their friends. That’s what makes these parties abound in good spirits despite the shadows of aging, change, and sorrow that hang over hosts and guests. It’s their bravado that makes me wish I could be present.
Elizabeth Christman teaches several courses in the American Studies department. She is the author of the novel, A Nice Italian Girl, which became the basis of the recent television movie, Black Market Baby.
November 18, 1977
19
He JBoe^n't Kook Oke & jBonfe ♦ ♦ ♦
by Karen Caruso
When the words “monk” and “monastery” are uttered, they immediately bring to mind the images of stone walls, a pervading silence, and men leading impoverished lives. Monks are thought to belong in the history of the Dark Ages and are
rarely recognized as active people to today’s world, let alone in the Notre Dame community among all the priests. Yet, there is a Benedictine monk at Notre Dame, serving as the rector of St. Edward’s Hall. He is Fr. Mario Pedi, who chuckles
at people’s initial reactions when learning that he is a monk. “They seem surprised that I don’t wear a long robe with a rope belt tied at the waist,” he laughs, “and that I am able to speak.”
The idea of monks not speaking to each other stems front two institutions that exist in a monk’s day. “The Minor Silence” takes place during daylight hours, and this entails maintaining an atmosphere of calmness and reflection by speaking only when necessary. “The Great Silence,” however, is more strict. Monks are not to speak at all after the 7:00 p.m. prayer. “The main theme in monastic life,” states Fr. Mario, is Ora et Labora, which means “pray and work.” Manual
labor is stressed so that poverty can taught English and theater and even- what you’ve gained from your ex-be observed—only the rich are idle, tually became the principal of the periences. I think ‘sabbatical’ is the This goes back to the spirit of the school. “Different monasteries have best word to describe it. It gives you
early Church when the early apos- different work requirements,” he ties worked the land with the poor says, “but work is always important, and learned to be self-sufficient.” The early monks carried the idea of
The manual labor in Fr. Mario’s early training consisted of working
on the farm that his monastery, Marmion Abbey in Aurora,. Illinois, owned. He joined the monastery in 1951 and found the lifestyle there to be pleasing. “I had been attending
Loyola University studying medi- There is a certain stability in cine when one of my brothers died, monasticism that insures a family-and this caused me to reflect on my life situation. Monks live as a famlife and on what I was doing,” Fr. ' ily: they live at the same monastery Mario explains. “I chose to join the most of their lives, work to sustain Marmion Abbey because it was lo- themselves, and are buried on the cated 35 miles from my hometown.” grounds. So why is Fr. Mario at
After ordination, a monk’s work may switch from manual to administrative. For Fr. Mario, his work after being ordained in 1957 took place in the offices of the military school that was part of the Abbey’s complex. He first was placed in
charge of the library, then later you bring back to the monastery
‘work’ to the point of being totally self-sufficient. They survived without
the outside world; everything was done within the walls of the monastery. Benedictines today, though not to quite that extreme, do as much for themselves as possible.”
Notre Dame and not at the Abbey? “A minority of monks are allowed to leave the community with the permission of the superior,” he explains. “But the idea of stability is preserved. Whatever you do outside the monastery is a positive thing, and
a chance to refresh and to gain new insights.”
Fr. Mario’s first move away from
the Marmion Abbey occurred in 1971 when he participated in an ex
change program with the Delbarton School in New Jersey, another Benedictine school. There he taught English and theater until 1973, then moved to New York City to work as
22
Scholastic
an educational consultant for a nonprofit advertising agency. After a year he began teaching at the Ethical Culture School, also in New York. “This school is a progressive school whose ‘religion’ is humanism. The students come from all types of religious backgrounds and walks of life, so a student can take whatever humanistic qualities he finds in others and incorporate these into his own life as he chooses.
“It was a challenge to teach there because a lot of the students came from Jewish backgrounds; in a Catholic school I could presuppose what knowledge the students had obtained from their religion. For instance, while I was teaching A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man by James Joyce, a Jewish student asked me what the ‘Holy Ghost’ was that Joyce had included in the story. How could I explain in a few minutes what takes almost a lifetime to understand? Also non-Chris-tians do not understand the concept of ‘guilt’ in the same manner as' Christians. So I had to explain a few things that are usually taken for granted, and that was a challenge for me."
At the same time that ■ he was on the teaching staff at the Ethical Culture School, Fr. Mario served as a volunteer chaplain on Sundays at Riker’s Island, which is a prison for young men from ages 16 to 20 who are awaiting their trials. Most are nonwhites who are nominally Catholic and who gained very little education because their lives were spent in the streets as criminals. “Saying Mass there was frustrating at. times,’’ says Fr. Mario, “since it was a social event for the boys, and little more. Only once in a great , while would someone have a sincere interest in religion. The boys would have trouble understanding the homily because of their limited vocabularies, and they would be carrying on :with other activities during Mass, such as passing notes indicating that a contract was being put out on a prisoner. The homosexuals would outwardly grab at the others as they were walking up : for Communion, too. Sometimes I felt like ejecting someone from Mass, but that would only - hurt his record, and I would not be helping him in doing that.
Yes, it did get frustrating — how do you talk about the good God when they’ve never seen the good God?
“At other times, though, it got depressing, because the system was demeaning to the prisoners. The guards were prejudiced against the boys because they were white and
the boys were mostly black or Chicano. There were beautiful tennis
courts on the prison grounds and the guards would not let the boys use them because they felt it was too much trouble to supervise them.”
Fr. Mario stayed in New York City until 1976, when his supervisor felt that he should get back into a religious community, so he came to Notre Dame in the fall
of 1976 to serve as the rector of St. Edward’s and to further his education. “Nothing will equal the excitement of New York City, and there is so much diversity in its people. I would talk to people who had attended Ivy League schools
and to those who couldn’t even read, all in the same afternoon. I like it at Notre . Dame, although I sometimes miss the privacy of having my own apartment and the freedom of going to the theater anytime, but this is
balanced by the community that exists here. There is no long-term community in New York City, only transient people. Here, I find a lot of caring people, and that more than compensates for the lure of the city.”
Fr. Mario is studying theology and fine arts this semester at the
University. When not in the classroom, he is often seen playing back
gammon or painting in his suite at St. Ed’s, which is decorated with plants hanging in plantholders that he has macramed and oil paintings that he has created. He owns a Yel
low Nape Parrot named Mike who is friendly with visitors, and he is training his new Greater Sulfur Cockatoo, which remains nameless (he resembles the bird that Baretta
owns). Fr. Mario directs the plays that the St. Ed’s residents perform; drawing from his New York experience of studying with Lee Strausberg, founder of the Actors’ School. During warm weather he will challenge passers-by to a game of bocd
on the lawn.
KarenCaruso is a junior American Studies major and Managing Editor of Scholastic. She lives in Lyons Hall.
November 18, 1977
23

r
The Irish hoopsters have taken many forms since the arrival; of head coach Richard . “Digger”' Phelps six years ago. Notre Dame, has relied on five solid' starters, a big team, a fast team, and a one-man show. Regardless of their style of play, the Irish under Phelps have become a consistent . national power on the hardwood court. ,
Phelps, who moonlights as head cheerleader at Notre Dame,, goes into every season with one goal— to win 20 games. The Irish mentor’s record at Du Lac reflects a consistency in attaining this goal as his teams have compiled a 114-56 record since 1971 (averaging 19 wins a season) and hit the twenty

j: i by Ray O'Brien nt s'd-A.r
mark in four of those campaigns; The Irish have been invited to post-season play in'fo'ur of-those'banner years (1 NIT'and 3 NCAA). This year could1be 'Phelps’ " trip to the roses but the master of mental attitude enters this season like all the rest" with1 hisusual; complacency which5 disappears with the opening tipoff of the first game. 0:
“Our' goal- is alwaysto earn a place ■ in 1 the1'NCAA’‘■tournament,’’ says - Phelps. ’* “To'<db that we need total dedication‘from’the-players?’ ?^There 'is no doubt that the players are there, ’although’ three of the starters1 in last year’s season ' opener have graduated.! Branding, Williams, Flowers,’ Laimbeer, Batton? and' Carpenter, however, have a great deal of experience and with the addition of an outstanding crop of freshmen, Irish fans cannot help but get excited.
Phelps is a little more reserved, “With nine returning letterman we have , an experienced nucleus. I am also pleased with our incoming freshmen, all of whom should make a , contribution before the season ends.’’ Phelps indicates his preseason strategy as he adds, “I want to play ten or eleven people because we have the players to wear the opposition down.” -•
In the past two years Notre Dame has placed first in the country in rebounding margin, outrebounding their opponents 1,229-916 last year. This year Notre Dame.must replace two members of that prestigious frontcourt in Toby Knight and Bill Paterno, both of whom were among the first 45 players selected in the NBA draft. Knight was the top rebounder. on the team while Paterno, left .with 1,000 points over his four-letter career. . .
The Irish relied on three forward-centers last1 season5, but with the return ,’of Bill0 Laimtieerj 'ttie“ center spbt’is filled. At; 6-11] 250 lbs,' Laimbeer 'does'more' than;just fill ‘iii at center. The Toledo, Ohio’resident was showing signs of stardom his freshman;;’year ’‘ b'efore;;being banished from trie courts due to academic ’ ineligibility] Tri1 limited play; irig ‘ time he ' was averaging ’ eight points and’eight 'rebounds in'his ten appearances. These numbers ' read 17 '“point's/an	rebounds when
prorated to a 40-miriute game.':1 -’
Bruce “the Butcher” Flowers will man 'one bf the starting forward spots. ■ ' ‘ The Huntington0 Woods, Michigan?' junior'1’was rfa'' preseason All-American choice 1 by ’ Playboy Magazine - mainly bn- the'merits of his defensive' ability. " Flowers averaged?li'.3 points ’ per game last year: and led■' the team in field; goal percentage“arid fouls ■ committed?' !
-For' the'Irish to reach'1 the* winner’s circle,'they- will' need a! consistent Dave Batton ‘to fire from the perimeter. The:-“Irish’ Colt” 'at 6-9, 235 lbs;/was 'effective'1'around“trie basket-last?year?' but his’‘outside shooting was 'suspect -’at times.* 'The senior from Springfield, Pennsylvania 'averaged “12.2-'-markersJ per coritest-and-was an' effective-passer.' 3 Adding7'depth1'to -this1'rugged frontcourt are senior 'Randy1Haefner ‘and 'sophomore' Bill-'Hanzlikl Haefner,-who has been continually plagued’’ by1 injuries throughout his three' years “at1 Notre' Danie? pos-1 sesses !a! sharp shooting; eye' and is very effective bff the1 bench? Hanzlik appeared in all but one of the Irish’s contests ‘ last 'year and is very versatile as a’ guard-forward.'" •'??
'The backcourt;is ’ set'1 with 'Don “Duck” Williams ■! and »> Rich - Bran-1 ning ready to pick up where they left - bff - last’ year. ? These' two have styles.'1 ■- that “ ’ have - ’ r complemented each other and* with’ a fulf season of playing together and ( learning one another’s (imotionsp they'’. should 'be ready' to ‘take’ off.' Williams' finished topsi on the ’ team^in'I scoring (last year 'with1 18.1 ■■ pointsi per" game average, including'a stellar; 25; point performance in? the upset'1’ victory over-v San ' Franciscb?-(“Duck” caver; aged 22 points and shot an outstand; irig 59.4%' over! the final-nine games.’ In* the Irish’s'mine losses* last: year;
24
vrei ,8 ’Scholastic
Williams was one of the top two. scorers for ND in only two matches, which shows that Notre Dame’s fate lies largely in this senior’s linedrive shots from outside.
Branning finished his impressive rookie campaign as the Irish’s fifth player. in double figures. More importantly, the' Huntington. Beach, : California native more than doubled ■ any of his teammates’. assist totals with 138. This freshman showed : uncanny poise leading Notre Dame in free throw percentage, hitting nearly 80% from the charity line. . If this floor leader gains confidence, in his outside shot, , he will quickly , become one of the most talked about backcourt aces in the country.
Jeff “the Roadrunner” Carpenter should see a good deal of action as the third guard. The Oak Park, II-, linois senior averaged over nine assists per 40 minutes of playing time last year and is. often called on to wear down' the opponents’ star ball handler' with his tenacious ;
style of play.	..
Many . teams - have / reached the status of “top twenty” in polls over the years using five solid starters, but no one becomes the National Champion without a competent bench. Phelps’ answer to this facet of the game lies in the ability of five incoming freshmen, and with the reviews this quintet has . been getting, his problems may be solved.
Stan Wilcox is one of those quick guards that keeps a team moving. Last year he kept North Babylon High,’ School of Long Island,. N.Y; on: thenmove: by -connecting on - an incredible ,66% .of his field goal; attempts: for a 17.6 point average per game.Wilcox is: sure ,to see j a: lot of playing time as the. season progresses and ; is' looked on; to ’ be a
starter-in:the-future.':’- n
-The' other, four freshmen are? all frontcourt:, players; which; indicates how- Phelps plans on wearing down
Irish foes, this year, v-At' 6-5, 205 lbs. Tracy Jackson is the ideal swing mam Boasting:a L61%:! field; goal average and a 29.8 scoring average, this : residents of /Silver /Spring, Maryland, was named .’Metro Player of - the Year lin .Washington,LD.C. last year. . /LL’ Vz?;
Gilbert' Salinas : will not be forgotten in San Antonio; Texas; where hezset/’a? city 'record for career
November 18, 1977	.
scoring gathering 2,202 points surpassing former Texas Tech star Rich Bullock’s 2,004 total. The 6-11 center pulled down 15.5 caroms a game while possessing a: deadly; 68% accuracy from thefloor.
Tripucka is not an; unfamiliar name to Notre Dame fans and it will be heard of once again as Kelly Tripucka, son of former Notre Dame quarterback Frank Tripucka, makes his presence known. The \ Essex Falls, New Jersey native became the fourth player in the state’s history to r score.:1,000.-points Lim<a single season ■ averaging; 36 points t per • tilt during rhishsenior: campaign learning: All-American honors in the process... io	no;:'
■ioOrlando> Woolridge -also comes from athletic? bloodlines.; _• A ; cousin.
of- former : .‘New -York Knick star, : Willis . Reed,- Woolridge notched ;21 points and. 25: rebounds: a; game :last year .to bring; his high school: career
total to an eye-catching 3,000: points andl;945 rebounds. ;	” v’iifjL:
-. These, freshmen are .regarded: by many experts, as the top recruiting, catch ; by any team:-.ihnthe nation. Under the tutelage of Dick Kuchen, Dan -iNee,/ and', newly ; added■ Scott Thompson; - these, newcomers: t may make the difference, between a: fine and perfect; season? .“Perfect’.’ means a; nationali championship crown,as
it is clearly j impossible for: Notre Dame to win 30 games over a threemonth span-with .the hardest schedule in the country. >The /Irish .face ten: teams: that - were : in nthe L top twenty in the nation last year or are predicted; to rank there, this. year. These: include, games । against UCLA, Indiana, /Kentucky,nand. San; Francisco on .the road? . L s/o o : .;o;-- At home Notre Dame: will: need the support'.of ;the 11,345 seated (or standing)?, fans. .The,-Athletic;'and Convocation /Center became a “happening’’ place: oncei again last year when? the ; Irisha stopped, ::the -San Francisco Dons 29-game win streak and. knocked the wind out of their sails for .'the remainder of the season. : .Phelps’ eagers finished /.with a 16-1 record at. home; (losing, onlyto
UCLA)., This ; success is ■ of. little surprise .whenbthe tfans/are .’.voted Most .Valuable Player of a nationally televised game, .while / teams : com
plain .it is a six against five battle out on the court.The Irish, wrap up the season with home games against North Carolina1 State and Marquette andathe: momentum L of two g wins here,:may be. all Phelps’ proteges need to roll to the National Cham-pionshipz • It; is.i much:: too yearly ' to predict "./that far ? in . advance,:. but -that, won’t/keep )Nqtre Dame fans’ ’ blood pressurtZdowmx? .
\	25
Responsible Freedom
by Maureen Sajbel
When someone asks “What dorm do you live in?” and the answer is “Augusta,” often the next question asked is “Which campus is that on?” Few people know about Augusta, its residents and location. To clear up the mystery, it is a self-governing junior/senior dorm located between Regina and Holy Cross Halls on the Saint Mary’s campus.4
The decision to move into this dorm is difficult for some. Of the 65 residents, 33 live in singles, many are in their professional semester of nursing, teaching, or business, and many moved together with their friends into a block of rooms. The threat of isolation from friends in other dorms, former roommates, and the campus itself appeared great at first. But after living in Augusta for even a few months, the advantages seem overwhelming .
The idea of Augusta being a selfgoverning dorm began back in 1971. Two sisters of the Holy Cross and a group of seniors moved into Augusta, formerly a part of the convent and its novitiate dorm. With the denial of the merger between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in 1972 and a large acceptance of freshmen, the
dorm was changed, to a freshman/ sophomore dorm with a hall director.
The following school year Augusta was given back to seniors as an experimental self-governing dorm, as it has remained ever since.
“Self-governing does not'T imply license or a throwing away of rules,” according to Kathleen Rice, dean of student affairs at Saint Mary’s. “It
means that the residents have a kind of responsible freedom.” The dorm is still under the jurisdiction of the college and its rules concerning parietals and possession of alcohol. However, no dorm staff or army of resident advisors enforces the rules. They are enforced by the residents themselves, a hall council and a single resident advisor. Augusta women have their own keys to the outside doors and carry the respon
sibility of keeping the doors locked at all times. For this reason, Au
gusta has been termed “the safest hall on campus.” It does not have traffic going through it constantly, as do other dorms, and only residents and their guests can gain admittance with dorm keys.
The feeling of living in a selfgoverning dorm is one of relaxation
and even relief after three hectic years of noisy dorm life. Augusta is more of a community due to its number of women. The building is old and spacious, making it personal and comfortable.
“It’s so big, it’s great,” said Kay Spahn, a junior living in a quad the size of a small ballroom. “I like the location of the dorm too. It’s , like coming home. You walk through the trees and leave the campus behind.”
Others like the dorm for its quiet, relaxed atmosphere.1 Senior Mary
Rukavina, student body president, sees the privacy as Augusta’s number one asset.' “For someone in a position who goes 24 hours a day you need to be able to come home, close the door and tune out the problems for a while.” Many see the dorm as an earned privilege and a
26
Scholastic
place where one can decide one’s own rights and responsibilities. “The greatest asset is the fact that it is self-governing,” claims senior Diane Smits. “I’ve waited three years for this type of environment.” Augusta, in her opinion, is the best of on and off campus living. “You still have that umbilical cord to the campus. Off campus people have severed it. We don’t have the hassles of off campus life.”
Augusta acts as a buffer or transition between regulated dorm life and the independent life of city or apartment living that most of its residents will encounter upon graduation. It is an easing away from a dependency on. college rules to a dependency on one’s own sense of values and responsibilities.
Living in Augusta does have a few
minor disadvantages. To pick up packages and flowers or to use vending machines, one has to go to- a neighboring dorm. There is no hall desk for messages and the kitchen is poorly equipped. For the eight junior transfer students placed in Augusta quads, the social situation is not ideal. It is difficult, they say, to meet great numbers of people. Although they did not originally like Augusta, several have said they plan to stay in the dorm through their senior year because they’ve grown accustomed to the advantages, responsibility and quiet of the hall.
Despite the minor disadvantages of Augusta,: it has evolved into a workable living situation. With the initiation of a hall council, the residents have created a greater sense of unity within the group than ever
before in its history as a college dorm. They received an award for the first and only dorm at Saint Mary’s to have 100 percent participation in. the United Way drive this year. They plan to have the first Augusta Mardi Gras booth and a football team for An Tostal. Residents hope by working together they can make Augusta a model for future self-governing dorms and that it will finally have a recognized identity in the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s community.
Maureen Sajbel is a senior English and art major at St. Mary’s. She, is a resident of Augusta HdH.
November 18, 1977
27
The Unsung Athletes
Notre Dame
by Ron Hunter
When the average Notre Dame student thinks of sports at du Lac, his or her thoughts tend to center around our fine football, basketball, and hockey programs with good reason. Notre Dame’s feats on the gridiron are legendary, our basketball team is one of only ten schools which can boast of having over one-thousand victories, our hockey program' has risen to national prominence, and now our soccer program appears to possess upward; mobility/ Despite the: fact'that all of these varsity sports ' started out as - clubs,' club"sports remain' an' obscure-part of ■ 'our ' nationally i minded- athletic program and a' little appreciated part of student life: Perhaps this unfortunate ;; occurrence can be I attributed to‘academic rigors'rather'thari the individual merits-of these^particularsports.' If this is the; case/ a closer inspection of these sports may serve to enlighten and perhaps illustrate their remunerative value? ''
Since the University Board of Trustees moved to institute coeducation here, many profound changes have occurred, among them the institution of a Women’s Athletic Department;'• Since • its ' inception, the Department has nurtured the growth of club sports and has even witnessed
28
the transition of some club sports to varsity status, most notably basketball and fencing. However, club sports still remain the backbone of the Women’s Athletic Program and a subject worthy of our interest.
The Women’s Field Hockey Club recently finished its third campaign, posting a 5-7-1 mark. The team, stricken by the flu bug and academic wars, was affected somewhat as it lost both of its contests in the Indiana State Tourney — one of the losses at the hands of powerful Indiana. But. Club President Patty DeCoste praised the performance of the team and lauded the efforts of Co-captains Mary Hums, ; Sue ' Me-Glynn, and Terry Rooney. Currently, the club plays both varsity and club teams from the Midwest and despite the loss of six seniors, DeCoste remains optimistic about the upcoming season. “The goal of the club is to improve each year,” she stated.; When asked to weigh the possibilities of becoming a varsity sport, she was very pessimistic, saying, “I don’t think it’s very likely.” It seems safe to assume that this club shall retain its status for the time being.
In their initial season, Notre Dame’s women harriers placed fifth; out of eight teams in the Golden Triangle Quadrangular meet at Ypsilanti, Michigan. “The team really did well this year,” bubbled Club President Helen Weber, adding that ... Purdue, Indiana, and Indiana State provided stiff competition. The enthusiastic group trained hard, running 40 miles a week for the aforementioned- contest..as well as for. two dual meets this season. Foremost among the womens'harriers cited by Weber: was freshman: Mag-gie;Lally, younger;sister of basketball standout, .Carol Lally. / ;
: The . Women’s .Track. Club ; completed' its first season last spring by competing; bin H the ihUSTFA ' nationals (United ; States Track and Field /Association Championships); Weber -lauded the efforts of javelin thrower; Mary Holmes; who; came within inches:of placing, third; The Track Club, feels Weber, “can attain varsitystatus within five years,' maybe i less.’’She went: on; to say. the women 'must show interest before any move will be made by the Athletic Board." With’ a-strong' core' 'of freshman runners," the future looks auspicious for ■ the Track Club 'arid
the Cross-Country Club as well.
Unfortunately, the prognosis is not the same for the Women’s Volleyball Club, which has seen its membership dwindle from 40 members down to 12. Beth LaRocca, president of the Volleyball Club, attributed this to the start of women’s basketball season and another problem which plagues many organizations, the lack of strong leadership. Explaining the problem, LaRocca felt that there was talent on the team, but the leadership to bring it out was lacking. The spikers experienced a rough season, losing to St. Mary’s, Butler, and St. Joseph’s among other varsity squads. The club is in need of equipment and could benefit from the designation of a practice area; benefits which are endowed on varsity sports. With players like Co-captains Kathy Lew and Nancy Maloney, as well as stalwart Carmella Walker, . perhaps varsity status is not really out of the question.
On the whole, Women’s Club Sports are in need of better equipment and would stand to benefit from increased use of Notre Dame’s fine athletic facilities. There is talent in all of the clubs, but it seems to be of an unknown quantity due to a lack of sufiicient competition. Since interest in the sport seems to affect competition, we have the makings of a complex situation for the Athletic De-. partment, which justifiably withholds funds unless interest is exhibited by the women; Nevertheless, the future of Women’s Club Sports is questionable, but one should realize that the very mature of club sports at Notre Dame is tenuous. :	bf/':
< : In comparison to the women’s programs, the men’s 'club ; sports , seem to be on terra firma, as 'witnessed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. The Sailing Club is the University’s oldest club;sport'dating- back approximately: 100 years :;ago.’.'According to Commodore Bill'. Kostoff,;; things are proceeding .well’for the Irish sailors, who were ranked 10th - in the nation last'year. This high1 ranking can be attributed to a solid training regimen which' features a' lesson program"for novices'; during. : weekends of the season (fall and spririg); The club: is very active, eritering one or two regattas' each' weekend' during -the course of' the season/ Over October break, the club ' competed in a match race (ran! in 20-foot'keel
vrtil Scholastic
boats) off Long Beach, California, and has just qualified for the Timmes, a major fall regatta. But the team always aims for the elimination regatta in the spring which sends its top two finishers to the nationals. The Sailing Club is very competitive ; and ? has fared well against Navy, Yale, and Harvard, all of which have varsity teams. In view . of such circumstances, one might, think that Kostoff would welcome the mantle of varsity status. “I’m ; not sure,” he said, adding that, “the funds would help because the team travels by car.” Presently, membership dues, donations, and contributions are the major sources of income for the club. However,. Kostoff pointed out that the club was satisfied.with the relaxed atmosphere which presently, exists. Furthermore, despite the- loss of All-American Buzz Reynolds, Kostoff feels that the: Sailing Club has, the. cohesive-: ness every successful team needs to, remain competitive. .
Not to be confused with;the Irish Sailing -Club; is the Irish Rowing. Club, a: fine organization in. its .own right.,. The - Ro wing Club has. supported a men’s team since-1965 and a women’s team since 1972. The dedication of Notre Dame rowers is ■unflinching because the members; must;face the oars, at 5:30 each morning.; But Club President Paul Shafer,; feels that practice has paid, off; because; the. Irish finished . 12th out of 40 teams in a race at Boston. last October 23. The Irish are classified as an intermediate; crew, as, a result of its; showings this autumn (the, classifications are Elite, Senior,, Intermediate, and.Novice), and will work; arduously .with the weights this winter in the hopes of becoming Elite.; The spring season, ; which. is, climaxed by the Dad-Vales in Philadelphia and. the /Wisconsin Sprints,-should_.be: a . successful one:for the’ Irish ; return - eight ; oarsman and size, is a factor '.in . crew. Shafer, lauded-the efforts; of Al Caccavale' (men’s coach) and Jody Gormley (women’s coach) ;for. their outstand-, ing volunteer work. Schaeffer went on to say that the Irish would welcome varsity status because of the cost of boats. > A boathouse is needed, also,' r if the Irish: hope to \ compete with- the likes of Harvard and M.I.T.
Another club in its initial year is the Weight Lifting Club.-According
November 18, 1977
to Club President Pete Malench,.,the Lions, champions of the Midwest, club is in the process of organizing. The Rugby. Club participates ,in 10 another, interhall meet similar to the. to 12 matches each year, including a
one held last spring. If such a meet does materialize, watch; ■,out for Lenny Larcara, Larry Graziani, Tom Frerick,' Dave Miller, Mark Meyer, and; Mark, Hug. If: Malench is: successful in finding, competition for: the Irish iron pumpers, they will be more than able to hold their own. - '
Another successful: organization,, the Lacrosse Club will - be shooting for: its. best mark' since: the 1973 stickers posted a'10-1slate. After a fall scrimmage and a match against: the University of Chicago, the Fighting Irish will, take on several varsity and club;teams in the. spring. With such solid returnees, as tri-captains Pat Clynes, Jim Scarola, and Mike Kinsella, .the . likes . of Ohio . State,-. Michigan State,- and: the Air Force Academy had better beware. John Murphy, Jim Romanelli, ; and: Jim: Walsh help; spearhead the/ Irish attack. : Club . President Rich: Mazzei seemed optimistic about the upcoming: season, saying, “We are only a-couple of players away.” Mazzei was a;little pessimistic when: asked about the possibility of varsity status, saying, that the club would welcome the money and the chance to play varsity teams,, but he deemed the possibility unlikely at .this point.
Perhaps the most famous of all club sports is rugby. The Irish “ruggers”, compete mostly against other, clubs at the intercollegiate level although they do tangle with , association teams (usually composed of older men) such as the. Chicago
tournament in which they;play three or, four, games, each weekend;; Club President,Tony Mendiola:cited Tom Byrnes,, Kevin, Corcoran, Rob Kef-fler, Mike , McGlynn,: and John; O’Connell as the outstanding, play-, ers. on the team. Mendiola feels that everyone dikes the: club as it stands and, could not:,see the-prospect of varsity status.-, ;“It’s; easy, going; we play hard and:party hard.” I-can see; why j they want ■ things - to stand
■pat.-
Another, new. group is the Judo Club, which will offer, a Free University course next spring, according to John Mahon,,, Club President and Third : Degree Brown / Belt. '■ Mahon feels that.; for..now, the , members need to learn the basics before the club can actively compete with other, judo j clubs.; Vice-President: ; Curt Hench; feels .that the club is merely trying to whip. - the members: into shape, teach them self-discipline as well as judo, along with a bit of oriental, philosophy and .martial arts. How do the members like it? Well, Meg, a novice, replied, “I really enjoy it — you know? Especially the gymnastics.” -	,
Perhaps this young lady really drove the point home. Club sports are for the enjoyment or everyone.
Ron Hunter is a Stanford Hall sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. This is the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania natives first contribution to Scholastic.
29
Book Review
One would think that there could hardly be need for another book on marriage, Christian or otherwise. Most marriage manuals, coming from a relativistic humanism which offers personal fulfillment in selfindulgence combined with moderate self-sacrifice, would serve best as fire kindling. Official Roman Catholic Church publications have overcome their explicit condemnation of sex for pleasure in marriage, but remain largely antiseptic. In Marriage Among Christians, A Curious Tradition, Father James T. Burtchaell has brought his steady and insightful theological perspective together with the opinions of his eight married co-authors to present a warm and challenging vision of Christian marriage.
“For Better, For Worse,” is the title of Burtchaell’s own first chapter of the book, and it is, appropriately, the book’s theme for Christian marriage. Burtchaell notes that in nearly all marriage ceremonies today, including civil ones, the couple pledges commitment unto death, but means, in fact, only that they hope for lifelong marriage— rather like hoping to do good instead of deciding to do good. The key pledge of “marriage unto death” is the primary concern of all of the authors of this book. Not that this pledge is a guarantee of success in marriage, but that it is the first requirement for meaningful marriage.
Some liberal Catholic theologians might label this theology of marriage as too strict because it does not allow for remarriage after divorce. Burtchaell writes “. . . Jesus, in repudiating divorce, is commending a radically different sort of marriage. One would bind oneself to a person, rather than to a specific set of conditions or duties. ... Jesus calls men and women to a union that is more frightening because the legitimate claims on one’s generosity are open-ended.” The effect of the open-endedness of this
30
risk is to demand and allow individuals to “become better than they are wont to be.” In Christian marriage one cannot delimit the areas and capacities of one’s loving. The spouse’s needs must be met, whatever they are.	;
Margery Frisbie, in her chapter “The Power of the Promise,” relates how the pledge of fidelity has permitted her and her husband to grow to their full humanity. .“[My husband’s] fidelity to me has confirmed my striving, my stumbling, my struggles, my advances. Without it, I think the best part of me would have shrunk and faded, the worst might have stretched and swollen. For my most human impulses, my direct responses to experience, have not been cut down and left to wither. They have been protected by the knowledge that there is another who accepts them for what I mean them to be.” The greatest of the individual’s potentials may be fulfilled within the security of a marriage, a fidelity, that is pledged to be permanent.
Yet one might object that. this offers little consolation for those trapped in unrewarding marriages. Rosemary Haughton replies, in her chapter “Marriage: An Old, New Fairy Tale,” that the problem is Western people’s tendency to view marriage in terms of trying to live out the Romantic Myth: that the only valuable relationship between a man and a woman is one filled with love, passion, and joy. The trouble is that the Romantic Myth is inadequate, says Haughton; it fails to value human experiences of suffering and perseverance. Haughton proposes the Hero Myth, where fidelity to “the cause” is valued as a superior paradigm for Christian marriage. Heroic marriage can withstand suffering and give meaning to the family unit. It is the risk of transforming personal sacrifice which makes Christian marriage worthy of human effort.
One might wonder why this book,
' by Jim Romanelli
which calls fidelity necessary for Christian marriage and which cherishes desire for children, has no Imprimatur or Nihil Obstat, official Church sanctions, stating that the book is free from doctrinal error. Perhaps Burtchaell’s stand on birth control is the cause for this. He applauds Pope Paul VI’s intention in “trying to argue, to a world unwelcoming to children, ; that marriage and sex were wrong and selfishly perverted if intentionally closed to childbearing.” Unlike Pope Paul, however, Burtchaell feels that the rhythm method of birth control should be called “artificial” and direct contraception should be called “natural.” He argues, “it matters less whether any single act of sex be open to conception than whether the entire sequence (not of a month but of a lifetime) of giving and sex and marriage be open to family.” This seems to be a most reasonable and wholesome attitude towards birth control; it is unfortunate that a few Catholics who could use this book, which is ideal for pre-Cana programs and any serious study of Christian marriage, might not .do so because it lacks review by Rome.
What sets Marriage Among Christians apart from the multitude of books on marriage is its sense of vision rooted in the real lives and family experiences of its authors. Burtchaell’s first chapter could stand alone as a holistic and articulate expression of Christian marriage. The book is, however, enhanced by the viewpoints of its many married authors. It is challenging and well-balanced—and presents a vision of marriage appropriate for those who truly desire permanent marriage.
• Jim Romanelli is a former Culture Editor of Scholastic, and a preprofessional major also in theology. He and his wife, Phyllis, reside in University Village. .
Scholastic
An invitation to College Students and High School Seniors:
There is a Mary knoll missioner in Indiana ready to talk to you about your career as a missioner overseas.
<
From his experience in Maryknoll’s Philippines missions, Father Bowers is qualified to describe the mission career, and to help evaluate your prospects for success and happiness in it. Mail the coupon to Father Bowers, or telephone him to arrange a career interview in the Indiana area.
Mail the coupon or phone to arrange a career interview.
To Father Philip Bowers
Maryknoll Missioners
Campus Ministry Office, 535 State Street, W. Lafayette, In. 47906
Phone (317) 743-2911
Please arrange an interview for me to discuss my career as a Maryknoller
NAME
ADDRESS _
CITY
STATE
ZIP CODE
AGE  PHONE
CLASS
SCHOOL
YEAR OF GRADUATION
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 Please send me a subscription to SCHOLASTIC for ..... years at $5.00 a year..
Let your friends
and family know
I am enclosing $...
.CASH
....CHECK
what’s going on at N.D
Name.
Send them a subscription
Address.
of Scholastic magazine.
City.
State.
Zip.
Only $5.00 per year.