1867 - 1992
A century ahead of the competition.
Parents - Alumni - Fans Subscribe to Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Follow the Fighting Irish and keep up with campus events as Scholastic celebrates our 125th anniversary!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:	■
Name:_________________________
Address:______________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
■
________CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
5	Swans
6	Cape Fear
NEWS
7	Selling the Shirts Off of Their Backs
CAMPUS LIFE ■
10	A Man of the People
SPORTS
14	A frustrating Ending
16	National Champions : 1953
DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
3	Editorial
4	Campus Watch
12	Coming Distractions
18	On Other Campuses
19	Behavior Modification
20	Week In Distortion
22	Glancing Back
24	Final Word
NOVEMBER 21,1991
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol 133, No. 12
November 21, 1991
Qisce Quasi Semper daturas ■ Quasi Gras Mdritufus.
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian: Mitchell : .	.
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda ..
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle .
NEWS :	X’ -/.X
Editor: Margaret Kenny - ” <
Assistant: Denisse Marion-Landais
' CAMPUS LIFE
Editor: Elizabeth Baytion? :.
■SPORTS
Editor; Jon Paul Potts . ".. \ /■Assistant: Ji hi Ku ser.'	:	z
ENTERTAINMENT
: Editor/Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS :
.Editor: Michael'Owen X; fAssi^ntX
PHOTOGRAPHY J ' EditortPaul Webb: X Assistant: Nick Spangler
COPYEDITOR
Anne Mary Klem
‘SENIOR STAFF WRITERS :'C
ChrisBlanford,Anianda Clinton, Jeff Jotz,: ' J; Bradley Keck, Pete McGiliicyddyrMarfcella
Ruiz-Cruz, Jenriy Tate, Heidi Laura Toboni' / ZG^pHlp^
■Jeanne	;;;;A--iy, -■'
Staff Writers Recognized
This week a few more names have been added to the masthead at left; they’re Scholastic’s senior staff writers. These reporters and reviewers were selected by section editors for their writing skills and dedication. Whiletheydon’tgetpaid,being selected as a senior staff writer is our way of showing that their contributions to the magazine don’t go unnoticed. More names may be added to the list as the year progresses and more writers reach that “all-star” status.
All-star or first-timer, Scholastic is always looking for more writers, and we’re also interested in expanding outadvertising sales staff. If you’re interested in joining, please give us a call at 239-7569.
In This Issue
This week’s cover story by Mollie Mudd takes a look at a common (and often illegal) form of campus commerce — t-shirt sales. (Note to student affairs: The guy on the cover is just a model.)
Over in Campus Life, writer Nicole Pelle inteviews Fr. Richard McBrien, an outspoken professor in ND’s theo department In Sports, Jessica Ziembroski takes a look at a sport that’s off the beaten track (sorry) — Cross Country running.
In Entertainment, Scholastic’s “editor-in-exile,” Dave Holsinger, sends in a music review from Austria, while Noah Cooper reviews Cape Fear. And last but certainly not least, check out our weekly columns: Week In Distortion, CampusWatch, On Other Campuses, Glancing Back and the Final Word.
Can’t Find the Comics?
Don’t panic, the cartoons are still with us. Brian Muller’s resignation has left us with two weekly panels by Scott Liebertz and i Steve Duenes, which this week have been I displaced to the bottom half of page 21.	!
Brian’s departure also means we’ve got ■ space to fill with another student cartoonist If you’re interested, why not apply? Even if you’ve applied before, I’d encourage you to try again. To apply, please drop off three sample cartoons (panels or strips with an ND angle, please) at the office on the third floor of LaFortune. By the end of the semester, we	I
hope to have one or two new cartoons to run alongside Scott and Steve’s work.
We’re Weekly, But...
Due to Thanksgiving break, next week there will be no issue of Scholastic. You’ll miss us, but don’t worry—Notre Dame’s student magazine will return on Dec. 5. Happy Turkey Day!
Ian Mitchell Editor in Chief
'LAYOUTMANAGER Rebecca Armbuster:
>SYSTEM^MAbiAGER;a:?
‘ADVERTISING;;^^
/WSINESS^^XX^^ /Manager^Scqit Ecker;. A&isfent; PaulShuga- <:
-DlS^
\ Bifl Rhomlferg; S/r
Scholasi ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al Ute Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rode is $25.0tyyearand back issues are available at $125 jeopy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are wdcome. All unsolidlied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writ er *s name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. ’ ’
Scholasi ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United States. Scholastic also will edit for copy jilting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to; .
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556

2
SCHOLASTIC

EDITORIAL
The Honor Code Deserves Respect
It all looked so easy in the movie: a pencil tap, a shout of “honor,” and cheating would come screeching to a halt Right And at about the same time, the fiery netherworld of the damned would also experience a distinct cold snap.
Real life isn’t like the honor code instructional video. The code looks great on the screen, but a little less attractive in the classroom.
Students usually complain about the provision which requires nontolerance of dishonesty (we used to call it “snitching” in grade school): “If a student tolerates dishonesty, he or she is in violation of the Code of Honor. If aware of a likely Code of Honor violation, a student must take responsible action.” English translation: “narc” on the cheaters. Some students say this spying smacks of Orwellianism. The complaint has some merit, but it’s not grounds for scrapping the code entirely.
The honor code has always been apetprojectof Fr. Hesburgh, and was passed as a big going-away present when he stepped down from the university’s presidency. There has been an honor code in the past at Notre Dame, and there are honor codes at other universities that work. The code we have here and now just needs a little support and time to work.
No one’s arguing they should be allowed to cheat (although whether signing a pledge saying “I’m not cheating” really proves anything is a good question.) And most ND students are basically honest Most Notre Dame students are above complex codecoughing systems (one for true, two for false) or elaborate note-smuggling schemes.
But we’re not beyond reproach. There is some cheating at Notre Dame. And you can deliver the “When you cheat, you’re only cheating yourself’
NOVEMBER 21,1991
speech till you’re blue in the face, but the “cheat sheets” and surreptitious glances won’t be stopping anytime soon.
Cheating, however distasteful, is a part of life. No one lives above reproach: Ever lie on your taxes? Ever drive above the posted speed limit? Ever get too much change back at the store and not return it? Ever jaywalk? Ever fail to use your turn signal when changing lanes on an interstate highway? You’ve broken the law.
Asking students to report dishonesty doesn’t seem like such a bad idea. People who say it smacks of Nazi Germany are overreacting by a mile; it’s basically the same principle as dialing 288-STOP on a smaller scale. The problem with the honor code is that it doesn’t ask students to turn offender in, it requires them to. Asking is one thing, ordering is another. You can’t curb rulebreaking by ordering students to snitch on offenders.
Notre Dame is a Catholic university and it should teach ethics and morality. But most freshmen come to school with value systems already in place, and it’ll take some work to get them to honor the honor code.
The code needs more support than just a video showing, it needs a tradition of respect from students and faculty. But respect won’t come until the code is a little more established under the Dome. It should be refined and examined before it’s renewed this year, then it should be explained to university applicants and discussed in detail with freshmen in class, in dorms and at special presentations.
Pencil-tapping and shouting aside, honor does have a place at Notre Dame.
-Scholastic
a
s
NEWS COMMENTARY
CampusM^tc/?
BY THE GIPPER
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Minority Student Yearbook Update Remember a few months back when a classified ad appeared in that other publication asking for help organizing a minority student yearbook? According to the classified, the book “would serve as a supplement to The Dome. This yearbook would cover the minority activities on campus (i.e. Black Images, the fashion show, ISO Festival, etc.)”
Now, the Gipper remembers that shortly after that ad appeared, a parody version was printed advertising for a “white student yearbook” and giving a fake name and number to call. A few days later, a letter to the editor from The Dome clarified that the minority student supplement was not affiliated with The Dome, the university’s official yearbook. But other than those two responses, the Gipp’s heard nothing about what had become of the whole idea, so as usual, he dispatched the crack CampusWatch squad to investigate.
Patti Cushing, the student organizing the supplement, said that plans for a 1991-’92 minority yearbook had to be scrapped due to a lack of funds. Cushing said that she hoped that a 1992-’93 minority supplement would be produced, and added that she had spoken to various university groups, including the Black Alumni of Notre Dame. She said that this year would be devoted to fundraising to make next year’s publication possible.
Commencement Speaker Search Commences
Wonder who the university’s gonna get to send off its graduates in the Sesquicenten-nial Year? Inquiring Gipps want to know, so he dispatched a high-ranking staff CampusWatcher for a quick investigation. The answer in short form: wedon’tknow— yet.
When contacted, senior class president
4
Jennifer Switzer explained that the decision could come soon. (By university standards, that is.) According to Switzer, last spring associate provost Isabel Charles, asked her for a list of student nominees for recipients of honorary degrees. (While honorary degrees are given to people other than the commencement speaker, Switzer said she viewed this as a round-about way of asking for student input on the choice of speaker.)
The class newsletter asked students to give their top three choices for the speaker, and according to Switzer, about 600 ballots were returned. Switzer said the names of the top eight or nine vote-getters were given to Charles, who forwarded them to university president Fr. Malloy. Switzer said that Charles told her that the final “decison is totally Father Malloy’s decision.”
Now here’s where things begin to get a little cloudy. Switzer said she thought that Malloy took his ii st of names to the board of trustees for their comment and approval at their last meeting. After that approval, the process of sending out inquiries to discover which of the candiates is actually free to speak begins. The university may be waiting to announce the speaker until after all the recipients of honorary degrees have been chosen and may announce the identity of the commencement speaker later than last year, Switzer said.
Anyways, Switzer said that the student inputportion of the process was finished. So who did the seniors of Notre Dame pick to be their graduation speaker? Switzerpromised to send the list later, but did mention some names of big vote-getters she remembered seeing on it (in no particular order): Mikhail Gorbachev, Colin Powell, Norman Schwartzkopf (balloting was just after the war, remember), George Bush, Margaret Thatcher and Pope John Paul II. To squelch
one rumor making the rounds, Switzer also said that Charles told her the odds of getting the pope at ND were “next to nothing.” Well, it never hurts to ask.
Notre Dame Callers, Dial 288-STOC? Hey, Wait a Minute...
Security on campus is certainly no laughing matter. A booklet giving personal safety tips, entitled “How to be ‘Streetwise’ and Safe,” is available from the Notre Dame Security/Police. The pamphlet also lists the numbers to call to reach security in an emergency. This list is especially helpful since the numbers to call to reach security vary from prefix to prefix (in other words, the number for 283- phones is different from the number for239- or284- phones). But the Gipper found one teensy little miniscule flaw with one of the numbers listed in the booklet. Specifically, it’s wrong.
Dialling “239-4444” won’t get you Security, just some annoying beeping sounds. (The correct number is 283-4444.) Now, that’s a minor error, but finding the right number in an emergency isn’t a minor matter, it could mean the difference between life and death.
The correct numbers from 283- phones: Security: 4444 Fire: 2222. From 239-phones, dial: Security: 5555 Fire: 6200. At Saint Mary’s: Security: 5000 Fire: 2396200. Write them down and tape ‘em to the phone; your Uncle Gipp worries about you.
Don’t Zip Your Lip — Tip The Gipp!
If you’ve got inside information that everyone on the outside ought to hear about, give your news tips, story ideas or puzzling questions to the Gipper: send him a message via campus mail (303 LaFortune), drop off a note at the office (2-5 p.m., Monday-Friday) or call (239-7569).	□
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
Dave "Dave" Holsinger tells us the true meaning of angst
by Dave Holsinger
1? m beginning to hate the Big Puddle.
It’s hard enough trying to write music reviews when the dang socialist government here in Austria makes CDs twice as expensive as they are back home, but then I find out that I’m always a week too late getting my stuffin. Primeexample: Ihadareviewofthe new Chili Peppers album typed and ready to go when what should fall across my desk but a review of that same album, already in Scholastic.
I already have to suggest that the music scene over here is less than extraordinary unless you happen to live in Berlin (or maybe Munich), but 99 percent of Austrians have never heard of H.P. Zinker, the finest band ever to tread their nation’s soil, and the one percent that have heard of them don’t seem to like them all that much. I guess when you realize that David Hasselhoff (yes, the guy from “Knight Rider”) dominates their Top 40, there must be something a little bit wrong.
Anyway, on a recent expedition over the boarder to Germany, land of Einstuerzende Neubauten and cheaper CDs, I was forced with a tough album-purchasing choice. Since I’m now a resident of the country that invented angst (and I can use that word without shame in a review now), I immediately went for the latest in the world of gloom and doom. An unbridled rush of pleasure swept over me when I found a new compilation issued exclusively in Europe (I think) entitled Beggar's Banquet — The Collection. My favorite doom-monger label had put together a double CD set of tunes and bands that could make even the biggest Dieter clone want to run out and hug a tree. Unfortunately, I already had 90 percent of
the stuff on the compilation and didn’treally want to waste the 50 Deutschmarks for Gary Numan’s “Cars” and a couple other oddities. If you have the means, I would highly recommend picking up a copy anyway, though. Bands from Loop to Bauhaus to Buffalo Tom, all on one incredible piece of plastic-encased metal alloy.
What I chose as an alternative source of
depression was the newest album from Swans, which has already been released for some time, but I know nobody else is going to review it.
Swans are a band out of the only place that can legitimately get away with being more morbid than Austria, namely, New York City. Combining inventive, layered guitar and synthesizer sounds with bitterly sarcastic lyrics and a singer/songwriter more authentically depressed than any Gothic groaner in recent memory, Swans have a sound that is instaindy either cathartic or completely annoying, depending on what kind of mood you’re in. Realize that this band did a cover of “Love Will Tear Us Apart” that was even more dismal than the
Joy Division original. If you’re up for it, “White Light from the Mouth of Infinity” comes to at a level of intensity and mean-spirited insight which strikes a raw nerve like few albums can. If you don’t like this kind of thing, this album will probably sound to you like the Sisters of Mercy having an exceptionally rotten day and making you hear all about it. Choose your attitude, and read on.
Titles alone speak for the power and stinging commentary included in this album: “Better Than You,” “Song for Dead Time” and “Why Are We Alive” are just a few of the delectably evil tunes offered up by Swans mastermind Michael Gira and company. This is true angst, in the real German sense of the word, without all of the black turtleneck posturing. Lyrics from “Better Than You” should make this clear: “You never knew me and you never will/When nothing’s there, nothing is concealed/I’m so glad I’m better than you.”
Even though I can’t offer Scholastic readers any new musical' finds from the country that invented neurosis and depression, be reassured that there are still people around who are bummed enough to create great music. Maybe we’re just better ad-justedasasociety than these people. I mean, the suicide rate here is mush higher than back home. If I could just convince some of the natives that picking up a guitar is abetter way to combat depression than hurling themselves out windows...	□
Dave is currently trying to get a job as one of David Hasselhoff s roadies just so he can hear the Hassel-man’s European mega-hit "Je Taime Means I Love You" every day.
NOVEMBER 21,1991
5
MOVIE
by Noah Cooper
(Taxi
Driver,

Let 1991 be known as the year of the complicated psychopath, or rather the year of evil incarnate. The year has
; brought us Hannibal Lecter of Silence of the	with her, and it is obvious that only his
Lambs, and now we meet Max Cady, Robert De Niro’s grinning menace from Martin Scorsese’s new film, Cape Fear, Viewers are now infatuated with getting inside the psychopath’s mind and trying to
figure out what gives him so much pleasure in his crimes. It is as if we want to see and feel what it would be like to act on some of our aggressive instincts. If this is the latest craze in American film, then Max Cady brings home the entrails, if you will, in one of the most powerful, absolutely evil characters to rage across the screen.
Max has just been let out from fourteen years in jail for the brutal rape of a sixteen year old girl, and would like nothing better than to take out his aggression on the family of his criminal attorney, Sam Bowden (Nick Nolte, in what may be the best performance of his career). Indeed skies him black and lightening ominously flashes over his head as he leaves prison, walking directly into Scorsese’s lens as if his hate would envelop each of us. Max, during his spare time in jail (when he was not being sodomized, as Max so eloquently states a number of times during die film), took over his own defense and found out about Sam’s dismissal of evidenceabout the rape victim’s promiscuity.
Max then launches a terrifying harassment against the Bowden family. He poisons the dog, breaks a key on the piano and stalks the family during a parade. He masterfully plays, or rather, preys upon the various conflicts within the Bowden household. He says to Sam, “I have what you have” and makes good on his statement Sam’s infidelity to his wife, Leigh (Jessica Lange), caused the family to move to the small town of New Essex, N.C. Now Sam is seeing a co-worker, but not yet having sex
family is keeping him from it Max has no problem with his sexuality—in fact, Max is a very overpowering symbol of male sexuality as the many graphic phallic symbols in the film show.
Max also plays on Leigh’s dissatisfaction with her love life. After Sam fails to please her in bed, Leigh glances out the window to see Max propped up on the wall like a demented angel waiting to take her to the promised land of sexual satisfaction. Fireworks explode behind him, he smokes an enormous cigar and wears the mischievous grin of a fourteen-year-old looking at a pornographic magazine.
Leigh is not the only one in the Bowden family who has a yearning for what Max can provide. Sam’s daughter Danielle is also attracted to the animal sexuality Max exudes. Pretending to be Danielle’s drama teacher, Max meets her alone on a fairy-talelike set in her high school theater. There he kisses her and, disgustingly so, makes her suck on his thumb, giving her a way to get back at her restrictive father by using her coveted sexuality. It is an amazing scene of unmitigated evil corrupting absolute innocence.
These many conflicts force the Bowdens to flee their home for a much too lengthy climax aboard the Bowden houseboat. The ending, however, does not disappoint in terms of thrills and outright terror.
Scorsese proves once again to be a genius behind the camera. His stark cuts between scenes and fast-moving camera jolt the viewer almost as much as Max. He gives us great underwater shots during the houseboat scene and a wonderful scene where Max seems to be part of the movie Problem Child as he annoys the Bowden family at a theater. No one can direct De Niro like Scorsese
GoodFellas), as he lets the camera play on De Niro’s extraordinary talents.
Once again, De
Niro proves there is no better actor working today. He lifted more weights than Chris Zorich to prepare his body for the role (much as he gained sixty pounds to play Al Capone), and his energy in this complex role is boundless. He simultaneously quotes
from Nietzsche and tells Sam to read the Book of Job while unleashing the classic De Niro fury in unparalleled fits of rage. His very appearance toward the end of the film gives the viewer a sense that Satan himself has been captured on camera, so decisively does De Niro define evil. While it is not De Niro’s best performance (Raging Bull still has that honor), Cape Fear shows what an truly enchanting and compelling performance he can deliver.
The supporting castis outstanding. Lange is terrific whether accusing Sam or nervously fidgeting while she waits for Max to show up again. Nolte is superb as he unravels before the camera, frantically trying to patch his life together Lewis expertly portrays the classic, spacey/confused teenage bundle of hormones. Joe Don Baker overacts his role as detective for the family. Perhaps Scorsese identifies with the American public and wants to see evil, especially unbridled evil like Max, triumph over good every once in a while. The parallels between Max and Sam are evident throughout the film, and by its end, it is not clear who is more evil.
Yet evil is there and alive again in the psychopathic spirit of Hannibal Lecter. As much as I enjoyed Lecter, I believe he has met his equal in Max Cady and an excellent horror/thriller film in Cape Fear. □ Noah Cooper encourages any and all rumors that over the USC weekend, Julia Roberts was seen sneakingout of his dorm room after parietals looking exhausted but wearing a huge smile on her face.
6
SCHOLASTIC
I
NEWS
Setting
Shirts oj nedr
Selling unlicensed t-shirts is considered illegal by the university. Yet students are still willing to take the chance...
by Mollie Mudd
he use of Notre Dame’s licensed J. trademarks without university approval is illegal and has recently caused lawsuits to be filed against infringing companies, also causing student entrepreneurs, who make and sell the illegal t-shirts to receive university action.
Notre Dame owns the trademark to the following words and symbols, which are not allowed to be printed without the university’s permission:
“University of Notre Dame
“Notre Dame”
“Fightin(g) Irish”
The Leprechaun
The University Seal
The Golden Dome
The Official Class Ring and others
One particular counterfeiting and infringement of trademarks claim was filed in January 1991 against Creative Apparel, Inc., a Long Island-based clothing/sportswear manufacturer. Creative Apparel had manufactured and sold sweatshirts and t-shirts bearing the trademarks of Notre Dame as well as the University of Sothem California,
UCLA and Ohio University without obtaining licenses from the institutions.
In early April, the universities received a $200,000 court judgement and barred Creative Apparel from any future manufacture or sale of goods bearing their trademarks.
Several other large lawsuits with other large businesses and prominent universities have been filed. In Los Angeles, the Living Stich company was manufacturing baseball caps illegally. Notre Dame joined with Adidas,Nike, Coca-Cola, theL.A. Dodgers, the Oakland A’s and Georgetown University in a lawsuit.
Also in 1990, Notre Dame, USC, Ohio
State and UCLA, sued “Jo? Rows” for manufacturing t- ? shirts with counterfeited trade- f marks.	■
Besides monetary settlement [ for the trademark infringements, j Carol Kaesebier, assistant gen- f eral counsel to the university,: said that in order to protect Notre Dame trademarks, the university ; also chooses to “not license in- * fringers, for obvious reasons.”
Kaesebier also said, in reaction to the manager has “never withheld approval” be-publicity given to these actions, that “we cause the university wants the trademarks to
(the university) want people to know we are active in protecting our trademarks. We want our licensed companies, who are paying royalties, to know that we are aggressive in protection of our name.” All of the publicity seemed to be positive, in this effect, she said.
On a local level, student organizations, clubs and university departments are held under separate licensing arrangements. Joe Cassidy, director of student activities, described the application process that students must use in order to get “bookstore approval” for the use of specific trademarks. “It is an easy process... students just fill out
for selling shirts,
Tthe form, attach ; their artwork and . Iname their sup- : Iplier for trade-mark approval.” ’ i Cassidy said J that “we have not : ;yet had an indi-- vidual club that 1 had unapproved j merchandise.”
The bookstore
NOVEMBER 21,1991
be used legally, he continued, if they are going to be used.
Businesses like “It’s Tops” and “PJ. Marketing Services, Inc.” are licensed by the university to print the approved trademarks for student groups or departments. “The university is not releasing their trademarks to them for their own products; it is only allowing them to print students’ t-shirts,” Cassidy said.
In printing students’ t-shirts, “The supplier does not have to pay a royalty to the university,” Cassidysaid. “Though, if a university department is having a shirt printed, then a royalty must be paid,” which increases costs for the supplier as well as the department “We try to make fund-raisers as profitable (for the students) as possible. In effect, we’re really taxing ourselves,” Cassidy added. Without payingroyalties for printing students’ shirts, the students’ price is low and they can increase their profits by keeping them all for their organization, not to pay the supplier.
Though the application and approval process for trademark usage seems so easy for student organizations, there are individual students that attempt, many successfully, to create and sell their own unlicensed t-shirts for their personal profit.
These students, who wish to remain anonymous, gave one main reason for violating Du Lac’s policy against the manufacture and sale of unliscensed t-shirts: “To make money.”
BOir Lac
7- cdritaiii wor dsg Me pi ctureSy; s jrmR
jMLesentii^
Concerning the matter, Du Lac states: “Shirts which contain words, pictures, sym
bols or logos representing Notre Dame ... must be approved,” “no door-to-door sales are permitted” and “individual students are not allowed to sell any items on home football weekends.”
One entrepreneur stated that he was “disgusted with the financial aid situation at this university,” so all of the money he made, from selling about 800 t-shirts “went toward tuition.” “They’re ripping us off, so we, five guys and myself, decided to do something to them.”
There were other reasons for selling illegal t-shirts given by students who have infringed upon the policy. “It’s a cool thing to see people on campus with a shirt you made,” and “It was a challenge; we knew it was illegal, that just made it more appealing.”
The majority of illegal t-shirts are sold for $10, though one group had charged $12. The most successful ways to sell were “wearing your own designed t-shirt,” as well as to “carry a backpack full of them and just pull one out to show.” The most popular selling techniques were “door-to-door” in dorms and “at football weekend tailgaters.”
Galvin Kenny
Two students meet on the quad sporting the latest In unlicensed Notre Dame sportswear.
“Timing is everything; get there first with your shirt, and anyone will buy it, but never go before break—no one has any money then,” said a successful salesman.
“Freshmen always buy t-shirts,” said one entrepreneur. “Upperclassmen already have enough t-shirts, they don’t buy many,” he continued. “Saint Mary’s likes to buy ND shirts. One time we sold 75 percent of our t-shirts to them,” said a student who has successfully sold four different t-shirt designs.
The students that sell illegal, unlicensed t-shirts are in danger of disciplinary action against them by the univer-
8
SCHOLASTIC
sity if they get caught Of the students interviewed though, only two said that they had been “asked to leave by an R.A.” “You just have to be careful, especially in girls’ dorms where the.R.A.s are stricter/’ a male salesman said.
If someone gets caught, though, the university will discipline them, Elizabeth Pawlicki, the director of Residence Life said. However, Pawlicki said that being “confronted directly by Security is a more prevalent way of getting caught,” rather
shig season, the university was gble to oil
Hoineless Shelter and the Hope Rescue Mission with confiscated contrabahd shirts J \	; .r
than being turned in by R.A.s and rectors.
Once the student is cited for either “incorporating an unlicensed trademark in their design," or for “going door-to-door,” both direct violations of Du Lac, they are sent to the office of Residence Life where Pawlicki tries “to make a distinction between the two roles of salesman or manufac
turer,” because there are different consequences for these different, roles. The designer is usually making a significant amount of money, wheras the seller is usually only making a dollar a shirt, Pawlicki said.
The designer/manufacturer must “do an accounting of their whole enterprise... then-receipts from supplies, the number of t-shirts confiscated as well as sold and the amount of their profit,” Pawlicki said. The student must “forfeit his profits” though, the
university is nottrying to “make them suffer a financial loss, but trying to restore the status quo,” she added.
Salesmen, on the other hand, are not usually making the same amount of money. Pawlicki says, “They usually suffer a total loss
T-shirts that
or end up in the hole,” after the confiscation of their t-shirts. “Salesmen are set up—the manufacturers are trying to avoid the danger of policies and are taking advantage of the naive seller,” she continued.
“T-shirts are most popular during football season, of course,” Pawlicki said. There are “more t-shirts, the better the team is doing.” During the championship year of 1988, there were so many contraband t-shirts confiscated that the university was able to outfit the ND Homeless Shelter as
well as the Hope Rescue Mission, Pawlicki added.
Joe Cassidy said that Notre Dame “is one of the top trademarks on the country.” Students and businesses that try to market these prominent and popular trademarks illegally though, obviously, suffer the consequences. “The university does grant permission to use ND’s trademarks, students just have to ask — they’d lose a lot less money if they did,”

Scholastic File Photo
Last year's Miami football game sparked a wealth of Illegal t-shirts due to the Immense rivalry.
□
Pawlicki concludes.
ad-
vertlse popular football rivalries are often popular among students.
Galvin Kenny
NOVEMBER 21,1991
9
CAMPUS LIFE
McBrien is spending much of his sabbatical revising and updating a two-volume synthesis of Catholic theology.
Although McBrien has stepped down as chairman of the theology department, he continues in his self-titled role as public theologian
by Nicole Pelle
Published author, weekly columnist, television commentator, college chaplain and professor—ex-chairman of Notre Dame’s theology department Fr. Richard P. McBrien has donned numerous roles. However, McBrien considers himself first and foremost a theologian.
“I myself feel a call to minister to a wider public. Someone has to be able to digest and translate the work of other theologians so that it can be assimilated by a larger audience. The more theology people know, the more they understand their faith,” McBrien commented.
In his distinguished career, McBrien’s efforts to reach this “larger audience” include fourteen published books, an awardwinning syndicated weekly column for the Catholic press, articles and reviews in national publications such as Time,Newsweek, the Chicago Tribune and the New York Times, and the editorship of two different theological encyclopedias. The CBS Evening News and ABC’s Nightline have 10
featured McBrien’s opinions as well.
Thirty years before this flood of exposure, McBrien’s career began in the Archdiocese of Hartford, Conn., as an assistant pastor of Our Lady of Victory Church in West Haven. After a brief stint as chaplain of Southern
“My purpose is to give hope to Catholics who might otherwise be demoralized.”
Connecticut State University, he travelled to Rome where he earned his doctorate in theology from Gregorian University.
McBrien served as professor of theology and dean of studies at Pope John XXIII National Seminary in Weston, Mass, before
joining the faculty of Boston College in 1970 as a professor and, in 1975, as director of its Institute of Religious Education and Pastoral Ministry.
Other distinctions include his tenure as president of the Catholic Theological Society of America and the 1976 John Courtney Murray Award for distinguished achievement in theology. In 1980, then-university president Theodore Hesburgh appointed McBrien chairman of the theology department, a capacity he served until earlier this year. He currently holds the title of Crowley-0’Brien-Walter professor of theology.
Continuing in his self-titled role of “public theologian,” McBrien seeks to reach out to those who feel alienated by the Church’s rigid leadership. A recent Chicago Tribune article cited his belief that most American Catholics oppose a return to strict, pre-Vatican II Catholicism.
“My purpose is to give hope to Catholics who might otherwise be demoralized,” McBrien said, glancing around his book-lined office. A picture of Pope John XXIII
SCHOLASTIC
gracing his desk attests that he regards the man behind Vatican II as the ideal pope. “I respect the present pope, but my hero is John XXIII because he let some fresh air in. He set the Catholic Church on a whole new course; brought it into the twentieth century.”
McBrien’s criticism of the Church’s current hard-line administration sparks much controversy. Conservative detractors label his reformist opinions too liberal. McBrien, on theother hand, feels thatherepresents the mainstream’s opinion in the Church today.
“I am an orthodox and faithful Catholic. On a scale of left to right, I feel that I am a centrist regarding where I am and who I speak for,” he said.
McBrien’s positions on various Church-related issues reflect this centrist point of view. His stance on abortion, for example, strictly adheres to the teaching of the Church.
He opposes excommunicating Catholics who support abortion rights, as Cardenal John O’Connor of New York proposed, while maintaining that abortion is morally wrong. “Itisimmoralbecauseit’sanassault on sacred human life,” he said.
However, he finds fault with extreme right-wing pro-lifers, commenting that “the movement doesn’t understand the difference between moral law and civil law.”
McBrien criticizes the “inconsistencies” of pro-life policy, mentioning the label of abor
Though some detractors label his opinions too liberal, McBrien’s stance on abortion, for example, strictly adheres to the teaching of the Church.
tion as murder. “If abortion is murder, why shouldn’t women who commit abortion go to jail?” he asked.
McBrien gave his views on several other Church-related issues:
Ordination of women. “It’ll come. We’re still in the early stages of the Church. People resist change by saying ‘we never did this before.’” McBrien told the Chicago Tribune that “the alienation of women is the most serious problem the Catholic Church faces today.”
Homosexuality. “Homosexuality in itself is an abnormality. However, being a homosexual doesn’t make you a bad person. Acting on it does. Gays and lesbians have been victimized. I
“On a scale of
left to right, I feel that I am a
centrist regarding where I am and who I
speak for.”
McBrien’s criticism of the Church's current hard-line administration sparks much controversy.
strongly support anti-discrimination legis
lation.”
Married priests. “The question is not whether we should have them, but whether we should restore marriage in the priesthood. We have had married priests in the beginning. The apostles were married, and we have married priests now in both non-
Latin rites and Roman Catholic rites.
“In the first place, it’s right. Secondly, we’re in desperate need of priests, and lastly, we’re losing young men who would have been interested in the priesthood.
“But, because of celibacy, there are too many homosexuals in the priesthood. I’m not saying that they can’t be good priests. They can be and are. However, a celibate priesthood attracts some homosexuals not because they want to help people but because they want to hide behind it.
“Notre Dame as a Catholic university should be a model for support and respect for all people no matter what their sexual orientation. The Church should stand behind the powerless — not approving, but standing with them.”
McBrien is on sabbatical leave this year and next He plans to use this time to revise and update Catholicism, a two-volume synthesis of Catholic theology, catch up on reading in his own field and give occasional lectures.	□
NOVEMBER 21,1991
11
Coming Distractions
11 day calendar
Make sure your event gets listed - send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenede I la at239-7569. The next Coming Distractions calendar will appear in the December 5 issue.
Novem
Lunch: Bend Lunch, 11:30; Social Concer Panel Discuss Morality, and'. They Mix?’’ 4 Galleries.
Panel Discuss to Our Blessec p.m.» Library , Lecture: Terr media artist, 7 Movie: "Stran and 10:30 p.m
Sunday________Monday_______Tuesday_______Wednesday
November 24 Concert: ND University Orchestra, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart. Concert: Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, 7:15 p.m., Washington Hall. Basketball: Women vs. Stanford, JACC. Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story," Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.	November 25 Film: "The Big Heat," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Viridiana," 9:00 pjn., Snite, $2.	November 26 FOUNDING DAY Basketball: Men vs. Butler, JACC.	November 27 Basketball: Women ys. Marquette, 7:30 p.m., JACC.	Noveml THANKS Di
December 1 Concert: Continuum, "Soviet Music Today," 2:00 p.m., Snite,	For More Ihfbfiriation Call: OnCampus	\	'-yd'	d- y. ■ Y LaFortune inflation	Call 239-2500, thenpress:	. Student Union Board: 239-7757 ; . 7 V". /.: ; < ;ext. 2101 for movie information	i Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239^7361	H 4—••	ext.2114for themusicline NewsLine(summaryof campus events): 239-5110	ext,2112fbr^	< JACCTicketlnformation: 239-7354	■	77y ext.,2117 fortheatreinformation - Notre Danae MenuLine:. 283-FOOp	ext;, 2525 for a list of college events ‘ SemdlCl^s;!&9-5136:4	\	7 ' junior Claks:j239-5117	/V: ' ’	:	'	' S6j^ftwreCl&s:;2^	• ydd "•>d. "'ddd d '■ dyd'd yy.'y;/-'I.'- ‘ - > dd 'idd'	L . "; . 'd '' .'d d'. d'dd, '■, :d	: ' ///,	; '/ , y	z; ;z / ’S' /’■; --'I' d'-';	-	: S'?	, '.7 . y	‘ , ■' , / :	‘	'			
Friday ________Saturday
ber 21 it Hospitality a.m., Center for ns. ion: "Art, Journalism: Do ;15p.m O'Shag. ion: "A Tribute i Mother," 7:00 Auditorium. y Allen, mixed-:30 p.m., Snite. geBrew," 8:00 Cushing,J>2.	November 22 Film: "Hamlet," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Festival of African Rhythms: African Songs, Drums, and Dances, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall, $3. Movie: "Robin Hood," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Hockey: vs. Lake Forest, JACC. Basketbail: Women vs. Penn State, 7: 30 p.m., JACC. Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story," Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:00 p.m.	November 23 Film: "Hamlet," 7:00 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Robin Hood," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Performance: "The Buddy Holly Story,'" Morris Civic Auditorium, 2:00 & 8:00 p.m.	Picks of the Week: Of course the ultimate pick would be a trip to Hawaii to watch our football team. But for those short
)er 28	November 29	November 30	of cash, take the short
GIVING 1Y	Recover from yesterday's feast.	FOOTBALL at HAWAII	trip to the JACC
		Concert: Vienna Choir Boys, 7:30 p.m., Moris Civic Auditorium, #284-9190.	and enjoy the efforts of our
			basketball teams. And - enjoy your
			turkey next Thursday!!

'' ■'	Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
'X ' Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
■	University Park CinemaEast: 277-7336
' " <' •' * University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Pull out and save this page!
SPORTS

The men’s cross country team missed a bid to the NCAA meet In Tucson despite being nationally ranked all season.




J"





v y«




8
8




§■


by Jessica Ziembroski
What had seemed a successful season for Notre Dame cross country ended in frustration earlier this week.
Despite some outstanding individual performances and anticipation of a chance to compete nationally, the Irish men’s and women’s seasons ended on a disappointing note. The teams had high hopes travelling to the NCAA district IV meet Novem




ber 16 in Bloomington, Ind. Capturing one
ofthetopthreespotsatthatmeetwouldhave meant advancing to Tucson, Ariz., for the
NCAA championships. The men just missed, finishing in fourth place, while the women placed eleventh. However, the chance for national competition still remained for the men’s team until a controversial decision was made by the NCAA about an their at-large bid.
Though themen “didn’t run as well as we had hoped” at the district meet, according to Coach Joe Piane, Notre Dame awaited an at large bid that is given to three teams enabling them to travel to the championships despite not placing in the top three at district




aio
The women suffered Injuries and Inexperience, but are ready to make a splash next season.
4

competition. Traditionally, these are given
to teams that have been nationally ranked and have been winning all season. The Irish
have been ranked between fifth and tenth nationally all season and until Bloomington, had lost only one race.
“I though that the team had about a fiftyfifty chance of getting the at large bid,” said Piane. “The thing that is crazy is that we were struggling to get out of our district, but I think that we could have been in the top ten in the country at nationals.”
Unfortunately, the team will never get that chance. On November 17, the announcement was made that Notre Dame was denied the at-large bid. The three teams selected
8 a
8


« 2
1
were Tennessee, Dartmouth and Northern Arizona. The at-large bids are decided by a , panel ofninejudges, a mixture of coaches and administrators from around the country. ' There is no set criteria for the selection, but Piane calls the decision “absolutely absurd” because of one of the teams selected over Notre Dame — Northern Arizona.
The team in question was not ranked in the top 25 while
the Irish were ninth at last voting. The de
cision was based upon the fact that the two teams shared a common opponent, Hous
ton, and though both defeated the Cougars, Northern Arizona beat them by a higher margin.
“I do not understand the reasoning,” said a frustrated Piane. “It just makes ho sense.”
There is one bright spot, however. Due to their excellent individual performances, past All-Americans John Coyle, a junior, and Mike McWilliams, a sophomore, will travel alone to Tucson on November 25 for the NCAA national championship meet. At the NCAA district IV meet this past weekend, they finished fourth and fifth respec
14
SCHOLASTIC
tively. Coyle finished with a time of 31.04 with McWilliams directly behind.
“John and I ran well together from start to finish,” said McWilliams. Now the two anxiously await the chance to prove themselves in national competition. The men’s team will continue to train with Coyle and McWilliams until they leave for Tucson.
Last year, the men’s cross country team easily took the team championship at the district IV meet and appeared for the third time in four years at the NCAA championships. Prior to Bloomington, it seemed that the Irish were continuing this streak. During the regular season, they defeated Georgetown, then went on to finish second behind #11 Providence at the National Catholics. The Fighting Irish Harriers also finished first at both the Indiana Intercollegiates and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships. McWilliams and Coyle topped the field of competitors in each of the meets.
Even at the district IV championship meet at which Coyle said, “... team-wise we came up short,” the team finished only fifteen points behind Michigan State which had 106 points in third place, which is not much at a
Junior All-American John Coyle finished fourth this past weekend at the NCAA District IV meet In Bloomington.
“I do not understand the reasoning (behind the men’s team not getting an NCAA invite). It just makes no sense ... it is absolutely absurd.”
— Notre Dame cross country director Joe Piane
national meet. In second place was the University of Michigan and holding the number one spot were the Badgers of Wisconsin. The Irish were faced with one of the strongest and deepest district fields in recent history, with four of the teams in the top twenty in the nation.
It was a tough field and although the season ended with a bad break, the team knows that it had a good season.
The Notre Dame women’s cross country team travelled to Bloomington for the NCAA district IV championship meet against top teams from the Midwest and it proved to be quite a challenge for the young squad.
“We had two people run well, whom ran well for us all year, said coach Tim Connelly, meaning freshman Stefanie Jensen whoplaced 18th, andEvaFlood who placed 25th. “The team did better than we ever have.”
The Irish placed eleventh out of 39 teams.
The season was one of high expectations and ‘The Whiz Kids” as the Notre Dame women’s cross country media guide calls them, suffered a narrow defeat at the MCC Championships, where they lost by two points to Loyola. During the regular season,
Courtesy of Sports Information
they took second at Georgetown, third at the National Catholic meet, and second at both the Notre Dame Invitational and the Indiana Intercollegiates.
A key injury during the season that influenced the team’s performance was suffered by Emily Husted who endured a spiral fracture in her foot on November 2 and was unable to compete further.
“Overall, the team learned a lot about competing at this level and have shown that they have the ability to do so,” said Connelly. “They just need to develop confidence and raise their expectations.”
The future looks bright for the cross country program at Notre Dame. With two All-Americans returning next year, the men should be poised for another run at the NCAA meet
And with all those promising freshmen returning for their sophomore campaign, 13 ofthem, a little more experienced and a little stronger with age, ‘The Whiz Kids” should be ready to compete with the men for the press.
Hopefully, next year, the headline on this story will read “An Exhilarating Ending,” and the frustration will be forgotten as Notre Dame cross country gets the respect and accolades it deserves.	□
NOVEMBER 21,1991
15
SPORTS
A Tradition of Excellence:
1953 National Champions
*^wrr	iraiimms®
1953 National Championship Team
Front Row: MnngiufatJi, Hunter, McHugh. Morrisey, Lattner, Rigcii, Nowaek. Penza, Worden, Schrader. Manin. Robr.t, Mtnntidcs, Galanfo, Bush. Second Row: Jamot, Gaffney, Taylor. Kapish. Meuse. Keller. Raich, Gugliehni. Shannon, Fresor. Matz, Carey. Szynwn^ki. Heap, Cabral. Hammer. Thin! Row: Keller. Edmonds, Ciiilaghaa. Twzzo. Lo-ch, Cook, Hendricks, Zajcski. Pasqwrsi, Pafumto. Bucci. Varnchionc. Bisccglia. Lae. Ready. Fourth Row: MandL Markowski. Schaefer, Billow. Regan. Schellong, Washington. Humas. Unrek. McMullan, Nhtula. George. KcgaJy, Wila>n,	’
Courtesy of Sports Information
Coach: Frank Leahy.
Captain: Don Penza.
Notes: With a record of 9-0-1, the 1953 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team was thelast of coach Frank Leahy's four unanimous national championship squads ... Led by All-American and 1953 Hiesman Trophy winner HB John Lattner, T Art Hunter, and E Don Penza, this team's offense scored 317 points while limiting its opponents to 137 points... Lattner's career totals were 1,724 yards rushing on 350 attempts for an average of 4.9 yards pier carry and 17 TDs... Lattner also had 11 kickoff returns for a total of 366 yards ... The highlight of the season was a 48-14 dismantling of USC in Los Angeles before a crowd of 97,952... Also in 1953, Fisher Hall opened its doors as a residence hall.
September	26	W	Oklahoma	28-21	A	59,500
October	3	W	Purdue	37-7	A	49,135
October	17	W	Pittsburgh	23-14	H	57,998
October	24	W	Georgia Tech	2744	H	58,254
October	31	W	Navy	38-7	H	58,154
November	7	W	Pennsylvania	28-20	A.	74,711
November	14	W	North Carolina 34-14		A	43,000
November	21	T	Iowa1	14-14	H	56,478
November	28	W	USC	48-14	A	97,952
December	5	W	SMU	40-14	H	55,522
(9-0-1)
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Mike Keeley: Keeley, a freshman from Spring, TX, sure made a splash as he raced to three first-place finishes in the Notre Dame men's swimming team's win over Ball State over the weekend. Keeley finished first in the 1,000-yard freestyle with a time of 1:57.98; in the200-yard butterfly with a time of 1:57.59; and in the 500-yard free style with a time of4:47.26.
Jessica Fiebelkorn: Fiebelkom, a junior from Osseo, MN, was named the MCC Women's Volleyball Tournament MVP for her efforts in wins over Butler and Loyola. Fiebelkom's tournament totals were 30 kills; six errors off of 69 attempts; 28 digs; and 12 blocked shots. These totals also earned Fiebelkom MCC athlete of the week honors for the second time this fall. In the championship match against Loyola, Fiebelkom had 17 kills and 19 digs to lead the Irish on offense and on defense.
SCHOLASTIC
"SINCE
1981"
//@
1412 South Bend Ave., South Bend (219) 232-4244

*7he Italian Ristorante"
------
UNO Ruting Lawn
p.rw.
Seafood Entrees
Veal
Chicken
Carbonara
. - Scampi Eggplant
Parmigiana
Italy's Favorite Pasta's Pizza & Carry Out
Cocktails
Beer
Wine
BANQUET ROOM
Regular flours: Sues - Sat 4-11
Sundays 4 - 9.	Closed Mondays
GREAT SUBS FOR GREAT STUDENTS
Your Blue & Gold card is good for a $1.00 discount off any footlong Subway sandwich.
Subway opens at 8:00 a.m. on days of home football games.
For the next football game or your next party, call Subway for a delicious Party Sub or Party Platterl
CALL 277-7744

State Road 23 and Ironwood
NOVEMBER 21,1991
17
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
I am 27 and 6’11” tall
The Theodore’s Nightmare Spreads
Canada is getting far too conservative for its own good according to the National On-Campus Report. In several orientation programs at Canadian universities this year, students have been told what are appropriate activities for participation and what are not For instance, at'the University of Western Ontario, students must sign a contract that shows what are acceptable activities. At the University of Calgary in Alberta sports are emphasized over drinking games and nights at area bars. Finally, Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia has picked up where Theodore’s left off in establishing afteshman non-alcoholic bar perfect for ordering “mocktails.” It’s good to know in loco parentis exists in other place, too, or else we’d have to make our own decisions.
Oingo Bingo
Here’s a new twist on an old favorite. Bingo is no longer for toothless elderly women hoping to strike it big in church gambling. Johns Hopkins University’s office of residential life and student health clinic have started playing condom bingo in order to educate students about the dangers of communicable diseases, according to the National On-Campus Report. (Those with queasy stomachs may not want to read further.) The players use condoms as chips to cover categories such as syphillis, gonorrhea, chlamydia and that gift that keeps on giving — herpes. One might wonder what the prizes are in such a contest. Then again, one might not.
The penalties for using false identification to get into a bar are getting much stiffer according to U, The National College Newspaper. At the same time, more and more students are willing to take the risk in order to have fun. Early this year students caught using fake ID’s at Western Kentucky University faced the possibility of second-degree forgery and a fine of $10,000 for the felony offense. The prosecutor in the case settled for an article in the school paper by the students urging others not to use them. However, he warned anyone else considering the crime: “If any minors possess false identification, they should getrid of them. Tear them up. This is my wamingshot. Thenextpersonlfindforgingisgoingtoprison.” The prosecutor reportedly later arrested a Brownie troop for teasing him.
U, The National College Newspaper
Saaay Wuuuuht?
There’s help out there for those who feel oppressed by their southun accent according to, who else, the National On-Campus Report. Greenville Technical College in South Carolina now offers a course entitled “How to Control Your Southern Accent” The course is offered to help those who need to control their accent for communicative purposes, but not necessarily getrid of it. The class is reportedly going quite well as they have moved up from the ‘Gomer Pile’ series of tapes to the ‘Beverly Hillbillies’ series. □
,	-	. .	I
Edited by Michael Owen
18
SCHOLASTIC
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
MadloBM It© b® N®sd N©£ir® ©am® Pw®sM®bH
Dear Mr. Manners:
I know this sounds a bit weird, but does anyone realize we just had an election with only one candidate? Old Monk Molloy had an election and he didn’t even tell us about it until it was over! We didn’t even get to vote! What kind ofa country is this? Even Czechoslovakia gets two candidates to choose from!
Well, anyway, in the hopes of a campus-wide demand for the vote, I have nominated a few candidates for future consideration. They are as follows: Minnie Pearl, Loretta Lynn, Priscilla Presley and Madonna. Whataya think, slick? It's about time we had a woman in there. Why not get one who can entertain as well as tell you when you're permitted to see someone else.
Love,
Louisa Augment-Resume (Soon to be running for Student Body President)
Dear Louisa:
Whoa, I thought we reached the liberal limit by keeping the library open until 2 a.m. You're really on a limb here. To tell you the truth, I didn’t notice the election, as I assume most of our anaesthetized students didn’t. You’ve got a really good point We put up the bucks, why don’t we get a vote?
However, I can’t really accept all of your nominations. Minnie Pearl and Loretta Lynn, while both morally upright, hard-working country divas, don’t meet the literacy requirement. Priscilla Presley
was married to Elvis, which makes her decision-making abilities readily apparent. I could just see the this school becoming an annex to Graceland, hawking her perfume at every comer. Forget her. Anyway, as far as I know, none of these people are Catholic, a big minus in the game. That leaves us with Madonna. As I see it, she’s the only choice we have in the near future; Other than the fact that she’s a divorced female Italian with loose morals, I don’t see anything from stopping her reign over ND from happening. She’s got enough cash to buy this place three times over and she’s Catholic and from the Midwest Consider a coup in about two years.
As for your plans, Imayjusthavetovoteforyou. Atleast you’re honest in your purpose. I’ll stuff your resume any time.
Dear Mr. Manners:
I am a victim of major-discrimination on this campus. People laugh at me because, yes it's true, I AM AN AMERICAN STUDIES MAJOR IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS!!! There, I said it to thousands of people. I am sick of being looked down upon by tight-wad business majors and narrow-minded engineers. I joined 'Arts and Leisure' to become educated and I am. Give 'em hell, Manners.
Joe Student Zahm Hall
Dear Joe:
All of us in 'Arts and Crafts' get this abuse from one person or another, it's just that none of us are as self-conscious and whiny as yourself. The thing to do is look at the big picture, not the first year outof school. You can goto a cocktail party and discuss a wide range oftopics,whiletheyHtakeabout,welI,somethingelse,I guess. And after you've made your money in something you enjoy, there's always a need for an accountant to countit and an engineer to shellac your back porch. So cheer up you minimalist. (A&L vocabulary at work).
Readers: I call you that because you sure as hell are not writers! I know some of you have problems becuase you always have that prune-face look about you. Write me at 303 Lafortune, Campus Mail and receive valuable, FREE enlightenment.
NOVEMBER 21,1991
19
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Otte Baffled State of Mind
More perplexing thoughts from the Freshman mind of Tony Leonardo
by Tony Leonardo
And so now we begin. The last time I wrote a“Week in Disproportion” article I ended with a semi-stream-of-con-sciousness paragraph dealing with squirrels and queens of foreign countries. And, you lucky dogs, you’re going to get more. But first an explanation and a disclaimer. As is the nature of the writer, I have gone past my deadline for this and have a paper due the next day, meaning that I don’t have time to attempt to entertain you worthless, scumsucking, mush-for-brains college students. I’ve got more important things to do—like sleeping (mind you this a very integral and religious part of my life). Anyway, if you don’t like what I write, then I’m sure Scholastic will axe me and you’ll never hear from me again. (Insert applause track here)
And now. on with the show.
One day I was walking down the street with a book in my hand and my hand in the other hand, which at the time was holding a newspaper. I then happened to notice that my one hand with the book was holding my other hand with the newspaper, and that maybe I should drop something because my hands could not hold much more, especially the large box I was carrying. I scratched my head in confusion while staring at the clasped hands and decided finally that I had not made my decision. This, to no one’s surprise (and let me tell you, no one was definitely suprised), was not good.
I decided to drop my hand, and carry the large box and newspaper and book with my other hand. I then determined that I was going to decide to finally figure out how to surmise the solution that I was attempting to resolve and finally conjecture at the answer that was readily settling before my eyes into
a clear decision. It didn’t work, so I strided forward in a perplexed and baffled state of mind.
I walked. I walked more. I walked just a little bit more than that and then stopped walking for fear of over-walking myself and becoming stressed. Alas, and lo and behold, I was in front of the Oide Yeoman’s Shoppe. I walked in, opened the door, walked up to the counter and started speaking Oide Englishe to the shopkeeper who unfortunately wasn’t there.
I thought to myself, “Hmmm, maybe I should ring that nice neat shiny bell sitting on the counter that has a sign by it saying ‘ring for service, other rings are located under the counter’.” The shopkeeper agreed, and so I rung thebell. Ring. The bell, for some odd reason, didn’t make a sound and I was forced to try on one of the rings underneath the counter. That, worked
This Is a Canadian Two-Dollar Bill. You cannot use this as currency, however.
pretty well because the shopkeeper came running and promptly accused me of steal ing. I calmly explained to him that the ring was silver, not steel, and he agreed once more. I returned the ring, though sound waves are quite difficult to collect and send back, and left the store in a rather disgruntled mood.
I then looked up to my watch and noticed the time. It didn’t notice me, however, and I felt rejected. I picked my courage up and
headed to the nearest bar with her. There happened to be a pretty spiffy bar on the comer called “Spiff s Spiffy Bar”. I walked toward it. Clang. A sign next to it said, “Bards, Barbs, and Bars are Barred.” It didn’t sound like a very nice place, but we decided to go anyway. Like I said, we left and headed for a restaurant. I was starting to feel really nervous because everyone was staring at me. I lost all of my courage and watched helplessly as they walked away. But fear not! I had a plan. It was to the County Courthouse, and thank God I had it because I had to find the restroom really fast.
I entered the courthouse, waved to the cast of “L.A. Law," andproceeded to look for the restrooms. I searched and searched constantly, and eventually ran into Bull from “Night Court." Close, but not quite. I finally found the dam restroom and my mission was finally completed. I didn’t go in, however— you can never trust public restrooms, you know.
And there I was. Not quite there, but definitely here. Here inside the there, and boy was I bored. Very bored. Being there and here simultaneously is a very exciting thing, but I was bored. Solleft to the rightan headed out to the street head-first. So I was flying! Actually I was leaning forward very far, which caused me to trip. Clunk. There I was, lying on the ground, floating high above the clouds. So I got up and trodded to my next class. It just happened to be “Psychology, Mind Reading, Clairvoyance, and the Practical Jokes You Cart Play on Others.” Imagine that! I’m sure they were already, because I was late to class.
What’s New?
The end: End.
Tony Leonardo is still alive and out there somewhere. Seek and ye shall find him.
20
SCHOLASTIC
COMICS
vsSZl'z
TEARING IM5ULT WH THE feEW«, HEMBE^ Of ^CTioN 3RP MA^ RAbE-WW IN5AWTE TDTHei£^Abl AW W U&T0 1ST MA1H IN
$X.^s MDNTDmtCHArtPloN^I?/
1 utttflt^l
cxyeK WEA5 WE <2Mft«A8UE T& A pacTBAU STAMUM APVTTlotl.
i
«s^e
UP.3. Dally Service VISA/MC Gladly Accepted
&Joy Holiday Refreshments As You Browse Among Our Great Gift Ideas, Gourmet Items and Charming Collectables . . . .
Country harvester
♦PRIVATE IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS
Lower Level
Notre Dame
Monday thru Friday December 2-7 11 aim to 5 pjm
Saturday December 8th* 11 mm. to 5 pan.
Regular hours are: Monday thru Friday 12-5 Saturdays 11-2
* LaFortune
♦FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN
♦IN ROOM MOVIES/VCR (over 50 tides)
NOVEMBER 21,1991
21
SESQUICENTE NNIAL ANNIVERSARY
Glancing Back
A look at the 25 years of the Observer
By Heather Rakoczy
Begun November 3, 1966, The Observer of the ’90s is much more than “The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.” It is part and parcel of the emergence of the news media as a tenacious tool of the ’60s; it is the evolution of a voice marked by battles between the itself and the administration; it is a vehicle cargoed with censorship and identity crises of previous decades; it is the culmination of conflict and change. Most importantly, The Observer of today, now in its 25th year, is “a foruiri for the free expression of ideas” as its charter so states.
A student of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s in the 60s could have enjoyed The Religious Bulletin or the campus magazine, The Scholastic, which became Scholastic in fall
The Voice ceased to exist In 1966 and was replaced by The Observer.
1963.
In the spirit of the ’60s, The Scholastic somehow managed to print the controversial nude pencil sketches of the wife of artist John Donne which he had created and presented at the Saint Mary’s art exhibit Later, the rebellious Scholastic editors ran the statement that “Hesburgh should be removed as president and reinstated as chancellor.” It was the last straw a month later when editors printed “The List of Student’s Rights and Grievances.” They asked for an end to curfew, the beginning of senior cars, all night electricity, and a board consisting equally of students and faculty to consider issues of student life. It was at this time that the students were told that campus media publications “would not be a journal of opinion, criticism, or suggestion.” In 1963, The Voice, the forerunner of The Observer that
was distributed twice weekly, and WSND, the first college radio station with national news coverage, worked in conjunction to fill the gap left in the wake of the restrictions placed on The Scholastic.
The mounting frustrations of the campus media were further aggravated when John Twohey, junior Scholastic editorin 1966,recommended that junior Robert Sam
Anson be his successor. The faculty advisor, Frank O’Malley and the vice president for student affairs, Fr. McCarragher, vetoed the proposal. Today’s Scholastic editors are selected by the student editorial board. In the fall of 1966, Anson left Scholastic and joined The Voice where he pronounced it “D.O.A.” It was then “from the ashes of The Voice that The Observer was bom” in November 1966.
The Observer will be “a forum for the free expression of ideas” — Observer Charter
Founders of The Observer, Robert Sam Anson arid Stephen Feldhaus drew upon their experience from Scholastic and The Voice. Yet after only a month of biweekly publication, they “borrowed” a story from the-Berkley Barb to illustrate the ridiculousness of the Los Angeles Sexual Freedom League. The story passed under the credit “Special to The Observer." In defense of his controversial story that promoted “to screw with love” , and suggested that “watching someone else screw can be very enlightening,” Anson said, “It was past the midnight hour. Suddenely a vacancy in the paper became distressingly apparent I had been reading the Berkley Barb ... so I said ‘where’s the sex article?’ Everyone thought the administration had enough sophistication to just ignore it.” The university and its media was starting to realize that news is
22
SCHOLASTIC
9
controversy.
“News” or not, Fr. Hesburgh did not deem the article worthy of print. The irresponsibility of The Observer editors left them two options: to apologize or to be expelled. Out of this controversy, the student-faculty board was established to serve as a check on the paper.
In 1967, The Observer staff began to realize the limitations imposed by a volunteer board intricately linked to the administration. They struggled to have enough “acceptable” information to fill daily papers. In September 1968, The Observer began using the Universal Press International service to expand its coverage of the daily news. It was at this time that the student senate established the subscription feecollectedfromthestudentbody. Thisfee and increased advertisements formed the basis for the financial stability of The Observer, In 1968-’69, The Observer was published daily.
The ’70s and ’80s were bittersweet de
cades in the history of The Observer. The staff was faced with monumental financial difficulties, including a $7,000 deficit. The fate of The Observer quite literally was either “publish or perish.” However, to publish meant to succumb to the 1983-’84 Budget Unit Control system of the University. Otherwise, it would lose all student fees and rent-free space on campus. Contrary to the fears ofearlier Observer staffs, later Observer editors did not feel their editorial independence was compromised by the Budget Unit Control system.
In spite of these bitter setbacks came the
sweet rewards in February of 1972 with Father Robert Griffin’s first column titled “A Priest of Limited Credentials”; then in September of 1977, the “Molarity” cartoon
by Michael Molinelli began what would become a five-year tradition. The subsequent steps forward have continued at an insatiable rate, including Marti Hogan in 1977-’78 as the first woman Editor-in-Chief, the addition of Shirley Grauel as a non-student Office Manager in the fall of 1980 and the passing of The Observer charter by unanimous vote of the general board in September of 1985. Finally, in 1988, Dr.
Roland Smith was appointed as liason between the administration and The Observer, Where the old student-faculty board once functioned as a check on The Observer, Dr. Smith would now serve only in budgeting and non-edito-rial matters.
Twenty-five years following its humble beginnings, The Observer is
It was “from the ashes of The Voice...
The Observer was born”
working to make the ’90s a decade of stability. Almost 200 students are involved in the production of the only daily media distribution on campus. With the exception of Office Manager Shirty Grauel, the paper is entirerly student run.
The students comprise the general board which consists of the editorial board and the operations board. The editorial board (managing editor, news, sports, features, viewpoint, photography and a Saint Mary’s executive editors) is responsible for the editorial content of the paper. The operations board, however, consists of the department
managers (business, controller, advertising, systems and productions). The Editor-in-Chief chairs both of these boards. Eachissue of The Observer of the ’90s combines the
national and international news with the campus news, viewpoint, sports and accent features.
The Observer owns and operates all of its own equipment and is not subject to the administration censorship of old. “A story must be solid enough to run. It has to be fair, objective and cover all bases,” says Editorin-Chief Kelley Tuthill. The students can be their own worst critics.
Today, the paper works with the administration instead of against it. Though The Observer is dependent on the administration for rent-free office space on campus and the collection of nearly $70,000 a year in student fees, the staff realize the importance of conceeding some independence for the success of the paper. Remaining on campus is crucial to the continued growth
ofa campus paper, according to Tuthill. The Observer does not want to become what she calls, anewspaperon the fringe” which is the threat it would face with a move off-campus. Even the university’s Budget Unit Control system has been recognized as a positive move in the formation of the business and financial backbone of the paper. The Observer has control over all advertising revenue and all expenditures. With increased soliciting of advertisements, The Observer is financially secure.
The Observer has endured many challenges over its 25 years of publication, but
has continued in its committment to serve the community of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame.	□
The Observer
NOVEMBER 21, 1991
23
FINAL WORD What is ... MULTICULTURALISM? by Maria Santos >
Maria Santos is a junior preprofessional student in the College of Science and a member of the Multicultural Executive Council.
O eurat understood—inasense. His paintings were beautiful and full of life, and of what were they composed? Look closely and one sees hundreds upon hundreds of small points, ho two exactly alike in color, size, texture, intensity of overall composure. In some areas, similar dots are gathered together, but even these differ if one looks closely enough. Each dot has its own value and integrity, but apart from the whole, each has little meaning. So please, step back slowly and begin to see a hand, a hat, a gentle ripple on the lake, a subtle smile on a face. Step back a little further and notice how everything, despite their differences—no, BECAUSE of their differences, can work together to depict a scene of balance, peace and serenity.
As a member of the Multicultural Executive Council, part of my role is to inform others about what the term “multiculturalism” means to us. In the words of Martin Rodgers, one of the members of the first Multicultural Executive Council here at Notre Dame,
“Multiculturalism is a feeling, a sense of unity, and a sense of sharing.... Multiculturalism beckons us to transcend the insulated confines of Notre Dame and appreciate the world at large. Multiculturalism underscores the differences among us and, ironically, in doing so, hints to how very similar we all are. Of necessity, multiculturalism espouses understanding. Understanding which in turn uproots and defies prejudice and stereotypes. Understanding which is the genesis of community and family and provides the foundation for friendships.”
F. Newman of the Carnegie Foundation defines it as “... the process through which we can perceive our world beyond our indigenous boundaries to achieve a vision of a global community.” To some, multiculturalism is a spirit of hope for true understanding of self and others. To the Council, multiculturalism is all of these things. It is a commitment to every aspect of the individual. It is the acceptance and respect of the many differences between us all, because only together can we realize and appreciate all that we are and all that we can be.
A widespread misconception about multiculturalism is that it refers only to minority issues. Some people try to correct this by saying that multiculturalism addresses all ethnicities and not just ethnic minorities. Certainly, it does, but these issues are only a fraction of the scope
of multiculturalism. Multiculturalism, as as stated earlier, is a commitment to every aspect of the individual. This includes gender, religion, social class, sexual orientation, family situation, and the like. It encourages education and dispels fear and anger through knowledge.
At the University of Notre Dame, controversies never fail to arise around issues of race, gender, etc. At times it seems as if exiting walls are being reinforced and as if yet more walls are being erected between us, instead of being tom down. The Multicultural Executive Council seeks to slowly, but surely, chip away at these walls in hopes that someday one will crumble, and then another, and then another.
And what has MEC done, you may ask? The annual Multicultural Fall Festival, held every October, offers the community an entire week of entertaining and educational events, including informal discussions (Fireside Chats), music, dancing (Entertainment on the Quad) and food from around the world (including a Taste of Nations). And we hold Fireside Chats throughout the year, not just during the Fall Festival. Past topics include blue collar workers, the Palestinian question, culture shock, feminist issues, Russian music, Central American politics and many, many more. We hold forums to allow the ND community to voice its concerns to us, and we plan several special events throughout the school year (such as Christmas Around the World). We also lend support to other groups with aims similar to ours by co-sponsoring some of their events.
The Council exists to address problems and concerns in a way that opens new doors to understanding; it does not solve and catagorize and conclude. MEC itself is a group extremely diverse in experience and perspective and opinion. I believe that MEC has a dynamic unlike any other organization on the campus. As individuals, we may disagree on many issues, but as members of the council, we work together toward a common goal of love and acceptance. And perhaps more than anything else, we are learning to realize how each of us fits into the world picture. We learn how different we are from people around us (and not how different they are from us — there is a subtle, yet vital, difference there).
And day by day, we see more of what is happening around us. And day by day, we take another step back from the painting. And day by day, we understand a little more about purpose and community and harmony. □
SCHOLASTIC

“SANTA’S MANY FACES”
The Multicultural Executive Council invites you to
Christmas Around the World. December 4 - 6
Fireside Chats (at noon)
Lunch provided
Evening Events- Tree decorating, caroling, refreshments, etc . . .
I
Give to our earth by giving to another.
WATCH FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
All events to be held in LaFortune Student Center
☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆
Shown in Cushing
EVI POT
STRANGE BREW
Thursday November 21
8:00 pm and 10:30 pm
ROBIN HOOD
Friday and Saturday
November 22 & 23
7:30 pm and 10:30 pm
Auditorium-$2

STUDENT UNION BOARD
MATERIAL ISSUE In Concert at Theodores December 10 at 8:30 pm Tix $5 for ND/SMC students
On sale Dec. 3 Lafortune Information Desk Special Guest: GUTTERBOY
