
Vol. XXXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, August, 1898.
No. 1.
Ramblings.
HE ivied walls and sacred halls That give to Oxford charm and glory,
to With legends old,—and manifold—
Are woven into myth and story. The tuneful lays of Saxon days,
When Alfred bent his'stout oak bow,
We Americans boast of our democratic institutions, and the large number of our “self-made’’.men; but by emphasizing overmuch the latter we prejudice the rest of the world— which, after all, is worthy of consideration— against us. President Jackson may have been taught to write his name after his election to Congress, but there is no need of declaiming the fact from our national house-top. Many.
Are heard at night on heath and bight o	o
When the student’s drowsy lamp burns low.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
No arches old hung deep with mould Make venerable our walks and towers;
No weird bells weave mystic spells When daytime fades and twilight lowers;
But love abides,—and quiet glides
Through dell and wood and reed-bound lake;
And night thoughts rise, before the eyes, Until one dreams,—awake.
men have performed prodigies by sheer native wit and common-sense, but their usefulness would not have been lessened by a college training.	•	'
The love that a man has for his college.is not like^any other love; it never leads to, familiarity, and petty considerations never
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
intrude; besides, each feels that any honor gained by the one adds to the relative importance of the other. Heine never spent much time in praising; the Philistines were too numerous: his mission was to scourge. But he could love; he loved the poor griseftc that he married, and he loved nature, and he loved,—
yes, even though he censured — the University of Gottengen.
Old age has something of the simplicity of youth; as we grow old we return to the quiet, limpid day-dreams of youth and rest— the wanton ocean is for quicker pulse beats.
When years creep apace new ties of affection are formed cautiously, and the spontaneity that gives charm to the loves of our youth is wanting. W e love most where least is exacted; for gratitude seldom waits on obligation.
* * *
It is a pleasure to those folk who must pass their lives in a lowly sphere to know that the most
PRESIDENTS OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Founder and ist President.
Ven- Rev. W. Corby, ad President. Very Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C. 6th President.
PRESENT INCUMBENT, REV. A. MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev.-Patrick Dillon, C. S. C.,ad Pres.	Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., 4th President.
Rev. Patrick J, Colovin, C. S. C., 5th President.
unobtrusive. being exerts some. influence. The chronicles of -the world is the sum of the history of individ
ual actions. The life of a university is much like the life of man: it has its years of infancy, when careful nurture is necessary; it has its years of maturity, multitudinous in many instances, during which it is one of the great leaders of the world’s thought; and then
comes old age in which efficiency is lessened and blended into a sort of respectability,—a respectability due to its ancient lineage. In this last particular we judge a university much after the manner of an old family—the period of its decadence is lighted into a mellow grandeur by the reflection of its past glory. In
spite of the socialistic tone of our Fourth of July orators concerning equality of men,—which the orators them-selves know to be a pleasant fiction —the average American pays a certain amount of homage to birth. He may scoff at the pretensions of a family that had distinguished an-cestors several centuries back, and that insists on assuming that it has inherited the excellences of the defunct,—the average American may scoff at all this, but if his nephew is a butler in this family you will know the fact as soon as the opportunity for communicating it presents itself. As regards universities, there is a
noteworthy analogy between them and ancient families,—the vices of the past are transmuted into virtues
by the alchemy of .years; for even American criticism has a certain awe for anything that can count by centuries. I once knew ah Irishman who boasted that one of his ancestors had been drawn and quartered during the Drogheda massacre—but he omitted to explain
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
EAST DRIVE TO HAIN ENTRANCE.
that the ceremony was performed by his ancestor’s Irish comrades because of an inability to
distinguish between meum and tuum.
Increasing age has always one compensation: it brings added importance to “has been.” In America, where age is relative, a university that can boast over half a of century existence, is worthy of consideration on that score alone. Notre Dame is more than twice as old as the statehood of Colorado, and the student from “The Centennial State” is impressed greatly by the air of antiquity that breathes from every log in the old church built by Father Sorin.
The murmur and buzz of the colossal manufactories of South Bend is relieved gratefully by the quiet of Notre Dame. The avenue of stately - maples leading to the University entrance- is a fitting prelude, as it were, to the symphony of artistic beauty that opens on all" sides when the grounds are entered.. Industry bears its own reward. The famed “ Temple ’. of the Mormons at Salt Lake City is built of stone quarried-? in the distant mountains and transported, shaped and placed by hand; its cost in labor is estimated at millions of dollars. But the task of Father Sorin and his .co - laborers was even more gigantic. The malaria infected swamp land was reclaimed; the indefinite boundaries of the lakes were fixed; barren tracts of
flags and sedge gave way to
forests of oak and maple, and the barren sand dunes were forced to yield harvests of grain. This result is not reckoned in dollars but lives. There are many priests and brothers whose memories, fading with the years, are woven with their lives into the being of Notre Dame. I once heard a story of a lowly brother that is too noble to be pathetic. .While working in the miasma-laden air, filling the marshy places with earth destined to produce wheat, he was spoken to by a passerby who asked him what benefit he could expect to derive from labor that was paid by daily installments from his-life. “Others will reap what I have sown, and
I am happy in that I have furthered the plan of God.” Those few. words contain an eloquent
sermon; their speaker had learned truly the meaning of abnegation for-God’s sake.
The’ woodland shelters many a bird Whose sweetest song we never hear, Whose perfect notes die on the ear, That hearing we have never heard.
And we have passed by many a soul That breathes the fragrant breath of God . That bows beneath his chastening rod And nears,—what we have missed,—the goal.
Do not drive the entire distance to Notre Dame. Get out at Cedar Grove Graveyard and linger awhile, looking at the quaint old-fashioned tombstones, deciphering the moulded
VIEW OF COLLEGE PARTERRE FROM MAIN ENTRANCE.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
inscriptions, smelling of the geraniums and sweet williams, and plucking a few dandelions and johnny-jump-ups. The air of age and decay is here, and yet one feels that he could rest content. There are none of the’ conveniences of the modern city cemetery; it is not wont to appeal to those seeking a pleasure drive; but I think Gray must have had such a place in mind when he wrote his Elegy, and I know Keats would have been content to lie here with a plain white slab reading “ Here lies one whose name was writ in water.” The robins and the blackbirds build their nests among the cedars and the thrushes sing.
I loitered while the night-tide fell Beside a tombstone green with mould, While dusk and silence'wove a spell That girt rriy fancy in its fold.
The darkness peered from ferns and nooks; The only sounds that broke the hush Were caws from some belated • rooks
And musing of a lonely thrush. .
k Beneath me was the voiceless dust Of one whom I had never known,— It saddened me to know I must
Lie, likewise, silent and alone.
What were the deeds this soul had wrought? What were its pleasures and its pains?
What marked the ends for which it sought? Who sang its losses and its gains?
A life is like a bubble lost, Unnoted on the unplumbed sea .
That battles, ever tempest tost, . To reach God’s side,—eternity.	'
Nature is the perfect artist. Her- taste
ST. EDWARD’S PARK.
A FAVORITE WALK.	-
sensitive—exquisite. The placing and setting; of her creations are so simple that man can: never hope to vie with her,—he must be content to imitate. Visiting Notre Danie is like going to an art gallery, graced with masterpieces,—only here nature is the artist. There . are certain times when the beauty of each biL of landscape is seen to the greatest advantage; when the background of sky and trees arid grain,—or the air heavy with haze—adds, to the pleasure of contemplation. You must be an habitue of the place, with an intense sympathy for the different shades of beauty- to get the keenest satisfaction and most lasting _ impressions of Notre Dame. Do not visit St. Mary’s Lake in the morning in order to appre-js ciate its beauty; go when the sun is hung;in the horizon’s haze; then the spires of St. Mary’s Academy are rounded and mellowed and; the lake bosom - is .lit with dancing wave-bands of opal and turquoise and orange,-and the graceful trees near the grotto let their leaves pulsate in the quivering light, arid Ipse their-trunks in darkness. Visit Calvary in the : early morning; then the dew rejoices the..earth, and the notes of The lark and oriole are clear and elastic; : them the mournful brown of the flags arid reeds are warmed into a sombre red by the ; dawn-light; then the soul is glad with the' very "joy of being. .	c ;	.
.Voices sound well on the water, even uncultivated ones. I heard orie df. the. crews singing a boat song to the.-
Their oars, and it sounded:as romantic1 as the gondoliers’ songs of. old Venice.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ONE OF CARROLL HALL'S^ SOCIETY ROOMS.
Float, float, quietly float,
Trailing the night in the wake of the boat. Dappling with bubbles the breast of the lake, Flecking with foam-froth the floor of the lake.
Watching the sky-tints Stained by the sun-glints Fade into twilight and mingle with night.
CHORUS.
Boating, boating,
With a trusty blade and a cedar boat,
The merriest life is the life afloat, The happiest life and the quickest to pass. If a lad is alone with a soft-cooing lass.
Row, row, sturdily row,
Timing the catch with a lusty yo-ho * Tinkling the night with the drips from the blade Lighting the dusk on the flash of the blade.
Quick on the feather
Pulling together Scud thorugh the twilight that mingles with night..
CORRIDOR, BISHOPS' MEMORIAL HALL, MAIN BUILDING.
The buildings of Notre Dame may not impress a stranger favorably when they are first seen, but continued acquaintance changes imperceptibly the feelings. The conviction grows that there is a beauty in the plainness of the buildings that is heightened bv the multi-colored flowers, ferns and trees. The lodge and its coun-terpart, the Post-office, stand among the maples at the entrance to the University grounds, miniatures of the more stately buildings.
Sorin Hall, the dormitory for upper class-men, has been enlarged recently, and can house comfortably one hundred and fifty students. The building is possessed of all modern conveniences:-—it is lighted by electricity; it has shower baths and tub baths; each student has a room fitted
INTERIOR OI' DOME, GREGORI’S ALLEGORICAL
PAINTING.
with all necessary furniture which has in addition book-shelves, a wardrobe and study table. The dormitory has a large room devoted to recreations; it has a billiard table, and there are all conveniences for whist clubs, chess and checker. The current magazines and local and city papers are kept on file, as well as the college papers of other institutions.
Next to Sorin Hall in the succession of buildings is the church. It is famed for many things: for its bell,, which was for many years the largest in the United States; for its stained-glass windows and the mural paintings presenting the most important events in the life of our Lord; for the magnificence of its altar decorations, and the general correlation of
NGTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
7
beauty and simplicity that is fitting to prepare the mind of the worshipper.
The building which holds the central position in the semicircle in which the different structures are grouped is called the main building; It is the most conspicuous in size and decotations. It contains the Students’ Office where the registration of new students is made; the office has the University Book Store, telephones, and the President’s Office. The hall of the main building, leading from the entrance to the Students’ Office, is decorated with mural paintings, many of them are famous. They depict incidents in the career of Christopher Columbus, embracing his entire life. The most pretentious scenes are “The Discovery of America,” and “Columbus at the Court of Ferdinand and Isabella.” The former furnished the design for one set of the Columbian stamps issued b y Govern-m e n t during the World’s Fair. The scenes were painted by Gregori.
The lecture rooms of the languages, history and English courses are in this building. The library is situated on the third floor. It has
STUDY ROOM IX BROWNSON HALL.
40,000 volumes, many
DINING ROOM IN BROWNSON HALL.
ART ROOM.
of them rare books, given by dis tin-guished friends of the University. The most valuable collection is the Lemon-nier; it is representative of the erudition and taste displayed in selecting the entire library. The strongest special department is, probably, the works of the Fathers of the Church. These are elegantly bound and
supply supplement
ary work to the Latin, Greek and philosophy courses. Most of the Faculty have their rooms in the main building, and it- adds no small amount to the pleasure of the student to find the latch string always on the outside, whether the call be for a friendly chat or information concerning class-work.
The halls in every part of the building are hung with portraits, landscapes, historic paintings, photographs and documents famous in history; busts of the Bishops eminent churchmen and Catholics occupy the niches and corners. In the visitors’ parlor is a “ Crucifixion ” by Van Dyke, and in a separate room, arranged so as to make prominent the color and light effects, is the celebrated “Nativity” by Gregori. The art room contains many
creations of artistic beauty.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.


students elected unanimously last year to buy their clothing, furnishings and athletic
the athletic association are these silent sympathizers of
of the athletic association first room on the left. The
meetings of o
held among
other years.
The store
occupies the
STUDY RoOM IN ST. RD WARD’S hard.
laewwwasR

LIBRARY
The most conspicuous part of Notre Dame, externally, is the Dome. It surmounts the main building, and supports a . large statue of the Blessed Virgin. The Dome is covered with gold leaf and may i be seen for many miles. The interior of the Dome looks down on the main hall, and looking up, from a place near the Students’ Office, one may see the beautiful paintings, historic, symbolic and religious, which Gregori has called into being.
Flanking the main building on the east side is Brownson Hall which contains the dormitory and study-hall of the Seniors; and occupying similar positions on the west side is the study-hall and dormitory ' of Carroll Hall, which are occupied by boys under seventeen years of age.
To the right of the main building is Washington Hall. This is devoted to amuse-ments of all kinds, from billiards to theatricals and lectures. The first floor contains recreation rooms for the students of Carroll and Brownson Halls. Local and city papers are on file, and there are billiard tables, chess and checkers. The walls are hung with pictures of athletes famous in the past history of the University, and the

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
outfits at this store. The business is conducted by Meyer Livingston & Sons, in the interests of the association. The articles sold are of the best quality and the prices conform to those current in Chicago. A large percentage of the profit is given to athletics, which insures fine equipment for the teams and good contests to interest the students,
The second floor of Washington Hall contains the theatre. Plays are given here by the different dramatic societies of the University. Concerts and lectures and the more important ceremonies of the national and Church year are also given here. The decorations of the theatre are not surpassed in execution by those of any place of amusement in the country.
The view of the Acropolis at Athens, which ornaments the curtain; the life-size paintings of the greatest orators of antiquity, Demosthenes and Cicero, which occupy panels on the right and left of the s tage; the floral paintings that decorate the walls, and the allego ri cal pictures of drama, comedy, music and poetry
which are on the ceiling, make instructive and beautiful creations of which the spectator never tires.
To the right of Washington Hall is Science Hall. It is devoted to the sciences—biology, chemistry and physics. The basement contains rooms for experiments in qualitative analysis, to the left of the entrance; the electrical rooms are on the right. The latter contains dynamos and all apparatus necessary for experimental and practical knowledge of electricity.
The first floor of the building and the gallery above it, is devoted to a museum; it is well lighted by a skylight of translucent glass. The museum contains rare minerals, sponges, corals, fishes, reconstructed skeletons of prehistoric animals, fungi,^mounted birds and mammalia
faculty chapee.
of all kinds. Every part of the sky, earth and sea has contributed something ornamental and instructive to the museum. To the left of the museum are the class-rooms in chemistry and the laboratory; to the right are the lecture rooms in physics and the cases of instruments. Notre Dame is noted for its collection-of physical apparatus; and in the department of sound it has probably the most complete equipment of any laboratory in the country. Most of the instruments are of foreign make and of great delicacv. There is a set of organ pipes that have no duplicates. Mention must be made also of the apparatus in light and electricity. Exceptional advantages are afforded to all students in physics, and the instruments are used in class work under the immediate supervision of the instructor.
To the right o of Science hall is the hall of Tech nol ogy. Here are the wood- working m a ch i nery. moulding, and iron working. The work done in this department is supplementary to the engineer-o ingwork.-Scat-tered through the grounds there are many other build
ings; among which may be mentioned the Observatory with its fine eight-inch glass. To the left of Sorin Hall is the new building which was completed within the past year for students of the manual labor school. Overlooking St. Mary’s Lake is Holy Cross Hall for students who have consecrated themselves to a religious life. To the right of the main.building is St. Edward’s Hall where the little folk live. They have all the care and advantages of school and home combined, under the kindly eyes of the Sisters. The lawn in front of St. Edward’s is beautified by flower-_ beds laid out in all kinds of geometrical designs. -	.
We must not omitt to mention the new Gymnasium. It is situated between the athletic fields
IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MUSEUM SCIENCE HALE
of Brownson and Carroll Halls. It has a large room (no x 159) unobstructed by pillars which has no equal among American universities or colleges for athletic training and exercise. It has in addition a regulation handball court, brick and cement, which is the only one owned by any educational institution, and one of the few courts in the country. On the second floor of the building is the room for gymnastics. It is fitted with the most modern apparatus for all kinds of gymnastic works. The first floor has lockers, bath-rooms, bath-tubs, massage rooms and dressing rooms. Overlooking the athletic room is a large gallery that can seat comfortably six hundred persons. This will enable all students to witness the sports and exercises.
Student Life Here and Elsewhere.
WE are no longer a nation of boors; the majority of our professional men can boast of a college education, and many women who are content to devote their lives to charity, or lose them for a time in family rearing, can do the same. In the last forty years the firmament of our educational life has been studded, as it were, with colleges. The expanding ambition of American youths has accepted eagerly the numerous opportunities presented;
PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and many and various as the institutions have been their capacity has been taxed, and the worth of their teaching is evidenced in the higher moral and intellectual tone of our nation.
But nothing is entirely good, and evils have followed in the wake of the educational movement. While corruption of young men may not be traced directly to sins of commission in our universities and colleges, it may be ascribed justly to sins of omission. There are three principal evils which strive to effect the ruin of young men attending colleges: drink, gambling, and social strivings. The two former are known too well to need comment, but the-latter deserves attention. Most non-Catholic colleores have secret societies known as Greek-letter socie-
THE CLASS OF COMPARATIVE OSTEOLOGY.
BIOLOGlCAL LABORATORY.
has joined a fraternity, he may claim a knowl
edge of what “a good time” is, but little more. Most college professors belong to fraternities which they joined in their own college days, and they retain a more or less ardent interest in them after graduation. Some are lenient to the undergraduate members of their fraternity, and I know an instance of a professor passing a student, a member of his own fraternity, who had attended class once in three months.
The theory is often advanced that a young man should sow his “wild oats,” in order that he may learn to take care of himself. Every young man should know how to care for himself; that is, he should be acquainted with adversity, appreciate the dignity of manhood, and cultivate choice and character until he can choose always the best. But it is not just to a
. ties, because they take their names from the letters of the Greek alphabet. There is an intense rivalry between the different fraternities, as they are called, for preeminence in social life and the athletics of the college. Lectures are missed whenever they interfere with social functions, and many of the poorer members expend money, needed for text-books, on clothing and banquets that they may vie with their more opulent brothers. Most fraternities recruit their members from the Freshman classes, and when several fraternities are after the same man, the “rushing,” as it is called, goes to extremes. Banquets are given in his honor; money for gambling debts is advanced; he is introduced into the whirl of social pleasures, and when at the middle or end of his Freshman year he
physical cabinet (optical section).
12
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
boy of eighteen or nineteen used to home environments, who has little knowledge of the world, to loose him in a college, without guide oi‘ experience, and expect him to be developed into a true man. It is just as sensible to throw into the sea a man who can not swim. To be sure, it is a “ survival of the fittest,” but there are few college classes that can show more than two or three men who have attained distinction; the others have frittered away opportunities, or acquired vices and habits that relegate them to secondary positions in life. Notre Dame has striven to eliminate these evils.
The seclusion of the University aids in enforcing discipline. No liquor is allowed on the grounds and
students having it in their possession are expelled; gambling is comparatively unknown, for there is no place where it can be conducted; fraternities are not allowed to exist, and the concomitant evils never have birth.
The student’s life may be summed up in a few words—study, exercise, religious observances. There is no violent severing of home ties. Study is compulsory and not left to the option of the student. If a class is “cut” the reason must be made known to the prefect. During the recreation hours there is nothing to divide interest with exercise, and the kinds of athletics are so manifold that every student finds something to his liking. The morning and evening prayers and church' attendance are so much a part of his daily life that a student never stops to think that he is taking part in ceremonies foreign to many universities, and whose observances are superficial in many others.
To me the most unique advantage afforded by Notre Dame is its home influence. I surmise that the fact that it is conducted by a religious ordei- accounts for this. There is all the difference whether a man teaches for dollars, or in order to benefit and elevate man-
COMPEETE PHOTO-MICOGRAPHIC CAMERA WITH RAFl'ER WCICIJH NT.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ELECTRICAL LABORATORY, WEST SIDE.
kind. The one counts the passing hours as drudgery; the religious knows it is his chosen life-work, and makes it a duty of love. He realizes that the material manifestation of his own life-work is to be seen in the lives of his scholars, and he seeks to mould them as best he can. Furthermore he has no social or domestic ties. The priest is father in more than name to the students. The sacred callings of his office extend to things spiritual and make him monitor and friend in questions that concern the soul as well as those that
pertain to the mind.
There is another fact
that must not be overlooked:
it is the intimacy that exists between
priest and professor outside the class room. The most delightful hours are passed in the company of these men. The subjects of conversation are
LABORATORY OF BACTERIOLOGY.
instructive and ennobling; and imperceptibly the polish and ease of instructors are imparted to the students.
I have attended two other universities, one sectarian and the other non-sectarian, and can say sincerely that the life of an undergraduate at Notre Dame is more profitably passed than that at either of the other institutions I have attended. As a student in the English Course my relations with The head of the English department were more intimate than with those of any other member of the Faculty; but from conversations with other students this seems to be characteristic of the Faculty of every department,—
that the work of the student gives as much pleasure
14	NOTRE DAME
to his professor as to himself. Many times I have done indifferent pieces of writing, and through kindiv criticisms and suggestions have been moved to apply myself more closely— with more satisfactory results: and I know this is the experience of all.
Education is not the highest end of life, but it is fundamental to that end; and it seems to me that the college course that permits the closest relations with instructors and strives to prohibit what would distract the mind is the most excellent.
Frank Earle Hering, Litt. B. ’98.
SCHOLASTIC.
bushes grow, to “ Ceder Grove,’' and pause near the iron fence to listen to the birds as they flutter about among the slender trees. Then comes the long stretch of open field fringed with the thorn hedge-where we used to see how fast we could go on our bicycles; then the shady path again, and at last we enter the welcoming gates of the Universitv. Our old friend, Mr. O’Brien, is sitting at the door of his lodge with his elbows on his knees, calmly smoking his pipe; but we leave him to his reveries and pass on under the big shade trees to the Brownson campus where many an
DYNAMO LABORATORY.
Another Rambler. ---------------------------- 1 ANY of us, even though steeped in the distractions and idle pleasures of vaca
tion time, often lift ourselves out of the frivolous, tiresome atmosphere and go back once more down the quiet road to old Alma. Mater. We pass again the humble little homes on Notre Dame Avenue and greet the wee, barefooted children that gather with their little shovels and spades and express wagons to play away the sunny hours. Then we wander on down along the shady path, where the thorn
hour we stood in the snow and in the sunshine watching the gold and blue struggle to victory. We see, too, the old shade tree near the tennis courts where the boys gathered in the evenings to sing; and then we wander out again, around the corner of the reading-room, and on down past the ice-house to the lake. The boat crews are down there practising for the annual races; we can hear the shout of the captain and the even dip of the oars as we descend the hill. . . .
But these are dream pictures. Alma Mater is far away from us now, but she is looking forward eagerly to the time when the rumble
NOTRE DAME
of cabs and the merry hubbub of voices tell that her sons have returned and that another school year has begun.
The other day I took a spin on my wheel out to Notre Dame, just to see the dear old place—to walk among the gardens, to loiter 1	o	o
under the trees, and to throw stones at the ducks down at the lake.
I rode my same old wheel—the one, you know, that used to be so easy to get away on, but so difficult to bring back successfully, especially' if the bicycle-room was locked. And it seems that some one had, the day
SCHOLASTIC.	15
ing on Willie Kegler’s door. I fancied I saw the form of Duke Hancock sitting in his accustomed place in the smoking-room,but I didn’t hear his pleasant, “ Good morning, have you a cigarette?” and I continued on. It was my good fortune to see Brother Gregory, though there was a time when I didn’t consider it good fortune. He was in his room ruling off a suspicious looking little blank book which he said would be used next year. There was no one in the room explaining “the injustice of the system,” as of yore, and Rue-Te-Toot, where Frankfand Bob used to dwell, was as
part or electrical laboratory alternating current dynamo and switch board.
before, trimmed those innocent-looking thorn bushes that grow along by the edge of the walk, and a rascally wind had scattered them about. But “ Old Ice-Wagon” (more or less appropriately named) ploughed bravely through them all, and I am quite sure her tires gathered up all the thorns that were there. I rejoiced in the thought, however, that I had done a good turn to the next bicyclist that might chance along. How very philanthropic!
I visited Sorin Hall—the home of the industrious; but it was oh, so quiet! I couldn’t hear Haley ’s^deep^bari tone, ,and jio'onejvas^pound
quiet as a graveyard. Rue-Maison-Reuf was even worse, for in a graveyard one hears occasionally the twitter of a bird—but there wasn’t even a twitter down on Maison-ReuE It seemed strange, too, not to find Mott in the corridor with his sodality book and red smoking-jacket, and I felt as if I were in a strange place when I didn’t hear “ Blushing Willie” expounding his philosophical views to Raymond. By the way, have you ever noticed that expression of Brueckerlike earnestness and wiseacreness that comes over Raymond’s face when^he has hold of the grappling-irons of
i6
NO TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WOOD-WORK SHOP.
Applied Electricity.
weighty thought? That expression is as misleading as it is unique, and is one I have never seen duplicated, even by Raganus.
I was over to Brownson and Carroll Halls also, and they both looked very much deserted. The ever-smiling “ Baldy,” with his primitive jersey, was not around making life miserable by his jokes, nor was rosy-cheeked Georgie anywhere to be found telling his fellow students how it happened. These two men are the sunshine .of Brownson Hall, and their absence from the department is to the boys like a cooling shower at the close of a hot day. Still, both are welcome! The gym, by the way, is beginning to look like a swell club-house, and will, no doubt, be a favorite resort next year. The lake, of course, looks the same, only the ducks have multiplied. Happy visions of another , duck dinner haunt me daily now.
Many improvements are being made around the University, but it would take up too much space to’tell of them all. I have been allotted a certain space in this number of. the Scholastic merely to tell briefly of my visit; and while I doubt-as to whether it has been done briefly, I can safely say, in common with my readers, thatjVhas^been done poorly. L. C. M. R.
ELECTRICITY is in its infancy” is a common saying among well-informed people at the present time; but when we consider the many ways in which it is applied to practical purposes, the vast amount of capital invested in electrical industries, it seems that the infant has assumed colossal proportions.
The application of electricity to the propulsion of cars is a fair example of the rapid advance, in applied electricity. In Richmond, Virginia, in the year of 1888 Sprague installed the first system of electric street-cars of any considerable importance.. There were however several short experimental roads in the United States and foreign countries before this date, but the successful operation of the Richmond road marks the beginning of the present much-abused but nevertheless popular Trolley car system which is found in all large cities and in many of the smaller ones. When we are whirled rapidly over the streets’ of the city in a comfortable car it is difficult to believe that all this-advance, in rapid transit has been made in the short space of ten years.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
When we take up the receiver of a telephone in a matter of everyday routine of business we do not stop to consider that this is also a quite recent practical application of electricity. If we look at a map of the United States and consider that almost every town has its local exchange with its thousands of subscribers, we realize the vast importance of this application of electricity to the service of man.
Only a few years ago the electric light was a curiosity exhibited as one of the attractions of a traveling show. Now we go along our well-lighted streets and never notice the bril-liant illumination produced by the conversion of latent energy stored in the coal pile into electric energy which by means of slender copper wires is transmitted from the central station all over the city and then converted at the lamps into ordinary light.
A short time ago the harnessing of Niagara Falls opened up vast possibilities in the line of power transmitting. In the city of Buffalo twenty-four miles distant, the wheels of many factories are being turned by currents of electricity generated by the power developed at the Falls. At an exhibition in New York City a
small motor was made to"rotate“easily by the high tension current delivered from the same source, showing that it is possible to transmit power over long distances.
The importance of practical electricity has not been overlooked at Notre Dame, and provision is made to furnish instruction to those who wish to engage in electrical work. The laboratories are supplied with machinery, instruments and apparatus of commercial size with which the student performs the actual . operations of adjusting, operating and testing which are required of a skilful electrician in actual practice.
The recent addition of a high tension alternator, instruments and transformers (see cut page 15) makes it possible for an earnest student to acquire some knowledge of all the latest methods of electrical distribution. Telephone and telegraph systems and apparatus can be studied in the laboratory and in repairing and adjusting the various lines about the college buildings. Students should learn the theories of electricity from the text-books, then learn the application of this theory ^by^actually performing the operations indicated.
MACHINE SHOP.
i8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
Books and. Magazines.
THE Ave Maria, which is issued at Notre Dame, lias recently modified the design of its cover. The change is not very noticeable, but is nevertheless an improvement. In other matters our bright contemporary is always the same. It has a remarkable record for supplying first-class reading-matter in abundance. In this it has no rival. Its contributors are the leading Catholic writers of Europe and America, and not infrequently several of the most prominent have articles in the same issue. The wide circle of readers that are attached
to the Ave Maria is very cosmopolitan in* its nature. Still all are pleased. The Notes and Remarks are always timely and original, and this accounts for the fact that they are so widely copied.
*
The Midsummer Story Number of The Ladies' Home Journal is readable on every page. Perhaps some of the fiction falls short of the usual standard — Kendrick Bangs and Julian Hawthorne, for instance, are a little disappointing,—but one is inclined to be lenient in hot weather. That part of the contents entitled Editorial Contributions is interesting even to us men. One_paper inwparticular on ‘A Sister’s
NOTRE DAME
Influence over Her Brother,” by Ruth Ashmore, we recommend all young ladies to read. There is sound doctrine in every line, and if sisters were doers of the word and not hearers only, some people would be happier in the world. How could we fail to approve of an article with such sub-titles as this: “The Sister is Apt to Neglect Her Brother,” “Encourage All Your Brother’s Hobbies,” “ Teach Him to Believe in Himself.” Here is a paragraph that is full of good sense: “The average girl is too apt to underrate her brother. She should remember his vouth and give him time to achieve success. The wise sister makes it a point to know the girl her brother likes or the man friend of whom he talks. She calls on the
SCHOLASTIC.	19
may have been in the past, it is certainly not to day the terrible, unspeakable thing it is generally believed to be, and particularly in America.” In this number a good example of Mr. Gladstone’s authority over his hearers is given by Mr. George W. Smalley in his first paper on Mr. Gladstone. For the Drawer Mr. Stephen has written and Mr. Frost has illustrated “ The Tantalus Loving Cap,” a humorous romance of the golf-links, o
He
Since our last issue we are in receipt from Benziger Brothers of the two series of pictorial Games of Catholic American Authors. These games, while affording delightful pastime for young and old, acquaint the players
SORIN BALL.
In this building rooms are free to all students who have completed studies required for admission into the Junior or Senior years of any of the Collegiate Courses.
one, and asks him to bring the other to the house when they are to have some pleasant friends there. The best way to keep a boy out of bad company is to furnish him with that which is at once good and entertaining, and make him feel that in it he is of importance.”
❖ *
In the fourth of the series of articles treating Russia as a militant power in the forefront of modern political and territorial movements, Stephen Bonsai, in the August number of Harper'sMagazine, writes of “The Convict System in Siberia.” After making a careful investigation of the system in various parts' of Siberia, he states that “whatever the system
with the authors and their works. The series 1,2,3 games of quotations familiarizes us with some of the most striking sentences of the leading Catholic American authors. The same firm has issued a vest-pocket edition in flexible cover of the Gospels. The price, ten cents, places this indispensable book within the reach of everybody.
“The Inundation” and “The Canary Bird,” translated from the German of Canon Schmid, the world-renowned story-teller, “The Rose Bush,” The Hop Blossom,” “The Overseer of Mahlbourg,” and “The Cake and the Easter Eggs,” are volumes that will be acceptable to any reader of juvenile literature.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
20
WW 5SH0W.
Notre Dame, August, 1898.
(Sublfsijrt tficrg Saturtan Surins (Term Etmc at &. 33. Elntbcrsifn.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Terms, $r.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address:	THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
dents will be glad to hear, will continue in charge of'the classes in mechanical and architectural drawing, which he has brought to such a high standard of excellence.
It is the intention of the University authorities to put the Art Department at Notre Dame on a par with any similar department in the country. Mr. Paradis has been instructed to supplement the collection of models already at hand by a complete series of flats and casts.
The Opening of the New Term.
The Coming School Year.
JT is needless to urge upon students the importance of returning promptly on the day fixed for the resumption of classes. Work begins punctually on the day fixed, and students who delay their return usually find themselves handicapped in their classes for a large part of the term. The examination of conditioned students will be held on September 6, and entrance examinations on the two days following. New or conditioned students are expected to present themselves in time for these examinations, and all are expected, to be ready for work September 9.
|T is a great pleasure to announce that Mr.
Jobson Paradis, A. B. ’90, has been secured as director of the department of artistic drawing and painting. While at Notre Dame Mr. Paradis was a favorite-pupil of Gregori, and the talent that he then displayed has since been thoroughly developed. by a seven-year . course of study,under Gerome of Paris. Some of Mr. Paradis’ pictures are well known here; they are remarkable for accuracy of drawing. and delicacy of coloring. It . is. sufficient evidence of the merit of Mr. Paradis’ work that several of his paintings and sketches have been honored by a place in the Salon.
The course of drawing and painting under Mr.Paradis will be as follows:
Drawing from the Flat. Drawing from Casts. Drawing from the Antique (Plaster. Casts). Drawing from Life. Painting from Still Life. Portrait Painting. Landscape Drawing and Painting. Anatomy and Perspective.
This program, it will be seen, embraces all the elements of the most advanced artistic study. And besides being extensive the instructions, we have every reason to.believe, will be efficient as well. Prof. Ackermann, as old stu
^EVER has the University faced a school year with brighter prospects than those which promise to usher in 1898-99. The new athletic hall will be formally opened in September, and at last Notre Dame will possess a gymnasium which will compare not unfavorably with those of the heavily endowed and state-aided secular colleges. A complete system of cold storage will also replace the old ice-house. The students’store has been enlarged and renovated, and a large force of men has been busy during the summer months preparing for the influx, of students in September.
The same brisk movement marks the intellectual side'of the summer preparations. The catalogue has been thoroughly revised, and courses remodelled. It is not expected that any student will be inconvenienced by the change, the purpose of the. Faculty being not to prolong' the years of study, but to broaden and deepen and modify the courses so as to give the strongest and most practical education possible, in the regular collegiate years. The most notable addition to the curriculum is perhaps the course of pharmacy which has been elaborately planned and placed in charge of a practical pharmacist of many years’ experience. He will have a competent corps of assistants,and a degree in pharmacy will be conferred on those who complete the course of studies.	'
Besides Prof. Paradis, who comes from the ' studio of Gerome in Paris to assume the direction of the art school, four new assistant professors have been, secured for classes in Greek, Chemistry, Philosophy and History.
The University has, therefore, good reason to look fo.rward to the new year in a sanguine spirit. The number of applications for entrance is unusually large, and all signs promise a pleasant and. prosperous term when classes are resumed in September.
VICE-PRESIDENTS SINCE 1842.
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our College Societies.
IN college work there are mam attendant elements that an not taken into consideration ii a strict record of what student have to do. An account ot men educational work, such as th< Annual Catalogue presents, i-scarcely supposed to take mon than incidental notice of th multitudinous organizations tha come into existence and develo in the club-room or on the cam pus. These are subject to colleg restrictions and, according t< circumstances, receive proper en couragement; and so they are ii a way connected with the intel
lectual, moral and physical development of college youth. But even then they are very unstable in their row; new ones spring up and the old die. work of the class-room, and consequently
A FAVORITE SHRINE.
nature; they arc alive today and dead tomor-They are entirely ancillary to the educational are not set down in a curriculum of studies.
THE UNIVERSITY CHURCH.
THE P1I1L0PATRIANS OF CARROLL HALL.

24
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

READING ROOM IN BROWNSON HALL
Societies, clubs and various kinds of associations are a natural consequence of the boarding-school system. From year to year they vary in number, attractiveness and usefulness. Circumstances are bound to affect them. And so the attention which they receive and the prominence which they attain depend partly on the whims of students and partly on the nature and importance of the organization itself. A sufficient evidence of this is found in the fact that our military company, owing to natural war enthusiasm that was awakened here at the first call for volunteers, became at once a most interesting feature of campus activity, and consequently became an object of encouragement and local pride.
It is only to be expected that under
varying conditions organizations of this kind receive more or less attention. This is but natural. It should be so. And as a result, the officers of the University are fortunately- enabled to give proper ‘ encouragement to those organizations which are most beneficial, by modifying as much as possible the conditions that are liable to retard their growth. These societies, clubs and associations are not left altogether to themselves. Their formation and character are not left wholly to the solicitude of the students. Societies are possible at Notre Dame only in so much as they are worthy of commendation. In all cases they must receive the approbation of the college authorities, and according to their nature and importance have one or more members of the Faculty among their regularly appointed officers. .
Were no precaution taken in this regard, and if this phase of college life were not sufficiently looked into by teachers and superiors of the institution, one might not be surprised to hear of undesirable results. There would then be the possibility of the student wasting his time. The work that he might do in the interests of his club might be in excess of that which would be pleasing to his parents or guardians; and the hours he should devote to his lessons might become valueless because of the distractions thus brought about. Of such conditions the . officers of the University are not unmindful; against such disorders they take every precaution. And yet the student is not hampered by the vigilance of his superiors in these matters. The training which he receives in other departments strengthens his judgment and common-sense. So he understands fairly well the function of societies, clubs and associations; he knows how to value them, and he uses them only to advantage. And because this is the case; because such organizations have been of real benefit to the students at Notre Dame; because their . activity has been along proper lines, and because they .are capable of doing honor .-to the University in. their own way, they deserve more than a passing notice.
A great many societies of this kind are recognized at Notre Dame—some twenty-five or thirty—and therefore in
making mention of even the most promi- • reading room in st. Edward’s hall.
THE UNIVERSITY BAND.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BOAT HOUSE.
nent of them, it will not be convenient to go into great details. The Scholastic has hitherto published the special reports of important regular meetings, and in this way has given lists of the officers who from time to time have been called on to represent the societies in their organized form. A complete list of these office-holders would make an extensive contribution to the history of local politics in one form or another.
The societies themselves, so diversified in form, may be grouped under five different headings. There are religious societies, literary and dramatic societies, law societies, musical clubs and athletic associations. The different departments contribute their share to the membership of some single society. In other cases each
hall has a distinctive organization formed according to a common plan and for a common purpose. This is the case in regard to the oldest society in the University; the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary. It is affiliated to a similar association established in the Church of Our Lady of Victories in Paris. For more than half a century this society has been a means of fostering piety and Christian charity for sinners and persons in error. It is now fifty-three years since it was established here by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin. During all that time it has been at Notre Dame a great power for good, aiming as it does at the mutual edification and personal sanctification of all its members by-regular weekly religious exercises, monthly Communions and other religious practices. Its membership is the largest. Each hall has its honorary and acting directors', and all the other officers that properly belong to such a society. Even in consideration of-all this the association may not seem so prominent as it actually is. This is because Catholic students are supposed to give evidence of the faith that is in them, and so religious organizations are looked upon as a natural element in the make-up of a Catholic university. It does not seem strange that under such
BOAT CLUB.
II
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
circumstances religious societies were regularly-active and flourishing-.
Two other associations that have a share in the development of the spiritual life of the students are the Guardian Angels of the • Sanctuary and the League of the Sacred Heart, or Apostleship of Prayer. The former was founded twenty-four years ago, and has been enriched by many indulgences that were granted by the late Pope Pius IX. of happy memory. The society has for its object the practice of devotion to the Guardian Angels and the cultivation of a spirit of piety among its members; besides this it supplies acolytes for Mass, Vespers and other Church offices. The Apostleship of Prayer is of more recent origin. It was organized in September, 1891, and is affiliated to the Central Branch in New
York City. In Saint Edward’s Hall there is an Association called the Society of the Holy Childhood, the primary object of which is to train the Minims in habits of charity.
It may be proper to include in this list of religious societies the Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union. Year by year this organization has been growing in membership and in usefulness. It is en
MILITARY COMPANIES.
thusiastically supported by a great number of students, and has thus come into such prominence that it is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
The literary and dramatic entertainments which annually delight the audiences that are accustomed to assemble in Washington Hall are supplied by special associations which have regular weekly meetings in each of the departments. These are . known respectively as the Columbian, St. Cecilia, St. Stanislaus Philopatrian, St. Joseph and Sorin Associations. Al! are more than a score of years in existence, and are in a great measure accountable for the success which many of Notre Dame’s alumni have attained in oratory and other kinds of public speaking. The time which a student spends in preparing for a public exhibition is
often of the utmost importance to him, because it fits him for public life. Since this is obviously the case, sufficient encouragement is given and sufficient care exercised that he may take advantage of his opportunities.
Of the various societies which afford the student a means of mental or physical training those that concern law and music are more closely allied to class work than the rest. In the law department there is a University MootCourt, a Court of Chancery, a United States District Court, a Justice Court and.a Law Debating Society. These are supplementary to class work, and are very useful for a thorough understanding of the law. Under the supervision of . the Faculty of Music are such organizations ' as the Choir, the University Orchestra, the Mandolin Orchestra, the University Quartettes
and the University Band. These associations have been most beneficial to all active members, and moreover have done excellent work in public. The Mandolin Club, Orchestra and Band have each contributed to the enjoyment of all at Notre Dame, and much of their success is due to Professor Newton A. Preston. Finally there are the athletic associations. The Boat Club is
well equipped and has a large membership. In the fall and spring there are races on St. Joseph’s Lake. Practice for these events affords the students of Sorin and Brownson Halls a very healthful and profitable exercise. The Military companies of the University are another source of outdoor exercise. Under the able direction of Captain Jerome J. Green, a large number of students have become thoroughly familiar with the present code of military tactics. Their exhibition drills this spring especially were a source of gratification to all at Notre Dame. The institution has' always manifested a healthy spirit of patriotism and particularly in war time.
In field athletics, the University has maintained a high standard of proficiency. In tennis, lacrosse and handball there is a sufficient dis-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
GoIdetFJubilee.
J. Kraus
P. Kearney
C. Niezer
J. Rabe, Capt.
u
R. box J. Mu.len A. Fehr play of well-regulated activity. The University Athletic Association has been singularly successful in its baseball and football contests with visiting teams. The recent victory in Chicago, when
O 1 our baseball team won the western championship, is evidence of the team’s ability to cope with the best. The new
Brownson.
J. Sanford
F. J..Thacker
B. Metcalf
SSL
is a. Van i.ee, Capt. G.N Burg
gymnasium, which will be completed this summer, will afford ample opportunity for winter training in baseball and all other athletic sports. There will be plenty of room in the interior to do regular diamond practice. With the advantages which are thus afforded the students will be -enabled to strengthen themselves in every branch, and prepare themselves even better than they have hitherto been prepared for the various contests in which they are to take part. Even though the position the association has attained is an enviable ' one, better ' prospects are still ■ before it. Everyone realizes that it is capable of> greater [achievements.
The illustrations that are presented with this article on Our College Societies are taken from the collections that are preserved in the trophy rooms of the various associations. The work of gathering such photographs into memorial groups has been receiving a fair amount of attention. It is a thing that should be encouraged in a most practical way.
# &
Athletics are on a very secure footing at Notre Dame, and every one is aware of the fact. The Literary Societies have less chance to make an impression of such apparent importance. They do not appeal continually to such a large audience. However, they have far-reaching effects.^ Moreover, it is a matter of great significance that the students take an enthusiastic in
terest which eties them.
in the work these soci-require of This condi
tion of affairs is a source of gratification to the University officials, since the function of these literary associations is to make their members logical thinkers, correct essayists and
forcible
speakers.
MinnehdKx.
R. Garza u. Cypher, <apt J. Tuohy J. Koehler J. Kanbley
S. Boyle	A. Berry
y	'	.	■
I
i	■	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Baseball Season of 1898.
THE good old custom of constant, healthy improvement which is met with in every department of the University, found no more sterling advocates than the gentlemen of the Varsity Baseball Team of ’98. These players have raised Notre Dame’s standing in Western athletics another notch, and in doing so have not only honored the University but have honored themselves. For to be a member of one of the very fastest teams in the entire West is indeed an honor of which any college ball-player may be proud. Their pride took the form of a conscientious endeavor to make the team all that it should be in an artistic sense; and off as well as on the diamond, they, without a single exception, brought credit to the institution whose uniforms they wore. A better season could hardly have been made to order. The majority of the games played were victories. The team played fair, gentlemanly ball all the time, and the treasury of the athletic association contains a fair surplus to be
2$
used to start athletics next year on a firm basis.
To Manager Frank O’Shaughnessy too much credit can not be given for the admirable judgment and business tact he displayed throughout the entire season. The schedule was satisfactory in every regard, the outside games being a powerful stride forward, and the harmony that existed between the _ Faculty and the baseball management rendered possible many new and important measures which were for the good of the team. In his relations with visiting teams, Manager O’Shaughnessy pursued a policy which - made all the visitors loud in their praises of Notre Dame’s hospitality and absolute fairness. The best umpires procurable were obtained, perfect order was maintained, and Wisconsin seemed to voice the sentiment of all our visitors when they declared that at Notre Dame they had received better treatment in every respect than at any other college where they played. This recognition of Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s efforts is due him, for he labored for the best interests of his men.
And shoulder to shoulder with the manager stood Michael R. Powers. ’As a'player, no col-
CARROLL HALL BASKET-BALL TEAM.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
GROUP OF CARROLLITES.
lege catcher was his superior, and as a captain he was zealously active in bringing his men into pennant-winning form. His acquisition by the Louisville National League team after our season closed, was a fit tribute to his worth as a player; the unquestioning obedience and cheerful co-operation of his team under all circumstances show his ability as a captain; but deeper, truer even than this, confidence in him as an athlete is the honest admiration we all hold for “Mike” Powers the man. We claim him as a typical example of what all our athletes should be. There is room for men of his stamp in the athletic department of every college in the country, and the
more faithfully our own representatives follow his example the higher will be our standard.
The third member of the controlling body was Coach Hering. Owing to the prominence of our track athletics last spring, the coach was unable to give as much of his attention to the baseball men as was customary in ’97, but in the winter practice, over which he presided, the good seed for later victories was laid. His hard work brought forth a team for which no training was too hard, and when we look over the baseball records and write our judgment thereon, the unfaltering devotion of Coach Hering to the interests of the University can not be overlooked. His energy was wonderful, and he succeeded in imparting some of it to the men who so bravely carried the Gold and Blue on the diamond.
- THESE ARE THE MEN.
The praises of Norwood R. Gibson have been sung so earnestly that any additional commendation may be regarded as superfluous. As a pitcher, Gibson’s strong characteristic is his imperturbable nerve. This point in his composition was of invaluable service in games when the shock of hammering base-hits and tantalizing wildness would have unstrung a more susceptible twirler. And when you couple to this coolness an exceptional assortment of curves, and at times terrific speed, it is little wonder that Gibson has been so successful.
First baseman McDonald’s second year on the Varsity gave him more confidence in himself, and as a fielder his work was always acceptable. At the bat he was an unfortunate hitter and his batting average does not show his real worth. McDonald’s batting was not of the highest order taken as an individual, but when the time came when a hit was a matter almost
FART or BROWNSON HALE CAMPUS.
BASEBALL TEAM, ’98.
32
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of life or death, McDonald’s willow was in the game. As a team-batsman he was strong, and as a baseman he was always there.
At second base, McNichols played a clean fielding game all season. A hard, smashing drive directly over the bag was McNichols’ weakest ball to handle, but he was sure death to flies and short hits between first and second. His work with the stick was fair, and on the bases he was fleet-footed.
Donahoe’s first year at short can not be said to have been a record breaker either in the field or with the stick, and a youthful tendency to turn on a hard-hit liner was evident all year. The nerve-straining tension of a championship ?ame was a new sensation to him, but with the o	•
experience he gained this year he should round into a good man for next. His great redeeming quality was his beautiful sacrifice hitting in which he led the team.
At the third corner, Fleming, who played left field in ’97, was a tower of strength to the team. He made many errors, it is true, but his vim and dash in going after everything compensated for his defect in this regard. In scooping bunts out of the sand and driving them to first his equal has not played on a Western team this year. His throwing abilities and his deftness as a skilful sacrifice hitte} made Fleming one of the best men we had.
In the centre garden Daly played a pretty game. His swiftness and keenness of sight made a ball in his territory a dead one in almost every instance. He was weak on ground hits, very weak, and his-batting was not in every case up to the mark, yet his fielding was good enough on fly-balls to discount his weakness on low ones. As a base-runner he ranked above his team-mates.	‘
In right, Follen played a conscientious, even game. His willingness to get into every play was a shining example of playing for the side. Follen worked hard all the time, fielded fairly and hit well through the season.
Callahan was a deliberative left-fielder and never made a foot-race part of a ball game. Yet with his seeming slowness he moved fast enough to make some pretty catches, and at bat his streaks were luckily on when the team was in sore need of hits. At Chicago his hitting was the feature. On the home grounds, the sun-field in which he played made accurate judgment of a fly-ball almost impossible.
Wilson was a capable utility, and in his time played many parts. As a fielder he was slow; but when, during Captain Powers’ illness,
he went behind the bat he showed that he had n him the making of a fairly successful backstop. His capacity for hard work is an aid to him.
Hermann, who participated in a few games, may ripen into a good ball-player with more seasoning. He has a good arm and a fair eye for the ball, but is slow on his feet.
And so closes the list of the men that did the work. A critical analysis made after the season is at an end will necessarily discover faults which would pass unnoticed during the heat and hustle of a game, yet if we know not our faults how shall we correct them? And the work accomplished speaks for itself as far as results go. If the team of ’99 works as faithfully and does as much as their predecessors of ’98, no one will find cause for complaint when the season is over. The policy of growth demands that the men of ’99 do their part in the work of placing Notre Dame at the top, and we know that the spirit which animated Powers and his men of this year will not be absent when the bell rings for the opening of the baseball year of ’99. For that was the real Notre Dame spirit. Mr. Paul J. Ragan has been elected Manager for next year, and Mr. Michael T. Daly, Captain. The best wishes we can extend to them is that they prove worthy successors of Powers and O’Shaughnessy.
The scores are given below. The batting and fielding averages will appear later.
April 18—N. D. vs. Mich.	4-2 Gibson	Lehr
April 29—N. D. vs. N.W.	12-1 Gibson	Schlauder
May 14—N. D. vs. DePauw 5-2 Gibson Pulse May 20—Wisconsin vs. N. D. 5-0 Gibson Husting May 25—N. D. vs. Indiana 10-1 Gibson	Choler
May 27—S. Bend vs. N. D.	9-5 Hering	Bailey
May 30—N. D. vs. St. Viateur 8-6 Hermann Conners May 31—N. D. vs. Chicago	12-9 Gibson Clarke
June 7—N. Dame vs. S. Bend 4-4 Hermann Sheppard June 9—Mich. vs. N. Dame 15-2 Gibson	Lehr
June 15—N. D. vs. S. Bend	5-4 Gibson	Bailey
Possibly, the movement of ’last year which will redound most to the glory of Notre-Dame in later years, and which, even in its first year, brought splendid results, was the granting of permission to the baseball team to make outside trips. These journeys, taken at no loss of time from classes, put the Varsity firmly in the class of wide-awake teams. It is carrying the eagle into Gaul, and makes other institu-ions better acquainted with us. Then it binds the old student closer to his Alma Mater, and for this he is grateful. The financial gain is too apparent to need comment
Louis T. Weadock.

TRACK TEAM—INTERSTATE CHAMPION, '98.
34
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Athletic Squibs.
THE new gymnasium will be finished by the opening of the fall term. The building is unique among gymnasia. It is not designed after any particular gymnasium, but will have the excellences of many. The object most desired is to have a room sufficiently large, unobstructed by pillars and well lighted, so that those forms of athletics,—baseball, track athletics, football — which are our national amusements and appeal most to American youths may obtain the year round. The dimensions of the athletic room (110x159 ft.) will permit of playing out-door baseball during the winter. The track bounding the room, which will be earth and cinder, will give a fine opportunity for bicycle riding, sprinting, hurdling and other forms of track athletics.	.	'	•	-
The walls of the new gymnasium are 25 feet high. The light comes through translucent glass in the roof; this will prevent interference of light.
The steel trusses supporting the roof are 10 in number, each weighing 30 cwt. ’ ■ - ■ ■
No one man may claim the honor of designing the gymnasium. The time for its building had come, and co-operation characterized its creation. The skeleton plans were outlined over
THE NEW GYMNASIUM. '	.
a year ago by Brother Hugh and the athletic instructor; last’ winter our Reverend President sanctioned the completion of the drawing, and the present gymnasium is only a more perfect expression of the original plans. Dr. O’Malley gaveivaluable help in determining the size and location of the rooms, and his father, Mr. William O’Malley, drew the first plans from drawings made by Mr. Julius Arce. Brother Charles substituted steel trusses for the wooden ones considered in the first plans;, he also designed the front of the building. The prefects secured the addition of a hand?ball alley. There is no doubt that the benefit to be derived from the new building -will justify the care and thought represented in its construction. ■
. < * * - :
..The Catholics, not only of the middle west but. throughout the country, are interested in our athletic teams. Tt is the prevailing belief,; that Notre Dame is to sustain the prestige of Catholic colleges not only in intellectual and moraL progress but also in physical require-Iments. This is as it should be. We are a nation of athletes, but athletics shoujd . be
5
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
subordinate to the training of the mind. A just union of the two is the ideal condition.
.. * -
There are a few students who could increase the depth of their chests and breadth of their shoulders to the improvement of their appearance and health. In the long list of sports and exercises open to everyone at Notre Dame, there is surely some one that will appeal to every student, the pursuit of which will adapt him for better work.	.
4c	* ■
. * * * ,
Gome back with the determination to excel in at least one .branch of athletics. The ability to run gracefully or to pole vault is a rare accomplishment.	-
4?	‘	-
. ’ ’ * * .
Do not forget that it is necessary to have an average of at least seventy-five per centum instudies in order to enjoy the honor of representing the University on its athletic teams. If lessons or exercise must be sacrificed, the Faculty has determined wisely that it shall be. exercise; but a conscientious student will find time to do justice to himself in both. .
.	- '	4c,	-	■	„	~
There will be a room where the members of the different teams may' keep their suits; it will be in charge of the trainer. r >	4c
. * * -• -
The hand-ball alley is 25 x 65. The outside measurement of the gymnasium is 222 by 100. The front elevation is 55 feet. , - -- - - * * . : -
...	, The students who are staying here during
Our victory at Indianapolis over the other' summer find their greatest enjoyment
twelve colleges and universities in the state has placed us at the head of college track athletics in Indiana; our baseball victories have placed us foremost among.the college ball-teams of the West; let iis retain our
position.
-' 4*
* *
Football is yet. in its infancy. The unnecessary roughness is being eliminated rapidly. Less than a year ago General Lew. Wallace asserted at the Buffalo Encampment of the
•3.
G. A. R., that it was a game to develop soldiers;
the large number’of athletes in our army	***	. _	H
and navy is a proof of the truth of.his remark. .We must have a heavy pair of half-backs this year. Indications are that this need will be filled. They should weigh 170 lbs.
4c * *
/ John Eggeman is going to reduce flesh (luring the summer in order to fill his old moleskins without being -uncomfortable; he is
		Fortunately most of the football team will going, to coach “Cholly ” to talk without be back. With a large nucleus of old players ' ■ drawling.	, ' -	- ...we ought to move several notches nearer to
’	the Western Championship. Remember we
Most of the football men are in training at play Michigan, Oct. 20.	.	.
their respective homes. Captain Mullen is
. tackling wheat fields in Minnesota; Willie There will be room for several tennis courts : Kegler is playing third fife in the little Ger- in the new gymnasium. O’Shaughnessys, both man Band at .Bellevue, Iowa; Lins is follow- of-them, are going to play; they want to go in ing Mike Powers’career in the National League “doubles?’ /Well,[they3are a pair. -/
in order that he may learn to kick, and Waters is reading John Lander’s treatise on “Poker” in order that he may know how and when to
pass.
- 4^	*
The shower-baths will furnish ah agreeable ending to an hour’s' exercise.
- "	-	-	4c
. . * * -
The room for gymnastics will be fitted up with the latest apparatus. The room is 100x40 and has no obstructions in the way of pillars.
• . ■ % -. * * ?- .
There will be enough lockers to give every student one; the dressing-rooms will be near the bath-rooms.
*
* *
swimming in St. Joseph’s Lake. The water is warm and clear.	-	.
•	4c	•	■
' , * * _ ; , -
Brother Hugh has built an addition to the side wing in the’Carroll Halt hand-ball alley; he has also built a back wall. There are some rare games, among the brothers. . j
' . • * - ■ ■ ' ■
* * - . / '
There are several kinds of cement plastered around the gymnasium drying. They are samples from which the cement to be used in the hand-ball court will be chosen.	.
* * *
- # * *