Vol. XXIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 20, 1891.	No. 40.
Christian Civilization.
BY JOHN A. WRIGHT.
I.
It is a fact now generally acknowledged that Christianity has exercised a potent and salutary influence on the development of civilization. If as yet this influence has not been given the weight which it deserves it is because the popular mind has been unable to grasp the thought. With respect to civilization a distinction is sometimes made between the predominance of Christianity and that of Catholicity. It is asserted that the former has been instrumental in the advancement of civilization, while at the same time it is denied that the latter has been a factor in the progress of mankind. In speaking of Christianity in a specific sense it is both proper and logical to use the expression of its highest form. Catholicity is undoubtedly the acme of revealed truth. It is evident that since the 16th century civilization, especially that of the Europeans, has shown vigor and brilliancy; but it is a mistake to attribute this phenomenon to Protestantism. Without Protestantism, and before it, European civilization was already much advanced, thanks to the influence of the Catholic religion; the splendor which it subsequently displayed was not owing to Protestantism, but shone in spite of it. Thus in regard to civilization the Catholic Church can always claim the principal share in its development; and for many centuries the task was exclusively her own, since during a long period she labored alone at the great work.
Christianity is a revealed religion because, being perfect, it could riot have come from man who is imperfect; consequently it necessarily
came from God, and man could only have acquired a knowledge of it by revelation. But all that comes from God is good; and that Christianity has wrought a miraculous change for the better throughout the whole world can be shown by contrasting the pagan civilization with that of modern times. Immediately after the death of Christ, Rome, the capital of the world, was a garbage hole of vice and a sink of immorality. Augustus attained imperial power by the commission of crime, and reigned under the deceitful garb of virtue. However, he gave to his subj’ects a long and much-needed repose. The civil and political atmosphere of Rome was heavy and stagnant with the noxious vapors of vice, and this calm before the storm was mistaken for the quiet of prosperity.
Tiberius had too great a contempt for mankind. He could not repress a burst of joy on finding the Roman people and senate sunk even below the baseness of his own heart. Rome loved Nero, him who instituted the Juvenalian feasts. Knights, senators and ladies of the highest rank were obliged to appear publicly on the stage and sing obscene songs while imitating the gestures of clowns.
Rome fell only when her national heart became rotten to the core, and it would be impossible for a modern nation to imitate her depravity under the effulgence of Christian truth. Their festivities were ferocious and beastly, death forming an essential part. A Roman after quitting his ; sensual pleasures went to enjoy the spectacle , of a wild beast quaffing human blood. Women counted their age by the number of times they .had been married, and were looked upon by man as slaves—
“ Something better than his dog, a little dearer than his horse.”
Infanticide was common and even approved
630
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of. Such was the condition of Rome, and at that time Rome typified the state of the civilized world.
But now a change was wrought. “In Bethlehem a Child was born.” No more do we en j oy ( ? ). the horrible spectacles of the arena; woman is looked upon as an equal, and matrimony is, as it should be, a sacrament uniting forever those who profess a reciprocal love, and thus furthering the two great goods of marriage—offspring and mutual faith. Christianity would have saved Rome from its own corruption, had she not fallen beneath foreign arms,—as she preserved society from total destruction by converting the barbarians, and by rehabilitating the wrecks of science and of art.
But what has been the effect of Christ’s teachings upon the fine arts? In regard to music, the Catholic Church has had a predominating influence toward its elevation. She has invented the organ and “given sighs to brass itself.” To her music owed its preservation in the barbarous ages. The Catholic Church alone could have been the inspiration of the Gregorian chant and Pergolesi’s Stabat Mater. Artists also have flourished and produced their best works through the inspirations ofj Christianity. We often hear it asserted that Christianity is inimical to the arts; but Raphael, Michael Angelo, the Caracci, Lesueur and Poussin refute the canard.
Not only has Christianity animated the canvas of the painter, but as well has it breathed life into the stolid marble of the sculptor. The statue of Moses, by Michael Angelo; Adam and Eve, by Baccio; Christ and the Mother of Pity, by Bouchardon, all are testimonials of the influence of Christ’s teachings. In treating of the influence of Christianity on architecture, it is sufficient to mention St. Peter’s at Rome, St. Paul’s in London, and Notre Dame of Paris to prove that we are indebted to Religion for the masterpieces of modern architecture.
II.
True or Christian civilization results from two essential elements, namely, the moral order, out of which spring honesty, virtue and confidence and the material order chiefly inspired by utility. Purely external organizations are conducive to the decay of society rather than to the happiness of its members; and this because culture, based on usefulness, produces nothing but selfishness, materialism and despotism. The Egyptians had a flourishing agriculture, an extensive commerce and a remarkable industry;* they built immense monuments whose ruins stand to-day as wonders of the world; yet
the Egyptian civilization is now buried in oblivion. This is but one case of many of which we read in history, and from them we must infer that no material force can be the foundation of a lasting prosperity. Neither agriculture, nor industry, nor commerce, nor military power, nor science, nor arts, nor literature can ever replace morality and religion which are the essential constituents of a true and lasting civilization.
Since the proclamation of the Gospel, the principles of morality have changed among men. The ancients considered humility as meanness, and pride as magnanimity; the Christians, on the contrary, consider pride as the worst of vices, and humility as the chief of virtues; with us, vanity is the root of evil, and charity the source of good. Friendship, our most delightful sentiment, has had the charms of its celestial passion heightened by Christianity. Jesus Christ loved St. John, and when expiring pronounced those words worthy of a God: “Woman, behold thy son;” and to His disciple, “Behold thy mother.”
Among the ancients the affections terminated with the grave. Friends, brothers, husbands and wives parted at death, and felt that their separation was eternal. But when a Christian soul shakes off “this muddy vesture of decay” he realizes that the God-given life returns to Him who gave it.
' There are some calling themselves philosophers, who descant upon the excellence of antiquity, and would fain persuade us to revive its institutions; but they do not remember that the social order of to-day is not, and cannot be what it formerly was; for the larger portion of the population of the ancient republics were slaves. Those who cultivated the earth were the property of the aristocracy. .
Modern civilization is the triumph of moral over brute force. The principal results of the Christian religion are, first, slavery, that degrading, unnatural state of the greater portion of mankind, was abolished. St. Peter and St. Paul taught that the slave was the equal of his master in the eyes of God; and this was put into practice by the Church throughout all ages, and embodied in many decrees enacted by the gen7 eral and particular councils. Second, the human dignity was raised to a higher standard of morality, in proportion as the omnipotence of the state was lowered. As a consequence of this, there was an increase of activity, enterprise, energy and perseverance, the fruit of which was the development of all public and private virtues, especially charity. Third, woman . was . elevated to the rank of the consort of man, the


Notre dame scholastic.
631
wives honored and loved, protected by the unity and indissplubility of marriage. The mother became the happiness of the family, and the guardian angel of the home. Christianity has a tender sympathy with the character of a mother, as is shown by our veneration for the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the love of Christ for children. A man in our day must have an innate corruption of heart if he does not venerate and uphold the honor of his mother. Virginity is held in veneration, and consecrated to religion; hence men and women with monastic vows constitute the nurseries of religious orders. Fourth, a new public spirit began to circulate throughout the body politic: authority was considered as derived from God, and justice, benevolence and devotion sprung out of every soil. Gentle manners prevented excesses in war, and kindness made life more pleasant and secure in peace.
Such is the history of Christianity; and who is there that reads the records of man’s progress, since that portentous “Star of the East” shone over Judea’s plain, that does not feel that Christianity has been a mighty power for good, lifting man from the mire of paganism towards the eternal happiness that comes from the infinite mercy of God.
©anti SlloVfinS.
1591—1891.
SBoljin bcr ^ilgcr ©djaren SHit galjncn nnb ®cfang? SScSIjalb bon alien Sfirmcn ©djallf fjeit’rer Slorfcnflang? ©ic Ijcil’gc ©tabi bcr 9lomcr Bicljt an bcr SBaller ' Sluf allcr fromnicn Sintlitj ®cpragt finb greub’ unb 23ujj’!
3u beten -ftroint bie SHenge Sin eined $ungling§ ®rab, ©cm ®oft auf reidje SSeife ©ic ®nab’ bcr SBunbcr gab. Sn Slnbadjt fnic’n fie niebcr Unb flcb’n auS tiefer Sruft • .©ag cr fic feufd) erudite Sm ^ampf’ gen bofb 2uft
Dbgicid) cr eblem SJliite 6ntfproffcn, lenft’ fein ©inn nad) bcS Atlofterb ©til(c •
SBaffen Sljre ^in. ©ic Sngenb bie befonberd . Sr l;cgt’ mit ftetcr 9)lub’ SBar nie bcrleijlc Unfdjulb— SBeldy 2ilic fdjon mar fie!
©er Sa^re guile foarb iljm
SJom licben ©ott .bcrfagt;	.
SBcnn and) cin Snabc t^at er	’
SBaS Slelt’rc nid)t bollbradjt.
Sim ^c^ren ^inimcldfljore
©al) er’ bie SSortc tidjt:
„ ©ic Slcincn merben fdjaucii
©ed §crrcn Sln’gcfidjt."
Sin ^cil’gcf nun bcmadjcf Sr und auf irb’fdjcr 23al;n, guljrt mid auf fidjcrn ^faben	.
SBcg bon bcr Sunbcr SBaljn.
O bu, bcr Unfdjulb 2Bad;tcr,
Scmaljr’ mid gut unb rein, Unb lag an beinem gefte
Und bir emfjfoljlcn fein!	■
S ofc|)I; Su ft, ’92.
Chemistry in Common Life. ’
The average person has no notion of the real scope and functions of the science of chemistry beyond a hazy impression that medical practitioners have mastered its theory, and druggists its practice. The greater portion look upon it as alchemistry was looked upon in the time of Geber:' that is, as a very mysterious science and a difficult subject to understand. But undoubtedly if they would pry into some textbook they would soon be convinced of the opposite, and would not only gain a little every time they applied their mind to such a book, but would be encouraged to pursue the subject to its almost fathomless depths.
Few are they who know what air really is, and the reason why we breathe it. They do not know that we breathe, the air for the oxygen contained in it, and that the gases expelled from the lungs are not of the same nature as those taken into them, and by breathing air .we deprive it of its vital principle oxygen. If they did perhaps the masses would be healthier in general.	-
Chemistry is that which teaches this, and it ’teaches the why and the wherefore of all these various necessaries of life. It teaches the farmer, who is acquainted with the elements of agricultural chemistry, the modes of the application of artificial manures and the numerous other practices employed in tilling the soil. It teaches him that when brine is applied to the soil that sorrel and all other ruinous grasses are banished from the old pasture, and that good crops ripen where formerly they languished and yielded scanty returns. He learns'that those waters which are “hard” contain salts in solution and are good for his animals, and those which are “soft” are devoid of these salts, and he will know how to remedy the difficulty.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Of what great advantage would a limited knowledge of chemistry be to a housewife whose daily cares demand frequent application of this science. She would learn to expose her plants to the sun for a portion of each day in order to promote their growth and to purify the atmosphere of the room in which they are kept. It would be of boundless benefit to her in the kitchen where she frequently comes in contact with chemical changes—as, for instance, in the making of tea and coffee—to add while they are boiling a little carbonate of soda which would greatly improve the taste and make them a much more nutrient drink.
It is chemistry that tells us that our food ought to contain a due admixture of animal and vegetable substances in which the proportions of the three most important constituents fat, starch or sugar and gluten, or some other flesh-forming nutrient, are present in properly adjusted preparations, and that the substance if not naturally liquid must be intimately mixed with a large quantity of water before it is introduced into the stomach. It is for these reasons that the epicure eats his pease pudding with bacon and his ham with eggs, in order that he may mix the gluten and starch of one with the fat and oil of the other, and not merely to suit his taste as is commonly supposed.
Chemistry is not only beneficial to the practical side of life but is almost a necessity for those whose duty it is to theorize and reason. To look upon the laws guiding the circulation of matter and the grand scheme of nature—the conservation of matter—makes the most pessimistic of us believe that there is really a bright side to life, and the most matter-of-fact and conceited of us believe that there is a rude degree of sublimity in the curious reasoning of Hamlet when he says:
“ Imperial Cassar, dead and turned to clay, Might stop a hole to keep the wind away. O that that earth which kept the world in awe, Should patch a wall to expel the winter’s flaw!”
G. O’Brien.
Facts.*
BY LOUIS J. HERMAN.
The subjects of jurisprudence are facts and laws. Facts are the source and the cause of laws. From facts proceed rights and wrongs; both requiring the government of law to establish and enforce the one, to restrain and punish the other. By facts is here meant anything that is the subject of testimony. If a thing be
* Thesis read before the Law Class.
perceived by any sense of the body, or faculty of the mind, the perception is a fact. If anything is seen or heard, the seeing or hearing of it is a fact. If any emotion of the mind is felt— as joy, grief, anger,—the feeling of it is a fact. If the operation of the mind is productive of an effect—as intention, knowledge, skill,—the possession of this effect is a fact. If any proposition be true, whatever is affirmed or denied in it is a fact.
Wordsworth’s “Tale of Lucy Gray” consists exclusively of facts. The narrative of Friar Lawrence in “Romeo and Juliet” is an example of testimony of facts:
Prince : Then say at once what thou dost know in this. Friar: I will be brief, for my short date of breath Is not so long as it is a tedious tale.
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet; And she, there dead, that Romeo’s faithful wife. I married them; and their stolen marriage-day Was Tybalt’s doom’s-day, whose untimely death Banish’d the new-made bridegroom from this city, For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pin’d. You—to remove that siege of grief from her,— Betroth’d, and would have married her perforce To county Paris. Then comes she to me, And with wild looks bid me devise some means To rid her from this second marriage, Or in my cell there would she kill herself. Then gave I her, so tutor’d by my art, A sleeping potion which so took effect As I intended; for it wrought on her The form of death. Meantime I writ to Romeo That he should hither come at this dire night To help to take her from her borrow’d grave, Being the time the potion’s force should cease.
. But he which bore my letter, Friar John, Was staid by accident, and yester night Return’d my letter back. Then, all alone, At the prefixed hour of her waking, Came I to take her from her kindred’s vault: Meaning to keep her closely at my cell Till I conveniently could send to Romeo; But when I came, some minutes ere the time Of her awakening, here untimely lay The noble Paris and true Romeo dead. She wakes; and I entreated her come forth And bear this work of Heaven with patience. But then a noise did scare me from the tomb; And she, too desperate, would not go with me, But (as it seems) did violence on herself. All this I know; and to her marriage
, Her nurse is privy. And if aught in this Miscarried by my fault, let my old life Be sacrific’d, some hour before his time, Unto the rigor of severest law.” *
That once in existence a fact is irrevocable is a fearful truth in contemplating crime. Lady Macbeth, to her sorrow, felt “what’s done can not be undone.”!
One and the same fact may relatively to one story be very unimportant; and relatively to another be of the utmost consequence. While in the evening the village church clock strikes eight a little girl is sitting on a stile in a field in which a laborer is still working, and close to the side of the hedge in an adjoining field a man is slowly walking. Relatively to the girl, the laborer and what he was doing are a story including them alone, and with reference to them the striking of the clock may be very
* A. 5, s. 3. f Macbeth, A. 5, s. i.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	633
immaterial; but relatively to the girl and the man walking near the hedge, and other circumstances forming a different story, the striking of the clock may be of the greatest consequence. The girl hears the clock strike and sees the man; the man is going to a farm-house not far off, and there, in the early part of the night, commits a robbery. For this the man is tried, and he is convicted partly on the evidence of the child, who heard the clock strike eight, and at the time saw the man go in the direction of the farm-house.
Facts are subjects of inquiry by a jury when upon them, some question arises which comes within their province to determine, as when a jury are assembled before a coroner to decide upon the cause of a person’s death, or before a commission in lunacy, or a court of law, to judge of the soundness of mind of a living person or of one now dead; or are assembled before a judge or court, in the ordinary course of trial of a question in a civil suit or criminal proceeding. In all these cases the facts are given in evidence by witnesses. Their testimony consists chiefly of facts of which they have personal knowledge by their sight and hearing; and the foundation of this testimony necessarily is the witnesses’ original perception of the things seen and heard, the impressions they made on their minds, and their present remembrance of them.
PERCEPTION.
A person’s right perception of an object seen by him may depend on his situation relative to the object viewed—as nearness to or distance from it; also on his capacity to see with perfect or sufficient clearness an object far off. He may be able to discern things at a great distance, or see distinctly only objects near to him; that is, he may be either far-sighted or near-sighted. His right perception of an object may also depend upon the light by which it is seen and therefore the time—whether day or night. It may depend also upon the length or shortness of time he has in which to view the object; also on the freedom of his view from all obstructions at the time. The sun shining full in the face of a person may very much obstruct his sight; and the same effect may be produced by falling snow or dense rain or smoke. Light may give one person a great advantage over another in discerning objects. Lord Lovat, in relating an attack which in the darkness of evening he and his followers made against Lord Athol’s troops in Scotland in 1698, the latter, acting under an order of government to capture Lord Lovat, recounts that Lord Athol’s troops, having lighted a number of fires, and begun to prepare their supper, and Lord Lovat having marched his men within musket shot of the enemy, the men fired, and immediately threw themselves on their bellies. The Athol troops instantly formed themselves behind their fires. He then adds:
“ If Lord Lovat at this moment had his whole force with him, the enemy might have been all cut to pieces without the expense of ten men. He could observe their
slightest movement by the light of their fires; and they were unable to see Lord Lovat or any of his men at the distance of twenty paces.” *
A person’s immediate right perception of an object seen by him may depend upon his previous knowledge or ignorance of the kind of object he sees. If he has before seen anything —an animal, a machine, an instrument—of the same kind as that he now beholds he will probably at once see the nature of it, and determine in his mind what it is. Dr. Johnson, in the course of his journey in the Hebrides, met with some hills of which he says:
“ Of the hills which our journey offered to the view on either side we did not take the height, nor did we see any that astonished us with their loftiness. Toward the summit of one there was a white spot which I should have called a naked rock, but the guides, who had better eyes and were acquainted with the phenomena of the country, declared it to be snow.”f
It is very common to ask a witness whether he must have seen such and such a thing done; as, for instance, a blow struck, and the reply usually is: “I think I must have seen it; it could not have been done without my seeing it.” In such cases the inference would be that the blow was not struck, and yet it is possible that it was. The. possibility is proved by the remarkable circumstances attending the assassination of the Duke of Buckingham as thus related by Clarendon:
“ This morning of St. Bartholomew, the Duke had received letters in which he was advertised that Rochelle had relieved itself; upon which he directed that his breakfast might speedily be made ready, and he would make haste to acquaint the king of the good news. The chamber wherein he was dressing himself was full of company, of persons of quality and officers of the fleet and army. He, being ready, and informed that his breakfast was ready, drew towards the door where the hangings were held up; and in that very passage, turning himself to speak with Sir Thomas Fryar—a colonel of die army, who was then speaking near his ear—he was on the sudden struck over the shoulder upon the breast with a knife; upon which he fell down dead, the knife having pierced his heart. No man had seen the blow, or the man who gave it.” J
When the eye perceives an object or the ear a sound, it is very often on a sudden. The shining of the eye of a person lying in concealment is apt suddenly to betray him. In his notes on Rokeby, Sir Walter Scott relates this instance:
“After one of the recent battles in which the Irish rebels were defeated, one of their most active leaders was found in a bog in which he was immersed up to the shoulders, while his head was concealed by an impending ledge of turf. Being detected and seized, notwithstanding his precaution, he became solicitous to know how his retreat had been discovered. ‘ I caught,’ answered the Highlander by whom he was taken, ‘the sparkle of your eye.’ ”
The eye has capacity to see many objects at one time. When in the presence of numerous objects, it may not see all, but it will of necessity see a great number of them. A man looking at
* Memoirs of the Life of Simon Lord Lovat, p. 84, ed. 1797.
f Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland, p.- 60, ed. Edinb. 1798.
t Clarendon’s Hist, of the Rebellion,Vol. I., p. 28, ed. 1707.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a crowd of people necessarily sees at once many persons in it, although probably be will see only a few distinctly, and the rest after a confused manner. Houdin, the celebrated sleight-of-hand performer, relates how he and his son, for the purpose of their profession, cultivated the art of rapid visual observation by walking past a store window, and then ascertaining how many objects they could enumerate and describe from this passing glance.* So the ear has capacity to hear many sounds at one time; as, for example, many voices of persons simultaneously speaking, or many sounds of birds in a grove; but it will not hear all with equally distinctive clearness. In Othellof Cassio says: “I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly.”
When an object is at a great distance from a person looking at it his perception of it may be very different from what it would be were the object near to him. “Wordsworth has brought many a truth into life, both for the eye and for the understanding, which previously had slumbered indistinctly for all men. For instance, as respects the eye, who does not acknowledge instantaneously the magical strength of truth in his saying of a cataract, seen from a station two miles off, that ‘it was frozen by distance’? In all nature there is not.an object so essentially at war with the stiffening of a frost as the headlong and desperate life of a cataract; and yet notoriously the effect of distance is to lock up this frenzy of motion into the most petrific column of stillness. This effect is perceived at once when pointed out; but how few eyes ever would have perceived it for them selves!” |
Many of the observations made on the subject of sight are also applicable to the sense of hearing. A person’s right perception of a sound heard by him depends on his situation relative to the sound at the time of hearing, as nearness to or distance from it; also on his capacity to hear with perfect or sufficient clearness a sound far off. It may depend on the freedom of his sense of hearing from all obstructions at the time of hearing the sound. The air of night is more favorable than that of the daytime for the transmission of sound. Gray puts down in his journal while visiting Keswick and its neighborhood:
“ In the evening I walked down to the lake by the side of Crowpark, after sunset. At a distance were heard the murmurs of many waters not audible in the daytime.” ||
It is certain that whatever alterations are made in the body if they reach not the mind, whatever impressions are made on the outward parts if they are not taken notice of within, there is no perception. Persons accustomed to sit in a room in which is a striking clock very seldom are conscious of hearing it strike. On the other hand, fervent anxiety gives acuteness to the organs of sense, as is illustrated by the
* Memoirs of Houdin, 256.	f A; 2, s. 3;
t De Quincy’s Sketches—Paper on Wordsworth’s Poetry, p. 260, ed. 1857.
|| Gray’s Works, Vol. IL, p. 226, ed. 1807.
case of Jessie Brown at the siege of Lucknow. This young woman was in the besieged garrison; the expected relief failing to arrive,prospect the of capitulating drove her frantic; but she heard long before any other of the besieged the music played by the band accompanying the soldiery approaching to the relief of the garrison. When she called attention to the sound, and asked “Did ye hear the slogan?” it was regarded as a delusion of her distempered imagination.
Writers, ancient and modern, agree that the eye perceives quicker and better than the ear. Hooker remarks: “That which we drink in at our ears doth not so piercingly enter as that which the mind doth perceive by sight.” Prof. Wilson, in his “Noctes Ambrosian?e,”* says:
“The memory seems to have more command over sights than sounds. We can shut our eyes yet see all nature. But music, except when it breathes, has no residing place within the cells of the ear. So -faint, so dim the dream, it hardly can be said to be, till one single note awakes, and then the whole tune is suddenly let loose upon the soul.”
IMPRESSION.
There is a capability in the mind to receive on it an impression of things it perceives. Whenever a man sees or hears anything, what he sees or hears probably makes some impression on his mind; but often the impression is so slight and transitory that all trace of it is soon gone. The mind is attentive to what it sees or hears according to circumstances; and in dependence on them the impression of it is strong or weak, clear or obscure.' The strength or clearness of the impression may also depend on the power or fitness of the eye or ear to receive it. What Locke says about ideas seems applicable to impressions:
“If the organs or faculties of perception, like wax over-hardened with cold, will not receive the impression of the seal from the usual impulse wont to imprint it; or like wax of a temper too soft .will not hold it well when well imprinted; or else, supposing the wax of a temper fit, but the seal not applied with sufficient force to make a clear impression—in any of these cases the print left by the seal will be obscure.f
An aid to impression is contemplation, by which we keep for some time actually in view anything we see.J
Any cause of abstraction of attention from an object may occasion that the object make a very small or even no impression on the mind. This is illustrated by a passage from Marmion: ||
“She sate upon the galley’s prow,
And seem’d to mark the waves below; Nay, seem’d, so fix’d her look and eye, To'count them as they glided by.
She saw them not—’twas seeming all—
-A sun-scorch’d desert waste and bare, Nor waves, nor breezes, murmur’d there; There saw she where some careless hand O’er a dead corpse had heap’d the sand, To hide it till the jackals come, • •	•	•
To tear it from the scanty tomb.
There are persons who possess an inclination, which sometimes grows into a habit, particularly
* Vol. IL, p. 256, ed. 1855.	.
t Locke on the Understanding, Bk. 2, c. 29.	.
t Ibid., Bk. 2, c. 10.	,	[| Canto 2. .
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
635
to notice things which they see or hear. Persons of a sensitive mind take an impression of minute things which they see or hear. Such notice of things tends to strengthen the impression.
.	MEMORY.	.
There is a power in the mind to retain an impression of things perceived by the eye or ear which is called memory. Every impression continues for some portion of time—some for only a moment and others for years. Association of objects has a great deal to do with recalling thus impressed on the mind. Cowper in a letter to a friend says:
“I have taken, since you went away, many of the walks which we have taken together, and none of them, I believe, without thoughts of you. I have, though not a good memory in general, yet a good local memory, and can recollect by the help of a tree or stile what you said on that particular spot. For this reason I purpose, when the summer is come, to walk with a book in my pocket: what I read at my fireside I forget; but what I read under a hedge, or at the side of a pond that pond and that hedge will always bring to my remembrance.” *
In many cases the time when a person sees, or hears or does a thing is at the time unnoticed by him. In such a case it is not in his memory and therefore he cannot recollect it; but by argument he may be able to say on what day or month or other time a particular event took place, by knowing that it happened at a marked time, such as the anniversary of a marriage, birth, death or other event.
Hamlet: How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
Clown: Of all the days i’ the year, I came to’t that .day that our last King Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Hamlet: How long’s that since?
Clown : Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that: it was that very day the young Hamlet was born.f
A written memorandum is a common means .of recollection
Lady Macbeth: Yet here’s a spot.
Doctor: Hark! she speaks. I will set down what comes .from her to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly. J
A memorandum is of value as productive of testimony when it brings to mind a fact written •down; when, on the writer’s perusal of it, it causes !him to recognize the fact so vividly that he can speak to the fact simply from the original impression on his mind and quite independently •of the memorandum. Supposing a memorandum acknowledges a receipt of money, it may bring to the mind of him who wrote it the fact of the receipt of the money. Sometimes a memorandum will fail to bring to mind the fact mentioned in it, and yet be of value as evidence; as, taking the above instance, the memorandum may not recall to the writer’s mind the receipt of the money, and yet make him feel sure that he did receive it; seeing his writing he says he has no doubt that he received the money, and his so saying is evidence of his receipt of it. Where a witness, called to prove the execution of a deed, sees his signature to the attestation and says he is therefore sure that he saw the party execute the deed, though, the witness
* Cowper’s Works, Letters Vol. VI., p. 207, ed. 1836. fJA. 5, s. 1. J A. 5, s. 1. See “ Cymbeline,” A. 2 s. 2
add that he has no recollection of the fact of the execution of the deed, that is a sufficient proof of the execution of the deed*
Great care is often necessary that imagination does not take the place of memory and recollection. In 16 Beaven 185, Sir John Romillysays:
“It is matter of frequent observation that persons dwelling for a long time on facts which they believe must have occurred, and trying to remember whether they did so or not, come at last to persuade themselves that they do actually recollect the occurrence of the circumstances which at first they only begin by believing must have happened. What was originally the result of imagination becomes in time the result of recollection; and the judging of and drawing just inferences from which is rendered much more difficult by the circumstance that in many cases persons do really, by attentive ' and careful recollection, recall the memory of facts which had faded away, and were not when first questioned present to the mind of the witness. Thus it is that a clue given, or a note made at the time, frequently recalls facts which had passed from the memory of the witness.”
Illness or old age often impairs and often destroys the power of remembrance. One of the effects of the great plague at Athens during the Peloponnesian war was the destruction of memory; some persons forgetting everything losing all knowledge even of themselves.f
Injury to the brain by a blow or fall on the head is a common cause of a temporary inability in the person who received it to give an account of the circumstance under which occurred. •
Things which took place in childhood are often remembered, while others, though they happened later, are quite forgotten.J
Prospero: .... Canst thou remember
A time before we came into this cell? .
I do not think thou canst; for then thou wast not Quite three years old. .
Miranda : Certainly, sir, I can.
RECOGNITION.
Recognition may be of a thing or person. This recognition must be based on the original perception of the object seen, the impression the object made, and the retention of the impression.
THINGS.	.
A thing is sometimes singular or rare—as either in size, shape or color, or as the production of a foreign country; and in all these cases the peculiarities may make a deep impression; and this impression retained in the memory may render it easy to recognize the thing.
Like other things, handwriting may be recognized. Almost everybody’s usual handwriting possesses a peculiarity distinguishing it from that of other people’s. In “King Lear” || an example is given of a person recognizing another’s writing.
Gloster: You know the character to be your brother’s?
Edmund: If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear it were his; but in respect of that I would fain think it were not.
Gloster: Is it his?
Edmund: It is his hand, my lord.
A person who comes to recognize another’s handwriting is liable to fall into error, because ,
* 8 Barn. & Cr. 16.,	f Thucyd. 2, 49.
| Tempest, A|i, D. 2.	Q A. 1, s. 2.
{Continued onpage^S}.
636
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
rbtrn Saturtiag buring ®tnn {Time at N. B. Mnibnsits.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind
Notre Dame June 20, 1891.
—We shall have to forego the publication of the Scholastic on Commencement Day this year as the closing exercises take place so early in the week. However, two more numbers of our little paper will be issued as soon as possible after Commencement.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin, we are glad to say, continues to improve in health. He is now at the College of Holy Cross in Paris. While the absence of the venerable Father Founder will be felt during the Commencement exercises, yet it will be a source of joy to all to know that the change of clime has proved so beneficial.
—The exercises of the Triduum in preparation for the festival of St. Aloysius was begun in the college church on Thursday evening. The attendance on the part of the students has been very edifying, and must have its good effect in the many lasting spiritual blessings that will be gained. St. Aloysius is one whose life and character can be studied with the greatest profit by the young to whom particularly he has been held up as a model and exemplar during the past three hundred years. The occurrence this year of the tercentenary of his death directs attention in a special manner to this angelic youth, and, as the Sovereign Pontiff has made known, the celebration in his honor has been made the occasion of special privileges.
—Professor Hoynes was called to Chicago on law business last Thursday. The frequent calls to take testimony there to which he has had to respond during the past two or three months rendered impracticable the fulfilment of his purpose to deliver in April and May certain lectures of general interest to the students. One of these lectures, as we learn, deals with “The Indian Situation” in its notable phases, from the time of the “mound builders” to our own day. The Professor was not inclined to confine his address to a mere outline in impromptu narration of what he had himself seen on the occasion of his visit to the Indian country, and hence he waited for time to reduce to
writing for publication what he has to say upon the subject. Needless to state, the lecture prepared by him is highly interesting and instructive. Two other lectures that he proposed to deliver describe “Army Life in Camp” and “Army Life in War.” In these lectures soldier life is vividly portrayed in its most striking aspects. However, several circumstances have operated to make impracticable the delivery of these lectures at the present session. The notable addresses of Bishops Keane and Spalding, the numerous elocutionary and oratorical contests of the students and the interest necessarily taken in the examinations and closing work of the session, not to mention the exceedingly tropical temperature of the weather, make it seem advisable to postpone until next session the delivery of the lectures which the Professor had promised to give.
The Visit of Mr. Daly and his Company.
An event which will long be memorable in the history of Notre Dame was the visit of Mr. Augustin Daly and his company of comedians on Monday last. It is seldom that any university is so signally honored; and Notre Dame feels a sincere" and proper pride in the distinction. Faculty and students alike are grateful to Mr. Daly for the treat he gave them, and everyone appreciated his kindness to the fullest extent. His company is beyond doubt the strongest that America can boast of, and their peers as comedians are not numerous in any part of the world. This fact, coupled with the consideration that they command the plaudits and admiration of two hemispheres, makes their visit here an honor which will always be remembered by those who had the good fortune to be present.
The entertainment began in Washington Hall exactly at the appointed hour—half-past twelve o’clock. The curtain arose on a beautiful parlor scene, which supplies a “long-felt want,” and which was an excellent example of the skill of Prof. Ackermann. The play was the much talked-of “Prayer” of Prof. M. F. Egan, the cast of characters being as follows:
“THE PRAYER.” Mademoiselle Rose Morel.......... Miss Ada Rehan The Priest, an old man........Mr, Charles Wheatleigh Jacques Leroux, a Communist leader.... Mr. Geo. Clarke-An officer of the Versaillais.Mr. Bosworth
Zelie, an old servant........ Miss Adelaide Prince Blanche, a neighbor......Miss Florence Conron
It is an adaption of a pathetic one-act drama by Francois Coppee, and under the poetic pen of Mr. Egan it is indeed a strong and at the
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6^
l
I
f
same time a beautiful play. It seems to have been written especially for Miss Rehan; and although it is a somewhat new line of character for her to assume, she is seen at her best as Mademoiselle Morel. She has well been styled the queen of American comedy; but, judging from the performance last Monday, we wonder why the title is limited to comedy. Surely the delineation of Rose Morel then was worthy of a queen of tragedy, and no actress in this country or abroad could have been superior to Miss Rehan. She daily receives the admiration of thousands, but among that throng there are none who are more enthusiastic in their praise than the boys of Notre Dame, who saw her as Rose Morel. Briefly the story of the piece is this: Mademoiselle’s brother, a priest, has been murdered in the streets of Paris by the Commune; she had centred all her love in him, and his death strikes deep into her heart. She stands at the windows of her home and sees the Communists butchered by the soldiers. The avenging of her brother’s blood fills her mind. While she is crying for the death of the murderers an old priest enters. He exhorts her to pray and forgive. When he leaves she falls on her knees and seeks to say: “Thy will be done. Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us.” The words will not rise. At that moment the sound of the avenging musketry is heard from without and the passion swells in her again, and she rises from her knees and staggers to the window as a hunted Communist tears into the room pleading for shelter. Her first thought was to turn him over to the soldiers; but the woman’s heart beats again in her, and, taking down the patched soutane and the shovel hat of her dead brother, she gives them to the fugitive and bids;him go safe. Then the unwilling prayer comes to her lips and she kneels and pleads: “Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us.”
The strongest points in “The Prayer” are the speeches wherein Mademoiselle Morel recounts the many virtues of her murdered brother, the base ingratitude of the Communists, and the appearance of Jacques Leroux in the garb of the priest. This last was a piece of acting that exemplified most strongly the power of gesture and the eloquence of silence. Not a word was spoken, but the scene was impressed upon the spectators by the artistic naturalness of the motions of the actors. No words could have conveyed the meaning as well as did the bows of Mr. Bosworth as he retired from the scene. It was such things as these that won fame for Mr. Daly’s company, and it is one of the features
that elevates them above the ordinary run of dramatic aggregations.
When the applause for Miss Rehan had ceased after “The Prayer,” Mr. Daly responded to repeated calls by appearing before the curtain and bowing to the storms of applause that shook Washington Hall on every side. Mr. H. P. Brelsford, ’91, stepped forward, and, in behalf of the students, thanked Mr. Daly most heartily for the honor and pleasure he had conferred upon them. In eloquent terms our guest was assured of the sincerity of the students’ gratitude, and at the conclusion of Mr. Brelsford’s remarks three hearty cheers were given for Mr. Daly, Miss Rehan, and the company.
Miss Rehan told Mr. Maurice F. Egan, after the play, that she was delighted with the intelligent appreciation shown by the students of the points made in “The Prayer.” She said that she had never played to a more sympathetic audience.	-	-
“A Woman’s Won’t”' was the name of an amusing farce that concluded the entertainment. In it appeared the famous delineators of old age—Mrs. Gilbert and Mr. Lewis. They, of course, made the hit in this play, although Mr. Edward Wilks played the officious butler to perfection. The cast was as follows:
“A WOMAN’S WON’T.”
The Husband...................Mr. George Clarke
The Wife....................Miss Adelaide Prince
The Father-in-law...............Mr. James Lewis
The Mother-in-law...................Mrs.	Gilbert
The Man-servant...............Mr. Edward Wilks
The Maid-servant............Miss Florence Conron
Space will not permit an extensive appreciation of the acting; but it would be impossible to refrain from saying something about the evenness of the playing and the absence of a too conspicuous star. This certainly is a vast improvement on what one is accustomed to see in theatrical productions nowadays, and it augurs well for the future of the American stage.
Among those present were Dr. and Mrs. John Berteling, Mr. and Mrs. P. O’Brien, Mr. and Mrs. Lucius Tong, Senator and Mrs. Howard, Mr. and Mrs. George Studebaker, Mr. and Mrs. Vanderhoof, Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Oliver, the Hon. W. J. Onahan from Chicago, all the members of the Faculty, and a few invited guests.
After the performance flowers were showered upon the ladies of the company, and the company was cheered again and again. The enthusiasm of the students knew no bounds, and long after the carriages had left and quiet was restored one could hear some delighted collegian fill his lungs and shout: “ Long live Daly, Miss Rehan and Daly’s comedians!”
. C. T. Cavanagh, ’91.
638	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Facts.
(Continuedfrom page 63f].
many persons write much alike. Years ago Mr. John W. Hunter was employed in the New York sub-treasury, and Mr. Cisco, the head of the department, was examined as a witness in a trial against Mr. Hunter for forgery, and he swore positively that no person could imitate Mr. Hunter’s handwriting so as to deceive him. When he had committed himself he was presented by ex-judge Pierrepont, the counsel for Mr. Hunter, with a slip of paper with writing upon it, and was asked if that was his own handwriting. He replied that it was. The counsel then informed the court that the paper was written by Mr. Levi in the presence of witnesses. This showed that if Mr. Cisco could be so easily deceived in his own handwriting he could also be mistaken in the recognition of Mr. Hunter’s writing.
PERSON.
With regard to person, when the person of one is distinguished from that of another by something attracting particular notice, as stature, feature, some defect, deformity, blemish, or other thing, natural or accidental, this seen by any one, whether frequently or not, and in some cases only once, may make such an impression on him as will enable him long after to remember it, and through that remembrance to recognize the person.*
It is by the face that persons are chiefly known; yet no two faces are perfectly alike. The points of difference in any face, combined with its form, features and complexion, makeup a whole which constitutes the expression or countenance of the face. Every face has its customary countenance —that which it usually wears for a certain period in infancy, boyhood, manhood and old age. The countenance is liable to temporary changes; some passion—as joy, grief, anger, fear—will produce an instantaneous and often great alteration in the appearance. These changes may be also artificially caused as by the wearing or loss of a mustache dr whiskers, the wearing on the head of false hair or a wig. Injury to the eye or other feature may cause a lasting alteration. Long-continued mental distress or bodily sickness or hardship will do the same. A sure innovator on a countenance is time. Time alters the form of features, imparts wrinkles, changes the complexion, whitens the hair and also destroys them.
The. likeness of one person to another may cause very great and most inconvenient and often fatal mistakes. Antipholus of Syracuse, the twin brother of Antipholus of Ephesus, experienced some of these inconveniences:
“ There’s not a man I meet, but doth salute me ' As if I were their well-acquainted friend; , And everyone doth call me by my name.
Some tender money to me, some invite me;
* See Kenilworth, c. 3, and Cymbeline, A. 5, s. 5.
Some others give me thanks for kindnesses;
Some offer me commodities to buy: Even now a tailor call’d me in his shop, And show’d me silks that he had bought for me, And therewithal, took measure of my body.” *
TIME.
When a person speaks to the length of time which was consumed in doing something, whether by the speaker, or some one else, it may happen that the time was known and is remembered by having looked at a watch, or heard a clock strike.	’
“I grant you I was down and out of breath, and so was he; but we rose both at an instant, and fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock.’’j-
Where there is a purpose to mark the length of time employed in doing anything the time is easily impressed on the mind and remembered; but where there is no particular object in marking the length of time it generally happens that the person who does an act, or observes another doing it, does not know the length of time employed. In a case of this kind if a person attempts to speak to the length of time, what he says will not be from his memory but from argument. In cases like this, where length of time is founded on probability only, there is necessarily some uncertainty about the exact length. For what in one person’s mind may be an hour might in another’s be half an hour, or an hour and ’ a half. Great mental trouble or anxiety may make past time to appear much longer than it really-was. Pepys enters in his diary Wednesday, 5th September, 1666, in the midst of the fire of London, which began on Sunday morning the 2d:
“ It is a strange thing to see how long this time did look since Sunday having been always full of variety of actions and little sleep that it looked like a week or more, and I had forgotten almost the day of the week.”
SPEED.
As a matter of evidence, it is frequently of consequence to know the speed with which a person was riding or . driving at a particular time. Accidents are every day occurring from fast riding or driving; a child is run over, a carriage is overturned and the like. In these cases few spectators, perhaps, will be able- to say with even tolerable accuracy the rate of speed at which the person who caused the accident was going. To do this satisfactorily requires a former attention to speed, with a view to determine the rate of- it; and from that attention an experience grown into a habit to settle a rate of speed on any particular occasion. .
Speed is greatly governed by the nature of the ground passed over being accelerated or retarded by the evenness or roughness of it, and by its form of plain or hill.
The greatest impulse to speed is given by the motive of it. If the word goes forth “ Escape for thy life; look not behind thee!” the utmost attainable swiftness may be expected as the..
* Comedy of Errors, A. 4, s. 3; A. 5, s. 1.	.
f Henry IV., Part I, A. 5, s. 4.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
<>39
result. On a pressing occasion a horseman may in Shakspere’s strong language “ devour the way”:
"After him came, spurring hard,
A gentleman almost forespent with speed; He seem’d in running to devour the way, Staying no longer question.” *
DISTANCE.
The distance of one place from another is often a material fact in evidence. If a person does not know what the distance is by measure he may take it from common report—from what it is called.
The occupation of some persons may make them more fit than others to determine distan'ce without measuring, as surveyors of roads and land surveyors. There may be different distances between one place and another, judging by the different ways which may be used between them.f
CHARACTER.
On a criminal trial it is common for the person accused to bring witnesses to speak to his character; in which case the testimony of character is part of the evidence. The nature of evidence as to character is that it is the witness’s inference and opinion—inference and opinion drawn from facts. The facts may be what the witness has heard the accused person say, or what he has seen him do; or his general conduct, which come under the witness’s own personal observation. An opinion of character amounts to probability only. The weight of the opinion must be in a great degree governed ;by the opposite natures of the character and offense. If the charge be of fraud or theft, the character should be of honesty; if of perjury, of respect for an oath; if of homicide, of gentleness of disposition; if of treason, of loyalty.
The time when the witness drew his inference of character is very material. The knowledge of mankind and constant experience in the world teach that frequently crime depends very much on temptation. The temptation, to be effectual, must correspond with the present desire of him who is tempted. Want of food or raiment may tempt a man destitute of these necessaries of life to steal. What may be a strong temptation to one man may be none at all to another. Again the same thing that in a former period of a man’s life, or in the last year or month of it, might have strongly tempted him may for the same man now have no power whatever. Age, health, moral improvement, and a variety of other causes may occasion this difference in the force of temptation. On the other hand, what will now tempt a man and lead him into crime might not have had this power at an earlier period of his life. Or, guilty now he may have lived innocently through former years merely because temptation did not then come in his way. A proof of the vast power Of enticement is found in the prayer “Lead us not into temptation.”
* Henry IV., Part 2, A. 1, s. 1.
j- Ashford v. Thornton, 1 Barn, and Aid. 420,421,440.
Subscribers to the Lyons’ Monument Fund.
In the last issue of the Scholastic it was stated that the names of the subscribers to the Lyons’ monument fund, so far as known, would this week be published. The amounts received respectively by Professor Wm. Hoynes and Mr. Wm. T. Ball, of Chicago, and the names of those who paid the same, are as follows:.	’
Received by Professor Hoynes from Rev. Dennis A. Tighe, $25; Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan, S25; Rev. John R. Dinnen, $5; Dominick Regan, $5; Frank Ward, $2.
Received by Mr. Wm. T. Ball from Messrs. Dennis Hogan, Wm. T. Ball, George F. Sugg, John Clifford, Roswell Hayes, W. P. Nelson, $20 each; from Ed. Sugg, J. Fitzgibbons, Louis Busch, Henry Ackoff, Frank Scales, C. O’Brien, J. H. Ward, Jno. Lambin, Louis Hayes, Wm. Dodge, Eugene Sugg, C. Clarke, John Gibbons, $10 each; from Otto Ludwig, Ambrose Herzog, John C. McDonald, Jas. Crummey, Frank P. Dwyer, Aug. Sievers, Chas. F. Rietz, Aug. Rietz, Harold Hayes, Jno. C. Donnelly, J. Rehm, Jr., James Taylor, Fred. Klaner, T. H. Grier, J. C. Braden, T. McGrath, E. J. Hughes, N. J. Nelson, T. E. Nelson, P. J. O’Connell, Thos. Cochrane, John Healy, James Graham, $5 each.
Obituary.
—All at Notre Dame respectfully extend their sincere sympathies to Rev. President Walsh in the death of his venerable Father, who departed-this life at his residence in Montreal on the 17th inst. The deceased was in the 81st year of his age, and an estimable Christian gentle- -man. His last hours were peaceful and happy, and a fitting crown to an upright life. May he rest in peace!
—We regret to record the death of Mr. John Fitzgerald, ’84, who passed away at his home in Muscatine, Iowa, on the 5th inst. He was highly esteemed while at College, and gave the bright- . est promises of a brilliant and successful career, which would have been happily realized but for his untimely end. He was a prominent member of the St. Cecilian Association and the officers and members have paid a tribute to his memory, and passed the following
•	RESOLUTIONS:
Whereas, It has pleased Divine Providence in His infinite wisdom to call from his earthly labors a former and esteemed member of the St. Cecilians, John Fitzgerald, and
Whereas, By his death James Fitzgerald, our active and honored member, has lost a beloved brother and the society one who was ever its firm supporter; therefore be it	.	.
Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolence to his afflicted relatives; and be if further
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be printed in The Notre Dame Scholastic and in the Muscatine daily papers, and also that a copy be sent to the bereaved family.	.	,
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C.,
R. Boyd,
.	• F. Carney,
•	’ Pierce A. Murphy,—Committee-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—’Rah, ’rah, ’rah, Daly!
—“I shawl not jest yet!”
—“Captain, my hat fell off!”
—When shall we meet again ?
—“Thank goodness, the table is set!”
—The excitement was intense at the end of the ninth inning.
—Willie has discovered that the heat of the past week was occasioned by “Old Sol.”
—Why was it that Charlie’s smiling visage was not to be seen at the Juniors’ Elocution contest?
—Rev. President Walsh has the sincere thanks of the Minims’ Base-ball Association for a generous gift.
—The beautiful scenery which set off the performances of the Daly Company was the artistic production of Prof. Ackermann. It attracted great attention and was very much admired. *
—The oldest settler will get a fine medal Commencement Day. “ Dutch” is in for it, but he has . only been here since’73, while “Me” was planted .in ’69. Other competitors are “Jocko,” ’74; “J.W.H.’”79; “ Tom. C.,”’82, and “Johnnie,” ’81.
—No, the “ Invincibles ” are not playing for medals. Their aim is rep. and championship, and in this respect they are in the lead. Since their last combination the entire yard have acknowledged their complete defeat. ’Rah for the “Invincibles!”
—Yesterday (Friday) marked the seventyfourth anniversary of the birthday of Very Rev. A. Granger, our esteemed Prefect of Religion. The “ princes ” commemorated the occasion by waiting upon the Rev. Father and presenting a beautifully worded and nicely written address. Their well-wishes are heartily re-echoed by all at Notre Dame.
—Captain George H. Craig, ’89, is meeting with gratifying success as cashier of the Bank of Altona at Altona, Illinois. He has a large interest in the bank, and its business is very prosperous. We are pleased to learn that he will be at the next meeting of the alumni. He is one of the most genial of souls, and all the “old boys” will be delighted to see him again.
—Before purchasing tickets for vacation we advise all our patrons to consult with Mr. F. P. Raff, the gentlemanly agent of the old reliable Lake Shore & Michigan Southern route. In all our experience with railroad men we have never met more accommodating and trustworthy gentlemen than Mr. Wilbur, the Asst.-General Passenger Agent of the Lake Shore and his worthy representative, Mr. Raff.
—The Brotherhood Reds won their game against the Brotherhood Blues by good playing and all around work. The features included the elegant base playing of Joslyn, who made grand
stand catches on third. Sullivan and Myler had things all their own way in batting, and double plays were numerous.
Score by Innings:—1 23456789 Reds:—3 4 2 2 o '3 o 1 0=15 .	Blues:—4 0031 501 0=14
—Thursday afternoon, June 11, the Minims’ first nines played their third championship game. The contest for the medals has been very spirited so far, both sides doing their best to be in the lead. Thursday’s game was one of the closest yet played, being prolonged until the eleventh inning, when the Blues won by a score of 17 to 16. With two base hits and a home run to his credit, Finnerty’s batting was “ way out of sight,” while Blumenthal’s phenomenal catch in the field excited the admiration of all present. The Reds have won one game, and this makes the second victory for the Blues.
—The following is an outline of the programme of the Commencement exercises:
Monday.
8 o’clock a. m....................Examinations
2.30 p. m..............Distribution	of Premiums
4 “ “ ..................................Regatta
7	“	..............Exercises in Washington Hall
Music...............................   Cantata
Oration—“ The Spirit of the Constitution,” J. S Hummer
“ —“Catholicity in America”......J. B. Sullivan
“ —«« The Future of Our Republic,” H. P. Brelsford Alumni Oration...............George E. Clarke, ’84
Address by His Excellency, Governor Hovey.
Tuesday.
6 a. m.............................Alumni Mass
8 “ “................Exercises in Washington Hall
Class Poem.........................J. Elmo Berry
Valedictory....................Chas. T. Cavanagh
Conferring of Degrees, Awarding of Honors, etc., etc.
—Our favorite Hal Jewett, ’90, again covered himself with honor at Pittsburg, on June 6, at the annual meeting of the Allegheny Athletic Association. Hal won the 100-yard dash, severely handicapped in fast time on a slow track. The Free Press says:
“ The first event was the 100-yard dash, a handicap in heats. Harry Jewett won the first heat without much trouble in 10.3-5 seconds. In the final it was a very hard race between Jewett and E. V. Paul, of the A. A. A., but the Detroiter won, the time 10.1-5 seconds. The time of the final is very fast for so ill-conditioned a track.”
Jewett also won the 220-yard dash in heats, beating after a fine race in 25.2-5 seconds. Hal was also handicapped in the running broad jump, but won, making 20 feet. Thus it goes with Hal; he is always in it, proving that as an amateur he has no equal.
—The Cecilian Banquet.—Last Thursday was the celebration of the 22d annual banquet of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association— one of the leading and oldest organizations of the University. It is composed of the higher collegiate students of Carroll Hall, and since its foundation has been noted for the literary and dramatic abilities of its members. The year just terminated has not been an exception to the general rule. Having a membership of thirty-one bright, manly young fellows, it has reached, if not surpassed, the standard set by other years. It has been the custom since its
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
early history to close the year’s work by a grand banquet—the most noted event in the college circle,—and this year, under the supervision of their beloved President, Rev. Father Morrissey, the St. Cecilians have given a banquet worthy of a king. At 4 p. m. the President, accompanied by members of the Faculty, invited guests and active members, entered the spacious dining hall, which was most tastefully decorated with tricolored bunting, college colors and the national flags of the South American Republic topped by the Stars and Stripes. All were seated and began to show their appreciation of the Cecilians’ effort by clearing the tables of their luxuries. At the centre table were Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Zahm, O’Neill, Connor and Reuter; Profs. Edwards, J. G. Ewing, Zahm, Liscombe and Ackermann. To the right were the post-graduates, graduates and ex-St. Cecilians. When gentle murmurs told that the bountiful spread had performed its work, Rev. Father Morrissey made a few happy remarks, and the annual drawing of the St. Ceci-lian ring took place. The thirty-one bright-faced young men walked up, and each took a cake, the lucky one falling to Mr. J. McPhillips of New York.
—On Thursday, the nth inst., at one o’clock p. m., occurred the final struggle between the Blues and Greys to decide which was to be the color company. It was one of the most interesting and exciting military displays ever witnessed at Notre Dame; the judges were Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Captain Louis P. Chute and Lieutenant Louis J. Gillon. The manner in which the little fellows in grey performed the commands proved that they were never in better condition; and the careful and experienced hand of their efficient officer could be easily detected in every move. Before they had half completed their drill it was plainly evident that the cadets would win the colors only by exceptionally fine drilling. Captain Blackman having finished the marching movements, wheeled his company into line directly in front of the judges’ stand, and proceeded with the manual-of-arms; then, saluting the judges, he yielded the field to his competitor.
Now it was' the" cadets, turn; and when the command “march’’fell from the lips of their able officer, Captain Fred B. Chute, the boys in blue took the field with a coolness and determination that would have done credit to a troop of old veterans. They fully realized the great responsibility that rested upon them, and the celerity and precision with which they obeyed the commands of their officers was a surprise to all not even excepting those under whose charge they have been during the year. Captain Chute is deserving of a great deal of credit for his work in this department, for he has spared neither time nor pains in trying to pilot these little men through the difficult path to perfection in the use of arms, and if he has not succeeded in attaining his end it can at least be
said that never before in the history of the Minim department has the military company reached so high a point of perfection. Captain Chute will renew his labors with the cadets next year, and with such an efficient officer as he has proven himself to be, there is no reason why the company of ’91-92 should not compete formally with Co’s “A” and “B.” May success crown their efforts!
—Base Ball.—The second game of Brownson vs. Sorin Hall series, was played on the 14th inst., and a large crowd was present to cheer both teams on to victory. The game was noted for the sharp fielding done by both sides, and the support given the two opposing pitchers, was in the main part excellent. If the first game was exciting this was doubly so, and all sorts ' of musical instruments were used with which the owners had a faint hope of inspiring their friends among the players to a greater desire of victory. In the first inning for Sorin Hall, Gillon scored on an error of Krembs, a stolen base and a passed ball, while in the same inning for Brownson Hall, Keenan scored by getting to first on a hit, stealing second, taking third on an error, and coming home on Combe’s sacrifice to McGrath. In the second, Sorin Hall scored two runs on a base on balls, a sacrifice and two safe hits. For the Brownsonites in the same inning, L. Gillon got hit by pitched ball; Scholfield followed with a hit, Cahill reached first on a wild throw by Cartier, and they all . scored on it. Keenan rapped out a two bagger, but was thrown out while trying to steal third. Score, Sorin 3 Brownson 4. A series of whitewashed innings now followed much to the delight of the spectators. In the seventh inning Sorin Hall scored three runs on an error by Fleming, a couple of hits and a base on balls. Brownson Hall scored two runs and the game on McCarthy’s errors and a safe hit by Smith. The following is the complete score:
Sorin Hall.	.	R.	I.B.	P.O. A.	E.
Gillon, p.	-	-	-	-	2	2	0 7	O
Fitzgibbon, c.	-	-	-	I	2	5 3	O
Joyal, 1st b. and c. f.	-	-	-	I	O	S 0	O
Cartier, 2d b. --	-	-	-	- O		2 I	I
McGrath, r. f.	-	-	-	O	0	3 0	O.
McCarthy, 3d b.	-	-	-	- O	O	3 0	2
O’Brien, s. s. -	-	-	-	O	0	0 0	O
Thavne, 1st b. and c. f.	-	-	I	0	2 O	I
Santer, 1. f.	-	-	-	-	I	0	O I	O
Totals	-	-	-	-	6	7 *23 12		4
Brownson Hall.	R-	I.B.	P.O. A.	E.
Keenan, r. f.	-	-	-	-	I	2	2 I	I
Krembs, 2d b. -	-	-	-	- I	O	2 I	4
Combe, c.	...	-	O	I	6. 5	I
Fleming, 3d b.	-	-	-	- O	0	■3 0	0
Gillon, l.'f.	.	.	.	• -	I	0	0 0	I
Scholfield, c. f.	-	-	-	I	2	0 0	0
Cahill, s. s.	-	-	-	I	2	2 5	I
Covert, 1st b.	-	-	-	•	I	O	IO 2	0
Smith, p.	-	-	-	-	- I	I	2 II	2
Totals	-	-	-	*	.	7	s		O
Score by Innings:—1 2 3	4 5 6 7 S 9			
Sorin Hall:—1 2 0	000300			
Brownson Hall:—1 3 1	0 0 0 2 0	-7		
* Runner out for being’ hit with baited ball.
, Summary: Tzvobase hit: Keenan. Stolenbases : Sorin Hall,J; Brownson Hall, 5. Eases on balls: off Gillon, 2; off Smith, 5. Hit by pitched ball: L. Gillon, Santer, Fitzgibbon. Struck out by Smith, 9; by Gillon, 5. Passed balls: Combe, t; Fit-gibbon, 2. Time of game: 3 hours and 10 minutes. Umpires : Steiner and Guthrie of South Bend. Scorers : C. T. Cavanagh and W. B. Hennessey. Sacrifice hits : Brownson Hall, 3; Sorin Hall, 1.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
SORIN HALL.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Burger, Berry, Blackman, Bachrach, Brady, Brelsford, Cavanagh, Cartier L. Chute, F. Chute, Du Brul, Fitzgibbon, Hackett, Hummer, Hoover, Lonergan, Murphy, McGrath, Neef, O’Neill, Prichard, Paquette, Rothert, O. Sullivan, N. Sinnott, R. Sinnott, E. Scheerer, J. B. Sullivan, Vurpillat, Wright.
BROWNSON HALL.
Messrs. Aarons, Ahlrichs, Blameuser, Cassidy, Correll, Combe, Coady, J. Crawley, P. Crawley, Cahill, Chilcote, Devanny, Delany, Frizzelle, T. Flanagan, Franks, Fleming, L. Gillon, Green, Gaffey, Hawthorn, Heard, Hennessy, Hauskee, Houlihan, Hubbard, Johnson, Jacobs, M. Mozier, Manly, Mug, Mitchell, Maurus, Monarch, McAuliff, McDonnell, F. McKee, J. McKee, McGonigle, McConlogue, Miller, McErlain, F. Murphy, C. Murphy, McCallan, F. Moshier, Newman, Oide, G. O’Brien, S. O’Brien, O’Shea, Powers, Phillips, Richardson, Rebillot, Robinson, Ragan, Stanton, J. F. Sullivan, Scholfield, Smith, Spalding, Soran, Tracy, Vurpillat, Vidal, Vital, White, Walsh, Weakland, Yenn, Zeitler, Brown.
CARROLL HALL.
Messrs. Ayer, Bergland, Boland, Ball, E. Bates, B. Bates, Brady, Bachrach, Browning, Boyd, Brown, Cole, Casey, Chassaing, Carney, Coe, Connelly, Connell, Coll, Collins, Connors, Cummings, Corry, Cheney, Clarke, Dion, Drumm, Dorsey, Delany, Dempsey, Dierkes, Dolan, Eagan, Foley, Farrell, Falk, Flannigan, Alfred Funke, Arthur Funke, Fleming, Fales, Gibert, G. Gilbert, Gibson, Girsch, Gerlach, J. Greene, A. Greene, Grund, Des Ga-rennes, Hill, Hagus, Hahn, Hack, Hake, Hoerr, Hannin, Jackson, Jewett, Keogh, Kearney, Kennedy, Kaumeyer, Langevin, Leonard, La Moure, H. Mitchell, E. Mitchell, Mattox, Molitor, Monarch, Martin, Marr, Miller, Murphy, Minor, McCartney, W. McDonnell, F. McDonnell, A. McPhillips, J. McPhillips, Miles, Nichols, Nestor, Neef, O’Rourke, O’Meara. Orton, Palmer, Prichard, Pope, M. Quinlan, Renesch, Roper, Rend, Shimp, Schillo, Slevin, Scallen, Smith, Sutter, Sullivan, Scheiffele, Suess, Treff, Tong, Teeter, Thornton, Thome, Tod, Thomas, Wellington, Weinman, Wolff, Welch, Yingst, Zinn.
ST. Edward’s hall.—(Minims.)
Masters. Allen, Ayers, F. Brown, O. Brown, Blake, Blumenthal, Burns, Bixby, W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Cornell, Coon, Curry, Crandall, Chapoton, Croke, Cross, E. Crepeau, O. Crepeau, Christ,Corry, J. Coquillard, A. Coquillard, Drant, S. Donnell, L. Donnell, Durand, Ezekiel, Everest, E. Furthmanh, C. Furthmann, Fuller, Fischer, Fossick, Funke, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, B. Freeman, J. Freeman, C. Francis, J. Francis, Girardin, Girsch, Gavin, Griesheiiner, Healy, Hamilton, Higginson, Hoffman, Hathaway, Howell, Jonquet, Jones, Kinney, King, Krollman, Kuehl, Kern, Keeler, Lawton, Loughran, Londoner, Loomis, Langevin, Levi, Lounsbery, G. Lowrey, T. Lowrey, Lonergan, Lee, E. LaMoure, Langley, W. LaMoure, McPhee, Maternes, McIntyre, McPhillips, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Marre, McCarthy, MacLeod, Nichols, O’Neill, Otero, O’Connor, Pieser, Pellenz, Platts, Patier, Ronning, Ransome, Roesing, Russell, Rose, Stephens, G. Scheerer, W. Scheerer, Stone, Steele, Thomas, Trujillo, Trankle, Vorhang, Wolf, Washburne, Wilcox, White, Windmuller, Warburton, Young, Zoehr-laut.
---------.
.	{Chicago Herald, June i6.~)
Daly at Notre Dame.
Students of the University of Notre Dame honored Augustin Daly yesterday in a manner which college, boys usually reserve for the boss football player of the season. And Mr. Daly returned the compliment with a distinction which he has sparingly gran ted to Shakspere’s birthplace and other historic spots that can be counted on one’s fingers. He took Ada Rehan and the rest of his company of players down to Notre Dame, and there they gave an afternoon entertainment just for the boys and
the friends of the boys. When he went away he was followed by the rousing college cheer, and Miss Rehan looking back from her carriage saw big fellows in mortar boards and gowns 'scrambling for the roses which she had tossed into the road. Mr. Daly is a LL. D. of the .University, and it was partly out of affection for the institution and partly because of his friendship for Maurice F. Egan, the poet-Professor, that the manager planned the visit. As an additional compliment to Professor Egan, the company performed Francois Coppee’s “The Prayer,” which has been exquisitely turned into English by the Professor. Mr. Daly and his comedians went to the University Sunday night in a special train. There were twelve of the players in the delegation, besides the manager and the musical director, Henry Widmer. They were received by the Faculty and comfortably lodged for the night. In the morning they were taken through the beautiful buildings, and at 12.30 o’clock they were on the stage of the college theatre waiting for the curtain to go up. Their coming had been a mighty social event for the country about the College. Everybody in society wanted to see the performance, but the students asked
' only a few. It was a big privilege to be bidden to this feast.
When the curtain went up there was a marked eagerness among the students to see how a woman would look on their little stage. There are ho women in the college plays. The boys have done “ Hamlet ” without Ophelia or the queen mother, “The Merchant of Venice” without Portia. When they came to “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” they stuck, and asked Professor Edwards to help them out. Professor Edwards had a happy thought. “ Why a little Eva?” he asked. “ Why not ‘Little Edgar?”’ So Little Edgar it was, and one of the “ minims ” was wafted away by the angels, while the corked-up Uncle Tom sang “ Way Down Upon the Swanee River,” and the real bloodhound tried to get some of Mr. Marks’ leg in the wing. The Professor’s expedient will seem hollow henceforth. The boys have seen how a woman looks on their stage, and they are convinced that she is an ornament. In Miss Rehan’s years of success she has seldom had a more enthusiastic welcome than the one that came from the Notre Dame collegians when, as Mlle. Rose Morel in “ The Prayer,” she stepped upon the stage.
The impression of delicacy and pathos of the piece cannot be conveyed to a reader, and it is equally impossible to give a just idea of Miss Rehan’s powerful playing of her part. The boys who saw the performance don’t need to be told. When the curtain fell before the kneeling figure a roar of applause rose from the audience. The curtain went up again and Miss Rehan bowed. Then the boys called for Mr. Daly. The manager, looking uncomfortably hot, for the afternoon was scorching, stepped before the footlights. H. P. Brelsford, Class’ 91, went forward and delivered an address in behalf of the Class. He said a great many pleasant things about Mr. Daly and Miss. Rehan and the company, to which Mr. Daly responded briefly. He said if the University of Notre Dame had half as much pleasure in seeing his company as he had in taking the company to Notre Dame the round of pleasure was completed. When he withdrew, bowing, the 500 students present rose and gave the college yell: “’Rah, ’rah, ’rah, Notre Dame! ’rah, ’rah, ’rah! ” until the big curtain flapped like a flag in a windstorm. It arose later on-in “A Woman’s Won’t,” which pleasantly concluded the afternoon’s entertainment. -
The curtain rose after “A Woman Won’t” and showed Miss Rehan and Mr. Daly standing hand in hand with the other members of the company around them. Then the boys yelled mightily, and took liberties with the college yell to the extent of crying: “’Rah, ’rah, Yah, Daly! ’rah, ’rah, ’rah! ” and “ ’Rah, ’rah, ’rah, Rehan! ’rah, ’rah, ’rah! ” until Mr. Daly blushed, and poor Miss Rehan was fain to flee. After the performance the company were driven to the railway station. The boys stood out on the campus and delivered a cross-fire of “ ’rah, ’rah, ’rahs!” Some beautiful, bunches of flowers had been ' handed to the ladies. Miss Rehan gracefully plucked hers apart and tossed them into the crowd of jolly boys. There was a scramble like the break of a rush line, and then the carriages moved away in clouds of dust. It was surely a great day at Notre Dame.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St Mapy’s flaadeffiy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Hon. W. J. Onahan, of Chicago, and Prof. M. F. Egan were welcome guests at St. Mary’s for a few hours on the afternoon of the 14th.
—Grateful acknowledgments are tendered Miss Marie Scherrer of the Junior Department for recent valuable gifts to the pupils’ Infirmary.
—The annual examination of the classes in Christian Doctrine was held last Sunday. The reverend clergy who . kindly presided at the respective classes were Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. F athers Walsh, Zahm, P.O’ Connell, Scherer and O’Rourke.
—The summer house, known as Mt. Carmel, was the scene of the examination of the class in Elocution on the evening of the 16th. The examination took the form of a play, called the “Battle of the Books,” in the rendition of which each member of the class was assigned a part the whole resulting in a decided success.
—The classes in French and German were examined during the early part of the week, the examiners being Rev. Fathers Fitte, Kirsch and Scherer. The examination in Latin and Logic classes occurred later, and was conducted by Rev. Father Morrissey, after which followed the regular examination in the English branches.
—A delegation of about forty editors, under the guidance of Mr. Clem. Studebaker of South Bend, paid a flying visit to the Academy on Thursday last. After viewing the buildings, church and grounds, they were entertained by the Vocal Class, whose members sang a ringing chorus, when the Knights of the Press, summoned by the cheering bugle call, were soon whirled away in the direction of Notre Dame.
_ —On Monday the members of the Graduating Class were examined in Moral Philosophy by the Rev. Father Fitte, C. S. C., who expressed himself as well pleased with their intelligent replies, proving that these young philosophers think for themselves. The following day took place their examinations in History and Bookkeeping, presided over by Rev. Father Scherer, in which studies, needless to say, they acquitted themselves creditably.
—The examinations in music began on Monday the 8th, presided over by the Directress of the Academy assisted by the Directress of Music with the usual corps of music teachers. The first evening witnessed the attempts of the beginners, many of them so diminutive of size as to provoke smiles while their little hands made brave efforts to draw forth the slumbering sound from the piano. Each evening’showed a decided advance both in execution and grade of music, a special feature of the lower classes being the great attention given to the practice of the all-important exercises and scales.' The stringed instruments figured conspicuously, the
performers thereon eliciting much praise for ; skill in. execution. The music of the advanced : classes consisted in most instances of gems . from classic authors, whose beauties • were brought home to the hearers in a most pleasing manner through the careful interpretation of the performers. The vocal department numbers among its ranks many who are possessors of pleasing and even beautiful voices well attuned to harmony.	*
-----------------------
The- Sea-Shell.
A lovely sea-shell, tossed upon the shore By curling billows from the watery deep, Enshrined in myrtle, lay remote from sweep Of angry waves and sullen ocean’s roar. Its fluted edge and faintest rose tints bore Fair beauty’s impress; while within it sleep The surge’s secrets, and its heart doth keep The murmuring sound of seas forever more.
Bright rainbow-tinted shell, thy. song doth speak
Of pearls and coral ’neath the surging wave;
Of ships engulfed and terror’s midnight shriek From hearts who found in ocean’s depths a grave;
Of piercing winds resounding weird and bleak, ■ A requiem chanting o’er the true and brave.
Margaret E. Hughes,
Second Senior Class.
Cypress and Laurel.
The surging and tumultuous waters of the deluge were slowly subsiding; the clouds of God’s wrath were melting into soft opal tints clear and resplendent; across the dome of the eastern skies a rainbow hung as a bond between the heavens and the earth; the voice of God sounded from Ararat’s heights, and the heart of man was gladdened by the words: “This, shall be the sign of the covenant which-I have established between Me and the earth.” The beautiful arch grew brighter, and there was kindled in the world a new hope. -
Thus from earliest days do we find man recognizing the beauty, the strength of expression that arises from the use of types and figures; and as he drifted westward he bore with him the love of clothing in the language of signs and symbols the events of daily life.
Down through the long ages has come this inherent disposition, and in all climes and in every caste .of society is this tendency manifested. There are some symbols understood alike by all; for instance, the language of flowers. All read the same story in their sweet fragrance; one common chord of humanity is struck and sends a flood of melody far and wide when a shower of blossoms or green sprays is thrown across its heart strings. '
Lost in the mists of ages gone are the allegorical significations attached to cypress and laurel branches; but in the pages of the world’s annals do we find the poet, the painter, the
644	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sculptor and all who have achieved success in any walk, with laurel-wreathed brow, while adversity and sorrow wear the crown of cypress.
Sculpture is the carved history of nations, and Time’s hand has spared many of the records of antiquity; but around them are twined sad sprays of cypress making them beautiful in their consecrated coronet of sorrow.
Far away under Egyptian skies, in a land laved by the Mediterranean, a noble city reared its walls and towers in the warm sunshine. The sand in Time’s hour-glass counted the passing years, and the reign of the Ptolemies ended; for with relentless hand Death had grasped the sceptre. From the gayly festooned walls of the rich banquet hall in the days of Mark Antony bright laurel smiled down on the famous “Beauty of the Nile,” but the leaves wilted and ■fell, and to-day the gorgeous structures of her empire lie buried beneath the dust of ages, and near the hoary ruins of ancient Egypt’s cities the traveller sees the drooping cypress weeping over the tomb of the Pharoahs, the proud monuments of a Ramesis and the ancient home of a Cleopatra.
The crown of laurels may rest on England’s noble brow, and sunny France may claim her wreath; but “if the hand of sorrow strew a few sad cypress branches over any land, humble though it be, it wins the sympathy of man and of history.”
Sad are the scenes recorded in America’s struggle for liberty; but after days of fear and :gloom, cruel-visaged war drew his mantle closely around him and fled. As the cry of freedom •echoed through the land, the laurel crown— emblem of victory and peace—was placed on fair Columbia’s brow. Amid the rejoicing, who thought to turn aside and gather a few cypress leaves to gently twine around the bleeding hearts of the sorrowing mothers and fatherless children ?
The cypress droops tenderly over the old and crumbling monuments of the wayside churchyard, and we know it marks the graves of the dead and the tears of the living. Those branches have seen firm lips quiver, proud heads bow, and strong hearts weep. Fed as it is by grief, cypress endures, while laurel fades at a breath. As in every life, no matter how bright, there is some cloud white and fleecy, gently wafted across the face of the sun, or dark and portentous of storms gatheringnear the horizon, so in every laurel branch twines a spray of cypress; and now that the crown of our schoollife is so soon to be placed upon our brow, the sorrow of breaking the ties which have bound us for so many happy years to St. Mary’s and our teachers is the cypress in our wreath. But to us it shall mean more than mere regret: it shall be a pledge of remembrance, a promise of gratitude expressed, not in words, but in deeds; that when at last, eternity’s crown is woven by angel hands our laurels shall be brighter for the cypress of time.	T. A. Balch
{Class ’91).
Roll of Honor.
[For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment and observance of rules.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Balch, Bero, Bunbury, E. Burns, R. Butler, A. Butler, Black, Bogart, Currier, Coleman, Charles, E. Churchill, Clayton, Cohoon, Cowan, Crilly, Dority, Dennison, L. Du Bois, B. Du Bois, Mary Donehue, M. Donehue, Dougherty, Daley, Evoy, Fitzpatrick, Farwell, Fitzsimmons, Griffith, Green, Galvin, Grauman, I. Horner,C. Hurley,K. Hurley,Hurff, Hughes, Haitz, Howe, Minnie Hess, Mollie Hess, Maude Hess, Hopkins,Haight, Kimmell, Kirley, Kingsbaker, Kasper, Kinney, Kiernan, Lauth, Ludwig, McFarland, A. Moynahan, M. Moynahan, { M. Murphy, M. Moore, Murison, McCormack, Mullaney, N. Moore, McPhillips, E. Murphy, Nickel, Norris, Niemann, O. O’Brien, O’Leary, Patier, Pengemann,Quinlan, Quinn, A. Ryan, G. Roberts, M. Roberts, Root, Rizer, Rose, Robbins, Ryder, Robinson, M. Smyth, Sanford, Sena, Thirds, Tipton, Tod, R. Van Mourick, H. Van Mourick, G. Winstandley, B. Winstandley, Whitmore, - Wolff, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Augustin, M. H. Bachrach, Boos, M. Bums, M. Bartholomew, M. G. Bachrach, Clifford, Coady, Crandall, M. Davis, A. E. Dennison, Fossick, B. Germain, Gilmore, K. Hamilton, E. Hammond, Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, Kellner, Meskill, Mestling, O’Mara, Quealy, Reeves, E. Shaffer, Scherrer, L. Schaefer, A. Seeley, J. Smyth, N. Smyth, S. Smyth, A. Tormey, Van Liew, Wurzburg, E. Wagner, White, C. Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses Eldred, Egan, Finnerty, Girsch, Hamilton, Mc-Phillips, McCarthy, McKenna, Otero, Windsor, Young.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses M. Fitzpatrick, Bassett, Dempsey, Crane, Kimmell, K. Ryan, S. Hamilton, M. Murphy, M. Clifford.
3D Class—Misses E. Dennison, Charles, Niemann, E. Wagner, L. Du Bois, Evoy, M. Burns, Tod, Girsch, Robbins, M. Scherrer, L. Schaefer, A. McPhillips, Kinney, L. Kasper, K. Hamilton, Witkowsky, E. Murphy,Fossick, Mestling, Maude Hess.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
1ST Class—Miss K. Hurley.
3D Class—Miss A. Mullaney.
PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.
ist Class—Miss M. Hurff.
2D Class—Miss I. Horner.
OIL PAINTING.
2D Class—Miss M. Murphy.
3D Class—Misses Tipton, M. Hess, Pengemann.	-
General Drawing.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Dennison,Kimmell,Tipton,Churchill,Cohoon, Buck, H. Van Mourick, Black, Robbins, Seeley, Rizer, Murison, Coleman, M. Roberts, A. McPhillips, Kirley, B. Winstandley, O’Brien, Hopkins, Tod, Moynahan, Grauman, Bogart, N. Moore, Brady, Kinney, McCormack, Wolff, Galvin, McCarthy, Pengemann, S. McGuire, Whitmore, Crilly, Cooper, Butler, Margaret Donehue, Sanford, Kingsbaker, M. Hess, Quinlan, Cowan, McCune, Fitzsimmons, M. Byrnes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Clifford, Wagner, B. Davis, Holmes, Wurzburg, Dennison, Girsch, A. Cowan, Adelsperger, Schaefer, M. Bachrach, B. Germain, P. Germain, Meskill, M. Hickey, Fossick, Seeley, Bartholomew, Augustin, McLoughlin, C. Young, Coady, Gilmore, N. Smyth, S. Smith, Kasper, ! Hamilton, Crandall, Quealy.
