Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCe-QVASI-S^niPCR-VlCTVRVS-, vivG •pvASI-.CRAS MOfc^
Vol. L. . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 24, 1917.	' \-Nol 20I'
To Washington.
An Ode<
BY JOHN U. RILEY, ’17.
^^/E reapers of a harvest, rich.
. In store, this day renew our creed In thee—set in time’s highest niche—
Father, and sower of the seed:
Up. up, and let our anthem ring
Against the peaks, that backward fling
The phrase of our heroic lore
Priest of the goddess, Liberty.
Who, ever watchful in the night *
When despot threatened-villainy,
Didst rise and strike the blow for right: To keep her altar in our land, -	.
Against the foe didst take command, ’Neath blessing branches of the elm.
To awe, the surf, that thunders on the distant shore. As on a storm-tossed ship, the captain takes..the helm
To test thy strength, the age then;sought .
'	' Bj' every7- trial and woe to daunt	.	.	..	......
„	Thy noble heart—but all for naught:	.	....
Thee, envious fortune could but taunt: .	.....:
As ever with.far-sighted zeal, .	.	.	. :	:	.......
For Justice’sake, didst makeappeal.	•
The coward fled thy kindling eye .	..
That made stanch patriot hearts burn like a flaming sky.	..	...
Yet, when the'bloody strife was done, s The banner furled, the cannon cold, And right prevailed through triumph won, Thy quest was peace, not’crown of gold. .
‘	‘	K	‘f
And yet, thy task was but begun, The state must have a guiding one, -» « -
’ And thou through all thine honored days, In'sacrifice, didst guide her,through uncharted ways.
Close to the hearth thou lovedest so well.
. That thou didst keep all undefiled. In hallowed dust thy relics dwell, Virginia’s arms enfold her child.
Potomac’s waves an anthem roll,	, .
The bells of passing vessels toll, •	. U '	- - *• »	- ' -
While to the eagle’s topmost crag.
Ascends the song of glory of thy starry flag.
Now, turmoil rocks this blighted sphere;
Proud rulers’.hearts .are numbed with greed;
We pray for peace, but not.through fear: ■ Rather that men God’s word may heed.
■ May. the.Most -High forevermore,	.
Direct thy spirit; hover o'er- .	-
Thy land. May .-He look, down,. .
Nor let, dishonor .dim thy name that is our drown.
• t
314	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Foolish vs. Wyse.
BY WILLIAM M. MCNAMARA, ’ 1/.	.
Hiram Ploughshare lingered in front of the Hectic Academy apparently meditating what a wonderful cow pasture the front lawn would make. He had lived on a farm. In fact, it seemed to all that he had brought some of it to school with him, at least enough of it to fertilize a medium sized flower-pot. His clothing bore the unmistakable marks of a rustic tailor, . and the blue handkerchief which protruded from the back pocket of his trousers gave an excellent agricultural finish. Jud Wyse, seeing the follower of the plow, approached him.
“You are a new student, I suppose?” asked Jud.
“ Yes, I am; I just got in,” replied the odorous hay-maker. “I was sent here b}* my dad to learn to read the ‘Farmer’s Almanac’ and the signs in the postoffice. I would also like to be able to use words as long as a mile of fence.”
“Your name is what?” interrogated Jud.
“Hiram Ploughshare, of Bibows Hollow. Ask any one around, that city and they kin tell you where I live. My father is an important man at home. He run for sheriff, but as his name was too big for such a small position, he was not-elected. My mother—”
“Your name is suggestive of your standing in . society, but do you indulge in any of the accomplishments of the perfect man?” interrupted ' Jud with diplomatic suavity. “Do you play football, baseball or tennis? Can you jump or run?”
“Well, I kin run a McCormick reaper, a harrow,— ” -
“No, I don’t mean farm machinery or a churn, I mean any kind of a race,” sighed Jud,.
“Oh, I see.” .	-
.	.“I hope the alfalfa effluvium has not affected
your brains like it has your clothes.”
“Say!” asservated the rube; “I kin beat • anything with Two legs and most everything . with four,'-’cept a race horse arid a greyhound.”
•_ At this; assertion Hiram expanded his chest until a button came off his shirt.	?
. “^Vell,that’s what I wanted to know., I’ll see that you’get a chance. Perhaps, I will have you elected captain of the track team. You would desire greatly, I am sure, to lead us’to
?victory , in our,- contest with ‘.Urarube-Hall.’ J Now go. over and- see the president and become
enrolled. I’ll notify the boys of your arrival.”
Hiram laughed a musical laugh which Jud understood as an expression of complete satisfaction.	'
The news of Ploughshare’s advent spread rapidly. Everyone patted him on the back, cheered him when he came in sight, and laughed when he had passed. When the students met him they eulogized him with more laudatory epithets than Washington or Lincoln ever received. They even sought.his money. They coaxed him to buy shares in the Academy, but as he was not over-burdened with capital, as it seemed, he showed no disposition to speculate. At the instigation of Jud Wyse, he was elected captain of the track team at a’ mock election, His speech of acceptance, declaring the extent of his ability, was so well colored with rusticity that a student with a very limited power of visualization could see the cows and the hay-stacks. He was hailed as the jester of the school, and that speech eliminated all rivals from the race,—which was, indeed, no small feat in this particular school.	-
A few weeks passed and. Hiram had not appeared at class. Everyone knew that he was busy getting into form for the great track meet that was to take place in a few days. .
On the day of the contest the ‘ ‘ rube ’ ’ entered the gymnasium with a palpitating heart. He knew' the time had come for which he had labored so long and so hard. Possibly his name and future were to be decided at this meet. He was the last to leave the dressing-room. When he arrived on the field the cheering of the crowd would have made the roar of a battle sound like an elocution contest in an asylum for the deaf and dumb. Quickly approaching Jud, Hiram said, ‘‘My mother is in the reception room and wishes to see me.” The rustic left-the field and did not return. The band playeT “Lo! the Conquering Hero Comes,” and “Here Comes the Bride,” but to no purpose. .	x
When the meet was over there was general expression of disappointment, especially on tjie. part of the athletes. They knew that • Ploughshare could not run, but his failure would afford much merriment to the stands. When they, began to, put on tlieir clothes, however, they .found their money and valuables gone, and Hiram gone, and later they discovered that there 5was-no such name as Ploughshare in the
• secretary’s office. . •	•	.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lincoln the Statesman.*
BY JOHN EDWARD CASSIDY, ’17.
. Today the nation celebrates with great pride and most solemn reverence the birthday of Abraham Lincoln, the greatest of her presidents and one of the greatest of Americans. It is fitting that we should in some manner commemorate the memory of this great patriot. Let us first reflect upon the period of our nation’s history, when he guided her successfully through one of the most critical periods known to man. Let us go back to those days and review the sublime deeds and unsurpassed life of Lincoln and there read and eulogize the life of the man who sacrificed himself on the altar of freedom, as a martyr to the cause
' of liberty, that you and I might live in the peaceful enjoyment of our natural rights.
Lincoln first made himself known as a states^ man about the year 1846, when he was elected-to congress from the central district of Illinois. It was a congress full of the most talented men, crowded with the real statesmen of the country; a congress,, such as the country rarely selects to make its laws. The most important problem • that was presented to that body during Mr.
Lincoln’s membership was the question of slavery in the District of Columbia. This was the first time that Mr. Lincoln had the opportunity of declaring publicly the principles in regard to that institution. From a very early day he knew that slavery. was wrong, that it was against the dictates of justice and humanity; but he also knew that the constitution, the basis for the preservation of the union, did not say anything against it. He knew that the question of state rights was a very delicate one, and fpr that reason he did not proceed against slavery as did the abolitionist, . but assumed a more diplomatic attitude in contending strongly that slavery should not be allowed to be further extended into free territory,, and that so long as it did not violate , any of the laws of the constitution as it then existed it should be left alone. So Lincoln cast his vote in the House against slavery in the District of Columbia.,
In the Summer of 1S58 the great senatorial contest of Illinois took place with Stephen A. Douglas and Abraham Lincoln as rival candi-
* Address' delivered in Washington Hall.on Lincoln Day, Feb. 12, 1917.	.
dates. All wrho know anything of Douglas are well aware that either as a stump speaker or as a debater on the floor of the Senate he had no superior—if indeed he had an equal—in the country. Thus it was no light matter to contest the State of Illinois with such a man, and especially among a people who were his sympathizers. Soon after the campaign had been launched Lincoln challenged his contestant to a series of joint debates on the issues of the Republican and Democratic parties. The foremost and really the one issue of these debates was slavery. The whole country followed these debates with minute attention, and it is the highest praise of Lincoln to say the whole country recognized that he held his ground in every encounter with Douglas, both as an orator and a debater. He had the truth on his side, which is always a great- advantage, and neither in argument nor repartee did Douglas for once . confuse or confute his opponent. After witnessing one of these debates a correspondent of a Boston paper wrote: “The men are entirely dissimilar: Mr. Douglas is a thick-set, finely built, courageous man, and has an air of selfconfidence that does not a little' to inspire his supporters with hope. Mr. Lincoln is a tall, lank man, awkward, apparently diffident, and when not speaking has neither firmness in his countenance nor fire in his eye. Mr. Lincoln has a rich silvery voice and enunciates with great distinctness; he has a fine command of language. His retorts, though gentlemanly, were sharp and right to the core of the subject in dispute.” During these debates' Lincoln ' established what was then and ever after the firm convictions and principles he held on the subject^ of slavery. Although his opponent was the victor for the senatorship of Illinois, he, by ( his plainness of manner, his sincerity of thought, and his kindly and honest principles, won the hearts of the people both in the state and in the nation. Though he was defeated in this race for the. senatorship, he received in it the introduction to the American people which made him the successful candidate for the presidency two years later. •
On the sixteenth day of May, i860, the Republican National Convention met ' in Chicago. This, assemblage was without doubt . the most agitated and excited that ever con--vened. The great fire of slavery that, had been burning steadily, each year becoming brighter arid more dangerous, -was the great matter of -

’• THE NOTRE:'DAME SCHOLASTIC
interest. It was the question on which the . Democratic and Republican parties differed, and it. was the question that divided sharply the North from the South. The leaders and statesmen of that convention well knew that this question, which was causing American to hate American would have to be settled before another convention was held, and they foresaw that the question was, of such, a serious nature, and the determination of the different factions was so great, that a crisis in the life of the nation was imminent. So with unerring judg-- ment and amidst great jubilation the}’ chose as their nominee Abraham Lincoln, him* who had already'proved to be a leader of men, a statesman of extraordinary .ability and a lover of American.freedom. Lincoln realized well the task that confronted him, as is evident in his farewell address to the citizens of Springfield before going to Washington. ‘‘I now leave you not knowing whether pr whither I may -return, with a^task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being which ever attended him I cannot .succeed; with His assistance I cannot
■ fail. Trusting to His care Who can go with me and remain with you and be everywhere for , good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayer you will commend me, I , bid you an affectionate farewell.”
-Lincoln had been president. only a short time when Tort Sumter was fifed upon, and the great war of the ^Rebellion was launched, to ‘ test whether or not the nation founded on the .. plains of Lexington and on Bunker Hill, by the
r
patriots .of -the Revolution could long endure as .a united republic.. This was the beginning , of; the period of fierce internal strife, in which brother grappled with, brother in that fearful death-struggle of. four, years, the period through .
. . which .Lincoln, guided, the uncertain ship of
.	. state, through the storm .of rebellion to safety-
: as probably no other.could.have done. Throughout that trying time Lincoln .wasmaster of .
L j every situation that; arose. It has; been said v . That 'at the beginning . of thaf administration : L- - Secretary Aof ;/War .Stanton and Secretary of ..
r \ State Seward thought that they would manage
;	the- affairs;;.of , their, offices;Cas They Thought fit, ‘
.T; ;but;Theyysqom realized that Mr. Lincoln was
.. ' i president of.The. United States and That they '
.	Attorney-General Bates . .
SipnceLsaid ..after; returning from anj important .
cabinet meeting: “The more I see of Mr. ..Lincoln the more he impresses me with the clearness and vigor of his intellect and the breadth and sagacity of his views. He is beyond question the master of the cabinet.” '
Today, Lincoln the statesman, who “under God gave this nation a new birth of freedom,” stands forth on- the pages of history as the ideal of American freedom and .the saviour of the greatest nation in the world.. Today men not only believe in the truths he upheld but see in him the standard of goodness, of liberty, of conciliation, and of truth. /Exemplified by him, as it were, stands the Union, and all that is noblest and best and enduring in its principles, the principles in which he so heartily believed, and for which he fought so mightily. At length he has become the beloved patriot of both North and South, of the entire Republic,- composed not only of the men that. once confronted each other in the dreadful array of battle, but of the millions that have since come to the American nation to enjoy serene peace, equality of human rights, and the blessings of liberty. To them Lincoln is a saviour. In his life, his character,' and his personality, with all its wondrous charm, patience and sobriety, self-abnegation and sweetness, he has come .to. be the great American ideal. Today, .when our nation again'faces, a great crisis,- may our statesmen and leaders be guided by the principles and wisdom of Lincoln. May rising .humanity ’inculcate into their lives his patriotism, goodness and truth, that- we may have-a greater -and grander America.
Varsity Verse.
To the .Bluebird. ■
Bird of heaven’s hue, Breast of red earth, like fleece Of - lambs beneath/ in peace r .
Thy .wav pursue. ’
■	. .. Thy coat .of .blue,. /
As floats across the skies.
. “Thy,form, delights our eyes. And fades from view.
' ..Thy song is new— ... The first of .birds to. sing—	'
When comes .the/expected spring Lv And-falls the dew. .. ..



THE NOTRE
DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ml
Birds’ nests be few That are more neatly made, 'Four eggs of blue twice laid, ’ Ncarbv in view. ■»
The IT: S. Coast and .Geodetic Survey.
BY JOHN F. TIGHE', ’19.
Thy brood just flew Above my head. I heard Their mellow note, no bird
Has voice more true.
At length ensue
Cold autumn days, when thou Must leave my paths—then how Thy loss I rue!
Now winds bestrew , The field’s with winter’s snow, . I long for skies aglow
And thy coat of blue.
0 bird of blue, Though thou must e’er depart, :
Thou canst . At last
not bid my heart adieu.
B.
4
■ ' 'A Rondeau.
When I am gone, no bells must ring,
No funeral dirges must you sing, Nor tell the world that he is gone— A lonely but a favored one,
To whom" it scarce a sigh would bring.
I care not if it be in spring
When happy birds are on the wing, 5 know the days shall still go on
When I am gone.	.
The extensive coasts of the United State's' have always been a serious problem in the mincK ,: of ocean-going navigators. The’ dangerous’ _ land projections, reefs, currents, and the like, . are conditions which should be known'to’all-- coastwise’ trade, and it was for this reason that' • the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey^ was organized. The work of the survey was’to: -locate these -reefs, projections, currents and' trade winds, and to map them accurately, so * that they could be’known by all navigators. The survey was alsQ intended to locate the positions ■ for lighthouses, beacons, arid other signals' to enable navigation to move-more smoothly. Tri '' fact, every aid which could be obtained to help ocean-going or coastwise trade was mapped out: .
Astronomy and geodesy are'the'fundamental* principles by which land projections'are obtained! ’. ■ Geodesy is that branch of surveying which has ’ for its purposes the laying out bn a very" large ' scale portions of the earth’s surface and the determination of the shape of the earth’s surface? - -Geodetic surveying differs from land surveying in the fact that it must allow for the sphericity j ' of the earth’s surface. It is through the methods -used in geodesy that it was determined' that ’ the earth has not truly a spherical but rather ari . ellipsoidal -form.'
The importance of knowing the characteris- , ’ tics of our coast was early realized, arid iff 1807*.
. the first attempt to organize such a survey was' /
BuT oh! I know a truthful thing: Death happiness to me will bring— ’ If only I shall still hope on,
And trust forever and anon
In Him the ever-faithful King,—	'
When I am gone.	_
. John S. Roche, ’ig: .
'	. The Idylls. .
I love to read of Arthur, great’ and bold, Of how he fought and held his crown of gold; ..And another.one, the princess fair, who gave
Her love in trust to Lancelot the brave.
But sweeter far, and sadder too, Elaine,
The lily maid who loved but loved in vain, " x Her heart- in unrequited love did sigh, , , . ~ And finding solace gone, did droop and die.
‘	’ v	Clifford_O'Sullivan, 'ig.
made. President Jefferson, in an address ■ to > Congress, recommended an appropriation - for the organization of such a survey. - Pfofessdr ‘. Patterson of. Philadelphia gets .the credit • for the origin of the idea and its suggestion to the president. ■	: =
.Congress appropriated $50,000 for the estab-lisliment of such an institution'as was recom-? ' mended, and scientific, men all over the couritfy-were called upon to give their ideas as to the best. ■method to pursue iff the deterriunations to'be'A , made. The method suggested by-a Mr.' F. H:P ’ Hassler was adopted. His method was to adopt C certain fixed points along the coast; detenriiffedy? by astronomical observations and the journey of’,; these points by a system of triangulation.' This1 triangulation system would form the basis for <. all coast determinations. Mr. Hassler, on ? y account of his associationwith, this kind bf;??


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
work in Switzerland, was appointed to obtain all equipment necessary for -carrying on the work. He accordingly went to Europe to purchase the necessary materials and instruments. On account of unavoidable delays and war with England the work was not begun until ten years after congress had authorized it.
The first work was done about the city of New York where the first base line was
distant stations and to make it possible to cover a great area in the shortest time possible. If the country be rough, the base is chosen with reference to the points selected for stations, and if a smooth plane, the base is usually selected without reference to stations but is placed in the most convenient place. The unit of length used in the measurement of the base line is the -meter. This unit was selected because of its relation
measured, but before the survey had accomplished much it was discontinued, and nothing more was done for twelve or thirteen years. Work was finally resumed in 1832, which really - may be said to be the true beginning, of the survey. After some years a Professor Bache was appointed superintendent and under him the work reached a very high standard and spread over a large scope.- Under him the survey was carried on much as it is today. Professor Bache saw the necessity of studying the varying weather conditions, the magnetic force of the . earth, the trade 'Winds, the ebb and flow- of the tide in the many harbors, as well as the fixing of channels, reefs, and many other conditions. With the knowledge thus gained the survey grew in worth- and importance.
No'interruptions'came until the Civil War. This made it impossible to work along the Southern Coasts, but the information already ■ obtained was put to very good use. Men who had gained experience during the surveys were attached to different army corps and their information was of the greatest utility to the . Northern armies. The importance of the survey was in this forcible manner made very apparent to the government.
The. idea of connecting the Atlantic to the Pacific by means of a triangulation system originated several years after the war and this work was begun in 1873. By this system permanent stations were left in many different states with absolutely fixed positions, whereby boundaries were determined and a, firm basis : left for topographic survey..
. Before the work of the survey , is begun a
reconnoitring party is sent out, in charge of a • seen that the work involved at one station alone
• man who is thoroughly acquainted with the work .is very heavy and necessitates the men being “on the job’’ all the time, for .they must be ready to take advantage of '■good weather conditions. . The position of the station itself
to be done, to determine the character of the . ground or country to be gone over. Points for \ stations are selected, the best sites for base lines, . and also data that will - enable: the final survey to be made. at . the . most ‘economical cost and -the; least time; Stations are usualU selected on .< high points sb as to. be easily sighted from
to the size of the earth, being one ten-millionth part of the earth’s quadrant. Many apparatuses have been devised for the measurement of the base. The Duplex bars were long used with great success, but it has been found that a steel tape device will give measurements with an accuracy of one in one million. In order to do this, the length, coefficient of expansion, the modules of elasticity, and other conditions must be known. To get the best results in measuring, the work should be done at night, in cloudjr weather, or.when the temperature of the air and earth are about the same. It is easily seen why the base must be measured with such accuracy, because on its length depends the length of all the lines.	'
After the base line is measured the system of triangulation, is begun. In the measuring of ’ a'ngles a very delicate instrument, called, the theodolite, is used. - The instrument is carefully set up over a station and is not removed until every angle is measured and recorded. A very powerful telescope is used so that signals can be seen at great distance. Another instrument, ’called a heliotrope, the principal part, of which is a mirror which reflects the- light from a distant poiht to the observer, is used to enable men the better to see signals. After the theodolite has been set up the different angles are measured a great many times, and, with the aid of. verniers and micrometers, are read as
accurately as possible. The means of
the
readings are taken and finally the angles are
adjusted-and the adjusting value is the given to the angle. At each station there
one
are
• fifteen or twenty angles to be read, and so it is ’
is fixed by obtaining the latitude and longitude of the point. .Latitude is found by'observations on some fixed heavenly bo dy. Many instruments for- this determination have been devised,

• - /
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
but the zenith telescope has been generally used by the survey because of its accuracy and the facility with which it may be handled. Longitude is determined by time reference to Greenwich. For this determination a chronometer or watch is' used. It is referred to some local meridian and its error referred to some standard meridian. Thp error must be obtained by comparing the watch with standard time, transmitted usually by telegraph.' Great care must be used in handling the chronometer. Hence two watches are usually kept in order that they may be compared.
A topographical survey is also carried on in connection with, a coast and geodetic survey. This gives a map representing the features of the country over which thg-survey has passed. It shows the outlines of the shore, the position of towns, streams, hills, and mountains and the heights of the same. In fact everything that is desirable to know in connection with the Geodetic Survey is obtained and plotted on the maps. The instrument used in connection with this work is the plane table. It consists of a drawing board mounted on a tripod. On the. board is a ruler whose lateral edge is parallel to the line of sight of the telescope mounted on it. A base line is chosen, measured, and sights recorded on the board from both ends' of the base. The intersection of these lines gives the position of the point desired. This instrument' permits of ' plenty of speed and is of the desired accuracy^'
Along with the topographical survey goes the hydrographical survey. Soundings are taken all along the shore line, specimens of the bottom are obtained, dangerous rocks and shoals are permanently located with reference to some, points on shore, the ebb and flow of tides are investigated and the currents are examined. When the topographical map -is finished all these results are recorded on the map in the conventional way. Thus, when the final map is completed almost any information that could, be desired concerning the shore line is obtainable from it. A ship with the completed map of the coast can steer its course along the shores of the United ‘ States with almost absolute safety, so far as knowing the dangerous points of the coast is concerned. So thorough has been this work that a ship might even determine its position. by taking specimens of the sea ■bottom along. At the present time the United States has a fully equipped ship in charge - of
319
experts whose duty it is to determine the . different specimens of sea life along the coast. • This work has no direct connection with the Coast and Geodetic Survey, but it shows the thoroughness of the Government in efforts to know all about her coasts.	'
All the work of the survey is carried dn with the greatest possible accuracy. The best instruments manufactured are used and when -these are not sufficiently accurate, special instruments have been designed. In fact, the survey is responsible for some of the most accurate -that we have to-day. Every source of error is examined, such as temperature, wind, refraction, and its magnitude determined. All these corrections'are made and. the final result is the most precise that can be obtained.
The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey has extended over the entire country and even to the shores of far-off Alaska. The different branches of the work have been carried on at the same time and at their completion have all been joined in one great source of information. . We have today maps of the Atlantic,- Pacific and Gulf Coasts with all their characteristics and peculiarities. The information obtained is of inestimable value to the country, the value being far in excess of the original cost of obtaining it.	' .
-------' -
Junior Thoughts.	.
When angry do not speak at all. ’	, '
Egoism soon develops into egotism.	-
Forged checks lead to forged chains.
Perfection is never reached in a single leap. -With some women beauty is only rouge- : deep.	-	.	\
A kicker is admired only on the football , field.	•	’ •	‘	.
Sacrifice hits are not always appreciated by the bleachers. .	.	«
For the time we spend in pleasure the fiddler
. must be paid. r	.
A wise student will never let folly tamper.
with his career.	....
The mind' is not a wastebasket to be filled . with useless things. _	. ,
The loyal student will be found loyal to his country in time, of war. '
You never note the size of a man’s hat until he begins to talk through it. .
’Tis. better to'have studied and failed than : never to have studied at all.	. .	. -
320	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Obituary.
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
' Published every Saturday during the School Term at’ THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC . Noire -Dame, Indiana	-
FEBRUARY 24, 1917
No. 20.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard ' R. Parker} ’ 17	Speer Strahan,	’17
Edward J. McOsker, ’17	Harry E-- Scott,	’17
Michael J. Early, ’17	John A. Lemmer,	’18
Stuart H. Carroll, ’17	Charles W. Call,	’18
Delmar J. Edmondson,’18	Thomas F; Healy,	’19
F.- Jennings Vurpillat, ’iS •
L..
—-If is to be regretted that the season of Lent in too many instances does not seem to mean what it should to the Notre Dame man.
“	Dispensations exempt him en-
Keeping- Lent, tifely from fasting and absti-'	nencef sacrifices that~are im-
posed upon many* a Catholic wage-earner are not required from him. Surely the student of Notre Dame should at least demand from himself during this time of penance the surrender of some trivial enjoyments iri compensation for the privileges he enjoys. Religious services-should be attended faithfully and with more than usu’al fervor. Oiir circumstances here conveniently permit daily attendance at Holy Mass and _the daily reception of the Holy . Eucharist, if: we are but willing. That many fully appreciate this opportunity is evidenced . eath morning.' Do you belong to the number that are keeping Lent in this way?' No sack' cloth observance' is required of us, yret the Lenten period should differ really in some . practical way from the rest of the year.. We ~ may be and are for good reasons dispensed even , y irdm-.th^ ordinary. abstinence, but no authority z can release us from the natural necessity we are under-! of; doing.* penance of. some kind. Selfdenial in some form should be practised by -.everyone; .mortification' is the expression of' the .
'repentant spirit. Jit is a necessary part of edu
cation' into’salvation. - No student at' this Uhi-- and-the promise of prayers’for the repose of ^/ . versity caw coriscientiousty^rieglecL this.matter.'	their dear one.—B.A. //J -f	'
The Hon. John Gibbons.
We regret profoundly to announce the death of the Hon. John Gibbons, Judge of the Circuit ‘ Court, Chicago, who passed away on .the 1 ith instant, after an attack of pneumonia. Judge Gibbons was an alumnus of the University and one of the most distinguished members of the . Illinois Bar. Besides publishing the Chicago Law Journal ' and the American Criminal . Reports, he was the author of Tenure and Toil, or The Rights and Wrongs of Property and Labor.
*Many of his decisions attracted nation-wide attention and his influence- on the legal profession during his lifetime was very great. The funeral sermon was preached by the President of the University and the obsequies were attended by all the judges of Cook County.
Joseph A. Lodesky. -
Unusual sorrow was felt by everyone at Notre Dame last Monday morning in the passing away of Joseph A. Lodesky, of Brownson Hall. After tying so.patiently on his bed_of pain for four long months, and thus purified by his extreme suffering, the deceased has, we trust, entered promptly into the presence of God. Brom his first day with us several years ago, Joe endeared himself to everyone by his good heart and gentle manliness. Hence it is hard to give him up so soon. The ways of Providence are often inscrutable to our short-sightedness, and what often seems misfortune is, 'in His Joving'arrangement, what is best for'us. This death was sad indeed, and yet such a truly happy one that it is almost wrong to lament it. The accident on the football field, that finally resulted in his death, is the first one that has ended fatally in the" many years that the game has been played at Notre Dame. Let us hope and pray t-hat no other will be claimed by the fates of pur gridiron. _
On Tuesday morning the students of Brownson Hall had several Masses said and received Communion for their ‘ departed companion, and on Thursday a memorial service, was held in Sacred: Heart Church. The remains" were ‘ takeri '.to Waukegan, Illinois, the home of the deceased, for interment. • •	’
To the .bereaved; mother, father, and sisters 1 of the 'deceased weoff er our profound sympathy
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Washington Day Exercises.
Washington’s' birthday was fittingly celebrated by the senior class last Thursday morning in Washington Hall. The memory of America’s greatest patriot is nearer and dearer than ever to all American hearts in this time of trouble and danger. Simple, sincere patriotism was the dominant note in the exercises.
The program opened -with an enjoyable selection by the University Orchestra, after which the audience sang “Columbia” in a manner that expressed the earnestness of their hearts. Joseph Francis Flynn, president of the senior law class, delivered an oration on “Patriotism,” in which he reviewed the noble life of Washington, declaring that the American spirit, which Washington did so much to form, is still alive. The ode, which is to be found on the first page of this issue, was read by John Urban Riley, who will be graduated in journalism in June. Llewellyn James, senior lawyer, delivered Washington’s. ‘.‘Farewell Address.” Mr? David Griffin, the Philadelphia baritone, sang in his deep, rich voice Tennyson’s patriotic “Ring Out, Wild Bells.”	'
The address presenting the flag to the Uni-, versity was made by Royal Bosshard, president of the senior class. The chief paragraphs of the address were:	.
' Reverend Father Cavanaugh, Members of the - Faculty, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
One year ago, today we assembled in this hall for the same purpose that we are here now, to celebrate the birthday of the Father of our Country, and to ' witness the presentation of the class flag to the University. During the past year we have learned to love this flag more fondly than ever before. As a token of our patriotism, as a pledge of our loyalty both to our school and to our country, we, the class of 1917, present it to you, Father Cavanaugh, and to the _ University. With this flag goes the promise of every member of the class that he will serve it faithfully, and defend it-whenever there may be’ need, and with • it goes our pledge of lasting loyalty to Notre Dame. - We hope that this flag, symbolic of Purity, Valor and Justice, will in the years to come be a token’ to the world, that Sons of Notre Dame are loyal to their j country. The class of ’17 is riot different from the former classes in its.love of peace, but we fully realize ' the great dangers that now confront us.
Our situation ’ today is much darker than it was . a year ago. We see on the horizon war clouds of great magnitude. We cannot tell when .they may break upon us. We know they are there and to neglect to prepare for arij’- emergencies at this time would be most Toolhardy. We all hope to escape it, but our prospect is’not cheerful. . . The policy of Germany
321
in returning to the submarine warfare is the immediate cause for the severance of our diplomatic relations, but whether or not twar will follow depends upon the actions of these submarines. We see in the west another cloud menacing us, although of lesser dimensions, the Japanese problem. If war must come, however, we shall be happy in knowing that it will be not a war for conquest but a war to defend our people, and to uphold the national rights. If war comes, it will be a -righteous war, a war on war, a war for peace, a war for a better world. In the last three years war has come to have a different significance to us than heretofore. .... If the time of great trial should come to’ us, although we earnestly hope and pray that this catastrophe may be averted, we, the class of ’17, pledge again our support to this flag. * Our patriotism will not cease with the raising of it; it will not be merely theoretical, but practical in whatever way duty may demand. In our daily life we are even now preparing for a great national struggle. In event of war, we shall need engineers to design the engines of defense; we shall need scientists to discover new and better methods for making explosives; we shall need lawyers to settle diplomatic controversies — we shall need men in every kind of activity, and we shall need good strong men for leaders at. the front.
Fellow classmates, here lie our paths of duty. We, are peculiarly fitted for these various positions and the work we may have to accomplish. Notre Dame has been a fond parent to us, censuring us at times for carelessness, but always for our best interests. For years we have enjoyed the advantages of the most thorough training; we have had physical training as good as any, and we have had a tremendous advantage over other University graduates in that we have had the best religious training as well.
Fallow classmates, when we leave this University it will be our duty to exemplify the teachings we have received here. We shall be under the close scrutiny of the world, and the example we set will reflect creditably or discreditably upon Notre Dame.
And now Father Cavanaugh, we entrust to your care this flag as a token of our loyalty to our country and of our love for Notre Dame. When it is raised-upon the flagstaff and its folds ripple in the breeze, may it be an inspiration to all' who may behold it, an inspiration to the highest and best in Christian citizenship.
Father Cavanaugh replied with a speech of of acceptance in which he expressed the University’s appreciation of this token from the class of 1917. He reviewed the events that have led up to our present difficulties, and eloquently urged preparedness, not in guns and methods of warfare, but in heart and purpose and patriotism. Following is the address in full:
Gentlemen of the Senior Class:
On behalf of the University, I accept the beautiful flag so eloquently presented by your president and spokesman. It takes its place among many others that- have done their share, each in: its proper year, to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
perpetuate one'of the most inspiring traditions of the University.	\	—
The occasion of its presentation finds the world in the grip of the most savage and murderous war within the recorded history of mankind. Formerly, civilization fought barbarism, Christianity fought paganism, the East against the West, the cross against the crescent, sometimes race fought against race, and sometimes creed, against creed. In the appalling struggle under which the world shakes and totters today, Europe fights with Europe, Christianity with Christianity, and racial and religious lines are obliterated—not as one might wish through a great love overpassing the lines of race .and creed, but rather through a strange unity of hatred as between rival nation and rival nation. Formerly, men fought on the surface of the land and the sea. Now they fight in the heavens above, on the earth • below, and in the waters under the earth. Chemistry and invention have added to the horrors of the conflict. Millions of men have perished, and the end is not yet. In the universal insanity which has seized upon mankind, it would appear that our own country, even with the best good will, may not be able to avoid participation in this terrible conflict. For tlie first time in' manjr years, therefore, this beautiful flag, of all flags in the world the most innocent of blood, - of all flags in the world most sacredly dedicated to peace, may be to us a summons to take our part in this colossal struggle which, whatever the outcome, is destined to change in large measure the face of the
earth.
How I speak football
are we prepared for that tragic adventure? not of our, standing army, no larger than “a crowd,” nor of our navy, so deficient, so old-
fashioned- and so undermanned; nor even of the lamentable lack of organization of commissary and hospital departments—a lack which in the Civil War cost thousands of lives that might have been saved. These conditions, once the exclusive knowledge of the experts, are now commonplaces on the lips of 'school children. I speak of more intimate things.
Great modifications have taken place in the com. plexion of the American people since that flag was born of the patriotic love of the founders, baptized in their heroic blood, and cradled and nurtured in their sacrifice and devotion. Within that time this country has ' changed from a rural to an urban population. When in early revolutionary days.the embattled-farmer stood at Lexington and fired the shot heard round the world, , . there were not in all the thirteen colonies more than five towns larger than the village of Niles, Michigan, I which, has a>population of eight thousand. The largest city, Philadelphia, was about the size of Mishawaka, eighteen thousand. Of the three and a half millions . ... of the people, ninety-seven per cent were eitheFfarmers ' . or dwellers in towns and villages.so small as to be in every sense a rural population. Consequently, it was : the sturdy virtues of the,farmer stock in revolutionary .' days that set up the American Government. That, valiant yeomanry still exists; with^its great - defect of narrowness, and its.grcat virtue, of devotion to country.
; Butthe interesting thing.is that in influence, in numbers, and in power to shape the policy of America the yeomanry has been, oyer-shadowed by a city population with other defects and. other? qualities. The recent
immigration has brought to the United States strange and unfamiliar peoples. By a natural law they settled in the large cities where they become easy prey for the agitator and the demagogue. In most eases they have few, if any, traditions of. constitutional government. They are unpropertied and, therefore, the less sober, conservative and responsible element of the population. In many cases they have not struck sympathetic roots into the soil of America. They have not the natural patriotism of men who have both land and fatherland here. We are not a homogeneous - people. We lack the brotherhood of blood.' We lack the cohesiveness of men whose ancestors for hundreds of years, suffered the same great national sorrows, worshipped at the same altars, fed their imagination on the same ballads and their patriotism on the same herotales, and were bound in the mystic bonds of the same tongue. On the other hand, the city is populated with another type, the energetic, ambitious, initiator— either born within the city or imported from the country towns or country districts. This class thinks chiefly in terms of factories, prosperity and commerce, and in greater or less measure the primitive instinct of patriotism, in them is smothered by materialism and ' greed. And-, as the immigrant exercises large influence through the ballot, so these vigorous citizens become leaders in commerce and through the press, and through banking and bartering come to have a large influence in forming public opinion. Hence it appears that elements unfriendly to spontaneous patriotism dominate the public opinion of the cities. The cities in turn dominate the public opinion of the country districts, and there is not generally manifested throughout the country today the spontaneous love of the flag that marked our beginnings as a nation. It would be comforting-to know, as your orator affirms, that essential patriotism still survives in unabated vigor; that the old love of country has been merely sophisticated and not diminished; that our long career of peace and * prosperity has cooled only the nations blood and the-nation’s head and not its fervor, and made patriotism more thoughtful and. more wise without making it less enthusiastic and devpted. I wish I could believe it. At any rate,, the cultivation of love for the flag is a . noble function in a church which has always acclaimed patriotism among the virtues and in a university which has always numbered, the heroic record of her sons among the chie'fest of her glories. Rightly, therefore, has your orator associated -the love^of countrjr with the love of God.	.	.	.
. The war'which desolates Europe sprang out of the selfishness of man. Whatever . may ’ be said of the conflict- of national ideals, or. the rights of smaller nations; whatever may be said in glorification of the one side, or.in condemnation of the other, the truest thing that can .be,.said of this most monstrous war is .that it was conceived inxgreed and born in selfishness ’ and nourished in unholy ambition. No modern war, . so far as I can observe, has anything but a fiscal basis. The. men who. in the - glow of a Godlike patriotism fling away their lives at the . call of country still fight for their altars and their fires, for home and for? national honor. But the statesmen who make the war,
who press the springs of. human conduct behind the scenes,.who’through.the newspapers play, as on a harp,.
MMgBgg
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
on religion and patriotism and all the finest passions of mankind—these statesmen have the cold, merciless calculation of the stock exchange and the banking house. I do not deny the moral grandeur of war under right conditions. Even the most confirmed pacist must admit that a just war is the sublimest act of a nation. When a nation goes to resent a great wrong with such intensity as to fling‘all its resources, mental, moral and material, the genius of its men of intellect, the virtues of its saints and mothers, the courage of its fathers and sons, life and limb, the certainty of poverty and pain, disease and disaster, into a supreme conflict with' another nation, who can deny but that it reaches the heights of the sublime? But the most wretched commentary on the European War is that civilization is destroying itself for mere money, that it is seeking to break down what the centuries of the past have so slowly and laboriously built up,—without any hope now of winning in the end the material • advantage which it dreamed of before the war. The pathos of the situation is that the money expended in a singlq day in the slaughter of mankind is more than enough to endow a great university for the teaching
. of mankind during all the ages to come. It is a condition so monstrous that imagination reels and staggers at the thought of it.
And yet, as always happens in great public calamities, there ifrc spiritual compensations. Exquisite ' cathedrals are demolished, home life is broken, multitudes’ of men, women and children suffer extremest torture, but out of the waste and the wilderness of it all has come a new resurrection morning. Religion, that in so many of these countries seemed to have languished and died, has risen again irresistible and immortal. Patriotism has made the most striking demonstration of itself within the history of mankind. These twin passions, the sublimest loves in human life, have grown out of the misery and misfortune of the great war. We know not what destiny Divine Providence may have in store for our country. We pray that, as heretofore, all our ways may be pleasant ness and that our paths be peace, but if in the mysterious dispensation of Divine Providence the people of
■ America should be called upon to give the supreme proof of their devotion to liberty, or to vindicate the rights of the nation, we know there will be no lack among them either of the love of country or the love of God.	.	■	'
Gentlemen of the Senior Class: Never have I spoken with a sense of deeper solemnity, never have I felt more profoundly the touching symbolism of this day’s exercises, never have I. considered the present with more confidence,'nor looked into the future with more complacency than when I say.with a knowledge based on experience, -that whatever may be the attitude of others, you at least will not be found wanting. As the blood of the martyrs that throbs - within your veins make you'loyal to your religion, so the rich inheritance derived from your patriotic ancestors in whatever fatherland they may have lived makes you loyal to your country. And as I am confident that these . great possessions will abide with you always, growing with your growth and strengthening with your strength, I accept your flag as a token of your unfailing and
323
unconquerable devotion always and everywhere to God and Country.
The program closed with the Notre Dame Song by the audience, and never before has it been rendered with so much enthusiasm.
H. E. S.
Varsity News.
—Those who wish to buy pictures of the interstate banquet can get them from James Hayes, ~ of Sorin Hall. They can also be procured at the Parrot Studio in South Bendi
—The Indianapolis Notre Dame Club meets the first and third Tuesdays of each month at a luncheon which is held at the Hotel English. Prom fifteen to thirty of the old boys get together at these meetings, and keep alive the spirit of Notre Dame.
—Felix Versoza took the students for a pictorial trip to the Philippines Wednesday night. It was rather difficult to follow the lecturer as he is not yet sufficiently at home in English to employ it with ease. The slides were ' clear, well-selected, and interesting.
—A new medal has been established within the University by the Hon. John F. Fitzgerald of Boston. It will be an artistic bit of work and is to be awarded for the best essay on the Promotion of Trade between the United States and the South American Countries. It will' x be given for the first' time at the . coming Commencement.
It is desired by the 1917 Dome Board that new pictures of every member of the college faculty be run in the Diamond Jubilee* Dome. For this reason, the professors, both clerical and lay, are requested to ,sit for portraits as soon as convenient, at the Parrot Studio in the Union Trust Building, South Bend. Students who have not yet had their pictures taken are urged to do so by Monday if possible.
—The annual Forty Hours’ Devotion was -held in the University church, beginning Sunday, * Feb. 1 Sth, and ending with the Solemn Benedic- ; tion Tuesday evening. Very Rev. President Cavanaugh was celebrant, Rev.- Matthew . Walsh and Rev. Matthew Schumacher deacon and subdeacon respectively. » Many of the students received Holy . Communion at the -early Masses during the/days of the devotion :
3^4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

I
1 / '
*
I



to gain the special'indulgences attached to the Forty Hours. .	-
—The editors of the Scholastic join with the many friends of Mr. John Doran in rejoicing over his recovery from a severe attack of pneumonia. For a quarter of a century Mr. Doran has been connected with the printing department at Notre Dame and is now-foreman in the Ave Maria office, his marked ability being shown in the fine make-up of the publications issued: from there. According to the doctors Mr.- Doran will be back on the job in a few weeks. '
—From Pittsburgh comes an announcement ' that may interest civil engineers. “The annual convention of Triangle, the civil engineering fraternity, will be held at the home of the Illinois chapter at Champaign, Ill., from February 22nd to 24th inclusive. ..The business session will conclude with a banquet to be held oh the evening of the 24th. Many prominent engineers have signified their intention of being ' present on that occasion.”
- .	—The cooks- at Dobbs Ferry, New York,
are not versed in the art of baking buns, that is, the kind of buns we devour with gusto every morning at breakfast, hence the'' Rev. John Talbot Smith, .novelist, dramatic critic, lecturer, and pastor of the congregation at the Ferry, took a couple of the N. D. buns with him when, he left the University after a short visit this week. Father Smith had been to Hot Springs, Arkansas, and we are glad that his interest in Notre Dame obliged him to-call in on his way home. He. promises to return for a much longer v^sit and ''	his . annual series of lectures some time in May..
.The. year would-be very incomplete without a
. few talks by Father Smith.;
■ ■-—Forty-eight,Notre Dame men were initiated - into the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, at American Hall, Sunday after. noon, Feb. iSth. ‘ Degree teams from Chicago . and Michigan City were in charge of -the a ceremonies. In; the. evening a banquet was held ..	at. the. Oliver. Hotel in which-one-hundred and
; -
J
.fifty; Knights.:and. ladies participated. The ^principal • address was < made-, by Rev. .Thomas
; United States shall be prohibited,” was debated,
< Burke,iO. S. C.,' assistant-secretary at the Uni- resulting in a decision for the affirmative team, versityv and. his brother, Rev; Bugene Burke,composed of Messrs. Clement Mulholland, Leo ' was toastmaster."-Howard Parker J and his- Ward: and; Lloyd Dent. Thosd of the losing , collegian orchestra furnished good music during - team were Gerald Powers, Richard .White and J the dinner. -Judging from the appearance of Alfred- Slaggert.	<	;	-s. h. ,P.
the initiated the day after, they must have had all the experiences they anticipated.
—“Indiana,” a cinema drama telling the story of Indiana’s history down to the centennial year, 1916, was shown in Washington Hall Tuesday afternoon. That is, part of it was shown, because the supper hour arrived before the picture was completed, and, as the film could wait but the steak couldn’t, we missed a few years of history. The film, was prepared to commemorate the state’s centenary and was made -under the direction of the Indiana Historical Commission, of which Father Cavanaugh is a member. Bach of the outstanding events in Indiana’s, rise to Statehood are faithfully portrayed, particularly the frontier period ending with, the defeat of Tecumseh by General Harrison at Tippecanoe.
t
The Institute for Public Service of New York City is.sending out appeals for more and more trained men to fill public service positions. Yet while new openings are drawing increasing aspirants, the old and false idea ‘that such service is. not''well rewarded still keeps many efficient men from entering the field. Young men may now obtain training for public service by actual practice in several of our cities,—New York,. Detroit, Akron,- Denver and Philadelphia. College students in their last year who have completed- graduation requirements might well fill in the remaining half year in some .city near .them - by intensive training in public service. For "further information inquire of th; Institute for Public Service; City Hall Square, 51 Chambers St., New York City.. .
—Joseph B- Riley was elected president of the Brownson Literary and s Debating Society at the meeting Thursday evening, Feb. 15th.-. " Other officers elected to serve the rest of the year are: Robert Galloway, vice-president; John J. Ward, secretary; Leo Ward, treasurer;. Alfred Slaggert, reporter; and Francis Murphy, serjeant-at-arms.. Following, the election of officers the .question, “Resolved: That the' manufacture, sale and importation of’ intoxi- . eating liquors' for beverage purposes in the
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
325
Good-bye, John.
Written on the day of the death of John. Minavio by a member of the university band—of which the deceased was director. -	,
Muted forever the cornet from which he sounded the sweetest of harmonies! Dust gathers upon its golden bell and upon the pearltipped valves which felt the touch of his master fingers. Stilled forever the baton which he swung with the vigor of youth, drawing from, youthful hearts the happiest music, guiding youthful hands through the mazes of melody.
We who worked and played with him know t'hat his heart was of gold. We know that "in him were all of the fine qualities which are characteristic of a real Catholic young man. Loyal, generous, and ever willing to give his best service to the many affairs at Notre Dame, he counted his friends by hosts^from the minim to the senior.
For him the last taps have sounded and the reveille to which “he awakened was blown in heaven. He has gone to join that great band whose eternal concerts' are the praises of God. Sorrow fills the hearts of us who knew him closely—the sorrow of those who have lost a friend—the sorrow of those who have lost a leader. It seems that another instrument was needed in the'choir above, and that God in His infinite wisdom has chosen our comrade. He has gone, we believe, to help swell the harmonies of heaven as he did on- earth, but it is with a poignant sadness that we gather in the band-room tonight and say from our hearts,Good-bye, John—and—good luck.”
'Personals.
—Walter A. Clinnin, member of the Varsity / ' ..." football team of 1910, is now automobile editor for the Chicago Daily Journal.	.
—Richard B. Stack, who was a member of the.Varsity baseball team in the spring of ’94, is treasurer of the Stack Lumber Co., of Pike „	t
Lake, Michigan.	.	.	- .'
—William P. Galligan (Student ’o4-’o7) visited the University last week. Will is practising law in Chicago and is associated with the Credit Clearing' House, Hearst Bldg., Chicago.	.	- ;
—“Jack’’ Murphy, remembered as a-member
of the track team in the days of Fred Powers, : has promised himself a trip to the. old school next commencement. He is running a hotel at the Dells in Wisconsin. .	.	...
—Walter J. Gearin, member of the Varsity track team about fifteen years ago, is now with 5 the Sweeney Investment Co., of Portland, Oregon; Walter thinks'that his oldest son will be a quarter-miler. The youngster yill be a star if he equals the records of his father.
—Thomas J. Hoban, of the junior law class, has just passed successfully through an opera- ' tion for mastoid at St. Joseph’s Hospital in . Flgin, Ill., and' he is reported to be gaining strength as rapidly as could be expected. • He had been confined to the hospital with scarlet fever for three weeks previous to the operation ,
—Wilbur Gray, (LL. B., ’14), . the same “Dolly” Gray, who caught the slants of Herb Kelly for two seasons, arrived at the University Tuesday to assist in coaching the catch- ' ing candidates, and incidentally to limber up for the spring training season of the Chicago White Sox, into which select company Gray J is to be initiated when the Sox leave for their Texas camp on March 4th.	,
—J. Vincent McCarthy, who took the degrees of bachelor of literature and of laws in 1914 is chairman of the Knights of Columbus committee that is making arrangements for the concert of the Notre .Dame Glee Club at Flgin, Ill., on April 10th. . Mr. McCarthy is in a law partnership with his brother, Frank A. , McCarthy, also a Notre Dame graduate inz law, and the firm is one of the most thriving. . in Elgin. -	,	. . -
—Earl Brown and Emmett Brown, students at the University in the nineties are now in the ‘ ■ lumber business at Helena,. Montana. Both : were prominent members of the Varsity 'athletic teams in their .time, Earl being a member of . the football team in ’92, and Emmett following z suit four years later in both football and, base-; ball. Emmett is planning a trip, to the,Uni-, ■ versity in June, and Earl counts oncoming 'y . U ' later, when he expects to place his-oldest son in:	-
the University. •	■ - ■ ■ ; ' “	•'
—In a letter.to the Scholastic Dr. James, j Frederick. Coll of Philadelphia asks if the- Rev.’ .
M> Quinlan, C. S. C.,' who contributed a retro=- I ■ Jc-J spective article upon: Notre. Dame footbalFto' 'the last football Scholastic is the - “M^eJJ\
»
326
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Quinlan of his time. “The article brought delightful memories,” writes Dr. Coll, “and when I see the drop-kickers of today and recall ‘Mike’ and his famous racing'drop-kick, the present-day exponents look puny in comparison. This may savor of the romance of youth, but it’s most pleasant, nevertheless.” li. r. p.
------------------
Book Review.
Ballads, Patriotic and Romantic. By Clinton Scollard. Laurence Gomme. New York. Si.50. ’
This volume of poetry takes its title from the first two of the four sections into which it is divided. The other two, “The Lure of the Orient” and “The Lyric Quest” containing eighty-five poems make up over half the book. At a time when wars and rumors of wars are rife, the patriotic ballads of Clinton Scollard, singing the deeds of Mad Anthony Wayne, Andrew (‘Old Hickory’) Jackson. John Barry and other American heroes, are like a trumpet call to thrill and stir up dozing patriots. There is a martial measure in all of them and a suggestion, too, of the swing of the border ballads that told the stories of dashing riders and personal combats. For example in "The Ride of Tench Tilghman:”
It’s up Tench Tilghman, you must ride, Yea, you must ride straightway,
And bear to all the countryside
• The glory of this day,	(
Crying amain the glad refrain,
This word by field and town,— "Cornwallis’ ta’en! Cornwallis’ ta’en!
The world turned upside down.” -
Clinton Scollard is a poet who loves nature, but it is quiet, lovely nature. The rush of wind or water, the roll of thunder or the might of nature seem not to have inspired his song. His eye is quick To note the delicate beauty, “opal and rose and beryl;” woods are bright "with “silver beech,” the streams “lilt and ripple and run,” the wind in “White Janivere or sapphire June” is an “elusive lisper” .breathing a “ golden tune.” But what he loves he sings beautifully and with velvet words. For expression his poems remind one strongly of Keats. Picking from them at random we find “lush grasses to dull umber turn,” “lippingforevermore a madrigal,” “fluctuant melodies” "dawn-flush, noon-languor,’ eve’s purpureal pallor.” He' speaks of the bee’s "Filchment from the larkspur tall.” The Apiary is the "Tavern of the Bee” and the honeycells the “attared cups.”
In former volumes, while there was much singing of natural ■ beauty, it. rarely suggested the higher -beauty of the God of nature. In this last volume, however, the spiritual • element is present and runs like a thread through the book. “Oracles,” ."Sanctuary,” “Altars,’’.“Who, Knows the .Master Maker’s Mind,” and “Soli Deo Gloria,” with which we shall close this
hoticc, are among the best examples. - Mr. Scollard is-a-master of technique arid* loves music as he loves .	.
color.;'With fine artistry he< makes use of everything 'versify of'Michigan at Anri Arbor last Saturday
that can bring silver chiming into his verse. Alliteration, assonance and a variety of long and short vowels are employed with a skill that only a true artist could command. The volume is good poetry,—wholesome thought, beautiful fancy and rare music.
SOLI DEO GLORIA.
In middle heaven a form behold;
Fair-aureoled
Her shapely brow with noon-bright gold; Soli Deo Gloria!
Upon a little cloud she stands, Within her hands
A tympanum with scarlet bands; Soli Deo Gloria!
Thereon she playeth without fault, While up the vault
Her voice makes silvery assault,— Soli Deo Gloria! -
Till blended with her soaring notes, .
Adown there floats •
An echo from a myriad throats,— -	Soli Deo Gloria!
An angel she of God’s own choir ' -	Whose one desire
Is higher yet to chant and higher,— Soli Deo Gloria!
And every year upon the morn When Christ was born Within the manger-bed forlorn,— Soli Deo Gloria!
’Tis hers to bid song’s raptures run
.	From sun to sun, .
And list to eapth’s low antiphon—	‘
Soli Deo Gloria!	'
Would that our praise might swell and rise . Along the skies
And scale the Gates of Paradise,— Soli Deo Gloria!
Bearing, with more complete accord, Unto the Lord,—
Forevermore our watch and ward,—	'•
Soli Deo Gloria!
***
From D. B. Hansen and Sons (2320 Lake Street, Chicago) comes a small pamphlet, “The Way of the , Cross; Its Origin, Nature, and Object, together with St. Alphonsus Liguori’s and a shorter form of the Way. of -the Cross,” by Rev. D. P. O’Brien. The prayers to be said at the various stations are illustrated with, small cuts. Price, $3.50 per 100. The same firm has also issued a small Eucharistic prayer-book which will be highly prized by the-little folks. This “Communion Prayer Book,” compiled by a Sister of Saint Joseph, sells at twenty-five cents. in the cloth, and fifty, cents ’in tlie leather binding.
'	.	F ----------- -	-------
.	Athletic Notes.	,
Michigan, 46; Notre Dame, 31.
- Competing on a woodenfloor after practising on .a dirt one proved, just enough handicap to cost Notre Dame the dual meet with the Uni
4
THE NOTRE DAME'SCHOLASTIC
evening, 46 to 31. No fault could be found with the Michigan gymnasium, since its enlargement it is indeed one of the finest of its kind in the country; but the Notre Dame athletes simply found rubber soles poor substitutes for their steel spikes. •
Captain Miller and Mulligan both qualified in the semi-finals of the fifty-yard dash, but in the finals O’Brien and Schofield of Michigan both finished ahead of them, with Mulligan a close third. A few minutes later Schofield beat Miller and McDonough in the quarter-mile in a finish which was a puzzle to the spectators until the decision of the judges was announced. There was no denying the versatile Meehan in the half-mile, and his , team-mate Kasper was very close to him in the fast time of 2:01. Captain Carroll of the Wolverines, excelled only by Windnagle of ' Cornell as a collegiate miler, ran with seeming ease 4:25 3-4 in his event against Notre Dame. He teamed so well with Sedgwick that he brought that runner into second place ahead of Noonan, who made a desperate effort to overtake the second man in the final quarter. Kirkland won the sixty-yard high hurdles with a minimum of effort, and Starrett would have finished second instead of third had he not b.een set back a yard for a false start.
Bachman was nosed out of second place in he shot-put by the difference of a half-inch.
Donahue also1 captured a third in the high jump. Edgren, Yeager, and Bachman, all made eleven feet in the pole-vault, but not one of them could scale the bar when it was placed three inches higher. Kessler won the event for Michigan and the Notre Dame trio remained tied for second place.
The relay race was the most exciting event on the program. Messrs. Miller, Kasper, McDonough and Meehan were travelling at their best, and Michigan never had a chance as the Notre Dame athletes tore around'the oval eight times, a distance of four-fifths of a mile, in 2:48 2-5. Summary:
’ 50-yard dash—O’Brien (M), first; Schofield (M), second; Mulligan, (N. D.), third. Time, 5 4'5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Schofield (M), first; Miller AN. D.), second; McDonough (N. D.), third. Time, 54 seconds. .
880-yard dash—Meehan (N. D.), first; Kasper (N. D.), second; Boumaii (M), third. Time, 2 minutes, 1 second.
* Mile-run-—Carroll (M.), first; Sedgwick' -(M.), second; Noonan (N D.)',: third. Time, 4 minutes, 2 5 3'4 seconds.	-	• ,
6o-yard high hurdles—Kirkland (N. D.),
first;
Beardsley (M.), second; Starrett (N. D.), third. Time. 82-5 seconds.
High jump—Simmons (M.), first; Haight (M.), second; Donahue (N. D.), third. Height, 5 feet, 10 1-4 inches:
Shot-put—Cross (AL), first; Smith (M.), second: Bachman (N. D.), third-. Distance, 45 feet, 3 inches.
Pole-vault—Kessler (M.), first; Yeager (N. D.), Bachman (N. D.), and Edgren (N. D.), tied for second. Height, 1 r feet, 3 inches.	-
Relay Race — Won by Notre Dame (Miller, McDonough, Kasper, and Meehan.) Time, 2 minutes, 48 2-5 seconds.
M. A. C., 19; Notre Dame, 33.	•
The Michigan Aggies proved disappointingly weak in our final home game of the basketball season last Saturday evening, when. Notre Dame was victorious 33 to 19. Beaten the two previous nights at other schools, after a long run of unbroken victories on their home court, which they thought might entitle them to a high classification in sectional champion-.ships, the team from 'East Lansing was very much lacking in life in the game played here. The result was evident before a quarter of the game had been played.
Grant and Daley, who have been handicapped by injuries most of the playing season, were both in the game. Grant was at forward and scored four baskets in his first attempt at playing that position. McDermott continued his good work at the other forward, scoring six field baskets and seven fouls. Daley and McKenna-kept track of the opposing forwards, and their guarding approached perfection. King, after putting the ball into play from ths center position, was the main cog in the complicated passing-play that bewildered the M. A. Ch all evening^ Fitzpatrick and. Ronchetti were the only substitutions made by Coach Harper} and these men replaced Daley and McKenna when the outcome of the game was no longer in question.
Notre Dame (33)	• Michigan A. C. (19)
McDermott_____________R F.............. Archer
Grant__________________L	F_____________  Vevia
King................   -	C____________ Peppard
McKenna...............R G.—......... McClellan
Daley_______1_________L G„_____________Friniodig
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Fitzpatrick for McKenna, Ronchetti for Daley; M. A. C.—Wood for Archer, Miller 1. for McClellan. Field Baskets—’ McDermott 6, Grant 4, Daley 2, King; Vevia 5, Peppard 2, Frimodig. Goals from fouls—McDermott 7, Peppard 2, Vevia. Referee—Hagerty; Umpire— Cooper:, Time of halves—20 minutes. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The regular bi-weekly meeting of the Notre Dame.Poetry Society was held Sunday evening, February7 18th. A number of new books were considered, special attention being given to “The Religious Poems of Lionel Johnson.”
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to February 3, 1917.
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Whrren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:
’ $2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, ’86. $1000.00	.
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, ’68; Right Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75; M. F. Healy, ’82; John C. Shea, ’9S; Clement C. Mitchell,'02; Byron V. Kanaley,’04; Daniel P. Murphy,’95; John P. Lauth, '68.	'
$500.00
Robert Sweeny, ’03; C. A. Paquette, '90; Rev. John Dinnen, ’65: Warren A. Cartier, ’87; Stephen B. Fleming. ’90; Thomas Hoban, ’99; Angus D. McDonald, ’00; William A. Mclnerny, 'or; Joseph M.-Byrne, ’79; Cassius McDonald,'04;. William P. Breen, ’77; Student from Far West; Rev. I.’E. McNamee, ’09; C. C. Craig,’85; Frank E. Hering, '98; Peter P. McEIligott, ’02; James J. Conway, ’85; George Cooke, ’90, John Dowd, ’99.
$300.00
Frank N. Maas, ’77.*
$250.00
Fred. E. Murphy, ’93; John M. Flannigan, ’94.; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B. Naughton,’97; Peter Kuntz.'98, John H. Fendrich, '84; John’Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell, ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, ’99; R. A. O’Hara, ’89.	.
•	$200.00	'
W. G. Uffendell, '01; John O’Shea, ’11; James F. Kennedy, '94; Louis C. M. Reed, ’9S; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; .Joseph J. Sullivan. 02; G. A. Faiabaugh, '04; Robert Anderson, ’83; Joseph Lantry, ’07;. Rev. F. J. Van Antwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, ’oS; Rt.-Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94. F. A. Kaul, ’97; William Hoynes, '77; Edwin J. Lynch, 'io; T. D. Mott, '95; F. Henry .Wurzer, ’98; Paul R. Martin, ’13; Timothy V: Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; .Daniel Madden, ’06; Fred J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, '98; Thomas Steiner, '99; John F. Cushing^ ’06. .	>
'	$150.00
Rev. Michael Shea, ’04; Ambrose O’Connell, ’07; William Byrne, ’951 James L. Tong, '94;. W. A. Draper, ’06; James E. Deery, ’09:
.	.	$120.00.	.
-Maximilian St. George, ’08.	*
,;	’	•	$100.00	.
Oliver J. Tong, ’73; Hermann C. R. Piper, ’11; Rev. Edmund OCon-nof, ’94; J- L- Lamprey,’03 ; Walter Joyce,’07; George N. Johnson; *95; William H. Boland, ’8S; William J. Granfield,'13; M. O. Burns, '86; Rev. Michael Ryan,’95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James Frederick Coll, '89; George J. Hahhauser,’01; James P. Fogarty, ’00; Rev. John B. McGrath,’8o;'JohnF. Fennessey, '99; Cyril J. Curran, '12; Ernest E. L. Hammer, ’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97;. Edwin Wile, ’74; Francis C. Schwab,’02; Rupert:F. Mills, ’.14; William H. McCat ty,
’99; Edwatd-J; Glynn,
Frank P. Crowley, ’09;
Curry, ’14; -James A. Curry, ’14; Harry V. Crumley, ’03; Harry-. - S. Cahill, '08;- Walter V. Heekin, ’05; William McKenzie, '88; Rev.
Bernard P. Murray; Mark M. Foote. '73/Patrick J. Houlihan. ’92;
E. J; Maurus, ’93; Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; - H. G, Hogan, '04;.
Harold'P. Fisher, '06; John B. Kanaley, ’09; James F. Hines, ’09; ' , . John B. McMahon,’09; Rev. John'M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormley, - ’03; Thomas O’Neill, ’13; Robert-E. Proctor, ’04; John F. O'Con-\ nelL ’is; Frank C. Walker. ’09;. Rev. Gilbert Jennings, ’08; George
O’Brien,’90; Vitus’jones,.’02; W. A. Duffy, ’08; Rev. J. H. Guend-
:-ling,.''i4;. Fred CLMcQueen, 'do; "Charles J. Stubbs, '88; Rupert
.jDonovan,- *08;-Rev.-rFrancis-H..-Gayisk,, ’i4; ; Rt; Rev. Frank , O’Brien, ’95; Frank I,.- McOsker, '72; - Charles.E. Ruffing,’ ’85: James.F. Foley. ’13; Rt Rev. T. _C. O’Reilly, ’09; ' Thomas. J.: ’ Welch, ’o5; /William’ E. Cotter, *13; .John C. Tully, Jfi; John F;
..O’Connor/.’72;’ T. 'P.'.Q’SuUivan?’02; -G.**M. Kerndt, '82; -Dr. Frank J.-’Powers; ’94; - Rev. -John;Talbot Smith; ’o7; Danitl C. . Dillon;. 'o4;/ThomasC./Butler, ’08; '-.Edward ;M. Kennedy, ’’08- /. -John'J. Kennedy; ’09;' Peter..M/Ragan,’92;/JamesD. Barry, "’97. -
Fred L. Steers, 'ri; Walter Clements, '14; Edward J. Carlton, ’16 Leonard M. Carroll, ’16; Luke L. Kelly, ’16; Frank E. Swift, ’16 C. P. Mottz, ’16; Samuel Ward Perrott, '16; Edward C. Ryan, '1 6 James Francis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Mulholland, '16; Thomas A. Hayes, ’16; Frank J. Hiss,’16; Joseph J. McCaffery,’16; Walter P. McCourt, ’16; M. J. McEniry, 'Si; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15; James F. O'Brien, '13; Michael L.'Fansler, ’04; A. C.’Fortin, ’or; Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05; M. H. Miller, ’10; William D. Jamieson, ’05; Grover F. Miller, ’16; Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; . Edwin H. Sommerer, ’16; Joseph O’Sullivan, ’16; Jacob E. Eckel, ’16; Vincent Mooney, ’16; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward M. Schaack, '93; Anton C. Stephan, ’04; Dr. F. B. McCarty. ’07; Harry F. McDonagh, ’10; Charles W. Lahey, '13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95; George W. Kasper, ’95; Robert A. Kasper, ’07; Charles Girsch, ’94;- Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07; John B. Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, '12; Edward K. Delana, ’13; Harry- Curtis, 'oS; Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel Cullinan, '07; Dr. W. P. Grady,.’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, '88; James V. Cuningham, '07; M. H. Miller, '10; .Frank X. Cull, ’08; Jesse E- Vera, ’10; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, ’11; Dr. H. G. McCarty, ’12; James Dubbs, ’06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’11; William R. Ryan, ’11; William A. McKearney, 'oS; Maurice J. Breen, '09; Raymond C. Langan, ’93; Charles A. Grossait, ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney, Jr., ’14; John J. McShane, ’14; Henry A. Wim-berg, ’96; Gerald S. Clements, '14; John G. Wimberg, ’96; Philip B. O’Neill, ’62; Elmo A. Funk; ’oS; Rev. J. C. Scullin, '09; Oscar A. Fox, ’06.
.	$75-00 .
John W. Costello, ’12.
■	$50.00	.
Albert B. Oberst, ’06; Louis P. Chute,'’92; William Fish, '12; J. Clovis Smith, ’14; Frank B. Cornell, '00; .Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Major, ’86; Charles Vaughan, ’14; Stephen H. Herr, '10; J. N. Antoine, '70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jay Lee, '12; Albert F. Gushurst, ’09; Edward P. Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burke, ’83; Rev. M. L. Moriarty, '10; Rev. John P. Quinn, ’83; Simon E. Twining, ’13; J. V. Birder,'’13; Cecil E. Birdei, ’14; M. Emmett Walter, ’15; Ralph Eberhart, ’02; Rev. John M. Gerenda, ’09; Timothy P. Galvin, ’16; Ray M. Humphreys, ’16; Hugh E. Carroll, '16; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14;. Louis P. Hari, ’16; Joseph D. Kovacs, ’16; Patrick Maloney, ,,i6; J. F. Delph, '16; Hugh O’Donnell, ’16; James * Sanford, ’14; Ira W. Hurley, '14;' Emmett G. Lenihan, *15;
Francis H. Hayes, ’14; Raymond J. Kelly, ’16; Ernest P. Lajoie, ’15; Rev. P. J. Crawley, ’95; Arthur Pino, '06; William Milroy, '13; Dr. Robert Frost, ’02; Eustace Berry, ’03; A Fiiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, ’14; R. B. McConlogue, '09; Thomas J. Jones, ’03; Twomey M. Clifford,- ’13; Cletus H. Kruyer, ’12; ' Dalton B.'Shout ds. ’09.	"	’
$40.00
V. E. Morrison, '89; Gerard N. Krost, '04. .
-	.	"$25.00 . ,	'	.
John M. Culligan, >’15; Joseph M. DeLone, ’02; Simeon T.
. Flanagan, ’14; W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen. ’09; Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’S3; James M. Riddle, ’13; Henry Hess, '82; Dr. E- M. McKee, .’06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John.H. Mullin, ’11; I. N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92; Frederick Williams, '13; Rev. Joseph Toth, ’n; Joseph M. Walsh, ’14; Max Adler, ’89; John G. Mott, ’95; .Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, '16;. C. I. Krajewski, ’x6; Joseph P..Flynn, ’16; John P. Conboy, '16; W. W.‘ Turner, ,’16/ Alfred Fries, ’16; J. A."’McCarthy, ’16; J. Harry
Sylvestre, -’i 6; Harold P. Burke, ’16; Peter C. Yearns,-’16; Fred, Thomas B. M- Pralatowski, ’16; Francis J. Kilkenny,’12; Edward l/Figel,’11; '	Thomas J. Dooley, ’97; Mark A. Devine, ’10; Daniel E- Cooney,
'io; Fremont Arnfield,’12; W. W. Harless, ’86; Edward, J. Walsh, ’00;. Thomas Curran, ’16; . D. D. Myers, Jr.,-’00; Dennis Moran, ’i4;-Leo-F. Welch, ’12; Ralph A. Reitz, ’14; Lawrence Luken; ’02.
■	’ .	.	$20.00	~
Gabriel Davezac, ’94; James R. Devitt, ’13; Albert A. Glockner, 16; Julius M. Hack, ’92. 7	.
S15.00
'.Bernard Dutch, ’13
’	'	"	- . ’. . $10.00
, ■ P. J. O’Connell, ’73; PaulT.Markey, ’08; Edward J. Markey,~’c6; > . Alfred Vignos, ’95;' Andrew L. Shimp, ’91; .Frank Niedecken,1 ’6'9; Harry Kirk,’13; .Louis Chute",’92;. J. J. Deaseyi’06; H. Fang,’16; James E. Roach, ’16; '.J. E- 'Hogan,-’16; Frank Maher, ’02; Frank ■ " W.'Bloom; ’84. - - •. - ’	-	;
:	.	$5.00. " ; L •'	1 : ’ ’»
; Robert- D., Murphy, -’01; /Mark Duncan,.’15; . Hiram Halliday, ’06; ,Claude S. Moss, ’95; John Bell. ’oS; P. M. O’Meara, ’09. '
J
X I

