
V
V 
the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issu_es 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor
Scholastic 
understand campus events even when you're n_o_t_o_n_c__am_,..p_u_s__________________________ 

r----,----------------------7­
1  PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR SUBSCRIPTION LIST.  PLEASE SEND THIS FORM AND  I  
$35.00 PAYMENT TO:  
II  NAME:  --------------­ SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 303 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER  II  
.. I  ADDRESS:-----------­ NOTRE DAME, IN 46556  ·­I .  
I  ___________  I  
I  I  
I  I  

thedepartments 
From the Editor  2  Out of Bounds  28  
ND Notebook  4  Week in Distortion  30  
Splinters  23  Calendar  31  
Campus Watch  25  Final Word  32 - 

A closer look at Notre Dame football and· the role academic standards play in recruiting 
:!A-N~;-G;~tto . . . · . . I 12 
\. . by Jackly~ 
"'-".,-.'-"~=co,.,~c,·,c,.cc,·,,····,.•-70•00·,c.,.·~=,cc·· ·•· · -·•····-;_: 
An overview of the history and pro­
posed renovations to the Grotto  
,-,;/-·.-.•-. -­. -.~ ,---. _. --· -­··-·--·----­. 1( They're ~_rickin' ~lobal_  I 26  
\.,  .  by Came Sweeney  1  

"-:-:.-:.,,:-~-=...::--__:,~-==---==~··~----:..:::.;:-.-··::,~~-. ..:..._ -:------=~--~ 
WVFI plaris to . broadcast online : 
worldwide. Find out what else they · hope to do this year 
.,= ·-. -----····· ·~...~-11!!!1111--¦.¦. 

1--­

( . 
[ Print Police· 

7 
, byAggie Noble 
i 

Making PrQgress 
8 

by Drew O/ejnik 

Too Much Information? 
10 

by Katie Caspersen . Learning from Experience . 
15 

by. Jeffrey Newcamp .· 
. -· . 
. Design by Mike Griffin ... Photo by Kate Foster .. .and Nolan Oifield 



Vol. 142, No. 2 • 7 SEPTEMBER 2000 
scholastic/ ) t· ,_/staff 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 
Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor 
Agatha Noble, assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant 
Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 
Colleen Barrett, Jessica Chamberlain, 
Mary Huigens, Padraic McDermott, 
Liz Stedman 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Nolan D. Orfield, assistant 
Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor 
Michael .delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Online Brian Scofield, manager 

http://www.nd.edu/-scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All. rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Mike Griffin is the official office pessimist.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Ilooked up from my chicken fajita and stared at the posters surrounding Sean Astin. "What's the name ofthe movie?" I asked one ofmy friends. He squinted at the posters, trying to make out the movie's title. "I think it's Rudy. Looks like it's about Notre Dame football." I shrugged, took another bite of my fajita and looked at the memorabilia hanging on the walls of New York's Planet Hollywood. Turning my attention back to Astin, I watched as he donated a Notre Dame football and varsity jacket to Planet Hollywood's movie-stuff collection. As a sopho­more in high school, college was the last thing on my mind. Of course, I had heard something ofNotre Dame's legend, and I knew that the univer­sity had a storied football tradition. As for that Rudy movie, my friends and I couldn't have cared less about it. Now, six years later, I-like all true Irish fans -can recite the movie almost verbatim. The plot is in many ways familiar, a classic example ofa man following his dream. But the plot is also indicative ofNotre Dame's character. The combination ofNotre Dame's strong academic and athletic traditions is reflected in Rudy's own struggles to make both the school and the football team. Only one other university -Stanford -consistently ranks among the top 20 universities both academically and athletically. Recently, however, critics have questioned the vitality ofNotre Dame's football tradition, pointing to a lackluster season and a host ofproblems off the field. In this issue, Scholastic 's Chris Hamilton takes a look at the Notre Dame football program, examining how academics impact recruiting and analyzing the program's prospects for a return to the top. Gerry Meskill adds a preview of this season's upcoming opponents. 

New Faces and a Face-lift 
I'd like to welcome aboard our newest staff members. First-year Kyle Zuaro will be handling advertising for Scholastic, and senior Katie Caspersen will be running the news department. Congratulations and good luck to both new staffers. · 
We've also made some substantial changes to the design ofthe magazine this year. The cover, along with nearly all ofthe feature sections, including this page, the table of contents, the calendar of events, Splinters and ND Notebook, are sporting new looks. Many thanks to Mike Griffin and Matt Barr, who spent countless hours making the magazine look great. 
I'm looking forward to a fantastic year at Scholastic and remind all readers that we welcome letters to the editor. Why not drop us a line and tell us what you think of our new look? 

r/,~ 
Jim Pastore 
Editor In Chief 

2 
SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
IN A COUNTRY THIS SIZE, LS I T A N Y WO NDE R TH A T 

FAVORITE BURGER™" A·"WHDPPER®11 ? 

TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES. 
America's all aboui big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER:' How could you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 


The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY~ 


You Can Grab 'n' Go, but Don't Forget Food Safety 
Story by Katie Caspersen 

New bags aren't just about fashion Art by Caroline Wolf 
Whether it's a new panini machine or a different name for the same old soup, the dining hall is always changing. This semester it was the traditional brown grab 'n' go bag that received a major facelift. Sporting a blue-and-gold logo, the sleek white bag is not the dining hall's nod to the latest fall fashions, but rather an attempt to ensure student safety. "Prevent food-borne illness," reads the bag's main message. "Perishable food items should be eaten within 1 to 2 hours or else refrigerated." "In the food-service industry, ifperishable foodisoutforthatlengthoftime, wedon'tuse it, no exceptions," says Barry Bowles, general managerofNorthDiningHall. "It's important that students follow the same guidelines when using grab 'n' go." Manyofthepopulargrab 'n' go items fall into the perishable-food category, so it is important that students pay close attention 

>> 

Although he was born and raised in Ha­waii, Shaw is a tried-and-true Notre Dame fan. After dropping off a few orders of breadsticks (yum!), he stuck around to make a prediction on the Nebraska game and tell us who really makes the best pizza. 
pizza­
·. d:e}il(ery i: , 
.man:;.··<:-:­
to this warning. Foods such as meats and cheeses are especially susceptible to bacte­ria that can cause a nasty case of food poi­soning. 
added the bags from its own budget as a preventative measure. Although many students undoubtedlyno­ticed a color change, did anyone take the 

Inadditiontoasafet &1illl~~5i!~~ time to read their lunch bag? message, the bag als AJJ,~,r[l "We have some 450 to 500 lists dining hall and students coming through grab 'n' go hours for ., ' to\ grab 'n' go for lunch ev­quick reference. ·, ery day, and even ifonly
.,

"We are trying to ;. \. ·\ 10 percent ofthose stu­make the dining halls ' ,~ dents actually read the more convenient for ·, bag, that is still a good students, and this is w,,.,,.,~-"'' .P_,:;, \ ) ';. amountofstudentsthat 
just one small way ; '.,or;,".'....., for us to keep you 
informed of our --:~~-:~.!fir_~ 1-~.,,,,,'...l hours and our <., 
· I
menu variety," says '~ Bowles. , 
While no specific ·~.. incidents .prompted the ~--. change, food services 
\ we are reaching with J this important mes-I sage;" Bowles says. /'/ So, ifyou're going to 
·t
/~\ run some errands or sit ~~ through class before en-cf joying your egg salad, check your bag and remem­ber to hit the fridge first. . 


How long have you been working for Papa John's? 
This is my fourth week-but I've worked for Pizza Hut for three years. 
So who has the best pizza? 
Chicago deep dishes -well, actually, I like my own homemade pizza best. I make it with whole-wheat crust, Canadian bacon, shrimp, pineapples, · mushrooms and on­ions. There are some other good pizza places. Let's see-oh, wait, I work for Papa John's -Papa John's is the best. 

Have you ever had ~o rough up the Pizza Hut or Domino's guys? 
No, wedon'thaveanyofthat-Iactually wave to all the drivers. But from what I've heard, Papa John's owns this place. Is that true? 
I think so -it's the breadsticks. 

Breadsticks-yeah! That's the kicker, man, with all those sauces. We used to have people call us up when I worked at Pizza Hut and ask for cheese sauce, but we didn't have any. 
The Twilight Sing~rs_.-~ Twilight as played by The Twilight Singers 
label: Columbia release date: 12 September 2000 Story by Matt Cremer 
if you like It!ll&J[!wfl[f/) @'@ll(;@you'/1 love .7f/Ja@. 7)1!}.!;{l[Jtwlroa @iJ{![@j@[f@ 
After three years ofrumor, hard work, bootlegging and rewriting, Greg Dulli has unveiled his latest project, Twilight as played by The Twilight Singers. The album has a 
different fla­vor than the aggressive alterna-rock that he and the Afghan Whigs have released in the past. Twilight con­

tains  more  The Twilight  
soul  and  is  Singers  
clearly influ­ 

enced by Dulli's collaboration with Brit­ish dance duo Fila Brazillia. The calming strings and the slow sweat of soothing ambient beats blend perfectly with three7 part vocals to produce a beautiful and tragic tapestry of love, madness and se­duction. 
Dulli himself has already dubbed the 
>> 
So how long do those sauces last? 
They last for quite awhile -we've eaten them for at least three days in the refrigerator. 
What was the weirdest place you've ever delivered to? 
When I worked at Pizza Hut, they made me deliver to Knocker's. That was kind of awkward. And another time, I went up to a house to deliver pizza, and I peeked in the window, and the lady was sitting behind the table with at least 50 or 60 large candles, and I'm thinking, 'Oh my God! What the heck is going on?' 
Have you ever felt the need to carry weapons with you? 
new album "the ultimate make-out" CD. I have yet to test the idea, but after listening to a song appropriately titled "Love," which begins with slow, easy beats that nearly induce a trance, I can see how the album could work as a musical accompa­niment to the breaking of parietals. The soft sounds roll over you until you are surrounded by candle-lit lyrics. 
Aside from any initial feelings the al­bum might conjure, repeated listening re­veals a sharp lyrical tongue. The music is a double-edged blade combining melodic slow jams with words ofbittersweet loss. 
Twilight as played by The Twilight Sing­ers is a musical mosaic that can be en­joyed one tile at a time. However, the more and more familiar you become with the album as a whole, a deeper and more beautifully complex image emerges from the sounds. 0 
This column is a new feature in Scholas­tic. Check out each issue for reviews ofup­and-coming bands. 
No, you don'treallyneeda weapon. David walked around the walls of Jericho for, what, seven days, right? And the walls fell down? He never even lifted a weapon. God did it all. 

Are you a big boy-band fan? 

No, no, they're not my thing. I can't stand them, actually. I always make up the lyrics for their songs -I always try to time it with "taking your money," and "buy all my para­phernalia so I can pay off my big house and car payments." 
Just how crazy do deliveries get on football weekends? 
Oh, it's ludicrous. You'd think every­




~-~_Jj 
!
judgementcalls 

CD. . Dillo~~~~J 
Nothing like firing up the team by recalling past blunders. 
(D,___H_ome Opener 
Davie finally did something right. The question is: how long can he keep it up? 
(I\ .Ticket ~ ..·. Distribution 
Another year, anot~er debacle. 


8---L--a-bo_r_o_a_y~ 
It was the unofficial end of summer, and we were stuck in class. 

body got their driver's license from the Kmart blue-light special. And when we win, people are heavy-handed with tips. When we lose, they're a little harder to squeeze. You gotta remind them of old games, like, "Remember when we came back from USC last year? That was nice, wasn't it?" 
So are we going to beat Nebraska? 

Well, I'm an optimist, and I know any­thing can happen. I'd say the point spread will be 14-21, but I think there'll be a few surprises. I'm still rooting for us. 
-Sarah Childress 





107Years Ago 
Don't Get the Giggles 
When mirth inspires murder, we should all be wary ... 
In the April 1, 1893 issue ofNotre Dame Scholastic, 'The Man in the Tower,' an anonymous column faintly reminiscent of our beloved Gipper, which specialized in rants, ravings and general social commen­tary, reports: 
Horrors! Yesterday I met a genuine rara a vis -agiggling boy. Did !run away? Nay, nay! ... lfollowedthisfellowaroundfortlze short space oftwo hours and never was I so strongly tempted to break the Fifth Com­mandment. I heard him giggle and giggle until I wished that he would goggle and gaggle his head off. 
I 
Never fear: the attitude toward merriment 
I 
on campus has greatly improved since then. Luckily, the members of this year's Scho­lastic staff are much more tolerant of gig­gling boys -at least, they don't have time to follow them around. Feel free to chuckle away with impunity. 
-Sarah Childress 

. . . ' . 

. ) : "No, we have no problem with the Russians selling 


7··· 

· 1 their submarines to China." 
1,

, -international relations professor 
~ --,·. ~---------------·---------. 
----------_:..._ ______. -··-~---··-· ---·----· . . ' ., ·• . ___; ___ ,~­
>j 

~oh, what flavor are you?" 
~Adi%~;hall worker to a student wearing a shirl that read 

·--~'-Isn't it ironic tha~ SUB is ~-~-owing Mission: lmpossibl~-;~e--[ weekend of the Nebraska game?" H::ill 
1.·
7 
-overheard in South Dinin~ 

. . . . ---.' ...· . ' . ' . 
'! 

"It's gonna be 94 degrees on Saturday -so you'd all better drink plenty of fluids tonight and tomorrow to be ready for the game." 
I
-Bob Davie at the Dillon pep rally 
I I l 
"I went to a wedding this w·eekend. Unfortunately,  
my wallet got drunk and jumped out of my pocket."  
-CAPP professor  l  
i  
\  
\  

I  
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL  

This year's ticket process was frustrating enough without the added stress of having thousands of students invading the park­ing lots around Stepan. Here's the break­down by class of the number of students who purchased tickets. 
Seniors 1,805 Juniors 1,556 Sophomores 1,717 Freshmen 1,876 Graduate/Law 1,549 St. Mary's/Holy Cross students 1,297 




Print Pol ice 
"Do you know why I stopped your print job today?" 
AGGIENOBLE
Picture this: You're sitting in a com­pletely full computer cluster, finish­ing your paper with only five min­utes before class starts. You push the print button and eagerly dart to the printer. You wait a few minutes -no game. You return to your computer, assuming that the printer had not received your command. You push the print button again and run to the printer. One minute before class -still no paper. Other students surround the printer in simi­lar frustration. Just as you are about to return to your computer once again, your paper slowly peeks through the mouth ofthe printer and, after the last page emerges, the paper files out a second time. You quickly throw the second copy in the trash and head to class 10 minutes late. It sometimes seems as if students spend more time printing a paper than they do writing it. In the past, when the printers became overloaded, students had no way of knowing whether their print jobs had actu­ally been processed. Frustrated, they were quick to push the print button more than once. Of course, the papers eventually printed -one copy for each time the print button was pushed. The huge waste of. paper that resulted from this process has led the Office of Information Technologies to try a new print­ing system, Print@ND. You may have no-
The Print@ND monitors installed in all ofthe computer labs show users' printjobs, so students know that their command went through and do not issue unnecessary print commands. Before a print job will actually work, students must log in to a Print@ND monitor and confirm their printing jobs. The monitor also al­
clusters. Windows NT has been upgraded to NT@ND 2, which the OIT claims speeds up log-ins. Software applications have been placed on each computer's local drive ­rather than the network-for added quick­ness. New and updated applications abound, most notably Microsoft Office 2000 for 

lows users to re-pri­oritize and cancel jobs. 
For the OIT, Print@ND records peak printing hours as well as the amount of paper in each cluster. The department hopes that this new procedure will pre­vent future student charges for printing. 
"We hope that the careful logging ofpa­per use·· from the monitors will justify paper costs in the 
WHERE THE ELECTRONS MEET THE PAPER
computer clusters and 
A student logs on to a sleek Print@ND station. 
make the process . more convenient for all users," explains Jeff Hanrahan, manager ofdistributed com­puter resources for the OIT. 
Student reception of Print@ND seems 


The Print@ND monitors installed in all of the computer labs show user's ·print jobs, so students know that their command went through. 
ticed the system's black monitors lurking by the printers in the computer labs. While the new system may initially seem like an additional hassle, the department is hoping that it will actually make the clusters more efficient. 
"Print@ND will cut down on paper use and costs as well as student frustration," says Sara_Exum, the department's market­ing consultant. 
positive. "I have gotten really frustrated in the clusters when I didn't know whether my printing job went through or if the printer was out ofpaper," says sophomore Danielle Ledesma. "It will be nice to know that it really is working." 
Besides Print@ND, the OIT has imple­mented many otherimprovements. Comple­menting Print@ND are new high-speed Xerox printers that have debuted in several Windows. The new software is not, how­ever, without the kinks attendant to many new computer ventures. For this reason, the "old" Windows applications re~ain avail­able on each workstation. The OIT has also implemeted another way forusers to change their AFS passwords. There is now a link off ofthe Web page http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/ that is more convenient to use than the old Telnet method and is more accessible for those who choose not to use Eudora. 
--_..£or those needing help using all ofthese new technologies, the OIT has extended the hours of its Help Desk. It is now available both in person at the Computing Center and Math Building and by phone at 1-8111 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m. on Fridays. 
Both the OIT and students are hoping that these changes will take some ofthe hassle out ofusing the computer labs. "The Office ofInformation Technologies is continually working on new ways ofimproving," says Hanrahan. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 
7 



I
. ! 
i 
Ji 
if------·-•---~~~--------­
>rector's endowmentfund provide financial means for all students to participate in university events 
>martin luther king jr. day increase tolerance and un­derstanding 
>founders day celebrate notre dame's his­tory as a community 
> greatness grant 

funds student-initiated ser­vice projects 
>blessing unto others campus-wide donation to chilean orphanages 
>voter-registration drive encourage political involve­ment 
>academic luncheons allow students to meet with 
:.'1:.I 
professors and advisors over lunch 
>athletic interest boost student attendance at athletic events and increase student interest in olympic sports 
8 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 
student government goals •·and long.:term projects for the 2000-2001 academic year 




making progress 

Community, spirituality, athletics and academics: the balanced diet of a Notre Dame student. This year, stu­dent government is striving to make it even healthier. Shocked? Why? For the past few years, students have continually questioned the worth of student government. A recent ar­ticle on ndtoday.com raised the question, "Is there student government at Notre Dame?" But the answer appears to be "yes" this year, as Student Body President Brian O'Donoghue and Vice President Brooke Norton take steps to implement a series of new programs. With long-term projects in the works -and some programs already underway -student government hopes to impact the daily lives of Notre Dame's students. 
Community 

The Rector's Endowment Fund is one program already in operation. The intention of the fund is to allow all students to take part in Notre Dame community activities, regardless of monetary concerns. The uni­versity prides itself on its ability to meet the financial needs of increasing numbers of students every year, yet some students are excluded from campus events because they lack the money needed to participate. 
At the discretion of a residence hall's rector-and, ultimately, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman ­money can be given to students who other­wise could not participate in such university events as home football games, section din­ners, dorm dances and experiential-learn­ing seminars. 
Because of the nature of the plan, O'Donoghue says that "the fund will be handled quietly and with dignity." Resident assistants, assistant rectors and rectors will all keep an eye out for residents in need of financial assistance. 
The details ofthe plan was recently passed by the Financial Management Board vote, and minor kinks with the. program were resolved. "Finally this program will be­come reality because of the hard work and diligence of many fine people," Chief of Staff Jay Smith says. 
The service, diversity and programming divisions ofstudent government will direct projects that seek to strengthen the Notre Dame community and that offer students the chance to assist the South Bend commu­nity. The service division will continue the Irish Elves and Project Warmth programs, accordingto division head Stephanie Burum. Additionally, the division is organizing a mini-conference at Notre Dame for eighth graders, providing them the opportunity to explore their fields of interest. 
Todd Calais, head of the diversity divi­sion, expects to keep busy planning Martin Luther King Jr. Week and hopes to co­sponsor events that will make Notre Dame a more "tolerant and exciting school." He says, "Besides being a place for fun and education, college is the perfect opportunity to expand one's mind and to learn about new experiences." 
Student government also has its eye on history and tradition. The programming di­vision plans to revive a Founders Day cel­ebration as a way for the whole campus to celebrate Notre Dame's roots and to learn about the struggles faced by Father Sorin and the first Notre Dame students. · 


As the divisions continue to plan activi­ties, assistance from interested students is crucial. "Get involved with something you love," Burum advises students. "Atthe same time you can help not only the Notre Dame family, but the rest of our community as well." 
Spirituality 
The spirituality division is pursuing two majorproj ects: Greatness Grants and Bless­ing Unto Others. 
Greatness Grants, one of O'Donoghue and Norton's campaign initiatives, will pro­vide funding for student-initiated service and projects. Spiritual division chairs Brendan Harris and Drew Gawrych are working closely with Director of Campus Minist1y Father Richard Warner on making this project a reality. "Being in college is dreaming about saving the world," says O'Donoghue. "This fund may make it a little more possible and provide money for works in the Catholic social mission." 
The "Blessing Unto Others" fund-raising project seeks to spread some ofNotre Dame's wealth to two orphanages in Chile run by the Congregation ofthe Holy Cross. "Most donns do fund-raising, but it is in small pockets," Gawrych says. "This project will be done as a student body and done well." 
The preliminary plan calls for a week of activities to raise money and educate stu­cients about the orphanages and life in Chile. A keystone event, such as a Christian-music festival, would bring the week to a close. If successful, organizers hope to make the event an annual occurrence. "We are so blessed here at Notre Dame," Gawrych says. "This project gives a chance for Notre Dame students to be a blessing unto others." 

Academics 
The academic division will kick off the year with a voter-registration drive, and it hopes to provide absentee ballots from stu­dents' home states during election time. The idea is to encourage students to be politically involved as part of their social responsibility. 
The academic lunches started by the Cesaro administration will also be contin­ued, giving students the opportunity to meet with professors and advisors over lunch. 
Other academic projects in the works include a College Fellows program that would provide professors with money to take students out to dinner, and a summer exchange program that would allow Notre Dame students to use facilities at local uni­versities when they go home for the sum­mer. 

Athletics 
John Micek, student representative ofthe department ofathletics, and Sharon Bui, the head of the athletic division, seek to im­prove student attendance at all Notre Dame athletic events. 
Noting that over 80 percent ofthe student body participated in a sport in high school, Micek hopes to form a committee centered on increasing student involvement in the Olympic sports, focusing on more than just the well-supported sports ofbasketball and football. 
Current ideas to increase student involve­
ment include competitions for free tuition at 
volleyball matches, food giveaways and 
12th-man groups at soccer games. T-shirts 
for the 12th-man Notre Dame Futbol Club 
would be handed out in conjunction with 
many of the matches. 
Other plans include having a goal set up 
on South Quad before important men's soc­
cer matches for students to shoot on the 
team's goalies. Furthermore, excited 
coaches are thinking of holding mini-clin­
ics, speaking in dorms and going out to 
dinner with super-fans. 
"Hopefully, these committees will bring 
added incentives, but ultimately our spirit 
and pride as students will be the·measure of 
success," Micek says. "We as students are 
the purveyors ofthe tradition ofexcellence 
in Notre Dame athletics." 


Making it Happen 
While student government's plans sound 
ambitious, the question remains: Will this 
administration achieve its lofty goals and 
impact on student life? Or, as so often hap­
pens, will the campaign promises prove to 
be vacious? 
Student government points to the changes 
are already taking place. It says, too, that it 
is not solely responsible for the outcome of 
programs. 
"Our success or failure depends on the 

Notre Dame student body and whether they 'want to make Notre Dame a better place," O'Donoghue says. "They love it. I know they do. I hope they will get involved as a duty to Our Lady." 0 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 


Notre Dame professors use caution when considering new genetic information 

Imagine a situation 10 years from now. You try to apply for health insurance, but before you can meet with a representative, the insurance com­pany requires you to submit a blood sample. What if, with this small sample, the company could view your entire genetic code, revealing any genetic abnormali­ties you may possess -including whether or not you will develop a terminal illness? What ifa prospective employer had access to this information? This summer, situations like this moved a step closer to becoming reality. Scientists involved in the Human Genome Project, an international research collaboration, announced in late June that they had deciphered the entire human genome, unraveling and ordering the 3 .1 billion "letters" that make up a strand of human DNA. These advancements could mean new treatments for such conditions as tuberculosis, cancer and even HIV, but this milestone also raises serious ethical concerns. Many Notre Dame professors have been investigating these implications from the beginning ofthe project's existence. In October 1995,just as the genome project was beginning to appear on the public radar, Notre Dame hosted an interdisciplinary conference exploring its ethical, theological and so­cial dimensions. One of the professors involved in planning the conference was Phillip Sloan, director of the Pro­gram in Science, Technology and Values at Notre Dame and a professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. "Notre Dame was an excellent place to have an interaction ofpeople across disciplines to address these important questions that will affect all ofus in the upcoming century," he says. 
With major funding from the government and support from the university, the conference brought perspectives from all areas and set an important dialogue in motion. This year Sloan published a collection ofessays continuing the dialogue from the conference. 
The book, Controlling Our Destinies: Historical, Philosophical, Ethical, and Theological Perspec­tives on the Human Genome Project, is coming out amidst a flmTy of media activity concerning the genome project. Sloan finds reports that scientists have "cracked the code oflife" or "discovered God's blueprint" misleading, and he hopes that the collec­tion ofessays will serve as a resource for thoughtful consideration ofhow society is going to use this new genetic information. 
"It was our choice to produce this info1mation, but now we have to learn what to do with it," says Sloan. "There are many positive medical benefits down the road, but at the same time, many troubling ethical 
<< Philli.·.p R. Sloan.· 
. ' . ' . . . . . 

@:fiXiY~~ CW {)}@ ~ef@J©Til frfll §-~/ ·. Th~)1il?J0i:hJ ,'tlnm WITTbl~ . 

''In the elation over the d,ecdding ofthe .genqme, itseernstime.now tciasksome · hard.questions abo~ti·-What g-enes· do 
•.... anddo·nofdo..·Theydo•.·nbtt~llius··~bout our existenceas reflective, cultured and 
. -... .. ' 

· •··•····.· · ei 

problems that I am not sure we are ready to handle." questions about what genes do and do not do," Sloan says. "They 
Professor Richard McCormick, emeritus John A. O'Brien chair do not tell us about our existence as reflective, cultured and self­and professor ofChristian ethics, envisions a host ofpractical moral conscious beings." problems. For Catholics, such ethical implications arise in genetic The genome project will once again be featured as a main topic counseling and elective abortion. Traits that we now consider ofdiscussion on campus when Notre Dame hosts the Undergradu­normal may soon become abnormalities for which parents begin ate Bioethics Conference in March 200 I. In the meantime, the screening. For example, although obesity may not be a desirable Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values at Notre Dame trait, it is still considered ordinary. With 
new genetic information, parents might 
see that their child is inclined to obesity "There are many positive medical benefits down the 
-and elect to abort the pregnancy, 

road, but at the same time, many troubling ethical
trying for a "more-desirable" child. Sloan also wonders about the burden problems that I am not sure we are ready to handle!' 
ofknowledge that comes when learning about one's own genetic information. Would you want to know about genetic abnormalities that you might possess? What if nothing could be done about them -would you still want to know? 
According to McCormick, "the most immediate and obvious problem generated by the Human Genome Project is genetic privacy." One test is already available that identifies a gene asso­ciated with breast and ovarian cancer, but there is ongoing debate over who should take this test and what should be done with the results. Who should have access to your genetic structure, and what rights do you have over what information is being released? 
The questions are endless, and they stretch across such a broad range offields that Sloan believes students and the public need to view this issue beyond a scientific perspective. "In the elation over the decoding of the genome, it seems time now to ask some hard 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors from the London Stage As You Like It 
-by William Shakespeare · 
Thursday, September 14 ............. 7:30 pm 
Friday, September 15 ................... 7:30 pm 
Saturday, September 16 ............. 7:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
-

-Phillip R. Sloan 

hopes to hold a campus-wide forum in October as an opportunity for students and faculty to come together to better understand the issues surrounding the genome project and continue an educated dialogue. 
Sloan and other Notre Dame professors involved in this discus­sion do not want to overshadow the positive advancements that will come from the genome project, and they wish to keep all disciplines involved. 
"I am a guarded optimist about these developments," says Sloan. "I am optimistic about the scientific quest generally, and I applaud the achievements ofdedicated scientists in their search for under­standing. But I would suggest we need a healthy dose ofskepticism and caution about these developments." D 
bored at 3 a.m.? interested in graphic or web design? WHY NOT JOIN SCHOLASTIC?  
Scholastic is -now accepting -­applications for the positions of ~~~@(g][r@? and ~t~~2)~@iffi®]. __ -_.·_ ' ' Applications are ~vailable outside the . Schpla~tic office -located in ttie basement: of the S01Jth_DiningJ-lalL . . -.· .•· ·.. ·. ....._._-·, ...•-. Applicati6ns are c:itie Sept~mber_14. _CaU 631-:5029 for more information: <  

SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 


The Grotto today. 


N 
JACKLYNKIEFER 
Itwas one hell ofa fire; heavy black smoke belched from the opening of the Grotto. The heat was so intense that when water came in contact with the stone, it caused spalling, which happens when the stones become overheated and chip or fall off in blocks. Large pieces lay on the ground in front of the rocks. Candles, grouped on the floor ofthe Grotto for lack ofholder space; had ignited their plastic containers, causing a fire. The candle racks had been pushed back, over other burning candles, to make room for more on the floor, and the ones below had ignited those above them." This was the scene that greeted Notre 
12 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
E 
Dame Fire Chief Brother Borromeo Malley on September 23, 1985. Malley told this story to Dorothy Corson approximately one year before his death in 1994. 
An estimated 1,500 candles burning after a victory over Michigan State had ignited the blaze. Amazingly, the statues were un­harmed, and, despite the spalling, the Grotto enclave remained intact. The Grotto was speedily repaired after the fire; 15 years later, no visible signs of damage remain. The ivy and trees have grown back, and the smoke stains have long been removed. 
No major improvements have been made since then, but that is about to change. The Class of1955 is giving money to make some improvements to the Grotto. Paul Fulmer, 

w 

class secretary, says, "The Class of'55 was very interested in funding the Grotto project as our reunion gift to the university because ofthemanymemorieswehaveoftheGrotto, and the meaning ifgives to Notre Dame." 
The class has raised approximately $59,000 ofthe $177,000 necessary to com­plete the improvements. Additional refur­bishments will be carried out as the money is raised over the next several years. Ac­cording to Kathy Webb, director of the annual fund, the first renovation will likely be the installation ofa storm-water drainage system, as standing water around the Grotto is a serious problem. 
Nearly one-third ofthe money raised will fund the replacement ofthe asphalt around 


Artist's rendering of the . Grotto after the planned renovations . 





WILL RELY ON ALUMNI CONTRIBUTIONS 

, . 

. 
. 
. 
. 
.
' 
. 
.
. 
. .

T T 0 
the Grotto with brick-edged concrete. The stands above the Grotto has known more where the spring welled up was originally southeast and norteast stone stairs will also than one home, in fact. It stood in the outfitted with a backyard pump, but now a be replaced with cement stairs for easier octagonal shrine Father Sorin built in 1878 fountain stands there. Upon the completion access. just behind the Basilica. Shortly after he and dedication ofthe new Grotto on August 
To preserve the Grotto in its present fonn, died, Father William Corby decided to build 5, 1896, the statue ofMarywas moved to the only the area surrounding the Grotto -not a more accurate replica ofthe original Grotto new Grotto in the hillside. the Grotto itself -will be renovated. The in Lourdes, France on campus. Corby de­The ties between the two Grottos have Grotto has remained virtually unchanged in cided to build the new Grotto at the bottom remained strong over the years. On the its 106-year existence under the watchful ofa small hill along the shores ofthe lake. centennial anniversary of the appearances gaze ofthe Blessed Mother. Over the years, As crew members were digging, a small ofthe Virgin Maiy to Bernadette (February she has seen countless marriage proposals, spring welled up from the ground in virtu­11, 1958 through February 11, 1959), the listened to hundreds of students' problems ally the same spot as did the one at the university planned many improvements to and undoubtedly has heard millions of Grotto in Lourdes. The water from the the Grotto, including paving the grounds, prayers for help with finals. She has also original Grotto was reputed for its healing which were previously made of crushed seen things that few people know about -properties. Many interpreted this occasion stone. It is believed that the Seniors' Last including the building of the Grotto itself. as an indication of the Blessed Mother's Trip to the Grotto originated during this 
The statue of the Blessed Mother that approval of the Grotto project. The place year. 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 13 


-
. . . . . . ' . . . -. . '. . .... 
. . 
. ­

Another example of this link is the ap­pearance of two black stones on the right side of Notre Dame's Grotto, under the statue of the Virgin Mary. The stones were brought back to the university from the Grotto in Lourdes. Many students and alumni who are aware of their signifi­cance place their hands over the larger of the stones as part of their ritual when going to the Grotto. Installed by Father DeGroote in 1938, the first black stone is barely noticeable, as it is only two inches wide. But the second, which Father Phillip Schaerfsecretly placed below the smaller stone in 1958, is about six inches long. 
Just three weeks after the fire, the statue of Dr. Tom Dooley, which honors his hu­manitarian work in Southeast Asia, was added to the Grotto area. This addition was made 24 years after then-University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh received a letter from Dooley conveying his love 
STORIES FROM THE GROTTO 
When we told our seven-year-old son, Nick, that we were going to Notre Dame for the weekend, he was excited to return to the place where we had so many fun family outings. Nick asked if we could go to "that place." 
"Where? The bookstore?" "No." 
"The Golden Dome?" "No." 
"The ACC?" "No." 
"Where?" "You know, that place." 
"What place?" "God's cave." 
We knew immediately that he meant 
the Grotto. We took Nick to the Grotto on 
that trip and on every trip since. He still 
calls it God's Cave. 
-Jim Tomshack Portage, Michigan 
14 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
for the Grotto. Now the stage.is.set.for..the._. the.candle__glow.=.the_cQll!forting listening planned renovations. presence to turn to brings solace in all our 
The Grotto leaves a strong impression on troubles." all who see it. It is often the first place Observer writer KathyMartin wrote of studentsandalumnivisituponreturningto the Grotto's magic in a 1986 story. She campus, and it holds a unique place in the quoted Hesburgh, who is often seen visit­hearts of those who live on campus year-ing the Grotto at night, as saying, "I really round. Agreement is universal that it is one believe that Our Lady watches over this ofthemostpreciousthingsonNotreDame's place. I feel I ought to stop in and say campus. Though the Blessed Mother has thanks, and also pray that she keeps watch­watched over the university from the Dome ing over it. ... I've been to shrines dedi­for more than I 00 years, most students feel cated to Our Lady all over the world. closest to her while at the Grotto. Mary may visit them, but she lives here at 
Father John Fitzgerald expressed this Notre Dame." 0 feeling in a 1950 Scholastic story. He wrote, "From the great Golden Dome ofher Uni­Corson preserved many stories of the versity, Our Lady reigns as our Queen. Yet Grotto in herdocumenta,y "Cave Candles." at the Grotto she seems to have stepped The complete manuscript of her research down a little closer to us that she might can be accessed at http:// emphasize the other side of her personal classics.archives.nd.edu/corson! The sto­relationship with us -that ofOur Mother. ries were taken from there and from Grotto The beauty ofnature surrounding the Grotto, Stories, compiled by Mary Pat Dowling. 
THOUGH THE BLESSED MOTHER HAS WATCHED OVER THE UNIVERSITY FROM.THE DOME FOR MORE THAN 100 YEARS, MOST STUDENTS FEEL CLOSEST TO HER WHILE AT THE GROTTO. 
Not having gone to Notre Dame, my girlfriend, but soon to be fiance, did not realize the importance of the Grotto. So some weekend I convinced her to go to South Bend from Chicago to visit some of my college friends who were there for a wedding. It did not make sense to her, since we saw them the night before, but I had to get her to the Grotto somehow to ask her to be my wife. When we finally made it to the Grotto, I was relieved to find very few people present, since I wanted to propose in private and have a natural, memorable moment together. As we knelt down to pray, I heard a golf cart pull up behind us. Much to my dismay, it was time for a very slow walking Brother to clean the wax from the candle holders and fill all of the empty candle slots. Each trip back to the golf cart I was hoping was his last. My wife's knees got so sore kneeling that she went back to sit down. A few minutes later, I followed her and we sat for some time in silence, me waiting for the brother to complete his task. It must have been 40 minutes later when he was finally driving off. Immediately, but not wanted to appear too anxious or nervous, we lit candles for our parents as I proposed. It was truly a memorable moment, and she even said, "yes." 
-Gary M. Purk Class of 1984 LaGrange, lllinios 

. ' . ,, . . ~ . ' . -, ·, ' .~ ~ ...· , . ~ , 
~ 


Learning from Experience 
Notre Dame students travel abroad for research and service work 
JEFFREYNEWCAMP
What did you do this summer?" The oft-repeated question is usually greeted with a series of bland, oft­repeated answers. "Hung out." "Went to the beach." "Worked." But some students take advantage ofthe summer months to travel abroad, participating in university-sponsored research and service programs. The Nanovic Institute for European Studies, the Center for Social Concerns and the Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies offer interested students funding and direction to pursue projects on foreign soil. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides under­
graduates with competitive research grants to study in either 
Europe and Russia. Senior Jim Wrzosek spent his summer in 
London, researching the critical decisions made by the British 
government during World War II. Wrzosek's study was funded in 
part by a $3,000 grant, which helped defray the expenses ofliving in London. While the program sponsored his research, Wrzosek · was responsible for managing his own expenses and directing his 
own work. "I was given the money and I made all the decisions .. 
. where to stay, what to do, when to go," Wrzosek says. 
Although London is an exciting city, Wrzosek saw its less glamorous side. He spent most ofhis time sifting through materials in places like the Imperial War Museum and the British Office of Public Records. Focusing his research on how the British rational­ized massive air raids on Nazi Germany, Wrzosek made some interesting discoveries about the psychology ofwarfare. 
"Knowing many civilians would be killed in an air-war, Britain focused their propaganda on the evils ofthe Nazi leaders," W rzosek says. "This seemed to dull the sense of wrongne_ss involved in widespread air attacks." 
Wrzosek will continue the work he started in London, using his research to write his senior thesis. "Study abroad goes far beyond things that happen in the classroom," Wrzosek explains. "These. programs enable students to take advantage of the opportunities available to them." 
The Center for Social Concerns 
The Center for Social Concerns also offers students the oppor­tunity to travel abroad during the summer months and participate in service projects. Recent student destinations include El Salva­dor, Honduras, the Dominican Republic, Chile, India and Israel. Like the Nanovic Institute, the CSC provides financial support for students' work. The center typically offers a $1,700 grant and up to $1,000 for airfare to students participating in service work on foreign soil. According to CSC staffer Rachel Tomas-Morgan, there are no strict prerequisites for the program, but interested students must first pass a selection process that includes a test of the student's foreign-language proficiency. This helps the CSC 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 

•
.-. ' . . ' ~ -' 
match students with a program that is right for them; a student 
without any skills in Spanish, for example, would not be permitted 
to work in a Spanish-speaking country. 
This summer,junior Katherine Henze traveled to the Dominican Republic through a service program sponsored by the CSC. Henze helped teach middle-school students and led extracurricular activi­ties. She soonrealized, however, that she had far more to learn from her students than they had to learn from her. As Henze became more and more familiar with the children, she noticed how content they were with what little they had. Henze especially remembers taking some pupils to the beach for an afternoon offun. "So many ofthem were happy" despite their poverty, she recalls. Henze notes that while most children in the United States have so much for entertain­ment, the children she worked with were muchhappier with only the simplestoftoys. The experience challenged Henze to reevaluate her
l 
own cultural assumptions. She says 
: i 
that sometimes we must realize that 
. I most of our boredom is superficial and that other cultures can assist in this realization. Intimately involved with the cul­ture, Henze was challenged to aban­don the comforts of home and learn how to operate without the luxuries Americans take for granted. "I didn't take a shower for months," she says, "but it didn't matter." She considers it all part ofexperiencing the culture. 
Helen Kellogg Institute for 
International Studies 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies also provides students with the opportunity to spend the summer conducting re­search and preparing to write a se­nior thesis. Although the institute has an international focus, it funds study both abroad and in the United States. The Institute selects four stu­dents to receive a $3,000 grant. These four students may choose to spend the summer either interning with a government agency or per­forming a study project. The work done during the internship or study 
/? 
' fwas given 

the money and I made all the decisions ... 
Where to stay ... 
What to do... 

Whentogb~ 
-Jim Wrzosek 

project will eventually form the basis ofthe student's senior thesis. In the summer of 2000, students traveled to locations such as WashingtonD.C., Mexico, Chile and Kenya. Senior MariaFeilmeyer was one of the recipients ofthe Kellogg Institute grant during the summer of2000. She chose to travel to Nairobi, Kenya in order to conduct her study project. With a double major in theology and philosophy and a concentration in African studies, Feilmeyer re­searched how churches in Africa were responding to the AIDS epidemic throughout the continent. As wit_h the Nanovic grants, the Kellogg Institute expects students who win the grants to manage their own finances and direct their own work. Though the Kellogg Institute awarded Feilmeyer a $3,000 grant to pay for her expenses during the summer, she was responsible for making most of her 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
living arrangements. Feilmeyer stayed in a Holy Cross Formation House and lived with priests, seminarians and brothers from Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya and the United States. 
The program gave Feilmeyer the chance to interact with like­minded missionaries. During her stay, Feilmeyervisited the slums ofNairobi four times, the medical missionaries from Ireland twice. She also visited twice with a nurse in charge of an AIDS parish outreach program. She also interviewed a number ofpeople from many Christian organizations that assist AIDS patients and help to stop the spread ofthe disease in Nairobi. 
These experiences can have a profound impact on program participants. Infact, Feilmeyerparticipated in few tourist activities while in Kenya due to her feelings of sadness and hopelessness after visiting the destitute areas ofNairobi. Nevertheless, Weilmeyer says her experiences gave her a great awareness ofthe culture of 
the people ofNairobi andits struggles in dealing with HIV and AIDS. 
Feilmeyer also gained a greater appreciation of how a resident of Nairobi lives from day to day. Elec­tricity was rationed in the city, caus­ing difficulties in the planning of events. "We sometimes bought ice cream for the socials, but only on days we had electricity [for the freezer] or could eat it right away," Feilmeyer explains. In addition, the drinking water available to her was not safe to drink. It had to be boiled to make it sanitary. This, coupled with vaccines, kept her safe on her trip. 
She did have one unfortunate expe­rience, however, that caution and medicine could not prevent. While traveling in a car from one end of town to the other, Feilmeyer experi­encedwhatis known as "Nairoberry." 
"All ofour doors were locked, but while someone was distracting me at my window, another reached in [the other window] and unlocked the back door and took our mybackpack, which had four days of clothes in it," Feilmeyer says. The trip went on, and, according to F eilmeyer, the posi­tive experiences vastly outweighed 

the loss ofher backpack. 
Many students study abroad each year. Overseas internships, service-learning programs and research projects are all wonderful ways to experience foreign cultures. With the right mix oflearning and fun, any summer abroad experience can be a summer well­spent. Most students will agree that the beaches ofthe Dominican Republic are far superior to the beaches ofLake Michigan, and that hanging out in downtown London beats the community pool any day. Far more rewarding than the sand and nightlife, however, is the sense of accomplishment most students feel after completing a summer research or service project. D 

MIND OVER BODY 
HAVE NOTRE DAME'S ACADEMIC STANDARDS C.RIPPLED ITS FOOTBALL PROGRAM? 
CHRISTOPHERHAMILTON 
It was a particularly cruel off-season for Irish fans across the country. In the months leading up to the 1964 seasop., headlines scattered across every major newspa­per dissected and analyzed Notre Dame's fall from grace. The last time the Irish took the field, they suffered an embarrassing loss to Syracuse. Legions ofreporters and writers seemed more than justified in their unyield­ing criticism ofa once proud football program. Pointing to Notre Dame's lackluster 14-25 ledger during the past four years, they proclaimed the end of a dynasty. 
That season, Notre Dame came within one victory ofthe national championship; winning the title two years later and posting an impressive 95-17-4 over the next 11 years. 
• I 
Over the course of the last century, Notre Dame has firmly entrenched itself at the heart ofthe college football universe. The Fighting Irish own the highest winning 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 

percentage of any Division I team, along with 11 national championships, and seven Heisman trophy winners. This list of achievements, however, does not imply that Notre Dame has been immune to brief struggles. There's no mistaking that the Irish have struggled of late. This season marked the first time in over 15 years that the Itish were not ranked among the top 25 teams in the AP preseason poll. Notre Dame has not notched a postseason win since the 1993 sea­son-the last year they threatened to win the national championship -and they finished last season by going winless in November. 
Irish fans have not been bashful in ex­pressing their growing frustration, and the media is once again proclaiming an end to Notre Dame's legendaiy reputation. Last May, Sports Illustrated published "Irish Stew," a critical article by Tim Layden that argued Notre Dame would never return to its past glory. "It seems as though every time you go through one of these periods, the media and others somehow think Notre Dame just can't do this any more, Notre Dame will never be good again," Sports Information Director and Assistant Athletic Director John Heisler says. "We went through some .500 years or a little above in the early '80s ... and you read the same things, 'Notre Dame's never going to win again and the academics are too tough, and they are playing these tough schedules, and it just isn't going to work.' Now that obvi­ously wasn't true either. I think all these s01is of things are cyclical." 
Kevin Rooney, who worked in the admis­sions office from 1979-97 and served as the office's director from 1984-97, also took exception to Sports Jllustrated's portrayal of the Notre Dame football program. 
"It seemed as ifthey were 1:tying to sensa­tionalize the situation," says Rooney, who watched Dan Devine, Gerry Faust, Lou Holtz and Bob Davie recruit some ofthe nation's top prospects. "In other words, they were 1:tyingto make things appear overly dramatic." 
Some critics have identified Dan Saracino, current director of admissions at Notre Dame, as one of the main reasons behind Notre Dame's shortcomings on the playing field. Sports Illustrated indicated that Notre Dame's present academic standards are too stringent for the school ever to contend seriously for the national title. 
"I was disappointed in the article, but the positive spin that came out of it was very gratifying," says Saracino, whose friendly demeanor contrasts with the imposing, con­frontational image presented in the story. 
"The overwhelming response from ad­ministrators, from trustees, from even coaches and high-school counselors, and other colleagues at other universities was very, very positive, basically saying that if the worst Sports Illustrated can say about Notre Dame is that we have high admission standards, then God bless them." 

Saracino is also extremely optimistic that Notre Dame cari find the type ofrecruits that will return Notre Dame to the pinnacle of college football. "There's no question in my mind that we can find students who have taken a more demanding college prep pro­gram with a better GPA, and are good ath­letes -we're not looking for that many." 
Notre Dame's high admission standards are well-documented among college foot­ball followers, but these standards are by no means as unreasonable as critics often charge. Notre Dame requires each recruit to take 16 college-prep courses in high school, instead of the NCAA-mandated minimum of13. To put that number in perspective, if a recruit just satisfies Notre Dame's minimum 16-course requirement, he is still taking one less prep­course every semester ofhigh school than the typical incoming Notre Dame student. 
The university also requests that recruits perfonn competently on the SAT. It may come as a surprise to many that Notre Dame's average SAT scores for players enrolled between 1994 and 1997 is a modest 951, which ranks the institution 35th among Di­vision I-A football programs. Notre Dame is over 200 points below Stanford's Divi­sion-I-A-leading average of 1176, and also trails schools such as UCLA (990), Ohio State (979), Purdue (966), Michigan (959), 
SEASON OUTLOOK 
COMPILED BY GERARD MESKILL 
(1) Nebraska (1-0) 
September 9, 2000 1999 Record: 12-1 (Big-12 Champions) Last Game: San Jose State (49-13 W) Traditions collide when Nebraska comes to town on Saturday. Lately, when Irish fans speak of "tradition," they mean it as a synonym for "history." For the Cornhuskers, tradition is now. The Huskers boast 31 consecutive nine-win seasons and bowl appearances -both NCAA records. They have had three national championships in the 1990s. Nebraska returns 20 starters, including quarterback Eric Crouch, punter Dan Hadenfeldt, center Dominic Raiola, and tight end Tracey Wistrom. Last season Crouch set four Cornhusker records and finished fourth in the AP balloting for national player of the year. Hadenfeldt broke the Nebraska records for season punting average 
(44.98 yards per punt) and single-game punting average (57.6 yards per punt against Colorado). Raiola set school records for most knock-down, or pancake, blocks in a season with 140. Wistrom broke the school record for the best yards per reception average, notching 26.8 yards per catch. Nevertheless, if the Irish win Saturday, they will be the ones pursuing the 2000 national title. 

"A LOT OF THINGS CONTRIBUTED TO WHAT HAPPENED LASTYEAR, AND I DON'T THINK YOU CAN BLAME THE COACHING STAFF WHEN EVERYBODY PLAYS A PART." 

ANTHONY DENMAN SENIOR LINE BACKER 

Penn State (958), and USC (955). 
These statistics by no means suggest Notre Dame has less stringent admission stan­dards than the other schools listed above. Notre Dame typically places more empha­sis on high-school coursework and GPA than many other Division I-A schools. In­stead, these statistics merely illustrate that the Notre Dame admissions office is not as demanding as many perceive it to be when considering recruits. 
Over the past decade, outsiders have sug­gested-without any concrete evidence ­that Notre Dame has raised its recruiting standards, preventing the Irish from admit­ting numerous talented prospects. But Saracino is quick to point out that this sup­posed jump in standards simply is not grounded in fact. "If you look at the ·aca­demic profile of the football team, it isn't any better than it was [10 years ago]," says Saracino. "So that is more of a concern on our part. The student body has gotten stron­ger and the football players are going to have to compete in some way with those students, so there is a concern." 
Rooney agrees with Saracino, dismissing another prevalent, unfounded rumor that has spread over time among fans and the media alike. "From time to time, it keeps coming up, that in December of 1990, there was a sudden change in standards," Rooney says, referring to a rumor that the Notre 
(14) Purdue (1-0) 
September 16, 2000 1999 Record: 7-5 Last Game: Central Michigan (48-0 W) Purdue looked impressive in its tune-up contest with Central Michigan. Heisman favorite quarterback Drew Brees threw for 317 yards and three touchdowns, essentially burying his opponent. The 48-0 win was Purdue's first shutout in almost nine years. In addition to having arguably the best quarterback in the nation, the Boilermakers' wide receiver Vinny Sutherland has tallied over 1,000 receiving yards and is the only player in Purdue history to return two kickoffs for touchdowns in a single season. The Brees-Sutherland combination translates to lots of touchdown passes and a possible Irish headache. 
At (24) Michigan State (0-0) 
September 23, 2000 1999 Record: 10-2 Last Game: Florida (37-34 W, Citrus Bowl) Last year, Michigan State made the Irish look silly in a dismal 27-17 home loss. While the Spartan lineup contains a double threat in the backfield with T.J. Duckett and Dawan Moss, Michigan State may have far more questions than answers. On offense, the Spartans graduated two starting wide receivers and quarterback Bill Burke. Defensively, they lost linebacker Julian Peterson and defensive end Robaire Smith, who combined to tally 23 of MSU's single-season record 54 sacks last year. On special teams, MSU lost place kicker Paul Edinger (46-of-58 career field goal attempts) and punt returner Gari Scott who holds the Spartan record of 1,088 career yards on punt returns. 
Stanford (1-0) 
October 7, 2000 1999 Record: 8-4 (Pac-10 Champions) Last Game: Washington State _(24-1 O W) The Cardinal parted with 1Ostarters this spring, including star quarterback Todd Husak. Joe Borchard, Randy Fasani and Chris Lewis are the three men vying for the starting role in the 2000 season. Front-runner Borchard was impressive in his backup role last year, appearing in 1O games and leading the Pac-10 with a 
177.3 pass efficiency __ rating (42 of 71 ). · · ~\ However, Stanford lost ,L ;,; ­
\,, .... more than half of its 1<"' • 
71/J

starting defensive unit, which may make a repeat ,, of last season's success ~~ i ·., challenging. Last season, ,~.::-; Stanford beat the Irish 40-37 <i·:: 
~~a~. last-second field J~f: 
t
MIKE BISELLI 
STANFORD 
PLACE KICKER 

Dame administration sought to suddenly tighten admissions policy because players were performing poorly in the classroom during Holtz's tenure as head coach. "And to me, that is such an incredibly ill-drawn conclusion, because the class that had en­tered in the fall of 1990 and that graduated in 1994, in retrospect was probably my favorite group of football recruits during my 13 years. It also turned out to be a very good group, that's the group that happened to be seniors during the 1993 season, which in retrospect was the glory year ofthe decade," he adds. That class included four All-Ameri­cans: Aaron Taylor, Jeff Burris, Tim Ruddy and Bryant Young. "I just thought that they had the best combination of academic and personal qualities of the classes I can recall during that era," Saracino says. "So why would we, in light of that group coming in, suddenly decide to raise standards? It just doesn't make sense to me at all." 
Critics also claim that Notre Dame can no longer recruit the types of players who placed the Irish among the nation's elite in the late'80s and early '90s, pointing to Tony Rice and Chris Zorich as examples of star players who would not meet the university's current academic standards. Rooney believes that an incident during the December recruiting banquet weekend in 1990 has led fans and the media astray with regards to the academic qualifications of Zorich. During that time, two prospects who attended the same high school as Zorich were told they were not academically eli­gible for Notre Dame. "While they were from the same high school, they were not students who had taken nearly as many academic courses as Chris Zorich," he says. ''Neither one ofthese guys would have worked at Notre Dame and yet because they went to the same high school, several years later obviously, the feeling was that they were as good as him and that set offthis whole myth that Chris Zorich wouldn't have been admitted and that we had raised standards," Rooney says. 
While some claim the Irish football pro­gram is suffering at the hands of academic standards, new Athletic Director Kevin White disagrees. Plain and simple, Notre Dame has not raised standards and Notre Dame is not turning its back on the football program. "The senior administration is ter­ribly committed to having a very successful college football program, bottom line," White says. "It's very apparent to me that everybody from [University] President Fr. Malloy, to Provost Nathan Hatch, to ... · Executive Vice President Fr. Scully ... is fully behind the intercollegiate athletics program and specifically, 100 percent behind this football program." 
Because White replaced Head Coach Bob Davie's most ardent supporter -Michael Wadsworth -speculation abounds that Davie will be judged by more stringent standards this season. Many believe White will expect Da~ie to produce big victories this season, and perhaps even reach a prede­termined win total to keep his job. 
White, however, maintains that he does not want to add to the stress ofcoaches and players. "My responsibility is to help create the most success-oriented, most conducive environment ar01.i11d the program," White explains. "I've got to work hard at reducing the anxiety around our staff and our players ... I think coaches and student athletes will perform at a much higher level ifwe can get the anxiety reduced." 
Placing the coaches in more ofa "comfort zone" is perhaps just what the doctor or­dered for a group that is arguably the most scrutinized in all ofsports. White also knows that there is more to a win-loss record than the coaching staffs perfonnance -the players have to do their part as well. 
Senior linebacker and team Captain An­thony Denman understands the need for the entire team to step up and take responsibil­ity. "A lot of things contributed to what happened last year, and I don't think you can blame the coaching staff when every­body plays a part," he says. 
Offensive lineman Kurt Vollers adds, "I don't think you can put blame on anyone, like you can't say it was so and so's fault­I mean, it was everyone's fault. Football's 

At Navy (Orlando, Fla.) (0-1) 
October 14, 2000 1999 Record: 5-7 Last Game: Temple (6-17 L) Navy's brightest point is the quarterback position. Brian Broadwater started seven games for the Midshipmen last year before being sidelined with a frac­tured clavicle. Backup Brian Madden stepped in for the final five games, leading the Midshipmen to a 3-2 record and nearly defeating the Irish in South Bend. Despite starting only five games, Madden led the nation in rushing, tallying 626 yards and eight touch­downs. He was injured in a spring game, but Navy believes he may re­this season. 
BRIAN BROADWATER NAVY QB 

At West Virginia (1-0) 
October 21, 2000 
1999 Record: 4-7 
Last Game: Boston College (34-14 W) 
After a dismal 4-7 campaign, Head Coach Dan Nehlen 
set out to improve his defensive line. The Moutaineers 
lost 12 defensive lettermen while returning the same 
number. They also lost starting quarterback Marc 
Bulger, who was drafted by tf:le New Orleans Saints. 
However, Brad Lewis proved that he is capable of 
replacing Bulger, throwing for 726 yards and eight 
touchdowns last season in five starts, including a gutsy 
22-20 loss to No. 2 Virginia Tech. Nehlen's adjustments 
to the defensive and offensive units, sparked an 
impressive win over Boston College. Add to it that West 
Virginia was 4-2 in Morgantown last year -losing close 
contests to Virginia Tech and Navy-and the Irish 
could be in for a good fight. 

i I 
-_.·: ..-·.·... -.... · .... :· I . . •_ PHOTO BY N(:)LAN.ORFILED,.: . 

the biggest team sport there is, and when one person messes up, then yeah some people 
·· "IFvouLooKATTi-iE ;~ADEM1c••••· 

are more in the spotlight, but in the same 
: PROFILE OF TH.EFOOTBALLTEAM, IT ISN'T 
sense, the people that aren't in the spotlight, 
when they mess up, it's just as critical." But can anyone be blamed ifNotre Dame 
·•·ANYBETTERTHAN IT WA$ [tOYEARSAGOJ. so 
THATIS MORE OFACQNCERN ON OUR PART'. 
is pummeled by its brutal, early season schedule? Many consider playing Texas 
. . . DAN SARACINO 
DIRECTOR OFADMISSIONS 
A&M, Nebraska, Purdue and Michigan State consecutively and without a bye week too daunting a task for a highly-ranked squad, let alone a team that is trying to regain its position among the nation's elite. 
Heisler sees the difficult schedule as an­other long-standing facet of Notre Dame football. "I think it's a tradition, along with a lot ofother things around here," he remarks. The facts seem to support Heisler's convic­tion. Since 1977, when the NCAA began tracking the toughest Division I-A schedules, Notre Dame's has been named the most difficult five times (1978, 1985, 1987, 1989 and 1995),ranked the third-toughest two times (1986 and 1999) and rated the fourth-hardest twice (1979 and 1990). 
In fact, the NCAA also proclaimed Notre Dame's schedule to be the most challenging in the five-year time period from 1986-90. During this period, a struggling Irish outfit rebuilt itself, earned a national champion­ship, won 23 straight games, the longest winning streak in school history. 
"I don't think we can waffle on playing 

Air Force (1-0) 
October 28, 2000 1999 Record: 6-5 Last Game: Cal State Northridge (55-6 W) Air Force's offense promises to be one of the best in years. Returning for the Falcons is senior quarterback Mike Thiessen, who started five games last year, throwing for 827 yards and eight touchdowns. The Falcons lost Matt Farmer, one of the best wide receivers in school history. However, the rest of the offense remains largely untouched. Much of the defense also remains intact, with only the secondary taking major hits. In the season opener the Falcon offense was explosive, putting 55 points on the scoreboard in a 49-point victory. Novem­ber 11, 2000 
Boston College (0-1) 

November 11. 2000 1999 Record: 8-4 Last Game: At West Virginia (14-34 L) Defense is a primary concern for the Eagles, as they lost all but three lettermen on the defensive line. At the linebacker position, Boston College must replace team MVP Frank Chamberlin. The offense still looks bright, as Boston College only had major losses at the wide receiver position and returns starting quarter­back Tim Hasselb.eck. HoyVever, the damage to the defensive core may be too much to overcome, as indicated by the dismal loss to West Virginia in the season opener. 
·"i ..; 
. :, . PHOTOS COURTESY OF STANDFORD UNIVERSITY, THE .. 
•' NAVAL ACADEMY, THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN•·.· ·. . / CALIFORNIA, AND WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY . 
_.......,;.~-~-........;.___ . ~ -·· 

A.J. NASTASI WV WIDE RECEIVER 

At Rutgers (1-0) 
November 18, 2000 1999 Record: 1-1 0 Last Game: Villanova (34-21 W) Rutgers hopes to rely on rehabilitated quarterback Mike McMahon, who was lost for the season while scoring a touchdown against Virginia Tech. The Scarlet Knights also return their corps of wide receivers, including Walter King and Errol Johnson. Rutgers' biggest concern is the graduation of four of the five starters on the offensive line. The biggest loss on defense was All-Big East end Wayne Hampton, who led the team in pass rushes for three consecutive years. While Rutgers has showed considerable improvement in the early season, they have little chance of defeating the Irish this year. 
At (11) USC {1-0) 
ZEKE MORENO

November 25, 2000 
USC LINEBACKER 

1999 Record: 6-6 Last Game: At Penn State (29-5 W) The Trojans return half of their starting offense and 10 of their 11 starters on defense. Quarterback Carson Palmer returns from a broken collarbone to lead USC's impressive offensive unit. In 1999, Palmer threw for 490 yards and three touchdowns before going down in the third game of the season. USC is fortunate in that most of their large losses are filled with competent recruits. The Trojans' most significant area of loss is at the wide receiver position, where R. Jay Soward and Widrell Hayes dominated last year, combining for 1,375 receiving yards and eight touchdowns. Filling the gap, however, is a formidable threesome, including Pac-1 0 Freshman of the Year Kareem Kelly. If the Trojans remain healthy, the concluding game of 2000 could prove to be a major chal­lenge for Notre Dame. 
the high-end programs around the country," says White, who wants Notre Dame to main­tain its national profile. "But I think we can do a better job as it relates to when we play different folks and particularly when we return games, where some locales provide significant challenges, climate and other­wise." Specifically, White would like to take the academic calendar into consider­ation when creating future slates, planning big games so they will not interfere with mid-term exams or fall break. He also would like to avoid unfavorable scenarios that send the Irish to boiling climates in early Sep­tember, such as next season's match-up against Texas A&M at College Station. 
With all the negative publicity surround­ing Notre Dame's recent shortcomings and challenges, White hopes many will not dis­regard another traditional -yet widely overlooked -Notre Dame statistic. "I'm very disappointed," White says. "That a lot ofpeople aren'ttalking about how, although we make pretty significant admissions ac­commodations for incoming football play­ers and other athletes in other sports as well, at the end of the day they are graduating at a rate of about 89 percent, which is fifth in the country. I think that really speaks to the uniqueness of this institution." 
White, known for his proactive, diligent work ethic, is committed to fielding a squad that will make the Irish faithful proud. "Notre 
"THE SENIOR ADMINISTRATION IS TERRIBLY COMMITTED TO HAVING A VERY SUCCESS., FUL COLLEGE FOOTBALL PROGRAM, BOT­TOM LINE. IT'S VERY APPARENT TO ME THAT EVERYBODY FROM [UNIVERSITY] PRESIDENT FR. MALLOY, TO PROVOST NATHAN HATCH, TO ... EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT FR 
·SCULLY,.. IS FUL_LYBEHIND THE INTERCOLLE­GIATE ATHL,ETICS PROGRAM AND SPECIFI­CALLY, 100 PERCENT BEHIND THIS FOOTBALL PROGRAM:' 
KEVIN WHITE ATHLETIC DIRECTOR 

Dame is a very special institution," reflects our potential here, I just. think it's White. "There is only one Notre Dame and unlimited...We've always found a way to I think we enjoy a wonderful point ofdiffer­bounce back and I'm very confident that we ence as it relates to spirituality, mystique, will be in that pinnacle position once again, 1 ore, magic, if you will. When I think about hopefully in the not-too-distant future." 0 



IRISH 
EYES 
0 N
Luke Watson 
This six-foot tall junior is the number-two run­ner on the Big East Champion men's cross-coun­try team. In 1999, he won the U.S. Junior Cross­Country Championship. Luke Watson is also an accomplished as a track athlete, having scored in multiple events last year and setting the all-time Notre Dame record in the 3,000-meter steeple­chase with a time of 8:46.98. 
I have been running since I was: in the seventh grade, but I became very serious about running in the ninth grade. 
My greatest achievement at Notre Dame is: making the Dean's List here at Notre Dame for two semesters. 
My goal for the season is: to win districts and be an All-American in cross country. 
The hardest class I've taken at Notre Dame is: Freshman General Chemistry. 
My most memorable experience at Notre Dame is: winning the team Big East Championships in Cross Country in 1999. 
My favorite meet is: the Drake Re­lays for track and the Big East Champi­onships for cross-country. 
My favorite cross-country course is: 
Van Cortlandt Park, Bronx, New York. 
Between cross-country and track, I prefer: track, because it is more of a spotlight, and there is more control of it with things like splits. Speed is also a larger factor in track, and I have good natural speed. 
I chose Notre Dame because: I really liked the feel I got here. The people were nice, and I felt that I could get along well with the team. Notre Dame also had a traditionally strong cross-country team. 
Iflcould play another sport, it would be: nordic skiing. 
The most thrilling part of a race for me is: the start of any major race, be­cause you have, like, 300 people filing into a 10-foot wide path. Anything can happen. It is so unpredictable. I like the excitement. 
The hardest hill I've run is: this hill that I encountered while training with the University of Colorado. On this one run we went up a hill that was two and a halfmiles long and it just did not seem to end. 
-Mike Miranda 
Men's Football (1-0) 
Key Stat: Notre Dame did not turn the football over on Saturday. 
Prime-Time Performer: Junior QB Arnaz Battle completed 10 of 16 passes for 133 yards and two touch­downs, as well as 50 yards rushing. Next Game: The Irish host No. 1 Nebraska Saturday at 1 :30 p.m. EST. 
Women's Soccer ( 3-0) 
Key Stat: The Irish outshot Providence 32-2. 
Prime-Time Performer: Freshman Amy Warner scored a hat trick in a 5-1 win over Providence. Next Game: Notre Dame hosts Santa Clara tomorrow at 7:30 
p.m. EST. 
Men's Soccer 
(2-1-1) 
Key Stat: The Irish went 1-0-1 at the UNLV Fila/Snickers Rebel Classic. 
Prime-Time Performer: Sophomore goalkeeper Greg Tait was named the Most Valuable Player of the UNLV Fila/Snickers Rebel Classic. Next Game: Notre Dame travels to play Boston College Saturday at 1 :00 p.m. EST. 


SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

·_1892 . 

by Jessica Daues 
FROZEN 
MOMENTS 
The Irish football team proves their mettle with a win against South Bend High School, building a foundation for future successes. 
NOTRE DAME: 56 SOUTH BEND HIGH SCHOOL: 0 

The cannot argue with facts, and the facts show that Notre Dame's program is among the best in college football. From the first game in 1887 to the present, the Irish have the best winning percentage in college football, winning 73.3 percent oftheir 1,047 games. Building such a tradition ofexcellence, however, did not come easy. In fact, the Irish lost the first game oftheir inaugural season to Michigan, 8-0. From there, things did not get much better. By 1889, the Irish had played a total offive games, and won only two. Notre Dame had no football team for the next two years, possibly due to lack ofstudent interest. 
In 1892, Notre Dame looked to tum things around for its young football program. The year started off with a pleasant surprise from the university ­new unifonns and footballs. Notre Dame didn't see it necessary, however, to hire a head coach. Captain and quarterback Pat Coady led the Irish starting 11, who played both defense and offense. Coady did most of the talking for the team. "I've had the fellows out practising [sic] and we are going to have an elegant team," he boasted in the October 8, 1892 edition ofNotre Dame Scholastic. 
The student body shared Coady's sentiments. Notre Dame Scholastic further reported, "Football is as popular as ever, in fact, there is a great deal of enthusiasm over the subject, and much is expected in the way of a team this year. The fact that practice was done on such a hot day last Thursday shows that there must be a great deal of football fever in the boys! Let us have a good team that will be an honor to Notre Dame!" 
The Irish looked to fulfill that chal­lenge in their season opener on October 19 against South Bend High School. That morning, South Bend's squad filed off of its bus in high spirits. Their enthusiasm may have waned, however, as they caught sight of the playing field. "When the team went out upon the field, the difference between the two were immedi­ately seen. Notre Dame's men were bigger and stronger in every way, while those ofthe High School were much smaller," Notre Dame Scholastic noted. The game began with a rush by Notre Dame. Fullback W. McDermott scored the first touchdown, opening the flood­gates for Notre Dame's offense. By the end of the first.half, the Irish led 22-0. 
As the second half opened, it became painfully obvious that South Bend had no chance of staging a comeback. Notre Dame kept pounding away at the high school, winning the game 56-0. The score would have been higher, Notre Dame Scholastic explained, had the team practiced more before the game. "The High School boys play a very fair game for a team of their size and weight, but Notre Dame's eleven was too much for them." Despite this obvious disadvantage, South Bend put up a very "plucky" game and was admired by the Irish for their tenacity. As the South Bend High School team walked back to their bus, looking "disconsolate and dilapidated," the Irish celebrated their victory. 
This was an important win for the struggling Irish program. "This game shows that there is good football blood here and it should be worked up," Notre Dame Scholastic commented after the game. The Irish closed out their season one month later with a I 0-10 tie against Hillsdale College, ending with a 1-0-1 record for 1892 and giving the five-year­old Irish program a total record of 3-3-1. · Although the 1892 team certainly would not rank among Notre Dame's best, the newfound enthusiasm the team inspired ended any danger ofthe program collapsing from lack ofinterest. The next season, Captain Frank Keough led the team to a 4-1 record, playing college teams from Kalamazoo, Albion, De LeSalle, Hillsdale and Chicago. By 1898, Notre Dame was playing -and beating -such teams as Illinois, Michigan State and DePauw. Football was quickly earning a place in the hearts ofNotre Daine students and starting a tradition ofexcellence that has spanned over 100 years. 0 



sport: football opponent: Nebraska where: Notre Dame Stadium when: Saturday 1:30 p.m. 
Battle and the offense have an outstanding day, pounding three touchdowns through the Nebraska defense. Unfortunately, Husker QB Eric Crouch is equally successful and Nebraska edges the Irish, 31-24. 
Gerard Meskill 

Nebraska's offensive line proves too much for the Irish. Even though Notre Dame puts up a good fight. Nebraska wins, 30-21. 
Jessica Daues The momentum from last week's win over the Aggies carries the Irish to an impressive performance and victory over the Cornhuskers. Irish stun the 
nation with a 28-14 win. 
Jim Pastore 

24 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 


The Gipp's back and ready to ride! He wants to welcome all the Irish faithful back to campus. He wants to extend a special welcome to any Nebraska fans who made the trip out from Lincoln this weekend. If you're feeling homesick, come see the Gipp: he'll give you something to husk! 
On Other Campuses 
While the Gipp' son the subject ofschools he doesn't much care for, he wants to share with you an e-mail he got this summer from a bitter Ohio State fan. It seems this Buckeye and a buddy of his have some history with the Gipp. The fan -let's call him mwaters2l@aol.com -ex­plains, "Back in 1996, this buddy of mind charged yourfield, ... passedyour feeble security, and threw two birds sky high at your fans in your inzone. " 
The Gipp breaks in here with a ques­tion: Just what is an "inzone"? Judging from the context, it's a place on the field where classless Ohio State fans stand. Either that, or our friend Matt has the editing skills ofThe Observer staff. Back to the story. 
"By tlvo birds, I mean he flipped you the bird, i.e., gave you the finger." Thanks for the clarification, buddy. "You 
recognized this as immature, obnoxious ~,~,:.,i,­and low-class .... " The Gipp has great ~;_• judgement. "I, on the other hand, saw this as hilarious, retaliato,y and inge­nious.·" 
your student body to unleash an attack ofe­mails on my brave compadre. " 
The Gipp strikes again -now that's genius! "Iguess what I'm saying is this, you will print an apology to my buddy Al ... Ifit is unacceptable, you will see what has be­come lazown on Ohio State campus as the AL-MA CARENA in the 2000 Football Sea­son ... the birds will be let loose again and you'll lazow when it happens .... " 
Hey, Matt, the Gipp's got something you 

can husk, too. 
sent off a fax to the university's licensing department. The response was prompt: the shirt was unauthorized and should not be printed. 
Undeterred, OUTreach ND's Dave Wyncott placed a call to the people in the Dome. Amazingly, the administration re­lented, and the shirts were printed. Is that the sound ofhell freezing over that the Gipp hears? Not quite. After donning their shirts for Activities Night, the group's members headed over to the JACC -perhaps to join Right Reason or the College Republicans. Roaming around the arena floor, some of the members came across an empty table and decided to sit down for a while. It wasn't long before the watchful eyes of a Notre Dame administrator caught what was going on and closed in on the group quicker than a stadium usher on a bag ofmarshmal­lows. Taking names and kicking the group out, our heroine saved Activities Night from any unseemly controversy. 
ANotre Dame Fairu Tale 

Gather 'round and Uncle Gipp will tell you a story before he has to go. Do you remember the story of Cinderella? Well, this story is a little bit like that one. Once upon a time, there was a boy who went to a grand dance at a place called Heart­land. Beautiful maidens in very little clothing served the boy special drinks that made him happy -too happy. The boy danced and danced and stayed out well after midnight. When he awoke, he found he was in a strangely familiar place. He got up offthe couch and opened the bedroom door to find ... a girl! She sat up and laughed and laughed. The boy was confused. He was in Castle Point, but he was in the wrong apartment. Stumbling out the ·door, the boy found his way home and went back to sleep. When he awoke again, he realized he had left his shoes behind at the other apartment. Unfor­. ,V-d tunately,hecouldnotrememberwhere ~ he had been. So he walked from door to door, trying to find the shoes that fit his bare feet. Don't fret, Gipp fans, this story has a happy ending. The 
young man eventually found his shoes and lost nothing more than a little dignity in the end. 
Well, that's all the Gipp has time for today. The Gipp lives for your tips, so keep them coming. Until then, be well and re­member: too much husking will make you go blind. 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 25 

Let's see what happens next to his "inge­nious" friend. "You ... approached him after his dance ... You/ranted as ifyou were doing a report on college fans and my buddy .. .fellfor your trap andsubmitted to you his name and e-mail address. In turn ... you printed this info in the paper andprompted 
Big Brother's Watching 

Sojusthowfardoes the long arm ofNotre Dame's administration reach? At least across the Michigan-Indiana state line. Just ask OUTreachND. The group went to get some T-shirts printed. Unfortunately, the guy who took the order had read up on his du Lac and 

I I 
CARRI ESWEENEY
The long history of one of Notre Dame's two radio stations, WVFI, isn't the easiest of sto ries to follow. "It's hard to describe where the 
station has come from," Station Man-ager Adam Frick explains. "There are rumors floating around that it's been a station since the 1950s, and that it used to be part of WSND. Now it's just known as the alternative rock station ofNotre Dame." 
What is quite clear is that the station is moving in the right direction. According to Frick, the student­run "Voice ofthe Fighting Irish" has been fighting to go FM for the last 15 to 20 years. The station will take another step in that direction within a month by broadcasting globally over the Internet. Once the site is established, anyone in the world will be able to 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
listen to the station's broadcasts merely by accessing wvfi.nd.edu. 
. This is not the first time the station has attempted to broadcast over the Internet. In fact, its impending global transmission is only the latest ofseveral devel­opments that have occurred in the past few years. In spring 1999, after experiencing poor ratings while broadcasting at 640 AM, the station discovered that its transmitter system, which sends signals from Lafortune to dorm roo!lls, was run:.down and out­dated. This problem was compounded by the countless TVs, VCRs, computers and other electrical devices now common in dorm rooms that can contribute to a signal's deterioration. Consequently, during that spring, only four buildings on campus could actually receive the station, obviously explaining the lack ofiisteners. 
During summer 1999, instead of focusing on re­vamping their outdated equipment, station employ­ees focused on raising money to broadcast over the Internet during the upcoming school year. When they returned to school, they had reached an agreement with the administration that allowed them to do just that-but only to those with a valid Notre Dame AFS ID. Since only students had been able to receive the station when it was on the AM dial, this stipulation was not particularly surprising. However, in Septem­ber 1999, as WVFI began to broadcast, the program intended to block non-student users was never imple­mented. So, for about six weeks, anyone in the world who visited their Web site could listen to the station's music, which was of a quality comparable to mp3s. 
The administration soon realized the situation, however, and, citing concerns about the station's representation ofthe university, blocked non-student users, thus reducing the station's audience from theo­retical billions to a few thousand Domers. 
"It was tough to lose the global audience," Frick says. "Broadcasting globally really improved our morale and gave us so much new responsibility. I remember when I was a freshman, as a DJ at WVFI, everyone was up in arms because the then-advisor said that by the next semester, we'dbe on the FM dial. Ever since, we kept being told, 'This year is the year as a direct link," Frick says. "There's a direct link to The Observer, and so we hope that we'll eventually get one, too." 
Currently, listeners have to type in the Web address for the station, instead of clicking on the list of "popular sites," which provides direct access to many Notre Dame Web pages. 
Despite the promise of Internet broadcasting, the station hopes to eventually secure a place on the FM dial. "It will take a few more years, since right now there are no open spaces on the local FM dial," Frick says, but the university administration has agreed that if a "low-power station" -one with a three-mile signal -becomes available, WVFI can broadcast over it. 
Meanwhile, the station continues to focus on the preparation necessary to assure that its site will be in top form for the world to see. Junior Brian Snyder, the designer and coordinator for the page, is, according to Frick, "one ofthe best," and has focused on giving the site an edgy appeal. The page will also feature a new Internet magazine called Mindset, edited by junior Jon Alvarez and sophomore Tim Bradley. "It will cover any news piece regarding culture at Notre Dame," Frick says. "It will be more commercial than Common Sense, and it will tty to cover what The Observer doesn't. We want to make sure that we're 

>> station manager adam frick hopes 
globalinternet broadcasting 
will breathe new life into WVFI 
we're going to go global or FM.' Part ofour job is to keep on fighting until we get there." Frick and the rest ofthe WVFI staffhave indeed put up a fight, refusing to let their station remain unheard. 
This summer brought administrative changes that, in addition to the efforts ofthe staff, helped the station advance towards its goals ofworldwide access. In the most notable transition, Laurie McFadden replaced Adele Lanan as the WVFI's advisor. "She brought a whole new lifeblood into media at Notre Dame," Frick says. "I think she'll continue to bring excite­ment, electricity and energy to the program." 
McFaddenis equally inspired by the potential of the students and the station's technology. "Interms of opportunities for students, this station is awesome," she says. "Imagine students having their first broad­castingj ob heard in Australia. I know they realize the privilege of going global, and I'm enthused about working with them. We're really going to give stu­dents a way to exercise their First-Amendment rights." 
Although the station is currently accessible to students and should become globally available within a month, the staff has even greater expectations for its future. "We're talking to Notre Dame Web advisors, and we hope to be put on the Notre Dame home page uncovering every stone." The staff hopes to have the magazine up and running by the first broadcast this year. 
The site also features upcoming campus events and concerts, a catalog of music available on the station and its current playlist, a chat room and information on local bands. In addition, WVFI will continue to have exclusive rights to broadcast Irish football games. Previously, when it was still an AM station, WFVI had to send ESPN a signal, which was then multiplied in order to allow a larger audience to hear the games. Now, the site will be able to reach that audience on its own. 
Although the Web page is not yet broadcasting full-time, the station caught a glimpse of its global future last Saturday when it announced the Texas A&M game in its first worldwide broadcast of the year. Every game will be covered by announcers who, according to McFadden, "can compare to any­one in the broadcast box in terms ofknowledge." 
This is a year of hope for WVFI. It promises to bring improvements to the station that will add to its unique, ever-changing history. "We have to stay on our toes," Frick says. "I'm very excited about the potential we have." 0 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 



'. 
. GROO\I\' 
The Ultimate Experience 
Spend one week with the Ultimate Frisbee team 
and you'll never be the same 
You're such a follower," Steve Hemkens shouts over the Thursday night din at McCormick's. His hair is piled up over a well-worn visor, and he grins as he says, "I know you 'rejust writing this article as an excuse to hang out with the Ultimate team." It's no grand revelation that I've been usingthis column as a social vehicle over the last few semesters. This, however, is the first time somebody I'm interviewing has caught on to my secret method ofmeeting new friends. "But it's OK," he contin­ues. "We don't mind." I didn't know much about the women's and men's Ultimate Frisbee teams, a.k.a. Womb and Papal Rage, respectively. Even from afar, the team members always seemed a little more laid­back than the general Notre Dame population; 
by Kara Zuaro 

like I'm getting a quick glimpse oflife at Notre Dame as it was for my dad in the '70s. 
There are a lot offriendly faces, and I recognize a few. I'd met Chris Fuchs before, and I remember him because he drove me home from a bar and lent me his coat for the walk between the parking lot and our dorms. A guy in the next room reminds me ofanother small heroic act -he bought me an egg-and-cheese biscuit at Burger King last spring when I was out ofFlex Points. I had cash but he insisted that nobody should pay real money ~t Lafortune and thenjust sort ofvanished. He's introduced to me as Nick Creten, and he doesn't even remember the breakfast incident, which makes him seem all the more valiant. 

a little messier and a little 
more earthy. I wasn't 
sure if there was a con­
nection between the 
sport and the nature of· 
the players, but I was 
ready to find out. 
So I call up the cap­tains to tell them I'm in­terested in writing about their teams and they in­vite me over for dinner, -just like that. It's raining when I pull up to their house. I'm led inside by a couple of guys in T­shirts with the sleeves cut off. The· house is crowded with kids talk­ing and laughing, still in their dirty practice clothes and lit pink by a sign that says "ultimate" in neon letters. Neil 
Young is playing on an ERIN FLEMING relaxes in the sun after a long day of practice. 
eight-track, and I feel 








28 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS.LIFE 


~,___I___ 

I put my bag in a comer, out of everyone's way, and tum to 
meet a concerned Laura Bee by, who asks me ifeverything' s OK. . She thought that I was hiding in a.comer because I didn't know anybody, and she immediately starts introducing me to people. Itmakes sense when I find out later that Laura is regarded as the 
mother figure ofthe team. 
. "We really are a big happy family," says Carolyn Grimes, co­
captain of the women's team. "We're very, very comfortable 
around each other, since we spend so much time together:" 
Besides all the pseudo-familial relations, there are a number 
ofrealfamily ties on the team. Erin Flemming, for example, tells 
me that she got involved because her brother was on the team, 
and Mike Shiel, who had a couple ofsiblings playing Ultimate 
at Notre Dame before him, says, "I knew the whole Ultimate 
team whe~ I showed up, and that made freshman year very 
easy." 
Freshman year wasn't so simple for everyone, though. "My 
R.A. thought I was maladjusted," Grimes recalls. "I think she told one ofthe juniors in my section to take me to practice with her. She was very positive about it, but I was pretty bad. It's hard to get the throws down. I was really, really frustrated at first, but it was the best thing for me." 
Jennie Wellman, co-captain of the women's team, joined Womb with some friends at Activities Night. But she was the only one who lasted through a few practices. "My friends didn't like it because we had to do push-ups every time the disc hit the ground," she explains. 
_Papal Rage Captain David Pickett joined the team when he­didn't make the cu(for a varsity sport. The players unamiously 
PAUL SHEPHERD, 
sophomore club treasurer, tastes a sip of 
victory from an Ultimate disc. 

agreed that the intensity of the sport combined with the easy­going attitude of the Ultimate team ended up making it more suitable for them than other athletic alternatives. 
Since there aren't any referees in Ultimate, the game relies on an honor system. "You call yourself out or call yourself in, and you call your own fouls," Grimes explains. "It's a very calm way ofsolving things. Sometimes people get a little huffy, but there are no major problems. The Ultimate Players Association is starting to have people called 'observers' in national and cham­pionship games, but they are not allowed to make calls unless [players] ask them." 
I never imagined there could be a sport in which players made their own calls and didn't get in fights over it, but maybe that's why you won't find any jerky kids on the Ultimate team. To be honest, I'mjust happy that I found these kids at all. I spent a lot of time trying to uncover some secret philosophy, some ritual that made them into the kind ofkids you see laying shoeless and smiling on the quad in front of O'Shag when everybody else is rushing to class. The truth is, though, they're just regular kids. They love Notre Dame, a good game and each other. Ifthere's anything abnormal about the bunch, it's that they love each other a little more than you'd expect. "Don't you love the smell of Ultimate boys?" Grimes asks me, taking a post-practice whiffof Pickett, the Ultimate boy with whom she's sharing a chair. "It's like a combination ofbody odor and wet grass." I have to admit, it's actually kind ofnice. 
The team is always taking on new players, and they encourage tall, fast people to join up. "But we'll take the short, fat kids, too," Grimes adds. "Andwe'll love them just as much." D 







SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE  29  
.  '  .  ,.  - -:  ,  .  '  '  
~  u ~­ - ~  -­ - - ---------­ 


The Price of Pride 
Adult Flicks and Grandparents 
JESSEKENT 
After only eight days of ownership, my newly purchased VCR decided to take its own life. Apparently it found the daily grind ofhanging out with my television and stereo too 
much to bear, because unexpectedly and altogether resolutely the machine turned off, exhausting itself forever. I immediately missed the slight whine ofits inner wheels turning, the lights that fluttered and flickered when my commands were given, and most ofall, the 
· $89.53 that I apparently threw out the window when I bought the piece ofjunk. How naive was I to think that my Magnavox andI had entered into something meaningful and absolute in this topsy-turvy world; the understanding that we 
Fix-It Electronics was straight out ofDickens's Chancery Lane, and we wove our way back through electronic paraphernalia from the past 50 years. There were all sorts ofodds and ends, including empty television sets with their tubes missing entirely and buckets full ofold Japanese short-wave radios. We finally found Paul with his head inside an antique microwave. You could have driven a Volkswagen into it. Shirley explained that a nice (I winced) young (I shuddered) college student (I blushed) wondered ifhe could have the videotape inhis VCRremoved. With a kind smile, Paul took the VCR and worked the cover offin four turns ofhis screwdriver. I bit my lip when I saw the tape clearly labeled Johnny Wang and that whole bit, but Paul's hands continued to work regardless. He 
loosened the machine's lockjaw with 


would watch thousands of movies 
a tum here and tighten there. Fi­and share countless hours ofquality nally, he pulled the tape out, pleased leisure time together? The worst part with his work. I was relieved to of all this is that in her death, the think this episode might pass with­fickle bitch had tightened her rigor­out utter embarrassment. ous grip around an adult tape affec­"Only one more thing to check. tionately and accurately called Then we'll have this VCR back to Johnny Wang Rides Again. Now I you, good as new," he said as he had to take this VCR to a repair shop tightened the VCR's cover back on. with Johnny Wang stuck inside it, Hereached for a cord from the back of because at the end of the day, 90 a nearby television set resting on a bucks is 90 bucks. milk crate. My heart nearly stopped. 
In response to the question of "Um, sir, you don'thave to see if why such a film was locked tight in it works. I'm sure it's right as rain the bowels of my traitorous elec­now." tronic appliance, I should interject "Son, don't be silly. It'll only be at this point something about my a second." Bynow_he hadthe VCR's relationship with adult movies. First power on and the lights all began to ofall, the tape was my friend's. I'm twinkle again. I wanted to curse out not trying to throw all ofthis on him, that machine but my tongue was too but he's really got problems. Sec­dry to form audible words. I was ondly, most guys will admit that about to be caught in the weirdest, adult movies are much like circuses: most surreal moment of my life: they hold a certain mysterious ele­watching an adult movie with Paul ment ofthe unknown and the never­and Shirley Thomas, elderly own­before-seen. That's why, when my ers of Fix-It Electronics, proud 
friend passed the circa-1972 film onto me, my curiosity was piqued by the front cover: a man more bear than human with the largest 
. butterfly-collared shirt ever made and a woman who appeared to be dressed as either a meter maid, a short-order cook, or an effeminate member ofthe French Foreign Legion. But I digress. 
What was on the tape is not important; that it was resting in my VCR as I handed it over the counter ofFix-It Electronics to a roly­poly woman named Shirley was. This was someone's mother, I thought to myself, sweat breaking out at my temples. 
"Justgot a tape stuck in it, honey?" she jawedwhile chewing on some bubble gum. I swallowed down a lump in my throat at the word honey. I nodded. 
"Well, come on in the back then. My husband, Paul, he'll have it out in no time flat." 
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
grandparents of 15, and regular pa­
1 

tronsofthe EarlyBird Specials down at the Colonial Pancake House. In short, they were decent, respect­able, God-fearing Hoosiers. Right when Paul hit the play button and 
. an image appeared on the screen that only I knew could be a man and a woman intimate in nothing less than the Biblical sense, my arm flew outand I knocked the television set over. It fell from its milk crate table with a horrible crash. 
Currently, I'm paying offthe television set in monthly install­ments to Fix-It Electronics. In all, this is costing me $300 more than ifI would have bought a new VCR. Yet, somewhere in the brown­speckled, dank underbelly of my soul, I have a little pride left. Sometimes one must weigh embarrassments. I sleep much better at 
. night since Paul, Shirley and I never had to experience Johnny Wang together. D 


~cc:i .9 -• 
l~~ i4eo.\ 
lec1t1JII! ,Qitentl~
i 
• 
·. .. 
,~~<''-_2 
; I . 
!..:'. ~ 

-~ ~ i~ 

An assortment ot speakers lS commg to campus tor your enjoyment in the upcoming weeks. I suggest you start lecture-hopping on Thursday, Septem­ber 14th, with "Guns, Drugs and Money: The Politics of Peace in Colum­bia." If, by chance, you identify more with those who actually like guns and drugs -and develop a wickedly itchy trigger finger -not to mention an overwhelming desire to become the totalitarian dictator ofa small country -fear not. You can change your evil ways. Army-crawl over to "Nonvio­lence for the Violent" on the afternoon of Friday the 15th. If that doesn't cure you, wake up early the next morning and attend "A Bird's Eye View of Opthamology: From Memphis to Madagascar" to learn about the latest advances in eye surgery. Think ofit as my quiet little way ofreminding you that it's all.fun and games until somebody loses an eye. Stop that! You'll put your eye out! Stop! 
lectures 
•
Tue 12 Members ofthe Commitee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination ofWomen: "Married and Ministering," 7:30 PM, Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library 

• 
Thu 14 "Guns, Drugs and Money: The Politics of Peace in Columbia," 12:30 PM, Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

• 
Fri 15 "Nonviolence for the Violent: The John Howard Yoder Dialogue on Religion, Nonviolence and Peace," 11 :00 AM, Auditorium, Hes burgh Cen­ter for International Studies 

• 
Sat 16 "A Bird's Eye View ofOpthamology: From Memphis to Madagascar," 9:00 AM, Room 101 DeBartolo 

• 
Wed 20 "Taking the Side of the Victim: The Philosopher as Advocate," Speaker: Father Mike McNulty, 4:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 


cinema @ the snite 
• Fri 08 and Sat 09 Lolita, 9:00 PM 
• 
Mon 11 Do the Right Thing, 7:00 PM 

• 
Fri 15 and Sat 16 Bye Bye Brazil, 9:00 PM 

• 
Sun 17 Black O,pheus, 1 :30 PM 


• Sun 17 O,feu, a remake of Black 01pheus. Film will be followed by a discussion between the direc­tor, Carlos Diegues, and ND anthropologist Roberto DaMatta, 4:00 PM 
• Mon 18 Vertigo, 7:00 PM 
the arts 

• 
Ongoing Ramiro Rodriguez Exhibition, Siiite 

• 
Thu 14, Fri 15 and Sat 16 William Shakespeare's As You Like It, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall 


events 

• Thu 07 Pachanga '00, All Day, Lafortune Ball­room 
• 
Fri 08 Volleyball: Adidas Invitational, Arena, Joyce Center Michigan State vs. UCLA, 1 :30 PM ND vs. Nebraska, 4:00 PM 

• 
Fri 08 Women's Soccer: KeyBank Classic, Alumni Field Connecticut vs. Stanford, 5:00 PM ND vs. Santa Clara, 7:30 PM 

• 
Sat 09 Football: ND vs. Nebraska, 1 :30 PM 

• 
Sat 09 Volleyball: Adidas Invitational, Arena, Joyce Center Michigan State vs. Nebraska, 4:30 PM ND vs. UCLA, 7:00 PM 


. . sports 

• 
Sun 10 Women's Soccer: KeyBank Classic, Alumni Field Connecticut vs. Santa Clara, 11:00 AM ND vs. Stanford, 1:00 PM 

• 
Sun 10 Volleyball: Adidas Invitational, Arena, Joyce Center UCLA vs. Nebraska, 12:30 PM ND vs. Michigan State, 3:00 PM 


,,._:1 
' 
"-~-~~-~-,...._~-~~--,,-----~-___,_,~_____,_,,.,..,----,--,-,~~.,------,-,-~--,--,-,--,...,,--~---,-..,..,.,-,---,--,-,~~-----~-:-/ 

clI 
-~~t§)y~@CALENDAR 3.{: __.-_ > i} 
-.. _ >-l '1 
. . ' . . . ~ ,· . . ---------.·..: . ' ­
. ' : . .. . . 
-· ------­

by Anne Cooper 

Life Under the Domes 
The 'City of Peace' -is full of more conflict and contradiction, prejudice and oppression than any I could have imagined. 
Anne Cooper is a senior from 
Pasquerilla East. She is committed to 
the study of bioethics. 
From my window, a most enviable view stretches away into the distance. Strata ofsky descend from above and beautiful buildings rise below to culminate in one central point: the Golden Dome. The Dome is certainly a literal and symbolic center of social, spiritual, academic and athletic life here at Notre Dame, but it means a great deal more to me than ever before, after living a very different life under a very different dome. Thousands ofmiles and a world away this summer, an even more enviable view awaited me, morning, noon and night: the Old City ofJerusalem and its beautiful golden Dome ofthe Rock. A perpetually cloudless sky lingers there between rolling hilltops, and the stifling wind off the Judean desert turns your gaze from the Mount of Olives across the valley of the Garden of Gethsemane to the one city that forms spiritual and cultural centers of Christianity, Islam and Judaism. Even the storied traditions ofNotre Dame pale before the fame, history, influence and spirituality ofJerusa­lem. And, although Catholicism was born in Jerusalem, the differences between our Golden Dome and that of the City ofPeace are immense. The Holy Land is unlike anything I was prepared to encounter, a constant attack on one's senses and sensibilities. It is a land offiercely heldtradition, of spectacular market­places and serene desert. It is a land of unfailing hospitality between strangers -and, yet, open hostility between Is­raeli and Palestinian neighbors. It is the land in which Jesus lived and worked, loved and suffered -died. It is where flocks ofpilgrims come with eyes blindto the suffer­ing that continues on all sides. It is a place where the thermometer reaches heights unknown to my Ohio childhood, and where tempers flare hotter still. But more difficult to comprehend than the cultural and environmental differences I saw was the lack of freedom and the prevalence of fear that characterize life for a Palestinian in Jerusalem. Life there is beautiful, vibrant, intense and ever-surprising, but injustice is all-pervasive and inescapable. In es­sence, the "City ofPeace" is full ofmore conflict and contradiction, prejudice and oppression than any I could have imagined. Consider Bethlehem, perched as it has been for thousands ofyears on the hilltops to the southwest of Jerusalem. The "little" town of Bethlehem is itself full ofcontrasts. Today, the three Magi would have no trouble finding their way, even without the Christ­mas star; every road is well-lit byneon stars suspended between light poles and six-foot-tall, glow-in-the-dark statues ofMary waiting to be sold. Yet on the hill above these annoying tokens of tourism, the Church of the Nativity celebrates the traditional birthplace ofJesus in a sacred, reverent and timeless way. 
Many are pilgrims who visit Manger Square, perhaps picking up a souvenir olive-wood Nativity scene. But few are those who realize that only a few minutes away, illegal Israeli settlements surround Bethlehem, settlements that are built over the razed remains of Palestinian villages. These settlements are built by the labor ofthe Palestinians themselves, many ofwhom have few ifany other ways to make a living. Few are those who notice the Palestinian refugee camp less than five minutes away, where families have lived in poverty for more than 50 years. Earlier this summer, a little boy from this camp set up a fruit stand to earn money for his family and had all the bones in his arm broken by an Israeli soldier who then refused to fund the boy's medical care. 
Few are those who have visited the nearby village of Bittir, where coils of razor wire mark off a live minefield in Palestinian backyards. Israel partially cleared the field to build an access highway to the settlements but now refuses to clear the rest ofthe mines. Few are those who realize that five minutes from Manger Square, Palestinian protesters throw­ingrocks were putdown with tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition. "City of Peace" can be a misleading name for many·reasons. 
"Rubber bullet" is an even greater misnomer. The way the term is used in our newspapers, they sound innocuous, as ifthey are just a gentle warning that bounce off their targets. The fact is that they are squared-off steel cylinders painted with a thin coat­ing ofrubber. And they blind, maim and kill. 
Spending a summer under the Dome ofthe Rock has drastically changed my view of life. Each time I get soaked by a rampant sprinkler, I realize that the water could enable an entire Palestinian family to bathe. Each time I cross the quad, I thank God it is not littered with mines. Each time I go home, it is with the gratitude that my house will not be arbi­trarily demolished. 
And each time I lookup at ourdome, I think ofthat dome so far away, and appreciate the freedom, justice and peace we have here now. 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

·v.. ,1;\)n:-',··.·r'·.>,;,, ·,.fi;>.. i!:f:'.',··t··
. ···s··· .:\ ...... 
'< ·. ··. ·. •.·· :" 
by mike griffi 

•··· .. . . . . . . . . . ..•...... ... ... . . ·•:••·····. . ..·· .. 
,......... ·1s wee ' ram·· ·.-..:••.-............. ·. ·····••:•:·-cous 1".' . .-•• :
··· · ·rh · k f · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · •• •• · A t· · · · 
• • e O • • •• e e • 0 0 I • • • •• •• • • f' • • I I
• • • • . · . • . • · . • • •. • • • • · • · · • •• • • · · ca e · · · • • 
...... ·. SUB . ....••.... •. . •• •• . f . ..
•• • • o • • • • • • • 0 •• • ••••• 0 • • o •• •• • 0 • • • • • • • • I 0
•• •·•• • •. · ·. · ·•.: . • •. • •. •••• ••• •• · · .. · . · •••••• •••·•.:·•.Lafortune··. • •, 
.. .. .. ... . . .. . ... . ... .. . . . . . . ..
•. • • • • · · · . •· ; • • • •. • • • • · • ••. •• •. ••. •· . · · . g•oo· . · • • •
•·:•-:•.;•. ..·· ..··-. ·.·· ..·· ..·•.:• ..·••:·-:·•···········•. ·• ..·.•._ · ..·•.:• 
.... : •• : •• : • . . . ....· . . . .. : .••• •-:•-:•-:•-: •• : •• : •• : ••• .....• : ! • : • 
. . . . . · · . . •.. ·:• • • • • · · • ••••••.••••••••· · ·
· · · · · · · · · · .. .· · · · .. •· .. s·· . .. ·· d· • . · ·.. · • • .. · ·.. · · •• • • • • • • • -· c·· ·..· .. · .. ·· · · · 
............ ·.··.. ·. . ·. t ···•.:•-.····•.········
········•• •·•..• -econ • • • • • •• • • ••
....... ·--1 ··y··· ········· ········ ............... ·.:•-. ••• •, . . '• ......................1
. .. . . . .. .. . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. 
: • : •• • .' : • : ; • • · ; : • • : • • : : • : : • ; ; • ; f,ketGh ·cornedy's finest from Chicago • ·: • : : • : : • : : • : : • : : • : : • •:
•••• : .. :... · . :.. : .. :••••••••••••••••••..•• · ...... .-.• ; .• . ~ •••••••••••••••••••••:••t 
-:::.:. ... : . :.-_. ::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::::::::-.::::::::.-:::-:::
:•. .. . ... .... .•.................·................. .•............. 
. • • • • ' • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • iA·f Ji• , . . • . . I,,• 11• • •• •• ·•o • • • • • • • • e I
I.. . . . .:. . •• . . . . : . . ·vveu-.. Wash' aa .. : •• ••......••• 
0 e e • . ••• • • o • . • ••••••••••• • I • • • 0 ••
,:•-:: · ·:•• •I••~·-nes ing room:••l••l••I••::-::-::-:••,
••:•• . . _. •• ••••••:. . . day st-on.••••:••••••:...........:.••
• • • ••• ' • • •••••.••• • • • • · ...•••••••••••100 ·Y• Me •• •e •• • ·-. · . ..••••• • e
t•• •• •, · · . 
• •• • . • •••••• •• • • • • . • •• •• •• •• • • • • • •e I 
·· .•• •:•:•.:•.::•;;•~:•••••l••l••l••I:•:•:: · ··: ·-::•
r.::£........ .· . .. .. ·-~!~. 1.:.:f.::.~::11;11;11111;111111.11;:1;1.:_.-_.--..-..-.....?::
••... M· . . ••• • • .. ... •• •• •• •• ••• •••• .. . . ..••
••:::.::: _:. ·ov1es at ·.-~•••1::f::.-·::.-::.-:::::::::/::1:11::;:.·.:: .-.-_:::::: 
......... ·o· B . 1· .................:•• ·••:••· ...•••••...· . . ......•
i;;l:"_:.-:.-·..-..... e arto o·.-·:!;;i;;i:9:••:.:_:.-.:_:/;;:!;:!;.:!/.:i;;.:.:_._.·_: _.-_.-_:.::;! r:,sl:i::...... _. .-·_: .-. · · ..·.-.~::/J:i;::;';".-.·':9:i/:!;:!;:i/::.::·.-·..-.-· .-_::f;:•
't:11:I::::: : : : .-·: }ylission 'Impossible·: :~:l:::::•::•::•l:•:::I:::::::: : .: : : :::•
•·H·•••l·•: ... :.. & . . . .. :'••l••l••l••l••l••· ••••.. : .. : . : .-:•• •
:://///1/::/.::: _:::. AFI Comedies .. ·• -· -·t::/;://://1//:/::_:_:::.:_:: .-·_.·::°/:/•
...··•·••··......: .. . . . : .......·..~ ..:..:....·... . ...... 
• • • • •• • • • • • • • . . Th 1 0 30 . · . • . . • • • • • • • • • • . · . • • • • • ifti
· • : • • :•••••••• •. • • • • • . urs :. • . . . . . . . • . : .. : .. : • • . • • • • • • . . . . ••• • ••• r:,,.
• •• •• •• • • • • . F. s t 0·30 1·0 llQ • . • • • • . • • • ••• IJ 
· -. : • •• ••••••• • •• • • • · . . n, a. o.: . , .:.:1 : • . · · : · • • • • • • . · •: ••• ....,.liillll.,...
. . . . • ••• •• ••• • • • • • • . $2' . . . • • • . . . • •• 
. . . . .· ..,,.~~.:-· .:-· .: . . .. :.. : . ...:~-. 
Reason #27 for Listening to WVFI: 
It's the healthier and cheaper midnight snadko 
Coming soon: Broadcasting Global!J at *The Sticker Man *New Fall 2000 Schedule ~ *Irishpolooza
f. .d d 
*MINDset

wv 1.n .€ u~ 




