The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing*! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
November 16, 1934
No. 8
WARREN CARTIER, ’87 COACH WILLIAM COYNE ISSUES FIRST succumbsjn CHICAGO CALL p0R yARSITY DEBATING TEAM
Warren Cartier will serve Notre Dame no more. Death’s final decree has ended his fifty-year vigil over the welfare and glory of the school he loved.
Struck down by a sudden heart attack a week ago last Wednesday, this
Warren Cartier R. I. P.
devoted alumnus of the University passed away the same evening at the age of 68, in Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago, where he had been under doctor’s observation since October 27 because of a kidney infection. Members of his family, which included his widow and two sons, Morgan and Vincent, were with him when he died. Another son, Raymond, also survives him.
Funeral services for the donor of Cartier Field were held at Ludington, Michigan, Mr. Cartier’s home, last Saturday morning at 10 o’clock, in St. Simon’s Roman Catholic Church, with Reverend Dennis J. Behan officiating. Interment was at Ludington.
The University was represented at the rites by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president; the Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., head of the College of Engineering; the Reverend Joseph Burke, C.S.C.;
(Continued on Page 15)
Globe Theatre To Present “As You Like It” Next Week In Washington Hall
The Globe Theatre, under the direction of Mr. Thomas Wood Steven, coming from its recent appearance at the World’s Fair, will give two performances of “As You Like It,” on Monday, Nov. 19, at 8 and 9 o’clock in Washington Hall.
During its stay at the Fair the company presented a repertoire of seven Shakesperian plays and “Dr. Faustus.” Three or four plays were given every afternoon and evening, each production being cut down to a running time of about 45 minutes.
Mr. Stevens “streamlined” his plays in cutting them down. This treatment caused the audience’s attention to be focused on the play immediately after the curtain went up, as all the distracting episodes of the story were cast aside.
The theatre was tremendously successful at the World’s Fair Exhibition. In the closing days of the Fair thousands of customers were turned away.
The Globe theatre building at the Fair was a reproduction of the Old Globe theatre structure which was erected in 1599 on the south bank of the Thames River in London. One half of the shares of this old playhouse was divided among five of the principal actors, one of whom was Shakespeare.
The replica. at the Fair parallels the original structure except that it does not have the open roof. It was topped by an imitation sky.
Commerce Forum Meets
Stacy Bowman, advertising manager of the South Bend Tribune, was the principal speaker at a meeting of the Commerce Forum in the Law Auditorium, Wednesday evening, Nov. 7.
Outlining the problem and facts of newspaper advertising in a brief address, Mr. Bowman devoted the greater part of his time to answering questions proposed by the Forum members.
SUBJECT ALREADY CHOSEN
Professor William Coyne, of the Speech Department and Coach of Varsity Debating, announced this week the annual tryouts for the varsity squad.
Coach William Coyne Expects a large turnout.
The tryouts will be held on the question, “resolved, that the nations should agree to prevent the international shipment of arms and muni-, tions,” in the auditorium of the Law building on the following dates: Monday, Nov. 26; Tuesday, Nov. 27 and Wednesday, Nov. 28. The. contestants will meet according to teams drawn up by Mr. Coyne, and will debate at four in the afternoon and at 8 o’clock in the evening on the days mentioned. The constructed speeches are to be six minutes and the rebuttals three minutes.
The men interested in trying out for Varsity Debating are requested to submit their names to any member of the speech department before Tuesday, Nov. 20. Any student at the University is eligible to enter his name for the tryouts.
In preparation for the debates it would be well for the men to study both sides of the question as, following the preliminaries, those surviving will be required to debate the opposite side from the one used in the first try to determine the final squad of 12 to 16 men representing the University in forensic activity this (Continued on Page 3)
November 16, 193 4
One
Etienne Gilson to Give Series
Of Lectures Here This Month
PRESIDENTS COUNCIL
RECHARTERS CLUBS
PROMINENT PHILOSOPHER
By Irwin Goldman
Professor Etienne Gilson, outstanding Catholic philosopher and member of the faculty at the Sorbonne university in Paris, will give his fourth series of lectures, on November 21. 22, and 23, in Washington Hall. This series was inaugurated in 1931.
Professor Gilson’s topic is “Scholasticism and Western Civilization,” and it will be divided into three lectures, namely, “Scholasticism in the Middle Ages,” “Scholasticism in the Renaissance,” and “Scholasticism in Modern Times.” The lectures will be given respectively, on November 21, 22, and 23. Because of Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed’s lecture on Nov. 22, Prof. Gilson will give his talk of that date in the auditorium of the Law building.
Mr. Gilson will arrive on the campus on Nov. 21 from Toronto, Canada, where he teaches for two months out of the year at the Institute of Medieval Studies in St. Michael’s College.
The Professor will also lecture before the Notre Dame Institute of Medieval Studies, of which he is honorary director, at 4 o’clock on each of the three days he is here. His subject will be “The Influence of Plotinus on Medieval Augustinian-ism.” Members of the faculty of the Department of Philosophy are invited to attend these afternoon lectures.
Last year Professor Gilson gave interesting and instructive talks on “The Primacy of Theology and the Unity of Christendom,” and “The Disruption of Christendom and Its Future.” In 1932 he spoke on “The Christian Concept of Man,” and “The Christian Concept of Nature.”
N. D. Band To Play
At Northwestern Game
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta’s 90-piece band will represent the University at the Northwestern game in Chicago tomorrow. This marks the second away-from-home appearance of the band this season, the first taking place at the Navy game in Cleveland last week.
Tradition surrounds the annual Northwestern game, particularly for the musicians of the University. Their maneuvers on the sod of Dyche Stadium will carry out a precedent of long standing in the rivalry between the two schools. Followers of both teams have come to expect the yearly appearance of the Gold and Blue band at this event, and this year they will not he disappointed.
Editor Lawton’s First
Scrip Replete With Fine Stories, Essays, and Poetry
Under the guidance of Editor Albert Lawton, Scrip, Notre Dame’s quarterly magazine, started upon its sixth year of existence when the largest issue in the publication’s his-
William A. Kennedy He goes to town.
tory appeared on the campus last Friday.
Displaying excellent versatility Scrip’s subject matter ran the literary gamut from sober verse through lighter poetry, fiction, and essays in both a serious and humorus vein.
“Quis Multa Gracilis,” a light, metrical translation of the fifth Ode of Horace, written by Vincent W. Hartnett, led off the issue. Hartnett, a transfer student from Fordham University, and a newcomer to Scrip, is a Sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters.
Maurice F. Tombragel and James A. Byrne, Jr., both associate editors of Scrip were represented by short stories in this year’s initial number Tombragel’s “Then There Was That Aunt” was well received by campus critics while “The Belle” a tale of the prize ring by Byrne, displayed a vigorous style combined with thorough and well handled knowledege of the subject.
Mitchell C. Tackley, contributed two pieces, “The Thing Will Be,” a short bit of impressionistic fiction and “Boards and Drapes,” a column of dramatic criticism.
Three other essays on a wide variety of subjects were included in the issue: Editor Lawton’s own contribution, an authoritative composition on tapestries, displaying a fine knowledge of the history and development of the art; William A. Kennedy’s humorous bit, “South Bend Article,” written in the same popular style that characterizes his column “The Week,” the first in a series of articles by M. A. Hendele dealing with the esthetics of (Continued on Page 3)
Edward J. Van Huisseling, president of the Presidents Council, announces that thirty-f our campus clubs are organized' and eligible for charters at the present time. Twenty received their charters at the Council meeting last Monday night. Thirteen of these organizations are qualified to be chartered and may receive their charters by calling at 117 Walsh Hall. Those clubs which have not applied for charters are requested to do so immediately as this is imperative.
Important affairs are to be discussed at the meeting to be held next Monday at 7:45 in the north basement of the library. A communication has been received from the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., concerning the Christmas dances sponsored by the various clubs. A representative of the L. G. Balfour Company, which is handling the programs for the- Christmas dances, will be present to make the final settlement as to the credit of the clubs. He will also have figures on the price of the common program selection. The clubs will receive a discount of from 20% to 25% of the regular’ list of the programs.
€
Many Religions Meet In Notre Dame Student Body
Although the student body at the University is predominantly Catholic, nearly a score of other religious denominations are represented in the classrooms.
According to a religious distribution list just completed by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., prefect of religion, only 12 students profess to have no religion at all.
The denominations represented on the campus include the following: Methodist, Presbyterian, Episcopalian, Lutheran, Baptist, Christian Church, Greek Orthodox, Methodist Episcopal, United Brethren, Russian Orthodox, Evangelical Lutheran, Second Reform and Apostolic churches.
Of the non-Catholic group 43 students listed themselves as Protestants without specifying the denomination. Next in numerical order came 33 Hebrews and 32 Methodists.
Father O’Hara Honored
The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, recently received a letter from the Reverend Killian J. Hennrich, O.M.Cap., President of the Catholic Boys Brigade of the UnitedStates, informing him that the Court of Honor of that organization had conferred upon him its highest distinction, the star “Pro Juventute.”
Two
The Scholastic
, RARE BIBLES LOCATED ON NOTRE DANE CAMPUS
New Postoffice Dedicated This Morning In Colorful Ceremony
In the archives at the University of Notre Dame are two German Bibles which date back to the latter part of the Fifteenth century. According to authorities who have examined them, the ancient volumes were printed 40 years before the so-called Luther translation of the Bible was published.
They point out that the work in the Luther edition is so similar that there is no reason to doubt but that he used these volumes almost entirely and that his “translation” consisted only of a few deletions from the original copy which did not agree with his personal convictions.
One of these editions, known as the Biblia Germanica, (Numberg: Sen-senschmidt u Frisner) first appeared about 1476, although the date on the title page is 1470. It is embellished with several beautiful wood cuts and even now, 450 years later, all the type is easily read, despite the ravages of time and termites. It was presented to the University by the late Bishop Allerding of Fort Wayne.
The other is the Biblia Deutsch, (Nurnberg: Anton Koburger, Mon-tagnach Invocavit) published about 1483. This Bible introduced the third and last group of the pre-Lutheran versions.
In addition to the students of mediaeval history at the University, outside authorities have inspected these Bibles to establish their authenticity. Among them was Professor Warren Washbum Florer, Ph.D., of the University of Michigan who made the following comment in his book, Luther’s Use of the Pre-Lutheran Versions of the Bible:
“A careful examination will clearly show the striking resemblance between the editions of 1483 and Luther’s in 1522. Such a similarity cannot be accidental. The Koburger version appeared 40 years before the New Testament of Luther; 40 years which may be compared with the last 40 years in many respects. Improvement in the art of printing, a revival in the humanities, the newer scholarship and the geographical situation —all these should contribute to a remarkable progress in any literature or linguistic work.
“But taking all these conditions into consideration, the fact remains that the editions are quite similar and that Luther borrowed more from the earlier versions than recent scholars have inferred.”
The Bibles are among the 400,000 documents and ancient books contained in tthe archives of the University.
Met Club To Sponsor Trip To Army Game Next Week Fare Fixed at $23.40
The Metropolitan Club, having secured the necessary permission from the University authorities, announced this week that final plans for the
Andrew Maffei
He doesn’t play the banjo.
Army trip have been completed.
A special train will leave the Union station at 12:50 p. m., Thursday, Nov. 22, and will return in time for classes the following Monday. Fare will be $22.35, and tickets can be procured from Andy Maffei, 110 Walsh Hall, or Emilio Gervasio, 131 Corby Hall. A special block of football tickets has been reserved by the Athletic Department for those making the trip.
At a recent meeting of the officers of the club, William E. Flannery was chosen treasurer.
SCRIP APPEARS
(Continued from Page 2)
poetry, “Dry the Dolphins,” rounded out the trio of essays.
Matthew J. Bruccoli, Sigmund J. Sluzka and Howard D. Murdock are the other three student poets represented in Lawton’s first number.
Besides the work of students Scrip contains two fine contributions from members of the English department. Probably the best piece of poetry in the issue is Prof. Norbert A. Engels’ “Return,” dedicated to the late Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
A longer piece, written in blank verse, called “No Coffee” is the work of Prof. Fred I. Myers, and has drawn favorable comment from Scrip readers for its stark realism.
Features which round out the issue are the Freshman sketches by Henry F. Curtin and W. T. Mahoney along with an excellent page of book reviews under the heading “Book Ends.”
FRANK WALKER IS HERE
Formal dedication of the new $32,000 post office on the campus took place this morning. The ceremonies were attended by high state and national officers, members of the university board of lay trustees, and officers of the University. Ambrose O’Connell, assistant postmaster general was on hand to represent the government. Another national figure present was Frank Walker, Notre Dame alumnus, and former director of the National Emergency Council. Mr. Walker delivered the Commencement address last June.
Acceptance by the federal authorities of the new Tudor Gothic edifice, constructed to harmonize with the general architecture of the school buildings, marked the end of service for the present building in -which all Notre Dame mail has been handled for the past 20 years.
Increases In Mail Volume
During this time, the volume of mail has risen to more than a half million pounds annually, giving the postoffice one of the highest rankings, for the population served, in the state of Indiana.
At present there are four mail clerks to handle this volume. Brother Theogene, C.S.C., postmaster of the University, became a clerk in 1916 and has held his present position since 1921.
Failure of government contractors to provide furnishings for the new building will probably prevent its complete use until about Nov. 25.
Classes were dismissed from ten to eleven to enable the student body to attend the ceremonies. The first stamp to be sold was purchased by Mr. Walker from Postmaster O’Connell. It will be presented to President Roosevelt for his private collection.
VARSITY DEBATING
(Continued from Page 1)
year. The finals will be held before Christmas vacation so that intensive work may be started directly following the holiday.
A bibliography on the question will be found in the periodical room of the library and any additional information may be obtained from the reference librarian.
Those who submit their names for the tryouts should watch the bulletin board in the Main building for the line up of teams and periods of debate.
November 16, 193 4
Three
VILLAGERS TO HOLD THANKSGIVING DANCE
The Villager’s Club will hold a Thanksgiving Dance on November 28 in the Erskine Clubhouse, with Andy Riddle’s ten-piece orchestra providing the music.
Dan Youngerman, Villager’s president, announced that tickets are to be put on sale at $1.10 a couple, and that dancing will be continuous from 9 o’clock to 12.
During the regular monthly meeting of the Villager’s Club at the Peacock Cafe on November 5, Mr. Ottis Lucas, advertising and promotion manager at Studebaker’s, gave an interesting address. His discussion of personal business contacts with Knute Rockne and his narration of World War experiences in illustration of his own philosophy of life made a very interesting talk.
A banquet preceded the address. This was followed by a business session later in the evening.
Philosophers Will Meet At De Paul University
“The Philosophy of Religion” will be the general theme for the tenth annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association, which will be held at De Paul University, in Chicago, on December 27 and 28.
Various phases of a rational approach to religion will be considered in the morning sessions, with round table discussions in other departments of philosophy occupying the afternoon sessions.
Notre Dame will be represented by four members of the philosophy department. “Cause in Modern Philosophy and the Traditional Arguments for the Existence of God” will be discussed in a paper to be read by Prof. Robert C. Pollick. The Reverend Julius P. Sigmar will analyze “The Teaching of Philosophy.”
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Ph.D., S.T.D., Head of the Philosophy Department and Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, who is president of the American Catholic Philosophical Society, will preside. The Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., will consider the “History of Medieval Philosophy.”
Any students who will be in Chicago during the Christmas holidays are invited not only to attend but to participate in the discussions of this group.
Four
MRS. MAZIE WARD SHEED, ENGLISH LEADER, TO SPEAK HERE
Mrs. Mazie Ward Sheed, leader of England’s Catholic Evidence Guild, will give a talk entitled, “Writing My Parent’s Biography,” on Nov. 22 in Washington Hall. Mrs. Sheed’s subject was chosen by a faculty group
Mazie Ward Sheed Staunch Catholic Publisher.
of which the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., is chairman.
Mrs. Sheed is chairman of the Practical Training Committee of the Catholic Evidence Guild. She is the author of several books among which are, Saint Bernardino, and The People’s Preacher — Father Maturin, a Memoir. Among her other achievements Mrs. Sheed is editor of the Catholic Evidence Training Outline, and The English Way.
In 1926 Mrs. Sheed married Francis J. Sheed, English author, publisher and leader in Catholic Action. Mr. Sheed has spoken at the University several times, the last lecture being given on Oct. 14, on “The Importance of Catholics in Education.”
Mrs. Sheed is co-partner with her husband in the Sheed and Ward Publishing House which has branches in London and New York. Its list of authors include such impressive names as Chesterton, Belloc, Martindale, Ronald Knox, Maritain, Claudel and Christopher Dawson.
During the past 15 years Mrs. Sheed has become best loiown as a speaker for Catholicism. She has held numerous outdoor meetings in which she appeals to her audiences by re-vivalistic and intellectual methods.
Wilfred Ward, Mrs. Sheed’s father is Newman’s biographer and was for ten years editor of the Dublin Review. Mrs. Wilfred Ward, like her husband, is also a writer.
WORK OF ART STUDENTS TO BE SHOWN IN EAST
VC
Outstanding work by art students at the University will be exhibited in the large cities of the East during the next several months.
The collection consists of fifty subjects, selected by Professor Emil Jacque, head of the art department of the College of Arts and Letters, and ranges from work in water color and design to oil portraits.
According to present plans the first exhibit will be made in Pittsburgh and from there the paintings will be moved to New York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Baltimore.
Display In Pittsburgh
The initial display will be in conjunction with the art department of the Better Homes exhibit in the Gulf Building, Pittsburgh, Pa., on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, Nov. 15-18.
B. J. Kaiser, a member of the Class of 1912, and a prominent Pittsburgh architect, is in personal charge charge of the arrangements there for the exhibit, working with school officers and the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania.
Wherever the exhibit is shown, invitations will be extended to the schools, parishes, Catholic societies and other interested groups.
The art will be sent from Pittsburgh to New York where it is planned to show this phase of student achievement during the week-end of the Notre Dame-Anny game, Nov. 22-25.

Vice-President Talks Before Servers Club
On the evening of November 19th the Servers Club was addressed by the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Vice-president of the University, and Honorary President of the organization.
James Hamilton presided over the elections that were held to fill the vacancies in executive positions. William Walsh was chosen vice-president, and George Keenen was elected secretary. An executive committee was also appointed. This committee will be composed of Frank Kelly, Edward Owens, Frank Burke, and Gerard Shaeffer.
President James Hamilton announced that in the future there would be a guest speaker at every meeting. All members are urged to attend the next meeting for the purpose of discussing the future activities of the organization.
1
The Scholastic
> LAY FACULTY CLUB BOLDS MONTHLY MEET
INTERHALL TEAMS ARGUE AT KIWANIAN MEET IN ELKHART
JACK LEDDEN SPEAKS AT K. OF C. MEETING
Professor Francis Elmer McMahon, Ph.D., instructor in philosopohy, addressed the members of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club on the Present day Renaissance of the Philosophy of St. Thomas at the November dinner and meeting of the club held Monday night at the Jefferson Plaza in South Bend.
Dr. McMahon first pointed out that the basis for the vitalized interest in the writings of that famous 13th century philosopher was the disintegration of modem man. This disintegration has been brought about by philosophers who have taught erroneous ideas concerning the nature of God, of the physical world, and of man. To counteract such influence and to reintegrate the modern man philosophically, Dr. McMahon recommended the program of the new Thomists, who advocate a wider study of the principles of St. Thomas and the application of them to present-day social, historical and political problems.
Jacques Maritain, recent speaker in Washington Hall, and Etienne Gilson, soon to follow him, were referred to frequently by Dr. McMahon and cited as being the two outstanding living Thomists. These two lecturers supplement for Notre Dame the work being done in its institute of mediaeval studies.
At the October meeting of the club, a new attendance record was set when Prof. Rufus W. Rauch gave an excellent analysis of the poetry of T. S. Eliot, brilliant American-born critic and poet now living in London.
Arthur Korzeneski Speaks To Irish Club Members
At its last weekly meeting held in the Law building Tuesday evening the Irish Club of Notre Dame was addressed by Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Cracow Club. Korze-neski’s subject was “The Similarity and Friendship between Ireland and Poland.”
It is the plan of the club to sponsor, in the near future, a handball tournament between the members of the organization. Plans were also discussed for. a dinner party and a smoker which would be held before the Christmas recess.
A list of visiting speakers who will appear to lecture before the Club during the present semester was also announced. Outstanding on this list are such notable authorities on Irish Culture as the Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., of Washington, D.C., who is in charge of Catholic Youth Activities, the Rev. John Temple of New York.
November 16, 193 4
Because of a delay in the compilation of sufficient evidence the Interhall debates have received a set back. Only two contests were held the first week of the schedule. During the
Thomas W. Thompson Who debates for Sorin.
former part of this week four more were run off and it is hoped that the original plan may now be followed.
The results at the time of printing were as follows:
Carroll affirmative over Brownson negative Sorin affiwnative over Alumni negative Sorin affirmative over Badin negative Dillon negative over Carroll affirmative Freshman negative over Morrissey affirmative Walsh negative over Howard affirmative
The Walsh - Howard debate was held before the Kiwanis Club of Elkhart at their luncheon last Tuesday afternoon. The chairman of the meeting was Senator Robert Proctor; the chairman of the debate was Arthur Korzeneski, president of the Wranglers; and the critic judge was Prof. William Coyne, coach of varsity debating at the University. Several prominent members of the Notre Dame alumni of the vicinity including James Armstrong, alumni secre-tary, were preesnt for the forensic battle.
The Wranglers have received requests from other organizations for speakers at their functions and it is expected that more interhall debates will be staged at these affairs.
Two speakers have presented their case before the Wranglers during the past fortnight.
On Tuesday, November 6th, James J. Boyle, past president of the society, spoke on “The Constitution and Labor.” In the course of his talk Boyle pointed out the difficulties labor is combating at the present time to maintain its place in industry. He said that the constitution guaranteed the worker certain rights and that labor should use this promise to obtain its desired and much needed end.
Labor- should have the right to collective bargaining, and this privilege under no circumstances must be taken from the worker. This right is implied in the Declaration of Independence and in turn is guaranteed by the Constitution.
Last Tuesday evening Louis Hruby
“Doc” Spears, head football coach at Wisconsin, said that there won’t be another Rockne in one hundred years, according to Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Ledden, commented upon the Notre Dame-Navy game, and he spoke of humorous events in the press box at the game. He expressed regrets that there is an element among the students which is always the first to complain after a defeat—poor losers, he called this group.
Mr. Ledden was followed on the program by Frank Schafer, tenor, and winner of the state contest in Kentucky, who sang to the accompaniment of Art Davidson at the piano. Mr. Schafer’s numbers, which included “Roses of Piccardy,” “Live and Love Tonight,” “I Saw Stars,” and “They Didn’t Believe Me,” met with the approval of the council. Mr. Davidson played “Thank You” as a solo.
Drive Successful
The membership drive has been very successful, bringing in forty applications and several transfers from . other councils. This is the result of a fine spirit of cooperation which has been shown by members of the council, and the encouraging results of the drive are signs of a renewed interest in the Knights of Columbus.
The bowling league was started last Wednesday night at the Jefferson Plaza alleys, when a group of Knights began the handicap play. The Knights will bowl every Wednesday night, and all members are invited to compete for weekly prizes on the handicap basis.
Organization of a council basketball team was begun, and practice in the gymnasium will start within a few weeks. The Knights are prepared to engage any hall team or any team in the vicinity. Final voting on the proposed change of election method was postponed until the next meeting because of the heated discussion which took place. All members are invited to take part in this vote because it is of utmost interest in the future of the council.
offered for discussion the development of the “Judicial Phase of the Sherman Anti-Trust Law.” It was demonstrated how the law had proven a practical failure since its inception in 1890.
Hruby said that the final gesture, as a result of fruitless methods of enforcement, is the holding company which accomplishes all that the trust endeavored and still finds itself comparatively free from legal infringement.
Five
NOVEMBER ELECTIONS BRING FEW TO POLLS
PROFESSOR CAMPBELL -
ADDRESSES PATRICIANS
Last Tuesday, Nov. 6, following the trend of St. Joseph County, Indiana, precinct five, or more appropriately, Notre Dame, which from time immemorial has always been staunch in its support of democracy, turned just a little cool, a little less enthusiastic about the whole situation. While the New Deal cantroversy was polling the most intense vote in the nation’s history, Notre Dame students who previously voted with the least bit of encouragement and sometimes just foi' the sake of voting, polled the smallest vote recorded here in some years.
Out of a thousand students who cast their ballots in the spring primaries only approximately 500 could be teased, coaxed or encouraged to cast their ballot. This in itself was a great republican victory, for hitherto a Notre Dame vote has always been a democratic vote. But the republican organization drove still further into this Tammany outpost. Some Republican candidates received as many as 200 votes on the campus, and with very few exceptions, the Republican vote here was stronger than ever before.
Republicans Show Progress
Contrary to the obvious conclusion that such a vote should imply, it was not because of the candidates concerned, or to the principles foi* which they fought, for Notre Dame students care little about the local or county political situation. The vote here merely reflects campus feeling toward the groups that head these organizations on the campus. So the republican progress here may be credited to a comparatively small group headed by John Jordan, present basketball captain, and including Art Sandusky, Andy McMahon, John Hobin and a few others.
Sandusky stood by his post outside the poll, hour after hour, questioning and challenging votes amidst a panicky scene of fights, controversies and bickering. Perhaps he didn’t succeed in procuring republican votes but he did hold down the democratic vote and slow up the voting in general. So to Art goes a republican badge of bravery, the outstanding hero of a fight in which eight Irishmen defeated the powerful democratic organization of 40 men headed by Andrew Maffei, Camperlango, Gervasio and Santulli. The sentiment hanging over the campus during the day seemed to be one of conflicting emotions. The fel- . lows could not be persuaded by those heading the democratic organization and yet wouldn’t vote against the principles and cohorts of their staunch supporter, Pat Manion—so consequently didn’t cast their ballots.
Six •
When you’re looking for a man with that rare gift of quiet efficiency, you don’t have to go a foot farther than the third floor of aristocratic Walsh Hall. There in a quiet double resides the very man you want. And
should you engage this sandy-haired senior of medium height in conversation, you’ll probably find that he won’t tell you anything about himself, though there is plenty to tell. Someone else will have to tell you that this blushing young man handles all the football equipment for Elmer and the Fighting Irish at home and abroad. —Someone else will have to tell you that he worked hard and long for three years as freshman, sophomore, and junior manager to secure this one of three coveted positions — someone else will have to tell you that this same chap has, and will cover, approximately 4,000 miles with the Irish this season, shivering under the cold New York sky and basking in the warmth of sunny Southern California (or vice versa).
Indeed W. Raymond Oakes, (Ray to you), is a most unusual and interesting personality. Ray came to Notre Dame from Chicago’s South Side, Marshfield St., to be specific. He came preceded by the good record of brother Ben, who roomed with Marty Brill in old St. Ed’s. Perhaps it was Ben who fired the younger of the sturdy Oakes with the idea of giving his time and energy to football. But suffice it that Ray came to the Irish institution as so many have come—keen and eager to do something for football and the glory of Notre Dame since nature had not equipped him with physical vigor necessary to play the game. So Ray became a manager and worked to one of the three enviable top positions this, his senior
In the first of a series of addresses by professors and other non-members, the Patricians received an impressive talk by Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell last Wednesday evening. The topic chosen by Mr. Campbell was a history and description of famous tombs from the times of ancient China to the more recent tombs of English royalty and notables.	$
It was immediately apparent to all those who had not had previous contact with the well-traveled professor, that the treasure-house of his experience was extremely rich. In his own individual style of conversation he traced the history of the burial spots of such renowned personages as members of the Ming dynasty, situated at Nanking; Augustus, Hadrian, St. Pete]*, St. Cecilia and the four Crowned Ones of Roman times; Napoleon; and the kings and heroes’of English history. He then transferred his attention to the tomb of the famous William Penn.
To his listeners was revealed the tremendous background of travel and experience, as Mr. Campbell vividly portrayed the various types of architecture and art, contrasting some of the more important, and briefly giving the history of those particularly significant.
Upon completing his interesting talk he was greeted with enthusiastic response for the novelty of his subject, the informativeness of his treatment of the manner of presentation, presentation.
year. If you ask him he’ll tell you in his modest way that he is a firm $ believer in the slogan, “Be a Notre Dame football manager and see the world.” And he gets along with managers Demetrio and Thompson and with Elmer and all the coaches and players, because he does his work and does it well.
But there are other angles to Ray’s character. He manages to turn away from his beloved football now and then to dabble in politics (successfully, they tell me), and to write headlines and articles for Professor j Cooney. Ray is a Journalism major and hopes to carry on in that field after graduation, though he feels that he wouldn’t turn down a good job in any department in native Chicago. He finds time for a little feminine diversion too, which proves that a college man can enjoy a well-rounded career. Last year Ray was a Wednesday afternoon boy, when he could be, but this year finds him casting eyes down Anderson, Indiana way. There have been reports too about a young nurse in a dentist’s j office downtown.
The Scholastic
BOOKMEN HEAR PAPER
BY SHAY ON LEGEND
College Parade With Vincent Gorman
260 STUDENTS WORK IN NINE FIELDS OF FERA

Setting a high standard for club addresses, Frank Shay presented his paper, * “The Tristram and Isolte Legend in Literature,” to the Bookmen at their weekly meeting last Thursday night. He traced this eleventh century legend from its eleventh century appearance to the present, briefly outlining French, German, and
Edward J. Kilmurry
He recites “Honor.”
English influences and carefully analyzing its treatment by contemporary writers. He discussed the individual deviations from the original plot by Matthew Arnold, Algernon Swinburne, Hilaire Belloc, and Edwin Arlington Robinson. The speaker expressed his belief that all the writers produced the same effect, because of the tremendous power of the plot. In closing, Mr. Shay said, “No writer has ever approached the dramatic possibilities of this legend, and it still awaits literary immortality.” An informal discussion, with Wagner’s libretto as its central theme, followed Shay’s address.
President Edward Kilmurry appointed a committee composed of Frank Shay, Ben Beyer, and James McDevitt to make arrangements for a club dinner that will be held at the Coquillard Country Club, in honor of the Bookmen’s new adviser, Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell. The club voted to accept the two books suggested by President Kilmurry, thus completing its library for the semester.
American Chemical Society
Dr. E. H. Volwiler, vice-president and director of research of the Abbot Laboratories, North Chicago, will address the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society, November 21, in the Engineering Building Auditorium. Dr. Volwiler will speak on the subiect, “Chemistry’s Contribution to Medicine,” and will discuss the importance of chemical research in the production of synthetic medicinals.
November 16, 1934
Off-Campusing
If you sleep during a class lecture you retain the greatest amount of the information being disseminated, according to a C.C.N.Y. philosophy prof. . . . State College, Pennsylvania students, may, without possessing a hunting license, kill skunks frequenting their campus . . . Since receiving application for membership in a U. of Minn, boxing class from a co-ed, the pugilistic coach says he will open a muscle course for the fair sex, if they demand it. . . . “a college woman when she becomes a wife makes more trouble than all the other classes of wives put together” affirms Dr. D. P. Wilson of the L.A. Institute of Family Relations. . . . Stanford psychologists have developed a system whereby students are able to read more rapidly and improve their grades 11
Boners
Collegiana is rampant with these latest diversities. From DePaulia, and Boston U Netos we cut these:
Ping Pong is a hairy ape.
Moby Dick is the Prince of Wales.
A bison is something you wash your face in.
Octoroon: a cocoanut cookie which is awful good with ginger ale.
Astronomy: the study of mules and their habits.
Physiology: it teaches a fellow how to mix drinks.
Macadam: a French lady.
Exits: the center of the globe. “The world spins on its exits.”
Procrastination: a burglar who used to steal watches in the 19th century, so that many people called him the Thief of Time.
Prom-Trotters
According to the “Fagots” of St. Mary-of-the-Woods, the glory of N.D. is still undimmed. University listings of those who heard Johnny Hamp play the Junior affair last weekend show 33 from here, 4 from Northwestern, 4 from Purdue, and 1 from U. of Penn. Two seniors were selected for column mention: “one who insists on looking like an ad for Finchleys”; the other one of whom was invited by Sara!
Significant Editorial
Plaudits to Boston U Netos for the timely and responsible criticism of the Louisiana Huey, who handed out cold cash to Louisiana State students so that they might attend a football game in Tennessee. He-was spicily-nominated for the position of chief clown under the editorial titled “Shakespeare Was Right,” in saying: —“All the world’s a stage,” . . .
In nine fields of employment at the University, 260 F.E.R.A. students are, according to Mr. Lloyd, comptroller, “working diligently and effectively.” The boys so employed, receive for their work, credits for the service rendered, which apply against
Mr. F. W. Lloyd
To him, many are indebted.
their college expenses, and in turn, the University is re-imbursed for these credits through the Federal Emergency Relief Administration.
The most noticeable project within the program may be designated as the campus and plaza development plan. A primary requirement of the plan calls for the laying of electric and telephone wires under ground, and for the removal of the poles which presently carry these wires. The digging of the trenches is done by some thirty FERA employees; the more skilled work, such as the laying of pipes for the housing of the wires, is to be done later by regular union laborers, who will be employed by the University.
The project employing the greatest number of students is in the field of miscellaneous clerical and secretarial work, for faculty and administrative officers. Over 100 boys are so engaged.
There are other projects under the supervision of the College of Science staff. These include the mounting of plant specimens for the University herbarium collection, requiring special treatment of plant material in the Biology Department. There are also several students engaged as attendants in the laboratories and libraries of the Chemistry Department. Others are engaged in the compilation of bibliographies concerning bacteriological and medical subjects. In
(Continued on Pajre IS)
Seven
O’BRIEN IS VICTOR IN CONN. CLUB MIXDP
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
FAMED GLACIER PRIEST TO LECTURE DOWNTOWN
The political fires smouldering within the Connecticut Club for the past few weeks sputtered out in dismal sparks at the meeting held Wednesday night in the basement of the Library.
John Lynch
O'Brien smothered his fire.
The meeting was called as a result of a petition presented to the S.A.C. by John Lynch in which he asked for the investigation of the conduct of the club, with particular reference to George O’Brien, the organization’s president.
Lynch’s contentions were based on what he termed “Extravagance and inefficiency in official conduct of club.”
A special committee was appointed to investigate the claims and to report on the validity of O’Brien’s election.
The committee returned a report upholding the election of O’Brien and his slate after members of the club had testified that a quorum was present at the election meeting last spring.
Lynch’s next move was to call for a ballot of the club on a recall motion for which a two-thirds vote was needed. O’Brien acceded to his wish and recommended quick action so that “The club might be able to patch up its differences and start constructive activity.
In the ensuing vote the recall faction was snowed under by a 15 to 12 count.
Philip Purcell, spokesman for the S.A.C., announced that a conditional charter has been issued under which the Connecticut Club can function and expressed the hope that the organization would he able to function without further friction.
Accounting Students
For the convenience of the accounting students in the College of • Commerce, Room 207,, Commerce Building, that has been used till now as a class room, has been converted into an accounting laboratory.
This room will house all of the mechanical appliances, adding machines, comptometers, and calculators, that are normally used by the accounting students.
Believe it or Not:
The trenches proved too great an obstacle for Bill Guimont and Josh D’Amora' on their way to dinner one night. Or maybe they weren’t looking too sharply.
Breen is on the list across the way.
Jack (He shaves down) Robinson averages five incoming letters a day.
Some of the Sorin boys cheated on the treasure hunt last Saturday morning. But a Corby lad led them astray.
Al Lawton is learning to pin white cuffs on his sleeves.
Ait O’Neil let down Milwaukee over the weekend; but we don’t think it’s very serious.
Clean living did tell in the Interhall final.
Three seniors lined up with the neighboring student body last Saturday night to welcome home the field hockey team. Gene O’Brien was a bit more personal than the other two.
Potential Feuds
Jack McGrath—Hugh Wall.
Fred Morris—Jim Reville.
Link Wurzer—John Burke (unofficial as yet).
Tom Walsh—Bushes Dunn.
Joe Kaley—Gene O’Brien.
Bus Breen—An unknown junior.
‘Harpo’ Annas—Class of ’35.
Station WSM To Honor Notre Dame In Program
Station WSM, Nashville, Tennessee, operating on a frequency of 650 kilocycles, has announced that on Friday, November 23, at 8:00 p. m., C.S.T., the University of Notre Dame will he featured in one of a series of programs entitled, “America’s Tribute to Education.” A cast of fifty, headed by Francis Craig’s Band, will present a program devoted to Notre Dame alumni.
Last year, the series honored student activities. These shows, presented twice a week, on Monday and Friday, are sponsored by the Educational Department of the National Life and Accident Insurance Company, owners and operators of WSM, and they salute the colleges making the headlines this fall.
On the evening of November 20th, one of America’s leading, explorers and foremost geologists, the Reverend Bernard R. Hubbard, S.J., head of the Department of Geology at Santa Clara University, -will lecture in the
Rev. Bernard R. Hubbard, S.J. In South Bend Tuesday.
South Bend Central High School Auditorium.
Father Hubbard, famed in news columns and featured articles, as the “Glacier Priest,” will illustrate his lecture with motion pictures that vividly portray the majestic splendor' of Alaskan mountain ranges, as well as show how with a small party of men and dogs he conquered Nature’s most inaccessible and dangerous regions. The film is a thrilling record of his conquest over the Aghileen Pinnacles, and the great active volcanic crater Aniakchak.
For many years Aniakchak has been considered the world’s largest active volcano but Father Hubbard, through the medium of motion pictures substantiates his recent and startling statement that in Alaska there is still a larger crater than the famed Aniakchak. Referring to these two immense craters Father Hubbard calls them “moon craters” because “viewed from the moon, he says, these two volcanic craters in Alaska would appear as the most conspicuous points on the earth’s surface.”
Other interesting features will be the mysterious disappearing island of Foboslof, the well known “Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes,” which has been so altered by geographical dis-
(Continued on Page 19)
The Scholastic
Eight
Calendar
Friday, Nov. 16
Symphony Orchestra rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p. m.; SCHOLASTIC staff meeting, editorial, 6:30; general staff, 7:00 p. m., Editorial offices, Ave Maria Building.
Saturday, Nov. 17
Football game, Varsity vs. Northwestern, 2:00 p. m., Evanston; Movie, 6:46 and 8:15, “Change of Heart,” with Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell ; Indiana State Cross Country Meet, Bloomington, Indiana.
Sunday, Nov. 18
Masses, Sacred Heart Church: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00; Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p. m.
Monday, Nov. 19
President’s Council meeting, 7:45 p. m., North basement of Library. “As You Like It,” presented by the Globe Theatre players, Washington Hall, 8:00 and 9:00 p. m.
Tuesday, Nov. 20
Symphony Orchestra Rehearsal, Washington Hall, 7:00 p. m.
Wednesday, Nov. 21
Lecture by Professor Etienne Gilson, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Thursday, Nov. 22
Lecture by Professor Etienne Gil-on, Auditorium of the Law Building, 8:00 p. m.; Lecture by Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed, “Writing My Parent’s Biography,” Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Friday, Nov. 23
Lecture by Professor Etienne Gilson, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
French Club Notes
There will be a meeting of the Cercle Francais on Nov. 21. Notices will be posted concerning the locale and time of the meeting. Plans will be discussed regarding a visit to the art galleries in the library by the members of the Cercle.
At the last meeting of the Cercle, in Carroll Rec, Nov. 8, Clifford Welsh, acting president for Louis Grosso, presided. George Milton, a junior, was master of ceremonies, and introduced the two speakers for the evening, James Gagnier, a sophomore, and Lawrence Smith, a junior. The
Santa Maria Distributed
The first issue of the Santa Maria was distributed last Monday. The Santa Maria is the publication of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, and has been published as a quarterly for many years. In former issues, the magazine has had a wide circulation, reaching every Knights of Columbus council in the United States.
November 16, 193 4
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Or, in this case, the Two Weeks Almost Champions
The hitherto rather generous references in this column to Walsh and all its indoor glory, must of necessity be suspended for this week, in amazed deference to the renaissance, rejuvenation, reorganization, regeneration, and birth of a new Sorin Hall.
The old Sorin Hall, you will recall, was content merely to crouch smugly on its haunches, partly turned towards its neighbor on the right, and to leer idiotically at the other hall’s pitiful midwestem apeihg of eastern culture and eccentricities.
Then came those 20 fellows. Well, there are about 20, anyway. They’re all mad. Odd, that 20 mad fellows should get together that way. We don’t mean that they’re mad in an angry sort of way, but on the contrary. Trey’re perfectly happy about the whole thing. They have dementia something or other — we forget exactly what, but we looked it up and it means excessive yearning for the out-doors.
The ideas all seem to come out of that first-floor room of the Young Scripper’s, which is a kind of lobby where prospective signers-out await 7:30 and the rector’s pencil. You put ten or twenty fellows together, wait-to sign out for the night, and they’re bound to concoct some wild scheme. Get ten or twenty fellows in your own hall and see. And remember we told you.
Well, let’s get on with the facts. First scheme was a football team. This plainly called for a cheering squad, which was quite the rage of itself. The cheering squad, in turn, gave birth to the pep-meeting idea, and the varsity cheer-leader was summarily borrowed from Walsh. Okay, Walsh, a point for you.
But do you suppose this would hold the Yale-like sports for the season? You’re darn wrong. No sir! Out they went into the nearby woods, divided themselves into two parties and commenced chasing themselves. They said it was “Hares and Hounds.”
A couple of days later, they again broke loose. It was last Saturday. You might have seen some of them skirting across the campus, nosing here and there, climbing trees, and dragging feminine companions with them on their frantic flight. This was a “treasure hunt.” They said it was, and who are we to stand up against 20 men with a gleam in their eye?
One questionable point remains. Not long ago, 12 of the 20 had a
tea party in the dining hall, right in the midst of all the crass hustle and bustle of that plebian establishment. Now, you might say that this is being quite on the shady side of things, and that they shouldn’t growl at the pretty boys who do the same thing occasionally. Ah, yet—but we understand that the Sorinmates were snickering as they went through the motions. We’ll wager the pretty boys don’t snicker at tea-time. Further than that, we’re almost positive they frown.
Only Joshing
We got this one from the editor, whose potent mouthings you will find spread out over the back of this page. Don’t look now—wait until we finish the story.
John was watching the Sorin-Corby game, when this man sidled up to him and began to scan the field intently. Finally, he nudged John. “Which one is Melinkovich?” he inquired.
“Mink?” said John, “Mink’s on the varsity.”
“Yeh, I know,” the other replied, “which is him?”
John persisted. “You don’t understand. This is an interhall game. This isn’t the varsity.”
“Get out,” snorted the man, “no interhall uses gold pants. Them’s varsity.” And he continued to scan the field for Melinkovich.
Incidentally, Corby has a good man there in D’Amora. It was tough game for him to lose.
Three dollars a pound
Not having anything more fascinating to do, two students entered upon a fast recently and although, one quit after the first week, the other, for all we know, might still be going. Seems there’s a question of monetary recompense involved. You know, money.
The one who is still going has forgotten what food looks like, which is practically the case with most of us, anyway. He eats four or five oranges a day, and feels great. He can stand it if anybody can. But what wears him down is the constant surveillance by his friends. He doesn’t get a chance to grab a bite to eat.
Perhaps you know him. Perhaps you’ve seen the way his suits are beginning to sag. Well, if you see him eating, or even moving his jaws in a suspicious manner, let us know and we’ll split with you on the hush money.
ne
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine........................Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling_______________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN_________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, IL_________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TAGKLEY.________________-----Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN________________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN___________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL__________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER----------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS__________________________.FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONL_____________________FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH_____________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST___________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER-----------.-----Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER_______________.ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
JAMES McMULLEN
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY------------------.Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated &Ut$iate
1935 e-
WISCONSIN
November 16, 1934
FOOTBALL RECEIPTS
In the New York Sun of November 3, Lawrence Perry in his column, “For the Game’s Sake,” makes the following comments regarding the ultimate disposal of Notre Dame’s football receipts. The Scholastic presents Mr. Perry’s article with the solitary remark that both Mr. Perry and Mr. McGovern have an indubitably sound view of facts:
“John T. (Terry) McGovern, a Cornell graduate whose influence in international track and field is very significant, escorted the Italian student group to Notre Dame, one of the many American universities visited by the athletes last September.
“Terry had not seen the South Bend institution in some years and he was amazed by the physical as well as the scholastic development of the university.
“ ‘Some time ago,’ he said to this writer today, ‘a magazine article appeared saying it would be interesting to know what educational purposes are served by the football receipts at Notre Dame.
“ ‘The intent of that question was a sneer and I had it in mind when I went to Notre Dame with the Italian crowd. So now I am able unreservedly to say that the query was mean, ill-advised and proffered without knowledge of facts nor, indeed, with any decent sense of respect for the feelings of the staff, students or undergraduates of a fine cultural and useful American institution of learning.’
“Terry McGovern’s sentiment will be generally echoed by all who know anything about Notre Dame. Such of these as have not chanced to visit there in recent years will find that the university has a new college of Commerce, of Engineering, and of Law. There is a comparatively modest stadium, much smaller than many through- । out the land. It was built without issue of bonds and paid for virtually within the year it was completed. There are two new dormitories which enable most students to live on the campus. These are the physical results wholly oi’ in part of football receipts in the last decade. A greater ability to ’engage and adequately to pay lay members of the faculty is another result.
“So this is how football has served educational interests at the University of Notre Dame.”
WELCOME REVIVAL	4
Debating, oratory, and forensics were, at one time, the outstanding non-athletic activities on the Notre Dame campus. Last year several very definite steps were taken in the direction of restoring this happy condition. In this week’s Scholastic there will be found three stories which indicate that, this year, even more progress ■will be made to restore forensic endeavor as a crowded field of campus activity.
On the first page of The Scholastic is an article which announces a general call for candidates for the varsity debating team. Coach William Coyne will, no doubt, receive a large turnout in answer to his call. That is as it should be.
During recent years varsity debating has become, once again, an outstanding student activity. Notre Dame’s 1933-’34 record in intercollegiate debating was an enviable one. The debaters tied foi- first place in a tour-nament at Iowa City, Iowa which brought them into competition with the nation’s finest forensic squads. In their decision debates they scored victories over Kent College of Law and the highly reputed New York University squad. In their non-decision arguments they consistently won the sympathy of the audience with their clean cut logical appeals.
Another story describes in detail the progress of the I.C.O. — the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest which is being sponsored by the Wranglers. This innovation is a most commendable one. That The Scholastic is not alone in this opinion is evidenced by the support tended the I.C.O. by several bishops.
Still another story deals with the activity of interhall debaters. It is probably safe to make the statement that in no other American university does intramural debating receive such a spontaneous and hearty response. Not only is each hall represented by a team of well coached, well prepared and well equipped men, but there is also an interested and enthused audience of a considerable size present at each debate.
The Scholastic hopes that the present trend toward a revival of oratory and debating has but begun and that it will continue under the watchful guidance of the Depart- । ment of Speech and the Wranglers.
Ten
The Scholastic

By Edward J. Van Huisseling
SANTA CLAUS
When a team which I support loses a ball game I don’t run off to a secluded spot and conjure all sorts of alibis. On the contrary, I rather like to forgive, forget, and figure on something better for that team when next it appears on public display.
Exception must be made, however, in regard to the Navy-Notre Dame scrap of last Saturday. I can’t figure a team out-scored in first downs, 14 to 2, outgained from scrimmage, and completely outplayed offensively and defensively, anything but rabbit-footish when it wins such a game. That was the case of the Midshipmen from Annapolis who performed in Cleveland. The same situation existed in 1933 when the Green and the Gobs tangled. Santa Claus made a premature call on the Annapolis crowd at that time. Notre Dame swarmed all over the Middies, making among other things, 21 first downs to their four, only to lose, 7 to 0. “The gentleman of the chimneys had something to do with it.” It appears as if he repeated last Saturday.
There’s a very logical answer to all this I’ll admit. The answer reads something like this: “But they pay off on touchdowns.” True enough. And don’t form the opinion that all this is meant to belittle the Sailors. They were all everyone said they would be — Buzz Borries and ten henchmen. Their ability, spirit, and determination to win were remarkable.
But cross the road to the shady side and the picture from there—from a Notre Dame angle —is as it was: the Irish lacked a sustained offensive, but only because of two breaks at opportune moments — an intercepted forward pass and a blocked kick —was the Navy able to make impressions on the scoreboard. That cannot be held against Navy.
But then look at the Irish breaks. They ran something like this: a punt (Continued on Page 15)
NOTRE DAME STRIVES FOR WIN AGAINST WILDCATS TOMORROW
Andy Pilney 60,000 stood up.
PARTIAL SCHEDULE FOR FENCING SOUAD IS ANNOUNCED
Long fundamental drills topped off with conditioning exercises still take up most of the time in the daily fencing drill, although attention is now being centered on individual specialization.
An exhibition at the charity affair held at Holy Cross parish on Nov. 8 and 9 saw the following men in action: Louis Grosso and Vincent Sing-son in foils, Carlos de Landero and Joe Myron in sabre, and Johnny Ca-resio and Telmo de Landero in dueling swords.
The schedule as arranged by Coach de Landero includes:
Jan. 12—Cincinnati, here; Jan. 19 —-Washington, here; Feb. 2—Purdue, here; Feb. 16—Cincinnati, there.
Return engagements may be arranged with Purdue at Lafayette and Washington at St. Louis. A meet with Illinois has been arranged although no definite date has been set.
This schedule may be supplemented by several other clashes with Northwestern, Chicago, Ohio State and Wisconsin.
HANLEYMEN ARE IMPROVED
By Cy Stroker
The Irish football team meets tomorrow, in Dyche stadium, Evanston, a team that is hard to figure out. The Northwestern eleven has lost four games this season, to Iowa, Stanford, Ohio State, and Illinois, and has won but one game., against Wisconsin. But Hanley’s men, in the games with Illinois and Wisconsin, have shown themselves to be capable of playing an excellent brand of ball and Notre Dame will have more than a little trouble stopping them.
The Wildcats held the undefeated Illinois squad with a three point margin last Saturday for three periods and it was only in the last quarter that the Ulini were able to break through a stubborn Northwestern defense to score two touchdowms. The progress made by the team may be somewhat halted, however, by injuries suffered by the Northwestern quarterbacks. Dick Hanley is now busy training Bob Swasher, a halfback, to fill the vacancy. Swisher is considered to be a star ball carrier, but he may have some trouble learning to be a field general in such a short period of time.
Wildcats Minus Potter
Perhaps the most serious setback to the Wildcat fortunes came as a result of injuries sustained by Potter, the first string quarterback. In the first games of the season, Northwestern relied for its offense almost entirely on passing. Potter was the best pass thrower on the team, and his absence detracts a great deal from the Chicagoans’ attack.
Notre Dame seems to be on the line between a good and bad season with three wins and an equal number of losses. A victory over the Wildcats is almost imperative, since its only remaining opponents are Southern California and Army, both strong teams. The defeat suffered by the team at the hands of Pittsburgh two weeks ago was not entirely unexpected since the Panthers are one of the best teams in the country. The loss to Navy last week was unfortunate, but it does not require a Ro-
(Continued on Page 14)
November 16, 193 4
Eleven
Don Allen Is Lost to Basketball
Squad for Season; Ireland Hurt
PITTSBURGH PANTHERS DOWN NOTRE DANE 19 0
KEOGAN’S PLANS ALTERED
By James A. Waldron
When a coach walks around with a long face, he either has a good team or he is worried. In the case of George Keogan, Notre Dame’s basketball coach, it is worry. After the
Don Allen Cagers' first casualty. •
graduation of Krause, Voegele, Crowe and Co., Keogan thought that he could salvage some of his 1934 artillery by pairing Don Allen at guard with George Ireland. This was a combination that had all the requisites necessary for chalking up a place in Notre Dame court history.
Jordan Shifted To Guard
Storm signals were raised when Don Allen was taken ill with typhoid fever. Dr. McMeel, team physician, has announced that “Red” will have to spend the rest of the year building up his weakened constitution. Now comes the report that George Ireland, great guard from last year, is laid up with an injured knee. The Irish mentor before the basketball season has even opened is crying, “a guard, a guard, my kingdom for a guard.”
Outside of the above complications Coach Keogan is all set. His daily workouts have been mainly along the lines of conditioning exercises with a great deal of stress on running-in shots. Captain Johnny Jordan is at present in, a guard post and has had either Frank Wade or Jack Bonner as his backcourt running mate. Johnny Ford and Joe O’Kane have been showing a smooth, lightning fast com-
(Continued on Page 19)
Northwestern Seeks Second Win In Grid Series With Notre Dame
1889—N. D. 9 ; Northwestern 0 1899—N. D. 12; Northwestern 0 1901—N. D. 0 ; Northwestern 2 1903—N. D. 0 ; Northwestern 0 1920—N. D. 33; Northwestern 7 1924—N. D. 13 ; Northwestern 6 1925—N. D. 13 ; Northwestern 10 1926—N. D. 6 ; Northwestern 0 1929—N. D. 26 ; Northwestern 6 1930—N. D. 14 ; Northwestern 0 1931—N. D. 0 ; Northwestern 0 1932—N. D. 21; Northwestern 0 1933—N. D. 7 ; Northwestern 0
The series of football games with Northwestern are the oldest in the history of Notre Dame football. The two schools met for the first time in 1889, and since then have met 13 times. Northwestern has gained but one decision • over Notre Dame since they first met. That was in the game of 1901, in which the Wildcats emerged victorious by the score of 2-0.
In their first meeting, Notre Dame by the virtue of a field goal by Car-tier “surrounded by opponents,” and a touchdown that was pushed over late in the last quarter, emerged victorious by the score of 9-0. This game was the first played away from home by the Irish.
The two schools met only five times between 1889 and 1924. Since 1924 they have met regularly except for the seasons of 1927 and ’28.
Elmer Layden was highly instrumental in defeating the Evanston team in the game that originated the modern series in 1924. Late in the fourth quarter Layden intercepted a Northwestern pass on his own 30 yard line. He streaked down the sidelines and scored the touchdown that made the score 13-6 in favor of Notre Dame.
The closest Notre Dame came to defeat in the modern series occurred in the thrilling game of 1931. Both teams at the time were outstanding candidates for National Championship. All during the afternoon the two teams surged up and down the field, neither able to score a point. Northwestern threatened the Irish goal many times, but were kept from scoring by the strong Notre Dame line.
The next year’s game started off with one of the greatest thrills of football, a touchdown on the kickoff play. George Melinkovich recovered his own fumble and ran the entire length of the field for the first score of the game. The Irish ran roughshod over the Wildcats in this game, winning by a score of 21-0.
(Continued on Page 14)
By Cy Stroker
Notre Dame’s football team lost its first major game of the season a week ago last Saturday before a crashing Pittsburgh eleven to the tune of 19-0. The veteran Panther squad outplayed Layden’s men throughout the game, and in spite of their terrific efforts, the Irish never seriously threatened the opponents’ goal.
The first Pitt score came as a result of a punt by Pilney, when Shedlosky, Panther halfback, took the ball on his own 40 yard line and ran through the entire Irish team for a touchdown. Mike Nicksick was responsible for the other two, the first on a 46 yard run off right tackle, and the third after Shedlosky’s run around end brought the ball to Notre Dame’s three yard line. The Panthers just missed a fourth when the first half ended with Pitt in possession of the ball on the Irish two yard line.
The game was primarily a battle between the lines, and it was in this respect that Pitt showed the value of experience. Five of the Pitt line are seniors who have been playing together for three years and they made short work of the lighter and less experienced Irish. The spectacular work of Jack Robinson at center served somewhat to bolster the spirit of the line.
It was a bad day for passes for both teams. Pitt threw ten passes without completing one, while Notre Dame threw nine passes, caught one, and had six intercepted. If Notre Dame had perfected a good passing attack the final result of the game might have been somewhat different. The Irish were playing what seems to be the second strongest team in the country this year, however, and it is doubtful whether even several completed passes could stop the scoring onrush of the Panthers.
Hibernians Still Seek La Raza As Opponents
By adding the Irish Club to the list of members of which their team will be composed, the Hibernian soccer squad will play all games in the future under one management, with two different organizations represented. This move was made last week, and in all probability will prove to be a strong factor for Maxwell’s men having the “cream of the crop” from both aggregations.
The Hibernians are still trying to reach a decision with the La Raza team as to h possible match within at least the-next couple of weeks.
The Scholastic
‘Twelve
CARROLL HALL CONQUERS SORIN FOR CHANPIONSHIP
Irish Score With Four Minutes To Play But Lose to Midshipmen
I
By John I. Flanagan
Two great teams met in the Stadium Sunday for the Interhall championship of 1934. Both teams had enviable records, winning all of their five games and at the same time keeping their goal line unsullied by enemy cleats. Yes, two great teams met and the better team returned the victor. Carroll Hall, after being tossed around at will by the Sorin Tigers during the first quarter, turned those vicious Tigers into harmless kittens for the remainder of the game. The score, 21-7, but that is immaterial.
Throughout the first quarter the Sorin steamroller did devastating damage to the dormitory lads’ line, climaxing it with a 30-yard end run by Captain Art Carey for its only score. The try for the extra point was successful and the seniors seemed to be on their way for another victory. It didn’t even bother them much when Carroll scored near the end of the second quarter when Connors scored Carroll’s first touchdown after a blocked Sorin punt. Yet when the third and fourth quarter dwindled into eternity the boys began to realize that they had at last met their match, and could do nothing about it.
Sorin Punts Are Blocked
The game was only ten minutes old before the Tigers started moving goal ward "with short plunges and sweeping end runs. It was one of these end runs that provided them with their lone touchdown. It started out as a reverse to the right and then suddenly Captain Carey started around the left end with five men for interference. So perfectly was the play executed that when he crossed the goal-line two of the men were still with him and there wasn’t a Carroll man within five yards. Carroll came right back and scored after the whole line rushed in and blocked a Sorin kick. Their touchdown was accomplished by Boyle and Connors, who finally went over for the score. The half ended with the score 7-6 in favor of the Tigers.
Early in the third period Carroll again blocked Sorin’s punt and recovered on the 13 yard line. Boyle made seven yards around right end, and Connors picked up one at center. The next play was a pass which was knocked down by Carey but which was given to Carroll on the two yard line because of interference with the pass receiver. Carroll had four downs to make two yards. Connors finally went over after three plays failed to score. The try for the extra point was successful and Carroll went into the lead 13-7, never to be headed by the Tigers.
Sports Writers Comment On Notre Dame Defeats
By Pittsbrugh and Navy
“The Golden hosts of Pitt broke up Notre Dame’s victory march 19-0, but only after the hard bitten Hoosiers warned the gridiron world by their die-hard play that the stars of Notre Dame will shine again. . . The huge crowd saw the Irish gridiron Renaissance cut short by the dashing backs of Pitt, who scored or paved the way for the home team’s three tallies by breath taking sprints in the last • three periods. . . .”—Boston Sunday Post.
“Completely outplaying Notre Dame from start to finish, Pitt’s mighty machine ground the Irish under a crushing 19-0 defeat in the stadium here this afternoon before 64,000 spectators. . . At no stage of the game did Notre Dame appear to have a chance, so effectively did the Pitts hold the upper hand. . .”
Bill Costin South Bend Nezvs-Times
“Annapolis sent out a stream-lined destroyer today in the form of a graceful football eleven that belied the brutality of its attack to rake the Rambling Irish from Notre Dame 10-6, and substantiate, in a fashion the prohpesy of Coach Tom Hamilton of the Easterners that it is a Navy year. . . Notre Dame’s passing was ragged ill-timed and was an open book to Hamilton’s secondary........... Bill Shakespeare and George Melin-kovich, doing most of the carrying, were always threatening but were ruined by penalties at moments which proved very propitious to the middies.”—Wayne K. Otto, Chicago Herald and Examiner.
“Bitter as though the inland seas themselves were in danger, the young men of the Navy made a magnificent stand on the shores of Lake Erie today, hurled back the green might of Notre Dame, 10-6, and sailed on toward unbeaten glory as great as any football forces from Annapolis ever have known. . . It was the seventh straight conquest of the season for the Midshipmen, and by every possible measure their greatest. . . .”— Ed J. Neil, The Cincinnati Enquirer
“The Navy football team, as fighting a bunch of sailors as you would care to find, still rides the waves as one of the few undefeated teams in the country. . . It landed in its dressing room port at the municipal stadium late this afternoon with its most valuable cargo of the season. . .”
PILNEY RACES 62 YARDS
By Joe Prendergast
The historic booming of the “big berthas” from the sides of the Navy dreadnaughts were changed last Saturday in Cleveland’s grand but chilly Municipal Stadium into the perpetual
Rocky Schiralli
He played only 60 minutes.
“buzz-ing” of aeroplane motors as the midshipmen from the banks of the Severn in Maryland downed Elmer Layden’s gallant Notre Dame football team, 10 to 6.
The Navy took to the air in a big way, being ably piloted by “Buzz” Borries who ran and passed his way to golden opportunities which were quickly capitalized on by his mates.
Notre Dame dominated the play throughout. Navy came to life in exactly three instances during the thrill packed battle and used two of these brief moments they held the upper hand to collect their ten points. Near the end of the first quarter the future ensigns up and blocked one of Bill Shakespeare’s punts, the ball going out of bounds on Notre Dame’s 37 yard line. Skipper Borries tossed a cross-field pass to Dornin on the next play that carried to the 11 yard stripe. Three plays netted the Navy three yards as the quarter ended.
With resumption of play in the second period, Navy elected to try for a field goal. So with Clark holding the ball Cutter did right by the Navy goat and booted it through the uprights. For the remainder of this second period and the whole of the next quarter the game took on its characteristic hue. Notre Dame on the offensive, made fine gains only to have them nullified by penalties (Continued on Page 15)
November 16, 1934
T h ir t e en
Scribe Finds Elmer Layden The Center of Attraction
CROSS COUNTRY SQUAD LOSES AT PITTSBURGH
(Ed. note: The folloiving is a reprint of an interview with Elmer Layden, published in the Nov. 8 issue of the Duquesne “Duke.”)
“Hey Tom,” panted Muldoon, “Layden’s down in the cafeteria, how ’bout sliding down and get an interview, Djahearme?”
Elmer F. Layden You bet we like him.
So-o-o, without further ado, I grab my topcoat, turn up my collar, snap on my hat at a “reporterish” angle, borrow a pencil and some paper (you see a good reporter always goes by the motto: never carry a pencil, you can always borrow one when you need it), and hot foot it down the stairs in search of Ehner to pester him with a few questions which he has answered to other reporters a hundred times before.
Now a real news hound always gets his man. So in no time, I’m down in the cafeteria where I come to a sudden halt. Ma goodness! Such a crowd. I wonder what all the people are standing around for? Their attention seems to be directed towards someone in the middle of the circle; someone wearing a light gray hat and a blue coat. Say! Maybe it’s Elmer, I say to myself (funny, isn’t it how a reporter can sort of sense things like that).	.
Well, with that sudden and inspiring thought driving me on, I madly tear my way into the seemingly solid group of students and after going through a terrific ordeal of shoving, pushing and elbowing I finally emerge
minus a hat, necktie out of place, top coat half on and a few other minor “injuries,” on the inner circle directly before Mr. Layden.
I no sooner regain my composure than I hear, “Well, well, if it isn’t the ‘Hazelton Flash’ himself, how are you kid?” With that, Layden grabs my five with such a grip that my hand is useless for about an hour. (And they call him the “thin man” out there in South Bend. Ow-wa! Ow-wa!)
“Mr. Layden, ” I say, “would you mind answering a few questions for me?” “No, go right ahead, but don’t ask too many,” says Layden. Well, I • foil him by shooting a fast one like this: “Well, Mr. Layden how do. the boys out at Notre Dame like you, pretty good, huh?” This does not phase Elmer though, no siree, not at all. He replies in a nonchalant manner, “Oh yes, they like me, a nice bunch of fellows out there all right.” Naturally I am quite surprised but not floored completely as I counter with another thrust: “I’ll bet all the fellows here are sure glad to see you again, eh, Elmer?” Here Layden proves himself an expert as he wards off the thrust by replying, “Yes, Flash I think the boys are all glad to see me again, and turning to Wiehl who has just broken through the ranks says, “How ’bout it Tiny?” Of course Tiny is put on the spot but he also proves adept in warding off direct questions by answering, “Yes, they sure do treat us swell here this year, the eats are fine.” Layden comes back with a “Yes you sure look as though you receive your share, Tiny.”
Well, now I guess you’ve stood for this rambling long enough so I’ll let you have it straight from the shoulder. Layden really was glad to have the opportunity to be back on the Bluff once again even if it was only for a short time. He says he likes it fine out in South Bend, naturally he feels right at home as the Midwest was his birthplace. He also expressed the wish that he could have about five or six Duke players on his squad. Mr. Layden proved he was not telling any “bear” stories when he predicted his team would lose by at least three touchdowns. When asked what he thought of the Dukes this year he said that the boys sure have been playing swell ball and if they keep on playing that brand, could see no reason why they should not win the remainder of the games on the schedule. Asked why he picked Detroit over
(Continued on Page 20)
In a race that had more ups and downs than the Notre Dame football record, a game group of Irish harriers from the “flatlands” of Indiana were defeated by the “hillbilly” of Pittsburgh University 15-46. The Smoky City team swept the first five places after a cross-country run over the hills of Schenley Park.
Tomorrow the Irish runners will be back on familiar footing at Bloomington, Indiana. This meet will be the concluding event for the cross-country squad of McDevitt, McGrath, McKenna, Lee, Kenyon, and Gott. The team which has raced all season without the services of several of its finest runners, deserves great credit for its good showing. At Bloomington, tomorrow, the men will give everything they have to turn in a Notre Dame victory and end the season as a success.
N. U HISTORY
(Continued from Page 12)
Even in the midst of their most disastrous season Notre Dame has eked out a 7-0 victory over the team from Evanston. .
The Northwestern game filled with the tradition of the old Notre Dame teams the Four Horsemen; the great team of 1930; has always been one of the highlights of the nation’s football games.
NORTHWESTERN GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
tary Club complex to say that the loss was the result of bad breaks. The Irish outplayed the sailors from start to finish, and the completion of a few passes at crucial moments gave the Navy an unexpected victory.
To-morrow’s game will give Layden’s men a chance to prove their real worth. The experience the team has had on pass defense against Navy and Carnegie Tech should help the team to discourage any aerial attack by Northwestern. The line play that the team encountered in its games with Pitt and Wisconsin should enable Notre Dame to stop the Wildcats’ power plays since the Northwestern line is neither as heavy nor as shifty as those of the other teams.
The Irish offense has been improving rapidly since the beginning of the •season; "Through- long -practice the blocking is much more effective, and line plunges seem to net more yardage than previously. Notre Dame’s passing attack leaves much to be desired, but the average of completed passes is steadily increasing.
Fourteen
The Scholastic

NAVY GAME
(Continued from Page 13)

and Navy showing wonderful defense in tight spots, fighting to protect the three point lead it held.
The fourth chapter of this fray gave the adherents of both teams more exciting minutes than had the combined three quarters previously past. With about five minutes of the time in this canto expired and the U. S. Academy boys in possession of the ball on Notre Dame’s 25 yard line, the “Buzz-ing” of the Middies' motors began really to roar. Borries quited the squadron and started out alone around his own right end. He weathered the Irish storm for 63 yards being shelled down so terrifically on his opponents’ 12 yard line that a fumble resulted. Rocky Schiralli recovered for the Irish. Notre Dame then started a parade of its own up the field.
I

Borries To Dorwin
Andy Pilney set it under way with a clever bit of running to gain 32 yards. Pilney attempted to pass to Marty Peters, the throw was intercepted by Bill Clark who had forgotten that this was Notre Dame’s parade. Jack Robinson finally hauled him to earth on the Irish’ seven . yard line. Two plays later Fred “Buzz” Borries in exactly the same fashion as he had done in the first quarter started out on a supposed right end run, stopped short and shot a diagonal pass over the heads of the Notre Dame secondary to left end, Dornin who was alone in the end zone. Bull kicked the extra point for Navy, giving them their total of 10 points.
Notre Dame still was to be heard from. Andy Pilney received the kickoff and put on a burst of speed which carried for 62 yards to the Middies’ 27 yard marker. Pilney shot a well directed pass to Peters on the next Irish signal who snatched the ball out of the hands of two defenders and struggled two yards to register an Irish touchdown. The point after was missed by Rey Bonar. The game ended immediately after the next kickoff.
Notre Dame was the better ball club all afternoon. They missed scoring plays by such a slim margin that it was pitiful. Navy had a light scrappy but well trained outfit which utilized its every break. “Buzz” Borries was the berries (not of maroon colored tintage either). He stopped Bill Shakespeare twice, Melinkovich once, Andy Pilney twice, when all were touchdown bound. He passed superbly and can carry the ball with the best of them. Jack Robinson and Henry Pojman did fine work in the center of the Notre Dame line. Pilney, Shakespeare, and Melinkovich left nothing to be asked, for in the backfield play of the Laydenmen.
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
narrowly missed being downed by a Notre Dame end as the ball slid over the goal line; an intercepted Navy forward pass called back and the Laydenmen penalized; a man in the clear drops a difficult pass. It all winds up with the idea of what they pay off on, but that doesn’t cancel the luck element that stands out like a sore finger. It was hard to take. It • might even be called an example of the better team not winning.
•
INTERHALL
Last Sunday another interhall football season reached a successful conclusion with Carroll’s impressive 21 to 7 win from the Sorin Tiger. Interhall competition has always appealed to me as one of the truly Notre Dame institutions. Its purposes — all worthy—are several. At random a few of the more outstanding are: to provide a vent for men who haven’t the ability to capture berths on the various varsity squads; to develop the spirit of competition; and to occupy at least a minor part of what leisure time may be available.
•
WE PICK
Two weeks ago we made our last predictions. They netted 30 wins, 11 defeats, and four ties. The season total is 146-32-10. The percentage was dragged down to .804., Counting the ties as defeats the count is .751. This week there are 30 games. WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME OVER NORTHWESTERN Army over The Citadel Duquesne over Carnegie Tech Colgate over' Syracuse Columbia over Penn
Dartmouth over Cornell Fordham over Purdue Harvard over New Hampshire Pittsburgh over Navy Princeton over Yale Villanova over Manhattan Minnesota, over Chicago Illinois over Wisconsin Indiana over Maryland Nebraska over Kansas Ohio State over Michigan Alabama over Georgia Tech Auburn over Florida Duke over North Carolina Georgia over North Carolina State Tulane over Kentucky Louisiana State over Mississippi Rice over Texas A & M Vanderbilt over Tennessee California over Idaho Oregon State over Montana Oklahoma Aggies over Tulsa Oregon over Southern California Stanford over Olympic Club Washington over Puget Sound
WARREN CARTIER
(Continued from Page 1)
and Byron V. Kanaley of Chicago, who is a member of the associate board of lay trustees.
Further honor will be paid to Warren Cartier’s memory at Notre Dame during the next few weeks, as it has been. announced that 100 masses are to be said for the repose of his soul during that time. A Solemn Requiem Mass was likewise offered for him in Sacred Heart Church last Saturday morning on the day of his funeral.
Nearly the whole course of Mr. Cartier’s life was characterized by his faithful service to Notre Dame. As a member of the varsity rowing crew during his college days, he did his first bit for the University. He was graduated with the class of ’87.
The actual donation of Cartier field came a few years later, after he had become a successful lumberman. This field remained the University’s gridiron until 1930, when the new stadium was completed. At rhat time the sod of old Cartier was transferred to the new football plant.
As a very prominent member of the alumni association, Mr. Cartier served for 18 years as treasurer, and for one year as president of that organization. Likewise he was selected as a life member of the board of lay trustees after its inception in 1923.
His last appearance on the Notre Dame campus was during the week end of this year’s Notre Dame-Purdue football game. Ten days later he went to a Chicago hospital for relief from a kidney infection.
Mr. Cartier’s prominence as. a Catholic layman, however, extended far beyond the sphere of Notre Dame. In 1927 Pope Pius IX conferred upon him one of the highest honors for which a layman is eligible, knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory. In addition he was widely known as the recording secretary of the National Catholic Extension S o c i e t y and as grand knight of the Knights of Columbus organization.
In the field of business, Warren Cartier was just as much of a success. Starting first a prosperous lumberman, he later branched out to become president of the old Northern Michigan Transit Company, which operates Great Lake steamships. His most recent business venture was in the banking field. During his life’s activity, this famous alumnus likewise found time to serve several terms as mayor of Ludington.
“Warren A. Cartier served the University faithfully for fifty years. From the time he entered the University, he distinguished himself by loyalty and helpfulness. . . . His service to the Catholic Church was notable. . . . Notre Dame was honored when the Holy Father recognized his service by conferring on him the Knighthood of St. Gregory. .
Fifteen
November 16, 193 4
DOUGLAS
NOTHING (an pinch-hit for
Where leather is called for in a shoe, anything else falls down on the job. Wear, comfort, and appearance suffer when a shoe goes off the AllLeather standard. That’s why Douglas sticks to leather! This Fall, for as little as $3.50. . . our rock-bottom price of forty years ago. . . Douglas gives you Solid-Leather shoes with no hidden substitutes.
The South Bend Douglas Store can fit you in any style you want. Every model, that’s been accepted by men’s wear experts as correct for this Fall, is in stock. See them today.
210 So. Michigan St.
Open Saturday Evening
MEN'S SHOES. . S3.5O, $4.50, $5.50
5 ixteen
On Down The Line
Well, they did it! Coe 19, Knox 0. And that, gentlemen, is a brand new world’s record—25 defeats in a row for the gridders of old Knox. Long live Siwash! . . . Along with that comes this low down on the 34 So. Cal. team, by a Los Angeles sports writer: “The Trojans are weak in charging, tackling, blocking, offensive quarter - backing, defensive quarter backing, ball carrying, and forward passing.” . . . Thanks for the dope. . . . The Chicago Cubs recently bid $375,000 for DIZZY and DAFFY DEAN . . . JOHNNY WEISMULLER still holds the official world’s record for the 100 yard, 100 meter, 220 yard, 200 meter, 440 yard, and 500 yard swimming events. . . . CHARLEY COX, Villanova tackle, has had a few tough breaks this winter. . . . He has been bitten by a copperhead snake, received a fractured left wrist and concussion of the brain. . . . DICK HARLOW, Western Maryland football coach, is one of the country’s best-known ornithologists. . . . That means he knows his birds. . . . JACK DOWNEY, St. Mary’s football trainer, says he fought JACK DEMPSEY three times and claims one victory over him. . . .
CLIPPER SMITH, Santa Clara football coach, has installed a miniature gridiron in his office. The field is 14 feet long. The 22 men in the game are small wooden affairs . . . all for Quarterback drill . . . Penn State’s soccer team which toured Scotland in the late summer didn’t win a single victory in its eight games. . . . AL LIPPE, veteran boxing manager, has seconded boxers in China, Japan, Australia, Egypt, Poland, Russia, Italy, and even in the South Sea Islands. . . . Uncle GEORGE BELOGNIA is a tackle on Marquette’s frosh eleven. ... His nephew, LLOYD TAPPA, quarterbacks the the team. . . . LAVERNE FATOR, one of the leading jockeys for the past 15 years, has more than 1,000 victories to his credit. . . . TOMMY BRIDGES, of the Detroit Tigers, has one of the fastest balls in the majors, and he weighs only 155 pounds. . . . Instead of buying tees, members of the Waterloo Golf and Country club, in Galt, Ontario, are using acorns as golf stands. . . . The game of billiards is known to have been played before the Christian era ... -and the record run is 853 balls . . . held by ANDREW PONZI. . . . Dr. CORNELIUS R. LOVE had three reasons for being interested in the Brown-Yale game this fall. . . . Two of his three sons, who are triplets, play for Brown and the third plays for Yale. . . .
Two halfbacks, RICHARD HALL, by name, met when Georgetown played the Violets of New York University . . . Both were half backs. . . . Navy could use Baltimore’s municipal stadium that seats 80,000 ... It would be free . . . yet they continue to operate in their 22,000 capacity stands. ... In his first six amateur contests, LEONARD DEL GENIO, New York boxer, scored six consecutive knockouts in the first round. . . . But then there is ED JOHNSTON, who once fought three times in one night at different New York clubs and scored three knockouts. . . . RAY FUQUA is serving his second year as captain of the Southern Methodist eleven. . . . LAWSON LITTLE may be No. 1 in National Golfing ratings, but on his own college team he ranks No. 2. . . . BILL TILDEN did not win. the U. S. national championship until he was 27 years old. . . . The lone survivor of the original New York Celtics, famous pro basketball team, is PETE BARRY. ... He is starting his twentieth season with that organization. . . .
Three members of California’s varsity eleven have taken the marriage vows this season. . . . The late BILL EDWARDS lost between 25 and 35 pounds each time he played in a Princeton vs. Yale football game. . . . That series dates back 61 years . . . 30 games have gone to Yale, 17 to Princeton, and 10 have been even Stephen. . . . Jockey DON MEADE is laid up. ... Got hurt by a plate thrown from the capable hands of ANNE WILLIAMS, cook in a training kitchen. . . . New Rochelle’s high school football team went through 21 games in three years without having its goal line crossed by an opponent. . . . General GEORGE H. SHERRILL, prominently identified with amateur sport, was the first American sprinter to use the crouch start in competition. . . . “JAKE THE SNAKE” PENTY, Cleveland dice roller, was once all-state quarterback there. . . . And a parting shot for you squashers ... They are using a standard ball now ... It must be between 2 % and 2 J2 inches and tested to a fifty pound inflation pressure.
Cosgrove Speaks
“Familiarize yourself thoroughly with the subject of your editorial, edit your copy accurately, and do not allow emotion to overrule reasoning when presenting an argument,” warned Mr. James Cosgrove, of the South Bend Tribune, last Wednesday, Oct. 31, before a round table discussion of the senior journalists, presided over by Doctor John M. Cooney and Joseph Bucci.
The Scholastic
Style . .
Comfort..
Service..
The Big 3
that University men demand— Authentic Styles that have won unqualified approval; Comfort, which comes only with fitting perfection; and Service, whether it be in delivery, careful attention to special personal desires, or merely that friendly cooperation between customer and sales representative for which we are nationally known.
This suit model, popular on many an American campus, features a 3-button, notched lapel, natural shoulder, and moderately long coat. This is but one of many models that Nash makes available this year for the discriminating young man—whether he be at a uni-■ versity or in business.
So They Say:
That felloiv you’ve seen around the campus with the inquiring look and . t h e well - dressed appearance noiv turns out to be not a scout from Southern Cal but only the Nash Reporter. True he goes from Univer- ? sity to University but he’s only interested in the mufti you display. Here’s his report from a few of the many Notre Dame men he encountered.
The Question:
“What do you know of the Nash company?”
The Anszvers:
“I am very well pleased with my Nash suits—and I seem to be in good company”—Hugh Devore.
“Excellent fit — good service — as smooth as an essay in Scrip”—G. Albert Lazoton
“One of the best suits I ever owned was made by Nash”—Thomas K. LaLonde
“I liked the treatment I received from both the Nash company and its representative.”—Leo (Skip) Cormier
“They told me satisfaction was guaranteed — and I got it—Reuben Gunderman.
NASH Style Hints
Patterns..
Woolens..
Tailoring..
The Big 3
of custom tailored clothes: correctly cut and hand-sewn tailoring; a wide variety of patterns to choose from; and woolens that are 100 percent . pure virgin wool. These are requisites for every Nash suit or overcoat that comes out of our extensive shops.
Competing this year for favor with the camel’s hair fabric overcoat, but adhering in every detail to the polo coat model, are any number of smart Nash overplaid and checked fabrics that have the texture, softness and comfort of camel’s hair.
$23-5°
$27 so s3350 »3850
Some Importations at $42.50
PAT” RIGLEY (’26)
GOLDEN RULE
CINCINNATI • • OHIO
Phone 3-2644 542 Associates Building
Fall stylists decree that the easy-fitting suits be of rough fabrics— with woolens predominating. With colder weather on our door-step, the smart collegian will accept this mode as both stylish and practical. Fall • showings throughout the country are featuring these new designs and cloths. Drop in at our South Bend branch-office and see our complete selection.
Questions concerning what is and what is not correct dress will be answered by us or our representative at any time. Write or phone us, or hail Pat Rigley on the campus. You’ll find him mighty well-informed on all matters of dress from shoes to hats as well as suits and overcoats. Naturally the obligation is ours to serve —not yours to buy.
$27.50
s3850
Some Importations at $42.50
“PAT” RIGLEY (’26)
GOLDEN RULE
Phone 3-2644 542 Associates Building
November 16, 1934
Seventeen
Buffalo Club Makes Plans
For The Annual Dance
neighboring cities are having the Collegians at Christmas dances.
F. E. R. A.
(Continued from. Page 7)
The Christmas dance of the Buffalo Club will be held at the Statler hotel in Buffalo on December 26. Music will probably be furnished by the Notre Dame Collegians, according to the latest plans of the club revealed by William Measer, president. The decision to use the Collegians at their dance is in keeping with the policy which most upper New York State clubs are following this year. Most
A joint communion breakfast will be given with the Rochester club sometime before Christmas. Final arrangements have not yet been made.
The club has a larger enrollment this year than it has ever had, en- -rolling fifty men. This is in spite of the fact that the club is limiting its ' membership area more strictly than in past years, cutting the area down to within 40 miles of Buffalo rather than about 70 miles which had been the past standard.
SPECIAL RATE
TO CHICAGO
FOR
Notre Dame - Northwestern
FOOTBALL GAME
via
See this important game and go the South Shore way . . . swift as an arrow . . . safe and comfortable as your easy chair! Tickets on sale from noon, Friday, November 16, until noon, Saturday, November 17, with final return limit of November 18.
ROUND TRIP
$0-6°
For more information call C. W. Veach, city-passenger agent, 301 N. Michigan St., So. Bend, Phone 3-3111.
these three combined fields there are approximately 50 boys employed.
There are two other important projects employing about 60 boys in the University Library, one under the direction of Mr. Paul Byrne, librarian, and the other under the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S;C., archivist.. Father McAvoy is supervising the making of a composite analytical index of Catholic historical periodical primary source literature, con- -sisting of informative entries on per--sons, places, and dates referred to in these periodicals. It is expected that when completed, the index will be published. Mr. Byrne is supervising the making of a composite analytical index of Catholic historical periodicals and newspapers for which no indexes are presently available. It is expected that , this index when completed will also be published.
Probably the most interesting project is under the direction of the Uni- i versity landscape superintendent. The University has set aside 17 acres of land, previously used as a poultry farm, and is purchasing trees and shrubs, to be transplanted and de-= veloped on this acreage. It is expected that various types of seedlings will be added at appropriate seasons, which will keep engaged throughout the schoolyear the 30 boys who are helping develop this forestation project to its maximum capacity and value.
Quite obviously, the addition of the FERA employees to the regular University employment list has increased considerably the amount of work in the comptroller’s office. To take cafe of these boys who are part of a total of 800 engaged in work on the University campus, new staff members have been added to Mr. Lloyd’s office to handle the several time records, work schedules, and the preparation of the required Government payrolls and other incidental . details essential to an efficient operation.
Mr. Lloyd stated that other projects under the FERA plan may be added from time to time in substitu-. tion for those projects whose seasonal nature interferes with continuous em-ployment throughout the schoolyear. These substitutions will, of course, guarantee the continuance of employ- ' ment to all the young men to whom : the University has made employment ' commitments for 1934-35.
^SOUTH^ORQ
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE AND SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Kearns Appointment
James S. Kearns, ’34, editor of last year’s Scholastic has been named chairman of the next presentation of the Pageant of Nations, a spectacle produced annually by the Chicago Daily News.
fT he ' S c.h o las tic
Eighteen
It
UHE ATTENTION GIVEN AT DARTMOUTH TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF FINE CHARACTER IS REFLECTED IN AN INFORMED DEMAND FOR WHAT IS FINE IN CLOTHES.
Dartmouth men, instinctively conservative, are nevertheless responsive to all improvements in attire which are sanctioned by good taste.
It is natural that at Dartmouth the Kover-Zip closure is preferred by well-dressed college men and by the leading tailors.
• • • famous outfitter to Dartmouth men, comments — We are pleased to endorse Kover-Zip for use in our custom work. It shows a marked improvement over the exposed metal zipper, and we . . . use it whenever making trousers where a zipper is required.”
. Qiitstaiidut^
nez
cite
cue ci
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.
PARIS PRAGUE DRESDEN WARSAW BARCELONA LONDON
COVERED ZIPPER NOW FIRST CHOICE FOR COLLEGE CLOTHES
“Best-dressed” seniors at America’s leading colleges are definitely against the clumsy old-fashioned fly. Though they prefer the smooth flat slide-fastened fly, they are also opposed to the uncovered zipper which displays a strip of bare metal. Kover-Zip, the invisible seamline closure demanded by good taste, has won approval in colleges from coast to coast. Here are a few typical comments on Kover-Zip by college men selected as “best-dressed.”:
Harold E. Logan
Northwestern, 1934
“The covered zipper has many advantages over the button fly, I am in favor of it. Every day more college men realize the value of the covered zip, see for yourself what they wear.”
Stanley I. Fishel Columbia, 1934
“Kover-Zip is the right closure for trousers, it gives the smart smooth flat effect in front, yet unlike the ordinary zipper there is no unsightly strip of exposed metal. I am for Kover-Zip.”
Joseph A. Lowe California, 1934
“The fellow who invented the covered zipper certainly knocked out a home run; it does away with the raw metal in the ordinary zipper. I want the covered zip on all my trousers.”
Matthew E. Welsh
Pennsylvania, 1934
“Give me a zipper fly every time, though I admit the uncovered metal of the first type of zipper was crude. The new covered zipper with the invisible closure is a natural for the fly.”

BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 12)
bination at the forward positions. The center job is right now a toss-up. Johnny DeMots, Jack McArdle, and Mike O’Conner have all seen their share of action with the first-five in practice/ to date. Of course after football is over and Marty Peters is able to report for the squad the center berth will be in capable and well trained hands.
November ! 6, 1934	■
FATHER HUBBARD
(Continued from Page 8)	-
turbances since it was last filmed sever al years ago that it is hardly recognizable, and the latest explorations of the. dangerous and unexplored Alaskan Peninsula.
Father Hubbard was born in San Francisco. His; interest in mountains and volcanoes was the result of his study of geology at Santa Clara. . After completing his studies in this
country he enrolled in the famous Austrian University of Innsbruck where he began his training for the priesthood. It was here in the Tyrol region that he perfected his great skill as a mountain climber.
After many years of study, during-'which? he- served for a time as the chaplain.of the Empress Zita, he returned to this country and assumed the duties of Head of the Department of Geology at his Alma-Mater, the University of Santa Clara. .
Nineteen
Announcement
is made of the renewal of arrangements which obtained last year through the
L. G. BALFOUR CO. Attleboro, Mass.
for the display and sale of a high class line of college jewelry and insignia.
This year the assortment introduces several exceptional novelties which, because of their fine quality and attractive prices, should appeal to every student.
The complete 1934-1935 line will be presented for your inspection by the following competent and worthy Notre Dame • men. Your full support is solicited.
WALTER J. BECKER 407 Morrissey Hall
CHARLES A. BRAGG 210 Walsh Hall
GERALD P. DOYLE 117 Sorin Hall
ELMER LAYDEN
(Continued from Page 14)	-
Duquesne, he said: “I wanted to see the hoys win more than anything else, but due to the fact that only two regulars remained on the squad while Detroit had practically the same team as last year’s and the fact that the Titans looked so good up to date, gave all indications that the Dukes would lose by a close score. However,” he added, “I was never happier in my life when I heard the score, Duquesne 20, Detroit 6.”
Mr. Layden also expressed the desire to come to Pittsburgh once again
MARCELLUS GEERTS 203 Badin Hall
PHILLIP PURCELL 106 Walsh Hall
GEORGE A. SHIELDS 225 Walsh Hall
in the near future and wants to thank you all for the most cordial welcome he received during his short visit to the school.
Dr. Remington Kellogg Joins American Midland Naturalist
The editors are pleased to announce the acceptance of an invitation extended to Dr. R. Kellogg to take over the editorship in Zoology in the American Midland Naturalist. Dr. Kellogg, a graduate of the University of California, is curator in the Division of Mammals, U. S. National Museum, Research Associate of the
Carnegie Institute, Editor of the Journal of Mammalogy and in charge of the section on “Mammalia” in the “Biological Abstracts.”
He distinguished himself by his excellent researches on amphibians and mammals. During the past year he assisted on several occasions in the critical examination of manuscripts submitted and thus materially aided in the management of the journal. His services will begin officially in January 1935.
New Line of Notre Dame
Jewelry To Be Displayed
Announcement of a new line of Notre Dame jewelry is made this • week by the office of the Comptroller.
When the University assumed the responsibility for the jewelry concession on the campus a year ago, it was recognized that depression times necessitated the best possible arrange' ments for the benefit of the student body. To meet the demand for class pins, rings, and novelty jewelry, it was deemed advisable to consolidate the buying and sale of these articles. To this end, and to insure the obtaining of every advantage, together with an assurance of the highest quality at the lowest possible prices, negotiations were opened by the Comptroller’s office with several leading college jewelry concerns. Arrangements were finally completed with the L. G. Balfour Co., of Attleboro, Mass., recognized as one of the leading college jewelry manufacturers in the country, to supply Notre Dame with all jewelry sold here last year.
In view of the satisfaction indicated by the student body in the way of jewelry purchases during the past schoolyear, Mr. Lloyd, the University Comptroller, again willingly accepted the onerous task and responsibility of carrying the arrangements forward for the present schoolyear. *
“The experience of last year has made possible improvements in the jewelry line, in character and in quality, particularly in the university rings and senior class pins. These will be of even better quality, as new processes and methods of treating metals have been developed within the year,” Mr. Lloyd stated. He further expressed himself as satisfied that the present assortment of jewelry will receive the full approval and acceptance of the student body. The unusual price arrangements made with the Balfour Co., together with University control of the selling prices, brings the entire line to the men of Notre Dame on the soundest and most equitable basis.
Dan Hanley, the genial old custodian of the gymnasium, wishes to express his thanks to all mem-hers of the football squad and to the coaches who made possible his trip to Pittsburgh with the team. “It was fine, everything,” said Dan.
Twenty
The Scholastic
Shake Hands with a Football Hero of ’32—
Paul Host
formerly of Notre Dame
OU MAY meet him any day in the Sporting Goods Department of The Fair where he is advising the athletes of today what sporting equipment to buy, and telling them — on the side — how best to use it.
Paul Host has just the right entree, too, into the Men’s and Youths’ Clothing Department at The Fair, which, as you know, is a store in itself. He can take any young fellow to just the right man for expert advice on what is being worn. And when it comes to prices — neither he nor you have any worry on that score, for The Fair has a reputation for top quality and style at rock bottom price.
So, whether you want to buy handball gloves, ice skates or ping pong outfits, or smart, swagger college clothes, come into the Sporting Goods Department of The Fair and — shake hands with Paul Host!
A Great Store in a Great City
THE FAIR
STATE, ADAMS and DEARBORN STREETS
Oak Park—Lake at Marion St. Milwaukee Ave. at Wood St.
NO CASE A
Sherlock Holmes
No detective work is needed in locating the dealer who sells what you want. Just look in the "Where to Buy It” section of your telephone hook!
There, local dealers are listed beneath the traae marks of many advertised products—such as Philco, Greyhound Lines, Willard Batteries, Buick and Goodyear. Besides helping you find the brand you want, this service helps manufacturers check substitution, helps dealers increase sales.
"Where to Buy It” is just one of many services pioneered by Bell System men to increase the value of telephone service.
Why not say "Hello” •c Mother end Dad tomght' Bargain ra‘es a n s,a'o"-to-stction cans a Her S 3 C P. M.
Italian Club To Hold
Meeting on November 20
The main business for discussion at the next meeting of the Italian club to be held Tuesday evening, Nov. 20, in Walsh Hall basement, will be the proposed joint Communion breakfast to be given by the language clubs.
President John Busichio last week addressed Le Cercle Francais upon the proposal and it was favorably received. It is expected that the German and LaRaza clubs will also participate in the breakfast tentatively • scheduled for Sunday morning, Nov.
25, in the Lay Faculty Dining hall.
President Busichio was pleased by the attendance at the Italian club dinner held at the Sunny Italy cafe the evening of Nov. 5. It is planned to give a few more affairs of this kind.
Philadelphia Club Plans a Dance for Christmas Recess
At a meeting held last Wednesday, f October 31, the Philadelphia Club completed plans for a Christmas dance to be held at the Pennsylvania Hotel on December 26.* Bids will be two and a half dollars a couple.
The club has also planned a banquet to be given immediately after the close of the football season. The guests of honor will be Tom Conley and Joe Boland, both Philadelphians.
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and at least two years of college woik, including the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251	•
T wenty-two
The Scholastic
MILDNESS
FLAVOR
JUST AS A FOOTBALt

A GOOD PIPE TOBACCO MUST HAVE

NOW, Mr. Pipe-Smoker, you may have the tobacco flavor you enjoy, with the mildness that makes comfortable smoking a certainty.
Edgeworth, from the finest pipe tobacco grown, gives you rich, full-bodied flavor—and is so mild you can smoke it all day long.
Smokes slowly—a tin lasts a long time. Some smokers report fifty minutes to an hour per pipeful. So—why punish yourself with
“cheap” tobacco when a 15^ tin of Edgeworth gives you many more hours of smoking pleasure. It’s not the first cost—it’s the hours you get in smoking that count.
Besides the 15£ pocket package, Edgeworth is sold in all sizes up to pounds. Some in vacuum packed tins in which the tobacco remains the same in any climate. Made and guaranteed by Larus & Bro. Co., Tobacconists since 1877, Richmond, Va.
SMOKING TOBACCO
EDGEWORTH HAS
MILDNESS and FLAVOR
Germans Raise Voices In Songs At Meeting
“Der Deutsche Verein” held a successful social meeting in Carroll Recreation Hall on Tuesday evening, November 6.
The members of the club harmonized their voices in the singing of a great variety of old German songs.
A new song, “Der Deutsche Verein,” written by Reverend Hugo Hoever 0. C., during the late spring of this year was submitted to the club for its approval. There was no doubt as to the acceptance of the lyrics, as the members sang the words jubilantly to the melody of “Dort, wp der Rhein.”
Father Hoever composed the lines of this song while convalescing from an illness. The song is written in German. James Pick, president of “Dei Deutsche Verein,” expressed the appreciation of the club for the unique contribution of Father Hoever.
“Der Deutsche Verein” will hold a regular meeting in Carroll Recreation Hall on Tuesday evening, November 20, at 7:45. Anyone interested in German is invited to attend.
News of the S. A. C.
There will be no official student trip to Chicago for the Northwestern game tomorrow. This is because of the ruling which permits one official student trip during the year. Week end permissions will be granted only to those students who reside in Chicago.
About 450 students, including the University Band and the “B” team, made the trip to Cleveland last Friday. When the student body arrived in Cleveland, the band, led by student cheer leaders, and followed by a part of the student body, marched up Euclid Avenue and returned, by way of that main street, to the stadium.
After the game, most of the students converged either at the Hotel Statler, or at the Lakeshore Hotel, to dance and enjoy themselves.
BLUEPRINTS PHOTOSTAT COPIES
SCHILLINGS, Inc.
329 South Lafayette St.
Pharmacy Club Meets
Mr. H. B. Froning, Head of the Department of Chemistry, was guest speaker at a regular meeting of the Pharmacy Club in Chemistry Hall, Novembei' 6. The speaker stressed particularly the scientific attitude which is essential to success in the field of professional Pharmacy.
After Mr. Froning’s address, the club went to the Pharmacy Laboratory where refreshments were served. The attendance at this meeting was the best in recent months, only one member being absent.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
66
Who wouldn't prefer a cigarette that’s easier on the throat ^je^^^Kddl
See Joan Blondell in Warner Bro®. Picture, “DAMES”
Twenty-four	T h e S c h o I a s t i c