
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY...
1/3 IN JULY	1/3 IN AUGUST 1/3 IN SEPTEMBER
No Carrying Charge
On Canine Max Shulman
(Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
THE DEAN YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN
Now in the waning days of the school year when the hardest heart grows mellow and the very air is charged with memories, let us pause for a moment and pay tribute to that overworked and underappreciated campus figure, your friend and mine, the dean of students.
Policeman and confessor, shepherd and seer, warden and oracle, proconsul and pal, the dean of students is by far the most enigmatic of all academicians. How can we understand him? Well sir, perhaps the best way is to take an average day in the life of an average dean. Here, for example, is what happened last Thursday to Dean Killjoy N. Damper of Duluth A and M.
At 6 a.m. he woke, dressed, lit a Marlboro, and went up on the roof of his house to remove the statue of the Founder which had been placed there during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.
At 7 a.m. he lit a Marlboro and walked briskly to the campus. (The Dean had not been driving his car since it had been placed on the roof of the girls dormitory by high-spirited undergraduates.)
At 7:45 a.m. he arrived on campus, lit a Marlboro, and climbed the bell tower to remove his secretary who had been placed there during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.
At 8 a.m. he reached his office, lit a Marlboro, and met with Derther Sigafoos, editor of the student newspaper. Young Sigafoos had
been writing a series of editorials urging the United States to annex Canada. When his editorials had evoked no response, he had taken matters into his own hands. Accompanied by his sports editor and two copy readers, he had gone over the border and conquered Manitoba. With great patience and several excellent Marlboro Cigarettes, the Dean persuaded young Sigafoos to give Manitoba back. Young Sigafoos, however, insisted on keeping Winnipeg.
At 9 a.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and met with Erwin J. Bender, president of
To the dean of students and all you other hard-working academic types, here’s the new word in smoking pleasure from the makers of Marlboro—king-size unfiltered Philip' Morris Commander. Welcome aboard!
4
the local Sigma Chi chapter, who came to report that the Deke house had been put on top of the Sigma Chi house during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.
At 10 a.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and went to umpire an intramural softball game on the roof of the law school where the campus baseball diamond had been placed during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.
At 12 noon the Dean had a luncheon meeting with the president of the university, the bursar, the registrar, and the chairman of the English department at the bottom of the campus swimming pool where the faculty dining room had been placed during the night by high-spirited undergraduates. Marlboros were passed after lunch, but not lit owing to the dampness.
At 2 p.m., back in his office, the Dean lit a Marlboro and received the Canadian minister of war who said that unless young Sigafoos gave back Winnipeg, Canada would march. Young Sigafoos was summoned and agreed to give back Winnipeg if he could have Saskatoon.
ii
The Canadian minister of war at first refused, but finally agreed after young Sigafoos placed him on the roof of the mining and metallurgy building.
At 3 p.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and met with a delegation from the student council who came to present him with a set of matched luggage in honor of his fifty years’ sendee as dean of students. The Dean promptly packed the luggage with his clothing and Marlboros and fled to Utica, New’ York, w'here he is now in the aluminum siding game.
© 1961 Max Shulman
AMERICANIZED SOCCER !
Editor:	।
I wish to thank the Scholastic for ' supporting the request of the N.D. Soccer Club for a larger appropriation in order to compete for a full season in intercollegiate soccer this coming faw
However, to my surprise, the editorial affiliated the team only with the Latin American students. For the past few years, they have attempted to introduce the game at this university but their efforts met with little success. The teams which they had organized operated on a very limited basis and contributed little in promoting soccer among the students. As a matter of fact, a few members of the group created a if sistance to the introduction of the sport here on campus, which now has been overcome.
Last fall, I realized the possibility for our school to field a soccer team. The result has been the formation of the N.D. Soccei- Club, with membership open to all interested students.
Since then, enthusiasm for the new sport has greatly increased. Besides being very successful in acquiring f suitable schedule for the 1961 fall sea- ; son, forty-eight students are now par- i ticipating in spring practice. Every continent is represented, with only six in- I terested South Americans. The majority ■ of players are native Americans.
Josef Echelle, captain N.D. Soccer Club 139 Pangbom
POPULAR ESTHETICS Editor:
Your “Critic At Large,” John Oliver, seems to be subscribing to the all-too-prevalent opinion of the “intellectuals” (a nebulous term indeed) that anything that enjoys popularity is necessarily esthetically squalid. He speaks of the “popular band tradition” as something
(Continued on page 33)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second das? mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is. a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison . Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation • and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre -Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material be- : comes die property of the SCHOLASTIC. {
The ScholastK'


i;w? tv
%
«S.W<
The Notre Dame
X.
; -s
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief "; 7' CHARLES RIECK
associate- editor.
ROY RUBELI
newseditor; ?
7 THOMAS WEISS :; John McCabe <
features editor , / ;
7 THOMASSULLIVAN : Thomas Hoobler <7
sports editor • 7 : JAMES KILROY
<7- .7- William' Cary?.? . • John Bechtold;
'?F
copy editor : t >;'7 r 7 ?7 Philip Larrabee ^77 ’I
arteditor ’
THOMAS HANSEN
photographer :;,y7 ; Walter daly, Jr
business nwnager75Ci; •
^7j^ph{hi^gan
circulation.' manager -< JAMES HICKEY

moderator <	?
REV. GEORGE BERNARD
ifewsT-staff < ;< / Jo^ph^Caspgr;77W . Frank
' LawrenceKavanaugh James?^^ thoiriq$;:&h<&^ Sl6^;Stdpp?7;O®7 St£^0t^hpH^
A'
3
xM
w
i
4
:1

<3
>3





APATHY AND FUNCTION: With the Student Body elections only four days in the offing, the awareness of political apathy among large elements of the student body becomes more acute. The problem comes home to the campaigner when he is asked what, if anything, student government does with all its time and energy, how the student is benefited. We became particularly aware of this while viewing the results of a recent Student Government survey that asked for an opinion of the value and effectiveness of Student Government. The heavy negative response, 25%, was startling; but, upon further consideration, it was understandable.
Notre Dame’s version of Student Government could be characterized as project-oriented, whether it be examined on the hall level or the Senate level. The bulk of its important functions are centered around three commissions and their activities: the Social, Academic, International and Athletic. Through its selfless expenditure of time and energy, Student Government provides the student body with its dances, entertainment, and a portion of its public lectures — the latter contribution being recent innovations.
But a government does not gain public stature for itself by its isolated projects, whatever their number and value. And it is to this situation that we can trace the student apathy. Only by a constant and immediate contact of the government with its governed body can public relations be preserved; for government, if it is to mean anything as a word and title, implies a certain control and concern with the proceedings of everyday life. In this area, only sporadic efforts have been allowed and expended — for instance, the committee on Interclass Living or the dining hall activities of the Welfare Committee.
This analysis is not meant to be negative, but rather to point out that an automatic apathy — arising because Student Government does not govern in the sense mentioned— is highly unjustified. Notre Dame Student Government must be looked at and evaluated for what it is and what it has accomplished. And certainly these accomplishments have not been few or insignificant, with their importance growing steadily over the past several years. Many have been mentioned in previous Commentaries. But this year’s candidates should be evaluated not only on the past goals but on the future — the role they see for Student Government in the life of the student.
PROPAGANDA: Just after the holidays a second showing of the HUAC film on the San Francisco riots, “Operation Abolition,” was held in the Amphitheater. This time the editor and narrator of the film, Fulton Lewis III, was on hand to defend the film and answer questions. But although his highly polished defense cleared up many of the misconceptions and false charges surrounding the picture, we must still object to the one-sided manner in which the riot was presented. The film is billed as a documentary. This it is not. It does not give the entire story of what took place that summer day.
In an effort to sensationalize the danger of communists taking control of a crowd and using mob psychology, Mr. Lewis has played down or suppressed the noncommunist factors that were present. First, it ignores the many sincere motives that excited the college students. Among these were the activities of HUAC in San Francisco the year previously when 101 teachers were subpoenaed; in a change of heart by the government they were not given the immediate opportunity to reply to a summons which is tantamount to a charge of treason. This issue was emphasized to the students by the condemnations of churchmen, newspapers, and labor leaders.
The orderliness of the objectors outside City Hall was de-emphasized and instead, the lens was focused on the unruly mob in the vicinity of the hearing chambers. As the cameras panned the rioters, picking out the leader in the clearest sequence of the film, the narration stated that they were being incited and led by strategically placed communist agitators. Yet, no one individual person in the sequence, including this leader, was singled out and identified as a communist.
We do not doubt that communists were present in the courtroom, in the picket line, and in the crowd. We do not doubt that they contributed to the disorder. But in view of the many other factors involved, we do doubt that their absence would have prevented the incidences. This use of implication and the slanting by omission only discredits the film and leaves it wide open to the charge of hysteria. We do not believe in fighting communism with communism’s tactics.
RobertChiappinelli
HS<»s
CHALLENGE FROM HOME: The editorial staff recommends very strongly to the student body the reading of Fathei* Hesburgh’s provocative address before the National Catholic Educational Association’s convention the first part of this month and reprinted in this issue. No doubt many of the positions taken by Father Hesburgh will prove very controversial among the local students and faculty. For not only are his statements an important event in Catholic educational history, but they provide a keen insight into the current values and criteria guiding this university.
— R&R
1
DOING IT THE HARD WAY by Ur (GETTING RID OF DANDRUFF, THAT IS!)
easier 3-minute way for men: FITCH
Men, get rid of embarrassing dandruff easy as 1-2-3 with FITCH! In just 3 minutes (one rubbing, one lathering, one rinsing), every trace of dandruff, grime, gummy old hair tonic goes right down the drain! Your hair looks hand-
somer, healthier. Your scalp tingles, feels so refreshed. Use FITCH Dandruff Remover SHAMPOO every week for positive dandruff control. Keep your hair and scalp really clean, dandruff-free! /
PAPERBACKS
CIVIL WAR HISTORY CENTENNIAL
PREMIER 4
GENERAL LEE
Fitzhugh Lee
SOLDIER LIFE
Stem
PROLOGUE TO SUMTER
Stem
I RODE WITH STONEWALL I Douglas
OUR HOUSE DIVIDED
McMaster
,8
FITCH
LEADING MAN’S SHAMPOO


RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5-8988
DUTTON
FREEMANTLE DIARY .
Walter Lord
SLAVE STATES
Frederick Olmstead
MIUTARY HISTORY OF CIVIL WAR Woods
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23" frames. Men under 5'9" specify 21" frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You'll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
SIGNET 1
UNCOLN’S COMMANDOS
Van Doren
THE NIGHT BEFORE CHANCELLORSVILLE
Foote
•	I
DELL
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Carl Sandburg
POPULAR
TO APPOMATOX 1
Burke Davis
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus --------------------d
The Scholastic
1
What’s it take to make the right connection?
Plenty! Consider the problem. Western Electric manufactures the switching systems which connect some 60-million Bell telephones throughout the U. S. The average call over today’s electromechanical system requires 420 relay operations. All together, this interconnecting equipment makes up the heart of what is. in effect, the world’s largest machine.
That’s where Western Electric and you come in. The switching equipment for this “machine” involves an enormous manufacturing job carried on by our plants throughout the country. Because of the size and service requirements involved, we require quality standards far exceeding those of ordinary manufacturing. The size of this job presents an unusual challenge to the engineer who may save the Bell System many thousands of dollars by even a small cost-reduction step.
While today’s switching calls for a priority on engineering, tomorrow’s will be even more exciting. For even now the revolutionary Electronic Central Office is under field trial and promises to remake the world of telephony. Future Western Electric engineers, working closely with their counterparts at Bell Tele
phone Laboratories, will concentrate heavily on developing manufacturing methods for this ECO equipment.
Your Western Electric assignments may cover many of our other responsibilities as the world’s leading communications manufacturer. Perhaps you’ll work on advances in microwave transmission, or even on satellite communications.
Joining Western Electric may well be your right connection.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as weB as physical science, Gberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of "Western Electric and Your Career" from your Placement OScer. Or write CoHege Relations, Room 6106, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. And be sure to arrange for a Western Bectric interview when the BeH System recruiting team visits your campus.
MMMMCMUN^um^^wv^/umror sm ini snnn
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Keamy, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway. New York 7. N. Y.
HAIR
TONIC
do they fall for you head first?
They do if you use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on your head first! Most men use water with their hair tonic and ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is specially made to use with water. Water evaporates, dries out your hair. Alcohol and cream tonics evaporate, too. But ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate. It’s 100% pure light grooming oil — replaces oil that water removes. And just a little does a lot!
it’s clear
Vaseline
Vaseline I


it’s clean... it’s
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
'VASELINE* HAIR TONIC IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESERROUGH-POND'S INC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
__________________________________.________s
The Scholastic

JAZZ FESTIVAL OPENS RUN IN FIELDHOUSE
CJF Begins Two-Day Display of Top Talents
by STEVE STUECHELI
Swinging masters of college jazz interpret “The New Dimension in College Jazz” in the fieldhouse this afternoon as big bands and combos open Notre Dame’s Collegiate Jazz Festival 1961.
From 7 to 11 p.m. tonight and 1 to 5 tomorrow the rest of the 26 top college groups attending will compete for places in tomorrow night’s finals from 8 to 42 p.m. Total prize value is estimated at §6,500. Box office tickets are §.50 for the afternoon sessions and one dollar for the evening performances.
Expert adjudication. According to Dave Sommer, Festival chairman from Greenwich, Conn., jazz experts named to judge the two-day competition are Johnny Richards, noted composer-arranger and instructor at the National Stage Band Camp; Charles Suber, pub-®sher of Down Beat magazine; Robert Share, administrator of the Berklee School of Music in Boston, Mass.; and famous composer-band leader George Russell.
These men -will be judging with many precise criteria in mind. Quality in tone, balance, blend and rhythm will play an important part, as will precision, arrangements and instrumentation, along with personality and appear-fnce.
Among the groups appearing at the initial session are the Northwestern
“MODERN MEN OF DARTMOUTH”
Third annual “bash" with a “New Dimension."
University Lab Band, a finalist last year, and the Colleagues, from Miami University. Each group is allotted 20 minutes to display its talent before the judges and jazz enthusiasts.
Tonight the Notre Dame High School Stage Band will appear as guests. In February this group, directed by Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C., known as the “swinging padre,” won the Chicago area high school stage band contest for the second year in a row. The Dot’s Trio from Fairmont State College, best combo last year, includes Tom Mustachio who was voted the best pianist last year. The Amherst College Five and the North Texas State “Jazztet” will also appear.
Dartmouth College’s Modern Men and Bob Pierson’s Quartet from the University of Detroit were both finalists at last year’s Festival and are scheduled for Saturday afternoon performances. Pierson was awarded the best flute prize a year ago. Highlight of the afternoon session will be the appearance of the North Texas Lab Band, grand winner in 1960 as the best big band and finest jazz group. The Uncalled Four Plus One from Illinois Tech, Purdue’s Jazz Envoys, and the Omar Clay Trio from the University of Michigan are other entries.
Winner’s spoils. There are two divisions in the competition, “big bands” of ten or more members, and combos with nine or fewer instrumentalists. The best “big band” will be awarded an appearance at the Indiana Jazz Festival in Evansville June 23-25, as well as scholarships to the Stan Kenton Clinics at the National Stage Band Camp. An
engagement at the Half Note in New York City June 13-18 will go to the best combo. The collegiate jazz group selected as the over-all winner of the competition will receive a giant loving cup which will serve as a traveling trophy for the winning school each year. The award will be presented by Associated Booking Corporation.
Associated Booking Corporation will also present the outstanding instrumentalist with a scholarship to the Berklee School. Five scholarships to the National Stage Band Camp will be given to the most promising soloist by Broadcast Music Inc., and Down Beat will give one to the most promising arranger. The outstanding leader will be presented with a scholarship to the Camp from Willard Alexander Inc., and the outstanding original composition will be published by Leeds Music publishers.
Several musical instrument manufacturers will present instruments to individuals selected as outstanding soloists by the judges. These include Selmer, Conn, Martin, Beuscher, H. N. White Co., LeBlanc, Kay, Wurlitzer, V-M Corp., Zildjian, Harmony, and Koss Corp.
Assisting chairman Sommer in the Jazz Festival are Mike Nash, Pat Kelly, Tom Tafelski, Bernie Craig, Stan Fe-dewa, Dave McCann, Frank O’Connor, Pete Glovna, Terry Burke, Tom Eiff, Mike Sanderson, Jerry Cole, Charlie Murphy, Bob Pennell and Mike Whitney.
Eighteen figures from the world of entertainment and music are serving on the Festival’s Board of Advisors. Among them are television personalities Steve Allen and Dave Garoway, pianist Marian McPartland, band leaders Stan Kenton, Benny Goodman and Duke Ellington, and Herman Kenin, president of the American Federation of Musicians.
Begin Ticket Sales Campaign For 'Babes in Arms' Musical
A ticket sales campaign is being planned by the publicity committee for the University Theater production of Babes in Arms.
Plans are for a three-day campaign next weekend, when tickets for the Rodgers and Hart musical which will be presented in Washington Hall May 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, and 13 will be sold by students in the residence halls. Reservations for tickets to be held at the box office will also be taken. Frank Corrado is the chairman of the publicity committee and Hans Grauert is in charge of the sales campaign.
Rehearsals for the show’ are in progress under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C. The sets have been designed by A. Owen Klein. Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., is in charge of the choral work; choregrapher for the show is Tom Karaty. Dr. Charles Biondo will direct the orchestra.
April 21, 1961
9
Announce New Ideas For '61-'62 on WSND
A |
Release Results of Dining Hall Survey Project; | Comittee Scrutinizes Over 1500 Opinionnaires l!
Fourteen new appointments in the WSND radio network directorship were announced last week by the retiring station manager, Tony Chessick. Replacing Chessick for the 1961-1962 academic year is Joseph T. Phillips, former sales manager.
Phillips, a junior finance major, entered the radio staff in his freshman year, served as chairman of the Oklahoma delegation at the Mock Convention last year, and chairman of the Mardi Gras Carnival this year before receiving this new position. According to Phillips, three policies are to be initiated in the coming year. Channel II, the classical music station, has applied for and expects an FM license in the near future. If all goes as planned Channel II will cover South Bend as well as the St. Mary’s and Notre Dame campus. Presently, WSND is establishing a commercially sponsored Irish Basketball Network to broadcast both home and away games across Illinois, Indiana and Michigan. As a third innovation WSND engineers are to begin once a week checks on all halls to insure consistent reception.
The other 13 officers on this staff are as follows: Dick Burtzlaff, technical director; Andy Burd, public relations; Don Criqui, sports director; Jim Kolb, chief announcer for Channel II; Jim Geade, chief announcer; Jack Hafford, business manager; Tom Hatch, sales manager; Mark Harter, chief production engineer; Al Hamilton, program director; Bob McGowan, traffic continuity; Tom Sleeper, record librarian; Gary Townsend, program director of Channel II; and Tom Zlaket, news director.
J. T. PHILLIPS
A new channel for excellence.
Approximately 2,500 opinionnaires were distributed and over 1,500 were filled out and returned. Most students took the questions seriously and many constructive criticisms were received. Only three answers were destroyed. The Student Welfare Committee under Chris Buckley found it a long and tedious job to count the Yes and No questions. It will be a monumental task to compile the answers to the questions in which students were asked to give a longer answer.
One of the most interesting things about the survey was the way in which students cancelled out the opinion of other students. A strong opinion for or against something invariably brought the opposite reaction from another student.
For northern cuisine. Twenty-nine men in the North Dining Hall thought the meals poor; 80 men in the South Dining Hall thought the same. 131 North Dining Hall men thought the meals were good and 103 in the South Dining Hall echoed this opinion. While 262 upperclassmen thought the meals fair, 416 thought them reasonable. In the North Dining Hall 164 thought the meals fair while 364 thought them reasonable. 58% of the South Dining Hall responses expressed the opinion that the meals were reasonable or better. 68% of the responses in the North Dining Hall showed the meals to be reasonable or better.
Unanimity was had in the students not wishing to pay a price increase to get seconds; the vote was actually by a 2 to 1 margin. Also, the students did
Juniors Sponsor Funds For Closs Scholarships
The Junior Class Council is sponsoring a scholarship which will be awarded to a member of the present Junior Class, according to Chris Buckley, Junior Class president. The award will be presented on the basis of financial need, academic achievement, disciplinary record and campus citizenship. The applicants will be screened by a combined committee of both the Academic Commission of the Junior Class Council and the University Scholarship Committee.
This project is being financed by the Junior Class through the ticket sales of the Junior Prom and other projects of the past year, sponsored by the Junior Class.
The winner of the scholarship will be announced by July 1, 1961.
Recent activities of the Junior Class Council include the class ping-pong tournament, which is now in progress; also the class handball tournament, which was won by Jerry Vairo of Dillon Hall.
BRIDGE CHAMPIONSHIPS	s
Open pair championship compe- : titions of the Notre Dame Bridge j Club will be held this Sunday in theg| LaFortune Student Center begin- I ning at 1:30 p.m. All Notre Dame ’I and St. Mary’s students who like to § play bridge are invited to attend li and participate. Partners will be / supplied to those who need one, M and both trophies and master points ft will be awarded. There will be a F slight entry fee.	|
not desire to sit in a particular place. • The majority of students felt the lines ? move fast enough and that both full time and student employees do their best L to serve the students.	('
Thumbs down: orange juice. Orange / juice every morning lost in the South « Dining Hall 3 to 2 and won in the North | Dining Hall 5 to 4.	f
The idea of a second pat of butte® at such a high cost was voted down | while two pats of margarine lost 5 to 4 | in the South Dining Hall. The voting £
on the margarine was even in the North Dining Hall.
More sandwiches at noon time and the substitution of soups for potatoes at noon time was favored.
The dropping of meat at breakfast in

order to cover the cost of a late line for ' coffee and doughnuts won in a ver®? close contest but quite a few of the halls p were opposed to this change; one hallfe opposed it by a margin of 6 to 4; an- E other 4 to 2.	f
The final counting showed the meals f to be served hot most of the time; that £ meats and vegetables are tasty at least | 50% of the time; that desserts are tasty | most of the time; and that the meats | served are not as tender as the student®? desire.	£
Most students were willing to retain § most items suggested for dropping if | they were retained as a choice with^ something else.
The majority of Students answering?, the survey thought one glass of milk in | the line and unlimited seconds at a milk f dispenser out on the floor desirable. | While the majority favored being al- f; lowed to re-enter the serving lines fot 5 seconds, there was grave doubt ex® pressed that such a system would work J at Notre Dame — one hall said it would |
not work by a 3 to 2 majority.

Many long and wearying hours will j have to be spent to tabulate the many : other helpful suggestions made by the I students.	=
The above report was furnished to !
the Scholastic, by the Business Affairs/ Office. The statistics were compiled by the Student Welfare Committee.
The Scholastic A
10
| Long Named New Chief of Technical Review; | Bendick, McGinnis Chosen Associate Editors
Bill Long, a junior from Akron, Ohio, has been named the new editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Technical Review. A graduate from Saint Vincent High ^chool in Akron, Long will be replacing Garry Scheuring as top executive. Long has served as the magazine’s articles editor this year.
During the past year, Long has been membership chairman of the ASCE, engineering reception chairman for Junior Parent Weekend, publicity chairman of the Engineering Open House and served on the K of C and Mardi Gras committees.
a Next year, Long plans to keep the •format of the magazine about the same as this year’s, except that he is going to add a Dean’s page.
Also named to new posts on the staff are associate editors Joe Bendick and Dan McGinnis, both seniors next fall. Bendick, who comes from Kingston, Pa., and is seeking a mechanical engineering degree, was this year’s copy editor of the Review. McGinnis, this year’s •feature editor, is from Bud Lake, N. J., Band is an aero engineer.
Henry Mittelhauser, a chemical engineer major from Manhasset, N. Y., will be the new business manager. Presently he holds the dual role of office manager and advertising manager.
£
J Ryan Warns Politicians about i ^Enforcement of Election Rules
P Candidates in the forthcoming cam-1 pus-wide elections have been warned i by election chairman, Thomas Ryan, of the intended rigid enforcement of all
• campaign regulations. In particular he t notified all candidates that any cam-| paigning within the sight of the ballot | boxes during poll hours on April 25, 1 H will result in immediate closing of that ’ voting place. The man in charge of the t ballot box will interpret and enforce ■ this policy if he feels the rule is violated.
Ryan also reminded all students that a minimum general average of 3.00 is required for nomination. Disciplinary probation renders the student ineligible throughout his four years, unless his . case is favorably reviewed by the Board ! of Discipline. Limits on the amount of i . money spent in the campaign have been ^ specified according to the importance of the office. The maximum amounts that a candidate may spend for his election campaign will be strictly limited. Expenses for class officer candidates may not top $30; college senatorial aspirants may spend $35 total; and candidates ; for Student Body President must ob, c serve a $50 limit.
! < Election day is Tuesday, April 25, /.and the polls will be open from 11:30 to 1:00, and from 5:00 to 6:30.
BILL LONG
Sticking with a winning lineup.
Other new heads that have been named to the Review staff include: Mike Harron, circulation manager; Dennis McMahon, articles editor; Jerald Zeihan, copy editor; James Moran, Jr., features editor; Philip Amend, advertising manager, and Allen Korenjak, office manager. All of these men, with the exception of Junior Mike Harron, are sophomores this year.
The Technical Review is a national magazine with 1000 on-campus and 2000 off-campus subscribers. It receives very wide distribution, with one subscription being sent to the University of Moscow.
Buses Leave Tomorrow For 'Help Week' Scenes
Approximately 100 volunteers from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are expected April 22 to participate in the Second Annual Help Week sponsored by the Blue Circle Help Week Committee.
Ten institutions are to get the assistance of these workers in the all day project. Hospitals, rest homes, churches and the like will be aided in an effort to promote good will between the students of Notre Dame and the citizens of South Bend. Buses will leave the Circle Saturday afternoon at 12:45 and return at 5 or 5:30. Anyone who has not as yet signed up for this event is welcome to join the group at the circle. Last year Help Week enjoyed unusual success, and has gained popularity as one of the best informal mixers of the year.
Entrance Deadline Set For 'Book1 Contestant
Establishment of private libraries by Notre Dame students is being boosted by a new prize contest, with an award of a $100 credit at the Notre Dame bookstore going to the winner.
Open to all undergraduate students here, the contest will close at 4 pun., Friday, April 28, 1961. Entries must be submitted in a sealed envelope marked “Book Contest” to the English department office, 356 O’Shaughnessy Hall.
Each entry should include a list of books the student has purchased for his private library during the past academic year. Books required for courses taken may not be included, although books recommended but not required may be listed. To enable freshmen to compete on an equal basis with upperclassmen, only books purchased during the academic year 1960-61 and now in the entrant’s possession at the University should be listed.
In addition, entries should contain a statement of not over 500 words giving reasons for the selection of the books listed, and the entrant’s purpose in developing his own library.
Finally, a separate sealed envelope containing the entrant’s name and campus address should be included. Names must appear on neither the list nor statement, nor on the outside of the entry.
The contest will be judged by a committee of faculty members from several departments.
AICE's Student Chapter to Host Regional Meeting
Tomorrow morning at 9:30 in the Law Auditorium, the Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers will host the eleventh annual regional convention of A.I.C.E. student chapters.
Featured will be a student paper competition in which eight seniors from five different schools will present the results of their original research work in a particular chemical engineering field. Two Notre Dame students, Thomas Ryan and Paul Lovell, are presenting papers.
Some of the papers to be delivered are: “Pre-Stressed Vessels for High. Pressure Reaction”; “Heat Transfer in an. Externally Heated Fluidized Bed”; and “Correlation for the design of Perforated Plate Distillation Columns.”
A total of ten Midwestern schools will be represented at the convention. Main speaker at the noon banquet will be Dr. T. R. Miller, vice-president of Union Carbide Corporation, who will speak on “The Chemical Industry and the Chemical Engineer.”
11
April 21, 1961
Buckley, Colleton Campaign for Top Office; Candidates Give Views on Policy Formation

by CHRIS BUCKLEY
As a candidate for the office of Student Body President, I, Chris Buckley, would like to present a few of my ideas and views with regard to next year’s Student Government at Notre Dame. I’ve had six years of previous experience in Student Government, and am presently the President of the Junior Class. I’ve attended hall, class senate, senate cabinet and Hall Presidents’ Council meetings, and feel that I’m well acquainted with all phases of our Student Government.
A triple gap. There are three general areas in which Student Government seems to have been somewhat lacking in the past — areas in which a great improvement could be made next year. The first of these fields concerns student awareness on our campus. Each of us knows that there is a high degree of disinterest among the students concerning Student Government and the projects that it develops and supports. I would be the first to admit that there will never be one hundred percent student interest. However, I do feel that this is a goal that we must always be striving for regardless of the chances of our complete success.
A much greater awareness could be achieved at Notre Dame in a number of ways. First, the students must feel that they are actually a part of many of the decisions that Student Government makes and of the programs that it sponsors. A weekly radio show on WSND treating many controversial issues brought up in the senate and explaining the various functions of Student Government would help greatly to keep you informed. A newsletter mailed to the off-campus students, questionnaires and referendums taken on important issues, invitations to students to attend senate meetings, explanation of things such as NSA, NFCCS, the Student Government fee, and the Student Discount Service — all of these ideas could be used to create a greater student participation and awareness.
Seeking good men. A second area in "which Student Government could improve is that concerning the responsibility of its members. Although I could not directly influence the election of the members of the senate next year, there are steps that could be taken to insure that capable and interested men would be chosen to represent you, senators who will be striving for student welfare instead of their own personal gain. I would speak in each hall before elections to encourage the best men to run, help to establish a “meet your candidates” night in each hall, and require that each senator try a, little harder to discover hall feeling on important issues. I’d plan to reorganize many senate com-
(Continued on page 32)
12
by TOM COLLETON
The purpose of Student Government on the campus of Notre Dame is to provide a complete co-curricular program, a program which complements and completes the academic process. This program should consist of social and academic services which are both useful and helpful to the Notre Dame student.
For atmosphere. Student Government must try to create a more comfortable social atmosphere on our campus. This can be done in the following ways: More girls can be brought to Notre Dame by closer cooperation with the girls’ colleges in the area (e.g. by supplying the social commissioners of these colleges with lists of approved accommodations and detailed programs of the events of each week). Further, Student Government can provide more opportunities to meet girls by sponsoring a program of informal relations. Finally, Student Government must strive for more plaiming and unity in its social program; this means more informal activities on Friday nights along with the regularly scheduled events on Saturday night. Informal activities might include co-ed big screen TV, jam sessions, and discussions, while the Saturday-night programs will consist of campus-wide dances, movies for couples only, and a new package plan for big-name entertainment. Such events will be • without cost whenever possible.
Academic services include lectures, an international program and a cultural program. The academic commission should provide a Distinguished Lecture Series which presents five of the finest lecturers in the nation, as well as a series dealing with current issues. All other lectures of a more specific nature should be handled by the departmental clubs, the professional societies, or the College Advisory Boards. The international program, so successful this year, should be continued next year with more co-operation with the other organizations concerned with international affairs. A cultural program including concerts and gallery displays could well be presented next year.
On “being aware.” Further services should include a revised “Informer.” No longer would it be about Student Government, but it would become a schedule of coming events. It would include any event that a Notre Dame student might wish to attend, social, academic, or cultural, not only on campus but also at St. Mary’s, in South Bend, and in Chicago. An agency would be created to provide the students with tickets to any event appearing on the calendar.
The Student Senate directs and controls the activities of Student Government; it passes and enforces budgets, (Continued on page 32)
Whose Opinion?
Saturday morning at Notre Dame finds maids’ carts piled high with 28 page editions of crude humor and poor writing. Lately the piles have been geW j ting higher.	'
In view of student , apathy toward the Scholastic, the ad- ; ministration, in par- , ticular the Vice Presi- ; dent of Student Af- ; fairs Rev. George 0.
Bernard, C.S.C., has ' been considering a ■
radical revision of the magazine. Fear^ ing a unilateral action by the admin® istration, Charles Rieck, Scholastic editor, brought the problem to the Senate. The Senate’s solution was a motion
requesting SBP John Keegan and Father Bernard, “to form a committee of administration, faculty and students to study ways in which the Scholastic might be more widely read and more highly regarded.”
The Senate chamber was well filled Monday night. Father Bernard wasT there and so was WSND. The SCHOLASTIC motion was first on the agenda and John Clark, one of the eloquent tongues of the Senate, proposed it. Clark emphasized the need for “common understanding as to the purpose of the Scholastic and how it can be fulfilled.”
Rieck than spoke in favor of the motion. He said that the administration was considering the complete abolition of the magazine or its reduction to d* tri-weekly. A public information calendar would provide weekly news. Accord- ! ing to Rieck the administration was dis- , satisfied with the Scholastic as a means ■ of communication and with the quality ‘ of the feature columns. He said that the picture painted of the revised Scholastic was that of a junior Notre Dame magazine.
Rudy Ehrensing, YCS representative,* then spoke of need for student opinion. ~ He asked if “the administration was able to interpret the truth of the community alone.” Answering his own question, ; “No.” He went on to quote Pius XII ’ on public opinion in the community. ■
In discussions of censorship some people always seem to get carried away. Pat Butler, senator from Zahm Hall said, “We are living in a totalitarian or I semi-totalitarian system.”
Ollie Williams suggested that the ad-^, , ministration’s real reason for revising^- ! the Scholastic is to eliminate student ’ opinion. Williams said, “most Notre ■ Dame students are mature and responsible.”	I
Father Bernard said, “Censorship does exist,” and emphasized that student I opinion , was published. Only crudities I and mistakenfacts were censored. Father I' Bernard’s main reason for the revision K of the Scholastic was, “Why have a 1; magazine that the students don’t read?” K
The Scholastic I
National Science Foundation Fellowships Go To 27 Seniors and Alumni for Technical Studies
Fellowships for graduate study have been awarded 19 Notre Dame undergraduates and at least eight alumni through national competitive programs sponsored by the National Science foundation.
In all eight seniors received cash grants for their first year of graduate study. This group is composed of Michael Austin, electrical engineering at M.I.T.; Robert Burckel, mathematics at Harvard University; Ronald R. Herm, chemistry, at the University of California; George Niemeyer, Jr., mechanical engineering, M.I.T.; William J.
Whitney Wins Breen Contest With Talk Titled 'Blind Vigor'
“Blind Vigor” was the title of the prize-winning speech given by Jay Whitney in the William Patrick Breen oratorical competition April 12 and 13. The winner of the annual original oratory contest is awarded a gold medal; the medal will be presented to Whitney, aa senior chemical engineer, at gradua-rion.
In his spech, Whitney discussed the role and responsibilities of college youth in the struggle against the Communist conspiracy. He expressed strong criticism of last year’s student demonstrations in San Francisco protesting the activities of the House Committee on Un-American Activities on the occasion of Committee hearings there, as well as — the actions of the National Student As-’sociation in condemning the activities of HUAC.
Whitney, who is the outgoing president of the Debate team, was recently named one of four Dome Award winners in the Class of 1961. A member of the Blue Circle, he is an NROTC regular and company commander and possesses a Dean’s List average.
The Breen Medal for Oratory was f founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, Class of 1877, who presented the medal at graduation exercises in 1902. Competition for the award is conducted by Professor Leonard Sommer of the department of communication arts and Debate team coach.
BOOKMEN announce annual spring interviews for new members. The Bookmen B meet during the school year to discuss modern British and American literature. Openings will be filled by qualified applicants from the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes.
Letters of application, containing a brief account of particular literary interests, should be sent to 337 Walsh Hall by April 24.
$ April 21, 1961
O’Connell, physics at Princeton University; Charles Ramsden, electrical engineering at the University of Wisconsin; John Wilson, Celina, biochemistry at the University of Illinois; and James Wirth, Mathematics at the University of California.
A 1958 Notre Dame electrical engineering graduate, William Lynch, also received a fellowship for the first year of study.
Second year grants for advanced study include James MacMahon in biology, and Sister Mary Brendan Pierson in microbiology. More recent graduates who were awarded similar fellowships are: Claiborne Johnson, mathematics at the University of California; John Mantey, electrical engineering at Stanford; Patrick Mantey, electrical engineering at the University of Wisconsin; John Polking, mathematics at the University of Chicago; Stephen Pursley, mechanical engineering at Purdue; and John Uebbing, electrical engineering at M.I.T.
Valedictorian of Notre Dame’s class of 1956, James Massey, is the recipient of an NSF fellowship for third year graduate work in electrical engineering at M.I.T.
Cooperative Graduate Fellowships also sponsored by the National Science Foundation include: Arthur Cowley, electrical engineering; Gerard Lietz, physics; Theodore Madey, physics; John Misner, mathematics; James Slifker, mathematics; and Donald Weidman, mathematics. Jean Beaudoin in engineering and William Dorenbusch and Donald Malaker in physics have been given summer fellowships for graduate teaching assistants.
Funeral Services Held For Rev. Eugene P. Burke
Funeral services for Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., 77, former professor of religion and English at the University of Notre Dame, were held in the Sacred Heart Church on April 14. Member of the faculty from 1914 until 1919 and from 1934 until his retirement in 1959, Father Burke had served as editor of the Ave Maria from 1930 to 1934, and as president of the University of Portland from 1919 to 1925.
A noted and fluent preacher, he has figured prominently in the development of this University. Father Burke entered the Holy Cross novitiate in 1903. A 1906 graduate of Notre Dame, he edited the first issue of The Dome and wrote the lyrics for “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.” Ordained in 1909, he celebrated his golden jubilee in Sacred Heart Church on June 26, 1959.
Father Burke is survived by a brother, Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, and a sister, Miss Margaret Burke, West Hollywood, Fla.
Artist Bates Rejoins Faculty To Teach Summer Students
Renowned artist-designer Kenneth F. Bates, international exhibitor and former instructor at the Cleveland Institute of Art, returns to the Notre Dame summer faculty after a year’s absence. According to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame art department, Bates will teach courses in enamelling and design at the undergraduate and graduate levels beginning June 19.
With the addition of Bates to the summer faculty Notre Dame’s art department will include Father Lauck, Ivan Mestrovic, sculptor-in-residence, Frederick S. Beckman, Edward Basker, Robert de Giovanni, Bruce Gregory, John Howett, Sister M. Michaeline, O.S.F., Sy Perszyk, Marion Pilarski, Stanley S. Sessler and Rudy Torrini.
^kWTURBOW
\OPTOMB TRUST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSESl
, INQUIKIES INVITED I
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington—Phono CE 4-5777
SOPHOMORES
MAY START PLACING
ORDERS FOR
CLASS
RINGS
APRIL 24
AT
THE NOTRE DAME
BOOKSTORE
13
(
You’re a natural wonder in
HALF-BELT CLUB MS
EUROPE
A low-cost unregimented tour different from all others — the most personalized — the widest coverage of all. Is it for you? Don’t go to Europe without making sure. Write:
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia, Box C, Pasadena, Calif.
CANOE TRIPS
into Minnesota-Quetico wilderness area. Adventure thrills, fine fishing. Easy access to remote wilderness Located on the Canadian border. Friendly, persona help for beginners and experts. Special group rate for organizations.	Cost: $6 per day
GUNFLINT NORTHWOODS OUTFITTERS GRAND MARAIS 69, MINNESOTA
SIR WALTER RALEIGH
Protective Pouch Keeps Tobacco
Here’s the last word in slim-cut. natural-look slacks that give you all the advantages of a belt with beltless comfort. Double-dart tailoring in back assures snug, contour fit. Half-belt sparkles with handsome interlocking coin buckle. Be a charter member in "Club,” the smartest slacks you’ve ever worn!
New protective aluminum toil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. Choice Kentucky hurley—extra aged. Get the familiar orange-and-black pack with the new pouch inside!
SMELLS GRAND — PACKS RIGHT! SMOKES SWEET —CAN’T BITE!
catholic higher education in twentieth-century america
by REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
THERE is a theme to what I have to say today. I am attempting to ^discuss the objectives of Catholic Higher w Education in Twentieth Century America. One might be expected to begin by referring to the seemingly timeless classic on Catholic higher learning: Cardinal Newman’s “Idea of a University.” and to discourse, as he did, upon theology as it relates to other branches of knowledge, and they to theology. One might then view knowledge as an end in itself, or view it in relation to learn-W ing, professional skill or religion. One would, of course, conclude, as Newman did, by discussing the duties of the Church towards knowledge.
I submit to you that this is beautiful theory that neither Newman noi’ anyone else has ever realized in practice in any institution of Catholic higher learning since he wrote. Newman may well have । given us the Irish Mountain top of vision. ; Our efforts, however, must be measured I against the reality of life on the great IQ American plain. Our objectives in i Catholic higher education today must have relevance to a new age in a new । land. Anything less would be both unworthy and dishonest. The theory may well thrill us. The practice is that with ■ which we must live and earn our daily bread. Let the objectives by all means ; be high. But remember that to be useful, they must be attainable. I submit again J that Newman’s never were such, and X indeed never have been attained in any
April 21, 1961
full measure either here or abroad. May I he even more foolhardy by saying that Newman’s dream does not even fit the frame within which we must place the present day objectives of Catholic higher education.
Before I completely alienate the audience who, like myself, have probably long since canonized Newman, may I state the simple theme that underlies everything that I shall subsequently say. My theme is perhaps best expressed as the “ancient beauty, ever old and ever new” that St. Augustine saw as a good description of the Church herself.
What this theme really means is that there are two objectives that Catholic higher education must pursue simul-t taneously today: to hold to the permanent, unchanging values that have made our higher learning something special; and to adapt to the dynamic changing realities of our times which need these unchanging values if rapid change, and explosive new realities are to have any dimension of meaning and direction. In other words, Catholic higher education must be neither a dinosaur nor a changeling, but a vital and vigorous force in our times, both ancient and contemporary, both conservative and radical, both traditional and modem. Either value to the exclusion of the other will either date us on the one hand, or make us feebly imitative and shabbily contemporary on the other. We must cherish both values. We must indeed
reflect the “ancient beauty, ever old and ever new.”
Perhaps the best perspective is gained by taking a cursory glance at the origins and development of Catholic higher learning. One cannot speak of beginnings without that inevitable return to the Gospels, to the person of Jesus Christ, yesterday, today, and tomorrow, ever the same. Despite all our manifold deficiencies across all ages, we derive our most basic dignity from our striving for continuity with the Divine Teacher. It is the truest of truisms that all Christian teaching begins with Christ and 2 , must be faithful to His Spirit and His Word, clearly, simply, and plainly manifest in the pages of the New Testament.
Then there were the Fathers of the . , y Church, of East and West, Greek and _X < Latin, who were in their own persons as in their writings the best exemplars of Xy Christian higher learning, especially the martyr-scholar-saints who died for what. X they professed, as well as the confessor- y scholar-saints, who like us believed, pro-, y.X fessed and taught without the added testimony of martyrdom, save that of .. ,.y being willing should the occasion arisen. • - 'X These.Greek and Latin Fathers united in their persons the simple holiness of y yy the Gospel with all the wisdom of philosophy and theology. May we do as-’Xyy well!	-	" . ./••yy®;
In a later age, the silent, working \yyX Benedictine monks lit a candle in'theXyyy darkness, raised their voices only/.to:XXy
- . ~
• - . ■ -. - * • .. - X, •iXXXM'sfeS
praise God, and in many hushed monastic cells throughout darkened Europe, copied and glossed the great books that, now preserved, make possible much of our dialogue, conversation, and exchange of views with the otherwise dead past.
All of this ancient classical and Christian learning was institutionalized by the Church in the Middle Ages, in the foundation of famous universities like Oxford and Cambridge, Paris, Bologna, and Pavia. From a contemporary point of view, when Christian higher education is often adjudged as doctrinaire, “safe,” and even stodgily conformist, one might well wonder at the wild turbulence of life that characterized these first Catholic universities in mediaeval times where there reigned the broadest kind of academic freedom for the wildest of views and the goriest of academic battles: of Bernard against Abelard, of Thomas Aquinas against the Christian Nominalists and Arabic skeptics, of friars and monks against the secular clergy. That these were lively intellectual places and times is a gross understatement. But from all of this open conflict of ideas emerged the splendor of truth. This is the glorious tradition that we may be proud of in Catholic higher education. We are proud, but all too tame today.
IN a still later age, the Jesuits and the counter Reformation gave us a form of classical liberal education and a Christian catechesis that still exerts its influence. St. Peter Canisius becomes the model of the Christian teacher. Blessed Edmund Campion and St. Francis Xavier become romantic heroes to long generations of Catholic boys. Nothing bad in this — but not the ultimate answer to everything yet to come either.
The time of toleration after the French Revolution saw a new element born to strengthen the long tradition of Christian higher learning: the emergence of new teaching congregations of priests and brothers and sisters, and the later emergence for the first time of substantial numbers of well-educated laity dedicated to the apostolate of higher education. Now to come home, to our land and our times.
Priests, brothers, sisters, laymen, and laywomen —in American Catholic higher education. Just to say the words summarizes volumes of history, sacrifice, and achievement.
I might well digress here for a moment to signal out the work of the nuns, for all of us know the price that the good Sisters have paid for the universal affection and high esteem that they enjoy: their sacrificial practice of poverty, the total and generous gift of their lives and talents for which even “dedication” is too pale and overworked a word.
This long tradition of Catholic higher education does not represent one long series of towering peaks like the serried ranks of snow-capped mountains that
16
form the South American Cordillera. Rather it is a history of heights and depths. Almost every age has had some proud peaks, but there have also been in every age periods of failure and depression. Some failures have been forced upon us in the long rub and wear of religious strife. But, let us admit it frankly, much failure has been our own fault: of persons and institutions, often enough through laziness, lack of vision or the mercenary spirit, sometimes through abysmal mediocrity and just plain bad teaching and bad learning. The quality of education is very much akin to the quality of life, and this is true of education by the Church, as well as by the State. When virtue generally declines, the quality of education goes down with it.
So much for the depths. What of the heights. Perhaps the most impressive of the heights is the sheer age of the tradition. No teaching agency in the world, no nation, nor state, nor Board of Education of any kind can compare with the Catholic tradition in the lengthy reach of teaching experience. Having admitted seniority here, let us practice the virtues of mature age: the calm wisdom, the steady purpose, the perspective of tolerance and patience amid enduring efforts to improve constantly. For whatever else one might say, this much is certain: God is not served well by mediocrity.' And let us also avoid the vices of advanced age and seniority: spiteful envy of other good efforts, the suspicious and almost instinctive fear of youth and youthful ideas, the concrete fixation with the status quo and the timid failure to respond to new situations and the inevitable new challenges.
In other words, to be true to its twin' objectives, Catholic higher education must indeed reflect “ancient beauty, ever old and ever new.”
When one has taken this brief and necessarily kaleidoscopic glance at the history of Catholic higher learning, several reflections occur quite simply and quite honestly to anyone who thinks of this long history and of our present place in it, as the current segment of American higher education.
I trust you will allow me to share my candid reflections with you. You may well have different and perhaps more valid reactions of your own. No matter. Since I must speak and, for what they are worth, here are my reflections, to be accepted or rejected as you will.
FIRST, may I say that I have always shared honest pride that legitimately attaches to a proud intellectual heritage. I have likewise always been uneasy at the correlative pattern of looking backward more often than forward, of holding to the tradition of what has been, rather than striving mightily to make the traditional values more relevant, more vital, more meaningful today. I have always been chary of so many intellectual giants of another day, often many centuries past, while the crying
need is for men and women of equal wisdom and vision today.
PERSONALLY, I have no ambition to be a mediaeval man. I suspect that St. Thomas in his day had no hankering to be classified as belonging to the golden age of the Latin Fathers of the Church, then long past. Whatever the value o|^ the various ages of Catholic higher learning, there is only one age whose value we can in any measure influence: our own. We can see ourselves as part of a long tradition. We can measure the vitality of our current contribution against the intellectual contribution of other ages, but one factor is absolutely essential to any judgment or any comparison: the vitality of Catholic highei’ learning in any particular age must be viewed mainly in relation to its intellect
tual influence and effectiveness in that particular age. It is futile comfort for a Catholic university in the second half of the Twentieth Century in the United States of America to point with pride to the lively intellectuality and critical vitality of the Catholic University of Paris in Mediaeval France. Let the dead bury their dead. We of the living have our work at hand. It is vital, intellec
£ $
tual, and exciting work that only a uni-fj versity can do. Perhaps the most excit- | ing feature of all is the valid presump- I tion that some of the work can most | fruitfully be undertaken only by a Cath- \ olic institution of higher learning in the ; best tradition of the peak eras of Christian wisdom.
May I first be a little negative, and say clearly what I do not mean. The task for the Catholic higher learning j will not be done if our philosophers and theologians continue to live among, | work with, and speak to people and i problems long since dead and buried. | This inhabitation of a never-never world | by those who speak for Christian wis- ; dom would be bad enough in a day with- ; out problems of its own. But today we : live in an age of monumental and unprecedented problems. This is no day in which to nit pick among the problems of the past. Here is an age crying for the light and guidance of Christian wis- j dom. What must future judges think j of us if we live in the most exciting age | of science ever known to mankind, and ’ philosophize mainly about Aristotle’s physics. We live today in the threatening shadow of cosmic thermonuclear destruction and often theologize about the morality of war as though the spear had not been superseded by the ICBM.
If we are to create a peak for the Catholic higher learning today, two essential requirements at least are crystal clear: One, we must understand the present day world in which we live, with all of the forces and realities that make it what it is; and, two, those two best and most unique assets we have, philosophy and theology, must begin to be more relevant to the agonizing, very real, and monumental problems of our times. Now that I have that frog cleared ' '
The Scholastic
©
from my throat, may I address myself to the challenging vision of what Catholic higher learning could do to ransom our times and justify our survival.
I *T'HE key word for the task, as I see ■I it, is mediation. One could spend time discussing this word, a good and priestly word, a word that speaks of ^?he innermost reality of the Incarnation. Catholic higher education can, in our times, perform an important mediatorial function. Catholic higher education stands for something definite, definable, and, I trust, something true, good, beautiful, and timeless. The world is disjointed today in so many ways, frag-i mented into so many disparate parts, that one might look far to find a more inspiring, more important, or more cen-। f^ral task for the Catholic highei* learn-1 ing than the exalted work of mediation I in our times.
$ Allow me to illustrate this work of intellectual mediation. Many of our most i pressing domestic problems today arise ' from the fact that we live in a multi-
faceted, pluralistic society. How urgent s it is that some institution attempt to £ bring together in more fruitful unity .1 the separated and often antagonistic k "^elements of this pluralistic society. Eco-. ^nomically there is the pluralism of labor = and management. Socially there is the i pluralism of the two races, white and £ colored, with regional sub-problems for r Mexicans and Puerto Ricans. Religious; ly there is the pluralism of Protestants, :	Catholics, and Jews, or perhaps more
I	fundamentally the basic dichotomy be-
tween the religious and the secularists. ? Intellectually there is the pluralism of r .g science and technology vis-a-vis the hu-£ ^inanities — the C. P. Snow described r. dilemma of two great intellectual cur-f: rents that neither understand or speak to each other.
What are we doing to mediate, philosophically and theologically, as only the Catholic higher learning can, between these various extremes that make up the divided fabric of our society? Here is an objective worthy of our most talented, most devoted, most inspired efforts. There is nothing humdrum, nothing prosaic about these most anguishing problems of man in the Twentieth Century. Their solutions require the highest theological and philosophical principles, the deepest empirical studies, the most imaginative approaches, the most understanding directives — but what are we doing to bring intellectual and moral light to these regions of darkness.
We are doing something about labormanagement problems, but mostly on a pragmatic, non-intellectual level. As to Civil Rights and equal opportunity for all races, we have been almost universally destitute of intellectual leadership in our colleges and universities. I know of no research in this area. Factually, the worst educational problem at the moment is in a section of the country predominantly Catholic. Despite the central Catholic doctrine of the Mystical Body, the pronouncements of our Holy
April 21, 1961
Fathers and our hierarchy, there are Catholic schools and Catholic parishes and Catholic lay organizations, and Catholic orders and Catholic neighborhoods that do not only not welcome, but which positively repel Negroes from their midst. Is there a work of mediation needed here, a gentle touch of Christian wisdom and understanding to try to ascertain how this can be and what might be done about it? And who will do this work of mediation, theologically, philosophically, and empirically, if not our institutions of higher learning, some of whom might begin the work by admitting qualified Negro students, just to create the proper atmosphere for this study.
And what is the work of mediation in the field of religious pluralism. Again we live in an ecumenical age. Our Holy Father says to a large group of Jewish visitors to Rome: “I am Joseph, your brother.” How many of us have extended that welcome within our institutions and have tried to understand our differences in our research and studies. A new Ecumenical Council looms before us. In Europe, for many years since they were brought together in the crucible of common suffering during the war, Protestant and Catholic theologians have discussed their differences and merged their common strengths against their common enemies of secularism and Communism. Why have we been so timid here in our American institutions of highei- learning. Must we always be the last to initiate anything imaginative and intellectual, the first only in those obvious causes like anti-Communism, super patriotism, and old clothing drives. Here is another urgent work of mediation long overdue.
1 HESITATE to undertake the discussion of the intellectual mediation needed between science, technology, and the humanities, because here I easily become vehement^, almost in an apoplectic manner. We took the wrong turn in science as far back as Galileo, and while the roadmaps have been officially corrected since, we are still lagging far behind the main flow of traffic in the area of science and technology. I need not document this assertion for there has already been enough public breastbeating in the matter. Besides, I am interested here not so much in diagnosing the past as in charting a present day and future course. That the roads of science and technology may lead to fruitful human goals is obvious enough to anyone who understands or appreciates the new vistas opened up by science and technology. Science is our potent key to the noble modern human quest to eliminate illiteracy, needless poverty and squalor, hunger, disease, and homelessness in our times. Science can help man achieve the basic material conditions essential to a life worthy of man’s inner and God-given dignity. Science can" have true cultural and spiritual over- -tones, too, may indeed contribute mightily to the good life, if only we provide;'
for it the ultimate meaning, direction, and human significance that it must
' seek outside itself. The least demand, however, must be this: that we respect and truly understand modern science in all its implications, that we do not continue to neglect it in our schools or treat it as a threat rather than a God-given blessing, for all that science finds, God has given — the natural richnesses, the energy, the order, the magnificent vista t from within the atom to the outermost reaches of this magnificent universe that is ours. The main reason that we have not mediated in the Catholic higher learning between science and the humanities is that we have generally neglected science and have not particularly distinguished ourselves in the humanities either. Perhaps the latter fault is greater, for here was our true and most obvious heritage. We must redouble our efforts today in both areas if they are mutually to enrich each other in our total perspective of higher learning. Without this particular mediation between science and the humanities, and all it implies, there really will be no truly significant or relevant Catholic higher learning in our times. These are hard words, but I believe, true ones.
THERE is another area of mediation open today to the Catholic higher learning, if we would find the courage to climb the peak. I refer here to the opportunities for intellectual mediation in a pluralistic world. Catholics belonging to a universal Church should be at home in international affairs, but I fear that the American Catholic spirit, somehow untouched by our higher learning, has traditionally been characterized by a narrow parochial spirit, an isolationist complex, an anti-United Nations urge. What has the Catholic higher learning in America done to mediate understanding of the great world cultures, the important emerging areas— even the Catholic ones like Latin Amer
ica— the dichotomy between cold war and International Law. Here is a chal-
lenge that we can hardly avoid.	:
By now, I am sure that you all see, upon reflection, that here is much oL Newman in modern dress. May I con- . elude by hoping that all engaged in the important work of our Catholic colleges and universities see the importance and r rt
the urgency of my dual thesis: first, that -	:
the Catholic higher learning must ever strive to make the ancient wisdom timely ' .
today, relevant to our current problems^ :;. > and, secondly, that the road to this ac- - ■>? complishment, the simple word that sums
up a modern and thrilling objective for / the Catholic higher learning in our times ; is mediation—mediation that under-. stands both extremes that must be;. brought together, mediation based upon , empirical current fact, as well as time- "V-J less principle^ mediation that is not
afraid to blaze new trails in new wiMer-nesses: that both God and man may be well served in our times and in this new- -/;-world that so needs new applications the ancient Christian wisdom. _
<
THE TRIAL BEGINS, by Abram Tertz, 128 pp. (Pantheon Press: $2.95).
This is an unusual Russian novel which was, according to the jacket, smuggled out of Russia to be published. Sometimes the reader wonders whether the circumstances of the novel’s conception might be the chief reason why it was published at all. In an epilogue, the author indicates that if he had tried to publish in Russia, he would be accused of “slander, pornography, and giving away State secrets.” It often seems that in his determination to defy the censors, the author has overstepped the bounds of good taste and restraint.
At other times, however, the novel displays clever and pungent bits of satire on the Soviet upper class. In one part when a government official is getting a haircut: “It was embarrassing to have a grown-up man fiddling with your hair. He should be doing a useful job instead of wasting all his talents in a barbershop. And you had to sit in front of him, like a bourgeois, not daring to breathe. Now the nickel-plated shears were snipping at his neck. It hurt. His eyes watered but he couldn’t wipe them: what would the man think? All great revolutionaries hardened themselves to pain. Rakhmetov used to sleep on a bed of nails ...”
, I mentioned that the novel is unusual. One of the things that makes it such is the fact that, despite being authored by a Russian, it is only 128 pages long (large type at that), and has only six major characters. The story is told through a collage of surrealistic images, fragmentary thoughts of the majorcharacters, and events which serve only to develop the plot.
The plot itself is not too intricate. Glotov, a Russian government official, is the main character except for the prologue and epilogue and a few other parts when the author speaks in the first person. Glebov’s wife is having an affair and, when she becomes pregnant, secretly has an abortion. Glotov's son, idealistic and naive, has a plan for bringing about true social revolution, and is turned over to the police by his stepmother’s lover. Since Glotov is the Public Prosecutor, he must prosecute the charges against his wife (for having an abortion) and his son. Through his influence, the charges - against his wife are not pressed, and she returns to her lover. In the first person epilogue, the author tells of meeting Glotov’s son in a prison camp.
20
The book is essentially a clever satire, but goes out of its way in striving for realism and moralistic undertones. It appears as if the author tried to cram all of his talents into the few pages he could smuggle out of Russia, and the result is a little like a vacuum can of whipped cream — good, but not very substantial.
—Tom Hoobler
A MIDDLE CLASS EDUCATION, by Wilfred Sheed, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1961, $4.75.
Wilfrid Sheed’s A Middle Class Education is a more or less refreshing novel dealing with modern man’s effort to grasp on to something stable, and his grasping on to that same modern mediocrity that everyone is having so much fun with, whether it be in Eliot’s poetry or in college literary magazines.
This morbid allegory is created at Sturdley College, Oxford, among three students in their early twenties. The three, and principally John Chote, are drawn through the Schools’ (comprehensive examinations) ringer in the early parts of the novel. The theme of Schools is modulated by the middle class desire to think big and lecherously while somewhat sheepishly claiming the honor of being styled historic English gentlemen.
This novel’s merit is not in its setting or tone, but (and more significantly) in several of its representations of personal experiences and its creative and enlivening metaphors.
Sheed everywhere dichotomizes. He cleaves brains and personalities, traditions and situations, all to draw out the unstable marrow of the Sturdley collegians. He describes Chote’s preparation for Schools:
The next day, and he was back at work, wearing out wrist, brain and sundries, bending and blunting nib, imagination and that super vocabulary. One side of his brain was numb, like that of the man who does nothing all day but put the tops on the bottles; the other lobe was endlessly agile, like a young monkey, crafty and chattering, bluffing and maneuvering his moderate stock of information this way and that to make it read like full complement. When he could not find a decent question, he adopted a deviously pompous manner which made him sound almost too long-winded and deserving, much too profound for the
superficialities of three-hour examinations (a week per question would hardly be enough for such solid scholarship). When he actually knew his stuff, he became magically terse and significant. He imagined the examiners on a hot day going through a vast pile of papers with flies zoom-, ing down and taking off again from" various pink landing strips, and summer calling softly through the window, “hark, hark,” etc. — surely in all the distraction they would not notice the unsightly split in the seat of Chote’s personality? One prayed that one’s paper would never be the fresh one on top of the pile, the one that was marked before the flies had got in their work.
The high point of craftsmanship is" the paragraphs describing Chote’s visit at home and his confronting his father’s naked and embarrassed soul. Sheed captures the tenseness of the encounter between the son’s extrovert world of disarrayed knowledge and the father’s sincere bourgeois simplicity panicking in uneducated introversion.
Of the three principals, Godfrey Hook stands out for having missed the joke.^ Chote and Browning have built their * entire repertoires around the joke, but poor Rev. Hook never quite catches on. Chote once forgot his identity, the time he forgot to eat, but it and the joke returned with food. “If one stayed at Sturdley for a hundred years (Chote had to suppose) one would still be lured into the droll fertilizer.”
In the launching of John Chote into the world from Oxford, Sheed takes him® to America, by scholarship, for further outfitting. The American detour is the principal action prop sustaining the allegory. Chote discovers from the outset that he is going to have to dig deep to get under the glib superficialities, but he reverts to his old tricks to socialize with the figures on the American urn. The game intensifies, playing in pompous euphoria dangerously near the sidelines of raw humiliation. It would take too much digging.	®
Chote never falls into total humiliation. The joke always gets a laugh out of someone, and he tells it well.
—Arthur Dechene, Jr.
T. S. ELIOT: THE DESIGN OF HIS POETRY by Elizabeth Drew, Charles Scribner's Sons, 212 pages, $1.25. The poetry of Thomas Steams Eliot, like the fiction of William Faulkner and^
The Scholastic
the drama of Eugene O’Neill, is perhaps most often thought of as an expression of the iconoclastic period of American literature between the two World Wars — a period that, for its sheer exuberance and white-hot creative heat, ranging from the sublime (as with the three writers mentioned) to the near-ridiculous (as with the operas of Gertrude Stein and the poetry of the magazine •transition), may well come to be remembered as the golden age of American writing. But, unlike the novels of Faulkner or the plays of O’Neill, Eliot’s poems have continued to develop, to strike out in new directions since their first appearance in the twenties, until today nearly as much controversy surrounds the author of Four Quartets (1945) as surrounded the young esthete who wrote Gerontion (1920). For Eliot’s -Muse — if one may use such an archa-•ism in connection with studied, calculated poetry like Eliot’s — has been more than a mere sharing in the excitement of the years between Wilson and Roosevelt; it has been an intense desire for intellectual certainty in a disintegrating civilization, an agonized quest for a faith begun with the satire of the early poems, brought very near despair in The Waste Land, and satisfied only in the religious verse of Ash Wednesday fand Four Quartets.
In her book, Elizabeth Drew traces the progress of the poet’s search through all his major poems, and attempts to extract some kind of unity from the panorama of Eliot’s work through an interpretation of the poems in terms of a unified, continuous psychological experience. Miss Drew describes Eliot’s poetic method as myth; according to her, the poet’s technique is “the presentation of ex-•perience in symbolic form, the earliest and still the most direct and immediate form of human experience.” But of course all art deals in some way with intellectual or emotional experience objectified in terms that are, strictly called, whether the despair of Achilles before his fate or the rage of Prince Hamlet at his adolescent indecision. The difference between the poetry of Eliot and 0these traditional forms of the Iliad and Hamlet, for most other modern critics as well as for Miss Drew, is that with Eliot the experience itself, the idea emotionally grasped, is allowed to dominate the formation of the work completely, so that the work itself is comprehensible only in terms of the unspoken and unspeakable intuition or experience itself, so that the poem is no longer readable or understandable as a simple story or a versified statement of ^prosaic meaning, but is become an approximation, through images and word connotations, of the experience of the poet itself; the poem is no longer merely the statement of an experience, but is the experience, re-created by the poet through suggestive symbols. This method of communication, which is really the method of the French Symbolists of the early twentieth century who cried with Verlaine to “take rhetoric and wring its
(Continued on page 22)
April 21, 1961
At the Theaters
Following up Cimarron and its liberal dose of borrowed material, the Colfax is showing Glenn Ford, Donald O’Connor, Miiko Taka, and Miyoshi Umeki in a farcical vacuum called Cry for Happy. The plot, if it can be found, could be contained in one small thimble, together with the efforts made by the cast.
Trying to prove once more that East and West do meet, the story deals with four enterprising U.S. servicemen who, lacking suitable quarters, rent rooms at a geisha house. Funny. The geisha girls are, naturally, very prim and proper in their own way, and Miss Taka (head geisha) declares there will be no funny business going-on. The director took the words literally. This sort of thing has been seen too often before to be even agreeable.
Never underestimate the power of the Granada. They have contracted to show, at present, Elmer Gantry and The Apartment. Between them, the movies have 15 Oscar nominations (this column was written before the Oscarcast). But this isn’t all. Elmer Gantry, starring Burt Lancaster, Jean Simmons, and Shirley Jones, is the excellent adaptation of Sinclair Lewis’ classic about a fake revivalist who used his power in a very wrong way. Lancaster’s performance is much better than his usual, and Shirley Jones is so good it’s impossible to believe she would star in something like Pepe. The movie is strong and a little raw at times, but it is not too often that Hollywood turns out something like it.
Nothing that hasn’t been said before can be said about The Apartment. On one side stand the staunch defenders of this adventure, and on the other side stand equally determined condemners. Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine have never been like this before. They’ve done straight comedy and even straight drama, but the mixture is difficult. Maybe that’s why opinions are so divided on the movie. Another touchy point is the moral character of the setting. Lemmon is an ambitious young man who lends the key to his apartment to several philandering executives for their relaxation. One of the girls who is lured into the borrowed lair is Miss MacLaine, of all things an elevator operator in the office building. As fate would have it, complications bring her and Lemmon together and it isn’t Platonic. If this sounds silly, it isn’t supposed to be. The fact is that the plot can’t be outlined without giving away some good moments in the movie.
It isn’t very often that such a double bill makes the rounds. Granted that these two movies should not be seen by everybody, especially small children who ask. questions, but still they’re good.
Do you have three hours and 15 minutes to waste? Well apparently a great deal of us must, since it looks as though the State is going to hold Pepe over for another week. That’s the latest information and not really official — we hope. Believe it or not, this movie was nominated for an Academy Award as best picture of the year. It stars Cantinflas, Dan Dailey, and Shirley Jones, plus eight solid blocks, of Beverly Hills, California. Sounds like I’m exaggerating, but here’s the inside story on how the picture was cast. A sound truck drove up and down BevHills and asked for volunteers to appear in a movie. They got quite a few, but there was. a big group missing — the Clan. They were in Vegas, home of their leader. Do you.
(Continued on page 22)	-
21
'Stacks'
(Continued from page 21) neck,” is the mythical method of which Miss Drew speaks. And the Symbolist — “mythical” poetry of Eliot, for her, shows a development parallel to that of other myths of death to the world and rebirth to a new faith, from the Egyptian Osiris to the Babylonian Tammuz to the resurrected Christ, following a progression of symbols described by psychologist C. G. Jung as typical of such myths. In The Waste Land, for instance, she isolates the image of sterility, sickness, and the desperate need for a cure, in The Hollow Men despair at a ruined world, in Ash Wednesday the figure of the Lady as the first promise of salvation through renunciation, and in Four Quartets the dominance of the number four and of the form of the circle or mandala as the symbol of completion, fulfillment, and the end of the quest begun in The Waste Land in terms of the search for the Holy Grail of the Arthurian Legend. All these images, according to Elizabeth Drew, are cited by Jung, in his important studies of myth, as typical symbols in the type of myth known as the “transformation” legend. And for Miss Drew the unity of such symbols is also the unity of Eliot’s poetry, the cohesive element which identifies both the violent dislocations of language of the early poems and the supple, perfectly formed prosody of the later poems as the work of the same author. This is on the whole a highly successful method of analysis, even though in order to fit the poetry of Eliot completely into the progress of the transformation myth Miss Drew is forced to discuss The Waste Land before The Hollow Men (I believe that The Hollow Men preceded the longer poem, contrary to Miss Drew’s arrangement) , and the discussions of some poems, notably The Waste Land and Coriolan, are, to say the least, masterful.
As the title of the book indicates, this is a study only of the design of Eliot’s poetry, of the general plan of his work, and little is said of such important aspects of Eliot as his link with the French poets Mallarme and Laforgue or his peculiar and extremely interesting concept of time and history. The idea of the book itself raises a fascinating question about the artist’s degree of control over a mythical technique like Eliot’s; for if the symbols Eliot was forced to choose fall naturally into the archetype of his myth, the reader may well wonder to what extent the poem is really a recreation of the poet’s individual experience and to what extent it is an objectification of the common experiences of mankind, of the “Collective Unconscious” spoken of by Jung. Miss Drew herself speaks at the end of the book of the theory that “the great artist experiences and then creates in his particular art-form those archetypes of which his whole age is most in need.” And such a theory inevitably raises the basic question of the poet’s function, whether it is merely to create 22
beautiful expressions of his own experiences or whether it is some kind of social comment, a mirroring of the conditions of his people to his people.
Miss Drew does not herself answer any of these questions, and for that reason her book is at best a sketch for a discussion of merely one of the facets of T. S. Eliot’s poetry. But as such it is a very well-planned and executed sketch, and is certainly an important book for anyone wishing better to understand and appreciate a man who may very well be the greatest poet of our time.
—Frank McConnell
THE WAR, A CONCISE HISTORY, by Louis L. Snyder, 634 pp., Julian Messner Inc., $7.95.
The production of books on the Second World Wai* has already reached flood proportions, and every indication is that the rate of output will continue to grow. Faced with such a mountain of uneven material an interested student will feel the need for a concise, balanced account of all the major causes, events and consequences of that war. While Professor Snyder’s outline is certainly concise, one would hesitate to overwhelm the book with lavish praise.
Snyder shows how the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931 and Italy’s conquest of Ethiopia in 1935-36 were the preludes to the total Axis effort for world domination. The vacillation and uncertainty of Britain and France, the tragic disinterest of the United States, and the nervous Russian efforts to secure their own interests all enabled Germany, Japan and Italy to operate with impunity until those last desperate days of 1939. Thus it was not so much the grandiose military ambition of the Axis leaders that produced the war but rather a weird combination of factors that enervated the democratic nations and blinded them to the threats of totalitarianism: “[The War] was the harvest
'Theaters'
(Continued from page 21)
think the casting director gave up? No, he followed them there. How could any of us imagine a picture without Frank, Sammy, and JFK’s brother-in-law? Well, so much for the Clan — better known as the Drinkables. All in all, to put it frankly, this movie isn’t worth the price of admission.
One thing still escapes me, and that’s how could Cantinflas be lured into such a magnificent monument to celluloid stupidity. I must disillusion myself about a comedian of such talent, and conclude that he also likes money enough to forget for a time the precedent he set in Around the World in 80 Days.
Next Friday, the feature of the column will be a comparison between my Oscar predictions and the actual awards. See you.
Tony Wong
planted by ostrich-headed militarists, am- % bitious and selfish politicians, deserters and traitors, and reaped by a people who ? ’ forgot that eternal vigilance is necessary for the maintenance of liberty. ...”
War is much too serious a matter to be entrusted to the generals, and the author has traced many of the political, . economic and ideological factors and , decisions that played the chief role of I the war. The psychological attitude of® | soldiers and civilians, the stand of ? * neutral nations, the war of factories and ; I the activities of underground forces are not, as is all too common, lightly dis- ?. missed.	j.
Major operations are usually treated from either the Allied or the Axis viewpoint, but seldom from both. The net effect is that the reader is always rather curious about what the other side was doing, and he is too frequently not told. As is usual in histories of the War, scant attention (perhaps thirty pages) is paid to the most important military theater, the Russo-German front. This , general defect probably results not so ‘ much from lack of data — there is plenty — but from the inability of authors to understand the immense scope and sweep of activities on the Eastern Front and simultaneously to narrate the ; specific battles that took place in the — vast reaches of Inner Europe.
Each of the major military operations is sketched with clarity, but the emphasis ; is most decidedly on matters of strategy , (often only political strategy) rather • than tactics. This results from the fact ; that Snyder is unwilling and probably unable to describe specific military activi-ties during a battle. He chooses to give , only a short paragraph to the Battle of the Coral Sea, one of the most im-portant naval engagements ever fought,^ and yet gives a minutely detailed des- i cription of the hanging of Nazi war : criminal Julius Streicher. Similarly, the ? Battle of France in 1940 — to that date y probably the greatest military operation ■ of all times — is treated in a few lines, , while few details of the subsequent Com- f piegne armistice negotiations are neglec-ted.	c
Snyder’s writing is no more lively^
than Associated Press feature copy, and much of the sense of urgency, decisiveness and enormity of the war is lost for this reason. The author has no desire to “heckle the text” with footnotes, and has included only a skeleton bibliography. Anyone who wishes to follow up certain events will therefore find no assistance here. A minor exception is to be found in his unique but none-too-perceptive section on the battles now
&
£
T<
3-
1k
being fought in the various war memoirs. A The other features of the book — the

32 pages of small, poorly reproduced but well selected photographs and the score of New York Times’ maps of theaters of war — are of relatively minor im-port. On the whole, the book is satis-factory for most, but it is definitely more 6g of a popularization than a scholarly or|> interpretive study. Buy it if it comes out in paperback!	&
- Richard Jensen
The Scholastic^
PRIZES: DECCA PORTABLE STEREO
KEYSTONE 15-PIECE HOME MOVIE OUTFIT (Camera, Projector & Accessories)
TRANSITOR TAPE RECORDER (with Leather Carrying Case)
RUUS:
1.	Contest open to Notre Dame students only.
2.	Save Marlboro, Parliament, Alpine and Philip
IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP
3.
4.
Morris empty packages.
Write your name and address on empty packages or reasonable facsimile and deposit in ballot box located in “The Huddle.”
You may enter as often as you like.
lers to be determined by drawing (only prize will be awarded each contestant).
e
Refreshing antiseptic action heals razor nicks, helps keep your skin in top condition. 1.00 ptus tax
Closing date of contest to be posted in “The Huddle.”
9
April 21, 1961
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
SHULTON N««r York • Toronto
from abstract ideas...fundamental knowledge at Esso Research
Adsorption rather than diffusion may be the controlling mechanism in the transport of liquids through elastomers.
This new hypothesis is supported by evidence obtained by Esso Research scientists using a novel photo shadow method for continuous measurement of swell in elastomers. As a result of these fundamental studies, more intimate knowledge of structure and increased understanding of segmental motion may make possible more precise predictions of polymer behavior.
Increasing the cross-link density in an elastomer network appears to de
crease the diffusion coefficient to an extent not predicted by the diffusion theory. Observations also show the seeming contradiction that increasing the path length with immobile obstructions, in the form of a variety of carbon black particles, also increases the apparent diffusion rate 2.5 times.
Re-examination of well known equilibrium uptake data poses such questions as: Why does a butyl rubber vulcanizate sorb twice as much cyclohexane as n-hexane when the latter has a much more flexible structure? How does a butyl elastomer distinguish be
tween the flat plate structure of benzene and the chair structure of cyclohexane whereas natural rubber does not?
Critical experimentation, together with mathematical studies, have strengthened the thesis that the solvent molecules pass into the elastomer by successive adsorption on successive planes. The elastomer chains appear to play an active role in the transport process rather than the passive one required by diffusion.
...adapted from a scientist’s notes at EssoResearch and Engineering Company P. O. Box 45B, Linden, New Jersey.
24
The Scholastic
RAY PATAK
Captain leads off
Linksmen Open Season At Louisville Tomorrow
, Tomorrow, Notre Dame’s linksmen • launch their season against the Kentucky and Bellarmine teams at Louisville, Kentucky. Of the two, Rev. George Holderith expects Kentucky to provide the sterner test, but Bellarmine, with all but one of last year’s lettermen returning, cannot be taken too lightly.
Due to the generous doses of inclement weather served up recently by South Bend, practices have been held to a minimum. Consequently, Father Holderith will be ® forced to rely on a strong nucleus of experienced lettermen to carry the team through this opening match.
The lettermen, six in number, include seniors Ray Patak (the captain), Jim Stahl and Phil Schuster; and juniors Tom Grace, Eddie Schnurr and Bruce Odlaug.
At present the team is composed of five seniors, eight juniors and six sophomores. With the arrival of warmer weather and the resultant additional practice rounds, the younger members of the squad and the non-letter winners will receive an opportunity to show their stuff.
Throughout the season, Notre Dame will be faced ■with a stiff schedule which includes such powers as Iowa, probably the best team in the Big Ten Conference, Western Illinois, Northwestern and Purdue, but Father Holderith envisions £a fine season for his charges.
The schedule:
April 22—Bellarmine and Kentucky at Louisrille. April 29—Iowa and Western Illinois at ND.
May 1—Michigan State, Northwestern and Wisconsin at Madison.
May 6—Bowling Green and Southern Illinois at ND.
May 8—Indiana and Purdue at ND.
May 11—Hillsdale and Western Michigan at ND. May 15—Michigan State at Lansing.
May 20—Detroit and Northern Illinois at ND.
June 18 thru June 26—National Collegiate Championship at West Lafayette.
Basebailers Meet Bowling Green
Notre Dame’s baseball team, hopeful that spring has finally arrived in South Bend, plays its second home game of the 1961 season today at Cartier Field. The opponent: a strong Bowling Green University team. The Irish will meet this same Bowling Green nine again tomorrow afternoon, also on Cartier Field.
Tuesday afternoon, Coach Jake Kline’s nine will travel to Kent, 0., for an engagement with Kent State University. The hosts will provide ample competition for their Notre Dame visitors, fielding one of their most formidable teams in years.
Thus far this season, the Irish diamondmen have compiled a 5-11 record. This record is surprising to most Irish followers because one of the best seasons in the school’s history was anticipated. Yet, the disastrous West Coast trip proved one thing: the Irish were not sufficiently prepared for their well-tested rivals.
This lack of preparation was most apparent in the hitting department. The Notre Dame batters, often forced inside by inclement weather before the 1961 schedule began, demonstrated that there was a need for more outdoor practice. Failure by Irish batters to deliver in the clutch resulted in several one-run losses.
A major reason for the poor road showing must also be attributed to the numerous injuries suffered by the Notre Dame players. After the first practice session in California, most of the players had sore arms. Bill Brutvan added to his troubles with a jammed thumb. Jim Fitzpatrick, expected to be a mainstay on the 1961 staff, was unable to make the trip because of a sprained ankle.
Nick Palihnich, rated as one of the three top pitchers in college ball in preseason opinions, was perhaps the most serious loss to the team. In the very first game, against California, Palihnich injured his aim and was unable to throw for the remainder of the trip. His loss, along with Fitzpatrick, seriously weakened the Notre Dame pitching corps. Lefty Mike Brennan, Jack Mitchell and Paul Petitclair simply had to pitch too often from thereon.
The Irish were successful in their first encounter, edging California in ten innings by a 7-6 score. But the Golden Bears won the second game of the series as they silenced the Irish bats, 5-1.
Notre Dame then met Fresno State in a two-game series. The first game bordered on the ridiculous as the seesaw encounter finally resulted in a one-run, 16-15, win for the hosts. Fresno State also took the second game, subduing the Irish, 8-2.
Coach Kline’s nine fared no better against Santa Clara, losing another one-run game, 9-8. Southern California was the next nemesis for the traveling Midwesterners; the final score in this Trojan victory was 4-3.
At this point, fortunes changed for the Irish as they recorded three consecutive
Wet feet? Well yes, but not in a water bucket! Instead, it’s been the inclement weather that has frequently bothered Coach Jake Kline’s nine and forced indoor practice.
victories. Pitcher Mickey Walker initiated the transition with a 4-3 victory over UCLA. Two superlative pitching performances followed. Petitclair registered a brilliant two-hit shutout against Loyola which was followed by sophomore Phil Donnelly’s equally fine 2-0 conquest against San Diego’s batsmen.
Arizona, considered as the top Notre Dame opponent thus far and one of the top teams in the country,. defeated the Green in three straight games. This ended the disappointing Western swing for Notre Dame.
In their first home game of the season, ND errors resulted too often and Purdue emerged victorious, 5-3. Notre Dame could not get back into the winning column against Indiana on April 14 as they fell by a 7-5 score. However, the Irish found revenge last Saturday against the Hoosiers, defeating their hosts on George Sefcik’s clutch single, 5-3. The second game of this rain-splattered double-header was called after two innings because of rain.
REMAINING SCHEDULE
Apr. 21 Bowling Green at Notre Dame Apr. 22 Bowling Green at Notre Dame Apr. 25 Notre Dame at Kent State Apr. 28 Notre Dame at Western Michigan Apr. 29 Western Michigan at Notre Dame May 2 Northwestern at Notre Dame May 4 Michigan State at Notre Dame May 5 Notre Dame at Toledo May 6 Notre Dame at Toledo May 8 Wisconsin at Notre Dame May 9 Wisconsin at Notre Dame May 12 Notre Dame at Ohio University May 13 Notre Dame at Ohio University May 15 Valparaiso at Notre Dame May 16 Notre Dame at Northwestern May 18 Michigan at Notre Dame May 24 Notre Dame at Michigan State
April 21, 1961
25
ODDS and ENDS
Two of Notre Dame’s most valuable basketball players this past season, Bill Crosby and John Tully, have been drafted by members of the new professional circuit. Captain Crosby was picked by Chicago, while Tully was a choice of Honolulu. Crosby has just completed a cross-country tour with the college AllAmericans against the Harlem Globetrotters. . . .
The major league baseball season has entered its second week with two unheralded teams, Minnesota and Cincinnati, showing rare mid-season form. We think two dark horses, Cleveland and San Francisco, will sneak in as winners. The Indians are counting on the comebacks of pitchers Gary Bell and Johnny Antonelli to edge out pre-season contenders New York, Chicago and Baltimore. The Giants led by Willie Mays, will need all the leadership Al Dark can provide to beat Pittsburgh, Milwaukee and Los Angeles.
Henry Aaron and Mickey Mantle should cop the batting crowns, while Mike McCormick and Jim Perry will be the top pitchers. Rocky Colavato is picked to be the top power hitter in the AL, while Eddie Mathews, Ernie Banks and Frank Robinson (if he can stay out of jail) will battle it out for NL power honors ....
For the first time within memory, the Stanley Cup finals opened without the presence of “les Habitants,” Montreal’s perennial champions. The Canadians were blasted from contention by Chicago’s Blackhawks, who went on to whip Detroit four games to two in the finals. Sparked by the “Million Dollar Line” of Hay-Hull-Balfour and the million-dollar play of goaltender Glenn Hall, the Hawks won the final game 5-1
In other pro hockey playoffs, St. Paul’s Saints routed Muskegon four games to one to take the Turner Cup and the International Hockey League title. Springfield bested Hershey 4-0 for the American Hockey League championship, Seattle defeated Calgary 4-1 in the Western Hockey League, and Johnstown took the honors in the Eastern Hockey League ....
LATE NEWS . . . The pro basketball season is now completed with the Boston Celtics and Cincinnati’s Bearcats reigning champs. The Celts defeated the Hawks of St. Louis, four games to one. Bill Russell and, as usual, Bob Cousy were the big guns for the Celtics, while Bob Pettit gave a superhuman performance for the losing Hawks. The Hawks made the final round by barely edging the LA Lakers, 104-102, in die seventh game of their semi-final round. The unbelievable Elgin Baylor and rookie standout Jerry West paced the Lakers.
Who is the laughing man in the sporting world? Gary Player, of course! Watching Player in the club house after his Masters triumph over Arnold Palmer, TV viewers witnessed not only a “live drama” of his love for his wife, but also for victory in this, the greatest of golfing tournaments.
JERRY FITZPATRICK Off to Ohio
Wilsonmen At Columbus For Annual Ohio Relays
Alex Wilson unveils his Notre Dame track and field team at Columbus, 0., tomorrow afternoon in the annual Ohio Relays in what will be the first outdoor encounter of the season for the Irish cindermen. Each year these relays, which are sponsored by Ohio State University, draw the top-flight trackmen of the Big Ten and the leading independents of the midwest.
This year’s gathering features Dave Mills of Purdue who might line up against George Kerr, formerly of the University of Illinois and a resident of the West Indies, in the 600-yard run, and also Michigan’s Tom Robinson who has re-written most Western Conference records in the sprints.
Notre Dame is sending a 19-man squad headed by sprinter Jerry Fitzpatrick and distance man Ron Gregory and will probably rely more on track events than the field events because of the lack of depth in the latter. Wilson has entered four relay teams and has put men in nine individual events.
The Irish will be competing in the university bracket in the relays and will send 440 and 880-yard relay teams headed by Fitzpatrick, Dick Musial and Joe Balistrieri, and distance medley and mile relay teams featuring Steve Schwartz, Terry Jones and Gregory.
In the individual events, Mike Giacin-to and Carl Ludecke will compete in the discus and shot put, respectively. Dick Monjeau is the lone representative in the broad jump and high jump, and Fred Froelke and Mike Terry are the two Irish pole vaulters. Another familiar duo is that of Sheeler and Mulrooney, ND entries in the 120-yard high hurdles.
In the distance events, Tom Dempsey and Bill Yaley will be out to capture the two-mile.
football captains:
RECONSTRUCTION
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER •
Just as the South recovered from the devastation of the Civil War, Notre Dame’s football forces hope to recover from the devastation of last season’s disastrous 2-8 record. In this, the centennial year of the initiation of the Civil War, two of the principal weapons of the Irish forces will be co-captains Norb Roy and Nick Buoniconti. Roy, a Rebel from Baton Rouge, La., and Buoniconti, a Yankee from Springfield, Mass., will® be the two starting guards on Coach Joe Kuharich’s eleven.
SEVENTH CO-CAPTAINS
This will be only the seventh time in 73 seasons of Notre Dame football that a Green team has been led by co-captains, and the first time both captains have played guard. Roy, who stands an even six feet and scales 220 pounds,^ was the only Irish player to start every game last fall, was second in total minutes played with 423, and was fourth in tackles made with 65. Buoniconti, who alternated at left guard with Captain Mo Pottios last season, is 5-11 and weighs 215 pounds. He was second in tackles made with 71.
Both prefer playing defense to offense; Roy, however rates himself a better offensive than defensive guard, while" Buoniconti feels his defensive talents are greater. The statistics bear them out.
BETTER SPIRIT
Realizing that team morale was a serious problem last season, the captains have taken several steps to insure that the problem will not recur, and feel that they have succeeded. Said Roy:^ “The players seem more determined and „ persevering this spring than any since . I’ve been here, and attitude makes the ' difference between a winning and a los- ; ing team.” Buoniconti chipped in with: ; “We’ve got much more discipline and ; spirit than last year. We realize that we have a lot to make up for after i last season.” \	,
CONFIDENCE
Both Roy and Buoniconti radiated a quiet confidence in their mates. Roy commented: “If everybody stays healthy and we get a little luck, we can do it.” Buoniconti expressed the feeling that there was much more competition among squad members than in previous seasons, and that this competition was a big morale factor. He summed it all up with: “We think we can do it”
We sincerely hope so. . . .
26
The Scholastic
1961 SPRING PRACTICE — ROY AND BUONICONTI LEAD CHARGE
THE CAPTAINS — A FORMAL POSE COACH AND HIS QUARTERBACKS w
1961 Spring Practice
by BILL CARY
Twenty-five lettermen headed a group of over 100 candidates who reported to head Coach Joe Kuharich last Friday as spring practice unofficially opened with the traditional picture-taking ceremonies. The official opening came Saturday in the first of 20 such sessions allowed under NCAA rules. These 20 practices will culminate in the annual Old-Timers game May 13.
Crucial period. This spring practice period is an especially crucial one for the gridders. For it is during this time that the deficiencies, both offensive and defensive, which led to last season’s dismal 2-8 record must he corrected if 1961 is to be a winning year. The players are aware of this; so are the coaches.
However, the situation is far from hopeless. In losing the eight games last year, four were decided by one touchdown and one by a single point. Even in the lopsided 51-19 Purdue debacle, the Irish gained as much yardage as the Boilermakers. With the exception of the Iowa game and the first half of the Northwestern battle, the Irish offense moved well. The problem was that the big play, the one that keeps the drive going, was often conspicuous by its absence. Defensively, the story was much the same. For the most part the defenders did an adequate job. But inevitably the Irish would make too many mistakes on a single play. The result: a big gain for the opposition, sometimes a touchdown as the Kuharich-men skidded to another defeat.
Last season the team was incapable of putting together 60 minutes of consistent, aggressive, heads-up football. Sometimes they controlled play for 45 of the 60 minutes, sometimes even 50. It was in the intervening period that they would suffer a relapse, a relapse which in the end led to defeat. If in 1961 they can put together 60 minutes of football the 2-8 standing could well be reversed.
Opening season. It was with these facts clearly in mind that the gridders opened practice last Saturday. This opening session was devoted mainly to work on fundamentals. The players divided into groups each under the direction of an assistant coach. While the groups worked individually, Kuharich roamed around the field, shouting instructions, and in general overseeing the entire operation. He obviously meant business.
In the final analysis, the success of the Irish during 1961 will hinge on the performance of one man — Daryle La-monica at quarterback.
27
April 21, 1961
Netters Off To Michigan; Ralph, Heinbecker Aces
This week the Notre Dame Tennis Team, guided by Coach Tom Fallon, initiates a three-school Michigan road trip, starting today with host Michigan State at East Lansing. The Irish then travel to Ann Arbor for a meet with powerful Michigan on April 22, on to the University of Detroit on the 23rd, and return to Notre Dame on the 25th for their home opener with still another school from the Wolverine State, Western Michigan University.
GRADUATE LOSSES
The losses from last year’s squad consist of Ray Bender, the 1960 Captain and number three man, and Pete Heinbecker and Dee Stevenson, all of whom have graduated. Returning to spark the Irish for the third straight season are seniors Don Ralph and Bill Heinbecker. They are the number one and two men respectively. Ralph was named to last year’s All-American Third Team, while Heinbecker was awarded Honorable Mention. Besides playing singles, the two seniors will combine to form one of the strongest doubles teams in the country. Last year the two were eliminated in the NCAA Quarter-Finals by the UCLA team of Fox and Nagler who went on to win the National Championship.
Sophomore Joe Brown from Seattle should hold down the number three singles spot. Another sophomore, Don Doyle, was supposed to have been the number- four singles man and to have teamed with Brown on the second doubles team, but Doyle has developed bursitis in his arm and must be classified as an unknown quantity.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth singles spots are open yet, but are contended for by juniors Jim Whelan and Maury DeWald, and sophomore Jim Bemis.
BIG TEN MATCHES
For the first time in Notre Dame racket history, all of the Big Ten schools have been scheduled for the coming season. Michigan State and Michigan are to be considered two of the strongest squads in the Big Ten. State has no real superstars, but possesses great depth.
Michigan on the other hand has nationally-ranked Ray Senkowski, supposedly the Wolverine successor to the great Barry McKay. Michigan is probably the strongest team on the schedule this year.
Detroit will provide good competition, although they will probably be somewhat less effective than the Wolves and Spartans. Western Michigan’s Broncos have to find replacements for their first two men. This squad will be quite young, but might become a major contender.
Notre Dame is powerful in the first three singles and the number one doubles events. If Coach Fallon can find a strong second doubles combination, the Irish will be quite formidable.
28
DONALD RALPH
All-American hopeful
ND Sailors Finish 5th In Cary Price Regatta
This Saturday and Sunday, the Notre Dame Sailing Club is holding its Spring Intraclub Regatta. Any member of the club who is a qualified skipper but has not skippered in an intercollegiate regatta may compete. The top skippers in this regatta will be sent to the Indiana Novice Regatta at Bloomington on May 6-7.
Vice-Commodore Ed Bukowski, in charge of the regatta, estimates that twelve very promising skippers will compete. Skipper’s meeting is 1 p.m. Saturday, with the $.50 entry fee payable at that time. A first place trophy will be awarded.
Last weekend the Irish traveled to Ann Arbor, Michigan for the Cary Price Memorial Regatta, hosted by the University of Michigan. Saturday’s ten races, sailed in a near-flat calm, turned out to be the entire program, as Sunday’s schedule was snowed out. The light airs, green crews and unfamiliar boats combined to handicap the Ramblers who, as a result, never finished higher than second and so sculled to a fifth place.
The Irish sailors were Commodore J. Day Kuras, Vice-Commodore E. Francis Bukowski, Fleet Captain C. J. Finnegan, Secretary J. Michael Zusi. Henry Chamberlin and Thomas Fox crewed, with A. J. Miltich in the sail locker.
Final scores were: Michigan, 77; Wisconsin, 58; Detroit, 52; Wayne State, 46; Purdue, 46; Notre Dame, 43 and Middlebury (Vermont), 22.
On March 25, the sailors competed at Milwaukee, Wise, in a regatta hosted by Marquette University. The Irish took a second. Beloit and De Pauw also sailed.
The Sailing Club has open sailing on St. Joe’s Lake every day starting at 1 p.m. Any club member who is a skipper may sail and bring guests. Six boats are available.
Finucane Takes Crown In Fine Billiard Display
In the recent Intercollegiate Billiard Tournament held at Kansas State University, the three man delegation from Notre Dame finished second to champion Indiana. Individually, the Irish “cuemen” garnered a first, third andw fourth in placing second. Jim Finucane won the pocket billiards crown, while Bob Kenney notched a third in straight rail billiards and Andy Holowaty took fourth in the three cushion billiards.
Finucane, a junior from Joliet, Ill., won all of his three matches in winning the title in his division. In his first match, Finucane edged defending champion Henry Parks of Indiana, 75-71. After this close opener, Finucane disposed of his other two® opponents with considerable ease. The unwilling victims were Dan Davis of Tennessee, who fell 75-18, and Bill Piedmont of Arizona, a 75-15 loser.
Commenting on his big victory over Indiana’s Park, Finucane said, “Beating last year’s champ was sort of a lucky break. He touched the ball with his coat for a foul and then I ran out the rest of the balls. But in the early stages of the match he fouled and it wasn’t seen’* by the official. This enabled him to jump off to a 15 point lead.”
As his reward for winning, Finucane was presented with several gifts including a $35 pool cue. An added bonus was a match with the incomparable Willie Mosconi. Maestro Mosconi showed our boy why he is the premier billiards player now active by winning 100-60. Finucane had this to say of the meeting with Mosconi, “Playing Mosconi was the biggest thrill of my life. It made the whole tournament worthwhile. He’s the greatest — simply fabulous.”
Mosconi had a few words concerning billiards at Notre Dame. He said, “Notre Dame used to be one of the best but suffered from a lack of interest. The last time they were represented here was in 1952. They should be here every year.”
Reo Elected Captain
At the basketball banquet on April 13, Armand Reo acquired the captaincy from Bill Crosby. With this formality, it became official that the 6-6 junior would lead the hoopsters in the 1961-62
season.
Reo, a native of Waterford, N. Y., led the Irish in the vital scoring and rebounding departments in the past season. He totaled 378 points for a per game average of 14.6. His 277 rebounds tab him as a good board man and his work in this department was a bright spot in the losing season.
Reo was a substitute his sophomore year but was the most improved team member last year.
The Scholastic
e
your HEADQUARTERS IN SOUTH BEND FOR
-Artcarvec DIAMOND RINGS
Top
Evening Star Engagement Ring $475.00
Bride’s Circlet............. $ 60.00
Bottom
Emerald Cut Engagement Ring $225.00
Bride’s Circlet............. $ 30.00
Wonderful selection of Artcarved Diamond Rings from $50. All fully guaranteed for diamond quality and Permanent Value.
★
CREDIT (with no interest) AND LAY-A-WAY
AVAILABLE TO
NOTRE DAME MEN
★
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
Authorise -Artcarved
Why are some girls prouder of their rings than others?
You see it in her eyes—but the reasons aren’t all romantic ones. Her diamond ring is an Artcarved. This means it meets rigid standards of excellence in cut, carat weight, color and clarity.
Nor is this simply a verbal promise. Artcarved’s written guarantee explains how the exclusive Permanent Value Plan lets you apply the full current retail price toward the purchase of a larger Artcarved anytime, at any Artcarved jeweler throughout the country. You will be proud, too, of Artcarved’s award-winning styling, like the Evening Star shown here. To be sure it’s an Artcarved: Look for the name inside the ring, and ask for your written Artcarved guarantee.
Of course, being engaged is wonderful, but sealing the engagement with an Artcarved ring makes it more wonderful than ever—forever!
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
--------------------------------------------, i
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. SP-11	■
216 E. 45th St., New York 17, N. Y. ;
I
Please send me more facts about diamond j rings and "Wedding Guide for Bride and i Groom”. Also name of nearest (or home- | town) Artcarved Jeweler. I am enclosing J 10^ to cover handling and postage.	I
I
Name	•
I
Address	}
l
City___________County or Zone	. |
i
State	I
I
_______________________________________J
April 21, 1961
29
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
Interhall Competitors Begin Matches Today
The Interhall Tennis Tournament starts today to determine the first winner of the Courtney Cup. Four entries from each hall will participate in the four flight single elimination tourney.
The atheltic director of each hall has selected a team of four men to represent that hall. Varsity and freshman tennis team players are not eligible for
the tournament but will serve as coache, in some of the halls.
Yesterday a representative from eacl hall attended a meeting in Mr. Napoli tano’s office to determine the scheduh of play and the rules of the tourney. A that time, players were rated in order o: ability for seeding purposes.
The Courtney Cup is now on display in the Student Center. The cup was donated by Mrs. Valborg Courtney o: Bethesda, Md. for the purpose of en couraging tennis on the intramural level It will be presented yearly to the out standing players in the interhall league
Massive voice for a missile base
In America’s space-age defense system, the order of the day is total, high-speed communications.
And at Vandenberg Air Force Base, as elsewhere, General Telephone & Electronics is carrying out the order with efficiency and dispatch.
Here the link to the system that mans the mighty Atlas missiles is a fully automatic 5,000-line dial telephone exchange. The “outside voice" that links the base with alert and command posts throughout the world is a multichannel microwave radio relay system capable of handling hundreds of telephone conversations, teletype messages and early-warning radar data simultaneously.
The communications equipment connecting Vandenberg Air Force Base with the outside was designed, manufactured and installed by our subsidiaries, Automatic Electric and Lenkurt Electric, and is operated for the government by General Telephone of California.
This advanced high-speed system is expressive of the way General Telephone & Electronics strives to serve the nation through better communications — not only for national defense, but for homes, business and industry as well.
GENERAL
TELEPHONE ^ELECTRONICS ®
30
The Scholastic
Curriculum
(Continued from page 34)
205 and 206). With the exception of chemical and metallurgical engineers, the engineering students take eight credits in chemistry. This can he considered sufficient, but an effort should be made to make it more than just an extension of high school chemistry.
The Engineering Science courses of Statics, Dynamics, and Strength of Materials taken by engineers are considered good and no changes are recommended.
Lastly, we will consider the courses of a general nature in engineering. Engineering 11, guidance for freshmen, is subject to much controversy. If the course degrades into just a slide rule instruction class — as it has a tendency to do — it should be discontinued. If subjects such as number theory, etc. are included it can be a beneficial course. ME 13, the movie course on machine tools, is generally considered to be of little value for the average engineer and it is recommended that it be dropped. It is further recommended that the nuclear engineering program be expanded and made more readily available to non-mechanical engineers as electives.
In conclusion: let it be noted that the above reflects the opinion of senior engineering students at Notre Dame. It is felt, however, that this view is shared by the majority of engineering students at the University. It is made in good faith with the hope that it may provide the faculty and administration with a valid and objective gauge of student reaction to the engineering curriculum. We further hope that this survey will result in improved student-faculty relations and a greater interest among the students in their college.
Whenever you leave town, carry money only you can spend: Bank of America Travelers Cheques. Lossproof, theft-proof, cashed only by your signature. Sold at banks everywhere.
NABICHT CAFETERIA
1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria
*
FREE PARKING
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
April 21, 1961
31
Colleton
(Continued from page 12) provides policy, and occasionally speaks in the name of the students. It is my opinion that if the Student Senate would restrict its activities to the above areas, there would be no need for weekly Senate meetings. Further, I believe that there are but few issues that require referendum, that, if publicized too much, Student Government will loose its effectiveness and become more annoying than helpful to the Student Body. The student is not interested in Student Government but only in what Student Government can do for his benefit. The Student Government which recognizes this fact will be more successful and palatable than that which does not.
Start Second Chapter Of J. B. Society Here
Despite much recent unfavorable publicity, the John Birch Society of South Bend is growing and is now in the process of organizing its second local chapter. Among those active in the organization are Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the Notre Dame Law School and five Notre Dame students. Secretary of the South Bend chapter is Peter Butler of Mount Vernon, N. Y., a graduate chemistry student at Notre Dame.
At the present time the chief objective of the Society and its controversial founder, Robert Welch, is the impeachment of Chief Justice Earl Warren.
Said Butler, “It is a fact that the Com- : munist Daily Worker agrees with War- ;j ren in 36 of 39 decisions. We believe he ' should be impeached because he has overstepped the Constitution.”
Other activities of the chapter include circulation of books by conservative authors, showing such films as “Operation Abolition,” and letter writing campaigns	g
Controversy about the group centers mainly on what some have called a 1 privately circulated letter and others a [ book intended for publication, in which I Welch charged that former President | Eisenhower was a knowing agent of the | Communist conspiracy. Butler added | however, that “Welch apparently is a £ man of strong beliefs who on occasion | overstates his point.”	|
Buckley
(Continued from page 12) mittees for greater efficiency and hold weekly senate cabinet meetings for greater coordination. I’d also use a “get tough” policy in the senate to build it into a team, a spirited group working together for the good of all.
The third area of importance in which improvements could be made concerns the relationship between the student body and the Administration. Next year I would attempt to better represent you before all the members of the Administration, and vice-versa. Notre Dame is supposed to be one community, not two armed camps, battling each other at every turn. Two meetings were held this year between Father Hesburgh and various student leaders; both were very successful in helping us to understand the various problems concerning campus issues. I’d like to see these meetings continued next year, and their number increased. Question and answer sessions on WSND and talks by Administration heads, followed by questions, could be used to better represent you on important issues concerning campus life.
There are many concrete proposals that I have included in my ideas for next year which you have read on my platform. These are concerned with the four general areas of Student Government responsibility: academic, social, international and student affairs. There are too many of them to list here, but all of them are contained on the sheet which has been handed out to you.
Student Government is more than just a service organization. It is a voice of student opinion and ideas, the only one that exists as such on the campus. Even ideas, however, are not the answer. There have been many excellent suggestions concerning possible projects and programs for Student Government to work on. There is a world of difference between these ideas and their actual fulfillment. Carrying through and putting them into practice is the final key to success. I feel that my record during this past year as Junior Class President can stand as proof that the programs that I would undertake next year could be and would be, successful.
32
SUMMER JOBS IN EUROPE EARN YOUR TRIP AND EXPENSES
FOR FREE INFORMATION WRITE TO: AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE e. V. Jahnstrasse 56 A, • Frankfurt/Main, • Germany, • Telephone 59 12 38
k'
F' k


r:
F;

Two approaches to the man's deodorant” problem
If a man doesn’t mind shaving under his arms, he will probably find a woman’s roll-on satisfactory. Most men, however, find it simplerand surer to use Mennen Spray Deodorant. Mennen Spray was made to get through to the skin, where perspiration starts. And made to work all day. More men use Mennen Spray than any other deodorant. How about you? 64? and $1.00 plus tax.

E
I:
f
The Scholastic =
CANOE TRIPS
into the Quetico-Superior Wilderness. For individuals or groups. Write Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Ely, Minnesota.
Classified Advertising
TRAVEL OVERSEAS. $85 weekly, waiters or waitresses on Passenger ships during summer. U.S. Citizens ONLY. For details send $1 Lansing Information Service, Dept. E-17, Box 74, New York 61, N.Y.
Repercussion (Continued from page 4) we must rise above if we are to reach true excellence.
As a band member, I would like to bring out a few facts which Mr. Oliver has very conveniently ignored. Firstly, the band does not “monopolize the wind players” in the sense that Oliver uses. It is true that most of the wind players belong to the band, but what he ignores is the equally true fact that many of them belong to the orchestra as well. In fact, the majority of the orchestra's wind players are band members. These men who belong to both organizations are not the band’s “second string”; they are the best men that the band has. Most of them are section leaders, and one is even a featured soloist with the band.
As for his. “subtle” attack on the “popular band tradition,” let’s point out a few more facts. The band also brings serious music to the campus. It has presented a spring concert in the Drill Hall each year for many, many years. Some of the composers whose works have been performed by the band are Tschaikowsky, Rachmaninoff, Rimsky-Korsakov, Haydn, Gershwin, Williams, Holst, Gliere, Dvorzak, Beethoven, Bach, Handel and Strauss.
Jerry Cartier 345 Sorin
LAETARE?
Editor:
With regard to your commentary on this year’s Laetare Medal winner I would like to make a few comments. There is a distinction between an outstanding layman who is Catholic and “an outstanding Catholic layman,” one who has fulfilled the role of the apostolic layman in the world in an exceptional manner. It is questionable that President Kennedy belongs in the second category.
I support President Kennedy politically, but at the same time I cannot fail to notice that there is more to being “an outstanding Catholic layman” than treading the thin line between Church and State “with tact and dignity.” In fact Kennedy played down the importance and relevance of his Faith in the presidential campaign; that this was necessary to realize his political ambitions, does not change the fact that it did happen. This certainly does not, to say the least lend support to his being called “an outstanding Catholic layman.” Also President Kennedy is at present ardently supporting a school aid bill which, if passed, with no amendment or other bill granting low-interest loans to Catholic schools, will damage the Catholic school system.
Rudolph H. Ehrensing 411 Walsh
LETTERS should be addressed to the Editor, 320 Walsh.
33
April 21, 1961
engineering college^
ENGINEERING EVALUATING COMMITTEE
I	curriculum
Under the joint sponsorship of the Student Senate and the Joint Engineering Council, a year long academic evaluation of the Engineering College has taken place. One of the important phases of the report concerned the curriculum. It was seen that many students outside of the college either did not understand the reasons for the 'many courses taken or did not realize the extensive requirements for obtaining an education for the profession of engineering. The following excerpt from the report concerns the Engineering College Curriculum — an analysis of the breakdown of courses as well as recommendations for a revision of the curriculum.
This report has been prepared with an awareness that a similar study was conducted in 1956 by members of the faculty. In view of this, the object of this report will be to evaluate any changes in the engineering curriculum resulting from the findings of the Self Study Group; and to examine the present curriculum in relation to further changes. Due to the nature and scope of this report, the engineering courses of any one department will not be included. Instead, this report will deal with the curriculum that is common to most engineers.
In 1956 the incoming engineering student was required to take an average of 152 credit hours for graduation. These can be broken down as follows:
Liberal Arts ..........32
Science .............  45
Engineering Science ___15
Engineering ......._...6O
(These of course are averages and will vary among departments.) For the same student entering Notre Dame in 1960, the only difference, on the average, is one additional hour of Liberal Arts. There have been changes, however, within the departments. The most pronounced have been in the area of liberal arts, viz. a reduction in required religion credits of three; English of four; economics of four. In replacement of these, the student is given twelve hours of liberal arts electives.
The religion sequence has been changed from six two-hour courses to three three-hour courses. This not only cuts down
34
on. the number of final examinations to be taken, but allows more concentrated work to be done in a given subject. The three courses are “Sacred Scripture,” “God and Man,” and “Christian Life.” Deleted has been “Apologetics.” The quality of this latter course was questionable. Many students felt that the course was not commensurate with the ability of college students, relying on high school arguments.
Two English courses were discontinued, viz. “Business and Technical Writing” and “Prose and Poetry.” Retained were two semesters of rhetoric and composition. Concerning the former: it is true that such knowledge is essential to the engineer; much of his work consists of writing reports. But experience of this type is gained in the various laboratory courses which consist almost entirely in reports. As far as the various forms are concerned, every laboratory or business has more-or-less specific requirements for submitting reports. Concerning the latter: courses in prose and poetry may be included in the twelve hours of electives. •
Two economics courses were also deleted. Though such courses are available as electives, some students feel that a course in basic economics should be required for all engineers.
The twelve hours of electives can be selected from courses in nine departments. These electives can be taken in one department or in predetermined interdepartmental sequences. By taking twelve hours in one department the student can now delve deeper into a subject than was formerly possible. The alternate method is open to some criticism. For example a student can take a history-literature sequence but not a history-theology sequence. This was done to provide sequences of complimentary subjects. Since all engineers’ interest is not channeled in this way, however, some might prefer to take a historytheology sequence rather than a philosophy-theology, or be left free to select courses covering a wide range of subjects. If the program were set up in this manner a student would be able to obtain a liberal arts sequence as concentrated or as diversified as he chose.
It has been traditional that liberal arts for engineers be taught in special engineering sections, open only to engi
neers. This might be considered good j in that all students in a given class have ' approximately the same background in liberal arts. However, a closer look re- "• veals that liberal arts is characterized ? not only in the subject matter but also in an attitude and a method of approach, g If the class is composed only of engi- } neers an objective attitude and scienti- j fic method of approach will prevail. But f
if the sections are open, or better yet, regular liberal arts sections, the engineer will profit from an atmosphere out of the norm of his usual classes but proper to the subject being taught.
We will now consider possible changes in curriculum as it stands. While the value of the apologetics course previously required is debatable, the need for a good course in apologetics is recognized by most students. And since many if not most of the students have had Scripture throughout high school, it is suggested that the latter be replaced by apologetics. An alternative would be to replace Scripture with a course in comparative religion (now an elective). This is not an attempt to lower the value of scripture or dogma, but merely an attempt to better prepare the engineer for life in a modern, nonCatholic world.
LESS THEORY
Considering English, it is suggested that the possibility of replacing one semester of Rhetoric and Composition with a literature course be studied. Many students feel that if undertaken in the right manner, one semester of Rhetoric and Composition would be sufficient.
The science curriculum will now be considered. In the past four years there have been no changes offsetting the engineering student in general. The physics sequence can be considered good, giving the engineer what he needs. As regards mathematics, the consensus of opinion among the students is that the courses are too theoretical. It is therefore recommended that either the Mathematics Department redesign their courses for engineers, or the individual departments take it upon themselves to offer courses in applied mathematics on the undergraduate level (e.g. Ch. E.
(Continued on page 31)
The Scholastic
3ANLON“PAR"
for the man of action
This new luxury knit by Arrow gives to the active or spectator sportsman unequaled comfort, quality and good looks. In addition to complete freedom of action it is the perfect wash and wear knitted sport shirt. Careful tailoring is obvious in the fashion ribbed collar and classic placket design. This value shirt is available in a wide variety of colors.
$5.95
1
From the
“Cum Laude Collection”
GILBERT

ANLON...
The favored knit for the college man No campus wardrobe is complete without a selection of Arrow Banion knits for active



sports or just relaxing. Come in to see this new luxury collection of knits. Specially designed for the man of action.
$5.95
IN THE SHOPPING
NITER — ON THE CAMPUS

Also at 809*817 So. Michigan St., South Bend