HotpeBamewcbolastic ■ ?^few ■	'
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS- VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Entered as Second Class Mail Matter - Published Every Saturday During the School Year.	'
Vol. LV.	DECEMBER 10, 1921	No. 12
TO OUR TEAM. .
appear to be only months. Indeed, it is un-
A SENIOR.
WENTY-T H R E E-----------fourteen------ eighty-five I The ball is snapped, there is a crash of bodies, a thud, headgears fly, the referee whistles; then, the
funny little horn of the time-keeper is sounded. The stands tremble with a yell, as lusty as any Cartier field ever heard, and the teams leave the gridiron. A touch of the pathetic is present in the occasion. There is not a spectator who does not feel the hand of sadness on his shoulder.
Thursday, November 24, 1921, for the man in the world was Thanksgiving, a day on which he was not
Notre Dame 56;	Kalamazoo 0.
Notre Dame 57;	Depauw 10.
Notre Dame 7;	Iowa 10	.
Notre Dame 33;	Purdue 0.
Notre Dame 7;	Nebraska 0.
Notre Dame 28;	Indiana 7
Notre Dame 28;	Army 0.
Notre Dame 4&;	Rutgers 0.
Notre Dame 42;	Haskell Indians 7.
Notre Dame 21;	Marquette 7.
Notre Dame 48;	Michigan Aggies 0.
Notre Dame 375; Opponents 41
V ■ - ' .	■■ -	....;
obliged to punch the .
time-clock but could stay home and . eat turkey. But for Notre Dame, it was far more, than a day of feasting; it meant the last game in which thirteen of her greatest players would participate. The Michigan Aggie Notre Dame affair of 1921 will long be remembered not because jt was a game to decide a championship, but because it marked' the breaking up of a team which has been heralded from coast to coast as football-per-
fect.	-	, -
Years which we are going to spend seem like centuries, but years which we have spent
believable that Eddie and Buck and the rest are through already. Why, wasn’t it only a
few months ago that the S. A. T. C. was tearing up the campus and boys fresh from high school were trying to “shoulder arms”? Surely, it hasn’t been four years since Hunk
and Ojay were talking about running for sheriff of Calumet when they were through with their college education? But it has been, and there is no use trying to wish for the impossible. It would be fine if they could stay and play foot- . ball under the Gold and Blue forever.. They can’t. Their task has been to make history for Notre Dame and who is there to deny that they have done it well? Three years ago, Notre Dame
was a school which had to fight for everything she got. Today the conquests of her. football team are common knowledge.	.
This is the heritage which those mon leave to Notre Dame. What is the compensatory tribute? It is that which college men can give—the tribute of a silent respect, akin to adoration, for the man who has fonght against the most disheartening odds, and won. It would be cheap to attempt to de
scribe the spirit of men like Danny, Bodge, or Hunk, whose broken ribs only stirred him. to fight all the more. -	' -
178
Moure dame Schdasuie
LOOKING THEM OVER.
VINCENT ENGELS.
One of the few things that make the world a very good place to live in is the presence of athletic contests and athletes. One of the
DEGREE.
things that distinguish a wholesome soul from a withered spirit is expressed in a manifest enjoyment at sight of an athletic struggle. The direct opposition of muscle to muscle, of strength to strength, induces the most wholesome pleasure that physical man can experience. Athletics and athletes keep the world’s heart beating vigorously; and if they should ever be forgotten then the world will be decayed and fit only for fire.
There have been many fine games indulged in throughout history, ever since Adam first played hide-and-go-seek with his son Abel. But it is only recently that the perfect game has been developed—one which combines all the ability of the trackman with the skill of the boxer and of the basketball artist, the wiry strength of the rower and the strategy of the warrior—perfect alike for player and spectator, since it develops the strength of the former more proportionately than any other, and is far more interesting for the latter to watch than any other g<me which has been devised. It took six thousand years to develop this—just as i
took almost that length of time to gather the conditions under which Dante could be born, and write his epic; Bach could appear and compose his music, and the nineteenth century inventors could leave us such luxurious devices as no other civilization has known.
It seems to me that the spirit of this game, which is football, of course, is understood best at Notre Dame. With due respect to all «ijr estimable contemporaries, I still believe thht our men take a keener delight in playing the game than do they. And this assertion is borne out by leading sport writers who say that the typical foot ball player is the Notre Dame player. Brave men—every one—hard fighters and cheerful players, to know them is to realize why the influence of athletics is so wholesome and so necessary.
Now the purpose of this paper is not to extol the virtues of the individual Notre Dame football warriors—the New York and Chicago papers have accomplished that well. It is to explain why football is such a great game, to explain that by recording the deeds of every one of Rockne’s men upon the gridiron. Once already, I have noted that the game calls for the speed of a track athlete. Back in the blue skyed, vine hilled days of Greece, there lived a marvelous runner who brought the news of Marathon to Athens.
He was a speedy boy, but just between us two, he could not have made half so good a football player as Gus Desch or Chet Wynne. Gus Desch, known in New York as half back number 17, is the world’s champion hurdler over the 440 yard course, but more than that, he is a Notre Dame football player, who has just played his first year with the varsity and who will greatly help in building up a winning team next fall. Chet Wynne is the amiable captain of our track team, and has completed his second season as regular fullback for Notre Dame. He is the lightest fullback playing in high powered football, boasting to the possession of no more than 166 pounds. Chet will leave at Commencement, which is a most unkindest cut. While playing for Notre Dame he was also aided by these men in the backfield: Danny Coughlin, Phelan, Walsh, Lieb, Kane, Shea, Maher and Bergman. Danny Coughlin, who also graduates in the spring, played one year of col
Noure ©ameSchdasuic
179
lege football at Drake before coming here, and gained further experience in the western training camps; from which he was picked by Walter Eckersall as an All Western Service half back. Danny played two years with us—ran ninety yards against the Michigan Aggies last fall, and tore through the whole Indiana lineup this season for several touchdowns.
Phelan and Walsh have been first string reserve men for two years. We did not realize all the things of which they were capable until the last. Thanksgiving day, both played their last game for the gold and blue, and their performances came as a revelation to most of the spectators. Phelan ran twenty yards or better on three occasions, while Walsh was plunging consistently for eight and ten yards. His tackling was also noteworthy. Our friends, Micky Kane, Red Shea, Maher and Bergman aided materially in the development of Rock’s back field this fall. Although none of these men are regulars, the part which they played in Notre Dame’s victories cannot be underestimated. It is a big thing to hold the enemy for five minutes while the star is resting, and the men we mentioned have often done big things like that.
When .George Gipp rose into fame from the Plains of West Point a year ago, an ambitious little halfback named Johnny Mo-hardt also received an abundance of praise. Easterners predicted a brilliant future for him, and for once the prophets were right. This fall, Johnny stepped into the place vacated by his old team mate, and made good from the start. An elusive field runner, he dashed for gains of twenty-five and thirty yards against Iowa, West Point and Purdue and ran fifty-eight through Marquette; an accurate forward passer, he enabled Rockne to build up those baffling pass combinations which startled the country; a hard fighter, his presence in the game always meant two things: encouragmenet and inspiration to his own team, and trouble to the foe. Johnny was placed on. several All-American teams, and a whole flock of All-Western aggregations, including that of Walter Eckersall.
Six nifty little quarterbacks constituted the remainder of one of the greatest backfields in the country. Of that six, five will
return, the veteran Chet Grant having played his last footbabll game for Notre Dame. Chet became a favorite here during the S. A. T. C. wnen he was noted as a brilliant open field runner. His running accounted for Notre Dame’s touchdown again the Great Lakes eleven—the touchdown that almost whipped, and eventually tied that s great National Championship squad. Since then, however he was forced to undergo an operation on his knee. This knee kept him from participating in many games during the fall, but at Iowa and West' Point he was used, and showed himself to be the same old Chet. The Indianapolis Star has named him All-State quarterback. Thomas, who played little football last fall, came into prominence this year, and was most valuable in the quarterback’s position. Jack Veiock and Billy Evans both give him honorable mention among the leading quarterbacks in the country. He directed the team ably all season. Pete Smith surprised even his friends this year by taking his place among the best quarterbacks in school. He played during several games, notably the struggle with Purdue. Reese, Logan and Gene Murphy played good ball in the quarterback’s position, and they will all be very useful to “Rock” about the middle of next September.
And now -we come to the linesmen, they who constituted the greatest line Notre Dame ever had. Frank Gotch was a great wrestler, but the honorable Frank would have been in a bad shape playing football against any one of bur noble seven. He would have broken toes in vain—these Rockmen were not the kind to be stopped by injured pedals. Some of them have made AllAmerican teams, Kiley, Eddie Anderson, Buck Shaw, and Hunk Anderson, but all are deserving of hearty recognition. Kiley, Carberry, Eddie Anderson, Seifert, Mayl and Cameron at the ends gave us the best they had all season, and that is all we can expect. The first three have played for N. D. for the last time, but Seifert, Cameron and Mayl will come in handy when Rock begins the process of rebuilding next fall.
Those incomparables, Shaw and Garvey, plugged our tackle holes superbly. Buck, the well built, the western shot put master, allowed less than forty yards to be made
180
Nouve dame Sdiolasdc
through him all season. He was a rock in our defense at Iowa, but it was during the Nebraska game, he smashed through .this heavy Cornhusker opponent time and again, downed the elusive Lewellen behind the scrimmage line frequently, and was down after punts as fast as our ends, who are rather fast. Garvey, who has been playing a splendid game this fall, has not had the recognition he deserved of late. This has been due to unfortunate circumstances. Before the Iowa game, we were inclined to underestimate the powerful negro tackle of the Hawkeyes, and predicted an easy time for Hector. Then when Slater’s true ability had been revealed, we neglected Garvey, who had held him well throughout the game. Garvey will play one more year on Rockne’s team, and with him will perform Cotton and Voss. Cotton is one of our most consistent linesmen. Never flashy, he can always be relied upon to block up an enemy play. His playing in the Nebraska game was a real encouragement to Notre Dame followers, who realize what a tough time Coach Rockne will have in developing a successful team next fall. Voss, our husky blonde, has been performing on Cartier Field for three years now, one year as a freshman, and two years as a first string reserve man. Bill is an aggressive tackle, who never allows an opponent to get the jump on him. He also will return next fall. Thomas Lieb started his gridiron career at Notre Dame as a freshman fullback. Rockne switched him to a halfback when he tried out for the varsity this fall, and eventually made a linesman out of him. Tom’s big frame will look well in the Gold and Blue linedp a year from now.
All season, the center of our line was impervious, for the reason that Hunk Anderson, Ojay Larson, Harry Mehre, Jim Dooley, Eddie DeGree and Harvey Brown performed in its immediate vicinity. Anderson and Dooley, our mighty guards, graduate next spring. The former has long been a favorite among the Cartier Field stands, and more than one critic picked him for AllAmerican this fall. Jock Veiock said of him: “Anderson of Notre Dame may not be the biggest guard who ever wore a moleskin, but he ranks among the best. Shifty, capable of assisting his tackle in opening , a
hole, equally agile in plowing through an opposing line on defense, he does not have to doff his chapeau to any man who ever
RODGER.
played his position.” Jim Dooley made a favorable impression upon the same critic who ranked him among the leading guards in the country. Jim has won a monogram three times in football. He had the weight, the endurance and the energy that make a great football player, and employing these effectively, he was a great factor in the great seasons which Notre Dame has enjoyed these last three years. But while Dooley and Anderson are through, Brown and Degree will be further available. Eddie Degree is the punting guard, brother of another Notre Dame punting guard, Cy Degree, from whom we expect great things next fall. An injured knee prevented Eddie from performing to the best of his ability last fall, but this year he was in tip-top shape, and played a tip-top game. Brown is a young man of much promise, whom Coach Rockne claims will develop into a second Morris Smith. He is light, weighing not more than 165 pounds, but he has many qualities which are more valuable than weight,—speed, drive and fight.
We have always had great centers at Notre Dame, but seldom have we been supplied with two so valuable as Harry Mehre and Ojay Larson. Harry is our former basket-
Moure Some Schokwrie	181
ball captain, and he brings to the gridiron the same indomitable characteristics that made him such a wonder on the court. Harry is the best type of a roving center, plunging himself into every play while on the defense. He graduates in June. Ojay Larson has been likened to “The Rock of Gibraltar” so frequently that he will not mind our employing the simile. Ojay is a true rock at center— opponents will tell you that he cannot be moved. Using only one hand to pass the ball, he digs the other into the turf and nothing weaker than a stump puller could shake him. He has played two varsity seasons with Notre Dame, and Rockne’s line will be built around him next fall. Reagan will also come in valuably at center.. Playing with _ the varsity squad for the first time, Reagan distinguished himself whenever given a chance, and should develop into a remarkable football player next year’
GOOFING GOOFERS.
HAROLD M’KEE.
The hour was past midnight and the “Blue Goose,” one of Denver’s second rate cafes, was about to close up for the night. Seated opposite each other at one of the rear tables were two men, at that hour the saloon’s only customers. One of them, whose accent and manner characterized him as a New Yorker, was leaning across the table conversing in low tones with the man opposite him, a person whose drawl marked him as a Westerner and whose dress was that of a miner.
“Do you want it or not?” cried the New Yorker, banging his fist on the table.
“Wal—I wanta buy a house, but I don’t keer fer such a big place,” drawled “the miner.
“But isn’t it just the place you were looking for? Didn’t you say that you wanted tc bring your daughter out of the mountains and give her a city education, put her into society? Now what better place would you want? Why man, with that house you could throw a party for the whole town. Your daughter would be the belle of Denver in no time——.”
“But I don’t think I can afford it,” cut in the Westerner.
“What’s, the matter, don’t you think it’s worth it? Didn’t you see its marble floors, the painting on the walls. Why it’s a palace compared to the rest of these houses in Denver. Did you see that door with “Senate Chamber” marked on it? That’s the breakfast room. The door which had “Governor” painted on its led into my room. The boys nicknamed me “governor” so to please them I had it stenciled on my door. But that will be your room. Why the dome on the building alone is worth a fortune. But of course if you don’t want to buy; it’s all right with me. There is a crowd of people who wish to buy the place—you saw them looking it over today, didn’t you? But I’ve taken a liking to you and want you to have it. What do you say?”
The miner took off his hat and scratched his head. “Wal, I’ll tell you, stranger. I want a nice place like that but I don’t think I can chuck up the dust you want fer it.”
“But it is only two-thousand dollars.”
“But I hain’t got that much all--.”
“But you told me this afternoon that you had a money belt full of gold nuggets. How much are they worth?”
“I calculated the mint would give me ’bout fifteen hundred dollars. The last bunch I brought in----.”
“I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll sell that house for the gold in your belt. I’m losing money, I know, but I’ve taken a liking to you, is it a go?” The Easterner grasped the miner’s arm, “Is it a go?”
“Wal, I reckon I might as well---
“Fine, that’s the stuff,” fairly cried the New Yorker. “Now give me-that belt and the house is yours. Boy, I hate to part with it but---.”
“Kin I move in tomorrow?”
“You may take possession this evening, if you wish. Give me the nuggets and I’ll fix it all up for you.” •
The miner took his money belt from around his waist and laid it upon the table. “Stranger,” he said, “this is all I have in the world. I want that house and I want it tomorrow. And I want to go back to the hills and bring the gal in to show her over the new diggings. But I won’t have the jack if I give this to you. Say, paid, would it be too much nerve if I asked you fer a loan of
182
'efie Noure &ame Scholastic
’bout a hundred bucks? I’ll pay you back when I come in tomorrow night because I. kin borrow it from one of the boys up in the hills.”
“But I haven’t a hundred dollars with me.”
“But I’ve got to have jack to git home on. Wal I guess we don’t make the trade tonight,” drawled the miner picking up the belt. “I’ll take it over to the mint in the morning and have it ground out into cash and then I’ll look you up and--
“Say, will fifty dollars be enough?”
“I reckon fifty will just ’bout cover everything, but---
“Well, here’s your fifty,” almost shouted the New Yorker as he shoved a handful of bills into the miner’s hand. “Now I’ll take the belt and house is yours. By jove,” he exclaimed, nervously jerking out his watch, “I almost forgot. I have an appointment at a wake for one o’clock. Must be going.” And he placed the miner’s money belt in his pocket and started to get up from his chair.
“Won’t you have another drink before you leave, pardner?” ‘	.
“No thanks, I’m late now. Will drop around and see you in your new home tomorrow night. Good night.” And the New Yorker arose from the table and walked hur
riedly from the cafe.
“Say, pard,” the miner striding over to the
bar inquired of the bartender, that guy, do you know?”
Who : was
“Don’t think I know him. Why?”
“Well I just got a bargain from him. Just bought the big house up the street fer a belt full of gold. Purty lucky, I’d say.”
“Which building do you mean?” The bartender stopped drying glasses and looked up with surprise.
“The big place with the dome on it, and that ain’t all, he gave me fifty bucks to git
home on and------•
“But you—you—that’s the state’s capitol.” “Yeah, I know it,” grinned the miner.
“But you gave him a belt full of dust.”
“But he gave me fifty bucks.”
“But for all that good gold, Just think-----
“Who said it was good gold? Twasn’t nuthin else but bout ten cents worth of sulphite iron, looks like gold but it aint. Made
two thousand bucks last week in Frisco playing the part of a goof. Say give me ’nuther one of them yaller drinks, will,ya?”
BALLADE OF WEST AND EAST.
M. KIP LING.
In the art of pigskin playing, there surely is no saying
What the afternoon will bring when the whistle’s had its fling.	-
There are men of mighty muscle who enjoy a gentle tussle;
There are men superb and brainy who do best when it is rainy;
But when Johnny passed to Kiley, most assuredly no wily
Enemy was there.
Oh, East was least and West was best
Whenever the twain did meet;
And Notre Dame was a ghostly guest
Whose middle name was beat.
If the art of playing tackle is to make medullas crackle;
If the way to pass the ball is to throw it from a wall;	.
If the guards and ends must hurry ’mid the signals’ speedy flurry—
Then the Andersons and Shaw, and old Larson (bless his paw)
Ed Degree and Jimmie Dooley, with old Hector so unruly,
Did the trick.
Oh, East was least and West was best
Whenever a game was played;
And Notre Dame was a ghostly guest
Whose middle name was “Wade.”
If your scheme at playing quarter is to make the distance shorter
From the goal-post’s grim position; if a fullback’s weighty mission
Is to shred a line to tatters while all etiquette he shatters / •
If a drcp-kick is no sin, then nine rahs for Hurdler
Wynne,	•
Castner, Coughlin and Chet Grant, Thomas and the elephant,
Lieber Lieb. ,	.
Oh East was least and West was best	.
Whenever the whistle rang;
And Notre Dame was a ghostly guest ‘
Whose middle name was “Bang.”
i	•
Nacre dame Scholastic
183
There is a saying That hard times Make money scarce But to those Who know
It is very evident
That what makes money So scarce is Good times.
***
I know a young fellow named Babbit.
He likes sausage better than rabbit
And he said once to me,	’
“Eating sausage you see, Can really be called my wurst habit.”
*** '
“You look awfully blue old man. Have you any deep seated trouble?”
“Yes, my wife in a chair on this Pullman.”
*** ■
Fresh:—See here, Prof. I don’t think it’s right of you to give me zero in this exam.
Prof:—I’m sorry young man, but we are not allowed to give a minus this year.
***
Holy Smoke is publishing the first real laugh this page has seen:
“Ha! Ha!”
***
A fellow named Pill from North Umber
Would rather smoke “dope sticks” than slumber.
I said, “How many, pray,	_	‘
Do you smoke in a day?”
He said, “Any old given number.”
***
FASHION SUGGESTIONS.
Short skirts of good material are not in style, but where?
Belts are being worn around the equatorial region.	'
Cellar steps will be worn this winter.
***
Sponge:—Are you going to the dance tonight?
Spear:—I don’t see how I can. My roommate’s check hasn’t come yet.	.
_ *** .
He’s only a Freshman—won’t study this year, But still you will see he wears glasses a lot.
The reason he frames his eyes with specs, I hear, Is 'cause they’re located in such a weak spot.
While at a play the other night a couple sitting at my right were very wrapped up in the play, and at its close I heard her say, “Dear, why do all the people cry? That actor didn’t really die. It’s only in the picture play. We’ll see him act some other day.”
“They know he isn’t really dead. That’s why they weep,” her partner said.
. ***
“When I composed that piece of music I couldn’t get ten dollars for it and now five thousand wouldn’t buy it.”
“Yes? I think I’m one of the five thousand.”
***
“Were you ever pinched for speeding?” the coy maiden asked.
“Not pinched,” said he, “but I’ve been slapped for going too fast.”
***
Oleomargarine is what I call my girl, my little strutter.
The reason for the name is this: I haven’t any but her.
. ***
Bud:—Psychology teaches that a color that is greatly saturated has very little brightness quality.
W’eiser:—That holds true of other things besides colors.
■ ***
PAGE JONAH.
Once upon a time There was a school Off flying fish And they were nearing Three huge Whales.
And three huge whales . Met them And said, “Hello.” j	***
Soph:—You want to keep your eyes open around here next week.
Fresh:—Why so?
Soph:—Because you’d look like a d-- fool if
you went around with them closed.	'
. . ’ ***
Heard at the game: A fair one forgot herself in the excitement and cried out: “Hold him Hector. I know you can.”
*** e
Have you heard this? An advertisement in a Ohio paper reads: “For a Good Sound Investment
Buy a Ford.	’ KOLARS.
184
Norre Same Scholastic
WHERE SUNLIGHT DWELLS.
M. J. L.
Already the sun had disappeared below-the horizon, leaving behind it a sky heaped: with crimson banks of cumili, and violet inner shades of night. ,
The lake in the foreground had lost the color of its sedgy green water, and was for the nonce a mirror, in which the kaleidoscopic sky pictured its passing grandeur. Gradually a mauve mist rose over the woodlands, and the last glad glint of day was quenched.
From the convent, a mass of white stdne that ate into the sombre walnut shade, there came across the lake the glad voices of the sisters in their recreation room. The sunlight of their day had been shed upon others, and now the twilight of rest was upon them.
In the belfry the rhythmic clangor of the clock had just struck the hour for prayer. At its call, the glad chorus of pure hearts ceased, only to hear again in the tranquil accents of the Master’s voice, “Come to me all you that labor and are burdened and I will refresh you.”
The corridors full of shadow soon echoed to their footsteps, and the chapel became filled with devout dark shades of earth, whose souls were filled with light.
With a soft and tender cadence, the organ began the inspiring notes of the Salva Regina. The holy place was filled with a psalmody that netted a web of association with the angels and raised every soul above u.e moon-washed fields of earth, beyond the gateway of the stars, unto the bosom of God, the Everlasting Sun—the Source of Light Perpetual. .
POETRY.
Alone I sat beside the whispering brook, Holding communion with the sky and wood,’ Reading soft words from gentle Nature’s book, Happy and free, in peaceful solitude. ***
Little frozen rain drops floating in the air, .. Floating hither, thither—wither?—everywhere; Dropping on the bushes, falling on the trees,-Don’t know .where they’re going—drifting in the breeze.	. Holland.
. NOT LONG AGO. -
Not long ago a -doHar bill Would buy a gallon from the grill,
~ ’ And everyone 'who had a thirst Would try to see the waiter first;
. Aiid every Tom, and Dick, and Will -Would drop his money in the till, Then everyone would drink his fill;
But these conditions were reversed
. Not long ago.
Today you have the added thrill Of taking chances with a still, For Uncle Sammy did his worst; The Prohibition clause was nursed
And made our drinking chances “nil” Not long ago. ’	w.
BY THE NUMBERS—A SELECTION.
HALTER VAMP.
Boys, this has been a wonderful season And we hate to do it, but
We’ve got to keep up our standing, As the Colossus said to Rhodes And he had two legs While we
Haven’t a one to rely on
But in picking the best men from the old U. S.
You’ll have to give us Credit.
For center, Conductor of Northwestern, Because he hasn’t missed a pass.
The two guards are
Yards of Chicago and Grannit of Vermont;
They’d stop anything. One
Of the tackle positions goes to Peach of Georgia. The other to Belle of Mississippi; they are The prettiest we’ve seen.
Since ends should play opposite, Our choice is Pauw of Depauw And Mah of Omaha, and we Wil! not say which hits harder.
The most reliable quarterback of the season
Is to be found in Store of Boston—
Lots of snap and ginger.
There is no halfback in the country like Duck of Drake—a better half	-
Than :	•	.
Mormann of Utah .	.
Who, however, can cover a larger’ field.
As a fullback, we select
Shower of Rice, annoying to encounter, -
Pretty to watch; ....	.	. •;
He- certainly comes down	-
: :Like-shot..	:
'Sfie Noure dame Scholastic
185
H. W. Flannery
Paul Breen
0. O. DEBarry
August Fipp
VOL.
LV.
Robert D. Shea
Harold E. McKee
Karl Arndt
Leo R. Ward, G. S.
Vincent Engels
Frank Wallace
Bnsintss
Nttrt
Wart of etitvrf
R. M. Murch, C. S. C. Edwin Murphy Gerald Hagan Charles Molz.
Frank McGinnis Francis J. Kolars
W. C. Gilchrist
AhtHtsina
isct ©nastSFmyErSirtnrns Sint ®nnsi ©rasIHoritnrus
When the representatives of the various nations met in Washington about a month ago to discuss plans for disarmament, (the peoples of those Disarming the Disarm- nations looked ament Conference. forward with eagerness and hope to a happy termination of the conference. The thought that perhaps the world would bar and seal forever the doors of the Temple of Janus was Utopian, indeed; and yet, if the men gathered in Washington represented nations that were sincerely intent upon worldwide disarmament, the conference would be a thorough success. During the past few weeks, however, grave doubts have arisen regarding the outcome of the meeting, and the peoples of all nations are wondering why -chiinite conclusions have not been reached. But this state of affairs is not at all surprising. When the delegates entered the conference on November the eleventh, e th national representative was armed with restrictions and limitations that have greatly hampered proceedings. “Thus far and no farther” was in nearly every instance the avowed policy; and until all limitations are swept aside and the representatives are given full power, nothing-definite and substantial can be accomplished. The root of the evil lies in the principle upon which these restrictions are based. .Obviously, a nation places limitations only for selfish purposes,
the source of which is pride. But the only principle upon which the nations can ever establish universal disarmament is the principle of love and generosity. To disarm the nations of the world, then, each nation must disarm irs own representatives and empower them to act for the benefit of mankind. The nations are gathered in a friendly meeting to solve one of the most momentous problems of history. They are testi.ig the sincerity of their friendship and good-will; for sacrifice, among nations as well as among men, is the ultimate criterion of friendship.,
_ R. M. MURCH.
The author of the editorial which made so much smoke last week is to be congratulated on having aired the attitude of a certain feverishly romantic part of St. Mary's and . our student body. Like all Relationship,	of his kind, the writer is
.	vague, unreasoning and
inaccurate. In the first place it is stupid to affirm that the authorities “permit” Notre Dame men to do the things he alleges, and that Notre Dame men actually do them without permission. Some half-dozen glucose coated individuals who have attached themselves to our roster may be guilty of promiscuous flirtation; but good society in South Bend and decent men here have learned to know each other well during the last few years. They stand ready to scorn any insinuation made against either. Next, it is true
186
'Sfie Noure cJame Schdasuic
that Saint Mary’s position towards us is not everything that it ideally might be, but surely it is a peculiar argument to put to “the winsome daughters of Eve” that to save us from riff-raff they ought to ask us over! Personally, some slight familiarity with young ladies urges us to adopt the opinion that they will be much better and more interesting people for having spent some time in an environment conducive to the formation of stable habits and inner life. Constant dressing up for Johnny is not education nor is it ultimately to Johnny’s advantage. These who are inclined to let their emotions run riot with fanciful statements should remember that after all common-sense has its place even in modern life. But—it is good' that this matter has been aired.
A SENIOR.
The American college graduate shows a marked tendency toward commerce in his choice of a vocation. Recent data reveal the fact that business assimi-CollegeMenin lates twice as many col-Business. lege men as medicine, law, the ministry and other professions.
Such a situation may seem discouraging from the point of view of the professions, but how does it look from the vantage point of business? It is the mark of a new era in commerce. It is a change that leaves behind the selfish, underhand methods of barter, the double standard of business ethics; before it spreads the way to the science of business, the art of commerce and perhaps to a condition that will be business for business’ sake in the sense that we have art for art’s sake.
When the scope of the commercial enterprise was smaller the demand for well trained men was not so insistent as it is at present. Just as local politics have expanded and become international in its attitude, so commerce has become international rather than provincial. Modern business incorporates within itself every science and utilizes every art. The provincial mind will not fit the universal scope of trade, so the demand for trained minds has increased and is supplied to some extent by the absorption of college men.
Business of today requires the best of •education, statesmanship and diplomacy. A man of mediocre talents can not conceive an enterprise of such magnitude as the Pennsylvania Railway system or the General Electric Co. Only an exceptional man can dream of such an organization, only a trained man can create it.	•
The genius of Americans for business development is acknowledged everywhere. No other nation surpasses the United States in the technique of commerce. But a social organization is good or bad in proportion to its beneficial or evil effect upon citizenship or human welafre. Does the modern industrial system build up the quality of citizenship? Does it create conditions that are conducive to good among the large body of wage earners? Is business made an end in itself or is it a means of development for those who indulge in it?
In working out such problems the American college graduate has an opportunity to show the worth of his education. The college has given the men the perspective of history. That insight gives to them knowledge of the causes that have led to revolutions. The man without perspective who has risen from the ranks, is more likely to be narrow in his views and harsh in his methods toward social conditions that affect industry. He hasn’t a sound philosophy or a background of world economics to guide his reasoning. We rightly expect better thinking from educated minds than from those not educated. Proper training will enable the individual to establish a satisfactory ratio between the material, spiritual and human in business.
.	J. HIGGINS.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
My Dear Sir: A writer, who is personally unknown to me contributes an editorial entitled “A Closer Relationship Between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s,” which is indiscreet and impertinent. Policies, the wisdom of which some seventy-five years experience has fortified, should not be left to the close-your-eyes, hit-or-miss vagaries of student thinking. It may be the pu pose of the Notre Dame Scholastic to train up journalists. But, pray, let them try out on some dummy themes first, where
Moure Same Schdasuic -	187
they will not do themselves any harm, and where one does not care what happens to the themes.
There seems to be a notion some where, that Notre Dame students needs human guardian angels to secure them girls and dances; that they must have plenty of dances and that girls must leap out of place, or be evoked out of space, to afford them evenings of entertainment on waxed floors.
Suppose we look ahead to our report-cards, keep an eye on the year in'which we hope to graduate, think of the money "papa” and “mamma” are spending on our board, tuition, clothes and shoes, and then, as Lincoln would say—“highly resolve.” Suppose we do these things, and quit trying to run the world.
The author is evidently a young man. One suggests that he try out his editorial writing on “Lowering the High Cost of Living,” “What the War Has Done to the World,” or “Stray Thoughts.” He will not do any harm to any body or to himself. Let the Sisters run St. Mary’s and “the cream of the • earth.” When we are young we think young thoughts. When we are old, we may not be wise, but we are apt to be cautious.
AMOS.
OURSELVES.
Those students who wish 4:0 enter the K. of C. Historical Contest will have the opportunity of benefiting from a series of lectures on American history to be given in room 204 of Chemistry Hall at 8:10 on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The lectures are to be given in connection with History 10, but any-• one may attend them without registering for that class.	.
❖ ❖❖
The University Library issues a solemn mandate to all concerned that books loaned from its shelves must, without exception, be returned on or before the 15th of this, the month of December, MCMXXI.
At the meeting of the Knights of Columbus on Thursday evening of last week, Grand Knight Slaggert instructed the candidates soon to be initiated into the local council, and Father Lahey conducted the members, present and future, “Behind the Scenes in Advertising.”	,
*** .
Last Monday evening thirty-three Pennsylvanians listened to President William “Asia” Miner describe the special Pullman which the Club has chartered for the holiday trip home. The meeting was distinctly typi
cal of the home state; it was conducted with Quaker solemnity and the refreshments were Dutch. Toward the end of the meeting the President heeded the prophecies that the social activities of the year would oe numerous and important and appointed L. Lovett chairman of the arrangements committee, and J. Huether chairman of the committee on entertainments.
William E. Voor, Paducah, Ky., is the latest addition to the freshman class in Journalism. He was graduated from St. Mary’s Academy, Paducah, where he had been editor-in-chief of the Academy Year-Book, and then worked in the advertising department of the Paducah Sun. This is Irvin Cobb’s old newspaper, and is also w’here the late Sinnott Meyers worked.
❖ ❖❖
Beginning Thursday evening, December 1, preliminary tryouts for the varsity debating team were held in the Library. These tryouts, which were in charge of Father Bolger, C. S. C., director of debating, continued until all of the fifty entrants had appeared. The fifteen aspirants who survived the tests . will meet in the semi-finals in January.
Rev. William A. Bolger, C. S. C. spoke before the general assembly of the Mishawaka Woman’s Club last Saturday afternoon on • the subject of “Industrial Reconstruction, a Constructive Alternative to Socialism.” .
In order to set at rest reports that the annual Christmas vacation would begin this year on December 17, the Students Activity Committee has officially announced that the holiday respite will begin at noon on Wednesday, December 21. All classes will be over before ten a. m: on that day to enable students to board the east and west bound trains at that hour. The vacation will end at noon on Thursday, January 5.
The Mechanical Engineers convened in Kable’s campus banquet hall for the third meeting of the year on Wednesday evening, November 30. . After the regular business session, the members of the club fought for places around a table that was burdened with stacks of sandwiches, heaps of dough
188
Nocre ^ame Scholastic
nuts and mugs of cider. When the clamor had ceased, Professor Benitz inspired those present with a speech on their vocation; then Howland and' Hassmer, playing the xylophone and piano respectively, imparted new thrills. McEniry, the campus’ favorite entertainer, dispensed a few of his songs. It was announced that at the next meeting, which, will be held on December 15, papers of importance to every M. E. will be read by members of the Club.
# ❖
Professor John P. Tiernan, of the Hoynes College of Law, has issued through Callaghan and Company, of Chicago, a very commendable text on “The Conflict of Laws.” Those competent to speak claim for the book unusual merit. It has been put on sale at the book-store.
John R. Flynn, the local song writer and athlete, has announced that his latest song, “The Angels Will Envy Your Smile, Mother Mine,” is ready for distribution. The music was composed by George Graff.
Last Monday evening the dynamos of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers began whirring when its Notre Dame representatives gathered in their favorite classroom. Mr. Stuck read a paper on “Electrolysis,” and President Fitzgerald flashed some thoughts on “Lightning Arrestors” into the minds of his subjects. Then the thirty men who were present indulged themselves in the pleasure derived from Kable’s cake and pie a la mode. ’	•
5?. ❖ ❖
When the members of the Moreau Seminary Bengal Mission Society gathered around Jim Hogan’s Oliver on Saturday, December 3, a very learned discussion of the missionary methods of St. Francis Xavier ensued. Thomas Brennan, Frank O’Hara and Leo Ward, all members of the Holy Cross Congregation, spent more than an hour explaining the subject and debating certain of its phases.	.
. *** ■
The American Association, for the Recognition of the Irish Republic held an important meeting Monday evening in the South room of the Library. Rev. T. Crumley,
C. S. C., presided. Plans for furthering interest in the society by carrying on organization in the halls were discussed by several of the more enthusiastic members, and Fathers Walsh, P. S. Gallagher, and Lahey, and A. Castellini spoke about matters pertaining to the council.	arndt.
MEN YOU REMEMBER.
A future student of the Gold and Blue came into the world on November first, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Raymond C. Mueller (’13, ’14, ’15) of Washington, D. C.
In mentioning the address of Mr. Hugh A. O’Donnell, ’S4 of the New York Times, before the New York City Circulation Managers’ Convention, the Scholastic erroneously substituted the name “O’Neill” for Mr. O’Donnell’s in its November 5 edition.
On Wednesday, November sixteenth were married Jesse J. Herr, Notre Dame alumnus, and Miss Marie Irene Eddy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Eddy of Fairbury, Illinois.
Edward B. Doyle, Ph. B. in Journalism ’21 and editor of the ’21 Dome is on the editorial staff of a Milwaukee Catholic daily.
William Neary, Ph. B. in Commerce, ’21 • has changed his allegiance to Jersey City where he is employed by the United States Steel Corporation.
Word has been received of the safe recovery of Joseph Tillman M. E. ’21, who was injured in a serious automobile accident recently at Toledo.
The receni meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles was taken up almost exclusively with considerations of the coming Notre Dame-Centre game. Extensive plans are being laid for the entertainment of the team' on its western trip. The program includes a tour of Movieland: Culver City, Universal City, Hollywood, and special stress is laid on the holiday which Mack Sennett has promised to declare in honor of the visiting stars of footballdom.	..
SHEA.
'Sfie Nocre dame Scholastic
189
OFF-CAMPUS DISCIPLINE.
At a meeting at St. Joseph’s Hall, South Bend, Friday evening, Dec. 2, a representative group of Off-Campus students decided to recommend to the entire group of students living downtown a system of discipline which the faculty of the University has approved. Under the plan embodied, administration of discipline in South Bend so far as it concerns serious offenses, will reside in the hands of a committee of twenty-five students, elected by the men who reside there. Faculty regulation, except in a limited sense, will disappear in these cases.
The group which gathered to discuss the proposed change was composed almost entirely of upperclassmen, picked by Father F. M. Gassensmith, C. S. C., director of Off-Campus students. They represented the more mature opinion of that part of the student body residing in the city. The entire question of discipline, especially in its relation to Off-Campus affairs, was thoroughly discussed. Although almost all were opposed to the plan as they had heard it discussed before the meeting, opinions changed as the meeting progressed. When the vote was taken on the question of recommending the system to the five hundred men in South Bend only two were against the proposal. This fact is significant.
If, upon voting on the proposition, the Off-Campus students accept the plan, the system will be given, even then, nothing more or less than a try-out. If it works successfully, it will be continued. If it fails, the entire plan will be abandoned in favor of the present system. If it is a success, however, there is a possibility that it will be applied in campus discipline also.
In its essence, the plan means that the administration of discipline in serious offenses will be placed in the hands of the men, headed by a committee of twenty-five elected students. These twenty-five men will constitute a students governing board. They will act in all cases of infractions of the rules which endanger the students and the good name of the University. The offenses which they will be most concerned with are intoxication and immorality. When a student commits a serious offense, they will
warn him that a repetition will endanger his position as a student. This warning would be served personally by a committee of three, all members of the governing board.
Decisions regarding offenses and punishment upon second offenses will be vested in a special committee of five men. This committee will act as a trial board. The right of appeal over the decision of this board will be within the power of the student, permission being given to appeal either to the Prefect of Discipline or the President. The faculty, it may be said, will still reserve the right to enforce the rules when violations come to their attention.
The importance of the possible adoption of the system lies in the fact that its success will mean a furtherance of student cooperation in the observance of the rules of discipline. Whether there is any change, of course, will depend upon the attitude which the students assume toward the system, once it is in operation.
In order that both Campus as well as Off-Campus students may become acquainted with the plan, the following tentative constitution, proposed for the organization downtown, is appended. The constitution contains many of the points essential to an understanding of the plan.
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS’ GOVERNMENT BOARD CONSTITUTION.
' ARTICLE ONE.
This organization shall be known as the “Off-Campus Students’ Governing Board.”
ARTICLE TWO	.
It will be made up of a committee of twenty-five off-campus students. The members of this committee will .be elected by the students residing in the city from a picked group of from seventy-five to one hundred men.
ARTICLE THR	EE.
The end of the organization will be the betterment of conditions in the city insofar as students . are concerned.	_
ARTICLE FOU	R.
Their jurisdiction will cover cases against the rules which endanger students and the good name of the University; such as, cases of immorality, use of intoxicants, and general cases of misbeheavior in the city that would reflect on the good name.of the school.	.	.
ARTICLE FIV	E.
They will be empowered to warn a student in case
190
Moure dame Scholastic
BLACKSTONE
---THEATRE--
Commencing Sunday, Dec. 11, for Three Days
WESLEY BARRY — in — “BOB HAMPTON OF PLACER” Ride Back to the Frontier Days.
Coming Wednesday, Dec. 14, for Four Days
GLORIA SWANSON
— in —
“THE GREAT MOMENT”
The Sensation of the Day in the Motion Picture World.
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO HOLD
3 QUEENS?
Particularly if the three are the following:
» ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN
We	who is to be shown in
“The Way of a Maid” ________
* DORIS MAY
Coining in
S “The Foolish Age.” ____________ ■
| MAY McAVOY w star in HI “Everything for Sale.”
LASALLE
of violation of the above mentioned serious points of rule.
In case of no correction in the observance of these serious points of rule, they will invite him, after written notice, trial, and decision, to discontinue his residence at Notre Dame under penalty of having his case brought to the attention of the President of the University.
ARTICLE SIX	_
There will be a special committee of five men who will act as a trial board to pass upon said offenses and make decision.
ARTICLE SEV	EN. '
A committee of three will be appointed by the president to serve first notice and in case of a repetion of the offense, to serve a notice to appear at a stated time before the trial board.
ARTICLE EIG	HT.
The Faculty will enforce the rules as at present when violations come to their attention.
' ARTICLE NINE.
The student judged guilty may always appeal to the Director of Off-Campus Students, to the Prefect of Discipline, or to the President.
ARTICLE TEN.
Power will be reserved to the governing body of this organization to alter, repeal, or amend the constitution on the recommendation of the President of the Board or of the President of the University, such action always to be ratified by the Faculty.
MOLZ
BANGS AND BRILLIANTINE.
How times do change!
Begin by using your imagination, granting that you have one. Imagine that you are in the gym. You see all around you pictures of football, baseball—all kinds of ball teams which upheld the honor of Nostra Domina during the period of time between the organization of the Glee Club and the date on which the news of the start of the Russo-Jap war electrified the world. (Some say it was Edison and Marconi, but we favor the war idea. It’s more romantic.)
What is the first thing you notice about the boys who beat the Mishawaka soccer team 106-3 in one of the hardest fought games in history up to that time—whenever it was? Isn’t there something queer about the Western champs of ’84 or ’62 or ’97? Sure there is, and it’s their hair that makes them look that way.	. -

Moure dame Schotasuie
191
How times do change!
Many a blushing damsel in South Bend (They used to blush in those days!) suffered from sleeplessness because of those beautiful bangs, once the treasured property of Eddie So-and-so, Ph. B. '93!
How times do change!
Now Edward So-and-so, LL.B., about '25, comes to Notre Dame, sees his dad’s picture, laughs himself weak, and, when he sleeps that night in his apartments in Badin has a nigntmare in which hairy monsters play an important part. But-------
Times certainly do change!
Providing that he wasn’t killed in the night, Eddie rises the next morning as usual. What is the first thing that he does? Why he rushes to the mirror and combs his beautiful hair. And what a sight does he see in that mirror! Oh, gills, beauty ninty-nine and forty-four one-hundreds per cent pure!- It rises, in rippling waves, an inch and a half above his eye-brows, and moves straight back, some to the right and the rest to the left. It proceeds back over his medulla oblongata, and finally disappears into the crevice between his neck and the latest model Arrow. But--------
How times do change!!!
Nature alone cannot perform such a stupendous feat of balancing as to keep each and every hair in its proper and appointed position, on Edward’s cranium. Therefore, certain mechanical, not to say un-natural agents are here brought into play. These are many and varied, the only property they must possess is extreme viscidity. Out of the great number which he has tried Edward has finally settled upon Nujol, scented with vanilla, as best suited to his peculiar needs. The gentleman in the room to his left is busy applying a coat of Valspar, mahogany brown. He prefers this to Shinola or Swift’s Pride for the reason that it stands the water test, having proved this to his own satisfaction at the Indianapolis game, when, you remember, the band cheered for old Notre Dame many, many times. And how Pluvius did pluve!
On the other hand, which is the right in this case, there resides a young man wild, come what may, simply must have his
SWANK’S BACK
...ON THE CAMPUS...
Regular TWO DAY Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing Service Restored.
One Day Service 25 Cents Extra
Clothes Called for and Delivered to Room by
E. W. MURPHY
307 Corby
SWANK’S MASTER CLEANERS
I	228 N. Michigan St.
OLIVER THEATRE
Palace Theatre Corp. Lessees
STARTING-SUNDAY FOR THREE DAYS
“THE STORM” NOT A MOTION PICTURE. A Romance of the Big Woods.
SEATS NOW—50c TO $2.00.
Coming—PAVLOWA—Thursday, Dec. 16
HAIR DRY? DANDRUFF? HAIR FALLING? USE
MORDEO
and KOKOL OIL
They have no superior. Let us send a bottle home for you.
THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP
| HOURS 8:00 A. M. TO 6:00 P. M.
192
'fcfie Noure frame Scholastic
Now showing patent, also dull of this type—a full dress or dancing oxford—price $9.00.
KLINGEL’S
ACROSS FROM OLIVER HOTEL
9JWU -
366 OLIVER THEATRE BLDG.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
• Polarine.
. How times do change!
We could end this thing by pointing a moral but we’ll just say:
“Times certainly have changed!”
EUGENE F. NOON ’24.
THOUGHTS.
The attractiveness of egotism depends entirely upon the egotist.
Every man’s road in life is dotted by the tombstones of his personal likings.
, ALL INTER HALL FOOTBALL
	ELEVEN,	1921.
Position.	Player.	Hall.
Left End	Blum	Brownson
Left Tackle	Oberst	Brownson
Left Guard	Weavel	Brownson
Center	Riley	Brownson
Right Guard	Holmberg-	Sorin
Right Tackle	Flinn	. Corby
Right End	Drennan	Corby
Quarter Back	Whalen	Walsh
Right Half	Burns	Brownson
Left Half	Prokop	Sorin
Full Back	Bany	Corby
	McKeown	Brownson
	Wilcox	Sorin
	Gorman	Carroll
We fiijoto attractive Variations of tfje preVailins tfjemes. in fasVinnS.
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC SHIRTS. NECKWEAR. HALF-HOSE.
The 1921 season is now history in Notre Dame Inter Hall football circles. The whole schedule was the most successful of recent years and the hard fought battles all along the line during the fall spoke well for the class of football played. Brownson’s .slashing eleven—a team which many a minor college might envy—rests firmly on the top of the heap in its rightful place, for there are none so rabid that they will dispute the honors won by Brother Allan’s team. And now, with the season of mythical “All” teams upon us, the fates have so decreed that there shall be a 1921 All Inter Hall Team—a sort of finishing touch to such a good season, and, incidentally “argument fodder” for an interested Campus.
The All Star team, which was picked by ' the coaches of the Inter Hall teams, and
Che Moure Same 5cholasUic AiCepuisemenUs
which is intended to be an aggregate of the nien who have displayed the best and most consistent playing all season in the different positions is, on paper at least, a very strongcombination.
At all times keep in mind that in the course of human events, football coaches have made errors, and if your favorite’s name is not on the list it is merely one of ■ those accidents.
The two end positions are taken care of by Blum of Brownson and Drenan of Corby. Both men are excellent on both offense and . defense and showed well every game.
“Spike”.Flinn at right tackle and “Kain-tucky” Oberst at left form a redoubtable pair of line men who appear to be in the pick of the circuit. They are both heavy, aggressive men and while the gigantic Oberst donned the mole skins but once he accomplished more in that one game than most of the other tackles did all season.
“Big” Bruce Holmberg, Sorin’s star lineman, and “Buck” Weavel of Brownson were the ultimate choice of the coaches for the /
guard jobs. These two boys combine plenty 01 beef with lots of effective aggressiveness.
Tom Riley, Brownson’s hard hitting center is the best pivot man in Inter Hall football and is found at that position on the mythical eleven.
The selection of the backfields was less a
WALK-OVER
Chinese puzzle than the task of picking linemen, and in forming an All Star backfield there was much more unanimity.
For instance no one thought of suggesting
i Hall’s “John-was one Campus.
anyone but “Johnnie” Whalen, Was mainstay, for the quarter back job. nie” had everything this season and of the most popular players on the <
In addition to that he outshone eve ry other quarter back.	,
Then again “Jimmy” Burns, Brownson’s clever half back was the choice of most for right half. To this boy is due much of Brownson’s success and no All Inter Hall
MffHDBSBOTNKRS Cel in cne of our Wicking Overcoats. (JgjWford Shop 116 West Washington Ave-Managed by an ex-Notre Dame Man.
eleven would be complete without him.
George Prokop, by his consistent work for Sorin easily cinches the other half and with Burns, makes up a fine brace of halves.
Barry of Corby, McKeown of Brownson and Wilcox of Sorin were tied for recogni-
Che Nocre dame Scholastic AifepuisemenOs
THE GATES SCHOOL FOR DANCING
Located in the business center of South Bend 120 East Wayne Street. Phone Lincoln 6491
Has been established in the city of South Bend for three years and has attained the highest success in the Art of teaching dancing.
WE GUARANTEE TO TEACH YOU TO DANCE
Private lessons where all embarrassment of learning is eliminated. Two large private studios, open daily 2 to 10 p. m.
SPECIAL COURSE RATES WITHIN THE REACH OF EVERYONE.
When you have tried all others and failed, try the GATES SYSTEM, better still, begin with GATES and have no more trouble or worry -about failure, or waste of time and money.
PROF. CHARLES C. GATES, Director MISS ESTHER MURRAY, Assistant
Edwin Murphy’s “Young American” Selection
Next Number of Scholastic Football Review
SCHOLASTIC’S
“Small Western Team”
Order from Newsdealer Early. This is the Best Yet.
tion as full back. It is a toss up between the three and each one having a different style, we leave it to the world at large to pick the best.
In addition to those mentioned there were s weral other players whose names were considered 'and whose work attracted favorable attention. Among these are: Coffey of Brownson; James, Byrne, Kelly and Fitzgerald, of Corby; McNab and Hecker, of ±:.adin; Wood, Wrape, Gorman and LaMonte, of Carroll; DeGurse, of Walsh; Long, of Day Dodgers.
•	,	GILCHRIST.
GO WEST, YOUNG MAN.
Some wise old philosopher burst forth with the statement that “Absence makes the heart grow fonder,” and some equally wise one said, “The proof of the pudding is in the eating.” Well, if our first visit to Marquette in eight years, and the treatment shown us, may be taken as a criterion, the old “Philo’s” were early risers. Marquette and Milwaukee vociferously welcomed “The Wonder Team.” The Alumni, headed by Clarence Yockey, greeted us with open arms. Nothing was too good for the boys; they were lodged in the Milwaukee Athletic Club, given all privileges, and though the Mayor was too busy to present them with the keys, proxy Yockey vouched for them.
The first form of diversion, after arriving was a trip about the city which was decked out in its best. “Roge” and “Eddie” saw their photographs best. “Roge” and “Eddie” say their photographs in every shop window. King Rock, also, shared some of this publicity. Next, the boys were box guests at the Majestic, where they were treated to some fine vaudeville, between the cheers of the expectant Marquetters. Of course, after the show came bed. Everything was set for the bit contest, the grand finale, when the weather man dished out a sort of inclement hash which almost spoiled the detail.
He garnished it up with snow on Saturday but when the game was called there were fifteen thousand ravenous rooters in the stands craving for a sight of the boys. The field was a mess; shavings had been applied but they soon became mixed with the slush, and after a few minutes of play the spectators had a difficult time distinguishing Garvey from Thomas.	'
Marquette threw a scare into the handful of loyal Notre Dame rooters when they blocked one of Paul’s endeavors, and carried it to the five yard line. The scare became the real thing when Taugher went over on the next play. The Marquette rooters went wild, and Johnny Mohardt laughed. A few minutes later the fans saw the why of the laugh for Johnny.
the Novpe Same 5cholascic AiCepcisemenCs
tore off some odd fifty yards for our first score. The dependable Buck kicked goal.
The boys lived up to form after- the next kickoff. Thomas gave them a taste of the Mohardt to Kiley medicine, and Roge spoiled another perfectly goqd homecoming. Buck made his thirty-seventh. After a few more skirmishes Johnny decided to make it safe and dashed off fifty more. Chet Wynne took it over on the next play, and Buck made the last point. The rest of the game was but several kicks from Paul’s good left toe, for the boys determined to rest. The final was 21 to 7.
Chauncey had a banquet “all set” for the boys at the Hotel Wisconsin, and when they got there they immediately put him in their category of the world’s greatest promoters, along with Danny Sullivan and Joe Byrne. Although Chauncey didn’t have the material to work with that the easterners had he sure made use of what he did possess.
The banquet was a riot from Hector’s memorable address to Rock’s success in outpointing his goodlooking proteges, and captivating one of the fair damsels in the group of performers. Men who had never been known to speak became eloquent, flowing orators. Hunk told us about the little controversy he had with a few Marquette players, but assured us that it didn’t amount to anything.
Chauncey enticed the orchestra to play the Victory song and all the boys joined in. Then Dud Pierson surprised us with his terpsichorean endeavor. He was not bad. Jim Dooley took us through Exeter, and praised all the coaches of any note, ending up with a huge bouquet for Rock. Rock was still blushing too much from his first flirtation to permit us to find out what he thought of Jim’s speech.
In the confusion Mr. Burke mistook Chet Wynne for the captain and Hunk for a halfback, but these slips were overlooked by the jolly eaters. Even Kane stopped eating, though, when Chauncey ushered in a group of Debutantes who, though only amateur- performers, put their act over very credibly. The girls all fell for Buck and, Earl Walsh, however, and the rest of the boys retreated.
Chauncey then injected some real pep when he gave his little speech. It was a gem. Rock, was afraid some of the boys would get convulsions so he motioned Chauncey to quit.
• A dance in honor of the team was in line after the banquet.
The boys were presented with an assortment of gifts from the merchants of town and, extended a two weeks guest privilege at the Milwaukee Athletic Club. Chauncey saw the boys were all provided for and vanished from the scene. Thus a great celebration ended. It is rumored that the boys enjoyed the trip equally as well as the one to “Noo Yawk.” Ask them?
Certainly the “pudding” was fine eating, and proved that there are fond, strong Notre Dame hearts in Milwaukee. Here’s hoping it will be an annual affair,	C. a. randall.
Can You Beat It?
CLUB DINNER
50 CENTS
From n:oo A. M. to 8:oo P. M. SAMPLE MENU
Choice of Six Meats
Potatoes, Vegetables Ice Cream. Pie, Pudding
Coffee, Milk.
HOT WAFFLES DAY AND NIGHT
WASHINGTON
Restaurant and Cafeteria
Across from Court House
Cafeteria Service Also.
The John Hale Hat Store
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You.
Howard Schrop,
THE HATTER
127 Washington Ave.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Che Noupe Same Scholastic AdCeptisemenCs
No. 126
The First National Bank
South Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotel Building)
Capital, $600,000 Surplus and Profit, $ 190,000
A. L. HUBBARD, President.
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR-, Vice-Pres.
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier.
C..J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier.
' J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier.
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES for RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES.
We Issue FOREIGN EXCHANGE at Lowest Market Rates and Letters of Credit ■ Payable Throughout the World.
TRY OUR TRAVELERS’ CHEQUES.
YOU YOUNG MEN!
ELECTRIC IRONS STUDENT LAMPS ELECTRIC HEATERS
Electric Service Company
115-117 W. Colfax. Back of City Hall
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB-
NOW OPEN.
Twelve different, convenient plans for easy saving during 1922. Come in and let us explain how simple our plan is—to save a little each week and then have ample funds for Christmas next year.
CITIZENS Trust and Savings NEXT TO POST OFFICE
CHANGE
’ By McGinnis.
In the McGill University Daily there appeared not long ago a lineup of a Rugby football game and we note the following positions, middle, inside, outside, flying-wings and spares. We suppose that spares means substitutes but our acquaintance with spares has been so limited that we are constrained to make the seemingly funny remark that spares are very shifty on their “pins” and are always bonded over when they go down.
***
JOLIET COURSE AT COLORADO.
Life is becoming strenuous for the luckless freshmen at the University of Colorado. Thirteen of the young-and-inexperienced were sentenced to make small rocks out of big rocks recently for offenses varying from not wearing the pool-table-cloth cap to walking on the grass and smoking on the campus. The longest term was six hours and the shortest two. Further infractions are to be dealt with in the same way until the stone pile is reduced to gravel and then some other drill ground shall be found.
*** • -
On perusing the paper from Kansas a little far-thei* we find that they have something of which they are proud, and justly so. That is the fact that 47 per cent of the student body are self-supporting and 63 per cent defray part of their expenses by working. The list of positions filled by students includes barbers, stenographers, janitors, salesmen, clerks, curators, bookkeepers, musicians, farm hands, paper carriers, waiters and stewards at boarding houses. Ten percent of the workingstudents are in the ranks of. skilled labor as carpenters, plumbers, electricians, etc.
***
THE UNFAIR CHARMERS.
The college flapper at Northwestern is in a terrible fix. She is no longer allowed to go to basketball games accompanied by members of the beardwearing sex. As Mother Eve was blamed for the fall of Adam, the large-eyed title co-ed is now blamed for the fall of school spirit at the men’s burlesque exhibitions.
***
Students of the University of Indiana find it very profitable to make the postman also be the laundryman. In a recent estimate'$60,000 is the amount estimated to be saved by the employment of the well known laundry box. This proves the statement that the so-called laundry kings are . nonexistant. Mothex' reigns supreme.
THE
NOTRE DAME
3c MaStIc
the Notre Same ^cholasvic AiCeptisemenCs
Over the Top—Everybody Helps Intense Selling Continues Unabated. A TWO PANTS SUITS THE WATCHWORD A saving of $10.00 to $15.00 on everyone. The extra pair costs you absolutely nothing. , Overcoat Prices Steaming Hot :	GEORGE A. PLATT.
GENTLEMEN:—Our allotment of> Business for 1921 is done. We are making every effort to pile up a tremendous score for the remainder of the year and have now arranged the stock for quick handling.
Overcoats, .... .. . from $15.00 up Two Pants Suits, . . . from $25.00 up •	' ■ '	.	■ ■ . i '
. -------—----- !
New Hats, New Caps, Lively Sellers . Good Felt Hats $2.85 up. Showing of Caps includes all new things.	_ .
BETTER VALUES IN MEN’S XTRA PANTS
The more we sell the cheaper we sell them. Pants $1.75 up. > _ >
COME SATURDAY—COME EARLY
GEORGEA. PLATT,Clothier l“t“:
“999” Cm Mickisa and Wayne Streets, Srih Beni
Noure dame Schoiasric1	191
At Xmas Time
There is someone in your home town who would be mighty well pleased with a Notre Dame Souvenir. If this someone happens to be your sister (?) we have any number of very clever new designs and styles in N D. Jewelry—Pins, Rings, Vanity Cases, Dorines, etc. For your mother we have Table Covers, Pillow Covers, Pennants in felt and leather.
As for your own self, we hid you • a Merry Christmas and the best of everything.
r£*ir&*r&**&*cS!*f£**&**ft*c&*f£t*£*
•A* *9*	*&•
ADLER BROTHERS
107-109 S. Michigan Street 108 W. Washington Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

'She Noure dame dchdasdc
198
TJT_ A«m C»t*n you will be pleased with our photo' W C xxTC OUTC graphs. Special rates to students.
E. E. MANGOLD
THE LEADING PHOTOGRAPHER
226 NORTH MAIN STREET NEAR CITY HALL
4- ■ ■ ...................      —' .
THE WORLD’S LONGEST ELECTRIFIED RAILROAD-649 Miks tf Transcoatineatal Line new Operated by “White Coal”
If you want to enjoy every minute of your trip take THE CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
———————— ——♦
Nobile’s College Inn HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM tTVDRKTS' ORDRRS R1LLRD PROMPTLY 108 South Michigan Strbbt
PhMMit Balk <m; Hmm. Hf 4—----------------------------------------♦
NOTRE DAME MEN DO YOU KNOW THAT The Campus Shoe Repairing Shop ’ ’ Is one the Most Up-to~Date in the State? ' • Let us prove to you, our Quality, Service, Workmanship. Town Prices. Notre Dame Shoe.Repairing Shop and
Shining Parlor candyrs°tfore ■ »  .... ■ ■■ •
Ideal Laundry Company
"Get the Ideal Habit”
Three collections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your packages at the
Notre Dame News Stand
----- — - —---------------------------- - ■ ... ... „ .. ,—--------------- - .. ♦
LEAVE YOUR AMATEUR FILMS AT THE NEWS STAND
" ‘ With Mr. James Keegan to be developed	' ’
and finished. .
THE NATIONAL PHOTO SHOPS CORPORATION
105 Lincoln Way East. < ——„ - ■ -....................-	.4,
CALENDAR
Monday, the 19th—Bl Urban V, Pope. '
. Noses in books. .	'
-Tuesday, the 20th—St. Liberatus, Martyr.. . Examinations begin in the afternoon. Be sure to look at the schedule.
. Wednesday, the 21st—St. Thomas, the Apostle. Exams for 8:00 and 9:00 classes.
Vacation on at 10:00 sharp. Oh, boy!
Thursday, the 22nd—St. Flavian, Martyr. The deserted village.
- Sleep and eat—eat and sleep.
Friday, the 23rd.—St. Victoria, Martyr.
Nothing doing at N. D.
Saturday, the 24th.—Christmas Eve. Fast.
Sunday, the 25th.—Christmas.
Feast.	‘
“God bless ye, merry gentlemen, May nothing you dismay;
For Jesus Christ our Saviour Was born on Christmas Day.”
Notre dame Schoiasdc
199
ONE BRAND-
ONE QUALITY
One Size Package

All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of the
finest tobaccos are concentrated CAMEL.
Into this ONE BRAND, we Nothing is too good for Camels, possible to make a cigarette.
on this one cigarette— -
put the utmost quality. They are as good as it’s
Camel QUALITY is always maintained at the same high, exclusive standard. You can always depend on the same mellow-mild refreshing smoothness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
And remember this! Camels come in one size package : only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to make the greatest saving in production and packing. This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s one reason why you can get Camel Quality at so moderate a price.
Here’s another. We put no useless frills on the Camel package. No “extra wrappers!” Nothing just for show!
Such things do not improve the smoke any more than premiums or coupons. And their added cost must go onto the price or come out of the quality.
One thing, and only one, is responsible for Camels great and growing popularity
—that is CAMEL QUALITY.
llliiiiiiiiijUHliiniiliU'iiniiiHiiiniiitiii iiiniHuiiiiiiiiiiHiinmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiH.il !■ i.muni■ 111111111111ii11m11un111n11111111111111111111111Hli11111iiini!u!111111 HI(1111111ktlih*i■
*. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO-, Win»ton-Sal«n,N.C.
200
Noure dame Scholastic
A uditorium Hotel
CHICAGO
On the corner of Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street, in the theatre and business center.
Special attention shown students and alumni of Notre Dame.
JOHN T. CALVEY, Manager
ROOMERS WANTED
bedrooms and a sitting room that can be used as a study is available for four upper class men. The rooms are in first class condition, in a modern house, advantageously situated on the east side of the St. Joseph river. Telephone Main 3611 or write 1016 B. Jefferson Blvd.
*
The Reliance Pharmacy, Inc.
SPALDING
Basket Ball
When purchasing equipment for basket ball or any athletic sport,insistupon SPALDING’S. Satisfaction is inevitable.
. Catalogue on request
A.G.SPALDING & BROS.
. 21 S. State Street CHICAGO, ILL.
4‘-------— - «	- ■■ - ■■
Dentistry	Oral Surgery and
Extracting	Dental X=RAY
'• Dr. John A. Stoeckley "
PHONES:
511 J. M, S Building Residence.Main 3561 Office.........................Main	886
■I.... - - - ■■ -
Prescription Specialists
’ 230 W. Washington Avenue
"	EYES EXAMINED
'	CImim Fitted at Moderate Prices
SetH/acMofi Gtureittotd DR. J. BURKE OPTOMETRIST
230 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
- —- - » ■ ■ ■ . .. — ■ ■ ■ »
TU F A M F OFFICIAL PORTRAIT I •• t U U m t PHOTOGRAPHER
McDonald
211 MAIN STREET Opposite Post Office, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Cox Sons & Vining
72 Madison Ave., New .York
CAPS AND GOWNS
■ Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lowest Prices. Best Workmanship. Gowns for Judiciary, Pulpit and Choir
Notre Oame Scholastic
* 201
Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co.
Main Office. 313-325 E. Jefferson Bldv. MAIN 5200
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICE
One or Two P. ssengers - - -	- O 00
Each Additional Passenger - -	-	.50
Trun!- s, e^ch - -- -- -- -- -- - 1.00
Suit cases, Bicycles, etc., each - - -• .25
Comfort During Study.
Leather or Felt.
$1.50 to $6.00 KUEHN’S 125 South Michigan Street
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc.
RATES REASONABLE
NOTRE DAME MEN ONLY
TEN PER CENT OFF
On presentation of Athletic Card at the
Quality Shoe Repair Co.
130 North Michigan Street
“In Middle of the Block.”
“SOLE SAVERS”
Consult J. A. Mcgle, Foot Expert, on your Foot Troubles.
SNAP
A new Collar that fit* its Name
MAX ADLER CO., South Bend, Indiana

202
Noure dame Schdasinc
OURSELVES.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars have encamped at Notre Dame. A local post has ‘ been organized with unusual success, speed and suavity by Louis J. Murphy and his aids. At at very grave and reverend meeting held recently said Mr. Murphy, a graduate maxima cum laude of the Marines, was therefore chosen Commander. He deserves the office for every conceivable reason, and we are sure that he will help heartily to make the V. F. W. an organization of which old Notre Dame can be proud. Other officers are: Very Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., Chaplain; Frank McDermott, Senior Vice-Commander; J. Ryan, Junior Vice-Commander; Robert Riordan, Adjutant; Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., George N. Shuster and Paul Cast-ner, Trustees. The charter will be signed soon, and on January 9th, the newly elected officers will be solemnly installed. All veterans not yet connected with this outfit are requested to report as soon as possible. If the Soldiers’ Memorial is to go up next June, you will want to have been on the job. There is no K. P. in the V. F. W. and gas-masks are worn only when some journalistic member makes a speech (which is seldom and short).
***
ary contests, will meet in the finals which will be held in Washington Hall next Monday evening. The winner, besides receiving the Breen gold medal, will represent Notre Dame in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest.
,	* * *
The Mining Engineers Club held its regular meeting Friday evening. Prof. Knowles Smith gave a talk on the objectionable features of the bill, now before congress, revising the federal mining statutes.
***
Last Sunday afternoon the local council of the Knights of Columbus sent sixty-two candidates through the second and third degree initiations in the Mishawaka council rooms. Timothy Galvin,-a prominent Notre Dame alumnus of Valparaiso, was captain of the third degree team. All of the old timers . were certain that they had never witnessed a better initiation, and the candidates stated atferward that they could imagine nothing which could surpass it. At seven o’clock that evening more than two hundred received the new members at a banquet given in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. Rev. Paul Foik, Chaplain, delivered the invocation. Professor John P. Cooney, the Kentucky humorist, performed the duties of
The pamphlet, “Frequent Communion for College Men,” which contains the statements on frequent communion made in the religious survey last year, is. being sent to all schools that have a Catholic enrollment. Nine thousand copies have already been mailed, and that many more are being printed. A few days ago one thousand were sent to Yale University. The circulation of these pamphlets among the Notre Dame students is noteworthy; since the beginning of the school year more than two thousand have been distributed by means of the small rack at the entrance to the basement chapel.
, • , ♦**
The semi-finals in the competition for the Breen medal were held Monday, December 12th. in the North Room of the Library. Four men, W. Miller, Raymond Manus Gal-
toastmaster. When he had successfully amused the audience with his Southern jokes., he called upon Timothy Galvin for remarks Tim addressed the new members, told them of their duties as Knights, and explained what is expected of them as Notre Dame men. After Rev. Edward Mungovan had discussed some “Sidelights,” Charles M. Niezer, a N. D. alumnus of Fort Wayne, delivered the address. He spoke of the work that is being done by the Knights at the Gibault Home, and asked the N. D. Knights to cooperate in the effort to make the Home successful. . Among the musical numbers on the program were a vocal selection by Miss Florence Guthrie who was accompanied by Mrs. James Cover; overtures by the Big Five Orchestra; and songs by the University Quartet. Alfred N. Slaggert, James F. Murtaugh, Henry F. Barnhart, Edward Ander-
lagher, Leo Ward, C. S. C., and James son and Vincent Fagan comprised the com-Hogan, C. S. C., who survived the prelimin- mittee in charge.	ARNDT.
Notre dame Scholastic
203
«^o wjb tty J|» ity dj*
SALE aJa *t* A** A** at* A*A
Beautiful mansion in South Bend, 5 minutes walk from Notre Dame, will be sacrificed for half value.
SACRIFICE PRICE
Street cars from University to South Bend pass this place.
INQUIRE AT
ROOM 3 —AT—
138 No. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

204	Nocre Same Scholastic
j THE CAMPUS 1
I : : STORE: : I I	/
Ideal Xmas Gifts
What could you send that would be more appreciated than a selection from our new arrivals in
NOTRE DAME
Pins	Vanity Cases
Belt Buckles	Rings
Watch Fobs	Lavalieres
Chains	Brooches
Knives	Pillow Tops
Ash Trays	Pennants
Cigarette Cases	Memory Books
Everything He or She May Want
B-t of max ADLER CO. s