DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTVRVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. LI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, May 25, 1918.
No. 30.
The Winter’s Flight
^LOWLY the- winter northward went, With all its gloomy silence spent—
Except a littel part
That lingered in my heart- 1
This morning I heard a thrush’s song, And while entranced I listened long, Into my fettered soul A bit of sunshine stole.
There on the air that northward blew, The last of lingering winter flew, Leaving my soul to ring With spring.
LEO L. WARD. -------------------
Kingsley.
BY ROBERT E- O’HARA, ’ 20.
I.—Introducing Kingsley.
PERHAPS you will not believe in Kingsley. You may be partly in the right about it, as it has been almost two years since I saw him last, and my powerful imagination, like good Kentucky whiskey, has a ,	tendency to grow more potent with age. This
*	much, however, is certain: Kingsley really was,
। and I shall try to make you see him as he was when I knew . him.
■' He was just five years old when he. first broke into my ken, but he bore himself as no other child of five that I have known. The little Indian spoke very plainly;' stunningly plain he' was at embarrassing moments. The .first time I saw him, however, he said f nothing. I was reading—something or other that somebody had written—out on the front porch, when this Kingsley suddenly protruded
V himself through! the hedge, grinned, grunted -cheerfully and fatly, and ^disappeared, but the gap that he had made in that fancy fence
bore for two long years mute testimony to Kingsley’s powers of offense. There are still gaps in that hedge; Walter, Who lives next door now, is almost as hard on hedges as was Kingsley in his day.
In the same act of breaking through the hedge so abruptly this little neighbor broke into my interest and affection. It may have been the ruthless, smiling way in which he thrust hedge to the right of him and hedge to the left of him that won me. There was something of the • cavalier about him which showed that his dark-haired ancestors must have had some warmer nursery than bleak England. He had the fire of the South, with English piracy engrafted upon Spanish courtliness. In a way I admired this outlaw’s rash defiance of the powers that were; in the days before I had grown too dignified to be spanked I myself had relished nothing quite so much as jumping that hedge.
I did not have much time for musing. Kingsley had made his first appearance before the critical eyes of one of his new neighbors, but it was by no means his last one. He was not long in staging a dramatic return. He came through the hedge at a gallop, making a new hole, of course, and looked triumphantly behind him. His .sister Norma was quite the handsomest girl I had ever seen chasing a naked little boy through a hedge to administer to him retribution and a bath. She did not pursue her fugitive when he escaped into the foreign territory but stopped at the hedge ;and smiled. ' “Could you hand him across to me?” she -inquired in very- unvexed tones. “He has such a dismaying habit of leaving the house when we least- expect it.”	•
I rose to the occasion. , I have always been strangely curious to-see how any one who takes that house next door to us cpuld ever manage ’ x to get any of their furniture set. That house' is a classic in utter lack of design.. It has a marvellous number of corners into which it is
5o6	we Noure dame^eholasuic
impossible to put anything but fish-bowls or music-cabinets. I killed, as it were, two birds with one stone. “ May I carry him in for you? ” I asked with the air of a courtier taking a basket of eggs from a country lass; “he’s pretty heavy, and ver}' slippery, besides.”
I have since come to understand why Norma laughed, or rather, chuckled. At. the time I only knew that it was a very pleasant chuckle which made me think of Kingsley’s first arrival through the hedge and his grunting laugh. Norma offered me a towel, for the captive was very wet, and my first long trousers, which as a rule I wore only on Sunday, were just newly pressed.	.	.
Kingsley was born to be a tramp. No one could have his soulful -eyes and dusky, curly hair without turning out to be either a tramp or a musician, and no musician ever possessed Kingsley’s oily disposition towards, water. Kingsley .smiled at me with the cheerfully idiotic gaze of a lunatic who has just succeeded in scaring his keepers.
“That.was a good one,” said he; “Norma told me to do that. She .wanted to get a chance to'speak to you.”
As Norma- had already gone back into the house, she did not hear the accusation. .
“Yeah?” I.responded, provisionally.
The boy looked me squarely in the eye. “Yeah,” he affirmed, and this was his first lie to me.	,	.
.	*	II.—Charity.	’	.
The next morning Kingsley appeared through one of the holes he had made the preceding afternoon. “H’lo,” he greeted me, “wliat’s your name?” . ‘
' “Bob,” I answered.	_
He smiled. “Mine’s Nirmy!” He saw the question'in my eyes. “It’s not really,”' he_ added;, “it’s Kingsley. But when I was a little tiny baby, I couldn’t say it, only ‘ Ninny.? That’s'why I say it’s my name. Don’t you see?” . •	.	.
I saw quite clearly, in spite of the implication of profound stupidity which Kingsley’s inflection of the last three words- contained. Kingsley was oratorical about things. As I looked at him very earnestly for a few. minutes, he grew* a little restless:/ “I suppose,” I said, thought;
• fully, “that you have had your breakfast?” .
My question was a complete-relief-for him. Indeed his guilty looks and shiftiness always disappeared as sdon as he had found something;
to lie about. He bent on me a look fraught with the tempting innocence of a mischievous boy.
“No,” he answered, “papa said I couldn’t _ have my breakfast this morning because I ran away from my. bath yesterday.”
“Did-he?” I said in amazed admiration of a five-year-old who could prevaricate so plausibly. '
“You’d better come into the kitchen and : Charity will give you something to eat.”	;
He was not slow in taking my advice. The old colored cook looked around as we came in. ;
“This 'is Charity, Kingsley,” I said by way H of introduction; “she’s my mammy.”	’
Kingsley shook hands with her without taking his wondering gaze off her shiny black > face/ “Is she your mother, Bob?” _
“Lor's sake, .no, chile!- He’s white folks. | Cain’t yo’ all see Ah’s culluhed?” Charity j had in all circumstances absolute and profound 1 respect for- all the “white fclks,” a respect i preserved from the days when she had been a j slave in Georgia. Kingsley was puzzled. j
“Didn’t you call her "your mamma?” he said i in argumentative tone; “didn’t you, Bob?” g
‘ ‘ Yes, but that’s only a pet name. It’s mammy, | not mamma,” I explained to him'. “And now I don’t waste your time arguing. Tell Charity | that you want something to eat.”	-	1
“Got’ny ginger-snaps?” asked Ninny.	1
“Lordy, chile, bless yo’ haht, yes! Cain’t | yo’ all eat some o’ dis here breakfas’ food? 1 Mist’h Bob, cain’t yo’ all eat somethin’ too?” I She herself saw to it that I did not have to I answer. As for Kingsley—well, even his five- | ycaf-old appetite was satiated. -	1
Charity smiled broadly and benignly upon us. 1 When we had finished, and she had begun to ■ carry off the dishes, I reached for the morning paper. Charity looked at me apologetically.
“Mist’ Bob, All done lef’ mah readin’ glasses to home this morning. I just cain’t see de news
- ’tall. Couldn’t yo’ read it out loud t’ me a . little while?”	,	. .
\ Bor about,, twenty minutes I read to her. _ < Kingsley sat on the edge of a chair, chin in	i
■ hand, his eyes still fixed bn Charity’s face.	I
He knew a friend when he ran into one, and he j decided there and then to cultivate her acquaintance. Finally the cook stood up.	■!
‘,‘Yo’ all better; cle'ali but b’ heah,” she an- J riounced, in her usual tones of authority. Then ; she looked at/Kingsley, and added—as if any
. reason were- necessary to supplement an order. s from >Charity - in her own kitchen—"“Ah’s	:
Nocre ^ame Scholastic
' gotta get dinnah ready,- honey.” -
i- Kingsley smiled most agreeably. “Got’ny more of them ginger-snaps?” he inquired.
’ His pockets were already bulging.
< “Come over again, honey,” said Charity.
■' - “Uh-hum! You bet -I will! And the lad ■ rubbed bis stomach gleefully as he backed out
, of the door.
As we reached the front porch Kingsley broke his thoughtful silence: “Papa said he’d - spank meif I made another hole in your hedge.”
He was merely imparting a bit of information , in a way that discouraged any discussion of. the ’ topic.
“Guess I’ll go on_ home,” he added, after another silence. In such silences men have t planned revolutions, empires. -
After dinner I had just taken up again my abandoned novel in the front porch, when I 4-	noticed a new hole in the hedge, and almost at
■	the same moment, Kingsley, coming with
laggard steps up the long walk from the street.
:	He had the persecuted look of a. five-year-old
. Christian serving as a bonfire for Nero and his friends.
“I couldn’t sit down,” was the forlorn y information he offered as he slowly and tenderly deposited himself on the steps.
“You can now,’-’ I answered.. My-heart was ,• hard as I viewed the result of only two-days of his depredation on our once beautiful hedge.
“To dinner, I mean. Papa said I was pout. ing, and I didn’t get any.” I looked at him and his eyes.dropped; he was telling the truth again. I began to read my book; but I could - feel those hurt brown eyes looking.at me and through me, and that kind of plea was more than I could stand.	.
4 . “Tan’ sakes alive,'.chile! What yo’ all want now?” were Charity’s first words as we entered the kitchen door.
.	My Rosary. .	-
I watched a cloistered monk in prayer .	.
-	Who fingered his beads so old,
. Caressing each one with loving care ;	And kissing the cross of gold. ,
- My courtship is jtny cloistered way	•	.
And I alone walk, there, .	. ’
.	. Caressing lips, on which I pray.
.... ’ . As beads, so wondrous fair. ' '	-
’	.	- ' .	... PAUL SCOFIELD. '
- ’ ■ ' . [ . ■	' • •
5°7
- Concerning Birds.
I.—The Bird Lover.
The lover of birds is an enthusiast. If. he were not, he would not be a lover of-birds. Only those whose interest in any subject is intense and unabating can in truth- be said to Jiave enthusiasm in its pursuit. What, it may be asked, will lead a person to spend his precious time upon some matter apparently unworthy of such a sacrifice? There is in the thing something that awakens a responsive sentiment. An elevated’feeling, as we know instinctively, is not the result of calculation or forethought, but comes upon us spontaneously—just how we do not understand. By cultivation,’ the awakened sentiment grows in intensity, and the emotional element conxributes not a little to the persistent devotion that -is characteristic of enthusiasm. .	■
Now let us apply these ideas to the subject of bird life.. There is in all living things much of paramount interest and worthy of man’s serious study. Life, in all its grades, is a great mystery, and to investigate its myriad phases naturally challenges the astuteness of the .human - intellect. And when those beautiful creatures which we call birds are the particular form of life chosen for patient observation, we have-an interest that quickly grows to be intensely satisfying. So much is manifest in- the life of a bird that both our senses and our intellect find matter for almost indefinite investigation.
No doubt.most persons at first do not acquire a scientific interest in birds, but are led gradually from the emotional to the philosophic aspect of the subject. I suppone also that individual temperament, will decide what amount of attention each one will eventually give to the aesthetic and scientific phases of ornithology. In this matter, I think much will depend upon one’s leisure-for the’ pursuit.. If one cannot observe regularly, there is less likelihood that anything more than an aesthetic interest in birds will be developed. . But even this is well worth the time that is spent in studying the habits of the many species of birds .which are found in our parks or in-the country. .	'
.What pure pleasure '.is there in strolling leisurely info the country, with only nature for our. companion. As soon as we reach thg/ limit . of the city, we are greeted by the clear notes .of the Song Sparrow. And as we’advance
Isfie Norre dame Schdascic
- 508
a little farther, the Field and Vesper Sparrows will repeat for us their charming strains. Another songster that is sure to challenge our attention is the Warbling Vireo, almost as persistent a singer as the Song Sparrow. And if our walk is taken in the month of May then the bird chorus will, bewilder us. Catbirds, Thrashers, Wrens, Warblers, Finches, Grosbeaks, Orioles, and many other species are then in full song.
As compared with those who .have an aesthetic interest in birds, there are few with opportunity for a scientific study of ornithology. It has, however, been a matter of wonder to the writer that many who were brought up on farms, or who have lived in the country for much of their lives, have yet so little interest of any kind in bird life. Naturally we should expect our scientific ornithologists to come from this " class Why are so few of such persons interested in birds? I think there are various reasons fortheir apathy to so delightful a pursui'. Although they live in the country, their sympathy with nature remains undeveloped. They lead lives that are as artificial as those of the city. The newspaper, their own avocation or pro- fession, consume all their time; or if they have any leisure, it may be spent in novel reading or frequenting the shows of the neighboring town. Thus most persons become slaves to the conventions of civilization. -
Can anything. be done to lessen this dullness and insensibility to the superior pleasures that nature affords her devotees? Yes, there seems now to be an excellent opportunity to well-nigh revolutionize the sad condition that has existed for generations. This is to get our young people interested in bird life, and happily to do . so is a pleasant task for teacher or friend. The young are born naturalists, waiting only for the necessary encouragement in order to develop their endowments.
Beyond doubt the youthful student of ornithology is likely to become a true bird lover. Such habits of mind as attention, observation, judgment, appreciation of the beautiful being in the process of formation, the impulse to persevering efforts to gain all the facts of this -branch of natural history is strong and stimulating. Probably no oilier pursuit is so frui -ful in opportunities to cultivate these indis-pensible requisites of an educated man. At the same time, it is also probably true, that . hardty any other study is less, irksome than the observations of the ornithologist. So while
accumulating valuable scientific knowledge', the student of bird life is strengthening his mental power con+inually. How much better is it for the boy or youth who acquires a taste for ornithology to spend his free hours in such a way . as to develop his body and mind than to fritter away the precious years of his early life in j unfruitful diversions.	- *
Incidentally many other advantages will be	|
the result of the persistent labors of the bird	i
lover. Fresh air, a good appetite, no loss of	J
sleep, and above all an unfailing cheerfulness	*
are but a few of these advantages. Nothing	j
need be said to prove how great a gain it is 1 o	|
possess these benefits.' I cannot refrain, how-	1
ever, from enlarging a little on the last and ' | best of the blessings just enumerated. The	|
excellent health that is always enjoyed by a	1
naturalist gives him the fine virtue of cheer-	I
fulness. If you meet him on one of his rambles,	1
you will be sure to receive a friendly greeting.	j
And should you desire a little diversion yourself,	|
take a walk with him, and you will soon forget	|
all annoyances and become infected with his	|
buoyancy of mind and heart. Fortunate is the	j
community that has a number of naturalists	|
to keep it fresh and sanguine.	.	1
But the bird lover confers yet more benefits	1
upon his neighbors'and friends. His knowledge	I
of bird life will make him welcome to bird	I
societies, either local or in places distant from1	1
home. So soon as, any person is known to be	S
interested, in birds, his acquaintance will be	2
eagerly sought by other bird lovers. And	I
there is in all lovers of birds a sympathy for	|
one another that is admirable. Although	’
strangers in other respects, as soon as ornithologists meet .they are at home in each other’s company. They seem also to possess certain traits of temperament that make their society congenial to themselves. „ Next to religion, nothing can develop sympathy for all of God’s creatures more readily than the love of nature.
Let me now, before ending this short paper, emphasize the educational value of the study ; of birds. It has been admitted by noted edu-	s
cators that the system of instruction in our	.
schools, colleges, and universities does not give i the. fullest development possible to their , students. Too much\ stress is laid upon class j exercises and tests, and too little upon the close ; i companionship with nature. The opportuni- j ties for the delightful study of the varied phe- j indmena of nature are . greatly undervalued. 1
I
Notre Stame Schdascie
509
All the requisites of an open and sympathetic mind are found in the study of the creatures that live in our midst. Briefly^ the bird lover is introduced into a world that is well-nigh limitless in the interest- it can arouse in its devotees. Beauty, song, instinct, habits, migration, distribution are but a few of the aspects of ornithology. Every bird that flies within view at once enliots the attention- of the observer, who knows that he may learn something new and noteworthy. Try to estimate, if you can, the total effect of a life devoted to the study of birds If there is an earthly paradise, it will be found in the fresh fields and secluded woods where the birds raise their sweet voices in praise of their Maker.	‘	.
B. ALPHONSUS. - * * *
II.—An Hour’s Walk in May.
If, as the poet says, nature speaks a various language to her communing lovers, that which she speaks through the -throats of her birds is indeed a beautiful one. It is a lamentable fact that more of us arc not awake to the keen en-
joyments of bird study. Tew there are whose souls are unresponsive to the gay chirp of the robin as it sings its inspiring prelude to spring,, but unfortunately iff is here that we let our interest beconie torpid. If we would but learn the song and habits of a few of our common birds the interest and pleasure in our walks would be trebled. It is to be hoped that the account of an hour’s walk contained in the following paragraphs will urge others to be more observant in their walks, and to become .the friends and adniirers of our birds.
On the morning of May 16th while we were out studying thie birds, we saw the Baltimore Oriole, the Indigo, the Rose-breasted Grosbeak, the Wood Pewee, the Scralet Tanager, the Brown Thrasher, the Blackburnian Warbler, the Yellow Warbler, the Downy Woodpecker, the Redheaded Woodpecker and several other species whose names I cannot recall. And seeing them was not all: we also heard their songs. I have observed that many in discussing the merits of this or that bird’s song will lose sight bf the actual beauty of the song -of each one. To me' this - seems unappreciative toward our’bird friends.
I like to listen to their songs and to enjoy in each song its charming qualities. For instance, this morning the tender call of the Meadowlark -seemed .no less pleasing than the varying solo
rendered by zthe Brown Thrasher, our best singer; the broken trill of the Myrtle Warbler was as delighting as the whistling carol of the Rose-breasted Grosbeak. All of these, birds may be seen and heard within a radius of several hundred yards of our main building. The birds seem to say in their song that they love Notre Dame: we should not allow their love to go unrequited.	.
*	JOHN E'. KENNEY.
* *
III.—The Study oe Birds.
It is a tradition in the northern part of the United States that the first robin is a sign of spring. Everyone, from the farmer to the business man, deems it an honor, to encounter his first robin before his neighbor and to boast about it. Most people, however, stop here. Unfortunately, very few go any further- and become acquainted with the scores of birds -which migrate from the South every season. Even the farmer, with his wide opportunities for observation, does not become proficient in the study of birds.
There are many birds to be distinguished and. there are many interesting questions connected with them. Why is it that during one season a flock of Purple Finches will inhabit a section for several. weeks and during the next season not a single finch will appear? How many different species of the warbler family will appear during one season?
Every year birds of the most brilliant plumage are flying about among our trees and near our lakes. They are arrayed in all the colors of the . rainbow and their songs and plumage if absent, would leave an irreparable' defect in nature. Few people know well the brilliant oriole, and even a lesser number:are acquainted with the various, members of the multicolored warbler family. The plumage of these birds is wonderful and never fails to excite the admiration of those who see them for the first time.	'
We have acrobats among our birds: the nuthatch runs upside down along the trunk of a tree looking for insects. We have remarkable songsters. One of them is the brown thrasher, : which scatters his song from the top of a high tree. We have hundreds of birds of which most people are largely ignorant, and a study of them and their habits is a fascinating employment for those who; appreciate the worth of our feathered neighbors. . ■	. louis van dyke.
5io
Noire dame Scholastic
- IV.—What Has Become oe the Purple
. Last year we had in abundance at Notre Dame a bird known as the Purple finch. Its plumage is rose-red, with two white wing bars. The song is a loud, long-continued warble of very'- sweet quality.
The young bird enthusiast who started his observations last spring has been greatly disap-ponted in not hearing the Purple finch’s note for which he has listened long and eagerly. As it was one of the earliest migrants it afforded ' much-interesting study.-
There has not been one record of . the Purple finch in our locality this spring, but other localities in the same latitude have reported numerous records. They report also that the bird has been found missing at times in their ' localities. Nor is this the first time that Notre Dame has missed this species—local ornithologists say that it is a characteristic of the Purple finch to be erratic in its migration.
JAMES W. CONNERTON.
• ■ . *. '
..	V.—Learning to Love the Birds.
As long as I can remember, I have always had some interest in birds, but it-was never developed until the past year when, under the patient supervision of Brother Alphonsus, I began to take an increased interest in birds and acquire a better knowledge of them.
During my one year at Notre Dame, I have observed a greater number of birds than in all my previous life. It may be that in former years I could have seen as large a number of birds, and that my-failure to do so was to be attributed to my inability to observe. Certain it is that in other years I was attracted only" by the brilliantly colored birds, and gave but little attention to those of less striking appearance. Now,. however, I have, found that it is
not always the most beautiful birds that the sunny Southland they are winging their way ' ■ deserve the most notice, for there are. many to their breeding places in The more northern
of less brilliant color that are endowed with’ climes. . A half-houty around the lake with
• other forriis of attractiveness, . Such a one is the Brother Alphonsus bn one of these fine May days Brown Thrasher, a bird of dull plumage, but will:surely teach you much that you would find by far the sweetest singer of all birdsT.have./interesting..; It is aminterest too that will grow ever heard. If we but observe, we are sure to' arid , create new interests, .an interest that
find something of -interest, about each one. : will ;help to ‘brighten your - life and aid you -SoI can. truthfulljr say that I shall never to see and appreciate better the .beauty regret my time spent with Brother Alphonsus ' with which they Creator has diversified and searching around Notre-Dame, for some species enchafmed this one .little. kingdom in His vast of bird; -Ty /-5 ' .. w. ALLEN page. 5 ’ creatipn.y - .	y / .• /•? .	-	b. <j.
W. ALLEN PAGE
VI.—The Beauty of Birds.
Forms of recreation are as numerous and as varied as are a man’s interests. Interest can indeed turn any form of activity Into recreation and the more varied one’s interests the more joy we find in living. The study of nature in her varied and variant forms has for many minds a fascination that is scarcely understood by the uninitiated. This interest appears to be steadily growing in America.
Notre Dame and the surrounding country affords a rare opportunity for becoming acquainted with nature. On the campus there is a ’ larger variety of trees than can be found on any other equal area in the country. Around the lakes, along the river banks, and in the nearby groves may be found, for example, within the course of a year more than one hundred and fifty species of birds, many of which gladden the _ seeing eye with their plumage and the listening ear with their song.
One of the most attractive of all is the Magnolia Warbler. The predominant color of this bird is yellow variegated with black and white, •
The throat is yellow, around the eye there is a splotch of black, above which is a white bar. The top of the head is. grayish, the yellow • breast is beautifully. mottled with black, and i
1
. the wings are black with white wing bars. The monotony of a. sombre-colored back is relieved by a large spot of bright yellow above the tail feathers, which are themselves black with two large white spots separated by a strip of black.
- So bright is the. yellow plumage,- and so well-placed arid varied 'are the - black and white feathers that the Magnolia Warbler merits the distinction of being called one of the most ‘ beautiful of a large fainily of beauties. There are many other beauties of the same species but space does not permit a description.-
. This is the season of bird migration. From

i
Moure dame Scholastic
511
Varsity Verse
The Answered Call.
In a pretty little southern town,
Where the sun with a golden smile looks down, And the mocking-bird sings the whole day long Entrancing the valley with its song, -
Came like a meteor from the skjr ' The call that sends men off to die,— The battle cry, the call to arms, A wakening villages, cities and farms. _
So, with a mother’s fond embrace, '	'
A young man left this peaceful place,	,
Leav ng behind his home and all That he might answer his country’s call.
I	• "	<	-
A year has passed since he left the town; ■ The mocking-bird sings, the sun smiles down, But asleep in death midst the ruins of war Is lying a boy who’ll return no more.	'
_	W. ALLEN PAGE.
.	Spring.
Buds are out and swelling fit
Any time to up and split,	-
So the leaves and blossoms' may Toss their heads about and play
• With the breezes dancing so;- -	’
All the boughs swing to and fro In happy frolic, till Scarcely anything is still.
And the river sparkles blue
Where it shows in stretches, through Pussy-willow hedges spread, While straggling along its bed.
'	. ARTHUR L. VAY.
A War Song.	-
' We’re going out,to fight a foe, We’re going strong and brave; .
And we’ll return victorious	' . .
’ And this great nation save. ' . - -
America! America! '	.	.
Our own great land and free, .
America! America!
We’re one and all for thee.	.
May freedom be our battle cry As’on and on we go;
' .May God in heaven be our guide ' And peace on us bestow.
•.	.	T. C. BRENNAN.'
“Hour Laws.”
Supper and evening pray’r .	- .
And then two hours of toil,	.
Or-else a reckless skive by those who dare To go and see a “goil.”
But now alas! such times will be no more— The nation’s making rules,
And but an hour replaces two of yore .
Even in schools.
Nine, and. the bells will, ring, And then will come the gloom.
Eor now the daylight saving is the thing That marks our doom.
Ye gods! to think that this is due to law— This blighting of the skive!
It’s bad! but yet I’m filled with “worser awe” To think—we rise at five!	■
THOMAS BEACOM.
. Dorothy.
Dorothy, with angry eyes,	‘.
Gray-blue like winter’s skies,	*
. I love you hot.
Dorothy with laughing eyes, -Clear as spring’s azure skies, You think love rot. '	.
Dorothy, with tender eyes, Violet like the summer skies, _ I love you, Dot.
ROBERT F. O'HARA.
“A City of Dreadful Night.”
. Conceive, if you can, -Of a feast without fun, Of a rose without, scent, Of a child always pent,	.
__ . And a world and no sun.
Take the gladness away .	(
And the joy out?of fife,	>
, Snatch the song from the maid, .
Let no grief be allayed, . ’ Remove love from the wife; •
. Only then will you know	.	.
.	. Of the gloom on this earth,
Were the Irish so gay	.
Goneforeveraway
_ With their generous mirth. 'J ; ,	"	-	w. c. HAVEY.
tone Norre dame Scholastic
There are no spectators in the drama of life; all are actors.
It is a long way to Berlin, but we are beyond Paris already.
Unless you are' a well-digger, you must begin at. the bottom.
Stand by the colors, save your country, and serve the world.
Calvary’s service flag with its lone star floats over every other.
You can lead a fool to college, but you can’t make him study.	.
It is by quarrelling with our friends that we.
make our enemies.	-
A well-stacked library is no proof that the owner is educated.	.	■
“Pro-German American” is the flattest contradiction in terms.
It is much easier to criticise an achievement than to perforin it.
One way to better your batting average is to forget the grandstand.
Some men are born blind; others are responsible, for their blindness.
German Ktiliur is the result of much thinking in the wrong direction.
If you have not launched your “spring diive,” be quick; it is high time.	-
The hope of the nation depends upon the character of- its citizens. x
Our Liberty Loans are not calculated to soothe | the nerves of the Kaiser. - s.	]
What’s the use of “knocking,” unless it is merely to make a noise?	.	.
A doctor may bury his mistakes, but some day he has to follow them.	.
Don’t waste food; don’t cast our chances of victory into the garbage can. ■ N
The selfish man regards the end he has in view as the end of everything.	.
Who knows his own as well as his adversary’s weakness is the greater general.
Many seetn to regard the use of their reason as an altogether arbitrary matter. < -
True literary criticism is an X-ray, discovering the good and exposing the evil... .
This war means the . vindication, not the dissolution; of international law. '	..
. Aman.is truly successful when, he has conquered many and great difficulties. .
512
Junior Thoughts.
Don’t dream impossibilities.
An aphorism is a short sermon.
War is the melting pot of dations.
The paths of autocracy lead to Waterloo. Think good thoughts and do good deeds. “As ye sow, so shall ye reap,” Sir Kaiser. There are no “fightless” days at the front. The toll of sacrifice is the sacrifice of self. Opinionativeness is intellectual autocracy. Why is remembered sunshine the brightest? Remember that lost time is never recovered. There are many debts that money cannot pay. Nothing great was ever done half-heartedly. Deep thoughts are not found in shallow minds. ' The best batteries will win the peace pennant.
This life is but a dream, and death the awakening.	.
x Be it ever so homely, there’s no face like your own.
Many will take their next examinations in the army.	•	.
The new prohibition law does not apply to study.	.	“
A heated discussion often ends" in cold contempt.
It’s fun to be a soldier until the fighting begins.	.
You need not be in the front line to be a loyal citizen.
, Even the pipe of peace sometimes burns the tongue. •
Many a man marks his decline from his first success.
Don’t give up the-ship—sink the submarine instead.
Before judging others think somewhat of yourself.	•
Better “a bubble reputation” than a Benedict Arnold’s. A	z
Sympathy is the key that opens the treasures of hearts. . . r	-	.	_
It is only the ignorant who think themselves infallible.	/	.	,
Too many of us are prone, to make sacrifice imply.self-aid. /	- . ..	'
Do not forget that your companion also has . been endowed with the power of speech. •

tofie Noure dame Scholastic	513
§otpej)amdScholastic
-DlSCE-QUASl-SEAVER-VICTVRUS-^ QUASI- CRAS-MOR1TVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Mailer.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
VOL. LI.	May 25, 1918.	NO. 30
Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18
Charles W.- Call, ’18 John A.Lemmer, ’iS
John L. Reuss, ’18
George D. Haller, ’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’19
Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’18
Leigh G. Hubbell, ’18 Thomas J. Hanifin, ’19
James H. McDonald, ’19
Wm. H. Robinson, ’20 Alfred Slaggert, ’20:
Robert E. O’Hara, ’20
—A real gentleman is a gentleman all the time and everywhere, nighf and day, in private as well as in public. Manners have been rather aptly	defined as minor
Private Manners, morals. The definition implies	a somewhat subtle
viewpoint.	Morals are	morals regardless of
circumstances.	If	we	appropriate unjustly
what does not belong to us, it is of no consequence except for' the bad example, whether the deed be done in public or occultly. But in the “minor morals” of manners we are prone to regard the matter differently. In the company of a lady or of any person whom we seek to impress, in the presence of superiors or others for whom we feel that we should have a special reverence, we are careful almost to-fastidious-.ness in every word and movement. How delicately we manipulate each instrument at the dinner table; with what shyness we masticate our food; how carefully we enunciate our speech: then we are, as we phrase it, on our beshbehavior. But if we dine in private, would our manners identify us at all as the models of circumsp ection we have appeared in public?' The true gentleman wears his best manners all the time. If wt are as respectable within our familiar circle as in public, then may we lay claim to a certain gentility, for we have proved that our public manners are not a, mere coat to be laid aside at will, but a real, habitual, essential part of our gentlemanly character.—G. d. h. —
One of the chief charms of Notre Dame is her. magnificent campus. The veriest Philistine could scarcely escape being’struck by its beauty.
The quadrangle of lawn
Let the Grass Grow, and shrubbery and flowers really rivals the scenes in our dreams of fairylands Brother Philip has spent years of thought and labor and care in developing it, and it would seem that the least we might do. would be to regard it with a degree of respect, if not with a very reverential pride. And yet this year, as in all former ones, not a few students persist in making the lawn a short-cut to class, to the gymnasium, or to wherever- they may want to go. Do they think such indifference fair to themselves or to the other people at the University? We cannot say: the workings of some minds are so hopelessly unaccountable. If they be susceptible to any appeal, we plead with them to let the grass grow. We grant that it is pleasant to stroll across the lawn in spring, but if all were to-indulge that luxury there would, not be any lawn. The rational alternative is for all to keep scrupulously to the walks, which are certainly numerous and convenient enough'for all needs. A new consideration this year, in addition to all the old ones, for keeping the campus at its best is the fact that’a summer school is to be conducted at the University during the coming July and August, and it should be the practical ambition of the present students to leave the grounds as attractive as may be.—-R. E. o’h.
Obituary.
Through Mr. Warren Cartier of Ludington, Mich., we have received news of the death of Patrick J. Goulding (B. S., ’86; LL. B., ’86). For over twenty years Mr. Goulding has been a resident of Enid, Oklahoma,. He was prominent in state politics and was chairman of the State Capital Commission., Evidence of the high regard in which he was held by his fellow citizens was given by the impressiveness of the funeral^ services. A representative of the governor was present, the offices of the State Capitol were closed, and flags were at half-mast during the funeral hour. Mr. Goulding, in private known as “ Honest Pat Goulding,” was an earnest Catholic, and a benefactor to his city.. Notre Dame sends her sympathy to those of Mr. Goulding’s family who survive him and prays ’ for his eternal rest.
Moure &ame Scholasuic
5i4	•.
The Sacred Concert.
The concert of sacred church music given last Sunday by the choirs of Holy Cross Seminary for the benefit of the K. of C. War Hund was an encouraging success. For the past two years these choirs have been laboring patiently and diligently, in perfecting themselves in the rendition of true Church music. It was their first program in concert and they deserve . nothing • but praise. The carefully arranged program was intended to point out the various styles of Church music, and to aid the audience in intelligently following, the printed program contained aii introduction explaining the nature of approved Church music and giving a classification of the various styles of such music and the complete text of every selection, the Latin texts being translated. The excellent rendition of the Gregorian selections brought much favorable comment. Great credit is due to the unison choirs for the’ interest they have had in their work. Gregorian music requires a certain degree of intelligence and a large amount of proficient training if the intrinsic beauty and power of this kind of music is to be brought out.
The larger part of the program was assigned to the four-part male choir. -Many of the selections were of the most complicated contrapuntal structure, a style which demands long and serious training for execution with any degree of success. The selections from theK modern style of Church music were rather austere examples of their- type. This style, generally more pleasing to the uneducated than the polyphonic style, is more trying for a choir to master than the older and more involved styles; yet it was very successfully rendered. The fact, that the attention of. the entire audience .was held from the beginning to the end of the program is ample proof not only that Church music, properly so-called, can be ap-preciateds by those educated to its charms but ' also that the choir’s work is of the highest order. Father. Marshall, the director, whose long and intensive training under the best masters of Church music in Rome makes his work that of a
specialist, is to be commended. If the choirs continue. to perfect themselves in the future as they have in the past two years, we predict, that Notre Dame will soon rank as high in the art of ecclesiastical and sacred song as she does in her other fields of activity. -
Washington Hall Events.
LECTURE BY LIEUTENANT SAUVAGE, C. S. C.
Last Saturday evening after prolonged applause, Father Cavanaugh, introduced to a fortunate audience as a scholar, a soldier, a friend, and a brother in religion, Father George • Sauvage, C. S. C., lieutenant-chaplain, recently , returned to the land of his adoption from the scenes of war. Father Sauvage at the outbreak of the world war was a professor of theology in Holy Cross College at the Catholic University, where he had achieved for himself a name as theologian and psychologist. He was very prompt i® heeding the call of the mother country and has been with her armies or those of her allies until a month ago, when he was sent by the French government with a message to the American people. This message he delivered to Notre Dame with deep earnestness and simple force. He spoke of the strong bond which existed between America and. France in the winning of our independence . and which, is now renewed in this struggle against the menacing fanaticism that would make the world German., The sacrifices France has undergone are tremendous, he said, but she is still willing to bear on the cross, to offer her children as martyrs in the cause of Liberty until her offerings are accepted by the Lord of Peace and her head crowned with the laurel of victory. Giving-full credit to the valor of all the British armies, he dwelt especially on the Irish among whom he has served as a chaplain. In conclusion he predicted the glory that America would attain and told how those at home should aid the boys in France, by cheerfully bearing a part of the burden. His most encouraging statement was that France is by no means “bled white, ” but has at the present time over five million men in arms, three .million of whom are in the war zone. Had Father Sauvage .related more of his per
sonal experiences,, his lecture would have been even-more interesting; .but either his modesty forbade or he considered that the topics he chose were, of .greater importancew. h. r. .
y ■	THE SENIOR PLAY. -
Delmar Edmonsdon’s ,unforeseen talent as a playwright; and the catchy songs of Father Eugene Burke and Earl Clark combined-to make the - musical comedy, ‘ ‘ Camouflaging Cupid, ’ ’ one of the greatest “hits” ever achieved on the Notre Dajne stage. . It was all the more dclight-
■ A	A- < A	-
"tone Moure- ©ame Scholastic	515
ful in that it was entirely novel and deeply	Local News.
., toned with local color. Not only were the, songs good,, but the play itself was full of sparkling dialogue, while the plot was as much worthy of the name as that of any musical comedy and abounded in. amusing situations. With regard to the players, it is not too much to
' say that every man was excellent in his part; nor were their respective magnitudes so variant as to make it easy to name any one as the star. Mr. Charles McCauley, if anyone, is deserving of premier honors; the realncss of his impersonation of the “Dream Girl” and the charm of his songs were worthy of a Julian El tinge. Mr. Edmonson’s portrayal of the clinging and
■ athletic Brunnhilde Blatz was .the life of the performance, and worthy of the highest praise. Mr. Thomas Hoban was very successful in his characterization of that ambitious mother, Mrs. Blatz, and it is to his credit that he looked younger than his daughter. Mr. Francis Mulligan did P. Green Plum in splendid manner, and would not have been recognizable but for the program. Mr. John Ambrose, as Lehigh, the valet, was ludicrously hen-like in his care for the spiritual and temporal welfare of P. Green, * while Mr. John Reuss’ representation of the
lucre-loving Bill Maker was -suspiciously realistic. Among others who were very good, were Mr. Joseph McGinnis as Harry Jennings, the hero, Mr. Thomas Kelly as Juniper the Janitor, and Mr. J. Callari as Foolzem Alle.
. The songs were all pleasing, but special mention is due to “The Ten O’Clock Walk” by Mr. Callan .and chorus, “My N. D. Soldier Boy” by Mr. McCauley, and “It Isn’t Being Done This Year” by Mr. Ambrose and Mr.
- Hoban. The best of . the : musical - numbers was the “Hash des Operas,”-a harmonious collection of .nonsense, presented by Messrs. Hoban, Ambrose, Kelly, Callan, and Reuss. '
The defects that appeared were very few considering , the iriexperience of the actors. There was a lack of ease when nothing was • doing, as is generally the case with amateurs.
The one grave defect was the part of E. Z. Drinker, which was simply a mistake from every point of view. Such shortcomings, however, were buried, beneath the general excellence., of the whole performance, which was not marred this year by an unduly prolonged intermission? between acts. .Great credit is due Father Ill for the splendid training which raised higher than ever the standard of Notre Dame dramatics.
—Constant improvements make our local barber shop up-to-date for service. An electric, hair cutter will be installed , next Tuesday. This will be the second in use in St. Joseph County. A smooth even finish , is guaranteed ' by the barbers, far better than a hair cut by hand only.	-
—Saturday, May 4, the preparatory students of the College of Music, gave an "instrumental recital, the first givemat the University in “many ' years. Plenty of. talent was displayed and prospects for future orchestras are bright. Professor Ingersol and Brother Basil, C. S...C., had charge Of the affair and it was their- careful training that made-the concert a success.
' —The Rev. John Cavanaugh,- C. S. C., president of the University, has accepted an invitation to be the commencement orator at the graduating exercises of St. -Xavier College, ’ Louisville, Ky., on June 20. Stl Xavier’s is the premier boys’ school of Louisville.' On the same date Father Cavanaugh will speak, at . the famous old convent at Oldenburg, Ind. ,
.—Cornelius Palmer .of Holy Cross Seminary, prominent in debating and oratorical circles, won the Barry Medal in the annual elocution for ' the members of the college department held in Washington Hall Monday afternoon. Mr. Palmer chose for his selection Tennvson’s “The Revenge.” Rev. Thomas A. Lahey,' C. S. C., Pror. John M. Cooney and Prof. William Farrell acted as judges. -
—Frank Mulligan has been named chairman of the executive committee which will, arrange the Annual Junior Prom. The juniors’ affair ' will take place in the Rotary-Room of’the Oliver Hotel, May 29. Other inembers of the committee are: Thomas Quinlan, Maurice , Keady,. Martin. Lammers, Bernard McGarry^
. and Arthur, Weinrich. The University orchestra:. . will play the program of dances. .	~
—Ragged fielding and a consistent failure to support Kipp, forced Badin Hall to the- cellar position . when. Brownson downed Father McGarry’s men. a week ago Thursday, 10 to 8. '
. Badin began her erratic fray by giving'Brownson four-rims in the first inning, Van Ackerman -taking the clouting/honors. A double, play,. Egan to McGrath in the fifth, heading off two " runs, was the feature of the game.	.. .	-
516	Moure dame Scholastic
—Four students.of the University took the naval, engineering examination at Indianapolis recently and entered the naval reserve steam engineering corps. The men will be allowed to complete their courses at the University and will be given practical steam engine experience on battle cruisers during the summer months. The engineers enlisting were: William J. Marshall, Louis P. Doyle, Robert Arends, and Edward J. O’Connor.
—Sorin stepped into second place in the interhall champion race by defeating Corby Hall, on Thursday of last week, in a fast game, 4 to 3. After Sorin had accumulated her four tallies early in the game, Lockard, the sensational midget hurler, held the Corbyites to four hits and fanned ten men. The championship issue now seems to rest among Walsh, Sorin and Corby, in the order named, although the coming games may upset present indications.
—A poetry contest was held at Notre. Dame this year for the first time. Each member of the Poetry Society was asked to submit two poems, which were sent to Mr. Thomas A. Daly, the well-known Catholic poet of Philadelphia, fdr his judgment as to which were the three most meritorious.. The poems selected were: i. “Achill Shore,” by Thomas F. Healy ;~ 2. “A Lily Near the Tabernacle,” by James H. McDonald; 3. “Ireland,” by Thomas J. Hanifin. After giving his judgment, Mr. Daly added: “But let not the unsuccessful aspirants be unduly bowed down by my verdict. It’s the judgment of one man, aided and abetted by an equally fallible woman, and it cannot, of course, be final, if the 'poet’s ambition will spur on each possessor of the divine spark to better and higher song.”	’	' ~
-—Notre Dame pugilistic “fans” were entertained. with eleven good exhibitions of the manly-art in Coadr Rockne’s Boxing show staged in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening. “Judge” Riley, prominent in. forensic circles, acted as announcer, introducing Coach Rockne as ther’ referee and Earl'Gilfillan as timer. “Bodie” Andrews and “Slip” Madigan sparred in a friendly manner. White pitted all of his ability against the subtle “Hick” Sweeney, the bout ending in a draw. “Dale” Vohs and Joe Whitehead showed considerable knowledge of the fistic pastime, Vohs . having the . better of the fray. The fifth bout between Joe McGinnis and Walt McConnell brought the spectators to their
feet in enthusiasm. “One-Round” Gallagher and “Johnny Powers” staged the most important bout of the evening. Gallagher, undoubtedly, had the edge on Powers, who is clever on his feet, a skillful blocker, and a hard hitter. Other white hopes who participated in the tournament were Lockard, Railton, McGrath, Hogan, McDonough, Smith, Szcze-panik and Call.	•
Personals.
—Elmer C. Tobin (LL- B., ’17), of Elgin, Illinois, was at the University recently. Elmer is now a member of the firm of Egan and Tobin in his home town.
. —Leo J. Donahue, former student at the University, was ordained to the Holy Priesthood on May 18th and will say his first Mass to-morrow, the 26th inst. at his home in Honeoye Falls, New York. Ou behalf of old1 friends the Scholastic offers felicitations.	-
—In sending a picture of her son, Charles P. Moloney, for the Dome, Mrs,. T. F. Moloney says that he is now a first lieutenant in the air service in France. Charlie is well remembered at Notre Dame, and all his friends wish him success and a speedy return from, the battlefields of Europe.
—Whenever the Government wants a man to take charge of some drafted men, they can feel safe if they pick on a Notre Dame man. W. T. McEniry recently left his home town in Rock Island in charge, of a group of drafted men en route to Camp Grant, Illinois. We are sure that “Mac” had enough experience in discipline in his three years here to enable him to work it off on somebody else;
—A delightful incident of last week was the visit of J; L. Heineman (LL. B., ’88) 6>I Connersville, Indiana. “Louie” was accompanied-by Mrs.: Heineman and their four children. There are not a great many men at Notre Dame who remember, him as a student, but this visit has given him a fresh start with the younger generation, and it is hoped that he will visit Alma Mater frequently-in the future. We note with -interest that Mr. Heineman has contributed to. the public records some valuable studies in local history. The work is so well done that we trust he may have the leisure to continue it in The future, y u ?	. .
. —Raymond y J. ' Kelly writes from Camp
Nacre 6ame Scholascic
Sherman that he and Tom King were recommended for commissions at the end ofthe training camp. Eichenlaub, the famous fullback of the old days, is also to receive a commission. In regard to the others, Ray says: “DeGree is at headquarters Co. 322nd F. A., and McGovern, Dixon and McGlynn are _in some infantry regiment, though I don’t know which. I presume you know Tyner was appointed to a very good position in Washington in gas research, and Tom Raab is a sergeant here. I believe that covers the N. D. men I know here, although there are some others I cannot recall now. Well, Father, I’ll ask you to remember me to Fathers Burke, Schumacher, Moloney, and all my other Notre Dame friends —not forgetting Brother Florian.”
—In a recent letter, Father O’Donnell says: “Way up here within sounding of the German guns, the Scholastic of February 23rd came yesterday finding me in overseas dress—that is, in service uniform, wearing the steel helmet and .with gas mask slung over the shoulder. You see, we are so near the shells—shrapnel and gas—that we have to go about always prepared, knowing not the day nor the hour.
“My morning altar is in a church where the spire has been struck, the only edifice left standing in that quarter of the town. I have not yet received any word which would let me know that any. letter of mine has been received at Notre Dame.. Possibly, as yet, there has not been time, but it seems to me that ages have gone. Don’t abate the prayers. I shall only be beginning to need them from now on. .
“Even the ‘second generation’ (and third) of Irish boys we have with us, are as Catholic as the first converts of' St. Patrick. • I’m not exaggerating a bit. Joyce Kilmer is with them and of the same stamp. I’ve seen him a few times, but not for long, as our duties do not bring us together. He is in excellent health and has a splendid record as a soldier.”
Athletics.
Michigan Track Tbam Triumphs. ' .
Up against a team possessing a man who could score the same'number of points: as Earl Gil- . fillan, Notre Dame’s all-around man, the Gold and Blue were doomed to defeat in the annual outdoor dual meet with Michigan 'at Ann Arbor, last Saturday. The score was 86 1-2 to
517
48 1-2. A wind swept diagonally across Ferry Field all afternoon, helping the sprinters, and hindering the distance men. - •
Johnson, of Michigan, jumped into the limelight at the very, opening of the meet. In the 100-yard dash he came down his lane like a deer; breaking' the tape in 9 4-5 seconds. Cook, his teammate,-was second, with Captain Mulligan a close third. Johnson beat Gilfillan ’ in both the 120-yard high -and 220-yard low hurdles. Johnson also won the broad .jump, though Gilfillan did not compete. The Notre Dame star brought his total up to that of Johnson by winning the shot put and discus throw, and by taking third in the high jump:
Rademacher and Powers could not- get soaring in the pole vault and were obliged to see Cross, of Michigan, walk off with the event at 11 feet. McGrain took third in the javelin throw, and McGinnis and Holton did-the same in the broad jump and. hammer throw • respectively.	1
, Sweeney met a worthy foe in Sedgwick, of Michigan, over the two-mile route. Sweeney fought with all the determination in him, but the Michigan veteran uncorked a sprint on the final lap that brought him to the tape a, winner. Harbert was third. Call beat Captain Don-. nelly, of Michigan, in the mile, by three yards, and just nosed out Buell, a Wolverine, by six inches in the half-mile. Van Wonterghen Was a close third in each race. The summary:
100 yard dash—first, Johnson,. Michigan; second, Cook,- Michigan; third, Mulligan, Notre Dame.' Time, 9:45. ■	•	. ’
One mile run—First, Call, Notre Dame; second, Donnelly, Michigan; . third, Van Wonterghen, Notre . Dame. Time—4:39.
120 yard high hurdles—First, Johnson, Michigan; second, Gilfillan, , Notre -Dame; third, Beardsley,. Michigan. Time—15 2-5.	-	'
440 .yard dash—First, Wessner, Michigan; second, •Mulligan, Notre . Dame; third, Langley, Michigan. Time—524-5. '	,	'
220 yard dash—First, Cook, Michigan; second, Gilfillan, Notre Dame; third, Patterson, Notre Dame. Time, 22 2-5.	\	*
- x	-	e e	'	- -
Two mile run—First; Sedgewick, Michigan; second, Sweeney, Notre Dame; third, Harbert, Notre Dame. Time—10:14	,	’	. '
220 yard low hurdles—First, Johnson, Michigan;_ second, Gillfillan, Notre Dame; third, Beardsley/-Michigan.,Time—-25115.	.	•
: Half mile run—First, Call, Notre Dame;- second, - ■ Buell, Michigan; third, Van Wonterghen, Notre, Dame. Time—2:05.	.	’ y
5iS
'Sne Noure danie Scholastic
Shot put—First, Gilfillan, Notre Dame; second, . Baker,. Michigan; third, Miller, Notre Dame, and Lindstrom, Michigan, tied. Distance—41 feet 2 inches.
Pole vault—First, Cress, Michigan; second and third tied, Rademacher and Powers, Notre Dame. Height 11 feet.
Discus throw—First, Gilfillan, Notre Dame; second, Baker.,. Michigan; third, Haigh, Michigan. Distance— 128 feet.	-	.
Hammer throw—First, Later, Michigan; second, Haigh, Michigan; third, Holton, Notre Dame. Distance—115 feet.	.
High jump—First, Later, Michigan; second, Haigh, Michigan, third, Gilfillan, Notre 'Dame. Height— 5 feet, S inches.	.	-
Broad jump—First, Johnson, Michigan; second, Knapp, Michigan; third, McGrain, Notre Dame.
Javelin hurling—First, Baker, Michigan; second, . Haigh, Michigan; third, McGrain, Notre Dame.
Totals—Michigan 86 1-2; Notre Dame 48 1-2.
Brownson Track Champion.
Brownson Hall won the • interhall - track
Iowa -
Layton, 3b.....C.......'_____
Ehred, ss„_______.’.___.-.___
Brown, If____........ Hamilton, cf_____............
Olson, lb____________________
Parrott, rf..™.______________
Kremer, 2 b__________.'._____...
Frank, c_____________________
Belding, p.
Totals...............................4.....—.31
AB	R	;h	0	A	E
3	1	1	i_	1	1
4 •	0	2	3	1	. 1
4	0	0	2	0	0
3	1	2	2	0	1
4	0	1	11	0	1
4	0	1	0	0	0
3	0	0	1	3	0
3	0	0	6	3	0
3	0	1	1	7	0
2	8 27. 15 . 4
Summaries—Stolen bases, Sjober.g. Sacrifice .hits, Morgan, Mangin, Olson. Two base hits, Ehred, Layton. Double plays, Belding to Frank to Olson, Kremer to Ehred to Olson, Layton to Olson. Base on balls, off Belding 4; off Murray 1. Struck out by Belding 6;' by Murray 4. Hit by pitcher, Wolf. Left on bases, Notre Dame 13; Iowa 2. Umpire Schaefer. Time of game two hours. Scorer, Szczepanik.
N. D., 4—Valparaiso, 2.
Notre Dame clinched the championship of
championship last Thursday with a total of
o
points. Walsh was second with 55 1-2;
the state by trouncing Valparaiso University . May -14th. A garrison finish once more saved-
Corby, third with 40; Badin fourth with 16;- the day for-Notre'Dame. In the tenth inning
and Sorin fifth with 2.
Bader was safe at first on. an error. Morgan
George Meredith, of Corby, was easily the - sacrificed him, and after Sjoberg had fiied out,
shining star of the meet. His great versatility was shown when he finished first in the 100 yard dash, the 440 yard dash, and: the 880 yard run. Kennedy, of Badin, was another big point winner. Vohs, Hogan, Davis, Knd Hoar performed capably for the winners. McConnell, Kirk, Tiff any, and Bailey gathered many points for Walsh.	.
; Iowa, 2—:N. D., 1.
Iowa defeated Notre Dame on Cartier Field. May 17th, '2 to 1. -Three fast double plays
Captain Wolf’s double and Philbin’s single scored two runs. These were two more than
Valparaiso could score in her half of the tenth, ’
and the game ended in favor of
Notre Dame.
retiring Notre Dame at times when runs seemed imminent turned the tide in favor of the Hawkeyes. Notre Dame had thirteen men left on' bases, which tells the story of how effective . pitcher Belding was in the pinches. Pitching honors were about? even—each side securing eight hits. The box score:	,	...'
Notre Dame Bader,’ cf.........____ Morgan, rf......... Sjoberg, 2b........ Wolf, ss............ Philbin, ib........ Barry,-If............. Fitzgerald, 3 b________ Andres,- c.L'...:....
Murray, p—...
. Totals........1
Valparaiso Lair, 2b.....—.... Kowalski, ss.L_ _ Dryer, c...L..?...; Edington, If..—
AB • 4
5
4
-.	4
-	4
o o >i o I
I .0
o
H 1 o o
I I
I I o o
o
3
-3
9 o o
IO
o
o
o o
I
3
•34	4'
AB R
5 30
H o
0
14 A
3
4 '
i
3
E o
I
0
0
0^ o
o
5
E
o
Notre Dame Bader, cf.......
Morgan, If.____________ - Sjoberg, 2b—.1..
Wolf, ss.~-.Ll.-..;. Philbin, ib....-A Fitzgerald, 3b.— Mangin, rf......... Halloran, rf.;.J.E Andres, c,„..„L.i Murray, pLllL.„
AB	R	H	O	A -
--3 o	.0	3	0
4 -
o .2 .3
4 .0
4
6
3 o
3- '
3.
1' .•
,Tptals?ii_LL-l—......cLi.:„L-.„
_ *Belding-hit by, batted ball. L
Q -
Q o
01 o . o 6’ ■ o'.
4 ? o . 1
4. 1	2:
E o
Schwartz, ib._r Zieg, 3b....™-... Washburn, rf.._
° 1 Schaefer, cf.1 o
7; o
o
;o.
.- 1 .1
. o o I 7
o o 0
Hanson, p-
Tcrtals-'-L
4
5
'4
o o
. 1 -
o ,
. o
o
'b
o
1 i
6
1
.0 o o
o o I o o 6
1
_ o . o
o o o o
1
-35 . 2	9 30 13
... Stolen V,bases,?-Wolf, . Bader, Barry,. Schaefer. Sac-
° \ rifice ; hits, <?Morgan,'Fitzgerald. ^Sacrifice fly, Dryer. ’ \ Two base-hits, Wolf, Washburn. . Double-plays, Wolf ..
tdrSjobergfjHansdnj-tO;Zeig to Schwartz. .-Struck out _ . by. Murray. 7,; by;Hanson 4” Hit .by batsmen, Philbin, .
L -Barry’.rUmpire.FitzpatrickS^ of game, two hours - j_. 'and .thirty.-minutes?? Scorer,sSzczepanik. \	. I
o o .0
i 8*26 14 o
^fie Moure ^ame Scholastic
Letters from Camp.
•	.	. May 15, 1918.
Rev. William A..Moloney, C. S. C.,	-
Notre Dame, Ind.	•	'
Dear Rather: '	_
. War has cost, Notre Dame another son. A week ago to-day Melville E- Sullivan/- of Richmond, Va.; who was a student in Walsh Hall five or six years ago fell in an airplane here and died a few minutes later.
Melville was one of the best officers and finest gentlemen we had in our outfit and all the boys were saddened by his loss. He was a great lover of Notre Dame and often spoke to me about the old school. A few days before he was killed I gave, him a' Scholastic. There was some reference to the number of N. D. men in the service. 'He said to me, “..Pat, I wonder if they have a star in the service flag for us.” Before the week was over his blue star had turned to gold. He spoke often of Father Walsh, who was his particular friend at Notre Dame. "	.
I was sorry to hear of “Bish” Hayes’ death. As one of the men remarked to-day, “It seems that all the . good men get it first.”
Kindly remember Lieutenant Sullivan in your prayers and also some of us still here who stand in heed of some spiritual help.	-
With best wishes for all N. D. men, I am	"
As ever,	*
. '	.	Frank Mulcahy,
First Aviation Force, U. S. Marines,
Box 1444, Miami, Florida.	'	'
.	—- ——----------------
Fort Omaha, Nebraska.
. ’	.	' May.3, 1918.
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C. S. C.,	.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Father:	.	.	.
It was miglity good of you to write me so soon after receiving my letter. I picked up. a Scholastic just the other day and was very much surprised to see that you had published my letter. I am now a first . lieutenant, instead of a first sergeant, and am even lucky enough to be acting captain for the 18th Balloon Company. :	.	_	~
The “Buck” O’Connor whom I mentioned is Arthur J. O’Connor. .He left Notre Dame in 1911. I have in my company a C. J. . Bohls, another Notre Dame . man, who left* there about 1907. I tell you, Father, you will find them everywhere, and they all brag about . the old place. _ /	•	.	' .	.■	. .
We had a serious accident here last riight. A balloon of one of the captains exploded, killing two and injuring about thirty-five. Our balloon had just ascended close by».but it was too high in the air to be in danger, -thank God, or there would-be a worse story to tell. -Yesterday another balloon: ripped its .fins and turned a . series of-the most startling summersaults you could imagine. The pilot and the observer got tangled in the . ropes and could not use. their parachute. The.balloon, ' however, after much clever handling, .was landed-A . safely. Good-bye, Father, and good.luck. ..	..
Sincerely your:friend, .	;
.	. Rowland J. .Gaupel,
. : A Firs! Lieut. S. R. C?, ’U. S. ‘
. '	.	-	,	April iS, 191S.
Dear Professor Maurus:	-*
At last I am where I have for a long time wanted to be, and ani well .satisfied. We had a very fine trip across the water, with only two storms; and I was lucky enough hot to get sick and feed the fishes.
This is surely a wonderful country; I find it far more ’ beautiful than I could have imagined. Possibly some of its charm is due to the fact that it is new to me.-We have just'landed', and are expecting to get down to work at once, as there is abundance of work to be done, especially during this drive; and I for one am anxious to get at it. I have met several men from the —th Engineers, who are - acquainted with -Jim Devlin. He is stationed not far from here, and hence I may see -hini some day.	.	•
We are having very fine weather here just now, and I suppose we shall get a taste of “Sunny France” for some time. I intend to spend my spare moments trying to master the Frencl^language. If I had more French and less German I should be much better off just now. Kindly give my best regards to all my friends at Notre Dame, and I wish you all the success in the world.
' Sincerely yours,
:	“Jake” Kline.
-	A. E. F.. France.
April 4, 1918;
Mr. Edward J. Maurus, •
Notre Dame, Indiana.
My dear Friend:
A few months ago I received your letter and the two copies of the Scholastic. I was delighted with all ’ of them and passed them over to Leo McGahan. I have not seen him since then, as I was detailed to the Aviation School as an aerial observer. After spending a month there, I failed in the physical examination, ’ on account'of my eyes, and rejoined my regiment.
I then found that Leo had left for the front, and I soon followed. .	,	<
We are in a rather quiet sector, and yet it is not so quiet after all. We had served a month, and were on" our way to the rest billets when the. Germans started their big drive. We had to return at once, and. I am at present, while the Germans are making their big attack, up on the front with an Indiana outfit.	*	-
I certainly hope that this failure of the Germans may ’open their eyes and lead to an early peace. I know that you abhor such a slaughter as is going .on to-day, and I am sick of it myself—not that I have seen anw-of it, as I know only what is published in the Communiques _ issued by the French; but, they say that the losses
- of the Germans are enormous. They will be worn out pretty soon. So,I think that peace-is not far off, and* I hope it.will be a lasting one.- We have suffered very slightly and everything is running smoothly. So at . ■ present we are,considering ourselves rather lucky.
Kindly drop me a'line now and then, and give me all the news at Notre Dame. Please pardon this poorly written, letter,, as I am “all in.” 71 am writing this because I just thought of ypu and did not care to postpone writing, since “a letter once put. off may never be written. With very best wishes, L am, . -	:
. - \ Most sincerely yours, .	.
,	. \	; Lieut. Joe Kane.
520
Nocre dame Schdasuic
Chicago, Illinois, May 7, 191S. The NotriJ Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ge title men:—	’
Inasmuch as my son, Edward Peil, is in the Navy at the service of the Government since last July and your periodical has come to our office regularly, I would advise that for the present you discontinue sending it.
Immediately after the declaration of war my son felt it his „duty to answer the call to the colors and enlisted. He took an examination and was appointed to a patrol boat last summer. In the fall, when the
Lake boats were put up for the winter, he went to the I know what birds they are not: not robins, nor orioles, nor red-winged blackbirds, nor the purple finches,
Columbia University to further equip himself, and after a very creditable examination was appointed chief engineer of the U. S. S. C. 73, and is now somewhere on the briny deep looking for the Hun submarines, which .have been such a menace to the shipping interests of the world.	’
I know that Ed will do honor to his Alma Mater, as he is a brave-boy and will acquit himself in a manner reflecting credit.	,	. .
No doubt many of his colleagues and fellow classmen are in the service in some division or other, and when the war is over a round-up of the Notre Dame fighters will be a great source of pleasure to the school and its faculty.	~
Yours very sincerely, Leo A. Peil.
American E. F. France, . April 17, 191S. •
Dear Father Moloney:
Thanks to the kindness of Father Thomas Maguire, of Rockford, Illinois, I received several copies of the Scholastic over here some time ago, and among them was one containing the list of Notre Dame men in the service. It has been neariy fourteen years since I have seen Notre. Dame, but the Scholastic brought back many pleasant memories. I was at Notre Dame during the last year.of Rev. Father Morrissey’s presidency, and the first year of Father Cavanaugh’s.
I joined my regiment at Rockford, Illinois, last fall and by chance met Father Maguire and spent ' several evenings with him talking of the old days. While at-Camp Grant I also met Vincent McCarthy, K. of C. secretary, Father Lonergan, who was camp
I hope you are still writing verse and bird-verse; chaplain, and Private Fitzgibbon, who was there with you were, beginning to acquire a style, simple and
the 313th Ammunition Train.
distinctive. What has overtaken our Poetry Society?—
over here” shortly after Christmas, . suspended animation,. not death, I hope; It will be
We left for
and, after a;month spent in organization, took up our . position in the advanced sector. There are no other
Notre Dame men in our regiment, but there are about faces will remain to our. happy circle.	■-
' four hundred Catholics in it. We have not a Catholic And so I beguile a long Sunday afternoon in France
chaplain, but thus far. we.have been fortunate in being camped close to towns, and over here that means close to church.	.
In this sector all the churches have been struck by Boche shells, but all the hits, have been in the rear, leaving the altars untouched. - In some cases half "the church has been shot away,. but they have patched up the rest and are still holding services. ’ .
If by any chance I happen to run across any Notre Dame men, I shall’have them notify you, in .case
they are not on your list of men in the service. With ’ best regards to all the faculty and best wishes to Notre Dame, my Alma Mater, I remain
Sincerely yours,
(Sergt.) E_. Bayard King.
Co. A., 21st Engineers.
April 28, 1918.
/Dear Brother Alphonsus:	>
There is nobody at Nore Dame I think of more often these days than I do of you, because even here it is spring, though cold and rainy in these mountains, and there are birds. I don’t know what birds they are.
the song sparrows, nor the gold finches that take our spring woods with a flash of wings and a burst of song. But even these strange birds seem to recall the pleasant rambles we took, these recent springs, around the lakes and through the woods at Notre Dame. I was, I know, a very stupid observer, little caring about exact scientific tally of what I saw and heard, but appreciative none the less and grateful to be permitted to share in your lore. To see and hear one thrush was a satisfactory day for me.. Leo Ward and Jimmie Connerton and the boy from Arkansas and Father Joe Burke "slew their tens of thousands,” figuratively speaking, but I first heard and saw the first oriole last year. I hope that gave me a passing mark for the season.	'
Has the 'phoebe built down in. the grotto this year and have the purple finches arrived yet? Last year we had no scarlet tanager, at least I saw none, but I discovered a whole flock of cedar wax-wings (was that the name?) on one of the, islands over by Dujarie. . You-can’t imagine how pleasant it is to recall these simple delights in this perspective of time and distance and altered destiny.	x '
I heard merles for the first time down where we first stopped in France and a splendid songster which they call "chardonnerais” (and which may not be spelt anything like that). But there is nothing like the variety of birds here that there is at home. < They sing, though, and I.understand their French better than I do that of the human natives. This morning they almost made a high Mass out of my services in an old ruined church, such a choir they were.
pleasant to take that work up again when this is laid down, but it is not pleasant foreflect that few familiar
with treasured recollections. Please let me hear from you, dear. Brother, and .won’t you remember me kindly to all my friends, especially those for whom, as for myself, you have made spring and the birds mean so much. And may God, in all'seasons, bless you.
-	Sincerely yours in Holy Cross,
.	'. r . Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C. .
Address A. P. O., 715,	.
. .	117th.Engineers, .	'	■	.
.. ^American E.’FJ, France..	.
I