Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
Disce-^vASi-sempeR-victvrvs- • vivg^vasi-cras-moritvrvs-
Vol. XXXIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 24, 1906.
No. 23. .
Boyhood Days.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07.
MUSING in the quiet even, Dreaming dreams of long ago.
Sits the old man at the window
When the sun is sinking low:
Half in joy and half in sorrow
As his truant fancy plays , Through the orchards and the meadows
Of his boyhood days.
Now he wanders through the valley Where the heavy myrtle creeps, Or alone: the silent woodland
Where the wild bird pendent sleeps.
As the sun burns low and lower Feeble grow its crimson ravs
And he roves back to the cottage Of his boyhood days.
Ah I the old man in the twilight Seems like happiness grown old, As he sits and dreams and muses
While the shadows round him fold.
Silver locks fall on his shoulders O’er his eyes there comes a haze;
He is dreaming in the ashes Of his boj’hood days.
Russia and the Romanoffs.
JOHN JI. RYAN, ’06.
’USSIA has so long stood before the world as a despotic power and concealed her early history in a language almost impossible
to master that very few have voice or a representative. In towns where .
ever heard of Russian institu-. tions more liberal and popular than are known in Russia to-day. Of these there now remain only vague traditions of greater freedom, of popular assemblies and of diets that legislated upon the affairs of the nation
and even elected their sovereign. A narration o
of the constitutional history from the days of the ancient Veche, or popular assembly, down to the present time is, owing to the complicated nature of the subject, of too great scope for a limited space. My purpose now is to trace as fully as narrow bounds will allow the efforts to regain these ancient rights under the Romanoff rule. In order to do this we must rapidly review the changes in government that took place between"" 997 A. D., the earliest authenticated date of the .Veche, and the election of Michael Romanoff in 1613.
When the Normans under Rurik began.to rule Russia they found that their, subjects were a pastoral and agricultural -people socially divided into three classes —the . Slavonians, the Older Men and the • Best Men. These formed the communitv, all possessing equal rights of land tenure and-governed by all-powerful assemblies that proverbially could do no wrong. These primitive bodies were reorganized and improved under the Normans. They became the lawmakers of the town and principality. They, could elect their rulers, and in some- places became even powerful enough to depose princes. .	.	:
The Veche, or popular assembly, was nominally subject to the summons of the. prince or mayor, but in reality the great bell that called the body together was free to every faction, and the least disturbance was. enough to bring it into service., Here all the people had a say either by personal
the population obliged a representative assembly, the subject for discussion had to be submitted to the people in general before the assembly convened. In this manner the representatives received their instructions, and when time to vote came they knew
378	NOTRE DAME
how they were expected to act. The removal bv the czar, of the great bell—Tor these small principalities a ■ veritable “ Liberty Bell”—was a conclusive sign that the Veche rights were destroyed. •
The social classification of the Russians was altered - bv . the growth of the town, while the assemblies increased in numbers and influence? Up to the eleventh centuiy the peasant was free to cultivate “ wherever his axe, scythe, or plough- would go,” but when the people gathered into communities for protection or agricultural purposes, these conditions were changed. The Russians were now composed of two classes—the Best Alen and the,people. The former became landowners who either employed or rented their lands to the people and gradually reduced their tenants to a servile condition. ,
The. Tartar/Invasions sounded the deathknell of- the Veche. These ruthless invaders -after thej’- had..conquered or slaughtered a principality; bribed the prince to favor them. The-princes had; always sought their own personal advantage, • and now relying upon their Tartar allies they .succeeded in abolishing every popular assembly except, those of Novgorod and Pskof.. Here . even the aid of .the Tartars was not. enough: to conquer . the people’s determination to uphold : their rights, and /the princes who disregarded the.:mandates of the assembly were promptly'deposed. It was oveiya century after all, other Veche bells had been silenced that Ivan. III.: incorporated Novgorod into ‘ AIoscow, and/even .then it was. not until he had transplanted thousands of citizens, . replacing them by Moscovites, that he could extinguish-the, spirit of freedom. It required still another , half century and imperial treachery before Basilius IV., successor to : Ivan,, was.:able -to force Pskof to surrender its bell -and its? freedom. . 4	'	'	_	-	-	-	’
Within forty years after the grand dukes of-.Moscow had«silenced .the last Veche bell Ivan , IV., better./ known in history as the Terrible, was/obliged to have recourse to . an assembly .of all his people. It was/this same assembly,/.called; the States-General, that-gave Ivan the power to make himself the first genuine autocrat of Russia. This ■ States - General,. at which every class had. representatives, met in 1550, and. was j the ; first of an infrequent and desultory series
SCHOLASTIC.
;of such gatherings. The laws then drawn up remained "in force until 1648. The enactments restoring juries to the courts :of,law and regulating the government of certain' tdwns and provinces, giving them .elective administrations, also remained until the Romanoffs, became supreme. It was the States-General that advised Ivan the Terrible to make war upon Poland in 1566; that aided and . sanctioned the consecration of Ivan’s son Feodor, the last of the house of Rurik in 1584, and which upon Feodor’s death proclaimed Boris Godunof as successor in 1598. Godunof was Feodor’s brother-in-law, and owing to the czar’s weakness had. been practical ruler for fourteen years. '
It was- during the reign of this same Godunof that the final great enactment against peasant liberties was made. Earlier decrees legislating against the migration of o	o o	o
peasants. had been enacted, but none had such a sweeping, universal and permanent effect as this. It was issued by the States-General at the advice and council of the czar. Moreover, .it firmly bound the peasants to the soil, forbidding them to leave the lands upon which they were found on the day of the decree. This is bnlv one of the many arbitrary measures enacted, during the reign of Boris,Godunof, but it clearly shows that at the beginning of the seventeenth century the power .of. the nobles was supreme.
The death of Prince Shouisky in 1610, was followed by an interregnum of three years. During this time the Russians treated with several neighboring princes for; the disposal, of the crown. At last in 1613 the pretentions of all foreigners were foiled by the rise of a. patriotic party in Russia, determined to have none but their own countrymen as czar. To accomplish this purpose the States-General was convoked;; for the election of a new dynasty. Then it/was ..that the partisans of the ancient government, ..tired of supreme and arbitrary rule, manifested a desire to regain their old liberties. After considering the claims of many candidates the choice of the. assembly, fell upon". Michael Romanoff, the son of the,; Archbishop of Rostoff, as the prince most, suited - to rule Russia.
Michael- Romanoff, a youth of sixteen, began his - reign under any but favorable
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
circumstances. Not only was he forced to give up many of the rights peculiar to former czars, and contend with . hostile, * grasping, jealous nobles, but he had to surrender large tracts of land to pacify Poland and Sweden. Upon his accession he had .	sworn to consult the. States-General in all
-	important matters, to protect and preserve
>	,	the orthodox religion, to allow the law to
■	take its free course, and finally not to declare
J	war upon his own authority. The reign of
;	this, the first of the Romanoffs, is noteworthy
1	not for what the czar himself accomplished
but for what his father succeeded in doing. During the fourteen years that the patriarch i Philaret exercised absolute power, the autoc-7	racy was so firmly re-established that for
J	several years after his death the States-
i General was but a mere figurehead.
.	Michael Romanoff was succeeded upon his
■	. death in 1645 by his son Alexis. Aided by
Strelitzes, a body of guards instituted by I Ivan the Terrible, Alexis found at his accession that he could bid defiance to the nobles and encroach upon their liberties at his pleasure. He succeeded to an absolute monarchy and signed neither charter nor i agreement. This reiqn is remarkable for its legal reforms. The czar himself presided over the States-General of 1648 that drew up the new code of laws. Alexis is also credited with bringing shipwrights and artisans from England and Holland to work in Russia. These men achieved practically nothing, and their introduction is only noteworthy as foreshadowing the work of Peter the Great. Owing to a rising discontent against his arbitrary rule Alexis was forced to show how absolutely he swayed the empire. He instituted near Moscow a political inquisition that spread terror and consternation on all sides. Upon the slightest suspicion persons ended their lives in inquisitorial dungeons or else died under cruel torture.
_	o
Alexis was succeeded by his son Feodor HI. This monarch was weak, but nevertheless, aided by the Strelitz guard held the nobles in check. He attempted during the last year of his reign to abolish the corrupt system of precedence among the nobles, but died before the work was accomplished. After a bloody revolt, Sophia, the daughter of Alexis, aided by the Strelitz guard, over' came Peter and was proclaimed regent.
In the year 6f her accession, 1682, she decreed the. dissolution of the States-General. This act, which destroyed the only means left the Russian people to oppose the autocracy of their- rulers, was the only important event or enactment during the regency.
The reign of Peter the Great was, to-say the least, the most unconstitutional in the history of Russia. Forcing his way to the throne as he did, with ideas opposed to the national character, and doggedly determined to carry them out, Peter was always the ruler supreme, and his rule was one of iron. Under his enactments every independent arid constitutional assembly that had hitherto survived the growing power of the Romanoffs was. now swept away. .
Peter established an absolute monarchy ruling by means of bureaus, and depending upon the bayonet of a powerful standing army for his authority. Finding Moscow too hot and dangerous he raised St. Petersburg from the marshes of the Neva. Here he could destroy the Tartar customs and force; his people to adopt at least a semblance of western civilization. It was not bnlv bv imposing European customs upon Russia that he displayed his dogged determination and passion but, in every act he performed. It was the same policy that created an army and navy for Russia, that caused roads and canals to be built, that humbled the Swede and the Turk, and finally that pushed his armies beyond the Caspian. It was he who established the exile system of Siberia to rid himself of troublesoirie subjects and at the same time people that bleak territory. Not only were the civil and judicial affairs of Russia, reformed and . subjected to his supreme will, but even the Church had to bow and acknowledge him as the supreme head. Of all the Romanoff rulers, Peter the Great stands pre-eminent and almost alone as an organizer and reformer. It was he and his policy that-made, for the first time in her history, the name of Russia prominent amongthenations. The political and constitutional policy of Russia is still, without any vital change, that of Peter. The government, however, shows this difference: Peter ruled through his bureaus, but under his weaker successors . the bureaus have ruled in the name of the czar.
380	XOTRl DAMR
As Peter the Great began his rule unconstitutionally, so also he ended it. v One of the last acts of this great monarch was to appoint his queen as regent for his grandson, the future Peter II. Alexis, the son of Peter I. by his first wife, never entered into the schemes of his father, but, like his mother, always opposed the imperial reforms. Had Alexis been content to disagree silently with his father’s policy all might have been well, but he headed an opposition party. Peter enraged beyond control and fearing that all his schemes were to be thwarted would not spare his only son and heir. Alexis died under the torture.	’
Catharine I., the regent for the vouthful Peter II., had been the mistress of the great czar. It was her presence of mind at Pruth that saved Peter and the Russian army from slaughter at the hands of the Turks. Gratitude for this act caused Peter to make her his wife and successor. The reign of Catharine and that of Peter' II. together lasted ‘ but five years. The plans and schemes of the Reformer ’ were scrupulously carried out. Upon the death of Peter II. in 1730 the male line of the Romanoffs became extinct.
Once more the nobles, and especially in this case the secret high council, found themselves ‘ the principal organ of the government. The realization of their power at once revived the half-stifled but still vital hope of a. constitutional government that would limit the absolute powei- of the ruler. Anne of Courland, the daughter of Ivan, Peter' the Great’s half brother, was chosen as lawful heir. Anne at once agreed to the . restrictions placed upon her by the nobles, but like that of Michael her submission to them; was only meant to be temporary. Hardly had she gained sufficient power, by reason of the jealousy of the nobles theiri-selves, when the authors of the constitution paid with theii* lives the penalty of their actions.	.
The' agreement signed by Anne contained practically the same demands as that agreed to in 1613 by Michael Romanoff. In spite of this, m spite of the fact that every country, except Russia, would consider the demands of the nobles as inalienable rights, the Romanoffs took the first opportunity to crush
SCHOLASTIC.
all thoughts of freedom. The Empress Anne introduced her German friends into power. She despised, oppressed and tormented the Russians. So great was the despotism practised by this ruler and her advisers that the people regretted the iron law of Peter the Great. Upon her death in 174-0 Anne proclaimed ’ the Duke of Courland, a German favorite, as regent for her nephew the infant'Ivan VI.
Within a' vear after the death of Anne, Elizabeth; the daughter of Peter the Great, concluded a successful revolution and became absolute empress. A woman of dissolute manners, she nevertheless brought about manv reforms. It was she who paved the way for the Franco-Russian alliance and broke away from the German yoke. It was she that by her internal policy re-established the laws and discipline of Peter the Great, while she gave an energetic impulse to science and literature. As a Romanoff ruler, Elizabeth ranks next to her father, Peter the Great.	-
Elizabeth’s successor in power was hei* sister’s son, Peter III., who had a short but exciting reign. Hardlv had he time to free the nobles from forced consecration to the service of the state, and also abolish the secret police, a most despotic body, than lie was deposed by his own wife, Catharine II. Petei* was sent to a secluded prison, but never reached it. He died upon the way. His death was officially reported as due to an attack of colic, but in realitv it came about at the hands of Catharine’s agent. Two years later the unfortunate Ivan VI., a prisoner since infancy, although insane from ill-treatment, was murdered. Thus in 1764 Catharine had undisputed possession of the crown, arid her only possible rival was her own son Paul.	’
Catharine IL, or Great, was truly the second founder of the Russian empire. Her chief desire was to be. a legislator, and although she had forever in her mouth the words tolerance, religious liberty, humanity and equality, she was nevertheless the most intolerant and oppressive of all rulers; yet her fear of the nobility arid wealthy subjects was so great that Catharine willingly permitted the vast majority , of her subjects to live in abject misery. She also yielded back to the nobles many of the privileges
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
confiscated by Peter the Great, such as the right of assembly, immunity from certain taxes, election of their own judges, exemption from corporal punishment, and the appointment of provincial governors.
The great meeting of six hundred and fifty-two deputies in Moscow, at which every class except the unhappy serfs was represented, only served to rivet more firmly the chains of popular slavery. Catharine even - went further, and increased by thousands the number of unprotected slaves or serfs bv turning roval domains with all their inhabitants over to her lovers to be their property. It was she that introduced serfdom into Little Russia, that gave the master power arbitrarily to send his serfs either to Siberia or to the army, and forbade the serfs complaining of their condition. Thus when all things are considered we are forced to the belief that, although Catharine by her cunning robbed the Church of eight million souls and Poland of freedom, although she enlarged her dominions and introduced a measure of good -legislation as well as bad, she is nevertheless the worst of the Romanoff rulers.
Catharine was succeeded in 1796 by her son Paul, who accomplished nothing. His policy was the direct opposite to that of his mother. Paul was succeeded by Alexander I. This reign lasting almost twentv-five vears is chiefly noteworthy for its connection with the Napoleonic wars .and the burning of Moscow. The goyermental policy and constitution remained practically the same. The grandson of Catharine, however, added to the empire Finland, Bessarabia, part of Poland and the Caucasus.. Nicholas I. or Ivan succeeded.	- .
This ruler not onlv regenerated and continued the evil policy of Catharine II., but he consolidated and rounded it out. He profited by the revolt on his accession to establish more firmly the superstitious' prestige and despotic power attached to his crown, An overwhelming army suppressed all public feeling and an extensive system of political inquisition was accompanied by the most crael torture. Forced bv circumstances to be a dominant factor in continental politics he. made a determined effort to regenerate in Russia the,Byzantine autocracy. Ruling as he. did with an iron,
381
unbending will, Nicholas held all the power bequeathed to him; but as a legislator or constitutional ruler he made no mark. His’ sudden death at the close of his disastrous Crimean war left the imperial throne to his son and successor, Alexander II.
Alexander II. was one of the few Romanoff rulers who had both liberal views and the energy to enforce them. He. .reformed the army, protected railroads, promoted commercial and industrial enterprises ..and pardoned all who had been- over twenty years in Siberia. He is immortalized as the liberator of twenty-three. million .serfs, and had he lived but a short time longer he would have added a greater glorv to his name. He is said to have been about to sign a decree giving Russia, constitutional government. He was killed by a. bomb in 1881. Of the remaining two czars, Alexander HI. and Nicholas!!., all that can be said is that they added nothing to. the evils of .the Romanoff calendar.. The present crisis in ' Russia, its causes, justice and outcome, is still too vague and uncertain to be commented upon.	.	.
’ Thus we sec that the Romanoff dvnastv, brought into existence amid wars and factions in the early, part of the seventeenth .century, is still, and always-.-has .been, surrounded by quarrels anql.:t-(fissensjpns^ see that they. have, .been ^neitfyer^; warriors, statesmen, legislators nor organizers, Peter I. excepted. .At best they have not been strong men; as rulers they have been, one and all, extremely autocratic, putting, down with barbarous cruelty every effort to gain more freedom. In onlv one case have thev been identified .with a genuine movement for. the betterment of their people, and even in this onlv instance the reform has been made practically useless. It is true the serfs are free, in name; but so great was the price-demanded and insisted upon for the redemption of their lands that in reality they are not free. Finally, the Romanoff dynasty has been very short-lived. Catharine II.,, who reigned first bv right of marriage but later * as a usurper, and who, was herself a Teuton, excepted, only one ruler lived to the sixtieth vear., In onlv three- cases since Peter the Great, did the crown descend directly .from father to. ,son. The average length >of rule with the Romanoffs is . sixteen vears.
282	NOTRn DAME SCHOLASTIC.
vj
The Irony of Fate.
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, 'Of.
He was known as Unlucky Jack by all the boys in Company K. Not that he wasn’t popular, his very popularity made his comrades magnify his every bit of. ill-luck. But certainly he was a most unfortunate man. He smiled as he told his life’s story to his friends—a story that made them pity and love him the more for the patience with which he bore his trials. It was two years since he had joined the U. S. army as it marched for Cuba, and during the strenuous campaign Jack Hardin, Unlucky Jack, suffered his usual misfortune. If anything unpleasant happened along it always came his way; if anyone took sick, Jack must of necessity be the first; if a night attack were planned Jack was sure to be among those ordered out, and on such nights it never failed to rain.	.
But with all his trials Jack was ever cheerful. “Never mind,” he would say, “bye and bye, with God’s help, my troubles will cease.” So the boys loved him; and when one day a letter came addressed to Sir John Hardin of Hardin Hall, England, the whole camp was in a fever of excitement and jo\' at the good news. Yes, Jack was Sir John Hardin, at least so the letter said. His two older brothers had died, and the old estate in England passed into his hands. All day long there was merrymaking in the camp; from all sides poured in congratulations to Jack, unlucky no longer. A few days more and Sir John’s term of service would expire, and then he was to start back for England to claim his own.
It was Hardin’s time as sentinel that night, and when he took his place the sun had already dropped low in the heavens; the soft palms were swaying back and forth in the cooling wind, and away as far as the eye could see, hilltop peeped over hilltop. Night soon came on and silence settled over the camp, which was now lit up by the risen moon. Hardin drew the letter of good tidings from his pocket and gave himself up to musing. At last his days of trouble were at an end. Twelve long years

had passed since he left his home in England; twelve long years since he had landed in New York. There he had been forced to work as a day laborer until his foot was crushed by a stone and days and weeks of pain in a hospital consumed the little monev brought from England. From New York he had gone to Philadelphia and worked as a clerk in a dry good’s store until he was wrongly suspected of theft and forced to flee first to Chicago, then to St. Louis, next to San Francisco; but it made no difference where he went, everywhere he
met his usual ill-luck. No wonder he had 1 been cast down, no wonder there were	]
times in the past when despite his hopeful	-
nature he had been almost moved to despair, times when poverty, and even hunger, dragged him down until he almost longed for death.
It was in such a spirit he had joined the army, and in such a spirit he had fought in everv battle. Death had no terrors for him, because life had no joys. The first in every charge, the first across every captured redoubt, was Unlucky Jack Hardin, but death had never claimed him as its own. And now all was changed. Behind every cloud he had looked for the silver lining; in the darkest night he had watched for a star, and God had not ’ forgotten him. He gazed down at the letter, the letter that meant surcease of sorrow and suffering, and a smile stole over his careworn face. He looked into the future, a future of happiness, and as a mist before his eyes he saw the : past, a past of bitterness. How changed everything was. How careful he must be during the few days that yet remained for him in the army; he would not be so rash in battle; he would look first for his own safetv. For life now was to be one -
long stretch of happiness,— his days of sorrow were over. .
The stillness of the night was broken by the crack of a rifle. In an instant the camp was astir. Quickly the men filed out in Pickett Hardin’s direction; quickly they reached his post; then paused. Pitched forward in the sand was Sir John Hardin, a clean, round hole in his breast; the moonlight shone on a letter spattered with his blood, while off through the. wood there crept unnoted a solitary Spanish guerilla. -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Poet of the Hour.
WILLIAM T. HOWELLS.
Full many a gem of purest raj' serene, The dark, unfathomed caves of ocean bear;’
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen. And waste its sweetness on the desert air.
True, indeed, are the words of Thomas Gray. Alam'- a soul, too, has been born that perhaps was endowed by nature with the oratorical abilities of a Cicero or a Demosthenes; the military genius of a Ctesar or a Xenophon; or the scholarly talents of a Dante or a Shakespeare; but alas! those latent powers remained undeveloped, till lost in the silence of the tomb.
Even in our own little world may be found one who will yet startle mankind with deeds equal to those accomplished by great men of the past, if he only continues in the noble work he has. begun. How few are aware that within these learned walls resides a man of most extraordinary literary faculties! He lives, moves and has his being in vour verv midst; vet you know naught of the classic ingenuity that lies within his fertile brain. Perhaps it would be embarrassing to mention his name; but a few words as to his physical make-up will not be out of place. From the fact that he is longer in the morning than at night a correct estimation- of his height can not be given;- for the same reason the number of his shoes is an unknown quantity. •His lips give ample evidence of his many fruitless attempts at osculation while at Blarney Castle. Dame Nature might have been more propitious had she formed his features in more symmetrical proportions; but what she denied him in physical beauty is compensated for by her gifts of mental qualities. That this prodigy is at his best while in his cups can not be said with' certainty; for it is not known that he has a fondness for the glass. Shakespeare, Byron, and Poe, it is told, loved the flowing bowl; and they wrote beautiful poetry, too.
Not to bring to light some of the literary productions of this incognito would be a gross injustice; hence are quoted below a few lines from one of his hidden treasures.
383
’Tis night. The house-cat softly slumbers, The stars appear, in numerous numbers; The clog is barking at the moon, The men come home from the saloon, I couldn’t write another line.
But what there is, I think, is fine.	-
The muse ’of poesy may be justly proud of this “mantle-piece” done in her name. It is doubtless true that this “pote” must have been guided by some mystic hand; for such lofty' flights could not be attained bv natural means alone. The fiefv words can not-fail to produce an illusion on the imagination; and the total picture would put to shame the painter with’ his colors. If he can'only continue to dance attendance on the goddess of noble emotions, his future compositions bid fair to eclipse the immortal • works of the literary' lights’ of the past.
It can be inferred from the following verses that' this marvel must wander at times from this earthly7 abode into the regions _ of the: unknown, for he speaks in strains that do.not pertain to bur world:
Beyond the dim region of vision	’
Lived Ptgska, the queen of the mortals," ' ‘ Lived Ptgska,-the goddess-of mortals, • ' In the sadness and grief ofcreation,, ■In rhe dolorous hours of decision;	;.	.
Where the thoughts of num’rons remembrance, Touched every heart into sadness,	’
Moved every soul into madness,	'
Nor echoed one hope of gladness,— ’ Thus perished the fountain of knowledge.
To ordinary minds these lines may seem vague, yet- they7 tell of something, seen, of something done, which . prosaic. words can not faithfully express. Only those acquainted with the language of the poet can. grasp their real .significance. ■	.	...
0 thou marvel of wonder and mvsterv! words are too inadequate to sing thy praises; tlw clearness is as-luminous as the kingdom of Pluto; thyr force? as emphatic as . the bolt of Jupiter, and thine ease like unto that-aquatic sport, the crocodile; taking its siesta. ’ Davs shall come and davs shall go. One bv one, other mortals shall silentlv pass into The depths of the vast, boundless eternitv, -and their dust shall be- mingled with that of the forgotten multitudes of former ages; but thou—although the king of terrors must once'claim thee, too, for his own—shalt continue to live in the immortal vzorks .of thy versatile pen,- far down ’the years to deathless remembrance. -	_
384	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Moliere.
JEAN LECKOy, ’06.
There is an intimate and necessaiw relation between the theatre and society. Tragic and comic poets have rd ways, though unconsciously, depicted the salient traits of their nation. Pithy maxims scattered in their works have forestalled many an evil and corrected many an abuse. Comedy no less than classic tragedy has had a far-reaching influence in the social and political, but above all, in the moral order. It has appropriately been termed “the school of morals,’’ the faithful picture of mankind. It represents the man like ourselves, his form, tehiperament, his character, and surroundings.- In the presence of the personages introduced' upon the scene, of their words, their tears, their aspirations, their struggles with themselves or with others, each one • of us recognizes himself, and, like the slave of Terence, he exclaims: Homo sum—I am the man. A comedy must not be merely a matter of humorous dialogue and absurd incident, but also a mirror wherein man mav see his own defects and thereby be enabled to correct them.- It should not overlook any detail of . human life; for its main aim is to examine and set all aright, to destroy prejudices and to bring about the triumph of what is good and beneficial to society. So has comedy been conceived by all true playwrights, but most especially bv the great and immortal Moliere.
Jean Baptiste Poquelin, better known under his stage name as Moliere, was born about 1622 in Paris. His father was a wellto-do upholsterer to the king. His mother was Alary Cresse, a worthy lady who died in 1632. Little is known of the earlier years of the future dramatist. It is probable that he began his studies late in 1636 at the Jesuit college .of Clermont. He then followed the lessons of Gassendi, the celebrated epicurean philosopher,.-who taught him to appreciate the atomic philosophy of Lucretius, and-he even translated a part of the “De Rerum Natura.” His college course over, Moliere studied , law, and there is evidence that he was actually called to the bar. In 1661 he accompanied Louis XIII.
as his valet tapissier to Provence; but before long he gave up his claim to succeed his father as an upholsterer to the king, and joined a troop of come'dians, the “Illustre Theatre.” In a short time he became the manager of this obscure company, and leaving Paris, he began to lead a strolling life through the provinces. He then composed numerous slight pieces, imitations of Italian farces.
His first regular comedy was “L’Etourdi,” represented at Lyons in 1653. Its success was great; it even induced the principal members of a rival company to join his troupe. Having visited the principal cities of the south he began to approach the capital which he entered under the protection of the Duke of Orleans in 1658. His first representation of a play of Corneille pleased Louis XIV. so much that he allowed Moliere to ‘ established himself in Paris under the name of the “Troupe of the King.”	'
From 1658 his fame and influence increased rapidly.. He produced more than thirty plays, and among these might be quoted the “Precieuses Ridicules ” (1659), which marked • a- new path in the drama. Moliere was abandoning the traditions of the Italian and Spanish stage and assailing the afiec-tations encouraged in literature and society by the pedantic conceits of the salon of ‘Arthenice.’ In 1662 appeared the “School for Women” which aroused against him violent literary sentiment. In this same year he married _ Armande Bejart, a sister { of the leading lady in his company. In 1666, ‘ Gartufle’ was written. The king forbade its representation in. Paris, but it was played at Fontainebleau where it won very great favor. Two years after, followed the ‘ Misanthrope ’ which is universally pronounced the masterpiece of Moliere.* In this drama he sharply attacks the ignorant leeches and apothecaries of his age.
His last play was entitled “ The Imaginary Illness,” a biting satire on the whole craft of doctors. He had acted in its fourth • representation, but his cough rendered the ; task difficult and he returned to his chamber to die within an hour. Two Sisters of | Charity, who had often experienced his | hospitality, were by : his side, but his eye | vainly wandered to the door in hope of priestly consolation; and at first he was
NG7RB DaME SCHOLASTIC.
I i I
even refused burial in consecrated ground.
“What!” cried his widow, “refuse him sepulture! In Greece they would have raised altars to him.”
What the good Moliere has done for French literature is almost incalculable. The foremost figure perhaps in French drama, his name has become synonymous with comedy. As a genius, he is worthv to be ranked bv the side of Sophocles and Shakespeare. He was a playwright who knew his art; he had the dramaturgic facultv, the skill of the born play-maker, as Schlegel says. He never possessed that artificiality which is one of the chief defects of the great Corneille and the tender poet, Racine. His chief aim in writing his comedies was to represent . human life in its multitudinous forms. Having acquired much experience in his extended wanderings about the provinces, he accustomed himself to handling the realities of life. He put something more into his plays then mere amusement. “He began to use his comedies to express his own feelings and his own opinions about the structure of society and the conduct of life.” What he cared for was the real life of his own time; he made it the staple of his work. A shrewd and keen observer, he reflected upon what he saw, and he was able skilfully to make his audience think while they were laughing. His comedies, the first as well as the last, are truly the final model of that “picture of life which is also a judgment.”
His vision of life is more piercing than Racine’s or Corneille’s, and as a result the range of his comedv was wider than the range of their tragedy. “Shakespeare,” says Brander Matthews, “is versatile enough, with his histories and - tragedies and romantic comedies and farces, but Moliere is even more multifarious. He attempted pure farce, the comedy of intrigue, the comedy of manners, the comedy of charac- ■ ter, romantic comedy, tragi-comedy, comedy ballet, criticism in dialogue, satiric interlude, legendarv drama.”
His dominant excellences are his sincerity, his honesty, and his kindliness. He abhorred affectation and pretence; it is not therefore astonishing, to see the almost incomparable influence which Moliere has exercised in every country, in every class of society. His works have been,, translated. into all
385
the principal languages in the world.
He has had a remarkably high place in . English literature. Dryden tried to imitate the great dramatist in “Sir Martin Marrall” which is a mere version of “L’EtOurdi.” William AVycherley made a version of “Le Misanthrope” as “The Plain Dealer,” with’ Alceste as.Mauly. He succeeded better than Dryden had done, and became in fact the father of the British “ Prose . Comedy of Manners.” Henry Fielding, author of Tom Jones’ adapted both “Le Medecin malgre Lui” as the “Mock Doctor” and “L’Avare’* as ‘The Miser.” “One pleasure I enjoy,” he declared, “from the success of my attempt is a prospect of transplanting some others . of Moliere’s pieces of great value.” Colley Cibber, born two years 'after Moliere’s death, made a very successful version of “Gartufle” as “Non-Juror.”
Professor Brander Matthews affirms that “the influence of Shakespeare on Modern English Comedy, on the comic plays acred during the two past centuries, is indisputable, of course, but it is less in quantity and less in quality than the influence of Moliere.... Modern English comedy is not made on the model of Elizabethan comic drama; it is made on the model of the Restoration comic drama.... The reason why the influence of Moliere is more potent on the form of English comedy than the influence of Shakespeare is that Moliere represents a later stage of the development of playmaking.” .
This judgment of Professor Matthews is doubtless correct if we remember that it is half a century after Shakespeare that Moliere began to write, and in that half centurv deep and lasting changes had taken place in the arrangement and constitution of the theatre. The difference between the theatre as conducted in the time of Shakespeare and as conducted in the time of Moliere is enormous, while the difference between the theatre of Moliere and that of to-day' is insignificant; and I may conclude with this sentence of. Professor Brander Matthews: “ So far as the external form of their dramas is concerned, Sophocles is ancient, Shakespeare is medieval, Moliere is modern; and the large framework of his ampler comedies t has' supplied a model for the dramatists . of everv living language.” , •	-	•	-	- _	• o 00	_
386	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, March 24, J906.
Board of Editors.
STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, ’06
CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 JOHN F. SHEA, ’06
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’OS EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07 JOHN M. RYAN, ’06
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07 JOHN C. MCGINN, ’06
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07 LEO J. COONTZ, ’07
CORNELIUS HAGERTY,’06	EDWARD F. O’FLYNN, ’07
WALTER J.' O’DONNELL, ’06.
—Last week there appeared among the editorials one whose tone seemed to indicate that the writer was anxious to get rid of Roosevelt. There are so many editors on a college paper that it does no harm for everyone to express his opinion since no one can be held responsible by the majority of readers for what is written on so anonymous a page as the editorials. It seems to the present writer childish to be worrying about whether or not Roosevelt will break his word. It is time rather to realize that we have a man such as Providence seldom gives to a country at this nation’s head, and we ought to thank God for it. Roosevelt has proved himself a man ever since he has had charge of the government, and he deserves our gratitude and respect now and not our ungrounded suspicion. If we may judge at all by the past, Roosevelt will do the wise, sensible thing when it comes time for him to decide upon his future course. He has proved himself and we ought to trust him. As a matter of fact, there can be no immedi-. ate danger of his ‘ ‘trampling on the unwritten law of a nation,” because he was elected to the presidency only once and when his term expires will not have served two fuff terms,
—Has the influence of the modern drama been pernicious? Along with Gladstone and the “Essay Club,” Brander Matthews, in the current North American Review, concedes that up to the last quarter of the ninteenth century the conclusion that it has can not be gainsaid. The brilliant essayist holds, however, that after the third quarter of the last century a revival, due partially to Ibsen, has given once more a living force to the 'modern English drama. The acted drama is again printed and. read and is taking a conspicuous place in our library. To be acted and at the same time read, certainty gives a play surest title to classic standing.
—For some years past the classical course has been criticised as antiquated and almost useless for the young student; moreover, the A. B. received at the completion of this course has been looked upon as next to worthless. Of late years many colleges have decided that the classics need not form part of the curriculum leading to the A. B., but that a certain number of hours put on any few studies entitles the student to this degree. Under the old regime an A. B. signified that its possessor had followed a thorough course in science, philosophy, history or languages. Under the new the possessor- alone knows what studies have been followed. -His degree predicates nothing of . his course. He may have had Latin' or Greek, history or philosophy, but these were not necessary for the attainment of an A. B., and in many instances were not taken up: at all. Now, however, from the reformer comes the cry for a specified course leading to the degree A. B., or that they do away with the degree and give the student a certificate for the work he has done, for we want to know what a voung man has accomplished - at college. We, too, are of this, opinion. The student who has hot followed a fitting' course, who has not had his mind cultivated by a study of the masters, has no right to an A. B. If one wants to follow a course in . gymnastics or music or anything of that- nature, well and good ; but at the completion of his course give him a certificate to that effect and let us reserve the degree A. B, for those who have earned it, /	■ ■
xotre Tame scholastic.
387
St. Joseph’s Day.
March, 17 at Notre Dame.
This year the celebration of the feast of St. Joseph at Notre Dame was the occasion of extraordinary ceremonies. On Monday morning the members of the Congregation assembled in church to witness the conferring of the holy habit upon nine Brothers. Very Rev. J. A. Zahm, Provincial, C. S. C-;, acted as celebrant, assisted by the- Rev. Joseph Maguire and the Rev. William Marr.
As the procession moved from the sacristy to the sanctuary the psalm Levari oculos meos in montes was chanted by the choir. Then after the presentation of blessed candles to the young postulants about to receive the holy habit, Rev. Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S. C., ascended the pulpit and preached the sermon of the day. Father O’Neill took his text from the Book of Esther: “Wherefore you. shall count this day among other festive days, and celebrate it with all joy, that it may be known also in times to come,” xvi.; 22. He dwelt upon the virtues of the religious as illustrated in the life of St. Joseph, the patron of the Brothers of . Holy Cross, and closed his discourse with fervent words of encouragement to the young men about to be clothed in the habit of religion. After the sermon the choir chanted the Veni Creator, and the ceremony of conferring the holy habit was continued, the choir chanting the psalm In exitn Israel while the young religious retired to the sacristy to clothe. themselves in their new garb.
After the kiss of. peace was given Solemn Hio'h Mass was celebrated and the ceremo-O	-
nies closed with the solemn chanting of the Te Deum. The new. religions are: Brothers Clement, Oswin, Theodore (Chicago); Bro. Felix (Ireland); Bro. Adalbert (South Bend); Brother Victor (Grand Rapids); Brother Edmund (Sharpsburg); Brother Alban (St. Louis); Brother Nicholas (Fremont, Ohio).
After- the . ceremonies in the church, Very Rev. Father .Zahm formally opened Dujarie Hall. He addressed the young men who: were about to take up their residence there, then proceeded. to bless the rooms of the building and. the. large statue of St. Joseph lately erected on the site where Father Sorin and his seven companions stood on their first coming to Notre Dame some sixty years ago.
The great Saint’s day found us waiting, and though the weather man ignored our order there was enough green in evidence for the more sanguine to wager it was spring. Notre Dame spent the day in the usual fashion. The student body attended Solemn High Mass at 8 o’clock, celebrated by the Rev. President. The sermon, by the Rev. Timothy Murphy, C. S. C., was most appropriate tor the occasion, an eloquent tribute to the patron saint of Ireland, with a practical lesson for those who honor him. . At 10 o’clock the band rendered a program in the rotunda. This was the first time the band, forty strong, turned out in their new uniforms. The fine appearance they presented was equalled only by the excellence of their spirited numbers. But rumor and expectation caused the presentation of “The Toastmaster” to be looked forward to as the real event of the day.
Each year on_ this anniversary it has been the custom for the students to stage a play in Washington Hall, and if comments and appreciations amount to anything “The Toastmaster” has scored the biggest hit of anything ever presented here.
Owing to Prof. Karr’s sense of the fitness of things the students broke away from the time-honored but oyer-worked tradition of Shakespeare and launched out into new waters; this year we were treated to a college comedy in three acts. To present it Prof. Karr took the “pick” of the University, each man being somewhat of a veteran in Notre Dame dramatics. In the staging proper, the mechanical side of the production, Bro. Cyprian and those under his direction outdid themselves. The star of the company was of course Mr. Dwan whose ability has been demonstrated to the students repeatedly. He has a most pleasing stage appearance, and his voice and gestures are evidence enough of his experience in this line of work. His efforts brought forth repeated and generous applause. Lawrence Williams as “Towell,” the victim of the Juniors’, desperate plot, was especially good; he is rapidly gaining the favor to which his work so justly entitles him. As “Bob Kenmark,” Mr. McGlew was excellent. “Mac” has had
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
388
much experience, and his appearance and carriage tell how he has profited by it.
The Juniors, as played by Roesch, Heyl and O’Connell did exceptionally well. O’Connell of “Gobo” fame was as sprightly as ever.
Patrick Malloy as professor Reed was very good, and his portrayal of the foolish old fellow was the subject of much favorable .comment, his part being a most difficult one.
And now for the feminine element in the cast; as Cynthia, Air. Dannemiller was cer-tainlv the best girl we have had of late rears. _ Mrs. Reed, who was “deaf and dumb,” had nothing to sav, but Mr. Sorg in that capacity plainly showed that actions speak louder than words. He did exceedingly well and in appearance and manner rendered a difficult part perfectly.
Tom'Butler as Buzzer was inimitable; his father thought him a bad bov, his brother and sister did, too, but none of their opinions can compare with the impression he made on the audience.	’
Altogether the production was a grand success, and we are proud of the ability displayed by the student actors. Professor Karr deserves much praise for the manner in which he has trained his men; their efforts certainly reflect great credit on him.
A special program appropriate to the day was rendered bv the University orchestra, in fine form, under the leadership of Prof. Petersen. A large delegation of visitors from South Bend and elsewhere was present; and, everything ^considered, the day was a decided success.
- ■ ------------------*****-----
Mr. Hackett's Lecture.
The students of the University were well entertained on Wednesdav afternoon by Mr. Norman G. Hackett. In his lecture he treated The relation between the Church and the stage .and endeavored to defend the, actor’s profession agajnst, the. criticism so prevalent, now in magazines and newspapers. He reviewed the history of. the .drama, and pointed; out the .educational and moral value of the. stage. Mr. Hackett read some selections from Romeo, and Juliet,
the Merchant... of Venice and Julius Caesar. His . interpretation, of these selections and of somes.. lighter ones, was admirable, . and he . was heartily applauded. .	,
Athletic Notes.
some time and been using the	|
meet we know	;
South Bend High School meets Corby Hall this afternoon in a dual track meet in Notre .Dame’s Gvm. The two teams • • •/ have been in training for 1	o
although South Bend has Gym in- preparing for the very little of their quality.
John Scales, the Varsity hurdler and high jumper, has acted as trainer for Corby and has developed a good bunch of raw material. In Arnold he has a good dash man. and Roach, another new man at the game, has shown much promise in short distance work.
A banner is to be given the team capturing the greater number of points, and much rivalry exists between the teams. The meet is.the first of its kind held here in manv years, and a large crowd is anticipated both from the student body and from South Bend, Corby’s entries for the meet are:
40-yard dash—Roach, Scales, Magnus, Arnold.	-	•
220-vard dash—Roach, Magnus, Altgelt, Arnold.
440-yard dash—Roach, Magnus, Arnold.
880-yard dash—Keeche, Altgelt, Hutzel.
1-mile run—Callicrate, Hutzel, Olrich.
40-yard low hurdles—Scales, Strauss, John Berteling.
Shot put—Strauss, Curtis, Hutzel.
High jump—Scales, Strauss, McDonough.
Broad jump—Arnold, Magnus, Strauss,’
Relay—Roach, Scales, Arnold, Afagnus, Callicrate, Altgelt, Strauss.	.
Notre Dame’s Varsity will be well represented. among the officials. .Draper, all-around athlete,, .will act as starter. Keeffe, half and quarter-miler, will referee. O'Shea and Bracken. will be judges of the finish; Silver, clerk of the course, Donovan, Kasper and O’Connor, timers.	. ,	.
Classes will be suspended at three o’clock for the. purpose of. enabling everyone to be
present at .the meet. .	.	.	..
. The relay team which is to represent Notre Dame in . the. New Illinois Athletic. Club is made. up. of Scales, O’Shea, O’Connell and Donpyan. ; Scales will, compete in the sixty-yard.low hiirdles.and the relay, while O’Shea will compete,finfthe quarter and. relay..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
Draper who was the highest individual point winner in the Charity Meet last year will compete again this year. Last year Draper ran under the colors of the C. A. A., but will go unattached this time. He will compete in the sixty-yard low hurdles, sixtyyard high and the shot put. .	.	.
Although he has been in training only a few weeks it is safe to say that the man who beats him in the low hurdles will have to go some. In the high he goes against a hard proposition, .meeting such men as Baily of the C. Y. M. C. A. and Steffen of the University of Chicago.
On dope Draper should win over the low sticks and take a good place in the high. The shot put is a handicap event and with a small handicap he will prove dangerous to all competitors.	.
« *
The gates were not closed on the 17th of March as is the custom, the unexpected cold weather and the heavy snow storm has kept the baseball men in the Gym and will for a few weeks yet.
“Nothing doing” is the only way to tell it. They are still hitting the ball and chasing it around the Gym.
' Clarence, Bud, Brackings Sheehan has a new bat. The four walls of the Gym are still standing, but a few more days with the colts and the new bat with Jerry behind it will fill the walls full of holes.	■
Beacom, has been laid up with a bad ankle for a week, but is out again and putting up the same snappy game.
# ■ ■
The first game’of the season will be played April 14 with Illinois.
- * * *
. South Bend teams come here to train, the first week in April, and will open the series with the Varsitv on the 16th.	.
>
W *
Last Thursday evening Brownson defeated the South Bend High School. Alumni in a fast game of basketball by the score of 24 to 15. Several new players were in - the Brownson line-up and all showed up well.
Zimmer, of' Brownson played a fine game, while Wagner of South Bend did good work.
Linh-Up
Brownson	• ■	Alumni.
Blum	R. F.	Carr
Borham	L. F.	McCarthy
O'Leary	.	C.	Boyd
Zimmer ...	L. G.	Wagner
Donovan	R. G.	Kimball
Referee. Quinn; Umpire, Roach;	Timers. Cooke and
Geary.	'	.	R. L. B.
P ersonal.
^-We are glad to learn that the Rev. P. J. Boland has been called from his parish in Litchfield, by the- most Rev. Archbishop, to become chief director in the work of soliciting subscriptions for the new Cathedral in St. Paul,- Minnesota. Though we of the present’ year have not the pleasure' of knowing Father Boland, we desire to join with the students of his day. his classmates and his friends in good wishes for. his continued' success.
—Every student of Notre Dame last vear knew “Tom” Lyons, and everyone here this year ought to have heard of him. He was the sort of student of whom his Alma Mater may well feel proud, for he was one of those who rose from the ' ranks, and quitted, the University -with high credit. “Tom” was one of the best men in the class of ’04, was winner of the Breen Oratorical Medal in 1903, a member of the celebrated debating team of the’following vrear, and Editor of the Scholastic from. September of 1904 until Christmas, at which . time he was compelled to leave school bn ~ accoimt of the illness of his father. Last September, however, he was. able to resume his law. studies at the University of South ■ Dakota, his home state. And now' comes . the welcome but not surprising news that . he is to lead the' varsitv team in their .
_ —I annual debate with Iowa Universitv. The* . honor is nothing newr to Mr.Lvons: never- . . theless, the "Scholastic offers congrafula-tions. Safe to say “Tom” has the hearty -hand and the best wishes of all who knew him in his days at Notre Dame.	*
Recent letters, too, from Rochester and. -Harvard inform us that two other -members'; . of the ’04 class, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Kanaleyj’y . are doing- well in their chosen work'. “ * ;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
The German Criminal System.
The criminal courts of Germany are of three grades, each having a different jurisdiction. The lowest is the Police Court. (“Schoeffen Gericht”), having jurisdiction of the same kinds of petty offenses as other police courts the world over. This court is composed of three persons—one police magistrate and two citizens—who sit to hear the cases; the judge in his official gown in the centre, and the citizens on either side in ordinary civilian dress. The court next higher in rank, called the “Criminal Gericht,” is composed of five judges. The highest criminal court (“Landes Gericht”) is composed of three judges and a jury of twelve. The methods of procedure are similar in all courts. Jurymen sit at desks, and most of them make voluminous notes. The penalties inflicted in criminal cases are much less severe than in like cases in this country. In some respects, too, the methods are much more favorable to the accused.
The prosecution is begun by complaint to an examining magistrate. The complainant and all witnesses' discovered are separately examined by the magistrate and their, narratives are reduced to writing. On this examination the witnesses are not sworn, and a wide latitude of inquiry is permitted. If the accused is to be tried: he is notified ' when to appear. It is seldom that a warrant is issued in the first instance, except for a serious offense or in the case of a hardened offender.
Everybody has a continuous public record from the time he comes into Germany, whether it be from a foreign shore or his first appearance in this mundane sphere. In this record is to be found every detail necessary to personal identification. In addition, if he ever commits a transgression the circumstance is noted in his record. If he moves, the fact must be made matter of record in the place to which he goes. In the case of travellers lodging in hotels, the requirements of law are satisfied by entering upon the register his name, age,
residence and occupation. The police visit the hotels daily and make copies of the registers, supplemented by such further inquiries regarding the guests as they think advisable. By reason of this system, and because, also, at every frontier persons leaving the country are subjected to careful official scrutiny, though in the case of foreigners usually without their knowledge, the German authorities feel confident that if a man does not appear for trial they will be able to lay their hands upon him without much trouble. Because of this state of things arrests are comparatively rare; and even after conviction and judgment of imprisonment the accused is generally given his choice as to whether he will serve out his term of imprisonment at. once, or postpone it until he has made necessary arrangements, so as to cause as little hardship as possible to himself and friends.
Copies of the complaint and of the testimony taken by the examining magistrate are furnished in advance to the judge, to the attorney for the government and to the attorney for the accused. At the appointed time the accused enters and takes his place in the prisoners’ dock and remains standing’ during the trial:
The witnesses are then summoned. Thev enter from the adjoining corridor. If the important witnesses are found to be present it is announced that the trial will proceed. The presiding judge then usually announces to the witnesses collectively- that when called upon to testify they will be under obligation to speak the truth, and that if they do not, or speak any falsehood, they will be liable to a penalty of fine and imprisonment. They are then fold to retire to the adjacent corridor and remain there until again called to give testimony, if it be required. The presiding judge reads to the accused the formal accusation. This being done he reads to him the statements made by the witnesses bn the preliminary . investigation and questions him (in open court) upon the salient points of these statements. His method of examination is severe and searching. After this the witnesses are called and examined in the

1\'OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
same manner. At the conclusion of the questioning by the presiding judge the prosecuting attorney and the counsel for the accused are offered an opportunity to ask questions, a privilege or which they rarely avail themselves. The witnesses are sometimes sworn, but not usuallv. The administration of an oath is a solemn ceremony. The presiding judge puts on his official beret (flat cap) and stands up, every-bodv in the court rising and remaining standing while the oath is being’ administered. The judge then repeats the-words of the oath in a slow and impressive manner, the witness repeating it after him. “I swear by God the Almighty and Omniscient that- I to the best of my knowledge’ the pure truth will speak, add nothing- to it and conceal nothing, as true as God helps me.”	'
Wild Birds at Notre Dame. •
(CONTINUED.)	'	:	'
THE BELTED KINGFISHER.
. This large bird never fails to attract .the attention of even the least observant. You can not stay near a lake for a short time and not become acquainted with the kingfisher. His habit of descending, to the surface of shallow water near the shore to. obtain small fish is very interesting to the observer. He is a noisy fellow, too, and seems to be al ways angry. In the spring he may sometimes be seen flying high -in the heavens screaming furiously.	•
The belted kingfisher is marked in the following manner: “Above ashy blue; a band of the same across the breast'; . the remainder of under parts and a spot before the eye white; tail square, banded and.
' spotted with white; head large and splendidly , crested; bill long, black. feet dark. Length, 13 inches.”	.	:
THE RED-HEADED WOODPECKER.
This is the most conspicuous of bur woodpeckers both by reason of his pretty plumage and the great noise he makes. I have heard one of these birds across St. Mary’s Lake tapping on the iron cross on the Community House. In fact, the red-head is somewhat
391
of a nuisance to the brethren in this house, for often at 4:30 a. m. or earlier he will begin his loud rapping and awaken the sleepers.' In the fall the red-heads are found in- company with the golden wings eating acorns.
This handsome fellow is dressed in this wise: “Head and neck all round crimson; back black to rump which is white; lower breast and belly white; wings black with a broad white band; tail black, somewhat tipped with white, rounded and feathers pointed; bill and feet dark. Length, 9.75 in.”
THE FIELD SPARROW.
This sparrow like the vesper variety is seen along country roads or heard a little .way in the fields. Its demure habits and its pleasing song make the field sparrow a favorite bird. Like the song sparrow it seems to be a part of the country, and like the vesper it often sings in the twilight of evening.	.	.
This bird is marked in the following way: “Crown chestnut; back streaked with dull red, black and dull white; cheeks, throat and breast pale brown; belly white; a fight line over the eye; wings and tail brown, many of the feathers pale-edged, the wings with two light bands; bill pale red; feet light. Length, 5.65 inches.”
THE COWBIRD.
This bird is so named because of its beinsr -	,	o
often found with cattle. In the early spring when it returns to the north, it may be seen high up in the treetops giving utterance to a liquid note. But this bird is a parasite. It builds no nest of its own, but deposits its eggs in other birds’ nests, thus imposing upon them the task of caring for their own as well as feeding a lusty young cowbird. I once saw a song sparrow giving food to a young cowbird nearly twice the size of the sparrow. The poor little chippy suffers much from these bird pirates, and frequently abandons. a nest in which a cowbird’s egg has been laid.	.	.
. The cowbird, many of which variety may be seen around Notre Dame, can be identified from the following description: “General color irridescent black; head and neck deep brown; tail square; bill- and feet black. Length, .7.9 inches.’
392
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASi/^
Local Items.
—The picture of the Brownson Debating Society is the largest group that Mr. McDonald has ever taken in his studio. Among the forty-nine members represented in this photograph there are many manly find intelligent faces. Their likenesses will be a distinctive adornment to “The Dome.”
—Bro. Florian wishes that all the old students of St. Joseph’s Hall may know of his plan to gather a collection of photographs of the students who have been members of that hall during this and past years. When this collection is formed it will be used to adorn the corridors of the hall.
—Spring is coming and our youthful hearts rejoice. The robins are still about and the violets still sleep in the muffled sod; but rejoice all ye nature-lovers, for the infallible sign has been received: Coontz is writing verse on the wild rose, and Fisher has completed his spring house cleaning. Are you still unconvinced ?
—It is truly surprising what little value many persons attach to one of the essential conditions of good health—fresh air. To stay indoors, especially amid the fumes of smoking-rooms, during most of the recreation periods is to deprive one’s self of the health-giving oxvgen of the unbreathed air of heaven. Any person who is regular in walking out of doors at certain convenient times is sure to feel well and to keep well.
—Air. Crosby has been shining in philosophy of late, becoming remarkable for his eximious wisdom, as Air. Kenney would say. The question whether poaching was a sin or not came up the other day, and he waxed wise at once and pulled off a few words such as “bevy,” etc., which showed how thorough a sportsman he must have been while dwelling among the big bears, and deer and other wild animals of the North.
—Father Maguire has been doing a great deal of late to improve the interior of the Seminary. The building was in bad condition after the fire of last summer, but the painters and plasterers are repairing the injury done by the water and are restoring the neat, cheerful aspect of the house. Another big improvement has been, the substitution of electric lights for acetylene gas. When all the work is done, the Seminary will be in better state than ever before.	.
—The band appeared again on St. Patrick’s. Day and succeeded very well. When we consider that most .of the members never played before this year their work deserves the highest praise. The audience was very generous in applause and otherwise. If the
members knew they were to receive so many donations thev might, after the custom of salvation armies, have stretched out a flag, but may be the splendid appearance of the new suits elicited this thaw of generosity. However, if the contributors were feminine we might suppose they were widows,judging from the amount of the contributions.
—A game of basketball between the Senior and Junior philosophers has been scheduled to take place in the near future. The veteran Keefe will probably twirl for the Juniors, though the south-paw Coontz is pushing him hard for the position. Some difficulty arose in arranging the game; the man from St. Paul who has received flattering offers from major league teams was claimed by both classes, - as he would be a tower of strength behind the bat. No agreement could be reached for a time, and it looked as though the game must be called off. It was finally decided, however, to let the man from St. Paul umpire.
—Now that the first of the birds have returned the student of ornithology can take up again the delightful occupation of observing the habits of the feathered tribe. To the youthful versifier here is a fruitful source of inspiration. The life of a bird is the most poetical of all lives. There is mystery in its migration, music in its voice, and beauty in its plumage. But in the poetical treatment of birds the writer should be thoroughly familiar with his subject, and should have no other object than a faithful, if fanciful, description of the birds. The robin, bluebird, song sparrow’, are excellent specimens for verse - description. Mrs. Thaxter’s “The Sandpiper,’.’ Emerson’s “The Titmouse,” Bryant's “The Bobolink,” are good models foi* natural history poems.
—On the Feast of St. Joseph the Brothers’ new house of studies was formally opened. It has been named after the zibbe Dujarie, the founder of the Brothers of St. Joseph (now Holy Cross). Brother Leander, C.S. C., has been appointed superior of the six young men who will reside in Dujarie Hall and attend classes in the University. The old building which has been renovated for its present use was the first one erected here by Father Sorin. Only such changes have been made as were required for the convenience and health of the inmates, the intention being to have the house appear much as it was when first built. It was a happy thought to preserve this building, and by its side to put up a log-cabin wffiich is an exact copy of the original one occupied by Father Sorin and his brave band of Brothers for a year after their arrival. The statue of St. Joseph, illuminated by electric lights is close by, standing as protector of the sacred place.